

Jill Scott Continuing quakes
Music critic Arienne Thompson puts a final 
A major earthquake in India has left an 
Tuesday
answer to the question, 
estimated 20,000 people dead as tremors lasting 
Who is Jill Scott? 
up to 30 seconds continue to rock the country. 
JANUARY 30, 
Scene . page 13 
World & Nation . page 5 
2001 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 76 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Disarming through dialogue 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members discuss Keenan Revue 
handing out surveys." the student body's views. By COLLEEN McCARTHY The survey, conducted by "We want people to see this Associate News Edi1or residents of Keenan Hall was as a 'what is your opinion' 
taken first semester to assess question, not 'this will be the 
The Board of Governance t h e I' i n a I decided at its Tuesday meet­approval or result,"' ing to place an initative on disapproval "This ballot initiative said Molly Monday's Student Body of' Saint Kahn, stu­
would be a good way to
President Mary's stu­dent repre­
e!Bction to d e n t s . get a more accurate sentative to 
determine regarding assesment ofthe student the Board of the stu­the Keenan Trustees.
body's views." 

d e n t Revue. In a Kahn said body's survey of the admin­opinion on 286 Saint Crissie Renner i strati on holding Mary's supports the
student body president 
t h e women, inclusion of Keenan only 17 said the ballot Hevue on they disapproved of the initiative. campus. Hcvue and felt it shouldn't be Although the wording of the 
"This ballot initiative would held on the Saint Mary's initiative was not decided at be a good way to get a more campus. the meeting, Henncr and oth­accurate assessment of the Members of' BOG empha­ers suggested that it ideally studr,nt body's views," said sized that by putting the ini­would consist of two ques­Student Body President tiative on the ballot, the tions. The first would ask Crissie Henner. "The admin­response from the student whether the individual had istration is really looking for body would not determine seen the Keenan Revue and a response from the student the possibility of the Revue the second question would body that might be a different taking place on campus, but ask if she thought it should approach than Keenan boys rather, the survey would be coming to our dining hall and used to get an assessment of see BOG/page 4 



The Observer re-elects Connolly editor in chief 
tinue that high standard of 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
achievement this year." Ireland Correspondent 
Connolly began working at The Observer in fall of 1999 The Observer's General as a sports writer, and was Board unanimously re-elect­promoted to associate sports ed Mike Connolly as the edi­editor. He also worked as an 
tor in chief' for the 2001-2002 
intern at The Beacon News in 
publishing 

Aurora, Ill. during the sum­
y e a r 
mer of 2000. 
Monday 
A Sparta, N.J. native,
night. 

Connolly aims to pursue a
Connolly 
career in sports journalism
is the sec­
as a college football reporter.
ond editor 
Since joining The Observer in
in chief to 
the fall of his freshman year,
lead The 
Connolly has covered Notre
Observer 
Dame football, interhall foot­
for two Connolly 
ball. women's soccer, men's
consecu­
lacrosse and men's and
tive terms. Connolly was 
women's fencing.
originally elected to the posi­
Connolly is eager to contin­
tion in February of 2000, and 
ue his term as editor.
began his term as editor in 
March 2000. "I hope that the high quali­
Editor's note: This ii; the first of a three-part series looking at the discussion concerning the place ofROTC at a Catholic 11nicwrsity. 
. Pax Christi, ROTC work towards greater understanding 
ByTIM LOGAN 
S.,niur Staff Writer 
Ben Peters rumembers the night well. 
lie was walking inlo the Center for Social Concerns, where Pax Christi. the See Also: 
c a m P u 5 "ND, ROTC 
Catholic peace group share long of' which 
history"

Peters is a 
page6

member, was hosting a lecture and discussion. The topic was to be the Heserve Oflicer Training Corps (HOTC) and its place on a Catholic uni­versity campus. 
Having attended many other talks at the CSC, Peters expected that attendance would be light. lie was wrong. 
"I was thinking maybe 10 people," he said. "I walk in and see 100 people therr,, 100 
I 
kids there, most of them with buzz cuts; I just choked up." 
That night was the first of Pax Christi's ROTC dialogues, an ongoing series intended to get people thinking about the role. of the military at Notre Dame. Thr,se sessions have brought ardent pacifists together with future officers, and have provided a forum for both sides to discuss what it means Lo be a Catholic in the military, and what it means to be opposed to the military on Catholic grounds. 
It is a discussion about two ways to seek peace. 
With about 375 students in three branches. Notre Dame has one of the largest ROTC programs in the country. It is also consistently recognized as one of the best. It teaches how to maintain peace through strength, and its professors say the program produces some great young men and women who go on to serve their country well. 
"What you see in the people coming out. the people you sec on the other end, they are 
.. ~. 
USA VELTE/The Observer 

Students of all stripes sit and talk about Catholic faith and the military at a September dialogue sponsored by campus Catholic peace group, Pax Christi. 
some pretty remarkable peo­the mission of a Catholic founding member of Pax ple," said Lieutenant Colonel school. They argue that the Christi. "Christ died on the Mike Edwards, Battalion University should be training cross and victory comes in that Commander for the Army its students to better serve example, not in war." detachment. God, and war is not the way to They are making an age-old 
But some people say ROTC do that. argument. shouldn't be here. Training "You can't love your enemy The debate over HOTC on students for military service, and participate in [killing college campuses across the critics say, is antithetical to them]," said Shawn Storer, a 
see ROTC/page 6 

'Tm honored that my gen­eral board thought I did a good enough job to elect me again this year," Connolly said. "I hope that I can con­ty of reporting that is charac­terized The Observer for the last 34 years will continue into the 35th and well beyond," Connolly said. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, January 30, 2001 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Superbowl's most valuable liar 
I can only say I was completely disgusted by CBS studio host Jim Nance in the Superbowl post-game interviews Sunday night especially in regards to the stance he took in the pregame show. 
After a piece about Ravens middle linebacker Ray Lewis who was accused of a double murder the night of the Superbowl last year, Nance and the rest of the CBS studio team discussed why Lewis was still facing 


questions about his role in the murders in Atlanta. Mike Connolly Although Lewis was 
acquitted, many reporters and much of the general Editor in Chief public doesn't believe that 
Lewis is completely innocent of the crime. 

The biggest reason for the lack of trust in Lewis is his conviction for obstruction of justice. Although most of the evidence shows that Lewis did not stab the two men that night, it also shows that he probably does know who did kill those men. Although Lewis was acquitted on murder charges, he was convicted of obstruction of jus-. tice. 
This leads me to wonder ... why would an innocent man who knows nothing about the murder of two men, obstruct justice? The obvi­ous answer is that Lewis knows exactly who killed those men and he has been lying for months to protect his friends. 
Nance pointed this out very sharply in the pregamc show. He took a strong stance and expressed exactly why very few people trust Ray Lewis. Nobody trusts Ray Lewis because Lewis was convicted of trying to prevent justice from being served. I can think of few lower crimes than stopping two grieving families from receiv­ing the justice they deserve. 
Despite Nance's powerful pregame words. he turned into a ball of jelly at the postgame inter­view. Rather than continuing his pointed criti­cism of the now-Superbowl MVP Hay Lewis, Nance let Lewis get away with giving the same­old "what a storybook ending" garbage he has been spouting for months. 
I would love to know what kind of warped story books Lewis is reading his 3-year-old son. Nance had the chance on the national stage to put Lewis on the spot. to ask the questions that he has been avoiding for months and finally make him account for his lying and doubletalk. Instead he let Lewis shirk responsibility for his actions yet again. 
While Lewis celebrates his Superbowl victory with his teammates. the families of the two vic­tims have little to celebrate and live a nightmare as the killers remain at large. Lewis knows what happens. He needs to stop dodging the truth and bring the killers to justice -even if they are his friends. 
For all Lewis' "storybook ending" posturing, however, he didn't get invited to the land of fairy­tales. Disneyworld usually asks the Superbowl MVP to make a 'Tm going to Disneyworld" ad after the game. Lewis, however, was not chosen for this honor and instead Ravens quarterback Trent Diller is "going to Disneyworld." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Sam Derhcirner Kiflin Turner Chris Scott Finn Pressly Graphics 
Sports Jose Cuellar Lauren Conti Production Viewpoint Kathleen O'Brien Kurt Bogaard Lab Tech Liz Lang 
The Obs,rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights a.re res.crvcd. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"Where there is more, "If this wasn 't a civil more ought to be rights movement we given.,. wouldn't be here in Washington. " 
Todd Whitmore 
Notre Dame Anti­Kaitlyn Dudley sweatshop Task Force Notre Dame Right to Life director and associate president on the pro-life professor of theology on march in Washington 
Catholic social teachings 
"/ was just getting my groove on and they hit me on the dance floor." 
anonymous student cited in the Benchwarmer's bust 
"Those are shots that are hard to miss, those dunks. " 
Troy Murphy Notre Dame men's basketball forward on the victory over Syracuse 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Murders of tWo professors shocks community 

HANOVER, N.H. 

News of the murders of two Dartmouth College professors sent shock waves through the College and the local community as law enforcement officials continued their investigation, releasing few details about the tragedy. 
Autopsies performed Sunday by the state's chief medical examiner on the bodies of Susanne and Half Zantop confirmed homicide as the cause of death, New Hampshire Attorney General Philip McLaughlin said. 
In a 4 p.m. news conference held Sunday at the Hanover police sta­tion, McLaughlin said the state cur­rently has no one in custody, and he would not comment on any possible motives for the murders. 
McLaughlin also declined to com­ment on any details of the homi­cides or how the bodies were found for fear of compromising the ongo­ing investigation, which is being led by the state police's major crimes 
unit. 



JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY 
Protesters burn flags to spark debate 
HARRISONBURG, Va. 
Wednesday's flag-burning protest has evoked strong reactions and lots of discussion across campus. Some felt the demonstrators were doing it solely to get attention, others were left confused, and some took up the issue surrounding symbolic freedom of speech. Burning the American flag is a constitutional right, held up by the 1989 United States Supreme Court case Texas vs. Johnson. The Supreme Court ruled that burning the flag is protected under the First Amendment as a form of free speech. Even though students recognized the legali­ty of the act, many said they didn't agree with it. "They wanted people to hear them and see them, they got that. All they really wanted was publicity," senior Hina Ansari said. But others felt burning the flag should not be used as an attention getter. "We were interested in trying to get people to talk ... The point was not to spark a First Amendment debate but to spark a debate about the state of affairs or our government," said sophomore Tim Westberg, one of the demonstrators. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather flin:cast for daytime cooditiol\! and high 1empern1Ures 

~-~-~AQ.QShowers F-stonns Rain Flurries Snow Ice  ~ Sunny  ~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  
VII A6socialed Presa Gnlphios/>lsr  

McLaughlin said the person who found the bodies had a "perfectly good reason" to be at the Zantop residence, but would not identify that person. The police were alerted of the deaths by 6:48 p.m., accord­ing to the attorney general. 
Three independent sources con­firmed that the bodies were discov­ered Saturday around 6 p.m. by Roxana Verona, an associate pro­fessor of French and Italian lan­guages and close friend of the deceased. Verona said that she had been invited to the house for dinner. 
Verona confirmed that she was the first to find the Zantops. She declined to comment on what she saw because she said the police told her it could compromise the investi­gation. 

RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 
Faculty fight for rights of gay couples 
NEW BHUNSWlCK, N.J. 

The university senate passed a resolution to support full health benefits for same-sex partners of Hutgers University employees and retirees last Friday. The Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Alliance at Rutgers attended the open meeting, handing senators letters addressing the issue. "The back of every Rutgers University applica­tion clearly states: 'It is university policy to make the ben­efits and services of its education program available to students without discrimination on the basis of race, reli­gion, color, national origin, ancestry, age, sex, sexual ori­entation, disability, marital or veteran status,"' according to the letter from the Alliance. The Alliance pointed out the absence of such a policy for faculty, retirees and their partners in the letter. Domestic same-sex partners receive about three-fifths of the number of benefits that the spouses of heterosexual university employees receive. Since New Jersey does not directly supply same-sex part­ner health benefits, the university has established its own plan. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 30. 

30a ...................... ~ 
COLO WARM STATIONARY

C 2.001 Ai:.c.uWuther. lnG. 
A'euUII: ® © D High Low Showen VIII AUOCUlled Press  CJ. Rain  IT] T• ¦torm1  D Flurr1e1  D Snow  D ,..  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  63 50 45 38 68  45 41 37 28 48  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  53 61 38 50 51  32 40 27 43 39  Portland 45 Sacramento 53 St. Louis 44 Tampa 75 Washington DC 51  35 33 31 63 42  

Tuesday, January 30, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


ND grad learns value of his 'little hands' outside the U.S. 

By ALLY JAY N-,w1Writcr  He said, "It' you're aiming to make money, you're aim­ing too low."  about working in Sri Lanka and Argentina helping heal individuals with injuries from  junior Jeanine Ollark. While showing slides of his experiences around the  medical support can play crucial roles in alleviating damage done in the commu­ 
IJuciding on what one wish­es to do as a doctor is a lot  For Meade, this question led him to become a physi­cian al the Dr. Martin Luther  land mine accidents and those  "If you•re aiming to make  w o r I d . M e a d c talked exten­ nity. Meade used one slide showing a weathered statue with no arms to draw atten•  
like choosing a major in col­lege. At first the amount of choices can seem overwhelm­ King Hospital. located in the inner-city projects of Los Angeles. Meade said his  received by civilians and soldiers  money. you 're aiming too low. .,  sively on his experiences in hopes of  tion to how helping others is more important than seeking fame.  
ing for students considering a  experience in the community  fighting  in  raising  "A  lot  of  us  want  to  be  
l'ulurc in the medical field.  influenced his involvement  war zones.  Dr. Peter Meade  aw arc n cs s  famous  and  have  statues  
Dr. Notre  Peter Meade, a '74 Dame graduate,  with Doctors without Borders, an international  "As mcd  a I  pre­was  NotreDamegraduate  on interna­tional health  commemorating us. But the birds know what to do with  
explained last night how he  medical relief organization  interested in  issues.  statues," said Meade. "For  
reached his decision  to  best  founded  in 1971  by French  what he had  M  e  a  d  e  me  effort should be put into  
use  his M.D  by asking the  physicians.  to say as a  doctor who had  focused  on  the continuing  daily interactions with poople  
question, "llow can  my little  Meade spoke to  a  packed  graduated from  Notre Dame.  destruction that land mines  we  work with.  That's what's  
hands make the most diffcr­ Notre  Dame  Room  in  I found his talk very informa­ cause  in maiming and killing  worthwhile, and that's how  
Hnce'?" Lafortune Student Center Looking for a Crealiue _Arti:Jlto work Thursday Nights for  1  ti~e_and inspirational," said ~!vi~ians and how doctors and I 1 • r.· ·, . 0 : · ·1 0 G 1 ' 1 ~.J 1 .-te·d•1 .-... a1 o·1 a1 -, oWan¦. ·c1CO"•-,-. Students familiar with both Mac (0S9) andr, Windows (WIN2000 Professional, Server.) · pla~orms1as, 1811 as ~1i0 ~ing. 00 1 ;~; .  we'll be remembered." ,------... --------,49¢g~~~ssingle-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  
the Viewpoi'r,t Section of The Observer  Must possess strong problem solving and1 administrative skills.I OO1 0 0 1 0 ·1 o"j Salaried Position. Average 5-7 hrs/wk¦ -1 0 ,  On the Campus of the University ol Notre Dame Call 631-COPY FREE Pick-Up & Delivery See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry• expires 2114/01. 

, ___________,,,,
\ Not valid with any other offer or discount. 1 
Call Chad Maestas @ 243_1542 , E-mail r.esume to mg.u.nvill@.nd..edu 1 O1 ~ _I ~-i ·J ~: 'l O1 10 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 
L...::::::::::.::f.::o.::_r~--m-=._o___r.::e.:.:::i_n__t_·_o___·.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.::-..... · .i -1 . : 1 r~ 1 -1, 1 n i ·: . • · 0...1..£'._7 
·Visit The Observer on the Web at http://www.nd.edu/Nobserver. 
.;,,;y,:;;;;;i,:,M>c,:;,,,,.,.,,ih>··' ,:·.,,:(~~~ftf::~:::~;\~~ijW ,·.:.,._;:;:~liJ~Ri$r,:1.::; 


is now accepting applications for the following positions: 






MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. 

BUSINESS MANAGER 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's. or Holy Cross interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. • 
Applicants sho,.ld submit a resume and a flue-page statement to Mike Connolly by 5 p.m. Friday. ~·ebruary 2, 2001. For additional information_ ab~ul .the po~il~on conlact Business Manager Tim Lane a 631-5313 or Editor in Chief. Mike Connolly at 631-4542. App/zcants are also encouraged W stop by lhe oj)1ce m South Dmmg I/all with any questions. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 30, 200 I 
BOG 
continued from page 1 

be held on the Saint Mary's 
campus. 

The feedback from the ballot 
initiative would then be used 
to guide BOG in its next steps. 

"I think that we would get 
the information back from the 
initiative. talk about it, collab­
orate with the administration 
and go from there," said 
Kahn. 

Veronica Kessenich, Saint 
Mary's representative to the 
Notre Dame Senate, suggested 
having a forum for Saint 
Mary's students to be held the 
week after the Keenan Revue 
as another opportunity to 
gather information regarding 
student opinion of the Revue. 

"l think a lot more discus­
sion will occur after the Revue 

and maybe after students have 
had a chance to see it," said 
Kessenich. "The forum would 

provide another opportunity 
for people to voice their opin­
ions on the Revue." 

Michelle Nagle, student body 
vice president encouraged all 
members of BOG to attend the 
Revue. 

"It's important that all of us attend so that we can say that we've seen the Revue and that ·we can make an educated decision regarding the Revue if called upon to do so," said 
Nagle. 

Vagina Monologues debated 

The. administration's deci­sion not to allow the play, "The Vagina Monologues" to be performed this year at 
Saint Mary's was also dis­cussed. 
Women's Issues Commissioner Julie Frishkorn provided background to the Board regarding the contro­versy. 
Kessenich questioned whether BOG should take a stand on the College's decision to cancel the play. 
"I don't know what should be done. but I think that if we are going to make a decision and take a stand regarding the Keenan Revue which is a satirical, farcical and some­times not very funny play being put on our campus, then we need to ask why we haven't been asked to play a role in making the decision about this nationally acclaimed play that addresses numerous important issues, particularly women's issues that is being denied being per­formed on this campus," said Kessenich. 
Emily Koelsch, member of the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination board that wants to sponsor the "Monologues" said that although the admin­istration has said that I.he play couldn't be performed at Saint Mary's, it would be helpful to have the BOG take a stand regarding the administration's decision. 
"I think that it is worth hav­ing a student-led organization like BOG telling the adminis­tration their opinion about sit­uations like the 'Monologues,"' said Koelsch. "I don't think students can ever express their opinions to the adminis­tration too much on issues like this even if the administration has already said 'no."' 

Koelsch said CARE is trying to set up a meeting with College President Marilou Eldred. 
"We want to sit down with Dr.Eldred this week to discuss where things can go from here," said Koelsch. "We need to know for sure yes or no if this can happen, what her position is on the play. and if there is any flexibility in the decision the administration has made." 
Nagle asked whether there would be other events addressing issues of sexuality taking place on campus in lieu of the ''Monologues." 

Frishkorn said that CARE. plans to bring in speakers as scheduled and other activities but right now the group is still focusing their efforts on the "Monologues." 

In other news: 
. 
Nagle said the Student Academic Council is working on assessing the goals of SAC and determining what needs are being met and which needs are being neglected. 

. 
There is only one ticket run­


ning for student body presi­denVvice president. The ticket is current vice president Nagle running for president with sophomore class president Kristin Matha as her vice president. 

"Meet the Candidates" night will be held in llaggar parlor at 7 p.m. on Thursday. Voting for the student body president and vice president will take place on Monday in the Noble Family Dining Hall during din­ing hall hours and in the off­camp us lounge in Haggar College Center from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 

{There's never been a better time to build your career with us} 
We've done more than just change  This presents new and exciting challenges for  bring innovations to improve the way the  
our name. At Accenture we're building a  our employees, with ever expanding career  world works and lives.  
completely new network of businesses that  options. There has never been a better time  For those who want to create the future,  
will influence the shape of the new economy.  to be part of our dynamic global force as we  now is the time to be at Accenture.  

Check out our Webcast -premiering on Thursday, February 1 (1 :00 p.m. EST, 12:00 p.m. CST, 11 :00 a.m. MST, 10:00 a.m. PST) -for information on our new name and new opportunities. It's an interactive experience and career opportunity you won't want to miss. 
Register for the· Webcast at: careers.accenture.com/webcasts 
> 




accenture
• Consulting • Technology • Outsourcing • Alliances • Venture Capital 
Accenture was formerly known as Andersen Consulting 


w (1
~RLD~.:NATION 

Tuesday, January 30, 200 I 
COMPII.ED FROM THE 0BSEHVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ship sinks in Black Sea: Hescuc work­ers picktld freezing passengers off rafts on the open waler Monday after a Ukrainian cargo and pass!'ngcr ship sank on the Black Sea. At least 14 people were killnd. and live were still missing. Th<i l'amyat Merkuriya was trying to cross the Black Sea frnm Istanbul, Turkey, with 51 people on board when it sank Friday night. 
fighter accidentally fires missile: A 
South Korean air force fightor jot accidentally lirnd a missile that landed in waters off the southwestern coast Monday. There were no rnports of casualties, said 2nd Lt. Yoon Won­jae, a spokesman for the Defense Ministry. The U.S.-Luilt F-5E Tiger II lighter jel was on rou­tine training when it accidentally fired an American-made Sidewinder heat-seeking air­to-air missile, he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Minister admits molestation: A 
Greeonwood, S.C., minister and former ele­mPntary school aide who videotaped himself molesting children pleaded guilty Monday to sexually abusing nearly two dozen youngsters and was sentenced to 60 years in prison. The Hcv. Fernando Garcia, 42, pleaded guilty to 47 counts. lie admitted molesting the 23 victims ages 5 and 13 at his church ollice and at the school. After his plea, the Baptist minister stared at Lhc courtroom lloor while the mother of' two of the victims, boys 10 and l 2 at the time. called Garcia "this evil incarnate" and said her family would never be the same. 
Atheist leader's remains found: For 
years. fodcral investigators believed Madalyn Murray O'Ilair was killed. They just couldn't prove it. But thn weekend discovery of human remains in a shallow grave on a ranch suggest the long investigation into the atheist leader's 1995 disappearance may be near an end. 


INDIANA NEWS BRIEF 
Officer acquitted of charges: A llammond police ofiicer has been acquitted of charges he fondled a female inmate in the city jail. A Lake Superior Court jury Friday found Christopher KostofT, 30, of Highland innocent of battery, sexual battery and ollicial misconduct. O1\anna Haderdorf claimed Kosloff entered her cell in the Hammond City Jail in July 1998 to give her cigarettes but then pulled down her shirt and fondled her. KostolT had been accused by two other female inmates of either fondling or asking for sexual favors, but prosecutors said no one ever came forward to provide testimony. 
Market Watch 1/29 

Dow 

10,702.19 +42.21
}ONES 
Composite
.
.,
Same:
u~-Volume: 

I, 89 460 
~ NIA 

AMEX: 913.42 +t:60 Nasdaq: 2754.28 -104.87 NYSE: 685.37 +2.ll 
S&P 500: 1364.S I +9.22 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.93 -1 l2 J7.2S INTEL CORP (INTC) d.JO ti.I 8 J7.U6 WORI.DCOM INCTWCOM) .-6.74 , 1.43 22.75 MICROSOFT CORP [MSFT) ,0.78 t0.50 64.50 UHL COMPUTER (DELL) ,7.32 • l.')4 28.44 
INDIA 

Earthquake claims up to 20,000 
Associated Press 
BHUJ 
Kusumben Myacha lay for three days pinned under a massive chunk of cement. without food or water, drifting in and out of sleep. She prayed to her Hindu gods to be saved. 
No one heard her screams until the 
stillness of the second night. At day­
break Sunday, rescuers began a 
frantic race to dig her out from under 
the rubble of the once seven-story 
apartment building. 
Myacha, a mother of two in her mid-30s, was pulled free as night fell. People wept as they saw her emerge. She had survived longer buried than anyone so far from Friday's devastat­ing earthquake in western India. 
But the tales of dramatic rescues have become fewer as hopes faded Monday of finding any more people alive al'ter three cold nights. By offi­cial count, the 7.9 magnitude quake had killed 6,181 people in the indus­trial state of Gujarat. and the state's chief minister, Keshubhai Patel, said the toll could go as high as 20,000. 
Tremors lasting up to 30 seconds continued to shake India on Monday panicking residents, but no new damage was reported. A magnitude 
4.3 quake was centered 21 miles from Bangalore, a city 850 miles southeast of the epicenter of Friday's quake near Bhuj. 
Survivors on Monday complained that confusion and a lack of equip­ment was hampering rescue efforts. Rescuers lacked cranes and bulldoz­ers, and many units did not even have generators. making night work impossible without lights. Soldiers hunting for survivors began work at first light and stopped when the sun went down. 
Clearly overwhelmed by the disas­ter, the government said Sunday it would ask for a $1.5 billion loan from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank for reconstruc­tion. 
The United States on Sunday announced it would donate $5 mil­lion to the rescue efforts. Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee was scheduled to visit the quake-hit sites later Monday. 
Hesidents in Bhuj bemoaned the lack of equipment that would have allowed round-the-clock rescue. 
"They work from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. only. This is emergency duty. They should work round the clock," said Pradecp Sheth, 46, who was rescued from under the rubble after seven hours. His wife, mother and two 


J ­
AFP Photo 

Residents of Bhuj survey their former home In the wake of Friday's 7.9 earthquake. Experts fear as many as 20,000 perished In the quake. 
daughters were still trapped in the debris. 
"Look at the soldiers. They have no equipment, no cutter. How will they clear the slabs? With their bare hands?" said Sheth. a printer. "There are live people trapped inside. We can hear their sounds." 
Survivors huddled in open fields, wrapped in blankets. Besides their homes, families have lost their pos­sessions and savings. Some people organized free kitchens, cooking rice, vegetables and lentils in huge vats. 

"We have only ourselves to turn to," said llamiklal Jaisa, 72. He and 5,000 others have been camping in an open field since Friday. 
Myacha's rescue from under the Gokul Towers Sunday evening heart­ened searchers, who have been los­ing hope. 
TANZANIA 

18 dead in clashes with police forces 
A.!sociated Press 
ZANZIBAH 
Police on Monday defended the killing of at least 18 demonstrators in the Indian Ocean archipelago of Zanzibar, saying the civilians attacked them with machetes. bows and gasoline bombs. 
"Police stations were about to be overrun and taken over. and the lives of police officials, their families and civilians in general were in danger," said Laurean Tibasana, a national police commissioner. 
One police officer was beheaded 
with machetes. scores of people were injured and 187 were arrested during the violence on Friday and Saturday. Eleven protesters died in Pemba. Zanzibar's northern island. and seven died on the main island of Unguja. 
The violence began when police used tear gas and live ammunition to try to disperse hundreds of demon­strators from the Civic United Front opposition party. The protesters were demanding reform of Zanzibar's elec­toral commission, fresh elections and a new constitution for the United Republic of Tanzania and Zanzibar. 

Before the demonstrations, police had said they would consider the protests illegal. On Sunday, senior Civic United Front oflicial Nassor Seil' said 24 people had died, including the policeman. 
Tibasana said police were only aware of 18 dead but said it was pos­siblo some of the injured had died at home and were buried immediately. Under Muslim tradition, the dead arc usually buried within 24 hours. 
Police believe the armed crowds wanted to seize guns and ammuni­tion in the police stations, Tibasana said. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 30, 2001 
ROTC 
continued from page I 
country has laid mostly dor­mant since Vietnam. But at Notre Dame, it resurfaces regularly, brought up by activists inspired by Catholic pacifism. At times, the dia­logue on campus has been heated, but, unlike some schools in the 1960s, Notre 
Dame  has  never  seen  its  
ROTC  building  go  up  in  
flames.  

These days, most students accept the military training program as a fact of life at Notre Dame. ROTC students are like everyone else, and everyone knows a few of them. There's not much to think about, as Notre Dame has the ROTC established as a solid program. 
Pax Christi hopes to change that. 
That is where the dialogues come in. The point of these discussions, at least at pre­sent, is not to rally opposition to ROTC, but to provide a forum for the two sides to come together and talk. There have been two this year, with another scheduled for Wednesday night. 
But opening dialogue has been a challenge. 
For understandable rea­sons, many in the military program have been suspi­cious of Pax Christi. a group which was founded two years ago essentially to challenge ROTC's existence at Notre Dame. They have brought several anti-military speakers to campus, and sponsored a lecture in April detailing "10 reasons why ROTC should be banned from Notre Dame's campus." The lecture was seen by many in the program as an attack, and it fueled doubts about the peace group. 
"Things Pax Christi has done in the past has put bar­riers there." sophomore Andrew DeBerry, an Air Force cadet who is also involved with Pax Christi. 
"When you do that and then try to communicate with someone. you immedi­ately have a hostile environ­ment." 
The first dialogue this year was done differently. Shawn Storer of Pax Christi, shared the podium with Marine cadet Joe Zilligan, and the two compared two different Church teachings on war ­Christian Pacifism and Catholic Just War Theory. Afterwards, the large audi­ence split up into small groups -each a mix of future officers, peace activists and those in the middle -to discuss the issue. Leaders of the peace group call the talks a big success. 
"They really have blown my mind away," Peters said. "Seeing all these people talk­ing and really struggling with these issues." 
Students are not the only people struggling together with these issues. Once each month, the officers who run Notre Dame's four ROTC pro­grams have lunch with pro­fessors from the Peace Studies program. Their dis-
Two Perspectives 
In the Catholic Church, there are 
two philosophies about the use 
of force. 
. Christian Pacifism 
Violence is never acceptable as 
a wy to achieve one's goals. 
Jesus Christ was peaceful, and 
we should follow his example. 
. Just War Theory 
Violence is acceptable under 
certain conditions, such as non­
combatant immunity and vio­
lence in proportion to the goals 
of the war, if it will lead o a 
greater good. 
cussion ranges from current 
events to philosophical 
debates about the use of 
force. The different sides 
don't always agree, but they 
all say the sessions are 
worthwhile. 
"I think they're of great 
value to all of us," Edwards 
said. "The people from the 
Peace Institute give us a pret­
ty different perspective to 
look from but we make a 
pretty big contribution. too." 
In recent years, prayer a:nd 
discussion have been the pri­
mary weapons of the anti­
military movement on cam­
pus. Pax Christi members 
have talked, and, now, some­
times to their surprise, ROTC 
cadets are talking back. As 
their dialogue continues, both 
sides hope, more people will 
listen. 


ND, ROTC share long history together 
popular targets on collegeBy TIM LOGAN campuses nationwide. This Senior ScaffWrit~r 'steadfast support stems in part from a notion that a The military has always school that emphasizes ethics been present at Notre Dame. in its education can make a 
For 50 years before World good contribution to the form­War I, military training was ing of good officers. required for most students, "I think you really want and the University kept its dedicated Catholic people doors open in with a solid 1918 an-d core of val­1919 largely ues being
"/ think you really want
because of an involved in 
army training dedicated Catholic people the deci­contract. with· a solid core of sion-mak­
In 1941, ing corps of
values being involved in 
the Navy the mili­
established the decision-making tary," said the first corps of the military. " Father 
ROTC pro­Richard gram at Warner 
Father Richard Warner 
Notre Dame, director of and with the director of Campus Ministry Campus 
outbreak of World War II, the University soon became almost exclusively a naval training facility, with 12,000 officers passing through in three years. After the war, Notre Dame added Air Force and Army programs, and ROTC has been a part of the University ever since. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, was a strong defender of the program at Notre Dame dur­ing the turbulent Vietnam era, when ROTC students were 
Ministry 
and one of 

ROTC's four chaplains. 
And, as one ROTC instructor observed, the mottos and mis­sions of the Army and this University are not all that dif­ferent. 
'"God, country, Notre Dame' and 'duty, honor, country' are not too far apart," said Lieutenant Colonel Michael Edwards, Battalion Commander for the Army detachment. "In fact, they're not apart at all." 

tRi "Encuentro Chicago" Retreat 
C: t,,. ft fl F CR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
"An overnight immersion in Chicago's Latino neighborhood of Pilsen" 
Join us for the Weekend of February 10-11, 2001 .... 
'1  
·,  , ' i  . :~  

Experience: The Resurrection Project The Mexican Fine Arts Museum Cristo Rey High School St. Pius V, Parish 

1:

ti Spring Break Selllinars 
March 10-18, 2001 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 

-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 

-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier, Henri Nouwen 

MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 



WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct corttact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 


-> Service and political awareness opportunities 
All seminars offer one academic credit 
-· 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

Applications Available Now at the CSC CONCERNS A p p Ii c a ti o n s D u e: J a n. 31, 2001 
Registration forms available al the Center for Social Concerns or the Institute for uuino Studies. Forms can be handed in at the Center for Social Concerns. Registration Deadline is February 2nd 
Tuesday, January 30, 2001 The Observer . MEDICAL NEWS page 7 



Pill bottles 'talk' to, help elderly 
A.<1ociatcd Preu 
WAS! l!NGTON 

Thr. man squints at his med­ication, but his dimming vision can't make out r.ven whether hi\ picked up lh11 Coumadin or Celcbrox. So he aims a gadget tho size of a dock of cards at thn bottle, and a computerized voice begins reading his prc­scri ption instructions. 
Call them talking drugs: If pilot testing goes well at two Chicago hospitals, blind and elderly /\mcricans could soon bt•gin buying prnscriptions with "smart labels" that read aloud the potentially lifesaving fine print. 
Millions of Americans have !lycsight so bad they can't read newspaper type, and th us struggle with medication bot­tks that put tho drug's name, dosage and important safety warnings in even smaller print. 
It's a problem that's only going to worsen as the aging population booms. 
Inabilily to read pill bottles can lead to very dangerous mistakes: taking the wrong pill at the wrong time; or tho wrong dose; or missing the warning not to drink alcohol or take various over-the-counter drugs with the prescription. Or even when to call a doctor about side effects. 
Enter ScripTalk. Heam a 
small voice synthesizer at a 
prescription botLlo with a spe­
cial computer chip embedded 
into the label. The wireless 
wchnology translates the print­
c d label into speech, literally 
niading aloud the pill instruc­
tions. 
Manul"acturcr En-Vision 
America Inc. of Normal, Ill., 
hopes to begin selling ScripTalk 
this summer. First, vision­
impaired veterans at Chicago's !lines Veterans Administration examine whether ScripTalk Hospital are pilot-testing the reduces medication errors gadget to learn how helpful it thus saving money as well a~ truly is -and nearby Rush­preventing injury. That study Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical could help insurers and phar­Center soon begins a separate macists decide whether to pay study to see if ScripTalk could for the device. reduce med-ScripTalk ication errors. won't be 
" W h e n "Our major goal, and c h c a p , you're vision­Schutter
what these systems 

impaired ... it's cautions. 
very difficult to would allow, is greater En-Vision find the neces­independence." would send sary informa­participat­tion" to use a ing drug­
Jerry Schutter 

drug properly. stores explains Hush chief of blind rehabilitation at blank, 
pharmacisl Hines Veterans microchip­Bruce Gaynes. em bedded

Administration Hospital

"Our major goal. and what these systems would allow, is greater inde­pe n dr. n ce," adds Jerry Schutter. chief' of blind rehabil­itation services at Hines. 
Hines so far has taught a dozen veterans to use ScripTalk at home. Some "are very happy with it," Schutter said. Olhers, usually the very elderly, still prefer family mem­bers to read their pill bottles to them. 
The pilot test isn't over yet, but will help determine if ScripTalk provides enough ben­efit for the VA to offer it once sales begin. 
ScripTalk isn't the only such attempt: Hines also has a hand­ful of veterans testing New York-based Asko Corp.'s Aloud, where pharmacists record drug labels into listening devices for patients. ScripTalk. in contrast, harnesses wireless technology to let computers synthesize the talking label automatically. 
Rush's planned 300-patient 
study. which also will investi­
gate low-tech solutions such as 
larger-print drug labels, will 
"smart 
labels." Each drugstore would have to buy a special $1,000 printer that encodes the microchip to road each label once it's print­ed. 
Patients would buy a battery­oporaled ScripTaJk reader, for about $250, that works on any smart-labeled pill bottle. A talking label initially should add $1 to each prescription, a price that would drop as more were sold, En-Vision says. 
At Hines, pharmacists had to write special software so the ScripTalk printer could road the VA's patient prescription records. a link retail pharma­cies may have to figure out, too. 
But En-Vision, which has begun pitching ScripTalk to drugstore chains and insurers, says don't forget one big bene­fit: Not every drugstore will sell talking prescriptions, so those that do could gain instant loyal clientele among the millions of vision-impaired patients. 
The technology could be 
modified to help people who 
can't read labels. 

@~fp)@[ri!Qlluu .Uy ~@ ~{lQll(Q]o/} [L@@®M@®@ 
vuu. ® ~M[nfi)[Kn)@[rg g 
In order to encourage Notre Dame students who are studying languages for which the University doesn't have large overseas study programs, there is a competition for summer grants that will allow you to study "your" language abroad or in the U.S. this summer. (In other words, this competition is open to all languages except French, Spanish, Italian, and German.) Last summer 10 students were funded to study Chinese, Japanese, Russian, Arabic, Polish, and Irish. 
For details and application forms go to http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ 
Or get applications from the Office ofInternational Studies (200 Security Building) 1-5203 
This program is sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters 

UNITED KINGDOM 

Parliament debates 'morning-after' pill 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Selling the "morning-after" contraceptive pill over the counter is part of the govern­ment's strategy to cut Britain's teen-age pregnancy rate. the highest in Europe. But oppo­nents hope to chango that in a vote Monday in the House 
Zealand

"Young girls are not
of Lords. 
and the 

Opponents going to be given proper United fear over-the­
advice by a busy phar­States 
counter sales. 
h a v e

macist with a queue of
introduced in higherBritain on customers. " rates. Jan. 1, grant 
/\ b O LI l youngsters a 
93,000

Baroness Young
license to do 
t e e n ­


opposed to pill
as they 
please. 
"Young girls are not going to be given proper advice by a busy phar­macist with a queue of cus• turners,'' said Baroness Young, sponsor of the move to restrict distribution lo doctors only. 
On Friday, an Internet site backed out of plans to provide the pills by mail after requests from the Department of Health and the Royal Pharmaceutical Society. Superdrug, the phar­macy chain that operates the site, said it would await the outcome of Monday's parlia­mentary debate. 
Taken within 72 hours of intercourse, the "morning­after" pill prevents pregnancy by blocking the implantation of a fertilized egg in the uterus or causing an implanted embryo to be expelled. Anti­abortion groups claim it amounts to abortion. 
The drug is available over the counter in a number of European ·countries. including France and Norway, and has been sold by prescription in the United States since 1998. 
Since the introduction of early versions of the drug in Britain in the 1980s, more than 4 million women have taken emergency contracep­tion, and British studies have shown no serious side eITects, although some women experi­
-

ence nausea and vomiting. 
Until this year, it was avail­able only by prescription in Britain. 
The government has promised lo halve Britain's teen birthrate -currently twice that of Germany and three times that of France ­by 2010. In the West, only 
Canada. 
N e w 
agers. 
8,000 of 

them under the age of 16, become pregnant in Britain each year. 
The "morning-after" pill is available in two versions in Britain: Levonelle-2, a high­dose progesterone pill, and Schering PC4, a combined estrogen-progesterone pill, and costs $30. It is only avail­able to women over 16, tho legal age of consent. 
By law, pharmacists must discuss side effects with a patient and ensure she is not already pregnant or suffering from blood prnssure problems or diabetes. 
Young expressed concern about an investigation by the Newcastle Journal newspapnr in which a 14-year-old girl obtained the drug at two phar­macies. 
A pharmacist "is not allowed 
to c0nsult the girl's (doctor), so 
he will have no access to her 
medical records, slate of 
health or anything else," 
Young told reporters before 
the vote. 
Jenny Tonge, a member of 
the !louse of Commons, 
accused Young and her allies 
of scaremongering. 
"These peers arc attempting 

to inflict on women a large 
amount of suffering which 
serves no useful purpose 
whatever." Tonge said. 
C ll .. T I I r O Ill 


Appalachia Seminar 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 


2 0 0 \)
• 
TuESEMINAR 

• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, March 10-17, 2001 

• 
One credit Theology course 


• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn wilh others 

• 
Past participants ofAppalachia Seminar arc encouraged to apply as Site Coordinators 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural poverty, the environment, women, children, and housing. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experi­ence the cultural richness ofthe area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLlCATIONS 

Available at lhe Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, January 31, 2001 $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) OR apply on-line! visit bnp'//129 74,134,217/AP/default.htm 
FURTHER INFORMATION 

Steve Recupero, Student Task Force Chairperson, 634-1217 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 30, 2001 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday-Friday, January 29-February 2 112 Badin and 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up for Emmaus New group or individuals interested in a small faith sharing group. 
Beginning Monday, January 29 through February 19 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #34 (February 23-24, 2001) 
Monday-Tuesday, January 29-30, 11 :30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 

Tuesday, January 30, 7:00 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Auditions for JPW Mass readers 
Tuesday Badin Hall Chapel 

Campus Bible Study will resume February 6, 2001 
Wednesday, January 31, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday, February 2 Log Chapel, 5:00 p.m. 

Dia de la Candelaria Mass Dinner to follow in Faculty Dining Room, 6:30 p.m. 
Friday-Saturday, February 2-3 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Senior Retreat #4 

Friday-Saturday, February 2-3 Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 2-3 Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat #3 
Sunday, February 4, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. J. Steele, c.s.c. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgl, Library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ministry March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 
Iam glad to get this question. To doubr one's faith is common and a natural product of the human faculty of questioning and resting ideas in order to arrive at the truth. Some question God's existence and nature when we see suffering, or injustice and are incapable of setting things right. Others doubt because the existence of God can nor be proven. 
This is a great question in any age, but mavbe even more so in our more secular 









Faith FAQs 
?Catholic fact~ 

How can Iexplain my faith in 6od to afriend who i~ an atheist~ 

rin{es. It may seem especially daunting in a time when many people think in exclu­sively scientific terms. But there are other ways of knowing. If you have ever been in love, how do you know it? Can you prove it? Can you measure ic? And yet you might 
falling in love is aglimpse ofthe diVine in human life. It opens Ul up to awhole world beyond our merely physical material world. It opens us up to mystery, and wonder, and the irreducible universe of the spiritual. 

build your life around this 
love-even depend on it, 
sacrifice for it, stake your life 
upon 1c. 
The experience of falling in love is real, and yet it is not scientifically verifiable. Falling 

walking distance of campus). A pair of helping hands would be appreciated to assist with craft activities and in organizing games. 
Monday Mornings  If you can't commit to the entire block of time,  
from 9:30 ·11 :lOa.m.  even part of it would be helpful. Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 1-7163.  
JPW Moss  

Auditions for JPW Mass readers 
Tonight, 7:00 pm• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
in love, however, is not just a good example of something that we believe in without being able to quantify it. Falling in love is a glimpse of the divine in human life. It opens us up to a whole world beyond our merely physical material world. It opens us up to mystery, and wonder, and the irreducible universe of the spiritual. St. John says that God is Love. To fall in love then is to experience a bit of how God must feel coward us, and it inspires us toward loving God and all that God loves, as well. Ir has been said that faith is the knowledge born of love. 
Ever wonder why we as Catholin do what we do or believe what we believel Please send m your questions, comments and suggestions to ministry.,@nd.edu. 
l]] Online Retreat Applications 

Apply for a retreat... ...in your pajamas. 
Applications for Campus Ministry retreats are now available online at the following addresses: 
Freshman Retreat www.nd.edu/,.., ministry/ freshmanform.html 
Senior Retreat www.nd.edu/,.., ministry/ seniorform.html 
Notre Dame Encounter with Christ (NOE) www.nd.edu/,..,ministry/ ndeform.html 

Fill out the online form, print it out & drop it by the Campus Ministry offices at Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall. 

Help is needed for "Parents' Time Out" 
--a child care co-operative held at the Community Center at University Village 
~==~~~====~~======~I (Graduate Student Housing for married students with children; located within 
Tuesday, January 30, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush unveils religious-based plan 
Weapons trial begins 
the White House's Indian
. Opponents cite 
Treaty Room.seperation of ·"As long as there are secular

for rapper Puff Daddy 
A55ociated Pr<:ss 
NEWYOHK 

Hap mogul Sean "Puffy" Combs' weapons and bribery trial began Monday with prose­cutors for the first time alleg­ing hti !ired 
a ~un insidti a Ti m e s Square nightclub as one of his µro­t C g ~ S allegedly 


shot and Combs wounded three people. 
"Mr. Combs fired a shot" into the club's ceiling, Assistant District Attorney Matthew Bogdanos said in opening statenwnL<;. "Witnesses will say they saw the muzzle tlash." 
Combs, 31, is not accused of shooting anyone in Club New York on Dec. 27, 1999. lie was arrested after he fled the club with his girlfriend, actress­singer Jennifer Lopez, who has not been charged. 
Defense attorney Benjamin Brafman said in his opening statement that prosecutors tar­geted Combs because he is famous. Combs has denied having a gun at the club. 
"This was a star-struck selec­tive prosecution of a super­star," Brafman said. "This prusecution is about fame and celebrity, not about a search for truth and justice." 
Happer Jamal "Shyne" 
Burrow. 21. is charged with 
altcmptcd murder and assault 
for alleg-edly wounding three 
club patrons. lie was accused 
of firing a 9mm pistol during a 
dispute in which another man 
insulted Combs and threw 
money in his face. 
Also charged with illegal gun 
possession is Combs' body­
guard, Anthony "Wolr' Jones, 
H. 
Bogdanos said Combs' part­
time driver, Wardell 
Fenderson, saw Combs leave 
the club, climb into the back 
alternatives, faith-based chari­

church and state

seat and slip a gun into his 
ties should be able to compete

waistband before re-entering 
for funding on an equal basis

the club. 
Associated Press and in a manner that does not

Fenderson was expected to 
cause them to sacrifice their

testify for the prosecution and 
mission."

has sued Combs for $3 million. 
WASHINGTON Heligious leaders of varied

Brafman said greed was the 
President Bush, challenging faiths and political back­

driver's motive. 
traditional notions about sepa­grounds -a Catholic nun in

"The plan is, 'llow do I. 
ration of church and state, her blue habit, a Muslim imam

Wardell, capitalize on this 
opened the door Monday for in his turban, an Orthodox Jew

case? How do I get a huge pay­
religious

day even though I don't 
groups to

deserve a nickel?"' Brafman 
receive

said. 
govern­

Bogdanos said most club 
m e n t

patrons are required to walk 
money for

through a metal detector. but 
their work

Combs and his entourage were 
aiding

not. 
addicts.

Lopez, who may be called to 
prisoners,

testify, reportedly told a grand 
the home­

jury she did not sec Combs 
less and

with a gun. 
more.

Police officer Paul Franco 
in his yarmulke -surrounded Bush for a smiling photo. Among them were ministers Walter Fauntroy and Floyd Flake, both of them prominent black Democrats. 
In a pri­vate meet­


ing before­''.As long as there are and State. hand, Bush, the Hev.
secular alternatives, 
Bush who was Barry Lynn
faith-based charities 
opposed by c a 1 1 e d nine of should be able to compete Bush's 
initiative from a seat on the board of the Corporation for National Service. 
The idea of religious partic­ipation is not entirely novel. The 1996 welfare overhaul signed by President Clinton ­and implemented in Texas by then-Gov. Bush -allowed religious groups to help the government move people off wtilfarc and into jobs. Seventeen of those groups in Texas arc now being sued by the American Jewish Congress and Texas Civil Bights Project challenging the constitutionali­ty of such "charitable choice." 
At the Washington-based Americans United for 
Separation 
of Church 

"We will not fund the reli­every 10 for funding on an equal planned
testified Monday he heard gun­
gious activities of any group, black voters expansion
shots from outside the club and 
basis and in a manner
but when people of faith pro­i n an assault
then saw Barrow run out. 
vide social services, we will November, that does not cause them on consti-
Franco said he tackled and 
not discriminate against assessed the to sacrifice their mission. " t u t i o n a 1
handcuffed Barrow, and found 
them," the president said. group and, principle
the gun in his waistband. 
By his signature on a pair of according to that will
The accusations against 
George W. Bush
executive orders, Bush created several par­only lead to
Combs involve his actions after 
a White House Office of Faith­ticipants, President more litiga­
leaving the club. Bogdanos has 
Based and Community joked: "If

said that as Combs, Lopez and 
Initiatives -with counterpart this was

Jones drove away from the 
offices in five Cabinet-level about poli­

club with Fenderson, someone 
departments -that will facili­tics, this room would be kind 

threw a handgun out the win­
tate competition by religious of empty, if you know what I 

dow. 
groups and charities for a mean."

Hogdanos said police stopped 
share of the billions of dollars Carol Porter, executive

the vehicle after it ran several 
that the government pays out director of the llouston-based

red lights and found another 
for social services. Kidcare, a 16-year-old "meals 

pistol on the floor in front. No 
On Tuesday, during a visit to on wheels" program for chil­

one claimed the gun, so police 
northeast Washington's dren. told Bush in that meet­

took everyone into custody. 
Fishing School, a spiritual ing that the only condition tied

At the police station, 
youth center,

Bogdanos said, Combs and 
B u s h

Jones tried to bribe Fenderson 
planned to

into claiming the gun was his. 
unveil the

Combs allegedly offered 
legislation heFenderson $50,000 to take the 

will submit 

rap. with a $40,000 diamond 
to Congress

ring that Lopez gave him for 
opening all

his birthday as collateral. 
federal grantBogdanos said Fenderson ini­

programs to

tially agreed under ''relentless, participationunremitting" pressure to claim 
by religiousthe gun. Two days later, the groups. His 

prosecutor said, Fenderson 
proposals

changed his mind and told 

will also

police officers: "I can't do this. 
include tax

I'm not taking the rap for these 
incentivfls

guys." 
and liability protection to 
· to federal money for "/don't want Bob Jones religious groups
University to be able to 
should be:
take federal dollars for 
"No prose­an alcohol treatment lytizing." "I don't
program and put out a 
think the
sign that says no 
religion of Catholics or Jews need a n y o n e 
apply here for a federally should be 
shoved
funded job. " 
down any­one else's Chet Edwards throat as a prerequi­

0-Texas 
site for ser­vice. Jesus 
encourage more charitable didn't do that," Porter told a 
giving, aides said. reporter afterward. 

"Problems like addiction and Bush put University of abandonment and gang vio­Pennsylvania political scienceDo you like to write? lence, domestic violence, men­professor John J. Dilulio Jr. in 
Would you lilw to write fqr The Observer? , tal illness and homelessness -charge of the new White we are called by conscience to House oflice and asked former
Call 1-5323. 
respond," Bush said during Indianapolis Mayor Stephen Monday's signing ceremony in Goldsmith to watch over the 
tion. 
" T h e 

F i r s t Amendnrnnt was intended to create a separation between religion and government, not a massive new bureaucracy that unites the two," said Lynn, an attorney and United Church of Christ minister. 
Another opponent, Hep. Chet Edwards, said he was afraid that religious organizations, without tight regulation, could discriminato in a way federal programs normally would not countenance. 
"l don't want Bob Jones University to be able to take federal dollars for an alcohol treatment program and put out a sign that says no Catholics or Jews need apply here for a federally funded job," Edwards said in an inter­view. 
Goldsmith countered that 

the Bush administration would 
make sure to maintain secular 
service providers so that gov­
ernment would not "force 
someone through the door of a 
religious organization in order 
to get help.... It can fund the 
soup, it can fund the shelter, it 
shouldn't fund the Bibles." 
Goldsmith said that, under 

the plan. some $10 billion in 
government-funded services 
would be n<lwly opened. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at
Tired of living in that cramped dorm 
http;//www.nd.e4u/~observer. 
room or the same old apartment? 
INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
Live in Oak Hill next year! 
Two Bedroom/two bathroom townhouse for sale. Includes fireplace, patio and community pool. Just two minutes from campusl Please call Erica or 
RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 2001
Kyle at (315) 641-1927 for further information. 
at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to nil majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 









VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER 
Tuesday, January 30, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. No<re ·Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIH Mike Connolly 

MANAGINC EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly V!hWl'OINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS fDlT0R: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amancla Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizaberh Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANA.GER, Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS ED11"0K: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
mOFPICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631­7471 FAX. ....................................................... .....631-6927 ADVERTISING............ , ... , ..................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF. ....................................... 631-4 542 MANAGING EmroRIAsST. ME....................63I-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT..................... , ......... ..................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.......... ,............................ ,.......... ,, .. ...631-4 540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's... ..........................................631-43 24 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................63I-&767 
• THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at htrp:llobseroer. nd. edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, a.s well a.s cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for u p-ro-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for pa~cies 
onllne fuatures for spe­
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Obsel"\lec 

articles published afrer 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofrhe Universicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and departmenr editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ~fThe Obse1Yer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies ,houldbe direct­ed ta Editor i11 Chief Mike Connolly. 

One of the hot toys this Christmas was Death Row Marv, a 6-inch doll complete with "chair, wired helmet ... and ... switch." Marv can move his neck, torso and arms. For $23.95. the ad urges the targeted 13-year olds to "[flee! the burn as the electric buzz fills the room and he starts to shake and convulse. Experience the pain as the shak­ing continues and his eyes start to glow bright red. Enjoy the torment." As columnist Michelle Malkin noted, more than 65,000 were sold and there were "waiting lists across the coun­try." 
What brought this to mind was the media frenzy building toward Timothy McVeigh's May 16 execution at the Terre Haute federal prison. McVeigh abandoned his appeals on his convic­tion of blowing up the Oklahoma City federal building in 1995, killing 168, including 19 children and injuring more than 500. The government has written to 1,100 survivors and relatives of victims asking if they want to attend the execution. A closed-circuit telecast is under consideration. Hotel rooms in Terre Haute were solidly booked within hours of the order setting the date. 
Is not the death penalty justified here? Are not all possible objections removed by McVeigh's choice to sub­mit? The answer is "no" on both counts. McVeigh's acceptance of the government's decision to kill him does not avoid the question: Does the gov­ernment have the right to make that decision? 
The state. which derives its authority from God, has authority to impose the death penalty, but it can do so only "if this is the only possible way of ... defending human lives against the unjust aggressor. If ... non-lethal means are sufficient to defend and pro­tect people's safety from the aggressor, authority will limit itself to such means, as these are more in keeping with ... the common good and ... the dignity of the human person. Today, ... as a con­sequence of the possibilities which the state has for ... rendering one who has committed an offense incapable of doing harm without definitively taking away from him the possibility of redeeming himself the cases in which 

... execution ... is an absolute necessity are very rare if not practically non­existent," from Catechism, number 2,267. 
That penalty cannot be justified as a means to retribution or to the general protection of society by deterring other offenders. Rather it must be absolutely necessary to protect other lives from this convicted criminal. The govern­ment is not so lacking in security facili­ties that McVeigh's execution is a mat­ter of "absolute necessity" because "it would be the only possible way" of defending other lives from him. The alternative to executing McVeigh is life without parole, which can be as oner­ous as execution. As the Denver Post editorialized: "Death by lethal injection would be too quick and easy." 
The death penalty, especially in a case like this, is a deceptive quick-fix that distracts attention from basic problems. As Archbishop Charles Chaput of Denver, said in opposing the McVeigh sentence, "Capital punishment is just another drug we take to ease other, much deeper anxieties about the direction of our culture. Executions may take away some of the symptoms for a time (symptoms who have names and their own stories before God), but 
the underlying illness ­ today's con­ 
tempt for human life ­ remains and  
grows worse."  

The death penalty kills the guilty rather than the innocent. However, as with abortion and euthanasia, mass bombing of civilians in Kosovo, etc., it reflects an acceptance of the intention• al infliction of death as an optional problem-solving technique. 

There is cause for concern, more• over, when the killing of a human being becomes a media event which will cater to the voyeurism characteristic of our culture of death. Video games, rap music and other amusements have accustomed many, especially the young, to seek pleasure in portrayals of the infliction of pain and even of death, on others. Death Row Marv is the poster boy of such a culture. 
Cain was a more notorious murderer even than McVeigh. Yet God put a mark on Cain, "to protect ... him from those wishing to kill him ... Not even a murderer loses his personal dignity ... God, who preferred the correction rather than the death of a sinner, did not desire that a homicide be punished by ... another ... homicide," qutoed from Evangelium Vitae, number 9. 
"All together," said John Paul, "we must build a new culture of life ... The first ... step (is] forming consciences with regard to the ... inviolable worth of every human life," from Evangelium Vitae, numbers 95 and 96. 
Because man is immortal and made in the image and likeness of God, all human persons have a dignity that transcends the power of the state. 
In his challenge to our pagan culture of death, John Paul insists that God ­not the individual and not the state ­is in charge of the ending as well as the beginning of life. Moreover, our "free­dom ... P.ossesses an inherently rela­tional dimension" because "God entrusts us to one another." from Evangelium Vitae number 19.· Therefore, "every man is his 'brother's keeper."' Even if his brother, like Cain -or Timothy McVeigh -is a murder­er. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School facul­ty. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
E
EQUITY ANALYST 

. ~
--------------1;; 
@

I'LL RATE YOUR STOCK 
..,• .. ~ 

A "MUST BUY NOW" IF YOU GIVE US YOUR 
I
INVESTMENT BANKING BUSINESS. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
AREN'T YOU­ Al"\ I  
SUPPOSED TO  TOO  
HAVE A CHI.NESE  EARLY?  
WALL BETWEEN  
THOSE TWO  
BUSI NESSE.S?  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Truth, in matters ofreligion, is simply the opinion that has survived. " 
Oscar Wilde writer 
.( 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, January 30, 200 I BSERVER 
page 11 

GUEST COLUMN 
Leaders of America's left fall to flaws 
SALT I.AKE CITY, Utah 

If you enter the .I. Willard Marriott Library through the east doors on the third level and immediately proceed up the stairs to your left, you will see a statue of Icarus. lie is a creature from Greek mythology who new too high 
James Seaman 

-his wings were held together by wax and, upon 
Daily Utah

soaring dangerous• 
Chronicle

ly close to the sun, 
the wax melted 
and Icarus tumbled to the Earth. 
The other day I paid Icarus a visit. i\ftcr hearing the news of Rev. Jesse Jackson's affair with former staffer Karin Stanford. I felt the image of this figure, frozen in his fall from grace, was particularly poignant. 
There are myriad angles to this story, all of them heartbreaking. Jackson betrayed his wife of 38 years. For Jackie Jackson, one wonders how many other affairs her husband has had. The two are still married, but the level of anguish or rage that festers deep inside is something only she knows. 
Inevitably, some will choose to por­tray the continuing marriage as merely a public and poliHcal face saving arrangement, as many have said of the Clintons. Again. only the Jacksons can know lhe true meaning of their mar­riage. 
Love is tixtrcmely hard to come by. so much so that some never lind it. But for those who sincerely love each other. only they can know the vitality or vacancy of their bond. 
lior the live Jackson children. there must also exist a tremendous contra­diction of feelings and conllict of emo­tions, all aggravated by an unsatisfying search for elusive answers. 
Of course..Jesse Jackson now has six children. This issue of how his 20­month-old daughter, born out of wed­lock, will come to know her father is as pressing as the question of how her mother will deal with this firestorm. 
Just as disconcerting as the dynam­ics of family arc those of faith ­.Jackson is a reverend and has a flock of followers. Each must reconcile in his or her own way the discrepancy between Jackson's words and his actions. 
hope that even Jackson's strongest opponents would feel compassion for the human side of these events. I am certain some conservatives are over­joyed. People like Rush Limbaugh and 
G. Gordon Liddy probably feel vindicat­ed, and I shudder to imagine the vitri­olic rants spewing from their mouths in regard to Jackson's current situa­tion. 
Coming on the heels of Bill 

While Jackson's crisis rep­~ Clinton's self-destructive resents an assortment of .,,r # behavior, the political left 
personal issues, it is also 
tragic for what it 
means in a more gen­
eral scope. These events are painful in the eyes of the 
people Jackson 
speaks for. Young 
African-American males in particu­lar have too few role models. and 
Jackson was 
someone to be 
looked up to. 
Jackson operates 
on the front lines of 
the civil rights ~ 
struggle in this coun-\/,/4, 
try. As sure as you see ~ 
him preaching, you also ~~ 
see him marching, stand-'!"/./
ing in picket lines and even ~ 
being arrested. 
# did not need another.h shot between the eyes. .,,,,,,,,,., For some reason. it seems liberal leaders are destined to be tragic figures, blessed with Ill-amazing skill and .,,/-intellect. and yet 
cursed with some tragic flaw that causes them to betray the trust of 
their believers. Contrast Clinton with conservative leaders like Ronald Reagan and George 
W. Bush. No sane person would place the latter two on the intel­lectual level of the former. 
Yet Reagan always kept things simple, surrounding him­

Clinton rendered himself a lame duck, Jackson has also likely forfeited his political clout. And thus, a generation of liberal leaders is lost in a time when we most need them. 
The recent conservative trend in this country has been in play since 1968 and is shifting the entire paradigm to the right. Too often the questions have changed from "!low much aid should the government provide?" to "Should the government provide aid at all?" 
The rise of this conservative era was ignited in part by the fall of another tragic liberal leader, Lyndon Johnson. Unlike many Republican presidents. Johnson tried to do too much, heaping the Great Society, the Vietnam War and the weight of the world upon his own shoulders. 
The impact of Johnson's crash to the ground is still being felt in the ranks of the left. 
Beyond Johnson, there were no able torchbearers. With the murder of John Kennedy, Hobert Kennedy and Martin Luther King within live years of each other. there was simply no one remaining to lead the left. In contrast. the current generation of liberal lead­ers seems to be killing itself off with its own stupidity. 
So far, the story of Icarus hasn't meant enough to those who lead the way for the political left. Perhaps the next generation of liberal leaders will learn from Jackson's mistakes. 
If not, we are doomed to repeat this pattern of fallen angels and risen dev­ils. 
This column first appeared in the University of Utah daily newspaper, the Daily Utah Chronicle. on Jan. 29. 2001 and is reprinted here courtesy of 
U-WIRE. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The struggles Jackson represents. the stories he speaks on behalf of. are things the current stock of powerhold­ers will probably never understand. And when leaders like Jackson fall, sometimes there just isn't anyone left to pick up the pieces. 
lieyond the civil rights struggle, Jackson's fall is significant in terms of what it may do to the left in general. 
It is no secret that Jesse Jackson has plenty of enemies. And while I would self with shrewd and able operatives. 
Bush is doing the same by selecting a Cabinet of demigods and keeping his messages to the American people in the form of the lowest common denom­inator. Conservatives succeed by pro­jecting a paternalistic moral leadership that, although fabricated, feels real to the American people. 
While the left may have better ideas. its leaders squander opportunities amidst personal intrigue. Just as 

Fee( (ike vou need to ven+? 
Viewpoint •,s +he fafe wav to do it. 
Send your letters to 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Presidential past less important than U.S. future 
This letter is in response to Monday's Viewpoint who haven't yet, get over it. History will not forget column by Mark Marchand entitled, "Thanks for what has happened, both the good and the bad. nothing, Clinton." History will remember the turmoil and joy Tho Clinton administration is over. The America has felt during the past eight years. fat lady has sung. It is now history that 
In order for America to move on and to 
will record the legacy that President heal, we must shed our partisan differ­Clinton has left America; unfortunately ences and forgive President Clinton, for for Mr. Marchand, history does not he is only human. 
simply reflect the partisan rancor As John F. Kennedy stated. "History and hatred expressed in his column 
is a relentless master. It has no pre­but instead an accurate..unbiased 
sent, only the past rushing into the chronicle. 
future. To try to hold fast is to be History will show that President 
swept aside." For the good of Clinton made personal mistakes 
America and its citizens. it is time to whose ramifications affected the move beyond President Clinton and entire nation and shook it to the core. his past to instead focus on realizing And history will also record his suc­America's potential to make a differ­cesses in foreign policy and the econo­ence in the lives of those at home and my. human rights at home and abroad across the planet in our future. and his protection of our environment. 
What has happened during the past eight Clayton Swope years is history. While we focus on the past, sophomore America could be preparing for the future. Bill Sorin Hall Clinton made mistakes, as do we all. To those of you January 29, 2001 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 


page 12 Tuesday, January 30, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Lifehouse surprises critics with No Name Face 
By LISA BRUNO 
Scene Music Critic 
This review did not turn oul the way it was supposed to. It was supposed to be a simple article in which Llfehouse's debut release, No Name Face. rece.ives a lack­luster review for seeming to fol­low in the footsteps of the likes of the overplayed Creed. But it did not work out that way. 
In actuality, this disc is very good, and doesn't cause the same cringing one associates with hav­ing to hear yet another Creed track. 
Ufehouse begins to achieve the seemingly impossible feat of standing out amidst the music that is produced in bulk these days. 
Let's begin with a word about what this disc is not. No Name Face is not the kind of album that once it has been purchased, the buyer soon realizes that just about the only good thing about it is its radio-friendly single. in Lhis case, "Hanging by a Moment." Instead, these 12 tracks offer con­sistently good music and lyrics. Buyer's remorse does not come along with this purchase. 
So who and what is Ufehouse anyway? Lifchouse is a young, 20-something, Los Angeles-based group that lived its music -and character -building past in a California garage. The band's style could be described as diet-rock; all the taste, but without all the calorics. 

Fans will be hard-pressed to find reviews of the band lacking a comment about frontman, Jason Wade. First of all, he could quite easily land a day job as a model, and more importantly. because he has a wonderfully deep and raspy voice that is reminiscent of many other lead vocalists, yet dis­tinctly his own. His voice fits emo­tions of the lyrics all the better because he writes them himself. 
No Name Face opens with the familiar track, "Hanging by a Moment," which found itself in the No. 1 position on Billboard's Modern Rock only 10 weeks after the album's release. The follow­ing 11 tracks continue down the same path. 
There are, however, some rest stops along the way as the band slows down for some more melodic tracks such as "Trying" and the soon to be a hit, "Breathing." 
The depth and greatness of Wade's voice are well featured in these slower tracks, as are his lyrics, which welcome interpre­tation and offer up a connection between listener and author: "I am waiting for tonight/ Then waiting for tomorrow/ And I am somewhere in between what is real and just a dream/ Would you catch me if I fall out of what I fell 


in." 

So when all is said and done, Lifehouse's freshman offering is not what it appears to be. It is a pleasant surprise and a smart investment. We can only hope to hear more that continues to sepa­rate this group from todays' ever­growing mass of one-hit wonders. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Don't Let Go captures Garcia at his musical peak 
there was no doubt who was behind the wheel. 
Garcia's dominant musical presence is on display throughout Don't Let Go, a two disc live recording of the Jerry Garcia Band's performance at the Orpheum Theatre in San Francisco on May 21, 1976. Though Garcia frequently 


leads the band to moments of brilliance, 
the lack of other dominant personalities 
keeps the JGB one notch below the Dead. 
Nevertheless. the music presented on 
Don't Let Go is still viable and com­
pelling in its own right. Don't Let Go is strikingly similar to a Grateful Dead perfor­mance, and yet so dif­ferent. At the time of the concert, Garcia was approaching the peak of his career, with his voice and guitar textures in top form -before nar• cotics took their toll. Also on stage that night were key­boardist Keith Godchaux and his sweet-singing wife Donna, both stalwarts of the Dead for most of the l 970s. The enchanting vocal interplay between Jerry and Donna elevates most songs here. most notably the title track. But in the thick of a jam, the creative and intricate rhythm guitar of Bob Weir and the bass explorations of Phil Lesh are sorely missed. The more reserved rhythm secti-0n of bassist John Kahn and drummer Ron Tutt rarely ventures into the foreground, giving the band an overall thinner sound than the Dead. Far from being a curse. this minimalism allows the subtleties of Garcia's gui­tar work to shine through in all its steely brilliance. Dominated by covers. the album offers only three songs native to the Jerry Garcia Band. "Sugaree" and "They Love Each Other," two origi-

By TIM BODONY 
Scene Music Critic 
The Grateful Dead traveled down so many roads, yet even during his vacations, lead singer Jerry Garcia had to keep on truckin'. As much a musicolo­gist as a performer, Garcia used his various side pro­jects to explore the American roots music traditions that initially influenced rock 'n' roll. 
During a Dead hiatus in 1972, Jerry hid out as a banjo player in the all-star bluegrass band Old and In the Way, taking a backseat to champion fiddler Vassar Clements and mandolin great David Grisman. But when he plugged in with the Jerry Garcia Band, nals that became staples of the Dead repertoire, immediately prompt the inevitable comparisons to the Dead. 
Garcia masterfully wins back the listeners' atten­tion with his bluesy. swaggering solo at the start of "That's What Love Will Make You Do." The version of "Knockin' On Heaven's Door" is slower than a turtle on codeine. while "After Midnight" shares plenty of similarities with the disco that dominated the air­waves at the time. This song typifies the second disc, which consists mainly of Motown and H & B hits done in a playful, yet sometimes cheesy, manner. 
Back on the more earthy first disc, the cover of Jimmy Clifrs "Sitting in Limbo" propels the show to its high point, combining a tender lyrical religiosity with a musical narrative that always leads back home. The San Francisco-themed "Mission in the Rain" initially diminishes the intensity, only to dra­matically reconstruct it piece by beautiful piece, with Garcia nimbly leading the song to a soaring finale. 
Such moments of brilliance underscore the value of' a recording like this to the legions of Deadheads who will not let Jerry slip silently into the bowels of rock history. The band manages to pay homage to American music traditions with a live-in-the-moment exuberance, but overall this album is more about the person of Jerry Garcia than the songs he sang that night in 1976. These two discs represent a frozen moment in time, showcasing an American icon at the pinnacle of his career. 



Tuesday, January 30, 200 I page J3 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Softer, more melodic rock works for Coldplay 
Cliched though they might seem, Change," "I 
By MARY SPEARS 
these comparisons are actually valid. wanna live 
Parachutes

Scene Music Critic 
Martin pulls off the soulful lead singer life/ And be bit well, and shares Yorke's ability to good to Coldplay could very well be the unof­infuse meaning into lyrics that some­you," and 
Coldplay

ficial soundtrack band for winter in how lose their impact on the written "Sparks," South Bend. page (such as "So then I took my turn/ "My heart is Think about it. South Bend is notori­Oh what a thing to have done/ And it yours/ It's 
Capitol Records

ously grey during the winter. was all Yellow"). The s9aring falsetto you that I Coldplay's debut album, Parachutes, peaks on songs like "Shiver" have hold on to." in the grand tradition Buckley's influence However, 
Rating

of tlwughtful British written all over them. it is the
Coldplay's debut 
music popularized by The lyrics on music that the brilliant album ... Parachutes is Parachutes are really drives ........~:-~& Hadiohead, is just just mellow enough to extremely poetic -in this album. mellow enough to an oddly touching I-lard rock
perfectly compliment 
perfectly compliment sort of way -and fans may the grey days of win­the grey days ofwinter romantic without not necessarily appreciate the fact Parachutes only gets better with ter in South Bend. in South Bend. having to resort to that "Yellow" is pretty much the most repeated listens. The great melodies 
By now, critics have "Ooh baby you're so intense song on the album, but still, no accompanied by Martin's melancholy 
made many compar-fine/ I'm gonna make one can deny that the men of Coldplay voice make this the perfect album for isons of Coldplay's you mine" (unparal­have an uncanny sense of melody, and a rainy day (or a snowy day, as it may lead singer Chris Martin to both Thom leled lyrical genius though that might the ability not only to make piano-dri­be). Yorke of Hadiohead and singer Jeff be). ven ballads like "Trouble" sound legit­It might not exactly be what die­Buckley, who died after the release of The single "Yellow" is unremittingly imate. but also pull off a semi-rock hard Limp Bizkit fans are looking for, his excellent debut album, Grace. romantic, as are songs like "We Never sound, as found in "Yellow." but it's a great album nonetheless. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Who is Jill Scott? answers call for quality R&B 
toners in a direct and beautiful poraries, which includes, 
Dy ARIENNE THOMPSON 
manner. among others, Erykah Badu Scene Music Cricic 
A prominent poet in her (to whom Scott is most often native Philadelphia, Scott made compared), Maxwell. Eric While the boy bands and a name for herself in the music Benet, Amel Larrieux and 
teeny bopper idols churn out industry when she helped pen D'Angelo. platinum tripe, there does in the Grammy-winning single . Using the album as her tool, foct exist a more thoughtful "You Got Me" for The Roots, Scott places herself among the side of the music industry that who she also toured with for greats Qf neo-soul with a stun­succeeds in finding fresh new quite some time. It was this ning authenticity and bril­acts with actual creative ability work that won the attention of liance. and panache. Jeff Townes (aka: DJ Jazzy Each track on this wonder­
As Britney Spears and Jeff), who produced Scott's ful debut from Scott is refresh­Christina Aguilera arc market­debut album, and Hidden ingly different, as each is com­ed for mass consumption, Jill Beach CEO and Founder Steve plemented by the superb pro­Scott is honest, and Jill Scott is McKeever. duction efforts of Jazzy Jeff in love. Jill Scott is a poet, and Released last July, Who Is Jill and his group of engineers, Jill Scott has soul. Yet, there is Scott? was not an immediate including Andre Harris, Vidal still one mystery that begs to be commercial success. However, Davis and Keith Pelzer. And uncovered with a gentle des­because of Scott's fame as a though each track is com­peration: Who is Jill Scott? poet the album later gathered a pelling and ultimately excep­
With her impressive debut grassroots following and she tional, several tracks stand album, Scott attempts to give was well on her out of the cave alone as pure gems. an answer to this intriguing, of anonymity. Incidentally, Scott floats lightly through yet complicated inquiry by pre­however, Scott's recent fame the sweet, anxious "Honey senting the essence of herself and recognition has come from Molasses," while carefully and the genre of neo-soul to lis-the clever and telling video for pacing herself through the 
her song "Gettin' In The melancholy "Slowly Surely." Way," in which she lays "A Long Walk" revels in the down the law, proclaiming joy of companionship and dat­
Though many R&B fans may not know just who Jill Scott Is yet, after
Who Is Jill Scott? 
to her would-be romantic ing, as Scott sings forcefully: 
one listen to her debut album, they will never be able to forget.
adversary, "You betta "Let's take a long walk around back down bel'ore yo1,1 get the park after dark/ Find a "He Loves Me (Lyzel in E Flat)," drip from every word, drawing
smacked down/ You bctta spot for us to spark/ 
displaying her ability to the listener in and creating an
chill." The video solidilied Conversation, verbal elation, smoothly l1utter in and out of all too rare sense of perfection
Scott's appeal as a tell-ii­stimulation/ Share our situa­like-it-is soul singer. and tions, temptations, education, her roles as poet and vocalist. in composition and structure. She beauti­Not within the past year has
this factor has been the relaxations, fully merges an H&B album revealed so
key to her success us an e Ie v a tio n s/ the accents skillfully and purposefully who
honest and emotional Maybe baby 
Jill Scott is every word of 

and rhythms an artist is. Jill Scott is everysinger and songwritor. we can save 
every song; she is each word of every song; she is each
With her cropped · the nation." of her 
beat and each sound. Without
auburn afro and deep The clever beat and each sound. speaking 
voice with so much as butting an eye, she
black words, Scott is neo­"One Is The Without so much as bat­
the richness completely and fully presents tosoul. She easily and f'ully Magic #" 
ting an eye, she completely and tone of the listener and the world who,
exemplifies those qualities demon­
andfully presents to the her singing why, and how she is.
and notions associated strates the
Jill Scott 

voice. The Initial doubts arc diminished
with the genre both in life artist's listener, and the world. 
song is and she rests comfortably atop
and on her album. She is inherent who, why. and how she is. 
made all the a masterpiece. Poised in such a
Hidden Beach Records 
conscious, spiritual and ability as a more perfect position, Jill Scott no longeropen; she is thoughtful, poet, us she by the addi­faces the initial anonymity of
interesting and unconven­explains the the new artist. Rather, she has
tional. significance of being an individ­tion of violin, viola and cello,
Rating 

which gives it a depth that is simply begun the journey ofThus, she has secured ual. 
not matched anywhere else on defining herself through musicher niche within the cre­Scott is at her absolute best,
.......... 
ative circle of her contem-however, on the outstanding the album. Scott's emotions for years to come. 


......-------------------------------------·-­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2001 
NFL 
F~l proillises Giants will be back in Super Bowl -soon 
training program. He may lose
Associated Press 
defensive coordinator John Fox, if he lands a head coaching job. 
TAMPA 

General manager ErnieYou didn't think New York 
Accorsi also will be busy trying to 
Giants coach Jim Fassel was 
sign at least a half-dozen playersthrough making guarantees, did 
who will become free agents,
you? 
including cornerback Jason
A day after being humbled by Sehorn and haHback Tiki Barbor.
the Baltimore Ravens in the 
Fassel also probably will sign aSuper Bowl, Fassel guaranteed new three-or four-year contracton Monday that the Giants would that will pay him as much as $3return to the NFL championship million annually. He earned $1.1
game, and soon. 
million this season. 
Fasscl. whose playoff guaran­
"Jim's going to get some
tee on Nov. 22 ignited the Giants' healthy numbers; we won't berun to the Super Bowl, said the holding any benefits from him,"nucleus of the team is solid and 
John Mara, the team's executive
that, if the players continue to vice president said. 
work hard and play with the 
Fassel said he would like to getsame unselfish attitude, they can 
the contract situation off his
succeed again. 
mind as soon as possible.
'Tm going to take the same "I don't sec it as being a big,approach as last year," Fassel difficult mess," he said. "Theysaid. "I want tough guys. hard­have expressed to me that they
working guys, want meguys who are here, and
committed to "We had a great year and 
they wantcoming in here 

a bad day. It hurts right me to stay
and being togeth­
er. That way we now. but I am not going to here, and I'm a New
can climb right let that take awayfrom 
York Giant.

back up on top 
everything that was I never
and try to get floated my
back to this accomplished this year. " 
name or

game, because I 
threatenedthink we will. 

Jim Fassel 
about this

We'll get back to 
Giant:s coach or that or
this game. We played the
have a better 
politics of

team right now." 
it. I want to be a New York
When asked if that was a guar­Giant."
antee, Fassel didn't hesitate. 
Like most coaches, Fassel
"Yes," he said in a calm, clear spent the early morning hours onvoice. 
Monday replaying the game. 
He was just as quick when 
Getting backed up in their ownasked how long it would take the 
territory early was the worst
Giants to get back to the Super thing that could happen. FassclBowl? 
said.
"It ain't going to take 10 years, Losing an interception returnlike it took last time," Fassel said for a touchdown by linebackerreferring to the decade between 
Jessie Armstead because of a
the Giants last two Super Bowl questionable holding penalty on appearances. 
defensive tackle Keith HamiltonThe Giants never were in this was huge. It would have tied theSuper Bowl, losing 34-7. They game at 7-7.
fell behind early and spent the Having ColJins throw an inter­rest of I.he game watching Kerry ception late in the first half was
Collins struggle against the 
crucial, as was the interceptionRavens' awesome defense. The 
return by Duane Starks in thequarterback was intercepted 
third quarter, Fassel said. 
four times. His right shoulder 
Fassel was like a proud parentwas partially separated in the 
talking about Collins, even
third quarter with the game out through the quarterback playedof reach, but he fmished the con­
his worst game of the season,
test. 
throwing the four interceptions.
"I've always been able to put The two talked at a team partythings behind me," Collins said. 
after the game. 
"I've faced bigger challenges in "I told him I was proud as hellmy life. I'll just circle the wagons of him," Fassel said. "I am proudagain and come back." 
of everything he has done, theOver the next week, Fassel will way he has handled himself this meet with his players and coach­year, and I'm darn glad he is ouring staff and finalize an offseason 

quarterback and that we'll be around here together for a long time." 
lf there was one topic that made Fassel emotional on the day after, it was the team party. The coach wasn't in the partying mood, and he had to be persuad­ed by his wife, Kitty, to stop in 

the tent where it was being held. When he walked in, everyone gave him a standing ovation. 
"It felt very good," Fassel said, his eyes watering as he recount­ed the story. "That was very nice, probably as good as I felt. 
"It's a hard pill to swallow. We had a great year and a bad day. 

It hurts right now, but I am not going to let that take away from everything that was accom­plished this year. We got to the Super Bowl. but I am not going to dwell on the negative of it." 
The positive is the Giants are going back, if Fasscl new guar­antee is as good as his last. 
The Observer accepts da.sifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al cla.sifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Pet Refuge, a no kill animal shelter  2 tickets for the 2/18 men's basket·  
-...  LOST AND FOUND  Houses for Rent 1) 5-br $900/month  Parents who are ND grads seek older female babysitter to care for  just 1 Omin trom campus needs vol­unteers and fosters  FOR SALE  ball game vs. Seton Hall. Please call 4-3593.  
2)  4-br. $1000/month  two girls ages 7 & 9, one or two  Please call 256-0886  
Found:  3)  3-br. $600/month  weekend evenings & occasionally  or visit www.R~lr!l!!Jge.i;Qm  
Watch at DeBartolo Hall Must identify to claim  We'll make almost any changes to the houses.  weekdays or evenings in our home. Must have own care.  and email us  Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and  PERSONAL  
Call Bill at 675-0776  Call Judith & leave message:  deluxe frame. All new, never used,  
Found:  287•0260  The Early Childhood Development  still in plastic. $235  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  
Glasses at Debartolo  House for lease 7101  Center,  219-862-2082  Have your parents stay in real "Irish  
Must identity to claim  415 bedrooms.  Summer jobs!  located at Saint Mary's College and  Comfort" at more affordable prices  
3 blocks to campus.  Camp Tecumseh YMCA is now hir­ the University of Notre Dame,  Phone cards  than area hotels.  
Lost: SMC Ring  773-486-8822  ing for cabins, equestrian, aquatics  is looking for volunteers who enjoy  $20 ­ 2601 min with .49 cent sur- Gourmet breakfast brunch included.  
Fri. Night 1/26, b/w Lafayette 28  and support staff. We are a  young children.  charge  Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at 277•  
and 720 Washington St  All the good houses are not gone!  Christian camp located near  If you would be interested in spend- or $20 ­ 362 min with no fees  4303  
Call 284-4378  We have 2, 4&5 bedroom homes 5  Lafayette, Ind. Season is 10 weeks  ing 2 hOurs a week reading chil­ 634-421 O Sara or  Or visit our site:  
$$ Reward  minutes from campus.  Salary $1900-$2300.  dren's books, buildings with blocks  634-1146 Claudia  www,iri~hro~e .;om  
Dave 291-2209.  Representatives will be on campus  and singing songs with children,  
on Feb. 8.  please call:  I miss you, Pat.  
FOR RENT  WANTED  Call for an application today! Call 1-800-382·2267 (www carnpte- Kari Alford at 284--4693 (ECDC-SMC)  TICKETS  once again,  
cumseh org)  or Debbie Hart at 631-3344  I made it back before my bag.  
3-5 bedroom homes  It's an experience that lasts a life­ (ECDC-ND)  Need tickets to ND v. Seton Hall on  
close to campus  Cooks and delivery drivers wanted.  time!  Please join our fun filled days.  2/18 Call 243-9306  Good night.  
232-2595  Call Boracho Inc. at 258-9834.  


Upcoming Lectures 
Timothy Endicott April 5 
John Gardner April 10 
Germain Grisez April 19 
' 

Tuesday, Jant.1ary 30, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
. 

I
Joseph Boyle , I 
Principal at St. Michael•s College University of Toronto 
Wednesday. January 31. 2001 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
The Olin 

Distinguished 
Lecture Series 
"The 
Objectivity · 
of Reasons for Action" 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2001 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish bowlers can't match nation's best 
Special to The Observer 
The Blue and Gold Classic lived up to its advance billing, as the top teams from all over the country tripped to Beacon Bowl for the Tier 1 national event. 
The Notre Dame bowling club finished 28th in the tournament. This year's field included eight of the top 10 men's teams, including reigning national champion Sagamore Valley, and cur­rent No. 1 Nebraska, and seven of the top 10 women's teams in the country. • 
Competing on lanes oiled to PBA tournament specifications, averages were down for all clubs. The Irish lost a heartbreaker on the final ball rolled in the opening round to Wisconsin, 809 ­
808. While the Irish continued to bowl even with their wmpetition, the additonal 100 bonus points lost in several very close contests doomed the club to a lower half finish. 
Darren Kraft's 180 average paced the squad, followed by Kevin Gertken and Dan Buttke at 
170. Jason Pawlak, the usual team leader, rolled a 161 average, and team scoring was rounded out with Brian Gertken's 157 tally. The club will now prepare for the ACUI Regionals, scheduled for Feb. 9. 
Skiing 
The ski club's women faltered for the first time in two years in Divisional competition this weekend, finishing second to Michigan by one point in the Slalom at Crystal Mountain. 
Four women placed in the top 15. led by Molly Munsterer's first place run. Leigh Hellrung, third, Alanah Lundgren, 10th, and Jennifer Caswell, 13th. turned in very respectable times. 
Stung by the loss, the Irish rebounded to cap­
ture the Giant Slalom, as they dominated and 
overwhelmed the competition. Leigh Hcllrung 
brought home gold, while Molly Munsterer 
grabbed silver as they were joined by Alanah 
Lundgren and Jennifer Caswell in the top 10. 
The men continued to struggle as Wes Jacobs. 
Miki:: Ryan, Kevin Kennedy, Ryan Boger and Jon 
Pribaz could do no better than a fifth place tie. 
The club will complete the regular season por~ 
tion of their schedule with a trip to Schuss 
Mountain this coming weekend. 
Men's Volleyball 
Stepping up in competition, the men's volley­
ball club upped its overall record to 11-7 at the 
Michigan Classic. Using a two game ~or_mat. the 
club split games with all four teams m its open­
ing pool -Western Michigan, _St. Lou_is, 
Michigan, and Tennessee, to receive a third 
seed for Sunday's competition. 
After defeating Vanderbilt, the Irish fell in the 
next round to top seed Illinois, 25-20, 25-22. 
Brian Price and Jim Lowder had standout per­
formances at outside hitter,. while Jon Linzer, 
Aidas Kuolas and Jon Roller picked up the slack 
in the absence of injured middle hitter, Rob 
Smith. The club remains tied for second in con­
ference play at 4-2, and will next hit the courts 
in an 8 p.m. contest in the Pit, Feb. 8, against 
Georgetown . 
SUPER BOWL 

Ravens fans rally behind champions 
Bowl caps.
Associated Press 
"It's just an unbelievable year for a football team," Kelso said,OWINGS MILLS 
"Who would ever think after
For the uninitiated. Baltimore everything they went thrmigh thatHavens fans don't "caw." 
they would go all the way?"
Spontaneous outbreaks of 
Wern said he didn't even bother
"Woooo, woooo, woooo!" and making up an excuse to miss
"Woof, woof, woof!" filled the air work.
Monday as fans awaited the 
"I told them as soon as they got arrival of their 
in the playoffs,
Super Bowl 
Tm not coming inchampions out­"They won me over. I Monday' because Iside the teain 's 
knew they wereOwings Mills had not seen that kind 
going all the way,"
headquarters ofhitting since the 
Wern said. 
and training 
Steel Curtain." Nor did Brian
facility. 
Donovan, whoAs the kept his young
Ravens' convoy David Taylor 
daughters, Nicolemade its way 
Ravens' fan and Hannah, out
home Monday afternoon, more than 1,000 fans lined the cordoned-off road to give the team a raucous welcome. 
And a local radio station blared the ubiquitous sports anthem "Who Let The Dogs Out?'.' as· David Taylor of Kensington rode a scooter carrying a toy dog in his backpack -so he could let it out whim the team arrived. 
Previously a "halfhearted Redskins fan," Taylor said he converted to the Ravens after the underdog team prevailed against the Tennessee Titans on Jan. 7. 
"They won me over," Taylor said. "I had not seen that kind of hitting since the Steel Curtain," he said, referring to the Pittsburgh Steelers' 1970s glory days. 
Both Jeff Wern, a truck driver from Westminster, and Earl Kelso, a tool and die maker from Hampstead, took the day off from work to support the team. Both were wearing Ravens AFC cham­pionship hats and said they planned to update with Super 
of school to watch the Super Bowl champions arrive home. "I believe that's an acceptable excuse," he said with a grin. 
Hobert and Theresa Shade of Pasadena arrived with their four boys, ages 10 to 15. Robert's brother, John, carried a 20-inch aluminum foil-covered replica of the Vince Lombardi Trophy. 
Although Monday was a 

"It's a great way to show reason I came
school day, "all the kids had offto the whole country to Baltimore." fevers this morn­Frick, a Colts
that we're a city that!s 
ing when they fan who
coming back and it's on
woke up. It's a watched the mysterious thing," the rebound and destined team's 1958 Shade said. Super Bowl
for great things. " 
"It was the win, said Ravens bug," 10-Baltimore still year-old Frank Martin O'Malley loved and 
said. Baltimore mayor missed the 
Steve Kallens, who runs a local Italian ice stand, said no one was immune. 
"Who's not a Ravens fan now?" Kallens asked rhetorically. Baltimore Mayor Martin 

O'Malley arrived at BWl Airport to welcome the plane before team members loaded onto buses for the trip to headquarters. 
"I'm so proud of this team," O'Malley said. "I'm so proud of how hard they fought all year and to go all the way." 
Citing the city's declining crime rate, higher public school test scores and rising real estate val­ues, O'Malley proclaimed the Super Bowl win a harbinger of more good things to come. 
"It's a great way to show off to the whole country that we'rn a city that's coming back and it's on the rebound and destined for great things," he said. 
Predictably, the crowd went wild as the team buses pulled up to the complex, but the undisput­ed highlight of the day was when team president David Modell and coach Brian Billick walked along the road with the Vince Lombardi Trophy, letting anybody within reaching distance touch it. 
"This is the people's trophy," Modell said. "You've got to let the fans have a chance to touch it," Billick 
added. "The 
fans are the 
Colts but "this is a new team and the 

Ravens brought everybody back together. This is the neatest thing that's happened in so long. You could not do more for the city." 

NANCY DE LC)S 5,ANTOS 
Co-PRODUCER AND WRITEP 5CRE[NING ThE DOCUMENTARY 
"THE BRONZE \SCREEN: 100 YEAl~S OF LATINO IMAGES IN HOLL\WOOD CINEMA" 


.e111!JJV e.eitB :hi/Net 

DEMONSTRATION: TUESDAY, JANUARY 30 7:00PM RSRC ACT. RM. 2 
r 

Intro to Latin Dancing: Tuesdays 7-Spm Intermediate Latin Dancing: Tuesdays 8-9pm RSRC Act. Rm 2 
Classes begin Tuesday February 6 $1 7 per semester Registration 8:00am, Wednesday January 31 Space is Limited For More Info, call RecSports at 1-6100 
....c~

01 i".,,ty~
J,flJ/,f8 R--~ ~/ 
fTs THEATEr~, McKFf'-INA HA11 BAsEMENr DOCUME:-;TARY 5i-'(JWING AND 0tSCUSSlON TUESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2001 4:00 PM 
PPtSENTED BY: INSTITUTE FOR L\TINO STUDIES 
Tuesday, January 30, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17
==========================:::..=::============================================================--== 
.com .com .com .com .com .com .com :com .com .corn .corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .con, .com · .com .com .. com .com .com. .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .con1 .com Co t-­
• I 

I I .com .corn .com .com .con1 .com .com .com 
Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 

.com .com .com .com .com .corn .con: 
r--..1: r ; tll
* .J _} . '\ .,,' \ ......• ! 
.corn .com .com .com .com . corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .com .com .COlll .com .com .com .com .corn .corn .com .com .COtll .con1 .com .co;r1 .corn .CUfll .com .com .com .com .com .com .com 



r-o
~ 

• (_, ..I I I I .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .con1 
.com .com .corn .com .com .com .corr, .com .com .com .com .corn 



.com .corn .con1 .com .. com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com 


FORTUNE" You haven't gotten this far by limiting!82~,~Is your possibilities. And if you want to
.corn _.con1 .com .com .com 
TO WORK FOR~ go even farther, consider the possibilities at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most .com .com .com .com .com sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on . 
.corn .corT1 .com .com · .con, 
ey.com/us/careers 
s!J f RNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.'" 
102001 ERNST & 'fOUNG llP 
page 18 The Oburver . SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2001 
FENCING 
Irish squads post 5-0 weekend, defeat Northwestern 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The men's fencing team got back to basics Sunday at Evansville while the women's side knocked off its top Midwest rival, Northwestern, as both teams posted 5-0 week­ends at the first Midwestern meet of the season. 
The No. 2 men cruised to five easy wins as they dominated club teams from Purdue (24-3). Lawrence (23-4), University of Chicago (23-4). Northwestern (21-6) and Case Western Reserve {23-4). While the com­petition was far from the best they will face all year, the men had to make a difficult adjust­ment to fence the club teams, according to epeeist Brian Casas. 
"You have to rely on more basic actions and simpler tech­
-niques," said the junior, who improved his season record to 17-8 with a 10-3 weekend. "It's tough. I am used to fencing good people in the gym and when you go to tournaments when you have to beat begin­ners and people who haven't fenced for very long, some­times the adjustment can be hard." 
Scott Gabler showed no trou­ble adjusting to the club fencers, however. The senior epeeist had one of his best weekends of his career as he finished l 4-1. Gabler's strong fencing was especially impor­tant since sophomore epee cap­tain Jan Viviani did not attend the meet. The first team All­American was in Cuba fencing in a World Cup event this weekend. 
The men's foil team was also strong as its top three fencers each went undefeated. Captain and All-American Ozren Debic upped his career record to 60­4 and moved into the top 5 in all-time Irish winning percent­age. Forrest Walton and Steve Mautone both bounced back from difficult opening week­ends to posted 8-0 and 6-0 records, respectively. 
The top four men's sabre fencers also finished the week­end undefeated as Matt Fabricant (15-0) remained the only undefeated fencer with more than 10 bouts. 
While the men's teams fenced only easy dub competi­tion. the women's team scored an upset of Northwestern. Avenging last year's loss to the No. 4 Wildcats, the No. 7 Irish jumped out to a 13-6 lead before holding on to win 14-13 win. The 5-0 weekend was especially critical as the Irish were coming off a 1-3 opening weekend. 

"It was a much easier meet than last week," freshman foilist Maggie .Jordan said. "The one tough team we fenced were just really fired up and we just knew it was an important week. After last week we were a little down but we knew this meet could bring us back up." 
Jordan was a big reason the Irish bounced back. While the freshman went 6-6 the first weekend, she went 12-0 in Evansville. Sophomore foilist Liza Boutsikaris' went B-0 as well to pick up her 50th career win. 
Jordan said she is just adjust­ing to the more difficult compe­tition in college compared to high school. 
"In high school I never really lost because the competition was much lower," Jordan said. "That was just the jitters or a first meet but I pulled through." 
Two freshmen and a sopho­
more also pulled through with 
big weekends for the Irish 
against the Wildcats. Freshmen 
Destanie Milo and Jesse Filkins 
respectively while sophomore 
Natalia Mazur went 6-2. All 
three fencers went 2-1 against 
Northwestern. 
While the foil squad went 7-2 
and the sabre squad went 6-3 
against Northwestern, the epee 
squad struggled to a 1-8 record 
against the Wildcats. 
Sophomore All-American 
Meagan Call picked up the only 
epee win while All-American 
Anna Carnick went 0-3. 
Call believes the epee squad 
can do better when the face the 
Wildcats again next weekend 
at home. 
"I am glad we get to fence 
them again because I want 
another chance against Jen 
Greenebaum and I think I can 
beat her," said Call who lost to 
Grecnebaum 5-3. "I beat her at 
NCAAs. I think I can beat her 
again and I know Anna can go 
3-0 against Northwestern. I've 
seen her do it before and I 
think she will next weekend." 
The women also defeated 
Lawrence(24-3), Case Western 
Reserve(24-3), Purdue {24-3) 
and the University of Chicago 
(21-6). 

Do,vn :Hill Ski Trip 
Friday, February 2 
Swiss Valley 
Bus leaves Library Circle at 5:00pm 
Cost: $l2.00 Includes lift ticket, rental and transport $23.00 Lift ticket and transport only 
Return bus leaves Swiss Valley at 1 0:00pm 
Beginner Lessons Available 
-Free of Charge! Register and Pay at RecSports by January 31 
kl-~ 


KEVIN DALUM/The Observer Irish foilist Steve Mautone (left) recovered from a tough first weekend of competition to go 6-0 at the first Midwestern meet of the season. Teammates Ozren Debic and Forrest Walton also went undefeated. 

Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Call today and 11 am • 2am sun-thurs mention this adll 11 am • 3am frl-sat 
Tuesday, January 30, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Top teams stay one­two in AP rankings 

• Notre Dame's twin upsets rate return to polls 
Assod,ced Press 
Stanford and Duke remained 1-2 in The Associated Press college bas­ketball poll the fourth straight w C C k Monday, but there's a new No. 3. 
Defending champion Michigan S t a t e . which lost Brey to Ohio State on Saturday, dropped from third to fifth. with Kansas and North Carolina each moving up one place to third and fourth. 
There were a number of changes in the rankings fol­lowing a week in which hair the Top Ten lost at least one game and six other ranked teams also lost. 
Arizona and Wisconsin had the week's biggest jumps, 
five places to seventh and 10th, respectively. while 

Senior All-American Michelle Dasso (above) was upset In this weekend's adidas College 
Invitational losing In the second round of the Flight A singles and again In the consolatlon 
Wake Forest, which lost to

round. She ~nd teammate Becky Varnum reached the quarterfinals in doubles. 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
oul tho rnst of your team." 
Tho doubles teams for the Irish fared a little bolter on the first day. The eighth-ranked duo of Dasso and Varnum reached the quarterfinals by beating Jessica Hush and Colleen Chang of Northwestern 
Saint Mary's College presents 
Friday 
February 16, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Saturday 
February 17, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Little Theatre 
-·--~•<<1•ro
~1!~. 
Call the Saint Mary•~ box office for tickets: 
284-4626 
•·..•.·ii~~-:.«•:·,~:-,•:.,:

:•,:;:~:\i):::i?ifif}~:·\(}i(f_l/:1:/::l/}t 
8-6. Guy continued to play well, winning the first round match 8-4 with teammate Katie Cunha. 
The second day proved to be much of the same for the Irish women. Some struggled, while Guy proved to be unstoppable. Guy advanced to the singles final by defeating Northwcstern's Jessica Rush 6­2, 6-1 in the semifmals of the second singles night. 
Junior Lindsay Green and Salas also grabbed wins on Saturday. Green rallied to beat Northwestern's Ruth Barnes 2­6, 6-4, 6-2 in the second flight singles consolation, and Salas held off Tennessee's Brooke Cordell 6-3, 4-6, 7-6. 
Dasso and Vaughan both dropped consolation singles matches on Saturday. Unfazed by her teammates' losses, Guy continued to mow through the competition. 
"I got a lot of confidence in my game after the dual match [against Duke] and every win gave me more and more confi­dence," said Guy. 
That confidence was illustrat­ed in the final, as Guy took down Annika Bengtsson of Florida 7-5. 6-2. Guy finished the weekend 4-0 and went through the second flight of sin­gles with out losing a single set. 
"The final was pretty close, especially in the beginning of the first and second sets, but all the .l{ames were tight," said Guy. "She's [Bengtsson] a good play­er but after winning a couple of close games I think she might have gotten a little rattled." 

Duke and Cincinnati last 
week, fell seven places to 
16th. For the Badgers. it's 
their first Top Ten ranking 
since they were seventh on 
Dec. 11, 1962. 
Three teams -Mississippi, 
Texas and Connecticut ­
dropped out of the rankings, 
while Notre Dame, Oklahoma 
and Georgia were tho week's 
newcomers. 
Stanford (19-0). still the 
lone unbeaten team in 
Division I after sweeping tho 
Washington schools in the 
Pac-10 last week, received 
65 first-place votes and 
1.745 points from the nation­al media panel. 
Duke (19-1), which beat 
then-No. 9 Wake Forest and 
then-No. 8 Maryland last 
week. was No. 1 on five bal­
lots and had 1,683 points. 
The Blue Devils will cap 
their three-game streak 
against Top Ten teams when 
they play host to North 
Carolina on Thursday night. 
Illinois moved up one spot . to sixth and was followed in 
the Top Ten by Arizona, 
Tennessee, Maryland and 
Wisconsin. 
Virginia moved up two 

places to lead the Second Ten and was followed by Syracuse, Florida, Georgetown, Iowa State. Wake Forest, Alabama, Iowa. Fresno State and Boston College. 
The last live ranked teams were Southern California. Seton Hall. Notre Dame, Oklahoma and Georgia. 
Notre Dame (13-5). which 
beat Syracuse and 
Georgetown last week to 
run its winning streak to 
four in a row, moved back 
into the rankings after 
boing out for two weeks. 
Oklahoma (15-4) was only 
out for one week before re­
en te ring with wins last 
week over Texas and 
Nebraska. 
Georgia (13-7) stretched its winning streak to six straight with wins last week over Vanderbilt and TenncsseH, tlrn latter in dou­ble overtime and the third win over a ranked team in that span. The Bulldogs were last in the Top 25 on Dec. 15, 1997, the first of two seasons under coach Hon Jirsa, who succeeded Tubby Smith. Jim Barrick replaced Jirsa and went 10-20 last season and wasn't expected to have the Bulldogs back on the nation­al scene this quickly. 
Mississippi (15-4) was the highest ranked of' the three teams that fell out of the poll. dropping from 19th after losing to Mississippi State in its only game last week. The Hebcls were ranked for seven straight weeks with No. 19 its highest placing. 
Texas (15-5) lost two games last week -75-68 to Oklahoma and 80-52 to Arizona -and f'cll out from 20th. The Longhorns had returned to the poll last week after a one-week absence. 
Connecticut (13-6) lost its 
only game last week to 
Villanova, extending the 
Huskies' losing streak to four 
games. The drop from 24th 
ended Connecticut's run of 
67 consecutive poll appear­
ances, a streak dating to the 
prcseason poll of the 1997­
98 season. 
Arizona has the longest 
current streak of consecutive 
polls at 102, dating to the 
preseason poll of 1995-96. 
Stanford and Duke are tied 
for second at 85. 11 run that 
started with the preseason 
poll of the next season. 
Student Special Monday Only 

r--------------------, r--------------------,
l $15 I : $10 : 
I I I I 
: Women's Haircut , I Men's Haircut : 
L______ and Style J L_ ~!19_~~~~------J
•• ••• Sacred Heart Parish Center has-rooms available for your parents . 
1357 N. Ironwood Rd.
Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. .: Whether you stay two, three, or four nights . 
289-5888 
RII Seruices are performed by
Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday.
• 
• •• • .: 
Hairstylists in Training 
For reservations, call 219-631-7512 
Ualid only w/ Julie or Lisa
• 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2001 

Men 
continued from page 24 
rowly took second in the event, posting an improved time of 3:16.79. 
"Terry is starting to get back to where he was last year at this time," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. "I think that was a good race for him from a confidence standpoint, to get out there and run closer to what he's capable of." 
The 500 meters provided the meet's most entertaining race. With less than 200 meters remaining, Setta stood in 
Pat Conway continued to improve in the mile run. Conway took first in the event for the second consecutive week. posting a time of 4:11.52. 
in the 3,000 meter run, senior Ryan Shay proved that he is, indeed, back. After failing to score in the mile run the pre­vious week. Shay dominated the race, winning in a personal­best time of 8:19.75 -nearly 14 seconds ahead of teammate John Keane, who took second. 
"Marc Striowski and I planned it out where I would lead the first half-mile and he would lead the second half­mile," said Shay. "But he ended 
fifth place. "For a guy who's only
Setta -who 
been out for a couple of
had been struggling weeks, Setta 's certainly 
with a nu the put in a couple ofreally
entire week ­
good performances.,,
then kicked into high gear. Notre Dame's John Millar star kicker 
sprints coach 
passed every runner ahead of him, includ­ing teammate Mansour on the final straightaway, to win the event in 1:04.97. 
"For a guy who's only been out for a couple of weeks, Setta's certainly put in a couple of really good performances," Millar said of Setta, who fin­ished second in the 500 meters in his first meet of the season. 
The 800 meter race provided the largest challenge for the Irish. Michigan State placed the top three runners in the event ahead of Irish senior Nate Andrulonis, who finished in 1:54.89. 
up strug­gling." 
The Irish placed well in the pole vault, but failed to improve sta­tistically from the season's first meet. Junior Josh Heck and sopho­more Nate 

Cahill took second and third, respectively. Both cleared the bar at onlv 15-1. 
In the throws, sophomore Brian Thornburg continued to improve, setting a personal record for the second consecu­tive meet in the 35-pound weight throw with a toss of 54­11. 
"It's in Brian," said Winsor. "I need to make sure that he can contribute not only in the weight, but in other areas." 
The Irish will host the Meyo Invitational in Loftus starting Friday afternoon. 
····---­
·-· 


Tuesday, January 30, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles look past loss to cont erences 
By JANEL MILLER Spom Writer 
The Belles swimming and div­ing lcam ended its regular season with another close loss, this time to Kalamazoo, 122-12. 
"Everyone swam really well and we'ro not disappointed with our performance," said captain Olivia Smith. "As of right now, we're swimming to improve our times for conferences. I'd rather do well at conferences than win a few meets. We have been swim­ming well and our times arc great even while our win-loss columns may not rellecl it." 
Smith's sister. sophomore breaststroker Lauren Smith, agreed. 
"It [Saturday) was a good meet to end on. but we're not done, we are just beginning, and it all comes down to how you arc seed­ed al Conference and how well you are prepared. I think we swam well against the teams in the conference and are ready to get there and face them again." 
The Belles will count on the depth that has buoyed them thus far to carry them once again into a top finish at the MIAA Conference meet in two weeks. Key performers for the Belles will include freshman Megan Ramsey, who has broken various school records over the season. Ramsey led the Belles on Saturday, taking the 200-yard freestyle, 200 indi­vidual medley and the 200 but­terfly -an event in which she will hope for a bid at the NCAA championship meet. 
Ramsey was joined by senior co-captain Colleen Sullivan in the 200 freestyle to give the Belles the one and two spots with times of 2 minutes, .81 seconds and 2:4.41, respectively. 
Maureen Palchak grasped the 500 freestyle from Kalamazoo with a time of 5:28.07, out-touch­ing the next swimmer by only .13 seconds. Lauren Smith took a close first in the 200 breaststroke 
Fresh-baked 
Cini-minis for just 99c. Maximum taste. Minimum price. 
with a time of 2:36.43. 
Diver Ryann Cox contributed very strong performances in both the one and three meter diving events. Cox proved she can han­dle pressure, edging in for second place in both heights. 
Overall, the women of the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team are "pumped" and ready for the next two. weeks of practices and the long-awaited conference meet. IJead coach Gretchen Hildebrandt said, "They have been swimming well, and I am pumped for conferences because I know they will do very well." 
As the Belles prepare for con­ferences, they have high hopes for their performance at Hope College Feb. 15-18. 
"It will be close but we can do well -we can definitely beat Alma and Albion and we were close to Kalamazoo, so we know we can take at least third," said Smith. "I would love for us to beat Calvin as well, and we could do it." 
Got the urger 

The irresistible taste of Cini-minis. 
Whether it was the smell or the great cinnamon taste that lured you in, after one bite you'll soon realize that the only thing small about our delicious Cini-minis is the price. 
The Huddle, Lafortune Student Center 
Wo01en 
continued from page 24 
Williams in both the 60 meter hurdles and the long jump. King took first in the hurdles, crossing the fin1sh 
line in 8.65 seconds, two  
hundredths  ahead  of  
Williams.  

"She's improved much over last year," Millar said. 
In the long jump, King ­who has cleared 21 feet outdoors -jumped 19 feet, 3 inches, just 6 inches beyond Williams. "She's only been working 

final straightaway and fin­ishing in 9:53.85. Handey was followed by Julia Schmidt (10:30.65) and Kuenster (10:31.49). 
The Irish were also impressive in the field events. In the shot put. fifth-year student Emily 13ienko, who is competing while attending law school, took first with a throw of 41-10. 
"She's thrown 45 feet for us before," said Winsor. "I think it's going to take her a few times to get back in the swing of it." 
ln the pole vault, sopho­
m o r e 
J a i m e 

on the Volkmer
"She [Volkmer] is just
1 o n g b r o k e
going to get better and
jump one teammate 
day a better. She has the ability Jill Van Weelden's
week," right now to qualify for said field week-old
the NCAA meet. " 
events school c o a c h record, clearing
S C O t t Scott Winsor Winsor. 
the bar at

field events coach 
"She's b e e n working a lot in the hurdles." 
In the 500 meters. junior Amanda Alvarez took first out of four runners, win­ning with a time of 1:16.54. 
The Irish were most impressive in the distance events. Against a talented group of Spartan runners, Notre Dame was able to hold their own. Leanne Brady took second place in the 800 meters in 2:16.02, while teammate Kristin Flood followed to take third in 2:19.22. 
Notre Dame also picked up three points in the mile run, where Megan Johnson broke the five-minute mark to take third, running 
4:59.56. Senior Chrissy Kuenster took fourth in 5:11.34. 
In the 3,000 meters, the Irish actually outscored their Big Ten opponent. Jen Handley took second, losing a sprint down the 
/J/ie.,,­
L!!,inceton
Review 
11-10. 
"She's 

just going to get better and better," said Winsor. "She has the ability right now to qualify for the NCAA meet. She needs to help us in the triple jump. I think she may have lost focus there." 
In the triple jump, Volkmer took second to Williams' leap of 40-5, jumping 38-1. 
Jennifer Kearny again took first in the high jump for Notre Dame, clearing 5­5. 
"Jennifer is going to be really good," said Winsor. "My main concern with her right now is strength." 
In the final event of the 
meet, the Notre Da.me 
4x400 meter relay team 
took the gold, finishing in 
3:51.07 behind a strong first leg by Grow. 
The Irish next compete at the Meyo Invitational in Loftus on Friday and Saturday. 
Better Scores. chools. 
95% of our past s 'i::lents think we're the best way to repare for the MCAT. 
Here's whyf.u'/1 agree: 
S11Jall class size­

/12 students on average 
72 class hours­
, 

Ply,s Jive full-length proctored practice exams 
4,000, practice material pages­
30 MCATs worth ofpractice passages 
Proven Results­

8 point average score improvement 
, Notre Dame classes start February 3. Call or register on-line today! 
www.PrincetonReview.com 800-2-REVIEW 
Zasowski blocks 40 Bulldog shots in 4-3 win over Yale 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2001 HOCKEY 

By JEFF BALTRUZAK Sports Writer  Saturday," he said .. "That helped me out more than anything." Sunday's game had a less­ Yale to take a 3-1 and the momentum. But Yale proved to be pesky.  Sunday. Zasowski was pounded with 43 shots, saving only 35. The Irish have started games  star for the Bulldogs, with two goals and an assist Four other Yale players, Ben Stafford, Jeff  
On Sunday. all the Yale Bulldogs could see was a deter­mined human wall with "Notre Dame" emblazoned across the chest. I r i s h goalie Tony Zasowski turned away 40 Yale shots i.n route to a  than-auspicious start for Zasowski. The Ivy Leaguers scored in the first 24 seconds of the game on a long-range shot by left wing Nick Deschenes. and for a second it appeared as though the Irish could be in for another long afternoon in New Haven. But three freshmen, Rob Globke, Aaron Gill, and Brett Lebda stepped up for Notre Dame, and each put a goal past Yale's Dan Lombard in the firsi  Dennis Nam shot the puck by Zasowski on a rebound, and the Bulldogs were right back in the hunt with a period and half to play and a 3-2 score. But Lebda had different ideas. He hit Globkc with a pass, and the freshman fooled Lombard for his 12th goal of the season and second of the contest. Yale's Evan Waz put another past Zasowski in the third period to make the score 4-3, and the  slow all season, having scored Dwyer, Adam Suave and only 13 of their total 6 7 goals, Dcchenes had multiple-point while allowing 30 first period games on Saturday. goaLc; up lo this weekend's series. "I think we're starting to forget Saturday would be no exception, about Michigan" said Zasowski. as Yale jumped the Irish for "We've been up and down all three scores in season. We're the first. hoping this will Globke netted "I think we're starting to be a turning one for Notre point."forget about Michigan. Dame in the This week­We've been up and dow_nfirst, and junior end's non-con­center David all season. " ference con­ 
Irish 4-3 win over Yale in New Poulin Haven, Conn., the Domers' first win ever against the Bulldogs. Yale won Saturday's game 8-2. The sophomore Zasowski  period. Gill was first, firing a shot at Lombard and then start­ing the siren when he slipped in the rebound at 6:29. "We didn't flinch after the first goal," said Poulin. "The team responded effectively." Lombard continued to have problems with rebounds later in  Bulldogs looked for a power play goal when the Irish were hit with three penalties late in the game. But the equalizer would never come, as both Lhe Irish defense and Zasowski played flawlessly to close out the match. Poulin had his own list of fac­tors contributing to the Irish vic­ Inman added a tests bring goal in the sec­Notre Dame'sTony Zasowskiond, but the record overall Irish would go Irish goalie season record scoreless for the to 6-19-5, but final 23:14 of will not impact the game as Yale scored evenly their standing CCHA. Their win throughout. with three goals in on Sunday should provide some the first and second periods and fuel for the rest of' the conference  
avenged his Saturday perfor­mance, where he gave up all eight goals in the Irish loss. "Really, he played well on Saturday," said Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin. "That's why he got the start on Sunday." Zasowski channeled his  the period when Notre Dame center Connor Dunlap's shot rebounded directly to Globke, who clanged it off the post for a 2-1 Irish lead and his 11th score of the season. "Those goals really took the pressure off me," said Zasowski.  tory on Sunday. "Instead of waiting and react­ing, like we've done too much this season, we played very aggressive," he said. "Our forechecking and hitting up ice were as good as they've been all season."  two in the final 20 minutes. "I don't know how much Saturday was a hangover from Michigan," said Poulin, referring to the 9-0 shellacking the Irish received at the hands of the Wolverines on Jan. 23. In addition, Gill suffered a back  schedule, as Notre Dame looks to squeeze into the CCHA piayofls. The Irish have games coming up against Bowling Green and Alaska-Fairbanks, two squads very close to Notre Dame in the standings. As for practice this week, Poulin and the Irish will  
coach's confidence in him into an  Defenseman Lebda provided  He singled out Dunlap as hav­ injury in a fall outside Debartolo  concentrate on defensive zone  
out.5tanding performance. "It was a big confidence boost for me when I got the start despite letting in eight goals on  some offense for Notre Dame when he put a slapshot past Lombard at 14:14 to cap off a period where the Irish abused  ing played his best hockey of the season. The previous day's game was a completely different game from  before the weekend, and it kept him out of action on Saturday, forcing Poulin to shutnc the lines. Yale's Jeff Hamilton was the  coverage and forechecking. The Irish return to conference play this weekend against Ohio State in Columbus.  


p 
.. 

Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors:

Where it matters most. 
• Computer Science • Physics • Industrial and Labor 
As one of the oorld's leading diversffied technology companies, W€'re breaking new ground in everr 
• Computer Engineering • Chemical Engineering Relations 
thing from defense and commercial electronics, and business aviation and special 
• Electrical Engineering • Aeronautical Engineering • Marketing/Communications
mission aircraft. As aRaytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, 
• Mechanical Engineering • Finance/Accounting • Management
revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. 
• Math • Human Resources

Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning NightSight™technology. Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge a-nd innovation. And enthusiasm of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development oppor­recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people.
tunities. Asupportive, down-ta-earth work environment. And incredible ~enefits including flexi­ble schedules designed to respect your quality of life. 
So you can still show off all those great qualities ofyours outside of work, too. 
We'll be visiting your campus soon -contact your career placement office for information on schedules and to arrange for an interview. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments). Raytheon Company,Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 

75266. U.S. Citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Bringing technology to the edge 


Raytheon 




Tuesday, J~nuary 30, 2001 
The Ob.urver . TODAY page 23 
--------------------------~~---------------------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
I CAN'T BWEVE WE 
l'l.AYEO ~O P~LYI 
ANO IN THE 6VPER 
BOWL NO LESS! 
Fox TROT 

Some moN Ha1&tiful than othe'r9. 
1 COMPl.trra.Y EM­
BARRAS5EI) MYSB.f' · IN FRONT Of A NATIONAL SPOlUGHT, HOW OOUU) YOU POSSIBLY KNOW 
HOWI l"EE!..7 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
YoUR CHAR-I l'HOU(;,HT ACTE~ tiAS '!'OU MIGHT BE 
A FLING lEALoUS, So 
WliH A I PuT Two RED-BLONDES IN iHE HEAD?! NEXT CHAPTER. 
\ ~ 
0 Ld 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
15 .sa u5o.~e suppo~ to be. th.!> Co\Of" ? 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33_andall 53 Part of a breakfast stack 
1 Starts of card 34 Undergrad 
games degrees: Abbr. 56 Two-thirds of the Belmont
6 Tree in Miami 35 Lo-cal 
Stakes
10 •oear" advice­36 Actress Day 57 Cousin of the
giver 37 College 
bassoonentrance exams
14 Sing the praises 
58 Computer chip
of 38 Play a role maker15 Pavarotti piece 39 Cole Porter title 59 Hardly hard 
city

16 Aipsnorter 60 Small boat40 Actress Robe~
17 Distasteful dose 
41 Deep-sea 61 Goes at like a19 Catchall abbr. 
beaverdiver's distress
20 Hogs' home 43 Not innocent 21 Checked out 
4" Cox of "Tota.I DOWN 
22 Hate with a Recall" 1 Young socialites 
passion 
45 Cartoonist 2 Way out 
24 Practiee in the Walker 3 Bar member:
ring 
46 _-on-the-spot Abbr. 25 Wipe out 
48 Walkman maker 4 Realtor's unit 26 Irish capital 
49 Food additive 

s Catch some 
29 PartridQe's 52 The "A" of extra Z's perch, in song Chester A. 
6 Tribune or Post 
32 Refrigerator gas Arthur 
7 Dry as a bone aDiamond ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Shopping center H O W D E P E C T S habitues ,,,.,ua1e-----:1~11y-1,Na_nc_y.,,,Sa_i-...1 and Marta 11411'9 10 N.Y. Yankees 28 Spouse, jokingly 43 Used up 49 Spy_Hari
div. 
29 Peels 45 Roadside 50 Slant unfairly 30 1984 Weird Al stopover 

51 Toothpaste Yankovic hit 46 Photocopier types jolly 31 Piece in problems 54 Lawyers' org. 1a Meg of Harper's 47 Mishmash 55 Larry King 
•sieep!ess in 33 Long-winded 48 Stash away employer 
Seattle" 36 Irish lad of song 37 Legal action 
Answers to any three clues in this puale I O .,.,+.,,,+,......,,.. 24 Gin navor 39 Quaker William are available by touch-tone phone: M I R S 25 Spine-tingling 40 Patch up, in a 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). M A F I A 26 C sharp way 
Annual subscriptions are available for the E N A N G 27 "Vega$" star 42 Hat lied under best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 0 A R K E S T P G E Robert the chin years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer .... and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name _____________________ Address _________,____________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
I 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON fault. Avoid travel if possible. 00 THIS DAY: Jeanne Moreau, VlRGO (Aug. 2.3-SepL 22): If Princess Caroline, Rutger Hauer, you bend over backward to help ..... Richard D. Anderson, Geoff Wig­friends in need, you will enhance dor. Tiffani-Amber Thiessen, Earl your reputation. Your ability to Falconer look at situations logically will 
Happy Birthday: It's time to allow you to make constructive turn things around by making suggestions.00000 the necessary changes. You've LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): V!Si• been on the fence for too long, so tors may drop by, resulting in make your move. You'll need to friction between you and your be versatile if you want to get mate. Try hard to keep your calm, ahead. The more adaptable you or the silent treatment will be are, the better. Keep your com­sure to follow. Don't take on too ments to yourself and work hard many projects. 000 to ensure that you reach your SCORPIO (Ott. 23-Nov, 21): goals. Your numbers: 9, 12, 16, 22. Don't spend too much on travel 25,37 or friends. Opportunities to meet 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): new and exciting individuals will 
Domestic purchases will be prof• develop through educational itable today You should be {oak• pursuits. Sign up for lectures or ing into real estate buys or a resi­courses. 0000 dentia! rnove. Listen to your SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-De<'.'.. friends. TI1eir advice will be quite 21): Unexpected visitors will be a 
valuable. 000 welcome sight. You can make 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): favorable changes in your Don't overreact or allow your domestic scene. Take care of all temper to explode. Work quietly those chores that have been behind the scenes, paying special building up. 0000 attention to detail. Your lover CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. may take drastic measures to get 19): Instant romance will not be yourattention.000 lasting. Take precautions ii you 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): wish to spare your heart. Your You should not give to· organiza­concern for older family mem­tions today. You are likely to bers and those who need help 
donate too much or give too will enhance your reputation. 
much of your time. Investments 000 
will not be as profitable as they AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 18): 
appear. Take a closer look. 000 You should spend time with 
CANCER (June 21-July l2): those who can help lift your You can help duldren with their depressmn. You need intellectual problems. Financial investments interaction. Don't let employers pertinent to your home will be interfere with your plans. They lucrative. Be careful when sign· may try to take credit for your ing contracts or formulating efforts. 000 agreements. 0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You Concentrate on your hobbies. will get into arguments with Don't let anyone take advantage friends or relatives today. Try of your generosity. You will expe­hard not to instigate unnecessary rience financial loss if you are friction with loved ones. Your careless with your wallet or your own irritability will be largely at investments. 000 
Birthday Baby: You take the lead and stay there. You're quick to evaluate and to make your move. Your strong vision of the way things are supposed to be gives you confidence in yourself. 
(Need advice? Oteck out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvlce.com, 
eugenldast.com, astromate.com.) 
,0 2001 Universal p,.,.. Syndlc•t• 

-------·--·------------------------­

Back on top 
The women'sfencing squad rebounded/ram an off opener to go undefeated in last weekend's meet. The men also went 5-0.

PORTS 

page 18 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 
Tuesday, January .30, 200 I 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Grow, Love win sprints to spur squad past Spartans 
• Crop of youngspeedsters look 
._ 
promising in dual 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assisranr Sports Editor 
She may have had a bandage wrapped around her leg, but Irish sophomore sprinter Kymia Love hardly looked restrained during Friday's 88-71 Notre Dame victory over Michigan State. 
Love fought off teammate Kristin Dodd to win the 400 meters in a time of 56.33 sec­onds. 
"Kymia showed us last year she can run," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. "She's really struggled with injuries ever since her senior year of high school. She had a great fall. She's starting to come on again and I think she's going to sur­prise some people." 
The Irish dominated the sprinting events to edge the Spartans. Big East 400 meter champion Liz Grow dropped down to the 60 meters and 200 meters for the meet to work on her speed. Grow easily won both events, clocking a 7.56 in the 60 and 24.24 seconds in the 200. 
Freshman Ayesha Boyd fin­ished second in both events, running 7. 71 seconds in the 60 and 25.15 in the 200. Dodd took third in the event. coming in at 26.06. 
"Kristen Dodd to me has been really impressive as a fresh­man," said Millar. "More than anything. she seems to be really a good competitor." 
Sophomore Tameisha King fought off tough competition from Michigan State's Sherita 
see WOMEN/page 21 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Guy guides Irish by winning singles title 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Writer 
Kimberly Guy led the 13th­ranked women's tennis team as she won the adidas College Invitational in Orlando, while three of the doubles teams 
... advanced to the quarterfinals and semifinals. The Irish faced Duke and Florida, two of the top ranked teams in the country, as well as Northwestern and Tennessee in 
the tournament. 
The Gators gave the Irish trouble right off the bat as they knocked off 
A 1 I American Michelle Dasso, Nina Vaughan and Becky Varnum, all in the sec­ond round 


of the Guy 
Flight-A singles. Freshman Caylan Leslie also went down the first day, losing to second­ranked Ansley Cargil of Duke, which the Irish beat the previ­
ous weekend in South Bend. 
The Irish continued to strug­
gle a bit throughout the day. 
Only freshman Alicia Salas and 
Guy emerged from the Flight-B 
singles bracket for the Irish. 
In the quarterfinals Guy 
advanced to the semifinals 
with a 6-1, 6-1 defeat of 
Crystal Cleveland of Tennessee. Salas lost to Florida's Annika Bengtsson in a close match, 6­3, 6-4. 
"We faced some really good competition out there and it's a little hard to play an individual tournament after team dual matches [Duke last weekend]." said Guy, the senior from Portola Valley, Calif. "Tennis is a little different being out there on a court all by yourself with-
see TENNIS/page19 
• Redwine returns from injuries to leap career best 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
Quill Redwine isn't injured anymore. 
The Irish junior jumper ­who has missed much of the last two seasons with various leg injuries -excelled in both the horizontal and vertical leaps Friday night, winning both the high jump and triple jump to lead the Irish men past Michigan State, 94-63. 
Redwine began the meet in style, easily clearing the pre­liminary heights. Before long, , all the other jumpers were on the sideline, having failed to clear the bar. Redwine contin­ued, finally finishing with a career-best leap of 6 foot. 10 inches. Teammate Andrew Cooper came in third, sailing 6­8. 
"I've just felt really good going over the bar in practice," said Redwine. In the triple jump, Redwine eclipsed team­mate Godwin Mbagwu by eight inches with a leap of 48-1. 
"Quill is really really coming into his own," said Notre Dame field events coach Scott Winsor. 
For the second meet in a row, the Irish dominated in all the jumping events. In the long jump, sophomore Tom Gilbert won his first of" three events on the day with a jump of 3-5. Mbagwu finished third with a measurement of 22-2, one half­inch behind the Spartans' Jeff Kus. 
Gilbert's strong evening con­tinued on the track. He sprint­ed to easy victories in the 60 meters (6.99 seconds) and 200 meters (21. 96 seconds). Gilbert is undefeated in both the long jump and 200 meters this sea­son. 
Freshman Mark Barber con­tinucd to improve in the 60 meter high hurdles, taking sec­ond to talented Spartan hur­dler Terry Jenkins in a time of 
8.54 seconds. In the 400 meters, senior Terry Wray rebounded from a tough race in the season's first meet to dominate the race. Wray broke away with 150 meters remain­ing and was able to hold on for a winning time of 48.85 sec­onds. 
Wray also impressed in the 4x400 meter relay. The team of Nick Setta, Mike Mansour, James Bracken and Wray nar­
see MEN/page 20 
• 
National Rolex Singles 
vs. Providence 
at Ohio State
and Doubles Indoor '

SPORTS Wednesday, 7 p.m. (if) ­,:::::::;;, Friday, 7:35 p.m.
Championships ' 
at Pittsburgh
Thursday-Sunday

ATA Saturday, 7:30 p.m.
Track and Field 
Men's Swimming 
'
at Alma 
• Meyo Invitational 
vs. Cleveland State 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
Loftus Fieldhouse 

GLANCE s. ., 
Friday, 2 p.m. 





