
PARTLY 
SUNNY 
HIGH 50° 
LOW36° 
j 
Has reality T.V. lost its appeal? 
The networks hope American viewers haven't lost interest in these shows, but have we? 
Scene . page 12-13 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 37 
Anthrax scares call for education 
By HELENA PAYNE Assistant News Editor 
Tlw threat of domestic terrorism in the U.S. has become a morn imposing n~ality since the attacks of Sept. 11. The suspect use of biological warfare against Americans through anthrax has only h,,ightened the sense offear. 
Although, this acute infortious disease can be deadly, medical and political experts caution people not to panic, but to be atten­tive to and educated about the issue. 
Dr. Nancy Cole. a microbiologist for the South Bend Medical Center, said people should know that anthrax is caused by the bacteria Bacillus anthracis which, in many cases, can be treated with variants of penicillin. 
"It's important first of all for lprn)pleJ to understand the facts," said Cole. "[Anthrax! is v1~ry unliknly to be passed from one indi­vidual to another. There is an aspect in which people may be fearful that thev don't have to worrv about." 
Anthrax gro~s in human tissue through the means of spores. As the bacteria grows and replicates the life cycle, it also releas­es toxins.. These toxins can cause the two major effects seen in patients who have come in contact with anthrax: edema, or a build-up of fluid in the tissue, and hemorrhage, or internal bleeding. 
People can come in contact with the bacteria through cuta­neous anthrax which enters the skin through inhalation or through gastrointestinal means. The way to recognize the m.ore common form of cutaneous anthrax is by lesions that resemble dark pits on the skin's surface. 
In cases of anthrax inhalation, fluid fills up in the lungs caus­ing symptoms similar to pneumonia accompanied with severe 
see ANTHRAX/page 4 
Air Force band makes tribute to heroes 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
The opening notes of John J>hilip Sousa's "The Stars and Stripes Forever". by the United States Air Force Band of Flight ensured the evening's emphasis on patriotism and national heritage. 
The concert which was. attflnded by local firefighters and police officers was a tribute to true American heroes. 
"Once we were told our heroes were sport athletes, or silver screen stars, or that they had to be on stage. In the last few weeks, we have realized who the true American hero is. They are the firefighters, policemen and rescue workers," conductor Major Alan Sierichis said. 
Next, the band played "The Star Spangled Banner" which roused the crowd to stand and sing together. 
The concert also featured the soloist, Staff Sgt. Lawrence Wiley, on the trum­pet during the contemplative tune "Prayer ofSaint Gregory". 
The first set ended ,vith the Russian composer Tschaikovsky's, "Overture of 1812," which is in honor of our nation's \\inning battle. 

\Vhilc the Air Force Band of Flight's programs usually include many American songs it ordinarily also includes a varied repertoire of classical symphonies, Broadway show tunes or popular contemporary music. The pro­gram was changed in light of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
The concert ended with "God Bless America" and a medley of the different military anthems, from the Coast Guard 
'J to the Marines, and ending with the Air Force melody. Th,~ UnitPd Statf~s Air Force Band of Flight is stationed in Dayton. Ohio and is on active duty as full-time performing musicians. The concert was sponsored by the 
',
'. South Bend Tribune, Jordan Automotive and Saint \lary's . and is an annual event held in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 


Wednesday 
OCTOBER 17, 
2001 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Master Plan takes form, financing 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of 
Trustees Friday voted to seek tem­
porary financing for the Master Plan 
student center and dining hall con­
struction, as well as bid the project 
to potential contractors. 
The weekend was critical for 
determining whether or not to move 
ahead with the next steps in the 
multi-year campus development 
project, according to Keith Dennis, 
vice president for finance and 
administration. 
The Master Plan, proposed in 
1999, is a decade-long, $76 million 
building initiative that includes 
plans to expand parking, add the 
student center and dining hall 
building, add a new classroom 
building and apartment-style hcms­
ing. The Collegn built thn Welconrn 
Center in 2000 and renovated 
Hegina Hall under the plan. 
"This weekend would have bmm a 
time if the Board was really nervous 
about moving ahead with the plan. 
they vvotild have said [stop]," Dennis 
said. 
The finance committee met 
Thursday afternoon to discuss 
financial options for the construc­
tion of the student center and dining 
hall building, which is projectod to 
cost $18.5 million. The building will 
include dining facilities, studtrnt 
government offices, yearbook and 
newspaper offices, the camp us 
bookstore and a post office. Officials 
hope to set a groundbreaking date 
for ApriL 
The College has confirmed $13 million in pledges for the project, and the Board encouraged fundrais­ing to continue, Dennis said. 
The board gave its permission for the College to apply for temporary financing through the Indiana Education Facility Authority. a gov­ernmental association that issues bond anticipation notes for non­profit institutions. The College could apply for up to $18.5 million in notes from the organization, Dennis said, since the College will receive fundraising money in annual incre­ments. 
The Board will vote at its February meflting on whetht1r or nol to issue College bonds for the pro­ject. Ttw College would pay back the notes from tlw IEFA when tlw bond market improves, Dennis said. 
Kim Jensen, Board of Governance executive treasurer who sits on the finance committee, said the trustees were optimistic about the project. 
"They seemed very confidnnt about Saint Mary's abilities to go forth with this project," Jensen said. 
see PLAN/page 4 


Wednesday, October 17, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The war outside the 
Stadium 
The conflict I am speakng of does not involve cruise missles landing on foreign soil in order to eradicate a cowardly an elusive terrorist enemy. No, the battleground is much more familiar. The setting is a soccer field with a radio tower that is trans­formed into tailgaters central for every home football game here in Notre Dame, Ind. 
The supposed enemy is the V. Van Buren Notre Dame/St. Mary's/ Holy 
Giles 

Cross student who don their school spirit attire and head 
News Copy

out to the, "moon tower" as it 
Editor

is commonly referred, for a morning of revelry and drink­ing oriented activities. This is tailgating; a practice that has characterized not only Notre Dame football games, but sporting events around the country. 
Saturday was a miserabley wet day. Even more recognizable than the weather was the military presence up and down the rows of cars. The securi­ty/police were there not so much as a deterant to anyone who might have terrorist tendencies toward the university and its fans. But rather to crack down on underage drinking and public intoxication. Officers on foot, riding horses, undercover and in cars patrolled the rows of students in an effort to curtail the controlled bedlam that has characterized this area. 
Notre Dame football games are a chance for every­one to let their hair down and relax. The students and the thousands of fans who travel to Notre Dame and South Bend for an afternoon of athletic prowess and good hearted merriment come because it's Saturday, and most everyone has had a difficult week and the day of letting off steam has finally come. 
Drinking is part of tailgating; a big part and while I do not condone fighting or the brash disresprct that women endure when their male counterparts do not know when to say when, the majority of the stu­dent body conducts themselves in a somewhat calm and respectuful manner. Without tailgating there would be no elaborate stories of perfuse yaking or unbeleivable craziness on Monday. 
If handing out tickets and arresting tailgaters would prevent just one person from driving under the influence than I am all for it. But most students live on campus and would rather have root canal than endure the traffic horrors that follow a football game. Even those who live off campus know that it is faster and safer to walk home. 
The real threat to our way of tailgating is the limi­tations that have been placed on it in recent games. Students need to relax, especially Domers. We work diligently during the school week. We go to church on Sunday, and we give of oursleves unconditional­ly. Home football games are an opportunity to harass opposing fans, smash beer cans, engage in mass shotgunnings and raise a subdued hell across the street from our school. 
ND security and other law enforcement agencies have declared war on tailgating. The decision for this crackdown comes directly from the Notre Dame administration. The question I pose to this group is, "What, as students, have we done wrong to warrant this type of attack on our day of rest?" The Dean's List has been raised for freshmen and parietals have been strigently increased through tireless efforts, but we still fear the reprocutions of throw­ing a few back in a safe atmosphere close to home. 
In essence, tailgating is a necessary evil that Domers have indulged since the beginning of Notre Dame's football prominence. Take that away from us and students will no doubt let their steam off in a much more violent and destructive manner. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact V. Van Buren Giles at lJgiles. 6@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and srrives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please ·contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published MondJy through Friday exrepr during exdm dnd VdGl!ion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associ,11ed Press. All reproducrion riglm are reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN ON CAMPUS  
Wednesday . Information session: Great career opportunities in sales and marketing, Montgomery Theater, first floor Lafortune, 6 -8 p.m.  Thursday . Information meeting: Nagoya, Japan International Study Program. 245 DeBartolo, 5 p.m.  Friday . Football Pep Rally: Joyce Athletic Center, 6:30 p.m.  Saturday . Lecture: 9th annual Amil T. Hofman lecture, "The War on Prostate Cancer" Patrick C. Walsh M.D., Debartolo 101, 10 ­11:30am.  

BEYOND CAMPUS Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Colleges try to balance patriotisim 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. snowy streets of New Haven to hurl 

When nationally syndicated patriotic slogans and jingoistic columnist John Leo ran an Internet 
insults at a far-away, but known, search on college newspapers from adversary. According to Gallup, over his office last week, he found the 97 percent of their fellow citizens pervasive liberalism in the pages of shared their view. On May 1, 1969, Yale University publications frighten­about 75 percent of the Yale student ing. body joined 15,000 protesters from 
The Wall Street Journal did the all over the nation to protest the same and found the patriotism of treatment of Black Panther Bobby Yale students reassuring. As the jux­Seale, who was accused of murder, taposition of "Nuke the bastards" and to protest an unjust war in and "An eye for an eye leaves the Vietnam. whole world blind" on the message But on Sept. 11, 2001, and in the sculpture outside \,VLH affirms, no days that followed, confusion, not
philosophical debate over the war 

consensus of student opinion exists unanimity, reigned. Some rallied
against terrorism rages.

on the Yale campus or at other uni­around the flag, some wanted to
The Yale campus, among others,

versities. On Cross Campus and burn it. Students and professors all
has been through war before, but 

across the nation's campuses, the over the country took sides, and out­
never a war of this nature. On the

conception of a college as a market­side of the ivory tower, America is
night of Dec. 8, 1941, Yale students

place for ideas is being tested as a watching academia closely.
and local residents swarmed the 

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY 
Alumni enter plea of innocent 
WACO. Texas 

Members of Antioch Community Church in Waco, Texas, are hopeful that two church members detained in Afghanistan will be released this week, Antioch Senior Pastor Jimmy Seibert said Monday. Baylor University graduates Dayna Curry, 29, and Heather Mercer, 24, were arrested on Aug. 3 by Afghanistan's ruling Taliban government on charges that they were preaching Christianity. Seibert said the renewed hope comes after two weekend appearances by the wom­en's lawyer before the Taliban supreme court. U.S. State Department spokeswoman Eliza Koch said the lawyer, Atif Ali-Kahn, formally presented a response to the Taliban's indictment of the women on Saturday. The lawyer also met with court oflicials Sunday, Koch said. "Mr. Ali-Kahn does not expect any decision before the beginning of this week at the earliest," Koch said. "Mr. Ali-Khan also met with all the detainees twice, Saturday and Sunday, before depart­ing Kabul. 

TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Student falls asleep at wheel 
COLLEGE STATION. Texas 
The driver of a Toyota SUV that crashed into a tree early Sunday morning fell asleep at the wheel, a Department of Public Safety official said. The era.sh killed the vehicle's two passengers, both students a.t Texas A&M University and pledges in Delta Tau Delta fraternity. Jonathan Steed, a sophomore political sci­ence major, fell asleep at the wheel of his vehicle three mifes north of Giddings, Texas, on U.S. llighway 77. The SUV veered off the road to the right and struck a tree head on, said DPS Trooper Bruce Opperman. Passengers Antonio Torres II, 18, a freshman business administration major from Mission, Texas, and 20­year-old Xavier Monge Ortega, a freshman agricultural economics major from Guayaquil, Ecuador, were· killed. Steed, from Amarillo. Texas, was transported to Brackenridge Hospital in Austin for treatment of' minor injuries and released. Them was no evidence of alcohol in the driver, and Torres and Monge Ortega wen! not tested, Opperman said. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 17. 


Thursday F .d 1
n ay 1. Saturday ~ Sunday ~ 
II> 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. WARM STATIONARY 
Pr.uure;

Monday ~tQ·~ ® © D D c::::J D D D 
High Low Showers Rain T-•lorm• Flurries Snow ke Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy

i 'i'/0'--.., (,.•"-•,,;J ·-~·. 
Via Associated Prsss 
-
' 
Atlanta 62 39 las Vegas 86 61 Portland 58 44 Baltimore 58 33 Memphis 66 44 Sacramento 77 44

4,Q,~QQQ {) ~ ~ Boston 43 49 St Louis 59
60 Milwaukee 42 47 Chicago 51 40 59

Showers T-storms Rain F/~,;'ies $~;; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy New York 58 40 Tampa 77 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Houston 70 52 Philadelphia 57 40 Washington DC 60 38 

............ 
COLD 

Wednesday, October 17, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Speakers dedicate Malloy Hall 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assist~nt News Editor 
This wPek an acadPmic sympo­sium fnaturing four nationally known speakers will celebrate not only the 1ww of'fic,~ building for the Philosophy and Theology depart­ments. Malloy Hall. but also the excellence of tlw departnrnnts. 
"It is important to see [Malloy I !all I not just as a building, but as a celebration of tlw philosophy and tlwology departments. Th<~ building is a symbol of the dc~part­ments' academic presence," said associate provost and vice prnsi­dent Father John Jenkins. 
The symposium will begin at 
4:15 p.m. today with a talk titled "The Prophetic Hole of Theology in the Catholic University" by Father Gustavo Gutierrez. the University's John Cardinal O'Hara professor of theology. At 7 p.m. Father Ernan McMullin, who has been a Notre Dame professor since l 954, will speak about "Searching for Consonance." 
On Thursday at 10 a.m., Bas van Fraassen, Princeton University's Mc:Cosh professor of philosophy will give a talk tiW~d "Questions I Would Like to Ask." Philosophy department chair Paul Wfiithman said van Fraassen is "one of the most distinguished English speak­ing philosophPrs" and a practicing Homan Catholic. 
The Symposium will conclude on Thursday at 2 p.m. with a talk. 
"University  Theology  in  the  
Catholic  Context"  given  by  
Cardinal  Avery  Dulles,  the  

Laurence J. McGinlcy Professor of Heligion and Society at Fordham Univcrsitv. All events will be held in the a·uditorium of McKenna I I all. 
Speakers will receive an hon­orary Notre Dame degree at 4 p.m. Thursday. According to Jenkins, the practice of giving symposium speakers honorary diplomas is not unusual; it was done at sympo­siums celebrating the dedication of Notre Dame's academic buildings in the study-abroad programs fc>r London and Dublin. 
Wcithman hopes many students, faculty and community members will take advantage of the oppor­tunity to hear the distinguished speakers. 
"The talks will, I expect, be scholarly talks, but there should be something in the talks for everyone," said Weithman. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will celebrate a dedication mass for the building at 4 p.m. friday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and will dedicate the building at 5:45 p.m. The building was named Malloy Hall at the request of Donald Keough. whose $13.9-million dollar donation fu ndcd the construction of the building. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu 

Are you considering theological education? Meet with an admissions representative from 
HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17TH 
11:45 A.M. -1:00 P.M. 134MALLOY 
THEOLOGY-PHILOSOPHY BLDG. 
Learn about our graduate programs, including the Master of Divinity and the Master ofTheological Studies, and about related resources within Harvard University's other graduate faculties and the nine-school Boston Theological Institute. 
ALL STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS AND ALL YEARS WELCOME 
For more information, contact the Office ofAdmissions and Financial Aid at (617) 495-5796 or consult the Harvard Divinity School website at 
http://www.hds.harvard.edu 

Holy Cross appoints new hall director 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
After nearly a month of classes, Holy Cross 
llall now has a permanent hall director. 
Jaillenc Erickson started her duties Sept. 24 after being hired to replace Dana North in early September. 
North. director of Resident's Life, acted as the temporary hall director. 
"So far Jaillene is doing a good job. She is picking up stuff quickly and asking good questions," North said. 
Erickson is a native of Atlanta, Ga and graduated from Taylor University in May of 2001 with a degree in communication studies. 
She looks forward to meeting all of the stu­dents and fulfilling her new position. 
"During my college experience, residence life was a pinnacle to my growth and development as a person. In turn I wanted to become a hall director so I could give to students the same way others so freely gave to me," Erickson said. 
The job description includes upkeep and maintenance of the hall, advising the resident advisors and hall councils and acting as a mem­ber of the Judicial Board and Resident Life staff. Erickson is confident about her abilities to succeed as the hall director. 
"I am friendly and I truly care about students. 
My previous administrators and 
hall directors have invested in 
me the value of giving and serv­
ing others," she said. 
Besides her normal duties, 
Erickson is looking to imple­
ment some new things. 
Although everything is still in 
the planning stage. she has a 

main goal. 
"I hope to incorporate leader­ship development into the activi­ties that we will do," Erickson said. 
Erickson invites students to come into her office and get to know her. 
"I am most excited ·about meeting the women of this hall," ,;he said. 


LARGEST SELECTION OF COSTUMES IN THE AREA 
DISCOUNTS 10%, 25% 
BURNS COSTUME RENTAL 

Halloween Hours 332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mon & Tues 9:00-6:00 Mishawaka, IN 46545 Wed, Thurs, Friday 9:00-9:00 ( 219) 2 59-4807 Phone Saturday 9:00-5:00 E-Mail Address Burnsrent@aol.com 
••.•·••,l'J',••.•· ••• ••..••• , 

TllE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM 
Dr. Ronald E. McNair 
ANNOUNCES THE 2001 -2002 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2001 
7:00 -8:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas ivill be served) 
IN ROOM 117 HAYES-HEALY (DEADLINE FOR A.PPLJC~~lQ~~-J'iQ¥~-=?Q) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ctlznic backgrounds are eligible) 
OR 

CANDAX-ME is • African Americans, Hispanics, Native Atnericans 
A Federally Funded TRIO Program 

( visit the ro ,.rain at htt ://www.nd.edu/~tnario/mcnair/) 

Contact Natalie Bailey at bail1407@saintmarys.edu 




Vero Italiano 
Catalino'• Tranoria 
Downtown South lad 
SPRING BREAK 2002 
O,oania Group a Go FrN, •\'(• Frff P•rtin Q..~•
lrHoursof . ­FREE Drinb.. • , I 
FREE Meals for Llmlhcl Time! For Det•its •nd th• hst Rat 



_________________________:_..:..:.._~..:..:.._~ Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Anthrax 
continued from page l 
coughing and serious respira­tory tract illness. 
"It's not a different disease to treat, except that if the spores are in the lungs by the time [the anthrax is diagnosed]. you basically already have so much damage to the tissue, you still are going to have a very high mortality rate," said Cole. 
Cole said that while anthrax poses a great threat to people who come in contact with it, there are other related organ­isms that can do equally as harmful damage to the body. It is not likely, however, that anyone has enough resources to develop biological warfare that could kill mass popula­tions, Cole said. 
"It's going to be very difficult for someone to grow sufficient quantities," said Cole. "At some point we just have to pray that no one will develop the means or intent to do what is potentially possible with the organism. After a certain point t h e · r e wouldn't be a 

"The U.S. cannot provide 
whole lot we e n s u r e could do security for the people of interna­about it." tional secu­
the U.S. by itself It
According rity.
requires a worldwide "There
to govern"' ment profes­effort.,, have to be sor Dan s o m e Lindley, the interna­
Robert Johansen
worst thing tional rules people in the government professor that every­
U.S. can do is panic in reac­tion to the potential biological warfare threat posed by the recent anthrax cases.. 
"This will have serious impli­cations for how fast and how wide the current war will go," said Lindley who specializes in international relations, foreign policy and security studies. "However, there is a lot that we do not know." 
Referring to the threats of biological warfare that abor­tion clinics, Catholic schools, nightclubs and other institu­tions have received in the past, Lindley said that the anthrax case is more of a danger because of the real cases in New York, Florida and Washington, D.C. The events related to the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon have put many Americans on edge. 
"There've been recent peri­ods where there have been daily anthrax threats," said Lindley. "The bad news is after years of threats, the anthrax is real." 
Like Cole, Lindley stressed that anthrax would not likely kill mass amounts of people because of the lack of sophisti­cated resources to store large quantities of the bacteria. 





WSJ editorial writer to speak on campus 
Special to the Observer 

William McGurn, chief editorial writer of The Wall Street Journal an? a graduate of Notre Dame, will make presentations Thursday and Friday [Oct. 18 and 19] at the Mendoza College of Business on cam­
pus. 

As a part of the O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics, McGurn \\ill~deliver a talk titled "The Economist and the Preacher: The Gospel of Freedom Meets the Dismal Science" at 4:30 p.m. Thursday in the 
college's Jordan Auditorium. The series is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
McGurn also will make a presentation titled "The Relevance of Just­War Principles after Sept. 11" at 12:30 p.m. Friday in 339 Mendoza. 
"People often think chemical and biological weapons are absolutely deadly. In fact, far more often, they turn out not to kill, but to injure or have no effect," said Lindley. 
He proposed that the public becomes more aware at the local level where, according to Lindley, there has been less of a focus on the problem. 
"As citizens we have to make sure that money gets thrown at this problem," Lindley said. "The facts warrant concern but not panic by any means." 
Incorporating a broader sense of responsibility, govern­ment professor Robert Johansen said that security against potential threats to society should be a collabora­tive duty of all nations. 
"The U.S. cannot provide security for the people of the 
U.S. by itself. It requires a worldwide effort," Johansen said. 
A specialist in United Nations peacekeeping, Johansen said the nation has taken for grant­ed its domestic safety, but the recent attacks and anthrax threats show that the U.S. can only protect itself if it works 
with other nations to 
body on 
e a r t h obeys," said Johansen. "We have not been working multi­laterally until Sept. 11. We've assumed that we could solve the problems by ourselves." 
Johansen's recommenda­tions involve watching out for domestic problems, but also exercising international inspections. 
"In the short run, we need to exert every precaution about receiving mail that might have suspicious [materials], but that will not address the problem in the long run," said Johansen. 
"The collaboration is neces­sary even though its different because there is no way to protect against this war with­out having intrusive forms of international inspection." 
However, even with interna­tional involvement, Johansen did say that individuals should be on guard about the serious implications ofanthrax. 
"I think we should exercise every reasonable precaution because something very unusual is happening because cases of anthrax have not hap­pened like this in recent histo­ry," said Johansen. 

Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu. 
Plan 
continued from page I 
In other Master Plan news: 
. The Regina parking lot will be closed for renovation beginning next week until Nov. 15. Because the dining hall and student center construction will happen in two phases, park-
International Study Programs University of Notre Dame 

IWAG0YA, JAP/!\N 
," 

a 
Information Meetings: 
Thursday, October 18 at 5:00 245 DeBartolo 
Wednesday, November 7 at 5:00 231 DeBartolo 
http:/ /www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 

Papa Johns Pizza is now accepting applications for the position of 


MARl<ETING INTERN 
* 1 5-20 hours per week 
* Position through May 2002 (or longer is student is available} * Local store marketing * Local safes building * Promotions 
* Flexible schedule * $8-l 0/hour * Commission * Work directly with owner 
Send resume·and letter of interest to: Alison Patton 4504 Epinay Court Louisville, KY 40272 Or fax to:(502) 933-3599 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA is an EOE 
*FUN*EXPERIENCE while educating*50% pizza 

ing lots on campus will be renovated and altered to accommodate construction vehicles and equipment. The Regina parking lot will have 50 new spaces when it reopens in November. Students are advised to park in the Angela parking lot and the Science lot until the Regina lot reopens. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at .gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 








ATION 
Wednesday, October 17th, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Powell arrives in India: St!cretary of State Colin Powell canw to India Wednesday on his tour of South Asia. which has taken on new urgency with the latest violent confrontation b11twecn India and Pakistan over their conflict­ing claims to tlw disputed land of Kashmir. Mr. Powell's trip to South Asia opened the Bush administration's first high-level discussions with South Asian leaders on how to help devel­op a new government in Afghanistan. 
Imelda Marcos faces trial: The Philippines· f'lamboyant former first lady, Imelda Marcos, surrendered to an anti-graft court on Tuesday and was quickly given bail after it ordered her arrest on charges of stash­ing $28 million in illegal wealth in Swiss banks. Marcos was the second powerful political figurn to be hauled up before the anti-graft court. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Letter tests positive for anthrax: Part of the Senate office building was closed today after laboratory tests confirmed the presence of anthrax spores in a letter received by Senator Tom Daschle. F.B.I. Director Robert Mueller III said today there are similarities between that letter and an anthrax-laced letter sent last week to an employee of NBC in New York City. Not only were both postmarked in Trenton, N.J., but they bore similar markings and contained similar threatening themes. 
Supreme court revisits anonymity: 
Six years after ruling that the Constitution protects the right to distribute anonymous campaign literature, the Supreme Court today agreed to decide whether that right extends to anonymous door-to-door advocacy for a political or religious cause. The new case is an appeal by the Jehovah's Witnesses chal­lenging a Stratton. Ohio, ordinance that requires a permit for door-to-door advocacy. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Train derails near Kendallville: 
Railroad crews were working Tuesday to clear Norfolk Southern tracks blocked when 33 train cars derailed. The train·s two-man crew was not injured in the 7:20 p.m. Monday derailment, but the cause of the accident was not immediately know, said Susan Bland. manager of public relations for Norfolk. Va.­based Norfolk Southern llailroad. The train was traveling westbound from Pittsburgh to Elkhart when the cars derailed ahout seven miles east of Kendallville, according to The News-Sun. 
Market Watch October 16 
'Dow 
9,384.23 +36.61 
Jones 

Con1posite Same: 
Volume: 
212 NIA 
AMEX:•· 830.53 +6.93 NASDAQ: 1,722.07 +25.76 NYSE: 565.2ix> > <+3.:~as S&P 500: 1,097.54 +7 .56 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +1. 63 +0. 56 34. 9E CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.69 +0.76 16.97 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.38 +0.58 24.9E SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) -0. 72 -0. 07 9. 61 ~PPLIED DIGITAL (ADSX) +44.44 +0.12 0.3~ 



U.S. drops leaflets over Afghanistan 
to a man in traditional Afghan dress. Afghanistan will belong to you. and
Associated Press 
A second leaflet depicts a radio not to tyrants or outsiders." 
\\'ASIIINGTON tower and advises listeners when to The information barrage is heating 
An Anrnrican bomber on Sunday tune to American broadcasts. The up as American oflicials voice concern delivered Washington's latest weapon Defense Department released tonight that they are losing ground in the pro­against the Taliban leadership in · a transcript of radio messages beamed paganda war in Afghanistan and other Afghanistan leafli~ts. "The into Afghanistan. Muslim nations. Loyalists to Osama Partnership of Nations is here to "\Ve have no wish to hurt you, the bin Laden portray the bombing as an help," declared one of the 385,000 innocent people of Afghanistan," the assault on Islam. slips of paper dropped from a B-52 broadcast said. "Stay away from mili­Condoleezza Rice reached out to an over locations in the northwestern and tary installations, government build­Arab audience in an interview with Al southP.astcrn regions. ings, terrorist camps, roads, factories Jazeera, the television channel in 
One lPaflet, roughly the size of a dol­or bridges. If you are near these Qata"and said, "It is not a war against lar bill, is available in English, Pashto places, then you must move away the Arab people. It is a war against and Dari. It shmvs a picturn of an from them. With your help, this con­evil people who would hijack the American soldier extending his hand flict can be over soon. And once again, Palestinian cause." 







Associated Press 

KABUL 
U.S. strikes set Red Cross warehouses afire near Afghanistan's capital Tuesday, sending workers scrambling to salvage des­perately needed relief goods during a bombard­ment that could be heard 30 miles away. 
To the south, two U.S. special forces gunships entered the air war for the first time, raking the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar with cannon and heavy machine gun lire in a pre-dawn raid. 
Heavy, round-the-clock attacks and the first use of the lumbering, low-flying AC-130 gunships signaled 
U.S. confidence that 10 days of attacks by cruise missiles and high-flying jets have crippled the air defenses of the Taliban, the Muslim militia that rules most of Afghanistan. 
U.S.-led forces have used more than 2,000 bombs and missiles since opening the attacks Oct. 7, Lt. Gen. Gregory Newbold, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told a Pentagon news con­ference. The past two days' attacks have been especially intense, putting more than 100 warplanes and five cruise missiles into the air, he said. 
Tuesday's strikes were mostly against military installations and airports around Kabul. Kandahar and the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif, on which the Afghan opposition claims its forces are clos­ing in. 
Afternoon raids in the Kabul area were so strong that the detonations could be heard 30 miles north of the city, where Taliban forces are battling Afghan fighters for the opposition northern alliance. 
During the afternoon raids, at least one bomb exploded in the compound of the International 
Committee of the Hed Cross at Khair Khana near Kabul, injuring one security guard and setting two of the seven buildings on fire. 
A fgha n s taffers ran through thick smoke and flames to try to salvage blankets, tents and plastic tarps meant to help Afghans through the win­t.er. The other warehouse, which was also damaged by fire, contained wheat, Red Cross workers said. 
The Pentagon acknowl­edged that U.S. bombs accidentally hit warehous­es in Kabul used by the International Committee of the Red Cross. 


Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 

Powell backs Latin American nominee 
Tbu.sdaqa oPe students nlqht. Students •ecelve 25% off meal p,-ice with qou• sfudEnt I~ D. 


Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
At the Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
7:00 PM 
• Bring your gear ready to practice 
• Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
• Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
Michiana's most unique dihir,q ••P••i•nc• Locafed f111 tl.o bHW••Of at ibe Hisfof'k t00 Cen.ler in Misl.awalco (219) 257-1792 www.100cenfer.com 

WILLIAM MCGURN 
CHIEF EDITORIAL WRITER THE WALL STREET JOURNAL 
"THE ECONOMIST AND THE PREACHER: THE GOSPEL OF FREEDOM MEETS THE DISMAL SCIENCE" 


IRELAND 



Protestant leaders appeal to IRA 
to seal one or more of its hidden times -first for an indefinite peri­
Associated Press 
arms dumps with concrete. od in February 2000 when it The outlawed group has already appeared likely that TrimbleBELFAST 
allowed foreign diplomats to visit a would be ousted as a leader. TheProtestant political and religious few dumps in secret. Those Ulster Unionists resumed power­leaders appealed Tuesday for the weapons are the first likely candi­sharing after the IRA said itIrish Republican Army to start dis­dates for "decommissioning," as intended to begin putting itsarming to prevent the collapse of outlined in Northern Ireland's weapons "completely and verifi­Northern Ireland's unity govern­
1998 peace accord. ably beyond use." 
ment. 
"I hope we are going to see a After Trimble's July resignation Ulster Unionist leader David 
beginning to the process of decom­as "first minister," Britain hasTrimble, who triggered the crisis missioning. I hope it's going to be a twice suspended power briefly inby resigning three months ago as good beginning in order to build legal maneuvers to keep the gov­
the government's Protestant 
confidence for the future," Trimble ernment going without a leader.
leader, said his party's three 
said in Militant
remaining Cabinet ministers 
Washington. Protestant
would resign this week if the IRA didn't move. An Ulster Unionist The leader "/ think ifDavid Trimble is in opposition 
of the Church to the 1998
withdrawal would force Britain to a mood to resolve this through 
of Ireland, pact has
resume direct rule of Northern 
Archbishop politics and to work with the been rising,
Ireland. 
Robin Eames, rest ofus on it, then we will as demon­
But Trimble signaled he would 
said he strated by
run again for leadership of the resolve this because these now
expected the sporadicprovince's power-sharing adminis­
IRA to fulfill are political problems. ,, riots and
tration if the IRA began to disarm. 
its disarma­hundreds of"It would be my intention to take ment pledges pipe-bomb
office," if disarmament began, Mitchel McLaughlin 
soon. attacks
Trimble told Ulster Television from national chairman of the Fein party
"I believe blamed on
Washington. He was in the United 
there are the largest
States for meetings with U.S. State 
grounds for outlawed
Department officials, members of 
hope that moveme'nt towards Protestant group, the Ulster
Congress and Irish-American lob­decommissioning is imminent," Defense Association, particularly byists. 
Eames told a gathering of Anglican on Belfast's polarized north side. 
Disarmament "will transform 
clergy in Armagh, the ecclesiasti­Britain last week announced itthe situation and there ½ill be an cal capital of Ireland southwest of no longer recognized the UDA'sappropriate response," he said. 
Belfast. "If the IRA can match this 1994 cease-fire. The policy shiftMitchel McLaughlin, national demand, I believe it will unlock an makes it easier for Britain to order chairman of the IHA-linked Sinn 
entire process." senior UDA convicts -who were
Fein party, said he was "very 
Trimble agreed in November paroled under terms of the 1998encouraged" by Trimble's com­
1999 to form a four-party govern­accord -to be sent back to prison
ment<;. 
ment that included Sinn Fein, on if police suspect they are still"I think if David Trimble is in a condition that the IRA disarmed. involved in violence.
mood to resolve this through 'poli­Since then Trimble has battled Late Tuesday, police and Britishtics and to work with the rest of us hard-liners, inside and outside his army bomb-disposal officers wereon it, then we will resolve this party, to keep the coalition intact examining a "suspect device,"because these now are political 
as the IRA failed to keep its believed to be a mortar, in the vil­problems," he said. 
promise. lage of Sixmilecross, southwest of
For months, speculation has 
Britain has stripped power from Belfast. One man was arrestedpersisted that the IRA could soon 
the local administration three police said. ' 
agree with disarmament officials 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration is pushing the Senate to con­firm its pick for the State Department's top Latin Amer-ican position somone denounced by a key Democrat as unqualified for the job. 
Otto Reich topped the list of 18 nominees Secretary of State Colin Powell said he would like to see confirmed before the Senate adjourns for the year. Congress' recess may begin in November. 
Powell submitted the list in a letter dated Monday to Sen. Jesse Helms, H-N.C., the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
A hearing on Reich's nomi­nation as a<,sistant secretarv for Western Hemisphere Affairs has been held up while Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., looks into Reich's work as a State Department official, an ambassador to Venezuela in the 1980s and a lobbyist. 

At State, Reich headed an office accused of running ille­gal domestic propaganda efforts against Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista govern­ment. In recent years, Reich has lobbied for companies with interests in Latin America, notably Bacardi Inc. 
Dodd, who chairs Foreign Relations' Western Hemisphere subcommittee, said in a letter to the Wall Street Journal last week that Reich "is not qualified for the post." 
FREE i\ND ()PEN TO THE PURLIC 
FOR INFORMATION: 219-6.31-3277 

Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 7 

Pentagon admits to bombing Red Cross warehouses 
dropped bombs on Hed Cross ware­Taliban militia stored military equip­Americans to take part in community
Associated Press 
houses in Afghanistan. U.S. forces did ment, the Defense Department said in service efforts during the m iii tary not know the warehouses were being a statement. Military vehicles had strikes. Bush did not mention it in hisWASHINGTON used by the Red Cross, and believed been seen in the area, the statement remarks, and did not respond to ques­
The Pentagon on Tuesday acknowl­
theywere part of a complex where the said. tions shouted by reporters.
edged that a U.S. warplane mistakenly 
The Red Cross Bush said the White House had 


said a bomb crashed received 90,000 pieces of mail since into its compound at Friday in response to his callfor Khair Khana near American children to each donate $1 Kabul, injuring a toward relief efforts for Afghan chil­guard and setting dren. afire two warehous­"In just a few short days, children all es containing wheat, across our country have responded medicine and other with remarkable generosity and deep supplies. Officials in compassion," Bush said. Pakistan said the Some children were chipping in roofs of the · much more warehouses than $1, Bush 
w e r e "/n just a few short days. said. He noted 
marked that entire
children all across the

with Hed classes of stu­
C r o s s country have responded dents were insignia. with remarkable pooling their 
T h e contributions
generosity and deep

Pentagon and personal­
,, 

statement compasszon. ly congratu­said the lated Kristen Defense Strickland of
George Bush 

Department Philomont,
president of the United States

regretted Va., who any inno-raised $45 by cent casualties and feeding chickens. tries to strike only He said he would ensure that each military and terror­dollar raised by children in the United ist targets. States would be spent on the needs of 
The incident hap­children in Afghanistan as that coun­pened as President try's harsh winter approaches. Bush prepared to "The children need warm clothing. visit Red Cross And they need food, and medicines," headquarters in Bush said. "Thanks to the American \Vash ington to children, fewer children in e n c o u r a g e Afghanistan will suffer this winter."


Join the adventure that never ends. 

ANSWER ~ TIIECALL ~ 
"Www.nd.edu/,-.;vocation 
At Morningstar we revolutionize investing by empowering the investor. 
And, Great People make it happen everyday. 
Great People Your vision and drive will lead you because what matters most to us is your willingness to learn, your ability to perform and your desire for personal . and professional growth--not your college major or occupational background. 
Great Place Our values, our culture and our dedication to our employees set us apart. At Morningstar, you'll enjoy competitive compensation, comprehensive benefits package, casual attire and numerous other perks that make Morningstar a "great place" to work. 
Great Products !v1orningstar is the preeminent source of financial information. Our publications, software and Web sites give investors insightful analysis and groundbreaking tools to analyze their investments and build better portfolios. 
Great Program Bright, new talent keeps our ideas, products and culture fresh and innovative. That's why we're committed to finding students who will thrive in our entrepreneurial culture to fill our core positions. 
On Campus We will be visiting Notre Dame on October 17, 2001 to conduct a presentation about Morningstar and to give students the opportunity to talk to current employees about their experiences. 
Presentation l 0-17-01 
Center for Continuing Education-Room 202 Refreshments and resume collection begin ot 7:00 pm Presentation to start at 7:30 pm Casual dress appropriate. All majors welcome. 

Interviewing 11-09-01 
Please contact your Career Center if your are interested in getting on our schedule. eoe m/f/d/v 
so MANY OPTIONS TO CHOOSE FROM. II 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT INTERNSHIP 
o 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

o 
Choose from over 120 sites across the United States 

o 
Earn 3theology credits (with possible crosslists) 

o 
Receive a$2900+ tuition scholarship {including Americorps funding) 




SOCl4l

Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame alumni 
CONCERNS 
Informational Meetings at the Center for Social Concerns: Thursday, October 18, 2001 6:00 PM Wednesday, November 7, 2001 7:00 PM Wednesday, November 28, 2001 7:00 PM 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 17, 2001 


President praises youth for donations 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 

President Bush personally collected $1 donations for Afghan children Tuesday, visit­ing the American Hed Cross headquar­ters on a day when 
u . s . airstrikes set Red C r o s s warehous­es afire n e a r 


Bush

Afghan­istan's capital. 
Bush made no mention of the raids, in which at least one bomb exploded in the com­pound of the International Committee of the Red Cross at Kabul. injuring one security guard and setting two of the seven buildings on fire. 
The Pentagon acknowledged later that U.S. bombs acciden­
tally hit the Red Cross warehouses. A Navy F/A­18 Hornet dropped 1,000-pound bombs on the warehouses, the state­ment said. 
The ware­house com­plex con­tained wheat, blankets, led military campaign against the Taliban in Afghanistan. 
Bush said that since his call for donations, the White House has received 90,000 letters. He said the American Hed Cross and the U.S. Agency for International Development are channeling the money to needy Afghan youths. The adminis­tration said it was impossible to say how much money had been sent. 
"Winter arrives early in Afghanistan. It's cold, really cold, and the children need warm clothing and they need medicines," Bush said. "And thanks to the American chil­dren, fewer children in Afghanistan will suffer this win­ter." 
Nearly 100 children stood behind Bush as he spoke, as did a placard advertising the fund. It depicted two smiling Afghan children. Bush singled out for special praise Kristen Strickland of Philomont, Va., who raised $45 by feeding 
chickens. 
"One way to fight evil is to fight it with compas­soin. And the message stands in stark contrast to the message ofhate that our boys and girls have seen on Tv." 
George Bush president 
tents and plastic tarps -the kinds of supplies the fund initi­ated by Bush will provide. 
Bush last week called on American children to donate $1 to Afghan children, and he used the appearance Tuesday to highlight humanitarian efforts under way alongside the U.S.­
"One way to fight evil is to fight it with kindness and love and com­p ass ion, Bush said. "And the message stands in stark contrast to the mes­sage of hate that our boys and girls ha~e seen on lV. 
As Bush waded into the crowd of children for a group photo, many of them held up one-dollar bills. Children pressed bills into the presi­dent's hand, and he promptly passed them to Bernadine Healy. president of the American Red Cross. 

Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trattori.t Downtown South Bend 





House works on laundering bill 
Associated Press 
\NASHINGTON 
The I louse is working on a mea­sure expanding the government's power to cut money flows to ter­rorist networks amid protests by key senators over the legislation being stripped from President Bush's anti-terrorism package. 
The bill, supported by the White Ilouse, is intended to fight money laundering around the world, thwart the financing of terrorism and protect the U.S. banking sys-tern from illicit money. It would give the treasury secretary authority to requirn special record keeping and reporting rules for American banks and other finan­cial institutions and would make it a crime to smuggle more than $10,000 over U.S. borders. 



In the Senate, the anti-mont1y­laundering measure is attached to the countfwterrorism legislation sparklld by the Sept. 11 attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
The House and Senate both have passed versions of the popu­lar anti-tnrrorism legislation. But the House version does not con­tain tho money laundering provi­sions, a separation which "could be the death warrant for strong anti-money-laundering legisla­tion," Sen. Carl Levin. D-Mich .. told reporters Tuesday. 
There is potentially "a lot of mischief to be played" with stand­alone money laundering legisla­tion in negotiations for a compro­mise between Ilouse and Senate lawmakers, said Sen. Paul Sarbanes, D-Md., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. 

UNION l#MiWlt¦•t~ 
oct 1 7 -oct 21 

Women's Lacrosse vs. Northwestern 6:00pm Ofrenda building, honoring migrant workers 6:00-8:00pm Institute for Latino Studies, McKenna Hall Coffee at the Co-Mo 11Food for Thought Chat with Grant Irons 8:00-9:00pm 103 Coleman-Morse Center 
ll!PJls  ND Cinema 11American Movie11  
7:00pm  Hesburgh Library Auditorium  
SUB Best of Acousticafe  
9:00pm  Huddle Lafortune  

Freshman/Sophomore Class Dance 10:00pm-1:00am Alumni-Senior Club 
•,,..;•¦••r-·---M-e-n-s-Te_n_n-is-vs-.-U-S-C--------------~---·-·-·---w•--­
1 

6:00pm Football Pep Rally Women's Swimming vs. Michigan State Dual 
Hi 
7:30pm 

Women's Lacrosse vs. Dusquesne 9:00am ND Football vs. USC 1:30pm Undertones Concert 1 hour after footbal I game ends Men's Soccer vs. BC 7:30pm 
Bookstore 


(=111lj  FALL BREAK  
sponsored by Student Union  ~~ ds ~  
Executive Cabinet  

BOSTON'S LEGENDARY IRISH PUB se WELCOMES THE FIGHTING IRISH TO BOSTON OCTOBER 27th, 2001 for Lunch, Dinner & Live Irish Entertainment 7 Nights a week 160 State Street Faneuil Hall Marketplace Boston, Massachusetts 617.742.2286 www.irishconnection.com  

Wednesday, October 17, 200 l 
The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Dulles airport reassigns 7 security employees 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Seven of 20 employees who screen passengers at Wa-,hington Dulles International Airport, where one of the 
hijacked planes took oIT last month, were given other a'>signments after failing written examinations, government investigators said Tuesday. 
The investigators tested the screeners during a probe at Dulles and 13 other airports. Teams from the Office of Inspector General and Federal Aviation Administration are 

9th Annual Emil T. Hofman Lecture 
''THE WAR ON PROSTATE CANCER'' 
Patrick C. Walsh, M.D. Professor of Surgery and Director of Brady Urologic Institute Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine 
Satu_rday October 20, 2001 10:00 a.m. -11 :30 a.m. Room 101 DeBartolo Hall (Before the Southern California game) 
Co-Sponsored by Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center, South Bend, and the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
'YO'll )'J)E S'E'E'l{ rr¾'E (jO£.lD'E'l{tJJO'M'E... 'l{O'W CO'M'E S'E'E -I:Ji'E :l(OM5r:A[ O'l{'E! 
_µi\ 



ROME PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER ·17, 2001 
5:00 PM 138 DEBARTOLO 
International Study Programs: http://www.nd.edu/~intlstucl Ron1e On-line Application Deadline: December 1, 2001 (for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 
Io o k­ing to s e e 
whether background checks required of security employees were done. · A screener must receive 12 hours of training. pass a writ­ten test and be retested every year. 
The investigation began after federal prosecutors accused the company handling security at the 14 airports, Argenbright Security Inc., of failing to make background checks at Philadelphia International Airport. Government investigators were sent to Philadelphia, and separate teams went to 13 other airports staffed by Argenbright employees. 

AUSTRALIA 
Premier: Austrcllia to deploy troops 
Associated Press 
CANBERRA 

Australia will begin deploy­ing troops and military hard­ware to the Persian Gulf over the next two weeks to join the U.S.-led coalition against ter­rorism, Prime Minister John Howard said Wednesday. 
Howard said the deployment was order after a telephone request by overnight from President Bush. 
"This marks of course a sig­nificant further stage in the involvement of Australian mil­itary personnel and the Australian people in this war against terrorism." Howard told reporters. 
"Our forces will be overseas fighting in our name within a very short period of time," he said. 
Howard said and exact deployment date had not been set, but the first troops and equipment could begin leaving within the next two weeks. He said the full Australian contri­bution would be in position by mid-November. 
Howard has pledged a detachment of 150 Special Air Services troops, two B707 tanker refueling aircraft, two P3 long-range maritime planes, two navy frigates, one amphibious command ship and four F/A-18A fighter jets. 
The SAS troops are Australia's elite commandos, trained to operate in small 
· groups behind enemy lines. The total number of person­nel committed is 1,550. 

"Ta}). dancing will. n~ver lle the ~a1ne aga1n. 
....:fltf,! Lon,ton. Tim~ 

Broadway Theatre league Presentation 
October 18-19, 2001 

For tickets and information Call 234-4044 Toll Free 1-877-315-1234 
Student, senior, and group discounts available for al 
Morris Performing Arts Cent 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 10 Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
{ 1 



THE OBSERVER
1 
I 
P.O. Box Q. Nom Dame. IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall. Nom Dami:'., IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

i'vlike Connolly. 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Kerry Smith Pat Peters 
NEWS El>ITOR: Jason McFarley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradcer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 

SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 

CONTACT Us 
l 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAx.............................................................63 !~6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MA.."'AGING ErnToRiA'isT. ME....................631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. 1@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpolm.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 o~server.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S....................................... ......631-4324 observer .smc. l @nd.edu PHOTO...................... ..................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for about The Observer 
articles published after 
m meet the edicors and August 1999 
staff 




POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of None Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves che right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of che majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanc Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letcers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to chc Editor muse be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed ro Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Maribel Morey Gordon Sttickland Van Giles Graphics Justin Krivickas Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Matt Luzar Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Lauren Beck Amanda Hughes 
Terrorist attacks affect Americans abroad 
Everybody knows where they saw or heard about the events of Sept.11 . 
I was walking back to my village after watching girls play basketball. The Peace Corps car intercepted me and the American in the car straightforwardly Maite Uranga said, 'Tm sure you heard what hap­pened in the United States today." Many Life in Africa possil;>le scenarios raced through my head and sadly my imagination did not even come close to the horror of the reality. 
The American gave me a piece of paper Peace Corps wanted every volun­teer to have as confirmation that every­one knew. A brief summary said, "Earlier today the United States experi­enced apparent terrorist attacks. Other attacks are possible. Peace Corps wants all volunteers to stay where they are." 
In retrospect, my reaction was noncha­lant and I think that is largely due to the calmness of the Peace Corps representa­tive. 
After this five minute encounter, I con­tinued to walk back to my village, mak­ing small talk with people and in no real hurry to find out further details. I went to my neighbor's house and played with her children for a while. Eventually I asked the boys next door if I could bor­row their radio. I found the BBC fre­quency. 
My life changed. The world as I knew disappeared. 
In utter disbelief I listened to "Bush is in Nebraska ... Cheney is in the \,Vhite House bunkers ... the military is patrolling the East Coast ... Washington is empty ... the World Trade Center is gone ... the Pentagon is on fire ... all air­planes are grounded ... the Mexican and 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Canadian borders are closed." 
Bin Laden emerged very early as the main suspect. Radicals started calling the BBC and Voice of America declaring, "a war on Islam ... the beginning of' the 
next Crusades ... a demand for swift and 
deliberate action against the Muslim 
countries harboring bin Laden." 
The sun was setting outside my room 
and I heard the call to the mosque and 
saw all my neighbors stop to face Mecca 
and pray. An unease overcame me and 
I asked myself how well I really knew 
these people. I arrived in my village only 15 days before Sept. 11. It was pitch 
black outside and there were no Americans. I closed my door and contin­
ued to listen for any piece of information that would tell me the answers. I desper­ately wanted to talk to my family and friends or any American. I wrote in my journal. I went to sleep that night not knowing what state America and the world would be in when I woke up. More importantly I did not know how my vil­lage would react to me, an American who just came into their lives. 
The next morning the nightmare on the radio continued and eventually I left the safety of my room. People immedi­ately started asking me if my family and friends lived in New York or Washington. They told me to call my parents and friends and tell them that Toulde was hurt by events in the United States. 
The university students and I com­pared and contrasted the Voice of America and the BBC with French and Senegalese radio. The elders of the com­munity, who most likely could not identi­fy the location of the United States on a world map, expressed their sympathies and gave their prayers. I tried to relay the depressed and heartbroken state of America to my work counterpart's hus­band and he corrected me and said, "It is the whole world, not just UnitPd States." 
After my initial fears the first night, I have never felt the slightest bit threat­ened or unsafe. In some ways I feel more safe in my Muslim village in an Islamic republic than I would in some places in the United States. 
On th(} other hand, I wish I could talk to my family and friends on a more regu­lar basis. I still have yet to read any American magazines or newspapers concerning the attacks. I have only watched television once. Some days I seek out Americans and even if we do not talk about it much there is an under­standing b{~tween us the Mauritanians cannot understand. 
My Mauritanian friends' and neigh­bors' lives carry on as normal and are really not at all affected by this world changing event. 
For me much changed. I realize that my life is in continual flux and may br for the remaining two years I am here. For the first time my daily life is depen­dent on American diplomacy and international relations. Some days I mentally prepare to stay here for two years and other days I prepare to go back to the United States. 

I only know about the United States from the radio, but I have no idea what it is like to live there now. I can never return to the home I left only four and a half months ago. 
Maile Uranga graduatedfrom Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. I !er column appears every other Wednesday. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Rallying for life after tragedy 
I am writing in response to Natalie Hock's letter pub­lished Monday, entitled "Hight to life not about abortion." 
She· asks why "no one ever speaks about the issue of Hight to Lifers who bomb abortion clinics. killing people in the name of life, in the name of God." The people who kill others while claiming that they are "Right-to-Lifers" are not pro-life. 
"Muslim" terrorists blaspheme their God, Allah, by claiming that killing those of other religions and cultures is following Allah's plan. Similarly, "Hight-to-Lifers" who kill those who work at abortion clinics pervert the pro-life movement. These people should not call themselves pro­life just as terrorists should not call themselves Muslim. 
Hock proceeded to criticize her parish priest for bringing up the issue of abortion on Respect Life Sunday. She "found it interesting, that in this time of inner compassion and strength, we could talk about issues that further 
POLL QUESTION 
Are you worried about the prospect of bio~ chemical warfare in light of the anthrax cases? Please e-mail viewpoint.l@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
divide people and manage to act as if the world isn't changing around us." 
flock missed the bigger picture that Sunday morning. The American people are devastated by the over 6,000 lives lost on Sept. 11. Sadly, many Americans ignore the fact that 4,400 people lose their lives every day through abortion. This tragedy should be a wake-up call; the dev­astation of abortion is depleting our generation. 
At this time, our nation is rallying for life. This move­ment should unite us as we show the world that we respect life -all life, from conception until natural death. 

Kristen Overberger 
freshman Lyons Hall Oct. 15. 200 I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Intellectually I know that America is no better than any other country; emotionally I know she is better than every other country ... 
Sinclair Lewis playwright, novelist 


O
THE BSERVER 
Wednesday, October 17, 200 I page 11 
21st birthday ends an era of illegality 
I lappy Birthday. baby -to me. Correct. Today is, in fact. my birthday. WhoopPc. 
First of all. my own open declaration of' my ovvn birthday is not meant to ganwr a thousand wislws of' "Happy Birthday. 
Joe Larson

Joe" or gifts or sur­prise parties. Second of all I'll bf' 
The Principles 
arriving home from 
ofldiocracy
class at about six tonight and you can look up my address and telephone number. Thanks in advance for all your cheerful birthday tid­ings. 
OK, glad to have goW-m that out of' the way. Now, why would a person writing for tlw Viewpoint portion of The Observer 
, shamelessly call attention to an occasion as frivolous as his birthday like this? To prove a point, of course. (After all, this is not Seem~. this is Viewpoint. Someone might read it.) 
This year's birthday is different from years past. It is the end-all. be-all, party until you throw up, act like a cretin, be a rock star bash of all bashes. It is the illus­trious 21st birthday we are talking about. 
Twenty-one years have passed me by in this life. 21 years of good times, bad times, baby food, being dressPd by my parents, ridicule, embarrassment, tri­umph. peanut butter and jelly. wearing a uniform. driving a gold '86 Ford Tempo, trying to survive college and wondering what I am going to do ,vith the rest of my allotted time here on the planet. 
And finally, after a 21-year old stress ball the size of a cantaloup(~ has formed on the back of my neck, I can have my first beer. I can enter my first bar. I can go into a liquor store and supply alcohol for minors. 
After watching older friends 
and relatives do this for years, my time has finally come. I won­der what it will be like tast­ing alcohol for the first time? Oh, I hope I don't throw up. I wonder what it will be like to walk into a bar and look 
around. What do they 
·· _. -~·. ·ft--:.,. ·:· ,J\ · •~·-:i, , allowing me inside for 
have in those places? Is 
....._ ----~·,::;p,1't _ ~'!.~'\,, .:t ~.;,' a cocktail." 
it just a giant troth full 
,..-·---', '· ~--_.. 'fj;-:11.~i~!' Or you pull out the 
_;i···---.., :;, -..,. r,.,.r:',."'-ID that says you're 28,
of alcohol that every­
one shares? Oh my. I 

'. } ) , J:;~~ :,t.•. :,.. three inches shorter 
.; and 20 pounds heavier
wonder. 

up to the bouncer who
The point of this 
rather long introduction to this column is that I'm starting to think that my 21st birthday is going to be a bit of a bust. Sure, I'll be legal now, but so what? All that stuff from before was a lie. For the past three years, I've used a fake ID. 
I know, I'm sorry. 
The thing is, though, it's just not that big of a deal. I would almost welcome an analogy about snacking and spoiling my dinner here, but it just wouldn't fit. The truth is a lot of underage college students use false identification and even more drink alcohol illegally. Everybody does it and no one, except Bill Kirk, cares. (And he only drn~s if you're at a studPnt-nm tailgate.) 
The 21st birthday is almost as a big of a scare as much as anything else. It is kind of fun using false identification. It's like 
you're a secret agent or something. You give the bouncer the ID that says you're 26. three inches shorter and 20 pounds heavier and look at him as if to say. "Haven't I really pulled myself together since my 16th birthday? Now, reward me by 
has just let in five of your older friends who .. ";;.:)';J~f; I/ ..are all legitimately ~l­
1/ _Yes, Mr. Bouncer, sir, , I'm just escorting these younger chaps out to the 
bar. I won't be out Jong, I have to get home to see the missus before the late news comes on." 
Remember when everyone was under­age and when one person got rejected the whole team, even members who were already in, had to retreat and go else­where, basically admitting to the bouncer that, yes, we had used fake IDs, and, yes, you didn't catch us? 
Those were the days. 
I'll admit it will be nice to be guaran­te(~d entrance to the bar and access to th,~ cocktails. It'll be nice tn not have to be the only one of my friends who isn't 21 and has to worry about being denied from the bar. These things are all very good. 
But I can't help but feel like something's going to be different now. I feel like it's the end of an era or something. My youth is over. I'm legal now. 
There are no legal binds that can stop me from the almighty cocktail. Pretty soon it will stop being socially acceptable (and encouraged) for me to even have more than a few cocktails and act silly with friends. 
So, tonight, I'm going to go out and do something I've done for three years. 
Only, this time and all times to come, I'll be completely and utterly allowed to do so. Adulthood looms ahead on the horizon for me and for all of us. 
Tonight will be just another stride towards that looming beast. \Von't you join me at the bar for a cocktail so we can hopefully forget all about it? 
Joe Larson is a senior English and his­tory major. lie would like to thank 1"vlark Anthony Tritz, William Hartnett Smith and Carl Andrew Benefield for aiding and abetting him along the way to this auspi­cious occasion. Joe can be reached atjlar­son@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

f GUEST COLUMN 
Is security worth sacrificing liberty? 
MADISON, Wis. I have in my possession a list of 99 traitors in the high­est lewl of tlw American government. 
Their treason is ignorant of party and political ideolo­gy. It is not grounded in any core principles or beliefs ­indeed, it is thr, oppositr,. It is a treason ofemotion, of fear, and I do not believe the trai­tors even know they are guilty. Matt Lynch 
Nevertheless, this treason may pose a greater threat to the United States of the founding fathers than any double agents. terrorists or mil-Badger Herald itary adversaries in the last centu­ry. \'\'orst of all. they have per­formed this trnason not in defianc,i of the people they govern. but in accordance with their express will. 
This traitorous act, executed last Thursday night. was ironically titled the "Strengthening and Uniting America Act," and its 99 conspirators are all members of the United States Senate. Ninety-six of them voted in favor of this decidedly anti-American bill, and three abstained from voting against it. Only Wisconsin senator Russ FPingold, perhaps learning from the mistakes of his state's most infamous former senator, found the wisdom to vote against it. 
The bill is not trnasonous in giving away secrets to the enemy or putting \merican lives in danger; it is actually designed to dot he opposite. But. in this way, the treach­ery of the bill is much worse. It does not directly attack American citizens but rather the founding principles under which they live. It is a betrayal of Madison, Jefferson and I lamilton. the Constitution and the Bill of High ts. It is a bPtrayal of the very ideals that define our nation. and thus it b()comes an attack far more danger­ous to the existence of America as we know it than any terrorist action. 
The "Uniting and Strengtlrnning America Act" includes provisions that allow the government to conduct search­es of hornes and oflices, computers files and desk draw­ers for any investigation without notification. It makes a crime out of "domestic terrorism," defining terrorism with enough vagueness as to possibly charge nonviolent dissenh~rs with it. 
It gives the CIA the power to gather intelligence on its 



O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, October 17, 2001 page 12 

Has reality television lost its appeal? The 1 
had destroyed thP urn of introduced the more unmarried yet committed,
By MATT KILLEN 
the boss' deceased wife. extravagant "The Amazing couples together. They sep­Scene \Vrirer 
After breaking down and Hacc," contestants com­arate them and tempt the bawling into the ashes, the prise 11 two-man teams committed people with With the sur.cess of real­
elaborate scheme was who race around the globe, sexy and eligible singles of 
ity shows like "Survivor" 
revealed to her. from New York to Africa to the opposite sex. 
a11d "Temptation Island" 
CBS brought back 2000s Paris. The teams ABC brought back last 
networks have been 
modest success "Big encounter challenges and year's semi-hit with "The 
scrambling to come up 
Brother." Heeding some of tasks that must be com­Mole 2: The Next 
with \vilder and even edgi­
the criticism of the original, pleted in order to move on. Betrayal." Expanding the 
er fare to satisfy America's 
"Big Brother 2" offered a The last person at each field of contestants to 12,
appetite for reality. 
younger and more blatant­checkpoint in the race is the premise remains the 
From sheep eye eating to 

ly Machiavellian cast. This eliminattid, with the prize same: contestants attempt
sexed-up love cruises, the 
time around, contl}stants money going to the win­to complete challenges for 
next generation of reality 
voted each other out ning team. Hacc, airs money that is added to the 
television is pushing the 
instead of having America Wednesdays at 9 p.m. EST. gr.owing pot. One of the 
barrier in shock TV. While 
decide via a telephone poll. CBS is also banking on contestants is the mole 
network executives contin­
FOX attempted to take a success with "Survivor: who is working against 
ue to bank on these shows 
bite out of the reality pie Africa" the third install­them. Each week, players 
as advertising cash cows, 
with its "Murder in Small ment of the popular reality take a quiz about the 
recent ratings may indicate 
Town X." Contestants were show. This time around, Mole's identity. Whoever 
that viewers aren't quite so 
investigators in a fictional members of the Boran and scores the lowest is elimi­
eager to dip in. The second 
New England town investi­Samburu tribes must face nated. The winner then 
wave of reality first hit. this 
gating a string of murders. dangerous animals, takes home the pot. 
past summer. 
In every episode, one of the treacherous terrain, and "The Mole 2" also 
Seeing the successes of 

contestants was eliminated tainted water on an promises to drop hints in 
"Survivor" and "Big 
while being killed, by the African game reserve. each episode about the 
Brother" on CBS, NBC saw 
murderer, the results were Producers claim that this Mole's identity. This was 
an opportunity. Last sum­
mixed. NBC saw such suc­installment is the toughest actually done last year, 
mer, it premiered "Fear 
cess with "Fear factor," one yet. "Survivor," airs though producers didn't 
Factor" and "Spy TV." 
that another season is in Thursdays at 8 p.m. EST. reveal it until the final 
"Fear Factor" hosted by 
the works. '1Spy TV," while FOX hopes to continue its show. The "Mole 2" airs on 
Joe Hogan, collected six 
receiving decent ratings, sex-based reality success ABC Fridays at 8 p.m. EST. 
young and attractive men 
did not fare as well. CBS with "Love Cruise: The The WB has even thrown 
and women and chal­
saw the same moderate Maiden Voyage." The con­its hat into the ring with 
lenged them to various 
success this summer with trived rules of this show "Elimidate Deluxe," Airing 
tasks. The contestants that 
"B82" as last. \.vhile there somehow relate to sexy Thursdays at 8:30 p.m.
refused or were unable to 
has been no official singles pairing up and ear.h eastern,
complete the tasks were 
a third

announcement, sex voting one of the other "Elimidate,"
eliminated, leaving one 
installment seems likely. off. The premise seems less puts four con­
winner to take home the 
FOX, meamvhile, could not important to the show itsr,lf' testants with a$50,000 prize. Tim show, 
cm1jurc up "Temptation"­than the high drama and member of thewhich threw people off of like numbers for "l'v1urder," spectacle of scantily-clad opposite sex
buildings and dangled 
which was quickly forgot­women and men who frolic on a day-longthem over ravines, became ten by audiences. and scheme about the d a t e
well known for its gross 
This fall has seen even deck. The winning couple, Inevitably,
out factor. In a few 
more elaborate reality will earn $200,000 and a each of the­
episodes. conWstanls; were 
shows making their way luxurious trip around the . contestants is challenged to eat shef~P 
onto the airwaves. NBC world. FOX \Viii also offer eliminated 
eyes and buffalo testicles. 
rolled out "Lost," for a few up "Temptation Island 2," until only the"Spy TV," d(~buted as tlw weeks. In this show, three the sequel to last year's happy coupletwisted evil brother of the two-man tt>ams \Vere surprise success. is left to enjoyclassic "Candid Camera.. , 
blind folded and placed Premiering Nov. 7 at 9 each other.
In on1~ show. a young man somewhere on the p.m. (then taking its regu­The WB is was intt>rrogated for hours globe.They had to find out lar slot Thursdays at 9 also bringing
as a suspected computer 
where they were and be p.m.), t>ut another
hacker. In another, a job 
the first to make it back to "Temptation Island 2," addition of
interviewee was told she 
the Statue of Liberty. CBS once again brings four "Popstars." 
./ 

Th cast of the much maligned "Big Brother" is back, this time acting as judges for the secind The cast of "Survivor: Africa" brings back the CBS favorite for one r installment of the show. 

mined. · 


Uk,, ABC's cancelled Africa" prmniPni also did­"Making the Band," n't reach tlw 29 mi Ilion "Popstars," chronicled the mark that "Survivor: The making of an all-girl pop Australian Outback." music band. This year, would consistently pull "Popstars 2" will put a down to beat Friends, last tvvist in the formula by season. making the band co-ed. While the numbers ganw "Popstars 2" airs may be choking off reality Thursdays at 8p.m. EST television, nntworks don't beginning tomorrovv. seem to notice too much. 
Viewer reception of' these CBS is asking for contes­shows has been mixed. tants for ''Tlui Amazing FOX did not see stellar Hacf~ 2," whilP (Wen ABC's numbers with ''Love The Molf}, is working on a CruisP." Both travel-based thfrd installment. series, "Lost" and "Th(~ Meanwhile, CBS is already Amazing Hace," have not planning a fourth made a spectacular show-"Survivor" which it plans ing either. Stuck on Friday to debut sometime next night~. the ratings for "The spring. Originally rumored Mole 2," have been down-. to be taking place in right abysmal. Jordan, recent develop-
The premiere of ments have scrapped that "Survivor: Africa" brought idea and producers are in decent ratings for CBS looking for a new location. by pulling in more than 23 While the verdict is still 
,million viewers, despite -. out, the ratings bring about being delayed 45 minutes the question of whether due to a presidential this next gmrnration of address. However, the reality television will show failed to beat indeed b<~ the last genera­"Friends," which (due in tion. The reason behind part to the Hachel preg-tho lackluster ratings for nancy story arc). has been many reality shows may lit~ pulling high numbers this in the fickle tastes of the season. The "Survivor: American public, or the 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Wednsday, October 17, 200 I 
page 13 
--------~ 


1etworks hope it hasn't 

networks, saturation of the air­waves vvith every conceivable reali­ty show imaginable. The novelty of the genre, blending personality­and conflict-driven story telling with a game-based competition for money, seems to have worn off. 
Heplacing it is an attempt to out-do one another with the bold and shocking. While some of it works, much of it doesn't. 
. ac "
"I~•ear I' tor" was periect sum­mer fare. Tuning in each week to sec what people would eat in a des-perate grab for money proved glee­fully disgusting for the audience. 

"The Mole 2" continues to be the oft overlooked gem that the first one was a fun play along game that also offers paranoia-driven contes­tants. "Survivor: Africa" also 
promises more of the same drama 
and fun that its predecessors 
enjoyed. Many of the other shows, 
however, range from the boring to 
the downright embarrassing. 
·watching the rontestants of 
"Lost" and "Race" meander about 
foreign lands speaking loudly and 
gesturing ridiculously at the 
amused and sometimes annoyed 
natives doesn't exactly make for 
interesting television. Har.fl, in 
particular. seems to reduce for­
eign cultures to nothing more than 
novelties that are chewed up and 
quickly forgotten as the players 
move on to the next exotic loca­
tion. Shows like "Love Cruise" and 
"Elimidate" would work much 
better if they dropped the pre­
tence of legitimacy and accepted 
themselves as simple, silly fun. 
Both shows tend to take them­
selves far too seriously as games 
and overlook the gold mine of pos­
sibilities of watching pathetic and 
desperate singles use sex to win 
cash at the price of their dignity. 
\\'hile the quality of these shows 
is certainly mixed, the verdict that 
really matters may be hrnving 
reality television in the dust. If 
audiences continue the currnnt 
trend of tuning out, it ,-von't be 
long before the plug is pulled on 
all of reality TV. If the next gener­
ation ()f reality television donsn't 
soon live up to expectations. it 
may soon find itself as a lost g1m­
eration. 
Contact Matt Killen at killen.3@nd.edu. 
Reality television from the Dome 
There are a lot of reality TV shows out there. Too many, say some people. 
\Vhether you follow Richard Hatch's post-Survivor career religiously, or have never seen somebody whin­ing on the Heal World about Amaya, you gotta wonder: ·what if they made a reality sho\v at Notre Dame? 
I'm going to throw out some ideas for the networks, and maybe I'll sell a script and get paid. 
"Survivor -Bob Davie Edition" 
This show consists of a single episode. Bob Davie tries to outlast, outwit, and outplay himself to keep his job. But then Bob loses the immunity challenge, failing to cor­rectly diagram a pass to the tight end. Bob protests, saying that the tight end isn't an actual position. Kevin White reaches into the box and pulls out a piece of paper that says "Bob." Rob leaves the tribal council. You could do it in like 30 seconds between a SuperDoppler commercial and a Wonder Y(~ars rerun. 
"Fear Factor -Tailgating Special" 
This show would feature Joe Rogan out at radio tower field, cheering on six contestants as they try to drink beer and eat brats without catching the eye of the authorities. Contestants struggle to keep track of Bill Kirk between SUVs and try to discover who's the under­cover cop. Then they act like they don't go to Notre Dame by saying "du Lac? What's that, Spanish or some­thing?" and "What's a tailgater?" and "Bob Davie still coaches here?" 
"Big Brother -Dining Hall Lady Edition" 
Nothing escapes the watchful eye of Big Brother, and nobody's going to be taking a second piece of fruit from the dining hall with these highly-trained security opera­tives around. Watch as the Dining Hall ladies kick butt and take names, all in the name of Food Services. 
"Who Wants to Marry a Townie?" 
A twist on the usual, this ~how pits 50 single Notre Dame women in a battle to avoid marrying Carl, a 27­year-old unemployed South Bend native and proud owner of a lowered 1993 Chevy S150 pickup and three victories in paternity suits. The lucky bride will be treated to a Justice of the Peace ceremony at the County Courthouse, witnessed by Carl's brothf'r Jed. 
"Temptation Quad" 
Following Notre Dame students around during their day to day lives, the producers of "Temptation Quad" try to tempt the Domcrs into scandalous acts. Can the Irish resist that fifth, and potentially lethal quarter dog? Nobody saw that naked run through Stonehenge. did they? 
"World's Stupidest Scene Columnists" 
I can't believe this show didn't turn into a hit. It. fea­tures stupid pfloplewriting stupid articles about reality TV shows and Notre Dame ... wait a Sf'cond. 


The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Obsenier. 
Jeff Baltruzak ate a lot of paint chips u1hen he was a kid. JJe can be reached at baltrul@nd.edu.. 
Wednesday. October 17, 2001 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Peterson hat trick hands Kehoe debut win 
Associated Press 
PITI'SBURGH 

Mario Lemieux's newest line­mate had a big night, and it got Lemieux's very first linemate his initial NHL coaching victory. 
Pitl'-iburgh rookie Toby Petersen had three goals in his first game on Lemieux's line and the previ­ously winless Penguins won coach Rick Kehoe's debut. beating the Ottawa Senators 5-2. 
"We wanted to win this for the new coach-and for each other," Petersen said. "The guys definitely were pretty excited with the new coach. It was pretty sweet for me. too, because never in a million years did I expect this. I just want­ed to make sure I didn't embar­rass myself." 
Robert Lang had two goals. one short-handed and the other on a power play. as the Penguins scored four goals on nine shot.i:; in the second period -three set up by Lemieux for his first points of the season. 
Lemieux was held without a goal for the ninth consecutive game dating to last season. but his three assists followed two score­less games. He missed two others with a hip injury. 
"When I saw him take off on a breakaway, I said to myself, 'That's a real good sign,' " l\ehoe said of Lemieux. who was clearly off his game previously because of the hip injury. 
Johan Hedberg had his first strong game in goal since la.c;t sea­son's playoffs, turning aside Marian Hossa on a penalty shot in the first period and stopping 17 of 18 shots in the second period alone while making 37 saves. Ottawa was O-for-7 on the power play. 
The Penguins' 0-4 start tied their 1983-84 team for the worst in franchise history. Coach Ivan Hlinka was fired following a 4-1 loss Sunday in Buffalo in which the Penguins looked disorganized and disinterested. 
Kehoe, a Penguins assistant coach or player for 27 of their 35 seasons, emphasized a return to the team's familiar uptempo offense during his first practice Monday, and the Penguins responded. 
"I didn't know what to expect. really," said Kehoe. the third-lead­ing scorer in Penguins history behind Lemieux and Jaromir Jagr. "I was a little nervous. for sure. because the players needed to win badly. It's a good start, but we still have a lot of work to do." 
And how's this for coincidence: Kehoe, who played briefly on Lemieux's line at the start of Lcmieux·s rookie season in 1984­85 until getting hurt, wore No. 17 -the same number Petersen now wears. 
The Penguins didn't take long to follow Kehoe's advice as Petersen scored 30 seconds into the game. He got his stick on the puck as it scooted under goalie Patrick Lalime's pads during a scramble in front of the net. 
Detroit 4, Columbus 3 
Once the Columbus Blue Jackets got out of their own end of the ice, they nearly stole a victory from the Detroit Red Wings. 
Trailing by three goals with a little more than eight minutes remaining, Columbus (()-2-4) got third-period goals from Tyler \Nright and Deron Quint on just four shots -but fell short in a loss. 
"I think. the last eight or nine minutes. we came out and made the game a game," Columbus coach Dave King said. "The first 10 minutes of the third period, I thought we were in a half-court basketball game." 
Wright came in off the left side and put a shot over Dominik Hasek at 11 :38. while Quint sent a screened shot through Hasek's pads from along the left boards with 6:27 left. 
"We're not happy with our hockey game, obviously," Detroit's Mathieu Dandenault said. "You get two goals like that in the third period, that's a no-no." 
Luc Robitaille (5-1) gave Detroit a 2-0 lead at 6:53 of the second period when he put the rebound of a Jiri Fischer shot in from the bottom of the left circle. 
But Columbus closed within 2-1 while on a 5-on-3 power play at 
11 :06 when rookie Rostislav Klesla beat Hasek high on the stick side with a slap shot from the top of the left circle. 
But [)andenault restored Detroit's two-goal lead with 3:48 left in the period when his wrist shot from the right circle beat Marc DenLi:; high. 
"You can't play 50 minutes against Detroit and expect to win," Wright said. 
It was the 100th point of Dandenault's NHL career and his first goal of the season. 
Sergei Fedorov scored at 6:1:1 of the third period to give Detroit a 4-1 lead. 
"That's not the way we like to play," Fedorov said. "We weren't very good at .the end with the game on the line." 
The Red Wings took a 1-0 lead with 4:01 left in the first period when Brendan Shanahan drilled a one-timer from the slot past Denis. 
Shanahan has eight goals and leads the NHL with 11 point.c;. Ile is also tied with the New York Islanders' Mark Parrish for the league lead in goals. 
Minnesota 3, San Jose 3 
The Minnesota Wild are no longer satisfied with a tie at home. 
Minnesota. off to the best start for a second-year team, saw its fourth win of the season slip away when Mike Ricci's power-play goal with 2:32 left in regulation lifted the San Jose Sharks into a tie. 
The Sharks trailed 3-1, but Hicci and Mark Smith scored to help San Jose avoid il'-i first regulation loss this season. 
"It's important for us to get a lead like we did, but we're disap­pointed that we didn't win this game," said left wing Marian Gaborik, whose three-point night was a career best. "\Ve 've got to be stronger when we have a lead." 
Gaborik had a goal and two assists for the Wild, who remain the only unbeaten team in the Western Conference at 3-0-3. 
Minnesota, which opened the season vVith a scoreless tie in San Jose. got second-period goals from Jim Dowd and Antti Laaksonen. 
The tying goal came with under three minutes to play when Gary Suter's shot from the blue line went off of Hied and sailed past goalie Dwayne Holoson. 
"The guys on the out."iidc made a great play to get it back to the point. and (Suter) got it through," Ricci said. "It's easy for the guys in front of the net. We've just got to try to touch it." 
Gaborik. the \Vild's first draft pick, got Minnesota on the board early -redin~cting a Jim Dowd shot between the pads of Rvgeni Nabokov for his second goal. 
San Jose tied it 1-1 late in the 
first when Niklas Sundstrom beat 
Roloson for his first goal. 

"We had a lot of spark early. then we sat back a bit and they took over," Sharks captain Owen Nolan said. "They got a couple of goals to deflate us. and then we got our ~~~t together and got back on track. 
The Wild reverted to their nor­mal defensive ways in the second period, limiting San Jose to just three shot.<, on goal while building a two-goal lead. 
Dowd capped off a passing play by tapping in a shot from the top of the crease to put Minnesota back in front. Later. Antti Laaksoncn scored his first goal of the season after taking a pass from Gaborik. 
The Sharks wBrc forced to kill 
two penalties early in the third 
period. but pulled within a goal 
with under nine minutes to play. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 
024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. All classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 

LOST AND FOUND 
IF YOU LOST A COWBOY HAT AT LAFAYETTE ON FRI, CALL 246­9313 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email: mmmrentals@aol.com 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-4180 9487 
3 br 2 ba ranch parklike yd all appl $1200 mo patti grice century 21 Jim McOunfee 235-3062 
For rent remodeled 4-bdrm house. 3 blks. from ND, Garage avail. 233-2104 
B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124 
Lodging • Bed and Breakfast, 45 minutes from Notre Dame. T&R INN Between the lakes. PH (616) 244-9084 www.innbetweenthelakes.com 
Nice homes next school year north of ND. Great area. 277-3097 
LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE TO SHARE A 2-BDRM APT IN TUR­TLE CREEK FOR 2ND SEMES­TER CALL HILLIARY 
243-1840 OR EMAIL HBURN@ND.EDU 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER­ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243­4244 (X4192) 
Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad. weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219­277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com 
WANTED 
Responsible person who enjoys kids needed for after school. Monday through Friday 4-7 PM. Need own car. Call 272-6145. 
Wanted: Babysitter with own trans­portation, for 1-2 children in our home, close to campus. Flexible 
hours. 277-1037 
The Coffee Spot Cafe on Bendix 
near Clevela'nd Rd, 
Part-time work available. Gorumet Coffee Shop. Call 273-2931 
Babysitting 1,5,7 yr. olds 12-15 hours/wk 
flexible hrs 
271-0766 
In-home nanny needed to care for infant on Monday and Wednesday afternoons. Must have transporta­tion. Experience with infants and references required. Contact Dr. 
Knoedler: 631-4264 or 
aknoedler@nd.edu 
Fun promotional jobs $10/hr to give away cool new prod­ucts promogirt.com 
BLACK FEMALE SEEKING SAME 
FOR ROOMMATE. CASTLE PT. 
$350 + DEPOSIT. 271-7195. 
. FOR SALE 
2 BC tickets in ND section. Best offer. 1-617-864-7973 
For sale: '97 Ford Taurus. Excellent condition. Power locks, steering, ale. $6,300 0/8/0 1-616-663-8422 
Nikon 6006 Camera Body. Recent overhaul by Nikon. $300. Call 
631-7818 

Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 
Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1bdr, 1 bah, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254­1772 for more info. 
BMW 94 325i, 4dr, green, loaded, 1 owner, all records, $11,000 289­4082 
Selling Varsity Club time share 1 soph. wk. $9:500 272-1753 
Fifty-five gallon fish tank -solid oak Cabinet -all equipment -presently set up for salt water fish. $1200 new -$300 or best offer. 631-6955 or after 6pm 272-6414 
Outgoing, energetic individual need to babysit 2 children, 5 and 2. Fri. eve. 10/19 and sat. during game 10/20, Call 937 294 4857 
TICKETS 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 
AM. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 
One USC Ticket needed Call Carolyn at 233-8513 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. • 232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964, 
WANTED -ND TICKETS 289-9280 
Buying some/ Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets. 219-289-8048. 
Have 3 pair of use tix. Need Tenn. Tix. Lei's talk. 901-332-6735 
Need 1 Tennessee ticket Contact Scott at 634-4946 
U2 TIX 1 FLOOR TICKET CHICA­GO OCT. 15 BEST OFFER 287-9342 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1-888-777­4642 or email: sales@suncoastva­cations.com 
Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800-327-6013 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga­nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your resume 
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and 
Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out 
more. 
Spring Break with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
$300-$800 Scholarships Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule? We l1ave several part-time and full· time day & evening positions paying $7-$11/hr. We offer the following: 
•scholarship 
money ·Flexible Schedules ·Paid vacations/holidays •optional Saturdays 

•Health/life/401 
(k) ·incentives/Raises 

•supervisory/Mg!. 
Position_s 1-(888) 801-JOBS jobs@americallcorp.com Just minutes north of campus 



Fraternities·Sororities•cIubs·stude nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy campusfundraiser,com three hour fundraising event. Does not involve credit card applications. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact campus­fundraiser.com at 888 923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com 
···ACT NOW! Guarentee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Mardi Gras, Acapulco, Florda & Madrigas. Reps needed. Travel free, earn $$$. Group discount for 6+, 800­838-8203 www,leisuretours.com 
ADOPTION IS LOVE 

Imagine your precious baby safe and happy in a loving family, adored by 2 ND grad parents (a full­time mom and lawyer dad) and lov­ing playmates in a beautiful home. We promise to give your child the life you dream of tor them. Medical, legal, counseling, court-approved living expenses pd. Confidential. Please call our attorney at (708) 922-4795 
Check out Amy Annelle at Higher Grounds tonight at 7:45 p.m. 
Out of here by 3 ... a goal and a destination. 
I love interviews in the rain. 
Dirty D offers great lattes and sexy boots. 
She'll be missing four teeth in five days. 
Two tests down. About 60 percent total. 
Nothing beats a midterm ... except no midterms. 

Wednesday, October 17. 2001 
The Observer . sPORTS page 15 
NATIONAL LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Johnson ends slump, wins battle of aces 
Associated Press 
PIIOENIX 
With icy ('aim and magnific1~nt heat. 
Handy Johnson burird his reputation 
as a postscason flop. 
In a matchup of pitchers who together have seven Cy Young Awards and 457 victories, Johnson threw a thrc(!-hit mastcrph~cc as the Arizona Diamondbacks beat Greg Maddux and the Atlanta Braves 2-0 in Game 1 of the National League championship series. 
Johnson struck out 11 and walked one to snap his major league-record sevPn-gamt) losing streak in the post­season. 
"Assuming sonwo1w might say here 'Is this a monkf~Y off your back?' This is mon' lik<' a gorilla," Johnson said with his young son beside him in the interview room. "King Kong." 
Chipprr Jones, a longtime nemesis of Johnson, had two of Atlanta's hits to improvl' to 11-for-25 with six homers in his career of the Big Unit. Jones barely beat out a sharp line drive off the glove of a. leaping Matt Williams at third base with t\-vo outs in thf~ first inning. 
Aftnr that. Johnson retired 20 in a row before walking B1~rnard Gilkey on four pitches with one out in thn eighth. 
"We all know what Handy is capable of on a given day. and this was one of those given days." Arizona manager Bob Brcnly said. "Ht1 went out there and pitched like the Big Unit we've all come to know and love." 
Johnson was one out away from pitching the eighth one-hitter in post­season historv when Julio Franco and Jonns singled to put runners at first and third -Atlanta's tirst runner to get into scoring position all game. 
The stage was set for morn postsca­
son heroics by Brian Jordan, but 
Johnson struck him out swinging. 
"\Ve had the right guy up. We could 
smell it coming again," Braves manag­
er Bobby Cox said, "but Handy threv.l 
him three really outstanding sliders. 
They were low, but if you're hitting, 
you're going to swing at them. It's just 
about impossible to lay off of them.•· 
Craig Counsel!. one or the surprise heroes of Arizona's nail-biting division series triumph over St. Louis, had two hits and scored twice -on HBI sin­gles by Luis Gonzalez and Reggie Sanders. 
Maddux was no slouch. He allowed just two runs and six hits in seven innings, but his effort was lost in the 6-foot-10 Johnson's shadow. 
Johnson hadn't won in the playoffs since brating the Yankees tvdce in the 1995 AL division series for Seattle. He had lost his last seven decisions, induding a 4-1 defeat in Game 2 of' the first round against the Cardinals. 
Teammate Curt Schilling had been the big-game ace against St. Louis, winning 1-0 and 2-1 in two complete games. 
Usually a grimacing, shouting por­trait of intensity, Johnson was a pic­ture of gum-chewing calm except for a few bursts of emotions. 
Sanders said he knew Johnson would pitch well when he walked into the clubhouse Tuesday and found the big left-hander practicing his putting and talking with teammates. · 
"When I see a relaxed Randy like that, I know he's on top of it," Sanders said. "He's focused. There's no stress." 
Johnson had two eight-pitch innings and one seven-pitch innings, far out of character f'or a hurler whose pitch count normally soars above 100 long before the ninth inning. 
"This kind of game is more mentally draining than it is. physically drain­
ing," Johnson said, "because you real­ize if you make one mistake that could be the ball game. They had the go­ahead run up in that las-t inning. It's just nice to walk off the field and cele­brate." 
Atlanta's closest calls in the first 
eight innings were a pair of long outs 
to right field by leadoff hitter Marcus 
Giles. Sanders caught the first just in 
front of the fence to lead off the game 
and the second in front of the yellow 
home run line atop the fence to end 
the sixth. 
Johnson yelled ''No more!" at catch­
er Damian Miller. He meant that pitch 
would never be thrown to Giles again. 
A crowd of just 37,729 -12.000 short of a sellout -watched the first postseason matchup of 200-game career winners in 23 years. 
According to the Elias Sports Bureau, it happened twice in 1978 ­Steve Carlton of Philadelphia against Don Sutton of Los Angeles in Game 3 of the NLCS, and Sutton against Catfish Hunter of the Yankees in Ne\\-' York's clinching Game 6 of the \Norld Series. 
The Diamondbacks scratched out a run in the first and another in the fifth against Maddux. who is 0-3 against Arizona this season and had lost his only other showdown with Johnson back in 1998. 
Arizona gave Johnson a rare early lead. Counsell singled with one out in the first inning, then Gonzalez reached safely when his grounder scooted under the· glove of the second baseman Giles for an error. 
Sanders, 7-for-17 in the postseason, lined a single up the middle to score Counsell and make it 1-0. The score­keeper ruled it was an earned run. 
With two outs in the fifth, Counsel! doubled just past the outstretched glove of a diving Andruw Jones in cen­ter. 

KAT Photo 
Braves outfielder Brian Jordan misses strike three to end the game as Arizona topped Atlanta 2-0 Tuesday. 
"You can't explain how valuable he's been," Johnson said of Counsell. "If my son's not going to be a left­handed pitcher, I'd want him to be a Craig Counsel!. He plays the game hard and plays the game right." 
The Diamondbacks got four hits off Maddux in the first two innings. but two double plays. both started by the Atlanta pitcher. minimized the dam­age. 
"Randy pitched great," Maddux said. "That was probably the best I've ever seen him change speeds. As a comple­ment, he was Jamie Moyer with a real good fastball." 

Thinking of The London Program for Fall 2002 or Spring 2003? You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 5:00pm on Friday, October 19, 2001. Applications will be accepted until 5:00pm on Monday, October 29, 2001.  


Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
ALCS 
Guillen returns to Seattle infield 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Carlos Guillen's weight is nearly normal again, he's feel­ing better than he has in four months, and there's a smile on his face. 
And with Seattle's starting shortstop expected back on the roster after a fight with tuber­culosis, the Mariners feel like their true team has returned. 
Manager Lou Piniella indicat­ed he would add Guillen for the AL championship series against the New York Yankees. He was finalizing the roster Tuesday night. . 
"He seems to be smiling a lot," second baseman Bret Boone said of Guillen. 
Guillen. who is undergoing treatment for pulmonary tuber­culosis and sat out the division series against Cleveland, poten­tially could start Game 1 on Wednesday at Safeco Field. Piniella said he could use Guillen in the No. 2 spot in the batting order against left-hand­ed pitchers. and the Yankees will start lefty Andy Pettitte. 
"It will feel like the team we had all season long." catcher 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Vanderbilt opens season ranked 5th 
By ALEX KWAK Vanderbilt Hustler (U-Wire} 
NASHVILLE. Tenn. 

The Vanderbilt women's ba'iket• ball team were not the only ones running drills in Memorial Gym Saturday morning. when the sea­son oflicially opened. Construction crews were working on renova• tions throughout the gym during the team's first practice. 
"We play in front of 15,000 peo­ple. so a couple of guys with ham­mers better not distract us," said head coach Jim Foster. "We had a lot of intensity and a lot of enthusi­asm." 
There are a lot of expectations on this team, both from outside and within. 
The Dores are ranked fifth in the Street & Smith College Basketball Preseason poll. which has SEC rival Tennessee at sec­ond. The team was also ranked second in four polls. the Women's Basketball News Journal. Athlon Sport<;, Women's Basketball News Service and SLAM Magazine. Vandy even received a first-place. ranking in tlw Basketball News poll. Basketball News also has Vandy junior center Chantelle Anderson ,L"i the presea"ion Player of the Year. 
"We have some very high goals [for this season]." Anderson said. "Potential means nothing unless 
I. 
you do something vvith it.., 
' )
. l As for how she can help the ' > team fulfill ib potPntial. she said l ,. that FostPr h,L'> told her she 11e(ids i to work on her defense and
I. , 
( 
' i ' ~ 
I 
z
l 
Dan Wilson said. 
If Guillen plays. utility man Mark Mclemore could start in left field. Mclemore played shortstop in Guillen's absence. while both Stan Javier and Jay Buhner have played left in the postseason. 
Guillen, 26, did not make the road trip to Cleveland for the third and fourth games of the division series. but instead took batting practice and worked on fielding grounders over the weekend. 
"I don't worry about any­thing." Guillen said of playing again. "I have confidence in myself." 
He was diagnosed with tuber­culosis Sept. 28 and was hospi­talized. He lost 10 pounds but has gained eight back. As Alex Rodriguez's replacement, Guillen made only 10 errors in 140 games and was batting .259 with five homers and 53 HBls. 
"Tough kid," Piniella said. "He loves to play. Very compet­itive. And to think that he played with TB for probably a good while and never com­plained. speaks a lot of the individual." 
rebounding. 

"I just want to get better and help my team win a National Championship," Anderson said. 
The team is returning every player from last year's team, which finished with a 24-10 record and advanced to the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament before losing to the eventual champion, Notre Dame. · 
"We have high expectations." said senior forward Zuzi Klimesova. "We just have to work our way up to the top." ­
She said that having the team playing together for much of the summer was a tremendous help toward being prepared for the season. 
"We're way ahead of last year." Anderson said. "Practicing went well and there's a sense of famil­iarity." 
Anderson said that along with the traditional preseason running and weightlifting, the team played a lot of pickup games throughout the summer and fall. 
"\Ve played on the court a lot more," Anderson said. "We're more ready than maybe we were la'it year. Wffre just so far ahead." 
Anderson said that having the frnshmen around to play in those pickup games helped teach them how to play with each other and prepared them for the first prac­tice. 
"It was exciting,'' Klimesova said. "The freshmen did really well." 
Foster said he was imprcssf'd by the play of both the transfer and freshman players. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Holmoe remains at Cal 
By MATT DUFFY 
Daily C1liforni.111 (U-Wire) 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

Cal athletic director Steve Gladstone said Mondav that Tom Holmoe will remain head coach of the Cal football team 
for the rest of the sea­son even though the Bears are off to the worst start in school history. 


Cal was Holmoe blown out 48-7 by No. 5 Oregon Saturday, drop­ping the team to 0-5 for the first time ever. Holmoe said before the season he will resign if the Bears do not advance to a bowl game. A loss against No. 4 
UCLA this Saturday -the Bears are already 28-point underdogs -would be Cal's 
sixth. and make the team ofli­cially ineligible for a bowl. 
Holmoe said Saturday that he will not resign in the middle of the season. 
With sloppy, uninspired play characterizing four of the Bears' five losses. many alumni, fans and students have called for Holmoe's immediate firing. Nobody knows that more than Gladstone, who was cautious about making specific com­ments on the current state of the program. 
"We don't want to add to the ditliculties lthat the tea.m is cur­rently going through]." Gladstone said. "We don't want to contribute to anything nega­tive. This is supporting the team, the team that Tom is the 
Take.the 
URBAN PLUNOI:....~ 
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO SIGN-UP! ! ! ! ! ! 
COME TO AN· INFORMATION SESSION! WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 5:30 PM AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Questions? Contact Rebecca Pettit 63l-9970/Pettit.3@nd.edu at the CSC Registration Forms available at the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2001 


Albany •Albuquerque...Boston•Buffalo...Chicago...cincinnati•Cleueland Columbus•Dallas...Des Moines•netroit"'"Grand Rapids•Honolulu Houston•Louisume... 1ndianapolis•Mobile,..New York •Oakland+Philadelphia PhoeniH4,Pittsburgh•St. Petersburg.south Bend•San Antonio San Diego..,Tacoma... washington o.c....RND MORE! 
coach of." 
Gladstone, who is also the men's crew coach, said he is looking at the situation from both the perspective of a coach and an athletic director. 
"Specifically, a<; athletic direc­tor, I don't want to be delivering messages that make the job harder for the coach,'' he said. "Let's play all the games." 
Gladstone would not make any statements on Holmoe's long-term future, saying only, "If finding a replacement comes about, we would have a plan in place and we could expeditious­ly carry out that plan." 
Sources close to the football program said that athletic department officials have draft­ed a preliminary list of head coaching candidates and are already receiving resumes for the job. 
In his fifth year as head coach. Holmoe has compiled a career record of 15-34 (.3061. The Bears have not had a win­ning season under IIolmoe and have not won the Big Game since he has been with the pro­gram. 
Holmoe briefly addressed his current situation a<; head coach after Saturday's game. 
"My responsibility as long as I am the head coach is to the team," Holmoe said. "And there's a lot of things going on with the team that's my respon­sibility. I don't see it any other way. 
"I have to do what I have to do to keep the team together, to keep them going. To try and fin­ish strong and keep their heads_ up. To finish with character. That's what my responsibility is now. To do something else would be negative for the team." 

Part of the reason for Cal's poor start is that the team ha-; played one of the toughest schedules in the nation. 
Including UCIA. every team the Bears have played is ranked in the top-25 of the latest Associated Press poll except IJlinois. which is the ftrst unranked team in this week's voting. 
'This is a very strong league," Gladstone said of the Pac-10. "Clearly we've played a very strong schedule. That said. our expectations were to play with these teams." 
Gladstone would not say Cal's poor performances this season were a result of poor coaching or a lack of effort on the part of the team. 
"Unless you walk in the shoes of the people ih that program, you can't make an intelligent statement," he said. "The ath· letic director should not be in the business ofspeculating." 
Gladstone attended a weekly meeting Monday with Cal alum­ni. Ile said one alumnus pointed out the lack of student support for llolmoe and the program. \Vhich wa'i illustrated when the Cal student section virtually left en masse at halftime of Saturday's game. 
"It would be nice if the stu­dents stayed the course with this group," Gladstone said. "I'd hope they would continuP to support the team." 
The Bears only have two home games left, Nov. 3 against Arizona and the following week against USC. 
Both teams are in the bottom half of the confernnce stand­ings, and are winnable games if the same Cal team shows up that played No. 15 \Vashington tough two wePks ago. 


Wednesday, October l7, 200 l 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
f.~%$$$%%:Z'%%%:Z:Z:ZZZ'%:Z%:ZZss%:Z:%J?f:ffef:Z%%1!fJ?f%:Z%1ff%~JPfstfJ?ftfl%f?ffdrfif:if:%1§£'JiiiiP.S:E:ZllltifsifJ!l:fi1&f:S'%jfjjjfjffllf~:f§J?fllfH~J?§~~~,·
:· ·7 7 ;·• ' I• •I " • ' 'f! . • , ; , . ' ,. ' : I 
j The Theology and Philosophy Departments congratulate the I ... 
~ I
I four scholars who will receive honorary degrees at the i II Academic Convocation to be held in conjuction with the II
I !
Idedication of Malloy Hall. I 
fi REV. GUSTAVO GUTIERREZ, OP III REV. ERNAN MCMULLIN II fi DR. BAS VAN FRAASSEN II HIS EMINENCE AVERY CARDINAL DULLES I I ~ ~ j The convocation will be held in the auditorium of McKenna Hall on Thursday, October 18 at 4 PM. II j The convocation will be preceded by a symposium in the McKenna Auditorium. I mThe schedule for the symposium is: II Wednesday, October 17 I! 4 PM Gustavo Gutierrez, OP -"The Prophetic Role of Theology in a Catholic University" jf 7: 1 S PM Ernan McMullin -11Searching for Consonance" ~ 
~ ~
j Thursday, October 18 ! I 10 AM Bas van Fraassen -11Questions I Would Like to Ask" ~ I~ 2 PM Avery Cardinal Dulles -"Unive'rsity Theology in a Catholic Context" !I i I
f The University community is invited to all events. ji 
~ ~ 
~'&'&'&'&'&"&"&'&'&'&"&"&"&"&"&"&'&"&'&'&"&"&'&"&"&'&"&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&"&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&"&"&"&"&~"&"&'&"&"&"&'&"&'&'&'&'&"®:-'&'&'&'&'&'&'&"&"&"&"&~'&'&"&'>&,"&'&"&"&~"&"&'&"&"&~~ 
ABC wins Monday night ratings war 
ings are 25 percent higher than
Associated Press 
a year ago for five prime-time 
telecasts. Four of those games 
NEW YOHK involved the Yankees, and the 
Even the worst kind of NFL fifth was the dedding game of game outdrew a key baseball the Nation al League series playoff game in head-to-head between Arizona and St. Louis. competition Monday night. In Dallas. the Hedskins­
ABC's tclf~cast of two winless Cowboys game drew a 31.4 rat­teams. in which the Dallas ing and 44 share, while the two Cowboys beat the Washington 0-4 teams got a 26.3 and 42 in 
Redskins 9-7 in a sloppy. often vVashington. 
dull game. was watched by But the New York ratings for more people than the decisive two teams in the Giants' divi­fifth game of the American sion. the NFC East, was a 3.3. League playoffs between the Of course. most New York Yankees and Athletics. sports fans were watching the 
Although its 9.9 national rat­Yankees beat the Athletics 5-3 ing was well below the season's to finish off a comeback from a average for prime-time NFL 2-0 deficit in their series. In 
telecasts, ABC beat Fox's 8.4 for New York, the baseball game baseball. ABC is averaging an drew a 23.1 rating and 33 
11.4 nationally for "Monday share. Night Football." Baseball did better than foot­
The NFL game got a 16 share. ball in the overnight ratings, as opposed to baseball's 13 which measure about 60 per­share. cent of the country's television 
The rating is the percentage markets. Athletics-Yankees got of all homes with TVs, whether a 10.7 rating and a 16 share. or not they are in use. Each rat­The NFL game drew a 10.1-16. ing point represents a little Fox won the overnight's more than 1 million households. prime-time network ratings 
Share is the percentage of race for Monday night. Not sur­homes with TVs in use tuned to prisingly, it drew its biggest a program. audience in New York. with the "It's OK. because \Vashington second-highest rating in Seattle and Dallas an~ two teams in the with a 19.8 and 33. The NFC and are Fox teams," net­Mariners will play the Yankees work spokesman Dan Bell said. for the American League cham­
"\Ve are focused on a 6.4 aver­pionship. beginning Wednesday. age and 11 share in prime time The Oakland-San Francisco for our baseball." area brought a 17.6 rating and Fox's postseason ba.selfall rat-27 share for Fox. 
NFL 
Robinson fined for rifle 
with a rifle that was legally Hobinson was signed away
Associated Press 
purchased." said Hobinson, from Tampa Bay as a free 
NEW YOHK who also will undergo counsel­agent before this season. 
New York Jets safety Damien ing and perform community Under his five-year. $10 mil­Robinson was fined a week's service. as prnscribed by the lion deal. Hobinson will lose pay by the NFL team after Jets. "I inadvertently left it in $125,000 this week. being charged with taking an the back of my truck when I Robinson was recruited by assault rifle went to the stadium with my new Jets coach Herman into a Giants family. It was closed up in a Edwards. who was a defensive Stadium ,,; case and not loaded. backfield coach with the parking lot. "I sincerely apologize to my Buccaneers. 
The arrest family, the New York Jets "It's a mistake he made and 
took place in organization, my teammates obviously he will pay the price 
E a s t and the many fans of the New for it," Edwards said Tuesday. 
Rutherford. York Jets. I have and will con­"Knowing Damien N I have 
N.J ., several tinue to cooperate fully with been around him for some hours before the authorities." time N this is really uncharac­
Robinson
the Jets beat Robinson was entering the teristic of him. He is taking the the Miami players' parking lot at about blame for it, and rightfully so. Dolphins on Sunday. Hobinson. 10 a.m. with his wife and two "He has to deal with his fam­a free safety, played in the daughters when police ily and he let his family down. I game. searched his truck, a proce­know what kind of person he 
Police found in the trunk of dure in place for players, team is, a good man, I don't think he Robinson's truck a Bushmaster and game officials and media had any intent about this. He .223 assault rifle, three high­since the Sept. 11 terrorist forgot." capacity magazines that hold attacks, State Police Sgt. Al E·dwards said the NFL con­30 rounds each, and two boxes Della Fave said Tuesday. curred with the Jets' discipli­of ammunition containing 100 A bomb-sniffing dog checked nary moves. 
rounds each. The rifle and the the vehicle. and "he reacted "It is entirely up to the com­magazines a.re illegal under a positively to the presence of missioner to have the last say. 1990 New Jersey law that bans explosives" in the back of the but they felt it was appropriate the sale and possession of car, Della Fave said. Robinson at this time," Edwards said. many kinds of automatic then told authorities he had a "At this point, they felt OK with weapons. rifle, clips and ammunition in the fine and what we planned 
Robinson could face up to the back. to do." five years in prison if convict­"It was very innocent in that Robinson also was arrested ed. He was released Sunday respect N he genuinely forgot in September 2000 for bounc­night on his own recognizance. (he left) it," said Jimmy Gould, ing a check to the tax collector. and the matter will be turned Robinson's agent. "It's an inno­Gould said it was merely a over to the county prosecutor. cent mistake, he made a huge case of Robinson's wife closing He has waived arraignment. mistake here. He has to deal a checking account without 
Hobinson released a state­with it now and it will not be her husband's knowledge. ment Tuesday through the easy for him. Robinson subsequently wrote Jets. "We support what the club an $80 check against the 
"I went to the shooting range has done." account. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 17, 200 I 


LSU reaches 
.... 
settle01ent 
By HEIDI CENAC The Reveille (U-Wire) 
BATON HOUGE, La. 

Five former Louisiana State University athletes will receive $37.500 each from Wednesday's settlement of a 7-year-old sexual discrimination lawsuit against the University. 
The five students sued the University. claiming the LSU Athletic Department procrastinat­ed starting women's varsity soc­cer and softball teams and did not provide equal treatment to female athletes. 
According to court documents, former Athletic Director Joe Dean allegedly referred to one of the women as "honey," "sweetie" and "cutie" in a meeting about start­ing a soccer team and said the University should consider their request because the players "would look cute running around in their soccer shorl<;." 
Dean retired after the spring 2000 semester. 
In February 2000, a court of appeals ruled the {Jniversity vio­lated Title IX. a federal law that states that no person should be excluded from any federally fund­ed program or activity on the basis of gender. 
As part of the settlement, the University also will pay more than $1 million to the two law firms representing the students. The attorney for the plaintiffs, Nancy Rafuse. could not be reached before press time. 
The payment is a compromise based on a mandate by the feder­al court after a trial case in 1996. The University's insurance, administered th~ough the Office of Hisk Management. will pay the settlement, according to LSU attorneys. 
The settlement is not an admis­sion of liability on the part of the University. but is a compromise to avoid further litigation, said David Bienvenu. an attorney for the University. 
"Litigation is expensive, uncer­tain," he said. "Enough litigation had taken place, and the parties wanted to move forward." 
The settlement requires the plaintiffs dismiss the lawsuit and any future claims against the University related to the case. 
However, the plaintiffs can seek judicial enforcement if LSU's commitment to women's athletics and the University can contest attempts if they are deemed unwarranted. 
"We are pleased the University and the plaintiffs were able to find some common ground in this case and settle the suit in an ami­cable fashion." said Chancellor Mark Emmert in a statement Wednesday. "The University has made some significant strides in supporting women's athletics during the past decade. and everyone connected to LSU is proud of the successes of all the University's sports, both men's and women's." 
Chancellor Emmert was out of town Monday and could not pro­vide further comment. 
However, Provost Daniel Fogel said the University's main con­cern is moving forward. 
"It appears to be a reasonable settlement, and we arc focused on moving forward," he said. 
One of the changes since the lawsuit was the formation of a senior women's administrator position to oversee the progress and direction of women's athlet­ics. 
Judy Southard, who serves as associate athletic director and senior women's administrator, said the position also is a liaison between LSU women's athletics and the NCAA. 
"I think over time the University posture has changed dramatically and the provisions necessary to run a top notch women's athletic program," she said. 
Southard said recent successes of the women's teams show the University's commitment to women's sports. 
For example, since its creation in 1997. the LSU softball team won five SEC division titles, three SEC championships, two SEC tournament titles and third place at the NCM College World Series. 
Athletic Director Skip Bertman, said he is glad to see the lawsuit close. 
'Tm glad it's behind us," he said. "Oflate, we've been of pretty good compliance ofTitle IX." 
The University hires govern-­ment consultants to come to t~1e campus for two to three weeks and interview coaches and administrators to give them advice on what they can do to improve the school's compliance eff orl-;, Bertman said. 
Bertman said LSU has changed since the lawsuit was filed in 1994, and he would not expect a lawsuit of this type at the University now. 
"Naturally, nobody should be discriminated against in any sense," he said. "From what I can see, all the ladies are satisfied." 
The plaintiffs of the lawsuit were unable to be reached. 
Fresco 
Catalioo's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

~NEWS AMERICA ;q;J° MARKETING 
A NEWS Colll'ORATION CoMPANY 
Great Career Opportunities 
in Sales and Marketing 
loin us for an Information Session Wednesday, October 17th 





6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 
Montgomery Theater First Floor of Lafortune 
All Majors Welcome • 3.0 Minimum GPA Refreshments Will Be Served 

fl visit us at www.newsamerica.com 
,.._'!/ 


1
,---------------------------------·--------------------------­
, I Friday, October 26th 
I 
When: ?pm-midnight Where: Fours, 166 canal St., Boston Price.· $25 from 7-10 p.m. $10 after 10:00 pm 

Saturday, October 27th 

I
I I 


For.· Those going without tickets Where.· Northeast Brewing Company in Brighton 
~l 

•••_ Brourilt to voo bv vour Student Government. I
---------------------------------------------------------' 

Wednesday, October 1 7, 2001 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Sooners switch to sophomore White 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. 

Sophomore quarterback Jason White will start Saturday when No. 2 Oklahoma plays host to Baylor, coach Bob Stoops said Monday. 
Junior Nate Hybl had started all six games for the Sooners (6-0, 3-0 Big 12), but has failed to finish the past two. He was knocked out of the Texas game Oct. 6 with an injury to his left shoulder. then was removed from the Kansas game Saturday after a lackluster performance. 
In both cases, White played well in Hybl's place. 
"Jason has earned the oppor­tunity to be the starter," Stoops said. "lie'II be the starter in this game (Baylor) and then we'll take it from there. \Ve have proven we can win with both of these quarterbacks and we feel we can be a good team with either ofthem playing." 

Stoops said the decision was made because Hybl hasn't played well, not because of any lingering effects from the injury. 
"Nate wasn't as sharp as he had been," Stoops said. "He had a sore shoulder. I think every­body saw that. Pain is difficult to gauge. I just admire the way he fought through that and tried to play." 
Hybl and White came out of spring practice and two-a-days in a virtual dead heat for the job. Stoops tabbed Hybl the starter in August saying he had outperformed White and made fewer bad plays. 
White said he never give up hope of winning the job from Hybl. 
"I wanted to push Nate to make him a better player," he said. "It just so happened that he had an injury and now I'm getting an opportunity. 

tt you enter the McCloskey Notre Dame Business Plan Competition. Create anew business idea and compete to win a$20.000 grand prize. All full--time ND students and ND alumni are eligible to participate. 
' 

10/19/01 Registration deadline .... 11/09/01 First-round submission deadline . . 
All participants who submit first-round entries will receive frne Business Plan Pro software (retail value of $100). For more information. stop by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies in Room 234 of the Mendoza College of Business or visit our Web site at http://www.nd.edu/~entrep. 
MUSIC 
FROM A PAINTED 
CAVE 
ANATIVE-AMERICAN MUSICAL EX PERI ENCE 
FEATURING ROBERT MIRABAL 
TUES DAY, OCT. 30TH, 7:30 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
i"&iiff:()
~NOTREOAME, IN 
Sponsored by The Center for Women's lnterCultural leadership 
RMATION CALL THE SAINTAARY'S BOX OFFKE AT 
284-4616 

NBA 
Hornets sting Celtics 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
The short-handed Charlotte Hornets were too much for the Boston Celtics. 
The Hornets, down three key players because of injury, got 22 points from David Wesley in a 99-88 pre­season victory Tuesday night. 
Derrick Coleman continued his push for a starting spot with 13 points and 15 rebounds. Coleman, coming off the worst season of his career, has been in shape and productive throughout the preseason. 
"He was very, very active and very proficient in his rebounding," coach Paul Silas said. "He looked good." 
Baron Davis added 13 points and eight assists and 
P.J. Brown and Lee Nailon each scored l 2 points as all five Charlotte starters reached double figures. Jamaal Magloire had 12 points and nine rebounds in a reserve role. 
With Jamal Mashburn, Elden Campbell and reserve Matt Bullard all in street clothes, the Hornets used a dominating second quarter to put the Celtics away. 
Coleman subbed for Campbell at center, getting five points and five rebounds in the quarter. Afterward, he said he was more comfort­
., abJe--at power forward, but was willing to fill-in wherev­er necessary. 
"Guys go down and you 
just have to step up," Coleman said. "That's what I did, I went in there and tried to be active more than any­thing." 
Boston shot just 2-for-15 in the decisive second quarter, falling behind by as many as 19 before halftime. 
The Hornets pushed their lead to 71-47 on Davis' dri­ving layup in the third quar­ter. 
But the Celtics were able to ·cut into the lead late in the fourth quarter, when Wesley was the only Charlotte starter still on the floor. 
Tony Battie's layup with 
3:56 to play pulled the Celtics to 89-80, but Charlotte answered with two free throws from Wesley and a three-point play by Magloire to make it 94-82. 
Antoine Walker scored 27 points and Milt Palacio added 13 for the Celtics, who finished 29-for-79 from the field. 
"I think this was a very valuable evening for us," Boston coach Jim O'Brien said. "It showed us what can happen if you don't play physically." 
Mashburn, who has missed all four of Charlotte's pre­season games because of a sore left hamstring, is expected to practice for the first time Thursday. Campbell was out with an eye injury and Bullard, one of the Hornets' offseason acquisitions, missed the game with a sore calf. 
The game was the first of the year in the Charlotte 
Coliseum, where several players tore tickets and greeted fans at the turnstiles to promote local interest. Even Coleman participated, stopping to sign autographs before and after his shootaround. 
But it did little to entice a crowd about 6,000 showed up at the 19,925­seat Coliseum to support what is likely a lame-duck franchise. 
"It's the preseason and I guess people are just busy with other things," Coleman said. "Hopefully they'll get their regular-season sched­ules out and be here to sup­port us then." 
It's a long shot, though. 
Hornets co-owner Ray Wooldridge met with the mayor of Louisville, Ky., on Monday to begin exploratory negotiations to move the team there next season. The governor of Kentucky has already pledged money to build the team a new arena, something Charlotte officials have refused to do. 
Without a promise of a new arena with luxury seat­ing, Wooldridge has said there is no way the team can remain in Charlotte. The threats have created an overwhelming disinterest for the team in the community in what is expected to be the best season in franchise his­tory. 
"We've got a good product on the floor and hope people 
will realize that and  come  
out  to  support us,"  Silas  
said.  






Science and 

Engineering Majors 
and 1st Year Prospective Majors Study Abroad Information Mtg. 
129 Dei3artolo Tuesday, October 30, 2001 7:00-9:00 PM 
Study in Perth, Australia London, England Dublin, Ireland Monterrey and Puebla, Mexico 
Applications on-line at: www.nd.edu/~intlstud Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 for Academic Year 2002-03 




-. -----· -...... 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
SMC SOCCER 
, Belles return home to host rival Comets 



CLUB SPORTS REPORT 
,,! 

Equestrian riders bring home titles 
Special to The Observer 
Fourteen members of the Equestrian Club competed at Taylor University this week­end. Although the club did not claim High Point or Reserve honors, it was a strong showing in the IHSA meet as several members claimed first place in their events. Kristen Jones and Jennifer Pojunas each cap­tured first place in their respective classes in open fences, while Quin Swiney claimed first in novice fences. Kelly Gentine and Molly Kopacz both garnered firsts in intermediate flats. 
Mary Barter placed second in intermediate flats and third in intermediate fences. while Meganne Hoffman took third in intermediate flats and fifth in open fences, as both women placed twice for the Irish. Sabrina Badger, Lauren Ball, Quin Swiney and Callie Willis all placed in the top six in their first competition, boding well for future events. Lauren White is well after taking a tough fall. lt is hoped she will be back soon for the Irish. 
Cycling 
Sean Flynn placed 35th at the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Association Regional champi­onships this weekend in Albany, Ohio. Flynn, the strongest cyclist on the Irish squad the past three years in fall cross country competition, qualifir.d for the nationals. 
which will be held in Plattikill, NY in two weeks. 
Men's rowing 
First year coach Kurt Butler's Men's Rowing Club performed well in all events this weekend in the Head of the Rock at Rockford, Ill. The Irish entered five boats in the event, with a solid showing by both the varsity and the novice squads. The novice 8 placed third among fifteen boats, while the novice 4 finished 15th among 22 boats. In the varsity events, the lightweight 4's claimed fifth of eight boats and the heavyweight 8's claimed a strong fifth among nineteen entries. 
The highlight of the day was the varsity heavyweight 4's third place finish among 2 3 boats. The Irish crew of Brendan Mackay, Chris Szefc. Ryan Carlson and Kevin Sibernsen crossed the finish line just five seconds behind Minnesota, and two seconds behind Michigan. 
Coming events 
This weekend, the Men's Rowing Club will again com­pete in one of the most presti­gious events in all or rowing, Boston's The Head or the Charles. The Equestrian Club will travel to Indianapolis on Saturday for the season's sec­ond IHSA meet. Notre Dame's Field Hockey club will play again on Nov. 4, at Biehle Field, when it hosts the University of Chicago. 
NBA 

Jordan misses scrimmage 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Michael Jordan sat out an intrasquad scrim­mage because of a strained left foot. 
Jordan injured his foot in the Washington Wizards' exhibition game against Miami on Saturday and has not practiced with the team since. 
Jordan is listed as day-to~day. It is not known whether he will play in a preseason gamf! Thursday against the Detroit Pistons in Grand Hapids, Mich. 

Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Wednesday, October 17 
7:00 pm 116 DeBartolo 

sponsored by the Center for Environmental Science & Technology 
.. 
~ f I .N I I ~H I·( lit 
Environmental ~~. Science &
{~,?;!
4:firr't. Technology 
,itHi .Uif.WU1iiy 1NMn Otul!t 

Jordan revealed the injury when he spoke to the MCI Center crowd at the scrimmage, which was held to honor Washington area police, fire. search and rescue. military and medical employees who assisted in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. 
"Thank you for coming out," Jordan told the crowd. "Unfortunately, I can't play. I injured my foot on Saturday. It hasn't gotten better. I don't want to risk it tonight, even though I would love to play under the circumstances." 
Wizards coach Doug Collins said Jordan had tests performed Monday night after complain­ing of irritation on the top of his foot. 

By LINDSAY MOLlAN 
Sporrs Writer 
After two weeks on the road, the Saint Mary's soccer team returns home on Wednesday to face Olivet College at 3 p.m. Wednesday's match will be the team·s first home game since Sept. 30. 
"I don't think playing away has affected us," said head coach Bobby Johnston. "But we're definitely excited to come back." 
The last two weeks have been difficult for the Belles. They faced two of the top three teams in the leagtw in their last four games. The Belles came away ,vith two wins in those four games. 
\Vhile they do not attribute their defeats to the lack of home. field advantage, they admit the weather has played 
a large role in their season. The Belles have battled wind and rain in a number of their games and practices. 
"The weather today [Tuesday) has sort of thrown off practice plans," said Johnston. "The things that I wanted to work on in prac­tice we're not being able to do." 
Despite the disruption in the Belles practice, Saint Mary's is optimistic for Wednesday's match against Olivet. 
"We have a strong rivalry with Olivet," said senior Katie Robinson. "This will definitely be an attainable game if we play like we know how." 
This game could be a turn­ing point in the Bellf~s · sea­son. The MIAA league ranks teams according to the points they acquire for wins and ties. Currently, the Belles are ranked sixth in the league with a record of 3-5. A victo­ry on Wednesday afternoon. however. could push the team past fifth place Hope and fourth place Olivet. 
Wednesday's game will be the first time the Belles will go up against the Comets this season. The teams W(~re scheduled to play earlier this season. however, rain forced them to postpone the ganw. 
\\!hi!,~ the teams have yet to meet, it is safe to say that Wednesday's match will be close. Both t(•ams hav<' derea.tt~d Hope Collr•gp l -0 and both arc vying f'or fourth place in the lt>agtw. 
"It's a game we d1dinitely need to win to meet the goals we've s1~t for ourselvPs," Hobinson said. 
Contact Lindsay Mollan at mollI36l@saintmarys.edu. 



Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish, Hoosiers rekindle intrastate rivalry 
country, and that's what goalkeeper Colin Rogers'
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
we aim to be. There's no 0.40 goals against average
Sporrs Wricer 

better preparation for that this season is. the lowest in than to play teams like the nation. 
It's an ugly stat. Notre them on a regular basis." Indiana is led offensively Dame and Indiana The game provides a by junior forward Pat University faced each other break from Big East com­Noonan. who is tied for 20 times in men's soccer petition for Notre Dame, first in the Big Ten this competition from 1978 to and gives the team a season with 24 points. 1997. The Hoosiers won 18 chance to prove itself Clark. the first-year head of those matchups. against some top-notched coach of the Irish, relishes 
The lone victory for the competition. Indiana enters the opportunity to play Irish came back in 1987 tonight's matchup with a such talented non-confer­when they topped the 9-0-2 record and ranked ence competition. These Hoosiers 4-3 in overtime in, sixth in the nation. games give Notre Dame a 
the South Bend. The fol­"Going into Indiana chance both to improve lowing year was the only [University] is no small and prove itself against other time the Irish did not task," said Clark. "We've highly touted teams. suffer a defeat in the got to play well. and we "We're in a great posi­series, hanging on to a 1-1 even have to be a little bit tion," Clark sa.id. "We've tie. lucky. This is an opportuni­certainly got nothing to 
Tonight, the two teams ty that we can look at as a worry about, because this will rekindle the rivalry gauge to see where we are is a win-win situation for when the Irish travel to in terms of the top teams." us." Bloomington for a matchup The Irish should be chal­The Irish take the field with Indiana. lenged by a stellar Indiana against the Hoosiers 
"I'm very happy the defense. The Hoosiers have tonight at 7 p.m. 
series has been started up posted four straight 
again," head coach Bobby shutouts and have 
Freshman Kevin Goldthwaite maneuvers past a Georgetown defender in Clark said. "Indiana is one outscored their opponents Contact Chris Federico at Notre Dame's October 5 win. Notre Dame takes on Indiana tonight. of the top teams in the this season 26-4. Hoosier cfederic@nd.edu. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles display 'good energy' in loss to Adrian 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spom Editor 
It wasn't a win on Tuesday night, but for a team that has been struggling just to stay focused on the game, the Belles four-game loss (30-21, 24-30. 22­30, 20-30) to Bulldogs of Adrian was almost as good. 
YOU ARE INVITED!
-. ' .... , ......·...-.-.--.-.-..-.-.-.. 

"We were just really here," head coach Julie Schroeder-Bick said. "We came to play, we came to win. No, we did not pull out the win but we had really good ener­gy, good communication going." 
The Belles have lost their six games due, in the most part, to poor communication skills that were allowing the ball to fall. 
"Before, no one was calling the ball," Schroeder-Biek said. 
But Tuesday the Belles were able to take a solid victory in game one. even after falling behind 5-0. After allowing the Bulldogs to take the early lead. the Belles came back taking seven straight points and a lead that they didn't give up the rest of the game. 
"The first game they couldn't catch us," Schroeder-Biek said. "We came out so strong and we stayed strong." 
The last several matches, the Belles have had one solid player who has led the team. On Tuesday. they played as a whole. 
"Team wise, [the good statis­tics] are nicely spread out," Schroeder-Bick said. "Elise [Rupright] and Elizabeth [Albert] in double digit kills and right behind 
them are the first game, it
"No. we did not pull out

J o 1 i e was errors that 
[Le Beau] the win but we had really caused Saint and Alison good energy. good Mary's downfall. In [ShevikJ." a reverse of the
communication going. ,.

Albert led recent team histo­the team ry, over-aggressive with 11 Julie Schroeder-Biek play led to some kills with hitting errors. 
head coach 

only five errors and 15 digs. Joining in the offensive effort were Rupright, who marked 13 kills with only three errors and LcBcau, who finished the evening with nine kills. 
The mental game was key for the Belles as well. 
"Mentally we were more in it," Schroeder-Bick said. "We've been talking about it and I feel like everyone came to play. They came focused and gave what they have." 
Despite the Belles strong play. they still couldn't bring home the 
SOUTH BEND REGIONAL MUSEUM OF ART 


PRFSEN1S 
J
$ihlhiiM£iitlllili ~+ 

~~tL~kt~... 

BE~ E bionic riiuer 
....
THE MUSEUM IS LOCATED CENTIJRY CENTER -+­
DOWNTOWN soum BEND -120 s. ST. JOSEPH STREET DOORS OPEN @ 7 -CABAREf XBEGINS @ 8 P.M. --+­THE BALL BEGINS @ 9 P.M. -ON OCI'. 27 ADMISSION $5 -AGFS 17 + AD.MIIIED W/ VAUD I.D. -+­MUST BE 21 W/ 1.D. TO PUROIASE ALCOHOL 
"Some were 
overaggressive errors where two people were calling the ball and neither per­son was backing off." Schroeder­Biek said. 
With the game increasing team confidence, Saint Mary's is hoping to springboard to a strong finL-,h to the season. 
"Our goal now is to not go backwards." Schroeder-Biek said. "To build for the future." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
victory. The Bulldogs, who have showed remarkable improvement this year, continued their win streak. They are 8-4 this season already, compared to a 4-10 fin­ish last year. 
"What they have is a history," Schroeder-Biek said. "They're doing really well this season and I think they have that confidence that we're just now gaining. I think that was the difference." 
After winning 

www.admc-op.org 

Wednesday, October 17, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 22 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish finish 9th, lose their luggage. 



Monday sitting in a hotel room 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
instead of playing golf had a nega­Sports Wricer 
tive efTect on Tuesday's perfor­
-mances. Lotta finished la'it for the 
The 30 mile-per-hour wind the Irish after a round of 86 that put Notre Danrn women's golf team her in 65th place. endurPd during practice rounds "It was just frustrating that we before the Marilynn went all the way over Ito Smith/Sunflower Invitational Lawrence] for only one round," proved to be just the beginning of said Lotta. "It was hard to come an odd string of event,;;. back [Tuesday] and concentrate, 
Monday's two rounds ,vere not knmving that the tournament w,L-. played due to torrential rain at the only 18 holes. The one round thing Alvamar Golf Course in Lawrence, didn't work." Kan.. the Irish almost missed their According to Lotta, the competi­plane home, and the airline lost tion was average, and not nearly their luggage in Detroit. as tough as it had been during last 
In fact, Notre Dame did not even week's Shoot-out at the Legends know that it finished in ninth place Tournament in Franklin, Ind. Last after the only round of play on week the Irish finished last in a Tuesday in a field of 17 teams field of 19. until late Tuesday because the "Everyone probably thinks they team was in such a rush to make could have played better," Taibl their flight. The Irish finished with said. "Usually if you have a bad a 18-hole total of 325, and ended round, you have two more to up 19 strokes behind Oklahoma, _come back and play well and the tournament champion. erase that, but we didn't have the 
"We turned in our scores and chance to do that." had to run away from the course Senior Kristin McMurtrie, who because we were going to miss finished first for the Irish last our plane," said junior Terri Taibl, week, shot a score of 84 to tie for who finished in 21st place with a 48th overall with sophomore score of 79 for Tuesday's 18 holes. teammate Rebecca Rogers. 
Sophomore Shannon Byrne had \Vhile the Irish are not entirely Notre Dame's best performance, pleased with their play, they are and her best round this fall, shoot-also angry about something else. ing a six-over-par 78, and finish-"We almost missed our plane ing tied for 14th. land then] our luggage got lost in 
Overall, though, the Irish had Detroit," Lotta said. "\,Ve are a lit-some struggles. . tie mad about that one." 
"It was a little diflicult to get in Notre Dame is still maintaining the right frame of mind because il.;; optimistic outlook. the first 36 holes were rained out," "Ninth place isn't bad," said Taibl said. "So I think that had a Taibl. "We'll just look to improve little bit of an effect on £Weryone." in the next tournament." 
Freshman Karen Lotta, who has consistently performed well for the 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 
Irish, believes that spending 
jlindsle@nd.edu. 


Try All The Winning Varieties! 
Q HOT POCKETS• 
l:Jrand S!ufled saroNld1eS 
CLEAN POCKETS~ 
brand stuffe<j "100NldleS 
G, CROISSANT POCKETS .. 
brand >tut!w sarmY!CheS 


-
, 

Wednesday, October 17, 2001 page 23 .,.
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

.,_
l.Jell} i~ S&M:i r fi'i•~~ e<>-At 
So 
l.ue <4" 14.ve... e.o._rly v'11es~ +la~ 
c..r-e OJ\Y i~sh'oo'\S. 

FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
PA1&E, SToP  PAIGE, STOP  PA1GE, STOP  PAIGE,  
PLAYING WITH  SNAPPING YOUR  CHEWING WITH  MOM, JASON'S  STOP  
YOUR GlJl'oll!  GUM! '-­ YOUR MOUTH  PLAYING WITH  YELLING!  
'-­ OPEN! ..__  HtS GUM!  '--­ 
~ ~  
"  

Ifyou choose to ask a question now, you deserve to have your face sewn shut. 



HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Arthur Miller, George Wendt, Eminem, Michael McKean, Margot Kidder 
Happy Birthday: Much can be accomplished this year if you reflect and on your future direc­tion. You can gain ground by being thoughtful and respectful of those you deal with on a daily basis. Your opinions are chang­ing, and this added awareness should lead you in the right direction. Your numbers: 1, 4, 18, 22, 29, 31 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
With all that nervous energy today, you won't know whether to laugh or cry. You need an out­let. Join a group offering both cre­ative and physical activity, and you'll be right back on track. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can accomplish just as much over the phone today. Being indiscreet about your personal life could damage your reputa­tion. Listen to others for an enlightening discovery. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Misunderstandings that have destabilized some relationships can be cleared uf if you talk to each individua openly. For a wonderful experience and new interests, plan a short trip. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Someone at home may try to push you around and take advantage. Stand up for yourself before you're too upset to be rational. State your case dearly and objectively. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect problems at work. You'll be in an awkward position if someone asks you to withhold informa­tion. Be diplomatic in handling 
EUGENIA LAST 
this situation, and don't take the 
fall for someone else's wrongdo­
ing. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Your energy level is high, and fit­ness activities will have good results. Don't hesitate if a good investment opportunity unfolds. You can make money if you do your homework. 0000 . 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Deception is probable, especially 
if you're trapped in a triangle or 
one-sided infatuation. Don't 
allow your imagination to lead 
you in the wrong direction. If 
you're unsure, don't do it. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Go to the root of any problem. 
Misunderstandings could occur if 
you have been vague or too shy. 
Prepare to set things straight. 
Don't let anyone take advantage 
of your talent. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (N~ 22-Dec. 21): 
Think for yourself in financial matters. Don't follow a friend into a fast-cash scheme, or your friendship may dissolve as a result. It's wise to pass on this 
one.000 CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Take a break. Travel will not be your safest bet. Don't believe what a fast-talking associate tells you.000 · 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

Spend time sorting through the ­information you've been collect­ing. Travel will lead to powerful new pastimes and relationships. Go after your goals. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Dun't hesitate to follow through on plans to change or renovate your. residence. Real-estate investments will be financially beneficial. The changes you initi­ate will lift your spirits. 00000 
Birthday Baby: Your creative edge will enable you to view things uniquely. You are dashing. debonair and completely charming. You are dedicated and devoted to your beliefs and family. 
(Need advice? Gieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
0 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

CROSSWORD 
64 Result of 17-, 30-and 47-Across? 
66 Not bumpy 67 Battery terminal 68 Skier's way up 69 Abysmal test 
score 
70 Marciano or Graziano 71 Hankerings 
DOWN 
1 Baja bash 2 "The Joy Luck Club" author 3 Grumpy companion 4 November birthstone 5 Building 
manager, briefly 6 Evaluate 7 Classic A.P. rival 8 Bleep out 9 Nose (out) 
10 The "one" in a one-two 11 Exxon Valdez Puule by Alen Arbe1feld mishap 
35 "Mr. Tambourine 
12 Rock's Motley 
Man" group, with "the" 13 Actress 
37 Modifying wd.
Sedgwick 38 Grassy area18 Nebraska city 39 Senator or22 Small combo
26 Old-timer representative 41 Haitian leader
28 Koran religion 44 In alignment
31 Notwithstanding 46 Winery process
that, in short 32 Commercial 48 Pennsylvania's 
makers Mountains 33 Tacit assent 49 Longtime 34 Grad sch. Zimbabwean 
application into leader 50 Sub sinker 59 Thick slice 51 Dissuades 

61 Lulu 
55 Really neat 63 Rock producer
56 French Brian
restaurant name starter 
65 Fenway squad, 57 Drone's home for short 
Answe:s to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ACROSS 1 Prisoner's protest 
5 Bearnaise, e.g. 10 Athlete 14 "_ Angel" 
(Mae West film) 15 Increased 16 Well-ventilated 17 Incredible to 
behold 19 The world, to 
Mr. Magoo 20 Clambake item 21 Put in rollers 23 Caribbean, e.g. 24 Ornamental 
bowl 25 "Give it !" 27 Upholstery flaw 29 ·_takers?" 30 Like a horror 
flick 35 Modeling wood 
36 Whipped cream amount 37 Friend in war 40 Coffee break time, maybe 
42 "Betsy's Wedding" director 
43 Scarcity 
45 Bedtime story? 
47 Totally awesome 49 "Spy vs. Spy" magazine 
52 E. Lansing campus 53 Peace alliance since '48 
54 Rest room sign 
56 When doubled, a dance 
58 PC key 
60 "West Side Story" tune 
62 Scouting outing 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete tlie accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Daine, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name Address ----------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports OTHE Pro Sports
BSERVER 
. ND Women's Golf, p. 22 
. Michael Jordan, p. 20 
. 
ND Men's Soccer, p. 21 . NCAA Football, p. 16 

. 
SMC Soccer, p. 20 . NFL,p. 17 

. 
SMC Volleyball, p. 21 . NLCS, p. 15 


Wednesday, October 17, 200 I 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Set down in Iowa 
• No. 19 Notre Dame hits .037 in 4-game loss to No. 16 Northern Iowa. Goralski leads Irish with 11 kills, 8 blocks 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
Facing a ranked opponent for the fourth time this season, the No. 19 Notre Dame volleyball team fell to No. 16 Northern Iowa in four games Tuesday night (30-26, 14-30. 16-30, 23-30). The game was played in front of 1.182 fans at Bettendorf High School in the Quad Cities. 
The loss drops Notre Dame's season record to 12-4 overall. 0-4 against ranked opponents including Notre Dame's three losses to Nebraska. UCL.\ and Pepperdine in early September. 
The match was a defensive battle, with neither team posting a hit­ting percentage higher than .233 in any game. The Panthers hit .208 for the match to Notre Dame's .037 mark. Notre Dame was also done in by hitting errors, committing 35 in the four games, including nine each by Kristy Kreher and Kim Fletcher, usually tv.·o of Notre Dame's main offensive weapons. 
Notre Dame also r.ommitted 10 service errors while serving eight aces. 
The one positive for the Irish was the play of senior Malinda Goralski. Goralski totaled 11 kills for the Irish to only two hitting errors in 21 attempts for a .429 perc.entage. She also assisted on eight blocks. Sophomore setter Kristen Kin-der added five kills and 30 assists. 
Notre Dame started off strong in the match's first game. winning 30-26 while holding Northern Iowa to .135 hitting. But as the match went on. thP home state team regrouped. while the Irish self­destructed. 
In game two. tlrn Irish totaled only six kills while committing 12 hitting f'rrors ror a -.194 percentage \.vhile scoring only 14 points. The WOPS continurd in the third game. as the Irish fpJl 30-16. At match's end. Notn' Dame returrn'd to positive hitting. pulling within SfWPn by thP end of the fourth ganw. 
But thP nation's No. 16 team was too much for the Irish. Kim McCaffn,y led the Panthers \.Vith l 8 kills while Kim Kester added 16 kills. 
The Irish next take the court Oct. 23 when they take on Ktmtucky 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 
in Lexington. 
Senior Malinda Goralski watches the ball go by during Notre Dame's three-game loss to No. 1 Nebraska in September. Goralski led the Irish with 11 kills Tuesday night, but the No. 19 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
Irish fell to the No. 16 Panthers of Northern Iowa on a neutral court. 


FOOTBALL 
Palmer develops into Southern Cal's leader 
young player. you could see the Trojans' losses to Stanford \.Vhile his arm strength and qu·estionable for Saturday's
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
that potential , " Davie said. and Washington. passing abilities are unques­game.
Sports Writer 
"Certainly Carlyle is sitting "I thought Carson had a tioned, Palmer's hidden value . Both Notre Dame's main 
here with four years of foot­great football game last week," lies in his mobility. He won't tailback's Julius Jones and 
When Irish head coach Bob ball. Willi some good fortune, Trojan head coach Pete Carroll run the option like Holiday, but Tony Fisher are battling Davie looks at Southern Cal he can be one heck of a play­said. "He really has put back­he does move around the pock­injuries right now as well. Both quarterback Carson Palmer, he er." to-back weeks of solid ball for et well. are expected to play Saturday sees what Carlyle Holiday \Vhile Iloliday's best days are us." The combination of his but may not be 100 percent. could still ahead of him, Palmer has Although Palmer ranks third strength and mobility make . Guard Sean Milligan was become. developed into the top quarter­all-time in total offense and him very attractive to NFL banged up in the \Vest Virginia Palmer, a back that he was prr:dictt~d to completions at USC, he is also teams, according to Davie. game and has been kept out of third-year become whPn he was rncruited interception prone. Last year "I talked to IPackers head contact drills early in the starter for in high school. lie leads the he tied a Southern Cal single coachJ Mike Sherman last week, according to Davie. USC. has Pac-l O in total offense -aver­season record with 18 inter­night ... he said 'People really Milligan is still expected to developed aging 265.5 yards per game. ceptions. His 33 career inter­like him in the NFL because he start however. If Milligan can­into the Although he started the season ceptions plare him second is mobile. He has such a strong not play, fifth-year senior J.W. veteran slowly -throwing six inter­behind Hodney Peete on arm,"' Davie said. Jordan will fill in at guard. leader that ceptions and just two touch­Southern Cal's all-time list. D a ·v i e downs -he has been verv Nevertheless, he is still a 
Notes:

hopes Holiday effective in his last two games. candidate for the Davey 
. USC's starting tailback Contact Mike Connolly at

will br. The junior threw five touch­O'Brien award given to the top 
Sultan McCullough is listed as Connolly.28@nd.edu.

"\Vhen Carson Palmer was a downs and no interceptions in quarterback in the country. 

. SMC Soccer vs. Olivet, Today, 3 p.n. 
OBSERVER

. Football vs. USC, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
on line classifieds 

. Men's Soccer vs. Boston College, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer at Connecticut, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
csc CENTER 
Learning through Service and Social Action 

C E N T E R FOR 
FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS SOC1AI.u CONCERNS 

it• ­
2001-2002 DIRECTORY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS TI1is directory includes more than 30 Center-related student groups a-; well as some 40 community agencies seeking volunteers. The agencies in italics have Community-Bm;ed Leaming Coordinators on site. Bolded type indicates groups that are student run organizations·. For more infom1ation on any organization. see the description on the following two pages. 
ADDICTIONS 
Women's Resource Center 
YWCA Women·s Shelter ADULT LITERACY Center for Basic Learning Skills 
Ce11ter.fi1r the Homeless 
Dismas House El Buen Vedno Litera,.:y Council of SL Joseph Coumy. Inc. St. r..fargaret's House South Bend Community Schools Adult Educat.on YWCA Women·s Shelter 
ADULT-OLDER 
Meridian-Cardinal Nursing Center Milton Home Portage Manor REAL Services CHILDREN & YOUTH Big Brothers & Big Sisters of ND/SMC Boy Scouts of America Boys and Girls Club Broadway Christian P,1rish 
ND/Sl\lC Campus Girl Scouts 
Casie Center 
Cn1terj,,r the Homeless 
ND/S:\1C Center for the Homeless Children's Group 
Charles Martin Youth Center 
Circle K Notre Dame Council for Fun and Learning 
CSC Sollfli Bend Co1111111111it_1· Schools Pannership 
El Buen Vecino El Campito Day Care Center Family and Children Center H~lpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S. l House Manug:ement Resources 
Hugh O'Hrian Youth Foundation Alumni Association !ND HOBY) ND/SMC Lunch P.A.C.K. 
Madison Center 
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Neighborhood Study Help Program Special Friends Club 
St. Hedwig's Outreach Center St. Margaret's House South Bend Heritage Foundation 
SupcrSibs University Yotmg Life 
Youth Services Bureau YWCA Womcn·s Shelter CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Amnesty International 
Dismis House Legal Services Sex Offense Services (SOS) United Religious Community CULTURAL ISSUES 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
East Timor Action Network @ ND 
Global Health Initiative 
Lt1 Caso de Ami.mu/ 
Lifewatcr 
South Bend Heritage Foundation DISABIUTY SERVICES 
Best Huddies 
Corvilla. Inc. 
Council for Fun and Learning Logan Center 
Logan Center 
ND/SMC Logan Cluh 
Madison Center Muscular Dystrophy Assodation REAL Services Reins of Life 
Special Friends Club Su1>erSihs ENVIRONMENT Foods hare l,ifewater Students for Environmental Action (SEA) 
HOl1SING AND HOMELESSNESS Broadway Christian Parish 
Cmterfor the Homeless 
ND/SMC Center for the Homeless Children's Group Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity 
Hope Rescue Mission Project Warmth St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Army South Bend Heritage Foundation YWCA Women's Shelter HUNGER CONCERNS 
Foodshare 

St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Army 
World Hunger Coalition 
MEDICAL 

AIDS Awareness/Students with Aids Training (SWAT) 
AIDS Ministries/Aids Assist 
American Cancer Society 
American Lung Association American Red Cross 
Cemerfin· the Homeless Chapin S!reet Clinic 
ND First Aid Services learn Global Health Initiative Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S.) 
Hospice of St. Josepl) County. Inc. 
Lifewater 

St. Joe Regional Medical Center 
St. Joseph's Chapin Street Clinic 
United Health Services 
Women's Resource Center MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS Arnold Air Society 
Catholic Charities 
Circle K Notre Dame Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) Experiential Learning Council 
Family an<l Children Center 
Knights of Columbus Council 1477 
Muscular Dystrophy Association Potawatomi Zoo 
Trident Naval Society World Hunger Coalition 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International Pax Christi -USA ND Chapter Progressive Student Alliance Notre Dame Right to Life World Hunger Coalition 
TUTORING Big Hrothers & Big Sisters of ND/SMC Center.fin· the Homeless · Charles Martin Youth Center 
Council for Fun and Learning 
El Buen Vecino 
Lt, Casa de Amistad 
Neighborhood Study Help Program 
St. Hedwig·s Outreach Center St. Margaret's House Youth Services Bureau YWCA Womcn·s Shelter 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) House Management Resources Notre Dame Right to Life St. Margaret ·s House Sex Offense Services (S0S) Women's Care Center 
Women's Resource Center 
YWCA Women's Shelter ONE TIME SERVICE OPPORTt:NIIl&S Christmas in April 
Circle K Notre Dame 
Dismas House 

Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity l\ls. Wizard Day Program Team 
Muscular Dystrophy As!'K>ciation Project Warmth REAL Services St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Anny United Health Services 
We Are Called 

Acting Locally and Thinking Globally 
When asked to write a reflection on "thinking globally and acting locally," it would be hard not to focus on the events ofthe Tuesday in Septetnber, and the response since then. An overwhelming support of everything American has swept this country. My hope for this nation, though, is that this renewed sense ofpatriotism will take the form of global patriotism, standing up against violence, racism, oppression and terrorism worldwide. We must work for global justice and fight oppression wherever it occurs, indiscriminate of boundaries of race, religion, nationality, and/or ethnicity. We must stand together with all victims ofterrorism, bring­ing those responsible to justice within the standards ofintemational law. 
In my eyes, patriotism means standing up for all humanity, not only those· defined by borders. We are able to practice this patriotism within our local South Bend com1nunity. Local patriotism first calls us to awareness of our immediate neighbors. My hope for our local con1munity is that we move beyond this recognition to action, patriotism's second step. This local, patri­otic action places us deeper within the community, working with and listening to others to meet together our shared needs and concerns. 
Throughout my four years at Notre Dan1e, I have lived with an 
Ecuadorian for two years and a Panamanian for a year. I am truly 
amazed at the amount of knowledge they possess on the United 
States of America, o_ur government, our policies, our culture, our 
people. I, on the other hand, knew upon coming to Notre Dame 
that the capital ofEcuador was Quito, and that Panama had a canal. 
It is possible that I ain the only ignorant American out there, but I 
don't think that is the case. The acts on American soil have taught 
us to be aware of global issues. I was one of many unaw6lre 
citizens in regards to the Taliban and U.S. relations with the Middle 
East. Over the next couple of months, in this time of war, I invite 
all to read up on global issues and become more educated on U.S. 
involvements and policies in foreign lands. 
So now that we are thinking globally, how do we use this to act locally? Is it possible to integrate the two? Of course it is. Quite simply, as Catholics, as Christians, as human beings alike, our duty is to love and care for one another. The Center for Social Concen1s · (CSC), as stated so simply in its mission statement, is '"...calling us all to action for a more just and humane world." I encountered this calling freshman year, but to tell you the truth, I didn't know what I was supposed to do with it. Who needs me? What should I be doing? Where should I be doing it? Am I ready for the struggles I may find? I am sure most, if not all, have questioned similarly. So, sophomore year rolled around, and I finally made my first en­trance into the CSC. I decided to go to Appalachia for spring break and didn't get enough ofthe action. I spent a summer at an orphan­age for physically and n1entally challenged children in central Mexico through the International Su1nn1er Service Leaming Pro­gram, and still felt the calling. I tried my luck with a domestic Sun1mer Service Project Internship and was still left searching for 1nore. I have been involved with a handful of organizations in the South Be.nd area also, yet Jesus still wants more. No matter the deed, big or small, Jesus is present. It is important to reiterate the passage "What you do unto the least of 1ny brothers and sisters, you do unto me." We have all heard it one thousand tin1es, but in serving others, you are serving God and God's creation. It is through my faith in Jesus Christ that I am called to be present in the lives ofothers. 
Continued 011 Back Page 


RocJted in the Gospel and Catholic tradition, the Centerfor Social Concenzs ofthe 
CENTER FOR 
Unive1:~ity ofNotre Daine creates.fonnative educational and seroice experiences in
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
collaborati<Jn. with cliverse JJartner.s, calling us to actionfrJr a mtJrejust c1nd huml1ne world. 
. ~ 
....... , '-, 
\i_, -­
COIMI
STUIJENT GROUPS 
AIDS AWARENESS/STUDENTS EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY 
AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST BR< WITH AIDS TRAINING (SWAT) IDesigned to develop and enhance service I HELP PROGRAM Volunteers wo~k with the agen_cy to suppo_rt and I Volunteer Volunteers give social support to individuals who I learning opportunities particularly through the I Volunteers tutor at a variety ofcenters twice a week enhance the lives of those infected with or ser\'ing a
1

areHIV+byprovidingsupportandassistancewith experiential learning seminars offered by thelforaonehourperiodeachtime.StudentContact: affected by HIV and AIDS. Contact: pamryall( office tasks. Student Contact: Katherine Henze Icenter for Social Concerns. Student Contact: Katie Bears @ 634--3699 or mhears@nd.edu and Community-Based Learning Coordinator Debra 1289-0333 @ 23 .. -2325 or henze.l@nd.edu !Brian Noon@ 634-2077 or noon.l@nd.edu IMegWaUace@797-6450ormwallace@nd.edu Stanley@ 234-2870 I 
_____________ j_ _____________L--------------------------+--­
AMER1cAN CANCER SOCIETY I ND FIRST AID SERVlCES TEAM I PAX CHRISTI-USA ND CHAPTER . . AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION I Volun_teers or~a~ize on-campus awareness raising I Volunteers p_rovide coverage for inter-hall sports, ~on-IEducates and p_ron~otes awareness of issues related Sponsors a var!ety of s~rvices for the prevention IVolunteer and tund-ra1s1ng events. Student Contac:: ce11s,homefootballgames.AnTostaL Keenan Review, Ito peace and Justice around the world. Student and control-of lung disease. Agency Phone: special p
1
Courtney We¢ein@ 273-3871 orcwe¢ein@nd.edu campus runs. and any other ND/SMC activity that re-Contact: Rachel Soltis@634-4692or rsoltis@nd.edu 287-2321 Ifamilies. and Meaghan Calcari @ 271-8342 or lquests the team's service. Student Contact: Anna I 1282•1414 mcakari@nd.edu 1Barbour@634-1433 aharbour@nd.edu I I 
I I --------------------------+--­
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL I FOODSHARE I PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE Volunteers are needed for letter writing, petition I Volunteers deliver, in groups of four or five, the IThe '.SA. oppos~s all ~orms of _oppression and is signing, special campaign work. and informal I leftover food from the campus dining halls to the (Dr_~in~. ~or ~octal Jus_tice by :a1sing awareness ~f discussions about human rights issues worldwide. Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue social issues, cooperating w1th ex 1st i_ng groups, 
0

Student Contact: Julia Dickinson@ 634-1329 or IMission in South Bend. Student Contact: Kristin l~mpo~e~in\stud_ents a;:ae;~~:rag~ng :~1~ ~6~~dent dickinson.9@nd.edu and Jennifer Betz @ !Kelly@ 233-2248or kkelly@nd.edu and Kathleen ljs~:~::~-@n:~es~:aand Jason Wilt @ 2; 3_2508 :~ 273-1048 or jbetz@nd.edu _____ TIDestino@ 233-2248 or kdestino@nd.ed~ __ ~ilt@nd.edu _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY GLOBAL HEALTH INITIATIVE I NOTRE DAME RIGHT TO LIFE Arnold Air Society advocates the support of Aero-IGHI educates and promotes awareness of health IVolunteers focus on the national abortion issue. space power. Instills in it, members an attitude of Irelated issues around the world. Members participate IActivities includ_e picketing_ at the Women's Pavi!ion. unselfish dedication to the mission of the Air Force jin local outreach, raise money for international projects; I dorm _forums, tnps to Washrngton, D.C.. and a ,R'.ght­
• • . • ed. I . • • . S d C . to-Lite week dunng the year. Student Contact: Kaitlyn
andAASandmakescontnbuuonstothecommumtylandattendm 1ca serv,cesemmars. tu ent ontact:ID di kd di @ d d dM d
@ 6342454 and campus. Student Contact: Mary Ann Maz.arini@ Dalid Bishop @ 271-1202 or dbishop@nd.edu and Ru' ey u . ey @n .de udan ·d aBn thy
I e1mer @ 243" •2759°r or are1mer n .e u an e
l
634-1333or~~rini.l@nd.ec1~ ____ TChmSce~@ 243-2941 ~~rbo@nd.edu_ -fhite@634_4354.£.!:_ewhite@nd.edu _ ____ 
BEST BUDDIES NOTRE DAME HABITAT FOR HUMANITY ST. JOSEPH'S CHAPIN STREET CLINIC Clubmembersdeveloprelationshipswithpeoplewith !volunteers work on construction crews, donate !volunteers are needed to help serve the indigent mental retardation and other developmental Imaterials and provide meals for the work groups. I population in the South Bend Communty. Student disabilities by going to movies, sporting events, !Student Contact: Maria Mahon @ 634-2387 or !Contact: Doug Miller @ 634-1952 or concerts. and by participating together in recreational 1mmahon@nd.edu and Scott Van Velsor@ 634-ldmiller2@nd.edu events. Student Contact: Katie Nokes@ 634-2574 2154 or vanvelsor.l@nd.edu or habitat@nd.edu I 
1 
BIG BROTHERS & BIG SISTERS OF ND/SMC+ HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE ~ . SPECIAL FRIENDS CLUB Volunteers provide shared time and friendship I STUDENTS (H.U.G.S.) Ivolunteers work with autistic children in the South Bend between a student and a child. Student Contact: !volunteers work with the Memorial Hospital lcommunityonastructurededucationalprograminahome Lauren Suehs@ 247-9420 !Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Student Contact: !situation. Time commitment is 2-4 hours per week. No 
!Nicholas Fonte@ 287-8086 or fonte.2@nd.edu I experience is necesswy to be a "Special Friend." Student 
Contact: Jamie JoehJ @ 634-2808 or jjoehl@nd.edu
I land Brande Flamez@ 277-9767 or bflamez@nd.edu 
-------------~-------------~------------­
CAMPUS ALLIANCE FOR I HUGH O'BRIAN YOUTH FOUNDATION I STUDENTS FOR 
RAPE ELIMINATION j ALUMNI ASSOCIATION (ND HOBY) ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (SEAl Volunteer~ are student, and faculty/administrators from ND HOBY provides a forum for HOBY alumni at Notre I volunteers promote awareness of environmental both ND and SMC. C.A.R.E. members make donn IDame to continue developing their leadership through lissues amongst the student body and the South presentations about rape on campus and sponsor rape Iservice and social action activities. 5rudent I Bend communitv. Student Contact: Aaron Cook 
. contact:Donald Norton @ 634-0971 or I@ ·
S d C 22
support groups on campus. tu ent ontact: Ehzabeth 1d I@ d d d A d K 634-1 0 or acook@nd.edu
I k"@ 634 39 3
. . norton n .e u an n y ow es 1 -I Nesms ® 634·2821 ~~us.I@nd.cdu ___ jgr kowieski.2@nd.edu_ _______L _______ -----­
ND/SMC CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS j KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS COUNCIL 1477 I SUPERSIBS Volunteers work with younger Girl Scout groups !Volunteers help to raise funds in order to support IAII club members have siblings with disabilities. in the area and perform a variety of other service Ivarious service and social action facilities in the college sibs mentor children (8-14 yrs. of age)
1 

activities.Student Contact: Jennifer Stoner @ area. Student Contact: Nathaniel Hannan @ who also have a sibling with a oisabiliry. Bi­
1
634-4088 or jstoner@nd.edu 634-1847 or nhannan@nd.edu Imonthly activities include bowling, skating, holi­
1 lday parties, and pizza and chat sessions. Student 
I !Contact: Marissa Runkle @ 289-4831 --ND/SMCCTNTERffiRTHE __ T ____ LlFEW~ER-----,-TRIDEITTN~ALSOCIETY__ _ 
HOMELESS CHILDREN'S GROUP IVolunteers work to educate the Notre Dame I Develop professionalism and camaraderie among Vo_lunteers sp~nd time once a week with the !Community of the third world water supply INROTC Midshipmen to assume the highest levels children who ltv~ at th~ CFH. Volunteers mig~t I situation as well as research possible solutions to lof_citzenship and comm~n~. Student Contact: Jim tut~r,_ ~rgamze field tnps and plan art & craft I the problem. St~dent Contact: Jeremy Bauer~ IHmkle@ 634-3301 or Jhmklel@nd.edu act1v1t1es. Student Contact: Mary Hoopes @ 634-5113 or Jhauer2@nd.edu and Justm 272-6765 or mhoopes@nd.edu !Pendarvis@ jpendarv@nd.edu I 
---CIRCL~NOTREDAME--,----LOOANCENTER----,--UNIVERSITYYOUNGLIFE__ _ 
Volunteers work on a variety of service activities Ivolunteers interact with people with mental Ivolunteers plan events to work with local high including working with children and neighborhood Iretardation and other developmental disabilities in !school students. Student Contact: Diana Simpson cleanup. Student Contact: Beau Rottenborn @ 1swimming, bowling, singing, and other activities. I® 634-3834 or dsimpsol@nd.edu 634-4770 or rottenborn.2@nd.edu 1www.logancenter.org Student Contact: Marissa I 
IRunkle @ 289-4831 I 
--mMMUNITYALLJANCEro--+---ND/SMCLOGANCLUB---~-WOM~~ESOURCECENTER-­
SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) Istudents volunteer for Friday night bowling, Ivolunteers provide assistance to the women of Volunteers reach out to the Hispanic community IFriday night dances, and Saturday recreation. Our INotre Dame with issues and problems that are of South Bend through service activities, [website: www.logancenter.org/Volunteers;lparticularly acute for women. such as rape and educational programs, and awareness projects. !Activities.cfm Student Contact: Jennifer @ !sexual assault. eating disorders, etc. Student Student Contact: Joanne Garcia @ 634-4661 or 1284-4273 !Contact: Kelly Benkert @ 272-6585 or Joanna.G.Garcia.71@nd.edu ____ j_ _____________tnkert.l@nd.edu _ _______ _ 
COUNC_IL F?R FUN ~ND L~ARNING I ND/SM€ LUNCH P.A.C.K. . I WORLD HUNGER COALITION Serves learnmg disabled children trom ages 6-16 ILunch P.A.C.K. serves the elementary school children IVolunteers raise awareness and support for the.poor and at the Children's Dispensary in South Bend. of the South Bend community by providing much hungryinSouthBendandaroundthcworld.Volunteersaim Student Contact: Kelly Otterhacher@ 634-3682 lneected personal attention and care. which are crucial Ito grow spiritually and mentally whiie alleviating hunger. or otterhacher.l@nd.edu Ito social development. Student Contact: Brande 1s1udent Contact: Abigail Ross @ 634-3876 or 
IFlamez@ 277-9767 or bflamez@nd.edu and Laura la~2@nd.edu and Ca~lyn ~orson ':, 634-2194 or @ £~,1 @nd ed ctorson@nd.edu and Lisa Brmtnall @ 634-2441 or
y, 1715 1

I oung u.:,o,r or young . u hhnntna@nd.edu 
EASTTIMORACTION NETWORK@ ND I MS.WIZARDDAYPROGRAMTEAM I The East Timor Action Network seeks to build IVolunteersorganizeaone-daysciencefairinFebruary I support at Notre Dame for fundraising efforts to I for young women in middle school. Student Contact: I benefit East Timorese reconstruction initiatives in ITracy Blichfeldt@ 6.'4-2987 ortblichfe@nd.edu and I education and medicine. Student Contact: Jim Jessica Maffike@624-0747 orjmanske@nd.edu and Madden@ 634-1102 or jmadden@nd.edu IMary Lampe @634-2987 ormlampe@nd.edu I 
IFor more i1fo, visit www.nd.edu/-mswizard I 
AMERICAN RED CROSS I Community volunteer services plan programs. ,Various ( recruit, train and place volunteers to meet variety of community needs through community education !children~ and emergency services. Agency Contact: !Babier@ Darlene Waits @ 234-0191 ext. 24 I 
J_ 

BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA I CENTE Were you a Boy Scout? We need your help. Volunteer Volunteers act as he! pers and mentors for several Ifor two 17 packs at the South Bend Housing Authority. The IMonday-I
I ~ 

packsmeetonTues.4:30-5:30atHarborHomes. @234-0~ 501 S Scott Street South Bend Agency Contact: I 
· ' · Ka~ Ga~@ 289-0337 ext~l~ ___ J_ __ 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB j CE Volunteei•s assist with tutoring, health and voluntee
1 

recreation programs for children ages 6 through Ihome I es 
18. Agency Contact: Kregg Van Meter @ Commun 232-2048 !Sinis@ 2 
I 

-l__ · · 
SOCIAL CONCERNS CQM 
*Alumni 
Michael Sweikar 
Ken Allinson 
*Badin 
Caela Carter 
*Breen-Phillips 
Katharine Liegel 
*Carroll 
Adam Krenn 
*Cavanaugh Melissa Ferrello Angela Lyzinski Dallas Dyer 
*Dillon Brian Lanktree Tom Hayes 
*Farley 
Nicole Ortega 
Elizabeth Urda 
*Fisher Adam Nicholson Charles Giefer 
*Howard Maureen Fitzpatrick Andrea Blyth 
*Keenan Paul Kowalski Brian Thomas Michael Collins 
*Keough 
Alan Peetz 
Corbett Ryan 
*Knott 
Ryan Schildkraut 
Michael Hewett 
*Lewis 
Raquel Reinbolt 
Sara Sweeney 
*Lyons 
Lauren Kinmaid 
4-1154 
4-0810 
4-3763 
4-1329 
4-4104 
4-1504 4-1543 4-1405 
4-1612 4-0954 
4-3886 4-0928 
4-3018 
4-1942 
4-2563 
4-2494 
4-3366 
4-3303 
4-3286 
4-1865 4-3671 
4-4935 4-0723 
4-3861 4-3534 
4-2784 
*Morri 
1eddy 
*McGli Maria There 
*O'Nei 
Pedro 
Doug 
*Pangb 
Christ 
*Pasqu Lisa I Jessie Stacie 
*Pasqu Cana Jennifi 
*St. Ed 
Derric 
\1ike 

*Siegfr Jordai Rick, Dan S 
*Sorin 

Tim E 
*Stanfc 
Kevin 
Dave 
Tony 
*\Valsh 
Susan 
Sarah 

*\Velsh Lisa L Elizal *Zahm J.P, Ja Chris 


TY 
SIIIPS 
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH CSC SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY I LEGAL SERVICES I ST. JOE REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER I !Volunteers help wi~h the Sunday meal (cook_ing, I S~HOOLS PARTNERS~IP ILegal Services see~s volun~eers_ to se~ve as I Volunteers assist nursing staff with vario~s duties. · I serving and cleanrng up) as well as the tood I Volunteers give classroom presentations and work I Intake Workers to assist potential clients with the I Choose one day a week. Choose one time slot: : pantry and neighborhood projects. Agency Phone: Iwith students grades K-12 as mentors and tutors. application process and summarize legal problems 11 am-2pm, Noon-3pm, 3pm-6pm, or 4pm-7pm.
11 
1I289-0333 Contact: Community-Based Leaming Coordinator for staff attorney review. Agency Contact: Pam Agency Contact: Denise Kapsa @ 237-7242 I !Tonya Sexton@ 631-9405 !Claeys@ 234-8121 I 
+-__-----------L---_______---1------------_ _j _ -_ -____-----­
I CASIE CENTER I CHAPIN STREET CLINIC I LITERACY COUNCIL OF I ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE 1 Volunteers assist staff with both routine duties and IVolunteers work in a medical clinic that provides I ST. JOSEPH COUNTY. INC. I Volunteers help with children, answer the phone, : I special projects that benefit children and their services to low-income adults and families. Volunteers tutor adults in both basic reading and Iprovide tutoring, help with computers and serve 
11
!families. Agency Contact: Caron Marocha @ Contact: Community-Based Learning English as a Second Language. Agency Phone: as hosts for guests. The House is open to adult 1282-1414 !coordinator Michelle Peters @ 239-5233 1235-6229 Iwomen and girls and boys under twelve. Agency I I I !Contact: Kathy Schneider@ 234-7795
+-_____________I _____________I_____________ I______________ 
I CA~HOLI~ ~HARJTIES . I CHARLES MARTIN ~OUT~ CENTER I . LOGAN CENTER . I ST. \INCEN~ _DE PAUL . Various Catholic Chant1es programs provide a IVolunteers work with chtldren m after-school IVolunteers mteract w/people w/mental retardation and IVolunteers work m the thntt store to prepare used 
1 
t variety ofservices including services for women, Itutoring programs. See South Bend Heritage Iother developmental disabilities in swimming, Igoods for sale. Anyone organizing a food or 1!children and refugees. Agency Contact: Rebecca IFoundation for other opponunities. Contact: Jessie Ibowling. singing and other activities. Contact: Iclothing drive can work through this grassroots : !Babier@ 234-3111 Whitaker@ 631-3211 Community-Based Leaming Coordinator Marissa organization. Agency Contact: William 
I I . IRunkle@ 289-4831 IMuempfer@ 251-4908 
tCENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS ~ CHRISTMAS IN APRIL : MADISON CENTER ~ SALVATION ARMY 
. Volunteers tutor adults working toward their GED IVolunteers upgrade neighborhood homes and lift IPrivate. non-profit behavioral health care facility !Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving.
1 
I for two hours once a week. Hours: 8am-l 2pm 1residents' spirits. Contact: Jenny Monahan @ Iproviding various levels of treatment to all age !Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South ~ IMonday-Friday. Agency Contact: Sister Marita 1631-3243 lgroups has volunteer opportunities available to IBend. Student volunteers caA "adopt" a South 
-

, I@ 234-0295 I assist children and adolescents who have emotional IBend family through the Salvation Army. Agency
1
: I and behavioral difficulties. Contact: Human Phone: 233-9471 · j_ I IResouces@ 283-1123 I . 
I CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS r CORVILLA, INC. IMERIDIAN-CARDINAL NURSING CENTE~ SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) 'IVolunteers provide a variety of services to Ismall organization that provides loving homes and Ivolunteers are needed to visit clients on a one-to-IVolunteers work at Madison Center and assist t lhomeless adults and children. Contact: Iservices for people w/ developmental disabilities. lone basis and organize evenings of bingo. Also Ivictims of sexual assault and their families. ' Community-Based Learning Coordinator Ellen jSeeking vounteers to help w/ "FUN" activities for pooking for a group to take a younger crowd to IAgency Contact: Laurel Eslinger@ 238-1308 
ISinis@ 282-8700 Iresidents. i.e. bowling, picnics, dances, hayrides & !play poo! in the early evenings. Agency Contact: 1*24-hour Helpline: 289-4357 I Imovies. Agency Contact: Diane Dolde @ 289-9779 ILinda Dehayes @ 287-6501 I 
1._------------1--------------1--------------1-------------­
DISMAS HOUSE MILTON HOME SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY Ivolunteers are needed to cook for the residents Ivolunteers visit elderly residents on a one-to-one I SCHOOLS ADULT EDUCATION IM-TH. Students are also needed to live at Dismas Ibasis. Agency Phone: 233-0165 !volunteers work individually with adult studertts 
COMMISSIONERS 
!House. Agency Contact:-Maria Kaczmarek @ I lwho are learning basic job and life skills, j233-8522 I Istudying for their GED or simply learning literacy j I Iskills. Agency Contact: Gayle Silver@ 231-5690 
2001-2002 
~-------------1-------------~-------------­
I EL BUEN VECINO I MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY ASSOCIATION I SOUTH BEND HERITAGE FOUNDATION . • IVolunteers tutor in English and assist people in IVolunteers help with Labor Day telethon, general I Volunteers are able to work in al I facets ot
:_1:1\forrissey 
lstu~ying for high school equivalyncy. Also help w/ donation seeking, work as summer camp neighborhood revitalization. Also available are Jjil 
1eddy Wong 4-3500 
child care and work witb at-risk families to teach lcounselors and assist with various events hnternships and course-based work in community*McGlinn 
I values, management skills, nutrition and healthy !throughout the year. Agency Contact: Stephanie !development. Contact: David Hay@ 289-1066 \1arianne Dunn 4-3583 
piving. Agency Contact: Sara Haber@ 287-2712 !Santos @ 259-9912 I 
I _____________!_____________ !______________
Theresa Ferry 4-1398 
*O'Neill 
I EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER I PORTAGE MANOR I UNITED HEALTH SERVICES IVoluntee.rs act as role models for young children IVolunteers needed to pay regular visits to IVolunteers are needed to help with special events
Pedro Bollmann 4-1944 Ifrom single parent ~amilies. Vol~nteers al~o assist Iindividual re~iden_ts who have no family. Agency I including a fundraiser in October and other events
Doug Borgmann 4-2203 
regular day care mstructors 111 plannmg and contact: Tom Grisham@ 272-9100 Ithroughout the year. Agency Contact: Mary Heck 
I 1
*Pangborn 
implementing their organized program. Agency @ 234-3136 Christie Phillips 4-2325 
!Phone: 232-0220 I I *Pasquerilla East 
I I I 
Lisa Danzig 4-3876 
I FAMILY AND CHILDREN CENTER I POTAWATOMI ZOO 7 UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY Jessie Stankus 4-4675 
I Join the Family Pmtners Program to take a child to !The zoo in South Bend has many opportunities IVolunteers are trained in mediation skills and work Iyour place of worship or become a Sponsor if you I for students to volunteer, including presentations 1011 special projects, the Victim Offender
Stacie Pangle 4-0743 can give 3-4 hours per month sharing activities w/ and fundraisers. Agency Contact: 288-4639 !Reconciliation Program and the Advocacy
11 a child. Intern opportunities also available. Agency I ICenter. Agency Phone: 282-2397
*Pasquerilla West 
I •
Cana Scott 4-2706 
Contact: Doug Brown @ 259-566 ext. 256 or Ded Jenniter Gaisser-Sadler 4-0752 
IGray at 259-5666 ext. 269 · I I *St. Edwards 
I --HOPE RESCUE MISSION --I ---PROJECT WARMTH lvOLUNTEER BLOOD DONOR PROGRAM Derrick Bravo 4-1517 
Ivolunteers answer phones. provide meals, chapel Ivolunteers help collect, sort and distribute Istudents are needed to organize blood drives on \1ike Zawada 4-1599 
Iservices, programs, new ministry opportunities, l,iackets and coats to share with individuals in need. lca!11pus. Agency Contact: Donor Recruiter at Iprayer support, and are the hearts and hands that !Contact: Judson Strauch@ 631-3356 ICentral Blood Bank @ 234-1157
*Siegfried 
care for the forgotten in the community. Agency I . I
1 contact: Don Bloore@ 235-4150 ext. 231 I I 
Jordan Sorrell 4-4829 
1

Rick Walz 4-4835 Dan Slowinski 4-4853 
r-HOSPICE OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. I REAL SERVICES """1 WOMEN'S CARE CE~TER --­
*Sorin 
Ivolunteers provide suppon services for terminally IDorm commissioners are needed to organize Ivolunteers help welcome pregnant women and Tim Brennan 4-2714 
h11 patients and their families. Agency Phone: Istudent groups to assist elderly/disabled clients of Icouples by helping them gather the resources.that 1243-3127 !REAL Services with one time assignments forlthey need to complete the pregnancy. Volunteers I !outside yard work projects. Contact: Jackie I also needed for child-care assistance for clients. 
*Stanford 
Kevin Sellers 4-2091 
I IBoynton@ 284-2644 !Agency Contact: Laura Druley@ 273-8986 
Dave Vosburg 4-2020 
...

Tony Floyd 4-2088 
L -------------1--------------J_------------­
I HOUSE MANAGEMENT RESOURCES I REINS OF LIFE I YOUTH SERVICES BUREAU
*\Valsh 
IHome Management Resources is a charitablelVolunteersactashorseleadersorsidewalkersforlThe Youth Services Bureau wants you!Susan Tilton 4-3149 
organization dedicated to strengthening the people with disabilities during therapeutic horse-Opportunities abound from assisting with Sarah Zalud 4-2116 
lramily. Volunteer positions exist in child care, Iback riding classes. Agency Contact: 232-0853 Irecreational activities for teens to giving parties *\Velsh 
lc!erical, and computer technology. Agency I lfor young mothers and kids. Agency Contact: !Contact: Evelyn Goad@ 233-3486 I !Bonnie Strycker@ 235-9231 · 
Lisa Lachky 4-1006 
I l · I ­
Elizabeth Robert 4-3443 I LA CASA DE AMISTAD I ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER I YWCA WOMEN'S SHELTER
*Zahm 
IVolunteers work in a youth and adult center on IVolunteers help with tutoring and provide stable IVolunteers listen, provide transportation, tutor and 
J.P. Jarczyk 4-1236 
Ithe west side of South Bend that serves the needs Irole models for children who come from families Iwork with children and perform other impoi1antChris Holdener 4-1453 
lof Hispanics. Contact: Community-Based Ithat are in crisis. It involves one or two afternoons services at the shelter. Agency Phone: 233-9491 
1

Learning Coordinator Cristina Rocha @ per week from 4:30-6:00 p.m. Agency Contact: 233-2120 IPaul Grzeszczyk@ 288-7855 I I ' I I •• 

' . 
' 
..... 


; 
~ 
I 
I 
i i 
i 
I 
I 
,' 
l i 
r 
I 
~ 
. . 
. 

csc CENTER 
Learning through Service  
C  E  N T  . E  R  F  O  R  F«:>R.  and Social Action  
SOCIAL CONCERNS  s  CONCERNS  



HELPING HANDS PROGRAM 
The Helping Hands Program was established in 1999 to enhance the infrastructure of Notre Dame students' tutoring efforts in the South Bend co1nmunity. Students who serve as lead tutors oversee other student tutors at select area schools and community centers, working directly with the site contacts to improve the quality of tutoring offered and to enhance the experience for all involved. 
2001-2002 HELPING HANDS SITES AND LEAD TUTORS 
Charles Martin Youth Center  
* M-TH 3:30-5: 15 p.m. * Katie Solie Charles Black Youth Center * M/W 4: I0-6:00 p.m. * Nicole Ortega Eggleston Elementary * M/W 2:00-4:00 p.m. * Jeremy Bauer Lincoln Elementary  * 634-3778 * 634-3890 * 634-5113  * ksolic@nd.edu * ortega.9@nd.edu * bauer.33@nd.edu  
* TITH 2: 15-5:00 p.m. * Nicholeen DePersLaSalle High School * M/W 11 a.m. -1 p.m. * Kate Maich Center for the Homeless  is * 634-3958 * 634-3856  * kmaich@nd.edu  
* M-TH 5:30-7:30 p.m.  * Cecilia Garza  * 634-0572  * garza.27@nd.edu  

* Amanda Baker * 233-3427 * baker.61@nd.edu 
Robinson Community Learning Center 
* M-TH 3:30-5:30 p.m. * Brian Hanafin * 634-4334 * bhanafin@nd.edu 
* Mary Kate Rade/et * 634-2569 * radelet.l@nd.edu 
Community-Based Leaming Coordinators 
The Center for Social Concerns has ten fonnalized partnerships in the South Bend Con1­munity. The following people work closely with Notre Dame students, linking them to the educational mission of the particular agency and providing many opportunities to learn. Please contact them if you would like to volunteer at their agency orjust learn more about what they do. 
2001-2002 Community-Based Learning Coordinators 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 
Debra Stanley 
P.O. Box 11582 
South Bend, IN 46634 

234-2870 * wuzuwuzu@aol.com 
Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County Kregg Van Meter 
502 E. Sample Street 
South Bend, IN 4660 l 

232-2048 x2102 * kvanmeter@bgcsjc.org 
Center for the Hon1eless 
Ellen Sinis 
813 S. Michigan 
South Bend, IN 46601 
282-8700 * esinis@cfh.net 
Chapin Street Clinic 
Michelle Peter\ 
326 S. Chapin Street 
South Bend. IN 4660 I 

239-5233 * peters1ni@sjcg.org 
La Casa de Amistad 

Cristina Rocha 7 46 South Meade South Bend, IN 466 l9 233-2120 * farbeyond2000@aol.com 
Logan Center 
Marissa Runkle 

1235 N. Eddy St. 
P.O. Box 1049 

South Bend, IN 46624 
289-4831 * marissar@logancenter.org 
Mendoza College of Business 
Jessica McManus 
254 College of Business 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
631-9182 * Jessica.McManus. l 3@nd.edu 
Robinson Community Learning Center 
Marguerite Taylor 92 l North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 466 I7 63 1-9425 * n1taylor43@juno.com 
WELCOME 
Hospitality is an important part of the Center's work on campus. Center hospitality include~: a coffeehouse and kitchen, a large multi-purpose room, seminar rooms, a research room, a library, a reflection room, and vehicles. These facilities are available for use by approved s.tudent and community groups. Contact the Center at 631-5293 to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgues, meals, other gatherings, and to inquire about vehicle use. 
Center Hours 
M-F 8:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Sat. noon -2:00 p.m. * Sun. 6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. *On home football weekends, the Center opens 2 I /2 hours before game time and closes 1/2 hour before game time. 
Please stop by! You can also reach the Center at 631-5293 or nd.cntrsc. l@nd.edu. Check out our web page at http://centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu 
We look forward to meeting you! 

Continued fro,n Front Page 
As a theology professor here told me, "to do good has an attraction to it, and after you do good once, you want more and more." Trust me, you will get hooked! It wiJI never fill you up! On the one hand, it is frustrating to never be fully satisfied in serving others. However, on the other, as Archbishop Oscar Romero in his inspiring '"Prophets of a Future Not Our Own" states, 
"We cannot do everything, and there is a sense 
ofliberation in realizing that. This enables us 
to do something, and to do it very well. It may 

1ots1:;;nni gt1j
be incomplete, but it is a beginning, a step 
along the way, an opportunity for the Lord's 
grace to enter and do the rest." It does not require something huge. Although less vis­ible, the little things are so important; they add up into something beautiful. It is singing at the nursing home, translating at the hospital, and playing ball with under­privileged kids. It is serving food at the food kitchen, opening a door for an elder, and talking to the struggling friend down the hall. Al) serve to better humanity! How beautiful is that! 
In conclusion, in the midst of fear and violence world­wide, we as human beings are called to act locally and think globally to best love, respect, and serve others. We must work to create understanding and peace, not ven­geance and hatred, in our calling for a more just and hu­mane world. We 1nust stand in solidarity with all of hu­n1anity -to demand the end of all forms of oppression and violence, and a beginning to true justice and peace. 
Ben Powers is a senior SCPP/Spanish major in Alumni Hall. He plans on serving somebody somewhere next year before heading off to medical school. Contact him at Powers.33@nd.edu for further conversation. 

South Bend Community Schools 
Student Union Service Commissioners 
Tonya Sexton 

Commissioners pnwide leadership in o,xani::ing campus-wide sen•ice and social action projects. 
Center for Social Concerns 
SUB Tara Franco 634-1389 
631-9405 * Sexton.20@nd.edu 
Office of the President/ Paul Guzetta 233-0569 Student Government Son Nguyen 634-3423 Charles Martin Youth Center/ 
Class of 2004 Megan posmann 634-0833 Zach Potter 634-2042
South Bend Heritage Foundation 
Class of 2003 Katie Schuster 634-2718
Gladys Muhammad 
Ann Madigan 634-2622

802 Lincoln Way West 
Dan Duonadonna

South Bend, IN 46616 
Class of 2002 John O'Malley 289-1419 
280-7092 
Kell Harri an 277-4750 

"Seeking the face ofGod in everything, everyone, everywhere, at all the tin1e, and seeing (God:i.;) hand in every happening -that is contemplation in the heart ofthe world." 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL
-Mother Teresa 
CONCERNS 














