
----~ ·--------------­
Melodic escape
CLOUDY 
Tuesday 
Latin music artist Enrique Iglesias releases newest album, "Escape." 
HIGH 61° 
NOVEMBER 13,
Scene . page 12 
LOW36° 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. SO 

Timm to ·meet with health group 
and information about access did inform the student body Members of Heath Services
• Women's group 
to birth control, planned par­by e-mail Friday the mass e­said the information the stu­proposes condom enthood, pharmacy visits, the mail access ro·r all classes dents provided about services distribution, morning-after pill, STD test­would be deactivated. at Saint Mary's was mislead­
ing and AIDS ministry. The Alissa Blair, Sarah 
ing.
abortion escorts students also plan to provide Edwards, Nicole Haddad, Ann 
"The e-mail. in my opinion.
condoms from their rooms. Hoover, Anna Lentz and Jen 
was false in that we do pro­
according to the e-mail. Wagner, the students behind 
vi de a great range of 
By SHEILA EGTS Timm said it is not an ini­the initiative, said that Health 
women's health services 
News Wri1er tiative the College can sup­Services is lacking in its ser­
including things like physi­
port. vices regarding several 
cian visits and gynecologist
"I am very concerned about women's health issues,
Six students who have 
clinics every week," said
the information being offered according to the e-mail.
started a women's health 
Cathi DeCleene, director of
as it was by students at this They claim in the e-mail
iniative at Saint Mary's will Health Service. "I didn't feel
institution. We are a Catholic they are "in no way affiliated
meet this afternoon with vice 
that their e-mail was even
institution and very clearly with or supported by Saint
president of Student Affairs 
worth responding to."
there are things that we can­Mary's College nor any of its
Linda Timm. 
not and will not support," representative groups."-Student response on cam­The initiative. announced said Timm. After consulting a laywer, pus has been mixed, althoughby a mass e-mail sent to all 
Timm would not comment none of the students involved Timm said she has received a
students last week, plans to 
on if she would pursue disci­in the initiative would make
offer abortion clinic escorts 
plinary action, although she further comment. see GROUP/page 4. 
Panel covers Sept. 11 media issues 
. Faculty evaluate footage of conflict in Afghanistan 
By JOE ACKERMAN 
News Writer 
Three faculty members explored the media's cover­age of the Afghanistan con­flict post-Sept.11 Monday. 
In the presentation entitled "Seeing through the Media," English professor Anne Montgomery, anthropology professor Greg Downey and American Studies professor Susan Ohmer presented vary­ing ideas in regards to biases, attitudes and policies in the media's coverage of the recent events. 
Montgomery. a linguist, dis­cussed the implication of var­ious elements of language and their· impact on people's ·perceptions. She dis cussed the frequent use of Christian language by Bush in his speeches, including invoking the Lord's Praver, and how this could send "a mixed mes­sage about America's inten­tions in regard to religion. · 
She talked about the semantics of the short-lived name of the anti-terror mis­tors are being told not to Downey said. about the media today as sion, "Infinite Justice," which show footage of wounded and Ohmer said she has an opti­being able to outpace the was removed from use only starving Afghanis. He also mistic view of the media hav­institutions that might other­48 hours after its inception. stated that airdrops of food ing better intentions, rather wise control its content. such The new name. "Enduring are "pathetic" because they than being under control of as the government. In the Freedom," has a less harsh are ineffective due to the the government. world of the internet and and more peace oriented amount of food they actually Ohmer, a New Yorker, other instant sources of news approach, Montgomery said. let into the country compared admitted she had an initial she is confident that media 
"We terrorized with this to what could be let in if the "quest for vengeance" after coverage free of government language," Montgomery said. borders were open. The the. events of Sept. 11 spin is definitely possible. 
Downey discussed media media. however, ls leading because she used to live close spin and how he feels it people to believe otherwise. to the World Trade Center. allows democracy to be "We are being spun [by the Her first response was to ask, 
harmed. media] into one solution­"where are the nukes?" Contact Joe Ackerman at He claimed that CNN direc-bombing Afghanistan," Ohmer continued speaking ackerman.4@nd.edu. 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
260 die aboard NY jet 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A jetliner en route to the Dominican Republic broke apart minutes after takeoff and crashed in a waterfront neighborhood Monday, engulfing homes in flames and sowing initial fears of a new terrorist atrocity. All 260 peo­ple aboard were killed, and at least six others were reported missing on the ground. 
"All information we have currently is that this is an accident," said Marion Blakey, chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board. If there was an explosion on the plane -and many wit­nesses heard one -it was probably caused by a mechan­ical failure, investigators said. 
American Airlines Flight 587, a European-made Airbus A300, left Kennedy Airport at 
9:14 a.m., 74 minutes late because of security checks put in place after the World Trade Center attack, according to American Airlines chairman Don Carty. It took off into a clear blue sky. 
Three minutes later, it spi­raled nose-first into the Rvckaway Beach section of Queens -a middle-class neighborhood, 15 miles from Manhattan, that lost scores of its people, including firefight­ers and financial workers. in the Trade Center catastrophe just two months ago. 
"I just thought, 'Oh, no, not again,"' said Milena Owens. who was putting up Thanksgiving decorations when she heard an explosion. 
Furious orange flames tow­ered above the treetops, and a plume of thick, black smoke could be seen miles away. 
Authorities found the cock­pit voice recorder. one of the two "black boxes" from the twin-engine jet, and said it would be examined for clues. 
Witnesses reported hearing an explosion and seeing an engine. a large chunk of a wing and other debris falling off the.plane as it came down. 
"I saw pieces falling out of the sky,'' said Jennifer Rivara, who watched through a win­dow at her home about five blocks away. "And then looked over to my left and I saw this huge fireball, and the next thing I know, I hear this 
see CRASH/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 13, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
J-students prevail 

From Thursday to Sunday afternoon I was a speakPr at the Journalism Educator's Association {JEA) and National Scholastic Press Association's (NSPA) nationaljournalism con­vrmtion for high school stu­
dents. During this time of spending most waking 
.

moments with 3,500 high school students it became clear that journalism stu­dents have more enthusi­
asm and drive compared to the average student. 
While many high school students would go on a school sponsored trip only Courtney Boyle to miss school, these jour­nalists were expected to pay their own way for the News hotel rooms. travel. food, 

Copy Editor 

spending money and in most cases for their own entry to the convention. However, these students were not just paying for a trip to Boston for the weekend. ThAy were expected lo attend all day sessions from 8 a.m. until 2 p.m. and in addiLion on Friday night most students participated in various on-site write-off and design competitions. 
Students in general would usually look at an opportunity to travel to a city such as Boston as just that -an opportunity to see and explore Boston. while maybe occasionally finding time to attend a session or two. However, it is apparent and has been for 75 years that stu­dents actually go to the sessions they have paid to attend while at the convention, rather than exploring the strange city all day and getting into trouble. 
Why is this? 
It is the drive to further their journalistir 

expectations they have set for themselves as an 
individual. It is an incredible chance for stu­
dents to be taken out of their element and 
thrown into a pool of top journalist their age. 
While making friends, student journalists also have the opportunity to discuss staff issues with other staffs from around the country. It is also at this time that it becomes very noticeable that students not only compare papers with each other, but they also feed ideas off of one another and off of professionals there to pre­sent the various sessions. 
Perhaps the most enjoyable part of the con­vention comes from the awards ceremony held on Saturday afternoon. It was at this time when students have a chance to be recognized as a staff for their achievements. There is nothing more satisfying for an adviser and her staff to see everyone nervous and excited in anticipa­tion of will we win ... will our rival high school beat us? ft never fails when the winner is announced and the winning staffjumps to their feet to congratulate one another, everything falls into place. and all the long hours have seemed worth it. 
Overall, the convention is a time for staffs to bond with one another while having fun, and looking for ways to improve their publications when they return to their respected states. It is a time in which advisers and their staffs get to see a more relaxed side of one another and they become more of a family than having a teacher -student relationship. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at 
boylS460@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 

The Obs~rver regards itself as a professional puhlication and strives for 1he highest srandJrds of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistJkes. Ifwe have m,ide a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correc.:t our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mo"d•y rhmugh Frid•y except during exam and var.:;1rion periods, The Ob.server is ,I member of rhe fusocisml Press. All reproducrion righr. arc reserved. 
"We have entered a  "It just took us a while  "Notre Dame wants to  "/ feel that I should  
new era. This new era  to get adjusted to  integrate life in the  be able to e-mail my  
requires new  playing and keeping  residence halls more  colleagues and that  
responsibilities -both  the ball on the ground.  closely with the  everyone should be  
for the government  Once we started  students' intellectual  able to handle the  
and our people. "  kicking the ball on the  interests."  e-mails in a mature  
ground we were OK. "  way.  
President George W. Bush  Scott Appleby, director of  
insuring the U.S. will  Mia Sarkesian  the Kroc Institute for  Linda Padilla  
prevail over terrorism  senior on Big East  International Peace  junior on SMC's new  
Championship victory  Studies on week of peace  e-mail policy  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Peres addresses students in Washington 
WASHINGTON within his territory. Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon "The only thing that holds back a
"We are not interested in
Peres called for Palestinian Authority solution -is terror," he said. Peres Chairman Vasser Arafat to "stop seeing palestinian suffering said the use of terrorism on the part talking and start doing" and vowed -we wish for them to stop of Arafat will not work to his advan­Israel's support for the U.S. war on tage because Israel did not make
being our enemy and start
terror in an address before 4,000 peace with Egypt or Jordan bp,r,ause delegates at the Unittid Jewish being our friend." of terror. Communities General Assembly con­Peres also addressed the US-Israel ference Sunday in Washington. The relationship, the nations· mutual val­
Shimon Peres
audience included about 800 college ues and the war in Afghanistan.
Israeli Foreign Minister
students from arounrl the "All of us stand by Bush's side for Washington area. the reason that there is no otlwr side," 
"We .will judge you by your deeds. hp, said. "[We are in] the same war. not words." Peres said, responding them to stop being our enemy and same direction, same determination." to Arafat's speech beforn the United start being our friend," he said, reiter­In a videotaped address from Nations Sunday where he blamed ating calls by many world leaders for Jerusalem, Israeli Prime Minister Israel for violating the cease-fire and a two-state solution. Ariel Sharon cited similar points. practicing "ethnic cleansing." He said the Palestinians will only Sharon was originally schedulp,d to 
"We are not interested in seeing achieve independence once Arafat has speak Sunday but canceled the trip Palestinian suffering -we wish for control over his people and activities due to national security concerns. 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Graduate student applications on rise 
Although graduates in recent years have enjoyed attractive job opportunities, leading them to put off pursuing graduate or profflssional degrees, figures for this year may tell a different story. With an uncertain job market and unemployment rates reaching 5.4 per­cent nationwide last month. more students may be aiming for graduate and professional schools next fall than in any time in recent memory. Last spring the number of students taking the LSAT, an exam required for law school applications, jumped by 18.6 percent nationwide. While admissions officers were initially uncertain if the rise in test-takers would directly translate into a larger applicant pool, University of Pennsylvania's Law School has seen a 70 percent jump in applirants since then, according to Assistant Dean of admissions and financial aid Janice Austin. ~That is incredibly extraordinary," she said. "I wouldn't have imagined we'd be in this position if you'd asked me a year ago." 
• 
IUPUI 
Indy Star may contract with campus­
Against the advice of journalism educators in Indianapolis and Bloomington, a top administrator at Indiana University­Purdue University at Indianapolis has cut a deal that some say could harm the financial status of student publications across Indiana. Vice Chancellor Karen Whitney has accepted a proposal from The Indianapolis Star -which is ownPd by the Gannett Company -to distributP the state's largest newspaper on campus free to students. Thp, newspaper ha'i also made a pitch at Indiana University-Bloomington and most other l loosier colleges. IUPUI has not signed a contract with The Star yet, and it is undear how many papers will be distributed and where. University sources say one scenario could be that The Star would be available in news racks next to The Sagamore at IUPUI. That possibility. as well as how The Star raises money for the program, alarms journalism leaders at IU and other universities. In an e-mail to Karr.n 'Whitney, Trnvor Brown, dean of the IU School of Journalism, said: "I don't think wp,'11 ever be comfortable with the way The Star is financing it freebie in competition with other newspapp,rs on r,ampus, free and for sale." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 13. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
[ 
Wednefday (f Thursd~y q_ Friday J ~ 
I 
.&-&.

......... ............ 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 
I ( Ptwatn: 
Saturd~y ~­
CO 2001 AccuWeathert Inc. 
•' ®© .. CJD.. 
High Low ShQwera Rain T-•IQf',na Flurrloa Snow Jc• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday fi 

Via Astacratitd Pr•sa 


Atlanta 65 47 Las Vegas 65 47 Portland 52 49
' 

Baltimore 60 36 Memphis 70 50 Sacramento 64 Boston 49 40 Milwaukee 55 49 St Louis 67 52
q_Q-,~A.GQ ~ ~ ~ 47 
Chicago 62 50 New York 55 41 Tampa 77 61 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 76 61 Philadelphia 58 41 Washington DC 60 41 
Via Associsled Pre3s G,aph1CsNet 

Tuesday, November 13, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SIGNING AWAY 




~otre lam 
CHORALE AND CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

IN A P'IC"P'OftMANCE. Of' 
AND A CAP..ELLA SACflED WOftK 
ilrncknet 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEM . 
CaU 259-1.000 for more details 
BOG 

Board endorses e-mail limitations 
Michelle Nagle. student body 

By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
president. also stressed that it 
News Wr.iter 
was BOG's recommendation to Titnm that tipped the scales and .Board of Governance's e-mail allowed for the action to be 
proposal earned temporary vic­taken. tory this week, when Linda Timm. vice 
In other BOG news:
president of Lilly Morales. president of the
Student 
Student Diversity Board,
Affairs, 
requested co-sponsorship of
informed 
$800 for the production of
students 
"Womyn with Wings." This play
Saturday 
deals directly with many issues the all-class that interest and influence thee-mail lists student body including eating would be disorders, rape. female mutila­deactivated. 
tion in Africa and breast cancer. 
"I am 
It follows each of these issuesreviewing the proposal from and shows the transition fromBOG and until such time as we victim to victory. 
finalize the guidelines I have "This demonstrates a greatasked that the class lists be educational resource for the stu­deactivated for general student dent body. It isuse," Timm · also supported 
said in an 
"BOG completely backed by many other 
e-mail sent 
departments

Friday to Student Affairs in this 
within the col­

the student effort to halt the long abuse 
lege including body. 

ofthe e-mail system." the Office of
B O G 
Student

endorsed 
Affairs," Nagle

the action Erin Casey 
said.

at its 
Notre Dame Senate representative 
After Iittle

Monday 
to the BOG debate. BOG
evening 
decided to

meeting. 
grant the co­"BOG completely backed sponsorship so that they mayStudent Affairs in this effort to continue with the production of halt the long abuse of the e-mail "Womyn with Wings." 

system. This is in direct response to student complaints and their input," said Notre 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at
Dame Senate representative 
nell2040@saintmarys.edu.
Erin Casey. 

At:tent:ion. St:udent:s! Sign up for a New Course! 
:M:anaging Differences and Conflict:: A Lecture Series 
(BA 320 & M:BA 520) 
WHAT Is THIS? 

A one-credit-hour course sponsored by Dean. Carolyn Woo,. Professors Ram Ramanan,, Renee Tynan and Jim O'Rourke_ During Spring Semester 2002,, we'll examine those differences you'11 en.counter as you enter the workplace. We•11 hear what business leaders from across the nation have to say on the subject ofculture and conflict_ Join your classmates and friends as we examine the role ofethnicity, race, gender, age, ability, faith, and preference in post-industrial America. 
WHEN Is IT? 

We'll meet on. Friday mornings in. Jordan. Auditorium, l'Vlendoza College of Business, from 10:40 a.m. to 12: 10 p_m_ during Spring Semester 2002_ You. will hear from knowledgeable, thoughtful executives, including: 
$ Cathleen Black, President ofHearst l\llagazines $ Juan Johnson, Vice President, The Coca-Cola Company. $ Alan Wurtzel, Chiefof Stan.dards and Practices, NBC Television. $ Fr. Theodore Hesburgb., President Emeritus, Notre Dame $ Joseph JvicLaughlin (Attorney for PGA golfer, Casey l'Viartin) $ Anne Donnellon,. Professor ofl'V1an.agement, Babson College. $ Ray Hood-Phillips, Vice President, Advan.tica Corporation (Denny's 
Restaurants). 

A complete list ofguest speakers will be available in November. 
WHO CAN ENROLL? 

HMan.agin.g Differences and Conflict: A Lecture Series," listed as BA-320 and MBA-520, is open to any Notre Dame or Saint Mary"s Student via DART_ There are no prerequisites• to enrollment. See. your acaden"J.ic advisor or your department chair for additional detaiL 
WHAT ARE THE COURSE REQUIREMENTS? 

We'll ask you to attend eight Friday n1orning lectures. This is a ~•satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course in which you must be present for at least six of the sch.eduled meeting sessions to receive a grade of"Satisfactory.', There are no examinations and no term paper requirements. 
i 
I 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2001 

Crash 
continued from page 1 
big rumbling sound. I ran to the door and all I saw was big black smoke." 
An engine was found intact in a parking lot at a Texaco station, where it had missed the gas pumps by no more than 6 feet; neighbors ran to the scene with garden hoses to put out the fire. The vertical stabilizer -the tail fin -was pulled from Jamaica Hay, just offshore, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said. 
American Airlines said there were 251 passengers -including five infants sitting on their par­ents' laps -and nine crew mem­b e r s . 
O'Brien said. 
"Right now they're just recover­ing bodies. The FBI is looking for evidence," he said. "And the priests are down there consoling firemen." 
At a candlelight vigil Monday night in Manhattan's Washington Heights, heavily populated with Dominicans, Gov. George Pataki 
and  Mayor-elect  Michael  
Bloomberg  offered  words  of  
encouragement.  

"We are New Yorkers. We are a strong people. A free people. A people committed to each other," he said. "However long the sor­row might continue, we will pre­vail." 
Added Bloomberg: "All one can say to those left behind is. you have memories, you have chil­dren, you have parents that can· 
remember those 
Police said "We're just being tested one we lost." 
the body of Forty-one people 
more time. and we're going 
one man were treated for was found • to pass this test, too. " injuries at the hos­holding a pital -mostly res­baby. cue workers, fire­
Rudolph Giulanl
"I don't fighters and police. 
mayor of New York City
believe All were hurt not 
there are any sur­vivors at this point," Giuliani said. By early evening, 225 bodies had been recovered, he said. 
As night fell, several hundred search crews working under the glare or klieg lights -the kind of lights used at ground zero at the Trade Center -formed bucket brigades and separated the debris into gruesome piles: luggage, plane parts, house debris and human remains. Police said the bodies were being found intact. 
At least six and perhaps as many as eight people, all adults. were reported missing on the ground, the mayor said. Six' hous­es were destroyed, and six others sustained serious damage -in some cases, the siding was melted off the homes by intense heat. 
Roberto Valentin, a Dominican ambassador at large, spoke through tears when he said he believed 90 percent of the passen­gers were Dominican. New York City has 455.000 Dominicans. 
Relatives of passengers crowd­ed Santo Domingo's airport, sob­bing and grasping each other after hearing about the crash. "Oh my God!" said Miriam Fajardo, crying after being told that her sister and three nephews were aboard. "I hadn't seen them in eight years. Now they're gone." · 
The rectory of St. Francis de Sales, one block from the crash site, was used as an emergency command center. Its pastor, Monsignor Martin Geraghty, was called away to bless bodies. 
Firefighter Joe O'Brien accom­panied the priest. The monsignor blessed about 20 bodies, which were being laid out on the street right in front of the crash site, in the crash but in 
the aftermath, with most of them suffering smoke inhalation. 
The city. which was already on high alert because of the Trade Center catastrophe in lower Manhattan, reacted immediately. Fighter jets patrolled the skies; bridges, tunnels and all three major airports were closed for a Urne; the Empire State Building was evacuated. 
"People should remain calm," Giuliani said. "We're just being tested one more time, and we're going to pass this test, too." 
In Washington, President Bush met with advisers, seeking details of the crash. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said there were no "unusual communi­cations" from the cockpit. And a senior administration official said that no threats against airplanes had been received. 
Pataki at first said the pilot dumped fuel in Jamaica Bay before the plane went down ­indicating the crew knew the jet was in trouble. But he later said there were conflicting reports as to whether this happened. 




~gnxa
1]'1~
(,,~ 
DUTPOST 
IIIIIT!EifJIII 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
The NTSB was designated the lead agency in the investigation, signaling that authorities have no information other than that a mechanical malfunction -and not a terrorist attack -brought down the plane. 
A law enforcement source at the scene· told The Associated Press that the likelihood of a mechanical problem stemmed from the fact that flames were seen shooting out of the left engine and that witnesses report­ed the plane had difficulty climb­ing and was banking to the left. 
The Airbus had two CF6-80C2 engines made by General Electric. In March, the FAA directed air­lines to inspect such engines for possible cracks in turbine rotor discs. The cracks could cause the discs to fly apart and prompt engine failure, the FM said. The alert was issued after the FAA received a report of an engine failure during a maintenance run on the ground. 
Ann Mollica, an aerospace engi­neer with the FM in Burlington, Mass., said she was unable to say whether the problem was related to Monday's crash. 
Jet engines have been known to break up catastrophically, hurling shrapnel. In 1989, for example, a United Airlines DC-10 with GE­built engines crashed in Sioux City, Iowa, killing 112 people, after the metal hub that held the engine's fan blades shattered and ruptured the jet's hydraulic lines. 
Giuliani said his first thought upon hearing about the crash was '"Oh, my God.' I just passed the church in which I've been to, I think, 10 funerals here. Rockaway was particularly hard hit" in the Trade Center disaster, he said. 
The Trade Center was destroyed by two Boeing 767s hijacked out of Boston's Logan Airport. One of the planes was operated by American, the other by United. Another American jet crashed into the Pentagon that day. 

Group 
continued from page 1 
great deal of negative response. 
"I think they shouldn't have come to a Catholic col­lege if they wanted to have abortions available," said freshman Kim Kuzawa. "I think abortions shouldn't be available to anyone, but did they really expect that from a Catholic college?" 
"I think that as grown peo­ple we should have all options presented to us and then make a decision based on that," said sophomore Annetee Dolph. "I don't nee­essarily support the services they are offering, but I think that our options should be open." 
Saint Mary's Right to Life is planning a counter cam­paign. 
"Our plan of action is to start a strong campaign to provide information, hot­lines, and resources that offer real options to women in crisis pregnancy and women who have had abor­tions," said Erica DeVoir. president of Saint Mary's Hight to Life. "'We will do everything we can to counter their actions." 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 


Man steals art out of library 
AssQciated Pres• 

BOULDER. Colo. 
A man admitted Monday to stealing artwork he consid­ered anti-male and porno­graphic from a public library and leaving an American {lag in its place. 
The display featured 21 brightly colored ceramic penises hanging from a clothesline. It was part of an exhibit sponsored by a bat­tered women's shelter in recognition of Domestic Violence Awareness Month. 
Robert Rowan, 49, who took the display Saturday, said he supports the shelter's work but believes the library should have been more sen­sitive to families and chil­dren who could see the dis­play. 
"The whole display is a male-bashing deal." Rowan said. "This just doesn't belong here." 
Representatives with the Boulder County Safehouse said the exhibit will remain on display without the stolen artwork until Nov. 26. Library officials did not return a telephone message left for comment Monday, 
Police plan to consult with the artist before deciding whether to file charges against Rowan, who turned over the artwork to police Sunday. 
Artist Susanne Walker said she wants to talk with Howan before she makes a decision on pressing charges. 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

Dublin Ireland 
Information Meeting 
Tuesday, Nov. 13, 2001 155 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 PM 
with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 for Fall 2002, Spring 2003 All Year 2002-2003 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 





ATION 
Tuesday, November 13, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
First black Miss Colombia elected: 
Vanessa Alexandra Mendoza has become the first black woman to win the Miss Colombia title. Black Columbians are underrepresent­ed in politics and discriminated against socially and economically. The only black member of the national congress said Mendoza's selection suggests attitudes may be changing. 
Police swarm Macedonian villages: 
Hundreds of Macedonian police officers con­verged on two villages in the Balkan country's ethnically tense northwest on Monday, attempting to prevent the escape of ethnic Albanian gunmen they said killed three police officers and took dozens of hostages. Police fanned out around Semsovo and Trebos, where the three ofiicers were killed. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Mandela meets with Bush: Former South African President Nelson Mandela appeared in the White House Rose Garden on Monday with an unconditional message of support for Bush's war on terrorist targets in Afghabistan. Mandela told reporters he came to see Bush to deliver this message: "l sup­port him to continue until those terrorists have been tracked down." 
Catholic Bishops discuss war: The nation's Roman Catholic bishops began reviewing their position on the ivar on terror­ism Monday, acknowledging a moral right to a military defense but warning that force alone is not the answer. The authors of a draft proclamation took pains to say that nothing justifies terrorism. Still, they argued that poverty, violence and human rights abus­es, if not addressed. generate resentment that terrorists can exploit. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Men hid marijuana in microwave: 
Police have arrested two men after tracking 22 pounds of marijuana concealed in a microwave that was delivered to an apart­ment. Jose Juan Urena, 26, and Carlos A. Pena, 18, both of Ligonier, were being held without bond in the Noble County Jail on charges of possession of more than 10 pounds of marijuana, conspiracy to deliver a con­trolled substance and maintaining a common nuisance. Police found the marijuana pack­aged in small bricks concealed inside the cas­ing of a microwave oven that was delivered to the residence Friday. 
Market Watch November 12 
Dow 9,554.37 -53.63 Jones 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) . +0.72 +0.27 38.00 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.32 +0.06 19.26 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1.47 -0.19 12.73 CIENA CORP (CIEN) +9.60 +1.65 18.83 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.73 +0.S0 28.38 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 

Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
Even if it's ruled an acci­dent, Monday's plane crash rattled an already nervous nation and threatened to undermine efforts to woo travelers back into the skies for the holiday sea­son. 
"It was like being hit hard in the stomach," said Robert Travers of Syracuse, N.Y., describing how he absorbed news of the crash while waitlng to pick up his son at the local airport. 
Like many Americans, Travers' first thought was that terrorists had struck again. At a time of often-
vague security alerts, some people found themselves hoping crash investigators were right in suggesting that a technical malfunc­tion was to blame. 
"This could not have occurred at a more critical time in the history of the aviation industry," said Marianne Mcinerney, exec­utive director of the National Business.Travel Association. "You hate to say this, but we're all hope­ful this is a mechanical occurrence." 
At Miami International Airport, news of the crash dismayed taxi driver Erines Eleazar, 42, whose busi­ness was just returning to normal after plummeting because of the Sept. 11 ter­ror attacks. 

"People were getting more confidence. They wanted to get back in the air," he said. "Now they had this crash -it's just going to kill the business again." 
Many travelers nation­wide were temporarily stranded as New York's metropolitan-area airports -Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark, N.J. -closed for several hours after the crash. 
Marie Brown, of Ocean Port, N.J., was returning from a vacation to Hawaii with her husband when their Newark-bound flight was diverted to Detroit. 
'Tm too scared to fly." Brown said. "We're trying to get a car to drive home. This is just unreal." 
Other stranded passen­gers were determined to keep flying. 
"There's more car acci­dents than there are · plane crashes," said Christianna Toler, who was trying to get back to New York after a theater audition in Chicago. 
"You can't stop your life," said Anabela Correia, 24, of New Bedford, Mass., who was in Miami en route back home from a Caribbean cruise. 

Opposition closes in on Kabul 
began. U.S. war jets pounded the accused of carrying out the Sept. 11
Associated Pres• 

Taliban front lines as they have for attacks in the United States. 
RABAT, AFGHANISTAN weeks. The alliance staged advances along 
As northern alliance forces closed in Opposition fighters launched their the two roads leading to Kabul from on Kabul, trucks brought hundreds of offensive just before noon, after one the north. There was no Taliban reinforcements to the front lines, particularly fierce round of pounding resistance along the Old Road, where while ·other vehicles headed in the by U.S. B-52 bombers. Tanks and opposition forces advanced to within opposite direction, evacuating the artillery provided cover as soldiers four miles of the capital -to the town dead, the wounded and captured firing Kalashnikov rifles and rocket of Shakar Dara, said Abdullah, the Taliban fighters. His _voice crackling launchers charged forward. opposition's foreign minister. over the radio, an opposition com­The advance toward Kabul capped On the New Road, however, Taliban mander ordered his fighters to cap­four days of stunning victories by soldiers and their allies -Arabs, ture four Taliban tanks. Afghanistan's opposition amid fierce Pakistanis, Chcchens and others ­
The Shomali plain, about 25 miles U.S. attacks on the Taliban to punish fought back. Fierce gunbattles there north of the capital, was covered in it for harboring Osama bin Laden and killed and wounded an unknown smoke and fire as the push for Kabul the al-Qaida terrorist network, number of fighters on each side. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
Taliban fighters flee Kabul 
Tajik government had offered
A.sodated P rcss 

the bases for U.S. use against Afghanistan. and the decisionWASHINGTON to go ahead could mean more
The Bush administration 

Air Force fighter-bombers willcheered signs that the Taliban be sent there soon. 
were deserting the Afghan 

The U.S. defense official.
capital as defense officials 

who discussed the matter onsaid Monday they planned to condition of anonymity, said itbase U.S. aircraft: in the bor­was not yet clear how muchdering country of Tajikislan. 
local improvement would beTaliban fighters could be 
needed before the airfield 
seen streaming out of Kabul 

could be put to use. The offi­
after dawn Tuesday. A U.S. 

cial was not certain which
official, speaking on condition 

airfield was chosen out of
of anonymity, said large num­

three offered: Kulyab,
bers of Taliban were leaving, Khojand and Kurgan-Tyube.

but the ruling militia's evacu­
The U.S.
ation from 
military
Kabul was 

"I think it is great news. It already is
"far from using one

complete." means the intial phase of 
airfield in

"I think the campaign is going well. " Uzbekistan,
it is great where at 
news. It 
least 1,000

Thomas White
means the 
soldiers of

initial U.S. Anny secretary 
the U.S.

phase of the cam­paign is going well," Army Secretary Thomas White said. 
Northern alliance forces began moving into the capital in pickup trucks loaded with soldiers armed with rifles and rocket launchers. There was no shooting as the opposition forces took over a military barracks that only hours before had been in Taliban hands. 
White said on CNN's "Larry King Live" that he thought "a combination of well-targeted air power along with move­ment on the ground by north­ern alliance forces" prompted the Taliban to flee Kabul. 
The decision on the Tajik base follows an onsite assess­ment by U.S. military advisers of the feasibility of using as many as three airfields in the former Soviet republic. The 
Army's 10th Mountain Division are based. It also has made use of mili­tary facilities in Pakistan, although nearly all combat missions have been flown from aircraft carriers in the Arabian Sea and from a British base in the Indian Ocean. Some missions have been flown from Persian Gulf nations. 
The significance of using one or more airfields in Tajikistan is twofold: It offers a chance to fly shorter attack missions in support of anti­Taliban forces, possibly offer­ing some relief to Navy pilots who have been flying long missions from carriers, and, secondly, it offers an opportu­nity to expand the delivery of humanitarian relief to Afghans. 
Victoria Clarke, chief 
spokeswoman for Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, said Monday that the U.S. government is focusing hard on an expanded humanitarian relief effort, now that Taliban forces have lost control of the northern city of Mazar-e­Sharif and arc on the run elsewhere in the country. 
"There's an intensive effort 
under way," she said. 
Thus far, the delivery of food rations and other humanitarian relief has been limited to airdrops by Air Force C-17 cargo planes fly­ing from Germany. More than 
1.3 million food packets have been delivered, but the Pentagon has been eager to find more efficient means ­namely overland deliveries. 
U.S. officials also said they had received reports that communications between the al-Qaida forces of Osama bin Laden and the Taliban had been further hampered by recent U.S. bombing -adding to the difficulty of mounting a defense against the opposition forces. 
Rumsfeld said on Sunday there was friction between leaders of al-Qaida and the Taliban, although he did not elaborate. A U.S. official on Monday said there were sig­nificant disagreements between the two groups over military tactics. 
White House officials said late Monday they were reviewing reports that Taliban forces were deserting Kabul. 
"We've seen the reports." said White House spokesman Sean McCormack. "At this time, the situation on the ground is very fluid." 
CANADA 

Police hold donor 
to terrorist group 
Associated P,~,. 

TORONTO 
The head of a money-transfer service that the United States accuses of diverting money to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network surrendered Monday to Canadian police. 
Lilian Hussein. 31, was taken into custody under an extradi­tion warrant, Royal Canadian Mounted Police Cpl. Louise Lafrance said. He was sched­uled to appear for a bail hearing in Ottawa on Tuesday morning. 
Hussein and his brother, Mohamed, operate Barakaat North America Inc. out of offices in Ottawa and Massachusetts. Last week, the U.S. Treasury said the company's assets should be frozen for allegedly financing terrorism. 
Mohamed Hussein was arrest­ed in Boston last week and faces a court hearing Thursday. 
U.S. Attorney General .John Ashcroft has called the Boston business and others around the country "offices" of the al­Barakaat network. one of two organizations on a list of entities with suspected terrorist ties. 
Investigators believe tens of millions of dollars a year flow overseas through Al-Barakaat. Much of that was sent by Somali residents of the United States to relatives. with the networks skimming money off for al­Qaida through exchange fees, the U.S. officials charge. 
Llban Hussein has denied any involvement between his com­pany and terrorists, saying Barakaat simply helps Somalis send money to relatives back home. 
The Husseins, ·brothers from Somalia who hold Canadian citi­zenship, have not been charged with terrorist activity. 
Hussein now faces extradition proceedings in Canada that can last for months or years unless he waives his right to a hearing. His arrest came at the request of the United States. and he faces no charges in Canada. 
Hussein's Boston lawyer, Sam Osagiede. said earlier Monday that Hussein wanted to turn himself in to argue his case to police. 
"He's going in there for an interview, interrogation," Osagiede told The Canadian Press. "If they want to detain him after that, that is not what I can tell." 
Barakaat North America received deposits of more than $3 million between January and September. U.S. authorities say. So far. the Customs Service has identified nearly $800,000 wired from Barakaat North America Inc.'s account to the Al Baraka Exchange in the United Arab Emirates. Assets of the Emirates· branch were frozen on Wednesday. 
The FBI had already investi­gated possible ties between Barakaat and terrorists over a year ago. Osagiede said last week. At a meeting in September 2000. the FBI met with Osagiede and a company trustee whom he would not identify. 

Powell: War on terrorism is war for democracy 
indicated "that it's an accident stressed that military efforts Russian Foreign Minister Chinese Foreign Minister Associated Press 
-and let us hope that turns alone would not succeed in Igor Ivanov agreed. Tang Jiaxuan joined Russia's out to be the case." eradicating terrorism. "Military means alone are Ivanov in warning that there 
UNITED NATIONS The meeting focused on the "The war on terrorism starts not sufficient. After all. pover­should be no double standards

The war on terrorism must 

global fight against terrorism. within each of our respective ty. illiteracy. unemployment. in the fight against terrorism.
be fought with increased sup­
The council unanimously sovereign borders," Powell absence of equal access to the 
Both countries are combat­

port to promote democracy 
adopted a resolution calling said. "It will be fought with benefits of scientific and tech­
ting separatists whom they

and alleviate poverty so there 
for a U.N. counter-terrorism increased support for democ­nological progress force desti­
regard as terrorists at home.

will be no 
committee to help nations racy programs, judicial tute people to join the ranks of 
Russia says Chechen rebels

reason for 
strengthen measures to stop reform. conflict resolution, extremists," he said. 
are supported by terrorist

terrorists 
financing. supporting and pro­poverty alleviation, economic Ireland's Foreign Minister 
abroad, and Tang said:

to exist, 
viding sanctuary to terrorists, reform, and health and educa­Brian Cowen said the interna­
Secretary ."China, too, has been threat­
as required by a landmark tion programs. tional community ignores
of State ened by terrorism."
council resolution adopted on "All these together deny the these underlying problems "at 
C o l i n The Muslim "East
Sept. 28. reason for terrorists to exist our peril."
Powell told Turkestan" separatists in the
With public support for U.S.­or find safe havens within "We must reject a world 
the U.N. western Xinjiang region "have
led military action on those borders," Powell said, in order in which the 200 richest Security Afghanistan waning in some what U.N. diplomats said was people have greater assets long received training. finan­Council on nations that have joined the his strongest statement on than the two billion people at cial aid and support from Monday. global coalition against terror­what must be addressed to the other end of the spec­international terrorist 
Powell spoke at the first 

ism. the foreign ministers win the war on terrorism. trum," he said. groups," he said. 
ministerial-level meeting of 


the 15-member council since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and just hours after another plane crash in New York City sparked fear that terrorists may have struck again. Powell said preliminary information 

ir:.: ··.·.. r>i-i:-ii' I
J ··••k· i• •••l'.l~<.lC""~~<••,..1~. · 
··:1tt£>m·•.·.~1t<;~11..:~,:t~{.)~~.'"•·.1:1~or,

Strippers t:'6 ~inging·hotd6gs. From 29~so, and today from underage to 2f! 
.Happy·•·•·~~ij~~IJl ~~~!
'We·.·•gl~t~:~~il....: 
· · Wersh'41:J.· 
: '" ,,c ,. '";' :.c '·~·'"' ' . ·. ••, ,. 


CalJ 259-2000 for more details 


r--' 

presents Brian Bedford and Claire Bloom in ~ 
andAllthe Me12 and Women MerelyPlayerJ" 


Seats Limited, Buy Your Ticket Now! ­
.
'\ 

November 15, 2001 8:oo pm EST Jordan Auditorium 
Mendoza College of Business Administration University of Notre Dame 
"To business that we love we rise betime and go to't with delight." 
~William Shakespeare 
\\l~ AND AL1 
~ c~ . 
lllartflri 
found.it:ion 
Imagine the potentiar 
We're delighted to be a part ofthe University ofNotre Dame's Shakespeare! 


z 
~ 
3 
v 
11> 
-, 
~ 
N 
G 
C 

page 8 1·' 
The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
Judge fines IBP for unpaid work 
A.ssociatr.:d Pre>s 
YAKIMA, Wash. 

A federal judge has ordered meatpacking giant IBP to pay $3.1 million to 815 current and former production line employ­ees for unpaid work at its Washington state plant. 
!HP, based in Dakota Dunes, S.D., said it plans to appeal the ruling by U.S. District Judge Robert Whaley in Spokane. IBP was purchased by Tyson Foods of Springdale, Ark., in September. 
The limited class-action law­suit contended that IBP violated state and federal wage and hour laws at the plant because workers weren't paid for time spent preparing for and clean­ing up after their jobs. 
''The company started paying the people with the first cut of meat and stopped paying with the last cut of meat," said David Mark, a Seattle lawyer who rep-. resented the workers. "And they had to do a lot of work before they were ready to cut meat and a lot of work after they finished cutting meat." 
The Wallula plant in south­eastern Washington has about 1,400 workers who process about 280 cows an hour. 
"Contrary to the claims made, we pay our team members for all of the production time worked," IBP said in a state­ment. "We also pay for the time they spend immediately before and after work, putting on and taking off the clothing and equipment required for their jobs. In fact, our practices have been determined by the U.S. Department of Labor to be in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act." 
The lawsuit contended that workers routinely arrived_ for their production line jobs 30 to 45 minutes early and stayed another 20 minutes after their shift to remove, wash and store equipment. 
Mark said employees were also required to remove their contaminated work gear before lunch and then put it on after­ward, all off the clock. 
Whaley heard the case against IBP in a bench trial a year ago. His decision was issued Sept. 14 and lawyers for the workers issued a press release about the ruling on Monday, 
The lawsuit covered a period from June 1995 until May 2000. Last week, Mark and the law firm of Schroeter Goldmark & Bender in Seattle filed a second similar lawsuit that makes the same allegations for a subse­quent time period and for differ­ent workers. The case has been assigned to U.S. District Judge Edward Shea in Richland. 
"Most of the people who work for IBP ... are hardworking peo­ple," said Maria Martinez, who worked at IBP for 12 years and helped lead a monthlong wild­cat strike over wages and work­ing conditions at the plant in 1999. 
"For all of us. a dollar means a lot and we should not be cheated out of receiving fair wages for doing what is required of us at our jobs." 
Starbucks ensures fair labor practice 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Starbucks Corp. on Monday unveiled a plan to pay coffee suppliers up to 10 cents more per pound if they protect the environment and abide by local minimum wage and worker safety laws. 
The test program, scheduled to be announced at a coffee suppliers conference in Costa Rica Monday, comes as the coffee industry faces a world­wide glut that has pushed wholesale prices down 40 per­cent over the past year, to around 40 cents per pound. 
With prices so low, Starbucks senior vice presi­dent Mary Williams said, some coffee producers are not being paid enough to grow the high­quality coffee Starbucks needs. 
"We want to ensure our sup­ply line into the future by making sure the people who supply our coffee are paid well for it and cared for," Williams said. 
The company pledged to continue the program through the 2003 crop season, Williams said, after which it will evaluate its effectiveness and market conditions. 
The Seattle-based coffee chain, one of America's largest specialty coffee buyers, has been paying an average of $1.20 per pound, spokes­woman Audrey Lincoff said, 
and has not reduced its pay­ments as the wholesale price has fallen in the past year. 
However, Starbucks coffee also retails for above-average prices. Like many gourmet coffee brands, it sells for around $11 per pound. 
For years, the company has made commitments encourag­ing environmentally and socially responsible practices among coffee suppliers. Critics charge that Starbucks doesn't provide information to verify those efforts. 
"Maybe it's working but nobody's seeing it," said Deborah James, Fair Trade director for the activist group Global Exchange. 
James said other, smaller coffee retailers have long had similar programs, but Starbucks is likely the first multinational coffee retailer to adopt the strategy. Many cof­fee retailers, including Starbucks, Peet's Coffee and Tea and Green Mountain Coffee, now sell some Fair Trade coffee, which activists say gives farmers a living wage. 
The pilot program was developed with the Center for Environmental Leadership in Business, a group funded by Conservation International and Ford Motor Co. The center promotes environmentally friendly practices among major corporations. 
Online giants collaborate 
. Sony Corp. joins AOL Time Warner in high-speed net connection race 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Media titans AOL Time Warner Inc. and Sony Corp. will jointly develop a home networking environment to deliver 
online entertain­ment over h i g h ­s p e e d Internet connec­tions. 
The col­

laboration Case is aimed at developing easier ways of linking televisions, stereos, game consoles and other devices to always-on broad­band networks that are now primarily used by personal computers. 
"Consumers want the Internet to play a greater role in their lives, and are looking forward to the day when broadband can deliver all of a family's home enter­tainment, information and communications needs over a wide variety of devices," said Steve Case, AOL Time Warner's chairman. 
Few product details or timelines were disclosed dur­ing an announcement at the Comdex trade show, but the agreements arc not exclu­sive, and any network soft­ware and services will be developed with an open architecture. 

The collaboration pits the biggest names in consumer electronics and Internet access against Microsoft Corp. , which this week is releasing its Internet­enabled Xbox video console. 
Under the joint program, Sony and AOL will develop home gateway technologies that will allow the sharing of connections and content among multiple devices. 
The technology will employ copyright management --an important element for media companies. 
AOL and Sony also plan to design an Internet browser specifically for consumer electronic devices. It also could be made 
enhanced broadband experi­ence and create new busi­ness opportunities for the whole industry," said Kunitake Ando, Sony's presi­dent and chief operating offi­cer. 
On Sunday, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates outlined his vision of a "digital decade" in which consumers are always connected to the Internet through personal computers and an array of other gadgets. 
The Sony-AOL deal shows Microsoft will not have the only label on next-generation devices, said Richard Doherty, an analyst at the Envisioneering Group. 
"This clearly has put a new challenge to Microsoft and any broadband relationship that Sony would have with Microsof't," he said. 
Shares 
of AOL 

"Consumers want the Internet 
avail­w e r e able to to play a greater role in their down 67 other cents to
lives, and are looking forward 
e l e c -close at 
to the day when broadband
tronics $36.43 on man u­can deliver all ofa family's home the New factur­Y o r k
entertainment, information and 
ers. S t o c k
communications needs over a 
T h e Exchange, 
compa­wide variety ofdevices." b u t nies will gained 8 explore cents in
Steve Case 
the pos­extended sibility AOL Time Warner chainnan trading. of AOL Shares of provid-Sony, also i n g traded on access to Sony's networked the NYSE, were up 15 cents 
devices in the United States. to close at $39.95, and were "We believe this collabora­up another 30 cents in tion will offer consumers an extended trading. 

Need alift? Don't miss the bus. 
Who: You and all your friends 
What Buses ride directly from the 
lni!e Museum lo (hicogo Airpor11 When: Wednesday November 2l, 200l Where Bus meets at Sni!e Museum 
l 5 minu!es before lime listed 
O'Hare: 8o.m., Noon, 2p.m. Midway: 10 o.m. 


page 9

Tuesday, November 13, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

r -. 
-lit :; . 

-ll!aa:::::::;;;...::~-~· • ' 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, Novemberl3, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Snurh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF /\-like Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
AssT. MANI\GIN(; EDITOR OrERA'l'ION!i MANAGER Kerry Smith Pat Peters 
NEWS EDITOR: Jas()n McFar!ey VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Am.<tadcer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EUITOR: Myra McGrilT PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
AvVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springet AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
. CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGENEIW. brn.............. 631-7471 
FAx.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................63 !-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-53 l 3 NEWS................: .........................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu Y!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAllY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 · 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

movies/music for
weather for up-ro-rhe 
minute forecasts 

weekly srudem reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse adverrisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and obieaively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns.presem the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The &ee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lrnm to the Editor rnusr be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Quesriom regardmg Observer polietes should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMi/,e Connolly. 
Question religion 
I fear nothing more than those who don't question religion. 
l find nolhing more frightening than the idea that a group of seemingly rational, intelligent people acted suici­dally to kill 6,000 other John Litle human beings that they didn't know and with Frankly whom thev had Obnoxious no personal issues. I fear not out of' worry !'or my own personal safe­ty.· Rather, I am frightened because someone was able to convince them 
. that not only was their decision cor­rect. but that God actually wanted them to do it. Religion frightens me with its power. A man can justify an act if he feels that it ts (iod's order. No, I don't foar a terrorist attack on Alumni Hall; I fear religion in the absence of reason. 
I find it very easy to look towards Afghanistan and proclaim, "The Taliban is wrong, the Koran doesn't teach that." It is easy for Bush to pro­claim to the world that Islam is a faith based on peace. 
Unfortunately, these sentiments do nothing to convince those who believe these attacks were ordered by God that their course of action is in error. After all, in their minds, who are humans to doubt God's will? They have been taught what God wants; lis­tening to other humans attempt to debate or contradict what they have been taught is pointless, as God is the ultimate authority. They believe so blindly (they would say so wholly or thoroughly) that they are incapable of stepping back and taking a look at· · religion objectively. 
So what caused the tragedies of 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Put protests aside, support military 
The Center for Social Concerns is supporting the protest of a military base in Georgia known as the School of the Americas. They are protesting on the basis that the military trains Latin American soldiers in fighting and combat.. They am also protesting the death of several Catholic figures and civilians in South America and believe it is the fault ofthe U.S. Government. 
With that said, 1 am 100 percent for first amendment rights and feel people should be able to protest whatever they want. I'd also like to say I don't necessarily disagree with the cause, but I highly question the decision to protest at such a sensitive time. I think some good comes out of the S.O.A. and the bad that comes out needs to be investigated by the proper authorities. But I don't feel a protest of our military who are risking their lives for our sake is called for at this time. 
I feel it is ridiculous that our University is supporting this protest and feel it is a blatant disrespect io our men and women in uniform, especially in this time or crisis. We currently Sl'pt. 11 '1 It wasn't Islam. It was a group of humans' unwillingness to queslion their faith aud what they have been taught. That is the direct cuuse of the tragedies. What's worse is that I don't think there is anything we can do from here to stop this faith without intellect. 
Of' course, I writii this article in my theology class, so I shouldn't be too hypocritical. Theni are people here. at Notre Dame no loss, guilty of the exact same crime as tho Taliban. There arc those that believe so blindly as to never question their faith, no ma.Lter what it tells them. They are just as big a danger. I am not saying there is · some sort of overwhelming plague or these types here at Notre Dame, hut you know as well as I do that they 
exist. 
Originally I was g9ing to use the arti­cles like "Fight Hatred with Love" as my example of religion without reason here on campus. I have to agree that it is a good sentiment, but most agree it is lacking in practicality. The problem I find is that along with such articles comes the message. "God does not want us to retaliate." 
That statement is the exact same statement as, "Allah wants us to kill the infidel." Step back. Look at the sit­uation. How arrogant for someone to assume that they know of what God does or does not approve. This is what frightens me, because the perceived absolute knowledge of God's plan can and will motivate a person of faith to do whatever they can to further that plan. 
It is unsafe to proclaim full knowl­edge of God's desires when such claims cannot be validated. You can say HI don't think God wants us to retaliate," but, believe it or not, no one 

have G.S. soldiers on the ground in Afghanistan who would die for our freedom if given the chance to. 
It was only a fow weeks ago that F-18s were flying along the 
eastern seaboard in a symbolic but protective manner. 
Yet, this University (through the Center for Social 
Concerns) is allowing and promoting the 
protest of our military. These protesters are 
providing the enemy with aid by disrupting 
the great resolve of our nation. Just 
because we have the right to protest does 
not mean we should exercise it at every 
opportunity. For once, put your protests 
aside and stand with America as a proud 
citizen in support of the ones who protect 
Scan Quigley freshman Sr. Edward·s Hall Nov. 12, 200 I 

at Notre Dame is a divine intermedi­ary, and thus no one can speak !'or God. 
I fear the charisma and tlrn rhetoric tlrnt can convince otherwise rational persons that irrational actions are the correct path. I am frustrated by the idea that, with just a little effort and intellectual pursuit, as well as an open mind on the part of those who so blindly believe, these religion-based problems could be avoided. But most of all l am saddened that for some peoplP, in the Taliban, and right here at Notre Dame. their closed-minded­ness denies thAm true. mature faith. Their malformed faith causes them to take actions in the name of God that most would think, or hope, is not rcl1ective of' llis will. 
In the United States. we need to con­sider both faith-based and practical responses and reactions to the tragedies of two months ago. Failure to apply practicality and intellect makes us as big a danger and as irre­sponsible as these religiously misled terrorists. There is no difference between thought-devoid Christianity and thought-devoid Islam, because irrational religion, regardless of denomination, is dangerous to every­one based on the power of God's per­ceived will. 
John Litle is ajunior MIS major who hopes to make people think more than to make them mad. lie will however use the latter to achieve the former. I/is column runs every other Tuesday. He can be contacted at jlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Seem~ 
Helena Payne Sam Derheimer Courtney Boyle . Orris Scott Elizabeth Lee Graphics Spo1·ts Andy Devoto Bryan Kronk Production Viewpoint Andrew Soukup Kristin Yernrn Lab Tech Brian Pucevicb 
POLL QUESTION 
Is the economy causing you to rethink your post-graduation plans? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m, 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Generally speabng. I.he errors in religion are dangerous: those in philosophy only ridiculous. " 
David Hume philosopher, writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 13, 2001 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Taking care of business in Africa 
Mv office is a mat under a troe in Maltritania. My clients know where I live, and I am ·available to them 24 · hours a clay. 
I am a business consultant like many ~otre name grac!u­
Maite Uranga 

atcs. I help husitrnsses develop more efficient svs­
Life in Africa 

tems of opera­tion. [ do not yet specialize in any particular area. 1 can work on the internal accounting system, market­ing, administration, investment plan­ning and project selection. But unlike many consultants, my office is not in New York or Chicago. 
The official ti Lie of the Peace Corps sector I work for is Small Enterprise Development. Basically, I am a con­sultant in the developing world. '.'vly business partner is a women's co-op that has 321 members and five differ­ent departments: sewing, tie dying, brnad-rnaking, millet grinding and gardening. The average woman has about four to five years of formal edu­cation. This means they speak very little Frnnch, read on an elementary ltWl\l -if at all -and ofte_n lack basic numeracy skills. Thankfully, the women am highly motivated, open to new idPas and-riager to learn. 
My major problem now is not know­ing where to start. Should I start on thl~ garden department because once that is successful the overall nutrition of the village will increase? Or I could start on getting the millet grinding department opPrational because this service would free up time for girls and women who currently hand-grind the millet" With the school vear start­ing soon it is important for girls to have more time to studv. Or bread making? It is profitable· and functional 
now. the problem being that no one 
really keeps a record of transactions? 
Or everything at once? This is my first experience with complete freedom and responsi­bility. In college there was always a profossor to guide me anJ ,rns,,er questions. The work assignments for my two Summer S<ffvice Projects were clearly defined. In my year off between college and Peace Corps the micro manage­
ment of corpo­rate America ensured I lacked anv 
ch~ice. And now I am one of the key people who decides what, how and where things hap­pen. If I call a meeting at least 25 to 30 and sometimes even 50 ,vomen show up. 
With responsibility comes self doubt. I have only been in Toulde for a few months and Mauritania a couple months beyond that. I do not under­stand much about business here. I only took a few business classes in the 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Attend volleyball 
Gold Game 
Earlier this fall. the University's Student-Athlete Advisory Council (SAAC) announced a new concept for promoting selected home athletic events. A series of Gold Games was announced -with one home event in each varsity sport to receive special promotional assistance. The goal is to increase attendance at those games among stmli-nt, faculty, staff and other members of the University community. 
The last of our fall Gold (iame events takes place at 7 p.rn. Wednesday in the Joyce Center arena when our 24th-ranked volleyball team, already the Big East Conforence regular-season champioll I.Jy virtue uf a 12-0 league record, plays host to Illinois State. 
This is the final home match of the season for Debbie Brown's team, which heads for the·Big East Tournament this weekend and, with a current 18-5 record, is most certainly in line for a 10th straight NCAA Tournament invitation. 
It's your lasl chance to see captains Marcie Bomhack and Keara Coughlin and the rest of the Irish compete on the Joyce Center floor in 2001. We hope to see you there and at future Gold Games! 
Kevin White Director of Athletics Nov. 12, 2001 
United States. but being born and raised there exposed me to many common business practices. Whenever l want to buy somAthing 
like ice or hard-boiled eggs I have to ask someone where to go. Tho woman \vlw sells ice uses her house with no dis­tinguishing 
charactf~ristics. My supply of hard-boiled 
eggs depends on whPther 
the ven: dor's chickens 
laid anv eggs and also whether there is a wed­ding or baptism that day. 
For some reason people 
buy eggs at these events, and when either of them occur 
I have no eggs for the day. People here do 
not use television or the radio to advertise for local busi­nesses for the obvious 
reason of cost. And signs are impractical for an illiterate popula­tion, but probably a greater reason is that everyone simply knows where everything is located in the village. So now I'm here and I have no idea where or how to buy anything as sim­ple as soap. This is where the self doubt comes into play. [f I cannot even buy soap how can I be an effec­tive consultant for the largest busi­ness in Toulde? 

These challenges are the reason I am here. It is a personal test. This is a crash course in on-tho-job training. Once I can function in this setting I can operate in a variety of other places. I can already feel my confi­dence building. Law school no longer looms in front of me as a torture I must endure to get to a final goal. I realize it will be hard in a different way, but not every part of my life will be a chaliEmge as it is here. Law school is taught in English. My apart­ment will have running water and air conditioning. I can use the internet for research. 
In addition, managing 321 Pulaar­speaking women is going to give me vast amounts of skill in personnel management. Everything here teaches me to think outside the box. Being away from family and friends necessi­tates self-reliance; at the same time it also forces me to look to other people for help. Lack of corporate micro management gives me freedom to have my own success as well as my own failures. Slowly, these challenges become less overwhelming and are simply becoming part of my daily existence. Now I have to figure out where to start. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Is{amic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Argument against sex is inadequate 
This is in response to Mary Blazewicz's letter from Monday, Nov. 11. 
Looks like someone paid attention for a day in her theology class and is now 
an authority on sex and the devastation it causes. I think that one of the worst 
arguments I have ever heard is in this letter. Du Lac supports your claim? 
Pleaso, this isn't meant to offend. but you need something that holds water bet­
ter than that. 

Also, Mary, one should realize that not everyone here on campus turns to 
God or Jesus in their time of sexual desire. This "incredible gift of human sex­
uality" is shared between my partner and myself, not God. A god has no part in 
whatever sexual activity I may or may not participate in. Now that I live off 
campus, Mary, I can tell all the "lies" with my body that I desire to, thank God .(a pun), with no recourse from du Lac. 
In conclusion, I agree that having sex with somBone means that yes, you are 
making a prufound and emotionally deep connect.ion. It, to me at least, does 
not coincide with marriagfl and an instantaneous childbirth. I doubt Ms. 
Blazewicz has much experience on this topic, I would rather see a critique of 
sexuality from someone other than a celibate. 
Peter W. Prina junior off-campus Nov, 12, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
music 

page 12 Tuesday, November 13, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Enrique Iglesias provides wonderful 'Escape' 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Scene Music Critic 
There are only a few musicians who can make a room full of girls swoon and squeal. Enrique Iglesias is one of them. 
There are only a few songs that can · make a room full of girls press "play" over and over agian. "Hero" is one of them. 
Iglesias' newest release, Escape, brings his boyish good looks and sooth­ing voice together, creating a surpris­ingly solid album. The son of Latin­great Julio (glesias, Enrique has inher­ited his father's ability to drive women crazy in the process an end-of-the-night favorite at Heartland, but its cheesiness makes it a beautiful love song. "I can be your hero baby/ I can kiss away the pain/ I will stand by you forev­er/ You can take my breath away." Destined to be a classic at wed­dings for years to come, the song perfectly pairs Iglesias' sex appeal with his voice. 
Iglesias also treats his fans to a Spanish ver­sion of "Hero," the album's last track. 
No one thought it was 

of creating some toe­possible for Iglesias to
Overall, the album is a
tapping tunes. get any sexier, but lis­And as long as the good choice to workout at tening to him sing a pop fans who slip this Rolfs with, or as back­new classic in Spanish compact disc into proves everyone of his 
ground music during a
their player do so naysayers wrong. with an open mind night ofgossip. The album opens on and few expectations a strong note with of earth-shattering greatness, Escape "Escape." Love songs make up this really is a nice surprise. entire album, and this one sets the tone 
The album's single, "Hero," may be nicely. -"If you feel like leaving, I'm not gonna make you sit/ But, soon you'll be finding, you can run you can hide but you can't escape my love." 

"She Be The One" opens with a catchy guitar strum, but it fast turns into a minor disappointment. With this song, it sounds like Igleisas is trying to be hipper than the heartthrob he really is. 
There are a few rocks in this smooth album, one of which being the third track, "Alive." Sounding like the back­ground music at an Old Navy store, the song lacks any real thought. "I don't know why/ why, why/ but I love to see you cry/ I don't know why/ why, why/ it just makes me feel alive." Thankfully, the other songs on the album make up for the void created by this one. 
The album's seventh track. "Maybe," also falls into this trap. Sounding more likr-an adult contem­porary tune in an elevator that a romantic love song, this track sounds too con­trived. "Maybe you'll say that you want me/ Maybe 

you'll say that you don't/ Maybe we said that its over/ Baby I can't Jet you go." 
Overall, the album is a good choice to workout at Rolfs with, or as back­ground music during a night of gossip. Any Enrique Iglesias fan will appreciate his latest effort, and anyone new to the Enrique scene should be pleasantly sur­prised. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Image takes priority over music for Spears 
''I'm a Slave 4 U" is different notes, but Britney still By LAURA ROMPF 
from previous Britney hits. sings it in her nasal, 
Scene Music Critic 
One has to listen to it several raspy voice. times before becoming Similar to the theme of 
On VHl 's "Before They Were attached to the melody. This "Not yet a woman," Stars," eight-year-old Britney will leave you either an even­"Overprotected" laments Spears, with poofy bangs and tual fan of the song, or so over the years Britney big hair. belts out a familiar annoyed you won't even turn has been scrutinized in '80s pop hit. Her voice is crys­on the radio for fear of hearing the spotlight and been tal clear and she hits notes its chorus. · told she's growing up too that could make even Mariah Just as several pop stars quickly, showing too Carey cringe with jealousy. have fallen prey to singing much skin and dancing 
After listening to Spears's about the complex lives of too sexy. This same latest album, Britney, one being young, rich, famous, lost theme shows up yet again 
· wonders where that voice and confused, several tracks in "Let me be." went. Either she lost it through on Britney's album are similar Spears has reached her years in the studio and diary entries. that pivotal point where touring or she's traded it in to ''I'm not a girl. not yet a her image has transcend­help enhance her image of a woman," is one of the only ed her music. Granted sex kitten. On several of the slow songs on the album. It's some of the songs about tracks, Spears sounds like she as cheezy and cliched as it her life were written by should be working for a 1-900 sounds. HowElver, if Britney is Spears herself -which number, not Jive Records. shooting to gain fans between may be the biggest mis­In the first single off the 13 and 18, she might with this take of all -but some of 
album 'Tm a slave 4 U ," song. the songs like Britney reiterates: "Baby don't She sings, 'Tm not a girl/ "Overprotected," ''I'm not you wanna dance up on me?" There is no need to protect a girl, not yet a woman," and "Get it, get it, get it, get it" me/ It's time that I/ Learn to and "Cinderella" were over heavy panting in the face up to this on my own/ I've written by pop music background. Quite interesting seen so much more than you moguls Max Martin and lyrics and background noises know now/ So don't tell me to Hami. Straight from for the most famous "virgin" in shut my e'yes." The song has Sweden, these master­the world. an extremely easy range of minds wrote "I Want it 
That Way" "Bye Bye 

If teen diva Britney Spears's latest album, Britney, is a sign of
Bye," "Oops ... I did it again" and nearly every the future, this pop sensation may see her fame, at least on 
other pop hit one can the music front, begin to dwindle. imagine. Unfortunately, even Martin and Rami didn't audience, it will not become· a may be the final straw in this 
escape the temptation to write hit. pop stars career. She doesn't biographical songs about Undoubtedly Britney signed reinvent her image like her Spears's life. producers the Neptunes, who hero Madonna. The only 
In the same way, Britney worked with Jay-Z among oth­noticeable change in Britney is tried to remake the Rolling ers, to ensure her sound would that raspy voice, and unl'ortu­Stones "Satisfaction" on her evolve from bubble gum pop to na tely re-inventing oneself Oops ... album, her attempt to an edgy hip-hop. She wants does not mean making bad remake Joan Jett's "I love rock longevity. but really, how long changes. 'n' roll" falls short. Sure the can a virgin last, teasing about chorus sounds familiar to clas­with the image of a sex kitten? Contact Laura Rompf at sic rock fans, but for Britney's Spears's latest album Britney rompf.2@nd.edu 



O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
music 

Tuesday, November 13, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Individual talents stand out in Oysterhead 

By TOM O'CONNELL 
Scene Mu,ic Critic 
Recipe for Oysterhead: 
Two parts underground cult favorite weirdoes 
One part classic rock legend 
One ounce THC 
Two Tbsp. spare time 
Combine ingredients in a converted barn/studio in Vermont. Serve over ice. 
Following the pseudo-breakup of Phish, front man Trey Anastasio was looking for a way to occupy his time. When a group plays together for 17 years. they can reach a point in which they have temporarily exhausted their creativity. Anastasio decided to use this opportunity to play with some of rock's truly great musicians. 
Les Claypool, frontman of Primus. is arguably one of the greatest bass guitarists of all time. Armed with his legendary custom made bass, he has spent the last decade redefining the role that his instrument plays in rock music. In Primus, the bass actually takes the lead over the guitar, occupying the majority of the riffs and solos. Claypool is the perfect complement to Anastasio's subtle, skillful guitar work. 
Keeping the beat for Oysterhead is Stewart Copeland, the former drummer of the Police. What results is some­thing of a loosely structured jam band that breezes effortlessly through 13 songs before you know it. Though the album is far from a masterpiece, you can feel a lot of potential. The three different very styles have not quite gelled, and it would be nice if this unlikely side project was given the time to cj.evelop into something more. 

Each man takes his turn at lead vocals, which sets Anastasio's quietly casual vocals oddly against Claypool's bizarre southern twang. Both Phish and Primus have been rock's not-quite-famous odd­balls, known especially for their strange lyrics. Oysterhead seems to follow suit. It is almost futile to try to make sense of most of the lyrics, because in most cases, there is no sense to be made. However, the pur­pose of this band is not in the words, but in the forum they create to showcase the impressive music talents of each member. 
Whereas most bands have bridges or solos to provide space between verses, Oysterhead seems to have verses as a break between solos. 
"Little Faces" is the complex and myste­rious song that begins the album. Each band member takes his turn in the solo seat, and this pattern continues through­out much of the album. 
"Mr. Oysterhead" seems to address the problems of current popular music. "I remember back in the day/ When music folk had a lot to say/ Now I sit, hope and pray/ Someone will come along and show the way." This is an odd statement, 
because Oysterhead is a refreshing breath of musical tal­ent. Given the song title, perhaps they are speaking of themselves. Though Oysterhead collectively wrote most of the songs, you can hear the Phish in some and the Primus in others. "Radon Balloon," clearly a Phish song, is a mellow piece dominated by Anastasio's smooth voice and fluid guitar melody. "Army's On Ecstasy" is an amusing Primus-style tune that has funny lyrics and great solos from guitar, bass and drums. "The army's on ecstasy, so they say/ I read all about it in USA Today/ They stepped up urine testing to make it go away/ Cause it's hard to kill the enemy on ol' MDMA." "Pseudo Suicide," in turn, is a catchy, fast moving tune that has influences from 


• 
Photo courtesy of www.elektra.com Oysterhead's dynamic mix of personality and style (Phish, Primus, the Polle) makes for a unique and experiemental blend of extended jams and pure rock power. · 
both bands. 

Oysterhead relies on the pure, raw talent of its musi­cians to make the music entertaining. If you like teen pop or the annoying fad of computer synthesized voices, then this album is probably not for you. Nothing on The Grand Pecking Order is juiced up with special effects by a team of engineers. If you own any Phish, Primus, or Police albums, or if you just like extended solos that veer off into space, then this album will prove a good investment. 
The overall music of the album is good, so it's a shame the lyrics aren't a little better. Perhaps David Mamet could be convinced to join the band as a lyricist. Hut whether that happens or not, hopefully, Oysterhead will record another album together. A group like this only get better with time_­
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconncl@nd.edu 
.r,·.,:::.;•:.::. • ....-_· ....·-.\·..: 
e ..OY.29 
. ..OY. ,o 
'{)li>YiSO·•
••e. 4 · 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 13, 2001 
NFL 
Ravens overcome bizzare ending, win 16-10 
• Last second Titan touchdown nullified by defensive penalty 
Associated Pres• 
NASHVILLE, Tenn.. 
This time, the game wasn't over when Kevin Dyson came up a yard short. But Steve McNair couldn't crack the Baltimore defense and the Tennessee Titans lost again. 
In one of the most dramatic finishes in years, the Ravens beat the Titans 16-10 Monday night by stuffing McNair on a quarterback sneak from the 1-foot line after a Tennessee touchdown was called back by the officials. 
With Baltimore up by six, the Titans drove 77 yards to the 1, when McNair completed a 4-yard pass to Dyson, who came up a yard short on the final play of the 2000 Super Bowl against St. Louis. 
As the teams frantically lined up, McNair took the snap and crashed into the end zone as time expired. Officials originally ruled the play a touchdown, but after a long huddle they changed the call to offsides against the Ravens and ordered a final untimed play that would decide the game. 
McNair tried to sneak it in, but never got close as the massive middle of the Baltimore line stopped him and Corey Harris threw him to the ground. 
"I guess if you're in this game long enough, you think at times that you've seen it all, then you experience this," Titans coach Jeff Fisher said. "This will be a defining moment for our football team. To have this game come down to inches and seconds and hand it to some­one else. We do not like the interpreta­tion of the call. I do not agree with it." 
Baltimore (6-3) moved within a game of Pittsburgh in the AFC Central, but Tennessee (3-5) dropped into a tie for last in the six-team division with Jacksonville. 
The game was scoreless for a half and there were punts on the first eight pos­sessions as two defensive powers strug­gled to gain yards. 
But it opened up in the third quarter as McNair threw a 22-yard pass to Dyson to give the Titans a 10-3 lead. 
game-turning play, forcing a fumble by The Ravens made it a six-point game penalty on Michael McCrary put the ballElvis Grbac tied it minutes later with a Eddie George early in the fourth quarter when Stover added a 33-yarder with at the 20. The Titans eventually got toshort dump to Qadry Ismail for a 57­that Peter Boulware recovered. That set just over three minutes left. the 6, where McNair threw two incom­yard TD. 
up Matt Stover's go-ahead field goal But the Tennessee offense then began plete passes into the end zone beforeAs he so often does, Ray Lewis made a from 31 yards. to move. A 15-yard roughing-the-passer finding Dyson at the 1. 
AFP Baltimore defenders Carnell Lake, left, and Jamie Sharper stop Tennessee running back Derrick Mason during the Raven's thrilling 16-10 win against the Titans Monday night. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES FOR RENT 
Tickets for les miserables HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com emait:mmm-GOIRISH!!! rentals@aol.co 
2 tickets for navy game for sale Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ new carpel. SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, appl., sec, 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk N. of BEST Hotels, FREE panies, LOW-Club 23 321-217-8451 
EST prices! www.breakerstravetcom (800) 985-Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­6789. dents. Good area... ADT, washer-
dryer-air. Dave ADOPTION IS LOVE 340-0106 
Imagine your precious baby safe and happy in a loving family, HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9-br adored by 2 ND Grad parents (a $2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month full-time mom and a lawyer dad) 3) 4-br $1000/month and loving Call Bill at 532-1896. 
playmates in a beautiful home. We promise lo give your child the FREEDOM! 4 and 5 Bdrm Houses, life you dream of for them. furnished, sec syst, wash/dry, Medical, legal, counseling, court PRIME locations, approved living expenses pd. util incl. 4 Br has V-ball &b-ball Confidential. courts. 233-9947. Please call our attorney at (708) B &B 3 Miles ND Best Area 287­922-4795. 4545 
1443 or email  DUE, STANFORD TIX. A.M. 232­ 3 down on the chart  
sales@studentcity.com to find  2378 P.M. 288-2726  HIT AND RUN ND SWEAT BLAN•  
out more.  KET TAKEN FROM GOLF CART.  Many, many more to go  
CASE OF MISTAKEN  
BABYSITTER for 3 children: One 6­ INTEGRITY.  Heck yeah for being 19 years old  
yr-old, 2-yr-old twins. Flexible  FOR SALE  
hours: 12-15  Whoo-hool Classified time  And while we're at it, heck yeah tor  
per week. Five minutes from ND  Canada  
Campus. 289-5763.  2 bdrm limestone ranch, close to  They tight, they fight, they fight fight fight light fight.  And here's to you, Mrs. Robinson  
Female seeking hockey gear ­ campus. 2-car attached garage,  Fight fight figtit.  
 
pads, helmet.right-handed stick.  hardwood floors, finished base- Fight fight fight ­the Itchy and  My bed is sounding absolutely won- 

Yeah voice changer  
PERSONAL  Hey, I saw this Black Yukon driving down Juniper today.  
www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231­4-FUN  It's amazing what a buck can get you these days.  

SPRING BREAK Largest selection Just ask Brunner of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Sir, I'm sorry -we can't let you Free Drinks and Free trips avail-back into the United States able Spring Break with STS, Americas Thank you customs otficials tor #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote doing a dilligent job of checking my trips on campus, earn cash and free luggage for bombs And thank you trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648-for zipping up my backpack after 4849 finding all the contraband www.ststravel.com 
Scratchy show. dertul right now. 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS. furn. 272-6306 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica, 
Call 634-2446. Male roommate needed for upcoming Spring semester. Turtle Creek, 2 bedroom apt, fully furnished. $405/mo. Contact Cory and Eric at 277-6560. 
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. Go lo StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED • ND TICKETS 289-9280. BUYING NAVY TIX SELLING PUA­
ment, CIA. Call 219-233-9t46. 
or Mazatlan FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1-888-777-4642 or email: TICKETS sales@suncoastvacations.com 

Tuesday, November 13, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
McGwire retires, frees up $30 million for Cardinals 

Asscx:iated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Mark McGwire's retirement creates a $30 million windfall in the St. Louis Cardinals' budget. 
Now they have to decide how or if to spend it. 
Among the options to replace McGwire, who retired Sunday after two frustrating, injury-plagued seasons, is a player who's done it success­fully once before: Jason \ Giambi. 

\ 
Giambi, who has admired McGwirc since their days

\ together in Oakland, replaced Big Mac on the Athletics in 1997 when McGwire was trad­ed to St. Louis. 
Giambi won the AL MVP last season and could win it again this season after hitting .342 with 38 homers and 120 RBIs. But he will be expensive. 
The Cardinals will probably have to compete with Oakland and the big-spending New York Yankees to bring in Giambi. It might take as much as $20 million a year to sign Giambi. The Cardinals have $30 million to play with over two years. 
McGwire. the former single­season home run king, announced his retirement now Allsport instead of closer to opening day to allow the Cardinals to

St. Louis first baseman Mark McGwlre, who retired Monday, 
find a replacement, like

follows through on his swing earlier this season. 
Giambi. 

"I believe l owe it to the 
Cardinals and the fans of St. 
Louis to step aside, so a tal­
ented free agent can be 
brought. in as the final piece of 
what I expect can be a world 
championship-caliber 
team, "McGwire said in his 
statement Sunday. 

Another possibility at first 
base is Tino Martinez, a free 
agent after winning four 
World Series titles in six years 
with the Yankees. The 
Cardinals also could move NL 
Rookie of the Year Albert 
Pujols to first base and sfgn an 
outfielder like Moises Alou. 

On the other hand, the 
Cardinals might prefer keep• 
ing costs down a bit. The pay­
roll was $74 million last year 
and projects to $80 million 
this year, with 22-game win­
ner Matt Morris, among oth­
ers. due for a large raise. 

General manager Wall 
Jocketty said last week that 
he's trying to reduce the pay­
roll to $70 million. which 
would leave next to nothing 
even with McGwire's depar­
ture. 

McGwire, 38, batted just 
.187 in his final season with 29 homers and finished with 583 career homers, fifth on the all-time list. He was the single-season home run king · for three seasons after hitting 70 in 1998, waging a season­long race with Sammy Sosa of 


FAITH 
Jesus and Our Hope 

¦ 
WHAT DOES THE CHURCH TEACH? 

¦ 
WHY DOES IT MATTER? 

¦ 
HAVE QUESTIONS AND NEED A PLACE TO ASK THEM? 


Each one credit course in the series "Know Your Catholic Faith" will reflect on a central feature of the Catholic faith, so that students come away with aclear idea of what the Church holds on these topics as well as a basic theological and personal understanding of them. The courses will be based on the Catechism of the Catholic Church plus other pertinent texts, supplemented by personal reflection and experiential learning where appropriate. These courses should meet the needs of those students who know little or nothing about the faith, as well as those who are familiar with the faith but do not feel they have aclear grasp of certain features of Christian doctrine. The courses will be presented in avariety of formats and venues. 
the Chicago Cubs. 
"I got close to him when we shared the homo run race,"Sosa said in a state­ment. "He must have a good reason for his decision. 
"The way he declined the money from the Cardinals so that they can bring someone else into replace him ... that's a class act. I will never forget 
h.
1m. " 
McGwire's announcement, while not entirely unexpected, shocked the Cardinals' front office because it got the news via fax just like everybody else. The fax arrived at Busch Stadium late Sunday night, so the team didn't see it until Monday morning. 
Jocketty was in Phoenix for the team's annual organiza­tional meetings, and still had not heard from McGwire, who was vacationing in Mexico. Manager Tony La Russa was initially skeptical of the fax for the same reason Sunday night. 
"I just hope that how this has been handled over the course of the past 24 hours, I think we'll get through that real quick,"team president Mark Lamping said. "I th.ink everyone would agree that as we look back on Mark's con­tributions to St. Louis that we celebrate all the things he did for this franchise." 
McGwire declined all inter­view requests through his public relations firm. 

A New Series of One-Credit Courses 
offered by the 
Department of Theology 
in cooperation with the Office 
of Campus Ministry 
Prayer 


Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Feb. 13, 17, 24, March 3, 24 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 
The Christian Way of Life: 
An Introduction to Catholic Moral. Theology 
Theo. 340H. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Edward Malloy, CSC Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m. Jan. 28, Feb. 11, March 4, 18, April 4, 15 Coleman-Morse Center, Rm. 330 

Faith & Revelation 
Theo. 340G. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Virgil Elizondo 
Friday Feb. 8: 4:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Saturday, Feb 9: 9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center 
For funher information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-6662. Syllabi for the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept. main office.Regifter through DART or go to the Registrar's office 



Tuesday, November U, 2001 



I I 
I I • 
I 
' 
' 
' 
I I J_ 
I 
! I 
, 
I
I ­
I 
I 
I I I 
I 
I 
' 
' 
Week of Peace and War Education Continues 
Tuesday, Nov. 13  Wednesday, Nov. 14  
4:00 • 5:30 pm, 117 Hayes-Healy Hall  7:30 • 9:00 pm, Faculty/Student Panel Discussions in following Halls:  
'The Aftershocks ofTerrorism: Understanding the Psychological Impact of Trauma"  Keenan/Stanford, "Historical Roots of Anti-Americanism"  

(Len Hickman, Wendy Settle, Suhayl Nasr) 
7:00 pm, 101 DeBartolo 

"Appalachia, Sept. 11, and Broader Implications" Presentation to the Appalachia Seminar by George Lopez, Kroc Institute 
7:30 • 9:00 pm, Faculty/Student Panel Discussions in following Halls: Keenan/Stanford, "Religious Dimensions of the Conflict" McGlinn, "Civil and Human Rightsff Morrissey, "Justice in War and After War: Is U.S. Foreign Policy Ethical?" Pasquerilla East, "Fighting Terrorism" 
9:15 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Italian Film:-·Jung (War) in the Land of the Mujaheddin" Introduction by Jill Godmilow 
Thursday, Nov. 15 

7:oo· pm, McKenna Hall (CCE) Auditorium 
"Holy Lands and the End of Conquest: The High Price of Nations Today" Lecture by Benedict Anderson, Cornell University 
7:30 • 9:00 pm, Faculty/Student Panel Discussions in following Halls: Keenan/Stanford, "Fighting Terrorism" McGlinn, "Religious Dimensions of the Conflict" Morrissey, "Refugees and Displacement" Pasquerilla East, "Historical Roots of Anti-Americanism" 

S cial Exhibit. . ,, --ND/SMC Trip to School of Americas Vioil in
~e . eativity and Service . . n ''Celebrating Inter;:i?sp~:na's Photographic Exhibit Fort Bennin2, Geor2ia Opening Reception for d an~ovember 15 BACKGROUND: The School of the Americas (SOA) is a US Army ?'urs;Y•burgh Library Concourse training school that trains soldiers and military personnel from Latin American 
6 _8 p.m. in the es 

Current Volunteer Needs 
Tutoring: 

High School Tutor Laura Trubac * 616-684-6266 She is looking for a Chemistry and Algebra II tutor for her high school daughter. Flexible regarding times, please call for location. 
Elementary School Tutor Kim Black* 299-3616 (W-Th) or 289-6893 (leave a message) 
She would like a tutor for her 7-yr. old daughter who is having trouble in school, student must provide their own transportation. 
Other: 

Agency Newsletter·-Carol Mayernick * 282-2397 Journalism student or writer with an interest in religious matters is needed to work on the upgrade and expansion of TORCH, an interfaith ecumenical newsletter. Flexible hours-Tuesday.Thursday or Friday with a minimum of two hours per week, more hours the week of publication. Elderly Assistance -Shelby Huber* 634-4316 An elderly woman in Mishawaka is in need of 1-2 volunteers to come in twice a month to help clean her apartment. She has limited mobility and 
Spring Break Opportunity 
her ability to stay in her current apartment depends on her having someone to come in and help her clean. Interested in spring break in Florida while learning about and working with migrant farm workers? 
***If you have any further questions about the 
Check out SOC 468 "Field to Table"; Meets Mon/Wed 8-9:15. 
Current Volunteer needs, or to learn ofothers not seen on this advertisement, please email the CSC at Co-sponsored by the CSC. 
cscvols@nd.edu. *** 

. countries in subjects like counter-insurgency, infantry tactics, military intelligence, counter-
narcotics operations, and commando operations. More than 60,000 members of Latin American militaries have attended the SOA since its inception in 1946. SOA graduates have included many of the most notorious human rights abusers from Latin America, who have carried out assassinations, led military coups, and participated in massacres of hundreds of people. 
*SEE www.soaw.org FOR MORE INFO ABOUT THE SOAAND THE NOV 17-18 VIGIL.* 
If you want to travel to the School of the Americas, you must attend one MANDATORY meeting. We'll answer questions, cover logistics, and do basic nonviolence training. The meeting should last no more than one hour. The final meeting is: TUESDAY (November 13), 9pm, at the Center for Social Concerns. To sign up, bring $15 cash or check (CSC) to the mandatory meeting. The $15 will cover transportation, accommodations, and Sunday's breakfast. We expect the vans to fill up so please don't delay your decision to join us. 
Depart from ND: FRIDAY (November 16th), approx. 4pm 
Return to ND: MONDAY (November 19th), by 9am 
Remember! You must sign up by Tuesday at the meeting. 
Questions? Contact Rachel at soltis.l@nd.edu / 4-4692. 
*SPONSORED BY THE INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES, INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES, CENTER FOR CIVIL HUMAN RIGHTS, CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, AND CAMPUS MINISTRY* 
McGlinn, "Seeing through the Media" Morrissey, "Students Take aStand: ACall to Action" Pasquerilla East, "Civil and Human Rights" 
9:15 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

Italian Film: "Jung (War) in the Land of the Mujaheddin" Introduction by Jill Godmilow 
10:00 pm, Morrissey Manor Chapel 

Interfaith Prayer Service: Muslim-Christian Prayer for Peace 
Friday, Nov. 16 

12:00 Noon -1:30 pm, Hesburgh Center for Int'/ Studies Auditorium (C-100)* 
"What We Have Learned" Concluding Panel of Students, Faculty, Staff, and Administration 
*Located on Notre Dame Avenue 
Sponsors include: 

Kroc Institute, Center for Social Concerns, East Asian Languages & Literatures, Gender Studies, Office of Student Affairs, College of Arts and Letters, Office of the Prornst, Campus Ministry, Student Go\'ernment, Keough_ Institute for Irish Studies, Theolo1,•y Department, University Counseling Center 
FOR MORE DETAILS, UPDATES ON EVENTS, A COMPLETE LISTING OF SPONSORS, FACUTY AND STUDENT PANELISTS, 
SEE HITP://www.ND.EDU/ ~GENDER/9-11.HTML 

. . •I" . . Tuesday, November 13, 2001 The Observer . 'spoRTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Ichiro, Pujols named Rookies of the Year 
A.sociaced Press 
NEW YORK 

lchiro Suzuki has a lot more confidence than the average rookie. Then again, he's not the average rookie. 
The 28-year-old Seattle out­fielder became the second straight Japanese player to win the American League Rookie of the Year award and wasn't sur­prised by Monday's vote. 
"1 was a little embarrassed to be called a rookie here in the United States," he said through a translator. "I was so relieved today when I heard this announcement I won the Rookie of the Year award because I felt this was an award ! should have won with­out any doubt." 
Suzuki, who came to the major leagues after nine sea­sons in the Japanese Pacific League, received 27 of 28 first­place votes from a panel of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
"JI' I won this award. I had wanted to win unanimously," he said. 
Albert Pujols of St. Louis was a unanimous choice for the National League rookie award. 
"It's a pretty good honor," the 21-year-old Pujols said. "You only get it one year, and so I'm happy I got it." 
Suzuki was the first rookie to win a batting title since Tony Oliva in 1964. Suzuki batted .350 with 56 stolen bases, becoming the first player to lead the major leagues in both categories since Jackie Robinson in 1949. 
Suzuki's 242 hits were a rookie record and the most for anyone since Bill Terry's 254 for the 1930 New York Giants. 
then gave him a three-year
Suzuki, the first Japanese non­
contract that guaranteed him pitcher in the major leagues, 
$14,088,000. 
was the second straight Seattle Suzuki, who gets a $75,000player to win the award. follow­
bonus for winning, had 138 
ing reliever Kazuhiro Sasaki. 
points, easily beating Cleveland 
Before last year, the only pitcher C.C. Sabathia, who had Mariners' player to win had 
7 5 points, after going 17 -5 with been Alvin Davis in 1984. 
a 4.39 ERA. 
Seattle paid the Orix Blue Wave Sabathia got one first-place
$13,125,000 after the 2000 
vote, from Chris Assenheimer of season for the rights to Suzuki, 
the Chronicle-Telegram in 
CALLING ALL MUSICIANS!!! 
ll,u lJffl ut neea a/, MUIU ef.Xt'ta caJft? 
Cw ,µiu. ~teaia pfaqing ~ tfte dimwt, OJt 6Juuidi at ~ tpaX'6 JJW? 
If so, you are in luck! 
The JPW Executive Committee is looking for instrumentalists to perform for dinner on Feb. 16 and brunch on Feb. 17. 
Auditions will be held Wednesday, November 14 at 7:30 pm in room 323 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
Contact Emilie Robb at 4-2513 or at erobb@nd.edu to set up an audition time or if you have any questions. 

Elyria, Ohio. 
"I just felt that Sabathia bet­ter met the criteria of what a rookie is in the truest sense of the word," said Assenheimer, who was surprised he was the only voter not to have Suzuki No. 1 on his ballot. "That's nothing against Ichiro." 
Sabathia disagreed with that view and thought Suzuki was the top rookie. 
"The award is for first-year players in the big leagues, and he's definitely deserving of it," he said. "There's not an argu­ment about that at all." 
New York Yankees second baseman Alfonso Soriano was 


third with 35 points, and Angels shortstop David Eckstein was fourth with six. 
Pujols got all 32 first-place votes in the NL, becoming the ninth unanimous rookie pick in the NL. The others·were Frank Robinson (1956), Orlando Cepeda (19 58). Willie M cCovey (1959), Vince Coleman (1985), Benito Santiago (1987). Mike Piazza (1993), Raul Mondesi (1994) and Scott Rolen (1997). 
Pujols set an NL rookie record with 130 RBIs, and led the Cardinals with a .329 average, 3 7 homers and 112 runs. He won the award one day after St. Louis teammate Mark McGwire 
announced his retirement. "It shocked me when I heard that last night," Pujols said. 
He played 78 games in the outfield, 55 at third base and 43 at first base in becoming the sixth St. Louis player to win the rookie award. The others were Wally Moon (1954), Bill Virdon (1955), Bake McBride (197 4). Coleman, and Todd Worrell (1986). 
Pujols isn't sure where he'll play next season. 
"To me, it doesn't matter," Pujols said. 'Tm just going to be ready this offseason and go to spring training and try to make the team again." 



Tuesday, November 13, 2001



Monday, November 5, 2001 The Oburver . SPORTS page 19 

Texas A&M tourney
Town tiall Meetina 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish wrap up fall 
season at Eck Classic 
By COLIN BOYlAN Spons Wrirer · 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team finished off its fall schedule in dominating form over the weekend, with a strong showing against oppo­nents from Indiana, Arizona and Texas A&M. 
The Irish played host to the Eck Classic, a three day dual-match tour­nament that featured alternating sin­gles and doubles competitions among the four schools. 
/\!though no official scores were reported, when all was said and done. the Irish clearly held the upper hand in terms of total victories. 
Such a fact did not escape head coach Jay Louderback, who was clear­ly pleased with his team's perfor­mance. 
"All of our doubles teams played really well, and some of our key play­ers like Katie Cunha were able to play through injuries and ·earn some tough wins," Louderback said. 
The tournament started auspiciously enough for the Irish when the team won 10 of its 16 Friday matches against Arizona and A&M. 
Senior Nina Vaughn, sophomores Alicia Salas and Emily Neighbors and freshman Sarah Jane Connolley all had solid days -each eaming three com­bined singles and doubles wins without dropping a set. 
On Saturday/the Irish doubles teams shined, earning four victories in five matches and deflecting attention from some lackluster singles play. 
ror the Irish. Becky Varnum strug-
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame women's golf team completed the first two rounds of the Texas A&M at Corpus Christi Islander Fall Classic in fourth place after rounds of 322 and 324 for a 646 total. That put the Irish 34 strokes off the pace set by second round leader, Baylor, as the Bears were 44-over­par with a 612 total after rounds of 300 and 312. The final fall tournament for the Irish is being played on the 5,930-yard, par 71 Kings Crossing Golf and Country Club. 
Baylor goes into Tuesday's final 18 holes with a 16-stroke lead over North Texas State (309-319-628) and a 29­stroke lead over the tourna-gled to a 3-6, 7-5, 6-1 loss to A&M's Jessica Roland, but righted that ship by teaming with Lindsey Green to coast to a surprisingly easy 8-3 doubles victory over Indiana's Karie Schlukehir and Linda Tran. 

Alicia Salas, howeyer, continued to shine, earning one singles and one· doubles victory on the day. . 
"Alicia has really had a great fall and . has continued to step up her play dur­ing this tournament," Louderback said. 
During the Sunday competition, the Irish singles players got back on the right track winning five of their six matches in convincing form. 
Katie Cunha shook off a back injury to defeat A&M's Danielle Lee 6-1, while Salas wrapped up a perfect 6-0 tournament record with a win over Indiana's Martina Grimm. 
While the two month layoff that will now occur between the end of fall sea­son and the beginning of spring comes right in the middle of Salas' hot streak, she's not complaining. 
"I think I've had a good season so far," she said. "But I think this time off can really help us heal from some injuries and improve certain aspects of our games." 
Louderback agrees with Salas' assessment. 
"For the next few months, we're going to be focusing on our condition­ing and on getting healthy," he said. "Hopefully we can really work on tun­ing up each player's individual game and get ready for spring." 
Contact Colan Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame splits weekend dual meets 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
There were only .5 points that spparat­ed the men's swimming and diving team from Rutgers last year at the Big East Championship. 
But this weekend, three months before the Irish and Rutgers face oIT again in the conference meet, there were a full 21 points that separated them in dual meet competition. 
And while the Irish 
were able to defeat 

"We didn't know Frank Krakowski the University of was the only other
[Jonathan Pierce] could 
Connecticut 184-115 individual winner at a Big East tri-meet go that fast. I don't even for the Irish, win­over the weekend, ning the 100-yard
know ifhe knew he could 
the loss to Rutgers butterfly in 51.90
go that fast. That was a 
gave Notre Dame a seconds. sense of what they'll pivotal win for us." Sophomore J.R. need to do in Teddy also had a 
February, when they strong day in the
Tim Welsh 
meet Rutgers again. pool, taking sec­
Irish head coach 
"We're highly moti­vated," said head coach Tim Welsh after the 160-139 weekend loss to Rutgers. "lt definitely clarifies what the Big East field will be like." 
Notte Dame struggled for the first half of the meet, unable to get many swim­mers past Rutgers. It was a late surge in the second half of the meet and three individual wins from senior co-captain Jonathan Pierce that put Notre Dame within reach of Rutgers. 
"We count on Jonathan week to week, event to event," Welsh said. "He is a very intense competitor, which is of course what you want." 
Pierce continued his season domi­nance in the distance freestyle events, 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Golfers sit in fourth at 
capturing a victory in the 1,000-yard freestyle by five seconds against Rutgers junior Craig Orski. Pierce also won the 500-yard freestyle, and topped off his day with a victory in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley. 
"We didn't know he could go that fast." Welsh said. "I don't even know if he knew he could go that fast. That was a pivotal win for us." 
Senior Andy Maggio won for the Irish on the boards. grabbing a first place fin. 
ish in 1-meter div­
ing. Freshman 
ond place in the 
500-yard freestyle 

and in the 200­yard butterfly. Senior David Horak also had a second place finish in the 100-yard backstroke. 
Overall, Irish swimmers dropped con­siderable time on individual swims. 
"If you have to choose at this point in the year, you want the faster time," Welsh said. "We were faster than we've been all season long in critical events ... what will be clear to us is that we have to work a little harder, and out-prepare ifwe want to move up [at Big East]." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gi1l0843@saintmarys.edu. 
ment host Texas A&M-Corpus Christi. The Islanders turned in a 36-hole total of 312-329­641 which gives them a five­stroke lead over the Jrish. 
Notre Dame is fourth with the 646 total and has a 13­stroke lead over McLennan Junior College to round out the top five in the 13-team field. McLennan JC had rounds of 324-335-659. 
Individually, Baylor's Nicole Johnson is the 36-hole leader and will go into the final round of play with a five­stroke lead. Johnson shot a five-over par total of 147 after rounds of 71 and 76. She leads Randi Gauthier (76-76­
152) of North Texas State and Tara Bateman (75-77) of Baylor as they shot 10-over par totals of 153. Melanie Hagewood (Baylor). Jennifer Rogers (North Texas) and Michaelyn Morgan (Baylor) round out the top five. 
For the Irish. junior Terri Taibl and freshman Karen Lotta will go into Tuesday's final round 12 strokes behind Johnson the tournament leader. Taibl opened with an 83 but bounced back with a 76 for her 159-total. Lotta opened with a 79 and fol­lowed that with an 80 on the way to her 159. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 18, 2001 
FENCING 
Irish stab Nittany Lions 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing team went into the Nittany Lions' den this weekend and emerged with a victo­ry against its toughest rivals. 
Irish fencers took four of six weapons at the Penn State Open while the Nittany Lions won just tv.o. Irish fencers also finished sec­ond in three of the weapons, while placing 10 fencers in the top four of individual weapon events. 
"It was pretty exciting to go over there and fence those guys from Penn State," said junior Matt Fabricant. who finished second in men's sabre. "They have a pretty good team. It's always rough to go into someone else's school and beat them." 
Penn State has placed one posi­tion higher than the Irish at the last six NCAA Championships. From 1996 through 2000, Penn State took first while the Irish finished second. Last year, Penn State lost its title to St. John's but still edged out the third-place Irish for second. During that time, an intense rivalry has developed between the two schools. 
Defeating Penn State so soundly in the Nittany Lions' home gym was extremely satisfying, according to senior sabreman Andre Crompton. 
"Doing well at this tournament shows us that Penn State doesn't have an edge up on us," he said. " I feel we are more talented than they are and thls week proved it." 
Fifth-year senior Cari McCullough's finish was perhaps the biggest surprise for the Irish this year. After finishing 18th at last year's competition, the walk-on surged to a first place in 2001. 
In her final bout she faced Penn Stato's Stephanie Tam for the title. The two battled to a 14-14 tie before McCullough scored the final touch to win the bout. 
"It was 14· l 4 and everyone was cheering their heads off," she said. "Somehow I managed to pull the last touch out." 
Overall, the Irish were very happy with the way the team finished ­especially their four freshmen, who all finished in the top four of their respective weapons events. 
'They're incredible," McCullough said. "We got some really good recruits. I guess they are expected 
t.o do that. We are just proud they are doing so well." 
Alicja Kryczalo beat fellow Irish freshman Andrea Ament for the foil championship, 15-7, while Michal Sobieraj lost to Irish junior Jan Viviani in the finals of the men's epee competition. 
Freshman foilist Derek Snyder lost a tough bout to Penn State sophomore Nonpatat Panchan in the semifinals of the foil competi­tion. 
"It was kind of tough fencing· him on his home turf so I didn't do as well I hoped," said Snyder. who fin. 
ished in fourth. 
Irish junior 0zren Debic, howev­er, enacted a bit of revenge on Pancha.n in the finals with a 15-14 win. 
In addition to Fabricant's second place finish, fifth-year senior Andrzoj Bednarski finished fourth -while senior Andre Crompton t.ook fifth -in sabre. 
Notre Danie's women's foil team also bad a very good showing. Junior Liz.a Boulsikwis followed up Krycza.lo and Ament's 1-2 finish with a fourth-place showing of her own. · 
Women's epee was the only weapon where Noire Dame did not place a. fencer the top four. Anna Carnick led the Irish with a seventh place finish, but Notre Dame was missing its top women's epeeist, Kerry Walton, who was fencing in Dallas, Texas this weekend to earn a spot on the Junior National Team. 
Although the strong pre-season showing was encouraging for the Irish, they did not face some of their toughest competition. Defending National Champion St. John's did not travel to Penn State nor did national title-contenders Columbia and Stanford. 
"It does give us a lot of confi­dence but we still have a long way to go and a lot of things to do before we can call this year a success," Fabricantsaid. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 
Men 
continued from page 24 

play more physical because Alumni had outplayed them in that area during the first game between these two teams. 
This week, he feels the Big Red did just that. 
"The first game we played them, they physically beat us and I don't think that happened today, especially on the defensive line," said Odom. 
Linstroth feels Dillon will be tough to beat in the final. 
"[Our players] played great," he said,"but Dillon's a great team and [Sunday] they came out and they earned it. My money's on them." 
Siegfried 17, Fisher o 

After a rigorous regular season and two roWJds of the playoffs, No. 2 Siegfried ha.c; put itself into a position to win it all after a 17 ­0 victory against No. 3 Fisher. 
Although this game was expected to be extremely close, the Ramblers played consistently well throughout the game, and held a convincing lead until the end. 
"I told the team that Fisher was going to be our hardest game of the year," said Siegfried captain Rob Plumby. "Fisher is a good team, and we knew we had to play hard." 
And that is exactly what the Ramblers did. 
Free safety Pete Aguiar played an excellent game, leading the defense to hold Fisher scoreless. On the other side of the ball, wide receiver Bill Bingle and 
running back Travis Smith made for a powerful offensive duo. Despite big efforts, Fisher just could not push past Siegfried. 
"Everyone played really hard," said captain Ray Aftandilians. ''I suppose it's the best way to lose." 
Characterizing the toughness of the Green Wave was Tom Goodman, who played most of the game through a broken thumb injury that he suffered in the tlrst half. 
"It's the first time we've lost. so it is tough," said Aftandilians. "But 19 out of 21 [players! are returning next year, so we have a good shot." 
While Fisher waits for next year, the Ramblers are prepar­ing for their next game. 
"We are making sure to run the offense effectively," said Plumby. "We aren't doing any­thing different, we just want to play our game." 
The Ramblers, however, will be without fullback Joe · Gagliardi, who went down with a knee injury. 
"He [Gagliardi) is one of our hardest workers and toughest players . . . we will miss him," said Plumby. 
Mark Ryan will replace Gagliardi at fullback. and Plumby has every confidence that Ryan will till the role. 
"Playing in the Stadium will be an incredible experience," said Plumby. "This is really exciting. I think we deserve to be here. We have played tough and worked hard all season to get this oppor­tunity." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhet• tler@nd.edu and Aaron DeNicola at adenicol@nd.edu. 
This 

Weel< in CM 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
EL...-d-av_______ 
Campus Bible StudyfCBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al O'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Confirmation­Make-up Session #5 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Resdav 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 
Coffee & Donuts Study Break 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian 
Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 


Want to go to World Youth Day in Toronto? 
Join the Notre Dame group travelling to Toronto in July 2002. Pick up information and an application from Room 114, Coleman-Morse Center 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a..m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
International Students Tour of the Basilica 
2:00 p.m. 
Law School Mass 
5:oo· p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

...........1-....idav 
The Way Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Retreats 

sign , 
Freshman Retreat #38 
!December 7-8, 2001 l Monday, November 12 through Monday, December 3 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Join us for a special Interfaith Prayer Service: 
Chrjsi;jan -Nusljm Prayer for Peace 
Wednesday 
10pm 

Morrissey Chapel 

a part of the "Week of Peace and War Education" 
Tuesday, November 13, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

B-ball 
continued from page24 
change in leadership will be key. With the graduation of Ruth Riley, Niele Ivey and Kelley Siemon, Notre Dame v.ill be looking to its sole senior, Ericka Haney, as well as junior Alicia Ratay and sophomore Le'Tania Severe to take the initiative on the court. 
During last week's victory against the Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine Legends, Severe was the vocal leader on the court. 
"I think that Le'Tania is doing a great job and Alicia is doing a great job as well.'' McGraw said. "She is not as vocal as Le, but that's not her job, real­ly, to direct the team. And Ericka is our only senior. We expect Ericka and Alicia to lead really through example." 
But leadership isn't the only change the team faces. Last year's squad of veterans could be counted on to turn in a consistent performance and McGraw could do much of her coaching from the sidelines as the team ran past her down the court. 
This year, that has changed. Consistent play isn't a guarantee; it's something the Irish will have to focus on. 
"I think last week we didn't know what to expect so now we have a little bit of an idea what we're gonna get from them," McGraw said. "I think probably the number one thing we'd like to see is consistency. That's got to be number one. We want to have a consistent effort from game to game so that we know what we're going to get from them." 
Improved consistency will come not only from more experience on the court, but from more coaching. Following last week's game, McGraw said she was going to have to coach this team more than last year's team. Starting with six freshmen, learning the basics of college hoops is back in the game plan. 
"It's more teaching, actually what we have to do is go slower," McGraw said. "They're not going to be able to react going up and down the court. 
We're young. We're going to make a lot of mistakes. We're going to be making a lot of them through lack of experi­ence and a lot of them just because it's new." 
Expectations have taken a turn from last season as well. At the start of the 2000 season. the world of college bas­ketball had seen most of the Irish squad play and knew what to expect. This year. that's not so. Although fresh­man Jackie Batteast was named pre­season Big East rookie of the year, hoops fans still don't know what to expect from the Irish. 
Ratay and Haney played consistently for the Irish last ·season, but Severe saw limited playing time last year due to injury, and the six freshmen on the team hadn't even stepped onto a col­lege court. 
As far as what the Irish will accom­plL'>h this year -anything goes. 
"Because nothing is expected, when something good happens everybody gets excited about it because it's not like last year where we expected to win by 20," McGraw said. "This year we just have to play hard and see what happens." 
Tonight the lrish will see what hap­pens against the Christian Brothers, a Division II college. This year, for the first time, the NCAA is allowing Division I schools to face off against Division II and III schools in the presea­son. Following an exhibition last week against a roster that had three WNBA players but no real team spirit, McGraw is looking for her team to get real college experience. 
"The team last week was very talent­ed, but they didn't play together as a team. and defensively they didn't play at all," McGraw said. "So it's much bet­ter I think to play a team that practices, that is used to playing together. I think a team like this, where they've had the same practice as we have, they won't be as talented individually as WNBA players, but they'll play better as a team." 
Action tips off tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
presents 

Leadership from a Latino(a) Perspective: Preliminary Findings of the National Latino Leadership Survey Project 
Reverend Andrew Hernandez St. Mary's. University, San Antonio TX 7 PM November 14, 2001 141 Debartolo Hall 
reception to follow 
Contraction hurts baseball 
Just when we thought it was safe to get caught up in one of the best World Series ofall-time, along comes Major League Baseball with its new favorite word: contrac­tion. 
All to protect the integrity ofthe game, of course. 
Cur­rently, there are 30 teams, and the o"'ners have voted to trim that number to 28. The two teams that would be axed haven't been named yet, but the buzz is that it would be the Montreal Expos and Minnesota Twins. 
The common reaction to this is: "OK, I can see the Expos? But the Twins? Are you serious?" 
Unfortunately. we are. 
As long as the population of the Twin Cities doesn't grow exponentially overnight, our jaws shouldn't drop when we're told that broadcast rights to the Twins season don't go for the same rate as those for, say, the Yankees. 
This is baseball. This is eco­nomics. This is life. 
And those large media market teams will always find it in their best interest to spend the big bucks to put a winner on the field, so free agents get wooed away from the plains to the big city lights. 



But what does contraction do to solve these problems? 
Nothing. Actually, it'll prob­ably make them worse. 
Instead ofmore teams com­peting against each other for fans, viewers, and advertising revenues, there are less. In turn, whatever revenues are shared among all the teams will now be split among 28 owners instead of 30. 
Hmm. Restricting output to raise income. Absurd expan­sion fees that serve as barri­ers to entry. Doesn't that sound an awful lot like t11e workings of a cartel (basically a monopoly coordinated among a number of mem­bers)? 
I knew that economics major would come in handy someday. 
As is to be expected, the owners would say that they aren't under serving any baseball consumption market at all. Indeed, the Expos drew less than 8,000 fans per game thls season, and both they and the Twins were the bot­tom two teams in their leagues in attendance in 1999 and 2000. 
But forget that Minnesota's attendance, while still below the league average, rebound­ed significantly this year, no doubt because of a contend­ing team. Even if you just look at the poor Expos, no con­tracting should occur. 
Isn't there some other city in the country that would like to have, indeed pay up the yazoo for, a baseball team? Couldn't a big city, like New York, support a third team? 
The Dodgers, Giants, and Yankees all seemed to do it back before 1958. I don't have the numbers in front of me, but I have a hunch the population of baseball fans in the New York City metropoli­tan area has grown since then, too. 


And don't even get me or anyone else started on the Twins. While Quebec seems like it couldn't care less about its team, the people of Minnesota are preparing to file lawsuits left and right to keep their team home. 
No, Minnesota is not New York. But neither is Milwaukee, and I don't hear Commissioner Bud Selig lob­bying for them to dump his team. Call me crazy, but a commissioner who also owns a team just might be a conflict ofinterest. 
I will admit that I, like a lot ofother sports junkies, have bemoaned the amount of expansion in pro sports in recent years. We've all heard the arguments: are today's players really that good, or are their numbers just prod­ucts of watered-down compe­tition? 
Contraction would take the same number ofstar players and divide them up among a smaller number of teams. The remaining teams would conceivably play at an even higher level. As sports fans, seeing the best of the best is what we pay for. 
Maybe astronomical owner earnings and player salaries are a reasonable price for a high level of play. But why stop there? We could go back to eight teams in each league, concentrate all the talent, and have a season-long all-star game. 
So pick your poison: richer baseball men, and a slightly higher level of play, or a little less rich baseball men, and a slightly lower level of play. 
We're a long way from a field of dreams and sadly can't have it both ways. 
But at least the people of Minnesota could still have a team. 
Contact Ted Fox at tjox@nd.edu. The opinions of this column are those ofthe author and are not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 


ARE YOUR PARENTS INTERESTED IN STAYING AT THE MORRIS INN FOR JPW 20021 
IF SO, HEAD OUT TO THE MORRJS INN AND GET YOURSELF AFORM FOR THE MORRJS INN LOTTERY. 
YOU CAN ENTER YOUR PARENTI TO WIN AROOM AT THE MORRIS INN FOR THE WEEKEND. 
Questions~ Contact JPW at jpw@nd.edu. 

page 22 The Ob.erver . SPORTS Tuesda):', November 13, 2001 

Woillen 
continued from page 22 
sure on [Walsh's] offense." 
"I felt the pressure was off after that touchdown," said Hoeck. "Personally. I was really nervous in the first half." 
Thal touchdown put the Whirlwinds up 13-0. They continued their defensive onslaught with a second interception, this time by Welsh 's Mary Prendergast, who returned the football to Walsh's 10-yard line. 
Welsh once again converl­e d that turnover into a touchdown which produced an insurmountable 20-0 lead for Welsh. 
"[Welsh's) defensive line put a lot of pressure on us. It forced our quarterback to throw quicker," said Dillenberger. 
Walsh was only able to get two first downs against the Welsh defense. Moreover, Walsh could not even advance the ball past mid­field in the second half. 
"Our defense played groat in the second half. I was afraid we wouldn't get a sec­ond wind after the first half, but we kept a positive mind­set," said Welsh head coach Joe Blaney. 
Welsh looks to cap off their undefeated season with a win in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We've worked hard in practice and in games all year," said Zeringue. "That's where we belong.' 
Lewis 18, Badin 0 
Erin Nasrallah connected with different receivers for three touchdowns to push the Chicks past Badin. The defense shut down the Bullfrogs 18-0 to return to the Stadium four years after their last visit. 
"We played the game like we've been playing all year," says Nasrallah.. 
Nasrallah and the Lewis offense has established itself as possibly the most explo­sive offense in the league, and Sunday was no excep­tion. All three touchdown passes were for at least 20 yards. 
Midway through the first period, Nasrallah led the Chicks slowly down the field to get just outside of the 20 yard line. On the next play, she threw to a receiver down the left sideline, but 
,,;.,,e,,,,.,r,., EXPLORE YOUR CALL TO COUNSEi 
MASTER OF ARTS IN COUNSELING PREVIEW DAY 
• 
Meet professors & students 

• 
Attend a class 

• 
Learn more about the program 


Author John Eldredge Thursday, November 15, 2001 
Breakfast speaker • • "How to Lile Your 7.00 o.m. -6.45 p.m. Life From a Christian 
Free admission
Worldview" 

For more information and reservations contac Sara Smith at (219) 257-3360 or E-mail: smiths2@bethelcollege.com 


BETHEL COLLEGE 
1001 West McKinley Avenue Mishawaka, IN 46545 v.rww.bethelcollege.edu 
the ball was tipped by a Badin defender. The ball never hit the ground as it was caught by a Lewis receiver, who ran in for the touchdown to give Lewis a 6­0 lead. 
Thanks to their defense. that's all the margin they needed. 
The sporadic Badin offense was never able to make a scoring drive, as it couldn't get enough yards to keep moving. 
Quarterback Erin Zachry had her moments in the spotlight, though. She con­nected with several different receivers for long gains, but was never able to keep the momentum. 
Following the first score for Lewis. Badin did begin to put together a drive, but it was abruptly ended by an interception. 
Lewis capitalized on the turnover on the next drive. 
Nasrallah commanded the Chicks swiftly down the field. Badin's defense remained on its toes the whole game, as Lewis mixed the run and the pass very effectively. 
The drive was eventually capped off by Nasrallah's second touchdown pass. 
"The plays kept working. Everything seemed to go right for us," said Nasrallah. 
Everything seemed to go right for Badin's Lindsey Talarico as well. On defense, she picked up a sack and several tackles. On offense, she dominated Lewis defenders. One Chick came across the line of scrimmage on a blitz, but that was ended quickly as the swift feet of Talarico stepped over and stood her ground, sending the defen­sive lineman to the ground. 
She and linebacker Katie Bears led the defense to stop Lewis, giving the ball back to the offense. The momen­tum seemed to start swaying towards the Bullfrogs, but a quick sack and much pres­sure from the defensive line of Lewis kept Zachry from having time to settle in the backfield and throw. 
The final touchdown for Nasrallah and the Chicks only topped off a dominating playoff victory. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu and Anthony Bishop at abishopl@nd.edu. 

•Study 
in the nation's capitol 

•
Work in an internship 

•
Fulfill philosophy, theology, and fine arts 


. 
reqwrements 
•Study 
public affairs 

•
Live in an exciting city 


John Eriksen, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen.1@nd.edu 


•
Applications for Fall 2002 & Spring 2003 are now being accepted online 

•Open 
to Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors from all colleges 



Tuesday, November 13, 200 l The Observer . TODAY page 23 

TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
FIRST CAME THE PRINTIN~ QUOTA, 
THEN GAME A QUOTA FAR, FAR WORSE .. 
NOOOOOOOOOOOIII 

TD 0.1.T 11>.I t,fflUIIftO 111.U' n, I\ o• 1TV1>a:na ... t.U!I !'UJl 10G .an:sna 01' ro1L1.:r ~aHI P'H ff.Al . 
.a.DOUIOtU1.L lllUT¦ UY 8& OH'U'IB.D I• CCIII-1U 
BILL.AMEND

FOXTROT 
YoU'l.'E WEAl.'ING A 

(ILEEN, You Al<E 
wow, SHE'S f'ULLIN'1 A J'ASoN. COSTUME ALL Wt.El< 
HEY, EVERYONE, CHECk 

'­BECAUSE oF THE 
SUCH A LOSER! 
OUT EILEEN! SHE'S AL\. 
ok, l'IOW I No, NO! I'M

CAN'T YOU SEE HOW 
D~ESSEO UP Lll<E 

"Hi\RRY PoTTER" MOVIE?! FEEL LIkt DRESSING UP
FOOLISH YOU LOOI(?! 
HARRY PoTTER! 


TYLER

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
WHATELY 


.. 
,_______, To treat !W-X as any­thing less thnn "an integral part of the lc,n~ bwr~rtt'!~·t,rlwl'tCmtre>n1.erw1.rty­
t!ey whkh a mHl1 aod R woman commit 
thl'mSd\'cS rnmllv UI one another until d~ath," (Cah•rhis·m ofthf" (:atholic f'.hurc-11. 2~ih1J would tw to treaL some~ lh.ing holy as ir it WttS nte:n~ty ordinary, wh kh L-. thP w~ry dr.finition of desnr:rn• 
lion. 


Actual excerpt from the article "Sex isn't good" as it appeared in yesterday's Viewpoint section. 
CROSSWORD 
No.0929

Edited by Will Shortz
Crossword 
ACROSS 29 All finished 59 "How to Handle a Woman·
1 It involves 31 Rolling game 
lyricist
designated 33 •-With the 
drivers 61 Bawls out 
Falcon" (George 8 Part of it belongs Sanders film) 63 "Anti-Duhring" author
to the U.S. 34 Some stanzas 
64 Unpleasant spot 
13 Apt to break 38 Like some 
65 With 4-Down, ._.-+--+~­
down lawsuits 
some annor
15 Atkins diet no-no 40 They're heard at 
66 Bristles
16 1974 thriller · Heathrow about a 41 Bates noires murderous baby DOWN
43 Practically 

17 Compensation 1 Minesweeper of 
45 Maine's _ Bay 

literature
18 Colony 
49 Worker in a 

2 Pay
19 Platter part garden 
3 Tangle (with), in
21 Early 6th-50 Constellation in 
the country 
century date the Milky Way 
4 See 65-Across 
22 Noted blind 52 Calves, e.g. 
5 Thin cartoon
mathematician 
54 Comment after 

woman
24 "I'm With an accident 
6 Johnny in the
Stupid" shirt 56 Astronomical 
Rock and Roll
feature 
difference 

Hall of Fame 
26 Director Lee 58 "Superman" 
7 Tiberius's 
27 Change in Chile villainess mother . 8 Problem in ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE grade school 9 Like some ports 
Puzzle by Robert H. Wolle

T S O F F 10 Overly zealous 
32 The key of E 46 Moves to a 53 Like some

A I T E D 11 It helps pinpoint 
major has one warmer place, communities RE ,··+~:+,;,,; A apoint 34 Some abstract perhaps 55 Bendable part
.... 12 Gave out 0 14 Oscar designer art 47 Position locater 57 Some black Gibbons 35 Right of passage metalware 
48 Cheaper

15 Cousin of a clog 36 His cross is on 60 Bracket type 20 English poet the Union Jack 51 Feels (for) 62 Relative of -let Dowson 
37 Eastern way 

23 "The Emperor 
39 Spain is in it: Answers to any three clues In this puzzle

Jones• star, 
1933 Abbr. are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
.,.;+;,.+.+.E~ 25 "Come again?" 42 Quite the _.._............_...,_._s.... 28 One may be success Annual subscriptions are available for lhe S drying out 44 Industrious best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 R E V E A E 30 Mass. setting group years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON  physical confrontations. 00  
THIS DAY: Garry Marshall,  VIRGO {Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  
Whoopi Goldberg, Joe Mantegna,  Don't count on help from peers.  
Vinny Testaverde, Tracy Scoggins  Problems with colleagues may  
Happy Birthday: The more  cause setbacks, but don't be  
open you are with others, the bet- upset. Complete what you start.  
ter the feedback you receive in  Your professionalism will be  
return. Love and romance will be  noticed. 000  
a highlight, whether you are in a relationship already or still single and looking for Mr. or Ms. Right.  LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep a low profile and work as hard and fast as you can. If you're  
Your ability to motivate col- quick to act on sudden career  
leagues will enhance your chance  opportunities, you will strength­ 
for advancement. Your numbers:  ·  en your position. 000  
15, 17, 23, 34, 45, 48  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
ARIES {March 21-April 19):  You'll be inclined to jump to con­ 
lt's time to put yourself on the  dusions. Observe carefully before  
line. Don't hesitate to let others  taking action. Make sure you  
view your work or hear about  don't make mistakes you'll regret  
your most recent idea. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20):  later. 00 SAGTITARIUS(Nm<22-Dec.21):  
You should be considering a trip  Don't let anyone get to you. Dis­ 
with your family or lover. You  agreements will leave you feeling  
can complete creative projects if  depressed and lonely. Avoid con­ 
you concentrate. If you attend an  frontations and keep your opin­ 
auction, you can purchase an  ions to yourself today. Catch up  
object that will grow in value. 000  on your reading. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  Money matters involving friends  
You will avoid interruptions and  or groups µiay be causing stress.  
get more done if you work at  You can contribute your time or  
home. A co-worker may try to  knowledge and save yourself  
cause friction or drag you into an  some cash. 000  
unsavory situation. Don't get  AQUARfUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18):  
involved in office gossip. 000  You'll feel better if you get out  
CANCER (June 21-July 22):  with friends. Romance is present  
You should take time to do what  if you're willing to take a chance.  
you enjoy most. Get busy making  If someone interests you, don't  
changes to your home. You'll be  hesitate to make the first move.  
pleased with the restJlts. Try to  0000  
assist an elder with worrisome  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
problems. 00000  Lectures or group meetings will  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You  convey knowledge that will help  
will find it difficult to deal with  you handle your current troubles.  
family matters today. A loved one  Partnerships develop through  
will be hard to get along with.  contacts. 00000  
Arguments are likely to lead to  

Birthday Baby: You are curious, inquisitive and determined to get to the bottom of anything that interests you. Your strong intuition will help you make the right choices throughout life. 
(Need advice? Cfieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com,) © 2001 Universal Prss Syndicate 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer . and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dam~. IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 

Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip____~ 
--~ ---·---_______ , ... _..,. __ -. .,,, ..~ ..-,..-•. ---···............... 
,.­

. -----------------­

Campus Sports

-
• 
• 
. 
Column: Fox, p. 21 

. 
Fencing, p. 20 


. 
ND Women's Tennis, p. 19 

. 
Men's Swimming, p. 19 

. 
NO Women's Golf, p. 19 



INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Top seeds to meet in finals 
. Dillon, Siegfried roll into final game 
By JOE HETTLER and MATT DeNICOLA Sports Writers 
As expected No. 1 Dillon and No. 4 Alumni played a very evenly matched game on Sunday -except for one quarter. 
With their offense on the field for all but one play of the first quarter, Dillon took the opening drive 65 yards down the field and grabbed the early lead when running back Jason Visner scored from six yards out. Chris Crane caught the two-point conver­sion, which was all the scoring the Big Red would need as they won 8-0. 
"All year long we've started on defense every game, but I think we honestly want­ed to start on offense this game," said Dillon co-captain and quarterback Tayt Odom. "We wanted to go out and set the tone. which is what we did on that first drive." 
Alumni co-captain Nick Llnstroth agreed. 
"[Dillon] came out and did exactly what they wanted to do," said Llnstroth. "They came out more intense than we did, and that's what won them the game. After that [touchdown] the game was a stalemate." 
Despite being a semifinal playoff game, both teams made uncharacteristic mis­takes. Dillon had two touchdowns called back because of penalties, and Alumni had three turnovers. 
"We had more penalties this game than we've had all year, which we're not going to be able to do next week and win," said Odom. "We're just going to have to be smarter and get everyone at practice and work on stuff like that."· 
Last week Odom said Dillon needed to 
seeMEN/page 20 
.. ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish earn NCAA 7th seed 


By JEFF BALTRUZAK .. Assistant Spores Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team was awarded the No. 7 overall seed in the 2001 NCAA Women's College Cup after win­ning the Big East Charnpionshlp last weekend. The tournament is the competition that determines the national champion. 
The seed ensures the Irish three home games if they advance to the quarterfinals in the 64-tearn field. 
"I guess we might be a little sur­prised with the seventh seed," said Irish captain Mia Sarkesian. "We expected a fourth or fifth seed, but if you look at it, we 
SPORTS 
AT AGLANCE 

r\!HE National Sports
voSERVER . MLB, p. 15, 16 
. NFL, p. 14
PORTS 
Tuesday, November 13, 2001 

might have gotten a better brack­et with our seed than if we had gotten a fourth or fifth seed." 
Notre Dame has a No. 2 seed within their bracket, which includes Cincinnati, Oakland, Wake Forest, William and Mary, Liberty and Virginia, none of which the Irish has faced this sea­son. 
But Sarkesian, a Michigan native, knows Oakland coach Nick O'Shea and several Grizzly play­ers personally, and said Oakland "Le; definitely a good team." 
North Carolina, Portland, UClA and Santa Qara received the top four seeds in the tournament. with Santa Clara being the top seed in Notre Dame's quarter of the draw. The Irish were sched­uled to face Santa Oara and fifth seed Stanford earlier this season on Sept. 14, but the game was cancelled due to the terrorist attacks. 
"I think it might have made the seedings different if we had played those games and won," said Sarkesian. 
Florida. who is ranked four spots behind Notre Dame in the most recent NSCANadidas Division 1 poll, received the sixth seed. 
The Irish will face Eastern Illinois in their first rom1d game, at home at Alumni Field on Friday at7:30p.m. 
Contact Jeff BaJuuzak at jbal­tru.za@nd.edu. 

. 
Women's Basketball vs. Christian Bros., Wednesday, 7p.m. 

. 
ND Volleyball vs. Illinois State, Wednesday, 7p.m. 

. 
Men's Basketball vs.New Hampshire, Friday, 9p.m. 

. 
Football vs. Navy, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 


. Welsh, Lewis cruise to Stadium showdown 
By DAVE COOK and ANTHONY BISHOP 
Sports Writers 
Welsh proved once again why they are No.1 in intcrhall football, defeating No. 5 Walsh 20-0 in the semifinals Sunday afternoon. 
This win put the Whirlwinds at 8­0 on the season and advanced them to the championship game next Sunday. 
And they did it with three huge plays. 
After a stagnant first half, Welsh quarterback Lauren Hoeck went deep to wideout Jamie McEldowney who ran the ball 20 yards in for the first touchdown of the game. 
Not only was this touchdown the first scored in the game, but it was also the first touchdown scored against the Walsh defense all year. 
"We gave up one big play. After that we lost some momentum. It was the first touchdown scored against us all year," said Walsh head coach Steve Dillenberger. 
The second big play came shortly after the first touchdown. On the third play of Walsh's following pos­session, Wild Women quarterback Lauren Walsh through an intercep­tion to Welsh linebacker Daphne Zeringue, who ran the ball back 20 yards and scored another Welsh touchdown. 
"That touchdown gave us more confidence," said Zeringue. "The cushion helped us put more pres-
see WOMEN/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Defending champs have all-new look 
coach Muffet McGraw is expect­
By KA TIE McVOY 

ing no guarantees. Associate Spotts Editor 
"It's been a real change, and that's kind of the fun part of Sitting courtside and watching coaching -every year is differ­the Irish play this year, any fan is ent," she said. "It's a whole new watching a new team. team. a whole new attitude. a 
Last season, three experienced whole new personality. It's more seniors led on the court, the Irish of a challenge this year, which won the National Championship you have to look forward to." and there was little doubt that Tonight, as the Irish take on 
Notre Dame could win most of its college competition for the !irst games by 20 points. time in preseason, the Irish are That's not the case this year. trying to get a feel for that new 
With a sole returning senior, personality and make it work. the active Irish roster is half For such a young squad, freshmen, Notre Dame has a pre­season ranking of 14th. and head see B-BALL/page 21 
0BSEllVER, 
g n l in c edition 
http://www.nd.edu/~observer' 


