Mann, what a state 
Bowl game was no party
Thinking ofheading to California? Check out 
Review the highs and lows ofthe 41 -9 Irish loss 
Wednesday
the travel section for hot spots like Disneyland 
to Oregon Slate in the Tempe New Year's 
and Mann's Chinese Theater. 
Fiesta Bowl. 
JANUARY 17, 
Scene . page 12-13 
Sports . page 20-21 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 67 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

ELIZABETH LANG/The Observer 
Fans rush the court after the Irish beat the No. 1 Connecticut Huskies 92-76 Monday afternoon at the Joyce Center. The No. 3 Irish ended the Huskies' 30-game winning streak and became the only undefeated team in women's college basketball. The game attracted the first sellout crowd for the women's team. Notre Dame's win should ensure an ascent to No. 1 in the national rankings when the newest polls come out early next week. 

Crime, fire hit off-campus housing 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Changed locks and straigtened door frames offer little proof of a series of break-ins and attempted bur­glaries at College Park. And visible signs of fire and smoke damage at Castle Point See Also Apartments 
"Knott room
aren't as evi­dent as a floods in 'crime­month ago. 
free' break"
But the two local page4 apartment complexes, popular among off-c amp us Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, will have to deal with some concerns over safe­ty following issues that arose while most students were away on vacation. 


College Park break-ins 
Between Christmas and Jan. 13, two College Park apart­ments were robbed and about five others showed signs of attempted break-ins, accord­ing to building manager P.R. taken a crowbar to our door Gibson. The apartments were frame." located within the same unit "I was scared, and I didn't of the all-student Bulla Road go in immediately. The dead­complex. bolt had held, and I knew 

Gibson said the robbed [burglars] hadn't gotten in, apartments exhibited no signs but I was worried because I of forcible entry. He said com­had no concept of how long 
puter  and  ago  it  had  
telephone equipment  ..Now I think that  happened," s a i d  
taken from one residence was valued at  whoever did this was just someone taking  Monserez, a Notre Dame senior.  
$200.  A  advantage ofthe fact  "Now  I  
checkbook was taken  that no one was home ...  think that whoever did  
from the other apart­ Megan Monserez  this was just someone tak­ 
ment.  student  ing  ad van­ 

''This is the first time we've had something like this happen here. It's pretty unusual," Gibson said. "But I'm sure this was the work of teenagers." 
College Park resident Megan Monserez agrees. 
Monserez, a Mishawaka native, said she made weekly trips to her apartment to ensure its safety. On Saturday, Monserez returned to her apartment to find damages that "looked like someone had 
tage of the fact that no one was home," she said. 
No formal security was pro­vided for the apartments while most occupants were on vaca­tion, but Gibson said he moni­tored the complex during Notre Dame and Saint Mary's month-long break. He acknowledged that he was probably out of town when the crimes took place. 
Gibson said apartments that 
see BREAK-INS/page 4 



College will use Lilly grant for new center 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Mary's Edicor 
A $12 million grant from the Lilly Endowment Inc. will allow Saint Mary's to create an inter­cultural center unlike any center in existence in the United States. 
The center, named the International Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, will focus on under­standing how cultures relate to one another and how to prepare women to lead in that kind of environment. 

"One of our goals is that women of all cultures can step into leadership roles once they leave Saint Mary's," said Marilou Eldred, College presi­dent. 
The five-year grant will be used to offer the College oppor­t uni ties to study the relation­ships between cultures and increase the awareness of all cultures on the campus, said Mana Derakhshani, a French professor and a member of the committee that wrote the grant proposal. 
"I think intercultural studies is something needed in higher education in general," Derakhshani said. "Given the fact that Saint Mary's is doing such an excellent job at develop­ing women leaders, if we could add something to what we already do well, it could put Saint Mary's on the leading edge nationally in educating women and in education in general." 
The College will bring in national and international fel­lows as part of the center. Both Eldred and Derakhshani expect that the fellows will offer classes and seminars in a wide variety of disciplines that will explore intercultural issues. In addition, summer seminars for members of the College and the communi­ty will be available as a result of the grant. 
"What I'm hoping this grant will do is bring people to this campus -scholars, community leaders and students -who are interested in intercultural stud-
see GRANTIpage 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, January 17, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


We're No. 1 
Start acting 


like it 
With its 92-76 victory against UConn on Monday afternoon, the women's basketball team earned the right to call itself No. 1. When the new polls come out next week, Notre Dame's ascent to the top of the women's basketball world will be official and the sign at the top of Grace Hall will once again announce that Notre Dame is No. 1. 

I""'\ 
• Now that the hard work of 
,-~~-~,
the women's basketball team 
, {;-:~~ ' 
has resulted in a No. 1 rank­
ing, it is time that the stu­
dents of Notre Dame show 
their appreciation for the 
women's basketball team. 
Before Monday's sell-out game, the student support for women's basketball was pathetic at best. While there were several diehard fans
t 
who came to every game 
and cheered every Irish win, 
the student section was mostly empty. 
This has to change. Notre Dame once again has a No. 1 team on campus and the students should show their appreciation. I would hope that Notre Dame students would have enough spirit to support all their teams regardless of record but I would be appalled if Notre Dame students don't come out and support an unde­feated top-ranked team. 
But this past fall proved that most Notre Dame students do not appreciate their athletic teams enough to walk across campus to cheer at home games. 
The last time Grace Hall was adorned with the No. 1 sign was when the women's soccer team held the top ranking last fall. Despite their hard work, talent and exciting home victories against top teams like Nebraska and Santa Clara, the women's soccer team was practically ignored by the student body. 
While the residents of South Bend recognized the high caliber of soccer at Alumni Field by showing up and cheering, the student body was noticeably absent along the sidelines. As proud representatives of this University, every athletic team deserves the respect and support of the stu­dent body. The women's soccer team especially deserved this support. 
Led by Herman Trophy winner -the Heisman Trophy of women's soccer-Anne Makinen, the women's soccer team completed an undefeated season despite losing five starters to graduation from the 1999 team. 
Not until the NCAA tournament rolled around did Notre Dame students finally come out and support the women's soccer team. Not until there were only a few home games left for the Irish seniors did the Notre Dame students finally show some support for them. 
But still so many students never got to see Anne Makinen, Kelly Lindsey, Meotis Erikson and the rest of the Irish seniors play on Alumni Field. They never went out and thanked them for their hard work and dedication. 
Don't let Ruth Riley, Kelly Siemon and Niele Ivey graduate without cheering their efforts. Make sure you let them know you appreciate their dedication to making Notre Dame the best. There are no excuses for not attending at least one of the last four home games. 
The games are free, they are on campus, and you are almost guaranteed to see a win. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Mike Connolly 
Editor in Chief 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Christine Kraly Laura Kelly Colleen McCarthy Graphics Finn Pressly Jose Cuellar Sports Production Noah Amstadter Kerry Smith Viewpoint Lab Tech Lila Haughey Pete Richardson 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond.iy 1hrough Friday ex,;ept during ex,un and va,;a1ion periods. The Oh,erver is a nmnb::r of 1hc A»ociatc:d Press. :\II rcproduc1io11 rights '1Te re,.,,rved. 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Jackson calls for action in speech at Northwestern 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
"There's been such a prostituting 
At 9:55 a.m. Monday, about 10 stu­of the dream," said Jackson, who dents stood in an orderly line outside encouraged the audience to reclaim Northwestern University's Pick­King's dream and create "one big Staiger Concert Hall, sipping coffee tent" of' inclusion. "It's like soft drink and reading. Ten minutes later, more without carbonation -it's lost its than 50 people were huddled around stuff. The King dream applied to the two revolving doors, and that everybody. While we focus a lot on number had nearly tripled by 10:30 black and white, the fundamental a.m., when employees opened the ethical issues here are not so much doors to Northwestern's second black and white as they are wrong annual Martin Luther King Jr. Day and right." celebration. Jackson spent much of his speech 
The program, which included criticizing President-elect George W.
of events honoring the civil rightsmusical performances and a keynote Bush and the outcome of the presi­
leader. address by the Rev. Jesse Jackson, dential election. Calling Attorney
In the program's keynote address, drew more than 1,400 students, fac­General nominee John Ashcroft a
Jackson, the founder and presidentulty, staff and community members of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition and a "voter suppressor" and Inauguration 
to Pick-Staiger and satellite locations friend of King's, delivered a vivid call Day "Coronation Day," he told the around campus. The two-and-a-half to action filled with elaborate audience to continue challenging the 
hour celebration capped off a week metaphors and political commentary. status quo. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Event: Exhibit of  . Event: St. Joseph County  
Emancipation Proclam- Soil and Conservation  
ation, 9 a.m., Northern  Department tree sales. 9  
Indiana Center for History.  a.m., Soil and Water  
. Meeting: South Bend  Conservation District  
Hotary Club meeting,  office. South Bend.  
Century Center, 12 p.m.,  
South Bend.  

Friday 

. 
Movie: "The Virgin Suicides," 7:30 a.m., Annenberg Auditorium. Snite Museum. 


. 
Meeting: Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, 9:30 a.m., Havican Hall. Saint Mary's. 


Saturday 
. 
Event: Bridal Expo 2001, 9:30 a.m.. Joyce Center. 

. 
Event: Children's Dispensary Fun and Learn, 9 a.m., Havican Hall, Saint Mary's. 



BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
King's alma mater celebrates his work 
With his dream living on and his words still resonating across the nation, the birthday of Boston University's most distinguished alumnus, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., was commemorated Monday in a ceremony at the George Sherman Union. The 16th annual event filled Metcalf Hall and featured a prayer service led by Marsh Chapel Dean Robert Thornburg and Reverend Hylanie Chan-Williams, as well as a video presentation of King's march on Washington in 1963. when he delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech. ''I've prayed in many difficult situations. but never in one as moving as having just watched the speech we heard," Thornburg said. "That dream still lives in the hearts and minds of peo­ple." BU's celebration featured the university's Inner Strength Gospel Choir as well as a choir from the First Korean Church in Cambridge. Titled, "Transformation of Dr. King's Dream," the event took King, a 1955 School of Theology graduate, to a human level, reviving and mod­ernizing his message for effectiveness in today's continu­ing social and racial struggle. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Students spar over affirmative action 
As University of Michigan students took to the streets Monday to advocate affirmative action. there were clear divisions among the 200 participants in how the mes­sage supporting affirmative action should be presented. Shortly after students marched from the corner of South University and South Forest avenues to the Diag, where the rally began, the crowd parted as members of the Black Student Union and the Black Greek Association entered. They held green signs stating afiir­mative action was their issue and not an issue f'or the Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action and Integration and Fight for Equality By Any Means Necessary. BSU members joined BAMN and the other organizations on the steps of the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library. BAMN member Ebonie Byndon said although BAMN has encountered problems with BSU members in the past, BSU members have never before charged into a BAMN event. BSU members said they feel BAMN is an outside force which does not truly reflect the concerns of' the minority students of the university. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South BeDd Fom::as: 
h.:x:ti-eatrer • fora::ast for cbytirre a:rrli.tims arxi high te:q:era 
\ \ 
Friday G 
i 


Satur~ay Sund~y 
C 2001 AccuWeather, Inc, COLD 
i Pr1tSSur1: 
® © D D D D D CJ 
High Low Shower ¦ R•in T-storma Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Monday f'~:v·.,:;-33 22 
V,a A~le<J Pm~ 

{J'.;-,J'~-/ 
\ 

Atlanta 46 40 las Vegas 49 35 Portland 43 32 Baltimore 42 28 Memphis 42 40 Sacramento 55 29 Boston 34 18 Milwaukee 26 18 St LOUIS 37 24

q_~_Q4,QQ!)~~ 
Chicago 28 18 New York 40 28 Tampa 77 62
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Clouay Via Auoc,aled Press Grapi11csNel Houston 55 50 Phtladelph,a 44 28 Washington 49 32 


Wednesday, January 17, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Schmuhl book receives 'prime selection' acclaim 
Community honors Parks with MLK-inspired award 
By LAURA BOST 
News Wrirer 
When the Chicago Tribune recog­nized Notre Dame professor Hobert Schmuhl's book "Indecent Liberties," as a prime nonfiction selection for 2000, it was indica­
tive of the book's widespread appeal. 
"I had no idea what the reaction might be to my book,"said Schmuhl, an American Studies professor. 

The book was the Schmuhl product of a compi­lation of a number of long essays writ­ten from the early 1990s through 1999. After giving throught to a vari­ety of topics from different disciplines like sociology, political science and media studies, Schmuhl decided to create a book from the essays. 
"I had been thinking about the larg­er theme for a while, and it was then just a matter of revising existing essays and writing a couple of new ones to give the book coherence," he said 
"Indecent Liberties" reflects on the tendency of American society to liber­ally interpret their freedoms in poli­tics, social movements, the arts and popular culture. 
"I tried to identify a certain charac­teristic in American life and discuss it by looking at a number of different examples from both the past and pre­sent," Schmuhl said. 
The book, published by the University of Notre Dame Press, exam­ines the repercussions of construing the constitution to encompass "inde­cent liberties." Schmuhl argues in his book that the failure of society to exercise a median interpretation of American liberties may lead to the country's detriment. 
Schmuhl attributed the success of the book to its widespread applicabili­ty to all of American society. 
"It addresses the concerns being voiced today and explores them in a certain amount of detail that people find interesting," he said. 
"Indecent Liberties" is just one of Schmuhl's nine books. He also has written columns and reviews for news­papers such as the Chicago Tribune, Boston Globe, the Washington Post and USA Today. 
His journal and magazine articles have appeared in Style, National Forum, Journalism Quarterly, Critical Studies in Mass Communications, the Review of Politics and Sports Illustrated. 
Schmuhl is the director of the John 
W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy at Notre Dame. 
By CECILIA OLECK 
News Writer 
While most students spent Monday registering for classes and buying books, Saint Mary's student Romona Parks had a different agenda. 
·She was honored by South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke and Mishawaka Mayor Robert Beutter with a Drum Major Award Monday morning at the Minority and Women Business Development Council's 11th Annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. community Service Appreciation Breakfast at the South Bend Century Center. 
The award recognizes dedication to community service. Parks was among five other honorees. 
Parks insists that there are others more deserving of the award, but her involvement speaks for itself. Modest about her success, Parks said, 
"Humility is the key to success. That's something that I work towards daily and success just comes," Parks said. 
Throughout high school, Parks was the president of a youth group called COP (Community Oriented Policing); the secretary ·of Nulites (National Urban League Incentives to Excel and Succeed), an urban league youth branch; and the Sergeant of Arms for 21st Century Scholars, a college 
Book 

based program. She was also active in basketball, cheerleading, marching band and student council. 
Parks participated in a program called Upward Bound through Notre Dame. The organization provides preparation for high school students who are college bound through tours, scholarships, and the opportunity to take classes at Notre Dame. 
Parks, a first-year student, said she is maintaining a more low-key profile at Saint Mary's and focusing her attention on her nursing major. 
She is, however, active in the Sisters of Nefertiti and a campus Bible study. Terri Johnson, Director of Multicultural Affairs commended Parks for her willingness to help with any activity the Multicultural Office needs help with. 
"I just think this award couldn't have gone to a more deserving per­son," said Johnson. "She's a very positive representative of Saint Mary's and a wonderful role model." 
Parks said that through her involvement in the South Bend com­munity she has come to know many people who have influenced her life. 
She counts Mayor Stephen Leucke, Assistant Mayor Lynn Coleman, and former Nulites president Verge Gillam as people who inspire her. Parks is a graduate of LaSalle High School in South Bend. 
Accounting Author: Warren • Edition: 19th Retail price: $93.67  
Biochemistry Author: Stryer • Edition: 4th RetaiI price: $1 01. 33  
Calculus Author: Larson • Edition: 6th Retail price: $118.76 At UsedBaokBroker you pay only Accountin 60.88 Biochemist 65.87 Calculus $77.19  

DON'T LET 
PAY RETAIL 
• 
Sell direct to other students • Buy direct from the seller 

• 
No standing in line • Delivered to you FREE 


Fill the empty hours in your life. Come write for The Observer. Call the News Department at 1-5323. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 17, 200 I 
Grant 
continued from page 1 
ies," Derakhshani said. 
In addition to seminars. the College has proposed an inter­cultural leadership residence as a part of the center. According to Derakhshani, this would involve dedicating a floor of one of the residence halls to a study in intercultural living. 

"What the residence would be is basically an experiment in planned intercultural living," she said. 
This residence area which will be up and running in the 2002-2003 school year at the earliest, would involve a planned mix of students from different cultures. A resident director would be chosen specifically for the floor and part of her job would be the facilitation of dis­cussion between the women liv­
Break-ins 
continued from page I 
sustained damages will have the locks changed or receive new door frames. Tuesday night, all but one of the repairs had been done. 
The crimes apparently haven't eroded College Park residents' feelings of safety. 
"I don't feel like intruders are going to try to break in and hurt me," said Monscrez's roommate, Darcie Zwilling, also a Notre Dame senior. "This is still a place I consider to be safe." 
Fire at Castle Point 
It wasn't crime -but rather a freak accident -that fac­tored into recent security con­cerns at Castle Point Apartments. 
A Dec. 18 fire at the com­
plex, located along Cleveland 
Hoad, resulted in no injuries 

ing on the floor. "One of the best things we'll do 
Ghnaim: new terms could end war 
for students with this center is to 
enhance the dialogues about aH cultures," Eldred said. 
The grant will also allow the College to send students and fac­ulty abroad to investigate inter­cultural questions and step into the community of South Bend to understand those issues. Derakhshani hopes that involve­ment in the community will include issues of health care. the arts and community planning. 
"Contact with community members is going to be very fruitful," she said. "It's going to help prepare students to be leaders in a world that is becom­ing more and more intercultur­
a.l " 
The faculty will be electing an advisory committee today that will, as part of their responsibili­ty. look for a director for the Center. Eldred hopes that the director will be hired and in place by this summer. 
. Author claims Palestinians want better peace plan, not fighting 
By ANNE-MARIE MATTINGLY News Editor 
Attempts at Middle East peace have failed not because the Palestinians want war, but because they have not yet been offered acceptable peace terms. said Noah Salameh Ghnaim, director and founder of the Center for Conflict Resolution and Reconciliation in Palestine Tuesday. 
"As Palestinians we do not fight just for fighting," he said. "\Ve are, from the beginning, looking for justice and peace." 
Ghnaim, who was born in a refugee camp near Bethlehem and spent 15 years as a political prisoner beginning in 1967, explained that Palestinians have resort­ed to violence because such tactics are the only way to capture the attention of the rest of the world. 
After the Palestinian com­munity declared its existence in 1965, Ghnaim said the group was ignored by the international community until it began using shock tactics such as kidnapping airplanes to attract attention. 
Under President Bill 
Clinton's current proposal, 26 percent of the land compris­ing historical Palestine would be returned to the Palestinians, but Israelis are demanding control of all major cities, the area's air space and borders, and the Dead Sea, said Ghnaim. 
"There is no access, even, between [the areas Palestine would control]." he said. "That is the offer of Clinton." 
In addition, the agreement would require the Palestinians to pledge that they would not raise any new demands in the future. Ghnaim argued that this is with equal rights to our part­ners," said Ghnaim. "[Wei must treat each other equally before we can begin to nego­tiate. I think peace is to respect people, to sit togeth­er, to speak as equal people." 
Ghnaim, who has been involved with negotiations between the groups for 40 years, said he has never felt that respect from his Israeli counterparts. In addition to fostering mutual respect. the world also needs to stop rushing the peace process, Ghnaim said. 
The Israelis must consider the needs of the Palestinians 
peace with­out justice 

··rweJ must treat each
because the proposed other equally before we agreement 
can begin to negotiate. I
fails to rec­

ognize the think peace is to respect 
Palestinians' people, to sit together, to humanity or 
speak as equal people." 
equality with the Israelis. Noah Salameh Ghnaim 
He cited director, founder of Center for 
Israeli limi­

Palestine Conflict Resolution and
tations on 

Reconciliation
Palestinian use of water and numer­as soon as their own 

w h e n 
proposing solutions, a d d e d Ghnaim, who feels that an appropriate agreement cannot be reached before Clinton leaves the \'Vhite I louse. 
ous border checkpoints that prevent Palestinians from travelling to their jobs in Israel as among factors con­tributing to the tension between the two groups. 
"I'm eager to have peace with the Israelis -but I don't think we need a piece of paper. We need a just peace 
Ghnaim is a 1994 alumnus of' the Kroc institute and cur­rently lives in I Icbron, where directs the Bandar Ben Sultan Center for Peace and Regional Studies at Hebron University. lie is also study­ing for a PhD in conflict reso­lution at George Mason University in Virginia. 
but forced occupants of one building to evacuate, accord­ing to South Bend fire officials. 
The fire and smoke and water damage associated with it was contained to the Coachmans Trail section of Castle Point. said Chief Timm Schabbel of the Clay Township Fire Department. 
Several fire departments, including Notre Dame, were called in to battle the blaze, which broke out in the early evening. 
Officials said maintenance workers attempting to thaw a frozen first-floor pipe with a torch are responsible for the fire. They said a bird's nest located between between a 
wall likely ignited, and the fire spread to the building's sec­ond floor and then to the attic. 
It was unclear Tuesday if any of the occupants of the 
Same book.
evacuated units were Notre Dame or Saint Mary's stu­dents. Contacted Tuesday, representatives at Castle Point 
Different prices.were unavailable for com­ment. 
Applied Operating

Knott room floods in Systems Concepts by Abraham Silberschatz
'crime-free' break 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
It wasn't just students returning from break that came pouring into Knott Hall on Sunday. 
One room in the North Quad residence hall remains water­logged and inaccessible fol). lowing flooding that resulted from a cracked pipe. 
Damage from the burst pipe, located above the hall's first­floor weight room, was discov­ered on Sunday, Knott rector Brother Jerome Meyer said. The damage was limited to the weight room. 
A new pipe was installed on Monday. and as of Tuesday afternoon. Meyer said "things arc under control." 
The weight room. which is still being cleaned by mainte­nance personnel. will be avail­able for use by the end of the week, according to Meyer. 
Despite the closing of the weight room and other prob­lems associated with the llood­in g, Knott resident Kevin Hagerty said the situation hasn't been a major inconve­nience. On Sunday Hagerty 
ISBN~ 04-71365084­

and residents in his second­floor section of Knott were prohibited from using the showers in the area of the building located directly above the weight room. 
"It wasn't a problem using showers in another section," Hagerty said. "It was really no big deal." 
Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police, said the plumbing problems weren't unique to Knott Hall. Over winter break, Rakow received 
We found it for ... $58.00 several complaints concerning frozen pipes. 
(hot deal coupon) -$10.00 
In general, the problems were limited to administrative 
Total: $48.00 
offices, with incidents of pipe freezing occurring in Grace and Flanner halls and the Main Building, according to Hakow. 
As of Tuesday, Rakow reported only one other inci­dent -a vandalized vending machine in the LaFortune Student Center in late­December -brought to his office's attention. 
Hakow downplayed other safety concerns. characterizing much of winter vacation on 
www.bestbookbuys.com
campus as uneventful and 
crime-free. 
------------------------------------------,-----------­
·-···--·-­


ATI 

page 5 

COMPILED FROM TIIE OBSEBVER WIRE SERVICES
Wednesday, January 17, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Kuwait rejects female voting: The country's highest court rejected a case Tuesday in which activists had pleaded for women to have the right to vote and run for office in this oil-rich state. "The court has decided to reject the case," said Judge Abdullah al-Issa, president of the Constitutional Court. I le offered no immediate explanation. 
Norway okays whale exports: Nor­way, the only country that conducts commer­cial whale hunts, said Tuesday that it was lift­ing its ban on the export of' whale meat and products. "\Ve think the time is right for this. This is the last step in normalizing the whale hunt," Fisheries Minister Otto Gregussen said of the decision, which delighted whalers and disgusted conservationists. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Plane disappears over Cape Cod: 
Poor visibility on Tuesday delayed a search for a small plane that zigzagged across Cape Cod at low altitude and clipped power lines before disappearing from radar. The pilot, who suffered from leukemia, was believed to have been alone in the single-engine Piper 22. authorities said. The pilot apparently became disoriented. the Coast Guard said in a state­ment Tuesday. The plane took off from Norwood Airport south of Boston on Monday afternoon. The weather was very foggy and police said the pilot had been told not to take off. 
Fire destroys Georgia church: A roaring fire destroyed a church that had stood l'or more than a century. The cause of the blaze that broke out Monday at the Sugar Ilill First Baptist Church had not been determined and investigators were unable to inspect the wreckage Tuesday. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Coyote attacks dog: Anderson Mayor J. Mark Lawler is warning Madison County resi­dents about the threat posed by coyotes follow­ing a vicious attack on his beloved family dog. Monroe, a Schnauzer-poodle mix. was left bloody and battered following a coyote attack Thursday near the family's Anderson home. Lawler, his wife, Dori, and their children weren't sure if Monroe would survive the week­end. But Monday, their veterinarian informed them that the canine was on the mend. "I would have never anticipated us having a coy­ote problem here," he said. 
Market Watch 1/16 

Dow 
10,652.66 +127.28
]ONES 
Composite
• 
Same: II,: 
Volume:
382 
NIA 

Nasdaq: 2618.55 -7.95 
S&P 500: 1326.80 +8.48 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  SGAIN  PRICE  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -2.32  •.75  31.38  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  ,I.IS  t.43  JH.50  
ETOYS INC (ETYSJ  ,214.67  t.40  0.5')  
WORLDCOM INC (WCOMJ  -2.02  • .45  21.31  
MICROSOFT CORI' (MSFT)  -1.7<,  -.94  52.5(,  

EL SALVADOR 

Associated Press 

SANTATECIA 
The earthquake death toll rose above 600 Monday as rescuers' hopes faded of pulling more survivors from landslides that swept through villages and cities across El Salvador. 
As information came in from the countryside, where hundreds of com­munities remained isolat­ed, the government said 609 bodies had been counted in El Salvador. At least six people died in neighboring Guatemala, and hundreds of people were still believed to be buried. 
The vast majority of 
those killed were here in 
Santa Tecla, where a 
mountain of rock and earth 
came tumbling down on 
the Las Colinas neighbor­
hood, three miles west of 
the capital, San Salvador. 
Salvadoran police said 2,412 people were injured and more than 45,000 houses were damaged or destroyed in Saturday's magnitude-7.6 quake. 
Rescuers said the chances of finding sur­vivors were dwindling as more time passed and the ground, convulsed from the landslides, settled. 
Residents of Las Colinas complained that the gov­ernment allowed land own­ers over the years to clear trees from the hillside, alleging that the lack of ground cover left those below vulnerable to land­slides. 
The quake loosened that hillside, burying the mid­dle-class neighborhood at its base and bringing down some of the mansions 
above.  
Although  the  largest  
number  of  deaths  
appeared  to  be  in  Las  

Colinas, the quake caused 185 landslides across El Salvador, burying coffee workers and blocking roads. 
The numbers varied and the death toll was expected to rise. The emergency committee for the Santa Tecla region said 436 were dead here alone. It said 366 remained missing ­hundreds less than the fig­ure given Saturday by the Red Cross. 
Police said nearly 18,000 people had been evacuated from dangerous areas. Many were living with rela­tives or in shelters. Others who still had homes lacked basic services. Water ser­vice was cut to as many as half of the country's 6 mil­lion people, the Pan­American Health Organization said. 
Aftershocks continued to rock the country Monday. frightening residents and knocking more debris onto highways. 
CUBA 

Czech prisoners to be tried as spies 
Minister Ivan Pilip, now a member of "following instructions from people in
Associated Press 

parliament. and Jan Bubenik, a mem­the Cuban-American mafia in the 
HAVANA ber of a Czech pro-democracy foun­United States, and came dedicated to 
Two Czech citizens -including a dation. Cuban immigration officials maintaining subversive contacts with former finance minister -will be detained them Friday in Ciego de members of the counterrevolutionary tried for allegedly acting as agents for Avila, 185 miles southeast of Havana. groups in this country," it said. anti-communist Cuban-American The men were arrested after meet­The pair arrived on Jan. 8 from exiles. the government said Tuesday. ing with two Cuban government Cancun, Mexico, after previously trav­
The Czechs "will be placed at the opponents. The dissidents were ques­eling to New York, New Jersey and disposition of the courts, which will tioned and released, but the Czechs Miami, the newspaper said. decide the appropriate measures to were transferred to Havana. where "The visit had nothing to do with 
be taken," said a statement in the they remain in jail. tourism and their real purpose was to Communist Party daily Granma. It Granma said the two are accused of contact counterrevolutionary ele­was Cuba's first public statement on violating immigration laws because ments, give them instructions and the pair. their activities were not consistent provide them with resources," 
The two Czechs are former Finance with their tourist visas. They were Granma said. 
Wednesday, January 17, 2001 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

KEYNOTE ADDRESS: DR. CORNEL WEST 
Harvard Professor ofAfro-American Studies and Philosophy ofReligion 
"IT TAKES A VILLAGE TO PLANT THE FUTURE: JHE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING AND SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES" 

(Michiana elementary school art contest winners will be recognized at the start ofthe lecture.) 
Tuesday, January 23 
7:00 p.m. -101 DeBartolo Hall 
AN INTERACTIVE FORUM "COLORS OF THE WORLD" 
Moderator: Fr. Tim Scully, c.s.c. Executive Vice President and Professor ofGovernment Presented by the Student Government 
Wednesday, January 24 
6:00 p.m. -Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
PRAYER SERVICE "MUSTARD SEED FAITH" 
Reflections: University President Fr. Edward (Monk)Malloy, c.s.c. and senior Rene Mulligan 
Thursday, January 25 
7:00 p.m. -Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Sponsors: 

African American Studies ND Residence Halls: Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Graduate Alumni Office Residences, Fisher, Howard, Lewis, McGlinn & ONeill Athletic Department Office of the Executive Vice President Emeritus Campus Ministry Office of the President Center for Social Concerns Office of the Provost College of Arts and Letters Student Affairs Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c., University President Emeritus Student Union Board Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies Ludwick Graphics underwriting the poster Joan B. Kroc Institute for Peace Studies Multicultural Student Programs and Services For information, contact Multicultural Student Affairs, St. Mary's College Chandra Johnson (631-3748), Iris Outlaw (631-6841), or 
Priscilla Wong (631-5242) 
. 
.... -----.. 
page 7 

Wednesday, January 17, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Nestle takes bite of pet food world 
• Company spends $10 billion to form Nestle Purina Pet Care 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Nestle S.A.'s $10 billion pur­chase of Halston Purina Co. would create a pet food empire that dominates both the cat and dog food market, with popular brands such as Alpo, Purina. Friskies and Meow Mix. 
"We were interested in con­tinuing to grO\v our business," said Peter Brabeck-Letmathe
' 

Nestle's CEO. "We were strong in our wet business, the cat business. \Ve looked at the market and saw there was a higher growth in the dry busi­ness." 
That includes premium food and treats, the segment of the industry growing fastest and Halston 's strength, said John McM illi n, an analyst at Prudential Securities in New York. 
Nestle, based in Switzerland, holds a 32 percent share of the 
U.S. cat food market, ,vhile St. Louis-based Halston has a 26 percent share. 
It's the same situation across the aisle in dog food, where Nestle is adding Halston 's 28 percent share of the dog food market to the 10 percent it already has. 
"It seems like a brilliant acquisition," said Jack A. 
Nickerson, a business profes­sor at vVashington University in St. Louis. "lnstcad of run­ning two different operations, they can simply do one." 
Shares of Halston were up $6.88, or 27 percent, to close at $31.50 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Brabeck-Letmathe said he expects the sale, which requires shareholder and reg­ulatory approval. will close no later than the end of 2001. 
The Nestle-Halston combina­tion could concern federal reg­ulators, especially in the cat food business. analysts said, which might force it to sell off some smaller brands. 
But Nickerson said if Halston and Nestle can narrowly define the pct food market, regulators are likely to approve the deal. 
For example, he said, they could argue there are separate markets for wet and dry dog and cat foods and that their share of any one segment will not change. 
"The best thing for them to do is put forth the narrowest market definition that would be acceptable," Nickerson said. 
Brabeck-tctmathc said he expects the deal to enhance competition in the North American pet food market. 
"I think the one who is going to \Vin is the consumer, because he will have increased choice, more innovation, and even more quality products on the market," Brabeck­Letmathe said. 
Analysts said Nestle should have little trouble convincing shareholders to approve the 
deal. Nestle will pay $33.50 in cash per Halston share. a 36 percent premium above the company's Friday closing price of $24.63 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Nestle will also assume $1.2 billion in debt, though this will be partially offset by gains of $900 million f'rom existing financial investments, the com­panies said. 
"Halston shareholders have nothing to bark about, "McMillin said. "The price is a good one. Halston shareholders are being rewarded better than a pam­pered pet." 
Nestle will retain a presence in St. Louis, merging its Friskies pet food business in the U.S. with Halston to form Nestle Purina Pet Care, the merged companies' North American operation. Ralston president Patrick McGinnis will head the unit. 
Nationwide, dog-food sales grew by about 4 percent last year. while cat food volume grew by roughly 5 percent. 
Officials of both companies said the deal should help Halston 's Purina products in Europe. Last year, Halston sales were $2.25 billion in the U.S., but just $450 million internationally. 
"It gives Ralston an impor­tant advantage in distribution in Europe,"Nickerson said. "I think there are huge expansion opportunities through the merger." 
The Nestle Group's current pet food business has annual sales of about $3.7 billion. 
Clinton adds to land­
•

saving monuments 
Associated Press 
\\/ASHINGTON 

Trying to seal a legacy in envi­ronmental protection during his final week in office, President Clinton is creating at least six n e w 
national m o n u ­ments, pro­viding new safeguards on more than 1 mil­lion acres of fed cral 


land in the Clinton \Vest, the \Vhite House said Tuesday. 
The monuments, in Montana, California, Arizona, New Mexico and Idaho, include a 150-foot pillar of sandstone called Pompeys Pillar near Billings, Mont., where explorer William Clark carved his name in 1805 during his historic westward trek with Meriwether Lewis. 
The president is to make the announcement today in the East Room of the White House, where President Jefferson and Lewis laid out maps and planned the expedition. Clinton also is to sign a bill Wednesday that would posthumously pro­mote Clark from Army lieu­tenant to captain. 
"These actions commemorate and preserve a vital chapter in our nation's history," Elliot Diringer, a White House spokesman. "They honor the explorers who led the way west and protect for future genera­tions some of the extraordinary lands they crossed." 
The other new monuments are: Upper Missouri Hiver Breaks along the Missouri Hiver in central Montana: Carrizo Plain in central California; Sonoran Desert in south-central Arizona; Kasha-Katuwe Tent Hocks in north-central New Mexico; and Minidoka in south­central Idaho, which includes portions of a World \Var II-era Japanese-American internment camp. 
Designating these areas as national monuments afford them greater protections from commercial uses. The new pro­tections are expected to include bans or restrictions on such activities as vehicle use, mining and oil drilling. 
During his presidency, Clinton has already created 11 new national monuments and expanded two others. Those actions set new protections on 
4.6 million acres of federal land. The new monuments estab­lished on \Nednesciay would raise that total to at least 5.6 million acres. 
President-elect Bush and Republicans from the West have objected to Clinton's earlier monument designations. They have said the monument desig­nations are not needed to pro­l I tect the remote areas and could ' I 
j
harm the economy in rural 
I ' 
areas. 
I 
~ 
l l j 

is accepting applicatiQns for: 
2001-2002 
_Editor in Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University ofNotre Dame, Saint Mary's College, or Holy Cross College is encouraged to apply. The editor in chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspa­
per experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
' 
I 
I 
1 
f,i1; I 
l 
I 
l 
l I 
Applicants should submit a resun1e and a.five-page statement to Noreen Gillespie by 5 p.m., Tuesday, Janucu:v 23. For additional in/iJrmatim; about !he position or application process, contact Noreen Gille.,pie at 631-./5./J, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dinin~ Hall. 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 17, 2001 
CONGO 
Bodyguard kills Congolese president in coup attempt 
Belgian Minister of Foreign 
Associated Press 
Affairs can say what he wants but I will make my announce­
KINSHASA 

ment tomorrow." 
President Laurent Kabila, the A member of Kabila's security

onetime rebel who seized power 
entourage said on condition of 
and then fought to rule over this 
anonymity that the bodyguard
vast and troubled nation, died 
had shot the president in the 
Tuesday after being shot at his back and right leg during a coup
Kinshasa residence, Kabila's 
attempt. Kabila was alive and 
U.S. spokesman said. was being treated by doctors, he 
The shooting occurred during said without elaborating. 

an attempted coup to topple Intelligence officers in 
Kabila's government, which has 
Rwanda also said they had 
been battling a number of rebel unconfirmed reports that Kabila 
movements for more than two was killed in the intense shoot­
years, officials in Kinshasa said. 
ing Tuesday afternoon at the 
"He's died," said John Aycoth, presidential palace, which last­

a lobbyist and public relations 
ed a half-hour. Rwanda sup­
consultant who acts as Kabila's ports rebels fighting to topple
spokesman in the United States. the Congolese strongman.
Aycoth, speaking by telephone 

The Congolese government
from Durham, N.C., said he had would not elaborate publicly on 
spoken to top level Congolese 
their president's condition, or 
officials in Kinshasa, who had 
even whether he'd been shot. 
confirmed Kabila's death. He 
"President Kabila is alive and 
said the Congolese government 
everything is OK," said 
would make an announcement 
Congolese Gen. Francois Olenga. 
on what had happened at 6 a.m. The conflicting reports came 
Wednesday Congo time 
hours after witnesses described 
(Tuesday mid-gunfire around 
night EST}. 
the home of 
French and "Something big happened 
Kabila, who Belgian for­in our country this has been fight­eign ministry 
afternoon. People want ing multiple
officials quot­
rebel armies 
ed local change." 
for more than sources as 
two years. It saying they 
Kin-Kiey Mulumba was unclear 
believed he who was
rebel movement spokesman
died of his 
responsible for injuries. 
the shooting. 
..From three 

A presidential helicopter land­
sources I have that Kabila has ed at Kinshasa's main hospital, 
most likely been shot to death," a government official who wit­Belgian Foreign Affairs Minister 
nessed the event said, adding
Louis Michel said in Brussels 
there were unconfirmed reports
following a crisis meeting with 
that the aircraft was carrying
the Cabinet. 
Kabila's son, Joseph Kabila. 
Earlier, his spokesman, Koen 

who had apparently been Vervaeke, said, "From two 
injured. The younger Kabila is sources of whom we are 100 
the head of Congo's military. · 
percent certain, we can confirm 
Presidential aide Eddy Kapendthat Kabila has died. He has 
went on national television 
probably been shot by one of his shortly after the gunfire ended 
guards." 
to appeal for calm, but he made 
French Foreign Ministry offi­

no mention of the incident. cials had also said that Kabila 
The bleary-eyed Kapend 
was dead, but gave no further 
ordered that all airports and details. 
borders be closed, appealing to 
Belgium is Congo's former 

the armed forces and civil soci­
colonial ruler and retains close 
ety leaders to help maintain ties with the nation, formerly 
order. named Zaire. 
"The Congolese people need Asked about the report, 
your serenity and your disci­Congolese Interior Minister 
pline," he said. Gaetan Kakudji said: "The 
There will be a 
MANDATORY MEETING 
for all interested candidates for 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
on Thursday, January 18th at 7:45 PM in the Student Government Office. Petitions will be available in the Student Government Office Beginning Tuesday, January 16th at 12:00 PM 
Later, an 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. cur­Kabila came to power in May welcomed Kabila, who many few was announced by Kakudji 1997 following a Uganda-and hoped would be a vast improve­as having being ordered by Rwanda-sponsored rebellion ment over Mobutu's decades­Kabila himself. against former dictator Mobutu long rule. which left his nation 
Kakudji also put all fighting Sese Seko, who ruled the nation desperately broke and with an units in Kinshasa on alert until then called Zaire. infrastructure that barely func­further notice. The world community initially tioned. 
Amid the confusion of the 
shooting, Kinshasa residents 
hurried home and many streets PRESIDENT KABILA SHOT TO DEATH {~· : were quickly deserted. Truckloads of armed soldiers patrolled the streets in Congo's 


President Laurent Kabila of the 1998 capital city. Democratic Reptiblic of the 
August Burundi, Rwandan and

Large numbers of troops in 
Congo was shot by one Ugandan backed rebels take up arms 
armored vehicles and on foot 
of his bodyguards against Kabila. making major gains. Zimbabwe, Namibia and Angola send 

on Tuesday and Belgium's Foreign troops.to help.Kabila......................................... 
blocked off roads near Kabila's 
hilltop residence, not far from 
September Chad sonos troops to

Ministry said
downtown Kinshasa. The presi­
northern Congo in support of Kabila

he died after
dential residence, known as the 
being hit
Marble Palace, is usually heavily 
1999

by two bullets.
guarded by troops and a North 
May Rwanda, Uganda and Tanz.aoia 

Korean-made tank. 
call for ceasefire after a summit in 
Tanzania. Chad pulls its troops out of Coogo, Rwanda proclaims unilateral 

Kabila has been fighting a civil 
war since August 1998, when 
ceasefire. Uganda pulls rts forces out of
rebel forces backed by his for­
eastern towns 
..................·-········-······••·--•··············-··········

mer allies, Rwanda and Uganda, 
Augst Draft peace agreement signed

President
turned against him. In the war's 
in Lusaka, Zambia by rebels and
Laurent Kabila 
six African nations involved in the war.

early stages, the rebels reached 
the oulc;kirts of Kinshasa before 
~.N. deploys 90 ~~~!!~~!-.. --·-··--· December Harare ceasefire agte-0ment
being turned back by Kabila's 
calls for humanitarian corndors. release
army, which is now supported 
of hostages and prisoner exchanges

by Angola. Namibia and Zimbabwe. 
2000. 

Speaking from Brussels, Kin­
February U.N authorises a5,500 Kiey Mulumba, a spokesman for 
member force with personnel from 24 nalions. U.N. mandate OlCpinng on

one of the main rebel move­
October 15

ments, insisted Kabila was dead. 
August Pa11ies to Lusaka agreement

"It was a palace coup. Soldiers 
meet in Namibia. No progress made due
from Kabila's escort fired at 
to reluctance of Kabila to accept U.N. 

him. He took bullets directly. 
deployment and former Botswana 

-·-····.; PreSident Sir Ketumile Masire as neutral
! 1 :
Immediately, the doctors took 
···---·---··;·····--·········••·············----·-······--·--···•..·••···­
facilrtator 

. , ··•-•
him to the main hospital. but he 
Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel was
died." 
2001

quoted by Befga news agency as saying
Mulumba said the shooting 
Kabila was apparently shot by one of his January Kabita shot to death by one of
proved that the Congolese peo­
hts bodyguards

bodyguards in the presence of army generals
ple wanted a change, but denied 
ha had dismissed
that rebels had anything to do with it. REUTERS,;~ 
"Something big happened in •---...---·--·····-····-·········-··---····..··················•···•··············•··••-"••····•···········••··•·················· .................................................-'./AP
our country this afternoon. People want change," he said. 
Late NightOlympics 
Open Skate 


Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, January 26 and take part in the OPEN SKATE event which is scheduled from 1 0:00pm-Midnight. 
No advance sign-ups necessary. $1.00 Donation at the Door. The cost of the skate.rental is $2. All rental fees will be donated to Specail Olympics. 
Friday, January 26, 2001 • 7:00 pm -4:00 am 
P/ii-

Joyce Center • 631 -6100 \, J~:----­AII LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association ~,~. Posters Donated by Express Press , ~ · ·-· 
Wednesday, January 17, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 9 
PHILIPPINES 
Estrada seeks a public 'calm' in post-impeachment choas 
Associated Press Prosecutors in the trial that said Estrada supporters had But it was unclear if the coun­Manila. Several protesters built 
began Dl~c. 7 said the vote formed a protective ring around try's first-ever impeachment a bonfire in a major street and amounted to acquittal for his residence. trial would resume as scheduled gathered to bash cans, yell and Estrada and called the proceed­"I appeal to our countrymen to Wednesday afternoon. make other noise.
MANILA 

President Joseph Estrada ings a ..sham." Some were in keep calm," Estrada said in a The 11-10 Senate vote keeps Thousands more protesters. tears as they said they were statement in which he prayed prosecutors away from what
appealed for calm Wednesday including former President 
resigning, leaving the future of for strength and guidance. "Let they say would be the most Corazon Aquino, senators, stu­amid worries of possible vio­the proceedings uncertain. us pray that we may be spared
lence in the aftermath of the damaging evidence yet that dents and opposition groups,
A wide array of opposition further violence, injuries and Estrada has grown rich off cor-a
developments that threw his held candlelight vigil at a controversial impeachment trial groups vowed to pressure death that ruption in shrine dedicated to the 1986 into chaos. Estrada with non-stop rallies have stricken oflicc. popular uprisings that ousted and strikes. The trial has split our country in "Let us pray that we may Senate the late dictator President
Noisy demonstrations erupted the country, with the poor mass­recent times." be spared further President Ferdinand Marcos. 
in Manila and at least three 
es forming the backbone of the T h r e e Aquilino
other Philippine cities in the violence, injuries and Manila Archbishop Jaime 
president's support even though
early morning hours after the weeks ago, a Pim entel and Cardinal Sin, who led anti­
the economy and the peso have series of death that have striken Senate Marcos protests in the 1980s,Senate voted 11-10 to stop pros­
ecutors from examining bank taken a beating since the scan­bomb blasts our country in Secretary accused pro-Estrada senators of records they say would prove dal broke. in metropoli­recent times . ., Lutgardo Barbo "immorality" and said he feared 
In a sign of how financial mar­tan Manila angrily violence.
the president grevv rich off cor­
ruption during 18 months in kets would view the develop­killed over 20 resigned in "I am so afraid that because of oflice. men ts, the peso opened people. The Joseph Estrada protest. fol­this immorality ..., we might not Wednesday at a record low police and Philippine president lowed by the be able to stop bloodshed," Sin 
55. 50 to the U.S. military entire team of told the vigil. "\Ve know in our dollar from blamed I louse prosecu• heart that the president is
HAPPY 21st MEAU!!! 
Tuesday's close of Muslim separatists, but others tors. guilty."
52.780. suspected that the attacks were "We will tender our irrevoca­Protesters also rallied in the 
Trame was being politically motivated. ble letter of resignation as pros­cities of Cebu, Bacolod and detoured around Estrada expressed gratitude ecutors," Hep. Sergio Apostol Davao. potential hotspots over the Senate vote. said. "To us, prosecuting is Rep. Joker Arroyo, a congress­
in Manila as a "I thank the good lord for giv­already a sham. The impeach­men who was serving as a pros­gray. misty dawn ing us this initial favorable vote. ment court is already tainted ecutor, said the bank records broke over the This is the first major vote in the with bias." the senators kept sealed would sprawling capital many more major votes to be As news of the vote hit the have shown Estrada amassed of 12 million peo­cast in the impeachment trial," streets, car horns and fireworks $63.5 million in illicit money ple. Radio reports Estrada said. erupted in various parts of under four aliases. 
Company rolls out new toilet paper idea 
Huggies and Kotex believes of its biggest product intro­developed a plastic dis­
Associated Press 

its latest creation could be ductions ever. Company offi­penser that attaches to the the biggest advancement in cials say annual sales could toilet-roll holder in most 
DALLAS 
toilet paper in a century hit $150 million within a bathrooms. The moistened 
Seeking to wipe out potty
You can since someone thought to year and $500 million in six toilet paper can be unrolled 
B oots 
discomfort, Kimberly-Clark
now enjoy sell tissue on a roll. years. from the top of the device,
cones Corp. is plunging into the
all of life's The Irving-based company The product will be intro­leaving room below for a roll 
ars market with a new product,
B's!!! said Tuesday that it plans to duced in early summer in of regular toilet paper.
moistened toilet paper on a
oys spend $40 million marketing the Northeast and Now the company has to
Weloveu! 
roll.

eer Fresh Rollwipes under the Southeast, the company persuade people to buy it ­
The Boots 

The maker of Kleenex, 
Cottonelle brand name, one said. at $8.99 for a dispenser and 
For several years, four rolls, $3.99 for a 4-pack Kimberly-Clark has sold refill. flushable moistened toilet "Using a moist product 


31 6 Main Building through Friday, January 19th, 2001 Applications are also available for 
downloading and printing at 
www.nd.edu/-std11taff /RAinfo.htITil 
~ ' 
paper that comes in a tub ­similar to baby wipes, except that the fibers break apart in water. like ordinary tissue. In fact, the rapid growth of the wet-paper market persuaded company officials to see if they could refine the product. 
The company surveyed 2,000 consumers and found that 63 percent of them occasionally used something wet -often a baby wipe or regular toilet paper sprin­kled with water -~fter going to the toilet. About a quarter did it daily. 
To make moistened toilet paper a big seller, company officials figured they had to put it on a roll, in tiny perfo­rated squares like conven­tional toilet paper. 
Beginning with prototypes in 1997, company engineers cleans and freshens better than dry toilet paper alone," said Peggy Nabbefeldt, a Kimberly-Clark marketing director. 
"They have to realize this should be a normal part of a universal task." 
But the advertising must also be, well, subtle. 
"There's only so much people want to hear about with a product like this," Nabbefeldt added. 
After top-secret tests in consumers' homes, company officials believe they've got a hit on their hands. Some of the testers didn't want to give up the dispensers, said Linda Bartelt. president of the company's wet wipes sector. Bartelt said she's been using the product her­self for a year and a half and can't imagine life without it. 



page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nolfe Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gilbpie Tim Lane 
, NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VU.WPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pac Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-747I FAX........................................................... ..631-6927 ADYERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF.. ...................................... 63 l-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ AssT. ME....................631-4 541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ...................................... 631-53I3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWP0INT ................................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.'edu SPORTS........................................................631-454 3 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviev,,s and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

movies/musk for
weather for up-to-the 

weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 

online features for spe­
advertise for policies 

cial campus coverage 
and rates of print ads 

about The Observer
archives to search for 

to meet rhe editors and 
articles published afcer 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by che students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer re.serves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Qurstiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­
ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
DILBERT 
THE AD AGENCY

t---------------4 
THE STICK MAN RUNS 
THROUGH A TIRE 

FIRE. AND GETS EATEN BY A GIANT 
WOLVERINE. 

0
.. ~ ~ 
@)
.. 
E 
,:,"' 
"' 
~ ~ 
E 
0 
u 
t:: 
CIJ 
.c 
O
THE 
BSERVER Wednesday, January 17, 2001 

High tuition reflects University's shift in emphasis 
Every Christmas I get a personal, first­name invitation to join the Sorin Society. If I pay $1,000, benefits include "regional meetings" and the President's Newsletter. For $3,000 I could join the Founder's Circle and receive a video, an "ombudsman service" for tickets to non-ath­letic events and other comparable perks. I have not been able to join, but every year I feel a rush ofself­esteem. This is recognition that I am a somebody. worthy to be a play­er in the 
University's inner circle. 
One reason I . would like to join is to ask the movers and shakers one ques­tion: \Vith unprecedented sums cascad­ing into the University's coITers, why docs tuition keep rising beyond the infla­tion rate? 
The Endowment in 2000 rose from $2.03 billion to $3.14 billion. Generations raised more than $1 billion, the Fiesta Bowl grossed $13.5 million. And so on. Undergrad tuition. room and board for 2000-01 is $29,100, an inGrease of 5.2 percent, in accord with the Trustees' mandate limiting increases to about 5 percent. While this is the smallest per­centage increase in two decades, it is almost twice the rise in the consumer 
price index froml 999 to 2000. 
This is a symbolic issue. If tuition, room and board were frozen, that would not greatly benefit present students. On the other hand, a freeze would not crip­ple the University. The increase this year was $1,440. Notre Dame has 10,800 undergrad and grad students. If the charge had been frozen, the lost revenue would have been about $15.5 million. But some of that would have been "lost" anyway through scholarships, etc. 

Increasingly, colleges, like used car lots, discount their "sticker price" through aid packages. But why should that process begin with a sticker price that rises every year above the inflation rate? And could not our fundraisers, the best in the nation, raise funds targeted to oITset a freeze or even a rollback in tuition? 
Our leaders act in what they see as the best interest of Notre Dame. These com­
. ments arc directed at policies not per­sons. But the rise in tuition beyond the inflation rate reflects a change in priori­ties over the past two decades. Notre Dame here is a follower, not a leader. 
In the nation generally, until the late '70s, tuition increased at or below the inflation rate. In 1978, in response to pressure from universities, Congress relaxed the income restrictions on feder­ally guaranteed student loans. As Fortune magazine warned, "Anything that makes it easier to pay tuition bills will also make it easier to raise tuition charges." Since 1980, according to the College Board, median family income, adjusted for inflation, rose 20 percent while tuition at private four-year univer­sities rose by 118 percent. 
The universities lobbied Congress for funding for student loans. But as loan availability went up, so did tuition beyond the inflation rate. with those uni­versities financing their research and other expansion projects on the backs of the borrowing students. Notre Dame was far from the worst oITender. But after proclaiming itself a National Catholic Hesearch University in 197 8, Notre Dame did play this shabby game. In 1978-79, when the Endowment Was only $114 million, Notre Dame's undergrad tuition, room and board was $5,180. Today, adjusted for inflation, that total would be $13,468. In 2000-01, the charge is $29,100, more than double, in 
real money, what it was in 1978-79. 
Notre Dame makes a strong effort to provide financial aid. Last year University scholarships went to 35 per­cent of the students, up from 23 percent five years ago; the average such scholar­ship increased 50 percent over those live years. But the primary form of financial aid remains the student loan. The loan burden can be oppressive for students. distorting their career and family choic­
es. 
The historical mission of Notre Dame had been lhe provision of affordable edu­cation in the Catholic tradition to under­grads with research and grad programs in a complementary role. The relentless increase or tuition over the past two decades rcllccts a shift in emphasis to the pursuit of money and prestige as a Hescarch University. A freeze or rollback in tuition could symbolize a redirection . of that shill. Hesearch is important, espe­cially in the sciences. But Notre Dame ought not to have a regular faculty which teaches less and less to studenL'i who pay 
more and more. 
In the pursuit of prestige and money, the undergrad mission is devalued. Members of our family were Notre Dame undergrads every year from 1977 to 2000 in various majors. Our experience, admittedly subjective but supported by others, is that, in the variety of available courses, class size, quality of teaching. and the recognition of students as per­sons, the undergrad experience at Notre 
Dame has deteriorated since 1977. And our leaders are not even close to finish­ing the "binge building" which has con­verted the formerly pastoral Notre Dame into a cramped, urban-style research campus. 
If I joined the Sorin Society perhaps I could raise these questions. Maybe there's financial aid to enable guys like me to join. Maybe I could get a federal loan ... 
Prof Rice is on the Law School facuity. I /is column normally appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WILL THAT 

"There are obviously two educations. One 
MAKE PEOPLE 

should teach us how to make a living and
IT'S NOT ANLIKE US? 
the other how to live."
EXACT SCIENCE. 
James T. Adams Historian 


O
THE Wednesday, January 17, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame spirit helps in cancer fight 
I ask that when all of us make our first stop at the Grotto for the new year we include a prayer for Scott and his fami­ly. 
Happy New Year. 
Jennifer Laiber 
Public Relations and Information January 16, 2001 
Many times a day, I lay down thinking of what I would be doing right now if I haven't been diagnosed with leukemia. Then I think of what I have gained by this illness. All the wonderful people that I have met, at the hospital as well as my trip to the University of Notre Dame, that have signifi­cantly affected me. All the people that have sent me letters. e-mails and gifts, of their prayers and their acknowledge­ments of my trip to Notre Dame. All these people, as well as the people that I have met, have all made me feel more posi­tive inside than ever before. 
My love for the University of Notre Dame has grown more and more especially since my trip because of the inspiration it has given me. Notre Dame is a very special place. 
Out of all the letters, e-mails and gifts that people have sent me. I have had some pretty nice things said and some pretty nice things were given to me. I appreciate each and every word written in those letters and e-mails because they are words coming from the heart. People have shared their stories with me ofsurvival of cancer and how they know I will survive too. I believe now more than ever because of the letters, e-mails and gifts that I will get through this because I have all your prayers and all of you behind me. 
Many letters were sent to me, about 350 e-mails and about 100 cards. Out of all of those letters, many mementoes were sent to me that I couldn't believe were given up for me. For example, a man sent me two medals blessed by the Pope and two brothers sent me three autographed pictures. With the first and second pictures they just had their first names but no address or phone number, but the last picture had three pages of why their names weren't given previously and why they thought these players could relate to me. Joe Montana, Hocky Bleier and Chris Zorich, were the three pic­
tures. The cards sent to me were often heart warming and very motivational. The letters and Notre Dame are two of the biggest things that help me to keep fighting. All the individu­als that have sent me their prayers and mementoes, I thank you for all the support that you have given me and I know that one day I will go to the University of Notre Dame and this illness will just be a thing of the past. Every night I thank God for all the nice people that have sent me their prayers. I also thank God for all the nice peo­ple I have met at Notre Dame like Joey Getherall, Shane Walton, Coach Bob Davie, Father Edward Malloy, Hudy 
Huettiger, the entire football team and Jennifer Laibcr. These people in some way have made my wish an on-going process and have affected my life in a positive way. These 
people as well as the whole ND family, in some way made me feel like I was a special kid. I thank these people and many other people that I have met at Notre Dame and my recent trip to the ND vs. USC game. You all have made me feel great inside and all the well wishers have played a big part in that too. Fortunately, the Notre Dame family has so many members with warm hearts. My family: Carmen, I lenry. Eric and myself would like to wish everybody Happy Holidays and gratitude for your support. GO IRISH! 
Scott Delgadillo San Diego, Cal. December 2, 2000 
Congress should put its money where its mouth is 
Every time politicians talk about national priori­ties, we hear about how education should be our country's number one concern. Our nation's econ­omy needs a highly educated workforce, they tell us. if we are going to be able to compete in the new global economy. A college education, they warn us, is now a necessary ticket to a middle­class and decent paying job. And a strong democ­racy, they sometimes point out, depends on well­educated and informed citizens. 
Unfortunately, many of those who talk the loudest in Washington often do the least. Despite all the rhetoric about the importance of education, the federal government has failed to allocate the funding that millions of young people and their families need to make higher education afford­able. 
The bottom line is that the cost of a college education is soaring and students and their families are going deeper and deeper into debt to pay for that education. Twenty-five years ago, the maximum federally funded Pell Grant (which was designed to be the main portion of student aid) covered more than 80 percent of the average cost of attending a public four-year college, and about 40 percent of the cost of attending a pri­vate college. Today, the maximum Pell Grant covers only 39 percent of the average cost of attending a four-year public college, and only 15 percent of the cost of 
attending a private col­lege. 
In fact, the average Pell Grant, adjusted for infla­tion, has not increased at all in 10 years. Federal student aid, which 20 years ago was a grants­based system, is now a loan-based system. Pell Grants today account for only 10.7 percent of all stu­dent aid, while federal stu­dents loans comprise 51.4 per­cent. The end result of this poli­cy is that students graduating with four-year degrees bear an average debt of $19,000, not 
including what their parents owe. Students finishing graduate school are even deeper in debt. 
It strikes me as extremely unfair to young Americans and contrary to the best interests of our country, that millions of them are beginning their careers so deeply in debt. Among other things, it forces many new graduates to take jobs that earn them enough to pay off their loans, rather than pursuing the careers that would satisfy them and serve society. It is impossible to calculate how many excellent teachers, childcare workers, nurses, law enforcement officers and other professionals we have lost as a result of the federal government's failure to adequately fund financial aid programs. 
Accordingly. when the new Congress convenes in January, I will be proposing substantial increases in the federal support for higher education, includ­ing: doubling the funding for Pell Grants, from $7 .6 billion to $15 billion; doubling total federal spend­ing on aid to post-secondary students from $13 to $26 billion; substantially increasing funding to cancel the education debts of graduates who enter public service including teaching. social work, childcare, law enforcement. etc. 
Can the federal government afTord to give stu­
dents and families more financial help to pay for 
college? The answer is clearly "yes." At a time 
when the current federal budget surplus is over 
$200 billion and when very large surpluses are 
anticipated in coming years, we now have a unique 
opportunity to make certain that college education 
becomes affordable for every American family. 
In order to do that however, we have got to get our priorities right. Do we -as President-Elect Bush and the Republican leadership propose ­provide hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts to the wealthiest 2 percent of the population? Do we continue to spend $300 billion a year on the mili­tary despite the end of the Cold War? Or, instead, do we make certain that every family in this country, regardless of income, can send their children to col­lege without going deeply into debt? The answer is clear: education in this country must become a major national priority and not something we just pay lip 
service to. That means the federal government must accept its responsibility to 
adequately fund it. 
Currently, we are pro­viding only $13 billion a year on aid to post-sec­
ondary students and contribute less than 15 percent of the operating costs of our nation's col­leges and universities. If we can afford to give the Pentagon a $22 bil­lion increase in its bud­get -as we did this year -surely we can afford to increase stu­dent aid for higher edu­
cation by $13 billion. If we can afford to spend $125 billion on corporate welfare each year, surely 
we can afford to increase Pell Grants by $7.4 billion. Will we be successful in 
significantly increasing federal aid to college stu­dents and higher education? 

\Vill we be able to end the absurd situation of millions of young Americans beginning their careers oppressively in debt? The answer depends 
totally upon the willingness of the citizens of this country, espe­cially college students, to demand a 
fundamental change in national pri­orities and to be actively involved in the political process. Currently, members of Congress are 
assaulted every day by well-paid lobbyists rep­resenting multi-national corporations and the . wealthy who demand tax breaks and favors for the powerful special interests in our country that need it the least. On the other hand, I and my Congressional colleagues hear almost nothing from college and graduate students and their parents who incur tens of thousands of dollars in educa­
tional debt. We can change this situation, but only if' students play a leadership in that process. Hold campus .ral­lies, arrange for meetings with your member of Congress, march on ·washington. Working togeth­er, we can change our national priorities, and make college affordable for all. 
Representative Bernie Sanders Independent, Vermonc 
January 13, 200 I 
..... ,........,..-A 


Visions of sunny beaches and crashir 
In search of spring break fun, Scene explores the sunny state of California ~ 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Scene Writer 
Editor's note: This week Scene is featuring popu­lar spring break destinations. 
The Viper Room is most certainly the place to be in California. With the hottest celebrities pulsing to the latest dance music and mingling around the bar, the Viper Hoom is the coolest place in town. When you are in California, don't miss the Viper Room. 
This is assuming that you either are Brittany Spears or are currently dating the pop idol. For those of you who aren't members of 'NSYNC, star­ing in the latest WB show or tearing up the model­ing runways in Paris, you will be lucky if the Viper Room lets you sift through its garbage. 
But fear not. You, the common scum that you are, can still have a good time in California on your spring break. 
Both San Francisco and Los Angeles feature plen­ty of attractions that will admit you regardless of how many Golden Globe nominations you have or have not received. 
Los Angeles 
Just because Puff Daddy won't let you join his posse, it doesn't mean you can't find a place to party in L.A. Head to Pier Avenue in Hermosa Beach and you will find enough bars to satisfy even the thirstiest spring breaker. 
Aloha Sharkeez is among the best on Pier Avenue. Sharkeez serves Mexican food and has tables set up where you can eat and enjoy many sporting events on several big-screen televisions. 
Early in the evening the atmosphere is a mixture between a loud sports bar and a laid-back dance club. 
After 10 p.m., however, Sharkeez changes over into a over-crowded dance club stuffed with people and blasting the latest top 40s music. The tables are put away, the televisions start showing a looped video of surfers, and the music gets even louder. 
When Sharkeez first changes over to a dance club, the crowd is mostly people in their early 30s. After midnight, however, people in their early 20s fill the dance floor. The atmosphere becomes more and more wild as the evening wears on. 
Unfortunately, after midnight, Sharkeez is also incredibly crowded. Getting to the bar is nearly impossible. This is a real shame because Sharkeez features many exotic drinks and the bartenders are almost as entertaining as the music. 

Sharkeez specializes in giant fishbowls filled with whatever tropical drink you desire. Complete with glowsticks, umbrellas and many long straws, the fishbowls are perfect for sharing with a large group of people. 
The only problem with Sharkeez is the prices. Bottled beers are $4 and mixed drinks can cost between $6 and $9. If you plan on drinking at Sharkeez, expect to spend a lot of money. 
For those who don't drink, however, there is no cover charge, so you can party all night long with­out spending a dime. 
Sharkeez's changing atmosphere makes it a great place to start your evening, party all night and leave when they play the final song. For those who like to bar hop, however, go to Sharkeez first, order a fishbowl. soak up the atmosphere and then move on. 
Right next door to Sharkeez is Patrick Malloy's, an Irish pub whose line rivals Sharkeez in length as the night wears on. 
If crowded dance noors aren't your cup of tea, there are several other bars just a few doors down with no lines at the bars and plenty of room on the dance noor to bust a move. 
If you are suddenly seized by the munchies, visit Fat Face Fenner's Falloon for great seafood and an elevated deck where you can watch people walk by on Pier Avenue. Fenner's features table service and a full bar for people who prefer a quieter drinking atmosphere. 
There is plenty to do in Los Angeles during the day time as well. You can lie out in the sun on Hermosa Beach or you can head to downtown L.A. in search of rock divas and movie stars. 
Mann's Chinese Theatre at 6925 Hollywood Boulevard is home to many of the top movie pre­mieres. Although you may not be famous enough to be invited to the premier, you can still see where famous people have stood. 
Just across the street from the theatre is the Walk of Fame. From Sean Connery and Charlie Chaplin to Tony Danza and John Travolta, almost every top star in the history of Hollywood is memo­rialized in the sidewalk. 
If you are hungry from all that stargazing, don't miss Pink's. For just a couple of bucks at this hot dog stand, you can get a heart attack on a plate. 
Pink's features two huge hot dogs covered in chili, cheese and every­thing else to clog your arteries -all wrapped in a flour tortilla. 
If you really want your heart to hate you, make sure you get some fries as well. 
After bloating yourself on processed beef, drive down Rodeo Drive and look at all the cars you will never be able to afford and the clothes that cost more than the car you are driving. 
If you are feeling adventurous, walk into one or the stores and watch the salespeople curse you with their eyes for even pre­tending that you can afford the clothes on the rack. 
If you are young at heart, Disneyland is the place for you. While not nearly as large as Disneyworld in Orlando. Disneyland can still fill a day with plenty of 

Th~ winding skyline of San Francisco can be seen through tt,
point. 
excitement. 

Thanks to a new system called Fastpass, you can spend more of your time riding the rides and less time standing in line. When you get to the park, go straight to one of the big rides with long lines like Space Mountain. Rather than standing in line, go to one of the Fastpass machines and get a ticket. 
The ticket will give you a time to come back later in the day 
in order to skip the line. 
So rather than wait­ing for two hours to ride, you get to go right to the front of the line and wait only about ten minutes. 
Fastpass makes the entire Disneyland experience more enjoy­able. 
T h i s spring will also be the first time to C n j O y Disney­1 and' s newest attraction ­California Land. 
With a big wooden rollercoast­


er and a 

Mann's Chinese Theatre on Hollywood B1
"Hollywood 


now attracts celebrity-seeking tourists. 

_ Wednesday, January 17, 2001 page 13 
1g surf got you 'California Dreamin' 
~om Los Angeles' celebrity hangouts to the winding streets ofSan Francisco 


ELIZABETH LANG/Observer 
he famous Golden Gate Bridge from a scenic overlook 
Pictures Backlot," Disneyland will have even more to enjoy this March. 
San Francisco 
If the sandy beaches and celebrities of Los Angeles aren't your idea of a perfect spring break, San Francisco may be the place for you. In stark contrast to the beaches outside L.A., San Francisco 
crashes into the Pacific Ocean with rocky cliffs and bigger waves. 
S a n t a Monica is just a 30 minute drive south of the city a l o n g Houle 1 where you can watch the surfers challenge the crash­ing waves. 
Even if surfing isn't your thing, a drive along Houte 1 is not to be missed. The road snakes along the cliffs and offers an incredible view of the Pacific. 
A car is practically 

a must in 
San Francisco if you want to see alt the sights. 
In addition to the beauty of Houte 1, a drive across the Golden Gate Bridge should be part of every visitor's itinerary. 
While the actual drive across the bridge is nothing spectacular (it's just a bridge... it's big and orange but still just a bridge), the view from the opposite side look­ing back to San Francisco is breath-taking. 
Just after you cross the bridge, there is a scenic overlook where you can look back at the city. All the landmarks in San Francisco are visible and the big, orange bridge creates a striking photo opportunity. 
Across the road from the scenic overlook, there is a road that scales the mountain and offers a view of the Pacific on one side and the San Francisco Bay on the other. 
After seeing San Francisco's attractions from a distance, it's time to head down into the city. 
Pier 39, also known as Fisherman's Wharf, is the biggest attraction along the water front. 
With trendy restaurants and a plethora of gift shops. Fisherman's Wharf is the defini­tion of a tourist trap. 
Unlike most trashy tourist traps, however, Fisherman's \,Vharf is a lot of fun. 
There are plenty of street per­formers to keep you entertained. As one juggler announced to his audience, "Yes, I do in fact make my living by pass­ing around my hat." 
From jugglers ancl fortune tellers to dancing robotmen and freaks who will pose for photos with you, Fisherman's Wharf has plenty of people who will gladly accept your spare change. 
The biggest attraction at Pier 39, however, is the ferry to Alcatraz Island. The famous maximum 
security prison can  only be reached by ferry and  
reservations  are  
required.  

Check out www.blue­andgoldfleet.com/az.htm for rates and availabili­ty. 
You can try just walk­ing up and hoping to find an open ferry time, but that is highly unlike­ly. Without a reservation you probably won't get anywhere near "The Hock." 
Tours of Alcatraz are self-guided, using head­phones and a tape play­er that you can rent on the island. Allow about three hours to take the ferry, tour the prison, snap some pictures and ride the ferry back. 
A visit to Alcatraz will cost about $20 but it is worth every penny. The stories of prison life, attempted escapes, and famous criminals are fascinating. 
Several park rangers stationed around the prison are also available for presentations throughout the day. 
They can debunk many of the myths about Alcatraz perpetuated by movies about the prison. 
For example, the tun­nels under Alcatraz that 

.I 
l 
,. 
are so important for Sean Connery and Nicolas Cage in ..The Rock" don't even exist. 
The sunny beaches and glamourous streets of Los Angeles and San Francisco may be frequented by celebrities and those who hunt for them. 
But even if "Entertainment Tonight" doesn't want to do a feature story on your love life and "Total Request Live" isn•t playing your hits, you can still have fun on your spring break in California. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Bench play contributes as Irish end losing streak 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
It took a sprained ankle by David Graves to get Notre Dame's bench more playing time, but Notre Dame's 74-58 Joyce Center victory over Pittsburgh may be a sign of things to come. 
Junior forward Harold Swanagan returned to the start­ing spot he held a year ago and did more than hold his own in the post with classmates Troy Murphy and Ryan Humphrey. 
He held court, snatching a game-high 10 rebounds to go with his seven points in 22 min­utes of play. 
"He's been great since we've been back from Christmas," Irish coach Mike Brey said of Swanagan. "He sets such a tone for us with toughness, dirty work and little things. Guys could be in their comfort zone a little bit, expecting certain min­utes. That may change. It·s funny how an injury leads you into something, or you find something because of an injury." 
It was Swanagan's defensive dirty work that most helped get the Irish guard up, the area it most needed to improve. Behind his and his teammates' efforts, Notre Dame (10-5, 2-2 Big East) held the Panthers (10-6, 2-3) scoreless for the first five-and­a-half minutes of play. 
The Irish were red hot offen­

sively, but they already knew 
they could score. 
"We have a lot of scorers on 

our team," senior point guard 
Martin lngelsby said. "For us to 
be a good team, we have to do it 
on the defensive end." 
Defense has been the big question mark. Unlike at times in road losses to Kentucky and Seton Hall, the Irish were the ones diving for loose balls and keeping their opponent from getting off second-chance shots. 
Even Graves. playing on a ering him," Panthers coach Ben ed the onslaught with a bucket tained effort that's been lacking "We need to get some wins if sprained ankle and coming off a Howland said. "I think he's had in the lane. The Irish held off at times this season. Five guys we want to get to the NCAA road slump, was on the floor six practices since Dec. 16, and the Panthers' attack with defen­pulled down at least five Tournament," Swanagan said, lunging for the ball. He man­you can't play your best basket­sive rebounds by Matt Carroll, boards, and the team tallied 11 ..and that's what we want to aged 25 minutes of play, putting ball without practicing. He's Murphy and Ivan Kartelo along blocks, four by Murphy and do." up 12 points and five rebounds. really playing on heart and with a block by Jere Macura. three by Humphrey. 
Notes 

"I saw him a couple days ago, courage. For us to have a The Irish followed through at In the second half, the Irish . Last night's win was thechance to win, Ricardo's got to their own end with an up-close stopped a Panthers run that
and he was barely able to first game of a three-game
walk," Murphy said of Graves. play." basket and follow-up free throw brought them to within 10 
home stretch which continues
Pittsburgh was shooting at a by Murphy, a near 3-pointer by points midway through the peri­
"It's amazing what he was able Sunday at noon against West to do today. He put up a heck of hoop smaller than the ball, lngelsby and a made 3 by od. They managed to get the Virginia and Tuesday against
judging from its 21 percent Carroll. stop they needed. forcing
an effort. He's a great player." Syracuse.
Pittsburgh star Ricardo Greer shooting touch in the first half. "Those second shots coming Donatas Zavackas into his . Murphy led the Irish in scor­
didn't cope as well, also playing Without some mercy from the off the rim. the loose balls fourth foul then silencing 
ing with 23, while Ingelsby had 
Irish or divine help, the rolling down the lane, we have Pittsburgh with a 15-foot jump
on a spra,ined ankle. The Irish one of his biggest nights of the 
limited his productivity to 11 Panthers had no hope of head­not gotten those," Brey said. shot by Humphrey. season with 13 points. ing into halftime in contention. "It's something we addressed. Down the stretch, Graves
points. well below his average . Macura, Kartelo and of 16.5, and pressed him into Instead of some Irish aid, the "My main focus in the locker nailed two free throws and reserves Charles Thomas and Panthers stood by while the room was the dirty work... dropped in a jumper and a shot
five turnovers. Tom Timmermans all made 
"Greer didn't play well Irish went on a 12-2 rampage to The Irish did the dirty work from behind the arc to cement appearances for the first time in 
tonight. His ankle's really both-close the half. Swanagan start-all game long. giving a sus-the win. 
several games. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
I need my satellite back!!! My friends, this is the way it is, Christina, we miss you. Rock DC, Abe Lincoln in Hawaii -not a real baby. but don't forget about your girls world special. it's february in the pq FOR RENT WANTED I missed my Kear-bear! its so nice to be back. Donna calls him Dave ... he comes I'm ready for Thursday, Molly. But and cassady's vest is on the wall. 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES Parents who are ND grads seek out with a baseball bat. South Bend might not be. what would your mom say? 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS older female babysitter to care for Undressed is the best show EVER! 232-2595 two girls ages 7 & 9, one or two And christene tells ya all about it. Welcome back Christina! did you emmaus, judea? too bad we all mmma::fl!als~aQI r;.Q!!l weekend evenings & occationally Timmy and N-Dawg hit the final 4, miss my messages? don't have such cool nicknames 
weekends or evenings in our home. St Louis'II never know what hit Hey, ND might win more games HOUSES FOR RENT: Must have own car. Call Judith and them. than the Bulls this season! Thanks for the present -I'm a little lavalle -nice. realy nice. you better 
1) 5-br $900/month. leave message: 287-0260. scared of it though. 4 weeks in a be sending flowers. roses, even. 
2) 4-br $1000/month. Never, ever, work for Sam Ash Jack and Jill went up the hill to mailbox can't be good 
3) 3-br $600/month. music ... catch a pail of water. lizards and beagles in the room WeOII make almost any changes to PERSONAL I miss my roommate. the houses. Call Bill at 675-0TT6 Credit card debt.. if only I could Jack came down and broke his one could do worse than be a 
WELCOME BACK EVERYONE! have another four weeks of over• crown.. Nata-how's the business com-swinger of birches. HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 time. ing? 4/5 SEDAM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAM-Jen -Ticklish? My baby, I miss u Hey Janel .... HAPPY 21st BIRTH-but ah don't want... your life PUS. 773-486-8822 in my arms. TllllllllMMMMMMMMMYYYYY DAY! (slightly belated) T • miss Maine yet? peace outside. i'm a warrior 
......._,._,..,...__,..___________ ---..... --·-·······-­
Wednesday, January 17, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles look to get over .500 mark 
By KATIE McVOY Assiscanc Spom Editor 
Saint Mary's basketball is hungry for a win tonight, after a stale 3-4 run over the holiday break. Dropping games to Goshen, Hope College, Calvin Col}ege and Alma College, tomght's meeting with Olivet has the Belles ready for a win. 
Tonight the Belles will hit the road take on the Comets of Olivet in Michigan. Both teams are tied for fifth place in the MIAA, with records of 1-3. However. Olivet's overall record of 9-5 tops Saint Mary's record of 7-7. 
The real story is not in the teams' records, but their histo­ry. Last year the Belles and the Comets battled to remain out of the last place position in MIM rankings. 
Saint Mary's faced Olivet three times la~t season. The last meet­ing was in the MIM playoffs. The Belles defeated the Comets and claimed the No. 7 spot. forc­ing the Comets into eighth. 
"It's a big rivalry between the two teams," Smith said. "There may be a revenge factor playing I\Vcdncsday)." 
The Belles and the Comets will face off for the first time this year in "The Cage," a nickname for the small. dark Olivet gym. The game promises to be aggressive. 
"We know that we have to come out strong," Smith said. "I Olivet] is a very physical team." 
The Belles started break with a 59-77 loss to Goshen and fin­ished with a 51-75 loss to Hope College Saturday, the Belles' vacation play was not as rewarding as they wanted it to be. 
"Everyone has put in a lot of effort," head coach Suzanne Smith said. "But we need the reinforcement of a big win." 
Saint Mary's took on league leader Ilope Saturday, dropping the game 51-75. Hope came into the game with a 3-0 league record and a 12-1 record over­all, good enough to place the Flying Dutch in the top 20 Division III women's teams in the nation. 
"Although the women were not satisfied with the game, they were happy with what they did," Smith said. "They played hard and it was never a blowout." 
The team came into the Hope game following their worst loss of the season against another MIAA leader, Calvin. They lost the game 52-35. 
Like Hope, the Calvin Knights came into the game with an undefeated conference record. The Belles did not rise to the challenge, shooting only 18 per­cent from the field. 
Saint Mary's had taken on Alma College four days earlier on Jan. 6. 
The Belles hung with Scots, losing by only 5 points, 57-62. Alma currently holds the No. 2 spot in MIAA rankings, with only a single defeat. 
Coming into the Alma game, the Belles were coming off of three wins against league com­petition Albion and non-confer­ence teams Hose-Bulman and Anderson. 
The Belles defeated the Albion Britons 61-52 in a conference match. 
"We played very well against Albion, it being the first confer­ence game of the year." Smith said. 
"Anderson and Hose-flulman were unbelievable wins." 
The Dec. 16 game against Hose-Bulman ended with a lay­up by Julie Norman to bring Saint Mary's to 67-66 victory over Hose-Hulman. 
Anderson was another tight win. The Belles took that game only 59-56. 
I 
lflTNESS SCHEDULE 
1  12:15-12:45  
2  3:45-4:45  
3  4:50-5:20  
4  5:30-6:30  
5  12:15-12:45  
6  4:15-5:15  
7  5:30-6:30  
8  10:00-10:50  
9  11:00-11 :30  

10 4:15-5:30 11 5:40-6:00 
12 4:15-5:15 13 5:25-6:10 14 7:15-8:30am 15 4:15-5:15 16 5:25-6:10 
CJLALLENGE 
'"U 

RSRC ACTIVITY ROOM 1 
Cardio Sculpt (ends 5/18) M/W/F Cardio Sculpt M/W/F Arms n'Abs M/W Power Step n'Pump M/W Flex n'Tone (ends 5/17) T/Th Step II T/Th Cardio Box Tffh Jump n'Jab (ends 3/3) Sa Arms n'Abs (ends 3/3) Sa Cardio Sculpt Su All Abs Su 
RSRC ACTIVITY ROOM 2 
Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Monday, January 22 • 5:30pm Deadline-January 19 Saturday, February 3 • 11 am or 2pm Deadline-February 1 
Clinics held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $5.00 + Equipment Rental** 
** Equipn1e11t Rental Available-$4.00 Charge to be paid at the Golf Course on tbe daJ' ofthe clinic. 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warn1 Gloves 
Said Carparelli: "It's a unique situation. We're trying to get an answer from the NFL as to whether he even needs to declare or if he does. whether he's bound to stick to that. He hasn't been in contact with an agent of any sort which cer­tainly eliminates that bound­ary." 
After Williams spoke to him in the weeks prior to the Fiesta Bowl. Carparelli gathered the paper work from the NFL and gave it to Williams, who had to send the form by Jan. 5. The NFL officials received the form before the deadline and con­tacted Williams last week with their projection. 
"For the most part it's up to Brock to do all this,'' Carparelli said. "It's his life and his career. He's been in contact with us every step of the way and asking our advice." 
Cardio Box  M/W  
Flex n'Tone  M/W  
Step II n' Sculpt  Tffh  
Cardio Sculpt  Tffh  
Lo Impact  Tffh  
ROCK NE ROOM 301  

17 5:30-6:30  Cardio Box  M/W  
18 5:30-6:30  Step I  Tffh  
ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER  

19 12:15-12:45  Aquacise (ends 5/18)  M/W/F  
20 7:00-8:00pm Aquacise  Tffh  
REGISTRATION  

WHEN: Thursday, January 18, 7:30am WHERE: Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
SPRING 2001 
$38 $38 $20 $27 $26 $26 $26 $6 $5 
$14 
$10 
$27 $27 $33 $26 $26 
$27 $26 
$38 $26 


PETER RICHARDSON/The Obser.ter 
Comerback brock Williams tackles Beaver wide receiver T.J. Houshmanzedah during the Fiesta Bowl. Following the game, Williams spoke about his interest in joing the NFL next season. 
Williams 
continued from page 24 
his thought. 
..I mean, I want to come back for next year." Williams said, ..and have a good, good season." 
On numerous occasions, Davie mentioned Williams as a key returning player for the 2001 squad. At a press confer­ence on Nov. 21, Davie spoke as if he fully expected Williams to return next season. 
"The secondary is all back 
[in 2001 J except for Tony 
Driver," Davie said at the time. 
As of now. Williams has not 
filed to be in the draft. accord­
ing to Carparelli. In fact, 
unlike players with a remain­ing year of eligibility at other schools, Williams may not have to officially declare his inten­tion. All underclassmen had to declare their intentions by Jan. 12. 
Because football players at Notre Dame are not "redshirt­ed," like at other schools, they must complete an application requesting a fifth year. Because of that rule, Williams -and the other seniors who have an extra year of eligibility -is technically considered a senior who has not officially been granted a fifth year of eli­gibility. 
The University's decision as to which seniors will return for a fifth year has not been final­ized. according to assistant 
athletic director and sports information director John Heisler. 
"With the semester starting, any of those people that are interested in that are just going to begin the process of filling out the paperwork and submitting that to the faculty board,'' Heisler said. "It's got­ten a little bit more involved in the last few years. In the past. they essentially had to write a letter that explained what their intention was. Now there's a more specific form that's been created that asks them to detail both where they are academically and what they plan to be doing academ­ically. They also ask them in detail why it is they missed a season and why they want to come back." 
Classes are open to all ND students, staff, faculty and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 14 class registrants. Classes begin the week of January 22 and unless noted, end the week of April 30. Please call 1-6100 with questions. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish drop out of Top 25 with loss to Wildcats 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associare Sports Editor 
LEXINGTON, Kent. 
It was a long Christmas break for the Notre Dame men's basketball team, which dropped out of the Top 25 this week after losing three of its last four games. 
"We're on our last breath here," All­American Troy Murphy said Saturday after Notre Dame fell to Kentucky. "The red lights are flashing.. We've got to get it together." 
The latest Irish loss came at the hands of
--a quickly rising Kentucky Wildcats squad in an 82-71 defeat before a raucous Rupp Arena crowd of 23,018 fans. Early in Saturday's match-up, Notre Dame (9-5) appeared undaunted by the smoke and fireworks display set off to introduce the Kentucky starters. The Irish came close to silencing the Lexington crowd by taking a 14-4 lead over the 9-5 \Vildcats. They did so behind six Ryan Humphrey rebounds, fade-away shots by All-American Troy Murphy and Mr. Consistent -Matt Carroll -and a bang-in bucket by Lexington native David Graves. That was the last quiet moment for the Kentucky fans. "We got comfortable with the situation being up 14-4," Murphy said. "and it back­fired on us." The Irish began to unravel, turning the ball over six times in less than three min­utes, and the Wildcats went on a 13-0 run, spreading the scoring among six players. "Playing against a team of Notre Dame's caliber and Troy Murphy coming in," Kentucky coach Tubby Smith said, "you've got to raise your level of play and I thought we did that." Notre Dame bounced back to edge the Wildcats by three following consecutive 3­pointers by Graves. The junior small for­ward, playing in his hometown against a team he revered before Kentucky snubbed him in the recruiting process, would only make one more basket the rest of the game. Kentucky found the key to stopping the Irish -stopping Troy Murphy. Stick-skin­ny Tayshaun Prince did just that, limiting Murphy to 14 points -10 below his sea­son average -and forcing him into four fouls while Prince scored a game-high 19 points and pulled down eight rebounds. "Tayshaun really made Troy work to get his shots," Smith said. "Him [Murphy] get­ting in foul trouble really helped us." Prince kicked off a 12-0 run for Kentucky by blocking one of Murphy's shots. The Wildcats clung to a 33-24 lead and never trailed again, pulling off their sixth straight victory and seventh straight over the Irish. Notre Dame did its best to climb back into the contest, but couldn't follow through as a different Wildcat answered every comeback attempt. "Every time you got the ball in the post," Hwnphrey said, "there were two or three guys on you. We've just got to become tougher. We've got to box out and rebound as a team." The Irish closed to within five on a Murphy bucket in the lane with less than two minutes to play. but Carroll fouled guard Keith Bogans, who nailed both free throws. Down the stretch, Notre Dame had to foul in attempts to regain possession, 
and Kentucky was a perfect 1O-for-10 from the charity stripe in the final 3:07. 
Nine Kentucky players logged more than 16 minutes of playing time in the contest, while no one outside the starting lineup did so for Notre Dame. Putting up heavy duty minutes on the court has become routine for the Irish, as point guard Martin Ingelsby fell 19 seconds short of playing his fourth straight 40-minute game, while Graves, Carroll and Murphy were all in the game more than 35 minutes once again. 
"Some of the guys coming off the bench aren't as good at the ball-handling against athletic speed and ball-pressure," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. 
Notre Dame needs to find a way to use its bench as Kentucky delivered the knock­out punch with its depth. The Irish starters average 33 minutes of playing time per game, and getting wins with only six or seven players contributing is a difficult task, especially in the physical Big East Conference. 
Brey tried to give Ingelsby a bit of a breather from holding the reins by having Carroll or Graves bring the ball downcourt while Ingelsby slid to a shooting guard spot. Yet the senior captain was still in the game nearly every second of regulation, and his "substitutes" also saw little of the bench. 
Aside from the depth issue, nothing seemed to go right for the Irish, who couldn't get shots to fall or balls to spin in their direction. 
"That's the way it's been all year," Graves said. "It's just been one stop, one rebound, and it seems like we can't get it." 
No one fix-it will cure the Irish woes, as a new problem crops up each game. 
The Irish outrebounded their foes in recent losses to Kentucky, Seton Hall and Syracuse. Against Seton Hall, Murphy pulled down 20 rebounds while Humphrey added 15, with each guy easily outre­bounding the top two rebounders for the Pirates combined. But dominating the boards didn't do it for the Irish. 
"For us to take the next step," Brey said, 
"we're going to have to get the defensive 
rebound when it's a two-point game. 
Neither did looking to 
Murphy. He became just 
the seventh Big East player to score 20 points and grab 20 rebounds in a single game against Seton Hall, yet the Irish lost by two. He scored beneath his average against Syracuse and Kentucky while the Irish came home defeated. In a home win over Rutgers, he drilled in 37 points, and it was barely enough to win. 
"It's hard," Murphy said Saturday. "It's just tough." 
A shooting slump hurt Notre Dame against Kentucky and Seton Hall, as the Irish shot a com­bined 36 percent in the two games, with Humphrey and Graves having the toughest times. But who knows if a higher percent­Orangemen and still lost. 

At Syracus~. Notre Dame had more trou­ble from the foul line, where it hit just one of10 attempts in the first half. 
On the road against the Pirates, an Ingelsby charge in the final minutes knocked the Irish out of contention, while a lack of defense has plagued the Irish other times. 
A good move for Brey would be to have his best defender. Carroll, guard the most dangerous opponent to make use of his tal­ents. 
This team is more talented than its 9-5 record lets on. Back in November, as the Irish drilled a ranked Cincinnati team and shot 73 percent from 3-point land against 


age from the field would 
A program o:f athletics and enrichment :for economically
have helped, since the Irish 
disadvantaged children :from the South Bend area.
hit 50 percent of their shots against the Syracuse Training dates: June 18 -22 
Do YOU LIKE SPORTS? KIDS? Do YOU WANT TO GET PAID 
AND 

EARN 3 CREDITS? 

National Youth Sports Program Sponsored by the NCAA 
Program dates: June 25 -July 27 
• 
Housing provided on campus 

• 
Three meals per day 

• 
Salary of approximately $1,200 

• 
Three elective credits 


Loyola, the Irish looked unstoppable, as if just half of their team would be good enough to top quality opponents. 
Unfortunately, that's what they've been trying to do -win while using just the starting lineup while occasionally tossing Harold Swanagan and Torrian Jones into the mix. 
Something has to give for a squad so highly touted in the preseason it peaked at No. 10 in the polls in early December. 
"We need to stop concentrating on what other teams are doing and start concen­trating on what we're doing," Graves said. "We need to start worrying about playing instead of being tentative ... This team doesn't give up. We're not going to panic." 


Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns Application deadline: February 9 For additional information, call 631-6614. 
. 

The 'R{ch, the POOR, and the Living Wage: Interdisciplinary Perspectives 
Evening symposia, co-sponsored by the Anti-Sweatshop Task Force, the Program in the Catholic Social Tradition, and the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Mondays at 7:00 pm (and Wednesday, Feb. 7), in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Jan. 22: The Living Wage in Catholic Teaching: Economic Justice for All: Todd David Whitmore, University of Notre Dame 
Jan. 29: Notre Dame Living Wage Studies: Dr. Ruth Rosenbaum, Center for Reflection, Education, and Action 
Feb. 5: The Living Wage in the United States: Robert Pollin, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, co-author (with Stephanie Luce) of The Living Wage: Building a Fair Economy; with Martin Wolfson, University of Notre Dame responding 
Feb. 7: A Case Against the Living Wage: Thomas Gresik, University of Notre Dame 
Feb. 12: A Living Wage in the United States; Lawrence Glickman, University of South Carolina, author ofA Living Wage: American Workers and the Making of Consumer Society 
Feb. 19: Measuring the Living Wage; Jared Bernstein, Economic Policy Institute, co-author (with Chauna Brocht and Maggie Spade-Aguilar) of How Much is Enough? 
Feb. 26: The Living Wage: The Case of Baltimore: Robert Hearn, former living wage consul­tant to Kurt Schmoke, Mayor of Baltimore 
Mar. 5: The Living Wage in the Global Economy: Darcy Tromanhauser and Tara Gruzen, Columbia University Program in Economic and Political Development, co-authors (with Melissa Connor, Larry Sacks, and Jude Sunderland) of The Case for Corporate Responsibility: Paying a Living Wage to Maquila Workers in El Salvador: A Study for the National Labor Committee 
Mar. 19: The Catholic Case for the Living Wage: Harlan Beckley, Washington and lee University, author of Passion for justice: Retrieving the Legacies of Walter Rauschenbusch, John 
A. Ryan, and Reinhold Niebuhr 
Mar. 26: The Catholic Case Updated: Christine Firer Hinze, Marquette University, author of A Good Life 
April 9: A Case Against the Living Wage: Teresa Ghilarducci, University of Notre Dame 
April 23: The Business Case for the Living Wage: Karen Kraut, Responsible Wealth Project, and co-author (with Scott Klinger, and Chuck Collins) of Choosing the High ·Road: Businesses That Pay a Living Wage and Prosper; with Jim Amaral, Owner, Borealis Breads, Alna Maine 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Injured hand can't break Siemon's spirit 


By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assisranr Sports Editor 
About five minutes into the post game press conference following Notre Dame's stunning 92-76 upset of Connecticut on Monday. senior forward Kelley Siemon strolled in with a Hawaiian lei around her neck, tripped on her way to her seat. and began taking questions. 
Just another example of the quirky senior stealing the show once again. 
While Huth Riley was the domi­nant force in the victory with 29 points and 12 rebounds, it was Siemon who provided the inspira­tion. 
The Notre Dame media guide lists facts about each player, including a section titled "Nobody knows hm,v much I ... " 
Siemon's response: "hate to lose." , 
After playing 3:3 minutes two days after breaking a bone in her hand against Virginia Tech, Siemon's secret is out. 
As if playing at home in front of a sellout crowd against the No. 1 team in the nation didn't provide enough inspiration, the Irish ­who had planned on playing each starter the entire 40 minutes ­faced the challenge of going to bat­tle without the Big East leader in defensive rebounding. 
Rather than adding to the pres­

sure, the Irish only saw the possi­
ble loss as another challenge to 
overcome. 
"My first comment when I first 

heard about it was, 'Notre Dame's 
probably going to play a lot better 
than they originally would,"' said 
Connecticut coach Geno 
Auriemma. "From an emotional 
standpoint I think they certainly 
took advantage of it." 
Then Siemon met with Dr. Jack 


l i 
i 
l ~ 
~ 
! 
t 
I 
f 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
, 
., 
J 
I 
J 
I 
I 
) 
) 
{ 
I 
' 
Mahon -the same doctor that diagnosed Irish quarterback Arnaz Battle with his season-ending wrist injury after the Nebraska game -on Monday morning. 
The surprising diagnosis revealed that Siemon, who was originally thought to require surgery on Tuesday morning, was not as seriously injured as first thought. She was fit with a special padded brace emblazoned with the Adidas logo, and was allowed to suit up. 
"Last night I came out and tried to shoot a little bit and really couldn't use the guide hand at all. Our trainers did a really good job,''· Siemon said. "They put some stuff over my hand to absorb any con­tact." 
The sight of Siemon in uniform and warming up before the game. rather than cheering the team on from the bench proved inspira­tional. 
''I talked to her before the game and she had so much confidence in herself and the team," said senior point guard Niele Ivey. 
'Tm never going to forget what she said. 'If this is what I have to do for the team to win the champi­onship, then I'm going to do it."' 
Siemon's impact, however, was far more than just her presence on the court. She single-handedly held her own underneath the boards. 
Less than three minutes into the game, Siemon made a lay-up to put the Irish up 6-3. Minutes later, 
· she took a pass from Riley, scored off the glass, and collected a foul in the process. Siemon made the free throw, scoring her fifth point of the game and proving that it takes more than a broken bone to stop the daughter of former NFL player Jeff Siemon. 
At the half, Siemon had sparked Notre Dame to a 40-31 lead with nine points and five rebounds. 
"Once the game started, I really didn't notice it at all," said Siemon. 
She added more of the same in the second half, scoring six con­secutive points in a 90 second span to put the Irish up 56-46. She added three rebounds and finished the game with a more than respectable 15 points and eight boards. 
Siemon's scoring total could have been much higher if not for a woeful 3 for 16 performance from the free-throw line. 
"It's a mental thing with me," she said after the game. "I make them in practice, its something I need to get over." 
She was then asked if her injured hand contributed to her struggles at the foul line. Siemon laughed, looked the reporter straight in the face, and said, "Definitely." 
In a so-far magical season, Siemon's perseverance made Monday's win just a little more special. 

To ensure the greatest degree of success as you participate in the Internship Fair 2001, The Career Center has scheduled the following programs: 
DATE  EVENT  TIME  LOCATION  
Tue Jan 16  On-call hours•  10-noon  2 48 Flanner Hall  
1: 30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Han  
Tue Jan 16  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Wed Jan 17  On-call hours •  10-noon  248 Flanner Hall  
1:30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Wed Jan 17  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Thur Jan 18  On-call hours •  10-noon  248 Flanner Hall  
l :30 ­4:00 p.m.  2 48 Flanner Hall  
Thur Jan 18  Workshop*  12:30 pm.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Fri Jan 19  On-call hours •  10-noon  248 Flanner Hall  
1:30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Fri Jan 19  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Mon Jan 22  On-call hours •  10-noon  248 Flanner Half  
1:30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
3:00 ­5:00 p.m.  Grand Hall -O'Shaughnessy  
Mon Jan 22  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Tue Jan 23  On-call hours •  10-noon  248 Flanner Hall  
1:30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Tue Jan 23  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  

•On-call hours: Short ( 1 5 to 20 mins.), first come, first-served resume/cover letter reviews 
*Workshop: Topics include Understanding Go IRISH, Writing an Effective Resume, Making a Job Fair Work for You. ALL of these topics will be covered at each workshop. 





Wednesday, January 17, 2000 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
pions. 
"It would be different if we 

played as hard as we could, 
as good as we could and they 
still beat us the way they 
did," Connecticut guard Sue 
Bird said. "It wasn't 
Connecticut basketball. I can 
tell you that." 
Here's another obvious 

observation: Forget Bird, 
Abrosimova, and Shea Halph. 
Riley outplayed all three pre­
season All-Americans and 
proved she may be the best 
player in the conference, if 
not the country. 
Whereas the Irish center fouled out with seven min­utes left in last year's 77-59 loss to the Huskies, Riley logged 39 minutes and 41 seconds on Monday before leaving the court amid a cho­rus of cheers. Although she suffered an ankle injury in the second half of Saturday's win over Virginia Tech, Riley played through the pain against Connecticut. She scored 29 points on 8-of-11 from the field and 13-of-13 from the line. grabbed 12 rebounds, blocked five shots and dished out four assists in front of several WNBA 
scouts. 
"I don't think I've ever seen anybody dominate a game from start to finish at both ends of the floor like that," McGraw said. "That's an All­American, Player of the Year kind of line." 
In years past, Connecticut (13-1 on the season) was able to faze Riley by continually attacking her on both ends of the floor. The Huskies also would implement a full:..court pressure defense, which 

In The Market For A New Or Used Vehicle? We Can Help! 
Rates As Low As 

OfOAPR* 
,, 
_.. 

~~­
NOTREDAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org Loan-by-Phone 800/567-6328 
*Annual Percentage Rate. Rates are subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 

resulted in easy baskets when the Irish succumbed and committed turnovers. 
Not on Monday. 
"Before, you could get into [Hiley'sJ head a little bit, get physical with her and she would get frustrated," Connecticut head coach Geno Auriemma said. "She plays with a lot more confidence now." 
Riley's improved aggres­siveness and mental tough­ness forced the Huskies to rely on their outside shoot­ing. For all but a few posses­sions, the Irish played a 2-3 zone, a defensive strategy that yielded pro-Notre Dame results. Connecticut made only 11 of 33 three-pointers and connected on 29-of-79 total field goals. 
And Niele Ivey handled the pressure with relative ease. The 5-foot-8 point guard con­trolled the tempo and made smart decisions in transition. In addition to her 10 assists, Ivey also scored 14 points ­including a perfect three for three from behind the three­point arc. 
"They've gotten better [against the pressure]." Auriemma said. "And our pressure's not as good as it used to be. It's not anywhere near where it used to be." 
Another reason that Connecticut's trapping, full­cou rt defense proved less effective was because of their opponents' 3-point shooting. Ivey, Alicia Ratay (2-for-4 on threes for 10 points) and Jeneka Joyce (2-for-4 on threes for 8 points) helped the Irish shoot 75 percent from on 3-pointers. Joyce, the first woman off the bench, played 16 minutes. 
She was  the only non-starter  
to  play  more  th an  20  sec­ 
onds.  

The Observer . SPORTS 
When asked if Notre Dame deserves the top ranking, 
Auriemma offered  a  quick  
response.  
"I  think  so,"  he  said.  

"Absolutely, absolutely. There's no question about that." 
The Huskies cut the lead to 68-56 on a Diana Taurasi three-pointer with just under eight minutes left. On the ensuing possession, Taurasi fouled Kelley Siemon, who missed both free throws. But as she had just a minute before, Hiley rebounded Siemon's miss and scored on a lay-up. Notre Dame led by at least nine the rest of the way. 
About the only negative for the Irish came from free throw woes. They shot 54.8 percent (26-46) from the line, with Siemon connecting on just 3 of 16. But even when Siemon missed ten straight free throws during the final eight minutes, Hiley grabbed three offensive rebounds to maintain possession. 
To make the day complete, senior guard Imani Dunbar, who entered the game for the first time with 19.5 seconds left, nailed a three-pointer at the buzzer. 
"From the opening tip, Notre Dame was better," Auriemma said. "I thought they were better in absolute­ly every single area." 
And he shared that with his coaching counterpart. Around 5:15 on Monday afternoon, just over an hour after the game, Auriemma embraced McGraw as she headed out the exit next to the men's basketball office. 
"You guys were great," Auricmma told McGraw. "You guys were great tonight." 
No one could disagree. 
Finally, the Irish have slain the dragon. 
In early September the campus was invaded by a sea of red sup­porting the then No. 1-ranked Nebraska 
football team. Though they tried, the Irish fell to No. 1 in overtime. 
Nearly three 


months later, Notre Noah Amstadter Dame was 
No. 1-in  
the stand­ Assistant  
ings-as  Sports Editor  
they took on  
powerhouse  

North Carolina in the NCAA women's soccer semifinals in San Jose. Again, the best proved to be too much for the Irish as the Tar Heels put in two late-game goals for the "upset." 
So here come the Lady I luskies, waltzing into the Joyce Center for Monday's game unde­feated and beating their oppo­nents by an average ofmore than 32 points per game. 
Another "almost perfect?" 
Hardly. 
Not only did the Irish beat the Huskies 92-76, they embarrased the defending national champi­ons. 
··1 guess we're just trying to hold the fort duwn for Irish sports," said junior forward Ericka Haney after the game. 
The Irish are rarely mentioned in the same breath as schools such as Connecticut, Tennessee or even Georgia when it comes to rounding up the elite teams of the women's game. 
The Irish were the New York Giants of women's basketball, and on Monday Ruth Riley was their Kerry Collins. 
Beyond her game-high 29 points, Riley's interior defense destroyed Connecticut's inside game. 
"I thought her presence defen­sively was almost more impor­tant than it was offensively," said Huskies coach Geno Auriemma. ..I thought her presence in the lane made us a jump-shooting team." 
And not a very good jump­shooting team at that. 
Riley's effect on the game goes 
page 19 
beyond her line in the box score. 
It was Riley who before the tip­
off was all smiles, feeding 
encouraging words to her per­

haps nervous teammates, includ­
ing senior Kelley Siemon, who 

was playing with a broken hand. 
That was Riley too drawing a 
double team inside and feeding 
the ball to a wide open Siemon. 
Haney or Jeneka Joyce under the 
basket. 

Then there she was again on 
the floor sacrificing her body as 
she wrestled for the ball. 

This was the same woman that 
left Saturday's game against 

Virginia Tech in the fourth quar­
ter with a turned ankle. 

But it wasn't Riley's Willis Heed 
performance that provided the 
inspiration for the team, it was 
Siemon's. 

Just 24 hours before tip-off, the 
team's starting power forward 

was facing the possibility that the 
broken hand would end her Irish 
career. 

After she got the doctor's okay, 
Siemon came out and played one 
of her best games of the season. 
With nine first-half points and 
five rebounds, the senior quite 
literally single-handedly domi­
nated the boards. 

Then there was Niele Ivey, who 
won't be satisfied until she leads 
her team to hometown St. Louis, 
host city of the 2001 Final Four. 
Haney ignited the sell-out 

crowd late in the game, moving 
her arms in a "raise the roof' 
motion in the closing minutes 

and slapping chests with Joyce in 
celebration. 

Joyce, playing more than token 
minutes for the first time since 
fracturing her ankle against 
Georgia over Thanksgiving, hit 

two key 3-pointers as \Veil, pro­
viding a long range option when 
the Huskies effectively guarded 
Hatay. 

As the final seconds ran uuwn. senior lmani Dunbar brought the ball downcourt. She took a shot from behind the arc. Nothing but net. 
"They were just standing back. I figured I might as well put the nail in the coffin, you know," said Dunbar. 
The perfect finish on the per­fect day. 

The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 


Irish came up short on talent, but not on class 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editors 
TEMPE, Ariz. Notre Dame never had a chance. 
Oh, sure the Irish fooled people into believing they could ­win a B C s g a me 
o v e r Oregon S t a t e with a smaller, younger, slower lineup than the Beavers. 
After all. Notre Dame won its last seven regular­season games and had tra­dition on its side, having won three National Championships since Oregon State last appeared in a major bowl game -the 1965 Rose Bowl. 
With five minutes left in the first half of the Fiesta Bowl. the Irish only trailed 6-0. 
They had stopped the Beavers five yards short of the end zone with Notre Dame's best play of the game -a diving tackle by safety Ron Israel around tailback Patrick McCall's knees, throwing him for a 3-yard loss. 
"We all thought we could get back into the game," Notre Dame captain and tight end Dan O'Leary said. 
But Notre Dame's pre­tense of being as skilled as Oregon State was 


"It's pretty obvious we
a farce. ties that 
Against got whipped. we got cost them Oregon 
outcoached. We got dearly
S t a t e , against the
outplayed.··
N o t r e Beavers. Dame was Against 0 U t -Bob Davie 0 r e g o n matched State, Notre
Irish head coach
in every category. 
"It's pretty obvious we got whipped," Irish coach Bob Davie said. "We got outcoached. \Ve got outplayed." 
The Beavers were fast enough to try out for the next Olympic track and field team, or at least to escape from the police if their on-field conduct is any indication of how they behave off the field. The Beavers had enough speed to demolish freshman quarterback Matt Lovecchio before he had time to blink, or even wink. 
"We've got to get a lot faster," Irish tailback Tony Fisher said. 
Notre Dame's offense sputtered, gaining just 17 yards on the ground. Oregon State's "ain't too proud to brag" tailback Ken Simonton had more carries -18 -than the Irish did yards. 
Wide receiver Chad Johnson caught two touch­down passes, although he 

was so arrogant he dropped the ball two yards short of the goal line on the first touchdown. 
Lucky for him and lucky for the Beavers, the offi­cials didn't notice. 
After the first half, the Irish had no defense to speak of, giving up a total of 41 points. 
For its part, Oregon State's defensive unit throttled the Irish, holding them to a field goal until the final minutes of regu­lation. 
Even Notre Dame's spe­cial unit, one of the nation's best all season long, was outdone. Terrell Roberts returned a punt 45 yards for a touchdown, the first return for a touchdown against the Irish all year. 
Unfortunately, one big loss overshadowed nine wins. 
The team that everyone said didn't have enough talent to survive its rugged regular-season schedule managed a 9-2 record. 
They won despite losing starting quarterback Arnaz Battle and senior captain Grant Irons in the second game of the sea­son. 
Yet the wins came from oversized hearts, not excessive talent, and that became obvious in the Fiesta Bowl. The Irish have ability, but their youth left them ill pre­pared for prime-time. 
They hid the lack of future NFL stars on their roster all season by avoid­ing the mistakes, turnovers and penal­
Dame lost 
in every­
thing that 

mattered on the football field, but won in everything that's impor­tant in life. 
If class, good sportsman­ship and intelligence had affected the outcome. the Irish would have fared better. 
Oregon State was whis­tled for a school-record 18 penalties, including sever­al for unsportsmanlike conduct and personal fouls. 
Irish tailback Julius Jones came away with the sportsmanship award ­taunting the Irish and trash talking didn't win the Beavers' any conge­niality awards. 
As far as brains. Notre Dame boasts the highest graduation rate of any team ranked in the final BCS poll at 82 percent, far better than that of the junior college receptor Oregon State, and this year's team had its highest grade point average ever at 2.67. 

Beaver quarterback Jonathan Smith looks on as wide receiver Chad Johnson misses a rare pass. Smith completed 17 of 25 pass attempts, gaining 319 yards in the air. 
FIESTA SIESTA 
Oregon State's dream to cap its two-year program turnaround with a win in a Bowl Championship Series game became a nightmare for Notre 
Dame as the Beavers took control from the start, crushing the Irish 40-6. Scoring four touchdowns in the third quarter, the Beavers found no competition from the Irish, who only found the end zone once. 


Beaver comer back Keith Heyward-Johnson Intercepts a pass by Irish quarterback Matt Lovecchio. The freshman threw for two Interceptions, losing for the first time in his career as a starter. 
-



IESJAB 

Wednesday, January 17, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Quarterbacks, fans and big plays mark season highlights 
. Cancer kids -Sept. 15 -ByTJM CASEY By far, the season's highlight.
Assisram Sports Editor 
I regret missing the pep rally where Scott Delgadillo spoke. TEMPE, Ariz. Fortunately, earlier that day.
Season-ending musings I met with another teenagewhile reflecting on cancer survivor at the weeklyCornhusker Red, what exactly football luncheon. John Clary.
the real Hudy said (at the Air an amazing. articulate 15­Force luncheon), the afro year old, made the trip from 
atop Big New York to South Bend with 
Ced's his father. The Clarys shared (Hilliard) 
a story of how Davie and the head, Bob Irish football program made a Davie ris­memorable impact on their ing from 1998 visit to campus. If onlythe coach­all athletes, coaches and ing dead, celebrities understood their and impact on society.Oregon . Godsey vs. Purdue­State play­Sept. 16 -We trusted in ers acting . Godsey for good reason. With like they the help of Nick Setta, who were at made us again question whyClub Med. Jim Sanson kicked (attempt­
Herc arc ed?) field goals last year, the one man's former tight end led the Irish most in Joe Montana-fashion. Who memorable scenes from the would have imagined that in a 
past four months. Too bad month, Godsey would be as only the top 10 moments forgotten as tirn state of could make the final list. Montana? At least he basked 
. Nebraska Fans -Sept. 9 in the glory for one unforget­-The night before, honorary table afternoon. alum Dick Vitale addressed . Godsey post-MSU -Sept. the pep rally crowd and told 23 -A 6-foot-7, 250-pound the players to "play hard for Notre Dame quarterback can 
40 minutes." Oops, baby -not hide from the media after Wrong sport. Seventeen hours a game. But that's what the later, even the most loyal and hero-turned-goat attempted optimistic Irish fan had to be to do. Godsey pulled his suit disappointed upon viewing jacket over his eyes and dart­college football's version of ed for the team bus after a 4­the Hcd Scare. As for the for-20 passing performance. game? The Irish competed for Anyone with an ounce of com­58 minutes and 27 seconds of passion had to feel bad for regulation. Then Bob Davie Godsey. Notre Dame Nation decided Notre Dame haters caught its first glimpse of speaking about his collegiate ment on his imminent depar­never been a part of some­needed extra time to mock Matt LoVecchio. Two wins. experiences? There haven't ture. A victorious Davie thing like that," Williams the seemingly neutral site two losses, two months until been that many tears shed on answered every question like said. "This is the worst loss atmosphere. Davie's predicted firing. campus since Matt Doherty's he had just won the lottery. I've been a part of. It's hard, 
. Day after Nebraska -. Earl block -Oct. 28 -post-game sobbing ritual. By mid-December, he had. man. I don't want to criticize Sept. 10 -Arnaz Battle made No-brainer. This game fea­Getherall will be missed dear­We're "stuck" with "Bullet anyone but overall we need a the navicular bone the most tured the most boring three ly in 2001. Bob" for another five years. lot of work. To lose like that, talked about body part in col­quarters imaginable but also . ND players picking up At least that's how the con­man, is surprising. I don't lege football. Said a dis­the most unexpected finish in grass after BC win -Nov. 11 tract reads. If the Fiesta Bowl know how that happened. It traught Davie: "You've all recent memory. The player -Not the most original idea foreshadows the rest of the makes you think." seen how we've evolved as a with two first names leapt to but it began the first 2001 campaign, start prepar­One final note: (Those fortu­football team and how much block Dave Adams field goal "November to Remember" in ing lists of possible replace­nate enough to attend the pep work has gone into this and returned to the ground as Davie's tenure. A year earlier, ments. rally in Tempe would under­offense. This is a tremendous an instant Irish legend. How Boston College's Chris Hovan . The cornerbacks' Fiesta stand.) blow." many times have you heard of tore up a piece of grass and Bowl performance -Jan. 1, Although topics changed 
After a spring, summer and the "13-million dollar block?" paraded around the Stadium. 2001 -Sorry, Cliff. You don't and subplots varied, one thing fall installing a Battle-tested Add one to your previous In 2000, Hovan's high school get any of the $13 million for remained the same from the offense, the coaches had six total. teammate Dan O'Leary the Oscar-worthy acting per­assault of the Aggies to the days to prepare for Purdue. . Getherall at BC pep rally returned the favor. In 50 formance for your supporting bashing by the Beavers: Lost in the day's events was -Nov. 10 -Everyone thinks years. a proud O'Leary will role in the made-for-ABC How 'bout that band?! Grant Irons' season-ending Joey Getherall is tough certainly tell his grandchil­tragedy. shoulder injury. In retrosp_ect. because he gets pummeled. dren the story of his last Neither does your fellow it's probably best this campus That's true. game in Notre Dame Stadium. cornerback. But Williams The opinions expressed in has another year with maybe But how many 21-year old . Davie after USC -Nov. receives an alternate prize (a this column are those of the the nicest student-athlete in males would cry in front of 25 -The farewell tour ended mention here) for his post­author and not necessarily the country. over 10,000 people when with a coach refusing to com-Fiesta Bowl tirade. ''I've those ofThe Observer. 



Fiesta 
continued from page 24 
And to cap their second winning season. the up and coming Beavers would have had a hard time picking a better opponent to trounce 40-9 than Notre Dame. a school grounded in tradition and a team with a long his­tory of football success. 
"When you step on the field you respect the name Notre Dame. but you can't go and get into all the tradi­tion," senior linebacker Darnell Hobinson said. "You just have to play well." 
Playing well was no problem for the Beavers. Although they struggled in the first half'. scoring only 12 points on many scoring attempts and rack­ing up 84 of an eventual 174 penalty tered for the first time, allowing the yards, Erickson's No. 6 team made up Beavers to pick off two passes, fum­for it in the third quarter with four bling once and getting sacked five touchdowns in a little times. 
more than seven min­utes. The Irish defense  "/ am embarrassed by the way we played. but I  .. Once we got behind our quarter­back had a little  
buckled under the pressure and could not contain the Beavers' scoring machine.  will never be embarrassed by this football team··  trouble," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "He got discom• bobulated." His team members  
Led by quarterback Jonathan Smith. the Beavers ran all over  Bob Davie Irish head coach  were quick to share in the blame for the Irish's disappointing  
the Irish, amassing 127 yards on the  finish. "Matt  was  pretty  

ground to Notre Dame's 17. calm tonight," tight end Dan O'Leary 
And the Irish wercn't much better said. "There were a couple unfortu­in the air. Freshman quarterback nate situations. But I think he was as Matt LoVecchio, solid as a rock in the calm and collected as he's ever been. regular season with a 7-0 record, fal-We thought we could come back [after the first half]. We needed a rhythm and we couldn't find it." 
Notre Dame's flat performance came after a turnaround regular sea­son in which Davie led his crew to a 9-2 record, with last minute losses to then No. 1 Nebraska and Michigan State. 
Davie was disappointed with the negative light cast on an otherwise successful season. 
"It's pretty obvious we got whipped." Davie said, not making any excuses for his team's performance. "We were outcoached and outplayed. We got our butts kicked." 
Despite the heartbreaking loss, Davie kept the game in perspective. 
"I am embarrassed by the way we played, but I will never be embar­rassed by this football team," Davie said. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Auriemma blasts team for perfomance against Irish 
By TIM CASEY Assisranc Sports Ediror 
A normally animated Geno Auriemma sat on a metal chair. hands placed on his knees and fingers interlocked, for a few minutes in the mid­dle of the second half. He stared straight ahead and refused to call timeout, despite his team's obvious dif­ficulties. 
"To be honest with you, before the game, during the timeouts in the first half, and at halftime and in the time­outs in the second half, it [talking with his players] didn't change anything we were doing on the court," Auriemma said. "So rather than giving them something else that wasn't going to affect the game, I figured they had a better idea so let's see if it works." 
It didn't. 

From Niele Ivey's steal and subsequent layup for the first basket of the game to Imani Dunbar's three-pointer at the end, the heralded Huskies seemed more confused than confident. 
How aggravated was Connecticut's head coach? 

The truth is. a little of your time can make a lifetime ol diflerence. Because kids with something to do are less likely lo do drugs. Toa ca help. For mO/ll in1ormation on drug prevention programs in your community. cal! or visit 
www.youcanhelpklds.org 

NOBODY DOES BREAKS Bt:TTER! 
Feb 84-Mar 31, aoo1 
Panama Cit 

( South Padre TX ) 
paytona Beach FY ( Destin FL 

( Hilton Head SC ) ~ 
~ 

~~;]I~~ l'eb23-A r ao
BJI Steamboat CO 
~Breck~.nrid e CO 
f 

www.suncnase.com 
l•800•SUNCHASE 
lie sarcastically questioned his team's toughness. 
"We have more guys that spend more time in the train­ing room [during practice] than on the court working on their game," Auriemma said. 
Auriemma then criticized his best player. 
Shea Ralph, the 1999 Big East Player of the Year and first-team All-American played only 20 minutes, including just six in the sec­ond half. She committed zero fouls on the afternoon and suffered no injuries but after an ineffective performance (2 points and 2 assists), Auriemma decided to bench his team's star with 14:05 remaining. Ralph never returned. 
"Nothing was working for 
"We have more guys that spend more time in the training room [during practice] than on the court working on their 
.. 

game. 
Geno Auriemma Connecticut head coach 
her this afternoon," Auriemma said. "There was no point in just running around out there for no rea­son." 
Connecticut entered the con­test on a 30-game winning streak. Before Monday, the Huskies had outscored their opponents by an average of 36 points per game. Even follow­ing the loss, Connecticut remains tops in the nation in scoring (91.1 points) and scor­ing margin (32.4 points). third in field goal percentage (51.6 percent) and seventh in rebounding margin (9.4 boards). 
The duo of Svetlana Abrosimova (20 points and 14 rebounds) and Sue Bird (17 points and 6 assissts) paced the Huskies. But fellow starters Ralph, Swin Cash (2­for-7 from the field for 7 points) and Kelly Schumacher (2 points and 3 rebounds in only 13 minutes) all struggled. 
"I think our team is sur­prised when teams actually play really. really good against us," Auriemma said. "That's how immature some of our players are. They would rather phone ahead and say 'By the way, here we come and we would like the score to be 52•30 at halftime so could you please go along with that?' And when it doesn't go like that, we're not quite sure how to deal with it this year. That's the crux of what we're going through right now." 
The Irish are experiencing far different circumstances. Yet a mid-January win does not guarantee future success in the post.season. The two teams do not meet again in the regular season but may play in the Big East final on Connecticut's home floor. Round Three may come in the NCAA tournament. 
But for now, the Irish can stake claim as the confer­ence's top team. 

CREDIT 
FIRST 
BOSTON

SUISSE 
SEE THE EFFECTS OF CHANGE. OR 
ACTUALLY AFFECT IT DURING YOUR 
SUMMER BREAK. 
In a world that changes by the hour, entrepreneurialism and innovation are no longer simply advantages. They're mandatories. They also happen to be the same qualities we nurture in our summer internship program. At Credit Suisse First Boston there's never been a better time to develop 
these skills and gain the exposure, experience and credentials to be ready for the future. If you're interests are in investment banking, equity, fixed income, or IT we invite you to come and get to know us. Spend this summer at CSFB and you won't simply learn about the world of finance. You'll help redefine it. 
CSFB I EMPOWERING CHANGE!'" 
QCopyright 2000 Credrt Suisse First Boston Corp. All rights reserved_ 

Wednesday, January 17, 2000 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


FIRST DAY BACK -TASK ONE: 

RECLAMATION OF THE REFRibGERATOR 
u~~ ",,., * .. 

I MEAN, LOOI< AT WHAT YOU'VE GoT: AN ADORING WIFE•.• 
LOVING CHILDREN... HOW'S IT &ET BETTER THAN THAT? 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please co1nplete the accompa­nying forn1 and n1ail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I DEMANI> TO 
KNOW WHICH ONE OF YOV 
LEFT THE 
STICK OF 
BVTTER IN THE FRIDGE OVER 
BREAK! 
BILL AMEND 
I REPEAT, 
YoU LEFT  YOU HAVE  
"8  OUT HIS  A WIFE•••  
I  SUPERMoDEL  LOVING  
H t  GIRLFRIEND.  CHILDREN...  
•  \  I  

I I 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Claims, 65 Tab 1 Roaring success informally 66 Merle Haggard 
31 Hair dressing song character 
6 Kindergarten 
35 Tarzan player
education 
_Lincoln

10 XII years after 
37 Grit
Columbus's first 
39 Spot of relief 
voyage 
40 Document

14 Must 
signer in Rome?

15 Grown-up kid 
'3 Silicon Valley 

16 Place to moor a 
giant
boat 
44 •-to help"

17 "Ash 
45 Medial
Wednesday" 
meniscus site 
poet 
46 Biochemical 

18 Actress solid Nazimova 
48 Little nothing 19 Use low-key 50 Drop one, say
persuasion 

51 "Hold on therei­20 Malt liquor man 53 NASA orbiter in Glasgow? 
55 Average guy in 23 Slim swimmer Bertin? 24 Northam English 61 Heavy load pronunciation 62 Forbidding 25 Keep in a barrel 63 Prophesy 
9 Decline to recline? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10JohnW. _, 

Pume by Mel Taub (and crouwont claM) 

Speaker of the House, 1962-71 11 Way out 12 One of several 
czars 13 Torment 21 Side (with) 22 Sing like Bing 57 Bon mot provider
32 All together  52 Minneapolis  
33 Craps player,  suburb  
e.g.  54 Drink impolitely  
34 Glacial ridge  55 Clink  
36 Crush  58 Spicy stew  

38 "Mrs. Warren's Profession• 58 F.D.R. or D.D.E. 64 Florid 28 Quick reflection writer 
41 Hello 

Answers to any three clues in tnis puzzle
"Hamler? 
42 Goodbye are available by touch-tone phone:
29 Keg stopper 
47 Where Wembley 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
30 It might put you is Annual subscriotions are available for the
head and 
shoulders above 49 Trinidad's sister best of Sunday crosswords from lhe last 50 everyone else island years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON be favorable at this time. 0000 THIS DAY: Muhammad Ali, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Betty White, Shari Lewis, Andy You may be tempted to take off Kaufman, Jim Carrey, Mick Tay­today. Don't be afraid to talk 
lor, James Earl Jones, Maury about your personal dilemmas Povich, Kid Rock with a trusted friend. You will 
Happy Birthday: You will solve your problem if you ob­have to be well-organized if you serve other people's motives. are going to do all that you have 0000 planned. The quicker you can LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make decisions, the better. You Changes in your financial situa­should enlist the help of those tion will be upsetting. Take some who can work as quickly and cre­time to do things for yourself. atively as you. Take control as the You need time to reflect on the year unfolds, and you should be past as well as relationships. able to manipulate your way 000 through the obstacles along the SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): way. Your numbers: 9, 14, 23, 26, Jealousy may stand in the way of 38, 42 a really good relationship. You 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): must try to be compassionate and You can get do\\'ll to business if understanding when dealing you put your mind to it. Financial with your mate. This is not the gains can be made if you don't time to disagree. 000 waste time. Remember that the SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. early bird catches the worm. 000 21): Be careful not to divulge 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): information about your private You will have to control your life. You will be able to sign emotions if you wish to keep important documents and make your personal life harmonious. financial gains if you keep your Your tendency to be stubborn personal problems under control. and refuse to see your mate's 000 concerns will lead to a stalemate . CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 00 19): Take a long hard look at 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): yourself. Don't be afraid to make Look into moneymaking invest­changes. Your motives should be ments that will not require too reevaluated. You may have been much attention or time on your pointing your finger at the wrong part. Check out ways of helping person.0000 youngsters. Physical activities AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): will be exhilarating. 000 You can expect problems with 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): family members today. You will Your involvement in organized do well if you get involved in real events will be tryin~ if you are estate or property investments. inessured to contribute more Contracts can be signed and than you can afford. Don't let agreements formulated. 000 others talk you into things that PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ....... you really don't want to do. 000 Travel will be your best bet as 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't long as you don't allow others to count on any help from loved take you for granted. You will be ones or roommates. Your ability emotional when discussing your to do your job well will lead to personal life. Try to keep your positive changes and a higher true feeling to yourself. 0000 income. Personal moves will not 
-
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Na1ne ----------------------------­Address-------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


Rising up from the Pitts 
After struggling during break. the Irish men's basketball team put on a strong performance in front ofa home crowd, beating the Pirates 72-58. 
page 14 

O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER 
Wednesday, January 17, 2000 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish beat No. 1 Huskies for first time 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
She had a dream. 

It did not stem from hun­dreds of years of racial inequality, a denial of basic Constitutional rights or living in a hypocritical America. 
Rather, Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw's aspiration arose from over a decade of Connecticut-induced distress. 
No need to wonder "what if' anymore. 
Because on Monday, for the first time in school history, the No. 3 Irish beat the No. 1 Huskies 92-76 before a rau­cous, sold-out home crowd. With the victory, Notre Dam'e (17-0) remains the only unde­feated team in the country and will most likely ascend to their first-ever top ranking when the Associated Press and USA TODAY/ESPN polls are released Monday. 
"To come out and see the Joyce Center full has been my dream forever since I've been here," McGraw said. "It's one of those moments in my life that I'll always remember." 
So will the 11.418 specta­tors. 
For one afternoon, promo­tional gimmicks like Anthony Travel's "Ants in Your Pants" and "Beach Day" were not 
Toppling a powerhouse 

LISA VELTE/The Observer Irish senior ruth Riley looks for an open player Monday in No. 3 Notre Dame's upset over No. 1 UConn. Leading her team in its first win over the Huskies in school history, Riley netted 29 points and brought down 12 rebounds. 
required to provide entertain­upstage the nation's premier five starters scored in double sustained a period of offensive ment. Instead of watching the program in nearly all facets of figures. Svetlana consistency, as the Irish usual domination of an inferi­the game. Abrosimova's 3-pointer got avenged 11 previous losses to or opponent, the first sold-out The Irish led the entire the Huskies to within three the defending national cham­crowd in Irish history wit­game, shot 61.5 percent (29-points early in the second nessed a Ruth Riley-led squad of-51) from the floor, and all half. But they never again see IR1SH/page 19 
FOOTBALL 

Beavers take big bite out of Irish, 40-9 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Editor 

TEMPE, Ariz. 
Soaring highs and plum­meting lows were the direc­tions two teams took in the Bowl Championship Series' New Years Day Fiesta Bowl, although the results were not what one would have expect­ed a few years ago. 
Two years ago, when the Oregon State Beavers were just completing their 28th­
consecutive losing season, no one would have expected them to be able to rise to the top of the football rankings with a successful trip to a BCS bowl. No one, except head coach Dennis Erickson and his band of boasting and brash players. 
"This team has always played with confidence," Erickson said. "We have con­fidence in each other. Good teams have that." 
see FIESTA/page 21 
Williams explores NFL draft 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Brock Williams may have 
played his last game at Notre 
Dame. The Irish corner­b a c k mailed a form to the National Football League offices a few days after the Irish loss in the Fiesta Bowl 

requesting to see where the league projected him to be selected in the upcoming draft. Ac;cording to Notre Dame foot­ball administrator Nick Carparelli, an NFL official called Williams and coach Bob Davie last week and projected Williams to be selected in the third or fourth round. 
"I don't know how reliable those predictions are," Carparelli said. "Certainly if they are not reliable, a kid could get hurt in the long run." 
When reached on Tuesday, Williams refused to comment on his future plans. Williams sat out the entire 1999 season for disciplinary reasons so he is eligible to apply for a fifth year. 
Following the Fiesta Bowl, Williams confided that he had contacted Carparelli a few weeks earlier. 
"The coaches will probably be shocked at what I'm saying but that's the way I'm feeling," Williams said. "I'll let them know." 
Just minutes earlier, Williams said he "went from decided to undecided" regard­ing his decision to return for a 
see WILLIAMS/page 19 
at Olivet 
vs. Ohio State Today, 7:30 p.m. Thursday and Friday,
SPORTS 

7:05 p.m. 
at Seton HallATA 

Sunday, 12 p.m.
Men's Swimming Track and Field at Bill Ritter Invitational vs. Ball State, Western 
St 
Friday-Saturday Michigan Friday, 6 p.m. 
GLANCE 






