
... 
Limit Listservs now to stop e-mail abuse
HEAVY 
Friday
RAIN 
While the Board of Governance's idea to limit the campus listserv is a needed step, it should be spared from debate and implemented now. 
OCTOBERS, 
HIGH 55° 
Editorial . page 13 
2001 
LOW39° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 29 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Stadium expansion a mixed bag 
. Repairs, lawsuit cast a shadow over additional seats and other new features 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
Four years after the expanded Notre Dame Stadium was first opened, work is still being done on the Stadium to repair con­struction defects. and the University has filed a lawsuit against the architect and the general contractor of the Stadium seeking damages for the repairs. 
Although the repairs and the lawsuit were not part of the University's original plan for the Stadium, the building's function­ality has not been affected. and University officials have been pleased with the expanded Stadium. 
The University became aware of problems with the Stadium at the first home game of the 1997 season on Sept. 6 against Georgia Tech, when flaws in the sewage output system caused a flood in the Stadium, the Galvin Life Sciences Center and the Computing Center and Math Building. The flooding caused more than $400,000 in damages. 
The University's property insurer, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, issued the University $371,755.10 for the damages. Damages not covered · by the insurance company were paid by the University. 
"Loss not recovered by insur­ance has to be covered by the University," said Director of Public Relations and Information Dennis Moore. 
In addition to the flooding, problems began to develop in the Stadium after use. including cracked concrete, connection failure, failure of railing post connections and other significant problems that did not pose a safety risk to fans inside the structure. They were problems the University decided to address. 
Last year, Notre Dame officials hired other contractors to per­form repairs in the Stadium, the majority of which were complet­ed before this season. It also filed a lawsuit against Ellerbe Becket, the architect. and Casteel Construction, the general con­tractor. 
The University is now paying for repairs to the Stadium but expects that a judgement from the lawsuit will eventually pay for the repairs. 
David Kirkner, a Notre Dame civil engineering and geological sciences associate professor, said that when defects are discovered in a new building, the new owner normally hires an outside consulting firm to investigate the building, discover any additional problems and generate a list of 
see STADIUM/page 4 

Fulfilling a lifetime dream a world away from home 

By KATIE SEROKA 
News Writer 
Jenalee Almes grew up in a world of poverty. Iler family in the Philippines didn't have a telephone or a computer. Their house frequently flood­ed. In 1997, technology and luxuries seemed like a dream for the Saint Mary's freshman. 
"I was just always fascinated with it (the phone] since my family didn't have one," Almes said about the few phone calls her parents made at a local store. "When I was younger I didn't always understand what they were saying, but l was excited anyway." 
An even more impossible dream for a young girl in the Philippines was a higher edu­cation. 
But four years and incredible journey later, Alm es is a high school graduate and on track to graduate from Saint Mary's in 2005. 

Her opportunities stem from the hard work of a Notre Dame graduate and her own persistence and faith. 
Poverty at home 
In the Philippines, the Almes family frequently had trouble finding work. Her father had to travel as far away as Saudi Arabia for employment. Her mother and aunt waited tables at Subic Bay Naval Base which was located in Almes home­town -Olongapo City. 
It was here that the two women met and became friends with two Americans, a man whom was serving in the 
U.S. Navy at Subic and his wife who lived with him on the base. Vince and P.J. Converse would later become Almes' lifeline to a better education in the United States. 
The Converses remained at Subic until 1991 when a vol­cano eruption closed the base and the American's moved away. Although they were sep­arated by thousands of miles, the two families kept in touch. 
Through the years, Almes spoke with the Converses about typical things like school. It was during one of those conversations years later that Vince Converse asked the 15-year-old Almes to attend school 'in Arizona, where his family now lived. 
Ile knew how intelligent she was, and that an education in the United States would be more beneficial than one in the Philippines. 
When Converse worked in the Philippines he helped edu­cate several of his Filipino workers but even with this boost they still lived in pover­ty. Converse hoped that by educating Alnrns in America, she could move up economi­cally. 
"I have educated most of [my 
see ALMES/page 6 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, October 5, 200 I 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Encountering Christ 

Last semester I took "Christianity and World Religions". It focused on open dialogues between Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism and Islam. The first paper assignment we had sev­eral options, one was to discuss prayer in our personal lives. 
I wrote about learning prayers by rote as a child and how I had changed my outlook toward prayer as I grew older. I wrote how I made prayer part of my daily life by thanking God for the smallest of things and asking Him for help 

when I needed it. I wrote 
Angela Campos ...
about the charismatic 
retreat I experienced before 
my confirmation -how it 
changed my outlook on 
Lab Tech 

being Christian and being 
Catholic. 
My confirmation retreat was the spring of my sophomore year in high school. That was six years ago. It's ironic because, although I helped team confirmation retreats as a junior in high school and .as a sophomore at Notre Dame helped lead the con­firmation retreat at Little Flower Parish. I hadn't been a participant on a retreat since my sophomore year in high school. 
. ,Six year-s. That's a long time. 
A lot has happened in six years. I've lived in Indiana the better part of three of them, worked the last four summers and run myself ragged physically and emotionally. Now don't get me wrong, I love Notre Dame and I love all of the activities I'm in. But there are some times when you do too much and there's only so much you can take by yourself. You've got to give God the rest. 
So, when I was a freshman three years ago, I was talking with a friend about retreats. I had missed both of Badin's freshman retreats and was trying to experience a retreat at Notre Dame. I was trying to do everything my fresh­man year. My friend told me that one of the retreats that I should try to go on before I grad­uated was the NDE. 
So me, being the hyper freshman I was decid­ed I wanted to go on one. I had no idea what an NDE was, I just knew it was a retreat and I wanted a retreat experience. I thought I need­ed it then. My friend kept saying, "You'll go on an NDE when you need it," and at the time I didn't understand thatI needed to wait. 
NDE stands for Notre Dame Encounter with Christ Retreat. I participated on NDE No. 67 last weekend. And to tell you the truth, my friend was right -I went when I needed it. We walked to Fatima Retreat Center and left the rest of campus on the other side of the lake. We got to know each other with an ice-breaker and then split into small groups. We listened to talks. We joked about Diet Coke addictions and "f-words". We had fun. My small group was (and still is) awesome! The NDE Team was there for us -they were so great. 
I can't put my emotions into words that would do justice to the experience. Thank you to everyone who was on the retreat -you made it so special. Thank you to everyone who helped out -it meant the world to me. 
Contact Angela Compos at campos.2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and rwt necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 

Spores wrirer Lindsay Mollan ,hould have been credited for writ­ing the article "Belles get MIM victory" in the Oct. 3, 200 I edition ofthe Observer. No byline appeared on rhe story. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer regards itselfas a pr-0fessional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, plc-.ise contact us at 631-454 l so we can correct our error. 
The Ob,ervc1 (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A.,sociated Pras. All reproduction ,ighrs arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Soccer team halts North Carolina's streak 
Monday, October 3, 1994 ·Ina stunning 0-0 tie with North Carolina, the women's soccer team broke the longest winning streak -92 games -in the history of collegiate athletics. During those 92 games, only five teams managed to stay within two goals of North Carolina, and no team had taken them into overtime. 
Tailgater causes Dillon Hall to forfeit SYR 
Thursday. October 3, 1985 Dillon Hall forfeited one of its SYRs and had to d-o a com­munity service project as a result of a "private tailgater" in Ann Arbor, Mich., on Sept. 14 which included the hall's fight song and bright red flag. John Goldrick, associate vice president of residence life. said the matter "was not dealt with as an alcohol violation." 
BEYOND CAMPUS Compiled from U-Wire reports 

LSU women describe Playboy experience 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

Partying at night in Los Angeles with Playboy magazine owner Hugh Hefner and catching a ride around Atlanta in a limousine are perks not every Louisiana State University stu­dent will experience. 
However, veterinary medicine senior Colleen has had the opportuni­ty for such privileges while modeling for Playboy. 
"The people at Playboy are the best people that I've ever worked for," she said. "They never make you do any­thing that you don't want to." 
Colleen was one of four University students who appeared in the October 2001 "Girls of the SEC" issue of Playboy. She said she did not want her last name in the issue or The Reveille for privacy reasons. 

"It's a way to prevent people from calling or getting in touch with you," she said. 
Colleen said she got started with Playboy when a local photographer sent pictures he shot of her to the magazine. 
"Within a week, they flew me to Atlanta for a photo shoot," she said. 
She has appeared in the February 2001 College Girls issue and the May 2001 Book of Lingerie issue. 
"[Playboy] is a whole different 
world," she said. "It's like a fraternity or sorority. Once you're in, you're in for life. And, as long as I don't do them wrong, they will find me work." 
She said she went to the tryouts for the October "Girls of the SEC" issue because she wanted to see if she could make it in the magazine again. 
"I went to see if it was a fluke that I had made it in the fi.rst two times," she said. "I wanted to see if I could do it again." 
Colleen went to the shoot and saw two of her best friends. Elise and Brittney, there. Playboy decided to group the three together for a photo. 
She said her friends did not feel comfortable shooting the pictures nude, so they decided to pose in bathing suits. Colleen had posed nude before. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Anthrax research gains attention 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
As national fears about bioterrorism grow in the wake of the recent terrorist attacks, two Harvard University anthrax researchers have found their work thrust unex­pectedly into the spotlight. Anthrax, a bacterial disease that infects livestock and normally poses some risk to humans, is considered one of a number of potential bio­logical weapons. Inhaled anthrax spores kill 90 percent of humans within days of infection. Presley professor of microbiology and molecular genetics R. John Collier. who has done research on the proteins that allow anthrax to infect cells, said he has received about 25 calls from news organizations in the last few weeks. "It's certainly much more attention than I'm used to," he said. But why has anthrax specifically entered the spotlight? Dr. Luciana Borio, a fellow at the Johns Hopkins Center for Civilian Biodefense Studies, said anthrax spores survive successfully once released, and "the size of the spores are perfect for inhalation." That makes it a perfect weapon for bioterrorists. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
SDay South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

~~~qq~ (f ~ u 
,,,,, ,,,, ' ··:.·· ·:·.;::·.;::· --­
ShOW8/S T-Sf()(mS Ralll Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Via AdOCl•ted Preu GraphicaNot 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Fund-raising campaign faces change 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

While the smoke may have cleared from the skylines of New York and Washington, companies nationwide are still reeling from the negative economic repercus­sions of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Universities across the United States, including Northwestern Universities, are finding that they are not immune to the turmoil plaguing businesses. Suddenly forced to rethink fund­raising campaigns, universities are realizing that dona­tions they counted on in the past may instead be divert­ed towards relief efforts. And with a large portion of their endowments invested in the volatile stock market, many institutions are cautiously reanalyzing their investment strategies. But even in these times of relative economic hardship, some schools are finding ways to aid the victims of the attacks. In Evanston, university offi­cials say that although the Campaign NU fund-raising drive continues on track to reach its $1.4 billion goal by August 2003, no one can predict how today's economic conditions will affect tomorrow's financial hopes. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 5. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

.............................. 

C 2001 AccuWeather. lne. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Preaum: 
@©D . c::J . IE2JDC 
High LQW Showen vJa As:,ocia/9CI Prvss  R•ln  T-•torm•  Flurrl••  Snow  
Atlanta Battimore Boston Chicago Houston  81 81 79 54 83  64 62 61 39 66  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  92 77 54 79 81  

loo Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
66 Portland 74 50 55 Sacramento 83 50 38 St. Louis 57 40 62 Tampa 87 72 62 Washington DC 81 63 


Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 



Abroad applications 
move to Internet 
By MARIBEL MOREY Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's International Study Programs have stream­lined the application process and moved it to the Internet. Rather than filling out several different paper forms for various pro­grams, students will now fill out just one online form. 
"Applications have been climb­ing. We've been letting students apply to one or more programs and we don't want to stop them," said Thomas Bogenschild, direc­tor of the International Study Programs. "We think they should be able to apply to any programs they want." 
Students would normally request a separate application for each program, leaving the International Study Programs inundated with papers. 
•"We had 886 applications last year [not including the London program). That's 24,000 pieces of paper," he said. "We simply were overwhelmed and had no staff to take care of it." 
The office also wanted to make it easier for students to fill out the application electronically. 
However, some students who applied online for the first time this fall would beg to differ. Applicants meeting the Oct. 1 deadline for spring semester programs in sites such as Mexico and Greece tested the new sys­tem. 
"It was a horrible experience," said Vanessa Reinhart, junior government major, after apply­ing for the Puebla, Mexico pro­gram. "There were times I couldn't log in." 
James Durkin, junior econom­ics major, felt the same way after applying for the program in Monterrey, Mexico. 
"It's just an unnecessary has­sle," he said. "The hard copy is a lot better element because you get a better grasp [of what you're doing]." 
The students disagree, howev­er, on the future of this new online method. 
"People like me aren't gonna want to go the online way," said Durkin. 
Although Reinhart herself did not have a positive experience, she is more optimistic about future students' responses. "It's the first time [online applications are used} and it's going to take some time to get the bugs out. With this new system, you can see the status of your application and if anything has changed." 
The office is moving towards a much more efficient method in dealing with the increased stu­dent interest to go abroad. 
"This is utilizing the latest technology and eventually this type will be used by many offices on campus," Bogenschild said. "It's all digital information at our fingertips." 
Students no longer have to repeatedly write their names on forms because the system online already identifies the applicant through his/her login informa­tion. 
This new system, however, might make it too easy for stu­dents to apply for myriad pro­grams that they normally would not have if separate forms were necessary for each. 
"But it might even bring a bet­ter distribution," Bogenschild said. "So maybe if one of these people signs up for Innsbruck in one of those whims -yeah, I'll take them if they have what it takes." 
From an administrative stand­point, the office for International Study Programs can now focus more on what students actually say instead of organizing the files around the office. 
"Instead of shuffling through piles of papers and serving as file clerks, we can do our job," Bogenschild said. 
Contact Maribel Morey at mmorey@nd.edu. 

Anthrax case prolllpts questions 
Preparing for an attack without precedent 
A biological or chemical attack on a U.S. city would probably overwhelm local medical resources. 
To quickly equip a city under attack, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have set up 
strategic stockpiles of specialized medical supplies. The packages -stockpiled drugs, 
Planning a 'push' vaccines and medical supplies ­If local ahd state emergency are held in eight guarded officials -in conference with warehouses nationwide, where the CDC -agree that an attack they can reach any city in the U.S., has occurred and local medical 'f\d:C/\,;>,;,i.m,J~g,~la&ka.andHawaii, supplies are likely insufficient, within 12 hours. Assembled in a "push package" is deployed. over 100 air cargo containers, each 
If necessary, the CDC State and local officials deploys more push coordinate and track the packages or specific distribution of the package supplies from private to medical facilities, medical or pharm­ensuring a balance of aceutical companies. supply and demand. 
SOURCE: Centers tor Disease Control and Prevention 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Florida's anthrax case raised 
new questions about whether 
there would be enough medica­
tion for sick Americans if bioter­
rorists ever attack. 

There are enough antibiotics for anthrax in a federal stockpile to treat 2 million people for 60 days, Tommy Thompson, the nation's health secretary, said Thursday. 
Also in storage are other antibiotic tablets, streptomycin and gentamicin for the plague, for instance. 
Millions more tablets are 
available under a backup plan 
that places drug companies 
under contract to ship all their 
inventory in an emergency. 

"That's an important compo­nent," stressed Dr. Margaret Hamburg, who helped set up the stockpile under the Clinton administration. "You don't nec­essarily need to have a ware­house full of all the drugs you might need for the long haul. You need to have a mechanism to ensure backfilling of supplies as they're utilized." 
That may not be necessary ­four companies make one of the antibiotics that can treat anthrax, and local pharmacies always have a lot on hand. noted Jerry Hauer, a New York City bioterrorism specialist who advises Thompson. 
Of more concern is the highly contagious smallpox, for which there is no treatment: If small­pox ever surfaces, the govern­ment has 15.4 million doses of smallpox vaccine in storage and would ship them to the affected area not to help the already sick, but to keep the people around them from catching it. An addi­tional 40 million doses are on order, but won't start arriving until late next year. 
There are 280 million Americans. however. In a panic situation, who would ensure that limited supplies of drugs and vaccines are distributed to the people who really need them, 
push package fills a Boeing 747; 
A plane delivers the package 
to a commercial or military 
airport equipped to unload and 
secure it. Then the package is 
transferred to ground transport 
11 -either Federal , Express or United .: 
2t;;1~~"'~~! ~1;;1~\R!;:.1cY.Y;;tF 
AP 

not just the rich or top politi­cians? 
Thompson assured senators this week that no member of the Cabinet or Congress would get their own special stockpile. 
"It's going to be given to the people who need it in the city that has the greatest need," Hauer said. "You've got to turn it over to the locals. They've got to be able to distribute it in the city." 
New York, for instance, has set up 300 potential distribution points. The city was supposed to practice how such distribution would work on Sept. 12, a drill canceled for obvious reasons. But if an outbreak was big enough that all those sites need­ed to open -more likely, only a few dozen would be needed, Hauer stressed -the city would need 40,000 workers to hand out medications. 
· Why so many? The antibiotics are stored in huge bottles, meaning doses for each person would have to be counted out by hand. 
"One of the dumbest things I've seen was in the previous administration, this decision to buy bulk antibiotics rather than blister packs," Hauer said. 
But bioterrorism experts still don't agree how smallpox vac­cine should be given out. Some say only people who have had contact with the sick should be vaccinated, while others say that entire cities where smallpox was found would need inoculations, Hauer said. 
No one will be vaccinated in advance out of fear of bioterror­ism because smallpox is a live vaccine and thus is very risky to anyone with a weak immune system, he explained. 
That aside, no matter how ready the government is to help, it can't unless local hospitals spot an outbreak and call the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -fast. 
That happened Thursday when a Florida state lab worker recently trained by CDC about anthrax symptoms tested a patient's blood and sounded the alarm that he had anthrax. Such . tests might never have been done before the Sept. 11 terror­ists attacks heightened doctors' awareness, said CDC director Jeffery Koplan. 
'T/i,e Co tone ttn 

Bed & Breakfast 
4 rooms, 2 miles from campus 
219-277-6068 

email: wjb4321@aol.com www.oeocities.com/alzard 
Friday, October 5, 2001

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Stadiu01 
continued from page I 
"everything under the sun" that is wrong ·with the building. 
Problems with the Stadium are detailed in 20 pages of a civil complaint filed in St. Joseph County Circuit Court. The docu­ment lists problems with cracked concrete in the concourse and ramp floor. defects in shear walls that support forces due to wind and crowd sway, tie beam con­nections that transfer forces to the ground and expansion joints that allow for the concrete to contract or expand due to heat being inadequately short. 
The Stadium also has problems with metal corrosion and sealant defects, according to the 1999 complaint. 
According to Kirkner, the Stadium's problems are unusual for a regular construction project because construction problems generally occur when an archi­tect's design specifications are not followed by construction workers. ·while the Stadium has construction-related problems, there are also many problems in the design, such as portions of the Stadium being unable to resist loads described by regula­tions. 
"Some of these problems are not construction comments; they were designed incorrectly," Kirkner said. "That's rather unusual because there are codes and practices that architects must follow when designing a building. The usual problems are construction problems, when workers don't build it properly." 
Moore said Ellerbe Becket and Casteel Construction "both had a long-standing relationship with unknown when a judgement in the University." Ellerbe Becket the case might be reached. was the architect on the renova­"You can't predict these type of tion of the Main Building, and things," said Moore. Casteel T h e 

Construction University
"We're not talking about 
was the gen­began planning eral contrac­an extremely for the new tor of the Stadium in
sophisticated design. It's 
Eck Center, 1994, when 
a very straightforward 
w h i c h administrators includes the design; it's not like no decided to Hammes study the feasi­
one has ever built a sta­
Notre Dame bility of having
dium before ... sometimes
Bookstore more seats in and the [buildings have] severe response to Alumni alumni com­
accidents because of 
Association plaints about
unusual things that the 
building. the difficulty of 
Kirkner architect didn't expect obtaining foot­said that like 'well an earthquake ball tickets 
while adding through the
hit and we should have 
on to an annual lottery. 
existing sta­planned for that,' but this "[The alumni] dium would isn't that kind ofa were very present upset," said
situation. " 

some con­Chuck Lennon, struction associate vice challenges, it David Kirkner president for would not be University
Civil Engineering and Geological
extremely Relations and
Sciences associate professor
difficult to Alumni design. Association 
"We're not director. "They talking about an extremely could only win an average of 1.4 sophisticated design," he said. tickets per season." "It's a very straightforward The University eventually set­design; it's not like no one has tled on expanding the current ever built a stadium before ... Stadium rather than building a sometimes [buildings have] new stadium. This kept in place severe accidents because of the house that [Knute] Rockne unusual things that the architect built and avoided any distur­didn't expect like 'well an earth­bance of the campus atmos­quake hit and we should have phere. planned for that,' but this isn't "The design fits in well with the that kind of a situation." campus," Moore said. "It is a nice 
The lawsuit against Ellerbe combination of old and new." Becket and Casteel has proceed­The expansion added about ed while the parties amend their 21,000 seats to the Stadium. complaints. A hearing date has Some 16,000 of these were allot­not yet been set, and it is ted for alumni, doubling the amount of seating that was avail­able to them. 
"Alumni are very pleased that they have additional seats." Lennon said. "The Athletic Department has been very responsive to our needs." 
Other groups also benefited from the addition of seats, which allowed all full-time faculty and staff to have the opportunity to purchase two season tickets. 
"Basically, we have everybody' sitting up there but the students," said Jim Fraleigh, assistant ath­letic director for ticketing, about the upper level seating. 
According to Fraleigh, the added seating has increased from two to four tickets the num­ber of tickets that alumni may apply for and has guaranteed four tickets to two parents games each year. 
"Previously. they were limited to two tickets per game, but allowing them to apply for four ticket.c; allows them to bring their families to the games and puts an emphasis on family," said Fraleigh. 
The renovation and expansion of the Stadium doubled the amount of locker room space for the football team and prompted the team to use the Stadium lock­er room on a daily basis for prac­tices and not just on game days. 
"Historically we dressed for practice in the Joyce Center. but sometime during the construc­tion process, we took a look at having players dress in the Stadium all the time," said John Heisler, associate athletic direc­tor for media relations. "You would have had to see the previ­ous locker room to understand this, but it was nothing to write home about. Going in there, you would have no idea it was Notre Dame." 
The current locker room is the exact opposite of the one in the Joyce Center and is something not only to write home about, but a locker room that has appeared on national television. 
According to Russell Gagnon, director of Stadium personnel. the expanded Stadium has made it easier for fans to enter the build.,ing on game days. 
"In a way, things arc much easier -not the addition of guests because more people means more work, but with the re-configuration of the gates, we can get more people in much quicker than we used to," said Gagnon. . 
In addition to the locker room and easier access to the Stadium, the expansion and renovation added a new press box, more concession stands and rest room facilities an<l handicapped access. 
While the expanded Stadium is extremely popular with most fans. the modification of former football coach Rockne's original design was not popular with some Stadium ushers. 
"One usher quit," Gagnon said. "He said Knute Rockne desiilled it and we've made it different and he didn't want to work here anymore ... Rockne built the sta­dium for 60,000 fans at a time when games were drawing 20,000, he was thinking ahead and stated his intention to build an expansion to seat 100,000 fans. Rockne himself would have been the first to decide to expand the Stadium." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 



"How Parents Can Help their Children Achieve in a Changing World" 
with John G. Borkowski Andrew J. McKenna Family Professor of Psychology 
Coming Up 
.  Oct. 13, 10 a.m. (West Virginia) ­ Lawrence S. Cunningham, John A. O'Brien  
Professor of Theology, on "'I'm Spiritual, but not Religious': What is Christian Spirituality?"  
.  Oct. 20, 1Oa.m. (USC) ­ Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics, on  
"Social Security Reform: The Potential and Pittalls of Private Accounts"  
.  Nov. 3, 11 a.m. (Tennessee)-Seamus Deane, the Donald and Marilyn Keough  
Professor of Irish Studies, on "Newman and Ireland: Converting the Empire"  
.  Nov.17, 11 a.m. (Navy ) ­ F. Clark Power, professor of psychology, on "Moral  
Education at the Crossroads"  

Saturday Scholar presentations take place 3 1/2 hours before kickoff in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu for more information. 







ATION 
Friday, October 5, 2001 COMPJLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cuba approves terror treaties: 
Paying homage to those killed 25 years ago in the bombing of a Cuban jetliner, lawmakers in Havana on Thursday unanimously signed a series of international anti-terrorism treaties. After the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States, President Fidel Castro said there was "the need to strengthen the authority of the United Nations during the current crisis." 
Thatcher criticizes Muslim leaders: 
Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher crit• icized Muslim leaders in Britain, saying in an interview published Wednesday that they had not spoken out strongly enough to condemn the terror attacks in the United States. "The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up and say that is not the way of Islam," Thatcher reportedly said. 
NATIONAL News BRIEFS 

Collapsed wall leaves 3 trapped: A 
wall collapsed at a California construction site Thursday, trapping nine workers about 30 feet underground and impaling two of them on steel rods. Six of the nine were freed within an hour of the 8:20 a.m. accident, but the other three remained trapped. The work­ers were helping construct a wastewater treatment plant in Carson, a town 15 miles south of Los Angeles. 
Iron cross found at ground zero: A cast iron "cross" found in the rubble of the World Trade Center has been adopted by rescue workers as a symbol of faith and blessed with holy water by a Franciscan priest. The 20-foot tall cross, consisting of two metal beams, fell intact from one of the twin towers into a nearby building. Laborer Frank Sileccbia, 47, found the cross stand­ing almost upright two days after the towers toppled Sept. 11. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Tapes show. former principal, girl: 
A former Baptist school principal accused of having sex with an 11-year-old student video­taped a conversation with the girl months before she was abducted last spring, prosecutors in Hammond. Ind., say. The videotape shows that William "Andy" Beith, 29, of Burns Harbor, con­templated an affair with the sixth-grader long before the pair fled the state, according to prose­cutor's motions filed in federal court. The court documents state that Beith "recorded conversa­tions about running away with the victim, as well as incidents of kissing and fondling" her. 
Market \iVatch October 4 
Dow 9,060.88 -62.90

1% s~~t • ct~Jlf~:• 
AMEX: 828.60 +7.07 NASDAQ: 1,597.31 +16.50 NYSE: 554.78 -1.37 S&P 500: 1069.63 -2.65 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY ¾CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.37 +0.47 14.42 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +0.97 +0.30 31.30 GLOBAL CROSSING (GX) -48.80 -1.02 1.07 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +3.22 +0.29 9.29 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.51 +0.32 21.55 

Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
The flag-draped casket rode atop a lone fire truck Thursday, taking Capt. Terence Hatton past his two families -his fellow fire­fighters and his pregnant wife, carrying the child he will never hold. 
Hatton, 41, was remem­bered at a funeral Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral as a hero and role model. His wife did not discover she was pregnant until after Hatton died in the rescue effort at the World Trade Center. 
"Terry looked like Gary Cooper -until he put on a fire helmet," recalled Timothy Brown, a longtime friend and the supervisor of the city Office of Emergency Management. "Then he looked better." 
For three weeks, there have been seemingly end­less memorials honoring the lost -from New York, Pennsylvania and Washington to the New Jersey shore and Long Island. On one Saturday alone, there were 16. 
Each day brings new mourning. 
As another service Thursday, thousands packed into a Madison Square Garden theater to honor the 7 4 Port Authority employees who were lost during the attack. 
"These have been the saddest of days," said Lewis Eisenberg, chairman of the Port Authority. "But they have been days of heroism and steadfast determina­tion." 
At Hatton's funeral, a let­ter from President Bush praising his service was read. The 6-foot-4 firefight­er, the son of a retired New York fire captain, was eulo­gized by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. 
Hatton's wife, Beth Petrone-Hatton, has worked as Giuliani's per­sonal assistant for 17 years, and Giuliani officiated at 
the Hattons' wedding at the 
mayoral mansion in 1998. 
''I've known many, many 
fine men in my life, and 
eulogized too many," the 
mayor said. "Terry Hatton 
really stood out. He is the 
kind of man I would like my 
son to grow up and 
become." 
Hatton and six brother firefighters were remem­bered on Thursday. On Friday, 18 services were · scheduled for uniformed members killed when the 
twin towers collapsed. 
The standing-room-only 
crowd inside St. Patrick's 
included rescue workers 
and firefighters from across 
the country. 
ISRAEL 
Sharon takes hard line with U.S. 
and Muslim states into an internation­ploted an apparently fruitless meeting
Associated Press 
al coalition against Islamic militants about implementing the latest truce, 
JERUSALEM suspected of carrying out the Sept. 11 declared Sept. 26 to try to end a year 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon terror attacks in the United States. of fighting. Sharon told a news confer­aimed unusually harsh words at the The prime minister said Israel ence that the cease-fire has not United States Thursday a~er a string would fight terrorism without letup, stopped violence "even for a minute." of Palestinian attacks, urging dropping Israel's earlier promise to Since the cease-fire was declared, Washington not to "appease" Arab suspend military strikes against 21 Palestinians have been killed by states at Israel's expense. Palestinians as part of a truce deal Israeli fire, and five Israelis have been 
Sharon stopped just short of can­sought by Washington. killed in two attacks by Palestinian celling a U.S.-backed cease-fire, but The tough words followed an attack militants. said that Israeli seclU'il.y forces would by a Palestinian gunman, who killed · Sharon said, "do not try to placate do whatever is necessary to protect three Israelis at a bus station in north­the Arabs at Israel's expense. We are Israeli citizens. "From now on we will ern Israel before he was gunned not Czechoslovakia," a reference to a count only on ourselves," he told a down. 1938 decision by Britain and France 
news conference. The attack in the city of Afula, just to allow Nazi Germany to take over 
Sharon's remarks indicated a shift across from the West Bank town of part of the eastern European country in policy that could undercut Jenin, came just minutes after senior in exchange for a promise of peace Washington's efforts to bring Arab Israeli and Palestinian officials com-that was quickly broken. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 5, 2001 
was painstaking. This inteJli­Indiana Congressman and leave my family right before career, Almes ultimately gent young teenager criticized Notre Dame alumnus Tim Christmas." decided on a Saint Mary's edu­
AIIDes 
herself with thoughts like, 'Tm Roemer and urged him to aide After an exhausting day of cation over Notre Dame. She continued from page 1 so stupid, why am l trying in the quest to get Almes a flights and layovers that took liked the smaller classes and 
this?" Almes shrouded herself visa. Senator Dick Lugar and her to Japan, Los Angeles and all-women environment at employees] but it hasn't made in shame, seemingly giving up Senator Daniel Coats, also of finally Tucson, Alrnes was Saint Mary's. a difference. If they get a job the hope of education in the Indiana, added their support greeted at the terminal by the "Just the way Saint Mary's it's a hundred dollar a month United States. as well. Converses whom she hadn't tells us we will leave here as job,.. said Converse. On Dec. 4, 1997, Almes said seen in six strong, confi• 
To break the cycle of poverty Enlisting more help she returned to the U.S. years. dent women, Converse saw the only solution Embassy. Determined to give E v e n and that entire
In Arizona, the Converses 
was to get Almes to the United them the proof they wanted. though she idea of being a
weren't giving up. "I started writing letters 
States and have an opportuni­While wrote to she was armed with letters, had seen Saint Mary's
Almes 
ty at a different kind of educa­cards and pictures from the pictures of in May right before the woman," Almes
President Clinton, Converse
tion. Both Almes and her Converses, as well as letters them over reunion. I sent out some said. "I knew I
worked at boosting the Almes
mother decided to take the from Malloy and Roemer. the years. wanted that for
family's profile. He set them 750 letters and at the
opportunity. "But the most important Almes says me."
up with a home, property and
Her mother would go with thing I brought," Alm es said, s h e end received $20,000." Saint Mary's
bank account.
Almes to study nursing in the "was my rosary." couldn't was also less
"It was a process of trying to
U.S. while Almes pursued a She waited in line for eight remember expensive.
make them look rich," said Vince Converse
high school education. Both hours, all the while praying what they Even with all
Converse. guardian of Jenalee Almes
needed to obtain student visas, the rosary. looked the help of her
He also sent a number of let­
so necessary documentation "I knew it would give me like. guardians and
ters to the U.S. Embassy in 
was sent by Converse to the courage and strength," she "When I alumni, she did
Manila. None of them were
U.S. Embassy in Manila. said. got off the not have
answered. 
Finally it was Almes' turn. plane I didn't know what to enough money up front forFrom Arizona, Senator John 
Before sitting. she placed her do," she said. "I was just look­Notre Dame and was put on a
Denial McCain and Congressman Jim 
lucky charm, a Virgin Mary ing around because I didn't waiting list. But Almes
On May 29, 1997, both moth­Kolbe made congressional 
medallion, on the table. Almes even remember what my received the Dean's
er and inquiries. 
daughter T e e struggled with nervousness as guardians looked like." Scholarship from Saint Mary's
h s 
she tried to heed her father's Upon arr1vrng at her so she could afford to attend.
arrived at inquiries 
advice to keep eye contact American home in Arizona. But her dream of attending
t h e revealed that
"I was crying, and I told with the interviewer. She Almes took a much-needed Notre Dame will still come
Embassy the Almes had
him 'I feel like the biggest remained calm with every nap. When she woke up, she true. After earning a liberal
for their been denied 
answer and concentrated on sat down at the kitchen table arts degree from Saint Mary's
interviews failure.' ... In the because they 
speaking English, which she and for the first time in her she plans on enrolling at Notre
at 6 a.m. didn't have
Philippines. there are 
T h y enough social had studied only a bit in life she ate homemade choco­Dame to earn a chemical engi­
e 
many dreamers. school. The interviewer left late chip cookies and milk. neering degree. 
found that and economic the room briefly, and when Almes began school at the But even as she studies her
many oth• Something like this is commitments 
she returned Almes saw the second semester at Saint science books in her
ers were to the
socially embarrassing for 
pink slip in her hand. Gregory's College Preparatory McCandless Hall dorm room
trying to Philippines.
us. I didn't want to be "When she walked in, I saw School and set her goals even with a telephone, electricity
obtain visas But they could 
as well. classified as 'another one reapply in six the pink slip in her hand and 1 higher. She wanted to attend and a bedroom that never couldn't believe it. She said the same school as her f1oods, Almes has yet another
"There months if they
ofthose dreamers."' 
'Congratulations, you got your guardian -Notre Dame. dream. She wants to become
were just could show 
visa' and I thanked her and Malloy's letters on Almes an American citizen so she can
thousands, more commit­
millions of Jenalee Almes God a thousand times. I knew behalf were not the only aide travel between the U.S. and
ments. 
that would she received the Philippines freely. If she
people Saint Mary's freshman To improve 
be the start from the travels back and forth too
waiting in Almes' 
line -so chances of get­of my University. It much on her visa, she faces a d r e a m was also possibility of losing it. 
many peo-ting a visa 
come true," "J hope to get my instrumental in She has not returned to her
ple were when • she 
waiting," reapplied, her Almes said. citizenship so that I will helping to pay native land since she left and for her educa­she has only seen her parents
Almes said. mother decided not to apply be able to uisit my family 
tion. Converse once -at her high school
After waiting in line nearly for a visa. Coming to 
in the Philippines. I miss set up a graduation.
the entire day, Almes and her "My morn told me she 
America 
them so much." Chance-for•a• "I hope to get my citizenshipmother were denied visas in thought I would have a better 
Only one fund .so
Dream that I will be able to visit
an interview that took less chance without her, that she 
week later, and solicited my family in the Philippines,"
than 15 minutes. was holding me back," Almes 
on Dec. 7, Jenalee Almes 
funds from she said. "I miss them so
"You don't have enough evi­said. 
1 9 9 7 . Saint Mary's freshman other Irish much."
dence" was the only response During that six-month peri­Almes bid a alumni. Considering how far she hasgiven by the woman who od, the letter writing contin­
bittersweet 
"I started come, it's hard to doubt that
stamped DENIED on their ued. None seemed to have any 
farewell to 
writing letters Almes' next dream will comepapers, according to Almes. effect until one response in 
her family in May right before the true.
"I felt like a failure because I particular set off a chain reac­and the Philippines. 
reunion. I sent out some 750really wanted to go to the U.S. tion. 
"I was so happy to be going 
letters and at the end receivedwith my mom; it was like a big Converse enlisted the help of 
to the U.S.," Almes s.ays, "but I 
$20,000," said Converse. Contact Katie Seroka at 
dream," she said. University President Father 
was so sad because I had to 
At the end of her high school sero2030@saintmarys.edu.
The Embassy said that the Edward Malloy who contacted Almes had to prove that they would return to the Philippines after completing their educa­tion. The family didn't have any property or money, and her father didn't have a steady job, so it was assumed they would try to remain in the U.S. Almes and her mother phoned 

Aperfect meeting place
Converse in Arizona, who faxed several more documents 
throughout the weekend.
to the Embassy hoping to obtain a visa for the two women. 
The same process was Open Friday and Saturday D.rring 
repeated the next day, but again the two were denied 
ND. Home Football Weekends.
visas. The man who inter­viewed them took less than 10 minutes this time to stamp DENIED on their papers. 
Everyone Welcome
"Well, I don't think you can go," was his verdict. He didn't believe Almcs' mother. telling her she was too old to be a 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -6p.m.
student. Upset and in tears, they 
called Converse again to tell Grilled Burgers, Brats, 
him the news. 
"I was crying, and I told him and Other Specialtie~ . }\ 
'I feel like the biggest failure,"' 
she said. Almes was devastated. ~In the Philippines, there are 
~!~!::~;.s&s~:~_J}t____ 
many dreamers," Almes said about those who have dreams 
of going to the United States. Fully Enclosed Tent ~f!.Qtf[~.-~"Something like this is socially embarrassing for us. I didn't 631-2000 want to be classified as 'anoth­next to the N.D. Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com 
er one of those dreamers."' The emotional toll on Almes 


'Fdday; Octcib~r 5, 200I 
page 7 
NOW LEASING FOR THE 
It,s time to 
2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
•
Jump tn• a DOMUS PROPERTi ES 
ghetto sled ­
HAS 
-2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, &10 
our little 
BEDROOM HOUSES 
nutjob
-STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
Mary is 21!!!! 
-SECURITY SYSTEMS -WELL MAINTAINED HOMES -MANITENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (2.19) 234-2436 
THERE WILL BE NO MIDNIGHT
OR (219) 674-2.471 
BREAKFAST THIS WEEKEND. WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE
Our internships aren't 
INCONVENIENCE.
easy to get into. 
Then again, neither is college. 
Come find out about our paid internships in the areas of accounting, 
-STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
business, finance, human resources, computer science, information management and engineering. 

Event:  INROADS INFO-SESSION  
Location:  Career Resource Center-Flanner Hall  
Date:  Monday, October 8, 2001  
Time:  7:00 p.m.  

Come speak with INROADS to find out about internship opportunities with companies such as: 
Abbott Laboratories KPMG,LLP Andersen IBM Accenture PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP Kraft Foods The Northern Trust Procter and Gamble GE Capital Financial Assurance 
Many Others 
We Want to SEE YOU! This event is sponsored by The Career Center and Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 
~~ 
INROADS. 
This meeting is for First Year Students and Sophomores Only! 
Terror war to reselllble Cold War 
Associated Press 
CI\IRO, Egypt 
The U.S.-led struggle lo defeat terrorism is morn likely to resemble the West's decades-long contest against communism -fought on many fronts, often outside the mili­tary arena -than a major shooting war, Defense Sccrctarv Donald H. Rumsfeld said Thursday. 
Humsfeld's comments offered the strongest suggestion yet by the Bush administration that, while the U.S. military will play a role in rooting out terrorists, its contribution mav be smaller than commonly assi1med. 
U.S. military action also could come later rather than sooner. French Defense :Minister Alain Richard said retaliation for the Sept. 11 terror attacks isn't likely for several weeks. 
'The decisions to take action haven't been made," Richard said in Paris. "Everyone is going to prepare their own means that will be well-adapt­ed for a joint effort. We aren't at the end of that." 
Humsfeld himself alluded to the unlikelihood of an earlv attack. "I haven't said we are undertaking military action," he said at one point in an inter­view. 
The United States has assem­bled more than 30,000 troops in the region around Afghanistan, including two air­craft carrier battle groups, a contingent of Marines, hun­dreds of land-based warplanes and preparations for Army spe­cial operations soldiers to con­duct hit-and-run commando raids inside Afghanistan. 
Rumsfeld indicated the first purpose of the growing force might be to apply military pres­sure rather than to launch a major attack, as the freezing of terrorist groups' money is applying a financial squeeze. He stressed it could take unex­pected turns but eventually would succeed. 
The administration hopes that pressures applied over a sustained period will dry up the terrorists' sources of money, their pool of recruits and their means to hide in places such as Afghanistan. 
''It undoubtedly will prove to be a lot more like a cold war than a hot war," Rumsfeld said in the interview in his Cairo hotel room after a 14-hour day of consultations with the lead­ers of Oman and Egypt. 
Indiana fraternity 
kicked off-campus 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Pi Kappa Alpha on Thursday became the fifth fraternity to be kicked off the Indiana University campus in the last 18 months. 
The expulsion stems from a Sept. 16 incident in which a stu­dent was hospitalized after drinking too much at a fraterni­ty event, IU Dean of Students Dick McKaig said in a release. 
McKaig said alcohol was served to underage students after the event and the fraterni­ty failed to request state licenses or campus approval beforehand. 
Four other chapters -Sigma Alpha Mu, Alpha Sigma Phi, Theta Chi and Beta Theta Pi ­have been expelled since April of last year for a variety of alco­hol and hazing violations. 
Pi Kappa Alpha also was sus­pended in 1998 when a student, Joe Bisa:nz, died after drinking too much. Bis official cause of death was listed as choking on his own vomit, but his parents have challenged that finding. 
No one answered the phone Thursday night at the published listing for the fraternity house. 
The university said officials at Pi Kappa Alpha's national head­quarters accepted the expulsion and would cooperate with the university to enforce it. 
The expulsion is effective for at least two years. 

'"'•:fV
E ARTS 
RI PAIi•, J# 
For ticket information, . ,;:Jitollege Box Office at 284-4626 
"'{.•:,!• . 

page 8 The Ohservf'r . PAID ADVERTISEMENT hiday, Ocrobcr 5, 200 I 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS · ·· HAPPENI 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTO. 
Auth'or Events: 
Cast members ofRockne:"'A Musical will perform Friday, Oct.5. at·11:0Oa.:i11•. '. 
Meet Hockey Coach,,Dave , ~phlan Friday, Oct 5 froni . 
i\ ,!(e-~ping the Faith 
1!30 p:nt. to 2:30 p~rn.. , _____
1-v1akmg aDifnerence 
WJL~ON D -:---­
. . MISCM,JB1 E., , 
~ ,t..\c
Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S'.C. will be signing copies ofhis book, The Future ofOur Pllst, on Friday, Oct. 5 from 2:.00 
p.m. to 4:00 p.m.. · 
Fr. Miscamble, C.S.C. willhe signing copies of Keeping the Faith, Making a Difference on Friday, Oct. 5 from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 

John..,Heisler will be signing copies of Quotable Rockne on ·· Saturday, Oct. 6 from 9:00 a_.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
Ted Mandell, ND Professor of Film & Video Production, will he signing copies of Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys on Saturday, Oct. 6 from9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
Paul Gullifor vi igning copies of The Fighting Irish on theAi ct. 6 from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
> 
au .·.•.··· ii ....••· tfll'signing copies of The Golden Dream on SaJur4a.yiO~t!>6, fr<;im 11:00 a.m. to 12 Noon. 
Tom Shippey, Douglas Anderson, and Rosalind Clark 
will discuss;,~olkien, based on Shippey's book JR.R. Tolkieri:Auiho#'"' Century on Thursday, Oct. 11 at 

Han:imes No er) 
; ·,.. -' ~ _)'le:-~. 
Frida,c , \ ..~.i 
,.__ ';;: ___ :,•:;:_1,:'-:¥.i_. _.:-, .. },£ 
Satui'tlayt;~{.. Sunday 9:00 am ~ 10:00 ptrf , : qd,i.m
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
it. 
-~~' ,. 


______..._______________._.__,__,__..,_______________ 
Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Airline security bill stalls 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congressional action on an aviation security bill was put off until next week as House GOP leaders objected to a compro­mise wit.h the administration on the main sticking point, the fed­eralization of airport screeners. 
The Senate for the second straight day Thursday failed to take up a bill that would enact many of the recommendations made by President Bush on bol­stering the security of aircraft and airports following tho Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
The Senate now plans a off They said House GOP lead­ers, in a meeting with Mincta, voiced their strong objections to going ahead with the deal. 
Senate supporters of the bill said Congress had an obligation to move quickly on the security question after approving a $15 billion rescue package for the airlines industry last week. 
"I urge my colleagues not to let the process drag us down," said Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, It-Texas. She said restoring people's confidence in the safe-· ty of flying "will be the begin­ning of building our economy 
back"  
But  some  leaders  in  the  
House,  
including  

vote next Rep. Tom
"The administration is 
Tuesday on Delay, R­
whether to doing a lot ofthis now by Texas, told 
bring the·bill changing the standards Mineta that, to the floor. rather than
and regulations, and 
The Senate give ground
executive orders may be
bill, \.Vhich to the has solid put in place. " .Democrats backing from on the feder­b o t h alization 
Trent Lott
Democrats issue, the a n d Senate Republican leader H o u s e 
Hepublicans. changes the current sys­tem where screeners are pri­vate employees and requires that federal personnel screen and check all baggage and indi­viduals boarding a plane. Screeners at smaller airports could be state or local law enforcement officials. 
The White House, backed by House GOP leaders, has resisted the creation of a new federal bureaucracy, and instead pro­posed that the government take over the supervision and train­ing but not the employment of screeners. 
Senate aides said the White House and the Senate were close to a compromise calling for full federalization, but two scheduled meetings Thursday between Senate leaders and Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta were called s h o. u 1 d 
abandon the 
effort to pass legislation and let the pres­ident impose many of the new security measures by executive order. 
"The administration is doing a lot of this now by changing the standards and regulations, and executive orders may be put in place," said Senate Republican leader Trent Lott of Mississippi. 
Some of the president's pro­posals, such as increasing the number of air marshals on board planes and compelling airlines to fortify cockpit doors, could be carried out-without congressional action. Congress would have to approve addi­tional funding for security or new passenger taxes. The Senate bill has a $2.50 fee to help pay the cost of increased security. 
The Mineta proposal that was cold-shouldered by the House would have fully federalized baggage screeners. but with the conditions that the screeners not be allowed to strike and that civil service rules making it difficult to fire workers would be waived. The workers would be under the jurisdiction of the Transportation Department. 
It also required that Democrats agree not to load the bill down with other issues, such as legislation to help laid­off airline workers or to boost railway security that would each cost about $3 billion. 
While many Republicans balk at the idea of creating a new bureaucracy of some 28,000 workers costing more than $1 billion a year, supporters of fed­eralization say that under the current system airports con­tract out security to the lowest bidder and that ·screening per­sonnel are often poorly paid, insufficiently trained and have high turnover rates. 
But William Barbour, chair­man of the Aviation Security Association, said that the wholesale government takeover of airport security would, in addition to putting thousands of current employees out of work, be far less effective than a strong public-private sector partnership as is common throughout Europe. 
He said that private security firms had proved to be fully capable when backed up by stringent federal oversight. 
The consumer group Public Citizen on Thursday also advised against giving the Federal Aviation Administration oversight over airport security, saying that the FAA has a histo­ry of watering down security­boosting rules under pressure from the airlines industry. 
"The FAA has been comman­deered by the very industry it is supposed to regulate, and as a consequence aviation security has become dangerously lax," said Public Citizen president Joan Claybrook. 

N.Y. • businesses turn to high-tech phones 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Businesses and government offices left without phone service following the collapse of the World Trade Center are turning to new technologies to help them get back to work. 
The state court system had 2,300 phones in courthouses near the trade center but was left with nine after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack. This week, the courts are using 600 high-tech phones that use the Internet to carry calls. 
"Normally we would have taken a small court and done a six-month pilot with a few phones," said Judge Jonathan Lippman, the state's chief administrative judge. 
"What we did here is in one week and a day we did six months' work in order to get this in, and now we are delight­ed," Lippman said. 
The destruction of the trade center posed an unprecedented challenge to the telecommunica­tions industry. 
Cell phones stopped working, in part because the transmission towers were destroyed along with the twin towers. One Verizon switching office was destroyed and another that han­dled about 300,000 telephone lines and 3.5 million point-to­point data circuits was badly damaged. 
While most cell service is back up, Verizon spokesman Eric Rabe said more than 10,000 phone lines across a large swath of lower Manhattan are still not working. Businesses aren't wait­ing. 
Merrill Lynch, for example, is using "free-space" fiberless optics to transmit data from Manhattan across the Hudson River to Jersey City, N.J. . 
The technology uses safe, invisible lasers to beam a signal through the air, said Dan Hesse, chief executive of Kirkland, Wash.-based Terabeam Inc., which provides the service. 
Verizon crews have been restoring service by running wires around the damage -out of windows or through trenches dug in the streets. 
Residential customers can use 200 free phones Verizon has placed on trailers around lower Manhattan. 
Ii ¦¦ Notre Dame Center 
¦ 11 ¦ Jor Ethics and Religious II ¦:¦ Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Mr. Nicholas Moore 
Retired Global Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
"Ethics, Shades of Gray, and Changing Regulatory Attitudes" 
Brown Bag Luncheon Tuesday, October 9, 2001 339 Mendoza College of Business 12:30 p.m. -1:30 p.m. 
* Beverages will be provided. Please bring your own lunch. ** You can find additional information at www.nd.edu/-ethics/ 
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 5, 2001 
Hemingway's son dies in women's jail 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Gregory Hemingway, the troubled youngest son of novel­ist Ernest Hemingway. has died at age 69 in his cell in a women's. jail where he was taken after being arrested for indecent exposure. 
Hemingway -a former doc­tor who wrote a well-received book about his father, "Papa: A Personal Memoir" -was found dead Monday of what the med­ical examiner's office said was high blood pressure and car­diovascular disease. 
Hemingway had been arrest­ed last week, at least his 
third arrest "I never got over a sense in the county. 
ofresponsibility for my
He died after 
father's death. And
he was awakened sometimes the for a court 
recollection ofit 
appearance 
sometimes made me act
on charges of indecent in strange ways." exposure and resisting 
Gregory Hemingway, 
arrest with­
in a 1976 book
out violence. Janelle son of novelist Ernest Hall, a Hemingway
spokes­woman for the county corrections depart­ment, said Hemingway had undergone a sex-change opera­tion. Hall said she did not know when and the medical examin­er's office would not comment on the matter. 
Key Biscayne police had arrested Hemingway at a park on Sept. 25 after finding him putting on underwear. He was 
sense." 
. The son of the author and his 
second wife, Pauline Pfeiffer, 
was born in Kansas City. Mo., 
and graduated from the 
University of Miami Medical 
School. The elder Hemingway 
committed suicide in 1961. 
rn Gregory Hemingway's 1976 book, which had a pref­ace by Norman Mailer, the nov­elist's son wrote: "I never got over a sense of responsibility for my father's death. And the recollection of it sometimes made me act in strange ways." 
Hemingway's Florida medical 'license was revoked in 1988. 
Montana officials said records 
indicate his medical license in 
. 
that state expired in 1990. His daughter, Lorian Hemingway, wrote a 1998 memoir, 
"Walk  on  
Water,"  in  
which  she  
said  her  

father lost his medical license because of an addiction. 
Hemingway was married 
four times. His last marriage, in 1992, ended in divorce in 1995. 
Hemingway, whose last known address was in Miami's Coconut Grove, had been arrested at least three times in the mid-1990s on charges including battery on a police officer and aggravated assault. The outcome of those cases 
Greyhound driver speaks out 
Associai,,d Press 
MANCHESTER, Tenn. 
The Greyhound driver whose throat was slashed by a passen­ger said Thursday that getting the other riders to safety after the bus crashed was his top pri­ority. 
The driver crawled from the wreckage for help after Wednesday's attack, but six of the 39 passengers, including the assailant, died. 
"By the time I was able to get out of the bus, I ran about 200 yards," Garfield Sands said dur­ing a news conference at the hospital where he is recovering. "Help was already there." 
Sands wore bandages on his neck and left arm and spoke to reporters from a wheelchair. He received stitches for two 5-inch­long, 2-inch-deep slashes on the side of his neck. 
"I feel so good I'm hoping I get to go home tomorrow." Sands said. His doctor. Ralph Bard, agreed he might be released by then. 
Sands, 53. of Marietta. Ga., declined to talk about the attack, saying Greyhound would allow him to say more later. "They want me to hold my com­ments for a while." 
Authorities identified two of the dead Thursday -Amelia Ortiz Nerio, 73, of Lake Wales, Fla., and Fannie Jones, 68, of Georgia. Some of those who died were not carrying identifi­cation, slowing the process of releasing their names, authori­ties said. 
Only one other body has been identified -Damir Igric, a Croatian citizen the FBI said attacked Sands and then tried to take control of the bus, send­ing it across the oncoming lanes before it toppled into a field. 
A relief driver on the bus also helped passengers out of the wreckage. Lawrence Payton had refused to give up his seat behind the driver to the assailant before the attack, Greyhound spokeswoman Kr.isten Parsley said. 
She called Sands and Payton "absolute heroes." The compa­ny planned to reward the men in some way, but no decision has been made on how, spokes­woman Parsley said. 
Passengers who survived the crash were all injured, includ­ing a pregnant woman, Elena Wilson, who underwent a suc­cessful Caesarean section hours later. She and her newborn daughter were in stable condi­tion Thursday. 
The PB! said Igric, 29, entered the United States in Miami in 1999 with one month left on his visa. He had boarded the bus in Chicago. 
In Croatia, the state-run news agency HINA quoted Igric's stepfather, Ante Spaic, as say­ing the whole family was "deeply shocked." Croatian TV quoted the family as saying that Igric worked for the last five years on cruise ships. They said they last heard from him sever­al weeks ago, when he was liv­ing in New York. 
The attacker struggled with Sands for control of the wheel before it crashed on fnterstate 24, 60 miles southeast of Nashville. Igric was thrown through the windshield. 
Sands said he was attacked with a box cutter or razor, according to Bard, who said Sands' "thick neck" saved his life. 
After the crash, Greyhound shut down service as a precau­tion, pulling 2,000 to 2,500 
Fatal bus crash 
A Greyhound bus crashed in central Tennessee on Wednesday after a passenger attacked the driver, resulting in multiple injuries and fatalities. 

SOURCE: ESRI AP 
buses off the nation's highways. The move stranded some 70,000 passengers. After con­sulting with federal and state officials, it resumed service about seven hours later. 
"The officials have assured me that they believe this tragic accident was the result of an isolated act by a single deranged individual," said Greyhound's president, Craig Lentzsch. 
carrying a dress and high­heeled shoes. He appeared intoxicated or mentally impaired, officer Nelia Real said. 
"He said his name was Gloria," Real said. "He looked like a man, but his nails were painted and he was wearing jewelry and makeup.... He was very nice to me. At times he was very coherent, but other times he didn't make any was not immediately available. 
In 1997, Hemingway joined with his brothers, Jack and Patrick, in battling the organiz­ers of the sometimes rowdy Hemingway Days celebration in Key West. They said they want­ed a more dignified gathering and royalty payments. The cel­ebration was canceled but then revived. Jack Hemingway, who also wrote a memoir of his father, died last year. 
w 
0 
m 
e 
n 

ofNotre Dame 
The Office for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Notre Dame Career Center proudly present another Women ofNotre Dame Visitor Series. 
The Women of Notre Dame Project is a joint project intended to celebrate 30 years of co­education by providing strong female role models and mentors for our students and women supporters for our campus community. In the Visitor's Series, we invite women alums to campus to talk about their careers and particular expertise. 
The Honorable Joan Orie Melvin Judge of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania 
Judge Melvin is a 1978 Economics graduate of Notre Dame 
"My (Brilliant) Career: Life After Graduation" Thursday, October 4, in 119 O'Shaughnessy, 4:00 p.m. 
"Balancing Career and Family" Friday, October 5, 119 O'Shaughnessy, 11 :30 a.m. ·A light lunch will be served 

Friday, October 5, 2001 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Plane crashes in Russia, killing at least 76 


. Relatives grieve over lost family 
Associated Press 
BEN GURION !NTL. AIRPORT, Israel 
Sobbing relatives wailed and huddled together in shock at Israel's main airport after the crash Thursday of their loved ones' plane in the Black Sea. a flight full of recent immigrants returning to Russia for family visits. 
The Russian plane had more than 60 passengers on board -most, if not all, of them Israelis -and 12 crew members when it exploded en route from Ben Gurion airport outside Tel Aviv to the Siberian city of Novosibirsk. 
Weeping relatives gathered in a lounge at Ben Gurion, trying to comfort each other, after being told their loved ones were on the Sibir Airlines flight. 
Some wailed or covered their faces with their hands. Others passed on the news in phone conversations punctu­ated by sobs. Social workers offered counseling. 
Many passengers were immigrants from the former Soviet Union who were head­ed to Novosibirsk to see rela­tives during the Jewish holi­day of Sukkot. 
Vadim Kupov, who recently moved to Israel, lost his 28­year-old wife Laila and his 18-month-old son Michael. The three had initially planned to fly to Novosibirsk for a family visit on Sept. 11, but that flight was canceled after the terror attacks on New York and Washington that day. 
Kupov said he had decided not to go with his family Thursday flight because of financial problems. Kupov's son was one of two infants aboard, aviation officials said. 
Another victim, 24-year-old Elena Starikovsky, a music student who immigrated to Israel two years ago, was headed to Novosibirsk to get married, said a friend, Dina Kulbatzka. 
Olga Kuznitsov lost her 76­y ear-old mother, Sarah Kamcha, returning to her hometown of Novosibirsk for the first time in 10 years. "She was nervous to go back to visit home," Kuznitsov said of her mother. 
Kutznitsov rushed to Ben Gurion as soon as she heard about the crash. She said she hadn't yet told her 5-year-old son, who was especially close to his grandmother. 
All outgoing flights at Ben Gurion, Israel's main airport, were grounded for about four hours, stranding thousands of passengers. Security proce­dures, already stringent at the airport, were further tight­ened, and even passengers who had already checked in were called back for another security check. 
. US: Ukraine missile may have hit plane 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. intelligence officials believe a Ukrainian long-range anti-aircraft missile fired during a military exercise accidentally blew up a Russian airliner as it flew over the Black Sea. 
The Ukrainian military denied their missiles had the range to hit the airliner. The Russians supported their statements and suggested terrorists might have been involved. 
Andy Card, President Bush's chief of staff, said not all the information was in, "but it appears that the Ukrainians did have some kind of missile exer­cise that might have hit this commercial aircraft." His com­ments came in an interview Thursday on PBS' "NewsHour With Jim Lehrer." 
The chartered Tupolev 154, carrying at least 76 people from Israel, plunged into the sea 114 miles off the Russian coastal city of Adler, on the Georgian border. The Sibir Airlines plane was on its way from Tel Aviv to the Siberian city of Novosibirsk, about 1,750 miles east of Moscow, after a stop in Bulgaria. 
The Ukrainian military was conducting a large air defense exercise in and off the coast of the Crimea, the peninsula that juts into the northern Black Sea. 
The anti-aircraft missile believed to have brought down the Tupolev 154 is known in the West as an SA-5 "Gammon." Ukrainian officials said they used S-200 missiles -the Russian designation for the SA-5 -dur­ing the exercise. 
The United States tracked the surface-to-air missile with satel­lites that sense the heat of its launch. 
The Defense Special Missile and Astronautics Center at Fort Meade, Md., picked up the mis­sile launch. 
The United States monitors military exercises worldwide as a means to view foreign military capabilities and training. Aircraft, ships and satellites are 
Tupolev crash 
A Russian airliner, flying from Tel Aviv to Siberia, exploded in flight and crashed off the Russian coastal city of Adler. 
0 Moscow 

Primary role 
Medium/long range passenger aircraft 
Length 
157 ft. 2 in. (47.9 m) 
Wingspan 
123 ft. 3 in. {37.6 m) 
Range 
2,400 miles (3,900 km) 
Capacity 
Up to 180 passengers 
.SOURCES: Associated Press; Jane's All the World's Aircraft; ESRI AP 
capable of monitoring communi­cations and movements. 
Senior military and Bush administration officials doubted the terrorism claims early, which raised suspicions for hours in the µpper reaches of government including the White House. When Pentagon officials were first told a missile felled the air­craft, a weapon was cited that does not have the range needed. Later Thursday, the Pentagon was told the much larger SA-5 was involved. That, along with fresh intelligence information, virtually erased U.S. suspicions of terrorism. 
The SA-5 was of Soviet design and has been exported by Russia to other countries. It was one of the largest surface-to-air mis­siles in the old Soviet inventory, built to shoot down heavy bombers flying at high altitudes. It can hit targets up to 180 miles away and above 100,000 feet. 
The airliner crashed about 160 miles from Cape Onuk, in Crimea, site of the Ukrainian exercises. It was flying at 36,300 feet, according to another airline pilot in the region. 
It's unclear if it blundered into the exercise or if the missile went astray. Some airspace was reportedly closed around the exercise. 
John Pike, director of GlobalSecurity.org, said U.S. intelligence also could have mon­itored the exercise by listening to Ukrainian military communica­tions from a fixed-position satel­lite that stays above Eurasia. 
After the shoot-down, he said, "At some point, somebody's going to start hollering, 'Where did that target come from?'" The 
U.S. 
monitors would have heard that. 

U.S. 
ships or aircraft -such as the Navy's EP-3 Aries and the Air Force's RC-135 Rivet Joint­also are capable of listening to communications or tracking radar blips representing aircraft and missiles. 


If any had been in the area, it's probable they would have been flying east to land at a friendly air base near Afghanistan to help in the hunt for Osama bin Laden. 

~~ Please use the Special
aSavings invitation and get ~~ to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality 
and s~rvice we provide, and 
we will do our best to 
merit your confidence.and 
patronage. 
a!O~ 
we hoye to see you soon.
289-5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
,..., _____ ,,
r----•-"I 
.. ------.. ·-------..
I I I I 
I I I :
:10%off: ~26 : fcs9 : I ~15 : }69
I I I I 1 Co or, Cut, I I , Hll1te, Cut, 
I Aveda Cut & Men's 
J I I I • & Style 1 I I 1 and 1
Retail I I Style I HC
I.. ______ .I : 1 Process : I : Style :
..I ______ .,I I
·------· 
·------· 
NE\\'
Valid with the following stylists only: 
CLIENTS
Sarah, Vicki, Karol,Nechole, & Mirance 
ONLY 
Must be presented to Receptionist 
before services are performed 
(Certain restrictions apply) offer Exyires 
10/20/01 
Not valid for spiral perms, long or tinted hair add ~10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA SALON reserves the nght to refuse ;ervice to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. 
Weekends Open 
Extended Hours 
7:00am-2:00pm 
For ND Home Games, 
Monday-Friday 
Friday Open 'til 8pm.
6:30am-2:00pm 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, October 5, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining H..11, Not« Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScFNE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAJty's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER• Alex Menze 5YsTEMs ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CmrrRO1;1£R• Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............631-7471 FAX............................................. ................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING F..DITOR/AsS'r. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScFNE ......................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYs.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!observc-. rui.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly sruderit reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meer the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Obse,ver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either insti rution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm,er polici,s ,J,,;uU be diret:t­ed to Editor in Chief Mike C011noliy. 
Curb SMC e-mail abuses 
It's getting ridiculous. the athletic department. Any messages not coming from those 
During the past week at Saint Mary's, students have been groups would have to be screened before being posted on the inundated with e-mail listserv messages about students selling network. football tickets, students who have lost calculators, keys and The proposal makes sense. But voices on campus complain clothing, a student advertising her skills as a makeup artist and the proposal is a device to suppress free speech. These people an announcement that a student was selling Th misunderstand what is meant by free speech. her fish. Ooserver Students have the right to say anything they want. 
And it's all thanks to an abused liberty in Edi •a1 But they don't have the right to force others to lis­place at the College that permits anyone to ~on ten to them. Sending unsolicited e-mails over a have access to the all-campus e-mail listserv. l! listserv is not free speech -it's harassment. 
More than 60 superfluous messages have moved through the system since Monday, causing headaches campus-wide for anyone logging on to check her mail. 
And that's just this week. 
The unwarranted, unnecessary messages have been spiral­ing out of control since the College enacted the listserv last fall to improve campus communication. Since then, the e-mail sys-tern has turned into a message board and advertising service rather than a communication device. Despite pleas (sent bye-mail) from vice president for Student Affairs Linda Timm. the abuse continues. 
Board of Governance finally put its foot down Monday and promised to draft a proposal to stop the e-mail abuse, to allow access only for administrators, governing organizations and 
Neither BOG nor the administration is trying to take away students' rights to advertise for football tickets, find their lost personal items or advertise services. Students are allowed to post signs on campus for that purpose. They're only asking that students take the proper channels to do so, rather than inconvenience hundreds of people who don't care about the messages sent across the network. 
BOG and the administration need to restrict e-mail access immediately. This is not a complicated issue requiring debate. committees and commentary. Restrict the listserv now. If there's ample demand, create a message board on Saint Mary's Web site for posted advertisements or commentary. 
But keep it out of students' inboxes. 
Wishing for a little bit of Europe 
Last Wednesday, frustrated and exhausted, I could not wait for Friday at 12:45 p.m. I had a take-home test to finish, another paper to start, a resume to complete, too many meetings to attend, an inter­view for an intern­ship to drive to in Elkhart and a cold to overcome. 
I had a typical week as a student here. I had a very atypical week for a student studying in Austria. After a year abroad. I realized that I have had difficulty readjusting to life at an American university. I have felt lost. I have felt foreign. 
Last year, when I wrote my column from Innsbruck. l often asked my friends for their observations on adjusting to life in another country. Last week inspired me to ask them again for insight. 
This time, I questioned my fellow Innsbruckers about their thoughts on our return from abroad. I found that I have companions in my frustration and feelings of detachment. 
"I feel like l am a whole year behind. I feel like I should have JPW, but instead I have graduation," said senior Kirsten Housing. 
"The main reason that I miss Austria is that I got used to the pace of Europe. In Austria the environment is less hec­tic. Things get too nuts here," explained Emily Badrov. "There we could spend a day just enjoying life." 
"I miss the culture, the lifestyle and the priorities in Austria. There. the emphasis is on family and friends, a 

good glass of wine and a good opera. 
not on working as hard as you can to 
get the best job that you can. so that 
you can make as much money as you 
can," noted Motria Chaban. 
For me, the year in Austria effected a change in perspective. I had always realized the worth of books as foun­tains of knowledge. l had not always recognized the wisdom that I could gain from simply talking to others. On campus, time for simply chatting often falls second to finishing work. 
Two weeks ago, I actually made an appointment a week and a half in advance to eat lunch with a friend. We both missed the date. 
In Austria, we had time to go out. We had time to go to the gym. We had time to just walk around and enjoy a day. 
"What it comes down to is I find that here we spend a lot of time doing things that we don't want to do," observed Housing. 
Marik Frens-String also remarked that he missed the "laid-backness" of Austrian culture and more importantly, the freedom. "I miss being able to just go. To decide to just ride to Italy for dinner." 
Last year Munich arid Florence felt close by to us. masters of the European train system. This year, without a car; Grape Road has felt distant. 
Yet at the same time joyful reunions with friends and the campus communi­ty as a whole have balanced feelings of lost liberty and longing for Austria. 
"In Austria I missed T.J. [her boyfriend], my friends and my family. I just feel more comfortable here," said Amanda Hoffman. 
During Freshmen Orientation week­end l screamed and made an unbeliev­able scene in the bookstore. when by chance, I saw one of my best friends from freshman year a day earlier than planned. I have loved sitting in LaFortune and Reckers, not only see­ing people that I knew well, but also recognizing faces of students that I passed each day on my way to class or in the dining hall. 
"I like getting back into the school spirit," remarked Housing. 
In Innsbruck, the university exists more as separate buildings in the city rather than a close-knit. connected community. 
Eventually the sense of unity here draws travelling students back into the rhythm of life on campus. Readjusting becomes a matter of incorporating lessons learned in Austria into the time spent at the University. 
My friends from Innsbruck and l often meet for coffee. With our eyes glazed after hours spent reading we drag each other from the library. · 
Last week when I announced that 1 would never survive until Friday, they ordered me not to worry. They remind­ed me that last year I had difficulty with my German work. I had always finished my assignments before my year abroad. I would complete every­thing by Friday. 
Yet even after classes in DeBartolo, papers written at 3 a.m. and weeks spent on the second floor of the library again become routine. l will still look past the Dome in search of the Alps. l will still wish for one more day on a train with my friends, watching the landscape of Europe roll past. 
Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German major. She can be reached at mikulski.1@nd.edu. Her column appears every other Friday. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Scott Brodfuehrer Sheila Egts Jason McFarley 
Sports 
Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint 
Pat Kelly 
Scene 
Amanda Greco Graphics Andy Devoto 
Production 
Andrew Soukup 
Lab Tech 
Angela Campos 
POLL QUESTION 
Is the administration unfair to OutreachND by not giving the organization official club status? Please e-mail viewpoint.l@nd.edu by next Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ want to travel in Europe ... I know that I am only going to a graveyard, but it's a most precious graveyard. " 
Fyodor Dostoevsky Russian author 
--------1:!"""!---.......____.. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 5, 2001 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Blame economy, not the poor 
J\s I see it, Ms. Niles' approach to the question of opportunity in the United States, as outlined in yesterday's column, is flawed from conception. Ms. Niles assumes that the poor in the United States are "a brooding, sullen class" who sulk around hoping the "world realizes it owes them something." 
In reality, the great majority of Americans living below the poverty rate work one or more full-time jobs. Indeed, 7 .6 percent of American families with at least one worker live in poverty (2000 
U.S. Census). This supposed sense ofentitlement comes neither from the poor nor does the "upper-middle class" impose it on them. The poor and their advocates have argued continually for a more equitable share of the wealth that they have helped to create and to have equal access to health care, education and social wel­fare programs. Whether these programs emerged during the New Deal or out of the Great Society. the effort to expand access to opportunity required hard work and continued efforts on the part of the poor. 
The very programs such as commw1ity colleges, expanded immi­gration and increased political rights ofcitizens, which Ms. Niles cites as assisting her parents, but notably did not perceive as enti­tlements, were designed to increase the opportunities for all Americans and end poverty in the progress. Unfortunately, many of these programs never fully developed nor were they expanded to cover the entirety of society, which leads to Ms. Niles' misguided and uninfor,:ned understanding of the poor and the concept of enti­tlement. 
The assumption that the poor are lazy and that opportunity abounds in America is a tremendous misreading of history as well as today's economy and society. As Michael Harrington argued in "The Other America," the poor remain in poverty not due to a lack of hard work or desire but by a cycle of poor education, poor health care and limited opportunities based on the combination of the two deficiencies. 
To browbeat the poor for being a "sullen horse gloomily plodding along" does a great injustice to them and, in many ways, to the teachings of the Catholic Church. The problem steins not from enti­tlements or lack of a work ethic but from an economy that does not equitably distribute wealth. 
Daniel Byrne 
visiting lecturer 
department ofhistory 
Ocr. 4, 2001 
Delving into implications of stem cell research 
On Oct. 2 my good friend and esteemed col­league, Professor of Law emeritus Charles Rice, in an opinion column dealing with limited Presidential approval of federal funding for research on stem cell lines derived from human embryos asked whether. "the parents of a (human} embryo have standing to consent to the killing of their child?" 
That is a deeply disturbing question and no one should take it lightly, even though Professor Rice insists on asking it in the lawyerly style that will offend some and intimidate others. But, since this is a university, the premis­es of Professor Rice's question must be examined critically. 
The embryonic stem cells covered by the Bush policy were obtained from embryos produced in vitro in the course of fertility treat­ments for couples unable to conceive in vivo. Since fer­tilization and all the early steps of cell division and implantation are highly frag­ile and contingent processes, such fertility treatments usually involve more than one egg and so more than one zygote and more than one multi-celled embryos often result. 
Such treatment proceeds with an attempt to implant one of these embryos in the mother's uterus. Others are frozen to.interrupt further cell division and preserve the option of subsequent efforts to initiate a pregnancy if one or more of the early attempts fails to achieve the desired result. 
Professor Rice chooses to characterize a parental decision to make available for medical research embryos created, but not used in this manner, as constituting "consent to the killing of their child." 
Catholic parents everywhere will understand what he means. Those of us who, with the help of God and an heroic and saintly partner have, as has Professor Rice himself, raised many chil­dren. have felt the truth of what he says in our 
,ri bones. But the facts of human life are that there is never just a baby, there is always a baby and someone, someone who will carry it to term and birth and then additional adults who will nur­ture it through long years of infancy, childhood and even adolescence. Professor Rice knows the sacrifice that requires. !·suspect he might agree that few of us make that sacrifice without the help of divine grace. But we live in a society whose laws cannot presume the operation of such grace. I submit that, in such a soci­ety, to characterize the dona­tion of a very early embryo created as part of an effort to achieve a pregnancy, as involv­ing "consent to the killing of (one's) child," is question-begging in the extreme and without any pro­bative value whatsoever. Professor Rice and other faculty who agree with him are wise and good people and I hope they are willing to support the vehemence of their opposition to biomedical research on stem cells derived from human embryos with further argument and discussion. 
Ed Manier professor department of philosophy Oct. 4, 2001 
Do Davie's looks limit his coaching ability? 
I'm happy to announce that despite having limited knowledge of the sport of football and despite the fact that I'm more or less incoherent before, during and after most Notre Dame football games, thatl,Joe Muto, Viewpoint 
Joe Muto 
columnist-at-large have discovered why 
Bob Davie is ineffec­
Livin' on a
tive as head coach of 
Prayer
the Irish. 
Now, the sports columnists and Saturday armchair-quarterbacks have a variety of theories, ranging from the plausible (the team doesn't respect him) to the ridiculous-but-also-kind-of-plausi­ble (it's bad luck because he's a non­Catholic coach). But I now gaze upon these theories the same way I gaze upon the large cockroach I saw the other day making his way austerely across the floor of South Dining Hall. {I think he was returning his tray.) 
Davie is a bad head coach for one rea­son, and one reason alone: the man is just too good-looking. 
Now.just to dispel any rumors, or fin­ger pointing, let me put forth the stan­dard heterosexual male's homophobic disclaimer: l, in no way, find Bob Davie attractive. And I'm sure, for those of you who would ask, that he, in no way, finds me attractive. 
But watching the Nebraska game on television with bored females gave me a new insight. In between their sniping at the cheerleaders that appeared on screen, ("Oh, she's in my accounting class. She thinks she's really hot.") I heard comments on Davie. Incidentally, these were the only positive comments about the coach the whole evening. 
And it slowly dawned on me: these women saw Davie as a sex symbol. Is this so hard to picture? A girl goes to the game, she's a little tipsy and she's wait­ing for the Irish to "hit a home run." But due to the lackluster offense, her mind turns to other things. She gets a far-off look in her eyes and finds herself in the midst of an elaborate fantasy where she is the stubborn rookie and Davie is the swarthy coach-a-pleasure. Or so I imag­ine (sigh). 
I decided to gather a focus group of appropriately giggly girls. When I showed my small group a picture of our head coach it got the reaction I expected. Some standout features of the beloved leader: the salt-n-pepper hair, the fakn-n-bake tan and the nicely whitened, capped teeth. One lady exclaimed lovingly "he's got a nice nose." 
And apparently Davie's charm doesn't end with the physical either. One group member was attracted to the way Davie comported himself. "He's very authorita­tive at the pep rallies," she happily pro­claimed. "I like how he says 'We're gonna win' even though it seems like he knows they're going to lose. That's sexy." 
So we've established that Davie is indeed good looking. Some (not me though, remember?) might even say that he's roguishly handsome. 
So how does this affect his coaching abilities, you ask? Upon closer examina­tion, there is a direct correlation. Or should I say, an inverse correlation. 
Because it appears that as attractive­ness goes up, coaching ability goes down the proverbial toilet. · 
Take, as an initial example, Bob's pre­decessor, Lou Holtz. I don't know if you've seen Holtz lately. He's on TV a lot because he's tearing things up as head coach at University of South Carolina. It's an odd thing, but every time I see Holtz, he looks distinctly more like a gremlin. I can't explain it, and I don't know if it should frighten me or not, but it's the truth. You'd be hard pressed to find a coach as revered and respected, but you're even more hard pressed to find a close-up picture of the man on his web­site, www.louholtz.com. 
However, Holtz, all 4-foot-9 of him, got results. That cannot be denied. 
In the same vein, Knute Rockne, long recognized as the greatest college foot­ball coach of all time. was no George Clooney, if you catch my drift. His bust in the Rockne Memorial building looks like someone dropped it a couple of times try­ing to get it onto the pedestal. But Knute is a legend, if not the legend. 
So now the essential question: what is to be done about Davie? Endlessly analyzing the situation doesn't get the Irish any closer to a win. Should we just sit back and wait for a hideous accident to scar the coach and 
give him back his coaching ability? I for 
one don't think that this is the answer. 
First of all, many students on campus are already waiting for an accident to befall Davie. Plus, even ifhe were to be hideously scarred, I have a feeling he'd get some of that Mel Gibson in "Man Without a Face" thing going and still be a bad coach. 
Should Kevin White fire the guy? Well, assuming that the athletic director is legally allowed to do this, I still doubt that he will. After all,. White signed Bob Davie through the year 2005, and our buddy Kev knows what he's doing. After all, it's his highly-paid job on the line too. And even if we could fire Davie, I'm not sure we should. I kind of feel sorry for the guy. I mean. it's not like he's trying to lose. 
I'd just like to close by saying that we may think that .Davie is a bad coach, but I'm pretty sure that he's not a bad per­son, and we need to stop labeling him as such. Besides, apparently he's already in enough trouble with God for the whole "not-being-Catholic" thing. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore film major who wouldn't mind a free T-shirt from DumpDavie.com. He can be reached at jmuto@nd.edu. His column normally appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

D
..Jil -• = :r --­
-
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE
campus
page 14 Friday, October 5, 2001 
Waking up 

By JACQUELINE OSTROWSKI · 
Scene Writer 
The first time he stepped into Notre Dame Stadium, New York Times bflst-selling author Joe Garner saw the blending of tradition, unity and spirit that make Notre Dame football unique among college teams. 
"T recall feeling lib' you could sf!e the ghosts of the students, players, and fans of the past minglin'g with the students, players and fans of the present ... all hoping 
that today would become leg­endary," said Garner. His memory of that day added to the inspiration and excitement he felt while writ­ing his latest book, "Echoes of Notre Dame Football." 
When the author searched for a new topic for his next book, several alumni contacted him and suggest­ed he explore Notre Dame football. The idea of covering such a time­less tradition came as a daunting but exciting project. 
"I went to campus and was 
awestruck by both the physical experience of being there and the realization of the legend that l was con­templating taking on," said Garner. "It was the combi­nation of the thrills and excitement of college football and the storied tradition of Notre Dame football that inspired me to take on 'Echoes of Notre Dame Football."' 
Garner began his project at Notre Dame and discussed his idea with many Notre Dame sources within the Athletic Department, University Relations and Public Relations, among others. 

tional players and coaches for his book, filling it with the words and recollections of such broadcasters as Dick Enberg, Tony Roberts and Keith Jackson. He opened "Echoes" with Ara Parseghian's words and concluded with Joe Theismann's afterword. 

"If you had a Mount Hushrnore of Notre Dame notables, these people would be up there," said Garner. 
However, fans of Irish football know that books on the topic are plentiful. In order to make his book noticeable in a sea of Notre Dame football books, Garner had to devel­op a new angle while still discussing the most cherished games and mem­ories. At a meeting with Joe Doyle, a noted South Bend historian and for­mer South Bend Tribune writer, Garner first realized the magnitude of this undertaking. Photo courtesy of Maura Kelley "[Doyle] said, 'Just what we need 
Ara Parseghian, left, authored the book's forward and Joined author Joe -anothPr book about Notre Dame 
Gamer, right, at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for the bookslgning. football.' I took that comment as a 
L_~_IS I:· ... 
Oc.:t l M, 1 ?24 Tiu: filmt:d four 1forsi:m1:n took the field to beal Army 13-7 
"It first struck me where I
"I went to campus and was 
was," said Garner. "This was a
awestruck by both the physical 
place where Rockne and Leahy 
experience ofbeing there and the once walked. I was over­whelmed by the spirit and
realization ofthe legend that I 
enormity of the place." 
was contemplating taking on." 
Garner's experiences on campus fueled his passion for his book. As he outlined the
Joe Garner 
· legends of Notre Dame foot­
author 
ball, it became apparent to
"Echoes of Notre Dame Football" 
him that "Echoes" was unlike 
1930 
StactiufT\, "The house that Ruck built," 1s 1.:umpleted 
Author Joe Garner has documented Notre Dame football lore both in , 
"ThAy WAre extr0mely generous and gracious with their time, guidance and archives," said Garner. 
His first experiences on campus undoubtedly helped Garner to infuse his entire book with the indefinable Notre Dame spirit. Although he did not attend Notre Dame, Garner is as aware as any student or alumnus of the intangible Notre Dame mystique. 
On a bitterly cold January day, he first became con­scious of the aura surrounding the campus. As he walked through God Quad, he saw the Golden Dome and Mary standing on the Dome through a clearing of bare 
branches. 
any other book he had written. vVhile his past compilations include numerous historical broadcasts or moments from a variety of sports, this new book focused on only one sport and one team. 
"I had an opportunity to really understand not only how the game has changed, but how the different eras of Notre Dame football have fit together like pieces of a puzzle," said Garner. "It took over 100 years to form the picture of Notre Dame football that we see today. '[Echoes of Notre Dame Footballl' is really the evolution of Notre Dame football." 
To ensure an accurate and informative read, Garner 
performed extensive research on the 
topic. He contacted the most excep­
l887 Nolre Uame tootball begins 
1924 M, shulS out sumforJ ?7 0 111 the Rvljo~ Bowl, carmng rhcar tir~t Nationnl Championship 
l 966 No. 1 Notre 
l:Jc1 tc:11 w mi; Notre Jamt beats No.
Uame tl1:S U• l O with 
tirst uf sohuul's Ah1bam1t to wm the
No.2 Michi~an State
record seven Nauonal Champ1onsh1p
but still wins the
He1~msm Trophies 
Nauonal Champ1onshtp 
With a cover embfazoned with notable images from Notre [ lights significant games and persons associated with Not11 CDs containing original event broadcasts and readings frorr 
challenge," said Garner. 
From then on, Garner strove to offer fans a unique take on a familiar subject. His distinct journalistic back­ground paved the way for this new approach. Garner's previous books, "And The Fans Hoared," "And The Crowd Goes Wild," and "We Interrupt This Broadcast" all contain accompanying CDs that highlight moments in 

NOV, lS, I~,I/) Daniel "Rudy" l<uettiger plays the final 22 second!ii ofthe Ueorgi~ Tech gam~ He is the un ly player Ci,A.rri~ off the Notre Uame tielrl 
]')73 
win~ ui,:.I 111 the() 
l'ar•-:t.·~I 
• 
----#11"""...__________....,A..,U--%---.--~-~---~ 
Friday, October 5, 2001 page 15 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

the echoes 
Dame's rich traditions. The book also features two audio personalities such as Martin Sheen. 
sports or radio history. 
"The signature of my books is the inclusion of the broadcasts for each of the events that I cover," said Garner. "We hear certain broadcasts and U's like hear­ing a favorite song on the radio. It's visceral and it's .a very nostalgic experience." 
For Garner, the ability of these broadcasts to virtually transport listeners into Notre Dame Stadium on game day Saturdays cannot be underesti­mated. 

"Unless you were fortunate enough to be in the Stadium, vour recollection or that event is inextricable with the broadcast," hn said. "It allows you to experience [the game] again. A good book takes place in the theater of the mind; adding the audio only sharpens that image." 
Of course, the recording of such monumen­tal moments required a narrator who was passionate and appropriate for such a project. In Garner's mind, there was little debate as to who should be chosen. 
"Because I dedicated the book to the fans, I wanted a fan to do the honors of narrating it," said Garner. ~In my estimation, the most famous and most spirited fan is Regis Philbin." He added that Philbin's enthusiasm for Notre Dame and its football program is evident in Philbin's spirited readings. 
Although selecting Philbin to narrate was relatively easy, deciding exactly which games to include in "Echoes" proved more of a chal­lenge for Garner. Although Notre Dame foot­ball dates back to 1887, nearly a quarter of the games were played before radio broad­casts. Since Garner wanted to focus on the broadcast era, games from before the J920s were not included in his book. Also, not all game broadcasts have survived. which left Garner in the difficult position of deciding how, if at all, to include certain unforgettable games that seemed to require inclusion. After all, how could an author justify leaving out a Photo cour1esy of Maura Kelley 
game like the 1924 Army game, the game that Notre Dame alumnus Regis Phllbin, left, Joined author Joe inspired the writing of "The Four Horsemen?" 
Garner to narrate for the audio CDs accompanying the book. 
"One of the games that presented a chal­lenge right from the start was the 1924 Army game," said Garner. "Because there wasn't a bench to becoming one of the best players at Notre broadcast. I wondered if I should still include the game," Dame and in the NFL. The 10-10 tie for the national 
Instead of eliminating a game that has left such an championship ... a game that dogs Ara Parseghian to impression on the Notre Dame psyche. this day. Rudy -a young man who over­Garner chose·to add a reading of "The Booksigning came seemingly insurmountable odds to Four Horsemen" to the CDs. attend the University and for a series of 
"The first and only person that came to seconds, actually got to play." 
my mind tfor the reading] was Martin· . "Echoes of Notre Dame Regardless of Noire Dame's football Sheen," said Garner. "I think he brings that Football" author Joe record this season, Garner knows the game to life magnificently." fans will take their priceless game day
Another key game that lacked broadcasts Garner at the Hammes 
recollections with them forever. He was the 1957 meeting of' Notre Dame and Notre Dame Bookstore affirms that the fans are what add so Oklahon)a. fortunately, Dick Lynch, who much io each football Saturday beneath
. Saturday, Oct. 20 and
scored the pivotal touchdown during that the Dome, which is why he dedicated his 
Saturday, Nov. 17
game, was happy to assist in the book's book to the fans of the Fighting Irish. production. Lynch recorded his recollec­. 10:ao a.m. to 12:30 p.m. "Echoes of Notre Dame Football" has tions for Garner and added a new dimen­chronicled Notre Dame football through­sion to the CD broadcasts. out the broadcast generation, and its 
With so manv central mon' nts between the covers of dedication to the fans is proof of their undeniable devo­one book, choosing a favorite would seem impossible. tion for those six anticipated Saturdays each autumn. ''There's something about almost every single one of these chapters that I enjoy, ·om being able to explore Rockne to the rivalries wit! USC and Michigan," said Garner. "Joe Montana, wl went from warming the 
Contact Jacqueline Ostrowski at jacks447@hotmail.com. 
Notre Uu1m: 11st No.: 'Bama mge Bowl, A~1 
an's last g.ime­
1977 !)an Devine leads Irish to his only national title:: 
1977 
lnsh w1v~ll hist t:ver green.j~rseys 
against use. 
defeating them 49-·• Q 


l97Y L'Otttw 1:1, ,,._ i 
• 
Jue M1..1ntana bring~ ~, L ;,,;, 1.: from a 34-l 2 thn,1 ~::Jt:.:1 dc1tu1 to wm againci ifonsrnn 
Nov. 14. IIJ91 .. ~now Howl" Notre Jame 
beats Penn Slate i 7 •. 6 10 bhndm :snow 
1988 
Notrt Uame deteat~ 
Nov. 13, J'}95
No. I Miami 3 I -3C. 
lri-.h defeat :"lo I
on the way to its 
Florida State: in
I th nauom:tl \itlc: 
"Uame of the Century" 
ANDY DEVOTOfThe Observer 

-·---~-~·~--~~-~-.---.._.,..,....,..,..,,.,.__i.w--1SA----..:-..•¥lil(llll­
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2001 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Alumni, Morrissey meet in key league game 
By MATT DeNICOLA and MATT MOONEY 
Sporn Writers 
The Alumni Dawgs (1-1) suf­fered a tough loss in the first week. But, with their starting tailback injured, they were able to bounce back and win last Sunday. 
The Morrissey Manorites also enter Sunday's match-up at 1-1 after a goal line stand against the Stanford Griffins sealed their first Win of the year last week. 
"We think we have the tal­ent to beat anyone when we are on our game," said Alumni captain Nick Unstroth. "We are pretty con• fident with the way we looked last week." 
This confidenct:1 comes from stellar performances from fullback Brandon Nunnink and quarterback Chris Cottingham. Nunnink became the primary ball carrier when the Dawgs lost their starting tailback to injury. And he has not disappointed. 
"Brandon [Nunnink] has really stepped up big," said Linstroth. Nunnink came up with big rushes last week, including the game winning touchdown. Combine this per­formance with the consistency of team leader and quarter­back Christ Cottingham, and Alumni puts forth a formida­ble offense. 
But the Manorites are not afraid of tough opponents. Although they lost to Keenan in their first week, they held the Knights to just one touch­down. Keenan is the only team to score on undefeated Dillon this year. 
In their second game, Morrissey shut down a fired up Stanford offense for its first win. 
"The offensive and defensive lines have played really well," said Morrissey captain Andy Baum. "I am really proud of how far along the boys have come." 
Both teams are confident about a playoff berth. 
"This game is a stepping stone for improvement as we go toward the playoffs," said Linstroth. "We are just going to work on executing in game situations." 
The Manorites will not be afrai-d, but they will have their hands full with the Dawgs. 
"Our ·offensive line is quick and executing," said Linstroth. "When we play like that, we can dominate any team in the league." 
The game starts at 1 p.m. at Stepan Fields. 
Dillon vs. Stanford 
In a four game regular sea­son, every win is crucial in order to get into the playoffs. No one knows this better than Dillon (2-0) and Stanford (0-2) who are on opposite ends of the standings. 
Dillon has been dominating the league, leading in touch­downs scored -five -and touchdowns allowed -one. However, the Big Red knows it cannot underestimate Stanford. 
"This is a big game for them, their backs are against the wall," said Dillon captain Tayt Odom. "We can't go in there thinking this is going to be an easy game. If we do, it probably won't turn out like that." 
The Big Red have been try­ing to improve its playbook in practice. 
"We put in a couple new defensive schemes and added a play to the offense," said Odom. "But mostly, we just want to get better at what we have been doing all year." 
The Griffins understand the importance of this game. They need a victory to stay in con­tenti on for the playoffs. However, they have remained confident about their chances. 
"We have been working on the run defense," said Stanford captain. Dave Dilworth. "We just want to keep getting better and do what we know we can do out there." 
The Stanford defense has been consistently solid, but their offense has struggled. The Griffins believe this may be due to missing players. 
Last week, Stanford replaced their regular quar­terback with their running back. This unfamiliarity with the position caused three fum­bles, an interception and missed snaps by the Griffins. 
"It's good to have our quar­terback [Nick Befera] back," said Baum. 
This week, the Griffins hope that Befera can spark their offense. 
"I think this game will be OK," said Baul1_l. "It is going to come down to the offense and the offensive line." 
The Big Red does not dis­agree. Behind the excellent play of Ryan Hernandez on both the offensive and defen­sive lines, Dillon has com­pletely shut down their com­petition. 
"He has had some fantastic games," said Odom. "And we are confident he will step up again." 
For Dillon, a victory clinches its spot in the playoffs. For Stanford, a loss eliminates its possibilities. 
"Their backs arc against the wall ... they will be on the top of their game," said Odom. "But we are just going to play our game." 
The game starts at 2 p.m. at the Riehle Fields. 
Keough vs. Keenan 
Sunday's interhall game between Keough and Keenan has serious playoff ramifica­tions. 
While undefeated confer­ence leader Dillon looks like a shoe-in, there is a four team log jam between the Kangaroos, the Knights, Alumni and Morrissey for the other three playoff spots. 
Keenan in particular faces a difficult situation. As defend­ing champions, not making the playoffs would be a tremendous disappointment. Keough, however, wants a win just as badly. 
"This is an important game for the playoff picture,"said Keough captain and quarter­back Andy Hess. "If we win at least one out of the next two we still have a shot so it would be nice to have [one] in our pocket after this week­end." 
To get that win, the Kangaroos will need to make a few improvements on offense. After scoring only seven points in each of their first two games, Hess realizes 
. 
the offense needs to be more productive. 
"Our offense isn't where it should be. Part of that is my fault. 1 haven't had the type of games I need to have for us to win," he said. "If we can have people step up on offense that would be the key to victory." 
However, Keenan's offense hasn't been a juggernaut either. With a freshman quar­terback, the growing pains and adjustments have been rough. Against Dillon, quar­terback Patrick Downey had no completions and two turnovers at the end of the first half. 
The two defenses have been nearly identical. In the first week, both posted shutouts. However, last week, both the Kangaroo and Knight defenses were scored on, with Keough giving up 14 and Keenan get­ting lit up for 28 points. Despite allowing two touch­downs last week, Hess still has confidence in his defense. 
"We've had some really good play out of our defense all year," he said. "They're pretty physical on defense but so are we. I look for it to be a pretty close game." 
Keenan's defense looks to reestablish itself after getting run over for four touchdowns last week. 
With a chance for a Stadium game on the line, both teams look to gain the upper hand in a tight playoff race. Keenan will meet Keough at 3 p.m. Sunday at Riehle. 
Contact Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu and Matt Mooney at mmooney.nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND  B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124  '98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19" Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277• 8208 after 3:30  ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232·0964. WANTED -ND TICKETS  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  time day & evening positions paying $7-$11/hr. We otter the following: •scholarship money  
52055 Old Post Lane  289-9280  FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­ "Flexible Schedules  
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall Tuesday. It's blue and white Jansport with Leprechaun patch. Please return to Laura Lacayo 4­4273 FOR RENT  5 Rooms for rent on Football week• ends. Many happy repeat cus• tamers. 2 miles north of campus 277-8340 Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45 minutes from Notre Dame. T&R INN Between the lakes PH (616) 244·9084  Spacious 4 bdrm, 2 story on private lane in Farmington Square. 2373 SF + professionally finished base­ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. BMW 94 325i, 4dr, green. loaded, 1 owner, all records, $11,000 289­4082  Buying some/ Selling a few extra N.D. Football Tickets. 219·289-8048. Need 2 tix, student or GA to use game. Call Noreen at 284-4417. USC: Loyal alum who missed the  888-777--4642 or email: sales@sun• coastvacations.com Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800-327 ·6013 Guaranteed lowest piices! All desti• nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga­ *Paid vacations/holidays ·optional Saturdays 'Health/Lile/401 (k} • Incentives/Raises •supervisory/Mg!. Positions 1 ·(888) 801 ·JOBS jobs@americallcorp.com Just minutes north of campus  
5 rooms for rent on football week­ends. Many happy repeat cus­tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 277­ ~­io . !l(l!wi:1:nth11la!seiii.2rn WANTED  Selling Varsity Club time share 1 soph. wk. $9,500 272-1753  lottery needs 6 USC !ix. Top Dollar! Ask for Gary at toll free (888) 893­6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com  nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your resume SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge  don't say you're 5'1 O" when you're 5'9" 1/2 I once thought I had mono for an  
8340  2 ND-Pitt tickets for sale.  Call Ken  in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and  entire year, but it turned out l was  
STUDENT WORK $14. 50 Base-appt.  PITT: 4 pkgs. of 2 !ix +2 nights accommodations (10/5· 10/6) for  Kula@ 415-677-1310.  Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica,  just really bored  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM· PUS mmmrenta!s. com  Vector Mk!. is tilling PT cust. svc./sales positions (5·20hrs) Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  sale. Call 277-489;:.  WANTED U2 TICKETS 232-0964  Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity corn. call 1-800-293­1443 or ema ii  Student needs 1 T ennesse ticket Call Scott at 634-4946  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  Cond. apply www.workforstudents.com/np call  TICKETS  Need 6 W. Virginia Tickets. Call Tim634·1754  sales@studentcity.com to find out more.  Stop whining!  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for footbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles trom campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­9487 HOUSE FOR RENT: 1)9-br $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month.  M.W 12-5pm 282-2357 WANTED: Small dorm refrigeralor. Cal! Katie 4-1188 The Coffee Spot Cate on Bendix near Cleveland Rd. Part-time work available. Gorumet Coffee Shop. Call 273-2931  Help! Family coming in. Need WV tickets. Call Kerry at 243-0928 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM. -232-2378 P.M • 288-2726 Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix. Need: ND·BC tix and/or cash Call Bob at 219-315-8964  2 WVU/ND Tix (GA) for sale Call Kim: 634-3541 ND/PITT 1ickets for sale. Call Lindsay 634-3771 Have 3 pair of USC tix. Need Tenn. Tix. Let's talk. 901-332-6735  Spring Break with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com *"ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas,  Hi Sarah and Dave -your very own classified! Less than a week until EL-E-VA-TIONI A mole, digging in a hole, digging up my soul now. going down, exca­vation, higher now, in the sky, you make me feel like I can fly, so hi, elevation  
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at 532-1896.  FOR SALE  BUY-SELL  PERSONAL  Acapulco, Florida & Madrigas. Reps needed. Travel tree, earn  70s clothing -$45  
I I I  -.  Turtle Creek Apt. Opening 1 Br 5655 276-4809 For rent: remodeled 4-bdrrn house. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 233­2104  Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. · 232-2378 P.M. -288-2726  Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231 :4-FUN  $$$. Group discount for 6+ 800­838-8203 / www.leisuretours.com $300-$800 Scholarships Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule? We have several part-time and full­ s YR ticket . $20 Gatordate, ice and vodka -price­less Wow -it's gonna be one hell of a long night tonight. I wish I could find my bed.  

Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Henderson passes Cobb, sets runs record 
a home run and he can decide to achieve this record." hit fair or foul or whatever." Jones, who had only one RBI 
Associated Press 
what he does, and we'll play off Henderson said the only thing When Henderson walked in in his previous 15 games. fol­
whatever he does," Tony better would be to set the runs
SAN DIEGO 
Gwynn said. "And he comes record with his 3,000th hit. 
Rickey Henderson promised sliding into home plate and the Homering for the record washe'd slide into home plate to guys loved it. They were all still a dream, he said. 
officially mark his reign as over him. To me, that's what "When I knew it was out, sobaseball's career runs leader. 
the game is all about." much joy came to me that itRickey Henderson couldn't Even the Dodgers applauded was finally over with and I hadpull home plate out after scor­during the 4-minute delay to broken the record." 
ing the historic run, so he set­honor Henderson. On his way out to left field attled for hoisting a golden repli­
"He is amazing," Los Angeles' the end of the inning,ca. Marquis Grissom said. "It's Henderson went over ihe
When the moment arrived 
tough not to marvel at what stands and hugged 17 -year-old Thursday, the game's biggest he's accomplished. Of course, Erin States, a fan of his goingshowman kept his word --even Rickey does it with style, which back to his days with thethough he homered. 
is what you'd expect from him." Oakland A's. States, whoHenderson, San Diego's lead­Padres rookie Jason always sat in left field at theoff batter, passed Ty Cobb with Middlebrook (2-1) got the win. Oakland Coliseum and held up
No. 2,246 and celebrated -
Middlebrook, who allowed signs for Henderson, now livesfeet first -as the Padres beat homers No. 65. 66 and 68 to in suburban San Diego. Santhe Los Angeles Dodgers 6-3. 
Barry Bonds, also got his first Diego's relievers spilled out of"Sliding into home plate was major league hit and RBI, sin­the bullpen to congratulate
really a treat for my team­
gling in Damian Jackson in the him.
mates," the 42-year-old 
fourth. He allowed one run and The homer gave San Diego aHenderson said. "I think they five hits in six innings, struck 2-1 lead. 
were expecting me to go head­out three and walked two. It looked like Henderson gotfirst into home plate but I told Since Henderson couldn't rip hit No. 2,999 in the fourththem I hate sliding into home out home plate and hold it over inning when he lobbed a ballplate headfirst, so I eventually his head, which he did with into shallow right field on awent feet first. 
third base when he became all­checked-swing. The ball"It was a thrill, and I guess I time steals leader in 1991, appeared to land on the line,made their day as well as my Gwynn presented him with a but first base umpire Johnday." 
gilded major league home plate Shulock -the crew chief ­Henderson, in his 23rd big with a plaque marking the had his back turned as he gotleague season, homered off the milestone. So Henderson held out of the way and didn't see it. 
top of the left-field fence with that over his head instead. Plate umpire Mike Everitt held one out in the third inning on a Henderson then answered a his palms up like he didn't get a93-mph fastball from right-han­curtain call, bowing to the fans good look, then indicated foulder Luke Prokopec (8-7}. 
and blowing kisses. ball.
Henderson clapped his hands "Going out and scoring so Henderson didn't argue, butand pumped his right fist as he many runs, it's just not an indi­Padres first base coach Alanrounded first following his vidual record," said Henderson, Trammell pointed repeatedly at2,998th career hit. 
who added that he also wants the spot where the ball landed. 
As he came around third with the real home plate. "It's a Henderson, who grounded out, 
a big smile on his face, he 
record that you've got to have finished 1-for-4 with a walkmotioned with his left hand for your teammates help you out. and two RBI.
his teammates to leave enough Over 23 years, I have had some Shulock said the ball almost room for the slide. He popped great teammates who have bat­hit him in the head so heup and was mobbed. 
tled for me, have knocked me in ducked. "I saw nothing," he"It was so fitting for him to hit and I've come across the plate said. "I had no idea whether it 
Saint Edward's Hall Sponsors ... 
Founder's Week 5k Benefit Run 
Sunday, October 7th 
4pm 
in front of St. Edward's Hall 
the sixth inning, Shulock told him: 'Tm sorry, I didn't mean to take a hit away from you. He said. 'That's OK. I stopped run­ning because I thought it was foul."' 
Henderson tied Cobb's 73­year-old record of 2,245 runs on Wednesday night on Ryan Klesko's two-run double in a 12-5 loss to the Dodgers. 
Cobb retired in 1928. This is the second major record Henderson set this year. 
On April 25, he became the career walks leader with 2,063, breaking Babe Ruth's record. He's since pushed that record to 2,141. 
Henderson has been base­ball's stolen base king since May 1, 1991, when he broke Lou Brock's record with steal No. 939. He currently has 1,395. 
Henderson also owns the big­league record with 79 leadoff homers and set the single-sea­son stolen base record with 130 in 1982. 
Prokopec allowed three runs and six hits in five innings, struck out three and walked two. 
Braves 6, Phillies 2 
Chipper Jones had only one thought when he came to the plate with two runners on base in the first inning. 
"Just don't hit into a double play," he said. 
Jones sparked a three-run inning with a two-run double and Brian Jordan added a two­run homer in the seventh as the Atlanta Braves beat the Philadelphia Phillies 6-2 Thursday night to clinch a tie for the NL East title. 
The Braves, seeking a 10th consecutive division champi­onship, lead the Phillies by three games with three left ­all at home against Florida. The Phillies close the regular season with three games at Cincinnati. 
"The Braves did what they had to do," Phillies manager Larry Bowa said. "They don't have all those banners up there for nothing. We're on a respira­tor right now." 

lowed a lcadoff walk by Marcus Giles and single by Julio Franco in the first with a two-run dou­ble off rookie Brandon Duckworth (3-2). 
"It was a chance to get some momentum early with a big hit," Jones said. "It was big for the ballclub, but bigger for me from a confidence standpoint. I hadn't gotten a big hit like that in a long time." 
Jones hit over .400 in Atlanta's last 17 games but in that span had only four plate appearances with runners in scoring position, going O-for-1 with three walks. 
"In that situation, with nobody out, they have to pitch to you," he said. "It's a situation I like to be in." 
B.J. Surhoff added an RBI sin­gle for a 3-1 lead, enough for John Burkett (12-12) and four Braves relievers. 
Atlanta added a run in the second on Giles' RBI single and Jordan homered off Rheal Cormier. Jordan, who has three homers and 10 RBIs in the past six games, struck out in the second after Jones was inten­tionally walked. 
"I knew he was mad after . that at bat," said Jones. "He thrives on those situations." 
After the homer, Jordan threw his fist in the air as he crossed home plate, then did it again as fans roared until he gave a curtain call. 
"I was just happy to get another opportunity," Jordan said. "I was frustrated not com­ing through when they walked Chipper." 
Philadelphia scored in the first inning on a double by Bobby Abreu and RBI bloop sin­gle by Scott Rolen. Philadelphia added a run in the sixth on Abreu's run-scoring double. 
Burkett, who had gone 0-4 in his last five starts with a 6.41 ERA, allowed six hits and two runs in 5 .2/3 innings. 
Duckworth gave up six hits and four runs in 4 1/3 innings. 
"We have to count on the Marlins," he said. "I don't think anybody is going to be satisfied with second place." 

$10 Entrance Donation FREE t-shirts to the first 150 finishers 
Proceeds will benefit the family members of the firefighters who perished in the World Trade Center Tragedy 
r-------------....----=------------~----~------------------------.•--w----------•--*'·---CJ----~---.. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS-Friday, October 5, 2001 
'"" MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL BLUE LEAGUE 
O'Neill, Siegfried set for battle over trophy 
By MATT LOZAR and JOE 
HETTLER 
Sports Writers 
The winner of this week's inter­hall game between O'Neill and Siegfried will get more than just a victory. 
The O'Neill and Sfogfried fami­lies began a tradition of awarding a trophy to the Vvinner of the inter­hall game between the dorms. The tradition began in 1996, the year O'Neill was built and Siegfried was changed to a male dorm.. 
"It's been at Siegfried for the past three years," said senior Siegfried captain Rob Plumby. "It is a pretty nice trophy and is big." 
"I know Joe O'Neill will be at the game," said senior O'Neill captain John Enterline. "It is a little some­thing special to play for." 
If Siegfried (2-0) wins, the Ramblers will earn their third vic­tory and all but secure a spot in the playoffs. 
''This game is very important since we are 2-0," said Plwnby. "If we can win this game, we can be in the driver's seat." 
The Angry Mob (1-1) is experi­encing the excitement of a playoff race for the first time ever after earning their first victory in week one. 
"It is a good feeling," said Enterline. "We like the idea that we control our destiny. It is a total­ly new experience for O'Neill." 
After their 14-7 victory over St. 
Edward's, O'Neill fell 8-0 to Fisher in a defensive struggle. Enterline hopes the Angry Mob defense will play well again this week. 
"We realized last week that they have a potent offense," he said. "We think our corners match up well with Siegfried's receivers." 
The llambler offense exploded last week in a 21-7 victory over the Juggs from Knott. Plumby's three touchdown passes and senior run­ning back Travis Smith led the offense. 
"Travis Smith has really carried this offense,'' said Plumby. "Pete Aguiar and Bill Bingle have also played well." 
Both teams know what they have to do if they want to come home with a victory and the tro­phy. 
"Our best chance is to play smart football," said Enterline. "We want to play hard and give Siegfried all we've got. We realize they are a good team, but if we play hard, then we'll have nothing to hang our heads about." 
Knott vs. Sorin 
Last week, Sorin's interhall foot­ball team came very close to being 1-0 at this point in the season. But because the Otters fell a half-yard short on a two-point conversion against Zahm, the Otters are in the same position as Knott -winless. 
According to Sorin receiver Tom Doar, the Otters must have better play from their defensive front in 
order to be successful thi-; week. 
"We have to stop the run," said 
Doar. "Our weakness is right up 
the middle when teams run at us. 
We need to be able to stop the 
three and four yard plays because 
we just can't give [Knott] that 
every possession." 
Knott co-captain Brian 
Schmutzler, on the other hand, 
knows that his team must play 
more consistent. 
"Last year we had a bunch of 
veterans [on defense)and this year 
we lost all of our linebackers, two 
of our defensive lineman and two 
of our safeties," said Schmutzler. 
"So we're still trying to put things 
together." 
A win this week is essential for 
both teams, according to the play­
ers. 
"Pretty much Siegfried and 
Fisher are already in the playofls, 
and so at this point we feel it's 
basically between us, Zahm and 
Sorin," said Schmutzler. "And our 
next two games arc against those 
two teams, so if we win out we . make the playoffs." 
Doar also believes Sorin will def­
initely be playing in the postsea­
sondespite the early loss. 
"We're very confident that we'll 
make the playoffs," said Doar. "I 
think that if we can win two of our 
next three, we're in the playoffs 
and I'm confident that we can win 
our next three games." 
According to Doar, Sorin has 
additional motivation to win 
because Knott has ended the 
Otters' season numerous times. 
"Knott's been a power the last few years," said Doar. "From the history of Sorin, this week is a big game for us because Knott has always stood in the way of our championship." 
Fisher vs. St. Edwards 
After being the first team ever lose to O'Neill two weeks ago in interhall football, things don't get any easier for St. Edward's this Sunday when they face undefeated Fisher. 
The Wave, 2-0, is currently at tho top of the Blue League stand­ings, while St. Ed's is in last place at 0-1. 
St. Ed's co-captain Nick Sciola knows that this week's game is especially important. 
"We are definitely confident that we can still make the playoffs," said Sciola. "But we just have to go out and get the job done now." 
Unfortunately for the Stcds. they will have to play this week without their senior tailback Ernesto Lacayo. Sciola feels that this is a significant loss to the team. 
"He was a very intricate part of our offense," said Sciola. "He's a hard runner and a big hitter, so it hurts a lot. We're going to have to adjust because injuries are just a part of the game." 
The injury bug hit Fisher as well last week when tight end, Christian Braunlich, went down last week because of a dislocated shoulder. 
Braunlich had a touchdown and two two-point conversions in the Wave's win against Knott in week one. According to Fisher co-cap­tain and linebacker Ray Aftandilians this injury has been the only thing to go wrong so far this season. 
"The team has played much higher than most of us expected it would," said Aftandilians. "The addition of so many talented fresh­man has added a huge burst to the team, both offensively and defen­sively." 
Aftandilians believes that Fisher won't have a letdown this week either, despite their recent success. 
"This week is big because St. Ed's has had two weeks off to practice so we need to make sure to execute the details and work together all game long," said Aftandilians. 
Due to the extra week off, St. Ed's has been able to preparn for Fisher a little more than usual. 
"We know that Fisher is a seri­ous running team, so we have to be tougher up front on the line because they have some big guys," said Sciola. "We're working on stopping the run and we also know they have some good linebackers on their team so we've been deal­ing with that [in practice] as well." 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
mlozar@nd.edu and Joe Hettler 
at jhettler@nd.edu 
•u•n•u..•••••••••••..•••••••• ..••••••..•..•••..••••••••..•••••..••u•••••H••••••••••• ..•••.. ••••..•••o..uu••••••u••••• ..u••.. •••••••••••ou•••..•••.. •• ..•••••..••uou....•••••••••••u,.,u,ooonu..,o,uH,.,o,ooooooooo••••••••••••••••••••••••n•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •• ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

j HELP SUPPORT THE NOTRE DAME VARSITY WOMEN'S LACROSSE TEAM IN THEIR PRE­J SEASON TOURNEY OF AUSTRALIA! BUY A RAFFLE TICKET AND ENTER TO WIN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING I 

I :•.:,: 

To Purchase Tickets: Stop by the Secretary outside the ND Lacrosse Office (Gate 3, second floor, entry near Varsity Shop) between 9am-5pm Friday OR stop by the table in the JACC Fieldhouse on Saturday morning between 9am-11:3Oam OR call 219-631-8352. 
! TICKETS: $10 each $25 for 3 $100 for a book of 12 j : . 
: 00 • ••• ......, •u•••, ... •••• ••••••••..............•••,••, .....,, •• ••••--•.. , ............., • ••• n••••, •••• .......,o,........,.. •••• ••• •••• · •• ·h•••••..... h•••••......,....,u•u•••••• ••••..•••..••••..••..............................................,,ouunoou,,uon ••••••••••••••••....• 0 •* . ••••••••••eou, ..,,...........••••••••••..•••••••••..•• ...,,.••••••--••••••• 
Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles use meet as final tune-up for conference 
ByKATIEMcVOY A.•sociate Sports Ediror 
For the Belles, today is just another day at the races. Saint Mary's runs in the Eagle Invitational at Benedictine University this afternoon more focused on preparing for the MIAA Championships in four weeks than the results of today's race. 
"I've been viewing all our conference meets as work• outs," said head coach Dave Barstis. 'Tm not really wor­ried about the results." 
Although he's not worried about his -team's perfor• ma.nee, Barstis can count on the runners to finish with some of the best times in Saint Mary's history. This season the Belles have had 
their best finishes in the four 
years of the program. 
"It's probably our best sea­son since we've had a cross country team here," senior . captain Nicky Prezioso said. "l think it has a lot to do with 
team chemistry." 
The team chemistry allowed 
the Belles to finish higher 
than last place in the MIAA 
Jamboree for the first time 
and to finish in third place 
three weeks ago at the North 
Park University Invitational. 
With the end of the season 
approaching, the team is 
exp·ecting more improve­
ments. The team, composed 
mostly of underclassmen, ran 
some of _its best times this 
past weekend, but the final 
weeks of the season are when 
the team should sec its 
biggest improvements. 
"Right now we're getting 
ready to g_eak, it's the final get faster and the splits being phase," Barstis said. "Right relatively the same," Barstis now the goal is to explode said. your legs so when they do He is looking to get the one­run the race they'll be able to five split close to 30 seconds run hard for and the the full three one-seven miles." s p l i t
"Right now, the goal is to
With this end under one in mind, the explode your legs so minute ­Belles have when they do run the as near to 
been practic­45 sec-
race they'll be able to run
ing in a slightly onds as 
different style. hard for the full three possible. They have cut miles." Running their speed as a pack workouts to not only
Dave Barstis 
shprter, faster s c o r e s distances to Belles coach better, it work on a also pro-more explosive v i d e s running style. motivation 
In addition to more power for the runners. in the run, Saint Mary's "It's something you try to hopes to run as a pack. do in a race," Prezioso said. 
'Tm looking to see times "We go out and the whole 

Family Owned Tradition 
"It's a tough
Fresh Prepared 
schedule in
Original Family Recipes 
that we don'tDinners, Pizza 
235 S. Michigan St. 
have a lot of
Large Groups 
and fine 
games," Clark
South Bend, In 46601
Welcome 
said. "We lost
drink selection. two home Dine in/Carry-out Reservations recommended 
www.catallnos.com 
games earlier in the season
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
when the Sept. 11 events forced us to
Buy one Dinner, get the second for 1./2. 
cancel the 

THE FRESHEST ITALIAN IN TOWN 
~ 
Soccer 
continued from page 28
1233~10001 
of their next six matches, 
"We need to take these next games one at a time, and the next game we're looking at is Georgetown. " 
Bobby Clark head coach 
and to play 100 per­cent in e v e r y game," Clark said. "If you start to 
C O ll Il t 
ahead, that can hurt you." 
tournament, and that set us
Not valid on Holidays or Notte Dam~.event weekends ­
back a little. You learn a lot 
or with·other offers.. ­
about yourself from playing on the road, but you've got to pick up your home games." 
In the coming weeks, Notre 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
PH 1-616-663-3745 26324 US 12 EAST EDWARDSBURG, Ml 
49112 
FOUNDED BY FRAN MCCOLLESTER -A 1977 NO GRAD! 
ONE OF THE LARGEST OUTDOOR STORES IN THE COUNTRY! 
goal is to stay with someone on the team. You just work that much harder to stay with the person in front of you." 
Because today's race is less. a ·matter of race results than personal results, focus will be the Belles· biggest competi­tor. A month and a half into the season with a week off from training looming in the future, the team is having trouble keeping its eye on the task at hand. 
"Its been mainly attitude [workouts]," Prezioso said. "It's late in the season, girls arc tired it's, can you keep your head in the game?" 
The Belles will take the line today at 3 p.m. at Benedictine. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Dame will have a chance to control its own destiny in the Big East. After Georgetown, six of its last eight games are conference match-ups. 
"It's really important for us to take one game at a time 
The Irish kick off against the Hoyas Friday night at 7:30 at Alumni Field. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR FISHING, HUNTING AND CAMPING GEAR! WE NOW HAVE A HUGE GIFT AREA! 
~~·~"'rI....-~~~~ LATENIGIIT
ANGlIER~~ llNN RIESlAlUJRANi 
~I::l>lWIC.-II"'r 
-LOCATED INSIDE LUNKER'S ­
~-UlWUIII~~ 
LARGE MENU OF DELICIOUS FOOD AND DRINK ITEMS. 
~A..::l>lW~~~
SURROUNDED BY LARGE AQUARIUMS FULL OF FISH AND BIG SCREEN TVS FULL OF SPORTS! PERFECT 
Hny Sandwich or Pizza 
PLACE TO DINE BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME! 
OVER 20 AQUARIUMS, INCLUDING OUR 
2 for 1
6,000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM 
from midnight to 4am 

VISIT OUR CLOTHING
COME EXPERIENCE THE 2ND 
• 61 " Dig Screen TU
HIGHLIGHT OF THE AREA AREA FEATURING: ( 1 ST BEING ND) 
• "THE CRflSH PflD"
NORTH FACE PATAGQNIA 
• Clean 6 Comfortable
MIDWEST'S LARGEST SELECTION 
WOOLRICH OF FISHING, HUNTING AND 
COLUMBIA 
• Great Food
CAMPING/BACKPACKING EQUIP­FILSON 
MENT. SO MUCH TO SEE AND 
• fresh fruit Smoothies 
EXPERIENCE I HUGE AUTHENTIC SIGNED SPORTS MEMORABILIA* SECTION 
:Uei.l!!!!itI.er•~
•Goo BLESS AMERICA• 
Iro:n..~ood. @ lii--ta,--tc I&d 23 
LOCATED ONLY 15 MINUTES FP.OM ND! SR 23N TO US 12
I 
Offer expires 10·22-01 
I 
l I 
---. 
-----------------------.,-­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2001 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Ducks soar 
with Veselik 
By MATT FURRlE 
Sports Writer 
There are certain players with the ability to break a game wide open, players that become an instant threat whenever they touch the ball. 
When the Howard Ducks meet the McGlinn Shamrocks Sunday afternoon, the Ducks will have to look no further than senior quarterback Jill Veselik for this type of gamebreaker. 
"Our whole offense is very comfortable with her," said Howard team captain Katie Cawley. "She has an amazing ability to read the other team's defense and has great mobility in the back field." 
Veselik has been one of the keys to Howard's success this season. The Ducks, currently 2­2, looked impressive in all four games this season partly due to her ability to run the offense. 
With targets like Katie Dinardo and Elizabeth Klimeck, the Ducks' passing attack has been its No. 1 weapon. And with one more win, they should clinch a playoff birth. 
"We're coming off a tough loss," said Cawley. "Instead of letting that get to us, we're just out to prove even more that we're a good team and we're definitely out to win." 
Winning will be extremely tough because McGlinn seems to be rolling. After four years without a win, the Shamrocks are currently 2-1-1 and focused on heading to the playoffs. 
"Our game on Sunday is going to be a lot tougher than what we have seen so far," said McGlinn captain Christa Gray. "We're hoping to continue what we had going last game." 
The Shamrocks are coming off probably their most impres­sive game in dorm history in which they defeated the Finest of Farley 28-7. 
"We did awesome last game," said Gray "Everybody really played well." 
McGlinn's execution was notable on both sides of the ball, receiving great play from players like Joanna Mikulski and Sarah Vatterott. 
Off Campus vs. Walsh 
It's do or die time for the Wild Women of Walsh. 
If they beat the Off-Campus Crime this Sunday, they can qualify for the playoffs. Lose, and they are mathematically eliminated. 
So far Walsh is undefeated on the season, but due to an inabil­ity to score, they have only one win. But a strong defense has helped them earn a 1-0-4 record. 
"Our defense has worked very well for us," said captain Alison Troy. "So we're not making any changes with it." 
In fact, Walsh arguable has the best defense in the entire league. Despite only one victo­ry, they are yet to give up a sin­gle point. But the offense has struggled to put points on the board. 
"Offensively, we are just going to keep working on executing our plays and keep improving like we have the whole season," said Troy. 
With the defense clicking on all cylinders, Walsh would be a serious championship con­tender if they could just get some type of offensive produc­tion. 
The main obstacle between Walsh and the playoffs is the 0­4 Crime. 
Coming off a loss to McGlinn on a last second Hail Mary pass, the Crime are hungry for their first win of the season. 
The Crime are led by their defense which held McGlinn to only 5-for-15 passing and inter­cepted three passes. 
Contact Matt Furrie at mfu.rie@nd.edu 
f 
I 
I
I , 
I 
lillll.11 Notre Dame Center --='-forEthics andReligiousIii•11 Values in Business 
Proudly Presents Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Jl,,lr. Nicholas Moore 
Retired Global Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
''Ethical Issues and the Financial Markets" 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
*Sponsored by the Centerfor Ethics & Cargill 
Lyons in hot playoff race 
By AARON RONSHEIM and 
DANIEL TARSHA 
Spom Writers 
After an 0-2 start the Lyons Lions have rebounded for two consecutive victories and now find themselves in the thick of a playoff race. 
With a 20-12 victory against Pangborn last Sunday the Lions are brimming with confidence. 
"We started of a little slow but we have worked very hard," said linebacker and co-captain Irene Onyeagbako. "The first win gave us some confidence-. Our offense is just starting to click. 
At quarterback for the Lions offense will be co-captain Sara Jenkins. 
''The passing game is coming together," said Jenkins. "It is a lot different in games then in practice. It took us a while to get adjusted." 
The constant throughout the season for the Lions has been the play of their defense. 
"Our defense is ceriainly tough, we really bear down the two and one point conversions," said Onyeagbako. "I don't think anyone has converted on us all year." 
The Lyons defense will be in for a test on Sunday afternoon when they face Pasquerilla West and its explosive offense. PW quarterback Leslie Schmidt is coming off a four-touchdown performance against Pangborn last Thursday. 
"Our offense has improved a lot. We know we have the ability to score more than once a game," Schmidt said. "We don't have to rely on our defense to go out shut the other team out." 
The one the reasons for the success of the Weasels passing game is their depth at wide receiver. 
"All of our receivers can catch," Schmidt said. "We just 
don't have one receiver the 
other team can key on." 
The match up between PW passing attack and Lyons pass defense will pit each teams strengths against each other. 
"The strength of our defense is our pass defense," said Onyeagbako. "We see our offense in practice everyday. They pass a lot so we should be readv." 
Foi:· each team this game has playoffs implications. Both teams are 2-2 and need at least one more win to qualify for the playoffs. 
"We have one more game after this one," said Onyeagbako "So this is not a must win. Eut we would like to clinch a berth as soon as possible." 
Sunday's game will be PW last rngular season game. 
"We want to close out the sea­son on a three-game win streak and have some momentum going into the playoffs," said Schmidt. 
Pangborn vs. Badin 
Sunday's match-up between the Bullfrogs of Badin and the Phoxes of Pangborn will bring two teams together that both have something to prove. A con­fident Badin team would like to string together a few wins and gear up for the playoffs. Pangborn is looking to make a statement by posting its first vvin of the season. 
Badin comes in at 1-2-1. The Bullfrogs last game was a hard fought 6-0 loss to Welsh. The leader of their defense. senior Beth Rimkus. held Welsh to its lowest scoring total of the sea­son. 
"Our defense always plays hard and goes 100 percent," Rimkus said. Badin runs a vocal man defense with free safety Rimkus getting help from a very solid strong safety, Susie Schaab. 
Katie Da Bears mans the mid-die of the defense at linebacker. 

"I anticipate a good game and I trunk our defense is prepared. We're ready," said Rimkus. 
When Badin's offense gets a chance to handle the ball, the responsibility falls on sophomore quarterback Erin Zachry. 
"Erin is picking things up and is showing improvement each game," Rimkus said. "She is really stepping it up." 
One of Zachry's main targets is fleet-footed Amy Marshall. Marshall has been a surprise performer this year and has made plays when Badin needed them the most. 
The Phoxes of Pangborn (0-4) plan to' challenge the defense of Badin with a strong passing game and a multiple set offense. The leadership of the offense rests in the strong arm of fresh­man quarterback Charlotte Troupis. "Our QB has a lot of spirit," said wide receiver Nicole Tutin said. 
Troupis' favorite targets are Tutin and Tia Vonil out of the backfield. 
Pangborn co-captain and defensive stalwart Katrina Paulson said, "We've been work­ing hard. We should be ready." 
"The strength of our team is · the willingness of our girls to go both ways," Tutin said. 
Due to small numbers Pangborn usually has to play eight-nine women on both sides of the ball. 
"We're coming out fighting," Tutin said. 
With both quarterbacks being so young you can expect both defenses to test them early and often. But that doesn't deter Badin's Rimkus, 
"Some of our teams could take on the inexperienced men's teams," she said. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at Ronsheim.l@nd.edu and Daniel Tarsha at dtarsha@nd.edu 


Afun night of Dwimmin9 and fund-raiDin9! 
1hun,da~, Odober 11, S:30pm-l0:3opm -\2-0\fo ~uatil Center $1-0 £.ntf'f fee per \2-e.side-nle. Ha\\ 
All Proceeds to Benefit the Red Cross Relief Effort. 

'f>wimming c,ventt>: 
lor~t,e.re~ 
~ave fhe Mermaid 
Do99ie Vadd\e ~\a1 

FEATURING 
ca-REC SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING 
Penny Wars! 
For more information contact Annie at 1-3531. 

---------------~ 
Friday, October 5, 200 I page 21
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

-
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Notre Dame/Pittsburgh University Football Weekend 
· October 6-7, 2001 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Ste;pan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica s:oo, 10:00 am & 11:45 am Sacred Heart Parish Cry:;pt 6:30, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am Collections will be sent to Holy Cross Missions in
C-M 
Bangladesh, Kenya and Uganda. 
..
Campus Ministry 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS hiday, October 5, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish win locks up top seed 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Spon, Writer 
With a f'ivr game winning strnak that incluc.led a vino­ry against then-No. '.1 Nebraska last w1~ek. the Notre DamP women's sor.r.cr team is returning tn tho form that landed tlrnm in the NCAA Final Four last vear. 
This weekend the lrlsh will travel to New Jersey to play against Hig East rivals Hutgers and Seton Hall. The Irish will take on thP S('arlet Nights of HutgPrs on Friday night and take on the Pirates of Seton !lull on Sunday. This marks only the second time all SPason thP Irish will play on the road, but it will provide imponant Pxperienre for thP Irish as they eutt:>r the critiral latter stagf's of thr season. The Irish have only seven games remaining on their regular season srlrndule with only two more games at honw. 
The Irish r:urrently sit atop the Mid-AUantic divi­sion of the Big East ronfer­ence with a 4-1 conference record and an overall record of 8-0-1. Hutgers currently sits in third place with an overall record of 7-4 and a 2-1 record in the Big East. Seton Hall sits at the bottom of the division with a 3-6-1 overall record and a ('Onfer­ence rer.ord of 0-4. 
If the Irish play with the same intensity they have played with over the last two weeks. thev should win both games th.is weekend. With a win over the Rutgers 
on Friday night. the Irish will <'lincb the Mid-Atlanlir division and rPnHtin in tho drivn·'s St:>at l'or th<' top­seed in the Big East tourna­mont in carlv Novnmhtir so t hf' r P i s a· tr e m e n d o u s amount at stake tbis 'vVPPk for Notre Dam11. Although tlw Irish are undefoatt,d. Liu~ season got off to a rocky start with thP Irish strug­gling to ovP.rtime wins over lesser competition. 
Afte1· getting sonrn playPrs healthy and lea.ming to com­muniratf' with one anothnr. Notre Dame has picked up its intensity over its lasl f'ive games lo rr.verse this trPnd. 
·one reason for the lrish's rosurg('nre is tho inspired p Ia y of s 11 n ior · f\l i a Sarkr.sian. Sarkesian was named the Big East Offensive Plavnr or the Wt>ck for her effo1:ts in the Irish victories against Nebraska, Pittsburgh and West Virginia. Perhaps more importantly, coach Handy Waldrum has finally found the leadership he has benn looking for all season. 
"Sarkesian !isl really starting to emerge as the leader for this team," said Waldrum after last Sunday's win over West Virginia. "!Herl leadership is really important because we have such a young team." 
Sophomore midfielder Randi Sr,heller has done an excellent job in replacing last year's '\/CAA player of the vear Anne Makinen. while Irish freshman mid­fielder Mary Bolton and freshman defender Candace 


TH A I RESTAURANT 
"The first Thai restaurant in town. We 1nvite you to try world class cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art 
that descends from primogenitor. Thai cuisine is designed to excite your five ser.ses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and natural." 
Now Hiring 
Hours 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri 
1Jam-2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, 
Sun 
5pm-9pm 
Fri-Sat 5pm-9:30pm 
211  
0  L  
A  
C 0 L F  N.MAIN ST.  s A L  
A  L  
X  ~ .;,'\,-f',. .  E  

c't\\'v
y.\ 
1232-4445! 211 N. Main St. South Bend, IN 
46601 

TV/Vero 
Tools o Petse
One Photo 500 Words Until Sold 
Mon-Th 10:30am-10pm Fri-Sat 10:30am-llpm Sun ll:30am-9pm 
Join Us To Cheer On THE FIGHTING IRISH 
5 Televisions available to watch the game 
Stop in and enjoy a delicious,marinated chicken sandwich, a loaded hot-dog, and much more! 16" Chicago-Style Pizza w/ unlimited toppings $9.95 for a limited time 

Chapman havn bnPn vital to the lrish's rt•ccrnt sucr<'SS. 
,\s tlw d1d·o11din!{ ('llampi­ons ol" thP Hig Fast, th!' Irish know that cvc'ry lnam will haV(\ an added incc,ntivn to d I'['(; at t Ii Pm so th ny must conlinuP th1\ r1icPnl stridl's thev lrnvP made ovf'r llw last tw,; WP<)ks. With big wins ovnr ranked opponnnts Nrbraska and WPst Virginia, 1.lw Irish know Llwy ran play with anvorw in tlw country. Now it is just a question ;>f how far Llwir conl'idencr and talent will tako thc>m. 
Notes 
. Ir is h sf\ 11 io r d (' fn n d t'' r Monira (;onzalcz has brnn suspr,nd1•d !'rom lln· learn indel'initnly by the llniv<'rsity. 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu 

RICO CASARESrThe Observer 
Freshman defender Candace Chapman boots the ball upfield during a game against West Virginia earlier this season. 
' I I_ ,Jl I ,( ,' r i •I 1• 

Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
-
SMC SOCCER 
MIAA race tightens up 

By LINDSAY MOUAN Sports Writer 
With ils first ,Lwav <·.onl'er­PllCP win awav undPr its bPlt, tlw Saint Mary's soccer team gets rrady to take on llope Collrg<' lhis Saturday. 
Saturdav's mat('h will bP. an important.rnw !'or thr BPllfls. 
i\s o/' \Vi'drwsdav. the two teams ,tr1\ tied for lif'th place in tlrn IPague with conl'crencr records or 2-4. The winner of the gamP will moV(' up to fourth plan' if Olivd lmrns to sncond-rankr.d Kalamazoo CollPge. 
"!lop<' just tied i\lma [\'Vrdnrsday! and if' wn win. we jump ahPad, dr.prnding on how Olivl't docs on Salurday," said Br.llrs' hnad coa(·h Bobby Johnston. 
Thi• ganrn. which will bf~ play(~d at noon at llopr Colll'gc\, will not be tlw l'irsl tim1\ that Saint Mary's and !lop<' lrnv<\ faced o!T lhis sea­son. Ilopr won the l'irsl meet­ing 2-1. 
The Belles are exdted for the chance to match up against the Lady Dutch again. 
'Tm really excited to play this Saturday," said senior Katie ll.obinson. "This win will put us in good standings in the conference." 
To get ready for the game, the tea.m has been working on its inLPnsity and mental prepa­ration. 
"We am g-oing to work on coming out ready to play. We nerd to be ready to play for the full 90 minutes," Robinson said. 
With four of its last five ganrns resulting in Saint Mary's victories. the team feels conli­dent about Saturday's match up. 
"It'll be easier playing them because we played them before and now we know what to expect," said freshman Jen Concannon. 
Concannon, who was named the MIAA offensive player of the week last week, will defi­nitely have her work cut out for her on Saturday. Hope's Kate Dornbos and Beth Stygstra hav8 both earned MIAA defensive players of the week honors this year. 
Saint Mary's, however, remains unconcerned. 
"We've changed our lineup since the last time we played them and have a new forma­tion, so we'll see how that fairs for us," said Johnston. 
Saturday's match will be the second of a four game road trip for the Belles and will be piv­otal to their position in the league. 
"All the teams we've been really close to in scores and the whole second part of the sea­son is going to be about capi­talizing on what we did wrong in the first part of the season so that we can break .500," said Robinson. 
Contact Lindsay Malian at mollI 36 l@saintmarys.edu 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bonds crushes home run No. 70 
Associated Press 
Barry Bonds hit home run No. 70 Thursday night and tied Mark '.vlcGwire's record~ a feat even Hig Mac thought might last a lifotime when he did it a mere three years ago. 
Bonds. son of an All-Star and godson of a home run king, has three games left to make history all his own. 
Bonds, · who watched Houston pitchers work around him throughout the three­game series. finally got a chance to swing in the ninth inning. He did not miss, hitting a 454-foot shot into th1~ upper deck in right field off rookie Wilfredo Hodriguez. 
Bonds immediately raised both arms in the air as he began a slow trot around the bases. The record crowd of 43,734. which had booed when Astros pitchers walked him, rewarded him with a standing ovation. 
His San Francisco team­mates poured out to greet a smiling Bonds at home plate along with Bonds' son, Nikolai. Bonds pointed at his family behind the third-base dugout as he returned to the bench. 
With fans still cheering at Enron Field, he came out for two curtain calls. Bonds took his position in left field to start the bottom of the ninth, was mobbed by teammates who were in the Giants bullpen, then was replaced and left waving his cap. 
Bonds' 70th homer marked 
the second big achievement of 
the day in the majors. Earlier, 
Rickey Henderson of San 
Diego scored his 2,246th 
r,areer run and broke Ty 
Cobb's record. 
The Giants won 10-2, com­
pleting a three-game sweep 
that kept them two games 
behind Arizona in the NL West 
race with three games 
remaining, all against Los 
'T'fie Warren §olf Course ar 'Not:re 'Da~e 
:N: '1-luae 'Fa((Safe :N: 
'U_p io 50,:y._., OffSelected'l-tenis Wo-rn.en's 'A._p_pare[, 'Men_,s 'A._p_pare[, Cfi.i{cfren,s ~p_pare{, C[u6s 
Lin-1,it:edSu_py{y ef-§arne Vay 'Hats 'A.vaifaGCe 
Look 'For 'l...ls ar Our Sareflit:e Sh'?P at rfie :Joyce Cent-er on 'Foot:6a([ 'Friaays and§am.e 'Days 
'T'fie Warren §o[fCourse is Loca'tedon t;he ~ortfi.easr Side ifCan"91US on 'I>ou3las 'Road 
(219) 631-4653 
'Brin3 ffiis ad to the Warren §oij. Coursc Pro Sfi~p or our Sateffite Sfi~p at the Joyce Center for an extra 10,x, offyoiir_p1ffcf1ase. 
Angeles.  
Bonds hit his 564th career  
home run, moving him past  
Reggie Jackson -a distant  
relative -for seventh place  
on the all-time list.  
Among those cheering for  
Bonds was his godfather, Hall  
of Farner Willie Mays, who  
ranks third on the careAr list  
with 660 homP.rs.  
Bonds' father, former major  
leaguer Bobby, was at the  
Giants' first two games in  
llouston. The team. however.  
believed he had to leave town  
brfore seeing his son make  
history.  
Bonds connected on a 1-1  
pitch from Rodriguez, a 22­ 
year-old lefty making only his  
second major league appear­ 
ance. 13onds took a huge cut  
and missed the first pitch.  
watched a ball up and in, then  
launched a 93-mph fastball  
into the stands.  
The ball was caught by  
Charles Murphy of Houston.  
Bonds, a 10-time All-Star  
who could be headed to his  
record fourth MVP award, had  
never hit more than 49 home  
runs in a season before this  
year.  
But choking up on his 34­ 
inch, maplewood bat, he quickly put himself in position  ...  
to challenge McGwire's  
record, set in 1998.  
McGwire's mark captured  
the nation's attention, espe­ 
cially because he dueled  
Sammy Sosa for the standard  
of 61 set by Roger Maris in  
1961.  
When McGwire finished with  
70 home runs. it looked like it  
might become baseball's new  
magic number.  
"I think it will stand for a  
while. I know how grueling it  
is to do what I've done this  
year," he said."Will it be bro­ 
ken someday? It could be. Will  
I be alive? Possibly.  
"But if I'm not playing," he  
said, ''I'll definitely be there."  
Bonds, never the most lik­ 
able player with fans or oppo­ 
nents. did not stir quite the  
same interest as Big Mac. Not  
only was Bonds' chase not the  
biggest story in the country ­ 
not after the terrorist attacks  
on Sept. 11 -but it even fell  
behind Michael Jordan's  
return on the sports pages.  
The media contingent  
watching Bonds the last few  
days was only half the size of  
Big Mac's following.  
...  


----------------------------------~-------------------­
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2001 
SWIMMING
-
Swimmers kick off season at Notre Drune Relays 
... 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Wrirer 
Usually, freshman athletes will spend their first colle­giate competitions warming the bench. While a few may step up and shine early, most watch their elder competi­tors, waiting for their time to compete. 
But tonight at the Notre Dame relays. the 23 freshmen on the men's and women's swim teams from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will dive headfirst into collegiate com~ petition. 
And like Notre Dame fresh­man Kelly Barton, m_ost are nervous. 
"I don't know what to expect," said Barton, a dis­tance freestyler from Scottsdale, Ariz. "I've swam in swim meets before, obvi­ously, but not at the colle­giate level ... it's quite differ­ent." 
Because the relays offer 42 opportunities to race, every athlete on the three teams will take to the water during the meet, held for the 37th consecutive year tonight at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Besides offering the fresh­men a chance to step up to the blocks for the first time, the meet marks the first time all three teams will take to the water for the 2001-02 
season. That means it will be a valuable measuring tool before the teams start their dual meet seasons in the next few weeks. 
"The most important thing is to see everybody race," said men's swimming head coach Tim Welsh. "To have everybody get a little bit of playing time is a great way to begin." 
Notre Dame Women 
The women's team will face close to four hours of compe­tition today, facing the University of Pittsb·urgh for a dual meet prior to the relay competitfon. 
The meet was scheduled to coincide with Saturday's foot­ball game, according to women's head coach Bailey Weathers. 
"We're really able to triple the amount of races we· get this way," Weathers said. "That's a big help for us at this point in the season ... it gives the kids a chance to swim." 
Leading the women's class of 2005 is Katie Eckholdt, a sprinter from Omaha, Neb. Eckholdt's times are clocking in faster than fifth-year senior Big East Champion Carrie Nixon's were during her freshman year, and she's expected to make an impact, Weathers said. 
Freshman Brooke Taylor from Orlando, Fla., comes in knocking on the door of the 200 buiterfly record, and Kristen Pe.terson from Wichita, Kan. comes in with senior national experience in the backstroke events. 
"They've trained as well as any freshman class we've had, and they're handling the academic load pretty well," Weathers said. 
Outside of the freshman class, Nixon, who sat out last season wiLh an injured shoul­der, returns to competition tonight. Nixon was the 2000 Hig East Swimmer of the Year and finished second in the 50-yard freestyle at the 2000 NCAA Championships. 
Notre Dame Men 

When Welsh took his note­book out to evaluate his team's performance at an intersquad meet in practice two weeks ago, he was look­ing to see how well his team was swimming. 
"I went into that meet with big eyes, a big notebook and an empty sheet of paper," he said. 
You could say it was an early-season test. But the men's swimming and diving squad will get an even bigger test tonight, as they go head to head with the University of Pittsburgh, the 2001 Big East 
Champion team and one of Notre Dame's toughest Big East foes in 2002. 
"To do a series of relays with Pittsburgh side by side at the beginning of the sea­son is really exciting," Welsh said. "We're definitely eager to race." 
Leading the men's swim­ming class of 2005 will be Matt Bertke, a freestyler from Edgewood, Ky, David Moisan, an individual medley and breastroke swim mer from Fisherville, Ky., and Frank Krakowski, a butterflyer and freestyler from Erie, Pa. Hut the entire freshman group is working well as a unit so far, Welsh said. 
"They're getting better by the week, almost better by the day," Welsh said. 
Saint Mary's 
While the Belles will bring in nine freshmen -making up about half of their squad -to their season debut tonight at the relays, the freshmen aren't the only newcomers to the team. 
First-year. coach Gregg Petcoff will coach his first Saint Mary's meet tonight, taking the helm of the team as the third coach in four years at Saint Mary's. 
But Petcoff has bigger things on his mind than his coaching debut, as the 
Division III Belles go up against several Division I pro­grams tonight. . 
"I've been telling them, 'Swim in your own lane. don't swim in the lane next to you,"' Petcoffsaid. 
Saturday's meet will be a warm-up for a series of meets in early November, Petcoff said. The Belles will swim against two Division I teams -Texas Christian University and Western Onatario -for the first time during the dual meet season. 
"I'm taking this as an opportunity," Petcoff said. "We're going against some big teams. But hopefully, by the time they get to those meets, [the swimmers] will be like, 'Oh, again? Who cares who thev are?"' 
The B·elles, donning only one senior on their roster, will look heavilv to freshmen Lindsay Mark.in, Michelle Stanforth and Molly Maloy. 
But that's fine for the first­year competitors, according to Markin. 
"There's not a lot of senior­ity [on the teamL" Markin said. "So there's not too much pressure for us to have to step up and make our mark." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

I I ­
I 
{an acoustic event, too big for print ... coming soon.} 
.. 
Audition for "The Best of Acousticaf~," at the October 11th show, LaFortune 

-----... ...--------------------------., 
Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Puzzle 
continued from page 28 
year's NCAAs, one place ahead of Watson, the team would have moved from ninth place to fourth. 
"[Shay) is a great athlete. I wish he had run last year, because that would mean he wouldn't be running this year. !Notre Dame] has a really, real­ly, really outstanding cross country team, and we're not going to beat them this year." said Ron Helmer, head coach at Georgetown, a team that ti.ed for seventh in last year's NCAAs. 
But this year, Shay returns to compete with an elite group of seniors that has been evolving together for five years, on and off the cross-country course, into a team that knows how to exceed expectations. 
Along with Shay, seniors Luke Watson, Pat Conway, Marc Striowski and Sean Zanderson arc ready to prove how they will lead a team that finds its suc­cess in running together. work­ing together and fitting togeth­er. 
"You can pick and choose an all-star team, but that doesn't guarantee that they're going to run well together. If one guy is getting inside someone else's head. that's not good. We have to have everyone working together. motivating each other," said Shay, who now shares an apartment with Watson and Zanderson. "That type of thing on a team like we have can lead to very special things." 
"Certainly having Shay back this year will make a big differ· ence, but I would hate to see it go unnoticed the contribution that Luke Watson will bring. Both are very talented," said Villanova head coach Marcus O'Sullivan. 
It was All-American Luke Watson who stepped up in every­meet for the Irish last season, especially on a 17-dcgree day in Iowa at last year's NCAA cham­pionships. His sixth place finish fueled Notre Dame, ranked No. 20 going into the meet, to their ninth place finish. 
"Being a leader was not any­thing foreign to me," said Watson, who also won the indi­vidual titles at the Valparaiso, National Catholic and District rv Championships, and finished seventh in the Big East. 
This year, seniors Pat Conway, who earned All­American status by finishing 36th in last year's NCAAs and 21st in the Big East, and Marc Striowski, who took 42nd in last year's NCAAs and eighth in the Big East, Sean Zanderson, the fifth man on last year's team, and Watson will combine with Shay, who also took 12th in the 1999 NCAA meet and first at both the Notre Dame Invitational and Big East 
Ken-Doll ­
Happy Birthday! It's time to party like the rockstar you are! 
Love, the bad sixes/or 
life. 
Championships in 1999. in the hunt for nothing less than the best season each has experi­enced individually and as a team. 
They will compete in today's Notre Dame Invitational along with sophomore Todd Mobley, who has been in the top five all season and won the Valparaiso Invitational, David Alber, who won the JV race in last week's Intercollegiate Championships, and junior John Keane. 
But it takes more than talent to evolve into a group as strong as this. 
"You could always put togeth­er the best five guys in the country," said Striowski, who lives with Conway. "But in terms of Notre Dame and tradi­tion. l don't think you could have put a better group togeth­er." 
A full force attack on a National Championship demands a commitment that extends to every aspect of the seniors' lives. 
"When we're in our heaviest training, it's essential that you have guys around you that are motivated. This energy of all liv­ing a training lifestyle feeds off of each other." said Watson. "No one really understands dis­tance runners except distance runners. It helps to be around guys who know what it means to go for an extra run before class, to get that extra half hour of sleep." 
Their common goal ties together these five individuals, and has since the beginning. 
"Ryan and I are pretty intense," said Striowski, who lives with Conway. 
"Marc and Pat and I started out together, and we've seen each other's careers the whole way through," said Watson, who has earned the nicknames "World Wide Watson," for his performance on the junior world cross country team, and "Euro Assassin." 
"Luke is pretty laid back until it comes to training and rac­ing," said Piane. 
"Sean Zanderson is kind of the Rodney Dangerfield of the team," said Watson. "Z's like the goofy skater kid, a huge Blink 182 fan. He really brings a light attitude." 
The seniors have learned a lot about each other over the last few years, including where their philosophies may clash. 
"Marc is the fiery Canadian," said Shay,. "He won't hold back if someone's not doing what they're supposed to. " 

The very thing that drives the team to success sometimes causes friction off the course. "Sometimes we get pretty com­petitive, and that can turn into some arguments," said Striowski., who will be an assis­tant coach for the Irish next year. "Sometimes we don't see eye to eye on certain things. But when it comes down to it, we're here to run. That's the most important thing, and we don't let personal things get in the way." 
Watson remembers his first experience seeing Shay in action, when things got person­al with one of his teammates. Conway and Watson watched him run a race while they were on their recruiting trip. Shay, who was a freshman at the time, broke far away from the rest of the Irish pack as a team­mate who was not running in the race yelled a comment 
\,u --~ back on purchases itfi a Visa ,P,latinum Card from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union: 
· •Your annual ~sh bonus of a full 1% is paid out annually in January, and is based on your annual purchases. Cash bonus infomiation will appear on each monthly statement. Not applicable to cash advances or balance transfers Not applicable to account if delinquent or over limft. Independent of the University. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
-
-
questioning why Shay wasn't staying with the pack. 
"Ryan was way out front, giv­ing it his all. just going to war, and he just flicked the kid off. during the race," said Watson. "I think he's learned a lot about running as a team since then." 
Shay, who had not missed a cross-country season since fifth grade before last year, still worked out with the team last fall, as he focused on building a base for track and on the 2001 cross country season. 
"Shay was still the captain. He traveled with the team, he would run alongside guys that weren't as fast as him and encourage them. His presence was there, and that's part of the reason we did well last year," said Striowski. 
A full force attack on each race, from now until NCAAs will demand that neither the experi­enced seniors nor the talented group of underclassmen ever leave anything on the course. 
"Having that cohesion and closeness really makes a differ­ence during a race, when I'm really hurting," said Watson. "There's a point where you can relax and maintain what you've been doing, or you can start picking people off. When I know my teammates are giving that extra effort, I want to do that. Even when you can't see them, you just have to have that trust and know we're all giving as much as we can for each other." 
The Irish are ranked fifth, behind Colorado, Stanford, Arkansas, and Wisconsin and will run in today's Notre Dame Invitational. at Notre Dame Golf Course. The varsity blue divi­sion race will begin at 5 p.m. 
Sophomores Brian Kerwin and Mario Bird, who helped to win the National Catholic Invitational two weeks ago by placing in the top eight, will not run in the Blue Division race. Nineteen teams wiII compete in the Blue Race for the men. Notre Dame will run a B team in the gold race, which will start at 2:45 p.m. at the Notre Dame Golf Course. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu 
,_____ _____....,..___________ 
Page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2001 
-SMC VOLLEYBALL Belles ready for Knights 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Edi tor 
Tonight, Saint Mary's will be looking for improvement before it looks for a win. As the Belles square off against the Knights of Calvin, they are looking to play much better than the last time the two teams faced off. 
"The last time we played [Calvinl we didn't get anything going with them," head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "And what we want to do is play compet­itivelv against them." 
These two teams could not be any more different. The Knights, ranked second in the MIAA, are 12-8 overall and 6-2 in the MIAA. They enter tonight's game after a decisive 3-0 win against Olivet on
-
Wednesday. The Knights returllJ)d nine players this season and are aB healthy. The Belles, on the other hand, have been struggling this season. They are coming into tonight's game 1-7 in the MIAA -2-12 overall -and are in sev­enth place in the MIAA, just ahead of winless Olivet. The Belles are recovering from a 3-0 loss to Albion on Wednesday. With a very young team, the loss of senior Angie Meyers to an injury has hit hard. Tonight, the Belles will have to work hard to bring home a win. "What we [worked on in practice Thursday] is offense," Schroeder-Biek said. "[First] passing and the second thing is going through our full offensive system so our quick attackers can hold their block." 
Holding the block will be key to defeat­ing a solid Calvin team. Knights setter 
Sara Ahrenholz has led the Knights in both setting and blocking and will pro­vide a formidable opponent for the Belles. 
"They have a very large block," Schroeder-Biek said. "Our outside attack­ers were stuck with that large block [the last time we played]. We want to make situations one on one across the net." 
Seniors Jolie LeBeau and Jaime Dineed will again be leading the Belles on the court, with support from freshmen Elise Rupright and Stacey Stark, sophomore Alison Shevik and junior Elizabeth Albert. Shevik has been a bright spot for the Belles in recent games, -recording 21 digs in Wednesday's loss to Albion. 
"That [line-up) has been doing pretty well and they're getting used to it," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Saint Mary's will also be looking to solidify communication and keep the game moving. This season has been marked by getting down early and then having to dig back up. The Belles don't want to do that tonight. 
"We need to carry momentum through the entire match and not stop playing at twenty points," Schroeder-Biek said. 
What the Belles will have on their side is home-court advantage. The match will take place at Angela Athletic Faciltiy, where the Belles have had a lot of sup­port this season. 
"I feel like it is [an advantage]," Schroeder-Bick said. " It feels so good to be at home." 
Action gets under way tonight at 6:30. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvoS69S@saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Women set to run together for first time 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
Today's Notre Dame Invitational is an important turning point, as the Irish start the second half of their season and focus on qualify­ing for nationals. 
"I think our kids are pretty excited," said head coach Tim Connelly. "It's the first time we're putting our whole team on the line. There will be a lot of specta­tors our there. Our kids get excit­ed to run at home." 
After Saturday's Invitational comes the season-defining pre­national meet. The Irish are using this weekend's meet as a final tune-up for the post season run. 
"What we've got to start doing is positioning ourselves for the post season," said Connelly. "We are going to approach this meet the way we approach regionals or nationals." 
Freshman Lauren King, who finished 26th at the World Junior Cross Country Championships last year, will run in her first colle­giate race this weekend. 
Joining King in the top race will be junior Jen Handley, who has proven to be the top finisher for the Irish thus far and won the National Catholic Invitational two weeks ago, and sophomore Megan Johnson, who finished first for the Irish in the Notre Dame Invitational last year. 
Junior Jen Fibuch, sophomore Julia Schmidt, junior Muffy Schmidt and freshman Christi Arnerich, who finished first for the Irish at the Valparaiso Invitational, round out Notre Dame's entries in the Blue divi­sion race, which will begin at 4:15 p.m. 
The Irish will also run several runners in a gold division race at 2 p.m., giving the team another chance to develop its depth. 
"In the gold race, those guys are ready,to run pretty well," said Connelly. "A number of those kids have the potential to be in the top seven to nine. It gives them some opportunities to run and affect the team score." 
Butler, Michigan, Indiana and Ball State should pose the tough­est competition for the Irish. Some out of region teams, includ­ing William and Mary, Montana, and Utah State, along with Northern Iowa, Loyola of Chicago will also compete. A total of 17 women's teams will attend. 
"You've got to get out and put yourself in the position you want to be in. If you want to finish out front, you have to put yourself out there and stay there," said Connelly. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu 


' 
I 
I 
t .,. 
' 
' 
----------~----------------------------------------------i 
Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
CROSSWORD 
TOM KEELEY 

THAT'S THE Wl-foLE PolNT THEY WANT NoT1cED. 
MAN, IT'S LIKE YOU'VE 
SEl-ltNO SANO TRAPS AND nus GAME 
WATER HA'ZAROS AND
I 
To BE ONE 
UNOULAT1NG GREENS­BIG HEAD· GOLF 15 MEANT 'lb BE A ACHE. THINKING MAN'S 5PoRT. 
I 
53 Lacquer ingredient 
55 Sheriff Lobo portrayer Claude 
57 Commemorating 
59 Ratline 61 Adriatic port 62 State university 
locale 63 To 64 No place for a 
draft dodger 65 Medoc and Chianti 
DOWN 
1 Pointer 2 Hardly any 3 Not 
straightforward 4 Doesn't conceal 5 Castle 
protector, maybe 
6 Words to go 
with 7Lowwall 8 Professor 9 Word often 
heard in triplicate 10 Go bonkers 11 Disrepute and then some 12 Springy? 13 In a monotone 
20 Handicapped 24 Yackety-yak 
I't"1 TALl<tNG ASo\JT 
ll-tE1R VSE oF 'YAAl)AGE AND DEGREES of Lof'T. I COULD COMPOTE ALL MY SHoTS IN M'I' HEAD ~ HAO 'THEY 1NS1'EAD VSED 
I 
METERS AND RADIANS. 
\ 
~ 
BILL AMEND 
FoRTUNAlELY, YOU l<NoW, I MEM~l'Z.EO IT IS PoS<.i1BLE ll-lE C.ON· To 8E 1li1N1<:1N6 
VERSION ATAlffoo MUCH. 
FoRMVLAE. I 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 Aphrodisiac 44 Aligned 

54 Kind of pneumonia 
page 27 
B B ~m
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 

"Hey, could you check for me? I think I have something in my eye." 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 1HIS DAY: Gwyneth Paltrow, John . Slyles, Janeane Garofalo, Mira Sorvi­m, Brigitte Baroot 
Happy Birthday: You'll have a perfect rombination this year of ener­gy, innovation and practicality. Your vision and unique ideas will be well­received. You are moving toward sucress. Be confident and don't sell ymm;elf short. Everyone knows you have 1he goods,so reach out and grab the glory you deserve, Your num­bers: 4,5, 12, 22. 31, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Focus on forming business partner­ships or networking at worthwhile ftmctions. H you present your ideas with gusto, individuals may be seri­ously interested in backing them. Take the initiative and get ahead 
today.0000 TAURUS (April :ZO.May 20): Dif­
ficulties with peers may throw you for a loop. Don't rely on others to handle a job that was assigned to you. You may have concerns, but professional duties are pressing and must be rompleted properly. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Social activities should be rondudve to finding love and adventure. 'Iravel or social engagements will lead to intriguing encounters. The more out­going you are, the more successful you willbe. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Make sure all your finances are in ordez: This is a great day to finish ron­tracts and deliver the goods. You're nnming a tight ship at nome and will receive great pleasure from family: 
000 
IEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will disrover otportunities by mingling today. Don t neglect your mate; take him or her to an event that rould be professionally important 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
EUGENIA LAST 
Attractions toward clients will be one-sided and must be put out of your head Conrentrate on detail and worl< alone to finish your project. You will make headway if you focus. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): Plan a 
social day witli friends, family or a 
loved one. You will come up with 
some splendidly creative ideas for 
entertainment that will please every­
one. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Limitations at home am be expected if you have been restricting your mate's freedom. Back off ifyou want to keep the relationship intact. Do something special for him or hei: 00 
SAGITfARIUS (Nmt 22-0ec. 21): 
Your mind will be wandering to exotic destinations. You need to start planning that winter vacation. Call siblings or old friends to catm up on recent news. An opportunity might arise through 1he rompanyyou keep. 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You can make morey if you concen­trate on producing servires or goods that will make domestic chores easieI: Devel · a small business on 1he side w~ease your financial stress. Use your peraistenre to be sucressful 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotional ups and downs have caused uncertainties in your life. It's time lo weigh 1he pm; and ans and make a decision that will change your living anditions. Give yourself some credit and don't take all the blame. After all, you have been fail: 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Someone may be trying to take advantage of you. Guard your thoughts for row. Don't give in to 1he intrigue of a secret affair. You have nothing lo gain from involvemait in a triangle. 000 
Birthday Baby: You have it all. You are clevei; dashing and no-11Cll5el1.5e about evervthnw: you do. You have a definite idea ofwhat you want out ci life andknow1iowioget it 
(Need advice? Cneck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
·­
-
-
' 
1 
I I I I 
I
-
j\ 
I 
ACROSS 1 "_ seems" 5 Tries lo cover up 
15 About 
16 Opening pair'? 
17 Seismologist's field: Abbr. 18 Bristly 19 Kind of thinking 
21 Like "Miro, Miro on the wall" 
22 Rainbow maker 
23 "_ Central Park" (1945 Broadway hit) 
25 One who can't bear family life? 
26 Like some securities, for short 
27 Bread in 43-Across 
30 River past Armentieres 31 Convincing debater 33 For the full orchestra 
35 Swords made with finely tempered steel 
37 Barely get the words out 41 Actor Green 
and others 
43 Place to use 27-Across 
44 •_magic!" 47 Ones drawn to scale? 49 Dude 50 Literally, "I am unwilling" 52 Political suffix 
29 1948 presidential contender 
32 "O.K." 
34 Rascal 
36 Victor at Five Forks, 1865 
38 Cause disintegration 
39 Under the spell 
(of) 
40 Approves 
42 Sub 
45 Site of film bridges 56 Token taker 
58 City south of46 Sandal type 
Moscow 48 Flammable gas 
60 _ Darya (river 51 Upright to the Aral Sea) 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

i 
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
i BSERVER 'I 
i-' . SMC Volleyball, p. 26 
. ND Women's Soccer, p. 22 
' 
f 
. 
ND Women's Cross Country, p. 26 PORTS . Women's lnterhall Football, p. 20 

. 
Swimming, p. 24 . SMC Cross Country, p. 19 

. 
SMC Soccer, p. 23 . Men's lnterhall Football, p. 16, 18 


Friday, October 5, 2001 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Final piece of the puzzle 
. Shay returns to Irish after taking season off 
·-By KATIE HUGHES Sporn Writer 
Sometime things don't fit together exactly as planned. And sometimes, that's the best thing that could have hap­pened. 
After finishing 10th in the Olympic Trials during the sum­mer of ;moo, senior All­American Ryan Shay decided to sit out last year's cross country season just one month before the season started. 
"It was scary [last year]," said head coach Joe Piane. "We were really rolling the dice. Could we get to NCAAs without Ryan Shay?" 
i The Irish finished fourth at 
I last year's Big East champi­
I 
onships, behind Providence,
i -· 
Georgetown, and Villanova, and finished ninth in the NCAA championships, without Shay. 
"I have no doubt that if [Notre Dame] had the NCAA 10,000 champion on their team they would have finished significant­ly higher," said Mark Wetmore, head coach at Colorado, which finished second at last year's NCAA meet, and is ranked first this season. Stanford, Arkansas, and Wisconsin are also ranked ahead of Notre Dame in early season polls. 
If Shay had competed last season and finished fifth in last 
see PUZZLE/page 25 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Berticelli to be honored at weekend games 
brought the program its only away, the Irish currently stand games one at a time, and the wins. Senior forward Nate By CHRIS FEDERICO NCAA tournament win. in ninth place in the 13-team next one we are looking at is Port received Co-Offensive Sports Writer The dedication had been field. In November, only the Georgetown." head coach Player of the Week Honors by 
scheduled to occur during the top eight Bobby Clark said. "You take scoring two goals in the win 
The men's soccer team first annual Mike Berticelli teams in 
them one at a time, and you against West Virginia and by returns to Alumni Field Memorial Tournament on the the confer­try to do everything you possi­assisting on the lone goal in tonight in honor of former weekend of Sept. 14. However, e n c e bly can to reach your maxi­the victory against Providence. coach Mike Berticelli, who the terrorist attacks on Sept. advance to mum potential." Goalkeeper Brian O'Hagan passed away in January 2000. 11 caused the cancellation of the tourna­Although Georgetown just picked up Co-Goalkeeper of 
During halftime of the Big the event. ment. With dropped a 3-2 decision to Old the Week honors with his 193 East match-up against Heading into a difficult its next Dominion, the Hoyas come to minutes in goal during the two Georgetown, a permanent stretch of their schedule, the t h r e e South Bend on the heels of a victories. memorial will be dedicated in Irish need a solid performance g a m e s pair of one-goal victories This home conference game honor of the former Irish head against the Hoyas (4-4-1) in against Big Bertlcelll against Big East rivals West could prove to be make or coach. In his 10 seasons at the order to keep pace in the Big East teams. Virginia and Providence. break for the Irish, who will helm of the men's soccer pro­East standings. Notre Dame could make a big Two Georgetown players have to go on the road for five gram, Berticelli lPd the Irish to With the Big East move in the standings. earned Big East weekly honors a 104-80-19 record and Championshlps only a month "We need to take these nexl for their efforts in those two 
see SOCCER/page' 19 

. SMC Volleyball vs. Galvin, Friday, 7 pm. 
OBSERVER 
. ND, SMC Swimming, ND Relays, Friday, 6:30 p.m. 
onlino classifieds 
. ND Cross Country, ND Invitational, Friday, 4:15 p.m. 
. Men's Soccer vs. Georgetown, Friday, 7:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 

' '. 
I I' I 


I\ 1• 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 5, 2001 
0-3 Irish want to turn jeers into cheers 

Oei!u-e,.,;,,, Tie !}ck:! Rzza/ 
Voted "BEST DELIVERED PIZZA" 
-2000 Best of Michiana 
r------, r ------,
MAKE 11 A MIAL 
I 1 Larg•. 1 Topping I I I Large, .1 ropplng 
Papa Predicts:
I $8.99 OR I I lreadtflcb I 
I 2 Larg•. 2 Topping I I 2 Liter I $12.99
L--~J:_9__ .J L ______.J 
NOTRE DAME -13 
i ------, r ------,
Mana(ler·• Speclcll /:amlly SpeCIOI 
PITTSBURGH 0
I I Large, 2 Topping and 4 I 1 Large W/WOtkt ­
I I
I Cans of I 1 Large, aTopplno
I I
I Coco-Cola Clo.sic I I ,11.,90, I 
$10.99 Extra Lotg• $20. 99 Notre Dame
L ______ .J Saint Mary's
L------.J 
271-1177 271-7272
r------, ,------,
I Late Night Special I I Grand Papa I Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 amI 9pm -closo I I 7 Extra Large, I 
Fridav-all nisht
I Large On• ropplng I I 2 Toppings I (Only ND storw • dmlfed Delivery lam• 11am} 
$7.99
L ______ .J Saturday 11 am -3 am
L--~o=--.J 
Sunday Noon -1 am 
"The most popular fl on campus• 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
As the Irish return to Notre Dame Stadium Saturday with an 0-3 record for the first time in history, head coach Bob Davie knows he's going to hear the boos. Hut Davie hopAs a win over Pittsburgh on Saturday can quiet his critics. 
"I understand the bottom line in this profession at Notre Dame or wherever you're the coach is to win," Da.,,ic said. "In the big picture of things, I also understand that you can turn those boos into cheers awful quickly by bouncing back and winning some games. That's what we plan to do." 
Davie hopes that Irish fans can provide a. needed 12th man on defense, taunting Pittsburgh's no-huddle offense. 
"I expect our crowd will drown them out," Davie said. "They're trying to do all their r.ommunication at the line of scrimmage. I know how diffi­cult that is ... They're not. going to be able to check at the line of scrimmage probably." 
Each of Notre Dame's first three opponents Nebraska, Michigan State and Texas A&M -stepped onto the field against the Irish with a perfect record. For the first time this fall, the lrish take the field against an opponent with a loss Saturday. 
Pittsburgh head coach Walt Harris brings in a 1-2 football team looking for a win after two consecutive home losses to South Florida and Miami, respectively, the past two Saturdays. But those two losses came without the services of a full-strength Antonio Bryant, considArcd by some the top wide receiver in the country. 
Bryant, who averaged more than 130 yards receiving per game last fall, sprained his ankle during Pittsburgh's sea­son opener against East Tennessee State. He returned in a limited role against Miami last weekend. catching just throe passes for :19 yards. Bryant's lack of time on the field presents an area of con­cern for the Irish coaching staff. 
"It's kind of hard to see where he's going to be," Davie said. "It's not quite as easy as saying you just go cover guy because of the multitude of for­mations and the coverages you arc in, sometimes you gi~t your­self' screwed up." 
But Davie added that he would like to have senior cor­ncrback Shane Walton cover Bryant -sophomore Vontoz Duff is mak.iug his lirst start at the other cornerback position -but can't guarantee that Walton will be on Bryant every play. 
"Shane right now would probably give us the best opportunity," Davie said. "But it's kind of difficult because we just haven't seen [Bryant] on tape enough to know where he's going to be in those forma­tions." 
On offense, Notre Dame is looking to wake up after what Davie termed an "anemic" per­formance against Texas A&M. Carlyle Holiday, who showed flashes of brilliance as well as 

Sophomore quarterback Carlyle Holiday dashes through a pair of Texas A&M defenders during Notre Dame's 24-3 loss last Saturday. Holiday will start the second game of his career Saturday. 
inexperience in the first half Pittsburgh's '.H-27 win over the ing team," Davie said. "They last week in College Station, Irish in Pittsburgh Nov. 13, are an eight-man front, very bounces back from a strained 1999. Then-freshman Hamon similar to a Virginia Tech neck to make his second con­Walker stripped the ball from scheme. Their safeties are very secutive start at quarterback. Tony Fisher with the Panthers active. Any time you play that 
'There's going to be growing leading just 20-17 in the third type of defense, the safeties pains for Carlyle," Davie said. quarter, setting up a Bryant make a lot of tackles." "But I think in Carlyle's situa­touchdown three plays later. Harris just hopes his defend­tion, we're going to have to live After Notre Dame pulled ers can physically match up with some of those things and within 30-27, Walker jarred the with the talent on the Irish side there's no other way to get the ball away from Notre Dame of the ball. experience than to.do it." receiver Joey Getherall to setup "We play hard," Harris said. 
Holiday matches up .against a an interception by Scott defensive unit that caused Mccurley. Contact Noah Amstadter at Notre Dame problems during "Dcfonsively, they are a blitz-namstadt@nd.edu 
u 
--ca 
Friday, October 5, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Change of heart 
Walton, who started his college career playing soccer, is now the starting cornerback 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
When his heart told him to concentrate on soccer, he lis­tened. When his heart told him to go to Notre Dame, he paid attcnlion. 
i\nd when Shane Walton's heart told him he should give football a shol., he followed it. 
"I think if you make anv deci­sion in your· urc you have to go with your heart," hA said. "'You have to make the best decision you can. 
Walton's long journey to Notre Dame started on the strAets of San Diego. HA grew up in the sanrn neighborhood as NFL rncnivcr J.J. Stokes and would play football nearly every day on the asphalt streets. But Walton didn't play on an orga­nized football team until his freshman year of high school because football wasn't his first love. 
Walton loved soccer -and he was good at it, too. 
Although children in California are not allowed to begin playing on organized teams until they are four, he started playing soccer at age three on a team a family friend coached. From there, Walton built an impressive soccer resume that included four all­league selections and three national titles he won with a club team. Walton played foot­ball in the fall, but he couldn't wait for spring to roll around. In California, spring was soccer season. 
"I was more into soccer," Walton said. "I wasn't going to give up soccer to play football." 
So when Walton got a phone call from former Notre Dame men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli, he listened immedi­ately. Berticelli offered the young soccer standout a schol­arship to play soccer for Notre 
Dame. 
"We were real close," Walton said. "He was like my father. He was the only reason I came to Notre Dame. I never got to see the team play, I had never been this far east. My mom told Coach Berticelli, 'The only way I would let Shane come here, is if you promise to take care of him.' And ever since that moment, he took care ofme and took me into the family." 
Walton was a standout soccer player his freshman year. As a forward, he started all but one of Notre Dame's 18 games and was the first Notre Dame fresh­man in seven years to lead the Irish in scoring. 
But after the season, Berlicelli suggested Walton try to walk on to the football team. 
"Coach Berticelli spoke to the football coaches for me and asked if I could do spring foot­ball," he said. "He helped me, he wanted the best for me even if it might not have been the best for him." 
"[Shane] always had a dream to come out and play football." Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "I didn't want to use him. I didn't want to say, 'Okay, come out and play football and give up soccer.' I said, 'Look, come 
up close & personal 
WITH SHANE WALTON 

Shane Walton 
birthdate: Oct. 9, 1979 hometown: San Diego, Cal. major: sociology favorite place on campus: my room 
aword to describe me on the field: hype a word to describe me off the field: charming the best advice I've ever received: 
"You only live once, make an impression." 
I wish I could switch places for a day with: Bill Gates and spend his money 
out for football and see if you are a good enough football play­er. Don't just give up soccer."' 
Walton did just that. While he had played four years of football in high school and had compet­ed in several all-star games, Walton hadn't played organized football in over a year. But he impressed the coaches enough that Davie offered Walton a scholarship towards the end of spring practice. 
Now, Walton had a difficult decision to make -should he give up 16 years soccer for a chance to play football? Or was it more important to stick with soccer? 
During his freshman year, Walton was the leading scorer for an Irish soccer team that finished 9-6-3. He had 10 goals and seven assists, was named Big East rookie of the week three times and was a Big East All-Rookie team selection. 
And he chose to leave it all behind. 
The hardest part, Walton said. was telling Berticelli about his decision. 
"I told him I felt like I had to play football," he said. "There's no way you can sugarcoat any­thing like that. I felt like it was in my heart, and I didn't think I could give 100 percent to soccer if there was something else I wanted to do. He wished me the best." 
Walton didn't break off his friendship with Bcrticelli, how­ever. He still talked with his former coach nearly every day about everything from football to his family until Berticelli's death in 1999. To Walton, Bcrticelli was like a father. 
"The kid bad an unbelievable relationship with Mike," Davie said. "Mike did a terrific job and developed a terrific relationship with Shane and his family. It really hurt him when Mike passed away. That devastated the kid." 

"It was real tough," Walton said. "He was the closest person to me who had ever died." 
Slowly but surely, Walton coped with B~rticelli's death. With the help of his teammates and his academic advisor, Walton came to grips with what happened. And then he shifted his entire focus to football. 
Walton has emerged as the top Notre Dame cornerback this year. When the Irish play man­to-man defense, he frequently is assigned to cover the oppo­nent's best receiver. But as he is quick to say, it wasn't always that wav. 
"I tell you what, it was a real humbling experience," Walton said of his first season playing football. "I never sat on the bench with anything I did, and my sophomore year, I sat on the bench the whole year. I went from one extTeme to the other I went from being the man on the soccer field to basically nothing on the football team." 
That changed in a hurry. In his first season. with the football team, Walton saw a meager four minutes of playing time. ln his second season, Walton start­ed all 10 games he played in and was leading all Irish play­ers in total minutes when he broke his arm against Rutgers. 
"It seemed like he was more of a ballplayer, just another ballplayer coming in trying to compete for a position," corner­back Clifford Jefferson said. "He caught on real quick. He learned the position just like that." 
"It took a lot of work, it took a lot of changing," Walton said. "Soccer came easy to me. I didn't have to work as hard at soccer because it was more nat­ural. I had to develop a prac­tice ethic and a knowledge of the game offootball." 
Wal ton changed nearly every­thing about himself. He added more than 25 pounds to his 5'11" frame as he learned the ins and outs of being a corner­back. And he also learned what attitude he needed on the field -an attitude that was com­pletely different from his soccer mentality. 
"I play a position where I'm supposed to get beat," he said. "Playing cornerback, you've gotta have a short memory. There's nothing less than the best, and when I'm out there talking, I'm going to let people know I'm the best. 1like to talk. Defensive lineman, offensive lineman, refs, it doesn't matter. 
I'm having fun out there." 
But all of Walton's hard work has paid off. He has become a crucial part of Notre Dame's secondary and special teams units. He's an intense playmak­er that pushes himself and his teammates to the limit. It's hard to imagine that just three years ago, Walton was playing soccer. 
"It's amazing," cornerbacks coach Dwight Lockwood said. "When [ first heard it I was like, 'You've got to be kidding me.' When you look at him, you'd never think in 10 years that there's a kid out there starting who played soccer." 
Walton still catches himself thinking back on his soccer days. He can still hit the top­left corner with a blistering shot from 20 yards away. He still has the fancy footwork and dribbling skills. And he has more than 16 years of soccer experience. 
But soccer is in Walton's past. Football is his future. 
"I still love soccer," he said. "I wish I could play them both. But I made a decision, and in my heart, I know it was the right decision. And now there's no looking back." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER .i;..;A0 r. October 5, 2001 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-3 
Head 

AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 

Bob Davie 
fifth season at 
Notre Dame 
career record: 30-22 
at Notre Dame: 
30-22 
Davie against head coach Pittsburgh: 1-l 
Roster 
1'.o.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  
1  Jared Clark  QB  6-4  
2  Curios Pierre-Antoine !LB  6--3  
2  Dan.Novakm·  QB  6--1  
3•5  Amaz Battle Justin Smith Ron Israel  FL fS ss  6--1 5-11 b-l  
6  David Giveru;  FL  6-3  
Carlyle Holiclay  QB  6--3  
~  r.orenzo Crawford  FL.  5-10  
8  rvta.tt Kruegl'f  FL.  5-1.0  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  S-10  
10  Matt LoVecchio  QB  6-4  
10  Ryan Krueger  QB  5-9  
12  Tony Fisher  TB  6-2  
13  NickSetta  K/P  5-11  
14  Gary Godsey  TE  6--6  
15  Clifford Jefferson  CB  5-9  
16  Abram Elam  55  6-0  
17  Joey Hildbold  p  5-10  
18  Ronnie Rodamer  SE  6-4  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  6-1  
20  Gerome Sapp  ss  6--0  
21  Javin Hunter  SE  6--0  
22  Juliw;Jones  TB  5-10  
23  Chris Yura  TB  6-0  
24  Chad DeBolt  JLB  6-0  
25  Ryan Grant  RB  6--1  
26'  Garron Bible  CB  5-10  
28  Donald Dykes  FS  5-11  
30  Rocky Boirpan  OLB  6-4  
31  Dwayne Francis  FS  6-0  
32  Terrance Howard  TB  6-1  
33  Courtnev Watson  ILB  6-1  
34  Vontez Duff  CB  5-11  
35  David Miller  K  5-11  
35  Tim O'Neill  TB  5-5'  
36  Tom Lopienski  FB  6-1  
37  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-11  
38  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  
38  Eric Nelson  FB  6-0  
39  Brandon Hoytl'  !LB  6-0  
40  Jason Murray  FB  6-1  
41  Mike Goolsby  LB  6-3  
42  Shane Walton  CB  5-11  
44  Grant Irons.  DE  6-5  
45  MattS.rb  ss  5-11  
46  Corey Mays  ILB  6-1  
47  MikeMcNair  FB  6--0  
48  Justin Tuck.  OLB  6-5  
49  Derek Curry  JLB  6-3  
50  Cedric HilHard  NG  6-2  
51  I yreo Harrison  ILB  6-2  
52  Jeff Faine  C  6-3  
52  Mark Mitchell  OLB  5-10  
53  Jason Halvorson  DL  6-2  
55  Zachary Giles  OL  6-4  
56  John Crowther  C  6-2  
56  Pat Ryan  ILB  6-3  
57  Justin Thomas  OLB  6-1  
59  Brian Dierckman  lLB  6-1  
f,(J  Darrell Campbell  DT  6-4  
61  Jesse Desplinter  LB  6-1  
,­ 62  Casey Robin  0G  6-7  
63  Brennan Curtin  OT  6-8  
1  64 65  Jefuey Campbell Sean Milligan  DE 0G  6-1 6-4  
66  JW Jordan  C  6-1  
67  Ryan Gillis  0G  6-3  
ff}  Darin Mitchell  OL  6-4  
70  Jim Molinaro  OT  6-6  
72  Ryan Scarola  0G  6-5  
73  Mark LeVoir  TE  6-7  
75  KurtVollers  OT  6-7  
76  John Teasdale  OT  6-5  
77  Greg Pauly  DT  6-6  
78  Jordan Black  OT  6-6  
79  Sean Mahan  OT  6-3  
80  Adam Tibble  K  5-11  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6-2  
81  Jerome Collins  OLB  6-4  
82  Bernard AkattJ  SE  5-10  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-1  
83  Josh Gentine  K/P  5-11  
84  John Owens  TE  6-3  
85  Billy Palmer  TE  6-3  
86  Brendan Hart  TE  6-2  
87  Jonathan Smith  WR  6-4  
88  Carlos Campoell  WR  6-1  
89  Matt Root  TE  6-6  
90  Brian Beidatsch  DL  6-4  
91  Jeff Thompson  DL  6-5  
92  Kyle Budinscak  DE  6-4  
94  Andy Wisne  DT  6-3  
95  Ryan Roberts  DE  6-2  
98  Anthonv Weaver  DE  6-3  
99  JasonS~pp  DE  6-3  

Wt. YR 230 so 
241 SR 215 JR 210 SR 197 SR 212 SR 212 SR 218 so 190 so 175 so l&, JR 205 so 186 SR 226 SR 175 JR 270 JR !76 SR 210 so 
188 JR 210 so 210 JR 214 JR 191 SR 210 JR 225 JR 202 SR 198 FR 191 so 195 SR 240 SR 198 SR 195 SR 232 JR 192 so 208 SR 175 SR 249 SR 170 FR 176 so 225 SR 219 FR 260 SR 240 so 186 SR 275 SR 200 SR 234 FR 237 SR 215 FR 
228 so 
290 JR 242 SR 296 JR 200 SR 240 JR 285 FR 242 SR 231 -JR 245 JR 250 SR 296 JR 177 so 300 SR 305 JR 230 SR 295 JR 275 SR 296 JR 285 FR 295 JR 308 SR 310 FR 312 SR 305 SR 208 so 
318 SR 292 SR l&i SR 180_ FR 242 so 190 SR 170 FR 205 JR 260 SR 265 so 255 so 195 so 190 FR 225 FR 265 FR 265 FR 265 50 285 SR 262 SR 286 SR 250 50 
Irish experts 
NOTRE DAME 2001 Schedule 
Sept. 8 at Nebraska -L Sept. 22 Michigan St. -L Sept. 29 at Texas A&M -L Oct. 6 ~~,f~s~~rgh 

• c•,•-~ 
Oct. 13 'inio Oct. 20 
Oct. 2T~;!.,;.-;, atBC Nov.3 Tennessee Nov. 17 Novy Nov. 24 at Stanford Dec. 1 at Purdue 
L&.I 
~ 
<C Q 
LI.I 
a: 
l­
o 
z 
COACHING 
0-3 for the first time ever -that about sums up Davie's coaching this year. Give him credit ­he's trying to fix the problems, but even he blames himself for Notre Dame's poor start. 
========================= 
::c 
C, 
a: 
:::::) 
Cl 
t,/) 
I­!:: 
c.. 
t,/) 
iii 
~ 
<
z 
<C 
Harris has done a good job turning Pitt around. He took a team that was going nowhere and turned it into a respectable team. However, the Panthers surprisingly fell to South Florida earlier this year. 

::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
QUARTERBACKS 
Davie has made it clear that the starting job is all Holiday's right now. While he believes tho sophomore quarterback gave the Irish a much needed spark, Holiday was worn out and fatigued when he left at haltimo. I !e's got a lot to prove Saturday. 
In an offense that is so dependent on the pass, Priestley does a solid job throwing the ball. He's completed 64 percent of his passes and only thrown one interception all year long. 

The Irish offense is beyond any prescription that a visit front Dr. Davie can fix. Sctta will keep the Irish on the scoreboard, but the explosiveness on the other side of the field will be too much for the Irish defense. Expect Bryant to contribute early and often. 
FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 24 Notre Dame 9 
The Panthers give up more yards rushing than one would expect. Most of Pitt's tackles are made by the secondary, and they've given up an average of 140 yards rushing per game. 
Pitt's front seven)sn't Texas A&M's "Wree)9ng Crew" .. The' b:isn,iihoUld at least{be a.tile wtislb­
li,~a decent ·run.nfug 
gam 
IRISH RUSHING 
Fisher and Junes have emerged as the top backs for the Irish, but they need more help from the offensive line. Notre Dame is only averaging a mere 89 yards per game. That's like Purdue not complet­ing a pass. 

IRISH PASSING 
All season long, the Irish have been reluctant to throw dePp passes. And when they do. the pass is usually intercepted. The Irish are completing just under 50 percent of their passes and have six inteceptions. 
Pitt's secondary isn't bad, but they aren't out­standing, either. They've picked up three inter­ceptions, but when they are tested, they tend to give up a lot of yards. South Florida passed for 343 three weeks ago against the Panthers. 
Andrew Soukup associate sports editor 
It's unfair to ask Holiday to do it all. But that's what the Irish have to do s1nce nobody else is doing much. The Irish secondary will get broken apart once again this week" by an explosive Pittsburgh receiving corps. Pittsburgh lowest offensive output is 21 points -against Miami ­while Notre Dame's best all season is 10. 
FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 28 Notre Dame 17


Noah Amstadter sports editor 
Friday, October 5,2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Pittsburgh
Panthers
oHead 
Record: 3-0 


While Kirkley is the fea­ture back for the Panthers, that's not say­ing much. He only aver­ages 64 yards per game. In general, the Panthers tend to use the pass and save the run for short yardage situations. 
If Irons and Boiman are both healthy, Notre Dame shouldn't have"too much of'µ pr;obleiP, ~­ping the'.lPanther$r ~­ing attack. Their ·4el'en­sive f.rom_ is si~ly too 
physifaJ. · 'S-'' This is where Pitt wins its games. In Bryant, the Panthers have one of the best receivers in the nation -and he's been injured. English has been the top receiver so far. In all, Pitt's spread offense results in 243 passing yards. 
In terms of returns, the Panthers are about the same level as the Irish. Lotz is 1-for-2 on field goal attempts. Lee is a solid punter -he had three land inside the 20-yard line and is averaging 40 yards a punt. 
rµ~}f~t•ir! 
b~sS'out 
(i~e
has 
'ect 
The Panthers don't have a whole lot to play for. 
.,,
They were expected to do better this season, but a shocking loss to 
~ 
C/)
South Florida set them 
CD 
back. However, they are 
C: 
::c
a program on the rise, 
Ci)
and a win over the Irish 
::c
would boost their confi­dence a lot. 
It's a sad day when the 
t,CO<}f 
otre
~~11 a_$;' ;f 
nl#o 
''l'f''farrs in and Texas A&M. Nobody knows how playing at home will help thli Irish. 


With .Jefferson on the bench, Lhe Irish sec­ondary improves 100 percent. But it is stUI not good enough to stop Antonio Bryant. Look for Bryant, who is healthy for the first time this year to have a big game while the Irish offensfl continues to struggle. 
FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 27 Notre Dame 10 

Kerry Smith 
AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 
Walt Harris fifth season at Pittsburgh career record: 
31-50 
at Pittsburgh: 
21-28 

Harris
against Notre 
head coach
Dame: 1-1 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  lit.  Wt  YR  
3  Taron Gray  DB  5-11  190  JR  
4  ChribCurd  lF  6-3  230  so  
5  Turrie Cox  DB  5-10  185  JR  
6  Malcolm Postell  RB  6-1  215  FR  
7  Shawn Robinson  WR  6-1  190  JR  
8  Donny Patrick  WR  6-2  205  FR  
9  AmirPurifuv  LB  6-2  235  SR  
JO  Monroe Wt..;kley  LB  6-3  250  FR  
11  David I'riestlv  QB  1\-4  210  SR  
12  Rod Rutherford  QB  6-3  215  so  
14  Mark l'onko  DB  5-J0  200  SR  
15  Brian Beinecke  LB  6-1  225  JR  
16  Pat Hoderny  QB  6-6  230  rR  
17  Corey Humphries  DB  6-2  205  so  
18  Jay Junko  WR/I'  6-4  220  JR  
19  Shawntae Spencer  DB  6-2  175  so  
20  Robb Butler  WR  6-0  205  JR  
21  /.).Home  WR  6-0  205  FR  
22  Marcus Furman  RB  5-8  175  FR  
23  Brennan Carroll  TE  h-4  265  SR  
24  Mike Jemison  RB  5-11  225  FR  
25  Ramon Walker  DB  6-0  195  JR  
26  Tim Murphy  RB  5-10  230  FR  
27  William Ferguson  DB  5-10  185  so  
28  Gary Urschler  DB  5-10  195  JR  
30  Dustin Picciotti  FB  6-3  255  so  
30  Sean Hughes  LB  6-1  225  FR  
31  Tyrone Gilliard  DB  5-11  185  FR  
32  Lousaka Polite  FB  6-0  245  FB  ........  
34  Brandon Williams  LB  6-0  225  SR  
35  Nick Lotz  RB  6-2  221  so  
35  Mike Pincsette  DB  5-11  193  SR  
36  Andy Lee  p  6-2  205  so  
37  Darren McCray  Rb  5-9  190  Hi  
38  Tyre Young  LB  6-0  250  FR  
39  Nick Cole  LB  6-2  240  SR  
40  Joe Dipre  LB  6-4  245  FR  
41  Scott McCurlev  LB  6-0  225  JR  
43  Raymond Kirkley  RB  5-10  210  FR  
44  James Johnson  RB  6-1  220  FR  
45  Erik Gill  TE  6-5  245  FR  
46  Tez Morris  DB  5-10  175  FR  
46  J.B. Gibboney  PK  5.9  165  FR  
47  Brian Guzek  DL  6-2  255  JR  
48  Lewis Moore  LB  6-2  245  so  
49  Abdur Abdullah  RB  6-0  215  FR  
49  Jonathan Sitter  LS  6-1  265  so  
50  Darryl Weston  C  6-4  270  FR  
50  George Peslis  DL  6-0  260  so  
51  · Gerald Hayes  LB  6-3  245  JR  
52  Dan LaCarte  OL  6-4  285  so  
53  Brandon Hayes  DL  6-4  285  FR  
54  Troy Banner  DL  6-3  285  FR  
54  Nick Pietracatell_o  OL  6-3  280  so  
55  Ryan Gonsales  LB  6-2  245  SR  
56  Thomas Smith  DL  6-4  245  FR  
57  Bryan Knight  DL  6-2  240  SR  
58  RvanSmith  DL  6-4  255  JR  
59  Mike BosnIC  OL  6-7  280  SR  
60  Woodly Telfort  OL  6-6  320  FR  
61  Mark Caldwell  OL  6-6  280  FR  
62  Justin Belarski  C  6-3  280  FR  
63  Darrell Mc.Murray  DL  6-4  295  so  
64  Chad Reed  C  6-3  290  JR  
64  Matt Singleton  DL  6-1  210  so  
66  Penny Semaia  OL  6-5  315  so  
67  Dale Williams  OL  6-5  290  FR  
68  Matt Maiers  OL  6-3  270  so  
69  Kurt Johnson  LS  6-1  260  so  
70  Joe Manganello  OL  6-4  295  JR  
71  Jon Schall  OL  6-4  295  so  
74  Jon Pressnell  OL  6-4  280  FR  
75  Matt Morgan  OL  6-7  295  so  
76  Saul Freund  OL  6-7  315  FR  
. 77  Bryan Anderson  OL  6-5  310  JR  
78  Rob Petitti  OL  6-6  230  FR  
80  Antonio Bryant  WR  6-2  195  JR  
81  Joe Stephens  WR  6--0  175  . FR  
82  David Reese  WR  5-11  175  1-'R  
83  Kris Wilson  TE  6-3  240  so  
84  R.J. English  WR  6-3  215  SR  
85  Darcey Levy  WR  6-2  215  SR  
86  Lamar Slade  WR  6-4  205  JR  
87  Roosevelt Bynes  WR  6-1  170  FR  
88  Matt MPfford  DL  6-3  280  so  
90  Claude Harriott  DL  6-4  245  so  
92  Charles Steffy  DL  6-2  295  JR  
93  Jake Holthaus  DL  6-1  280  FR  
94  Dan Stephens  DL  6-2  285  FR  
95  Charles Spencer  DL  6-5  295  FR  
96  Vince Crochwi.is  DL  6-4  280  FR  
97  Kevin Harris  DL  6-5  245  FR  
98  Joe Conlin  DL  6-5  290  SR  

Pitt has the statistical edge in nearly every cut,egory. Notre Dame's offense has played horribly, while Pitt has proven that its offense can get the job done. Notre Dame fans are mad. But so are the players. And they will show it on Saturday by playing over their heads and trying to put a new spin on the season. Sometimes frustration can lead to determination. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 Pittsburgh 17 
assistant managing editor 
• I 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 5, 2001 
Notre Dame isn't the same when it loses 
What is the first word peo­ple think of when you say, ''Notre Dame?" What do you talk about with people when you talk about Notre Dame? What word fills in this state­ment from a kindly old man: "Well 

sonny, how 
'bout that 
team?" 
The word is football. Football is the word on everyone's lips after the words "Notre Dame." 
Now, I'm not saying defin­ing Notre Dame by football is always a good thi11g. 
Surely this fine University has more to offer than a foot­ball program coated in tradi­tion and success. But it seems no matter how many advertisements the Notre Dame public relations department runs touting Notre Dame's academics, spirituality and dining halls, people in this country will always associate Notre Dame, first and foremost, with football. 
Football has brought this University untold prestige, visitors, and money. 
They make movies about our program and players truly unique things about Notre Dame. 
Rut, with nir.ent losses, wt1 must face a sobering reality. 
Will they keep coming to Notre Dame if we keep los­ing? 
Will they keep buying licensed shirts. hats and plaid pants that pour monoy into the University's well­stuffed wallet? 
Will they turn on NBC each Saturday to watch the unranked, 0-3 Irish? 
Who knows. 
Bob Davie is 30-22 in four­plus years. Take out this year's losses, and average out his last four seasons, and rounding in his favor, Notre 
upset 
wlrnn we lose. That's why we booed tlrn coaching staff after Michigan State. That's·why. half the student body folded its arms during the 1812 Overture two Saturdays ago. 
We get upset when we lose games because we define ourselves as part of Notre Dame, and central to both Notre Dame's identity and our own identity is fontball. We have to win football games, or we don't feel quite right. 
On a greater scale, our national reputation is greatly affected by the succei,s of our football team more than any other University in the coun­try. Unfair, maybe, but the truth. 
And, ultimately, the person most responsible for the suc­cess of Notre Dame football is Davie. While the position of head football coach at Notre Dame carries the annoyance of the media and alumni con­stantly hounding your every move, it also carries the opportunity to become, like Rockne, Leahy, Parsegian and Holtz. a coaching god, eternally respected and remembered. 
These losing troubles have happened before. During the Gerry Faust years, Notre Dame was worse than we are right now. Faust was fired, and they brought in a coach named Lou Holt.z. who offered Notre Dame football a new beginning, a national championship, and newfound pride. The program returned to prominence strongf\r than ever. 
We need someone to bring us back. Who will that person be Davie or someone else? Only Kevin White, Monk Malloy. and a few trustees will determine that. 
But I know a coach, a small guy with sandy blond hair that could make it happen, but it would take some con­vincing. 
Lou, will you take us back? 
Jeff Baltruzak can be reached atjbaltrul@nd.edu. The views ofthis column arc those of the author and arc not necessarily those of The Observer. 
game hype 
from our program that weren't even good, playP-rs that were "five-foot-no thin', a 100 and nothin'." People come to Notre Dame for games even though they've never known anyone who went here. 
Why is this? 
Eleven national champi­onships. The Gipper. Rudy. Highest winning percentage of all time. Play Like a Champion Today. Touchdown 
Dame is 8-5 each season, and 
0-3 in bowl games. 
How many 8-5 teams do 
you know with national TV 
contracts with NBC? 
One. 
How many years do you 
think we'll have a national 
TV contract losing five games 
a season? 
Hard to tell. . The scary thing about Notre Dame's recent medioc­-rity is that it might last long enough to 
Jesus. The overshad­fight song. The scary thing about ow the 
They all add up to an unspoken but well-felt mys­ Notre Dame's recent mediocrity is that it might last long enough to  program's great his­tory, and that would  
lique around  overshadow the  be a true  
this University, a mystique that  program's great history, and that would be a true  shanw. That's why we  
is one of the  shame.  get so  


Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"J couldn't sleep Saturday night." 

Kurt Vollers Irish lineman 
"/ think it's a storied program. All ofthat stuffis over real fast, though.,, 
"If they boo, make sure they boo when Pittsburgh is at the line of 
scrimmage. " 

Tony Fisher Irish tailback 
'1 can't say I blame them, but it sucks to be on this side ofthe boo." 

FDNY Engil'.le Co. 214 

WHEN: this Sunday October 7 4:00 p.m. start WHERE: Start & Registration in front of St. Ed's 
HOW MUCH: $10 registration fee (includes t-shirt) 
PROCEEDS WILL GO TO FDNY ENGINE CO. 214 This event sponsored by ND Student Government 
, I 1 I ­
AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 5, 2001 
A LOOK Ar THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION 
page 7 
.. 
-
t{lam 1 · Miami {34) 
2 Florida (22) 
3 Oklahoma (9) 
4 . tiebraska (2) 5 Texas(4) · i; Tennessee {7) 

1 .. Oregon . . .~•.. 
6 Virginia Tech 9 UCLA 10 Fresno State (1) 11 Washington 12 Kansas State 
13 Sou1b Carnlina 
14 Northwestern 
15 Ml~higan 16 f.klrida State 17 ' Gaorgia Jech 18." • lSU i9 Clemson 
20 BYU · 21 Purdue 
22 . Stanford 23 Toledo 24 TexnA&M 25 Maryland 

ESPN/USA Todayr 
team 
Miamf (35) Florida (16} Oklahoma (8} Nebraska Texas Virginia Tech 
Tennessee Orngon 
UCLA 
Washington Fresno State fi) South Carolina Kansas. State Florida State Michigan Northwestern Georgia Tech 
BYU 
GAME OF THE WEEK 
;/4?&',t\/ ,i,&H 
~i:l~.;r:;·M···1 
~··;;~: 

1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
10< 
11 
12 13 14' 15 16 11 18 
. 1& 

1,308 1,252 1,139 
1,00ti 997 
952 

1,458 1,436 1,370 1,315 1,263 1,1Z8 
·•·•·1,H9··· ··· "1;188 
• 
. 4'-11 > · 4-IJ . S·fl 
3'-0 · 
·,·a,tQ\... 
+418 
A-.o· 
···~o 
>,4•0 
,#f!L ··••$41\•··.... 
in that game. The Sooners took offense. Head Coach Bob Stoops told the Associated Press, "We like to think we had something to do with it." 
Quarterback Chris Simms, son of NFL Hall of Fame quarterback Phil Simms, is the wild card for the Longhorns. He completed 21 of 2 6 passes in last week's 42­7 victory over Texas Tech. 
The Sooners have won 17 in a row. However. Kansas State exposed some holes in their high­ly touted defense by scoring 37 points against 
Oklahoma last Saturday. 
Poor tackling  was  the  
main  reason  for  the  
breakdown.  

A key to this game could be the fact that Texas has yet to play in a close football game this year. Simms has improved steadily, but with little game pressure on him. That will change this weekend. Look for the Oklahoma defense to try to rattle him with blitzes and disguised coverage packages. Oklahoma needs to return to their normal defensive ways, or they will have to start a new win streak next week. 

around the dial 
Notre Dame at Texas A&M 
1:30 p.m., ABC 
Georgia at Tennessee 
11 a.m., ABC 
Iowa at Purdue 
11:00 a.m., ESPN 
Virginia Tech at West Virginia 11:00 a.m., ESPN2 
Michigan at Penn State 
2:30 p.m., CBS 
Oklahoma at Texas 
6:45 p.m., ESPN 
By GREG LADKY 
Sports Writer 
The Red River Shootout is one of the most heated rivalries in all of sports, filled with hatred. This year's battle between the No. 5 Longhorns and the No. 3 Sooners at the Cotton Bowl has added significance -a national championship is on the line. For the first time since 1984, both teams are in the top five going into the shootout. 
Texas and Oklahoma have won nine of the last 50 Associated Press National Championships. 
Both programs are in the top 10 in all-time wins and winning percentage. Names such as Brain Bozworth, Ricky Williams, Bud Wilkinson, Barry Switzer, and Darryl Royal add to the story of this rivalry. This year's teams will likely add to that list. Both squads are loaded with NFL talent. 
Oklahoma embarrassed Texas 63-14 last year at the Cotton Bowl. Current Sooner running back Quentin Griffin had six touchdowns in that game. Texas Head Coach Mack Brown said his team was "complacent" 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Rorida at LSU 
So far, No. 2 Florida has looked unstoppable. However, the Gators looked unstoppable in 1997 until they went to Baton Rouge and fell to LSU. The No. 18 Tigers will look to pull off a bigger upset this Saturday. 
Last week, Rex Grossman became the first Florida quarterback to throw for 300 yards in four straight games. More impressively, he did that by halftime in 52-0 rout of Mississippi State, which boasted thP No. 1 pass defense going into the game. 
Despite a shaky pass defense, LSU has the fifth­ranked defense in the country, to go along with a tal­ented offense featuring Rohan Davey at quarterback. The Tigers played Tennessee tough in Knoxville last week, losing 26-18. 
Florida won't lose at home this season. 'But road games are a different story, and this appears to be the toughest for the Gators. LSU has the ability to pull off the upset, but need to play their best game to upset the Gators. 
Michigan at Penn State 
Penn State looks to avoid their first 0-4 start in school history when they take on the No. 15 Wolverines this Saturday. Joe Paterno has never lost four in a row at any point in the season. 
Paterno is still one win from tying Bear Bryant's all time victory mark as head coach at 323 victories. Even the legendary coach is hearing heavy criticism these days from the Penn State faithful. 
The Penn State offense is struggling. They have not scored more than one touchdown in a game this year. .... One of the two touchdowns versus Iowa came on a blocked punt return in a 28-14 loss last weekend. 
Michigan looked impressive in a 45-20 win over Illinois on Saturday. The defense is allowing only 58.5 yards rushing a game. 
Pew expected the Michigan offense to be able to put up 45 points against any team this year. Combined with their defense. Michigan is now the front-runner in the Big Ten. But don't count out "Joe Pa" and the Nittany Lions in Happy Valley on Saturday. 
,f' ! I j , 
page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 5, 2001 

A Single Store ® 
One Stop Shopping For all your Enter to Win I• I• 
.. 
. . chip 
en 
. hot def: ~:-P? 2 o ; o 1 e
. bread 
. display 
. 
*Exclusive to Meijer* 
Team Notre Dame Hats, Visors and Apparel *Game day attire *Car flags *Window clings *Irish Sweatshirts & T-Shirts *Football Yearbooks *ND Women's Championship Basketball Videos And much, much more... 



Visit us at: 
l-
5020 Grape road 3600 n. portage road 
open 24/7 for all your shopping needs 
.., 




