

Eldred's actions under fire 
Eldred held CARE officers responsible for the "Monologues." but The Observer calls the BOT to hold Eldred accountable for hers. 
Viewpoint . page 8 

They're running the distance 
ND's own Ryan Shay and Liz Grow run for the gold today in the NCM Indoor Track and Field Championships 
Sports . page 17 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 104 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

CARE officers prepare response to Eldred, Board 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 

The four officers of Campus Alliance for Rape Eliminate (CARE) will send College President Marilou Eldred a letter today responding to her request for an apology from the officers for their role in a reading of "The Vagina Monologues" on Feb. 19. 
The response will not be an apology of a traditionally understood definition. Rather than "expressing regret for a fault or insult (Webster's New World Dictionary)" the response will be an apology as under­stood by the Greeks -"a formal defense of some idea or doctrine {\Vebster's)," according to CARE officer Emily Koelsch. 
"We are responding to Dr. Eldred's request with a defense of our role regard­ing 'The Vagina Monologues' at Saint Mary's College," Koelsch. 
The letter will be delivered, as request­ed, to the Office of the President by 4 p.m., Koelsch said. 
The controversy concerning the actions of the four CARE officers stems from their involvement in a public reading of the "Monologues." On Jan. 18, the CARE offi­cers wrote a letter to the Board of Trustees that stated: "The college has decided that it will not support a perfor­mance of 'The Vagina Monologues' this year, and out of respect for this college.. we will abide by that decision." Eldred claims in a letter to the officers on Wednesday that their participation in the public reading constituted "overt sup­port." 
CARE officers said their letter to Eldred will define what they consider support. Koelsch said the officers believe that sup­porting the "Monologues" would have required the officers to fund the perfor­mance, book a room for the performance or advertise for the performance. Koelsch said the officers did not do any of these things. 
The response will also address what the CARE officers believe is a difference between writing the Board of Trustees let­ter as CARE officers and reading the 
Excerpt from student response 
"As students of a liberal arts college, we realize that the word 'apology' comes from the Greek word, 'apologia,' which is a written defense of one's opinion or conduct. Thus, we are respond~ ing to Dr. Eldred's request with a defense of our role regarding 'The Vagina Monologues' at SMC. II 
"Monologues" as individuals. 
Koelsch, Ang Romano, Julie Frischkorn and Katie Poynter will sign the response to Eldred without mention of their titles of CARE officers. In the letter to the Board of Trustees, however. the officers signed the letter 2000-2001 Officers of CARE as well as including their individual signatures with their titles. 
"We signed it as officers of CARE," Frischkorn said, adding later the letter was written only from the officers, not on behalf of CARE. 
"We didn't feel comfortable speaking on 


Professors question sanctions on Iraq 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 

Sanctions against Iraq should not be used to sanction Sadam Hussein but instead should focus on limiting the Iraqi military's to create weapons of mass destruction, according to two experts at the Kroc Institute. George Lopez and David Cortright, authors of "The Sanctions Decade: Assessing UN Strategy in the 1990s," said the sanc­tions against Iraq are hurting the people of Iraq more than Hussein. 
"The goal [of the sanctions] is to get the inspection team in to check on chemical and biological weapons," said Lopez. a professor of government and international studies and a fellow in the University's Kroc Institute. "It's not about Saddam Hussein, it's about a sov­ereign nation's defiance of a Security Council resolution." 
According to Lopez, the sanctions are successful but hurt the average Iraqi cit­izen. 
"The sanctions have helped to limit the military power of the Baghdad regime [but) they have had a severe impact on humanitarian conditions," said David Cortright, a guest lecturer in the Kroc Institute. "Professor Lopez and I have argued that there is no benefit to maintaining the civilian trade sanc­tions." 
The U.N..estimates the sanctions have contributed to the chronic malnutrition of nearly one million Iraqi children. There has been a lack of medical sup­plies to combat illnesses such as bacteri­al meningitis and leukemia. 
"You know. sanctions don't hurt gov• ernments, they hurt people. Presidents are not hurt by sanctions," an Iraqi offi­cial told a New York Times reporter under condition of anonymity. 
Critics opposed to altering the sanc­tions place the blame for the country's current situation solely on Hussein. They contend the nation's problems are 
l i-

AFP Photo 

Iraqi citizens protest U.S. sanction. The U.S. Intends to use the sanctions as a check on chemical and biological weapons, but critics of the sanctions claim that the recent actions harm citizens as opposed to protecting their Interests. 
the result of the dictator's refusal to toward his top supporters. spend his allowances of oil money on those who need it, instead diverting it see IRAQ/page 4 
Friday 

I 
. I
MARCH 9, I 
2001 


behalf of the whole group," Frischkorn 
said. "They [all CARE members] weren't 
involved in the dialogue with the adminis­
tration." 
The officers were aware of their leader~ 
ship positions during negotiations with the 
administration, however. 
"The four of us were making decisions 
for CARE in our leadership capacity," 
Koelsch said. 
"It's really the four of us making deci­
sions for CARE," Frischkorn said. 
Although they now claim they did not write the Board of Trustees letter on behalf of CARE, Koelsch said in an inter­view on Wednesday that the Board of . Trustees letter promised that CARE would 
not sponsor the play. 
"We were very careful with our seman­
tics saying that CARE would not sponsor 
it," Koelsch. 
Koelsch would not comment as to 
whether or not the authors of the Board of 
Trustees letter should be understood in 
the same context as the authors of today's 
response. 
ND profs aw·arded Fulbright 
By BRIGID SWEENEY 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame professors 
are among the 800 U.S. 
scholars who were awarded 
Fulbright grants, which allow 
recipients to lecture or con­
duct research in 140 coun­
tries around the world, for 
year. 
David Kirkner, an associate professor in the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, is con­ducting research at the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw. He will expand upon a mathematical theory he previously constructed to pre­dict the occurrence and loca­tion of thermal cracks in pavement. 
"Thermal cracks are those cracks that run perpendicu­lar to the direction of the road or sidewalk," Kirkner explained. "Under tension, asphalt is weak and when the temperature drops, the pave­ment tries to contract and is put into tension. Then, at weak points, cracks are gen­erated." 
Kirkner's new research will expand his theory to account for the fact that the tensile strength of the asphalt varies randomly. He is collaborat­ing with Kazimierz Sobczyk, a professor at the Polish 
see FULBRIGHT/page 4 

page 2 Thursday, March 8, 200 I 
The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The madness begins 
There are many wonderful things about Notre Dame. Among them are the Dome, the Grotto, the Notre Dame family and Siegfried tailgates. Currently, though, the best thing about our University is its decision to schedule spring break to coincide with the first week of March Madness. It's the only time of the year that Gonzaga is a household word. It's when everyone can wonder, where exactly is Coppin State? Sixty-four teams, only one will be able to win six games in a row. March Madness is as good as it gets. 
And with no tests or papers to worry about and no class to attend, the entire week can be devoted to fill­ing out brackets and watch­ing the tournament unfold. 

Last year I thought I had it all figured out. 
I was coming off a good 1999 trip to Bracketville. I was pretty much the only person I knew who didn't pick Duke to win. I got used to people looking at me like I'd been on a vacation to Mars during the basketball season. Predicting their loss kept me quite satisfied until Selection Sunday 2000. 
Then I went to work. . 

After 10 hours and 39 minutes filling out my brackets, I was satisfied. I researched all teams, checked home and road records and evaluated injury reports. I considered how teams would match up with each other and gauged team motivation. And I thought about intangibles, gut feelings, and my belief that more often than not a No. 10 seed will beat a No. 7 seed. . 
My women's brackets took less time. Upsets aren't as frequent and it's easy to pick Notre Dame, Connecticut and Tennessee to go straight to the top. 
I convinced everyone who was near and dear to me that their life would not be complete unless they'd filled out brackets. Both men's and women's -I had to remind a few people that more that one NCAA championship was at stake. 
March Madness was here. (By the way, who at 
CBS was responsible for deciding they'd call it 
March Mayhem? Note to them -maybe next 
you can try calling the Super Bowl the "really 
great" bowl or something.) 

When my mom sent me her brackets. I had to 
laugh. I wasn't sure exactly what method she'd 
picked to select schools. But she obviously knew 
nothing of my superior, research intensive, bas­
ketball intuition-based system. 

A few hours into Thursday's games, it was 
clear that March Madness was in full swing. It 
was also clear that my brackets were turning 
against me. 

When the dust settled and Michigan State had 
won the tournament, I tallied the points on 
everyone's brackets. I finished dead last. My 
mother was the overwhelming winner. Her supe­
rior system? She decided to pick Catholic schools 
when she could and then Florida because of 
South Dakota native Mike Miller. And mostly she 
just guessed. Go figure. 

A year later I've recovered enough that rm 
counting the minutes until I can fill out my 
brackets. But I have one very important score to 
settle. 
Watch out Mom, this is my year. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kiflin Turner Amanda Greco Scott Brodfuehrer Graphics Meg Daday Katie McKenna Sports Production Noah Amstadter Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Pat Kelly Amanda Hughes 
The Obmver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccp1 during exam and vacation pc:riods.-Thc Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Fire destroys Regina room 

Wednesday, March 8, 1972 Oil from a popcorn machine ignited in the popper and gut­ted a fourth floor room in Regina Hall. The resident of room 404 attempted to extinguish the fire by throwing the popper into her sink, but only suceeded in extending the flames to a set of towels hanging nearby. The room's bed, ceiling and walls were destroyed, but the resident's clothes were saved and the rest of the dorm was not damaged. 
Alcohol committee stresses immorality 
Monday, March 5, 1984 "Drunkenness is immoral. Period... That, says Alcohol Committee Chairman Father William Beauchamp, was the basis of the committee's decision on 1985's alcohol policy. According to Beauchamp, the main problem on campus is that "drunkenness is recognized as acceptable conduct by our students. Students should be confronted about drunk­enness because it is not accepted in society." 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
OSU profes~or gets 51 months for child porn 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

An Oklahoma State University architecture professor who pleaded guilty last year to the federal charge of knowingly possessing computer images of child pornography on his office computer -including 43 images of boys under 18 -received a 51-month prison sentence Tuesday. 
Officials from the U.S. Department of Justice accepted the Nov. 13, 2000, plea agreement entered by Eric Neil Angevine, 51, which lowered his sen­tence from five years in prison and a maximum $250,000 fine to four years and three months in prison. 
Under the agreement, Angevine pleaded guilty to possession of child pornography involving his OSU com­puter. Another count pertaining to stored images of child pornography 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 

on his home computer was dismissed. 
Under federal sentencing guide­lines, Angevine's potential term of imprisonment could have ranged from 41 to 51 months. 
"Every situation is different," said Joe Heaton, first assistant U.S. attor­ney for the Western District of Oklahoma on Wednesday afternoon. "But in this case, the judge sentenced [Angevine] to the very top of the guideline range." 

Heaton said Angevine will remain in the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service until a date is set for the com­mencement of his prison term. 
Angevine -terminated from the university on Nov. 13, 2000 -was indicted Aug. 16 on charges of know­ingly possessing child pornography on both his OSU and home computer. 
OSU officials said Wednesday that the university stands by its termina­tion of Angevine. 
"He was suspended without pay after he was ihdicted pending the out­come of the trial," said Nestor Gonzales, OSU news bureau chief, referring to the period of time between August and November, 2000, before Angevine was officially terminated. 
Knight to sue president, trustees 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Former men's basketball coach Bob Knight filed a claim last week saying that he intends to sue IU President Myles Brand and the IU board of trustees, cit­ing damages of more than $7 million. A tort claim notice, obtained Thursday from the University, cites slander, libel. defamation and tortious interference with con­tracts, stemming from "wrongful termination." Russell Yates, Knight's lawyer, said a lawsuit will be filed if the University won't negotiate. "I still hope we can resolve it, but [Brand] seems to be dragging his feet in talking to us." Yates said. "We got tired of waiting, and we didn't want to run up against the deadline." Friday will be six months after the termination of Knight's contract, the deadline for filing tort claims. Yates said. University spokeswoman Susan Dillman said she hopes Knight does not choose to pursue the tort claim further. "We were disappointed and taken aback to hear the allegations contained in the notice of tort claim," Dillman said. "The charges are frivolous and totally without merit." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather41 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
, 


.rn~·• r".). ~ ~ ~ h ~ ~ 
~ ~ . ..:..:..:. ---~ ~ 
' ' ''' ' ' ' ' •••• •• ¦ • ~ -:: ­
·=· -­

Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy v... Auocutled Pr•u Gnlpl!ICSNBI 
UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO 
Bug gives extra state funding 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

The university might have received more than its share of state funding in recent years due to a computer prob­lem that was not discovered until a mock audit in October 1999, according to University of Toledo officials. "The bug in the system was first brought to our attention in fall of 1999," said Joan Webster, senior systems ana­lysts for information technology. University officials could not say how much extra money UT may have gotten due to the error. "Basically, one problem is with the promote rule," said Patsy Scott, executive director of institutional research. The program was also placing graduate stu­dents with more than 30 credit hours in a position that allowed the university to gain additional subsidies, Scott said. The promote rule classifies student rank according to the number of credit hours that a student earns. It has two components: undergraduate level and graduate level. Degreed students or students in graduate programs with more than 34 graduate credit hours are supposed to be plac~d into the doctoral pool, Scott said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

.......... 
WARM STATIONARY

O 2001 AccuWealher, Inc. COLD 
,.,..._,

® © . ~ ETil E::::::I k~•'.;;~~ ~ ~~> -~wt) i~~j 
Hlgh Low Show•re Rain T••tormaa Flurrie ¦ Snow Ice $ynny Pt. CloU<ly Cloudy 
Via .4.$.SOdated Press  
Atlanta  57  32  Las Vegas  67  51  Portland  34  28  
Baltimore  40  28  Memphis  54  34  Sacramento  60  41  
Boston  36  29  Milwaukee  34  25  St Louis  47  34  
Chicago  36  25  New York  38  31  Tampa  67  54  
Houston  68  56  Philadelphia  42  29  Washington. DC 46  30  

-
page 3

Friday, March 9, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC demos registration system 
Observer appoints 
ter the students for classes and
By MOLLY McVOY 

provide the students with a pre­
Saint Mary's Editor 

liminary schedule. 
Now, the students will directly Saint Mary's students will sign up for non-major classes now use the Internet for a large through the Banner system. part of the class registration "There will be slots of times to process. register in Banner, probably 
This spring, students will use about 10 hours long," Kichner 
the  new  said.  "The  
Banner sys­ times will be  
tem  to  pre­ "This system gives  spread out and  
register for all of their non-major  students flexibility. They don't even have  there will be times at the end of the day  
level classes.  to leave their rooms. "  if you can't fit  
"This sys­ in  your  
tem gives students flex­ Lorraine Kitchner  desired time." Just as with  
ibility," said  Saint Mary's Registrar  the  original  

Lorraine Kitchner, the College's registrar who spear­headed the system. "They don't even have to leave their rooms." 
The Banner system has been in place since the fall and has been used for inter-class com­munication. access to grades and posting assignments. Registration has been previous­ly accomplished 'by meeting with workers in the registrar's office. With a list of desired classes, the workers pre-regis­

pre-registra­
tion, rising seniors will have priority slots and the slots will follow by class rank. The process begins on April 17 with the rising senior class. 
In order to log on to the sys­tem, students will need a pin number from their advisor. 
"Getting the pin number from their advisor assures us that the students are still being advised," Kitchner said. 
The new system gives the stu­programmed into the system that allows students to search for classes by subject, time or By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
day. This allows students to find 
Ireland Correspondant 
more appropriate schedules. "This allows students to nar­

The Observer announces
row their search and find class­its 2001-2002 General Boardes that fit," Kitchner said. "They 

which will begin its term
can take more control of their March 19. 
schedule." 

The General Board com­
The system was tested on prises the Editorial Board

members of the student acade­and the Operations Board ofmic council. Results were main­The Observer. The Generally positive and the feedback was 

Board must approve all
very helpful, according to 

changes to the Observer
Kitchner. 

charter and elects the editor"SAC seemed to really like it," in chief. 
Kitchner said. "They gave me The Editorial Board con•very good suggestions of how to 

sists of the editor of each
get it out to the students." 
section of the paper.
Presently, only students at the Jason McFarley. a sopho­home campus will use the sys­more from O'Neill Hall, hastem. In the future, the College been named the next Newshopes to expand the system to Editor. McFarley joined Theallow students living abroad to 

Observer in the spring of
take advantage of the system. It 

2000 and has served as
is unlikely that incoming fresh­

Assistant News Editor this
men will use the system, but it year.
may be a possibility. 

Noah Amstadter, a junior"I don't think the freshman from Keough Hall, has beenoffice is quite ready for incom­promoted to Sports Editor.
ing freshmen to use this," 

Amstadter has been a mem­Kitchner said. 
ber of the sports staff since his freshman year and has covered a wide range of ath­letic events. Most recently 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
Amstadter has covered women's basketball while serving as Assistant Sports Editor. 
Pat McElwee, a sophomore from St. Ed's Hall, is the dents more options, according to Kitchner. Search engines are 
new General Board 
new Viewpoint Editor. McElwee assisted with the management of the opinions and editorials of The Observer as an Associate Viewpoint Editor this year. 
Peter Richardson, a junior who lives in Castle Point, has been promoted from News Photo Editor to Photo Editor. 
Amanda Greco, a sopho­more at Holy Cross, will con­
tinue in her role  as Scene  
Editor.  
Myra McGriff.  a  junior  

from LeMans Hall, will suc­ceed to the position of Saint Mary's Editor. McGriff has worked in the news depart­ment this spring. 
The Operations Board con­sists of the heads of each business department at The Observer. 
Kimberly Springer, a junior from Lewis Hall, has been promoted from Interim Advertising Manager to Advertising Manager. 
Adam Turner. a junior from Dillon Hall, will contin­ue in his role as Web Administrator for the 2001­2002 school year. 
Kevin Ryan, a freshman from Morrissey, has been hired as the new Controller of The Observer. 
The new General Board will assume their positions after Spring Break. 
•' ,'.·..· 
·: 'j( 

A'. f;:·::·:,·"·A--" .R.........,.· .. M . 'Et"""F;f"'"f ··s 

Jlll)i i Ol!iil.lll¥!!11IOM.l!•!fl!&H•!ll!!l!l!l!ll!ll!IUI!!!! ! ........!l!!l. ...... u...!.J!.;!!(.!!!!i!i!ii!.i.,!illi!lii,iU Hil.11.~li! !.~iMi.~!.!.E--1!:!!.!U.~mu .!!!. l.!.!!!!!13!!!! !!.t. . .!!J.iil!!J Ji !!ii 
Castle Point 
Select Units 
Available for 
Next Semester 
::-within Minutes of Campus::.. -Spacious one and two bedrooni aparttnents, son1e with lofts and dens. -Includes n1en1bership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 9, 2001 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
Regardless of who is respon­sible, many U.N. nations have begun to resent the sanctions because of growing in terna­tional concern for the Iraqi people. As a result, proposals to change the sanctions have been made. 
Lopez and Cortright recently published a 50-page report in collaboration with the Kroc Institute and the Fourth Freedom Forum. A six-person research team interviewed more than 200 experts and provided the State Department and UN Security Council with suggestions for changing the sanctions. The report is similar to the goals of the smart sane­tions presented by Secretary of State Colin Powell. Lopez believes his report may have laid a foundation for the smart sanctions. 

"I can't say to you that because the [decision makers] had our preliminary outline in hand that they said what they said and did what they did, but in the general discussions about what constitutes smart sanctions, our stuff has been pretty important," he said. 
The goal of the smart sanc­tions is to prohibit the entrance of military weapons into Iraq while minimizing the impact on civilians. In an executive sum­mary of the report, the research team recommended increasing the monitoring of border crossings, compensating border states, beginning to pay Iraq's external debts and main­taining the UN managed oil account. The report aims at establishing a united front against Iraq to enforce military sanctions and revised economic sanctions. 
"No single element of this smart sanctions package stands alone in wielding suffi­cient coercive clout. But linked together such controls provide a tightened sanctions regime," states the summary. 
Lopez is confidant that the new propositions will inject new life into the sanctions and he credits Powell for jump­starting a process that he anticipated would take longer. 
"The end goal here is to restore the willingness of the Border States and powerful states to continue to keep mili­tary sanctions on Iraq and to pressure Iraq to fulfill disarma­ment requirements," Lopez said. 

Fulbright 
continued from page 1 
Academy of Sciences and a well-known researcher in the field of stochastic mechanics, or mechanics which involve probability. 
"Professor Sobczyk is a good friend of our department here at Notre Dame," Kirkner said. "He has visited us many times, the last time during the 1997-98 school year as the Visiting Melchor Chair in Civil Engineering." 
Robert Norton, professor and chair of the Department of German and Russian Languages and Literatures, is cur­rently using his grant to study at the International Research Center for Cultural Studies in Vienna, Austria. Norton's research focuses on German cultural conser­vatism from 1910-30. 
A visiting professor, Pietro Boitani from the University of Rome "La Sapienza," Rome, is at Notre Dame as the result of a Fulbright grant. He is lecturing on "Biblical and Greco-Roman Rewritings throughout Italian Literature." 
The U.S. Department of State sponsors the scholarships, with additional funding provided by participating govern­ments and host institutions. 
Profs earn Carnegie award for research 
By KATHERINE BRICK 
News Writer 
Harvey Bender, professor of biological sciences, and Todd Whitmore, associate professor of Theology, recently were named · Carnegie Scholars by t h e Carnegie Foundation and the P e w Charitable T r u s t s . Bender w h i C h awards university-level teachers for their original research in effec­tive teaching. 

Bender, who teaches human genetics for non-science majors. said he is most inter­ested in "corrupting all stu­dents" into appreciating sci­ence and seeing science as "an altogether human act." 
His research involves the best strategies to make every student scientifically literate. The idea of scientific literacy, the backbone of Bender's stud­ies, is based on the students' ability to become involved and interested in the class. 
Bender said scientific litera­cy is "a method of resolution ­a mindset, an attitude, as well as factual information and material. knowing that you don't know everything, and finding out how to figure it out." 
Bender said he is excited to 
be named a Carnegie Scholar 
because the honor is presented 
for the purpose of measuring 
the impact of different strate­
gies on a class, instead of 
devising a specific curriculum. 
"It's very intriguing because 
it's not an award for teaching 
excellence or importance; it is 
to advance specific teaching 
techniques," Bender said. 
Whitmore, who teaches a 
Theology 100 class, focused his 
research on making students 
consider social issues such as 
human rights, poverty and sol­
idarity. His main project cen­
ters on inspiring students' 
commitment to community ser­
vice and social action. As a 
result, Whitmore now directs a 
course of study at Notre Dame 
called Catholic Social Thought, 
which encourages social action 
and explores its effects. 
The two professors will use 
the awards, which grant them 
technical support as well as 

time away from the classroom, to continue to research meth­ods of teaching which could increase interest and learning in classes. During their year as Carnegie Scholars, 20 students enrolled in both Bender's Human 

Genetics class and Whitmore's Theology class will participate in discus­sions on topics 
Whitmore related to 
genetics which will involve the social connections to advances in sci­ence. 
Both professors plan to incorporate the strategies that they have developed into their teaching to better prepare stu­dents for further study in the subject, They will work with the other 28 members of the Carnegie Scholars Class of 1999-2000 over the summer in order to continue their research. 
Gundlach appointed chair 
Special to The Observer 
Marketing professor Gregory Gundlach has been appointed by University of Notre Dame Provost Nathan Hatch to the newly cre­ated John W. Berry, Sr., Chair in the Mendoza College of Business. 
The endowed professorship was funded by a trust created by the late John Berry, Sr., a Dayton, Ohio, businessman and philan­thropist who served for 25 years on the advi­sory council of Notre Dame's business college. 
"Greg is an outstanding scholar whose work is grounded in a combination of discipli­nary training in marketing and law," Hatch said. "He has established a strong reputation as one of the undisputed authorities in the sub-field of marketing and society -an area in which Notre Dame's marketing department as a whole has become the national leader ­and is most deserving of this appointment." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1987, Gundlach studies the interplay of mar­keting and the law, with particular emphasis on competition policy and antitrust law. He is the coeditor of "The Handbook of Marketing and Society" (Sage Publ!cations, 2000}, the first book to examine comprehensively the scholarly research on how marketing affects societal welfare. 
Gundlach is among the nation's foremost experts on "slotting fees," the controversial practice of retailers and wholesalers requir­ing a payment from manufacturers before agreeing to allocate shelf or warehouse space to the manufacturers' product. 

Introduced in the 1980s, slotting fees (or allowances} have become prevalent in the grocery industry and are becoming increas­ingly common in other· business sectors including computer software, books, maga­zines, apparel, over-the-counter drugs, alco­hol and tobacco products, and most recently the Internet. These payments usually are negotiated in secrecy and required in advance, without public disclosure of their terms. 
Gundlach has provided expert testimony on the subject on several occasions before the 
U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business. He was an expert witness last year for the plain­tiff in an antitrust trial that resulted in a $ 1.05-billion verdict against the nation's largest snuff tobacco company for using slot­ting fees and other tactics to monopolize the snuff tobacco marketplace. Gundlach earned bachelor's, master's of business administra­tion, law, and doctoral degrees from the University of Tennessee. 
John Berry was a Dartmouth College graduate who retired in 1987 after a 41-year career at L.M. Berry & Company, a firm founded by his father, Loren Berry, and a leader in the Yellow Pages sales and publish­ing industry. 


ATION 
Friday, March 9, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

NASA launches space shuttle Discovery 
Sharon, Arafat willing to talk: Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat -enemies for decades ­both raised the possibility of peace talks Thursday, Sharon's first full day in office. But the two have never shaken hands in previous face-to-face negotiations, and their frosty rela­tionship seemed to offer scant hope of revived peacemaking. 
Navy allows woman sub workers: 
The Canadian navy chose International Women's Day to announce Thursday that it would allow women to serve aboard sub­marines, making all of Canada's military open to females. Vice Adm. Greg Maddison said the decision was made because the navy's new Victoria-class submarines offer more privacy than the previous, smaller vessels. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

~an .suspected of dismemberinggirlfriend: Police charged a 32-year-old man in Hamburg, N.Y. with murder after finding the dismembered body of his girl­friend in three boxes in the basement of the couple's home. The remains of Kym Kraffert, 
27. were discovered Wednesday, several hours after she was reported missing by her family. Police suspect her live-in boyfriend, Brian Faust, cut her up with a electric saw, Capt. Daniel Shea said. Faust was arrested Wednesday at a hospital, where he was admitted after being found in a car with apparently self-inflicted stab wounds, police said. 
Accused terrorist pleads guilty: An Algerian accused of helping smuggle explosives into the United States in a 1999 case that stirred fears of a terrorist attack during the mil­lennium celebrations has pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with the government. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Woman fakes daughter's illness: A 
woman accused of taking thousands of dollars in donations after inventing a story about her daughter's terminal illness has pleaded guilty to 15 counts of theft. Katherine Stabe, 51, of Huntington was charged with lying to people about her daughter's alleged impending death and spending money collected for the girl's "last wish." Prosecutors said Stabe raised more than $6,000 in donations -including about $1,200 raised by students and staff at two local schools -so she could take her 10-year-old daughter and other family members to Walt Disney World. 
Market Watch 3/8 10,858.05 +128.45 
Composite
Same: 

Volume:
203 

NIA 
?!L~~EX: ·... . ff,{;0~-:,,i933.24 .. ·.i~~';,!!t~:31A!l3 
Nasdaq: 2,168.73 -55.19 
S&P 500: 1,264.74 +2.85 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -4.96  -1.19  22.81  
INTEL CORP (lNTC)  +0.95  +0.31  33.25  
· YAHOO INC (YHOO)  -15.'H  -3.25  17.69  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  -1.86  -0.92  48.50  
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)  -7.')4  -1.7S  20.31  

Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL 

Space shuttle Discovery soared into the dawn Thursday, carrying a new crew to the international space station to relieve the three men who have been toiling in orbit for the past four months. 
The shuttle will catch up with the space station early Saturday, and the fresh crew and the weary one will immediately begin trading places. 
It was a smooth count­down and a flawless climb to orbit. Discovery arced neatly through a stunning­ly clear sky tinged peach from the rising sun. It was 45 degrees, one of the colder launch-time temper­atures. but well within the safety limits. 
"I was beginning to think something was wrong because nothing was wrong," launch director Mike Leinbach joked. 
The international space station, Alpha, and its crew were passing high above the Indian Ocean near Australia when Discovery took off. American astro­naut Bill Shepherd and his Russian shipmates, logging their 128th day in space, welcomed the news that Discovery was on the way. 
Russian cosmonaut Yuri Usachev and American astronauts Jim Voss and Susan Helms will spend the next four months aboard the space station. 
Besides a new space sta­tion crew and four other astronauts, Discovery is hauling 10,000 pounds of supplies packed in an Italian-made module named Leonardo. Women's Day. The flight of Leonardo, billion cost overrun in the 
During Discovery's eight Before crawling into the first of Italy's three space station program, days at the space station, Discovery. Usachev and $150 million cargo carriers President Bush wants NASA Leonardo will be attached Voss held up a sign with the to be launched, drew to halt construction three to the complex and emptied words "Happy Women's dozens of Italian space offi­years early in orbit and of its contents. It will then Day!" in Russian and cials to Cape Canaveral. eliminate the dormitory­be brought back to Earth English. (The two other reusable style habitation module and aboard the shuttle on Once in orbit, Voss passed modules are dubbed crew rescue vehicle. March 20. on this request to Mission Raffaello and Donatello.} De Julio said Italy is con­
Helms will be the first Control: "This was a really Sergio De Julio, president sidering supplying the mod­woman to live on the space busy day today and we're of the Italian Space Agency. ule and maybe seven-per­station. Looking a little sad, hoping that when we go to ended up haggling with son lifeboats, too, in she waved and said, "Bye, work over on the station, NASA Administrator Daniel exchange for full partner­Mom" to the TV cameras we won't see too many days Goldin for a bigger piece of ship and .more Italians just before liftoff, which like this one." the space station project. assigned to space station took place on International Mission Control laughed. Because of a projected $4 flights. 

International Women's Day celebrated 
and women enjoy equal opportunity. in Ireland who are complaining to 
Associated Press 
And even though we've been strug­their mothers, 'Why can't I grow up 
From a demonstration in Sri Lanka gling for decades to achieve funda­to be president?' That seems to me for an end to civil war to a minute of mental change, we have to admit to be an excellent experience for silence in Turkey for victims of rape that there's still a long way to go," small boys in Ireland." she said. and honor killings, International Gro Harlem Brundtland, head of the At the U.N. headquarters in New Women's Day was observed around World Health Organization and a York, observances focused on a 
the world Thursday with calls for former Norwegian prime minister, Security Council resolution adopted peace, prosperity and equality. told a U.N. Women's Day meeting in Oct. 31 calling for special measures 
The public gatherings coincided Geneva. to protect women and girls from with academic conferences and But Mary Robinson, the U.N. high rape and sexual abuse in war and release of reports on the condHion of commissioner for human rights, said for a greater role for women in mak­women at the turn of the millenni­attitudes can change quickly. She ing peace. um, focusing on sex slavery, noted that when she was elected A council statement Thursday inequality in the workplace and Irish president in 1990, she was the urged all 189 U.N. member states to death rates in pregnancy and child­nation's first female head of state -increase the representation of birth. and she· was succeeded by another women in decision-making "for the 
"There isn't a single country or woman, Mary McAleese. prevention, management and resolu­institution in the world where men "Apparently there are small boys tion of conflicts." 
Friday, March 9, 2001 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
'Dennis the Menace' celebrates 50th birthday 
Associated Press 

PEBBLE BEACH. Calif. 
A little freckle-faced boy leans out from the back seat of a vintage car and taunts a policeman as his parents wait apprehensively for the traffic ticket. The caption reads: "You didn't catch us! We ran outta gas!" 
It was March 12, 1951 -America's first glimpse of the blond. towheaded tornado known as "Dennis the Menace." Still "five-ana-half' on the comics pages, he celebrates 50 years of publication Monday. 
The cartoon still runs in 1,000 newspapers, 48 coun­tries and 19 languages, and "the only thing that has changed is the toys," creator Henry "Hank" Ketcham said as he recalled a lifetime of cartooning in an inter­view at his home studio. 
Even now, Ketcham is surprised that his work is so popular. Other cartoonists also marvel at the loyalty of his readers. 
"If Dennis the Menace fell out of his swing and went into a coma the world would probably stop," said Brian Walker, who writes "Hi and Lois" with his brother, Greg. "It just shows how much these characters are part of these people's lives. 
Ketcham credits Dennis' innocence for the strip's longevity. 
"He doesn't have any answers but a lot of questions and a lot of energy and you've got a lot of loyalty and a little bit of mischief in him, too, but that's the way kids are," Ketcham said. 
Being a "menace" also is key. said Jim Davis, creator of "Garfield." "If Dennis were a perfect little boy, he wouldn't have lasted." 
Ketcham, who turns 81 on March 14, put down his pencil nearly a decade ago. Today, he moves a little slower while clicking from image to image on his Web site, but his artistic eye is still sharp and critical while overseeing the day-to-day drawings faxed to his home. 
A Seattle native, he dropped out of the University of Washington after his freshman year in 1938 to pursue his childhood dream of becoming a cartoonist. 
He got his first job as an animator for Walter Lantz, the 
creator of "Woody Woodpecker," and then for Walt 
Disney, working on "Pinocchio," "Bambi," "Fantasia" 
and others. 
'Menace' 
\0,~h~~rn 
( ;? .
for society -· .. . 
On March 12, Henry "Hank" Ketcham's little boy turns 50 years old. "Dennis the Menace," still a young "five-an a-half," appears in 1,000 newspapers in 48 countries in 19 languages. 
First panel -March 12, 1951 


Dennis brings Ruff home, July 16 
SOURCE: North America Syndicate Inc. 
While Dennis stayed in the suburbs, playing with Ruff the dog, his friends Joey and Margaret, and of course the crotchety neighbor Mr. Wilson, Ketcham traveled the world. For nearly 20 years, he kept the strip going while living in Geneva, Switzerland. 
How did he stay in touch with American culture among the Swiss Alps? 
'Tm a former kid, you see, and I have that great mem­ory," said Ketcham, wearing black-rimmed glasses. "I had a Sears Roebuck catalogue, which I kept over there, and I have a great team of writers which kept supplying me with stuff." 
Ketcham and Dennis' mother, Alice, separated and she died soon after in 1959 from a drug overdose. Ketcham 
•• mntr_.,.._.,eaw ..,. ~J.row.• 
Dennis the Menace
Mr. Wilson waves 
2001 North America Syndicate Inc. 
Reprinted by special permission. 
"hello," July 3, 1952 
AP 

took the then 12-year-old to Switzerland, but when the boy struggled with his studies there, he was sent to boarding school in Connecticut. Ketcham and his second wife, Jo Anne Stevens, remained in Europe. 
Dennis went on to serve a 10-month tour of duty in Vietnam and returned suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. He has little contact with his father today (and has been estranged from his own daughter). Still, he's kept "Dennis the Menace" books, dolls and other cartoon paraphernalia displayed at his house. 
"He's living in the East somewhere doing his own thing," Ketcham said. "That's just a chapter that was a short one that closed, which unfortunately happens in some families." 

Saturday, March 10th -Saturday, March 31st 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. Daily March to the Notre Dame Catalog_ Centerfor 
sonie ofthe best deals anywhere on authentic Notre Da,ne ,nerchandise! 
Discountsfrom 20 to 60 percent off. 
Special items available at even higher discounts! High quality merchandisefrom Champion, Gear for Sports, adidas, .Jansport, New Era, University Square. The Notre Dame Catalog Center is located at 1602 Nor·i!i Ironwood just south ofSt. Road 23 
No additional discounts apply. All sales final 
Friday, March 9, 2001 

The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
CHINA 
CHILE 

Officials drop homocide
School explosion kills 42 
. Parents: children book and papers in his home containing the confused phrase:
were forced to 

'TH sacrifice myself with 100 make fireworks pounds of silver saltpeter, blast 
all, burn all. killing dozens of Associated Press them at the very least." 
But parents said government BEIJING officials were lying. Zhang 
It should have been just their Chenggen said his 11-year-old classroom. Instead, it became son, who died, and other third­their grave. and fourth-graders had since 
Children who died when their 1998 been forced to assemble school exploded in southeast firecrackers in class, normally China were forced to make fire­working a half-day. Profits sub­works in class, their parents sidized school expenses and 
s  a  i  d  went to school  
Thursday.  officials.  
The father of an 11-year­old victim said he was  "/ clearly saw the hands ofsome dead children still holding fuses...  Zhang said. The father of aQ_other 11­year-old victim  
among  the  said children  
first to arrive at the scene and saw  Zhang Chenggen ·father of explosion victim  were rushing to complete orders for  

dead chil­dren in the rubble still clutching fuses in their hands. 
State media said 42 people were killed and 27 injured. Parents gave figures of between 53 and more than 60 -four of them teachers. the rest chil-, dren. Many bodies were dis­membered. Parts of one boy were found in a nearby river. said the father of a 9-year-old who died. 
Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji blamed a man with mental problems for Tuesday's explo­sion, which reduced the school in Fang Lin village, Jiangxi province, to a pile of bricks, books and furniture. The official Xinhua News Agency identified him as a 33-year-old fireworks maker, Li Chuicai, and said he was known in the village as "psycho." · 
It said police found a note­China's tradi­

tional grave­
sweeping festi­val on April 5, when families honor deceased relatives. 
"Everybody knows it is caused by the fireworks," Zhang said by telephone. "The government is trying to cover the facts. Please do not believe them." 
The explosion was not the first to kill children in China's fireworks industry. Last March, 17 children -the youngest aged 8 -were among 35 peo­ple killed when a fireworks fac­tory exploded in another Jiangxi village about 30 miles from Tuesday's blast. The chil­dren earned 12 cents a day for fitting fuses to firecrackers, the state-run newspaper Southern Weekend reported. 
In poor villages all along Jiangxi's mountainous border with Hunan province, fireworks 
charges against Pinochet 
are a key industry. Most are put 
together by hand in family workshops for sale nationwide, with some officials paid to look the other way, the Southern Weekend said. 
In Fang Un, about 30 families make fireworks at home, including the village's Communist Party leader and some school officials and teach­ers. said Zhang Shushen, whose 11-year-old son was killed in Tuesday's blast. 
Teachers distributed the work to students, and pupils who refused to do it or told their parents were banned from classes or made to kneel on the classroom floor. Zhang said. Children and parents had little choice -it was the village's only primary school. 
The party secretary. who fled after the blast, was caught Wednesday by police and the school principal turned himself in, Zhang said. Thousands of people demonstrated Wednesday and again Thursday outside the school, demanding an investigation, he said. 
"I was among the first batch of people to rush to the explo­sion site. I clearly saw the hands of some dead children still holding fuses," he said. "There is no doubt the fire­works they were making caused the explosion." 
The disaster, which came during the 11-day annual meet­ing of China's national legisla­ture. is extremely embarrassing for Chinese leaders. Premier Zhu, denying that fireworks manufacturing in the school was to blame, said the explo­sion was caused by a man who carried a bag of fireworks into the school. Zhu and Xinhua said the man died in the explosion. 


Student NCAA Tickets on sale 
Monday. March 12th Gate 1·(2nd Floor) Joyce Center. 9am -Spm or call 219/631-7356 
(100 out of450 Notre Dame tickets 
A Nicole Rodriguez la mat6 un chofer borracho cuando ella salf a a jugar con una amiguita vecina. 
are available to students.) 
i. I': . 

J.Oue se debe hacer para impedir que un amigo maneje borracho7 Loque fuere necesario. 
Must show ID and confirmation number to 
Los amigos no dejan a sus amigos manejar borrachos.
pick up tickets at the site of the tournament. Site will be announced on March 11th. 
0 
U.S Department ofl'reneportatlon 


"This is shameful and shows the kind of courts we have," said Viviana Diaz, president of an organization of relatives of dissi­dents who disappeared after their arrest. "They are looking for ways to protect Pinochet." 
Lawyer Hiram Villagra said the ruling "confirms that Pinochet had participation in the criminal acts. But it cannot be considered as a mere cover-up, because Pinochet gave the orders." 
But a spokesman for Pinochet, retired Gen. Guillermo Garin, said: "We were expecting the charges would be totally dropped. Gen. Pinochet has no responsibility in•the crimes." 
The ruling is expected to be just another step in the legal saga involving Pinochet, as the case may go back all the way to the Supreme Court. Eventually, an outcome may be decided more on health reasons than legal ones. 
The court is expected to decide by the end of this month on a request by Pinochet's defense to close the case, alleging that his deteriorated health prevents him from properly organizing his defense, thus depriving him of his right to a fair trial. 
Doctors in January said Pinochet suffers from "moderate dementia" brought on by minor strokes. He also has diabetes and arthritis. and wears a pace­maker. 
Pinochet was last seen Sunday when he attended Mass at a pri­vate chapel next to the residence where he is under house arrest. Walking with difficulty, using a cane and aided by bodyguards, Pinochet smiled broadly and raised his hand to greet a small group of supporters. 
Associated Press 

SANTIAGO 
A Chilean court dropped homi­cide and kidnapping charges against Gen. Augusto Pinochet on Thursday, but ruled the for­
mer dictator must still be tried for covering up the crimes. 


A P P e a I s Pinochet 

watering down the criminal charges disappointed both supporters and foes of the 85-year-old general. whom the court ordered to remain under house arrest. 
It appeared to be a victory for Pinochet, who was indicted Jan. 29 on charges s~emming from the "Caravan of Death" -a mil­itary group that executed 75 political prisoners in various cities five weeks after the 1973 coup led by Pinochet. 
The indictment charged Pinochet with homicide for the 57 victims whose bodies were recovered and with kidnapping for 18 who remain unaccounted for. 
· In its ruling, the court said that Pinochet "learned of the crimes after they had occurred. but failed to reported them to the courts of justice." 
"There is no indication what­
soever that he took measures to 
punish those responsible," the 
ruling said. 

Relatives of the victims of 
Pinochet's dictatorship of 1973­
90 condemned the ruling. 





page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nmre Da.me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No!re Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
f 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MA.Ry's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmToRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT........................................ .........631~5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR¥'s... ..........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily 
updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rares of print ~ds 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lecrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChefMike Connolly. 

THE 

OBSERVER Friday, March 9, 2001 
Hold Eldred accountable for actions 
The officers of CARE were wrong. 
In a letter dated Jan. 18, 2001, the officers of Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination told President Eldred, the Parents' Council, the Alumnae Board and the Board of Trustees, "The college has decided that it will OJhe 
userver 
members of CARE who went against their word and performed the play in defiance. Yet while the rules of the College handbook dictate Eldred must hold these four women accountable for 
their actions, who will hold Eldred accountable for hers? 

not support a perfor­Through her decision to mance of 'The Vagina prevent the performance Monologues' this year, of the "Monologues" on
Editorial 

and out of respect for this college, we will abide by that decision." Certainly the participation of the four officers at the Feb. 19 public reading of the "Monologues" proves the officers did not abide by their word not to support a performance of the "Monologues." By reading the "Monologues" in a public performance, the officers of CARE sup­ported the "Monologues" even without outright sponsoring the reading. 
Eldred is clearly within her discipli­nary jurisdiction in sanctioning the campus, Eldred has suc­
ceeded in using her administrative power to limit academic freedom, legitimize censorship and pre­vent the free exchange of ideas. For a president that prides herself on her ''open door policy" and her willingness to listen to students' points of view, it is glaringly obvious in this situation, the students' viewpoint was blatantly disre­garded. 
"The Vagina Monologues" is not a question of dollars and cents; nor is it a question of being in conflict with the 

In search of quality health care 
In the United States, legislators reluc­tantly debate solutions to the worsening situation of health coverage. By some 
· estimates, over 42 million Americans cur­
rently live without any type of medical insur­ance. In the search for solutions, eyes often turn to European countries, like Austria, where all citizens receive health cover­age through socialized 


medicine. 
Joanna

The United States 
Mikulski

remains the only 
industrialized nation 
that does not guaran­
Innsbruck 

tee access to health 
Stimme 

care as a right of citi­
zenship. In Austria, 
by law, every wage-
earner must receive health insurance. 
Each worker pays a percentage of their 
income to taxes, the majority of which 
supports the national pension, health 
insurance and unemployment funds. 
Despite the high taxes, Austria spends less per capita than the United States per year. Regional and local authorities in Austria govern the administration of health care. Children and college students receive coverage through their parents. 
The unemployed also continue to receive care after the loss of a job. Doctors and hospitals provide health care and receive reimbursement through the government. 
In comparison to the United States, the benefits to this program arise clearly. Austrians live with access to coverage and without fear of the loss of insurance. 
However, the quality of the health care that the socialized system provides falls into question. Doctors, who obtain a posi­tion within the Austrian health care sys­tem, receive patients and therefore an income regardless of their capabilities as 
a doctor. Hospitals and other medical 
institutions only receive limited funds 
from the state, which hinders the use of 
new, more expensive technologies. 
In contrast, medical research flourishes 
in the United States, where each year 
new techniques and drugs are developed. 
A relatively common procedure today in 
American hospitals that greatly reduces 
patient recovery time, laproscopic 
surgery, is not so widely used in Austria. 
However, these new technologies exist 
uselessly when the majority of the 
nation's population does not have access 
to them. 
As the overall cost of medical services increases, the very existence of the Austrian health care system that at pre­sent provides its citizens with at least good basic health care is threatened. The population ofAustria grows older each year. Each year fewer workers provide wages to support the elderly population. 
As the United States attempts to devel­op a program to provide each of its citi­zens with health insurance, Austria must fight to save and to improve their existing system before its citizens are left without the promised and expected care. 
To ease the stress on the state medical fund, Austrians must often pay supple­ments for specialists or particularly advanced procedures. A 52 schilling (approximately $4) additional tax must be paid with each prescription. However, the negative sentiments of younger Austrians, who must pay the additional costs without a guarantee of coverage in the future. resemble those of younger Americans, who lose a portion of their pay check each week to the Social Security fund. 
And, despite the supplemental pay­ments, older Austrians, who have lived within the program of socialized medicine and the refore in ignorance of the cost of medical care, continue to visit the doctor teachings of the Catholic Church. It is a question of whether censorship is right or wrong. The of;ficers of CARE clearly had right and wrong in mind when mak­ing their decision to participate in the "Monologues." They knew that freedom of expression is right; they knew censor­ship is wrong. They knew academic freedom is right; and they knew that rape and sexual abuse, in every form, is wrong. 

The officers of CARE worked to right Eldred's wrongs by performing the play on campus. Unfortunately, they will face repercussions for the methods they employed to achieve a good. Yet as Eldred proceeds with disciplinary sanc­tions against CARE officers, her deci­sions should not go without reprimand. Out of respect for the-College, for acade­mic freedom and for the spirit of what we know is right in higher education, we challenge the Board of Trustees to do what we know is right: hold Eldred accountable for her actions. 
unnecessarily many times each year. In 
fact, the great instance of unwarranted 
doctors appointments has led to the sug­
gestion of the limitation of allowed visits 
with the doctor each year. _ 
The solution to the problem of health care in both Austria, which has a system of national health care that works at pre­sent, and the United States, that must develop a program that allows all citizens the access to affordable medical care, lies in the discovery of a median between the two: a health care program that both pro­vides quality, reliable health insurance to all citizens and simultaneously encour­ages the development of new medicines and medical techniques. 
In the United States, one possible solu­tion lies in the development of a single­payer, universal health care plan. Individuals and families would pay for care through a public tax system, yet the clinics, doctors and hospitals would remain in the private sector. 
Health plans that adopt this single­payer system often borrow from the Canadian program of universal care. During his campaign, President Bush pro• posed a Refundable Heath Credit that would assist families who do not qualify for Medicaid yet cannot afford an insur­ance plan. He also suggests the distribu­tion of aid to small businesses, with whom most of the working uninsured are employed. 
But whatever the answer, legislators must work hard to discover a workable plan before the crisis of health in the United States drastically worsens. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore who is currently spending the year abroad in Innsbruck, Austria. Her column appears every other Friday. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT . SCOTT ADAMS 
r--...--_-_-_-_-_-_-------_--•--------.:::----E ,-::::~==~=~==::--, ,--==================:_---.. 
I CANCELLED 
OUR DUl"'\PSTER SERVICE TO SAVE !"\ONE'<. 

~ I DISCOVERED ~ 
0 EVER'<ONE TEAR 
® 
)
•
8 
<I) 
E 
0 
CJ 
t 
.8 
=ti 
,: 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Use your health. even to the point ofwear­ing it out. That is what it is for. Spend all you have before you die; and do not outlive yourself. .. 
George Bernard Shaw author 



a a c u 

Friday, March 9, 2001 AIHE
vnSERVER 
page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Perf armers respond to action taken against 'Monologue' reading 
As the women who participated in a pub­lic reading of "The Vagina Monologues" at Saint Mary's College, we are writing in response to the e-mail Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred sent to the cam­pus community on Wednesday. 
Just as Eldred claims to have made a thoughtful and informed decision in forbid­ding a public performance of the play, our decision to do an informal reading of the play also reflected much serious considera­tion. 
There are many compelling reasons to perform the Vagina Monologues on our campus. For example, somewhere in the United States a woman is raped every two minutes. 
By prohibiting the performance of "The Vagina Monologues" our reasons for per­forming were invalidated. Yet, we continue to believe that performing a public reading outweighed the arguments provided by the administration against an officially sanc­tioned performance. 
At various points in her e-mail Eldred presents subjective claims as factual. Her statement that "Monologue" supporters are a vocal minority shouting down the majori­ty is one such assertion. She has not con­ducted a broad-based survey to justify this judgment. Had she done so, Eldred would have recognized the large base of support for the "Monologues." 
Eldred also makes the subjective state­ment that by performing the play the offi­cers of CARE broke their word. The only promise the four officers made was that CARE would not sponsor the play. That promise was kept. CARE did not fund or advertise the readings, and in the reading's introduction, it was clearly stated that no campus group was sponsoring them. 
The reading was not, as Eldred suggests in her e-mail, organized by the officers of CARE. There were no organizers. All par­ticipating individuals played an equal role in the readings. All strong-willed and inde­pendent, each woman participated for a slightly different reason. It was, as some like to call it, a grass roots movement of concerned community members. Thus selecting four individuals for reprimand is totally unjust. 
Like Eldred, we also acted with respect to the Catholic character of the institution. We believe the highest moral obligation is to educate one's conscience and follow it. By this standard, reading "The Vagina Monologues" was a decision made out of our informed consciences. If just one woman is helped by Eve Ensler's words, the play has a place on our campus. 
Maureen Capillo, Jami Newcomb, Susan Almeda Julia Malczynski, Julie Friskorn, Laura Paulen Cassie Carrigan, Ang Romano, Laura Flate Emily Koelsch, Adrianna Easton, Katie Poynter Sheryl Schotten, Sarah Greeman and Ann Loux The Vagina Warriors Sc, Mary's College March 8, 200 l 

Censorship is never a good idea 
In his letter to the editor on Thursday regarding the censorship of a painting at the Brooklyn Museum ofArt by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, Shawn Newburg states, "The painting is disgusting because Christ is nude. It is anti-Catholic because Christ is a woman. And it is outrageous because its sole purpose is to create shock and argu­ments, not to further religion." 
Based on this logic, he and others like him "completely agree" with Mayor Giuliani's attempts to shut down the controversial exhibit. Short of questioning whether or not Mr. Newburg has actually seen the exhibit in person before making such inflammatory remarks about it, I wish to respond to the issues of censorship that he raises. 
The First Amendment of the Constitution protects free speech. Period. The same doc­ument that gives Catholics the right to prac­tice whatever religion they please protects artists as well. 
If Mayor Giuliani has the right to judge what is appropriate and inappropriate and eliminate funding for that which he deems offensive, how is that not censorship? 
Would he be right in eliminating the Holy Bible from public libraries which receive public funding because it might be consid­
ered offensive to atheists? Would he be right in withdrawing funding from the Metropolitan Museum of Art because its collection contains oil paintings of nudes that might be considered offensive? 
The point is, if you are offended by a piece of art or literature or other media, then don't expose yourself to it. If you don't like it, don't see it, read it or listen to it. But don't take away my right to appreciate it or the rights of others. 
You don't speak for me when you bash a piece of art you don't understand (and probably have never even seen). Book burn­ing and the stifling of artistic expression echoes trends frighteningly reminiscent of fascism. Eliminating art that can be consid­ered offensive sets a dangerous precedent for future censorship and denial of the basic rights of expression that all Americans should thank God we are granted. 
Tim O'Connor 
1unior 
Dillon Hall March 8, 200 l 
GUEST COLUMN 

Separating business from government 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
Remember Carol Shia? She was the New York City police officer fired after posing for Playboy in uni­form: the NYPD thought it was inap­propriate to use a police uniform for personal gain -and in such Adam Frankel a questionable manner. The Carol Shia The Dailyproblem is 
Prin cetonian 
found in poli­
tics as well, 
where politi­
cians use their "uniforms" -or the 
networks those uniforms create 
-to advance themselves personally. 
There are laws to pre­vent conflicts of inter­est: the stocks held by elected officials are frozen until their terms end. But there are no laws that prevent former elected offi­cials from using their former positions for finan­cial gain in their current positions. Take, for example, the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm that employs former top­ranking officials in the elder Bush and Reagan administrations. 
The Carlyle Group makes money by buying undervalued com­panies and selling them at a profit. And it counts among its "advisors," "investors" and "directors" former President George Bush, former Bush Secretary of State James Baker, former Reagan Secretary of Defense Frank Carlucci and Gen. John Shalikashvili, former chair­man of the Joint Chiefs under President Clinton. 
There has always been a revolv­ing door between business and government, right? And what's so bad about allowing former govern­ment officials to earn the big bucks in big business? After all, everyone knows how little they make in pub­lic service. In fact, there's nothing wrong with this. The public grants former officials the privilege to use the contacts and prestige of their former posts for personal gain. But the Carlyle Group abuses that privi­lege. 
Two-thirds of the firm's invest­ments are in the defense and telecommunications industries, both of which are directly affected by changes in government policy. The Carlyle Group is currently compet­ing with other firms for several bil­lion-dollar defense contracts ­including a $13. 7 billion contract for the Crusader program to build tanks. 
It might help its case that one of its managing directors, Frank Carlucci, went to college with the current Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. "I know Rumsfeld extremely well," Carlucci recently told The New York Times. "We've been close friends through the years." 

Additionally, former President Bush recently discussed Carlyle's investments in the Middle East with King Fahd and Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. And after Bush met with the prime minister of South Korea, Carlyle won control of the South Korean bank, KorAm. 
How can you top the connections made by being president? 

The Carlyle Group argues that former officials like Bush and Carlucci do not lobby the federal government. But then again, they don't have to. The firm's ties to the 
current administration are much 

and government is becoming 
increasingly blurred -and that is 
not necessarily bad. Businesses will 
keep trying to gain an edge over 
their competitors by building 
stronger networks. And they should 
be allowed. But the Carlyle Group 
has taken this to an extreme. 
Former public officials are allowed to enter business -as board members, for example ­when they leave government because they are private citizens again. 
But they're not, really. They have contacts and influence beyond that of other Americans -and that's what makes them so attractive to firms like Carlyle. It's pretty clear that something needs to be fixed when the president's family is bene­fiting from contracts put before his administration. 
Congress has, until now, not sup­ported campaign finance re.form legislation, which would limit the influence of business on politics. And it is unlikely that the Carlyle Group will provoke a change in that attitude. But without such reform, politics will become an even firmer stepping stone to business ­without such reform. the integrity of "a noble profession" will be dimin­ished. 
This article first appeared in Princeton University's newspaper The Daily Princetonian on March 7, 2001, and is reprinted here cour­tesy ofU-WIRE . . 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


T L 
Friday, March 9, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


A stop at any one of Chicago's dozens of fine museums can add a bit of refinement and sophistica­tion to an otherwise culture­free day. There are far too many museums to list here;
i 
however, no guide to Chicago
I • 
would be complete without
I 
mentioning the most deserv­ing five. 
The city's trio of art muse­ums have earned their excel­lent reputations. 
. Art Institute of Chicago 

111 S. Michigan Ave. 312-443-3600 Don't miss "A Sunday 
Afternoon on La Grand Jatte -1884" by Seurat or "American Gothic" by Grant Wood, two of the museum's most famous works. 
l 
. Museum of Contemporary Art 
220 E. Chicago Ave. 
312-280-2660 

For a change of pace, stop by on the first Friday of each month from 6 to 9 p.m., when the MCA hosts "First Fridays." It's an after-hours party with music and snacks to allow those who appreci­ate art to do so in an infor­mal and entertaining setting. 

. Terra Museum of American Art 
664 N. Michigan Ave. 312-664-3939 Allow an hour to digest this 
superior yet manageable museum's offerings, includ­
ing the current exhibit on Rockwell Kent. Its selection includes paintings by Mary Cassatt, John Singer Sargent and Winslow Homer. 
Chicago has plenty o options for the more scientif­ic-minded traveler. Two o the most well-known, the Field Museum and the Museum of Science and Industry, form a substantial part of the city's Museum Campus on Lake Shore Drive. 
. Field Museum 
1400 S. Lake Shore Drive 
312-922-9410 
Come for "Sue," the world's largest Tyrannosaurus Rex skeleton, but stay for the museum·s seemingly endless selection of exhibits. Anthropological displays. prehistoric fossils, and cul­tural diversity exhibits are among the dozens that popu­late the Field Museum. 
. Museum of Science and Industry 
5700 S. Lake Shore Drive 
773-684-1414 
One of the latest additions to the museum is Net\Vorld, a special exhibit about the Internet and technology, where visitors can control virtual Internet connections and test their digital savvy. However, not all parts of the museum hurtle towards the future; a detailed display on farming takes visitors to a different world. 
Sweet home 
Not going anywhere for break? Chi-town is right an 
By JACKIE OSTROWSKI Scene Writer 
So you're ready to brave the Windy City. Only an hour-and-a-half drive from Notre Dame, Chicago is waiting for you. It can be done in a day, a weekend or a week, but it always demands more. No matter how exhaustive your itinerary, Chicago always has something worth returning for. The Second City, the City of Big Shoulders, this city on the lake encompasses world-class museums, prime shopping, fine din­ing and hopping nightlife, yet it manages to avoid a snobby attitude. Chicago still has its fair share of accessible charm -chowing down on a slice of deep-dish pizza, people-watching in Grant Park, strolling through the bustling downtown Loop. Anyone can find a little piece of himself in Chicago if he knows where to look. It's finding the perfect combination between big-city glam­our and hometown appeal that makes spending time in Chicago so priceless. 
Lodging 
Lodging in Chicago doesn't have to be expen­sive. However, it can be worth paying a little more for a night's sleep just to be in a good loca­tion. The Marriott (540 N. Michigan) can be pricey, but careful travelers can find occasional weekend specials at this consistently classy hotel. A double room is $165 a night, including an extravagant breakfast buffet at the downstairs restaurant, Allie's American Grille. Valet parking is expensive ($26 a day), but you may be able to find a cheaper lot if you check around Michigan Avenue and don't mind walking a block or two to your car from the hotel. 
The rooms are spacious and clean, and service is excellent. The Marriott also has an ideal loca­tion at the corner of Michigan and Ohio Streets. It's seconds away from excellent shopping on the Magnificent Mile, and it's also within walking distance of many entertainment establishments on Ohio Street, such as the Rock 'n' Roll McDonald's, ESPN Zone and DisneyQuest. 
Chicago Staples 
Chicago's two most recognizable buildings, the sky-scraping Sears Tower (233 S. Wacker) and its shorter, fatter cousin, the John Hancock (875 
N. Michigan), both have observatories boasting excellent views. Either one is sufficient to see up to four states and the expanse of Lake Michigan; they both have perks. The Sears Tower has a recently renovated Skydeck on the 103rd floor. However, if you ride to the top of the Hancock, you can brag that you rode the world's fastest elevator (it soars to the top at a rate of 1,800 feet per minute). 
From the top of either tower, a tourist can eas­ily find Grant Park by pointing out the green patch of grass stretching along the Jakefront. Buckingham Fountain, another Chicago land­mark, sits as the centerpiece of Grant Park. Its capricious dragons spew a 90-foot tower of water at alternate times during the day. By night, they assume different colors and the foun­tain performs a flashing show of lights. 
Stretching east into Lake Michigan, Navy Pier's mass conglomeration of entertainment fills up with visitors early. The Pier was renovated in 1995, and, judging by the throngs of tourists and natives that crowd the pier on a daily basis, it's a welcome change. The pier bustles throughout the day with its enormous Ferris wheel, beer gardens, sit-down restaurants, carousel, boat tours and entertainment. Families seem to really get a kick out of it; it's good for a one-time visit, but the chaos can be a bit overwhelming. 
Baseball lovers can't leave Chicago without setting foot inside the "friendly confines" of Wrigley Field (1060 W. Addison). Cubs fans have earned their reputation as among the most devoted, and they'll proudly display their love for their underdog team in the bleachers of Wrigley during any home game. One of the smallest fields in baseball, Wrigley Field's ivy-covered walls house a field steeped in tradition. For a ballgame that reminds us why baseball is America's pastime, try to get tickets to a Cubs game (www.ticketmas­ter.com). Wrigleyville, the area immediately sur­rounding the ballpark. is packed with sports bars and restaurants for a post-game drink or snack. Try Goose Island Brewing Co. (1800 N. Clybourn) for delicious burgers, made-from-scratch potato chips and a huge assortment of beers. 

Dining 

Chicago is a budget-eater's paradise. A city that prides itself on deep-dish pizza and famous hot dogs can't be too hard on the wallet, so if you prefer to spend your money on museums or the Magnificent Mile, you'll have no problems saving on your food and still getting delicious cuisine. 
No visitor should be allowed to leave without try­ing classic Chicago-style pizza: It's an unparalleled dining experience. When told of the 30-45 minute wait for a deep-dish pizza, the shocked expressions on their faces give the tourists away. It's well worth the wait, as any satisfied diner will agree. 
Some of the most well-known options for pizza are Gino's East of Chicago (633 N. Wells), famous for its 

Chicago boasts one of the most recognizable skyline Towers. Along Lake Michigan's beaches, visitors can pl2 
-------------------.-----------------------...... ...........-..... .... 

O
THE Friday, March 9, 2001 BSERVER 
• • • Chicago 
Jund the 'Bend. Scene tells you what not to miss. 

graffiti walls (bring some markers!), Giordano's (310 W. Randolph), Pizzeria Uno (29 E. Ohio St) and its slightly classier sister restaurant, Pizzeria Due (619 N. Wabash). 
Llke Chicago pizza, Chicago hot dogs dif­fer proudly from their counterparts. One important difference: Any native will tell you that asking for ketchup on one of these franks is like asking a Chicagoan when he thinks the Cubs are going to win the World Series -you just don't do it. 
A proper Chi-town concoction consists of a Vienna beef hot dog on a poppy seed bun topped ""ith mustard, pickle relish, onion, hot peppers, tomato, a pickle spear and celery salt. You can't go wrong if you try your first Chicago hot dog at Gold Coast Dogs (418 N. State St). 
Those looking for a snack between shop­ping and museum-hopping on Michigan Avenue need only follow their noses. The irresistible aroma of freshly made cheese and caramel popcorn from Garrett Popcorn Shop (670 N. Michigan) lures tourists and locals alike into the little shop. Several other sweet and salty varieties are sold. but judging by the bulging bags in the hands of children and adults alike, the cheese and caramel blend seems to be the most popular. 
If you 're looking for something a little more substantial. try Food life (835 N. Michigan) in the basement of Water Tower Place. Thirteen restaurants offer every­thing from freshly made quesadillas to giant stuffed baked potatoes. It's fresher, healthier and more fun than fast food. Plus, you get to eat in the unmatched ambiance of a well-lit forest. 
For a night out, the Italian Village trio of restaurants (71 W. Monroe) offers authen­tic and affordable Italian cuisine. Each din­ing room boasts a different menu and wine list. The upper dining room, the Village, has the most traditionally Italian menu. Its romantic ambiance transports diners to a starry evening in a quaint Italian town. The prices are quite reasonable for such a first-class atmosphere; the pasta dinner 
specials include soup, salad, an 
entree and dessert for $15.50. A mixed green salad and mine­strone soup are delicious prece­dents to the actual meal, but nothing spectacular. However, the pasta dishes outdo them­selves. The risotto pleases the palate and achieves just the right balance of flavor. As for the three-cheese tortellini with cherry tomatoes, the blend of cheeses is appetizing without being over­powering and the cherry toma­toes add to the traditional yet inspiring cuisine of the Village. The staff is courteous and atten­tive; don't be surprised if the waiters flirt and oiler an excess of compliments to young women diners. It's all part of the charm of the Italian Village. 
The whimsical Cheesecake Factory (875 N. Michigan) gives hungry travelers a completely dif­ferent -but still enjoyable ­dining experience. Far from the subdued appeal of the Italian Village, the Cheesecake Factory knocks you over at the front door with its efforts to entertain your sensory pleasure. From the flam­boyant decor to the extensive menu, this restaurant defines hedonism. You can't 

just come for 
A city that prides itselfon

the cheese­and Ann Taylor cake; you've deep-dish pizza and famous hot dot the corners. Literally and fig­
got to try dogs can't be too hard on the 
uratively miles

one of their 
wallet, so ifyou prefer to spend 
away from preppy

specials. 
your money on museums or the Banana Republic

From steak dinners to lvlagnificent Mile, you ·u have no on North Michigan 
Avenue, the thrift

pages of 
problems saving on your food 
and vintage shops s a l a d 

and still getting delicious at the triangle of

options, to stir fry plat­cuisine. Belmont, Clark 
ters, the 
restaurant has something for everyone. 
Top off your entree with a slice of the famous cheesecake. Maybe you have a taste for \vhite choco­late raspberry trufile cheesecake, or perhaps chocolate peanut-but­ter cookie dough cheesecake is more to your liking. Whatever your craving, the Cheesecake Factory delivers, and that inevitably stuffed, post-Thank­sgiving-like feeling is sure to fol­low your visit. Service is a bit rushed and the whole place can't avoid having a hectic environ­ment, but one bite of y o u r cheesecake and you'll forget the w o r l d around you, so go ahead a n d indulge. 
Shopping 
Although many cities have great shopping, Chicago's 
.Magnificent Mile truly stands apart from the crowd in that it clusters nearly every major department store and chain into only a few square miles. Saks F i f t h Avenue, Neiman Marcus, Blooming­dale's, Lord & Taylor, Marshall Fields and a newly opened Nordstrom are the large department stores that flank North Michigan Avenue, and these stores signify the type of shopping (and shoppers) that's to be found on this exclusive northern strip: Michigan Avenue, while it can be a fun shopping excursion, is no bargain. 
When money's no object, the 900 North Michigan Shops and the new Nordstrom plaza tantalize with stores such as Oilily, United Colors of Benetton and J. Crew. Water Tower place is slightly more afford­able, featuring typical mall fare such as Express, Abercrombie and Fitch and Victoria's Secret. Moving south down Michigan Avenue, the giant FAO Schwarz and the American Girl Place are delights for children, while the Virgin Megastore is an adult's playground. Enormous versions of mall favorites like Eddie Bauer, Crate & Barrel 
and Halsted offer 
an alternative 
shopping experience. Take the el to 
Belmont or Addison. The vintage stores 
here hold some treasures you can't find in 
any department store-genuine 'SO's diner 
booths and '60's mod furniture that would 
be a perfect addition to a dorm room or · apartment. 
And instead of forking over $80 for 
designer jeans that look like thev were 
made in the '70's, you can find the real 
thing here -for just a fraction of the 
price. If you're patient, these streets will 
reward you. 
For a classic Chicago shopping experi~ 
ence that goes beyond chains and mass commercialism, try State Street's Marshall Field's (1 l 1 N. State St). A Chicago land­mark since itr;; opening in 1907. tlie multi­floor department store sells just about everything. It's especially famous for the central restaurant, the Walnut Room, where hungry shoppers wait hours for seats beneath the famed Marshall Field's Christmas tree. At Christmastime, don't miss the fanciful window decorations that display fairy tales in all their colorful glory. 

Nightlife 

So night is falling, the stores are closed and you've eaten dinner? Nightlife is only a cab ride away. A hilarious option for any visitor is Second City (1608 N. Wells), Chicago's comedy club. "Slaughterhouse 5, Cattle O," is currently playing at Second City, and the comedy skit tackles familiar material with unexpectedly funny results. Denny's workers, idiot politicians and young couples are just a few of the show's targets. Its cyclical style and polished cast make it an ideal choice for laugh-seekers. 
Second City has a small and intimate set­ting for its comedy; you'll probably get to know your neighbors quite well by ~he time the evening's over. The crowd is sur­prisingly mixed. Patrons need not be 21 to enter, but under-21s ,Nill find that they'll be the youngest there. Audience members range from· 20-somethings to SO-some­things, with the majority of the crowd a predictably yuppie-ish mix. Considering the slightly controversial nature of some of the jokes, a younger audience makes more sense. 
They don't call it "my kind of town" for nothing. Chicago can be your kind of town, too; just make the trip. The Midwestern metropolis is just waiting for vou to discover it. Entire books have been \\Titten on Chicago's treasures; this article has merely introduced the city. But the moral of the Second City is this: you don't need a lot of time or money to enjoy it. So what are you waiting for? Pack your bags and go visit! 
---------------..........-----------------7~,~-,~--------.------~---------.--11911!­

'-,' 
page 12 Friday, March 9, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS 

MEN'S BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
Seton Hall shocks Georgetown, 58-40 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Seton Hall is looking good and not looking back. 
The Pirates, who didn't clinch a spot in the Big East tournament until the last game of the regular season, advanced to the semifinals with a 58-40 victory over Georgetown (No. 19 ESPN/USA Today, No 18 AP) on Thursday. 
A season that started with a Top 10 ranking and then saw the Pirates lose eight of nine games in one stretch and almost not even qualify for the conference tournament has taken a sudden turn. 
The Pirates (16-13) won their third straight game by opening the second half with a 24-3 run to take control. They held the Hoyas (23-7) to half their season scoring average in matching the fewest points 
ever allowed in a  Big East  
tournament game.  
"This  was  one  of those  

games when you wake up in the middle of the night and dream about having and hope you never have. We had it today." Georgetown coach Craig Esherick said. 
''We couldn't shoot the ball at all. We started well and played well then we couldn't do anything right. I thought Seton Hall played extremely well." 
Eddie Griffin, Darius Lane and Ty Shine each had 11 points for Seton Hall. 
Boston College 93, Villanova 79 
A year ago, Boston College was at the bottom of the Big East Conference, anchored there with a 3-13 record achieved strictly on merit. 
Now the Eagles (No. 9 ESPN/USA Today, No. 10 AP) are on the other end, owners of a league-best 13-3 record and in the semifinals of the conference tournament after Wednesday's convincing 93-79 wipeout of Villanova. 

The Eagles (24-4) will face Seton Hall on Friday night after the Pirates thumped No. 18 Georgetown 58-40 in the second game of Thursday's afternoon doubleheader. 
"Attitude, intensity and approach made this team suc­cessfuI," Skinner said. "Attitude is extremely impor­tant. It's hard to get it every night but we've had it consis­tently throughout the year. Our players were embarrassed about finishing 13th last year. They wanted to make that change." 
Troy Bell, the conference's co-Player of the Year, led BC with 25 points and made 10 of his 15 shots. Kenny Harley had 19 while Ryan Sidney had 13 and Jonathan Beerbohm 12 off the bench. 
Syracuse 55, Providence 54 
Syracuse, which led by 15 points at halftime, had to rally in the final five minutes for a 55-54 victory over Providence on Thursday. lifting the 17th­ranked Orangemen into the semifinals of the Big East tour­nament. · 
Syracuse (24-7} capped a quarterfinal day in which three of four teams that received first-round byes lost. The Orangemen will play Pittsburgh, which beat No. 19 Notre Dame, on Friday, with the winner advancing to the championship game. The Orangemen swept the two­game season series from the Panthers. 
Preston Shumpert, who had 31 points in the opening-round win over Connecticut, led the Orangemen with 14 points, while Damone 
Brown added 12 points and 15 rebounds. Erron Maxey led the Friars (21-9) with 10 points. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Youthful Belles want NCAA bid 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Belles tennis team is looking to serve up vic­tory, to swing for team unity and to return a championship. . 
"We said all the time We want to win the confer­ence," head coach Dee Stevenson said. "We want to make the NCAA tournament." 
Last season Saint Mary's tied with Calvin College for second place in the MIAA, just behind Hope. The Belles hope they can turn the close loses of last year into victories this year. 
"We expect to do very well this season and improve our record," team co-captain Annie Knish said. "We lost to the University of Chicago, Depauw and Wheaton College in very close match­es last year (all three were 5-4) and we hope to turn those around this season." 
This year's team looks a little different than the team that lost those matches to Chicago, Depauw and Wheaton. 
Saint Mary's lost No. 1 sin­gles player Katie Vales and 

No. 4 singles and No. 2 dou­"We have a very young team the most college experience, bles player Becky Kremer to according to Annie Knish. 
team, but this will only 

graduation. In addition to the seven women
allow us to get stronger 

"I do believe that the gradu­stepping up in starting positions, ation of Katie Vales and and better during the Saint Mary's has seven other tal­Becky Kremer will affect the ented women constituting the
upcoming years.,, 

team," Knish said. "They team. were both great players and "Our team's greatest strength is were respected as leaders on Annie Knish our depth," Knish said. "We have a the team. We will do our best Belles' tennis co-captain very solid line-up this year, all the 
to fill in those gaps this sea­son, but [we] miss those girls." 
In addition to the loss of Vales and Kremer, the Belles will have to play without sophomore Lindsay Molan, who is spending the year in Ireland. Other players on the team have had to step up in both playing positions and leadership positions and the team is confident that they can fill the spots left by the three. 
"I think that when the senior girls graduated we were all concerned about the dynamics of the team," sophomore Marta Dziekan said. "But now we are doing great; we have some great players and people on.our team recognize that there is a lot of talent among us." 
Three strong freshman have moved into the playing positions left by Vales, Kremer and Molan. Jeannie Knish, Kaitlin Cutler and Kris Spriggle will be taking the No. 3 and No. 4 and No. 5 singles spots respectively. Annie Knish or senior Natalie Cook will step into the No. 1 singles spot and sophomore Elisa Ryan will finish off with the No. 6 singles spot. 
Doubles teams are not set for certain yet. 
"We'll start out with Jeannie [Knish] and Kaitlin [Spriggle] playing one and Annie [Knish] and Natalie [Cook] playing two, but that could change," Stevenson said. 

Ryan and sophomore Trisha Jones will be taking the No. 3 doubles spot. Stevenson is counting on Spriggle, Ryan and the doubles team of Ryan and Jones to help lead his team to match victories. 
"The key spots on the team are five and six sin ­gles and three doubles," he said. "When we play good teams we can probably hold our own in the other sports, but to win we'll have to win two out of three of those spots.'' 
Saint Mary's returns only one senior and two juniors. Three players pegged for starting posi­tions are freshmen and two are sophomores. Despite the youth and possible inexperience of his team, Stevenson is not worried. 
"I don't expect [the young team] to be a big issue," he said. "Most of [the freshmen] have a lot of experience playing tennis." 
Players agree. 
"We have very young team, but this will only allow us to get stronger and better during the upcoming years," Knish said. 
The Belles will be counting on Annie Knish and 
Cook to step-up in leadership posi­
tions. The co-captains offer the 
way down the line." 

Saint Mary's will open its season this week away from the snow of Indiana in Glendale, Ariz. as part of spring break tennis pro­gram. The Belles will play against teams from Division I, II, and III. 
Saint Mary's will be matched up against St. Louis University (Div. I), Montana Sate University (Div. II), Colorada Christian College (Div. II), and Webster State University (Div. III). Other matches may be named when the team arrives in Arizona. 
Stevenson is looking at the trip as an opportunity for his team to improve its play and meet some new competition. 
"Right now, they're tired of playing each other," he said. "[The trip] will give us a chance to play outside, to play other people, and we hope we have a good time." 
Team members are looking at the trip as an opportunity to increase team unity and take part in some play against talented opposition. 
"The spring break trip should be a great bonding experience," Dziekan said. "We are also expecting to be challenged by our opponents in Arizona. There are going to be many good colleges there, so we are going to be working hard over break." 
The Belles will start off regular season competi­tion at home against Valparaiso on Mar. 24. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexHlay classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Fraternities•Sororities Clubs•student Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. No sales required. Fundraising dates are fill­ing quickly, so call today! Contact Carnpusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit www.campus­
fund raiser com 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, ML Positions available for Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 17 through August 12.·Salary, Room & Board, and experience of a lifetime provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, '-11 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail 
3ayCliffHC@aol.com 

Need babysitter, pref. Early ed major, own trans. 2-yr.-old by Martins 272-1205 
FOR RENT 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001/02&summer 272­6306 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )4-br $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month WeOII make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
4-BR HOUSE! CENTRAL AIR SEC SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
Bed and Breakfast tor ND and SMC graduation 3 miles from ND 2 rooms left 287-4545 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 
232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN• GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291· 2209 2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298-3800. 
3 Houses still available for 2001-02. 5·6 BR, Furnished, W/O, prime locations, 233-9947 Greg. 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN CHICAGO! $22-25/night-Hostelling lntOI $2 OFF WITH AD 312/360-0300 or www.hichicago.org 
PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 634-1146 CLAUDIA 
634-4210 SARA 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 Spring Break AppetizerMexican Blankets from $12.95 + S&HMexiconnection.com 
The Crush is coming ... 
PERSONAL 
I have lots of room tonight! Give it up for spring break. 
Spring break rules 
So does having your own room 
Let's see, where shall I start 
Okay, I know 
We'll start by giving props to Timmy for his outstanding photos 
Rumor has it that Mr. Photo might be heading on a certain track trip to a certain California destination 
This rumor is unconfirmed 
But sources close to the sports department say that the top two want Timmy going along 
Okay, enough inflating Tim's ego What next 

By the order of Noreen, I am oblig­ed to report that Andrew Soukup is an(··*-·) and any mistakes in the sports section are his fault and his fault alone. 
Does that mean when it turns out good he gets mad props? 
But I'll get to sleep all next week 
Riight 

Sorry I forgot to do this last week 
Let's hear it for .... JOSE!!!I 

Hmm, now for some more shout outs 
Dan • hope you get some 
Brett • hope you get home • you know, THAT home 
Zo -hope you get some 
April • hope you don't get lost, shot, killed or otherwise mutilated and have a great time 
Sam -row, row, row your boat, gen­tley down the stream Hahaha • had to put that one in 
If anybody wants to play handball, they may come by my room 
The only stipulation is that they aren't on the same team as me 
I could have gotten to bed early 
Stupid photo people 
Ah, well, most of them mean well 
Hey, it's our last day as our inferior titles • Noah, think of it this way, you're the Sports Editor-Elect 
Or someting like that 
I'd just like to point out how the only freshman in the office is still sitting the office while several upperclass­men are getting him food at Reckers. 
Let's hear it for squeaky couches and immovable philosophy chairs 
I love BIG COOKIE nights 
Wow• 5 whole days in North Carolina -yeah, baby, yeah! 
Well, hope y'all have a great spring break. Peace...out 


Friday, March 9, 2001 page 13
The Observer . SPORTS 
LIZ LANG/The Observer 

Irish junior Jenny Kriech swings at a pitch during a softball game last season. The Irish will spend Spring Break in California. 
Irish poised for California trip 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to bounce back from defeat 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Writer 
The fifth-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis started off last weekend on a tough note with a 4-3 loss to 11th ranked Northwestern. The loss marked the first time the Irish have been defeated by a Midwest region opponent since 1996. The win by the Wildcats is the first over the Irish in the past five years. 
Despite winning the doubles point and the first two singles matches, the Irish struggled with the difficult conditions in Evanston and the Wildcats swept the final four singles matches winning 4-3. 
"It was a little disappointing because our goal was to beat all the Midwest teams," said Becky Varnum, who won in both doubles and singles. 
"We knew we were going to have a battle and that it was going to be tight," said Varnum. "It was really hard to play there, it was really dark and there were a lot of prob­lems with the calls. 
"Being ranked fifth in the country we should have been able to deal with the condi­tions and do better and we will work on that in the future." 
After the disappointing loss in Evanston, the Irish traveled to Columbus to take on No. 21 Ohio State. The Irish came out on a mission, first winning the doubles point with impressive victories at Nos. 1. 2, and 3 doubles. The No. 7 Irish pair of Michelle Dasso and Varnum set the pace as they took down Kristy Dascoli and Monica Rincon 8-5 for the second time this season. 
The Irish were led once again by the play of No. 3 All­American Michelle Dasso as she defeated the 31st ranked Dascoli for the second time that day in singles. Freshman Caylan Leslie along with Kimberly Guy and Lindsay Green all won impressively in straight sets to clinch the important win for the Irish. 
It has been difficult as of late for the No. 5 Irish as they have been traveling at what seems to be a non stop pace playing in two to three matches every weekend. This, along with the added pressure of being one of the top five teams in the nation, has at times made it difficult for the Irish to come out and play their best. 
Despite their tough schedule the Irish, lead by head coach Jay Louderback and a solid group of upperclassmen, have come up big and are on their way to having one of the best seasons in their history. 
"It has been three weeks of match after match and some­times we feel like we are just visiting at Notre Dame," said 
0
Varnum. Ohio State last week was one of the last matches of the streak and we knew we just had to buckle down and play hard." 
The team is a very solid and close group and they use their friendships off the court to pull together and play well on the court. 
SOFTBALL 


Special to The Observer 
The No. 14-ranked Notre Dame softball team takes off for the West Coast this week­end for its traditional Spring Break trip to California. The Irish will face Cal State Northridge on Sunday, March 11, at noon. and Long Beach State Tuesday, March 13, at 5 p.m. 
Notre Dame also will take part in the Kia Klassic in Fullerton, Calif., scheduled for Thursday, March 15, to Sunday. March 18. 
After earning their third tournament title of the sea­son at the Frost Classic in Chattanooga, Tenn., (Notre Dame also won the Holiday Inn Invitational in Tampa, Fla., Feb. 16-18, and the Morning News Invitational in Fayetteville, Ark., Feb. 23­
26) the Irish have moved back up to 14th in the USA Today/NFCA Top 25. 

Notre Dame entered the season ranked 19th in the preseason poll and moved to 14th in the Feb. 21st poll. The Irish then dropped a spot to 15th in the Feb. 28th poll. 
Notre Dame's 11-1 record over its first 12 games is by far its best start to a season since the program began in 1989. The Irish started the 1995 and 2000 seasons 8-4, its previous best start for a season. 
Freshman righthander Kristin Schmidt has earned her first career Big East weekly pitching award. The Irish freshman was named co-pitcher of the week on Monday, March 5, by the Big East Conference for her per­formance versus Jacksonville State and UAB last weekend. Schmidt shares this week's award with Clarisa Crowell from Virginia Tech. 
Schmidt improved to 5-1 this season with two victo­
ries at the Frost Classic in 
Chattanooga, Tenn., March 
2-3. She struck out 15 bat­
ters in 11 innings pitched, 
yielding just one run and 
scattering 10 hits. Her two 
impressive victories lowered 
her season-ERA to 1.46. 
Against Jacksonville State 
on Friday, March 2, Schmidt 
pitched 6.1 innings, striking 
out eight and giving up just 
one run. 
Facing UAB on Saturday, 

March 3, (the Blazers .entered the game 2-0 in the tournament) Schmidt used her change-up to baffle hit­ters all afternoon. She struck out seven in the first four innings and gave up just 
three hits. 
Schmidt has combined with 
Jen Sharron to post an 11-1 
record and 1.06 team ERA 
as Notre Dame's two top 
star.ting pitchers. Both 
hurlers also have combined 
to post 91 strikeouts this 
season. 

I I I I I I
..--------.. 
FENCING 

Irish to compete in qualifiers 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing teams travels to Detroit Saturday for the Midwest Regional Qualifiers without its most prolific fencer. 
Gabor Szelle, the 2000 NG\A sabre chamoion, will not fence this weekend due to a thumb injury. Since Szelle will not fence this weekend, he cannot qualify for the NCAA Championships at the end of March. Szelle is a two-time first team All-American and led the men's sabre squad with a 37-3 record. 
Evtn without Szelle, the Irish still feature three of the top five Midwest sabremen. Junior Andre Crompton enters the qualifier seeded third after his first place finish at the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships. Senior Andrzej Bednarski and sophomore Matt Fabricant are seeded fourth and fifth, respectively. 
The top four sabrcmen will qualify for the NCAA Championships but only two fencers can qualify from each team. 

Although the Irish should have no trouble qualifying two fencers in sabre even without Szelle, the Irish may not qualify two fencers in other weapons. 
Only five fencers will qualify in women's epee and the Irish only have one fencer seeded in the top five -Meagan Call. Anna Carnick is seeded sixth and must make a strong show· ing to qualify. 
----,.."""·.•-------·•.------· 
~ 
I .• 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 9, 2001 
--------------.---------------!"""?l---------------·-,---------11111111!11---lllll!e•¦c• 
Loss 
continued from page 20 

A couple more perimeter shots, one by Graves and anoth­er by Ingelsby, allowed the Irish to take a 24-23 lead, but the brief Irish edge soon collapsed. 
Every missed shot bounced into Panther hands, from a Murphy airball to a Carroll failed 3-pointer. Pittsburgh crashed the boards hard, out­rebounding Notre Dame 39 to 25 and holding the Irish to four offensive rebounds in the con­test. 
"We weren't very good defen­sively," Brey said ...We were out of position. I think that's why we got beat up on the backboard, too. 
"It's definitely a concern," he said of the rebounding, "because when we got on a nice run in late January and through February, that front line, you know, Murph, Swan and Hump did a great job on the back­board." 
After halftime. the Irish man­aged to close to within four with 
14:20 to play following another trey by Ingelsby and two free throws by Murphy, his final points of the game. 
But Notre Dame, who beat Pittsburgh twice during the reg­ular season, was unable to hit anything but the 3-pointer. The Irish made just 7-of-26 shots from inside the arc the entire game, including one by Carroll with his foot on the 3-point line. Pittsburgh cracked down on Notre Dame defensively, but even when the Irish had open looks, they failed to connect. 
Meanwhile, Pittsburgh had no trouble finding the hoop as they shot 49 percent from the field, led by 17 points from Greer and 14 points from Jaron Brown. 
Along with the dismal inside shooting, the Panthers held Murphy to eight points, marking only the second time in his career that he failed to score in double digits and breaking a 78­game streak. 
"As soon as we got back to the hotel last night. Coach [Howland] told us the game plan -to double Murphy and put pressure on him," Greer said. 
The Panthers, did that, and did it well. 
..I think they doubled me on the catch," Murphy said, "rather than sometimes, when I put the ball on the floor, then the double team comes and that allows an easier pass to a shooter." 
With Murphy struggling to get free and only taking two second half shots, Notre Dame needed to find offense elsewhere. While Ryan Humphrey managed three second-half baskets and Graves and Ingelsby each hit a pair of 3-pointers in the second stanza, little else came through. 
Graves and Ingelsby were the only two players to finish in dou­ble figures for Notre Dame, which ended the game with seven assists to 16 turnovers. 
The 54 points scored by Notre Dame was its lowest total of the season. 
The Irish have never advanced to the semifinals of the Big East Tournament. 
"I felt a little bit at times in there [the locker room] after­wards, a little bit like the Kentucky locker room," Brey said. "That was a little bit of a crossroads for us. Maybe this one was tonight." 
Following Notre Dame's Jan. 13 loss to Kentucky, the Irish won eight straight Big East games, a new school record. 
Now the Irish can look ahead to the NCAA Tournament, but their early exit from the Big East Tournament could hurt their seeding on Selection Sunday. 


WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 

Belles softball squad sweeps doubleheader 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Mary's Editor 

The Saint Mary's softball team opened the 2001 season with an east double header vic­tory against the Manchester Spartans Wednesday afternoon. 
The Belles won the first game 5-1 and the second 13-6. 
"We won in part, because of the experienced pitchers we have and partly because we just hit the ball well," first year head coach John Kovach said. "It's always key when you're on the road to jump out in front and we did that in both games." 
In the first game, junior 
J. \ Kristen Martin pitched the 
' complete game and the Belles jumped out to an early lead which they never gave up. The Belles had a four-run sixth
j 
j 
inning, started by Martin's lead-off double. Mandy Hayes 
and Katerina Tebbe followed with RBI hits. Martin gave up three hits, one run and no walks. 
"If you have strong pitching, everything else falls into place," Kovach said. 
Senior co-captain Anne Senger pitched the second game, where the Belles had 16 hits for 13 runs. Senger gave up five earned runs on 14 hits. · 
Marnie Walsh and Susan Kootz led the Belles in hitting in the second game. Kootz had two hits, including a two-run triple, while Walsh had a sin­gle, a double and a triple. 
"For our first game. we played really well," Senger said. "We hit the ball really well. Defensively we were pret­ty strong.'' 
Kovach will be relying on his upperclassmen for support as he makes the transition to head coach. 
"What I found out that has been quite nice about the upperclassmen is that they're willing to do whatever is neces­sary for the team," Kovach said. 
The seniors for their part seem to be willing to work with this one last coach in the hopes of a successful season. 
"It's been a revolving door of coaches for me for the last four years, but, hopefully this last year will be really good," Senger said. "With the combi­nation of a lot of talent and good coaching this year will be a really good season." 
The Belles head to Florida for training and a series of games over spring break. 


HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 
Store Hours for Spring Break 
Saturday, March 10 9:00am -7:00pm Sunday, March 11 11:00am -7:00pm Monday, March 12 through Saturday, March 1 7 9:00am -7:00pm Sunday, March 18 11:00am -7:00pm Monday, March 19 Normal Store Hours 9:00am -10:00pm 
Friday, March 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Farrell fares well, Notre Dame tops Michigan, 7-0 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
Sophomore Brian Farrell learned from his mistakes Thursday, avoiding a near­defeat in doubles before domi­nating his No. 4 singles match. Farrell and the No. 26 Irish won every match, topping No. 33 Michigan, 7 -0. 
The No. 3 doubles team of Farrell and senior Matt Daly started off well before strug­gling midway through the match. They rallied from an 0-5 deficit to top Wolverines Ben Cox and Anthony Jackson 9-8 
• (8-6). "We were able to fight them off," Daly said. "We played well when we needed to." Farrell was disappointed they were unable to put away their opponent after starting off up S­O. "It was unfortunately closer than we would have liked," Farrell said. Farrell's doubles match was the last match to end, but the sophomore rebounded quickly in singles._ Farrell's match was the first singles match to end, as he defeated Anthony Jackson 6-2, 6-0. "I got up pretty big," Farrell said. "I kept the pressure on. I wanted to make sure I didn't make the same mistakes that I did in doubles." After playing longer doubles matches outdoors already this 
The domination continued 
season, Farrell was unaffected 
into singles play. 
by the short layoff. 
Smith, the No. 88 ranked 
"We play longer doubles 
player in the country. rallied to 
matches at tournaments," 
beat Cox 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 in No. 1 
Farrell said. "Indoors you don't 
singles.
sweat as much. It was no big 
Smith's doubles partner had 
deal, it really didn't affect me at 
even less trouble with McCain 
all." 
in No. 2 singles. Haddock­
The Irish set the tone for the 
Morales won in two sets, 6-4, 7­
day early, as the No. 14 doubles 
5. 

team of juniors Javier Taborga 
In No. 3 singles, Talarico 
and Aaron Telarico came away 
topped Novak, 7-6, (11-9), 6-2. 
with an 8-4 victory over 
Daly beat Shaya in No. 5 sin­
Michigan's No. 1 doubles team 
gles 7-6 (10-8), 6-3. The senior 
of Chris Rolf and Chris Shaya. 
was happy with his perfor­
In No. 2 doubles, the team of 
mance, after only competing in 
freshman Luis Haddock­
doubles in recent matches. 
Morales and junior Casey Smith 
"I felt a lot better in the sec­
walked off with a 9-7 victory 
ond set," Daly said. 
over Danny McCain and Greg 
Matthew Scott rebounded to 
Novak. 
win 3-6, 6-0, 6-4 in No. 6 sin-

gles, preserving the sweep as he toppled Michigan's Brett Baudinet. 
The match was the last for the Irish before they head to Montgomery, Ala. for the Blue­Gray National Classic. The Classic starts Thursday. March 15. 
Daly was happy to see his team play so well before the weeklong layoff. 
"It's always good to play a big match before a long layoff,•• he said. 
Farrell contends that his team proved they should be ranked higher. as they dismantled a team ranked only seven spots below them on Thursday. 
"I feel that we are under­ranked," Farrell said. "We have a better record than many teams that are ranked above us. We'll keep winning and we'll go up in the future." 
The Blue-Gray match pits the Irish up against some of the best competition in the country. Daly is cautiously-optimistic regarding his team's chances. 
"It's always pretty tough." Daly said. "We can beat every team there, but at the same time we could lose as well. Every match will be hard­faught." 
Daly's doubles partner has even more confidence in his team's chances. 
"We've been playing really well as a team. I think this is our yed.r to win it down there," Farrell said. 

Now's the time... 
to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 

• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 aduttprograms@bethel-in.edu 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish set to begin road trip 
Special to The Observer 
The ninth-ranked Notre Dame 
men's lacrosse team embarks 
on a three-game road stretch 
for its spring break as the Irish 
will play three games over a 
nine-day period. The three 
games are the first of five con­
secutive road games for Notre 
Dame who will not be home 
again until an April 7 meeting 
with Denver. 
Notre Dame will begin the 
three-game road swing when its 
travels to Piscataway, N.J.. to 
face thte Scarlet Knights of 
Rutgers on Fri., Mar. 9 at 3:00 
p.m. Following that game, the Irish will travel to Charlottesville, Va., where they will meet the Cavaliers on Wed., Mar. 14 at 4:00 p.m. and then play at Loyola on Sun., Mar. 18 at 1:00 p.m. 
The series between Notre 
Dame and Rugters is tied at 1-1 
and this will be the first meeting 
since the 1998 campaign. Each 
team has been victorious on the 
home floor of their opponent. 
Notre Dame earned an 8-7 over­
time road decision in 1994. 
Rutgers returned the favor 
when they beat the Irish 13-12 
at Notre Dame in 1998. 
This will be the third time Notre Dame and Virginia have faced each other in Charlottesville, Va., and both meetings have occurred in the first round of the NCAA tourna~ ment. The Cavaliers have won both previous matchups, earn­ing a 19-9 victory in 1993 ad 23­4 decision a year later in 1994. 
Loyola has dominated the series with Notre Dame and lead by a 10-1 count. Loyola had won the 10 previous meetings between the two schools, but on May 14, 2000, the Irish earned their first-ever win in the series with a 15~13 victory in the first round ofthe NCAA tournament. 
Notre Dame will play its next five games on the road and will not return home again until April 7 when the Irish entertain Denver. The upcoming road stretch will be the longest since the Irish played seven straight road contests during the 1996 campaign. 
Under Kevin Corrigan, Notre Dame teams have always stressed defense. The Irish have allowed eight goals in each of their first two contests. The last time a Notre Dame team held their opponents to under 10 in the the first two games of \he season was during the 1998 campaign. In fact, Notre Dame did not allow more than 10 goals until the fourth game of the season. 
ERASMU_S BOOKS 

-tJsed Boob boua)tt and sold .25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock 
-Out-of-Print search service -App!'&iuls lqc and small 
Open noon to alx Tuesday through Sundey 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232--8444 


Friday, March 9, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
Swim 
continued from page 20 

It took a meet in Indianapolis for both swimmers to realize that they had the potential to have success at the national level. 
For Labosky. who made the provisional qualifying time in the 400 individual medley at the November Indiana Invitational. she realized just how good she could be. 
"I had a rough beginning to the season," she said. "But when I broke the school record for the first time at Indiana and made the B-cut, I started think­ing more and more about nationals." 
Meanwhile, Hecking saw her summer training pay off as she her fastest race ever in the 100­meter backstroke. 
"I swam a lifetime best, and I was so excited to be swimming that fast at that point in the season," she said. "I hadn't trained in the summer since my junior year of high school, and it made such a difference this year." 
But each swimmer is driven by something deeper and more personal than the glory of the NCAA meet. 
Both have individual expecta­tions they want to meet. 
Hecking wanted to make sure she qualified for the NCMs on her own. The past two year's she had gone along with the medley relay, but this year was different. Hecking wanted to prove that she could qualify on her own. 
"This year I didn't care -I'm was going to make it on my own." she said. 
In retrospect, it was a good thing Hecking was so deter­mined to qualify individually. 
The medley relay missed mak­ing the national meet for the first time in two years. 
Labosky wanted to qualify for a similar reason. The freshman came from the No. 1 swimming high school in the nation, Germantown Academy in Churchville, Penn. 
Winning had lost a lot of meaning for the freshman ­she lost only her first individual event in five years at last month's Big East Championships. Her satisfac• tion came from swimming fast. 

"For me winning is not every­thing," Labosky said. "I could win, but had I gone slower times, I wouldn't have been happy. Winning is great for me and the team, but I'd rather win and get a good time." 
Labosky and Hecking have had their share of difficulties ­both swimmers say they get extremely nervous before each race -but they've both had breakthrough seasons. And Weathers is only too happy to see his star swimmers go on to individual success. 

"I think they're both real competitive and it's nice to see them have some success," he said. "I think they both can go even faster." 
Notes 
. Junior diver Heather Mattingly may join Hecking and Labosky at NCAAs next week. Mattingly will compete at the NCAA Regional diving finals in Bloomington latei this weekend and if she places high enough, will compete at next week's championships . 


It's that easy. 
Check out The Observer's online classifieds at http://observer.nd.edu for NCAA Tournament tickets. 

Friday, March 9, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

Murphy 
continued from page 20 
junior power forward scored only eight points. breaking his 78-game streak of tallying double-digit point totals. 
"I think they double teamed me on the catch. I usually get double teamed when I put the ball on the floor," Murphy said. "It's tough to get the ball then and it's tough to make a move." 
The Panther double team spelled double trouble for the Irish. · 
"Our defense was outstand­ing tonight," Panther head coach Ben Howland said. "The first two times we played [Notre Dame] we didn't dou­ble team Murphy at all ... I'm kicking myself in the behind that we didn't [double team] more this season because we're not that big inside." 
Murphy's fellow big man Ryan Humphrey couldn't step up his game enough to sal­vage the Irish inside play. He matched Murphy's eight points while committing five turnovers. 
"They did a good job defending us, as compared to the last two games," Brey said. "We struggled offensive­ly. especially around the buck­et." 
But All-Americans earn that title because they can handle the double team. They earn that title because they can muscle their way to the basket with the best. The Irish had no All-American Thursday. 
Murphy showed an unusual timidity with the ball inside and outside the paint. He replaced his usual take-it-to­the-hoop attitude with a meeker style of play. 
With just six minutes remaining and the Irish trail­ing by eight, Murphy had a chance to make a statement. The Irish had spread its offense to the perimeter, allowing Murphy to cut in the lane to take advantage of a caught-off-guard defense. But instead of driving down the lane and knocking down a lay­up, Murphy had a let-down. kicking the ball out to the perimeter. 
Instead of cutting the lead to six, the Panthers took control 
DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer Senior point guard Martin lnglesby dribbles around a Pittsburgh defender during Thursday's loss to Pittsburgh. lnglesby played his final Big East game Thursday night. 
and stretched their lead to 10. 
Minutes later, with less than two on the clock, Murphy had the opportunity to cut a 12­point deficit to nine with a wide open three. But instead of taking the uncontested shot, he dished the ball off to Humphrey at the point who threw up a flat attempt for the score. 
What Murphy and company lacked in scoring, they couldn't make up for on the boards. The Panthers outre­bounded the Irish 39-24. 
Murphy, the tallest player on the court, had only eight defensive rebounds and zero offensive boards, leading the Irish to only two second chance points for the Irish all game. 

-Large 2-Bedroom ftoorplan -Studentteases Available· -4 Blocks From Campus 
ONLY A FEW t.:EFT • SECURE 
YOUR APARTMENT TODAY. 
"The Best Value In Off Gampus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
The Irish were out of posi­tion and out of sync. 
"We weren't very good defensively," Brey said. "We were out of position and got beat on the boards." 
Despite a strong perimeter performance, Notre Dame needed Murphy to _show up Thursday. 
The Irish perimeter players tried to offset a struggling inside in the first half, as senior captain Martin Ingelsby stepped up to fill the huge void left by Murphy. 
Perfect from behind the arc, Ingelsby hit three threes and scored 10 points to keep the Irish alive at the half, trailing by seven. 
Alive. but just barely. 
The guards couldn't sustain the effectiveness of the long shot all game, shooting 63.6 percent from behind the arc in the first half, but connecting on only a third of their attempts in the second. 

The Irish needed their All­American to step up. 
Yet despite Murphy's poor play, Howland and the Panthers have learned from past experience what a threat the junior can be when he's on fire. 
"Hopefully, he'll go into the draft," Howland said. "We're tired of seeing Troy Murphy." 
Irish fans would have liked to seen him Thursday. 
The opinions expressed in tihs column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Shay and 
Grow set for NCAA 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
For Irish track stars Ryan Shay 
and Liz Grow. their indoor sea­
son culminates at today's NCAA 
Indoor Track and Field 
Championships at the University 
of Arkansas. Shay· will run later 
this evening in the 5,000 meter 
finals. while Grow will compete 
in the 400 meter preliminaries. 
It's been a long road back to 
the national meet for Shay, who 
took the fall cross-country sea­
son off to recover from the 2000 
U.S. Olympic Trials, where he took 10th place in the 10,000 meters. 
Notre Dame head coach Joe 
Piane planned to slowly re-intro• 
duce Shay to the stress of racing 
by starting him at shorter dis­
tances and moving him gradual­
ly up to his specialty, the 5,000. 
Shay started his season by placing sixth in the mile Jan. 19 and winning the 3,000 meters on Jan. 26. He was poised to run a fast qualifying time at the Meyo Invitational Feb. 2. 
But even Piane couldn't have expected to see Shay rip up the track at the Loftus Sports Complex like he did. The senior All-American shattered the school record by four seconds in the 5,000 with a blazing 
13:52.66 -fast enough to earn an NCAA automatic bid. 
Shay continued his dominance at the indoor Big East Championships, where he placed second in the 3,000 and won the 5,000. 
Today will be Shay's first time competing in the indoor track and field championships, but he has competed twice in the out­door finals. Shay is seeded fourth in the 5,000. His fastest time is 17 seconds behind the No. 1 seed, Alabama's David Kimani. 
On the women's side, Grow holds the fastest times on the team in the 60-, 200-and 400­
.
meter dashes and anchored the 
4x400 meter relay team during 
their record-setting performance 
at last week's Alex Wilson 
Invitational. 
Like Shay, Grow turned in her fastest performance of the sea­son at the Meyo Invitational. In the 400, Grow found herself trailing most of the race to Canadian Olympian Foye Williams. 
But with 100 meters to go. Grow sprinted past Williams and held off the Canadian on the final straightaway to win the race. Grow's time, 53.3, broke her own school record by over .8 of a second and provisionally quali­fied her for the national meet. 
Although Grow failed to defend her Big East indoor 400 title three weeks ago, losing to Pittsburgh's Tia Tabb, her 53.3 second performance was fast enough to for her to earn her second indoor national bid. If Grow, seeded seventh, places in the top eight tonight, she will advance to Saturday's finals. 
But Grow faces some strong competition from a trio of South Carolina 400 runners seeded in the top 10, led by Demetria Washington, who is seeded No. 1 with a time of 52.06. 
I I 
I I 


F 
' 
page 18 Friday, March 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

California-bound Irish set to play 8 games in 8 days 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Sports Writer 

California already has swimming pools and movie stars, and soon it will add Indiana's best baseball team to the mix. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will take their 6-2 record and No. 10 rank­ing to the Golden State this week to compete in the Pepsi/Johnny Quik Classic. 
The Irish open the California road trip in Stockton with a Saturday after­noon doubleheader against Pacific fol­lowed by a nightcap against Eastern Michigan. 
Then Notre Dame will head south to Fresno and the Pepsi/Johnny Quik Classic, with games against New Mexico, Navy and host Fresno State. 
The Irish are clearly the most highly touted team in the tournament. None of the other seven squads competing next week are ranked in the Baseball America College Top 25. 
"One of our goals we set before the season was to win one of the tourna­ments," said starting pitcher Matt Buchmeier. "But we'll take it one game at a time." 
Depending on how the Irish perform in the first three games, they will then compete Thursday, Friday and Saturday for the tournament title. 
The good news for Notre Dame is the return of leading hitter Brian Stavisky. The preseason All-American has missed the last three games with injury, but expects to be back in the lineup as the designated hitter on Saturday. 
"I'm healing quite nicely," said Stavisky. "I can hit fine, but the it's a little weak when I run." 
Clearly, the starting pitching has been Notre Dame's driving force for the first eight games. All-American right­hander Aaron Heilman leads the three Irish starters with a 0.86 ERA in three starts. Fellow starters Danny Tamayo and Buchmeier have been almost as dominating, with 1.50 and 2.70 ERAs respectively. 
Heilman has been effective in shut­
ting down both right-handed hitters 
and lefties, with both hitting a scant 
.179 against the senior. 

So far head coach Paul Mainieri and 
pitching coach Brian O'Connor have 
brought the starters into the season 
slowly, with set pitch counts for each 
start. 



"They've got a plan for that," said Buchmeier. "They want us to be ready for the conference games because they're the most important part of the schedule." 
The Irish have been fierce at the plate with a .318 total team batting average. Notre Dame has shown it can get on base and manufacture runs when necessary, with a .398 on base percentage. 
Before the back injury cost him the last three starts, Stavisky was hitting at 
a .650 clip while reaching base 73 per­cent of the time. A pair of Steves ­Stanley and Sollmann -have been giv­ing opposing pitchers fits in the batter's box and catchers headaches on the basepaths. Both have batting averages well over .350 and have six stolen bases between them. 
Notre Dame has played a small-ball style of baseball all season by not rely­ing on power for runs. The Irish have just two home runs through eight games, neither one by an everyday starter. Still, through pitching and by . getting on base, Notre Dame has been 
able to score consistently. 
Part of this strategy of manufacturing runs is being patient at the plate. The Irish have averaged over four walks per game, with Stavisky and Sollmann being especially selective in the batter's box. 
New Mexico enters the Pepsi/Johnny Quik Classic with a 9-13 mark after sweeping Hofstra at home. Junior out­fielder Donny Sevieri leads the Lobos with a .369 average, two home runs and 15 RBI. 
Fresno State began its season well, sporting a 14-7 record. Pitching is the Bulldogs strong suit. with a 3.53 ERA compared to the Notre Dame pitching staff's 3.04 ERA. 
Navy's two victories over Army last weekend have prevented them from entering the Pepsi/Johnny Quik Classic winless. The Midshipmen have hit just .249 as a team in their first seven games. 
For the Irish, with only eight games under their belts, the coming week offers the chance to really get into the groove of the season. LIZ LANG/The Observer 
"We have the chance to play eight Senior Danny Tamayo fires a pitch during a game last season. Tamayo is expect­games in eight days," said Stavisky. ed to get at least two starts during Notre Dame's spring break trip in California. 
"It's our chance to play a .lo:t:_:of:.!ga:m=es:________________________________ 
in a row and to be up  ..  7  
there with the rest of  
the Top 25 that's played  
a lot of games."  the £r;J:U Q~ngexperience presenting the latest fashion trends.  
budgeting tips and cutting edge ideas from Michiana spremiere vendors.  




march 61~}center 
I 


produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events 


rr-!.~f i~ter tr-. ·vvi "7
a Sandals resort honeymcr6~ptic~age't' 11 
! 

Drawing will be held at 4:30 in the Vendor Pav1lt0n. Must be present to wm. 
General admission VIP ticket holders 12:00pm -5:00pm 10:00am -5:00pm 
$5 per person at the door $10 per person (advance purchase only) Seminars and panel discussions limited to 200 guests with the professionals Guests will have exclusive time with vendors Main fashion show at 3:00pm from 7Oam to noon Private fashion show from 11am to noon 
C:)ntact . 
Jessica Sa1 os at ProShow, 271-7469 for VIP tickets and more information 
Friday, March 9, 200 I 
The Obseroer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
WHAT'S UP NOW, SOUTH NOTHIN' BVT SVN AND 

BEND?! I'M LEAVING 

SANI> AND THERE'S I HAI HAI H 
YOU ANC> YOUR 4$#1!?'-E? 

NOTHING YOU CAN t>O 
WEATHER BEHIND FOR AN ABOUT m NOTHINGII 

ENTIRE WEEKI 

Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
_.WtUrtUt~'-4, .................. ._,. __ .., ___ •• _ _,, #1, _,,,., .......... _,.-,, ..~ 
I will not SCI)' EILEEK J ACOf>SOK IS A SPACE SPORE. OH, GREAT. 
NOW You

I will not SCI)' EILEEK 'JACOf>SOt\ IS A SPACE SPORE. 
SPECIFY

I will not SCI)' EILEEJ'l J ACOf>SQJ'l IS A SPACE SPORE. 
FoNT SIZE. 

l will not say EILEEJ'l 'JACOf>SOJ'l IS A SPACE SPORE. 

I

I will not say EIL[[K 'JACOBSOJ'l IS A SPACE SPORE. I will not SCI)' EIL[Et\ J ACOBSOK IS A Sf AC[ SPORE. I will not SCI)' EIL[Et\ J ACOf>SQt\ IS A SfACE SfORE. I will not say [IL[[t\ 'JACOBSOJ'l IS A SPAC[ SPORE. 
---iiiiiiii ­


CROSSWORD 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 



ACROSS 

1 Escaped punishment 7 Like some stairs 15 Highest point 16 Piecemeal? 17 Put away 18 Faces facts 19 Digestion aid 20 Needing to cut down 22 Roman-f leuve 23 Well-intentioned grp.? 
24 Spanish Main cargo 
25 Place to play cards 
26 Clean out, in a way 
27 Where to spend a balboa 
31 Burned up the road 32 Slight on the stump, say 34 Like some bets 36 Vacationer's hiree, perhaps 
38 "Author! Author!" autobiographer 
41 Choker 45 Nephew of Abel 46 Shades 48 Afflicted 49 Liberal leader? 50 A, in Aquila 51 Math figure 52 Cutting 54 Angiogram 
image 57 Monkey 58 Guar gum, e.g. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Looks 62 Ready to board the Ark 63 Word with food or group 64 License bureau procedures 65 Refuses 
DOWN 1 Big talkers 2 Perfect 3 Not in time 4 Tyrant 5 Membership 
requirement, often 6 It has a creased crown 7 Exercise wheel locale 8 Some are pale 9 Give a 5, e.g. 10 Some clones 11 They may be ringing 12 Trample 
13 Stand for trinkets 14 wN.Y.P.D. Blue" actress 21 Crams 
24 Sofia's portrayer in "The Color Purple" 
28 Dispatch boat 
29 Admeasure 
30 Symbol of 
industry 31 Ring rampager 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 2001 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Raul Julia, Mickey Spillane, Bobby Fischer, Lauren Koslow, Danny Sullivan, Juliette Binoche 
Happy Birthday: Look before you leap. You may want to get into all sorts of new things this year, but you would be wise to bide your time. Competition and challenges can be expected, so prepare well and refrain from taking on too much. If you are willing to put all your efforts into the goals that mean the most to you, success can be achieved. Your numbers: 4, 17, 21, 24, 29, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You should put extra effort into your work. You can finish proj­ects early, which will bring you praise from superiors. Take work home, but be sure to spend some time with your mate. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Invesbnents will be lucrative. You can help those less fortunate if you make the effort. Self-improvement programs will show quick results. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get pushed into doing things you really don't have time for. You can bet that relatives will be willing to take you for granted. Say no, but don't start a family feud. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be original in your approach to life, especially when it involves loved ones. Take care of the needs of those who depend on you. Look into your vacation plans. You need some rest and relaxation 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You won't be happy with the pur­chases you make today. You're wise to keep your money in a safe place and refrain from going to the mall. Problems 
Birthday Baby: You play to win and you give everything your all. You are outgoing. determined and know exactly what you want to do. You will never back down and will refuse to let anyone stand in your way.
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvke.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
with children will be frustrating. 
000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Don't make social promises you can't keep. You need to spend time with loved ones. Overtime will bring you the extra cash you need, but it will also cause dis­cord at home. 000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0cl 22): You need time to reflect. Pamper yourself and re-evaluate your motives. You may need to change your direction if you want to be happy. You can make a difference if you go after your goals. 000 
. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will receive sincere opinions from those who appreciate your creative talents. It is time to make suggestions to the groups in which you' re involved. Take con­trol of the situation. 0000 
SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
This is not the time to throw your weight around. Listen to the 0th­ers' complaints and take time to assess tlie situation before you make any comments. You can help others if you tty. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec.22-Jan.19): Family outings will be more rewarding than you thought. You'll enjoy teaching others how to do things that are second nature to you. Your leadership qualities will come in handy. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2~Feb. 18): Hidden assets will pay off. You are up for wins, rewards or gifts. Plan to have friends over for an evening of socializing and entertainment. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Minor accidents will prevail. Arguments with family members are evident. Do not lose your patience with lovers or children. This is not the day to make prom­ises. 00 

-
Puzzle by Joe OIPletro 33 They're part of a good deal 35 Group of whizzes 37 Set-_ 38 Flipped 39 Centrum competitor 40 All-out 42 Car reservoirs 43 Alabama slammer ingredient 
44 Spanish 55 One in the sac Mannerist 
56 Gym set 47 Jacks 57 Like some 53 It may be worn fireplaces 
after traveling 59 Cowboy's moniker
54 It opened in 1871 61 "Give _ whirt• 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 


..... 

I II 
. 
I 
. I 


California Dreaming Eight games. Eight days. One week in California. What more could the baseball team want? 
page 18 


O
THE page 20 BSERVER Friday, March 9, 2001 
MEN'S BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
One and done 
Distracted Irish No All-American fall behind early presence equals in 66-54 loss all-out disaster 
NEW YORK
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Mike Brey hit the nail on the head 
Associate Sports Edllor 

about Troy Murphy after Notre Dame lost to Georgetown but still collected NEW YORK a Big East division trophy Sunday. The Irish came out Thursday night "I told Murph focused on winning a tournament. that our players
The problem was, they played like their take a read from minds were on the wrong tournament -him," the Irish the NCAA instead of the Big East. head coach said. 
"There were some distractions with "They take a looking ahead to the next week," said read from his Irish coach Mike Brey. reactions." 
Since Selection Sunday 2000. when Never was that Notre Dame (19-9) waited and waited for more apparentits name to flash on the screen, the Irish than in N<;>trehave made goal No. 1 an NCAA Dame's Big East Tournament bid. That came back to bite championshipthem in a 66-54 loss to the Pittsburgh semifinal loss to Panthers {17-12) in the quarterfinals of the fifth-seeded the Big East Tournament. Pittsburgh
"We beat a very good team today in Panthers Notre Dame," Pittsburgh coach Ben Thursday.Howland said. "They're going to get a Read that: When All-American Troy good seed in the NCAA Tournament." Murphy doesn't show up for the 
Fifth-seeded Pittsburgh, which beat game, it's an All-Out Disaster. Miami 78-69 Wednesday to advance Murphy may have earned a share from the first round, dominated the early of the title of Big East player of the 
going by taking a 15-2 lead while the year Tuesday, but he didn't live up to Irish watched helplessly. the name when it counted. Irish senior Martin Ingelsby, the lone "I didn't play well and I hurt our Notre Dame player to score above his team," Murphy said after the 66-54 average with 16 points, began his team's loss at Madison Square Garden. "I comeback by sinking a long trey from the got wide open looks and missed left wing. shots. My poor play helped their Junior All-American Troy Murphy defense. I'm counted on to do a lot 
scored the next basket, a three-pointer for this team and I can't come out from the right baseline. and play like I did tonight. This both­
The top-seeded Irish closed out its 15-2 ers me -the way I played." run with a short bucket by Murphy and For all intents and purposes,follow-up free throw, and a second 3-Murphy might have not played at all. pointer by Ingels by to tie the game at 17. Shooting 2-11 from the floor, the 
see LOSS/page14 see MURPHY/pagel7 


WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Labosky, Hecking culminate breakthrough season at NCAAs 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Marie Labosky did a flip turn during one of her races at the 2000 U.S. Olympic Trials last summer and caught a glimpse of her future. 
Crouched nearby was Irish women's swimming coach Bailey Weathers and junior Kelly Becking -both watching the highly recruited freshman. 
"When I saw her. I thought there was a really good chance she could make NCAAs," Weathers said. "She has improved so much since then." 
Nobody imagined that just seven months later, Labosky. Hecking, and Weathers would be spending March afternoons together training for next week's NCAA Championships. 
Labosky came into Notre Dame as one of the top recruit­ed prep swimmers. Weathers was looking for someone who could specialize in the individ­ual medley events, and was highly imp_ressed by Labosky's versatility and endurance. 
"Physically, she's a real endurance person, but she can do all four of the strokes very well," said Weathers. 
It's this versatility that pushed Labosky to earn a spot in three events next week ­the 200-meter and 400-meter individual medleys as well as the 1,650-meter freestyle. 
But while Labosky excels in the individual medley, Weathers calls Hecking one of the top backstrokers in Notre Dame history. 

"What's unusual about Kelly is that she's hardly ever been beaten while she's here," Weathers said. "She rises to the situation and wants to be suc­cessful." 
Even though it is her third trip to the NCAA finals, it is the first time that Hecking has qualified in any individual events. The junior will be swim­ming the 100 and 200 back­stroke. 
Ironically, at the beginning of the season, each swimmer had more confidence in the other than in herself. 
"I knew she would make it, but I wasn't sure about myself," said Hecking, who watch~d Labosky compete at Trials. 
Regarding Hecking, Labosky countered: "From talking to her. I could tell she was going to go." 
see SWIM/pagel6 
Baseball Softball Men's Lacrosse 
at Pacific at Fort Meyers vs. Michigan 
~l, at Rutgers
Saturday, 11 a.m.
''\I; ."'#

SPORTS • 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Today, 3 p.m. 
•

ATA Women's Swimming 
Track and Field Softball Blue-Gray National Classic NCAA Championships 
NCAA Indoor at Cal-State Northridge 
I\Li ., .,
'' 
Thursday-Friday, 10 a.m. March 17Championships -. Sunday, 12 p.m.
GLANCE •
Today, 12 p.m. 









