-..---------------------------------·----­
'II 
WVFI rocks out in Quad Rock
WINDY 
Monday 

Student run radio station plans upcoming events to attract new and
HIGH S8° 
SEPTEMBER 24, 
wider audience by booking hip hop, ska and bluegrass performers 
LOW 43° 
Scene . page 12 
2001 



The Indepen4,ent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 20 -HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Thiev~s swipe Knott computers, valuables 
tor in Knott, said he became the faculty parking lot where the propped open and was presum­In it were the stolen items.
• Assistant rector 
aware of a problem about 12:15 thief, who Byrnes believes was a ably used by the thief to enter "Whoever took [the items]confronts, chases a.m. Saturday when a resident Michigan State student, got into the Knott. had qualms of conscience,'' suspected thief reported that his laptop comput­an Oldsmobile with Michigan In all, four computers, includ­Meyer said, "much of it has 
er had been stolen from his license plates with two other stu­ing the one recovered by been returned." 
room. dent-aged males already in it. Byrnes, a wallet and a watch The items were turned over By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER "I called Security to make a The car backed up in the park­were stolen from rooms that to Notre Dame Security/Police
Assistant News Editor 
report, and when I hung up and ing lot without the lights on and had their doors closed but and will be returned to students 
I was going out of my room, I Byrnes was unable to read the unlocked. Rather than unplug­after they have been processed. 
Several Knott Hall rooms were saw someone get in the elevator plate number. The suspects ging the computers, the thief Freshman Dan Wieser's lap­burglarized this weekend shortly going down with something in turned left off Juniper Road, ripped the cords out -of the wall, top was stolen while he and a after midnight Saturday. An their shirt," Byrnes said. "I heading towards the Holfs Sport damaging the phone and net­group of friends were at assistant rector pursued a sus­thought it was [the resident's] Recreation Center and could not work boxes in the rooms. Reckers Friday night. As of pect across Juniper Hoad to the computer. so I confronted him be stopped, Byrnes said. After Saturday's football Sunday evening, he had not faculty parking lot but was on the first floor ... and we got Although the main doors to the game, Knott rector Brother heard whether his computer unable to detain him. Most of the into a scuflle," Byrnes said. residence hall were locked Jerome Meyer noticed a shop­was recovered with the rest of items were later returned. Byrnes was able to grab the Friday evening, a side door lead­ping bag near a flower .pot at 
Dave Byrnes, an assistant rec-computer and chased the thief to ing to the stairwell had been the front of the residence hall. 
see THEFT/page 4 



UNITED THEY STAND 
Fans Jzold up flags as the Notre Dame band played the Star Spangled Banner and the America the Beautiful at the Notre Dame­Michigan State football game Saturday. The flags were printed and distributed by the South Bend Tribune. 
. 
photos by 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT 

SMC, Santa Fe Indian School collaborate 
. Education department teams with a Native American school to offer students new teaching options 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's is in the final stages of establishing_ a partnership with the Santa Fe Indian School, a venture that would set up an exchange pro­gram for the College to send one or two student teachers to the New Mexico school. 
Beginning 
next semester, See Also 
Saint Mary's 
will send "Lecture 
NEILLIE WILLIAM rThe Observer 

s e I e c t e d outlines goals of 
senior stu-Joseph Abeyta, from the Santa Fe dents to Santa Santa Fe, SMC Indian School, speaks Thursday Fe. Student partnership" on education and self deterination 
teachers will 
page3

work with school. As soon as students arrived at 
children from the school, the plan to erase their cul­grades seven through twelve, not only ture was implemented. teaching and learning from the stu­Around the 1930s, things changed dents, but also living and interacting with an increase in Indian's rights with the native children. advocates and laws. 
Students interested must go It was not until the 1970s, hmvever, through a screening process in which that parents and tribes had a voice in grade-point average, openness to dif­the education of their children. ferent cultures and an interview will The school is now run by the 
be factors Governors of the 19 Peublos of New 
"This program is not for everyone," Mexico. This step resulted from said Marie Doyle, chairwoman of the 1977's Indian Self Detennination Act education department at Saint Mary's which empowered tribal leaders to 
and co-coordinator of the exchange. deterrnine their own direction of edu­
The Santa: Fe Indian School was cation. originally founded in 1890 at a time Today, for the first time, the when the United States had just school's superintendent is a Native begun to provide education for Native American, Joseph Abeyta of Santa Americans due to treaty responsibili• Oara Pueblo. 
ties and other legal agreements. The Santa Fe Indian School is one The charter years of the school ofonly a few schoo~ nationwide com­were less than stellar. pletely governed by Native 
Indian children were forced into the 
see SCHOOUpage 4 



Monday, September 24, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Senior class? 
Let's get one thing straight from the start, I didn't like the outcome of Saturday's game. As a senior, I was hoping that we'd finally see a victory over Michigan State. It's the fourth time I've seen Notre Dame lose to State. And I could rant about "Davie 
this ... Davie that ... " and complain about "we all saw the fake punt coming" and ridicule the team on if they know how to catch or not. 
But I'm not going to. 
I know that the football team practiced hard, and that they gave the game 

all their energy. their Angie Campos everything. That's what they're supposed to do. It's their job. 
Likewise, we as students Lab Tech and fans have a job. We're there to cheer for the team, to support them and make sure they know we're behind them, come heii or high water. 
I'd like to commend the freshmen, sopho­mores and juniors for superb support and a lot of enthusiasm; the levels were high and the excitement was palpable. You cheered with the cheerleaders. You chanted with the band. You did push-ups. 
And you did something that some of the seniors decided not to do: You stayed to the end of the game. 
That's right. They left. 
I can only tell about the section I was in, but within the last minutes of the game, seniors in Section 29 started leaving. It wasn't all seniors, and to those of you seniors that did stay, thank you. 
When State got the ball, we knew wti proba­bly wouldn't win without a fumble recovery and a run down the field. But when there seemed to be no chance to salvage the game, the seniors pretty much said "Screw it, we don't have to be here anymore, we're leaving." 
That's just unclassy. 
Not only does it show the team that you don't care about football, it shows the rest of the school that you don't care about respect. 
Don't watch the band at halftime, they didn't work their butts of for this show. Don't ·stay to the end, we're not going to win. No, don't stay for the Alma Mater, it's not important. 
After talking about standing united at the pep rally, you seniors decided it was just big talk and we don't actually have to cheer for our team or be a school. 
The senior section was lame. There wasn't a lot of cheering and chanting. I heard 'Tm a conscientious objector" in regard to some of the arm motions. I also heard "you don't do push-ups at 10-10." Why not? If you're excited and have people to help you, go for it. When the team sees the push-ups from the field, they know we'"re pumped and they get pumped. 
Throughout the game; the team kept turning to the senior section, raising their arms for more noise, kinda saying "C'mon, are you out there? We want to hear you!" Why couldn't they hear us? Why did the seniors die when there was "no chance?" So much for being here four years, learning the cheers, being enthusiastic, and being part of the team. 
There's no respect. I guess the only thing you learn in four years is how to be selfish. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARI FlCATIONS 
In an article in the Sept. 21 edition ofThe Observer, Marie Claire Hathaway was incorrectly identified as a captain of the Saint Mary's golf ream. Megan Keleher is rhe team's captain. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so that we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of1he Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday 

. Lecutre: "Logic and Ontology: the Medieval Contribution," Alain de Libera, 4:30 p.m., Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium 
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Tuesday 

. Workshop: "Life Skills 101," student safety presentation Notre Dame Security/Police, South Bend Police Department, 6 p.m., Alumni-Senior Club 
Wednesday 
. Lecture: "Trade, Deception, Democracy and Steel Survival," Leo Gerard, internatioal president of the United Steel Workers ofAmerica, 8 p.m., Hoom 102 DeBartolo Hall 
Friday 
. Music: Choro na Feira of Hio de Janeiro, Brazil, 7 p.m., Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


U. Penn officials confirm E. Coli breakout 
PHILADELPHIA 

Officials for the Health Department's Division of Disease Control confirmed Thursday that 13 University of Pennsylvania students have been diagnosed with the E. Coli bacteria. 
Disease Control officials linked the outbreak to food prepared by a pri­vate caterer for a -barbecue outside 
W.E.B. DuBois College House on Sept. 9. 
An official also said that the bac-. teria was not related to Campus Dining Services. 
Evelyn Wiener, director of student health services, said that she was first notified of students' having symptoms of the bacteria last Saturday and that she sent an e­mail to DuBois residents notifying 
"Student Health has managed some other cases on an outpatient basis, but I can't confirm that number. To our knowledge, no one has evidenced any serious complications. " 
Rebecca Harmon university hospital spokeswoman 
them of the outbreak the next day. 
In the letter, she said the out­break had been traced to a cookout hosted by Zeta Phi Beta, the Black Student League and UMOJA. 
She also advised students with 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeathet<il forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 24. 
........ •• 
COI.O WARM STATIONARY
G 2001 AccuWeather Inc. 
Pressur•. 

®© ...... 
High Low Shower ¦ Rein T•slorms Flurries Snow lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoc,ated Pmss 

Atlanta 78 54 Las Vegas 99 73 Portland 78 57 Baltimore 82 61 Memphis 69 48 Sacramento 82 52 Boston 73 65 Milwaukee 54 43 St. Louis 62 42 Chicago 56 43 New York 77 66 Tampa 85 73 Houston 81 59 Philadelphia 80 66 Wilmington 78 64 
intestinal symptoms to seek imme­diate medical attention. 
Hebecca Harmon, spokeswoman for the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, said several infected students have visited area hospitals so far. 
"According to our lab results, we have four culture-confirmed cases, with one person being admitted to HUP, one admitted to Presbyterian and 2 were outpatients," Harmon said. "A fifth case was admitted to HUP, but it's. a presumed case only." 
"Student Health has managed some other cases on an outpatient basis," she added, "but I can't con­firm that number. To our knowl­edge, no one has evidenced any serious complications." 
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA 
Proposed budget cuts stun officials 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
University of Iowa and state officials are stunned by an additional $21.9 million proposed budget cut this year, a 7 percent slice from the university's current budget. The cuts could mean substantial layoffs at the university, and programs could be eliminated, said Regent David Fisher, who called the state's pro­posal "gut-wrenching." "This is devastating," UI President Mary Sue Coleman said. "This is the worst financial situation I've faced in my six years. I don't think there's anyway I can soften the blow. This is terrible news." Gov. Tom Vilsack proposed slashing $108 million -7 percent -from the entire state budget in.order to avoid a projected deficit at the end of the year because of a sluggish economy. He said he'd push for another $200 million in cuts statewide next year. The current budget was drafted with an estimated 4 percent state revenue growth, but the actual figure is closer to 1 percent. 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
Albright encourages support of Bush 
\VASI IINGTON 

Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright spoke to a capacity crowd in Gaston l lall Thursday night, empha­sizing the need fur patience and prudent use of the United States' diplomatic tools in what she predicted will be a long international campaign against terrorism after the attacks of Se pt. 11. After paying respect to Georgetown professor Leslie \Vhittington and her family, who died aboard American Airlines Flight 77, Albright noted her support for President Bush, adding that he "shouldn't box himself in and we shouldn't box him in, by calling for premature action. I believe \Ve all owe our president our support at this time of national emergency -... I also think we owe him and his team time to figure out what really works." Albright also emphasized the importance of words and cautioned against too strong a use of rhetoric. "Hyperbole is like a boomerang -it will come back and hit you. I know; it did me," she said. Albright said the United States' strategy must be based on rational calculations, not emotional frustrations. 


-----------------------· --··--~--------------~---~---,:----------------···-·--"I
. 
Monday, September 24, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecture outlines goals of Santa Fe, SMC partnership 


essential for learning.
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
"You go through life and you
News Writer 
hear things and hear things and 
hear things. Then you partic­
Twenty-six years ago, Joseph ipate," he said. 
Abeyta. Superintendent of the This is what Abeyta and 
Santa Fe Indian School, never McGrattan consider one of the 
imagined the learning capacity most important factors in edu­
he is shaping in young Native cating Native Americans. They 
American minds today. want to make sure their school 
"Being at the right place at the creates a "community based 
right time" is Abeyta's motto as education in a unique cultural 
he reflects upon the past events setting." 
that led to the establishment of The Santa Fe Indian school is 
the Santa Fe Indian School in the first school contracted from 
New Mexico. the federal government under 
Abeyta is brought to Saint the Indian Self-Determination 
Mary's through 1966 alumna Act. At present, the school is 
Alana McGrattan. She is the located in five old buildings, one 
library· media specialist at the of which dates back to 1894. 
Santa Fe school and has long Abeyta is working with archi­
worked with Abeyta. tects to construct new facilities 
"Our journey has been for the school. 
intense," said McGrattan. "It has "We are trying so hard to fig­
been a personal as well as a ure out how to create an envi­
spiritual journey for me." ronment for our kids," he said. 
McGrattan and Abeyta arc This is an opportunity that the 
concerned with who is going to Native Americans have never 
continue the future of the school had before. 
and who can contribute to it. ''In the history of the Indian's 
"When I began to think about life, we have never owned our 
who's going to continue on own schools -other people 
behind me, who's going to pick have owned our schools. We will 
up the torch. I began to think never control our Native 
about Saint Mary's," said American future if we don't con­
McGrattan. trol our education," said Abeyta. 
The culture of the native "We've got our money to build 
Americans of Santa Fe is deep the school and our property, 
and dynamic. Abeyta feels it is That is so positive. However, I 
vital that the culture is reflected have an extraordinary problem. 
in their schools. I don't know how to build a 
"There are very few books you school." said Abeyta. "I want to 
can find that talk about the cul­build it in our perspective so 
ture of the Santa Fe people that that it reflects who we are." 
are written by the Santa Fe peo­Abeyta feels that the way chil­
ple. We learn through our dren learn is reflected by their 
observations -all passed down community and schools. 
through generations for others "It was my mother, my father, 
to learn," said Abeyta. my community, my religion that 
Abeyta feels participation is made me who I am," said 
11•~eN 1ew1 
"YOUR FAMILY FUN CENTER" 
1811ECE NICHT 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9PM-12 MIDNIGHT UNLIMITED BOWLING $6.95 PER PERSON SHOES INCLUDED 
Beacon Bowl-421 0 Lincolnway W. South Bend 
234-4167 

.. ALL fOVRHAMENf Scora, llooBtEs fORMAT 

fRIDAY1 SEPr, 28 
8:30PM 
ND EXPRESS 
uo,IER LEVEL Of LA.fORnJHE) 
Sl6H Qp AT ND ExfRESS ~Mhll> TO 32 ~ 

interpst in many of the students that have graduated from Santa Fe Indian school in the past to attend Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Name. 
"[McGratten) was our first connection with this part of the country and this school," said Abeyta. 
Both Abeyta and McGrattcn are counting on young people to create an environment of energy in their school. 
"There may be people here that can help us," said Abeyta. "Students here can stimulate their own thinking with our architecture, curriculum, and development." 
McGratten believes that part of the energy that comes from Saint Mary's is from the Indian land it is bugoalilt upon. 
"I now have a sense of the energy that has come into this land. Part of the power of this school is Indian power," she
Abeyta. ing in the Santa Fe Indian said. :·11 is a special blessing for 
Abeyta said Saint Mary's has a school. Saint Mary's College to be on
unique aura that led him to "I want something in Santa Fe Indian land." 
come to the College. like [Saint Mary's]," he said. "By "There's something here -I creating that kind of environ­
can feel it," Abeyta said. ment, my kids will be stronger 
"There's a feeling of culture and in who they are and more suc­
traditions." cessful." 
Contact Nellie Williams at 
Abeyta wants that kind of feel-McGratten has stimulated an 
wil167l 9@saintmarys.edu. 
T1-I.E 
··················­

RECOMMENDS 

"A strikingly clever and funny book \Vith a passion for ideas, for language, and for the rich tragicomedy of life." 
-Sunday Telegraph 

Told in a style that 1nagnificently captures the colloquialis1ns and cliches of the 1930s and 1940s, The Blind i\ssas.sin is a richly layered and uniquely re\tvarding experience . "Eggers's book, which goes a surprisingly long way to\vard delivering on its self~satirizing, hyperbolic title, is a profoundly moving, occasionally angry and often hilarious account." 

-Sara Mosle, Ne,v York Ti1nes 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
· Earn Free Books! 
See store for details
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phene: 631-6316 • www.ndbeokstore.cam 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 24, 200 l 
Theft 
continued from page 1 
the items in front of the hall. 
"I never lock my door, so when I got back and I saw my door was open, Ijust thought my roommate was in there," Wieser said, "but I saw that the phone box was ripped off of the wall and I noticed my computer wasn't there." 
Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police, said an investigator would contact stu­dents who had items stolen today. 
"Given the weekend, the case wouldn't be assigned to an inves­tigator until [today] because investigators are not on duty on Sundays," Rakow said Sunday. 
Even though Wieser's computer was stolen, $90 and his friends' wallets that were also on his desk were not taken. While he-said he will be more wary of securing his room on home football weekends, he does not plan to· change his everyday routines. 
'Tm more upset about the idea that someone would steal some­thing out of my room than the loss of the computer," Wieser said. "I would hate to have to lock my door every time I leave the room." 
Meyer said that as a result of the incidents, the hall will not change its security policies, but staff will ensure that students do not prop open outside doors. 
He also encouraged students to lock their doors whenever they are not in their rooms. 
"It is imperative that you keep your doors locked," Meyer told Knott residents in a Saturday morning e-mail. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer.I@nd.edu 
School 
continued from page I 
Americans. Toe school claims an 80 percent Indian staff. Of the institution's 500 students in sev­enth through 12th grades, 400 are Pueblos. The rest represent 
20 other tribes from Arapho to the Wichita. 
The school's honors include a national award for excellence from the U.S. Office of Education in 1987. 
The school began as a means to assimilate Indian children into American society. Historically, instructors encouraged students to abandon their native culture 
and traditions. Now, with the help of commu­nal influence, the school aims to instill in students an appreciation
for American society and a sense of obligation to their native tribes as well. 'The school has a painful mis­sion of giving the students a good education to function in American society but also to be leaders 'Within tribes. They want the chil­dren to learn how to be American," Doyle said. Doyle said she was impressed with the school's quality of instruction. "This school makes it evident that learning can be culturally sensitive," she said. This cultural sensitivity attract­
ed Saint Mary's to the Santa Fe school, according to Doyle. Organizers of the exchange pro­gram also saw the opportunity for greater understanding of needs and issues related to Native American education. 
"It is increasingly important for teachers to know how to handle diversity," Doyle said. "We want to prepare our students to work with all types ofstudents." 
The Santa Fe curriculum is based on a hands-on learning approach that Doyle believes will benefit Saint Mary's student teachers. 
"You learn about different cul­tures through interacting with people, and I have hope that we 
v.ill learn from one anothe~." she said. 
For more than a year, Alana McGrattan, the media specialist at the Santa Fe school and a Saint Mary's alumna, along with Carla Prando, a member of the President's Alumnae Council in New Mexico, have worked with Doyle to get the project started. 
Santa Fe school officials have scheduled several visits to Saint Mary's this fall. The first visit was Friday with a presrntation about Native American communities and education. 
It was an important step in finalizing plans for the exchange program, Doyle said. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill 407@saintmarys.edu 

Freeman discusses the value of prayer 
By TREISCH LEONE News Writer 
Brother Laurence Freeman, a Benedictine monk, spoke at Saint Mary's Sunday on the topic of Christian meditation as part of a three-night endowed lecture series on prayer. 
Early in the teaching section of the lecture, Freeman noted that "silence is the universal human response to God, evil and grief," for example, the moments of silence that have been offered in remembrance of victims of Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Freeman advised people to "think of prayer as a big wheel. It must be touching the ground as part of its daily routine and the spokes are all different forms of prayer." 
The hub of wheel must remain still. 
"In the hub the big wheel is where Christ worships God's glory though us. The hub is the essence, origin and goal of prayer," he said. 
Freeman offered a few guide­lines for Christian meditation. First pick a mantra, a word that you repeat to yourself during meditation. Freeman recom­mended the Aramaic word "maranatha" meaning "Come Lord." 
Sit upright, place your feet flat on the ground and put your hands in your lap. Get comfort­able, but not too much because your body is also part of the journey. 
Feel centered and take deep breaths. Repeat your mantra continu­ously to yourself. 
Freeman advocated "saying the mantra until you can no longer say it. The spirit will lead you into complete silence." 
Freeman worked at the United Nations in merchant banking and journalism and later became a Benedictine monk under the spiritual guidance of Dom John Main. 
Together they established the Christian Meditation Centre in London in 1975 which later became The World Community for Christian Meditation [\VCCM]. The \VCCM no\v has 27 meditation centers world­wide, with groups in more than 50 countries and thousands of weekly meditation group meet­ings. 
Meditation is most widely associated with Eastern religions such as Buddhism and Hinduism. 
However, since Father John Main's examination of early­Christian texts, a resurgence of contemplative prayer has been growing in Christianity. 
Freeman said meditation is a common ground among world religions. 
Freeman is a monk of the Monastery of Christ the King, Cockfosters, London, in the Olivetan Benedictine Congregation. He was born in London, educated by the Benedictines and completed a masters in English literature at New College, Oxford. 
The remaining two sessions are "A Layman Asks ... Lord Teach Me to Pray" given by John Cavadini tonight and "Does Prayer Make Sense?" given by Kathleen Dolphin Tuesday. 
Both lectures will be held at in the Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall at 7 p.m. 
Contact Treisch Leone at screaming_flower @aol.com 

THE CONGREGA1..,ION OF HOLY CROSS 
Welcomes its ~ew Candidates and :N'"ewly Professed to l'vioreau. Seminary a:nd C)ld College 









Jeff Hurd. ND 'O l Grand Junction. Colo. Moreau Seminazy 


"We heard a summons to give our lives over in a more explicit way." (Constitutions of Holy Cross, 1.3) 
For more information, contact: 





Fr. Jim King. C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack. C.S.C. 
ANSWER~ THE CALL,~~ 

www.n.d.edu/-voca'tion. 

George Plggford. C.S.C. Medford, Mass. Moreau Seminary 
Tom Prall Westville, Ill. 
Moreau Seminazy 
Charles Riffert 
Evansville. Ind. 
Old College 

Kevin Sandberg. C.S.C. ND'89 Chicago. Ill. Moreau Seminary 






Joe Miller. C.S.C. South Bend, Ind. Moreau Seminary 
'1 


ATION 
Monday, September 24, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Car bomb kills two in Chechnya: A 
car bomb exploded Sunday near Chechnya, killing two Russian police officers who were serving in the separatist region, police said. The car was parked next to a long-distance telephone office in Khasavyurt, a town in Russia's Dagestan region next to the Chechen border, said Magomed Nasruddinov, the town's police chief. 
Hurricane threatens Mexico: 
Tropical Storm Juliette was upgraded to a hurricane and continued to churn slowly away from land Sunday, but forecasters warned that a slight change in the storm's motion could threaten Mexico's Pacific coast. The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami reported that Juliette had sustained winds of 115 mph and was expected to pick up strength 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Probe sends rare images of Comet: 
NASA's hopes for one last missiori from the spacecraft Deep Space 1 were bolstered Saturday afternoon. when the robotic probe started sending back data that may include a rare look into the heart of a comet. NASA's Deep Space 1 spacecraft flew within 1,240 miles of the comet Borrelly in an attempt to image, for only the second time ever, the dark nucleus of one of the frozen balls of dust and ice. 
Genetics linked to blood pressure: 
Researchers have identified a marker on the male chromosome that may partly explain why high blood pressure affects more men than women until middle age. The dis~overy supports the belief that genetics contributes to the risk of developing the condition. The marker is a genetic variation that was found in 51 of 155 men studied in southern Poland, or about 30 percent of participants. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Hoosier residents mobilized: In Bunker Hill, a small community neighboring Grissom Air Reserve Base, residents watched the men and women called to duty leave the base without knowing their destination. On Thursday, 644 reservists of the 434th Air Refueling Wing were mobilized. While all of Indiana is concerned about the troops' fates, it's personal for the residents of Bunker Hill, a small rural community. Many here know the Grissom reservists. but the names of service­men called to active duty have been withheld and Grissom is now sealed off from outsiders. 
Market Watch September 21 
Dow 
8,235.81 -140.40 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 
139 NIA 
AMEX: 786.82 -9.24 NASDAQ: 1,423.19 -47.74 NYSE: 504.21 -9.95 S&P 500: %5.80 -18.74 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -6.13 -0. 79 12.~ INTEL CORP (INTC) -6.63 -1.37 19.3E NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) -2.69 -0.78 28. l~ SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -6.02 -0.51 7.9E MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -2.07 -1.05 49.71 
. . 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

About 100 residents of China's cap­ital gathered for a candlelight vigil Sunday night to mourn the World Trade Center victims, seeking to counter the gloating reaction of some Chinese over terrorist attacks on the United States. 
Participants, most from Beijing's well-educated business elite, were invited to float lighted candles and white roses in vases of water placed around an empty parking lot in the city's eastern business district. Many 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A solemn President Bush returned the American flag to full staff Sunday as the United States promised to lay out evidence making Osama bin Laden's guilt in the terrorist attacks "very obvious to the world." The administration scoffed at Taliban claims he cannot be found. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said the govern­ment would "put before the world, the American people, a persuasive case that ... it is al-Qaida, led by Osama bin Laden, who has been responsible." 
Several officials pledged President Bush will disrupt the flow of money to bin Laden with an executive order freezing his group's 
U.S. assets. 

Administration officials and congressional leaders turned their appearances on Sunday's TV talk shows into a two-pronged effort to show the government's resolve to choke off the terrorists and to encour­age Americans to return to a more normal routine which is crucial to getting the recession-bent econo­my moving again. 
As the U.S. military got ready to strike, Defense Secretary Donald H. 
Rumsfeld suggested that brute force may not be the best way to get at bin Laden. 
"Is it likely that an air­craft carrier or a cruise missile is going to find a person?" Rumsfeld asked reporters. "No, it's not likely; that isn't how this is going to happen." 
Rather, he said, "This is going to happen over a sustained period of time because of a broadly based effort where bank accounts are frozen, where pieces of intelligence are provided, and where coun­tries decide that they want to change their politics." 
Nonetheless, U.S. forces around the world were being repositioned. A Defense Department team arrived in Pakistan to dis­cuss military cooperation in a possible strike against bin Laden's network. 
"What we've been doing is getting our capabilities ... arranged around the world. to carry those things out," Secretary Rumsfeld said on CBS' "Face the Nation." 
He confirmed the United States had lost contact with an unmanned aircraft over Afghanistan but said he had no reason to believe the plane was brought down by Taliban fighters, as they claimed. 

CHINA 
Mourners hold vigil for victims 

wrote poems and sentiments on a white cotton cloth stretched over a plywood backdrop. 
"Freedom and justice will not be stopped. Humanity will continue to live peacefully," said one message written in English. 
Property developer Zhang Xin said she organized the gathering partly to show that many Chinese disagree with the view of some of their com­patriots that the U.S. deserved to be attacked. 
"Those sort of words deeply sad­dened us. We want to send another message that we are all shocked and mourn for the victims," said Zhang, wearing a Chinese-style white silk tunic. White indicates mourning in Chinese culture. 
The Chinese government has con­firmed the deaths of two of its citi­zens aboard one of the crashed planes in tho Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
China-U.S. relations have been roiled by the NATO bombing of China's embassy in Yugoslavia in 1999 and a collision between a U.S. spy plane and Chinese fighter jet in April. 
Monday, September 24, 2001 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Bush lifts India, Pakistan sanctions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush lifted sanc­tions Saturday against India and Pakistan that were imposed after the two nations tested nuclear weapons in 1998. 
The move came as a U.S. mil­itary delegation headed to Pakistan this weekend for con­sultations on U.S. preparations for a military strike against Afghanistan. 
The Bush administration lift­ed separate sets of sanctions imposed in 1978. 1990 and 1998 -all related to develop­ment of nuclear weapons. The move does not apply to sanc­tions imposed on Pakistan in 1999 after its military took over the democratically elected gov­ernment. 
Maleeha Lodhi, Pakistan's ambassador to the United States. praised the move, say­ing it "will enable Pakistan to get economic aid and it's a very important development." 
Despite anti-American senti­ment in the country, Pakistan agreed last week to share mili­tary intelligence with the United States, permit its air­space to be used by American military aircraft and to provide 
U.S. access to military facilities. These commitments would enable the United States to use Pakistan in any assault on bin Laden, who operates his terror­ism network from Afghanistan. 
The delegation, drawn from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and other Pentagon offices, will meet early in the week with their Pakistani military coun­terparts, a senior Bush admin­istration official said Saturday. 
Initially, Assistant Secretary of State Christina Rocca was to head the delegation to Islamabad, but cooperation on the diplomatic front already has been worked out, the offi­cial told The Associated Pesss on condition of anonymity. 
But the details of what appears to be a pending opera­tion need to be worked out. 
Pakistan's association with the United States has given President Bush's campaign against terrorism a lift and improved U.S. relations with the South Asian country. 
The Pakistani president, Pervez Musharraf, has given his backing to the United States in its drive against suspected terrorism plotter Osama bin Laden despite strong anti-U.S. sentiment in his country. 
U.S. officials said Saturday they were pleased with cooper­ation from Saudi Arabia and Turkey as American military forces moved to position them­selves for a military strike 
Alumna shares real world experience 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
To celebrate Saint Mary's business and economics depart­ments' 25th year of offering a four-year business administra­tion degree, the departments have announced the Young Alumna Speaker Series. 
Katie Harper, a 1989 gradu­ate, gave the first lecture in the firm and bring in revenue from client services," Harper said. 
As· she described her rise to partner status in the firm, Harper pointed out the nuances ofsuccess in an accounting firm. 
She said that keeping the client happy is crucial. 
When handling such clients as Merrill Lynch, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and First Union, "client ser­vices" are 
Friday. just as impor­
"You have to position
Harper tant as num­
oneselfin the firm and
landed a job ber crunch­at KPMG, a bring in revenue from ing skills. major public Students
client services." 
accounting interested in firm, after the field of graduation. Katie Harper accounting She remained alumna would need 
with the com­pany for 12 years. 
Much of her success she cred­its to hard work and dedication. 
Through this ambitiort, Harper was able to mover from a tradi­tional entry-level auditing posi­tion in 1989 to overseas work in Eastern Europe in 1994. 
"I worked with companies that were Soviet-run [to help them] become privatized." Harper said. 
From that overseas job, Harper continued to climb, ris­ing from a supervisory to a man­agement position to becoming engagement services partner in July. She credits the promotions not only to hard work but to being in the right place at the right time. 
She said that one must be in a field that has room for growth. 
Also, the person must be an asset to the department to move up, she said. 
"You have to position oneself to know more 
than how to analyze companies' financial records, according to Harper. 
She said that at her firm she is involved in consulting and advis­ing companies on ways to improve their business model along with ways to save money on taxes they pay. 
After visiting three classes and answering questions during a break-out sessions Friday, Harper gave one piece of advice -make a good impression. She said that before applying for a job, students should find out everything they can about the company. 
The business department will continue the series featuring another concentration of the major each month until April. 
October will feature a speak­er from the finance concentra­tion. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO l 8 l@saintmarys.edu. 
against Afghanistan. 
Air Force Lt. Gen. Charles Wald, commander of U.S. Central Command's air compo­nent, has shifted operations to Prince Sultan Air Base in Saudi Arabia, where he could plan and direct air attacks against Afghanistan and other possible targets in the region. 
The United States has "a command and control center with Saudi Arabia. It's up and running and it's operational," a senior U.S. official said Saturday. 
Having Saudi Arabia in the 
U.S. camp is useful also in countering sentiment in the Arab world against President Bush's campaign to uproot the terrorism network of Osama bin Laden and oppose the Saudi exile's supporters. 
"Saudi military cooperation with our international effort has been excellent and we are satisfied with the Saudis in this cooperation," said Frederick Jones, a state department spokesman. 
As the campaign proceeds, the United States will look to the Saudis and other countries for additional help on a wide range of fronts. Those include diplomacy, finances and law enforcement. 
Saudi Arabia's foreign minis­ter, Saud al-Faisal, consulted with Bush and Secretary of State Colin Powell last week, and U.S. officials said the king­dom was cooperating with U.S. requests. The administration is "pleased with the level of their support." one o ffi c i a I said Saturday. 

The minister registered his country's condemnation of the attacks and pledged Saudi backing in the campaign against terrorism. 
While al-Faisal was in Washington, however, a senior Saudi official cautioned in Riyadh that the kingdom and other Arab countries did not want to be thrust into a con­flict. Any aid provided by Arab and smaller Persian Gulf states must be preceded by a clear and specific declaration of which countries and groups will be targeted, the foreign ministry official said. 
Turkey, meanwhile, has agreed to allow Air Force transport aircraft to use its air­space and airports for a possi­ble retaliation to the Sept. 11 attacks, Turkish Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit said in a letter to Bush. 
Turkey is also willing to share intelligence on Afghanistan with the United States. The Taliban rulers are thought to be harboring bin Laden. 
"We appreciate all the sup­port we arc enjoying in the region and around the world," Pentagon spokesn1an Bryan G. Whitman said Saturday. 

More than 50 U.S. and British jets are based at lncirlik air base in southern Turkey. 
On another important front, Russian President Vladimir Putin met with his top advisers in the Black Sea resort city of Sochi and talked to Bush on the telephone. 
"vVe have always been initia­tors of the effort to unite the forces of the international com­munity in the battle with terror. If we want to win there is no other way," Putin said in com­ments shown on television. "vVe must unite forces of all civilized society." 
Also Saturday, the United Arab Emirates cut diplomatic relations with the Taliban for the leaders' refusals to surren­der bin Laden. The move leaves only two countries that recog­nize the Taliban as Afghanistan's government ­Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. 
Hichard Boucher, the state department spokesman, wel­comed the move as "further evidence the international com­munity of nations speaks with one voice on this issue." 
Boucher. said he hoped the action by the Persian Gulf emi­rate would lead the Taliban to turn over bin Laden immedi­ately to "appropriate authori­ties." 

Visit The Observer Online. http://observer.nd.edu 
FINANCE CLUB 
1 sr Meeting of the Year 
We Will Discuss: 
. 
Fall Break Trip to Chicago & NYC 

. 
Lecture Series 

. 
Other Events 


When? Tuesday@ 6:00pm Where? MCOB 121 
Monday, September 24, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
Saudis refuse U.S. use of air base 
Associated Press 
DUBAI 

The Saudi base Washington chose as its command and control center for the U.S. anti-terrorism offensive has been declared off limits for retaliatory flights, a Saudi official said Sunday. 
The statement comes as Saudi Arabia is seeking assurances the base would not be used to strike at fellow Arab states as America read­ies to retaliate for the Sept. 11 attacks that toppled New York's World Trade Center and heavily damaged the Pentagon. 
The Saudi official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the kingdom would not allow the United States to use the Prince Sultan Air Base south of the Saudi capital'. Riyadh, for U.S. retaliatory attacks. 
However, the U.S. State Department called the Saudi military cooperation with \Vashington "excellent." 
Last week, the commander of the U.S. Central Command's air operations, Air Force Lt. Gen. Charles Wald, shifted his operations from South Carolina to the base, and the two sides were still negotiating over what the Saudi role would be in the campaign. Diplomatic sources said the Saudis want to know in advance if the U.S. retaliation will be aimed at some Arab states long accused of terrorism, such as Sudan and Iraq. 
On Sunday, U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said on ABC's "This \Veek" that "they [Saudis] have responded to all the requests we have 
asked them to respond to, and I'm sure there'll be more 
requests  coming  in  the  
future."  
Powell  said  that  

Washington was "working through with the Saudis on a very, very satisfactory basis." 
However, the Saudi official said from Riyadh his country "will not accept any infringe­ment on its national sover­eignty, but it fully backs action aimed at eradicating terrorism and its causes." 
On Thursday, a Saudi Foreign Ministry official said the kingdom. a key U.S. ally in the region, would "not agree, under any conditions, to strikes against brotherly states, like Syria, or groups that resist the Israeli occupa­tion, like Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah." All of those groups are on a U.S. list of terrorist organizations. 
Gulf foreign ministers hold­ing an extraordinary meeting in the Saudi Red Sea port of Jiddah on Sunday also expressed a similar concern. 
"Member states confirm today that they are willing to participate in any operation within a joint framework with specific targets and an internationally backed coali­tion to fight terrorism," a statement from the meeting said. 
Washington blames a pan­Arab network of Islamic mili­tants led by exiled Saudi dis­sident Osama bin Laden for the attacks on New York and Washington that left more than 6,000 people missing or dead. Officials indicate a strike on Afghanistan, where bin Laden has found a haven, could come at any time. 
The Prince Sultan Air Base, a vast compound in a remote 

stretch of desert 50 miles south of Riyadh, hosts 4,500 
U.S. military personnel and an undisclosed number of warplanes. 
The location of the base 
gives it the necessary securi­
ty and privacy that 
Washington needs to direct 
strikes against suspected ter­
rorists. , 
In addition, it would be ideal for heavy aircraft, such as B-52 bombers, which can­not be launched from aircraft carriers. It already accommo­dates F-15 and F-16 fighter jets engaged in daily patrols of a "no-fly" zone over south­ern Iraq. 
If Washington and Riyadh fail to reach an agreement, the United States can turn to Bahrain, where the U.S. Navy's 5th Fleet is based, or two Kuwaiti air bases that have been used by U.S. air­craft since the 1991 Gulf War. 
On Sunday, Yemen said it will allow U.S. warships to refuel in the southern port of Aden, the site of last year's attack on the USS Cole that killed 17 U.S. sailors. 
A Yemeni Foreign Ministry official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said the joint Yemeni-American secu­rity improvements at the port in the months since the attack make it safe for U.S. ships. 
A diplomat in Riyadh, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Saudis ­concerned with Arab public reaction if the United States also targets Arab states ­were pushing to have some influence over the targets of American retaliation in their negotiations with U.S. offi­cials. 
Another diplomat, who also refused to be identified, said that during Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal's recent visit to Washington, he informed the Americans that the ideal way to eradicate terrorism was to force Israel to cease attacks against the Palestinians and impIement the peace accords. 
The diplomat also said al-Faisal called on Washington to stop arming Israel. 

AFGHANISTAN 
Malnourished Afghans seek refuge 
. 6,000 Afghans seek shelter from Taliban militia in a refugee camp 
Associated Press 
PANJSHIR VALLEY 
About 6,000 people who 

sought shelter from 
Afghanistan's Taliban mili­
tia have been living in the 
primitive Anoba refugee 
camp, surviving largely on 
a diet of gathered nuts and 
berries. 
As the country's capital, 

Kabul, braces for what res­
idents fear will be U.S. 
strikes against the Taliban 
for its ties with terror sus­
pect Osama bin Laden, new 
arrivals are joining the 
desperate masses in the 
camp, which gets virtually 
no sup­
p o r t 
f r o m "There is a lack of shortages 
interna­vegetables, offruits. so have turned tional most of the
there is a lack of
aid orga­Anoba resi­n i z a -vitamins. " dents into tions. scavengers T h e of seeds,
Stephane Ottin-Pecchio 
Anoba nuts and
doctor
camp is in the s m ·a I 1 part of northern Afghanistan controlled by the anti-Taliban opposi­tion, and most of its resi­dents fled Kabul after the Taliban took control of the city in 1996. Most are women and children: the healthy men have joined the opposition's army. 
New refugees have been trickling into the camp in the past two wee ks, this time fleeing tn fear of an American attack and not the Taliban's harsh brand of Islamic rule. 
The camp's manager said accounts from newcomers suggest the only reason it is a trickle -not a flood ­is that Taliban soldiers are preventing people from 
r----------------. 

Friday, Sept. ~8, 2001 at 7:30 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE ,~~D
SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 ~:o-;.~~.,,. 
leaving the capital, hoping the United States would balk at an attack that could cause high civilian casualties. 
"We have some people who are coming from Kabul, and they ... say all of the people want to escape," said the manager, Mohammad Tareq. Refugees say the Taliban want people to stay in the city to serve as a human shield, he said. 
For those who do make it to Anoba or to one of the dozens of spots nearby where refugees have pitched camp, there is not much the opposition, also known as the northern alliance, can offer. 
Tareq said he has room in tents for 800 families, but many more are living in makeshift shelters around the camp. Food 
berries. 
"There is 

a lack of vegetables, of fruits, so there is a lack of vitamins" that has caused skin dis­eases, said Dr. Stephane Ottin-Pecchio of La Maison de Sagesse, a French group that has been vaccinating children in the camp to guard against polio, tuber­culosis and other diseases. 
Most other aid organiza­tions have stayed away from the war zone. 
Despite the staggering poverty, the camp has organized a school, where 660 children are learning to read and write. 
"Although we don't have enough food, r11edicine and clothes, we encourage edu­cation because ignorance and lack of knowledge is worse than lack of food," Tareq said. 
On Sunday, a group of' boys sat on a tent floor for their English lesson. One pupil stood in front by a blackboard and read out loud, his classmates burst­ing into applause when he finished. 
The school also· has classes for girls. Among the Taliban's restrictive rules is a ban on schooling for girls over 8 years old. 

Monday, September 24, 2001 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
PAKISTAN 
Taliban clai01s bin Laden 01issing 
days "but he has not been
. U.S doubts 
traced."
Afganistan claim In Washington. top U.S. officials suggested the claim was a crude attempt to evade 
Associated Press 
responsibility for complying with U.S. demands.
ISLAMABAD 

"We're not going to be
Faced with U.S. demands to 
deterred by comments that
hand over Osama bin Laden, 
he may be missing," said
Afghanistan's Taliban lead­Condoleezza Rice, President
ership claimed Sunday it has 
Bush's national securitybeen unable to find the 
adviser.
alleged terrorist mastermind "We don't simply believeand advise him of a recom­
it," she said on the "Fox
mendation to leave the coun­News Sunday" TV program.
try.. 
Taliban must either handAmerican officials dis­
over bin Laden and his lieu­
missed the claim, which 
tenants. allow access to their
came as a U.S. Defense 
alleged terrorist training
Department team arrived in 
camps in Afghanistan and
Pakistan to discuss military 
free two
cooperation 
detained
for a strike 
American
against bin ..We're not going to be 
aid workers,Laden and 
deterred by comments or "face the
his Taliban wrath of an
allies. that he may be missing." 
international
T h e 
coalition,"
Taliban's 
Condoleezza Rice Rice said.
ambassador 
security adviser Defense
to neighbor­
Secretary
i n g 
Donald H.
Pakistan, Rumsfeld
Abdul Salam 
also scoffed
Zaeef, said the militia's chief. Mullah at the hard-line Islamic mili­Mohammed Omar, had sent tia. Asked on CBS' "Face the emissaries to inform bin Nation" if he believed the Laden of a decision Thursday Taliban claim, Rumsfeld by Afghanistan·s Mus Ii m replied: "Of course not." clergy that he should leave "They know where he is," the country voluntarily at a he said. "They know their time of his choosing. 
country.... It is just not 
Zaeef said Taliban authori­
believable that the Taliban 
ties had been searching for 
do not know where the net-
bin Laden for the past two 
work can be located and Chilton, Pentagon director of found and can be turned strategic planning for the Near East and South Asia,
over." Bin Laden is the prime sus­arrived Sunday in Islamabad, 
U.S. and Pakistani sources
pect in masterminding the said.
Sept. 11 

The team is
attacks on the World .....It is just not believable expected to finalize plans
T r a d e that the Taliban do not 
for the United
Center 

know where the network 
. States to use
and the 

can be located and found Pakistani air­
Pentagon, which left and can be turned over.,, space, intelli­
gence-sh a r­
thousands 

ing and mili­
of people 

Donald Rumsfeld 
tary facilities
dead or 

defense secretary in support for •
missing. 

a• c t i o n
I n 

against
reporting 

Afghanistan.
t h e 

Despite anti-American sen­
Taliban's claim, the Afghan timent in this Muslim coun­
Islamic Press, a private news try. Pakistan agreed last
agency based in Islamabad, week to cooperate fully with
quoted Omar's spokesman Abdul Hayee as saying "guest Washington in its campaign Osama" had "gone missing" against terrorism. 
Since the Sept. 11 attacks,
and that "efforts were being the three countries that for­
made to locate him." Hayee said that once bin mally recognized the Taliban Laden was found, he would government -Pakistan, be told of the clerical deci­Saudi Arabia and the United sion. "Then it would be his Arab Emirates -have all dis­decision whether he wants to tanced themselves. The UAE stay in Afghanistan or not," broke diplomatic relations Hayee was quoted as saying. with the Taliban on Meanwhile, the United Saturday, and the Saudis was States accelerated prepara­said to be discussing taking tions for military action the same step. against bin Laden and the As part of an international Taliban, which have given campaign to bolster the anti­him refuge since 1996. A terrorism coalition, a high­high-level U.S. Defense level European Union delega­Department team led by Air tion is to arrive Monday in Force Brig. Gen. Kevin Islamabad at the start of a 
weeklong diplomatic tour through Islamic countries. The delegation, which also will stop in Iran. Saudi 
Arabia,  Egypt, Syria  and  
Jordan,  will  be  led  by  
Foreign  Minister  Louis  

Michel of Belgium, which holds the EU presidency. The delegation also includes EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana, EU External Relations Commissioner Chris Patten and Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique. 
Pakistan's hardline Islamic parties remain strongly opposed to their govern­ment's support for the U.S.­led campaign. On Sunday, small and peaceful demons­trations were held in the cities of Karachi, Peshawar and Quetta. Protesters burned effigies of Bush and threatened to join a "jihad," or holy war. against America if its forces attack.Taliban and bin Laden. 
In Quetta, Mullah Ghafoor Haideri, the national gener­al-secretary of the right-wing Jamiat-e-Ulema Islami party, threatened to conduct suicide attacks against any U.S. ser­vicemen deployed in Pakistan. 
"We are directing our sui­cide force to guard those air­ways and areas that American forces wish to use against Afghanistan," he said at a news conference. 

e GE Financial Management Program 
Join Us Tuesday, September 25th and You Can... . . . Learn More About GE • • • Learn About GE's Financial Management Program . .. Learn How To Join Many Companies By Joining Only One 
GE Financial Management Program Career Day 
Tuesday, September 25, 2001 2:00 -6:00 PM 
Lower level ofCCE 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME 
• 
Monday, September 24, 2001 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Prime Minster calls off peace talks 
on a full 48 hours without any ments are the best that can be lence by Palestinians. called on the United States,
. Sharon calls off 
unrest. achieved at present, and no Cabinet secretary Gideon Russia and the Europeantruce talks until "These meetings can take final peace deal is possible for Saar said Sharon felt a high­Union to pressure Sharon's Arafat halts place once there will be full years, or even decades. The level meeting with Arafat was government to hold talks. 
cessation of terror and hostili­Palestinians have said they not appropriate while any "This is the behavior of a gang,
Palestinian attack 
ties," he said in an interview don't believe Sharon is serious Palestinian violence continued, not a responsible govern­
with the Fox News Channel. about negotiating a full­saying it would "give legitima­ment," he said of Israel's can­
Associated Press "We did not ask too much." fledged peace agreement that cy to certain types of terror." cellation. 
Israeli Foreign Minister would include Palestinian Saar said the Palestinians Since the Sept. 11 terror 
JERUSALEM Shimon Peres told Arafat in a statehood. had arrested but released Atef attacks in the United States, 
Despite a decline in Mideast telephone call Sunday night Arafat and Peres have been Abayyat, a leader of the the Bush administration has 
that if there were no acts of trying to arrange a meeting for Tanzim militia, which claimed been urging both sides to haltviolence, Israeli Prime Minister violence Monday the two could a month, and responsi­violence, a step seen as vital
Ariel Sharon called off long­
awaited truce talks Sunday meet that evening, Israeli had planned to bility for for American efforts to enlist and said Yasser Arafat must media reported. It was not meet Sunday. "We are not .fighting the a shoot­Arab nations in a coalition clear where or when that But Sharon i n g against international terror.
bring a complete halt to 
Palestinians, we are
Palestinian attacks before any would take place. called off the Thursday "I still have hopes that the discussions can begin. In a speech Sunday night, meeting, increas­.fighting terror.,, t h a t meeting will take place in the Sharon raised ing killed an
Angry Palestinians called the a topic he has friction near future," Secretary of 
rarely broached -the possi­between the Israeli State Colin Powell, who has
move "irresponsible," saying it 
Ariel Sharon
undermined efforts by the bility of a Palestinian state. hard•line Sharon woman been pushing for a truce, said United States and other for­Sharon said Israel wanted to and the dovish prime minister a n d on ABC's "This Week" Sunday. eign governments to calm ten­give the Palestinians the Peres, who has wounded In another development, a 
sions in a region wracked by a opportunity to form a state, pushed for a her hus­Jerusalem court issued an 
but it would require genuine series of talks band. extradition request for
year of fighting. 
peace between the two sides. with Arafat. Israel is demanding Marwan Barghouti, an outspo­
Arafat, the Palestinian 
"We are not fighting the Peres skipped Sunday's Abayyat's re-arrest as well as ken Palestinian leader in theleader, declared a cease-fire 
last Tuesday, and Israel imme­Palestinians, we are fighting Israeli Cabinet session, appar­other "meaningful steps West Bank. There was no diately announced a halt to terror." Sharon said at a ently to protest the cancella­against violence," said Sharon immediate response from offensive military operations. speech at Latrun in central tion of his meeting with Arafat, spokesman Raanan Gissin. Arafat's Palestinian Authority. Since then, one Palestinian Israel. "Israel wants to give Israeli media reported. Industry and Trade Minister Barghouti's fiery calls for 
the Palestinians what no one Israeli media also said Peres Dalia Yitzhak criticized resistance against Israel have
and one Israeli have been 
else gave them before, the pos-. was considering resigning his Sharon's decision to cancel the won him supporters among
killed. The sides have 
sibility of forming a state." post, a move that could threat­meeting, saying, "we must many Palestinian youths.
exchanged fire on several 
Sharon has never given en the stability of Sharon's understand that Yasser Arafat Israel said he was responsible
occasions, and Palestinian mil­details of what he would be government. now looks like a seeker of for two shooting attacks, one
itants have fired mortars in 
willing to offer the Sharon's Cabinet appeared peace and we look bad." that killed a Greek monk andthe Gaza Strip, but the level of Palestinians. He has often said divided on whether Arafat had Palestinian Information another that seriously wound­violence has dropped. 
that long-term interim agree-done enough to end the vio-Minister Yasser Abed Rabbo ed an Israeli.
However, Sharon is insisting 

Seeking Applicants for 
CONGO 
Spring/Summer 2002! Discover how to use
Rebels, leaders discuss peace 
your degree overseas! 
the war to our territory," his delegation also discussed
Associated Press 
Onusumba said. with Mugabe the forthcoming The Rwandan government inter-Congolese dialogue that
BUKAVU 

Information Meeting And Video
holds the Interahamwe respon­begins Oct. 15 in Addis Ababa,
Congolese rebels and 
Tues.. Sept. 25, 7-9 p.m.. Centerj(ir Social Concerns 
sible for the 100-day slaughter Ethiopia, and which is expectedZimbabwe's president -a top of at least 500,000 minority to chart Congo's political futureally of the Congo government -Tutsis and politically moderate after decades of corrupt andhave held unprecedented talks 
Visit us at the Post-Graduation Volunteer Fair! 
Hutus in Rwanda in 1994. The dictatorial regimes.
on the prospects for peace arrd 
Interahamwe fled to neighbor­The rebel delegation told 
Wed., Sept. 26. 6 to 9 p.m.,Stepan Center 
the political future of Congo 
ing Congo, then known as Mugabe that Kabila's proposalafter three years of civil war, a Zaire. to escape retaliation. to hold national elections soonrebel leader said Sunday. 
Have you considered doingfull-time service overseas after
"There is a danger of after the dialogue wasn't prac­Adolphe Onusumba, head of 
graduation? Check us oitt at the Information Meeting or the
resumption of a full-scale war­tical and encouraged the estab­the rebel Congolese Rally for fare against the Interahamwe," lishment of a three-year transi­
Post-Graduation Volunteer Fait: Find out the benefits of
Democracy, returned to rebel­
Onusumba said, adding "we tional administration to pre­
Peace Corps service and how to apply. Ask questions l?/'
held eastern Congo fro the talks have the means and capacity to pare Congo for democratic elec­with Robert Mugabe, saying he 
returned volunteers and recruirers while they 're on campus.
launch an all-out military tions and integrate rebel forceshad "sensed a genuine willing­
Look up our 'A·ebsite:www.peacecops.gov
assault." into the national army,ness on the part of Mugabe to 
Onusumba said members of Onusumba said.
end the conflict." 
The talks were the first between the rebels and Mugabe. Zimbabwe has been the main backer of the Congolese government, togeth­er with Angola and Namibia, in the war that broke out in August 1998 after rebels backed by Rwanda and Uganda attempted to oust then­President Laurent Kabila. 
Both Rwanda and Uganda accused Kabila of warmonger­ing and threatening regional security by arming Rwandan and Ugandan rebels. 
Following Kabila's assassina­tion in January and the acces­sion to power of his son, Joseph, key provisions of the 1999 cease-fire deal were implemented, including the pullback of troops from front­line positions and the deploy­ment of U.N. observers to verify the cease-fire. 
But a recent upsurge in fight­ing involving government­backed Rwandan rebels and tribal militias in eastern Congo could scuttle the peace deal. Onusumba said. 
"We requested Mugabe to advise Kabila to stop financing and arming the Interahamwe (Hwandan rebels} and sending 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Monday, September 24, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0...••.........631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISJNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.!@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAJNT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obst7Ver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online fuarures for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac·and Sa.inc Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QUt:stiom regarding Ob,eroerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChufMike Connolly. 

:¥:~:;
.%t.~-~;
\if'! .-: ,: 
:~ftt.lt; 

;{~\"t ''.i . ' 
. 
. 

. 
-

.\·"~~-~:::.;.;,::.. .. , .' 
It is time for us to face reality 
What more can I add? 
In the last two weeks I, like everyone else, have experienced the full spec­trum of emotions: sadness at lives lost but elation at America's positive and truly united response; sheer bewilderment at our uncertain future in what is unquestionably a new world, but faith in God and my fel­low man, especially Americans. 
But I'm worried that some of the people who have written in to The Observer in the last 13 days, although well intentioned, must not have any con­cept of the magnitude of what hap­pened on S~pt. 11. They couldn't pos­sibly have comprehended it beca·use their own theories on where we go from here prove their unawareness. 
Two plans I saw last week were, ..Reflect upon why certain people are so angry with the United States" and ..Challenge our current social system to find out why thousands of innocent people died." In other words, basical­ly, we had it coming. 
When used in the case of rape, that line of thinking is both outrageous and preposterous -so what makes it justi­fiable here? I have a one word answer for what we did to deserve this: noth­ing. I'm not denying that there have been times when we've stuck our pudgy arrogant fingers, noses or other body parts into places they didn't belong in our 225-year history. But not even our most egregious transgres­sions could possibly justify the sort of malicious destruction, in terms of peo­ple and property, that we witnessed on Sept. 11. 
Dialing the calendar back further, we're advised to negotiate with coun­tries such as Afghanistan. This trans­lates to rewarding the nations that harbor, aid, bankroll, sympathize with or encourage terrorists. Need I draw a map that shows where this theory will take us? Millions of the world citizens see the United States as Earth's Ebenezer Scrooge. Regardless of whether it's true or not, all anyone who wants a few billion dollars for their homeland would need to do is blow up a building or kill a few Americans. Not only would this philos­ophy leave the United States at the mercy of terrorists worldwide, it would make every one of us hostages to whatever ransom they desire. 


It's a given that most countries that sponsor terrorism are at the bottom of the economic ladder (the average Afghan lives on $300 annually and their major export is opium). But this is not because the United States is hoarding all the money and stubbornly refusing to share. It's because those countries are ruled by greedy, iron­fisted dictators or regimes who've con­signed their people to starvation, using the United States as a scapegoat, to guarantee their permanent power. 
During World War II, we.reduced nearly all of both Germany and Japan to the same smoking piles of rubble that the World Trade Center is now. But afterwards, with our help, they established more democratic and open governments and societies -and now they're two of the world's haves and not have-nots. If there's a reason why Afghanistan isn't among them, it's not because of us. 
Then, the day after the attack. we read, "Fight violence with love." This is the toughest to respond to because I am not a violent person. I'd just as soon not see any more bloodshed -if there's any good that could have come from that nightmarish morning two weeks ago, it's that thankfully, most of the world has realized what hell hate creates. 
But consider this: as of two weeks ago, the worst year for international terrorism was 1998. In that year, according to the U.S. State Department, the number of people killed in terrorist attacks totaled 7 41, only twelve of whom were Americans and not one died on U.S. soil. That means that Sept. 11 was, at last count, nearly nine times deadlier than the worst year ever. The only other time we've seen this kind of carnage in America was also in the middle of September -of 1862, when the Battle of Antietam in the Civil War claimed nearly 8,000 lives. 
\Vhat we've witnessed is a massive paradigm shift. No longer are terrorist acts merely small-tinie stuff, car bombs in cafes or snipes at politicians. From here, the logical next step is for terrorists to use nuclear. biological or chemical weapons. And vvith the mind­set of those behind the \Vorld Trade Center and Pentagon attacks. don't think that they won't use those weapons against us if they ever get the chance. Which means that for our own safety -indeed, our very survival ­we have no choice but to destroy those terrorist networks that are responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks, as well as any organization capable of duplicating or even exceeding them that have the will to do so. 
Now, I do want to make one thing clear: In each of the columns I've sam­pled from, there are perfectly legiti­mate and in fact, even brilliant ideas. One example was turning over Osama bin Laden's assets to victims' families if he's responsible. I also want to point out that I do not advocate a "kill 'cm all and let God sort 'em out" response. And for that matter, neither .do the President and his staff -if they did, they would have done it already. 
But any American response that stops short of calculated military action is simply not enough to provide justice for the victims in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania -nor is it enough to provide security for the rest of us. 
This column is dedicated to the men and women who lost their lives on Sept. 11, especially the members ofthe NYPD, FYND and PANYINJ who died in the service ofothers. l\1ay God bless them. us and America. Mike Marchand's e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. llis column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Myra McGriff Jason McFarley Kevin Suhanic 
Sports 
Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Lab Tech 
Peter Richardson 

POLL QUESTION RESULTS 
. Should the United States use military action to respond to the terrorist attacks? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4s long as is regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascination. When it is looked upon as vulgar it will cease to be popular. " 
Oscar Wilde writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 24, 2001 page 11 
New terrorism calls for new tactics, skills 
\Ve are at war now. But it is a war like no other. fought on many fronts, requiring new military. diplomatic and law-enforce­ment tactics and new skills from our lead­ers. 
To fight this war. America will have to 
Scott Flipse
change tactics. In the past we have pursued terrorists mainly with police and lawyers. 
Pro Bono
After the World Trade Center bombing in 1993, a case was built, the perpetrators were captured and they were tried in court. While successful, these methods relieved the previous administra­tion from addressing several acute prob­lems: dealing directly with nations sponsor­ing terrorism and coordinating civilian and military counter-terrorism efforts. Each branch of the government fought terrorism with its own methods and timetable -the result was the flourishing of Osama bin Laden's organization and the massive intel­ligence failure of two weeks ago. 
President Clinton did send cruise missiles into Sudan and Afghanistan to retali­ate against the bombing of American embassies in Kenya ,, and Tanzania. The attacks were both strategic and political failures. Bad intelligence and the application of massive force only increased sympathy for bin Laden. It should be clear by now that bin Laden cannot be deterred by over­whelming force. He is a religious zealot, fighting a cosmic war to rid the region of evil Western influence. He does not fear violence against himself. The way we respond to his challenge is crucial if we want to pull his organization up by the roots. 
Much of the previ­ous approach will now be abandoned. If we are at war, the United States will pur-. sue it favoring military over law enforcement and legal methods. Police and lawyers will remain crucial in the fight, but the President. his National Security team and mili­tary advisors will make decisions on tactics, goals and targets. Until terrorism is stamped out, they will be cop, judge and · jury. 
The change in tactics carries with it important responsibilities. The first respon­sibility is to understand the foe. The goals espoused by bin Laden often seem esoteric because they are couched in the visionary rhetoric of religion. It would be a tragic mistake to dismiss this as irrational. The new terrorism uses violence to destabilize, but it also uses violence to provoke a show­down with the enemies of Islam. Bin Laden's soldiers expect such a showdown, which is why they are willing to commit sui­cide to carry out their attacks. But their larger hope is that by promising a steady crescendo of violence they will permanently alter the political and strategic balance in the Middle East. 
The mixture of apocalyptic religion and destabilizing power is a volatile concoction that requires patience from U.S. military planners and new skills from our leaders. In trying to defeat one enemy America must be wary not to create others. Many poten­tial allies in the Middle East face strident minorities who will mobilize if the American response goes awry or is seen as too harsh. Bin Laden would like nothing more than to overthrow "corrupt" Muslim regimes in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. If this happened American bases would be ejected. 
To drive a wedge between faith and power, America will need diplomats, politi­cians and military officers able to cogently articulate the goals of fundamentalism and why it betrays the central tenants of Islam. The American public will need this. It might forestall further violence against Arab­Americans. It might also help in under­standing why certain military actions are taken, while others are not. 
Our Middle Eastern allies will need this as well. We must show moderate Muslims that we know what they are facing. The more American policy-makers and the public 
know about the religious vision of our enemies, the easier it will be to keep skittish allies in our cor­ner. Let's face it: we will need their support and intelli­gence to penetrate terror­ist networks. It \\'ill also assist in setting military priori­
ties. The desire of bin Laden and his follow­ers for a cosmic war 
\ requires extraordi­nary patience. \Ve must refuse to give 
him the war he wants -either by continuing to use inflammatory rhetoric about a 
war "for the soul of liberty" or by using massive force. Though military 
leadership is required, this war will not be won only 
with military means. There will be no set piece battles in this 
war. Ideally, it will be a war fought with spe­cial forces, good intelli­

gence, trained police and -r ' . "y immigration officers and
-i,' ·accountants. America must 
·~ ~ cut off the terrorists' financial'> support, isolate its leaders, , identify its supporters and then ..-,.,. move in to defeat it. The attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon signal that we are in a 
·new era of warfare. The nation has used the historical analogy of Pearl Harbor to describe its feelings and spur its action. Though we cannot fight World War II again, we can only hope to respond to the latest challenge with the same clarity and courage as that generation. It's a new cen­tury and a new war; we will need new tac­tics and skills to wage it. 
Scott Flipse is the associate director of Notre Dame's Washington Semester and Pew Fellow at the Brookings Institution. Ile can be reached at sflipse@nd.edu. For more information on the Washington Semester visit the website at www.nd.edu/-semester. 
The views expressed in this column are thos of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Business news needed 
at Notre Dame 
Notre Dame has since its inception created programs to prepare bright young people to become successful and responsible citizens. From humble beginnings, the University has added programs in engi­neering. government, law. business and other disciplines to improve the quality of our education. Each of these programs is vital to the continu­ity ofour civilization when complemented by a liberal arts education. 
Today we live in a world where time is measured by the speed of commerce and nearly every profession that Notre Dame students enter upon graduation is in some way Jinked with business. Engineers not only plan enormous projects, but have to sell their designs to customers as well. Government majors must have a firm grasp on the complexities of domestic and international commerce to be effective political leaders. Business issues touch the lives of all of us, whether we forecast the Federal Reserve's manipulation of interest rates or simply balance our checkbooks and invest for our retirement. Bright and capable people of all studies must have a basic understanding of the business world to be leaders in today's society. 
The lack of a business section in The Observer is an irresponsible omission that in itself deprives the Notre Dame student population of an invaluable portion of news that stands to affect our lives on a daily basis. Changes in our economy do not affect only business students but all people, regardless of their field of study feel the impact in their daily life. It is important that we can all understand what happens in the business world and how these events will invariably affect us. 
Because every major daily publication contains a business section, The Observer. which seeks to emulate the quality of these newspapers, should certainly contain one of its own, at least on a weekly basis. The amount of newsworthy business-related articles is enough to fill cele­brated periodicals such as the Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times on a daily basis. 
The mission of any newspaper ~s to keep its readers informed, a glar­ing failure of Notre Dame's daily student publication. \Ve do not accuse The Observer of ignoring the needs of any one segment of the student population, rather the entirety of our community here on campus. For sake of a well-rounded education for all Notre Dame students, we request the swift addition of a business news section in The Observer. 
Dave Willson 

sentor off-campus president, Student Interncional Business Council Erik Keener junior Morrissey Manor maregic planning committee chairman, SIBC 
Mark Reynolds 
JUOIOC 
Alumni Hall treasurer, Notre Dame Investment Club Sept.18.2001 

Booing contradicts tradition 
First, I read the three articles in the Chicago Tribune about yesterday's loss to Michigan State that all revealed two things: First, the coach/quarter­back controversy and second, the boo's that reached down to the team as they left the field. Needless to say, my wife ('95) and I were both disappointed to hear about the loss, and even more disappointed to read about the classless behavior from the home crowd. 
Then, later, I was playing the "Shake Down the Thunder" CD with my boys as they colored and listened to the fight song and other traditional Notre Dame tunes. Nowhere in any of them is the spirit of arrogance and rudeness that is indicative of booing the Irish and their coach off the field. I certainly would have been embarrassed had I been at the Stadium with my sons and tried to explain to them why the crowd was doing that. I hope that the student body will realize that the tradi­tion that they so poorly repre­sented this weekend is much larger and more significant than one weekend or year's worth of football. 
Lieutenant Dan Cook class of '96 Sepe. 23, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Monday, September 24, 2001 

My parents were right, 
•
again 
I hate it when every adult from my childhood turns out to be right. Unfortunately, it seems to happen all too frequently as I grow older. 
This week's lesson was brought to me by every teacher who tried to beat into my thick skull the importance of history: learning from our mistakes, since we seem all too doomed to repeat them. I,. of course, refused to believe a word of it -I hated every histo­ry class I have ever taken. I would slump down in my chair, convinced that the Greeks and Romans had nothing to teach me about how to live. Of course, I was completely wrong. 
The last week has been full of worry and fear for me, as it was for everyone else who calls America home. I envied all the French around me whose lives seemed to be going on with the same ease that they did before Sept. 11. 
Instead of stressing out over papers and assign­ments. I wondered if the stoc'k market was going to crash or if war was going to break out and I'd be sent home. I wandered around in a daze, refusing to watch CNN and feeling grateful for once that I couldn't understand what was written in the papers. 
It seemed that the world I used to know was gone, and in its place was nothing but uncertainty. Well on my way to a good ulcer or a severe bout of depression, I finally dragged myself out of bed and into the Louvre, hoping to lose myself in the crowds and spend a few hours looking at something beautiful. And just like the plot of a good after-school special. my field trip ended up turning my whole week around. 
Probably clue to my oh-so-cheerful mood, I picked out the Massacre at Chios by Delacroix to start off the afternoon. In it sat a group of ragged victims, some dying, some still holding on. stunned at what has happened to their people. 
If I squinted hard enough to blur out the clothing that dated them back several centuries, it seemed like I was looking at the faces of those watching smoke and fire engulf the World Trade Center's twin towers. The elderly woman in the center of the painting was the hard­est to forget: with this blank, sickening stare, she lifts her eyes upward, searching for something that she can't find. 
I moved on to another gigantic Delacroix, the Death of Sardanapalus. I couldn't take my eyes off the face of the king. His expression is unmoved by the slaughter around him, the murder of his harem and horses that his own hand had commanded. 
Suddenly, I realized how evil people are nothing new, and how humans have been battling against them for as long as we can remem­ber. 
Finally, I found myself in front of David's giant painting of the Oath of the Horatii. Three brothers salute their elderly father. their arms outstretched in pledge to protect their family. I looked into the eyes of these young men who were willing to die to defend what they knew was right and suddenly I understood what drove the boys back home to consider enlisting. And as I looked at the wives of the Horace broth­ers weeping in the corner, I realized what it might feel like to be the ones left behind. 
I usually hate tourists at the Louvre. Armed with 12 different cam­eras to document that they once saw the Mona Lisa (not that they look at the art, of course), they just glare at you until you move so they can grin for the lens. But that afternoon it felt comforting to have the crowds around me. 
Standing in the middle of the huge hall, it became so clear to me. Maybe turning to history is the only way to make sense of what had happened and what is still to come. 
You can look at a painting or you can read an ancient poem and you will start to understand how humans have loved, hated and fought with the same intensity since the beginning of time. 
True, in modernity the weapons are more deadly and the stakes much higher. But in painting, the faces look the same. Even I have to begrudgingly admit, that's the comfort that history gives us. 

Laura Kelly is a junior French and English major. She can be reached at lkelly@nd.edu. French Connection will appear Mondays in Scene. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
-n 
By MATI KILLEN 
Scene Writer 

Everyone from the DJs to station man­agers at the student radio station WVFI are members of the student body. As stu­dents their greatest desire is to share their love of music with the student body and create more venues where students can enjoy music. To accomplish these goals, they've got big plans to make \WFI a more relevant part of the community. 
One of these plans includes Friday's "Quad Rock 2001," which will be held on the North Quad (rain location is in Stepan Center). The concert kicks off at 4 p.m. and runs until around mid­

night. Unlike last year's take the stage will be
"Music is inherently
"Irishpalooza," however, Family Style. made up this event promises to social. Ifyou 're open to of former members of Chicago's jam band
display a festival atmos­new music, you'll be open 
phere with a wide vari­Ray's Music Exchange.
to new and different cul­
ety of both local and An up-and-coming national acts. tures. They play offeach band, they are "There will be a vari­described as having a
other." 

ety of bands," Joanne funky and jammy Davidson, WVFI co­sound. · 
Joanne Davidson 
events coordinator. said. After the band com­"Last year's groups were WVFI co-events coordinator pletes its set, the 
Scene takes 
whole idea is to bring these interesting and eccentric things out 
in the open. giving exposure to music, groups, and even businesses that nor­mally don't get atten­tion." 
The groups will get· an opportunity to speak during set breaks. which will also allow for very 

little down time. 
Something will always be going on for the audience, 
The first of the acts to 

pretty similar. We're getting different vari­eties this year, including ska, indy rock, hip hop, bluegrass and jam." 
In keeping with a festival atmosphere,' WVFI hopes to give social action groups a chance to speak at the event. 
"\Ve're devoting certain time slots towards these groups to speak on any issue related to their club," Jon Alvarez, also a co-events coordinator. said. "The Humor Artists {HA!) will take the stage for a performance. Space and Noise Productions, 
a big local group with unique and quirky style will follow HA!. The band uses key­boards and guitars, but also utilizes less conventional instruments like old toys. "It's kind of beyond words. you have to see them for yourself," Alvarez said. 
After Space and Noise quiets down. the scene will shift to a more bluegrass style. · 

Radio personalities Chris Planicka, Jon "Filth" Athon, Ian "Scotty" Scott host the WVFI sporti known as The Lynch Mob. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



us 
Monday, September 24, 2001 
page 13 




era 


a look at WVFI and its upcoming events. 
a 
creeps closer, WVFI contin­ues to run with a clear pur­pose for the Notre Dame community. "We're really trying to interact with other groups and get a larger pres­ence in the community. The DJs this year are fantastic, and people are getting excit­ed," Davidson said. "Our purpose revolves around see­



Dan Gellert's Old-Time String Band, a local group from Elkhart, will take the stage. Notre Dame professor James Bellis will be accompanying the band for the show. 
Donkey Punch, a well-known Detroit ska band will follow the bluegrass sec­tion of the show. One of the most popu­lar bands in the greater Detroit area, the group's appearance at the festival will mark their first time playing in Indiana. 
Once the donkeys have had their fill of punch, Hey Mercedes will take the stage. The popular indy rock band is the biggest band featured in the show. The group has been touring all over the country and their shows have been con­sistently selling out. Made up of former members -of the band Braid, Hey Mercedes has seen impressive success­es. Mark Dawursk. Todd Bell, Damon Atkinson and Hobert Nanna head the group, whose songs include "Bells," "St. James St." and "Say Six." Their latest album, "Everynight Fire Works," is due out in October of this year. 
Another local South Bend group, 
Koalescence, will play after 

Hey Mercedes. The band is described as an up-and-com­ing hip-hop group with a wide variety of styles. The group includes both MCs and DJs. 
DJ Quantum will round out the show. Although he is a Boston-based DJ, Quantum is originally from New York. Having toured international­ly, he's well-kno\vn for the quality of his work. 
"\Ve're looking to attract a lot more students this vear," Davidson said. "It'll be big­ger, more diverse and a lot more will be going on." 
Davidson and Alverez stress the festival atmos­phere of the event, advising that there will be something for everyone. 
"Quad Hock 2001" isn't the only event \VVFI is planning this year. \VVFI is sponsor­ing a concert on Nov. 16 fea­turing the group Percy Hill.· \\'ith songs like "Beneath the Cover" and "Been So Long," this group has a sound that's been compared to Steely Dan. 
WVFI is also hoping to 

have a benefit concert later in the fall or possibly next spring. Though the nature of the benefit con­cert hasn't been decided, the proceeds may go to aid victims of the recent ter­rorist attacks in New York. Washington, 
D.C. and rural Pennsylvania. 
Aside from the big festivals, concerts 
and benefit shows, the real heart of 
WVFI radio lies in the student-run 
shows themselves. While the shows 
range in style and content, they reflect 
the diverse interests of the DJs. While 
most shows focus on music, many of 
them offer conversation or humor­
based radio. 
Some shows focus on a single type of 
music, like punk rock or hip hop. Others 
are combinations of what the DJs enjoy, 
giving the shows a personal flavor. The 
DJs are given a large amount of free­
dom as well as responsibility at WVFI. 
This allows them to tailor their shows 
to a specific audience. 
Among the many shows airing on 
WVFI this year is Jim Lee's which 
focuses on jazz that ranging from the 
music of the 30s and 40s to musicians 
making the rounds on the modern jazz 
scene. 
Aside from the unique and diverse 
types of music played, the shows reflect 
the personalities of the hosts them­
selves. Take this recent exchange 
between DJs Becky Weisenberger and 
Mark Marquez on their show: 
Becky: So what do you think about 
the football game? 
Mark: \Ve're going to win. 
Becky: Uh-huh. By a.hundred to two. 
Mark: A hundred to two. 
Becky: ls that with the squirrel or 
without? 
Mark: Um, without. 
All of these shows are available by 
logging onto WVFI 's official website 
wvfi.nd.cdu. WVFI's global broadcast­
ing system operates exclusively on the 
Internet. A truly distinct station. thjs is 
currently \VVrTs only outlet for broad­
casting 
The globalization comes in handy in 
manv vvavs. One of its greatest advan­tages lies·in the broadcasting of the ND football games. Due to the large inter­est in Notre Dame football, fans from around the globe and log onto their ·computers to hear play by pl.ay of the 
games. 
After splitting from \\'SND in the 70s, 
\\'VF! broadcasted on AM 640 for a 
number of years. It was found, howev­
er, that many of the dorms simply 
couldn't receive the AM signal. 
Three years ago. WVFI opted to 
switch over to Internet-only broadcast­ing, which eventually went global after certain contractual issues were worked out with University officials. Aside from the ability to hear WVFI from anywhere on the planet, the Internet broadcasting supplies a clearer sound than AM 
Now, after a year of using global Internet technology. it appears WVFI may soon be returning to the airwaves -this time on the FM bandwidth. 
"The reason we couldn't get FM was because of regulations regarding own­ership. But the FCC opened up low­powered stations which we did get approval for. We're not sure when it'll happen, however," Alvarez said. 
Details and a timetable still need to be worked out over this issue. As the possibility of FM broadcasting 
ing the corresponding rela­tionship between music and our lives." 
"It's physically manifested with this upcoming festival." said Alvarez. 
"Music is inherently social," Davidson said "If you 're open to new types of music, you'll be open to new and differ­ent cultures. They play off each other." 
• It is that idea that fuels WVFI. More than just a group of students who share a common love for music, it is their hope that they will have an effect on the community. It is their mission to point out the relevancy of music to everyday life, to raise awareness of the impor­tance of music to everyone. so that when the next record spins, everyone can appreciate it just a little bit more. 
Contact Matt Killen at Matthew.M.Killen@nd.edu. 

Monday, September 24, 2001 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
CREW 
Irish take three top spots 

Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame claimed three of the first five spots in the varsity eight race at the Milwaukee Crew Classic on the water of the Milwaukee River in Milwaukee.Wis. The races were con­tested as the best combined times of two sprint races over the 2 .2-mile course, with the second race covering the same water only going in the oppo­site direction. 
The first varsity eight crew, ranked 16th in the country last year, of Ann Marie Dillhoff, Diane Price, Katherine Burnett, Casey Buckstaff, Nataile Ladine, Ashlee Warren, Michelle Olsgard, Jayme Szefc and coxswain Cassie Markstahler placed first in a time of 22:14. National power Wisconsin was second in 22.32.08, fol­lowed by Notre Dame's second varsity eight crew of Danielle Protasewich, Melissa Alberding, Maureen Carr, Katie Welsh, Courtney Mercer, Erica Drennan, Kerri Murphy, Katie Besson and Kathy Long. Notre Dame's third varsity eight of Michaele Carney, Alicia Garcia, Kati Sedun, Meredith Thornburgh, Elizabeth Spacht, Annie Starks, Beth Franzosa and Kacy McCaffrey was fifth. 
The second varsity four team of Rebecca Campbell, Kristen Henkel, • Katie O'Hara, Kristen Mizzi and Caitlin Rackish was fifth in 27.07. Wisconsin won the varsity four race in a time of 
25.59. The first varsity four of Karrie Koski, Megan Sanders, Kolleen Myers, Meg Feely and Markstahler was sixth in 27.17. 
Notre Dame is next in action on Oct.13. at the Chicago Chase in Chicago, Ill .. and Oct. 14 at the Head of' the Rock in Rockford, Ill. 
NBA 
Jordan reportedly set for return 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The five-month wait for the inevitable is nearly over. Barring an improbable, last­minute change of heart, Michael Jordan's come ­back is about to become official. 
T h e r o u t e fr o m "99.9 percent chance that I won't" in April to 'Tm doing it for the love of the game" will end with an announcement this week, possibly as early as Monday. 
The Washington Post reported there is no longer any question Jordan is com­ing back. Citing a league source with knowledge of the situation, the Post reported on its Web site Sunday night that Jordan has decided to end his three­year retirement to play for the Washington Wizards. 
Jordan won't make any public statements about his return until the team's media day, Oct. 1, the day before the Wizards begin training camp, the Post reported. 
The official 'Tm back" ­probably via fax from the Washington Wizards -will be almost anticlimactic, but there are other questions about Jordan's second unre­tirement that eagerly await an answer. 
The Post reported the source said that Jordan will sign a contract for $1 mil­lion, the 10-year veteran minimum salary. The source told-the Post that it was unknown whether he would be signing a multi-year deal. In Jordan's last year in the NBA, with the Bulls in 1997­98, he earned more than $36 million. 

Because the NBA does not allow dual player-ownership, Jordan must sell his 5 to 10 percent ownership stake in the Wizards. Jordan already has started the process of selling his shares in the Wizards back to Washington Capitals owner Ted Leonsis; who heads the \'\lizards' minority ownership group that includes Jordan. Abe Pollin has been majority owner of the Wizards since 1963. 
Can Jordan keep his job as the Wizards' president of basketball operations? The Post story, citing its source, said he must give up that position. Even so, who would be in charge when he's on the court -Jordan or his hand-picked coach, Doug Collins? How would Jordan's teammates handle sharing the court with their boss? Would any of them dare not pass the ball to someone who can trade or cut them? 
How much will Jordan play? He's 38 years old and last played an NBA game in June 1998. Over the last few months, he's had two cracked ribs, back spasms, knee tendinitis and ham­string problems -and that's just from pickup games against invited players who would be more or less defer­ential to him. 
Will his body hold up for an 82-game schedule, or will he follow the lead of the NHL's comeback kid, Mario Lemieux, and sit out selected games? 
How will Jordan handle losing? He couldn't stand it as a front office executive, having thrown tirades in front of the television while watching his woeful \iVizards go 19-63 last season. Conventional wisdom says a healthy Jordan on the court just might get the Wizards to .500. He never missed the playoffs in 13 seasons as a player with the Chicago Bulls, while the Wizards haven't won a playoff game in 13 years. 
Jordan has been very cagey about his comeback plans -he even asked for pledges of secrecy from the players he scrimmaged ­but the general outline of his return is clear. 
A year ago, Jordan started working out because he found himself' with a middle­age belly. His weight reached 242 pounds play again." At another point, he said he would have to grade himself a 9 on a scale of 1-to-10 in order to play again, then teasingly raised himself from 6 to 7 to 8 as the weeks went by. 
There's no doubt he'll pro­nounce himself at 9 or 10 when the Wizards open training camp in Wilmington, N .C., on Oct. 2. 
Preparations elsewhere have been under way for Jordan's return for weeks. The paperwork to sell his stake in Wizards is prepared and awaiting his signature. The Wizards staff is ready to put him on the cover of the media guide. 
The NBA got overeager and briefly listed Jordan as a player on the Wizards' Web 
site last 
week. 

30 "I'm not corning back for Finally. pounds there's a
the glory. I think I left the 
above his question
game with that, but the 
playing o n l y weight in challenge is what I truly Jordan Chicago. C a n
love" 
His initial answer: basketball . Why'? workouts Michael Jordon \,V h y 
were a last-resort weight-loss plan after he found the treadmill boring. 
As the months passed, the workouts intensified. Jordan's focus changed and, despite his denials, he began thinking he could indeed play again. He hired Collins, who coached Jordan in Chicago in the 1980s. Inspired in part by Lemieux, Jordan started holding intense pickup camps at a Chicago gym with NBA-cal­iber talent. The injuries slowed him down, but didn't deter him. 
Last sprin_g, Jordan said: "If I had to answer today. I'm 99.9 percent sure I won't c o m e 
back and risk his legacy'? \Vhy not find another means to vent his extremely competitive nature? 
"It's definitely the chal­lenge," Jordan said in April. "I'm not coming back for money, I'm not coming back for the glory. I think I left the game with that, but the chal­lenge is what I truly love." 
On Sept. 10, Jordan was more eloquent as he all but confirmed his comeback after a pickup game in Chicago. 
'Tm doing it for the love of the game," he said. "Nothing else. For the love of the game." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame o.ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to t'dit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
.....Apt. 2-bdrm $350/person  BUY-SELL  NEED 2 GA'S TO TENNESSEE.  Of sixes • thanks for offering up our  
include. util. $150 dep. close to ND.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  WILL CONSIDER OTHERS.  room to the pile of alumni. You guys  
FOR RENT  1 20 w cripe st.  FOR SALE  277-6619  CALL JACK 674-6593.  rock!  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Need 2-3 A&M vs ND tix. Call Pat  Ken-Doll ­ 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­ 277-9455  Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold  277-2243.  You're a champ! Thanks for the BK  
PUS  way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR  A.M. -232-2378  tonight!  
mmmrentals.com  ROOM FOR RENT  & kitchen with appliances. 1 car  P.M. -288-2726  WANTED -ND TICKETS  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  ND GAMES  garage. $69,000.  289-9280  Lauren ­ 
$250 WEEKEND.  Call Doris at 254-1772  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX  Remember, you only need to read  
CONT. BRKFST.  FOR SALE  enough of the book to finish the  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  CALL 272-0877  52055 Old Post Lane  A.M. · 252-2378  paper.  
Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms  B&B  Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private lane in Farmington Square. 2373  P.M • 288-2726  PERSONAL  Oh, and you could have owned a  
with private baths, $80-$115,  2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES  SF + professionally finished base­ •·ND tickets for salff Lowest prices.  copy of it.  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS  ment Call Jack at 280-7730.  232-0964.  
Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­ 247-1124  Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty.  SPRING BREAK  Mer ­ 
9487  Largest selection of Spring Break  I miiiieeeessed you Saturday! Stay  
'88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks  Tickets Swap USC for TN upto 6.  Destinations, including Cruises!  here more often.  
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1 )9-br $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month.  WANTED  good, runs great. Call Mark at 273­0449.  Days 901-332-6735.  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available.  .  Amy­ 
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at  A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT­ www. EpicuRRean.com  I'm glad you're feeling better.  
532-1896.  STUDENT WORK  BALL SEASON TICKETS •GAs  1-800-231-4-FUN  South Bend hospitals are no place  
$14.50 Base-appt.  ONLr  WILL BUY INDIVIDUAL  to spend a Sunday afternoon.  
Turtle Creek Apt. Opening 1 Br $655 276-4809  Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust.  TICKETS  GAMES 277-1659 ......  Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or  Adrienne -The sheep have  
svc./sales positions (5-20hrs)  Exchange 2 Tenn for 2 BC  call 1-800-327-6013  returned with a vengeance!  
5 Rooms for rent on football week- Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO  4-4421  Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti- Beware! They're looking for you.  
ends. Many happy repeat cus- Cond. apply  GA'S TO ANY GAME  nations! Fifteen years experience!  
tomers.  2 minles N. of campus  www.workforstudents.com/np call  CALL JACK 67 4-6593  ..WANTED· ND TICKETS  Wanted: Representatives and orga- Our room is so quiet now! From  
289-9280·  nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your  eight to three is a big drop.  
277-8340.  ..Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix.  resume  
M-W 12-Spm 282-2357  Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash  Buying some/ Selling a few extra  I'm stuck here, AGAIN!  
For rent: remodeled 4-bdnn house.  Call Bob at 219-315-8964  N.D. Football Tickets.  Your nuts  
3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 23­ Seeking reliable, experienced  219-289-8048.  I love the Observer. Really I do.  
(,..  2104  babysitter for 3 month old girl. Weekday afternoons, 5 mn. from  Tickets Swap USC for TN upto 6. Days 901-332-6735  FOR SALE NAVY, WVA, PITT GAS  Kerry -its time to try another new "creation."  Only Noreen could think of the word  
For rent: Various size apts. avail.  ND.  654-0168  imbibe.  
1· 1/2 miles from ND.  FOR SALE  The McV's are still the best drinking  
 
Call Jame at 288-1801.  Navy, WVA, PITT, Gas  $$ NEED8TIX4 WVU  team around!  Chuck was a very lucky man on  
233-2098  654-0168  915·241-5999  Saturday night.  

Monday, September 25, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

• 
Would you rather voice your opinion at the watercooler or in the conference room7 
Citigroup's revolutionary business model is shaping markets, trends, and quite a few careers. Could yours be next? Presentation: September 26th, contact your career planning office for details. To learn more about our real-world opportunities, visit citigroup.com/newgrads/recruits 
~

c1t1groupJcorporate& 
investment bank 

Monday, September 24, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
Shay 
continued from page 24 

best runners in the country on your team," Striowski said. "Whatever I can do takes pres­sure off. I was especially impressed with Todd [Mobley}. As a sophomore he ran very well.'' 
The Irish benefited from run­ning as a pack. For Shay, run­ning in a pack is a method that has developed since his first National Catholic Invitational win, 
"When I ran [in the National Catholic Invitational] as a fresh­man. it was only my second col­lege race," Shay said. "I ran from the front and ran hard. Running in a group was foreign. But over the years I've become more of a pack runner. It builds a momen­tum for everyone in the group." 
Friday's race was the first of the season for senior Luke Watson, who won the National Catholic Invitational title last 
Handley 
continued from page 24 

100 meters, and Christi [Arnerich] really impressed me," said Handley. "She took it out right with us." 
The Irish continued to hold off 
year. ahead of second place 
"We had really high expecta­Marquette. tions," Watson said. "We knew "As a team, we just want to we had the talent to sweep the keep improving all the time. to top five. and because we didn't get the five man spread as small we were kind of disappointed. as possible," Kerwin said. "The But looking at the times, looking biggest thing is running together. how we placed, and how our Mentally, it's a lot easier when younger guys ran in the sixth and you know you're running with 
seventh spots.  someone else."  
we were a little happier."  "We didn't have the  Together, the No. 5 Irish  
"This is the  expectations we have  are approach­ 
deepest team  now. The mood is  ing the rest of  
we've had since I've been  completely different.,.  the season building on the  
here,"  said  momentum  
Piane.  Shay.  Marc Striowski  each  race  
Watson.  senior  brings.  

Striowski, and Conway had not run a cross -country race together since 1999, when the team took eighth at NCAAs. 
"We didn't have the expecta­tions we have now." said Striowski. "The mood is com­pletely different. We're much more excited about this year." 
Notre Dame finished with a team score of 19, 61 points 
on running freshman Lauren King, but will be adding her to the mix in the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 5. 
"We're really trying to get the top 5 as close together as possi­ble," said Handley. "If you watch the [Notre Dame men] race. they're all there racing together. that's what we want to do." 
Marketing & Public Relations Intern, College Football Hall of Fame 
The College Football Hall of Fame in South Bend. Indiana is looking for an out-going. self-motivated individual to assist its day-to-day efforts in the areas of marketing and public relations. with a primary emphasis on driving.operating. and scheduling the College Footbal Hall of Fame's "Road Show." The "Road Show" is the Hall's 38-foot long RV that serves as its traveling museum. When not traveling. the successful candidate wil assist with press releases. answer media and fan reQuests. and other duties as assigned. Qualifications: Applicants must have two or more years experience in athletics public relations or marketing. either as a student or an intern, and knowledge of college fotball on all levels. Appointment is October-January. Position is open until filled. Information on the Road Show is available at www.collegefootball.org Please send cover letter, resme, and contact informationof three references to: Jim Brylewski, Director of Marketing and Public Relations. College Football Hall of Fame, Ill South St. loseph St., South Bend. IN 46601. 
"We're excit­
ed to be in the hunt, but we're glad not to be ranked first. We hang out in the background till national champi­onships. and hopefully go in ranked third or fourth," Watson said. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 

Looking ahead. the Notre Dame Invitational will be a good indicator of what the team has to do to finish in the top two in the region and advance to nationals. Last year the Irish began the sea­son with a win at the National Catholic Invitational, but fell short of their goals for the rest of the season. 
"Last year we had lost a whole senior class, four out of our top seven," said Handley. "We were really unsure of ourselves, and I think this year we're a lot more focused what our goals are." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles improve in MIAA meet 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 

A seventh place finish may not seem like a victory. But for a team that has finished last in every conference meet for the last four years. seventh place was a victory. 
Despite a soggy course. the Saint Mary's cross country team beat Albion College in the team's highest finish in Belles' history. 
"I know that on the bus on the way back. the girls were immediately disappointed in not having finished higher." senior captain Nickky Prezioso said. "After we realized this was the first time we didn't finish last ... the atmosphere changed." 
In addition to beating an MIAA team for the first time ever, sophomore Jackie Bauters added another first. Her 17th place finish was good enough to score all­conference points for the Belles. an unprecedented event. 
All-conference points are totaled at the end of the year to determine the all-confer­ence team. 
"It's very exciting," she 
Happy Birthday MahewJ! 
From your friends in Lyons and Fisher 

:l 
i '. 
·t,, 
,, 
I 
'/ 
I 
i' 
/, 
l., 
THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
APPLICATIONMEETING For Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 Wednesday, September 26 
6:30 P.M. 129 DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
said after the meet. 

Bauters ran in Saturday's 
meet, despite hip flexor and 
lower back problems. 
''I've been slightly injured, 
so I was really happy with 
the way I ran," she said. 

Saint Mary's delivered a 
team total of 156 points, 27 
points behind sixth place fin­

isher Alma and 33 points 
behind fifth place finisher 
Adrian. 
Despite the large gap in 
points. the Belles are ready 
to move up. 
"Now, more than ever, 
we're determined to do bet­
ter," Prezioso said. "We're 
going to get Alma. We're 
going to get Adrian." 
The Belles biggest oppo­
nent this weekend was the 
weather. Following heavy 
rains in Holland, Mich. on 
Friday, the course was 
treacherous. 
Soggy, slippery conditions 
made footing difficult and 
slowed times. s·aint Mary's 
No. 4 runner, Jessica Kosco 
added 56 seconds to her 
time from last week while 
No. 5 runner Caitlin Gillen 
added 52 seconds to her 
time. 
Kosco finished the race in 
22 min. 12 sec. Gillen fin­
ished in 22:39. 
"The course was in bad 
shape because of the weath­
er," Bauters said. "... It 
caused a lot of people to 
have bad times." 
-Bauters, who finished the 
race in 20:46. actually 
improved her time from last 
week by eight seconds, as 
did No. 2 runner Amy Blue 
and No. 3 runner Kirsten 
Zaininger. Blue ran a 21:15 
and Zaininger crossed the 
finish line just two seconds 
later, with a final time of 
21:17. 
"I know that the running 
conditions were much differ­
ent [than last week]." 
Prezioso said. "[Course con­
ditions] affected some girls 
more than others." 
The course conditions wasn't the only thing that took its toll on the Belles. After last weekend's strong third place finish, the team has had very intense work­outs. 
"We've been training real­ly hard and some girls are starting to feel it," Prezioso said. 
The Belles ran without the strength of their full team. Along with Bauters minor injury, Saint Mary's had to run without Erin Thayer. Family commitments kept the sophomore from joining her teammates this week­end. 
"As one of the top 10 run­ners. [Thayer) could have helped us place if not score points for us," Prezioso said. 

Saint Mary's next chal­lenge to improve will come on Saturday at the LakeFront Invitational at . Loyola. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


'I 
I/ 
f I 
>, 
Monday, September 24, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
utes to go before halftime, the 
Belles looked to be on their way to 
a shut-out. 

But Rose-Hulman, with some help from the weather, broke through Saint Mary's defense, scor­ing two goals in 45 seconds. 
Rose-Hulman forward Jen 
Farmer sent the first goal sailing 
past freshman goalie Martha 
Hottenstien, who was starting in 
her first collegiate game, with no 
chance of be. in stopped. 
"The first goal was beautiful," Johnston said. 
But the second goal came on a defensive breakdown. Amy Sabilia skipped the ball past the Belles defense on the wet field and found its way into the goal for a score. 
"It was our fault for not doubling up on the pressure and expecting the goal," Muth said. 
So instead of going into halftime 3-0, Saint Mary's was only leading by one. 
Sophomore Shannon Artnak solidified the flimsy Belles lead halfway through the second half on a corner kick. Artnak saw the ball get knocked loose and shot it in for a goal. 
Rose-Hulman would not go quiet­ly, however. Farmer took the ball all the way down the field and shot it past Hottenstien to bring her team within one. 
"Marth [Hottenstien] did a great job for her first game," Johnston said of the first-time goalie. "I know it was a difficult situation for her to come into with the field con­ditions and her trying to adjust." 
Saint Mary's usual starting goalie, Maureen MacDonald, sat 
out Sunday's game due to an injury. 
In addition to solid play from Concannon, McCavitt and Hottenstein, two more freshman players made an impact on Sunday's game. Katie Taylor and Katie Noble, both playing at new positions, were the backbone of the Saint Mary's defense. Taylor was put into the game at stopper and Noble tried her hand at defending. 
"[Taylor] is just a really strong player," Muth said. "She is just a really strong defender and its rare for another player on the other team to get past her ... [Noble] was thrown into a position that she doesn't normally play and amazed us at how tough she was." 
The Saint Mary's victory on Sunday came after a cancelled game on Saturday. The Belles were supposed to take on the Comets of Olivet on Saturday, but the game was postponed due to poor field conditions. The new Olivet soccer field was flooded due to intense rains there on Friday night. 
"I think [the cancellation] worked to our benefit," Johnston said. "We didn't have to play two games back to back." 
Sunday's game marked the fourth home game the Belles have played in the rain. Despite the fact that they adjusted to wet play today, they are looking for a dry field. 
"[The weather] affected the way both teams played," Johnston said. "We just want to play on dry ground." 
The Belles will take the home field again on Tuesday as they face off against the Scots of Alma. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo 5695@saintmarys.edu. 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE FAIR Wednesday, Sepcember 26, 2001 < .­N • "• r n • cE"''• ro•5 0 .CI AL SOCIAL CONC.ERNS CONCERNS.6:00 ­9:00 p.m. at Stepan Center Representatives from the following organizations will be present at this year's Post.Graduate Service fair. The Center for Social Concerns would like to thank them for their continued recruibnent, training and supportof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students who wish to commit to a year or more of full-time service after graduation. We appreciate the partnerships with these organizations and our collaborative work towards the creation ofa more just and humane world. lntnrnnt.,-.,.1 .,..,._.,._. _ .~!.•.!H..f.lll!!..!!lll!U:.!~ COlomban Lay Mission Possionist Vdunteers Comboni Lay Missioners Peace Corps Oom~~-~tth-Bosed Proqr~ Farm of the Child Safe Passage Proiect Agnesions In Mission Gateway Vincentian Voluriteers The Hoition Project St. ~sParish Mission AmateHouse Good Shephefd Volumeers Maryknoll Missioners Quest Andre House -Phoenix Holy Cross Voccilions Maryknoll China Tead1ir19 Volunteer Missiooory Movement Augustinian Volunteers Humlity ofMaly SMrice Bon Secours Vol. Minis1ry Program I.H.M. Volunlaer Program Boys Hope/ Giris Hope Indiana Legal Services L'Atche U.S. ;.;.Qmtral RegionPfogr<ffll ~ lntemolionoLand Domesti~ Siu Campus Mifli.S1ry Internship A.l.tV.E. Holy Cross Assodotes Capuchin Franciscan Vol Corps-E.ast Lutheran Volunteer Corps Associate Missionaries Loy Mission Helpers Copud,in Youth & Family Minlmes l<NOM -Alaska Radio .Mission Cabrini Mission Corps Jesuit Volunteer Corps Calholic Network ol Vol. ServiatS Marist Volunteen Cop Corps Midwest Mercy Corps catholic Charities -Proiect Serve Milvofe frandscans ­O,onge o Heort Christion Brothen Vol. Program Xaverion Brothers Vol. Corps Cotlolic Charities Vol. corps Missionary Cenode Volunteers Christan Appolochion Protect Nazarelti Farm Clarrian Volunteers NETMinimes Non-Chwdl Raktted erc>wCJrM CUllvolon Ministries lasallian Voh111tee1S Americorps/ VISTA PubkAHies DeSoles Semce Works Possionist Loy Missioners City Year Teoch tor America Dominican Vo1c..meers Providence Volunteer Ministry Peace Corps Edmundite Missions Corps Redeemer MinistryCorps Frondscon Common Venture Red4N"llpl0rist Voluntaer Ministry Teaching Pr99.ro1n1 Frandscons for the Poor S.A.L.T. Alliance for Catholic Education Pr<widence/Feinstein Yoluntears Frondscan Oulreoch As.soc. Samaritan Inns Amity Teachers Program Response-Ability Frondscan Volunteer Ministry Share fdn. with the Hardcapped Cristo Rey. St. fronds of Rome Parish frondscan Volunteer Program Vancenffan Servk:e Corps-Central Inner-Cly Teaching Corps St. 1gnatius Loyola Academy Frondscorps Vincention Senice Corps-West Jesuit Alumni Volunteers Georgetown Vtsitotion Assoc New Orleans Service Convnuntty 1he Porodete Center  

Monday, September 24, 2001 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Meyers seriously injured during Belles loss 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles lost more than their game on Friday as leading player Angie Meyers suffered a possible season-ending injury. During a 3-2 loss to Adrian, Meyers incurred an injury that will afTect the team for the rest of the season. 
"We're just so dependent on her," Belles head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "She's so strong defensively and offen­sively. It will definitely hurt." 
During a Saint Mary's rally in game three, Myers landed funny after an attack. She was taken out of the game and given an initial diagnosis of a torn ACL. She will undergo an MRI today or Tuesday. As one of only three seniors on the team, the Belles will feel her loss not only on the court, but off as well. 
"She's one of our captains," Schroeder-BieK said. "It's going to be difficult." 
In addition to suffering from the disappointment of losing Meyers, the Belles also suffered another disheartening loss. In a reverse of Wednesday night's loss to Kalamazoo, the Belles came from a 2-0 deficit, only to drop game three 15-11. 
"Against Adrian we played even better [than against Kalamazzoo] and more consis­tent." Schroeder-Biek said. "Just thinking about any one of those games, [they] could have gone either way." 
Play was close in all three games. The Bulldogs won game one 30-27 and game two 30-28. But it wasn't until the third game that the Belles really kicked it in. 
"We knew that when we played Kalamazoo we had won the first two and Kalamazoo came back and we knew it could be done," Schroeder-Biek said. "I know that the third game they were playing very well and playing hard to win." 
Serving was key. Adrian took nine total points from the Belles that led to the win. If the Belles had scored on some of the 13 serves they missed, it would have been a different game. Bridget Wakaruk was the only Saint Mary's player to serve without a serving error during the game. 
"Had we gotten our serves and been a little more accurate on our serves it would have helped," Schroeder-Biek said. "That was one thing that did hurt us a little bit. We missed more serves than we hit and that hurts momentum." 
With Meyers falling half way through Friday's match, sopho­more Alison Shevik led the team in kills, with 18, followed by junior Elizabeth Albert. 
The Belles will face off against the Flying Dutch of Hope College on Thursday at Hope. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Kreher helps Irish find Big East victory 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Ediror 
Kristy Kreher found her game. and so did the Irish. 
In their Big East season open­er, the Irish (5-3) dispatched the Orangewomen of Syracuse in three games (30-22, 30-15, 30­
16) at the Joyce Center. Kreher, the Big East Preseason Player of the Year. led the Irish with 14 kills and 11 digs -her first double-double of the season. 
Kreher's play was a stark con­trast to her game the previous Tuesday. In a match against Valparaiso. the Irish senior recorded only one kill and sat on the bench for the final two games of the match. 
"I went in and met with [Irish head coach Debbie Brown after that match]." Kreher said. "I was a little frustrated. We talked things out. I just kind of cleared my head." 
Kreher, who has had to adjust to new setter Kristen Kinder after the graduation of All­American Denise Boylan. impressed her coach with her effort. 
"She worked a couple extra days of practice, came in early. worked on her timing a little bit and her hitting," Brown said. "I think that it was much better today, it's still not where she knows it can be. but definitely she's making a few strides." 
Kreher wasn't the only senior who~epped up for the Irish. 
Co-captain Marcie Bomhack put forth her best effort of the sea­son with eight kills and two ser­vice aces. 
Malinda Goralski, the team's third senior, had been shoulder­ing much of the offensive load all season. Saturday. the Orangewoman limited Goralski to only seven kills and two blocks. 
"It was interesting that this was the first team that's really slowed Malinda down," Brown said. "It was good to see that when that happens, that our other seniors picked it up." 
The match didn't start off as one-sided as it ended. Syracuse jumped out to an early lead and the score was tied 9-9 when kills by Kim Fletcher and Emily Loomis, followed by a Goralski block gave the Irish a lead they would not relinquish. 
In the second and third games, the Irish dominated, jumping out as much as 23-12 in the second game and 25-10 in the third. The large leads allowed Brown to rotate in every player on the Notre Dame ros­ter. 
"I don't like to do mass subs," Brown said. "I like to do one or two at a time so they can work in with the starters because that's a lot more realistic as far as to what's going to happen in a match if somebody's strug­gling." 
The Irish also reached two important goals they had set 
before the match. Intent on hit­focusing getting better and ting at least .31, they hit .313 for improving," Brown said. "As the the match. They also matched season goes on. we want to their goal of nine blocks. make sure that we keep improv­
"The goals help us get better, ing and keep building so we can not just coasting through games be a top 10 team by the end of and playing to play but actually the season." 

The Irish continue their Big East season on Friday night, when they host Virginia Tech in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
TN 

DUBLIN,IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds'' 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday, Sept. 25, 2001 155 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 PM 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2002 -Spring 2003 A Y 2002-2003 Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
Monday, September 24, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
·SMC GOLF 
Saint Mary's ties suprising Alma for second 
In addition to improving her score that was good enough
By KATIE McVOY 
team's score, Rheindhardt did for a ninth place finish. 
Associate Sports Editor 
her part in improving the play Following last Tuesday's 
around her. The women who third place finish at the 
It was a solid but surprising shot with her on Saturday, felt Medalist course, the Belles finish for the Belles this week­the positive effects. were looking to improve play.end at Lenawee Country Club. "It does encourage you to do They did on Saturday.
Playing in the final MIAA tour­better," Simmerman said. ..We played much better," nament before the champi­"When you're not playing with Pekarek said. "This course is onship, the Belles tied with someone who's shooting 7 4 much more playable."Alma for a second place finish. it's harder to concentrate. As the Belles look ahead to Albion, last year's MIAA [Playing the MIAA champion, took home the first w i t h Champion­place finish. Rheinhardt] ships, which
"/ was happy with [the 
· The fact that Albion finished forces you will be held at in first place was was expect­to pull your way the team played]. I their home ed, but Alma's second place g a m e on
think we ·re still making course tie was not. together Saturday. they
some mental errors and
"Albion is the defending 
and play at want to make 
champion, it's not surprising the level we need to work on some s o m e that they were going to win you improve­
know course management 
one [tournament] eventually," you can." ments.
skills.··
Belles head coach Theresa Simmer­Although she Pekarek said. "Alma was [a man led the was happysurprise.)" 
team with Theresa Pekarek with her 
The Belles four scorers, 86 strokes team's perfor­
Belles head coach
freshman Stefannie on the day, mance,Simmerman, sophomore Liz finishing in Pekarek sees Hanlon, senior Megan Keleher 
third place room for some 
and freshman Julia Adams, all overall in tournament -a fin­changes before Saturday.finished in the top 10. The ish she thought was improve­"I was happy with [the wayAlma Scots only had one top ment. the team played]," she said. "I 
10 fin is her -freshman "I felt that I did better than I think that we're still makingCourtney Rheinhardt, who fin­have," Simmerman said. "[The some mental errors and we ishd with a tournament low 74 courseJ was a lot nicer which ned to work on some course strokes. Rheinhardt is on made it easier to play." management skiHs." track to break all current Hanlon and Keleher both MlAA golf records and mostly shot 89 for the day, tying for 
Contact Katie McVoy at

responsible for her team's sixth place. Adams came close 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu.

high finish. behind with 90 strokes, a 

MEN'S GOLF 
Irish· sink to last place at Invitational 
the back of a field of 19 at the his best 54-hole total of his Ratay had the second-lowest Irish instead of helping them. By JOE LINDSLEY par 72, 6,911-yard Player's career: Whitten's best day was total score for Notre Dame and "We're not the best ball Sports Writer Club course. Louisville won Saturday with his even-par 72. the Irish's best performance strikers, but we can recover 
with a total of 847. There was no technical rea­on Sunday. when he was one from difficult 
The Notre Dame men's golf "It was just a worst-case sce­son for the Irish loss. It just over par for the day. situations," Whitten said. team did more than fall short nario. People really had their wasn't their weekend. Freshman Steve Colnitis, "You can play well for 16 out of their goal of winning the worse game at the same time," "The course was very easy .. winner of the Notre Dame of 18 holes [ even on an easy Earl Ycstingmeier Invitational said senior Chris Whitten, who . We just all played bad at the Campus Championships, com­course], but if you have a bad in Yorktown, Ind. Sunday. posted Notre Dame's best per­same time," said senior Steve pleted the weekend in 82nd break or a few bad swings, it 
They finished last. formance at the tournament Ratay, last year's top golf for place with a 230 total, and really catches up with you." The Irish had a 54-hole team hosted by Ball State. He fin­the Irish. South Bend locals Gavin Ferlic The Irish will have the 
total of 908, placing them at ished ·in 45th place with 222, With his 71st place finish, and K.C. Wiseman rounded chance to prove Whitten right out Notre Dame's top five with next weekend, when they com­their 92nd and 94th place fin­pete at a tournament at the 
UNIVlta-SJTY OF NOTRE DAME:. INTER.NATIONAL STUDY PROG-.MS 152 HUR.LEY BUILDING T: 631-5882 F: 631-5771 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFOR..M_.ATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
ishes, respectively. University of Michigan which 
Whitten, who was 14 strokes will involve not only a more behind tournament winner challenging course, but also Brad Morris from Eastern stiffer competition, including Kentucky, has exhibited a teams like Minnesota and marked improvement from Northwestern. last season, after limited tour­Despite the disappointment, nament play. the Irish are not ready to give 
"Last year I wasn't playing up. Under the leadership of up to potential," he said. new coach John Jasinski. they This season, he looks to be · are still focused on their goals part of the team's nucleus. of qualifying for the NCAA 
From a competitive aspect, Regionals and winning the Big the team was disappointed in East Championships. this weekend's performance -"This weekend wasn't a a time when they all seemed to reflection of what kind of team be playing well. we are," Whitten said. "We're 
"We had a lot of guys click­not going to let this get us ing last weekend, but not this down." weekend. It was definitely dis­appointing," Whitten said. 
The fact that the course was 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 
not difficult may have hurt the · Lindsley. l@nd.edu 
Tuesday, September 25, 2001 217 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.m. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2002. 
Application Deadllng: Oct. 1, 2001 f'or Spring 2002 
Dec. 1, 2001 Cor Fall '02 and All Vear 2002-03 Applications Available: "Y:VVW·nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
Want a front row seat? Write Observer sports. Call 1-4543 

Monday, September 24, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
\ 
'' Irish squeak by 
ed opponent again 

ByJOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
Amy \Varner's overtime goal saved Notre Dame from tying another unranked opponent at home Friday night against the Villanova Wildcats. Warner scored her second goal of the night in the sec­ond over­time to give the Irish a 2-1 win. 
While the Irish were happy to win their Big East opener, it was appar­ent that the team was not sat­isfied with its performance. 
"To be honest, I was not pleased at all with our perfor­mance. I thought after a great week of practice, I thought we had worked some of our prob­le ms out," sald Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum. "I am just really disappointed in our lack of leadership out there. We have no excuse at this point in the season for continuing to make the same mental breakdowns that have hurt us all season." 
After a two-week hiatus from playing, the Irish were hoping to start the game with a renewed sense of focus and intensity, but failed to take control early in the game. 


Although the Irish had a shots-on-goal advantage in the first half. they failed to get any clean looks at the goal. Their best chance in the first half came when Warner dribbled around two Villanova defend­ers for what appeared to be a one-on-one opportunity against Villanova goalie Janel Schillig. But an onrushing Villanova defender blocked Warner's shot at the last sec­ond. 
A foul by Irish defender Candace Chapman led to a penalty kick spotted about five feet beyond the Notre Dame goalie box halfway through the first half. Villanova forward Elizabeth Dauble's shot went past Irish goalie Liz Wagner only to hit the top crossbar and bounce over the goal. 
The first half ended in a 0-0 tie. 
The second half was nearly a mirror image of the second halves of the two previous games for the Irish. After lack­1uster first halves, the Irish seemed to be able to make the necessary adjustments on the field and take control in the early stages of the second half. 
Shots on goal increased with improved Irish passing in the second half. Villanova's 6-foot­3 goalie Janel Schillig was like break down and allow a late past the Irish defense. Irish a brick wall, blocking Irish goal. defender Lindsey Jones saved scoring opportunities. With three minutes left in the the day for the Irish with a 
Finally, in the 76th minute of game, Villanova forward Laura tremendous slide tackle pre­regulation time, the Irish Johnson found wide-open venting Villari from scoring. offense broke through. The teammate Quinn Sellers stand­The Irish also had to contend Villanova defense cleared the ing right in front of the net. with the losses of starting mid­ball out of bounds for Sellers fired the ball past fielder Mary Boland and start~ Chapman to throw-in and set Wagner to knot the score at 1. ing defender Vanessa up the goal. Heading into overtime, it Pruz1nsky, who left the second 
Chapman's appeared overtime with injuries. throw-in that the Just when it appeared that landed at the "/ am just really \Vildcats had the Irish could be headed for a feet of Irish the advan­second straight tie or a loss,
disappointed in our lack
forward tage because Warner came through again. 
Amanda ofleadership out there. 
their con­The goal was created by a Guertin, who We have no excuse at stant substi­run by Irish defender Monica passed the tution Gonzales who took the ball
this point in the season
ball to throughout nearly the whole length of the
for continuing to make
Warner. the game field and made a crossing pass Warner faked the same mental break­kept their to midfielder Randi Scheller. out Schillig players Schelle made a lead pass to
downs that have hurt us
and shot the fresh, but Warner who juked past a
all season. ,,
ball in the the Irish Villanova defender and beat lower right refused to Schillig to score the golden corner of the Randy Waldrum back down. goal and give the Irish the win, net to give the Only three ''I'm not going to give up on
Irish head coach
Irish a 1-0 minutes into this team," Waldrum said. "I lead. A few overtime, it feel we will be better at the minutes later, appeared the end of the season, but this is Schillig Irish had the third straight game we denied a goal to Melissa won the game on an apparent have let the other team score Tancredi, keeping the Wildcats goal by Tancredi, but the goal in the final fifteen minutes of within one. was disallowed by an offside the game. We need someone to 
Just like the previous two call by the referee. show some leadership and get match-ups against the The second overtime period tough at the end of the game." University of Indiana and the did not start off well for the University of Wisconsin, the Irish. Irish took a 1-0 lead into the Villanova had a prime oppor­
Contact Joe Licandro at 

closing minutes of the second tunity to score when forward 
Joseph.R.Licandro@nd.edu.

half only for the defense to Regina Villari maneuvered 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 
I 
'i 

i 
i 
-


Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
.. ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish def eat Georgetown, finish weekend 2-0. 
ing balls." of her shoulder and into the
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 

Much like Notre Dame's net. Sports Writer 
game against Villanova, The Irish jumped back on Sunday's Georgetown match top for good just three minutes 
In the end, the close scores up would again see a 0-0 tie later when sophomore didn't reflect the Irish's domi­extend deep into the second Amanda Guertin took a corner nating performances, as the half. kick and curved it into the net. Notre Dame But it the It went past Chang and off the women's 60th minute, head of teammate Mary soccer team "We did a better job of sophomore Boland, recently returned improved to possessing the ball and Melissa from injury. 2-0 in the Tancredi The importance of Boland
keeping it in their half. 
Big East struck first and Tancredi, also recently Sunday with Just having possession for the Irish hurt, was not lost on a 2-1 victory won't win the game for when she Waldrum. against ., drove the "Losing Mary Boland in the Georgetown. you. ball up the Penn State game really hurt us 
The Irish middle of the in those next few games," he blasted 18 Amy Warner field off a said. "She's such a key player. shots at feed from You can't be without players
forward 

George­senior mid­like Boland and Tancredi and town's fielder and have it not affect your team." Sherenna Warner Chang, while the Irish's Liz captain Mia summed up Wagner faced just six. Sarkesian. the week­
"Losing Mary Boland in
More telling of the Irish Tancredi end well.
the Penn State game
domination of the ball during eluded several "We had the game was the corner kick Georgetown really hurt us in those a good count, with Notre Dame players before week of
next few games. She's
putting eight kicks into play putting a soft practice,"
such a key player.,, 
on the weekend, versus just shot past said the two for Georgetown. Chang, giving sophomore. "We did a better job of pos­the Irish a 1-0 "It's hard
Randy Waldrum 
sessing the ball and keeping it lead. to see
head coach
in their half," said sophomore George­progress if Amy Warner. "Just having town's Casey you don't possession won't win the game McCann scored display it for you." Georgetown's only goal of the on the field." 
"We're disappointed we're game and first goal against not putting in opportunities," Notre Dame ever in the 76th said Warner. "Some of it is us minute. Contact Jeff BaJtruzak at jbaJ­individually practicing finish-She found the ball bouncing trul@nd.edu. 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
Amy Warner (12) and Randi Scheller (3) celebrate Warner's overtime game-winner Friday night. 
Looking for off campus housing that is close and convenient? 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL TERM! 
Special ''Student 10'' Lease available 
•Mini Blinds Included 
• Balcony/Patio 

•Spacious 
Walk-in Closets 

•On-site 
Laundry Facilities 

•Central 
h.eat/Air 

•Swinuning 
pool 

•Sand 
Volleyball 




Turtle Creek Apartments P: 272-8124 F: 272-8204 
Just E&st ofthe Notre Dame Soccer Field! Walking distance from Campus 
STOP BY AND PICK UP YOUR APPLICATION TODAY! 


Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 24, 2001 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish fall prey to Scarlet Knights again 
became sort of a struggle to get back in it." 
The Irish \Vere given a chance to get back in the game at the 50:54 mark of the game when Irish forward Erich Braun was a\varded a penalty kick, but the ball sailed just over the net. 
"I missed that one, and I take respons'ibility for it," Braun said. "I have a feeling that if we could have scored a 
goal there,  we could have  
turned  the  momentum  
around."  

At the 61 :09 mark, Rutgers forward Dennis Ludwig sealed the fate of the Irish, knocking in an unassisted goal to make the score 3-0. 
The final score failed to show how close the game actually was. Except for the two quick goals, Notre Dame played with Rutgers for most of the game. 
"Statistically, we were right in there with them," Clark said. "I think they had 18 shots to our 16, and we out-cornered 
·them. In many ways it was an 

i i 
, 
I 
< 
, 
I 

l 
,I 
J 
jl 
l 
! 
/
I 
i 
l 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 

The men's soccer team suf­fered its first home loss of the season Saturday night, falling 3-0 to No. 23 Hutgers (3-1-1 ). The Irish fell to 2-3 on the sea­son. 
The Irish had hoped to jump out to a 2-0 conference record with a win, \\:hile breaking a four-game losing streak against Rutgers. 
"Obviously you go into every game wanting to win," senior forward Matt Rosso said. "But this being a Big East game against an opponent who is almost always in the national rankings, you'd like to come away with a victory, especially having lost in the past three years." 
Even more disheartening is the fact that the Irish out­played Rutgers for the first 40 minutes of the game but sur­rendered a goal to forward Sherif El Bialy right before the end of the half. 
Just one minute and 23 sec­onds into the second half the Scarlet Knights scored on a goal by freshman midfielder Gustavo Mora. 
"It was a funny game," head coach Bobby Clark said. "The first 40 minutes of the game we played very tough, but the worst times to lose a goal in soccer are right before the end of a half and right at the beginning of one. Unfortunately that's what hap­pened." 
After playing so well for most of the first half, the two goals seemed to shock the young Irish squad. 
"With a team like ours that is somewhat inexperienced in terms of playing in big games or championship games, a let­down like that on a goal at the end of a half is mentally going to take a toll on us," sopho­more co-captain Greg Martin stated. "Then in the second half. we lost another goal right away, and we kind of lost our mental focus. After that it even game for a long period, and we probably _even out­played them in the first half. But in reality, there is only one stat that counts, and that is goals." 
Having played so well, this game proved an upsetting loss for the Irish, who will need to bounce back in a hurry. On Tuesday, they have a road trip to play a talented Bradley team before returning to Big East competition Saturday at Seton Hall. 
"It was a heart-breaking loss for us, but we had practice [Sunday] and it didn't seem like the guys were down what­soever," Braun said. "We're going to keep on working because we have a lot of games ahead of us. We play a good ijradley team on Tuesday, and we want that win. Then we have another Big East game at Seton Hall, so we are looking to win these next 
two games." 


We're looking.
for the 

BEST & BRIGHTEST 
MEET 
BANK ONE SCHOi.AR PROGRAM 
COMMERCIAf BANKINCi
BLUE FOR 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
STUDENTSSM • 
FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING 
FLY FOR AS LITTLE AS $119 ROUND-TRIP 
ANALYST PROGRAM
• 
MANAGE YOUR ACCOUNT SECURELY ONLINE 
CHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE 
¦ 
FOR PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS 
SAVE ON APPAREL. ENTERTAINMENT. 
& QUALIFICATIONS
TRAVEL. TEXTBOOKS. AND MORE 
• 
www.bankone.com/careernav
NO ANN UAL FEE 

DON1T MISS OUR PRESENTATION! 
a rn erica nexpress.corn/student 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29TH 
7:00 P.M. TO 9:00 P.M.
" 

CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION CCE RM 100-104 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


Monday, September 24, 2001 page 25 
The Observer . TODAY 

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
( 
BOB DAVIE'S LIFE BECOMES FOREVER ALTERED... ;~.o; 
I -----~ 
~~'¾c;i 
FOXTROT 
<CTM.::·~"'~;_o_·.._.... o_·;_.,..,ti...1;L....-_____ 
:~~~:E~ ~~~i~e;~~~E 
YOU CAN RUN LEFT, OR YOU CAN RUN RIGHT. BVT NOTHIN' 
I MEAN NOTHIN' BUSTS UP THE LINE LIKE A RUN Vf' THE MIDDLE 
BILL AMEND 
WASN'T THERE A TIME WHEN WE ENJOYED 'WATCHING TELEVISION? 


CROSSWORD 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

I 
J 
' 
l 
I 

l 
Ao 


64 Picnic pastime 
#3 

66 Spellbound 67 School assignment 68 "Green Gables" girl 69 Completely unconscious 70 Lawn mower name 71 Picnic, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Party handout 2 Without help 3 licked off 4 Listlessness 5 Audition, with 
"our 

6 Civil War side 7 Profit 8 Mississippi _ 9 Oscar-winner 
Burstyn 10 Dairy Queen orders 11 Picnic pastime 
#4 . 
ACROSS 1 Barn's place 5 The ~r in Nafta 
1 O Hockey shot 14 Inter 15 Paint the town 
red 16 Angelic ring 17 Picnic pastime 
#1 
19 Missing from the Marines, say 
20 N.B.A's 
Shaquille 21 Location· 22 Deep _ bend 23 Automatic 
phone feature 25 Came to earth 27 Scissors cut 29 Electric bill 
listing 32 Grease job· 
35 It goes side-to­side 
39 "Treasure Island" author's inits. 
40 One_ million 41 Picnic pastime 
#2 
42 Egypt's King _ 43 Sum (up) 44 Lads' partners 45 Out of harbor 46 Swain 48 Wild guess 50 Undamaged 54 Madden 58 Perform in a 
glee club 60 Huntley of 50's• 
60's NBC news 62 Passe 63 "lill we meet 
again" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
L O 
i-O~N,._,._.._+-+-....,_.1,,...1__,.....+..,..._.......,-+---1 12 Shaving gel L E additive 13 Barbershop emblem 18 Pizzazz ...,,+~,-1 24 Follower of Virgo 
..,,.+~~~,,,...,~~ 26 "You Don't Bring Me Flowers," e.g. 

28 Major-leaguers · 30 Rubber cement, e.g. ~~~~..;..+.,.,.....,,,...._~~c:e+:+,,,+,~~~ 31 This, south of the border 32 Bluffer 

52 Picked 57 1950's Detroit dud
53 To the point 58 Without women
55 Perform 59 "Othello" villain 
penance 61 Old Russian 
56 Davis of royal"Thelma & 
Louise" 65 CBS logo 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 
33 Nullify 34 Picnic pastime #5 36 Mensa figures, for short 37 Cost of belonging 38 P. C. Wren novel "Beau " 41 Become 
obstructed 45 Isaac's father 47 Hold rapt 
49& && 
51 Was hurting 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Shana Alexander, Hafez al-Assad, Rebecca Lobo, Elisabeth Shue, loan Gruffud 
Happy Birthday: Go after your goals. Your intuitive know-how will come in handy as you sail through the negativity and what ifs of others this year. Trust in yourself ~ find the glory you've been seeking. Your numbers: 1, 21, 24, 33, 38, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Focus on partnerships and organi­zations. Communications with friends or in-laws will bring sud­dent changes. Don't be too quick to react. You can learn a great deal more if you listen and observe. 
0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You'll be surprised how much you can accomplish by putting in extra hours at work. Don't be bullied into thinking that you owe some­one your time and life. Put demanding people in their place and reconsider this union. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be high on life and on new philosophies. Join groups that will motivate you to make the changes conducive to a new pro­fessional direction and a better 
life.000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You can make money if you adjust your portfolio or implement a moneymaking idea. Renovations or changes at home will lift your spirits. Rid yourself of people you find draining. 000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Spend time with people you can learn from. This is a great day to meet new friends or lovers. Become involved in an organization that you believe in, where you can make a difference and gain 
EUGENIA LAST 

respect. 0000 
VIRGO {Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It may not be a workday, but focus on future goals anyway. Check out courses that promise to teach you the necessary skills to get ahead.00 
LIBRA {Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Have fun with friends or family. You need to work less and enjoy more. Follow through on those unique ideas. It's time to receive recognition for your talents. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Examine investments. There is money to be made if you make the right moves. Travel will bring knowledge and greater self~ awareness. Much around you has changed and so have you. 000 
SAGITTARIUS {NO\t 22-Dec. 21): 
You will meet some extraordinary people in community groups. Interacting with others brings use­ful knowledge. It is a "make it or break it" time for some of your partnerships. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19): Spend time with a loved one today. Jf you are single, stay active and you will meet someone who could become important to you. Work-related events could link you to some interesting individu­als. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make plans for unusual and enjoyable activities. You need a chan~ of scene and a fresh out­look Expand your circle of friends by mingling and learn from those with experience. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Residential moves look hectic. Problems with older relatives may be upsetting. Do the best you can and don't feel guilty if you need some time on your own. 00 
Birthday Baby: You are full of life and quick to make your move. _You are versatile, intelligent and interested in the unusual. With your uruque ideas, you tend to be a trend-setter. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Pre$ Syndicate 



Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 


. SMC Volleyball, p. 18
. Men's Soccer, p. 22 
. ND Volleyball, p. 18

. Women's Soccer, p. 20-21 
. SMC Cross Country, p. 16
. 
SMC Golf, p. 19 

. 
Men's Golf, p. 19 


"'r Monday, September 24, 2001 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish runners take titles 

. Handley leads Irish to 
. Shay makes history as second place finish infirst four-time winner in National Catholic InviteIrish first place finish 

\. By KATIE HUGHES By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer Sports _Writer 
Junior Jen Handley took first and led the Irish 
As the Irish claimed No. 1 at the National to a second place team finish at the National Catholic Invitational on Friday, senior All­Catholic Invitational Friday at the Notre Dame American Ryan Shay made tournament history golf course. 
i on by becoming the first runner to win the The defending champion carried on the tradi­
' 
' National Catholic Invitational title four times. tion of Notre Dame domination, becoming the 
Shay and Luke Watson both finished the race sixth straight Irish woman to win the National in 24 min. 3 sec., but Shay crossed the finish line Catholic individual title, finishing in 17 min. 31 first. sec. 
"[Shay] hasn't missed a beat," said head coach "I had the goal to go in there and win, and ran Joe Piane. "He's a great competitor, and Luke most of the race with the front pack," Handley was with him stride for stride." said. "The last time I had raced was in May dur­

Shay returned to the course after missing last ing track. I was so excited to get out there and year's National Catholic Invitational in order to race." train for the Olympic trials in track and field. "Jen is confident," Irish head coach Tim 
"The starts are different frotn track. It's more Connelly. " She did a really good job of being of a scramble, but besides that, it was back to patient." business as usual," Shay said. "I missed the Notre Dame fell nine points short of' first place negotiating different terrain, running on varied behind invitaticinal winner Marquette. surfaces." Marquette is ranked second in the region. 
The team was happy to see Shay back on the Marquette finished with 37 points while Notre course. Both athletically and personally, Shay is Dame totaled 46. Xavier, Dayton, and DePaul a benefit to the team. rounded out the top live teams. 
"It was good to see [Shay] out there," added This was the first race of the season for sophomore Todd Mobley. "He's one of the team Handley, and for sophomore Megan Johnson. leaders on and off the course." who finished third in 17:38. 
Mobley, who took a third place finish in 24:15, "\Ve went out pretty hard. and probably were finished first last year in the junior varsity race, not ready to go out that hard," said Connelly. " but has emerged as a leader for the Irish this But that will pay dividends down the road." season. Handley and Johnson were part of a pack that 

''I'd like to attribute [Mobley's] improvement to went out hard and \Vere able to stay close for the brilliant coaching," Piane said. "But he really first two miles. Junior Jen Fibuch, who was bat­prepared very well this summer." tling a cold, finished 11th in 18:25, followed by Marquette's Joe Herington broke up the Irish junior MuITy Schmidt, who took 12th in 18:32. pack, finishing fourth in 24:46. Arnerich and sophomore Julie Schmidt were 
Seniors Marc Striowski and Pat Conway fin­19th and 20th respectively. while sophomore ished fifth and eighth, while sophomores Brian Emily Showman finished 29th and sophomore Kerwin and Mario Bird finished 11th and 16th. Megan Peterson finished 40th for the Irish. 
"It was nice to have the whole team. That gets ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer "Megan Johnson got a l\1arquette girl in last you fired up, because you know you have·the Irish senior Ryan Shay (front)won the National Catholic Invitational for the fourth time In his career and led Notre Dame to a first place 
see HANDLEY/page 16 
see SHAY/page 16 finish. Teammate Luke Watson (back) finished in second. 
I'
I 
' 
I 

' 
. I I;• 
i 
I 
/ 
I 
~ 
I 
SMC SOCCER 
Clouds rain first victory on Belles 
By KA TIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
It's about time. That senti­ment sums up the feelings of the Saint Mary's soccer team as it took home its first victory of the season against Rose­Hulman. After two hard-fought close MIAA losses and a devas­tating 9-1 loss to Kalamazoo, Sunday's 4-3 victory over Rose­Hulman Sunday felt great. 
"[Winning feels] pretty good," 
Belles head coach Bobby Johnston 
said. "Let's leave it sim­ple." 
Captain Lynn Taylor e c h o e d Johnston's sentiments. 
"It feels 

great," she Johnston said. "It's good to finally be getting results from 
how we've been playing." 

It was a strong squad of freshmen, led by Jen Concannon, that brought the Belles the victory in less than favorable conditions. Friday's rains made the Saint Mary's soccer fields slick for play, but Concannon managed to score two of Saint Mary's four goals. 
"Jen is a wonderful player," junior captain Heather Muth said. "You can always count on her when she's on the field and you know she's going to pro­
duce results and today was another example of that." 
Concannon started off the scoring for the Belles early in the first half, capitalizing on early game confusion. A scram­ble on the field for the ball drew the goalie outside the box. allowing Concannon to tap it in for an early 1-0 Saint Mary's lead. 
"Jen Concannon played a great game today." Johnston said. 
Concannon took advantage of poor Hose-llulman play for the second Belles game of the after­noon. 
"I took a corner [kick] and it looked as if it was going in," Concannon said. 
It was a Hose-Ilulman player who actually tapped the ball into the net, giving the Belles a 2-0 lead. 
Freshmen Mollv McCavitt increased the Belles lead to three and with only two min-
sec SOCCER/page I 7 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Nebraska, Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. SMC Soccer vs. Alma, Tuesday, 4 p.m.
SPORTS 
online classifieds 
. Men's Soccer at Bradley, Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
l 
, I 

I i AT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball at Hope, Thursday, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
. -, r • 


O
THE 

Monday, September 24, 2001 BSERVER Michigan Seate 17, Notre Dame I 0 
Make it five in a row 
Michigan State makes big plays, Notre Dame makes big mistakes 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Michigan State had it. Notre Dame didn't. 
Charles Rogers exploded past the Irish defense for a game-winning touchdown. Mike Labinjo exploded through the Irish offense to stop Nick Setta's fake field goal. And Michigan State exploded past Notre Dame for the fifth year in a row, defeating the Irish 17-10. 
"When you look at Michigan State ... they're pretty explosive." Irish head coach Bob Davie said after the game. "We're not quite that kind of a team. We have to rely on total execu­tion." 
Execution was what the Irish didn't 
I 1 have in the fourth quarter when it counted. A mis-executed fake field goal, a missed interception and a 47­yard Spartan touchdown ended any Irish hopes that this year they would be victorious. "It hurts bad," said Irish flanker Arnaz Battle, who broke his leg dur­ing the second quarter and is expect­ed to miss four to six weeks. "We feel we're better than MSU. They came out and played better today. It came down to executing for us." Memories of Herb Haygood's game winning touchdown last year flooded back during the fourth quarter on a 47-yard touchdown pass to Rogers. After two near turnovers, Ryan Van Dyke fired the pass to Rogers, who burned the Notre Dame defense to put Michigan State up 17-10 -a touchdown that meant the game. "I saw him not looking at me. I made a huge mistake and should have tackled him," Irish cornerback Shane Walton said. "But I was trying to make a play and strip him." If the Irish had capitalized on two near-turnovers, the game-winning play never would have happened. But they didn't execute. Five minutes into the fourth quar­ter. with the scored tied at 10, Michigan State receiver Ziehl Kavanaght fumbled Joey llildbold's punt, but quickly recovered it. Five plays later, the Irish had a chance to stop the Spartans again. Michigan State quarterback Van Dyke, who was 9-for-15 with 149 yards, launched a pass that bounced off the hands of Spartan tight end Chris Baker and almost found its way into the hands of Irish cornerback Clifford Jefferson. But Jefferson couldn't hang on to it and the catch was ruled incomplete. "I jumped up, saw the ball and it kind of bounced off my shoulder pads," Jefferson said. "I felt that was my big chance to make a big play." But the big play didn't happen, and Michigan State capitalized. And that was the game -almost. 
The Irish had a final chance to turn 
the game around, but once again 
they couldn't execute. Following a 
49-yard drive downfield, the 
Spartans had the Irish at fourth and 
six inside the 20. 
The Irish tried a fake field goal, but 
failed after Labinjo tackled Setta 
immediately after the Irish kicker 
received the handoff from holder 
Adam Tibble. 
"Once again, we thought it was 
there and we couldn't execute," 
Davie said. " ... It was fourth and six, 
I felt the way we were executing on 
offense at that point it really gave us 
a good opportunity to convert on 
fourth down. [It was] something we 
practiced an awful lot on the fake 
field goal, we just didn't execute it." 
The Irish had one more chance to 
tie the game, but Irish quarterback 
Matt LoVecchio, who was 12-for-22 
with 119 yards, threw an interception 
with 1: 5 3 left in the game, ending 
Notre Dame's hopes. 
"We had that play called and that was a hard corner out there and I probably shouldn't have thrown that ball," Lovecchio said after the game. "But that's football and [Michigan StateJ took it. I'll take responsibility for that." 
But where Notre Dame fell short, Michigan State followed through. Despite picking up over 100 yards in penalties, the Spartans executed and their execution paid off. 
"They played well enough to win," Davie said. "They made a few more plays than we made." 
Michigan State started off the scor­ing early in the first quarter. Starting from the 20-yard line, the Spartans, led by tailback T.J. Duckett, who rushed 11 times for 71 yards, drove down the field to the Notre Dame 7 ­yard line. On third and goal, Anthony Weaver sacked quarterback Jeff Smoker and forced the Spartans to kick a field goal, giving Michigan State an early 3-0 lead. 
Late in the first quarter, the Irish began a drive that took them to the Michigan State 15-yard line. On the next three plays, the Irish lost 11 yards and Setta kicked a 43-yard field goal to tie the score early in the second quarter. 
With five minutes left in the first half, Michigan State scored a touch­down on a six-yard pass from Van Dyke to Baker. to take the lead for the second time. 
But less than four minutes later, the Irish made their only big play of the game. Julius Jones returned a punt for 53 yards, setting up a six­yard touchdown pass from LoVccchio to Javin Hunter with 38 seconds left in the first half. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmacys.edu 



player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Charles Rogers  'like the past two years. it was just the  O successful fake field goals  
Not only did the Spartans· wide  one play that killed us. ••  Nick Setta had a huge hole to run  
receiver make it five losses in a  through. he just didn't have time  
row with his 47-yard touchdown  Matt LoVecchio  because Setta was the first Irish  
reception, but he finished with  Irish quarterback  player linebacker Mike Labinjo  
four catches for 117 yards.  touched.  

-------------------~-----------------------------­
Monday, September 24, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
B-
quarterbacks: While Holiday was ineffec­tive, LoVecchio was fairly solid. He 
made several key passes on third and fourth down. However. his interception killed Irish hopes for a la5t-second win. 
running backs: Fisher did well running B+ off the fake reverse early in the game. Jones wasn't that effective hitting the holes and he looked a step too slow. 
B+ 
receivers: As a whole, they made sev­eral key catches on third and fourth downs. Jenkins looked decent in his 
college debut. 

B 
offensive line: They opened up several holes for the tailbacks and played 
much better than against Nebraska. 
However, they allowed two sacks. 
A-
defensive line: After the opening drive, the defensive line shut down the Spartan's running game. Duckett 
was limited to 71 yards and Weaver and Irons both recorded sacks. 
A-
linebackers: No complaints here -Boiman, Watson and Harrison had 
another solid game. Watson was again the leading tackler for the Irish. 
C 
defensive backs: The Irish secondary often found themselves staring at the back of the Spartan 's jerseys. They 
gave up big plays and Rogers should not have scored. 
A-
special teams: Hildbold was uncon­scious -he averaged 50 yards a punt. Jones looked good returning the ball and set up Notre Dame's only touch­down with a 56-yard punt return. 
coaching: Everyone's talking about the 
C+ 
fake field goal because everyone in 
Notre Dame Stadium, including the 
Spartans, knew it was a fake. The Irish simply didn't look ready to play. 
overall: It wasn't a horrible per­formance, but it wasn't a good one. Michigan State made big 
3.10 
plays, Notre Dame didn't, and that was the difference. 
adding up the numbers 
new attendance 
80 795
record set 
Saturday , 
15 
number of yards Michigan State was penalized before the game -for unsportsmanlike conduct 
total number of penalties com­mitted by the Spartans 
14 
10 
combined number of yards on Notre Dame's two touchdown 
drives this season 

number of fumbled snaps by 
2 
the Irish 
47 
number of yards Charles Rogers ran for on Michigan State's 
game winning touchdown 
seasons since 190D the 
4 
Irish have started D-2 ­the most recent being 1986 
seasons in which Notre Dame has started 0-3 
INSIGHT 

Not again. 
It was bad enough that Notre Dame lost to Michigan State ­again. It was bad enough that one big play gave the Spartans the go­ahead touch­
down -again. 
But to have a short pass designed to get a first down turn into a touch­down -again ­hurt the most. 
Last year, with 


Notre Dame up 
Andrew Soukup 

21-20, the Spartans faced 4th-and-10 with 
Associate

less than two 
Sports Editor 

minutes to play. Jeff Smoker fired a strike over the middle to Herb Haygood, who ran untouched down the field to give the Spartans the win. 
This year, it was a different quar­terback, a different receiver and a different situation. But the play was the same. The result was the same. 
Granted, it wasn't just that one play that made the difference. Games aren't won and lost on one play. The Irish had plenty of chances to stop the Spartans on that drive alone. 
Michigan State fumbled the punt return. The Spartans converted a key third-and-nine opportunity to keep the drive alive. And they got lucky when a tipped pass bounced right out of Irish cornerback Clifford Jefferson's hands. 
But that one play made sure Rocky Boiman, Grant Irons and the rest of the Irish seniors would never beat Michigan State. That one play made Bob Davie 0-5 for his career against the Spartans. That one play gave the Irish only their fourth 0-2 start since Thomas Edison invented the light bulb. 
"Like the last two years, it was just one play that killed us," Tony Fisher said. 
With 7:58 left on the clock and the Spartans facing third-and-six on the Notre Dame 47-yard line, quarter­back Ryan Van Dyke stepped 
between T .J. Duckett and Little 
John Flowers, five yards behind 
center, to receive the snap. Those 
five yards would make all the dif­
ference. 

To Smoker's right, Haygood, the man who beat the Irish last year, . was lined up across from Shane Walton. Rogers was a few yards to Haygood's right and a yard behind the line of scrimmage. 
On the other side of the ball, Notre Dame set up for an all-out blitz. As Smoker went through the snap count, nearly every Irish line­backer rushed up to the line of scrimmage, leaving a huge gap in the middle of the field -just like 
last year. 

Smoker moved his leg, got the ball. and the blitz was on. The Spartan quarterback took three quick steps back and fired the ball across the middle of the field. As Smoker released the ball, the clos­est Irish defender was Anthony Weaver, who was one yard too far away. 
Weaver, who said before the game he wanted to "kill" Michigan State, was now reduced to a specta­tor. 
As Michigan State snapped the ball, Haygood took off downfield, bringing Walton with him. Meanwhile, Rogers noticed the blitz and adjusted his route, running a short slant across the middle of the field. He grabbed Smoker's pass at the 44-yard line. 
Vontez Duff noticed Rogers cut­ting across the middle of the field. He ran up to Rogers and wrapped his arms around the speedy wide• receiv~r. Had Duff tackled Rogers there, it would have only been an eight-yard gain. 
But Rogers spun away from Duff and was off to the races. 
"I was in football position, but I just didn't wrap up," Duff said. "I didn't make the tackle ... It's all about making plays and I just didn't make that play." 
Rogers accelerated and veered away from Jefferson, who was com­ing from the other side of the field. But he didn't see Shane Walton sprinting up the sideline toward him. 
As Rogers ran across the 10-yard line, Walton made a desperate dive. His right hand wrapped around the football, but his left hand wrapped around nothing. Walton sailed past Rogers, and Rogers sailed toward the end zone. 
"I made a huge mistake and should have tackled him, but I was trying to make a play and strip him because I knew he wasn't looking at me," \Valton said. "I've never beat­en Michigan State since I've been here. It's a blow." 
The only man left who could stop Rogers was Jefferson, who missed a golden opportunity for an intercep­tion the play before. He dove for Rogers' waist, but Rogers dove higher. Jefferson landed on the one­yard line, and Rogers flew over him. 
On the sideline, Notre Dame play­ers were looking 00 in shock. Some. like Omar Jenkins could only watch in amazement. Others, like Ron Israel, who wasn't in the game because of an injury, felt only disap­pointment. And after the game, Davie threw around words like frus­tration and embarrassment. 
Rogers climbed to his feet, unbuckled his chin strap, extended both hands in the air and ran behind the end zone as his team­mates mobbed him. 
Touchdown Spartans. 
Not again. 
Andrew Soukup can be reached at asoukup@nd.edu. The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Monday, September 24, 2001 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 


Seniors battle hard in tough loss to Spartans 
... 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sporrs Editor 
As the Irish fell to the Spartans for the fifth year in 
· a row Saturday, the pain couldn't have been worse than what members of the Irish senior class felt. The seniors will graduate without ever posting a win against Michigan State. 
But some of the seniors did not go down quietly. 
Tailback Tony Fisher, receiver Javin Hunter and defensive end Anthony .• Weaver all provided sparks of hope during an otherwise lackluster Irish performance. 
Fisher entered the game late in the first quarter after an early fumble by junior Julius Jones. Fisher rushed for 5 4 ya rds on th at f i rs t drive, including four first • downs, leading to a Nick Setta field goal which tied the game at 3-3. Fisher then rotated in at running back with Jones for the .remainder of the game, finishing with 103 yards on 17 carries. 
"I thought I was in a pretty good groove... " Fisher said. "I am just out there trying to play ball. This is my last year so I'm just trying to have a lot of fun and help the team win as many games as possible." 
Head coach Bob Davie thought Fisher's play helped the Irish offense improve after Notre Dame's season­Notre Dame tailback Tony Fisher dives for a few extra yards as Michigan State safety Thomas Wright grabs onto his ankle. opening loss at Nebraska. Fisher finished the day with 103 yards rushing on 17 carries. 
"I felt we did run the foot­ball better," Davie said. "I 
especially in the end zone," is listed as 50-50 for Sunday. first quarter, forcing the thought Tony Fisher did run 
LoVecchio said of the play. Saturday's game at Texas A & On the defensive side of the Spartans to kick a field goal.
the football harder and I felt 
"That play broke down a little M. ball, no Irish player was more He finished with three tack­
better about our offense." 
bit. It was all congested. He "We're not particularly up for the challenge of les. 
But even Fisher's bright day 
worked his way back to the explosive when David and Michigan State than Weaver. While some may expresscarrying the ball didn't 
other corner of the end zone. Arnaz aren't in there," Irish "I want to kill MSU," the concern that the Irish leader­
change the fact that Michigan 
That's what an experienced head coach Bob Davie said defensive end said last ship will falter after an 0-2 State won the football game. receiver does." after Saturday's game. Tuesday. "I hate Michigan start, Davie expressed confi­
Another member of the Hunter's role on the team But after going over the State. I haven't beaten them dence in his veterans Sunday.class of 2002 finding success became even more crucial game film Saturday night, since I've been here, and it "There's a lot of football left with the ball on Saturday was because of injuries suffered Davie came away impressed bothers me." in this season," Davie said. 
Hunter. The Michigan native by two of his classmates. with Hunter's play and con­Weaver led an Irish defen­"We have got a bunch of caught a career-high six Fla·nker Arnaz Battle, who vinced that his explosive sive line that limited Spartan seniors on this team, but passes for 57 yards, including 
caught one pass for 15 yards arsenal wasn't completely star rusher T .J. Duckett to these kids have great charac­
Notre Dame's only touchdown 
Saturday, fractured his right drained. just 71 yards on 22 carries. ter." 
when he grabbed a pass from 
fibula and will miss the next "I would say right now The defensive end sacked Matt Lovecchio in the north­
four to six weeks. Fellow Javin Hunter is someone who Michigan State quarterback west corner of the end zone. flanker David Givens aggra­can get down the field and Jeff Smoker for a ffve-yard Contact Noah Arnstadter at 
"I think Javin came up big, vated a quadriceps injury and make a play," Davie said loss at third-and-goal in the namstadt@nd.edu. 

AP poll 


scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total team record· points Notre Dame 0 10 0 0 10 1 Miami(39) 2-0 1749 ·. •.•·· Michigan State 3 7 0 7 17 2 Florida (15) 3·0 
team statistics ND MSU
•···•••·•·:iI;;{.~~I!S;:Ji:jii~i
3 Oklahoma (11) 3·0 
first downs 
18 16

4 Nebraska (2) 4•0 Jri"L 1~549 · 
rushes-yards 43-156 40-124
5 Texas (4) 3·0 ' 7 '1,519. 
6 Oregon 3·0 1;342 passing yards 124 208 7 Tennessee 2·0 ·1t312 comp-att-int 13-24-1 14-25-0 8 Virginia Tecb 3·0 ,il 1,298 return yards 138 39 
9 Gerogia Tech 3·0 . 1,135 punts-yards 8-401 9-448 10 Fresno State 4·0 1l102 
fumbles-lost 3-1 1·0 
11 Kansas Slate 2·0 1~080 
penalties-yards 5-61 14-101 
12 UCLA 3·0 1,033 
time of possession 28:53 31:07
13 Washington 2·0 .1,003 14 LSU·.. 2·0 .. 851' ... .?~ individual statistics 
804 C .. Al
15 south carolina 3·0 passing 16 Northwestern 2·0 772 .. ND -Lovecchio 12·22·1, Holiday 1-1-0, Givens 0-1·0 
.. 627 ···· 1
17 Michigan 2·1 MSU -Van Dyke 9-15-0, Smoker 5-10 
1.8 Florida State 2·1 589 19 Oreg on State 1•1 323 ••. rushing 20 BYU . 3·0 3 ND -Fisher 17-103, Jones 13-56, Holiday 4-7 
~1it 21 · Mississippi State 1•1 MSU -Duckett 22-71, Flowers 6-33, Van Dyke 3-14, Dortch 2·7 
lf!]~;.~}i;• ,:,~&1:an State 3;.o 
2·0 receiving 
·

24 •• Purdue 2·0 ND -Hunter 6-57, Jenkins 4-39, Lopienskl 1-17, Battle 1·15 
)25 f% Toledo · 3•0 
MSU -Rogers 4·116, Flowers 3-37, Lovett 2-9, Duckett 2·1, '-?@sf±i' ;;5~¥4;; B<··· .. . · .4r Haygood 1-26, Woods 1·13, Baker 1-6 ~· other leading vote getters Colorado 10s.; .. ....... Stanfor~ 87, Clemson 82, Ohio State 75. Maryland &a~:/. leading tacklers
* Wisconsin 47,.TexasA&M 35, NOTRE DAME O . . . 
ND -Israel 10, Watson 9, Harrison 6, Wisne 6 
; 
MSU -Wright 10, Thornhill 9, Shaw 7, Bryan 6, Stanley 6 
••&~Liit·s·m1•· a -. -~-:Ml< 
?:!~:~~~J~t~~~E:":::·:-:.:: ­
scoring summary & stats 


•' i~$PN/USA 
Today poll

scoring summary ti~tri< .··• 1"'0t!Ord points· 
1st 2·0 ·1,453· 


MSU -7:39 ~\::it·~:'.. ·••··••·•~~i~~((1~~·•·n·/·..·.·• ··· . 3-0 1,423 
FG Schaefer 
T• :f .O.kfahom~ mt .. 3·0 1,377 
29 yd., 0·3 
4·0. 1,311

);t'.••: i1rn''•••1!;~::~•·( 1·)..•.·.•.•.·· . 3-0 .. 
1,239 . ··· ·.. 6 Oregon (1) 3-0 .l,120 7 Virginia Tech 3-0 1;104.
2nd 


· 8 Tennessee 2·0 1,090
ND -12:17 
FG Setta 9 · Kansas State 2-0 980 43 yd., 3·3 UCLA 3-0 914
. 10 h;;#K 
MSU • 5:37 
.11 . . Gerogla Tech 3·0 907
Baker 6-yd. pass from Van Dyke 12 Washington 2·0 837 
Schaefer kick, J.10 ·..1.3 Fresno State(1} 4-0 770 
ND -0:38 

:,;; 14 lSU 2·0 705
Hunter &•yd. pass from Lovecchio 15 Florida Slate 2-1 679 Setta kick, 10-10 16 · South Carolina 3·0 574 17 ·· Michigan 2-01. 564 .•·..•···.· 18 Northwestern 2-0 546 i%!X 19 Oregon State 1·1 338 3rd / 20 BYU < . ··. • · 3-0 267 No scoring 
252
21 <··••· .Purdue · ··· 2·0 ........ 22 <Mississippi State · 1·1 162 it,1; 23 \ fIUnois ·•··· .<: w 3-0 132 
4th !t' 24 w Michigan State· 2-0 120 MSU -7:51 25 > · ·. Clemson . 2·1 98 Rogers 47·yd. pass from Van Dyke 


Schaefer kick, 10•17 •. otherl~~ding vot~ getters: Toledo 92,0hio . · Stale 65, Texas A&M 64, N.C. State 58, Stanford«; . Colorado 34, Maryland 26, NOTRE DAME 9 · . 

. ' --:~---~·'·;·· 

O
THE 

Michigan State 17, Notre Dame 10 BSERVER Monday, September 24, 2001 

.. ·:~, 
DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULTfrhe Observer Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff gets faked out by Michigan State's Ziehl Havanaght during a Spartan punt return. 

OVER, UNDER, 
. \ 
I 

AROUND AND THROUGH 
Michigan State set Notre Dame up time and time again with rushes by T.J. Duckett, but what clinched the game for them was the outstanding play of their speedy v,ide receivers and quarterback Hyan Van Dyke. The Spartans never trailed in Saturday's 

contest. and when it came down to it, they made the big plays when they needed to. 
DUFFY-MARIE ARNOUL T/fhe Observer Linebacker Mike Lablnjo tackles kicker Nick Setta immediately after Setta recleved a handoff on a fake field goal attempt in the fourth quarter. 



i 
' 
1 
Notre Dame tailback Tony Fisher runs around a Notre Dame blocker during Notre Dame's 17-10 loss to Michigan State. 







