-

U2 ticket lines are chaotic, confusing
SHOWERS 
Friday 

The Observer feels the University was woefully unprepared for high ticket 
SEPTEMBER 21,

HIGH 69° 
demand, resulting in a frustrating afternoon and evening for all involved. 
Viewpoint . page 18

LOW 54° 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
XXXV NO. 18 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Some wait 8 hours for U2 tickets 
. Students complain distribution process is chaotic, disorderly 
ByJASON MCfARLEY News Ediror 
As late night fell Thursday on one of the l)iggcst ticket sales events in Notre Dame history, students remained packed in lines outside the Joyce Center, waiting for tickets to an Oct. 10 concert by Irish rock band U2. 
The sales began mid-after­noon Thursday with the largest student turnout -more than 4,500, University officials esti­mated -for a Joyce Center concert and ended eight hours later amid student confusion and complaints. 
"It's utter confusion," said Notre Dame junior Maria Mahon around 6:30 p.m. Thursday, after getting off her cell phone with a friend she was buying tickets for. "It's like a packed mob." . 
"Horrendous! ... there was no organization," said Brian McKenna, a Notre Dame sopho­more, immediately after buying two $46 t1oor tickets to the con­cert. 
Most student complaints seemingly stemmed from the three-part lottery system used to distribute about 10,000 tick­ets. 
The system required Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students to line up between 3 and 4 p.m. to receive entitlement tickets. Those tick­ets allowed students to draw at 4 p.m. a color-coded ticket that determined their places in one of three selling lines. 
At 6 p.m., security personnel announced the number from which ticket sales in each line would start. 
But disorderly mobs, not lines, were typical of Thursday's tick­et sales, students said. 
"There were no lines," said Saint Mary's junior Liz Stevens. "No one really lined up to get entitlement tickets or the lottery tickets. There were just mobs of people around the ushers." 
Stevens arrived at Gate 10 of the Joyce Center around 3 p.m. with five friends. At 9:30 p.m., there were 500 people ahead of Stevens in her assigned ticket­selling line. 
"It's been a nightmare," said Steven's friend Erika Borowiak, also a Saint Mary's junior, seat­ed outside the arena doing homework. "We've just moved from one mob to the next, and we still haven't found all our friends." 
The distribution was unneces­sarily cumbersome, according to some buyers. 
Lining up three times proved pointless, and students shouldn't have had to receive a ticket at 3 p.m. just to get a tick­et at 4 p.m., Mahon said. 
McKenna drew parallels between the U2 ticket sales 
see U2/page 6 
Officials plan collection for terrorist victims 
By ERIN IARUFFA. 
Associa1e News Edi1ar 
At the end of the first quarter of Saturday's football game. stadium ushers and student volunteers will spread through­out Notre Dame Stadium, ask­ing fans to reach into their wal­lets to help victims of Sept. 11 's terrorist attacks. 
"Quite simply. a collection at the game provides 80,000 peo­ple with an opportunity to make a donation," said Jonathan Jorissen, the student coordinator of Saturday's col­lection. "It also demonstrates the solidarity of the Notre Dame family. I can imagine that it will be a powerful sight to see such a large collection." 
In response to last week's tragedy, University President Father Edward Malloy wanted Notre Dame to be involved in both prayer and a monetary collection during Saturday's game, according to Father Richard Warner. director of Campus Ministry and counselor to Malloy. 
Donations collected on Saturday will be added to money collected at campus masses this weekend and last weekend. Through Basilica and other campus masses, as well as from last Sunday's candle­light vigil, Notre Dame has already collected approximate• ly $40,000, according to Warner, who is helping to organize the collections. He said that while he originally hoped to collect $50,000. he now believes the community will triple or quadruple his ini­tial expectation. 
Collecting money is impor­tant because it is a "specific 
see COLLECTION/page 4 
Students crowded around ushers Thursday to obtain an entitlement ticket and seek guidance on the procedure for obtaining U2 tickets. The lack of organization resulted in chaos and long waits. 
. 
photos by 
PETER RICHARDSON 





Security increased for MSU game 
By HELENA PAYNE Assistant News Edi1or 
Although comfortable with its security system, Notre Dame Security/Police will make some changes in response to the recent terror­ist attacks for See Also Saturday's
home football "Security cracks game against down on Michigan 

tailgate rs" 
State. 
"Since last page3 Tuesday, I think all security in this country is changed forever." said director of NDSP Rex Rakow. 
Rakow said that campus police officers will work in areas where studenW have not previously seen them working, such as areas outside of the Stadium. 
The police officers in collabo­ration with the 800 ushers will enforce the existing rules about not bringing bottles, cans, alco­hol, contraband, signs and sticks. 
In regards to book bags, Rakow said that they will still be allowed because some stu­dents come from tests or other events. However. they will be searched just like any other bag or package. 
"We'll look through all [book bags)," said Rakow. "Our rec­ommendation is don't bring them." 
In addition to manpower, NDSP will use camera surveil­lance to monitor suspicious or inappropriate behavior. Inside the Stadium, Rakow said the cameras have powerful surveil­lance features. 
"We can zoom in on any one person," Rakow said. 
Although, this security system is not new, Rakow said the cameras will be another way to safeguard against any prob­lems. There are also cameras around campus, including in some parking lots which, 
Rakow said, are used when necessary. "We have adequate cover­age," Rakow said. 
After the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, as well as tho piano crash in Pennsylvania. many are wary of airplane safety and Rakow said that NDSP has tried to curb some potential dangers of airplanes by making a request to the Federal Aviation Administration to restrict the air space around the Stadium. 
"We already had a safety con­cern [about planes Hying over the Stadium). We never thought that was a very good idea." Rakow said. 
Often planes fly over the Stadium to advertise various businesses with the limitation that they are not supposed to fly directly over the stadium. However, Rakow said there had been many incidents when planes were pushing that limit 

see SECURITY/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, St'.ptember 21, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Football Rant 
In light of all that has happened in the past days. I am actually glad that we have a football game this weekend. What that means is that I think it is time to start healing. While I won't for­get those who have suffered, the country must move on and show America is strong. 
And is there any better way to do that than complain about football? Of course not. 
So Jet me tell you about my beef. I am a senior here at Notre Dame. That means I have been through 19 home football games: six freshman year, seven sophomore year, and six junior year. In that time I have seen many foot­ball teams come through Notre Dame Stadium. What sticks out in my mind is the way some fans act when they visit Notre Dame. 
In my mind the contrast between Big 12 fans and Big 10 fans is like night and day. I have seen five Big 12 teams come to Soutb Bend: Kansas, Baylor, Texas A&M, Nebraska and Oklahoma. 
In my experience with those fans, they have been nothing but respectful. Even when Nebraska's Husker Nation bought up 20,000 seats last year, the majority of fans were very pleasant and nice. 
I can remember tailgating before the Nebraska game last year in the soccer fields across from the Joyce Center parking lot. The guy parked behind us was a Nebraska fan. He didn't say anything bad about the Irish, and he ½ished us luck before the game. We in turn wished him luck, and left it at that. There were no derogato­ry words exchanged, but instead a mutual respect for our institutions. 
Big 10 fans are another story. I don't know if it stems from Notre Dame being located in the Midwest, but the Big 10 fans I have met are awful. They were not respectful of our campus, and they yelled slurs at my friends. I have seen Purdue, Michigan and Michigan State fans come to campus. Each time I have been left with a bit­ter taste in my mouth. 
Now, I am not foolish. I know not all Big 10 fans are jerks, and not all Big 12 fans are wonderful. Furthermore, I know that not all Notre Dame fans act like they should. 
Case in point is a letter a couple of weeks ago was from a Nebraska fan complaining of the poor behavior of Notre Dame fans. 
So I think the bottom line is this: When you go to an away game, you represent your school. In closing I have two messages for the game this weekend. To Notre Dame fans, lets all act like the classy fans we are. To Michigan State fans, prove me wrong, and show me that Big 10 fans aren't complete jerks. 
Besides, I think it is much more fun to kick Michigan State's buttocks up and down the field than do it with words anyway. 
Contact Matt 0renchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recogniu that wi: will make mistakes Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Obmver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday <Xtcpt duriog exam and Vllcation periods. The Observer is a member of ,he Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 

UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Search leads FBI near campus 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. 

Federal officials have spent the past week canvass­ing the area for evidence relating to the whereabouts of six men, five of whom they suspect hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 on Sept. 11. The Washington Post Wednesday cited law enforcement sources and FBI witnesses who said five stayed in the area immediately before they traveled to Dulles International Airport to carry out their plan. The other man is implicated in the hijacking of United Airlines Flight 93 out of Newark, N.J., downed in southwest Pennsylvania on its way toward Washington. Plain­clothed agents queried merchants throughout the city Monday, showing them pictures of the suspects. Calls to the F.BI's Baltimore and Washington oftices were not immediately returned Wednesday night. The Post reported positive identifications from employees sev­eral local businesses. Witnesses confirmed some of the men had been in the area since August. The FBI has also questioned people on campus about the suspects. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Compiled from U-Wire repo/1s

BEYOND CAMPUS 


Arizona students withdraw after attacks 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
!lather, they are advising students to 
A total of 30 University of Arizona assess their own particular situa­students have dropped their classes tions, and make decisions based on to return home as a result of afteref­what they think is best. fects of the terrorist attack on Sept. He said that very few of the UAE 11, university officials said. students in the United States have 
Twenty-six of these students, from returned home. and that the high the United Arab Emirates, a Middle percentage of UA students with­Eastern nation of nearly 3 million drawing may be related to people, have withdrawn from the Saturday's murder of Ralbir Singh university to return to their home Sodhi, a Sikh gas station owner in country, said university spokes­Mesa, Ariz. His friends allege he was woman Sharon Kha. shot for looking Arab and wearing a 
The official religion of the UAE is turban. Islam, the same faith practiced by mainstream Muslims. University officials said they did the United States' prime suspects in The UAE is not officially advising not know if the students who are the attacks on the World Trade their approximately 3,000 govern­returning home plan to return to the Center and Pentagon. However, ment-sponsored students in the UA next semester, but Alsaboosi was experts ,.have reported that the United Stares to return home, said more optimistic. attackers were likely members of an Avdulla Alsaboosi. a diplomat at the 'Tm sure those people are coming extreme faction of the faith, not UAE Embassy in Washington D.C. back," he said. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher ~ forecasl for day1ime conditions and high remperature• 
,...........
......... ........ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY
Cl 2001 Aoc.uWN.lher, lno. 


{·<,,, ~J.,,,,·>.
'M •?,;~~»;Y ";", -~·,.<;; High LQW Showe,• Rain T ·1torn1' Flurrlc& Snow Ice Sunny pt, Cloucty CIOudy 
AUanta 83 63 Las Vegas 99 70 Portland 70 54 
Baltimore 78 61 Memphis 88 65 Sacramento 88 54 
Boston 68 62 MIiwaukee 66 55 St Lou,s 80 58 
Chicago 69 56 New Yori< 76 62 Tampa 86 72 
Houston 69 74 Philadelphia 79 64 Washington DC 79 64 

Decio Hall Dedicated ND, SMC go up in U.S. News rankings Monday, Sept. 17, 1984 Tuesday, Sept. 20, 1994 
Decio Faculty Hall, the gift or University trustee Arthur In the U.S. News and World Report's annual college Decio was dedicated with a mass at the Basilica.. The rankings, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's improved new building enabled 250 faculty members to move out over their last year's ranking. Notre Dame rose from 
of their basement oflices in the lies burgh library. 25th to 19th among Best National Universities, while Faculty members were pleased about their new Saint Mary's rose from fourth to first among Best accommodations. Midwest Universities. 

UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Students consider armed service 
LOS ANGELES 
More students are seeking information about the armed forces and ROTC programs since last week's attacks. While a draft seems unlikely, students are weighing in about the possibility to join armed forces. Freshman Chris Herrnanas said, "If we knew who we were fighting against then my friends and I agreed that we would go fight together." Some students simply see a draft as a frightening possibility. In light of the recent national events, many undocumented immigrants and retired military personnel are contacting Army recruit­ment offices looking to serve or help out in some way, said Army Sgt. 1st Class Chong Y. Byun. But undocu­mented immigrants are turned away because of resi­dency requirements. Young people interested in com­missioned duty can speak with local recruiting officers, but very few USC students have contacted the local Army recruitment office, Byun said. "They are not very supportive of what the country is trying to tlo," he said. "They are not patriotic." 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon.Friday, Sept. 21. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the aay. 
q,Q,~9.c@Q(f ~u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Jee Sunny Pt ClaudV CloudV 

Friday, Sep rem ber 21, 200] The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Saturday scholars event to feature terrorism panel 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Wricer 
The inaugural Saturday Scholars Lecture Series will address the events of Sept. 11 rather than featuring an inter­active performance by the Actors from the London Stage. 
According to Greg Sterling, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, the actors were unable to travel from 
London tu South Bend due to con­tinued air­line restric­tions. The Department also felt that the lecture time slot offered a good oppor­tunity to discuss the attacks on Washington, D.C., and New York instead. 
"The prob­lem was that the actors from the London 
Stage couldn't get over here," Sterling said. "It seemed appropriate to us for people to hear and interact with people who are experts in terrorism and American policy." 
Saturday's panel will include Scott Appleby, the director of the Kroc Institute, Cynthia Mahmood, an anthropology professor and Robert Schmuhl, director of the Gallivan Program in Journalism. Ethics & Democracy. 
According to Sterling, each of the panelists will offer a unique perspective on the events of Sept. 11. Appleby is an expert in religious violence and peace building; Schmuhl is a public commentator on American politics and Mahmood is knowledgeable in Afghan culture and has con­ducted face-to-face interviews with Islamic terrorists. 
"I think that it's important 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame 
Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your 
specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, 
with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? 
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. ~ 
~ [QUIL HOUSING 
~LENDER 
Independent of the UnivNsily 

"The problem was that the actors from the London Stage couldn't get over here. It seemed appropriate to us for people to hear and interact with people who are experts in terrorism and American policy." 
Greg Sterling associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters 
for the University to provide alumni with intellectual resources to get through the crisis," Sterling said. "We shouldn't simply educate peo­ple while they're [students} here." 
Although the change of plans was unexpected, Sterling believes that Saturday's panel discussion will reinforce the academic emphasis of the series. 
"We want to make a state­
pre-game tailgating in favor of attending the 10 a.m. panel discussion. The College of Arts and Letters has mailed out 40,000 postcards promoting the event. 
Although the discussion is currently scheduled to take place in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, there is a contingency plan to accom­modate a larger crowd if nec­essary. Staff will be available to redirect attendees if the location is changed, Sterling said. 
Saturday's panel discussion is the inaugural event of a series of lectures sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters. They are scheduled to take place 3 1/2 hours before each home football game. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard. l@nd.edu. 
ment that the University is an intellectual institute," Sterling said. "We all enjoy football . , . but I also ·want people to understand that this is a place where serious intel­lectual dis­cussions occur." 
Sterling said he is confident that some students and alumni will forgo the traditional 
The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
MARY CALLASH/The Observer Fans enjoy a tailgate party before a football game. This year, security has prohibited students from tailgating in lots where alcohol is permitted. The University will also crack down on open containers on the central part of campus. 
Security cracks do~ on tailgaters 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
Extra security patrols this weekend will seek to stamp out student sponsored tailgaters before the Michigan State game. 
"We're going to step up patrols," said Phil Johnson assistant director of Notre Dame Security/Police. "We'll be looking for both students and student registered vehicles." 
Johnson would not outline how the patrols will determine who is and isn't a Notre Dame student, nor how the patrols will define the difference between a tailgater and a stu­dent gathering. Saint Mary's students, Notre Dame alumni and other football fans are not banned from tailgating. 
"We're not going to discuss specific approaches or prac­tices," Johnson said. 
Student registered vehicles are prohibited from parking anywhere on campus except D6, D2 and the Pendle Lot which is located north of 
0 
NOTRE DAME 

FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You con bank on us to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
219/239-661 l • 800/522-661 J
...~;:;,~,.,r-?·:.~1,..,.-•~ 


Outside Indiana and Michigan

"'--... r. ... ·#·---.:. 
----
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at W\\W,ndfcu.org. 


Douglas Road near the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. Graduate students may park near graduate student housing with an appropriate decal. Alcohol is prohibited in any parking lot where students can park. 
The increased vigilance for student tailgaters is in response to an increased number of com­
plaints a b o u t large, dis­ruptive student tailgaters, according to John­son. 
"Abuse of the rights of other peo­ple will lead us to respond to inappro­priate 
behavior or unlawful behavior and disorderly conduct," Johnson said. 
It is these abusive and disor­

"We're going to step up patrols. We'll be looking for both students and student registered vehicles. " 
.Phil Johnson Assistant director, Notre Dame Security/Police 
derly gatherings of students that are banned by du Lac, according to Jeff Shoup, direc­tor of Residence Life and Housing. 
"Anyone who has been around Notre Dame knows the difference between a problem tailgater where people are just there to get drunk and the tail­gaters that are just a few peo­
under control and respectful. 
"An alum or non-student may sponsor a tailgater [which stu­dents can attend] but they will be broken up if they are getting unruly or are there only to serve alcohol," Shoup said. 
If tailgaters remain orga­nized, respectful and include more than just alcohol, Shoup said Security/Police will proba­bly not respond. 
"A lot of the times when Security goes out there is because there has been a com­plaint from other people near­by," Shoup said. 
Although students may attend parking lot tailgaters serving alcohol, no one may bring open containers onto the central campus. Central campus includes the areas surrounding God, Mod, West, North and South Quads. Stadium ushers will assist Security/Police in enforcing tho no alcohol rule on central campus. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
•Tfie Conllte.Stone lrtrt 
Bed & Breakfast 
4 rooms, 2 miles from campus 219-277-6068 
email: wjb4321@aol.com www.oeocities.com/alzard 
ple grilling burgers," Shoup said. 
While stu­dents are pro­hibited from organizing tail­g a ters, they may attend tailgaters orga­nized by non­students or alumni, according to Shoup. But like all tailgaters, these tailgaters must remain 

Friday, September 21, 2001 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 







Collection 
continued from page 1 

way we can express our soli­darity" with victims and their relatives, Warner said. 
"There were so many stu­dents who wanted to do some­thing concrete in addition to prayer," he said. "From the very first moment this [tragedy} happened, all the stu­dents have been very desirous to see what we could do." 
Student support will also be important to the collection on Saturday. 
"We estimated a need for approximately 300 student vol­unteers and were blessed to have over 350 sign up," said Jorissen. "This was a call to the students. for help and they responded most generously." 
"We know we have the greatest students in the world. This is just proving it," Warner said. 
Notre Dame will donate all the money it collects directly to the families of firefighters, police officers and EMTs who died in rescue efforts following the terrorist attacks. There were two main motivations behind the decision to collect donations for this particular cause, according to Warner. 
First, he said. the idea of res­cue workers risking their lives has been very inspiring to members of the Notre Dame community. 
"The stories of"firefighters going up the stairs when everyone else was coming down. were very inspiring," Warner said. 
In addition, Tom Coleman, one of the donors who helped build the Coleman-Morse Center, has always been very supportive of firefighters, according to Warner. Campus Ministry thought making dona­tions to New York City rescue workers would be a way to honor him. 
Because Coleman knows many people within the New York police and fire depart­ments. Warner said it will be 
r 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002-2003 DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2.4,5,6,7,B,9 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS SECURITY SYSTEMS WASHER & DRYERS 
OOMUS PROPERTIES CONTACT KRAMER 

298-9673, 234-2436, OR 674-2571 
possible to donate the money directly to the families of those lost last Tuesday. 
In addition to encouraging fans to donate money, Jorissen also encouraged them to wear red, white and blue ribbons. 
"It would be great to see American ribbons on all fans on Saturday -even those from Michigan State," he said. 

Security 
continued from page 1 
despite the calls that NDSP 
would make to report the 
problem. 

"It's like the speed limit is 55, but hardly anybody does it," Rakow said. 
For the game against Michigan State, NBC is going to cover pre-game activity, which will include prayers and music that pay respect to those involved in the tragedy of the terrorist attacks. Because of the 
Ushers will pass buckets along each row so fans may make donations. Although cash donations are preferred, fans can also write checks payable to the University of Notre Dame. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at LaRuffa. l@nd.edu. 
additional pre-game cover­age and the added security procedures, Rakow said it could take longer to enter the Stadium, but that they might not allow students to come in as late as they once did. 
"Students may want to come at the last five min­utes and get in and that may not be possible. They really need to plan ahead and get in early," said Rakow. 
Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu. 

Faculty present papers at Vatican conference 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 

Three Notre Dame faculty members presented papers at the "Work as a Key to the Social Question" conference Sept. 12-14 in Vatican City. 
Vincent Rougeau, associate dean of the Notre Dame Law 
School. Jay Dolan, a history professor, 
and M. 
Cathleen Kaveny, law profes­sor and associate theology professor, each pre­sented at the confer­e n c e w h i C h marked the 20th anniver­sarv of Pop·e John Paul Il's Laborem 

"ft was a great opportunity to meet and speak with people around the world who do social work. I have attended many conferences but this one was unique because of the opportunity to meet and interact with people from around the world . ., 
Vincent Rougeau associate dean of the Notre Dame Law School 
Exercens, an encyclical on 
human work. 

"I consider it a great privilege 
to any career to get an opportu­
nity such as this," said Kaveny. 
"It was for me a great oppor­tunity to meet and speak with people around the world who do social work," Rougeau said. "I have attended many confer­ences but this one was unique because of its location and because of the opportunity to . meet and interact with people 
from around the world." 

The conference featured 
papers discussing work, social 
justice, charity and other sub­
jects covered in the pope's 
encyclical. 

"I was doing a lot of writing 
in the area of consumer bank­
ing and how consumers were 
treated by large institutional 
banks and it got me looking at 
areas that I thought would 
work," Rougeau said. "[ real­
ized that there was a lot of writ­
ing involved there." 

Rougeau's paper, entitled "Work and Social Provision for the Poor in the United States", deals mainly with welfare and how it detracts from the impor­tance of work and responsibili­ties. He uses the pope's encycli­cal as a main source to combat that idea. 
Dolan, whose work is entitled "From Charity to Justice: The Emergence of a Catholic Social 
Gospel", spoke on Catholic charity and the need for justice. 
"Catholics have become more con­cerned about justic,e," he s a i d "Catholics have always been involved in charity but there's a greater issue involved, namely jus­tice." 
Kaveny's idea for her paper, "The Chronicle of 
Wasted Time: A Liturgical Challenge to the Commodification of Time in Western Professional Life", focuses on lawyers and their concepts of time. "I took some­thing that I learned as a prac­ticing lawyer. Lawyers bill time. This whole notion of billing time I argued, created a sense of time that is commodified. The Catholic Church offers dif­ferent views of time resisting commodification of time." 
Although three Notre Dame professors presented papers at the conference, a fourth Notre Dame professor, Hobert Barger, also attended to act as a respondent to presentations made by Rougeau and George Garvey of the Catholic University of America. 
He was responsible for responding to lecturers and fueling discussion. 
Contact Natasha Grant at grant.20@nd.edu. 







ATION 
Friday, Sepcem ber 21, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former Venezuelan dictator dies: 
Gen. Marcos Perez Jimenez, Venezuela's last military dictator, died Thursday. He was 87. Perez ,Jimenez died of a heart attack in his home in l\1adrid, Spain, where he Jived in self-imposed exile. his daughter, Flor Perez Jimenez, told local Globovision television. She said his body will he cremated i.n Spain on Friday, and that she hopes the remains will be brought back to Venezuela "some­day." 

Istanbul Hotel Death Toll Hits 4: 
Two people hurt in the collapse of an Istanbul hotel Wednesday have died from their injuries, raising the number of dead to four, an official said. Hescue workers were still looking Thursday for a mother and her daughter believed to be buried inside, said firefighter Ilhan Ince. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Oregon Gov. Kitzhaber wontt run: 
Citing family concerns, Gov. John Kitzhaber said Thursday he won't run for the U.S. Senate next year. The Democrat has a wife and 3-year-old son and "a job that's 3,000 miles away ... is not something to look for­ward to. He has a personal life he cherishes," said Bob Applegate, the governor's spokesman. 
Illinois abortion foe indicted: An escaped inmate from an Illinois jail who has vowed to kill abortion providers was indicted by a grand jury on weapons and other charges. Clayton Lee Waagner, 44, was indicted Tuesday on charges of possessing a destructive device, being a felon in possession of firearms and being a fugitive in possession of firearms. Waagner abandoned a car on an interstate in Memphis after a Sept. 7 collision with a tractor-trailer, police said. A pipe bomb was found in the car. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Crowd welcomes back crew: 
Tearful embraces and chants of "U.S.A." greeted a search-and-rescue crew who returned to the state after a week of search­ing the ruins of the World Trade Center in vain for survivors. The 62 members of Indiana's Task Force 1 were received Thursday as heroes at the ceremony at Monument Circle, though the firefighters and other rescuers insist they are not. "To me the heroes are the people that were buried in the rubble," said Anne Trout, a search team man­ager and trainer for the canine unit. "We all left feeling like we could have done more." 
Market \Vatch September 20 

Dow 8376.21 -382.92 
Composite

]~ Same: 
Volume:




t:_j 
149 
NIA 

AMEX: 796.()6 p2'i00 NASDAQ: 1470.93 -56.87 NYSE: 514.16 -15.22 S&P 500: 984.54 -3156 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURllY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
IMMUNEX CORP (IMNX) +10.37 +1.78 18.l~ NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) -3.34 -1.00 28.97 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.52 -0.51 12.Bc INTEL CORP (INTC) -7.23 -1.51 20.57 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -6. 92 -0. 53 3 . 4i 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
MACEDONIA 


Associated Press 
SKOPJE 

Ethnic Albanian rebels adhering to a Western­backed peace plan surren­dered a prized battle tank to NATO soldiers Thursday, and a senior insurgent commander said the armed struggle was over in Macedonia. 
"There will be no contin­uation of the fighting," said Gezim Ostreni, military commander of the National Liberation Army-the eth­nic Albanian guerrilla force that began its insurrection in February. "We remain resolved to continue disar­mament." 
Ostreni spoke by tele­phone to The Associated Press as NATO began the third stage of Essential Harvest to gather the last of about 3,300 weapons the rebels agreed to give up under a peace agree­ment signed last month. 
At Radusa, a village in rebel-held territory near the border with Kosovo, Col. Philippe Bras, in charge of the final stage of the arms-culling effort, said he expected about 200 weapons to be handed in the next two days. 
Under the step-by-step peace plan, parliament is to approve constitutional amendments granting the country's ethnic Albanian minority greater language and political rights in exchange for the rebels handing in the weapons and disbanding. The ethnic Albanians make up about a third of the nation's 2 mil­lion people. 
The alliance has collect­ed more than 2,200 weapons. Parliament was expected to discuss the constitutional amendments before the last third was collected. 

After hours of uncertain­ty over whether it would convene, the session began Thursday afternoon. 
The discussion also had been delayed by a proposal by the small New Democracy party to put the constitutional amendments to a referendum. A refer­endum could disrupt the peace efforts and cause months of delay. 
Under the phased peace plan, parliament is sup­posed to give final approval of the constitutional reforms after the rebels have handed over the 3,300 weapons. 
Congress moves to help airlines recover 
hijackings. also ask airlines to f1y at 8-0 percent
Associated Press 

Administration officials said they capacity. He said he hoped to move 
WASHINGTON had a tentative deal with congres­the bill on the House floor Friday. 
The House moved Thursday sional negotiators to provide $10 Delta Air Lines Cha1rman Leo toward offering the airlines billions billion in guarantees. The credit Mullin. in a second day of testimony of dollars in grants, loan guaran­was contingent on establishing an on Capitol Hill, told the Senate tees and liability limits to help them independent board to oversee how Commerce Committee that without survive the financial blow from the the loan guarantees are dispensed. government help, "the future of avi­terrorist attacks. The original White House offer di.cl ation is threatened." 
House leaders indicated they not include such guarantees. The airlines want compensation were ready to go further than a House Majority Leader Dick for the direct effects of the Sept. 11 relief proposal made by the Bush Armey, R-Texas·. said the guaran­attacks -the shutdown of all air administration. That plan offered tees were important because "there travel for several days and the airlines $5 billion in immediate is in the airline industry a need to prospects for a drastic reduction in aid, $3 billion for security improve­have continuous, healthy, function­air travel in the coming months. ments and shielded carriers from ing lines of credit." Mullin sought $5 billion in direct parts of the lawsuits expected in House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R­aid, $12.5 billion in loan guarantees the wake of last week's deadly Ill., said the House measure would and liability relief. 
U2 
supervisor. Not since a concert by coun­
try music star Garth Brooks has the student body turned

continued from page 1 
out in numbers even close to 

and another distribution event Thursday's, Murphy said. 
that often attracts criticism. "The multitudes were over­
''It's worse than football wh eIming," Murphy said [ticket} distribution," Thursday, "and we were McKenna said. shorthanded on staff." 
Of course, some students Despite negative student negotiated the crowds with opinion, Murphy expressed few problems. few concerns about the sales. 
Notre "Some peo­D a m e ple listened to senior our instruc­R o b y n tions; some 
Harridge "I can't complain. I had a didn't," he 
had her really good lottery said. "On the tickets in whole, stu­
number. But I feel bad for 

hand by dent cooper­
6:15 p.m. all the people still out ated ·very "I can't here waiting.,, well." 
complain. Mny stu-I had a dents, howev­
Robyn Harridge

really er, said offi­good lot­Notre Dame senior cials either 
Friday, September 21, 200 l
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
time. Crowds cheered whenever 
Freshmen class 
security officers and ushers announced over public address svstems the next 
elects representatives 
tery num­b e r , " Harridge said, standing in line with a friend around 10 p.m. "But I feel bad for all the people still out here waiting." 
Officials stopped sales at 11 p.m., after all students with lottery numbers bought tick­ets. said Jim Murphy, the University's crowd control 
Officials ban stadium flights 
Associated P rcss 
WASHINGTON 

The government has banned all aircraft from flying within 3 miles of major professional and college sporting events and any other large open air gathering. 
The Federal Aviation Administration's notice to pilots became effective at noon Thursday, said spokeswoman Laura Brown. The "no-fly zone" extends up to an altitude of 3,000 feet. 
The notice applies to all types of aircraft including small planes, blimps, balloons and gliders, she said. 
"We issued this to cover everything," Brown said. "It's a blanket order so that it would include a state fair, a high school football game." 
The alternative was issuing an array of specific restric­tions, she said. 
The notice does except air­craft "authorized by ATC (air traffic control) for J?Urposes of conducting arrival/departure operations." 
The first major outdoor sporting event in New York since the attacks will be Friday night when the Atlanta Braves play the Mets at Shea Stadium, which is across Flushing Bay from LaGuardia Airport. The 
stadium  is  directly  in  the  
approach  path  for  OJle  of  
-LaGuardia's runways.  

Another airport that could be affected with takeoffs and land­ings is Chicago's Meigs Field, which is near Soldier Field where the Bears will play Minnesota on Sunday. Meigs is currently closed but may re­open soon. 
Molti Bene 
Catalino's TraLtoria Downtown South Send 
were barely 
audible to the 
crowd or did not give clear instructions. 
Throughout the afternoon and night, students left the premises and returned with food and drinks. Some had pizza delivered to the arena. Others played volleyball or threw Frisbees in the Joyce Center parking lot to pass the group of students who could purchase tickets. And after leaving one of' five ticket omce windows. many students raised their passes in the air, looks of relief and victory on their faces. 

The Oct. 10 U2 concert will be at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. The appearance by the star Irish band kicks off the third leg ·or the group's international Elevation Tour. 
On Thursday, about 10,000 tickets were available for stu­dents Lo purchase. Students could buy a maximum of two tickets. 
Registered members of U2.com, the band's official fan-run Web site, purchased some 500 pre-sale tickets Thursday morning. 
Tour promoters required University ticketing officials to set aside an undisclosed limit­ed amount of tickets for sale to the local community. Those general public tickets go on sale Monday. 
Contact Jason McFarley at 
McFarley. l@nd.edu. 
CAMPUS NEWS BRIEF 
Parseghian returns for run: Irish football coach Ara Parseghian will return to campus this weekend to spon­sor with Farley Hall the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation's 5K Run/2 Mile Walk, which will be held on campus Sunday. The APMRF funds research for the treat­ment of Niemann-Pick Type C disease, a genetic, pediatric neurodegenerative disorder that causes the deterioration of the body's nervous system. The foundation was formed in 1994, when the three of Parseghian's grandchildren were diagnosed with NP-C. Parseghian's grandson, Michael, suc­cumbed to the disease in 1997. The race will begin at the Center for Social Concerns at 3 p.m. Participants may sign up in the dining halls today for $10, and on the day of the race for $12. The first 400 finishers will receive T-shirts. 

ByJUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
News Writer 
The Class of 2005 chose rep­
resentatives for each of the 28 
dorms on campus starting 
Sept. 12. 

Cavanaugh Hall representa­tive Katie Bovie is excited about the p"rospects the upcoming year will bring. She was involved with community service projects in high school and plans to continue doing volunteer work in college. With the help and support of . other representatives, she hopes to strengthen communi­ty service activism within the 
freshman class. 
Jacob Hoffman. newly elect­
ed delegate of Keough Hall, 
was involved in student gov­
ernment for four years in high 
school and was president of 
his senior class. 
"I want to make a difference 
at Notre Dame and contribute 
to student government," said 
Hoffman. 
Representative Steven Cook 
of Knott Hall ran for a dele­
gate position with the inten­
tion of better uniting the class. 
He said he is thankful to have 
an opportunity to meet his fel­
low classmates and improve 

Class of 2005 representatives 
• 
Alumni Hall -Jose DeWit 

• 
Badin -Kenna Brewer 

• 
Breen Phillips ­Kaitlin Briscoe 

• 
Carrol -Unavailable 

• 
Cavanaugh -Katie Boyle 

• 
Dillon -Kevin Leicht 

• 
Farley -Erin Brooks 

• 
Fisher -Neil Vargas 

• 
Howard -Erika Bramley 

• 
Keenan -Unavailable 

• 
Keough -Jake Roffman 

• 
Knott -Steve Cook 

• 
Lewis -Gale Bowman 

• 
Lyons -Megan Carter 

• 
McGlinn -Andrew Davis 

• 
O'Neill -Enrique Schaerer 

• 
Pangborn -Tiffany Gunn 

• 
Pasquerella East ­Stephanie Aberger 

• 
Pasquerella West ­Christina Aune 

+Siegfried -Matt Palmer-Ball 

• 
Sorin -Henry Scott 

. 
St. Eds -Nate Johnson 


. Stanford -Jeremy Lao 
• 
Walsh -Andrea Brault 

• 
Welsh Family -Naimi Joseph 


his leadership abilities. Cook is new to the student govern­ment experience and is eager to participate in its activities. 
Now that the freshman rep· resentatives have been offi­cially confirmed, they will meet together soon and choose the freshman presi­dent. 
"The job will be demanding but benefiting my class will be the greatest reward of all," said Andrew Davis, newly elected Morrissey Hall repre­sentative. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at Krivickas.3@nd.edu. 

... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, competitive products and pricing, and a level of service second to none. 
Convenience • With over 50 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use one of our other convenient ATMs in the Hesburgh Library or at LeMans Hall. 
Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's Online banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. For all the details visit us online or drops us an e-mail at bankoncampus@lstsource.com. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
Friday, September 21, 200 I page 7
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Number of NY missing soars past 6,300 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 

The number of missing in America's worst terrorist attack soared Thursday to 6,333, with hundreds of foreigners added to the list of victims feared dead beneath the crumbled World Trade Center. 
The number had been 5,422 for several days. 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said the sudden jump reflected reports of foreigners buried after two hijacked jetliners brought down the twin towers Sept. 11. 
The mayor has said there is lit­tle chance of finding anyone alive. The last survivor was found the day after the crashes. 
The news was an unwelcome jolt on a day when the city had edged closer to normalcy, with the small steps of children walk­ing back into schools and the return of traffic to the Brooklyn Bridge. 
The exception was at ground zero, where rescue workers toiled in vain for a ninth straight day as rain and wind kicked up the grit. forty U.S. senators got a firsthand look at the devastation, then headed to Washington for President Bush's address to a joint session of Congress. 
"Tonight we are a country awakened to danger and called to defend freedom," Bush said to sustained applause. "Our grief has turned to anger and our anger to resolution. Whether we bring our enemies to justice or justice to our enemies, justice will be done." missing, with one dead; and 
Bush held up a .badge belong­Philippines, 19 missing. ing to George Howard, a 45-The bodies of 241 people have year-old police officer wilh the been found so far. Of those, 170 Port Authority of New York and have been identified by the coro­New Jersey who raced to the ner. There were funerals towers on his day off and died Thursday for eight of the more when he was hit by debris. than 300 city firefighters lost in 
"It is my reminder of lives that the attack. ended and Still. the cur­a task that tain of sadness
"Right now, the
does not that has end," Bush possibility still remains enveloped New said. York since the
[that there will be 
Earlier attacks parted a
survivors]. They're slim, 
in the day, bit Thursday, as Giuliani but they still remain." thousands of stu­acknowl­d on ts who were edged that driven from their
Rudolph Guiliani
the 2,000-classrooms near degree fire New York mayor the Trade Center 
caused by the explo­sions of the two planes and the implosion of the 110-story tow­ers make il likely that some vic­tims will never be recovered. 
"Even weeks ahead, while we're removing stuff, obviously we're going to be looking," Giuliani said. "Right now, the possibility still remains. They're slim, but they still remain." 
In all, 63 countries are believed to have victims in the rubble. 
According to the mayor, the British consulate said 250 British citizens were missing. Officials at other consulates also provided grim numbers Thursday: Germany. 120 to 150 missing, four confirmed dead; India, 91 missing; Canada. 35 to 50 miss­ing; Japan, 24; Australia. 20, with three dead; Colombia, 20 
by the attack 

went back to school in classrooms away from the devastation. 
Jt was a tight squeeze but not an unhappy one for many. 
'Tm excited to be back," said kindergartner Jason Brilliant as he _arrived at Public School 3 in Greenwich Village. "It was a long time because the World Trade Center went 'boom."' 
Parents exchanged hugs and smiles outside the school's red doors. 
"The kids were amazing," said teacher Julie Hiraga, who clutched the hands of students as they ran for safety last week. 
The Brooklyn Bridge -a path­way to safety for thousands as they fled the collapsing Trade Center reopened two Manhattan-bound lanes to auto­mobile traffic for the first time since the attack. 
The delegation of senators, including Majority Leader Tom Daschle and tvlinority Lead er Trent Lott. visited the Trade Center site for a look at the ruins. 
"We're here because we recog­nize this loss must be shared not only by New Yorkers, but by all Americans," said Daschle, D-S.D. 
The group pledged to help the city recover and rebuild. Last week, Congress approved a $40 billion package that includes help for New York, and the Bush administration has pledged to cover all cleanup costs. 
"I've never seen anything com­parable to what we've seen here today, the magnitude of it," said Lott, R-Miss. "It's so important that we come and see what we're dealing with." 
Larry Silverstein, leader of a consortium that took over a 99­year, $3.2 billion lease on the complex in July, said he intends to rebuild -but not "a carbon copy of what was." Instead, he may construct four 50-story buildings. 
The mayor said 6,291 people were injured in the attack and more than 80 area hospitals treated people afterward. At least 30 remained hospitalized at five Manhattan hospitals that saw the majority of patients fol­lowing the attack. 
Near the southern tip of Manhattan and not far from the Trade Center site, some resi­dents were allowed into Battery Park City on Thursday for the first time since the attack. 
Pentagon search winds down 
Associated Press 
WASI-IINGTON ~ Officials at the Pentagon said Thursday that some vic­tims of the terrorist attack may never be accounted for. 
Of the 189 people believed to have died as a result of the attack. only 33 sets of remains have been identified. Substantial remains of 118 people also have been recov­ered from the huge building in suburban Arlington, Va., that is headquarters for the 
U.S. armed forces. 
"Those are the individuals they'll be able to identify point-blank," said Chief Edward Plaugher of the Arlington County Fire Department. 
The FBI expects the site will become primarily a crime scene investigation by the weekend. 
"As the search and recov­ery process winds down, the investigative phase, the crime-scene investigation, starts to build up," said Van Harp, head of the FBl's Washington field office. 
About 200 truckloads of rubble have been removed from the scene. Dozens of crime-scene technicians, clad in protective clothing and wearing breathing appara­tus, have been cataloging potential evidence. 
THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 Wednesday, September 26 6.·30 P.M. 129 DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
al,. •••...-a,•,.. • ..,..,..• rr•-.• • .,,,.,• ..,l 

--. 
page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 21, 2001 

THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT 

THE HAMMES ·NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Author Events: 

Pat Battaglia will be signing copies of his recently released Are You Smart or What? as well as So You Think You re Smart on Friday, Sept. 21 from 10:00 
·DIDNT 
a.m. to 12 noon. 

KNOW YOO 
Charlie Adams, WSBT-TV news anchor and former sportscaster, will be 
WEREso 
signing copies of I Didn't Know You Were So Tall! on Friday, Sept. 21 from . 
TALL! 
1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.rn. 

ln1igh/1 and Slorie1 
from a 

Ted Mandell, ND Professor of Film & Video Production, will be signing Broadca1/ing life copies of Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys on Friday, Sept. 21 from 2:00 p.m. CHARUE ADAMS
-~ 
to 4:00 p.m. 

Tom Pagna, former Notre Dame football coach, will be signing copies of Petals from a Rose on Friday, Sept. 21 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
Tim Smith will be signing copies of Loyalty-Based Selling on Friday, Sept. 21 from 3:30 p.1U. to.5:30 p.m. 

Ara Parseghian, former Notre Dame coach, will be signing copies of Notre 
Dame's Greatest Coaches on Saturday, Sept. 22 from 9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is pleased to donate 100% of the pro­ceeds from all purchases of Notre Dame's Greatest Coaches to the Ara 
Parseghian Foundation. 

eaven
Tom O'Toole will be signing copies of Champions ofFaith on Saturday, Sept. 22 from 9:30 a.m. t9 J1:30 a.m. s~~ 
u,,.,,., il,; "-1121,/1 4',12.;
and creator of the original Heaven on Seven, 
(( lk11i.re.l 
1grilng copies of The Heaven on Seven Cookbook on QI%1JQ:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.ni. 
JoeGarnerwill'be signing copies of Echoes ofNotre Dame Football on Saturday, Sept/22 from 10:30 a..m. to 12:30 p.m. 
Tom Coyne will be signing copies of A Gentleman's Game on Saturday, 
Sept. 22 from 11 :00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 

g copies of The Golden Dream on Saturday, Sept . . :30 p.m. 
illustrator, will be discussing and signing his latest . 6ook, ·ars, on Monday, Sept. 24 at 9:30 a.m. 
IJf'.z"'. 
Musi, 

'The:U ame acappe11a group, will perform on Sept, 22 in Bowing the game. 
JOYCE CENTER 

FOOTBALL WEEKEND HOURS 
Hammes Noti:J' Dame.Bookstore  ·Varsity ·shop (i6. the Joy~~ Center)  
Friday  9:00 am ~  l 0:00 pm  Friday  9:00 am -5:00 pm  
IN  THE  CK  CENTER  Saturday  8:00 am -10;00 pm  , "S;in.11:day  8:00 am -7:00 pm  
phone: 631-631£,  • www.ndbookstore.com  Sunday  9:00 am -I0:00 pm  Sunday  10:00 am -2:00 pm  

Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
FBI makes more arrests in terror probe 
as they did on Sept. 11, when tact. are alive: some were pilots.
Associated Press 
hijackers crashed jetliners in Jordanian officials say Hijazi A list of the 19 hijackers and 
New York, Washington and has confessed that he planned two other people wanted in 
WASHINGTON Pennsylvania, killing thou­terrorist attacks and received connection the investigation 
U.S. banks discovered sands. bomb-making training in was sent to banking officials accounts believed to be con­Adrienne Vaughan, spokes­Afghan guerrilla camps run by Wednesday by the FBI. It also nected to last week's hijack­woman for water company bin Laden. suggested that one of those ings a.nd investigators made BHC Co. in Bridgeport, Conn., Agents had been looking for identified as a hijacker ­more arrests as they tried to said her company received a Al-Marabh since failing to find Khalid Al-Midhar -may still trace the terrorist attacks "terrorist threat advisory for him Monday at a Detroit resi­be alive. back to the source. infrastructures" from the dence where he had lived. Kathleen McChcsney, special 
In Chicago, the FBI arrested American Water Works Al-Marabh also holds a com­agent in charge of the FBI's a man with the same name as Association, an industry mercial driver's license and is Chicago office, said agents someone with ties to a jailed group. certified to transport haz­believed Al-Marabb was the associate of the suspected The Federal Aviation ardous materials, according to man wanted on a mastermind of the attacks, Administration issued a notice Michigan Secretary of State Massachusetts warrant and Osama bin Laden. The FBI prohibiting until further notice records. were still trying to determine said it was trying to determine flights in the immediate vicini­Al-Marabh is among almost whether he was the same per­if the man in custody was the ty of any major professional or 200 people the FBI wants to son whose name appears on same person. collegiate sporting event. question, either because they the FBI's list or people to talk 
The FBI has told banking In the Illinois case, the FBI are possible associates of the to. regulators that large and small said Nabil Al-Marabh, 34, was hijackers or because they are In December, Al-Marabh banks around the country arrested Wednesday night at a believed to have information pleaded guilty to assault and found accounts held by several convenience store in Burbank, about the hijackers or the batterv with a dangerousof the 21 individuals wanted Ill., near Chicago, and was attacks on the World Trade weapon -a knife -in by the bureau in connection being questioned. Center and the Pentagon. Boston. He stabbed his room­with the hijackings, a banking State records in Officials would not specify why mate in the knee during an source said Thursday. Massachusetts show Al­Al-Marabh was wanted. argument in May 2000. 
SunTrust Ban·ks Inc. in Marabh had worked for In Pennsylvania, at the site "We have been working on Florida was providing the FBI Boston Cab Co., where an of the Sept. 11 crash of United that since last night, and we with information about the associate of bin Laden once Airlines flight 93, FBf Director still have a lot of work to do," summer activity on nine worked. Al-Marabh has ties to Robert Mueller said the Mcchesney said. checking accounts connected a bin Laden associate, Raed agency is confident it has "sev­She said Al-Marabh was to people believed involved in Hijazi, a former Boston cab eral hijackers whose identities being held on an Immigrationthe attacks, bank spokesman driver who is now jailed in were those of the names on and Naturalization Service Barry Kuling said. Jordan on charges that he the manifest. We have several request and a warrant issued 
Trying to guard against fur­planned to blow up a hotel others who are still in ques­in Boston for assault with a 
ther terrorist activity. the FBI filled with Americans and tion." knife. asked the nation's water com­Israelis on New Year's Day Doubts emerged in the Al-Marabb was living in sub­panies to increase security at 2000. Middle East over the identities urban Hickory Hills, Ill., not their facilities. U.S. officials On his application for a of several of the 19 hijackers far from the 7-Days Food & have said they were taking license to drive a cab in identified by the FBI last week. Liquor store in Burbank where every precaution to ensure Boston, Hijazi listed Al­Saudi newspapers have he had worked for the past terrorists couldn't strike again Marabh as his emergency con-reported that some of the men several days, officials said. 
Results of the GSU get acquainted with other Orientation attendees, the GSU President and 

US examines bin Laden's finances 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. officials believe Osama bin Laden's terrorist network is financed largely through charities and a variety of businesses. Government experts also suspect illegal drugs and weapons trafficking are enriching bin Laden's group. 
There arc strong indica­
tions bin Laden's al-Qaida 
network has profited hand­
somely from the opium 
trade, with fighters used as 
smugglers and to protect 
smugglers, said Sen. John 
Kerry, 0-Mass .. 
Al-Qaida's part in drug 
trafficking likely continued 
at least until Afghanistan's 
ruling Taliban cracked 
down on opium production 
last year, Kerry said. 
Opium, used in the manu­
facture of heroin and mor­
phine, has an added attrac­
tion for terrorists because 
such drugs head to the 
United States and lead to 
problems such as addiction 
and crime, he said. 
"That's part of their revenge on the world," Kerry said. "Get as many people drugged out and screwed up as you can." 
and 

their support in the success of 
the Orientation Chair. event. GSU officers, chairs ond these events. The second event wns an volunteers had infonnation Remember graduate students: "Deeds not words" has been the Orientation for all incoming available on Travel Grant, Health The GSU is HERE for YOU. 
' "consignee" of the Gradunte gtaduate SU!dents held on August, Care, Social Activilics, Knrinna Vemaza Student Union these plst months. 27 at Mc!Cenna Halt Even "' Acadmic and Athleric 2001 GSU Orientation Chair With only S months into the though it was difficult to estimate•;:-opportunities. The International • 
:·: tenn, a large nwnber of topics the number of studCllts lhat ;:; Students Services and Activities 
,,,, have been addressed including would attend since · every:\ (ISSA) and the Career Cenier 
\\ OIT new policies, cluster department performs its own fo were present as well. /i upgrade, healthcare benefits, orientation, 189 sllldents :::-The last event of the week wa.~ a }} academic workshops, social and registered. The day consisted of ,·,·, Welcome Back Party at the i:':': professional interaction, morning and afternoon· : Alumni Senior Bar on August 3 I. 
Cdevelopment of GSU corporate infonnational ses.ious : : Free drinks and snacks were "'A identity and welcoming Teaching, Tutoring and) / provided by the GSU and a live \{ adivities for both incoming and Mentoring by the Kaneb Center, I / band, The Phil Horne~ played:fi returning graduate students. Gender &. Minorities issues,' ,:C: several 5cts through out the }\These welcoming activities were Health C11re Roundtable, OIT <evening. One word can describe 
Jf n compltte sucee.i;s and surpassed Services, Alumni Association Hthe outcome: ABLAST! :::,e.,'>',:cce:t?t:'i:::,c:t>c 
:ij': lhe attendance of previous years. and athletic opportunities for j Overall, the purpose of the 
\)This academic year gradua!e sM.lents at ND. During '1\,,,;,,,,,.:,:,;r,,,s;,,,,,,.;:,::<:c,,,; J Orienlation Week was 
\:,': approximately 400 new students luach, Father Malloy and Dr. Jeff· ..-··' ; accomplished: siuden/1 fdt thnt 
'%\joined the Graduate Student Kantor (new •!'pointed Vice-: ' thl!'f reaivul a cohesive w,lcome
Wl Community and as a means of President of Graduate Studies: to tlu! llniversity, as we wert 
{\ introducing the students to the and Research) welcomed all the : 11ble to pro,,ide religwus
::id ND life, the OSU organized four incoming srudents and ' seroict!s.
:::ti orientation activities. The first introduced the University's I professi0Mtlitifomtatio1UII
\f events were the religious services personnel who attended. · susions and social intuaction. 
}{ uaditic,nally done the Sunday This year's Welcome Back As part of the GSU officers' . 
IM before classes begin: a catholic Picnic at Pischer and O'Hara; _ platfonn, an orientation will be 
}{; mass and an interdenominational Grace had an amazing 'ff implemented for the incoming
id service with a total attendance of participation. The entire ff{ spring students. We ere looking
ifi~/i 100 students. These events were graduate student family was able'.~;::; forward lo iL 
Ji followed by a ,ecertion where to sociali1.c while enjoying · GSU wants to wanu!y lhank ce,,,,,,:,,,,,,,,,,,,.
fi{ students were able t<> exchange delicious hotdogs, bul'l!ers, sno Graduate School, Alumni . 
:'.¥/summer experiences as well as cones and soil drinks. Association, Campus Ministry, i 
%:~::\~;:{~:;:$::*:;:;-:;:f*'.:'.:~~:;:;@::;$;:;*::;:;::-.;:::;~:::;«:,;:;-:c:f;$;::$;:;::~::;:*::::=::::;:;::*.;·;$;:·:::;i:::~~:::;:~f:i~f:::~f;:t:~;~ . . WA@@fW\%% . 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 21, 2001 

Anew ~ame ~Ian for laotaall we~K~n~s from t~e L~ll~~B ~I Arts ano lett~rs 
INAUGURAL LECTURE SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2001 10 a.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
"RESPONSES TO TERRORISM: PERSPECTIVES ON THE SEPTEMBER 11 TRAGEDIES" 

R. SCOTT  CYNTHIA  ROBERT  
APPLEBY  MAHMOOD  SCHMUHL  
director,  associate professor  professor of  
Kroc Institute for  of anthropology  American Studies  
International  and  and commentator on  
Peace Studies and  specialist  the Americanpolitical  
and specialist in  in the cultural  and cultural  
peace building  contexts of violence  landscape  
and terrorism  

Join the Saturday Scholar Series every home football game 3 1/2 hours before kickoff 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Oct. 6, 10 a.m. (Pittsburgh) -John G. Borkowski, Andrew J. McKenna Family -Professor of Psychology: "How Parents Can Help their Children Achieve in a Changing World" Oct. 13, 10 a.m. (West Virginia) -Lawrence S. Cunningham, John A. O'Brien 
Professor of Theology, on "'I'm Spiritual, but not Religious': What is Christian Spirituality?" Oct. 20, 1Oa.m. (USC) -Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics, on "Social Security Reform: The Potential and Pitfalls of Private Accounts" 
Nov. 3, 11 a.m. (Tennessee) -Seamus Deane, the Donald and Marilyn Keough Professor of Irish Studies, on "Newman and Ireland: Converting the Empire" Nov.17, 11 a.m. (Navy) -F. Clark Power, professor of psychology, on "Moral Education at the Crossroads 
Ongoing information about the series is available at http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu. 
Friday, September 21, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush taps Ridge for Home Security: 
Gov. Tom Ridge, who saw combat as an enlisted man in Vietnam, has been called by President Bush to help lead the fight against terrorism inside the country. Ridge, 56, was named Thursday to direct the Office of Homeland Security, a new Cabinet-level position. He will resign as governor Oct. 5, said his spokesman, Tim Reeves. Speaking to the nation and a joint­session of Congress, the president said new reali­ties demanded creation of the new office. 
Cheney sits out Bush address: Vice President Dick Cheney sat out President Bush's address Thursday night to a joint session of Congress. Cheney was at an undisclosed location when Bush entered the House chamber. It is lra­dition for one Cabinet secretary to stay behind as the presidenl delivers State of the Union address­es or other speeches before Congress, to maintain leadership in the event of a catastrophe. 
Security tightened for speech: Tight security at the U.S. Capitol complex grew even tighter Thursday night for President Bush's address to lawmakers about the U.S. war on ter• rorism. Lt. Dan Nichols of the Capitol Police said the heightened security procedures were "unprecedented." He would not disclose details, but said onlookers could not detect all the new measures. A much heavier police presence was visible around the building. Officers checked the identifications of passers-by every few feet and stopped all deliveries from entering tho complex. The police cleared the Capitol of nonessential personnel and moved cars out of the area. 
Heads of state offer 
conditional suport 
Associated P re,s 
WASHINGTON 

As President Ilush tries to unite oft-disagreeing nations behind a war against terrorism, he ,is encountering the ''Yes, but" syndrome. Dozens of coun­tries have pledged help to the United States, but there's usual­ly a string or two attached. 
Advisers say the president is undeterred by the demands and squishy support he's getting from some pragmatic world leaders. A practical man him­self. Bush will take whatever help he can get. 
"We fully understand that some nations will be comfort­able supporting overt activities. Some nations will be comfort• able supporting covert activities. Some nations will only be com­fortable in providing informa­tion. Others will ... only feel comfortable helping on financial matters," Bush said as he pre­pared for a joint session of Congress nine davs after the deadliest terror· attack on America. 
"Some nations may take a more active role than others," the president said. Many nations will ask for something in return or qualify their support. 
French President Jacques Chirac pledged his nation's backing, but questioned whether Bush's promised action qualifies as a war. 
Russia allowed the United States to seek cooperation from three former Soviet Republics, but at the same time wants Bush to give its own leaders more leeway in dealing with rebels -Russia calls them ter­Musharraf will give U.S. forces air space and intelligence on the terrorist network, and he will try to close the Afghan border. 
In exchange, Bush praised Musharraf for taking a "bold position," but U.S. officials say the Pakistani wants more: lift sanctions against his country and mediate a dispute with India over tho region of Kashmir. 
Bush has even turned to nations accused of harboring terrorists, including Syria and Iran, and longtime rivals such as Cuba. The message to terrorist­aiding states: help America find the network that killed thou­sands Sept. 11 or risk being a target when Bush broadens his campaign beyond those attacks. 
"Either you are with us," Bush warned in his address prepared for Thursday night, "or you are with the terrorists." 
Bush's call for help has received some surprisingly posi­tive replies. 
"The civilized world is rallying to America's side," Bush told Congress. "They understand that if terror goes unpunished, their own cities, their own citi­zens may be next. Terror unan­swered cannot only bring down buildings, it can threaten the stability of legitimate govern­ments -and we will not allow 
it... 

Japan not only offered its sup­port but may consider enacting a law that would broaden its ability to take part in military actions overseas . 
For the first time, NATO invoked Article 5 of its charter to declare the attacks on Washington and New York as an attack on the 19-member 

WWW.LUNKERS.COM PH 1-616-663-3745 26324 US 12 EAST EDWARDSBURG, Ml 
49112 

FOUNDED BY FRAN MCCOLLESTER -A 1977 ND GRAD! 
ONE OF THE LARGEST OUTDOOR STORES IN THE COUNTRY! YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR FISHING, HUNTING AND CAMPING GEAR! WE NOW HAVE A HUGE GIFT AREA! 
ANGlfEIR»S ~NN lRIESlAUIRAHl 
-LOCATED INSIDE LUNKERS ­
LARGE MENU OF DELICIOUS FOOD AND DRINK ITEMS. SURROUNDED BY LARGE AQUARIUMS FULL OF FISH AND BIG SCREEN TVS FULL OF SPORTS! PERFECT PLACE TO DINE BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME! 
OVER 20 AQUARIUMS, INCLUDING OUR 6,000 GALLON LUNK-AQUARIUM 
COME EXPERIENCE THE 2ND 

VISIT OUR CLOTHING 
HIGHLIGHT OF THE AREA 
AREA FEATURING:
( 1 ST BEING ND) 

NORTH FACE MIDWEST'S LARGEST SELECTION PATAGONIA OF FISHING, HUNTING AND· WOOLRICH CAMPING/BACKPACKING EQUIP­COLUMBIA MENT. SO MUCH TO SEE AND FILSON EXPERIENCE! 
HUGE AUTHENTIC SIGNED SPORTS MEMORABILIA* SECTION 
•GOD BLESS AMERICA• 
LOCATED ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM ND! SR 23N TO US 12 
rorists -in Chechnya. 
China pledged to help with rescue efforts, but wants the -United States to keep its dis­
tance from Taiwan. 
Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal said after meeting with Bush on Thursday that fighting terrorism requires a "persistent focus," echoing the president's message. But, like leaders in other Arab nations, the foreign minister seemed to warn against an overwhelming mili­tary response. 
"It should in no way follow the objectives of the terrorists them­selves in creating an unbridge­able gap between the Western world and the Islamic world," he said. 
Bush has tried to ease those fears, in part, by calling Islam a peaceful religion and denounc­ing harassment in the United States of Arab Americans. 
Pakistani President Gen. Pcrvez Musharraf took the polit­ically risky step of asking his nation to support potential U.S. attacks on neighboring Afghanistan, which harbors prime suspect Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network. 
alliance. 

Bush paused from his speech preparation to meet with British Prime Minister Tony Blair, America's closest ally in the war effort. Blair pledged "our soli­darity, our sympathy and our support" to the United States. 
Australia has pledged its troops to support U.S. military action. Sniffing at the notion of offering anything less, Prime Minister John Howard said, "There is no point, in a situation like this, being an 80 percent ally." 
Actually, there is. Casting a wide net for terrorists, Bush is willing to settle for much less from less-friendly nations. 
"This is not the normal coali­tion in the fighting sense so you can't build it in the normal way," said Tony Cordesman, an analyst with the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
"What we need is very differ­ent kinds of help from diffcrenl kinds of allies. Much is intelli­gence and warning. Some will be in rooting out terrorists," he said. "Bush is getting ready for a new kind of war in a new way." 
Cosimo's Hair Salon Welcomes Maria 
specializing In great haircuts, expert color and highlighting. Student discounts now available. (Shampoo, Haircut, & Style) For Men-$20 For Women-$30 
" Open Mon-Sat 8am-6pmTel. 277-1875 
Located near campus at 1707 South Bend Ave (US 23)Call and ask for Maria Walk-ins welcome 

·---·-·-----­page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 21, 2001 
Bush speaks out on terrorism 

Associated Press 
Before a united Congress and worried nation, President Bush vowed Thursday to avenge ter• rorist attacks in New York and Washington. "Justice will be done," he declared. 
Nine days after suicide hijackers are believed to have killed more than 6,000 Americans, Bush told a joint session of Congress, "I will not forget this wound to our country, or those who inflicted it. I will not yield. I will not rest." 
In his prepared remarks, Bush said the Sept. 11 attacks had put the United States on notice that the world's only superpower was not immune to attack. Even as he braced the nation for war, Bush also promised to take defensive measures, including the creation of a Cabinet-level body position called the Office of Homeland Security. 
He named Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge to direct that 


office. "The hour is coming 
military and B u s h when America ·will act civilians, inclu­directed U.S. ing women and
and {the military] will

military children," Bush 
forces to "be make us proud. " said. ready" for Bush con-the gather­demned the
George W. Bush

ing battle Taliban reli­
President

against ter­
rorists. 
"The hour is coming when America will act and you v\-ill make us proud," he said. 
Bush asked every nation to take part, by contributing police forces, intelligence services and banking information. 
With British Prime Minister Tony Blair watching from a House gallery seat at first lady Laura Bush's right arm, Bush said: 
''The civilized world is rallying to America's side. They under­stand that if terror goes unpun­ished, their own cities, their own citizens may be next. Terror unanswered cannot only bring down buildings, it can threaten the stability of legitimate govern­ments and we will not allow it." 
Bush entered the House of Representatives chamber to rousing applause from both sides of the aisle, Democrats and Republicans alike. 
Unprecedented security shrouded his address in the Capitol one week after it was evacuated for the second time because of suspected threats. 
Vice President Dick Cheney stayed away, due to security con­ceros. Speaker Dennis Hast1:,rt, R-Ill., third in line fur the presi­dency, was in the vice president's customary seat behind Bush on the speaker's rostrum. Son. Robert C. Byrd, 0-W.Va., next in line as the Senate president pro tempore, sat beside Hastert. 
Bush compared the terrorists to the 20th century world's evil forces: "By sacrificing human life to serve their radical visions ­by abandoning every value except the will to power -they follow in the path of fascism and Nazism and totalitarianism. And they will follow that path all the way to where it ends, in history's unmarked grave of discarded 
lives." · 
In a nationally televised address. his fourth prime-time speech since taking oflice, Bush tried to explain to a horrified nation the anti-American hatred of ifs enemies. 
Bush blamed last week's attacks on suspected terrorist Osama bin Laden and his follow­ers -the same forces suspected of bombing American embassies in Tanzania and Kenya and last year's born.bing of the USS Cole. 
"The terrorists' directive com­mands them tu kill Christians and Jews, to kill all Americans and make no dis­tinctions among 
gious militia 
that rules most 
of Afghanistan and gives bin Laden refuge. 
He demanded that the Taliban turn over to the United States all the leaders of bin Laden's net­work "who hide in your land," and to release all foreign nation­als, including American citizens who have been imprisoned in Afghanistan. 
Further, Bush demanded that the Taliban "close immediately and permanently every terrorist camp in Afghanistan and hand over every terrorist and every person in their support structure to appropriate authorities." 
Moreover, Bush demanded full 
U.S. access to terrorist training camps in Afghanistan "so we can make sure they are no longer operating." 
These demands are not open to discussion, Bush said. "They will hand over the terrorists or they will share in their fate." 
Even as he spoke of wiping out terrorism, Bush conceded that the violent extremists had already extracted a heavy toll. 
"Great harm has been done to us. We have suffered great loss and in our grief and anger we have found our mission and our 
The University ol Notre Dame Department of Mu<ic Present, 
200I (}.,,t _A,tiJI S,,;,, 
Christian Ringendahl 
organ 
Sunday, September 23, 2001 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
This Concert Is free and Open 10 che Public f-or more inforrna.lK!n, plea..e G.111 (219) 631·6201, emllil 
oongoe.t5Cg,nd.i"du or visit www.r.d.edu(--c.oogoer, 

moment. Frn1-1dom and fear are at war," he said. 
While cautioning that Americans need remain on alert, Bush said, ''It is my hope that in tho months and years ahead, lifo will return almost to normal." 
He asked for patience. He warned of more casualties. 
This war against elusive terror­ists, he said, "will not look like the air war above Kosovo two years ago, where no ground troops were used and not a single American was lost in combat." 
He said il would be a war 


UNIVJtR.SITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 182 HURLEY BUlLDJNG 
T: ti.31-~JIS:Z F: 631-5771 

SANTIAGO~ CHILE 
INFOR.l'\IIATION M:EETING 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 217 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.m. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2002. 
Application Deadllng: Oct. 1, 2001. :for Spring 2002 
Dec. 1, :2001 f"or Fall '02 and All Vear 2002-03 Applications Available: -wvv-w.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
Mon-Th 10:30am-10pm Fri-Sat 10:30am-llpm Sun ll:30am-9pm 
unlike any in history. "It may include dramatic strikes, visible on television, and covert opera­tions, secret even in success." 
StiJl. he assured the nation, "We'll go back to our lives and routines, and that is good. Even grief recedes with time and grace. But our resolve must not pass." 
Before leaving the White House for Capitol Hill, Bush gathered international ·and spiritual sup­port. He separately huddled with Blair and Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal, who delivered his country's support. 
A Methodist himself, Bush wel­comed two dozen religious lead­ers -Catholics, Protestants, Orthodox Christians, Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, Hindus and Buddhists -to pray with him and give counsel and sing togeth­er "God Bless America." 
Archbishop Demetrios C. Trakatellis, whose Greek Orthodox Church of New York was destroyed in last week's bombing, called the private meet­ing with Bush "a religious cere­mony in front of God." 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 
5 Televisions available to watch the game 
Stop in and enjoy a delicious,marinated chicken sandwich, a loaded hot-dog, and much more! 
Delivery available through Dine..in 
1733 South Bend Ave (wcated next to Turtle Creek -1/4 mile E. of Carrpus State Road 23 277-2527 
Friday, September 2 I, 200 l page 13
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
KAZAKSTAN 
Kazak police to protect pope 
Associated Pres• 
ASTANA 

Across a broad square from the yurt-shaped, turquoise altar where Pope John Paul H is to celebrate Mass on Sunday, Kazak police prepared wide­ranging security measures for one of the most sensitive state visits this young capital has ever seen. 
In addition to President Nursultan Nazarbayev·s presi­dential guard and the pon­tiffs own body­
guards, the "vVe're advisingKazak Intcrior 
whoever's not planning to

Ministry will 
deploy 3,342 attend Mass to sleep in 
officers and until lunchtime. Our 600 student 
streets and our city are

volunteers to 
keep order, not quite ready to cope Deputy Interior with so much traffic." 
Minister Ivan Otlo said 
Ivan Otto 

Thursday. AH transit traffic Kazakstan deputy interior 
through minister 
Astana will be banned, except for buses car­rying worship­pers and official vehicles. 
The ministry has posted notices on radio, television and posters around the city asking for cooperation during the pope's four-day visit that begins Saturday, especially during the Mass Sunday under the city's monument to World War II dead. Some 52,000 wor­!hippers are expected in the square, with another 30,000 expected to stand beyond police cordons. 
"We're advising whoever's not planning to attend Mass to sleep in until lunchtime," Otto said in an interview. "Our streets and our city are not quite ready to cope with so much traffic." 
Last week's deadly terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon raised speculation that the pope would postpone his trip to this former Soviet republic in Central Asia. While some Kazak officials have said "unprecedented" security mea­sures would be taken to pro­tect the pope, others have played down the safety risks. 
"He (the pope} is very con­cerned about the situation ­probably not in Kazakstan, because in Kazakstan it's calm and no one sees any particular threat," Father Damian Wojciechowski said. 
Otto said the greatest fear among police was that the 
C r O W d could start pushing. loading to a stampede 
hence the skv­blue metal barriers dividing the square into 33 sectors. Each can accommo­date ·t .500­2,000 peo­ple, to be watched over by five to six police officers, 
two volunteers and a medic. 
It's the biggest public gather­ing since 1998, when Nazarbayev moved the capital to Astana on the wind-swept plains of northern Kazakstan. 
''I'd like to 

get a him,  look at ·maybe  "He (the pope) is very concerned about the  without war."  
even touch him," said Lidiya Alexeyeva, a  situation -probably not in Kazakstan because in Kazakstan it's calm and  The pope's trip contin­ues Tuesday in Armenia.  
homemaker returning from a par­ no one sees any particular threat."  The head of Egypt's Coptic  
ents' meeting  Church had  
at her son's school. "I was thinking to  Damian Wojciechowski priest  also planned a visit to Armenia and  
myself  the  Russia start­ 
other  night,  i  n  g  
m  a  y  b  e  Thursday,  

because of his visit there won't but Pope Shenouda III decided be any war." to postpone the trip "until sta­The acrid smell of exhaust bility is restored to the area." 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
TN 

DUBLIN,IRELAND 
~'The Best of Both Worlds"' 

INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday,Sept25,2001 155 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 PM 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2002 -Spring 2003 A Y 2002-2003 Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
hung heavily Thursday over the city, comprised largely of prefabricated buildings, and street sweepers poked at con­crete dust before an afternoon drizzle turned it into a gray film coating shoes and cloth­ing. 
The pontiff was invited by Nazarbayev, who is eager to win greater acceptance in the West. and the country's Catholics, who make up 2 to 3 percent of Kazakstan's 16.8 million population. 
The countrv's Catholic lead­ers say the v·isit's significance goes far beyond a state or pas­toral visit. 
''I think t~at after those trag­ic events in the United States, the visit has become even more important for the whole world," said Bishop Tomasz Peta. 
He said John Paul's visit would highlight the peace that Kazakstan, divided roughly equally between Muslims and Christians. has managed to maintain during its 10 years of independence. 
Kazakstan 's Central Asian neighbors Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have suffered fight­ing on religious and ethnic grounds. 
"Maybe his visit will lead more of us to do good," said Alexeyeva, a Russian Orthodox believer. "Thank God up, to now we've lived 

Pope travels under intense security 
Pope John Paul II visits the Central Asian republics of Kazakstan and Armenia, Sept. 22-27. Nearby are some former Soviet republics that have battled incursions by Islamic radicals since 1999. The pope, himself a target of Islamic militants, insists on making the trip to better relations with non-Catholics. 
MONGOLIA-/­RUSSIA 
Sept. 22-25 -Kazakstan, capital Astana 
. 
Visits monument for the victims of the totalitarian regime of Astana, celebrates Mass at the Mother of the Homeland Square of Astana. 

. 
Meets with cardinals and bishops, and later with Kazak President Nursultan Nazarbayev. 

. 
Attends youth meeting at Eurasian University in Astana. 

. 
Celebrates Mass with priests, religious and seminarians at the Cathedral of the Virgin of Perpetual Help. 


Sept. 25-27 -Armenia, capital Yerevan 
. 
Meets with the patriarch of all Armenians at the Apostolic Cathedral in Etchmiadzin, near Yerevan. 

. 
Meets with President Robert Kocharian at the presidential palace. 

. 
Visits memorial to the Armenians killed under the Ottoman Empire in 1915, Yerevan. 

. 
Participates in ecumenical service in Yerevan and celebrates open­air Mass in Etchmiadzin. 



SOURCES: ESRI; Vatican; Apostolic Nunciature AP 

NOTRE DAME: Reflections of Student Lite 

An exhibition about student life 
at Notre Dame 
On view through April 30, 2002 


Northern Indiana Center for History Radin Gallery of Notre Dame History 808 West Washington, South Bend, IN 
(219) 235-9664 or www.centerforhistory.org 

'J • ' I. 
page 14 The ObserzJer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 21, 2001 


-W-~I.ce>.m~ D.~ck
Attor8 Fro111 Tl1P liHHioll Stage· 
S "ti-..d.~II.-ts.!
AMidsummer Night's Dream ffli· , by William Shakespeare 
Postponed 

• A.MERJCAN CREWi 
• PAUL MITCHELL 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 
• BEDHEAD
Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 


Schools protect Arab students 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

At a school in Connecticut, a second-grader threatens a tur­ban-wearing Sikh classmate, telling him, "You better watch out -you're going to get beat up." She later explains to the principal, "He looks just like the guys they said did it on TV." 
A note found at a California high school says the World Trade Center attacks will be avenged in a massacre of Muslims, with the names of five students list­ed beneath. They are sent 
home for "It's a tough time for the more than their safetv. 200 inci­
whole community at
In the lays dents. The 

after the large. We've really felt a Council of attacks on sadness and sorrow." American­
the World Isl am i c Trade Center Relations
Wajdi Said 

and the reported Pentagon, Executive Director, Muslim more than 
A r a b -Educational Trust School 400, includ­
American and Islamic groups have reported hundreds of cases of harassment, intimidation and violence, including a few at schools. While no violence against Arab and Muslim stu­dents has been reported, schools across the country are struggling to assure parents they'll protect children while teaching classmates about tol­erance. 
The incidents have prompted Education Secretary Hod Paige to send a rare "dear colleague" letter to educators, urging that classroom discussions and assemblies honoring victims not inadvertently "foster the target­ing of Arab-American students for harassment or blame." 
Following the Sept. 11 attacks, which claimed more than 5,000 lives, reports of hate crimes and harassment against Arab-Americans have flooded advocates' offices. The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee this week said it had com­piled a list of 
ing yelling, 
spitting. 
extensive vandalism and assaults. 
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee spokesman Hussein lbish said fear of reprisal has scared many parents into temporarily keeping their children home from both public and private schools. 
Muslim private schools across the country canceled classes for a few days last week. In other schools, such as the Muslim Educational Trust School in Portland, Ore., parents were asked to walk the grounds dur­ing school hours, keeping an eye out for retaliation. 

"It's a tough time for the whole community at large," said Wajdi Said, the trust's executive direcLor. "We've real­ly folt a sadness and a sorrow," 
In a Palmdale, Calif., public high school, several students stayed home after they were named in a list saying the World Trade Center attacks would be avenged with a Tuesday "massacre," according to one of those on the list. 
"I was just shocked and scared," said Abdul Bachmid, 15, who saw the list outside the school Monday and reported it to school officials. He and brother Hanif, 18, were two of three Muslim students named. 
"Our religion, they don't allow killing like that," Hanif said of the attacks. "They con­sider it a huge sin." 
Their mother, Aisha Attamimi, called the list "sick­ening." 
"Even now, I cannot believe it," she said. "I think this is the most peaceful country in the world." 
The family hails from Indonesia and has lived in the United States for 11 years. Until this week, Attamimi said, they had never experienced discrim­ination or harassment. 
Police are investigating the incident. Principal Michael Vierra said he sent notices to students and staff discouraging them from laying the blame for the attacks on any ethnic group. 
Nan Horstman, principal of Delta Center Elementary School in Grand Ledge, Mich., said conversations taking place in classrooms this week sound similar to those about bullying, which got widespread attention after school shootings last spring. 
Horstman said she goes out of her way to discipline stu­dents caught harassing school­mates over religion or ethnicity. 
"I put on a big show," she said. "I pound the desk and let them know in no uncertain terms that, as long as they're here, they will not behave in that way." 
Still, she said, one Saudi fam­ily kept their children home last week. 
Ibish said mistreatment of Arab-American students isn't surprising, given what he called unrelenting negative stereotyp­ing in American television and movies. 
Most Americans deserve credit for rising above stereo­types, he said, but added that the aftermath of the attacks won't be easy. 
"It's going to be tough for our community," lbish said. "We know that. in spite of the sup­port we're receiving." 
Senators tour sight of attack 
Associated Press 
A delegation of 40 U.S. sena­tors visited New York for a first-hand look Thursday at the devastation left by the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and pledged to help the city rebuild. 
'Tve never seen anything comparable to what we've seen here today, the magnitude of it," said Senate Minority Leader Trent Lott. "It's so important that we come and see what we're dealing with." 
Lott was joined by Majority Leader Tom Daschle, New York Senators Hillary Clinton and Charles Schumer and other senators in a visit to ground zero. where the Trade Center's twin towers collapsed in the attack Sept. 11. 
The delegation came to New York by train before heading to lower Manhattan for a tour of the twisted steel and fractured concrete. 
"We support you," Daschle said. "We're here because we recognize this loss must be shared not only by New Yorkers, but by all Americans." 
Last week, Congress voted a $40 billion appropriation to help New York recover from the· most devastating terrorist attack ever on U.S. soil. 
Happy Golden Birthday,, Chris! 


Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Automobiles o Motorcycles o Boats/Toys o Appliances o Computerso Furnishing o Stereos o TV/Vero 
Yahoo along with all local formats, and it stay on until its SOLD 
Tools o Petso
One Photo S00Words Until Sold 
Classified ads of the 21st Century. Shop& Sell for a fraction of the price. This Site is advertised on Ebay, AOL. 
~ \ll1eo1r-lVllla1z,e, at 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 

Friday, Seprember 21, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Attacks spark patriotic sales 
restock them. Meanwhile,

Associated Press 
apparel firms like Polo Ralph 

Soon after last week's terror­Lauren and Tommy Hilfiger ist attacks in Now York and the have reported a sharp increase nation's capital, Carl Desantis, in sales of red, white and blue an investor and lawyer, went merchandise. out to a local store and bought But cultural trend pundits are a small flag. But his "patrio­starting to see hints that tism" hasn't stopped there. Americans' patriotism is start­Now, he is searching out ing to run deeper. from the American-made goods and icon types of food and clothing they brands like Gap for his preteen choose to where they dine and children and Ralph Lauren for shop. himself. "People want to reaffirm their 
Desantis, who used to buy Americanism," said Marian freely on the Internet without a Salzman, worldwide director of care where products were pro­strategy and planning for Euro duced, is now closely examining HSCG, a marketing company where goods are made before based in New York. "It's about he buvs. He even said he'd eating American comfort food, probably choose hearty like cheeseburgers and mashed Campbell soup over a fancier, potatoes ,.. and Campbell soup, non-American alternative. and looking for things that are 
"If a sense of survival is called made in America ... This has patriotism, then ( guess r am been a miraculous transforma­patriotic," said the Clarence, tion.'' 
N.Y. resident. C. Britt Beemer, chairman of He added, "I want to really Charleston, S.C.-based savor American goods." America's Research Group, said 
Desantis's penchant for clas­the number of Americans want­sic American labels and ing American-made goods, from American-made goods reflects a furniture to clothing, jumped 20 new movement that has percent in the aftermath of the emerged since Sept. 11 's attacks to reach 30 percent of attacks on the World Trade the 2,100 people surveyed 
AFP Photo
Center and the Pentagon, nationwide. 
Glenn McCartney and his wife Laura Foster put up a flag on their front proch to show their patri­
according to trend forecasters. "As President George Bush 
otism In the wake of the terrorist attack. Americans have responded by not only displaying
Following the terrorist mobilizes the American mindset attacks, retailers reported a to fight this war, this trend will flags but by deciding to buy goods made in America. surge in flag sales, ribbons, and definitely move upward even patriotic T-shirts. By Sept. 13, reaching half of the popula­engineer from Omaha, Neb. "I before the terrorist attacks, Inc.'s clothing, for example. is Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the tion," Beemer predicted. would think it could help the which resulted in the loss of produced domestically. world's largest retailer, for 'Td buy American-made over economy and the U.S. by doing well over 6,000 lives, the nation A growing number of others, example, sold out of 500,000 any other products, " said Steve it." was at a tipping point. like Desantis, are heeding the flags, and is now scrambling to Pattrin, 33, a computer network Salzman and others said that "Americans were somewhat call for American products, just 
disenchanted by our value as long as the company oper­structure and our infrastruc­ates plants domestically. 
. .., .·. . ~ •. -, .., . ~, ,.,"' ,·,,17r,-~-:-;i-z:~;q:ZjI~'~:::":'~f;r;l ture," said Salzman, who con­"I am interested in keeping ducted a survey of 15,000 peo­jobs in America," he said.The Notre Dame Creative Writinitr~~g~~~·Pr~;~nts ple worldwide. "Americans Already, several major retail­-1 were no longer feeling confi­ers, including Federated -~ dent that we were No. 1 in Department Stores, Kmartl whatever intangibles had made Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the nation so confident." have focused on domestic sup­·•1 Even the fashions have been pliers for their patriotic mer­
'! out of sync with what the aver-· chandise, including towels and ' ' age consumer wanted. T-shirts emblazened with flags. And upscale fashion firms, 
Incubati011s 
from pecking words to hatching a· book '•i "This is going to make ... cool 
1 fashions look passe," said David like Nicole Miller, have begun to J Wolfe, creative director at The respond to the new climate. 1 Doneger Group, a buying office "I just got a call from '1 in New York. "All of this black Nordstrom's yesterday, asking 
1 clothing making people look me where my clothing is made," ~1 anemic now almost looks dan­said Bud Konheim, president of j gerous. People now want to fashion house Nicole Miller, of ~ look healthy and strong, and which 65 percent of its gar­
{~ are going to go with classic ments are made domestically, primarily in Manhattan. "Obviously, they got calls from 
a reading & pllblishing workshop 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21 !;ir:!~t;t~:~,;~mc:~r~: 
their customers," he said. 
-' j brands that should benefit. Immediately, Nicole Miller · ·· ·· ; : ... , '·:ft But finding American-made scrambled to create "Made in New York" labels for its gar­
" at 3 p m ,·n the Notr D · R,' ~! "merchandise, particularly
i • • .e. ame 00m ~l apparel, is difficult. About one-ments. It also intends to do ···11 ·,· .· ''.:½ third of apparel is made in the more· of its fabric buying in the
ofLaFortune.H..a· 

j U.S., down from 50 percent five U.S. 
. , ,·· .... , , ,. ;, • ;:' .-, ~ years ago, according to the "Before this, we were all over j Arlington, Va.-based American the place," Konheim added. }<I Apparel and Footwear "We were in a global market
feat11ring 
·-:j Manufacturers' Association. place. It didn't matter to us. ~.~ Only about 20 percent of Gap Now, it matters." 

. :novelist and Notre Danie a/uni :r1 
i TOM 'COYNE ~ 
;, 
:Notre Dame professor and novelist... >~~ .. ·-~ ~,...~ .· .. ::~ '\l 

. ;A 
...
. "";, ...... 
' r • 
---;1'.1.~ .... ::',; 11"". 

). ,"' , : •i-r i ,.. r-. ~.r ~ '~ .~ ;, ·. ; ... •~~ t: --:"'••: .,~ f'~• ,;~ ~ ' ~: • . • ,. .;;c ----~.. ~ ~,,11
I •.'\••,

j Sponsored hy the Paul ~I. & Barbara H~nkel~ Vi~iting Schol~rs Series. :1 
Li~1,i,,it;,di'.:ff:/..,i;;{!.1L~·:',•Sf~~~l!'liiii.,.:CJ!'..,:a':i.\oill] 

page 16 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 21, 2001 
Doctor: mother is ready for trial 
Religious leaders 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
A psychologist who believes Andrea Yates is competent to stand trial on murder charges testified Thursday that she decided to drown her five chil­dren the night before the crime. 
Dr. Steven Rubenzer said when Yates made the di.s­cl os ure to 
Rubenzer said. 

When he tested Yates in July, she passed two parts of a three-part test but did poorly when it came to "her ability to appraise her situation within the court system. Iler s1.;ore on that scale was very low." 
But Rubenzer said she's improved. 
Under cross-examination, Rubenzer acknowledged he 
still ques­
tions Yates' 
ability to 
him in an "As far as I know, her appreciate Aug. 2 meet­her situa­
psychotic features are in
ing, he asked tion.
full remission. Her
her to tell "Would it him nothing depression is not in full be fair to more. say the bet­
remission."
"I believed ter she I had enough gets, given information Dr.Steven Rubenzer everything to establish psychologist you know, 
she was able to talk about t h e s e 
thjngs," 
Rubenzer said, testifying at a hearing to determine if Yates is competent to stand trial. "I didn't want to pull out any more information than was necessary." 
Rubenzer, a Witness for Harris County prosecutors, said that while Yates is men­tally ill, she is competent. He also testified Yates just now is starting to accept she is men­tally ill. 
"As far as I know, her psy­chotic features are in full remission. Her depression is not in full remission," 
the more 
fully she 
will appre­
ciate what she did?" defense attorney George Pamham asked. "I think so," Rubenzer responded. "She's not quite there yet, is she?" Parnham asked. "I don't think so," the court­appointed psychologist said. 
Also Thursday, a nurse who has treated Yates since she was placed in the Harris County Jail after. her June arrest testified she is improv­ing but he remains worried about her mental health. 
Yates was at first catatonic but now smiles, reads and 



Moon Beads 

~:t".·.,.<l{\5 if 5<.tppLf~s ........ (;.jn,~ti~ & fnr..J.;n~~ ~-{,1nd ·•V:ov~:t~ Ri.;95 -~~-·rribaf I,1strdn-,ic:nf:s Stc_r·hng ~,av~:1~ -.. i~;..veh·y _., Stc,n{:s •"~-· C.Jert:t) £k1d<~i Cw-t.w1s -·· f1p~fries (:r.<sturn )t:'Nefty ():"tiet~ Tjc f)y<~ -~ (:_ic)thfns & l\cr.(~::<:.~)rie:, 

1046 Beu Rd. Niles, Ml 49120 
(i'-.Jorl:h 5i,k cffk!\~ PL1,.,1, ·{etc),,~ from Shdtc-n':,) 

,~~~~--~A•~~~-~---~---~*-»~~««~*»»~~~««~»~~~~« 
~ ~ 
!15% OFF any purchase wrih this coupon: 
: (ExchuUn~ handmade or cons)gm1m li~t'IU<) : ~ *
·•~&--~---~-~»»~-~~~--~-~#*~~»~~*•~~--~~~~~--~~ 
plays dominoes, John Bayliss said. However, he described her 

back campaign 
as having "a lack of luster in her eves. When I speak to her, she always tend~ to give me the same answer. 
Yates has told a psychologist she believes she should die in order to destroy herself" and Satan, according to testimony Wednesday. 
Yates, 37, is charged with capital murder. Police say Yates admitted killing her chil­dren after officers arrived at her home. The four youngest children -John, 5; Paul; 3; Luke, 2, and Mary, 6 months -were found wet on a bed under a sheet. Noah, 7, was dead in the bathtub. 
Yates' husband said she suf­fered from depression after the births of her two youngest children. Medical records sub­mitted to the court show that Yates attempted suicide twice after the birth of her fourth child and was warned by a doctor to carefully consider whether she should have any more children. 
Associated Press 
More than two-dozen religious leaders -gave their blessing Thnrsday to President Bush's campaign to eradicate terror­ism, saying it was justified "to protect the sanctity oflifc." 
Separately, a large religious coalition issued a plea to America's leaders not to react "out of anger and vengeance" and take more innocent lives. 
The 27 leaders at the White House, representing Roman Catholics, Protestants, Muslims, Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs and others, met with Bush privately in the White House for more than an hour, praying with him and singing "God Bless America." 
"We asked the president and we asked the Lord to give us peace and justice," said Catholic Cardinal Edward Egan of New York. 
"We asked the Lord that we have our people in this country unite and that no groups be punished for deeds they did not commit; we also asked the Lord to guide the president," he said. 

Though some of the faiths preach pacifism, the leaders issued a joint statement after the meeting backing action against terrorism. 
"Because these terrorist attacks were global in their con­sequences, the president is cor­rect in seeking a coordinated, international response," said the statement, read by Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston. 
"The common good has been threatened by these attacks, and we have both a moral right and a grave obligation as a nation to protect the sanctity of life and the common good," the state­ment said. "We should respond not in the spirit of aggression but as victims of aggression who must act to prevent further atrocities of terrorism." 
Friday, September 21, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 17 
Officials ban flags on fire trucks 
Associated Press 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

Fire officials have barred large American flags on fire trucks, fearing the rigs could become a target of the city's vocal anti-war community, 
"We're just removing the temptation from the situa­tion," Assistant Fire Chief David Orth said Thursday. 
The flags and other patrioLic sym­bols have surged in pop­u I arity since last week's 
terrorist attacks. Firefighters across the country have also received support and dona­tions in part because more than 300 New York firefight­ers are feared dead in the World Trade Center wreckage. 
Orth said officials feared protesters would try to grab fire truck flags, distracting firefighters or forcing them "to defend" the flags. 
Mayor Shirley Dean wants the ban rescinded immediate­ly. 
"I will not have, I do not want to have, a city where we are trashing property for the thrill of it or to make a point," she said. 
Dean doesn't have the 
because it could offend the 
school's 200 foreign students. 
Orth said Berkeley fire offi­cials didn't make tho decision lightly. 
"We've been in a lot of riots. To put it simply, we've had rigs burned; we've been attacked. We know how dan­gerous it is," he said. 
On Thursday, about 2,000 people attended a peaceful anti-war rally at the University of California. Flags briefly became an issue wen a small contingent showed up with 
U.S. flags and signs saying, "Land of the Free," and "Patriots made this country." 
A shouting match broke out -with chants of "U.S.A." vs, "Stop the War"-but con­frontation was averted when rally organizers called for a moment of silence to remem­ber the victims of the terrorist attacks. 
Later, more than 1,000 peo­
World Trade Center hearing pro·ceeds 
Associated Press 
The federal court complex in 
lower Manhattan has no phone 
service or computer network 
and is just blocks from the ruins 
of the World Trade Center. But 
behind locked doors, hearings 
are being conducted in tho case 
of the nation's deadliest terror 
attack. 
Just a few courtrooms in the 
complex are functional. Armed 
federal agents patrol the 
grounds, and the heavily forti­
fied buildings arc open only to 
court employees and lawyers. 
Steel barricades designed to 
stop trucks going 80 mph are 
set up. 
Trials have been suspended. 
The few hearings that take 
place include the cases of four 
men arrested on material-wit­
ness warrants in connection 
with the terrorism investigation. 
Investigators believe that the 
men have links to tho suicide 
hijackers and that they may 
flee. Holding them allows inves­
tigators to secure their testimo­
ny before a grand jury. 
Court sources, who spoke on 
condition of anonymity, con­
firmed that some of the men 
made appearances before U,S. 
District Judge Michael Mukasey, 
the court's chief judge. 
Mukasey has been under con­
.stant armed protection since 1993, when he began presiding over the case of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, a blind 
Egyptian cleric, and his follow­
ers. 

The sheik was tried in 1995 
and sentenced to life in prison 
for conspiring to assassinate 
Egyptian President Hosni 
Mubarak and blow up five New 
York City landmarks, including 
the United Nations. 
Mukasey returned to the bench Thursday in a sealed courtroom. It was unclear what the proceedings were about. Earlier in the week, ho said that no grand juries had been able to convene in Manhattan since the attack and it was unclear when they could. 
He extended deadlines for all court cases by 30 days, saying "extraordinary circumstances exist and that delay is indis­pensable to the interests of jus­tice." 
On Wednesday, two reporters were told to leave Mukasey's courtroom before he presided over one of the hearings. 
Allowed to remain were two court-appointed defense attor­neys, as well as two prosecutors long involved in a continuing investigation of Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaeda terror­ist group. 
One of the prosecutors, Kenneth M. Karas, just complet­ed a case resulting in the con­viction of four men in the 1998 bombing of two U.S. embassies in Africa -an attack allegedly ordered by bin Laden, who is also the prime suspect in last week's attacks. 
authority to lift the ban on large flags -those about 4­by-6 feet -but is urging the city manager to do so. 
The debate is nothing new for Berkeley, home of the 1964 Free Speech Movement that presaged the decade of often­violent anti-war protests that 
"/ will not have, I do not want to have, a city where we are trashing property for the thrill of it or to make a point. " · 
Shirley Dean Berkely Mayor 
ing flags from their desks out of concern they could be a prob­lem. 
In Fort Myers, Fla., librarians at Florida Gulf C o a s t University were told not to wear ''I'm proud r a c k e d 
U.S. cam­puses dur­ing the Vietnam War. 
B u t B erkcley isn't the only place struggling with flags and free speech. 
In Boca 
Raton, Fla., an insurance com­pany apologized to its employ­ees and handed out American flags three days 'after remov­

"We've been in a lot of riots. To put it simply, we've had rigs burned; we know how dangerous it is." ­
David Orth Berkely Assistant Fire Chief 
ple marched through the streets of Berkeley, yelling: "One, two, three, four, we don't want this racist war." 
Several 
o t h e r protests are planned in the greater Berkely area 

to be an American" stickers during the next few weeks. 
A Book ofRemembrance has been set up at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart for members ofthe Notre Dame community to record the names ofvictims oflast week's tragedies. The persons whose names are inscribed in this book ~ill be remembered in the Masses offered in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart this month.  
AFTERMASS • Bonfire on Friday Night Mass Holy Croii Hill 8:00 p.m. immediately following 80 7 Mass Hammes Student Lounge RAIN LOCATION: Lounge, Coleman-MorseColeman-Morse Center sponsored by the Junior Class in cooperation with the Student Activities Office  

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 18 Friday, September 21, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGliR  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Ja.son McFarley VJ.HWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVli!U1SING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLJ..£R: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERiG.ENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.,, ..... ,, .......... , ...... , ..... , .........., ..... , ... , .. ,.631-6927 ADVERTISING......,,.......................,,....631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 
MANAGING ErnrnRiAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.............,, ......,....................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint, l@nd.edu SPORTS....... ,...... ,,, ................................ ,,,, ...631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS........ ,...... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives co s~ch for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Scott Brodfuehrer Amanda Greco Kate Mosesso Graphics Sheila Egts Andy Devoto 
Sports Production Matt Lozar Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Pat Kelly Tony floyd 

Chaos abounds in U2 ticket lines 
And we thought the football tic..:ket dis­Oflicials admiUed the crowd was far tribution system was bad. bigger than they expected. Considering a 
Notre Dame set a new standard for large majority of students were excited confusion, chaos and nonsense Thursday about one of the biggest rock bands in at the U2 student ticket the world coming to cam­distribution. 01Jhe pus, it is hard to under­
userver

The "get an entitlement stand how ofTicials were · ticket, trade for a lottery surprised by the crowd. ticket and finally buy a Once the large crowd
Editorial 

ticket" system was far more complicated than need be. Rather than distributing tickets in a timely, orderly way, this system only completely complicated what could have been a simple distribution. Students arrived at 3 
p.m. to line up and buy tickets. After seven hours of waiting, many students still had not purc..:hased tickets. 
The only way Notre Dame could have made the disLribution more complicated was if thev hid the tickets all over cam­pus and told students to go on an Easter egg hunt for them. 
Rlindfolded. 

Officials insist t.hat this is the same sys­tem they have used in the past for big event.'i. But this U2 concert was obvious­ly much larger than anything they had ever experienced. 
tic..:ket together because tickets were drawn randomly from a big box. Groups of friends who had waited together hold­ing two IDs each were scattered throughout the line because groups of friends could not get <.:onsecutive num­
bers. · 
But as chaotic and confusing as the entitlement and lottery system was. the actual sale of the tickets was even worse. 
The line was slow, the instructions were sporadic..: and tempers were high. 
From start to finish, it took upwards of six hours for students just to get through the door to buy a ticket. Otlicials said they created this system to prevent stu­dents from camping out and waiting in long lines for tickets. Considering how late students waited into the night, they would have beeu better off bringing sleeping bags for the University's induced camp out. 
There may not be a perfect way to sell tickets to the students. There may not be an easy way to distribute thousands of tickets in an orderly manner. But there has to be something better than Thursday night. 
There can't be anything worse. 
Complain through proper channels 
It seems like one of the time honored traditions at Notre the second floor of LaFortune and wallowing in ineffective­Dame is complaining about student government. Another ness like past administrations, Norton and Moscona opened time honored tradition is not doing anything to help student the doors to debate and ideas from the student body. They government improve. actively sought out ways to improve student gov­
Tuesday night, student body president OJhe ernment. Brooke Norton and vice president Brian userver But rather than coming to the meeting and . . Moscona held a town hall meeting to listen to telling them how to irnpfove';Notre Da'.me stucten&' students' concerns about football ticket distri­stayed home. Rather than doing something to actu­
Editorial
bution and freshman orientation. But nobody ally improve student government and student life, 
arrived, ushers were unable to explain the overly c..:omplic..:ated system. Observer editors spoke to sever­al different ushers trying find out how the system worked but even those run­ning the system could not explain it. 
Hy 3:30 p.m., chaos had completely engulfed the front of the Joyce Center. The entitlement ticket distribution degenerated into a mob of pushing and shoving students. Once they received the entitlement ticket, students were only "entitled" to one thing: more confusion and chaos while trying to pick up a lot­tery ticket. 
The distribution of the lottery U<.:kets also left much to be desired. Apparently Notre Dame officials think students only have one friend. Even if students lined up together, they could not get a lottery 
came. 

To be fair, 17 students attend the meeting to discuss the problems they saw with ticket distribution and freshman ori­entation. But there are far more than 17 students complain­ing about ticket distribution and freshman orientation. 
Norton and Moscona made the effort to set up the meeting and listen to student concerns. Rat.her than just sitting up on Notre Dame chose to complain at home instead. 
Or possibly every student at Notre Dame but 17 is happy with the way things are right now. Maybe they are satisfied with the status quo. 
But if they aren't satisfied, they have no one to blame but themselves. Norton and Moscona are making the effort. 
It's time for Notre Dame students to return the same effort. 

Lack of planning wastes time 
I know that by now we all understand how futile and embar­rassingly ridiculous the U2 ticket distribution was; we need not belabor that point. 
What is terribly frustrating and beyond my understanding is the lack of planning. I assume that the administration brought the Irish rock group to campus as a service to us, the students. They wanted to provide us -with a great experience, and had an opportunity to do so. I thank them for that. 
However, I feel that I must point out to these same adminis­trators the major disservice they put us through last night. By the time I had left in frustration, I had wasted four hours of my time. And it seemed that my place in line would not come up for another three hours, so I can only imagine at what hour the last people left. 
Time is one of the most precious things to us. Last night was 
time we should have been doing homework, participating in extra curricular activities, volunteering. socializing and spend­ing time with our families. These are the things that enrich our experience here at Notre Dame and help us grow and learn 
POLL QUESTION 

Should the United States use military action to respond to the terrorist attacks? Please e-mail viewpoint.1@nd.edu by 5 p.m. today to report your answer. 
while we arc here. 

And so the real frustration comes from the lack of planning and consideration for the student body's time and priorities. Surely the ticket office (or whoever was in charge) knows how many tickets they can process in an hour. And they could have made a rough estimate of' the number of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross students who were interested...:...... say half'. Wouldn't that simple calculation clue them in as to how long this might take? And couldn't they pursue more techno­logically advanced means of random ticket distribution -say a website, or by e-mail? 
Think of the time we, the student body, could have saved. I hope the administration takes note of this situation, and in the future has more respect for our commitments. And if anyone has an extra ticket, please let me know. 
Jesse Feyen 
graduate student Sept. 20, 200 I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"There never was a good war or a bad peace. " 
Benjamin Franklin printer, scientist, statesman 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 21, 2001 page 19 
Impending war is not worth the cost 
More than a week after the tragedy that shook our nation, I fear that I can offer no opinion or reflection on the terrorist attacks different or more insightful than those already expressed. 
Yet I cannot con­ceive of any more timely or appropri­ate topic on which to comment. So, to the flood of word and voice. search­ing for sense in a changed world and striving for answers that will accomplish justice and restore a sense 
of peace and secu-Tuesday Voice· rity in the psyche on Friday of the American 
public, I will add my own. 
I believe that the problem of terror­ism can and must be peaceably resolved, but I am no expert in international policy. I turned to the Universitv's Institute for Peace Studies to learn about policies and methods by which the United States could rightly punish those responsible for last week's attacks, presumably Osama bin Laden, deal with nations that harbor and sponsor terrorist organizations and prevent future assaults on the United States or any other country. (I thank both Professors George Lopez and Hal Culbertson for their assis­tance.} 
Neither declarations of war nor sub­sequent military retaliation against the perpetrators of the crimes and the countries that harbor them, such as Afghanistan, will eliminate the threat of terrorism. 


As Michael T. Klare explains in his article "How to defeat Osama bin Laden" on the Web magazine Salon, a 
U.S. military assault on the rela­tively poor country of Afghanistan with tho resull.ing harm to inno­cent civilians will only serve to strengthen the claims of Islamic extremists like bin Laden. 
Just as the images of destruction in New York and Washington have inspired anger and the desire for retribution in Americans, death and devas­tation in Afghanistan inflicted at the hands of American soldiers will con­vince a majority of Muslims that the Western world desires ~ to repress and to silence ',, ~ ~ their culture. ·. ·~, components. First, the Bush adminis­tration must treat Osama bin Laden not as a wager of war against the United States but as a perpetrator of a crime against humanity, subject to U.S. as well as international law. Officials 
could then utilize any method ithin the bounds of the law, including forcible arrest, to apprehend him and his associ­ates. , \ r Secondly, it ' 1 '· 1· t . t
~ ; . mus s nve o
1 1 f i ... , ,\ establish an I · \ international ;,\ coalition · against terror­. ism intent on eliminating the networks that fuel groups like bin Laden's anti-American al Queada. Such a coali­tion must include Arab nations that con­demn the terrorist actions as violations of the tenets of the Muslim religion. Rogue nations that 
Furthermore, traditional _continue to harbor terror­
~ ---:=--­

military action directed against a ists would be dealt with not by single country will not eliminate orga­force but by international embargo nizations like bin Laden's that operate and related sanctions designed to in countries throughout the world, weaken those in power. including the United States. Unfortunately, peaceful resolutions 
A peaceable resolution to the prob­never occur quickly. For Americans lem of terrorism must involve two key readied for action and revenge by the Bush administration's calls for war, the months and years required to bring about justice would likely become unbearable. 
Over the past week, many Americans have expressed a sense of helpless­ness. Only a few could search for sur­vivors. Only some can sift through the rubble. Only a handful of people can begin the tangible task of rebuilding. 
Americans are doers and a military response fulfills the need in Americans to get going and get it done. 
Yet, only through peaceful solutions can, we ensure that the civilian toll resulting from terrorism, already at more than 5,000 Americans, will not · be increased by the deaths of innocent citizens of Afghanistan and other countries. Only through peace can we . guarantee that we will not act with the same disregard for humanity that the terrorists displayed. Only through peace can we truly honor those who lost their lives. 
And finally, speaking to my class­mates, we know no war. We are chil­dren of the '90s, of good times and of economic growth. Is war -something that would lead to the deaths of more Americans and the agony of more grieving relatives and friends -really something that we want to know? 
Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German major. Her column appears every other Friday. She can be contacted at mikulski. J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Fallibility extends even to doctors 
Let's say you are admitted to the hospital for surgery such as having your tonsils removed or arthroscopic knee surgery. What are the chances that your doctor or nurse will commit a medical mistake that will injure or even kill you? The numbers are much higher than you would expect. Steve Carroll 
Only recently has the problem of medical mistakes been brought to the attention of the public. Last A Medical year Congress published a report Perspective 
showing that as many as 1 million patients each year are harmed by medical mistakes and 120,000 die 
from them. That means that medical mistakes cause three times more deaths than car accidents each year. 
The numbers are so bad that it has become a national priority to reduce the number of medical mistakes. 
When I talk about medical mistakes it could refer to anything ranging from a slight overdose causing mild side effects to a misdiagnosis or even amputations performed on the wrong leg. There is a belief that doctors must be perfect in their treatment of their patients because the patient's life or well-being is often at stake. The cold reality is that doctors are just as human as the rest or us and make mistakes just like we do. The problem lies in thq fact that when doc­tors make mistakes they are often serious and involved harm or death to their patients. 
A big mistake I made came after I had been an EMT for a year and a half. We got a call for a sick person on a Saturday morning. For this type of call, only an ambulance is dispatched. The reasoning is that a per­son feeling sick docs not require the advanced care that paramedics provide 99 times out of 100 this rea­soning is correct. With no paramedic support, there is no one trained or equipped to do such things as start IVs or give drugs. It is just two EMTs trained in basic assessment, CPR, spinal immobilization and oxygen therapy. 
We arrived on scene to find a man in his 70s lying on his bed on the second floor of his house. He report­ed feeling dizzy and faint when he went to get up that morning and had not gotten out of bed. He was feeling fine now and was not dizzy anymore. He had a history of a pacemaker but nothing else extremely unusual. All of his vital signs were normal so we sat him up and he continued to feel fine. We took him down the stairs in a special chair, helped him stand up and get on the stretcher, and loaded him into the ambulance all without any problems. We took him to the hospital at a normal pace with no lights or sirens. 
We got him to the ER and I gave a report to the ER nurse while the patient was being transferred from the stretcher to the ER bed. As I finished up with my paperwork in the ER, the nurse pointed me to the monitor showing my patient's heart rhythm. 
"Oh my God -he's showing runs of / 
V-tach!," said the nurse. "What?" I said, not believing it. Translation: ventricular tachvcardia 
is a heart rhythm that often leads to ventricular fibrillation -the heart rhythm that causes cardiac arrest. The nurses rushed to the patient, pulled the crash cart over and franti­cally tried to put an IV in case the patient's condition went down hill. 
I thought to myself, "He could have gone into cardiac arrest in the back of the ambulance with just me there to help him. He could have died without the help of paramedics." It makes me nauseous just thinking about trying to work a cardiac arrest by myself in the back of the ambulance. I would 
· have been nearly helpless to bring him back without the help of a paramedic with the ability Lo use a man­ual defibrillator, place an IV or give cardiac drugs. This man could have died but he appeared to be total­ly fine. He was eventually admitted to the ICU. After that I never found out how he did. 
This story shows that even with a lot of experience it is still possible to make mistakes that could harm your patient. The public and doctors alike need to realize . that doctors do and will make mistakes. Some of these mistakes are more blatant than the one I made, such as giving a wrong medication or amputating the wrong body part, but they are mistakes just the same. 
My example shows what can happen when you are not overly cautious with the way you treat your patients. Often in EMS it is a matter of doing the best you can with the information and tools you are given 
bu.t that is no excuse for not calling in the 
_,....._, paramedics when I should have. With the public eye on medical mistakes hopefully change can 
occur to reduce the number of these mistakes. If you are thinking about becoming a doctor just realize that you 
are held to a higher stan­dard when it comes to making mistakes because of the seriousness of those mistakes. 
Steve Carroll is a sopho­more biology major. Ile is certified as an Emergency 
Medical Technician and a firefighter in Pennsylvania. · ' His future plans include going to medical school and becoming 
an ER doctor or a trauma sur­geon. He can be reached at car­roll.52@nd.edu. This column is the 
second in a series ofsix. The views expressed in this cofumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE 
campus
page 20 Friday, September 21, 200 I 
Marching on~ 
This weekend, over 85 alumni cheerleaders will return to campus for a sp 

By SHEILA FLYNN 
Scene Writer 
If you see Mike Brown on campus this weekend, don't -start worrying about tailgate-induced halluci­nations: He's back. 
But the former leprechaun, an '01 Notre Dame graduate, jsn't simply visiting campus to watch Notre Dame beat Michigan State on Saturday; instead, he joins five other leprechauns and 85 alumni cheerleaders for a reunion of all the people who have rallied the crowds, inspired the teams and spread the Irish spirit for decades. Today begins the three-day Notre Dame Alumni Cheerleading Reunion 2001. 
"As far as the leprechauns being back together, I'll say this much," Mike Brown said. "Who knows what's going to happen when you have a bunch of loud, high energy, ND-crazed Fightin' Irish lep­rechauns in the same place! This could be wild, me lad! We won't be wearing our uniforms, but I'm sure our spirit and love for the school is still going to shine through like no other." 
The last cheerleading reunion took place in 1991, when the organizer of this weekend's events Jessica Chiappetta Roman, class of 1992, was a member of the squad. She and her teammates thought the reunion was a wonderful affair at the time. 
"The alumni office did a really nice cheerleading video, making a montage of pictures set to music," Roman said of the first reunion. "That weekend was the Navy game, and when we were out on the field singing the alma mater on this freezing cold day, the man next to me was crying. He told me he was so emotional that he couldn't get the words out." 
After seeing how moving and rewarding the '91 reunion was. Roman said she and her teammates always kept the idea of another gathering in the backs of their minds. Last year, she and former teammate Mary Malone Denvir, class of 1993, acted on ~he thought and began organizing the reunion with the help of current cheerleading coach Jonette Minton. As a result of their tireless efforts, approxi­mately 120 people, comprised of former cheerlead­ers and their families, will enjoy a weekend of nos­talgia at Notre Dame, reliving the rou'tine they knew so well during their years as students. 
-For many of the alumni, however, the current football weekend routine will prove muc;h different from the ones they were familiar with, given the drastic changes that the cheerleading squad has witnessed over the years. 


The fact that the cheerleading team now includes Even the presence of the leprechaun, cavorting and varsity couldn't do it all,"

women will be a switch for many of the male alum­

and cheering as the school mascot, will be new to said current cheerleading coach
ni. Before 1969, the squad didn't allow females. In 

many alumni. Before the leprechaun was appointed Jonette Minton, who joined thethe spring of that year, however, four Saint Mary's 
as the official school mascot in 1965, Notre Dame cheerleading department in
students were invited to join the squad after a 

was represented by Irish terrier dogs, most taking 1993. As a result. varsity now
selective tryout process. In 1972, when Notre Dame the name of "Clashmore Mike." cheers at home and away foot­

became co-ed, female Notre Dame students became The first dog, named Brick Top Shuan-Rhu, was ball games. related pep rallies,cheerleaders for the first time. 

donated by Charles Otis of men's basketball games, alumni Cleveland and presented to and community events, while the Knute Rockne at the Notre Olympic squad rallies the Dame-Pennsylvania game of crowds at soccer games, 1930. The last appearance women's basketball games and of Clashmore Mike was with volleyball matches. Minton coach Hugh Devore and cap• added alternates and freshman tain Bob Lehmann on the members for the first time several years ago as a cover of the 1963 Notre result of the demand for cheerleaders by Notre Dame Foqtball Dope Book. Dame athletic teams. 
The squad itself has also Many alumni also didn't have another luxury grown a great deal since its enjoy<'d by cheerleaders today: funding from the fledgling days, now consist­athletic department. Formerly, cheerleaders had to ing of 33 members who raise money on their own in order to travel to away cheer on two squads and as games and cover expenses. One of the most creative alternates. Even when -and infamous -of their fundraisers was the sale Roman cheered at Notre of "rumper-stickers," which resembled bumper Dame, less than 10 years stickers and read 'Tm behind the Irish." These ago, the number of cheer­items were, fittingly, worn on Notre Dame enthusi­leading couples ranged from asts' backsides. The squad was rumored to have six to eight -a number sold around 10,000 of these ingenious items. which had been standard up Evon several of the alumni lepr'echauns will notice to that time. differences. The mascot's costume has also under­
"More sports were gone transformations over the years. "It's a totally requesting our presence, different leprechaun outfit." noman said, referring Friday, September 21, 200l 

The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE 

campus
Friday, September 21, 2001 page 21 
rard to victory 
·rit-filled reunion weekend, taking· the field on Saturday to cheer on the Irish 
leaders who led the crowds while Rudy ran across the field,· in addition to the cheerleaders who played them when the movie was filmed. Several attending alumni were members of the 1971-72 squad, which won the International Cheerleading Foundation Championships, while others screamed for Joe Montana when he played in Notre Dame Stadium. The cheerleading alumni live all over the country and across the globe; Deigo Miron, class of 1992 was planning on flying in from Japan for the reunion before tho recent terrorist attacks and con• sequent airport difficulties prevented his atten­dance. 
When alumni responded to Roman about the reunion, they also shared memories and stories with her that she then recorded. A common theme running through these recollections was the strength of the bonds of friendship formed and the unforgettable sense of teamwork achieved. Almost all alumni keep in close contact with their former squad members, and one group of alumni from the early l 970s reunites every year. 
"I have bad 47 good years of life, but without a doubt the most wonderful and magical year of my life was the year lwas a Notre Dame cheerleader," ssaid George McLaughlin, clas of 1976. His thought
~heerleading squads have undergone 
was echoed in the statements of countless other over the decades, from the days of all alumni, many of whom also related especially senti­mental and unique memories to Roman.
and Irish terrier mascots (below), to 
"I will never forget sitting on a couch, drenched
aiBm.g schemes (above), to the addition 
from the rain, my chin down, hands in my lap, pom­e squad (left) and the now well-known poms by my feet, in the Marriott in New Orleans, New Year's Eve, emotionally drained after we won
scot, the leprechaun (right).· 
the National Championship" said Shelley Muller Simon, class of 1976. "Someone came up and gently 
Photos courtesy ofJessica Roman took my hands in his and said 'Happy New Year, my dear.' When I looked up, speechless, I saw Father Hesburgh." 
Notre Dame is thrilled to welcome back these individuals who have played such an integral role in Notre Dame's history and spirit. ''I've been here for nine years," Minton said, "and I can't imagine the number of students returning who I've coached. It's 
year after year to the fight song," said Minton, "So going to he hugs all day Saturday." many alumni will remember the same cheers." After the pep rally, the alumni will have a chance 
to mix, mingle and reminisce at an Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu. hors d'euvres reception in South · Dining Hall with guest speaker Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association. On Saturday, the group will enjoy a tailgate together and then proceed to the game, returning to Alumni Senior Club later in the evening for a casual gathering. Sunday morn­ing, the former cheerleaders will gather in Alumni Hall to conclude the weekend by attending Mass which will be celebrated by Father Tom Blantz, cheerleading sponsor during the mid 1970s. Among the returning alumni are a wide range of professionals and accomplished individuals. The group includes doctors, lawyers, professional cheerleaders, teachers, to a photograph of an old costume. "It's brown, and veterans of ballet companies and it looks like the scarecrow outfit from the 'Wizard television producers. Notre Dame of Oz.' That's the only way to describe it," laughed cheerleaders have gone on to Roman. Each year, a custom leprechaun suit is spe­become everything from beautycially made for the new leprechaun. Each mascot pageant contestants -Laura Bach throughout the years has worn his own unique uni• Koch, class of 1984 was Miss Illinois form, which he is then allowed to keep. and first runner-up in-the Miss USA Although these particular elements and various pageant -to successful politicians other aspects of the weekend may be new to the -Jova DeFnor, class of 1977, is the returning alumni. much of it will bring memories current treasurer for the city of Los flooding back. After meeting for a receptioq at 3:30 Angeles. 
p.m. Friday in Angela Athletic Facility at Saint The careers of alumni cheerlead­Mary's, alumni cheerleaders will attend the pep ers are not the only interesting rally, wearing specially-made green cheerleading aspects of their lives; two former reunion T-shirts. Once again, they will be leading cheerleading partners are now mar­the crowds with members of this year's squad in ried, and another couple is present­
Photo courtesy of Jessica Roman
cheers to the Fight Song. ly engaged. The returning group 
Members of the 1971-72 cheerleadlng squad, above, won the
"It's a tradition to pass down the same motions includes sets of twins and the cheer-
International Cheerleading Foundation Championships. 



-
...,.. 
-J 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 21, 200 l 
MLB 
Mets staged for return to New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

For a week, Shea Stadium was a place for rescue equipment rather than runs batted in. Now it's ready again for base­ball, bringing the game back to a city recovering from dealh and destruction. 
"We know it will be tough," Mets catcher Mike Piazza said as he thought about returning this weekend to a ball­park where emergency vehicles lined the parking lot until two days ago. 
The staging area for rescue supplies in the Shea parking lots was where man­ager Bobby Valentine and some of his players spent long hours last week help­ing workers following the destruction of the World Trade Center. 
The team had Thursday off before opening a three-game series with Atlanta on Friday night, the city's first baseball game since the attacks and a suddenly crucial series for the Mets. They returned home just five games from first place after a three-game sweep of Pittsburgh. 
Crucial is a relative term, though, for this team which went through such emotional turmoil last week. 
The Mets were in Pittsburgh when the World Trade Center was attacked. They bused back home to spend a couple of days visiting rescue workers and hospi­tals, trying to help the healing of the city. 
When baseball resumed Monday, the schedule had the Mets at home vs. the Pirates, but the games were switched to Pittsburgh because their home field was a key point in rescue efforts. 
Back on the fie-Id at PNC Park, the Mets played two games wearing caps of 
I 
I 
!' 
I 
I 
I 
i 
New York's police and fire departments, a tribute to the heroes of the tragedy. They will wear the caps one last time Friday night. 
Valentine, his coaching staff and the 31 uniformed players will donate their salaries for Friday to benefit the widows and children of city police officers, fire­fighters and emergency service workers. The $450,000 goes to a fund created by ex-Met Rusty Staub 16 years a.go. 
"I have a tremendous feeling of pride for what my guys have done," general manager Steve Phillips said. "It just makes me proud to be a member of this organization." 
The Mets said just over 30,000 tickets had been sold for Friday night's game, just about average. Ceremonies marking the return were still being planned late Thursday. 
The players spent their off day reflect­ing on an emotional time that had touched them all. 
"Most of us are really excited to get hack home," first baseman Todd Zeile said. "We're looking forward to what's going to take place Friday. I don't know what it's going to mean to this city as a whole, and it's presumptuous to think it's going to have a significant impact, but if it alleviates some of the stress or gives people something else to focus on ... It's going to be a great opportunity for us to pay tribute." 
"lt's nice to be home," third baseman Robin Ventura said, "but it's going to be tough, too. It's definitely going to be a more emotional time." 
Ventura recalled how distracted the Mets were when baseball resumed play following six days off. "I hope we're a little better with keeping our heads in the game than we were Monday," he 

KAT Pho10 New York Mets catcher Mike Plazza slaps hands with teammate Robin Ventura during Wednesday's Mets victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
said. 

There was a subdued feeling about the game, which the Mets won with three runs in the ninth inning. That victory and two more against the Pirates while the Braves were losing three games to Philadelphia cut the Mets' first-place deficit from eight games to five. 
With 20 wins in the last 25 games, they returned home one game over .500, the first time they've won more games than they've lost this season since they were 2-1. 
Their recovery ha.s fueled talk among 


'I I ., 
ff§
:;::-:~;i::
:,;,;,:,:-: 
~~~:~~ 


C 
-~it,tiw,m'*~i, £ %:tt:PJS:§ffi;,
•,w,:,r.(,;,:.,,:..•....,_. •· 


..,,}{ 
lf.\@W!&;t,;,m,,MJ#(ff'

produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events 
september 23c~R?~ry center 
12:00 -5:00 pm General admission, $5 per person at the door 
i0:00 am -5:00 pm VIP admission, $15 per person, advance sale or:1y; includes luncheon with food stations and strolling fashion show 
· reaister to win! 
a honeymoor, package sponsored t5y' PremierTravel · a Superclubs honeymoon package sponsored byTravelmore 
contact 

Jessica at ProShow, 271-7469 for VIP tickets and more information 
---~----------------------------------------------------------­
o·. ~-.-. -.; _._._,._ ,._....,...J ............ ...... ,.. ...
~ 
bueblb):Sl!!'satntmarys.ed.u and

Dancers from the Ririe and Woodbury Dance Company
"I thought it was really helpful. creative and orig­
nest9877@saintmarys.edu.

carefully perform a skilled duet. 
fans of 1973, when the Mets won their division with a record of 82-79. 
Valentine often cited that ~eason to his team as he tried to shake.,them out of the doldrums this summer. He was look­ing forward to Friday night. 
"I think we'll have good emotion," he said. "We have the Braves in town. A lot of people bought tickets at the beginning of the season, hoping this would be a big series and, lo and behold, it's big. It's a fun time for baseball." · 
In a city that hasn't seen much fun lately, it's a welcome change of pace. 

,,,.. 
Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
Officials accept contract 
Associated Press 
NFL game officials voted yes­terday to accept a new contract that the league had recently offered, ending a lockout during which replacements officiated NFL games for the first time. The regular officials will return to the field for Sunday's games. 
A majority of the 119 officials • ratified the contract, which league and union officials had agreed to on Monday. Tom Condon, the negotiator for the National Football League Referees Association, said the ratio was about 2 to 1, The Associated Press reported. 
The contract, which is good for four years with an option for six, gives the officials a 50 percent 
_..._. __ _ 
rvoT£D#'f 
-·by people ' who know I tannfngJ 
I 
: I 
I 
. raise this season and a 100 per­cent raise by the fourth year. The officials voted via e-mail mes­sages. 
The contract ratified yesterday had the same monetary value as one that the league offered on Sept. 4, although the details were different. 
"l think the officials really wanted to get back to work," Condon said last night. "Jt was important to them to get back to officiating games again." 
Negotiations accelerated after the terrorist attacks last week in New York and outside Washington, which led Commissioner Paul Tagliabue to call off last weekend's games. 
The referees have been locked out since the final weekend of preseason games. Negotiations turned rancorous around the time the regular season began, with both sides making offers that were rejected. 

On Sept. 6, the the officials' union offered a no-strike promise if the ovvncrs agreed to send the dispute to arbitration after the Super Bowl. The league rejcl:ted the offer, saying owners had made a no-strike, no-lockout offer before the lockout. 
Many coaches, fans and play­ers had scoiTed at the idea of a lockout, but the league ended up using 15 replacement ofliciating crews, with many of them pulled from below the Division I-A col­lege level. 
The replacements were guar­anteed four weeks' salary at $2,000 a week, a total payout of almost $1 million. 
For Your Best Tan Ever-I· 1 
Get a Fun TatJ I I 
~I 
Ci-1
.!! 
<ti 
~ I 
{I o·

I 1111 )( 
~I 
z 

Yourchoice! Either 10 tanning bec1 sessionS forJust $35 I C>R an entire Month of bed t~nning for only $40. I I ANO when you bring in this coupon get 25%off our wide selection of tanning lotions! I 
I 272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 28 & Ironwood I 
L. 256-9656 C~of Grape and McK_inley. 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood J.
--.... -.---------~ --..... --,_ ---.----­
Join us for dinner and enjoy generous portions of Italian entrees and pastas like: 
• 
Shimp Farfalle 

• 
Chicken Parmesan 

• 
Salmone al!a Griglia 

• 
Sizzlelini® 

• 
Chicken Scaltopini 

• 
Shrimp Ravioli 



And remember, Papa recommends that you complement your meal with out delicious appetizers, desserts, and wines. 
Fantastical 

;.>~~.~~ 
A Celebration ofCreat Ta,te. 
MISHAWAKA 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219-271-1692 
RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: 

Sunday -Thursday 11:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Friday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. -11:00 p.m. 

Leagues, players donate to victims 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The NFL and its players asso­ciation will contribute a mini­mwn of $5 million each to orga­nizations aiding victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
The minimum contribution of $10 million, announl:ed Thursday, will be placed in a special NFL-NFLPA Disaster Relief Fund and will be admin­istered by a joint board co­

chaired by "NBA players share in week," said Commissioner B i l l y
the deep sense ofloss
Paul Tagliabue Hunter,
and devastation cause by
and NFL executive Players the catastrophe that took director of Association the union.
place last week." 

Executive "This ges­Director Gene ture is our Upshaw. Billy Hunter attempt to 
An initial $1 Executive Director of the NBA make a col­million in lective con­
Players Union 
grants will be made as soon as possible to address the needs of police, firefighters, other pub­lic safety, emergency and volun­teer personnel. 
"We are pleased that the NFL owners and players have joined together once again to make this heartfelt contribution to the families and other individuals with needs arising from last week's terrorist incidents," Tagliabue and Upshaw said in a joint statement. 
Major league baseball and its players association made a sim­ilar $10 million pledge on Wednesday. 
NBA players are contributing over $2 million to provide disas­ter relief to victims of the terror­ist attacks. 

The donation by the NBA Players Association is in addi­tion to previously announced efforts by players, teams, own­ers and the league to raise money and supplies. The NBA has contributed over $1 million to the relief effort. 
"NBA players share in the deep sense of loss and devasta­tion caused by the catastrophe that took place last 
tribution 
toward the relief effort and our players way of expressing their solidarity for the victims and their families." 
Individual players continued making sizable donations. 
The Mark McGwire Foundation for Children pledged $250,000 to support the victims' children, $150,000 to the children of fallen firefight­ers and $100,000 to the chil­dren of police officers. 
Barry Bonds announced that he would donate $10,000 for each home run he hits to the United Way for the relief fund, starting with Thursday's homer against Houston. 

-Great Deli (in the Schlotzsky's "tradition") -Fresh Fruit Smoothies ;; -Hand Dipped Ice Cream 
' 
1 "'41:,\\!~ -Live Music Daily at Lunch Friday & 
· Saturday Night -It's Kennedy! 
ii ~"£,\\1\ -I000 magazines & Best-Sellers· 
: ~\:,\\/\-Weekend Outdoor Grill -Friday & Saturday Nights 
All Day Gamedays 

I /2 lb. Sirloin Burgers, Brats, Chops, 
FAX  & Great Steaks  PHONE  
:243-9274  _,,..,....,..~=,,,__---­-:-~•,:J~;tM"'.t(:·~i~i:,f'.il/StfilI~"ni­.,., .,,.,,:c:,',\-:'s\/':': ·····.v_.  243,9172 NowHiring  
State Rd. 23 at Ironwood  

FREE LUNCHTlMF. DEUVEfff! 
•: Bring a copy of this ad in for a free 32 oz drink with the :: purchase of any sandwich or pizza 
?«1..:,,. •·.\"'\1"·,'1··\';t~~~f¾\~,'""A'A~ '.\)} \\.W,··A,:\\'s \~!.\.'.,_\'-\~"i:\'r'·¼•\·.' "\'.\~\W:i;S~''.'-\'i'.'-.\' -~ •'\\ 'i\ 
-


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 21, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Gamecocks upset Bulldogs as games resume 
back duo of Dontae Walker and Dicenzo Miller was heltl to a 81 yards rushing on 21 carries. 
Miller also sprained his ankle. though he played most of the game with the injury. 
Before the game the teams held an American flag that nearly covered a 20-yard stretch of field as the national anthem and "God Bless America" were played. Mississippi Gov. Honnie Musgrove addressed the crowd before the seven-minute cere­mony that included both schools' bands playing patriotic songs. 
"Enjoy the game tonight. Let the world see our resolve," Musgrove told the near-capaci­ty crowd at 45 ,67 2-seat Scott Field. 
Bulldogs coach Jackie Sherrill's daughter, Bonnie, sang "The Star Spangled Banner," the bands played "God Bless America" and about 30,000 mini 0ags were handed out to fans. Stadium security was increased by.about 60 per­cent, school officials said. Fans had their bags searched as they entered the stadium. but it only caused slight delays for those filing in. 

Jenkins, a 6-foot-2, 215• pound junior college transfer, played just one series, but it turned out to be the decisive one. He entered the game with 
7:54 left in tlrn third quarter and the Gamecocks at their own 15. 
"That drive with Jenkins was critical." Holtz said. 
Darting through the defense on a variety of option keepers and quarterback draws, Jenkins carried 11 times, including a 27-yarder that got South Carolina out of a penalty­induced first-and-30 hole. 
The drive stalled at the 11 and Daniel Weaver kicked his third fieltl goal of the night to give South Carolina a 16-7 with 22 seconds left in the third quarter. 
"I was just worried abuut 

working the clock, holding the ball and controlling the team," Jenkins said, "and we got three points out of it. so I did my job." 
Jenkins had carried four times for minus-2 yards and thrown one incomplete pass in South Carolina's first two games. 
Wayne Madkin hit Harold Lindsey with a 7-yard touch­down pass with :37 seconds left to cut the lead to 16-14, but South Carolina recovered the ensuing onside kick. 
Madkin was 27-of-46 for 261 yards with an interception in the third quarter that led to Weaver's second field goal. 
"Some games in the SEC are going to be a struggle. This was one of those," Madkin said. 
Mississippi State's offense showed no rust from a 17-day layoff when it opened the game with a well-balanced 67-yard touchdown drive capped by Walker's 2-yard dive into the end zone that put the Bulldogs up 7-0. 
Associated P =• 
STARKVILLE, Miss. 

The major college season resumed with some good old­fashioned power football. 
Andrew Pinnock ran for 97 

yards and a touchdown as South Carolina 
(No. 20 
ESPN/USA Today, No. 18 AP) beat Mississippi 


State (No. Holtz 16, No. 17) 16-14 on Thursday night in the first Division I-A game since last week's terrorist attacks. "I think that it was important for America to see a football game because football is America's sport," South Carolina coach Lou Holtz said. Backup quarterback Corey Jenkins ran for 75 yards as the 
Gamecocks (3-0, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) played simple smash-mouth football, running for 238 yards on 46 attempts to win their sec­ond straight SEC road game. They had just 60 yards passing on 16 attempts. 
Pinnock, a 250-pound full­back. did most of his damage running straight into the middle of line. 
"The holes were just incredi­ble," he said. "You could drive a Mack truck through it." 
Mississippi State's big, physi­cal defense was knocked back on its heels. 
"In two years, they're really the only team that's lined up and said, 'Hey, we're going to run the ball at you,"' defensive tackle Dorsett Davis said. 
South Carolina's defense allowed a ·touchdown on the opening drive of ihe game then kept Mississippi State (1-1. 0-1) out of the end zone until the waning seconds. 
The Bulldogs dynamic tail-

NCAA BASEBALL 
Gwynn signs up with alma mater 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Seasons Wanted Individual Games 
Preferred Tickets 
23,4•5650 
I 

________________j 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

Tony Gwynn isn't quite fin­ished with his old job and he's already got a new one. 
The San Diego Padres' batting star was hired Thursday by his alma mater, San Diego State, to replace baseball coach Jim Dietz following the 2002 sea­son. 
Gwynn was given a three­year contract beginning June 1. He will serve as an unpaid vol­unteer coach next season and will earn a base salary of $100,000 per season beginning in 2003. 
"This is the dream gig for me. What I think I do best is teach," Gwynn said at a campus news conference. "I can't believe I'm standing here. This is really awesome." 
Athletic director Rick Bay said Gwynn is one of San Diego State's most famous alumni and "one of the city's true icons." 
"The passion he carries for this university, and for the baseball program in particular, is obvious to all who know him," Bay said. 
Gwynn, who's won eight NL batting titles in his 20-year big league career, has 16 games left before retiring from the Padres. His final game will be at home on Oct. 7 against Colorado. 
He's been lobbying hard for the San Diego State job since the school announced in late May that Dietz will retire after next season, his 31st. 
The Aztecs play in Tony Gwynn Stadium, which was financed by Padres owner John Moores. Gwynn's son, Anthony, is a sophomore outfielder for the Aztecs. 
And now they've got arguably the best pure hitter of his gen­eration to take over a program that could use a boost. 
Although some might be sur­prised that Gwynn would want a college job, he said he's right person to coach the Aztecs. 
"This is the job I wanted. I want to make sure the kids graduate, I want to teach them everything I know about base­ball and I want to teach them everything I know about life. That's my challenge. I wish I could start today," Gwynn said. 
The 41-year-old Gwynn played for Dietz and also was a star point guard on San Diego State's basketball team from 1977-81. He still owns the Aztecs' game, season and career records for assists. 
He was drafted by both the Padres and the NBA's Clippers -who then played in San Diego -on the same day in 1981. He chose to play base­
-ball, and made his big league debut with the Padres on July 19, 1982, when he got the first two of his 3,138 career hits. 


1Reamtty licensed campus vendor providing: 
I 
j 
i 
. .... 
T-Sldrts 
,Caps Pol.o Shirts Jackets 

AdSpedaltit,t 
lle$fgn Senices, Quick Prbrtmg Commercial ·p_rinti.Bg 
:Em.bntldery 
:Screen Prinfin• 

,Ask abo,ut ou.r, new DORM&XQREl Call 800-813-2113 
.... 
I 
Friday, September 21. 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 
====================================~~=================================================~ 
The Observer has been putting out every night for 35 years. 
You w-ere a part of it. 
Now-, coflle back and do it all night long, one fllore 
•

tlflle. 
Calling all Observer alumni: 
The Observer's 35th Anniversary bash April 22, 2002 
For more information e-mail The Observer at obsreunion@hotmail com 
~ 
. .
. 
ll . . 
. 
1r 
l
I 
' 
4' 
4 
.j 
. 
. l 
. ' 
1 
l 
I 
l I 
I 
. ­

~ 


page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 21, 200 l 
NHL 
President's speech ices final period 
~ ·1
r.\ 
fr;J\l;-~ 

.,.­
l1WtBlWr1ZWll 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 
11:00 -STEPAN CENTER T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE 
DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/28/00 AT 5:00PM STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

.. . .l!!tUJ.,"l'1, · 

Associated Press 
PHIU\DELPHIA 

With President Bush on the big screen, hockey suddenly didn't matter anymore, not to the Philadelphia Flyers and New York Rangers or the thou­sands of fans in attendance. 
The start of the third period of the NHL exhibition game was delayed and then called off Thursday night as fans demanded to watch the President's speech to Congress instead of the game. 
"We get paid to play this game because people want to watch us," Hangers defenseman Brian Leetch said. "They made it pretty clear when they were going to shut that speech off that they wanted to see it." 
By the time Bush finished speaking 36 minutes later, the teams lined up at center ice to shake hands. 
"I thought it was great to shake hands," said Leetch, who lost a close college friend in the World Trade Center collapse. "At the end, everyone was giv­ing the President a standing ovation. It was a nice end to that game. 
"I was very impressed. The speech was unbelievably writ­ten, and he delivered it like a true leader." 
As a video flag waved on the screen, an announcement was made that the game was declared a 2-2 tie after two periods "out of respect for where the United States was headed in the near future." 
"It was very impressive," said Flyers forward Jeremy Roenick, who did not play. "I think 
......a.:~ ..1' Wet Your Whistle! 
• ~ (and stuff your face) 
DAILY SPECIALS ~ 
Rated # 1 Hot Wings ~' \ · in the area 
We Have ESPN College Game Plan and NFL Sunday Ticket 
Come Watch The Games lVith Us On One OfOur Many TVs! 
everybody in this building felt confident when he was done." 
The speech was about to begin as tho intermission clock counted down the final minutes in between the second and third periods. The scoreboard said that play was about to resume, and the speech could be seen in the outer concours­es. 
When the speech was taken off the screen, the 19,117 fans began to boo, before chanting in unison "Leave it on." 
"I thought it was a no-braincr for us to wait," said Leetch, who also has a brother in the Green Berets stationed in Kuwait. "If they started cheer­ing 'Let's play hockey' then we'd play hockey." 
As the teams returned to the benches for the third period, the speech was restored to loud cheers. 
The players from both teams were as interested in watching the address as the fans. Some knelt along the side boards, next to the four game officials who straddled the center ice line. 
"It's our reality right now," Leetch said. "It's not part of a movie, it's part of our life now. There's no denying it or trying to get away from it." 
In the speech's most dramatic moments, the fans roared ­drowning out the applause that could be seen on the screen. 
Spontaneous cheers of "USA! USA!" also rang out, and fans waved some flags. But when Bush was speaking. the arena fell silent. 
The biggest cheers from the erowd came when a widow of one the passengers, who helped thwa.rt the terrorists' plan to crash a fourth airliner into another building, was singled out by the President. They cheered again when Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge was recognized by the President. 
fans even roared when New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and New York Gov. George Pataki were shown -almost unheard of for Philadelphia fans to salute New York. 
"l am absolutelv proud," said Hon Ryan, the ·Flyers chief operating officer. ''I'm proud of our fans, I'm proud of our team. I think it worked out all for the best. These are unusual circumstances and I think it all turned uut right." 
Around the large arena, the scoreboards that line the upper level displayed video red, white and blue bunting. 
Before the game, the patrio­tism of the crowd also came out. As Lauren Hart, the daugh­ter of the longtime Flyers broadcaster Gene Hart, sang "God Bless America" fans sang and cheered. 
"God Bless America" has been a rallying anthem for the Flyers since the mid 1970s, but never did it have the meaning it held Thursday night. 
Former Flyers captain Eric Lindros, traded by Philadelphia to New York during the offsea­son didn't make the trip. 
Mark Recchi tied the game at 2 in the second period, flipping the puck over Blackburn's 


shoulder at J6:45. ,J,esse,v, Ph"I d I h" Fl "gh . ·J· t· w·ii· J ·k;.t. J. KR_T':~~1
Boulerice  also  scored  for  r a  e p 1a  yers rr  t wrng  us m  I  rams S  ..  es arounu  co  
Philadelphia (1-0-1). Barret  N_ew York Rangers defender during exhibition action Tuesday  
I-Ieisten and Mikael Samuelsson  mght. The end of the game  was  delayed, then called off as  
scored for New Yor_k (2-0-1).  President Bush's speech was displayed in the arena.  

''A GOAL FOR LIFE'' 


-4.r.~....,farseghia,n ·Research ·Foundatio11 
5k R.un / 2 M'ile Walk 
S'epteuiber Z..:f", 200.l ....... , Starts at 3 p~in~ attheCSC 
$1 O before race day -$12 on race day 
First 400 Finishers Receive 'f...Shirts! I 
Look for slgnups in the dining hatl or on rare day! 

THIS SUNDAY! 

Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mays tames Detroit in Minnesota win 
fiebreaking single in the eighth  his.  giving the Red Sox 40 for the  White Sox 7, Yankees 5  
Associated Press  inning as ·the Anaheim Angels  The 6-foot-5, 290-pound  season,  the  fewest  in  the  Josh Paul delivered a game­ 
won and stopped the Mariners'  first baseman homered and  majors.  Second  baseman  winning hit night as the Chicago  
MINNEAPOLIS  seven-game winning streak.  began the go-ahead rally with  Angel Santos, called up Sept.  White Sox beat the New York  
Joe Mays doesn't circle the  Seattle  (106-41),  which  a  single in the eighth as he  4, pinch ran after Pickering  Yankees, but his mind and  
games  against  tho  Detroit  clinched  the  division  title  led Boston to  a win over the  singled off Doug Creek (2-4),  heart weren't on baseball.  
Tigers on his schedule. No one  Wednesday night. kept Bret  Tampa Bay Devil Rays in his  then scored the winning run  Paul wore  a No. 41  on his  
would blame him if he did.  Boone, lchiro Suzuki, Mark  first start for the Red Sox.  on Chris Stynes' double.  chest protector to honor his for­ 
Mays'  domination  of  the  McLemore, John Olerud and  "There's  30  teams,"  mer Vanderbilt teammate Mark  
Tigers continued with a six-hit­ Dan Wilson out of the starting  Pickering said. "If you don't  Hindy,  who  worked  at  the  
ter in the Minnesota Twins' vic­ lineup. Suzuki and Mclemore  have  a shot over there, I'm  World Trade Center and is  
tory. Mays (16-13)  ran  his  pinch hit in the ninth.  happy over here."  Royals 4, Indians 2  missing after last week's terror­ 
record in five starts against the  "We needed to get some peo­ Over  there  was  the  Chris George figured the  ist attacks.  
Tigers this season to 5-0.  ple some at-bats," said PinieHa.  Baltimore  organization,  surest way to get on national  "I miss you, man," a subdued  
"It's hard to say what it is,"  the Mariners' manager. "We've  where  he started in  1995  TV was to do something spe­ Paul said.  
Mays said. "Luck - that's all  got to make some decisions."  before  being  traded  to  cial, so he made the best play  "I knew he worked down  
you can say. I just go out there  The Mariners  Cincinnati  of his life.  there, but I didn't know if he  
with a great game plan and have an idea of what I'm trying  manager said he will have his  "We needed to get some  last Aug. 30. But he  George made a sensational fielding play in the first inning  was in the building before any of this happened. I couldn't get  
to do." Mays benefitted from strong  regulars, except for the  people some at-bats.,.  was placed on waivers  and then held Cleveland to four hits over the next six,  a hold of him, and when I start­ed making some calls to his  
defense behind him and some miscues by Detroit's fielders to  injured B,oone, back in the  Lou Pinella  after just four pinch­ leading the Royals to a  Kansas City win over the  apartment, and I couldn't get a hold of his cell phone ... it's a  
outduel Jose Lima (4-8). Lima allowed just one earned run ­ lineup Friday night for the  Mariners manager  hit appear­ances and  Indians. In the first inning, George  terrible, terrible thing," Paul said.  
Jacque Jones' solo homer in the  opener  of  a  joined the  raced to the first-base line  'Tm not the only person out  
third  -on five hits in ,7 2/3  three-game series at Oakland.  Red Sox on Sept. 6.  and scooped Kenny Lofton·s  there who's like this."  
innings.  Boone, the Mariners' All-Star  "I have  no  clue" why tho  slow roller with his glove. In  With the game tied at 4, Jose  
"Joe used both sides of the  second  baseman,  was  on  Reds  waived  him,  said  one  motion,  George  then  Canseco walked and Carlos Lee  
plate and put the ball where he  crutches after bruising his right  Pickering. who went 3-for-4.  flipped it 15-20 feet to first  .doubled in the sixth off Andy  
wanted to," Detroit manager  heel Wednesday night.  "I try not to worry about any­ baseman Mike Sweeney to nip  Pettitte (15-10). One later, the  
Phil Garner said. "Uma was  "It's going to be a few days  thin g, just go out and play  Lofton by a step.  Yankees decided to intentionally  
right with him."  before we get Boonie back,"  ball and let my natural talent  "I think that was probably  walk Royce Clayton to load the  
Mays allowed only six singles  Piniella said. "We don't know  take over."  the best play I ever made,"  bases.  
and lowered his ERA against  how long he'll be out."  Pickering hit 22 homers and  George said. "Pitchers get a  Paul then sent a two-run dou­ 
the Tigers to 1.13 this season.  Boone,  who  had  an  MRI  led the International League  bad rap about not being ath­ ble over Gerald Williams' head  
No Tigers runner advanced  exam, could miss the Oakland  with 99 RBI before being pro­ letes, and I think I showed I  in center to put the White Sox  
past second base.  series although he said he  moted to Cincinnati on Sept.  was one there."  ahead 6-4 before Ray Durham's  
"I can't say enough about  hoped he would be able to play  1.  George said his goal this  sacrifice fly made it a three-run  
Joe," Jones said. "He's kept us  Saturday or Sunday.  The Red Sox current 3-14  season was  to make  a  play  advantage.  
in just about every game he's  "There's a lot of inflamma­ slide has dropped them from  worthy of inclusion on ESPN's  Before the White Sox's three­ 
pitched this year. If we had  tion," he said. 'Tm going to  contention and, while manag­ "Web Gems" highlight reel of  game series in New York was  
scored a few  more  runs for  push to play when I can, but I  er  Joe  Kerrigan  said  great defensive plays. He was  postponed last week, Paul had  
him, he might be a 20-game  want to stay smart about it. It  September games with  no  pretty sure he had.  planned to meet with Hindy,  
winner."  should feel a lot better tomor­ bearing  on  pennant  races  "I hope my folks get to see  who pitched at Vanderbilt.  
row."  aren't the best times to judge  it," he said.  After his calls went unan­ 
Angels 6, Mariners 3  players, "how could you not  George (4-5) allowed a pair  swered, he finally found out  
Now that the Seattle Mariners  Red Sox 2, Devil Rays 1  want to  look  at him  some  of singles in the third inning,  from Hindy's family on Friday  
are  AL  West  champs,  Lou  Young players are getting  more?"  and retired 11 in a row before  that his friend was missing. A  
Piniella is thinking about his  their chances after older ones  Shortstop James Lofton also  Marty Cordova homered to  memorial service is planned  
playoff roster.  couldn't keep the Red Sox in  started his first  game for  open the eighth.  Monday.  
Seattle rested half its regu­ the  playoff  race.  Calvin  Boston since being called up  The left-hander, who went  "It changes our perspective.  
lars, and Bengie Molina hit a  Pickering made the most of  Wednesday and stole a  base,  11-3  at  Triple-A  Omaha  For me personally, someone  


FRI. SEPT.21 7:00 PM women's soccer vs. VIiianova 
,..College Night" with prizes and gift certificates'from: Spa Colfax -• 
~!!!~P.~~Y. Ala 
~~~~· 
• Dorm Competition: 
Wolfie's Donn with the highest.percentage in attendance receives 2DO Wo(liet subs! 
Men's Soccer vs. Rutaers 
AT. SEPT.22 7:30 PM and 
Woman's Soccer vs. Georgetown. 
UN. SEPT.23 1:00 First 500 fans receive a free frosty from 


before joining the Royals in who's lived, eaten, drank, July, wasn't overpowering breathed baseball, it's taken a and got several outs on line back seat," Paul said. drives. "Friends and family, I'm not 
But he did just enough to taking them for granted any stop the Indians, who had more. You never know when outscored the Royals 22-5 in they'll he gone." winning the first two games of Sean Lowe (8-4) got the win the series. with 1 1-3 innings of one-run 
"I thought we were going to relief. Keith Foulke earned his get to him," Indians manager 39th save in 42 chances by Charlie Manuel said. "But he retiring the final two batters in stayed aggressive. We hits the eighth with two runners on some balls good early, but and also pitching a perfect Kansas City got some breaks." ninth. 
-


page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 21, 2001 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Bonds hits 64, Astros sweep Giants 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Even as the Giants were swept· by the Astros, Barry Bonds wasn't worried about his team. 
Despite Bonds' league-leading 64th home run, San Francisco lost 5-4 to Houston, finishing a disappointing three-game series. 
"We've got plenty of time," Bonds said. 
The Giants, who began the day two games behind Arizona, the NL West leader. Houston started Thursday 4 1/2 games ahead of second-place St. Louis in the NL Central. 
After Bonds tied the score with his 64th homer, Lance Berkman hit a go-ahead double in the 10th inning. 
"We've been scrappy and I like that," Berkman said. "Even in adverse situations we feel like we can come back." 
With 15 games left, Bonds is six homers shy of the record Mark McGwire set three years ago. Bonds' 64th came in San Francisco's 147th game, eight games fewer than it took McGwire to hit the same num­ber. 
Bonds has 558 career homers, five shy of matching Reggie Jackson for seventh place. 
He announced Thursday that for every home run he hits from here on out, he will donate $10,000 to the United Way to aid in the relief effort stemming from last week's terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. 
Houston led 4-2 in the fifth when Bonds homered on a 1-0 count off Wade Miller. The high, arching ball cleared the fence beyond the reach of Richard Hidalgo. 
"I threw a changeup that missed a little bit low, then threw another one right down the middle and he crushed it," Miller said. "I kept hoping the ball would come down, but it just kept going." 
Bonds rounded the bases to chants of "Barry! Barry!'' and high-fived teammate Rich Aurilia, who also scored, and Jeff Kent, who was waiting on deck. 
With the score 4-all in the 10th, Jeff Bagwell walked with one out, stole second and scored on Berkman's IlBI double down the right field line off Robb Nen (4-5). 
Ncn, who also had the loss and a blown save in Tuesday night's 3-2 loss to the Astros, was grim after the game. 
'The team kept us in it and I gut us out of it," he said. "Everything I'm doing right now is costing me." 
Octavio Dote! (7-5) pitched the ninth for the win and Billy Wagner worked the 10th for his 36th save in 38 chances, retiring Calvin Murray on a game-ending flyout with two on. 
Miller allowed four runs, seven hits and four walks in seven innings with five strikeouts. 
San Francisco took a 2-0 lead in the first on RBI doubles by Aurilia and Bonds, who caused the sellout crowd to gasp with a drive that hit the wall near the 421-foot marker in deep right center. 
Houston tied it in the second on Richard Hidalgo's sacrifice fly and Miller's RBI single. Berkman hit an RBI double in the third and Moises Alou added a sacri­fice fly in the fifth. 
It was the first time the Giants had been swept at home since May 28-30 against Arizona. 
Cubs 6, Reds 5 
Even though his hamstring ached, Fred McGriff wanted to play at least one game at Cinergy Field. He picked the right one. 
McGrilf felt good in warmups, got back in the lineup and hit a three-run homer as the Chicago Cubs built a six-run lead and held on for a victory ovor tho Cincinnati Reds. 
Jason Bere (11-9) pitched seven shutout innings, leaving the lleds on the verge of being blanked for a second· game in a row. That hasn't happened to them in eight years. 
Instead of a feel-good ending, the Cubs found themselves sweating one out. The Heds scored five in the ninth on homers by Adam Dunn and Wilton Guerrero, but Jeff Fassero struck out Ken Grift'cv Jr. to save the Cubs from ~ potentially devastating ending. 
"Where we are right now, it doesn't matter how you win," Sammy Sosa said. "We don't have a lot of time left." 
By taking two of three, the Cubs built a smidgen of momen­tum for their pivotal weekend series at Houston. The Cubs are third in the NL Central and third in the wild card race. 
The Cubs were in first place and looking to pad their four­game lead when they got McGriff in a trade with Tampa Bay on July 27. Now, they need a strong finish just to get the wild card. 

"We've got to be realistic," manager Don Baylor said. "We're running out of games to do things. Win the division? We just have to win a series, start there and maybe get something rolling, win seven of eight." 
Braves 5, Phillies 1 
Kevin Millwood made sure the Atlanta Braves went to New York in first place. 
Millwood pitched six shutout innings and Javy Lopez drove in three runs as the Braves beat the Philadelphia Phillies to reopen a 1 lf~-gamc lead in the NL East. 
The Braves avoided a four­game sweep and headed to New York with a 5 1/2-game lead over the Mets. Friday's opener of a three-game series at SIJCa Stadium is the first major out­door sporting event in New York since last week's terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. 
"It's going to bfl emotional." Chipper Junes said. "I doubt thero will be a dry eye in the place. If playing the Atlanta Braves can be a rallying point for the people in New York, I'm honored to be a part of it." 
Millwood (6-6) allowed three hits and struck out a season-high eight to win for the fourth time in live decisions. 
"You don't want to get swept in a four-ganrn series and it's always nice to stay in first place, let the other guys know they are still chasing you," Millwood said. 
Lopez gave the Braves a 1-0 lead on a sacrifice lly in the sec­ond. Ken Caminiti walked to start the inning, moved to third on a double by Andruw Jones and scored on Lopez's liner to center. 
After Jones singled with one out in the fourth, Lopez hit his 16th homer for a 3-0 lead. 
"We kind of got back in the groove," Lopez said. 
Cardinals 9, Pirates 1 
Most contenders would love to bring a power bat like this off the bPnch in September -a guy named McGwire. 
Woody Williams pitched three­hit ball over seven innings and Mark McGwire, who came into the game only because of an injury, homered in his 39th major league park as the St. Louis Cardinals beat Pittsburgh for their seventh straight victory. 
The Cardinals won their 10th in 11 games tu stay 4 1/2 games behind NL Central leader lloustun, which beat San Francisco 5-4 in 10 innings. St. Louis held its 2 1/2 game lead over the Cubs in the wild card race, while the Giants foll three games back. 
McGwire's 25th homer started a three-run St. Louis third inning against Jimmy Anderson (7 -17). who lost his eighth in nine decisions by surrendering eight hits and walking five in 6 1-3 innings. 
McGwire homered on an 0-2 pitch while batting first in the order, a peculiar spot for him created when Fernando Vina bruised his right hand while being struck by a pitch in the first inning and left the game. 
McGwire, who is batting .188 and was in a 2-for-15 slump, wasn't in manager Tony La Hussa's initial lineup for the sec­ond day in a row, only to homer for the first time since Sept. 10. He went 0-for-5 during the Cardinals' just-completed four­game sweep of Milwaukee. 
"This is a really good team to watch," McGwire said. "They're exciting. I'm having a good time watching them -these guys are pretty good. I haven't been a factor all year. They deserve the credit. 
"It blows me away the media still wants to talk to me." 


Seeking Applicants for Spring/Summer 2002! Discover how to use. your degree overseas! 
Information Meeting And Video 
Tues., Sept. 25, 7-9 p.m., Center.for Social Concerns 
Visit us at the Post-Graduation Volunteer Fair! 
Wed., Sept. 26, 6 to 9 p.m.,Stepan Center 
Have you considered doingjitll-time service overseas after graduation-? Check us oul at 1he Information Meeting or the Post-Graduation Volunteer Fai1: Find out the benefits of Peace Corps service and how to apply. Ask questions of returned volunteers and recruiters while they 're on campus. look up our website:www.pe11cecops.gov 

,~~~0~0i
i ND Women's i I i Volleyball !I !I vs. = I 
I I 
i Syracuse iI 
I I
i 6:00 Saturday@ the JACC ! 
I I : I Cheer on the Lad1A 9rish (After:I 
I ':V I 
: I the football gavne ancl : I 
I I 
: I 1Nin $~SO for your clctss!!l : I 
I I
I I 
I I 
I Class with the mostc;fttendc:rnce will win the : 
I I : I money. JVlivzimum 200 participants per class. II 
¦... &. I 
;.,.. a~las! 
·-------------------------------------· 
Friday, September 21, 2001 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
-.=-The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation 
to come together and celebrate the EuGharist this 
weekend. 

Notre Dame/Michigan State University Football Weekend September 22-23, 2001 
Saturday Vigil Masses Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica  8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am  
Sacred Heart  
Parish Crypt  6:30, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am  

Collections will be sent to New York City to support the families of the members of the New York Fire and Police departments who lost their lives. ' 
4 
' 
' 
' 
. . 

page 31 
' 
' 
•
--' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
-< l 
l. 

. 
-i ' 
l 
l 
l 
-l 
------· 

" ' , .. 

Friday, September 21, 2001 
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lyons' defense set 
Siblings·set to square off 
for Badin's offense 
rebuilding year for Welsh 

By MATT MOONEY and 
Hall. 

BRIAN LONG 
Welsh returns only three Sports Writers 
starters on both sides of the 
ball, and more than 30 fresh­

The unstoppable force men made the roster. Captain meets the immovable object 
Vanessa Lichon looks to 

when Lyons and Badin take 
freshman Lauren Hoeck to the field Sunday. 
command the troops at quar­While Badin believes its 
terback. 

offense is the strongest part 
"Even though we lost most of their team, Lyons feels its of our team, we feel we have defense won't be penetrated. a good chance at defending"Our defense is our biggest our championship," said strength," said Irene 
Lichon. Onyeagbako. "We have a lot 
But the Purple Weasels, of returning players so we fueled by last year's earlyhave experience. I think exit from the playoffs, are 
[holding Badin scoreless] primed to challenge the isn't out of the realm of pos­
defending champions. While sibility." the two teams didn't butt 
Of course, to be successful, heads last year, in 1999, a team must have a balanced another youthful Welsh attack. Lyons will need to squad blanked the Weasels score in order to win. In 
16-0. 

addition, the Badin offense 
Leading the PW offense this looks to come out and chal­
year will be wideout Amanda lenge the Lyons' defense. 
Gallen and fullback Hanna The game should prove to 

Lambiotte. Kelly Dries, play­be one of contrasts. Last 
ing the middle linebacker year, Badin's offense was 
slot, will look to tear it uptheir pri-against the m a r y 
inexperi­strength. 
e n c e d
"Our defense is our

T h e y Whirlwind moved the 
biggest strength. We have offensive 

ball up and line.
a lot ofreturning players 

down the 
W i t h 

field suc­so we have experience. I 
thoughts of cessfully think [holding Badin playing in against Notre Dame
scoreless] isn't out ofthe

most of Stadium in
realm ofpossibility. " 

their oppo­their minds, nents. the Weasels Although look at play­
Irene Onyeagbako

Badin had ing Welsh
Lyons' captain

some diffi­straight out culty get-of the gatesting the as a wel­
ball in the come challenge.
end zone last year, they hope "We're looking forward to to get there with some regu­
some good competition, but larity aga-inst Lyons. · we know that the best team Both teams look to get off will win ... which, of course, is 
on the right foot for their 
us," said PW sophomore season openers. 
Leslie Schmidt. While Onyeagbako feels that her defense will ensure "a Lyons victory," Badin will 
Contact Matt Mooney at 

have something to say about 
mmooney@nd.edu and Brian 

that. 
Both teams earned playoff spots last year, so entering their respective seasons, both coming off a disappointing "We have some great play­


By AARON RONSHEIM and 
loss and will be looking to . ers and I don't expect us toMATT DeNICOLA put up some points on lose again.''
Sports Writers 
Sunday. 

Walsh VS. Lewis
Off-campus lost Tuesday 

Sunday's clash between
For senior Erin O'Keefe 
night to Lewis 14-0. It was 

Walsh and Lewis is a battle
and freshman Megan the first time that the Off­
between two teams hoping
O'Keere this Sunday's 2 p.m. 
campus team had been 

to finish their season by
game between Off-campus together. 
playing in Notre Dameand Howard will be more 
ult was the first time play-
Stadium.
than a battle ing togeth­But while they knowof two Blue 

er and it 

where they want their sea­
L e a g u e "I can't wait to go out showed," 
s on to end, both captains
rivals. and show up my older said cap­
admit they don't know aFor these t a i Il
sister." whole lot about their oppo­
two it is Kristin 
nent.
about family 
Carey. 

"They are not a team we
bragging Megan O'Keefe "Hopefully 
are very familiar with," saidrights. It will after a few
Howard Lewis captain Caitlin Murry.
be the first 
practices 

"I am really not sure whattime that the we can their plan of attack is."
sisters have squared off start to develop some team 
The Wild Women of God
against each other in orga­chemistry. We are looking Quad prepare for Sunday's
nized sports. 
forward to showing people 

game just as they would for
"I can't wait to go out and 
that we are better than we 

any other.
show up my older sister," 
showed Tuesday." 

"We have been working on
said younger sister Megan 
Off-cam­consisten­

O'Keefe. "I have been living 
pus rotated 

cy onin her shadow too long. She Abby Hoss 
"Anytime you get to play defense
did everything first dating, and Carey 
a n d
driving and coming to Notre someone in your family
at quarter­

offense
Dame." back as there is an added 
this week,
Megan O'Keefe will see 
they tried 

incentive to win. She may just like
playing time at wide receiv­to find an we will all
er and will enjoy seeing her be bigger but I can still
offensive season,"

sister on the other the other groove. bring her down. " 
W a 1 s hside of the ball. "It's hard 
captain
"I won't be holding any­
we haven't 

Erin O'Keefe Alison
thing back. I hope that they 
had a 

Troy said. 
play man so that I can beat chance to Off-campus 
T h eher one on one." 
bond as a 

Chicks
Megan O'Keefe sees this as t e am , " have been an opportunity to step out of Carey said. "Even though we 
concentrating on playing aher sister's shadow and not 
are all seniors we have a 

controlled game.
be referred as, "Erin's little 
lack of camaraderie." 

"We are running a pretty
sister." 
Howard lost to Walsh 6-0 

basic package, nothing revo­Erin O'Keefe has also cir­on Tuesday in a defensive lutionary: consistent execu­cled this game on the sched­
struggle. After giving up an 

tions and running tight pat­ule. 
early touchdown the Howard 

terns," Murry said.·
"Anytime you get to play defense held its own. 
Although these teams are
someone in your family Howard hopes that its 
not familiar with each other,there is an added incentive 
offense will rebound from 

both expect a strong chal­to win. She may be bigger 
Tuesday's power outage. 
lenge.

but I can still bring her Senior Jill Veselik will be "They are a good team,
down." returning as the starting 
but we are going to give itBoth of these players have 
quarterback and will have 

our all," said Troy. "And weemphasized that the game is 
three explosive receivers. 

play hard."
more than about the sibling Junior Sally Hosey, The game begins at 3 p.m.
rivalry. 
Sophomores Elizabeth 

on the on the field behind
"This is a team game," Klimek, and Katie Nokes all McGlinn Hall.
Erin said. "I just hope that 
returning players will be at the end that we are on 
one of the keys to Iloward's top." Contact Aaron Ronsheim at
offense. This is an important game Captain Katie Cawley feels Ronsheim. l@nd.edu and Matt for both teams since each is confident about her team. DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu 

will have something to shoot 
Warren §o!f Course at' 'Not:re 'Dame 
for. Lyons lost in the first round last year, so it is look­ing to prove something this year. Badin, meanwhile, lost in the quarterfinals. This year, it looks to improve upon last year's performance and get even farther in the playoffs. 
The two teams square off 

~ to so'X.., OffSelectediJtenis
against each other Sunday at 4 p.m. on the West Quad. 
Women's 'Apyare[, 'Jvten's 'A_pyare{, Chi(Jren's ~pyare{, C{u6s
-
Welsh vs. Pasquerilla West 
Sunday afternoon's match­up between defending 
LiniitedSuyy{y ef§ame 'Day ']-[ats 'Avai[a6Ce 
women's interhall champion Welsh Hall and league rival Pasquerilla West showcases a rebuilding powerhouse. 
With players studying 

.Look 'For rtls at Our Sat"e{{i-te Sfio_p at the 
abroad and graduation hit­ting the reigning champs 
:Joyce Center on 'FootGa{[ 'Friaays a·nd§a1Jte 'Days
hard, this year looks to be a 
'T'fie Warren §oifCourse is Locatedon
Vero Italiano 

-rfie 'Northeast Side ofCa'l'nyus on 'Douglas 'Rnad 
Catalino', Trattoria 
Downtown South Bend 

(219) 631-4653 

Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 33 
THE CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS 
Welcomes its New Candidates and Newly Professed to Moreau Seminary and Old College 














"We heard a summons to give our lives over in amore explicit way." (Constitutions of Holy Cross, 1.3) 
For more information, contact: 



Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
ANSWER~ THE CALL W 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 










,., 
page 34 Friday, September 21, 2001
The Observer . SPORTS 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
After narrow loss, Belles hungry for win 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associace Sports Editor 
Wednesday night's close call made the Belles hungry for a win. And tonight, players believe they­will be satisfied. 
"We had a great game [Wednesday}," senior captain Angie Meyers said. "It's gotten us really excited for the game [tonight)." 
Tonight the Delles will take on the Bulldogs of Adrian College in a game that will pit two teams of equal talent against each other. The Bulldogs arc 1-2 in the MIAA, while the Belles are 1-3. 
During Wednesday night's match-up against Kalamazoo, the Belles proved they could win if they stayed focused. Saint Mary's took the first two games, but dropped the last three. Tonight they want to stay in the game. 
"One thing that we still need to be working on is communication," Meyers said. "We need to keep staying in the game even if we ·ve won two games and focus the whole time." 
Adrian is young. During its most recent victory against the Britons of Albion. the Bulldog offense was led by two freshmen -middle hit­ter Lauree Dermyer and Mara Bray. Sophomore setter Joanna Weigel offered 41 assists in the game. 
But the Belles are not deep in experience. Meyers, a four year veteran, has been leading a team of young players. Besides fellow seniors Jolie LeBeau and Jaime Dineen, Saint Mary's is composed entirely of sophomores and fresh­men. 
The team is hoping to capitalize on improvements that have occurred over the season and turn the almosts into reality. 
"Each game we're getting better and hopefully we can start winning instead of just wming close to win­ning," Meyers said. 
Teams such as Calvin. with its strong offense, have provided spe­cific threats to Saint Mary's throughout the season. However. Adrian does not dominate in any specific area of the game and Saint Mary's is looking to play its own game. 
"There isn't one thing in particu­lar thing that sticks out in my mind about Adrian," Meyers said. "They always have a decent team. Its more of what we need to do and focus on instead of them." 
The Belles know now is a key time for them to turn things around while they are still within catching distance of MIAA leaders Calvin and Hope. 
"We need to start picking up more MIA-\. wins and from here on up I think that's all [our gamesJ are," Meyers said. 
Action gets under way tonight at Angela Athletic Facility at 6 p.m. 
Contact Katie McVoy at rncvo5695@saintmarys.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles set to take on MIAA competition at Jamboree 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's cross coun­try team will take on MIAA competition for the first time this season tomorrow at the MIAA Jamboree at Hope College. 
The Belles are coming off a strong finish at. the Ferris Hope Invitational that left them in a good position heading into con­ference competition. 
"Everybody is looking really strong and a lot better from our first meet," junior Whitney Ross said. "We improved so rapidly. Everyone's time has gone down by at least a minute." 
The Belles have been work­ing on running as a pack, a method that paid off last Saturday. All five Saint Mary's runners finished within 11 places of each other, something they're looking to do again this week. 

"I think that when we started out we didn't know where we were but we're getting a little bit more comfortable ·with who 

P.4.RTY ON THE PATIO Great f~d &dally drink specials Fri. Lil' Funk Band 
Sat, Jiromy Buller Parry: Kb,Jci Lya,oa 
Muaic 8-12 on tilt patfo! 
1£06 W. lmiiana Ave, 289-1361 
we can run with and the top five they can run pretty strong together," Ross said. "Everybody runs with at least one person on the team." 
Last year's MIAA champion, Calvin, hasn't had very much experience yet this season. The Knight have only run in one meet thus far. 
Last year's second place fin­isher Albion looks like it may have the strongest MIAA team this season. The Britons lead­ing runners, Bethany Ferdinand and Sarah Smith, ran 17:21 and 17:27 respec­tively at their last meet. 

The Belles top five runners are averaging about 21:40. 
Adrian also promises to be tough competition. The Bulldogs leading runners recently finished in third place in the Mel Brodt Invitiational at Bowling Green. They were led by Kristy Michaels, who fin­ished the race in 19:35, and Danielle Hobbs who ran a time of 19:40. 
The Belles defeated the Scots of Alma last week at Ferris State. Olivet has been unable to field a complete team. The real competition for the Belles will come from the Hornets of Kalamazoo and the host Flying Dutch. 
"It's not really specific teams we're looking to beat, its just everyone wants to go out and run their best meet," Ross said. "We're gonna try and stay up there with Hope and Kalamazoo." 

The meet wilJ get under way Saturday at 11 a.m. at Hope College. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintrnarys.edu 
T-shirts and Pr-omotio..al Items 
• T-sb.irt:s 

• 
Golf' Shirts 


• 
Sweatshlrts 

• 
Jackets 

• 
Caps •Uniforms 




• Nau1e Brand 
Marketing
Apparel 

Services, Inc. 
• Writing In..s1:runien.ts 
• 
Glassware •Bags 


• 
Leat.her Accessories 


• Spirit Pro:nios •Awards 

• Recognition Gifts 
''A leader in'prornotionaladvertising produc~s ~o ~he collegiat;e ,narket;. " 
259.8843 
Ceil Paulsen 
Collegiate Marketing Coordinator 
e-mail: ceil@mvillage.com visit us on the web at www_pjpromo_c:om 2533 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 35 
SMC GOLF 
Belles ready for final conference tune-up 
By KA TIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles have one more chance to sink a victory before they tee off for the champi­onship. 
Saint Mary's will play in the third and final MIAA tournament at Lenawee Country Club this weekend before the Sept. 28 MlAA championships. After Tuesday's third place finish, they're looking to pqtt their 

way to a first place finish. 
"I think we're ready and I think a lot of the girls can make a come­back this weekend at the course and do well." senior captain Mary Claire Hathaway said. 
This will be the Belles third year playing at Lenawee. Although the course is very different from the difficult course the Belles played on Tuesday, Hathaway is expecting the level of dif­ficulty to remain the same. 
"I think [the course) is going to be about the same," she said. "There's just a differ­ent look to the course. All courses are what you make of it." 
Saint Mary's is going to have make the best of the course. Tuesday's third place finish came on an off day for the Belles. Hathaway led the team, with a solid finish, but several of the younger members fal• tered. Saturday, the Belles want to focus on playing good golf. 
"As long as the individual is focused then a good score can be produced," Hathaway said. 
This week's practices focused on the short game. The Belles look to win each hole with their short game. 
"We concentrated [Thursday] on our short game," Hathaway said. "That's really what it comes down to ultimately. You can have a long drive but as long as you can get up and down, you can score." 
After spending a tough week at practice, the Belles are looking forward to the opportunity to get off campus and play 
«we concentrated [Thursday] on our short game. That's really what it comes down to ulti­mately. You can have a long drive but as long as you can get up and down, you can score. " 
Mary Claire Hathaway Belles' captain 
elsewhere. 

"Its nice to get out and play the different parts of Michigan and all the courses.;' Hathaway said. 
This is the final week of competition before the MIAA Championships which will be held at Saint Mary's. Although this week's scores do not ultimately affect the MIAA champion, the tournament will give the teams one last chance to size each other up before the finals. It will also give 
the Belles one last chance to work out their game. 
"J think it will be another chance to see what other teams have and what we really have to produce at the conference champi­onship," Hathaway said. "It's a chance to have one more showing of what we can do as a team." 
Action tees off at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday at Lenawee Country Club. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Sa£'e-tyTips £'or Foo~ballWeeken._ds!!! 
fit 
Go Belles!!! 

Etrou.gh.t to""Y'ou. bySai.n:t 1VIary's College 'Eloard0£ Go-v-e:rn.an...ce 
•Make 
sure you travel in groups...never walk alone in the dark! 

•In 
the warm weather of South Bend, drink plenty of fluids before the Irish beat MSU! 

•Avoid 
excessive alcohol consumption! 

•Never 
take rides from people you do not know! 


"> 

•Avoid 
counting money in public, especially near ATM machines! 

•Have 
fun and be safe!!! 



Go Belles! !! 

page 36 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 21, 2001 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish return to Big East play against Rutgers 

By CHRIS FEDERICO Spons Writer 

Following a long break from conference play, the Notre Dame men's soccer team will return to Big East action this weekend when they host No. 23 Hutgcrs (2­1 · 1 ). 
Notre Dame's last Big East game was on Sept. 1 when they defeated Villanova 5-0. 
Earlier this week, the Irish won a non-conference game ,against Cleveland State in preparation for their return to conference play. 
"It took us a little while to get back into the swing of things," head coach Bobby Clark said. "Wednesday night, we fell a goal behind, but I think our guys really pulled together and kept their l'ocus to come back and get the win." 
The victory came at the right time, because it allows the Irish a chance to have played a game following the long layoff bcf'ore taking on Rutgers, a learn that has given Notre Dame some trouble of late. In their last four games against the Scarlet Knights, the Irish are 0-4, scoring only one goal. 
"We have to approach this game like any other game." said fifth-year senior Griffin Howard, who had been with the team in those four games. "Our concern right now is that this is a Big East game. We play our schedule from one game to the next, and the next game happens to be Rutgers." 
Like Notre Dame, Hutgers is powered by a strong defense. In their first four games this year. the Scarlet Knights have allowed only four goals. Their one def'eat came at the hands of No. 6 Saint Louis, 1-0. 
"I really don't know [how we'll match up against HutgersI. because I just don't know enough about 

Hutgers," Clark said. "I know Hutgers is one of' the better squads in the country, and they'll be a good test." 
Hutgers is led on the field offensively by senior for­ward Dustin Sheppard, its top returning scorer from a year ago. when he recorder 12 goals and four assists. Earlier in the season, Sheppard was named Big East player of the week for scoring two goals in their opening-game victory over Pittsburgh. 
"We've had good prepara­tion these past weeks," Clark commented. "Although we didn't get to play [until Cleveland State], _ we kept practicing. and I think we'll be ready for this game." 
The Irish play al 7:30 
p.m. Saturday at Alumni Field. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederk@nd.edu. 
MEN'S GOLF 
New faces bring new attitude to Irish golfers 
towards their dual goal of qual­The top returning goll'er from ments but has improved over know that it will take much 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
ifying for NCAA Regionals and last season, senior Steve Hatay, the summer, and local fresh­dedication and practice to Spores Writer 
winning the Big East. finished fifth at the campus man K.C. Wiseman look to be achieve their goals. , 
"We sat down and talked championships, but is still some of the other promising Notre Dame must qualify as 
With a new coach, strong vet­about it. We really want to expected to lead the team this players. Witten finished third one of the top six teams in the erans, promising freshmen and improve the status of the year. Coming back after being at the campus championships. NCAA's District Four, not an a defined goal, the Notre Dame team," said freshman Steve Notre Dame's leading golf'er all The transition to a new coach easy feat against such teams as men's golf team begins its Colnitis. "We need to grind it season with a 73.81 average has been very smooth for the Minnesota, Toledo and quest to qualify for the NCAA out every week." last spring, Ratay he feels just Irish. Northwestern. Regionals for the first time Colnitis was a bit of a sur­a little bit of pressure. "!Jasinski! is fantastic. It's "We've come to a pretty since 1966 with Saturday's prise to Irish golf when he took "I try not to put any extra great having a full time coach. strong conclusion on what Earl Yestingmeier Invitational away the win in the Notre pressure on myself," Hatay Someone is always coordinat­numbers it will take to win, at The Player's Club in Muncie, Dame Men's Campus said. ing practice now," said llatay. and we're going to match or Ind. Championship on Sept. 9. Being the experienced veter­George Thomas, the previous surpass those numbers ... 
Coach John Jasinski, begin­The one-time Nike Junior All­an, he realizes that he must golf coach, was part-time. We're going to be on the ning his first season at the American had a 72-hole total perform well. "I have a passion for periphery [of District Four helm of lrish golf after nine of 292 with a two-stroke lead "Ratay is definitely the lead Northern golf," said Jasinski, a competition]. We're on the out­years as head coach at Toledo, over sophomore Gavin Ferlic. horse," .Jasinski said. Besides 1983 Toledo graduate. "A lot of side looking in," Jasinski said. said that Notre Dame has an Jasinski was pleasantly sur­Ratay, the rest of the top five people doubt [Northern goll'J, "It will take tremendous opportunity to win this week­prised by Colnitis' first perfor­seems to be up for grabs. but I enjoy proving people effort," Jasinski said. "But the end. "[The Player's Club] is a mance. 'Tm very excited to find out wrong. If you've done it in the guys are hungry." fair course if you play it well," "He has a real single-minded who the supporting cast might north, you've really done a nice Jasinski said. focus," Jasinski said of the be," Jasinski said. job." 
The team is looking at this freshman. "That's the greatest Veteran Chris Witten, who Despite the benefits of having Contact Joe Lindsley at tournament as the first step ingredient in having success." has not played in many tourna-a full-time coach, the Irish Lindsley. l@nd.edu. 

Sugarberry Lane...So Much More Than a Gift Shoppe... It's your headquarters for decorating your dorm or apartment. 
Create your own space with the wonderful fragrances of Fall from Yankee Candle. Relax to the gentle sounds of a wind chime. Accent your room with selections from the Mary Engelbriet Collection. Place a special cuddly soft Boyds Bear on your bed. And when you to step out onto campus, step out in style with bags by 
VEAA'BRADLEY~ 
T-Shiru  DHlgn Services  
Caps  Quk.k Printing  
PoloShiru  C<Jmm,ercial Printill&  
Jackeu  Embroidery  
AdSpeclaltla  Screen Prin  


We're just minutes north of campus! 
52313 St. Rte. 933 North • 2 72•9608 
Ask about our new DORMSTORE/ 

Mon-Fri 10am to 6pm • Sat 10am to 5pm
Call 800-813-2113 

Sun Noon to 4pm Visit us online at www.sugarberrylane.com
3112 Lednatoa Park Drive, EJkJlart, In 46514 

Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 37 

Soccer 
continued from page 40 
against Penn State. After sit­ting out the Irish's last game against Wisconsin, sopho­more midfielder Randi Scheller has fully recovered from a knee injury and will be ready to go this weekend. 
Junior midfielder Ashley Dryer is back to 100 percent after a battle with mononu­cleosis. Starting forward Ali Lovelace is not quite fully healthy from a knee injury she suffered in the Irish's most recent contest against Wisconsin. She is expected to see playing time this week­end. 
The lrish's current record is 3-0-1. Two weekends ago, the injuries caught up to the Irish in a double overtime tie against the University of Wisconsin. The Irish looked weary and fatigued at the end of the game as a result of the lack of available substitu­tions. 
Having all of these healthy bodies gives Waldrum a luxu­ry he has not had all season -a chance to finally see the Irish at full strength. After being forced to juggle his lineup all season as a result of the injuries, Wald rum should be able to determine which lineup combinations will work for the rest of the season. 
"After this weekend, Coach should have a better idea of our positions and our roles on the team," said forward Amy Warner. "This last week was our first week all season where everyone has been healthy so we are definitely ready to get back to action. These Big East games are really important to us so I expect us to play with some real intensity." 
Last year, the Irish defeated Villanova and Georgetown on the road so they know that both teams will come in this weekend looking to avenge last year's losses. While Villanova and Georgetown have historically not been the strongest teams in the Big East, each team is very much improved this year. 

"Villanova has some very good young players. They played us tough last year. We only beat them 1-0 last year," said Coach Waldrum. "Georgetown has three wins and one tie against some tough competition this year so I expect them to be a real challenge on Sunday. While we have been able to handle them over the last few years, they certainly will not be an easy match-up for us." 
This next week will be piv­otal for the Irish as they play three games in five days. The Irish play Villanova on Friday at 7 p.m. and Georgetown -on Sunday at 1 p.m. On Tuesday, the Irish will play host to national powerhouse Nebraska in what should be a great test for both teams. 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlican­dr@nd.edu. 
Interhall 
continued from page 40 
list is topped by junior line­backer Bailey Siegfried. On the other side of the ball, senior running back Brandon Nunnink will be called upon to lead the Dawgs' attack. 
Alumni's captain Nick Linstroth is confident in the new members of the squad. 
"Our young guys arc step­ping up, and I'm sure the team will be ready for Sunday," he said. "Dillon had a great team last year, and some say we were unorganized as a team. That was last year and this is this year. We're just focusing on one game at a time." 
The battle at 3 p.m. on Sunday will be held on the 
southern Riehle field the Stepan Center.  near  
Keenan vs. Stanford Keenan may be defending champs,  the but  

when the Knights take on Stanford Sunday, they'll be doing more than just defending their title; they will be working to defend bragging rights against their neighbors. 
Keenan and Stanford are connected by a common entrance but are bitter rivals on the 
the defensive play caller. to graduation. 
"We lost a lot of seniors who took care of our defense," said Knight cap• tain Brent Morlok. "But we have a new person stepping in and we will be running a little different defense this year. so we'll see how that works out." 
Junior Dave Cantos, an offensive lineman, assisted by Andy Groebner, will be taking over the leadership roles on defense. 
"I know [Stanford] has a lot of new players which we haven't seen, but I'm sure it will be a hard-nosed game because we live in the same building and everything." Morlok said. 
Keough vs. Morrisey 
Keough just barely missed the playoffs last year, miss­ing a bid ,by a points-scored tie breaker. This year the Kangaroos aren't going to be satisfied with another near miss. 
"Our first priority this year is to make the play­offs," said Keough quarter­back and captain Andy Hess. "And we're on our way to doing that." 
The Kangaroos will see if they have what it takes Sunday at 1 p.m. on South Riehle Field when they face the Morrissey Manor. 
The Manor is coming off a 
difficult 
football field. Keenan  "Our young guys are stepping up, and I'm sure  season but are hoping to turn  
will  come to  the team will be ready  things  
that line with four returning  for Sunday. Dillon had a great team last year and  around, primarily with the  
offensive  some say we were  help  of  a  
linemen: captain B r e n -t  unorganized as a team. That was last year and  strong backfield consisting  
Morlok,  this is this year. "  of tailback  
R  y  a  n  Edward  
Crochet, Dave Cantos  · Nick Linstroth  Henandez III and  
and  Brian  Alumni captain  fullback  

L  o n  g  .  
However,  
behind the line,  a  rookie  
will  be  at  the  helm.  

Freshman quarterback Patrick Downey will lead the Knight offensive attack. 
On the other side of the ball, Keenan lacks such vet­eran leadership. losing sev­eral key players, including 
e GE Financial M'anage»ient Progra,n 
Join Us Tuesday, September 25th and You Can.. _ ... Learn More About GE Learn About GE.,s Financial Management Program 
...Learn How To Join Many Companies By Joining Only One 
GE Financial .M'anage"1-ent Prograw, Career Day 
Tuesday, Septe,nber 25, 2001 2:00 -6:00 PM Lower level ofCCE ALL JW:AJORS WELCOME 
J o h n 
Caver. 
"I feel pretty confident," said Morrissey captain Andrew Baum. "Last year we didn't do so well, but we 're going to work on changing that." 
As for Keough, it's added a tale·nted group of fresh· man to compliment their returning upperclassmen. 
Freshman John Tritschler will join Brian Adams and the other Kangaroo receivers in a passing attack that proved to be quite successful last year. 
Senior Mike Perrone is joined by freshmen Clay Nuelle and Dan Gegen to bolster a power running game in which all three could see a significant amount of carries. 
When these two teams met last year, Keough was victories after a solid per­formance by their defense. 
This is a new year and a new season, so with a posi­tive attitude and a hard­working group mentality, Morrissey should not be taken for granted. 
"I don't really know much about them," said Hess. "Hopefully we'll have a good time, hit hard, and things will happen. We're all looking forward to it." 
Contact Anthony Bishop at abishop l@nd.edu, Katie Kinner at kkinner@nd.edu and Matt Furrie at mfurrie@nd.edu. 
Page 38 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 21, 200 l 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish face circus atmosphere in Big East opener 
,_ 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
The Irish women's volleyball team begins its 2001 Big East season Saturday night surround­ed by a circus atmosphere -lit­erally. 
The Irish look to extend their 33-match Big East win streak when they host Syracuse Saturday night. The evening has been designated "Big Top Night" in the Joyce Center. Face-paint­ing stations, snow cone machines and cotton candy will be avail­able. 
"Just because of the tinie of the football game, it should be a pret­ty festive atmosphere and a lot of fun and a lot of different things for kids if they're around," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of 
the contest, which follows the Notre Dame-Michigan State grid­iron match-up. 
The match marks the confer­ence opener for both teams. Notre Dame (4-3) has not lost a regular-season Big East match since falling to West Virginia in 1998. The Irish also own a 36-0 mark against Big East opponents at home. 
"I think it'll be good for us to go ahead and start," Brown said. "I think everyone's looking forward to the conference schedule." 
The Irish topped the Orangewomen {5-3) in four games last Nov. 11 (15-3, 13-15, 15-5, 15-3). But three senior starters graduated from that team, and Syracuse now relies on a core of much younger players. 

"They're very, very young," Brown said. 'They have three or four freshmen in their starting lineup. It's really a different team from last year and the seniors that they lost were very experi­enced and people that Lhey really relied on." 
The key to that young core is freshman Laura Koster. Koster, a middle blocker, currently boasts 
a .365 hitting percentage to go along with 112 kills and 37 blocks in eight matches. 
"She's a good player and some­one that they've gone to a lot this year," Brown said. "It probably won't be any different against us." 
Brown compares the Syracuse freshman to Irish sophomore Kim Fletcher. 
"She's a middle, she hits behind the setter especially well -very similar io how Kim Fletcher is used for us," Brown said. "She doesn't have the speed that Kim does but I think she's very effec­tive offensively." 
In last year's match, three cur­rent seniors led the Irish offensive attack. Kristy Kreher totaled 18 kills and nine digs and classmates Malinda Goralski and Marcie Bomhack each had 14 kills. 
This season, Goralski has shouldered most of the offensive load. The middle blocker current­ly ranks 11th in the NCAA with 
1.79 blocks per game and 39th in hitting percentage. 
"Malinda [Goralski] has carried a huge, huge load for us," Brown said. "I think that's great, she's doing a great job." 

After her team lost three matches two weekends ago at the 
U.S. Bank/Arby's invitational, Brown reorganized her team's line-up. One of the keys is getting sophomore Christa Moen into every game. 
"She has a very, very good serve and its really accurate," Brown said. "She can put it to any position on the court that we want her to put it. We can really take advantage of an opponent's weak passer or a weakness in their system with her serve." 
Brown also looks forward to fans who came to town for the football game deciding to attend the volleyball game as well. 
"We don't do it that often," Brown said of playing right after a football game. 'Typically, we do get people corning in from the football game. In the past we've played later. We've played at like 7 or 7 :30 p.m. so I think [atten­dance] might be a little better because we play at 6:001." 

Contact Noah Amstadter at Amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish seek sixth straight National Catholic title 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame's top seven run­ners will run together for the first time today as they go for their sixth-straight National Catholic Invitational title. The Irish will set the tone for their season as they debut their first team. 
"I don't try to make this com­plicated. With 27 teams on the line, if you go out slow, you're going to waste energy. We need to be aggressive early and to compete for the entire 5,000 meters," said women's head coach Tim Connelly. "Last time, we competed well for the last mile." 
Freshman Christi Arnerich, juniors Muffy Schmidt, Jen Fibuch and Jen Handley, sophomores Julie Schmidt, Megan Johnion, Megan Peterson and Emily Showman, and senior Hilary Burn will take the line for the Irish. Johnson is the defending National Catholic Invitational champ. This will be the first race for Johnson, Fibuch and Handley, the top Irish runner from 2000. 
"Last year, we ran well in this 
Fresco 
Ca1alino'9 Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

meet, but this year this has to the rest will be division II or just be our starting point," said lower, including St. Connelly. Bonaventure, Saint Louis, 
No. 15 Marquette, who won Xavier, Dayton, DePaul, the Bradley Invitational two Canisius and Detroit-Mercy. weeks ago, will be the field's "This meet is important to strongest competition. Ten divi­us," said Connelly. "If we can sion I teams will compete, and do well, then that will say we have the ability to compete." 
Canadian freshman Lauren King will not race today, though she will take the line in next week's Notre Dame Invitational. 
"She's healthy and training great," said Connelly. Beth Androski and Maggie 

Nelsen are not running because of injuries. 
The women's race starts at 
4:15 p.m. 

Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 

Friday, September 21, 2001 The Obmuer . TODAY page 39 RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 

CUNNINGHAM



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Most likely ones 57 Copy cats? Pepsi, e.g. to be invited 58 Catcher Tony 34 and aah
5 Bit of parsley 59 Capital near 
35 Boxer Laila _ Casablanca10 Tuxedo shirt 

fastener 36 Italian for "to the 60 "You said it, tooth" sister!"
14 Its capital is 
Muscat 38 Delta rival 61 Puffy Combs's 15 Vestige 
39 What an air ball first name doesn't touch 62 Prepared to

16 Carson's late­40 Begin's co­praynight successor Nobelist in 1978 63 Signals17 Agitated state 41 Twosome in the agreement18 Man of many gossip columnswords? 
42 Parkland birds DOWN19 Mystery writer 44 Olympic prizes 1 Price paid Ambler 46 Do a do-si-do 2 All: Prefix20 Italian for "pick 47 Red Rose 3 Lion's den 

me up" 48 Big name in toy 4 Alka-Seltzer, for
22 Intelligence trains one24 Ice cream treat 50 Italian for 5 Yo-yo necessity25 Public square "beautiful 6 Nonpoetic26 Secretarial work singing" 
writing 29 Guards 54 ·_it rich?" 7 Brand of sauce 32 Arduous 55 Poetry Muse 8 Italian 9 Beats it ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Vulgar person 11 Italian for 
Puzzle by Peter Gordon

A L A R s "baked earth" 29 Prayers 47 Corolla part 51 Jules Verne 
12 Military captain

T S H O W subdivision 30 Sauna item 48 "Loose sink 
L I T E R N S 13 Physicians, ships"
31 Hoaxes 52_theline
E N briefly 
33 Confuse 49 Fortuneteller's (obeyed) 
O T 21 Tues. preceder phrase
36 In unison 
53 Has
23 Photo finish 

37 Supreme Court 50 Title pig in a 25 Word 1995 film Dashed
worker
processing 41 Creative person 
command 26 Choreographer 

43 Card game also Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Twyla called sevens are available by touch-tone phone: 
P I O V O S T 27 New Haven 44 Member of the 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). N O L E N T A student 500 home run Annual subscriptions are available for the E L A I N E R T O R 28 Italian for "first club best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 R E S T A A S O N S lady" 45 List abbr. years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON jewelry if you aren't careful. THIS DAY: Jennifer Aniston, Unreliable characters may try to Brandy, Matt Lawrence, Sheryl inf!uenceyou.000 Crow, Sidney Sheldon, Burt VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Reynolds, Eva Gabor, Leslie It's time to get rid of the old and Nielsen, Vrrginia E. Johnson, Tma bring in tl-\e new. You will find Louise that your emotions will fluctuate 
Happy Birthday: You'll be if you don't keep extremely busy. high on life and on energy. You Don't give your mate the chance will have the wherewithal to to confuse you even more. 000 make decisions that in the past LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you tended to ponder over. You Don't stress out about your will take your position among career. Take the day to relax and your peers and colleagues. This get your mmd off your troubles. will be your year to excel and to Do something special with fami­make a difference. All the infor­ly. You need support from the mation that you have gathered ones you love. 000 will now come into play and lead SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you to the winner's circle. Your Get together with those who numbers: 18, 26, 29, 34, 37, 40 could help you move ahead. You 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): need to make new connections Socializing with co-workers will and get on with your life. You've lead to a better working environ­wasted too much time waiting to ment. Someone you do business be recognized for your good work with will find the way into your and talent. It's time to present heart. Rumors may be detrimen­yourself and your talents. 000 tal if you aren't discreet. 00 SAGIITARIUS <Nmt 22-Dec. 21): 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be careful not to offend someone If you get an early start, you'll be you care about. People are often surprised how much you can get more fragile than they appear. accomplished and how much Try to put your diplomatic cap praise you'll receive from loved on and help to build up this ones. Organization will help you person's ego. 0000 
-achieve your set goal. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should be doing something to It's a good idea to get busy catch­enhance your outlook or bring you ing up on those household knowledge. You need to experi­chores you've been putting off. ence new and exciting things. 00 Don't leave any detail undone. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll feel much better when Don't let family members put everything is done. 00000 demands on you. You have to 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): learn to say no if you want to Attend meetings with a close be able to concentrate on your friend. You not only will learn a own efforts. 0000 lot about a worthwhile cause, but PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): will meet interesting individuals Your heart will ache if you played who intrigue you. 000 your old trick of emotional black­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): mail on your mate. You've cried Don't let others take advantage of wolf one time too many; and now your generosity. You could easily you'll have to say you're sorry misplace your wallet or items of and hope for the best. 000 
Birthday Baby: Channing, sophisticated and intuitively intelligent best describe you. You will be blessed with popularity as well as the ability to find solutions to any problem that you encounter. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ___Zip_____ 
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
-BSERVER . ND Volleyball, p. 38 
. SMC Golf, p. 35 
. 
ND Women's Cross Country, p. 38 . SMC Volleyball, p. 34 

. 
Men's Soccer, p. 36 . SMC Cross Country, p. 34 


. Men's Got(, p. 36 . lnterhall Football, p. 23, 32
PORTS 
Friday, September 21, 2001 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Bring on the Big East 

. Irish ready to begin conference play this weekend 
By JOE LICANORO Sports Writer 
After two weeks of tough practices and scrimmaging against each other, the Notre Dame women's soccer team is ready to play anyone in a dif­ferent colored uniform. The Irish will not have to wait any longer as they play host to both Villanova and Georgetown this weekend at Alumni Field. 
Ile ad coach Randy \Valdrum has been pleased with his team's effort over the last week and he is look• ing forward to seeing how his 
team  will respond  as  they  
begin  Big  East  play  this  
weekend.  

"This last week has been our best wer,k of practice so far· this season. The intensity level was great all week," said Waldrum. "There is always an added incentive when you play a team in your conference. Over the last few years, every team in the Big East has given us their best efforts. I expect two tough games this weekend." 
While the Irish missed out on an opportunity to play at Stanford and Santa Clara last weekend as a result or the national tragedy. the extra time has given the Irish time to recuperate and rededicate themselves. 
"We certainly would have loved to play those games," Waldrum said. "but last week soccer was the last thing on everyone's mind. I have been extremely proud of our team over these last two weeks." 
For the first time this sea­son. all of the Irish starters are healthy and ready to con­tribute in the lineup. Projected starting forward Melissa Tancredi will see the first action of her Notre Dame career this weekend. She has finally recovered l'rom a knee injury that sidelined last year and the beginning of this year. 
rreshman midfielder Mary Boland. who scored a goal in her very first collegiate game, will also return from an injury that she suffered in the first game of the seaso 
see SOCCER/page 37 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Entire team ready to run 
the Irish have become. shouldn't be much trouble for By KATIE HUGHES "Todd Mobley has been running Notre Dame. defending champs SporlS Writer stride for stride with Conway. for the past six years. 
They've all been running great," Piane was certain who he would 
The No. 5 Irish will host the said Piane. "Conway is the put in for his first five runners. National Catholic Invitational defending champion, and it will Bird and Kerwin emerged at today, running full force for the be interesting Valparaiso as first time this season with senior to see him and the two he
"J don't care if[Ryan
All-Americans Ryan Shay, Luke Shay run would put in as Watson and Pat Conway. against each Shay is} running against the team tests Senior Mark Striowski and other." itself today. "It.
the best runners in the 
sophomores Mario Bird, Todd Shay won the was a bit prob­
NCAA or me, he's
Mobley, who won the Valparaiso Nation a.I lematic picking Invitational on Sept. 7, and Brian Catholic intense." the last two Kerwin, who was second at Inviational guys, but judg­Valparaiso, will round out a team three consecu­ing from the
Joe Piane
that has the potential to be a tive times. from last meet, [Bird national powerhouse. 1997-99. head coach and Kerwin] 
"It would be marvelous if we "[Shay] is were the logi­could win convincingly," said extremely com-cal ones to head coach Joe Piane. mitted, and he will be intense choose. I think the guys are excit­
Conway, Watson, and Striowski tomorrow," said Piane. "I don't ed. and they really need this meet took the top three spots in last care if he's running against the before we get into the big ones year's National Catholic best runners in the NCAA or me, later in the season," said Piane. Invitational. Adding NCAA 10,000 he's intense." The men's race start<; at 5 p.m. meter champ Shay in his first The 27-team field, including cross-country race since 1999, Marquette, St. Bonaventure, Saint when he gained All-American Louis. Xavier, Dayton, DePaul, Contact Katie Hughes at 
• 
status, will show just how strong Canisius and Detroit-Mercy khughes@nd.edu. 
• 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Dillon, Alumni renew rivalry 
lost to Keenan in the regu­
By ANTHONY BISHOP, 
lar season.
KATIE KINNER and MATT 

Although the Big !led lost
FURRIE 

a few key seniors to gr·adua­
Sports W,irers 

tion, current senior Jason Visner will be called upon to Dillon and Alumni open 
anchor a strong offense at their seasons with their running back. The defense most passionate game of the looks to J.P. Camardo at year as the two rivals linebacker to step up for the square off Sunday. big plays."We're glad to be playing 
This year, several new them again," said Dillon faces have joined the Dillon captain Tayt Odom. "We 
squad and should make a didn't get to play them last solid balance between youth year and it should be a good and experience. game. We're hoping to have "The new members are another great season." fitting in very well," said The game showcases Odom. ''I'm confident DilJon's Big Red, who went they'll play well." undefeated in the regular 
Alumni also lost a few season last year and seniors, but are returningAlumni's Dawgs, who went several of their own strong 3-1 in the regular season. players. Defensively, this Both teams lost to Keenan in the playoffs. Alumni also 
see INTERHALL/page 37 
. NO Cross Country Invitational, Friday, 4:15 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Villanova, Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
online classifieds 

. SMC Volleyball vs. Adrian, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football vs. Michigan State, Saturday, 1:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 21, 2001 
Angry Irish anxious to 'kill' Spartans 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Irish co-captain Horky Boiman summed it up simply. 
"Nobody here has beaten Michigan State," thf' Trish outside linebacker said. 
Nobody. Not fifth-year head coach Bob Davie, not the co-captains. not the players. 
Fellow captain Tony Weaver put it more emotionally. 
·•1 want to kill MSU," the defensive end said. "I hate Michigan State. I haven't beaten them since I've been here, and it bothers me." 
Davie will try to bring to an end his four year history of heart-wrenching losses to the Spartans Saturday when No. 23 Notre Dame plays host to Michigan State. 
And there are a host of reasons push­ing the Irish to finally pul.l out a win. 
With less than two minutes remain­ing in last year's contest, the Irish were poised to win with a 21-20 lead. But then freshman quarterback Jeff Smoker and receiver Herb Haygood burnt the defense with a 68-yard pass play that caught the defense off-guard, resulting in a last-minute Spartan win. 
Two years ago, a late-game play by re-ceiver Gari Scott secured a 23-13 Spartan win. 
And those were the close games. In 1997 and 1998 the Spartan easily handed the Irish 23-7 and 45-23 loss­es. 
The Irish are still smarting from the losses and hungry to avenge the past. 
"They've put it to us the last four years. It's really important to go in there and be tough," Boiman said. "I think they are going to try to intimidate us a bit but we just have to ignore that. I don't think they have our number and I don't think they will have our number this year." 
But after a lackluster start to the sea­son, Saturday's home opener will be anything but easy. 
The Spartans find their power in tail­back T..J. Duckett, a junior who already ranked 12th on Michigan State's all­time rush list before the 2001 season began. He ran all over the Irish last season, rushing for J42 of 229 total yards and catching two passes. This t.imc around, the Irish defense knows what it has to do. 
"You tackle him like any other human being," Boiman said. "Ile is not a god runrrnr out there. You tackle him like anybody else. You hit him in the legs. wrap him up anti take him down." 
Hut, Duckett shows no signs of slow­ing down this season, gaining 120 yards and running in a 31-yard touch­down, passing tho 2,000 career yard mark in the Spartans' opening win ove.r Central Michigan. 
~We've got to stop the run," Irish inside linebacker Courtney Watson said. "Everything starts for them with the run up front and T.J. Duckett ... Our main concern first of all is No .. 8 and his big behind coming through the line." 
But while the Spartans excel on offense, they are suffering on special teams, a weakness the Irish hope to exploit. 
The Michigan State special teams unit faltered against Central Michigan as the Chippewas' James King single­handedly blocked four Spartan punts. 
"That's a big concern," Duckett said. "Notre Dame has great special teams. Two weeks ago. on special teams we sputtered. It's something we have to correct and fix." 
And the Spartans have good reason to be concerned. Last season, the Irish special teams corps excelled, pulling out key plays in several games. 
"Anytime a team gets four punts 

blocked you are going to try and exploit that weakness," Irish corner­back Shane Walton said. " 1 don't think any team in the country invests as much in special teams as we do. We go out there everyday and practice it." 
Both Michigan State had an extra week off after postponing their games last weekend. The Spartans are 1-0 coming into Saturday's game, while the Irish are hunting for their first win, with a 0-1 record. 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 
Now open for lunch 7 days a week 

Your Campus Delivery Expert 
Serving you from 11 :00 a.m. Everyday ·---------------.----------­
f Campus Special #1 -1 Campus Special #2 Campus Special #3 
I Hot and Now!! : I I Thin Thursdays Feed a Friend 
I Add A 2 Liter Bottle of 
I

Large One Topping I Large Thin CrustI Coke Or Twisty Bread
Pizza And An Order Of ' I Pepperoni Pizza 
I 
' 

Twisty Bread ' (Thursdays Only)
I I 

. $7.99 . $5.99 $1.99
•• 11. 

Deep Dish $ 1.00 Extra. '"2001 Domin.o's Pizza. LLC Coupon Not Valid "2001 Domino's Pizza, LLC Coupon Not 
"2001 Domino's Pizza. LLC Coupon Not Valid 

With any other offer. Offer valid with Coupon Valid With any other offer. Offer valid With any other offer. Offer valid with Coupon 
only. Valid at participating stores only. Prices with Coupon only. Valid at panicipating only. Valid at participating stores only. Prices 
May Vary. Customer pays sales tax where applica­
stores only. Prices May Vary. Customer 
May Vary. Customer pays sales tax where 

ble. Our drivers cany less then $20. Cash value pays sales tax where applicable. Our dri­
applicable. Our drivers carry less then $20. l/20t vers carry less then $20. Cash value I /20¢ 
Cash value 1120¢ Hurry, limited time only 
Hurry, limited time only! 
Hurry, limited time only! 


Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Weaving a national title 
Senior defensive end leads by example in perennial quest for the ultimate prize 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spons Ediror 
Anthonv Weaver catches him­self dreaming from time t(J time. 
A year ago. he saw himself reaching up and intercepting a pass against Michigan State. A game ago, he saw himself stop­ping Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch in the backfield. 
"l try to envision these things all the time," he said. "I think if you can see the play bdorn you actually do it you have a chance of it actually happening." 
Most of Weaver's dreams come true. Last year. Weaver reached up and grabbed Spartan quarterback Jeff Smoker's pass for his first career interception. Two weeks ago, Weaver recorded eight tackles -including a sack of Crouch. 
But Weaver has one dream about something deeper, some­thing bigger than just making big plays in a game. Every day, Weaver remembers what the celebration was like after the women's basketball team drove down Notre Dame Ave. last year. He remembers the hordes of cheering students waving posters over their heads. And he wonders what would happen after the Irish win their first football title since 1988. 
"I want to win every game. I want to ¼in a national champi­onship," Weaver said. "That's the only reason you come here is to win a national championship. It's been so long, I felt in the four years I'd be here, we have to win at least one." 
Weaver is in his final season. His dream still hasn't come true. 
A childhood fan of Notre Dame, Weaver always hoped to help the Irish win their first national championship since 1988. But because South Bend was so far from his hometown in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Weaver always saw himself attending Syracuse so his family could watch him play regularly. 
As soon as he arrived on cam­pus, however, Weaver knew Notre Dame was the place for him. 
"Once I came here and saw the campus, the Stadium, I was hooked," he said. "And my fami­ly still drives out here for every game." 
It was just the beginning for Weaver. When he arrived for practice in the fall, Weaver was planning on red-shirting his freshman year. Before he knew it. he was practicing with the first-team defense. And in the season opener against defending national champion Michigan, just three short weeks later, the freshman defensive end found himself starting against presea­son All-American tackle Jon Jansen. 
"I remember a lot about that game from the tape," Weaver said. "I was lined off the ball a lot, probably because I was ner­vous. I remember I was like a yard off the baJI and here I am watching the tape thinking. 'What am I doing?'" 
Weaver must have been doing something right to catch the coaches' eyes that early in his 
up close & personal 
WITH ANTHONY WEAVER 

Anthony Weaver 
birthdate: July 28, 1980 hometown: Sarasota Springs, 
NY 
major: government worst item in the dining hall: I 
can't name just one 
aword to describe me on the 
field: relentless aword to describe me off the field: goofy who will the Irish play for the national title? Who cares? Nobody remembers who came in second 
career. Head coach Bob Davie remembers a shy freshman who earned his starting spot through tough, physical play on the prac­tice field. 
"From the moment he walked in here, I think he proved he was explosive," Davie said. "He's been consistent from day one. He's been a solid rock for us." 
Weaver held his own in his first game, and he looks back and laughs at the difference between the senior co-captain he is today and the wide-eyed freshman he was four years ago. He vividly remembers walking into his first practice and seeing gigantic offensive lineman. And he couldn't believe how fast the college game was. 
"In high school, I was never, ever on the ground," he said. "I was on the ground every single play [the first day of practice] ­they were just knocking me all over the field." 
Weaver has come a long way since then. With 31 starts under his belt -the most of any cur­rent Notre Dame player ­Weaver is no longer awed by sold-out stadiums nor is he intimidated by massive offensive linemen. Now, Weaver describes himself as a relentless playmak­er. 
"You just gotta be confident out there," he said "When I go on the field, I have the attitude like I'm the best. If I get beat, then in my mind in didn't have a good play. I want to be the best all the time, every play." 
"He's a guy that everyone respects because he does it the right way," defensive coordina­tor Greg Mattison said. "Anthony has been a consistent football player. He's gone through just about anything someone can go through." 


Weaver wasn't elected captain for his vocal leadership -he's the type of player to lead by example. He describes himself as laid-back off the field, but when he puts on his helmet, he believes he's the opponent's worst nightmare. 
"Off the field, I'm not going to be a real cocky guy, but on the field, I need to think to myself, 'I was a second team All­American,"' he said. "I should be able to beat any guy on the field. That's just my whole mentality." 
"He might not say much on the field with his mouth but you look at him at the end of the game, ho's done so much and you don't even know it," linebacker Courtney Watson said. "It's more just showing you by exam­ple and getting the job done." 
Weaver would much rather let others do the talking. In fact, his teammates make fun of him because he doesn't celebrate after a sack. But he isn't afraid to speak up when the defense plays poorly. And the Nebraska loss was so hard for him to stomach because the defense didn't play well. 
"I'm going to get pissed off, if I feel we need some emotion, I'm going to do something," he said. "In my mind, Nebraska was the game to put us back on the map. 
We came out there and didn't play how we practiced. We didn't play up to our talent defensively." 
But what Weaver is most upset about is that loss to Nebraska may have hurt Notre Dame's -and his -chances for a national title. Weaver has wanted to win ever since his first start -not just for himself, not just for the team, but for every­thing Notre Dame represents. 
"I don't think there's anybody on thL'> team that takes a loss as hard as he does," said sopho­more Kyle Budinscak, Weaver's backup. "Ile hates to lose." 
"I feel bad when we lose, not just for ourselves, but for every­body because we let the whole school down," \Veaver said. "When you go out there, you try to say you're playing for your­self, but deep down inside you know a lot of people you're going to play for everybody." 
But in each of Weaver's past three seasons, there's been a point -the second loss of the season, to be precise -when it became painfully obvious that this isn't the year his dream will come true. After that point, Weaver said, you're only playing for a Bowl Championship Series berth. And while Notre Dame's loss to Nebraska doesn't neces­sarily put them out of the national championship hunt, Weaver said the pressure is defi­nitely on the Irish to run the table. 
"We have to win every game," he said. "Our backs are against the wall right now. We had that mindset going into Nebraska, now we have to win every game. We can't slack off -not only do we have to win the rest of our games, but we have to win them convincingly ... Second place is nothing. You want to win, you want to be the champion. If you don't win, then you're just another team." · 
Weaver still dreams. He imag­ines the campus will remain excited for years after the Irish bring back a national champi­onship. He laughs when trying to figure out what students will write on gigantic signs. Ile breaks out into a huge grin when he talks about the legacy a national championship team leaves behind. 
"If you have a vision, then you have a greater chance of making it more real." Weaver said. 
Weaver has his vision. Now, he dreams about making it real. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 21, 200I 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
Record: 0-1 AP: No. 23 
Coaches: No. 23 


Bob Davie lifth season at Notre Dame career record: 
30-20 
at Notre Dame: 
30-20 
Davie against head coach Michigan State: 0-4 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
l  Jared Clark  QB  6-4  210  so  
2  Carlos Pierre-Antoine TLll  6-3  241  SR  
2  Dan Novakov  QB  6-l  215  JR  
3  Amaz Battle  FL  6-1  210  SR  
4  Justin Smith  FS  5-11  197  SR.  
5  Ron Israel  ss  6-1  212  SR  
6  David Givens  FL  6--3  212  SR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  Qll  6--1  218  so  
8  Lorenzo Crawford  FL  5-10  190  so  
8  Matt Krueger  FL  5-10  175  so  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  5-10  186  JR  
10  Matt LoV ecchio  QB  6--4  205  so  
10  Ryan Krueger  QB  5-9  186  SR  
12  Tony Fisher  TB  6--2  226  SR  
13  NickSctta  KIP  5-11  175  JR  
14  Ga,yGod.sey  fE  6--o  270  JR  
15  Gifford Jeffers..,n  CB  5-9  176  SR  
16  Abram Elam  ss  6-0  210  so  
17  Joey Hildbold  p  5-10  188  JR  
18  Ronnie Rodamer  SE  6-4  210  so  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  6--1  210  JR  
20  Gerome Sapp  55  6--0  214  JR  
21  Javin Hunter  SE  6--0  191  SR  
22  Julius Jones  TB  5-10  210  JR  
23  ChrisYura  TB  6--0  225  JR  
24  Chad De Bolt  ILB  6--0  202  SR  
25  Ryan Grant  RB  6--1  198  FR  
26  Garron Bible  CB  5-10  191  so  
28  Donald Dykes  FS  5-11  195  SR  
30  Rocky Boiman  OLB  6-4  240  SR  
31  Dwayne Francis  FS  6-0  198  SR  
32  Terrance Howard  TB  6-1  195  SR  
33  Courtney Watson  !LB  6--1  232  JR  
34  VontezDuff  CB  5-11  192  so  
35  David Miller  K  5-11  208  SR  
35  Tim O'Neill  TB  5-5  175  SR  
36  Tom Lopienski  FB  6--1  249  SR  
37  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-11  170  FR  
38  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  176  so  
38  Eric Nelson  FB  6-0  225  SR  
39  Brandon Hoyte  !LB  6-0  219  FR  
40  Jason Murray  FB  6-1  260  SR  
41  Mike Goolsby  LB  6-3  240  so  
42  Shane Walton  CB  5-11  186  SR  
44  Grant irons  DE  6-5  275  SR  
45  MattSarb  ss  5-11  200  SR  
46  Corey Mays  !LB  6-1  234  FR  
47  MikeMcNair  FB  6-0  237  SR  
48  Justin Tuck  OLB  6--5  215  FR  
49  Derek Curry  ILB  6-3  228  so  
50  Cedric Hilliard  NG  6-2  290  JR  
51  Tyreo Harrison  ILB  6--2  242  SR  
52  Jeff Faine  C  6-3  296  JR  
52  Mark Mitchell  OLB  5-lO  200  SR  
53  Jason Halvorson  DL  6--2  240  JR  
55  Zachary Giles  OL  6-4  285  FR  
56  John Crowther  C  6-2  242  SR  
56  Pat Ryan  ILB  6--3  231  JR  
57  Justin Thomas  OLB  6-1  245  JR  
59  Brian Dierckman  ILB  6--1  250  SR  
60  Darrell Campbell  OT  6-4  296  JR  
61  Jesse Desplinter  LB  6--1  177  so  
62  Casey Robin  0G  6--7  300  SR  
6.3  Brennan Curtin  OT  6--8  305  JR  
64  Jeffrey Campbell  DE  6--1  230  SR  
65  Sean Milligan  0G  6-4  295  JR  
66  JW Jordan  C  6-1  275  SR  
67  Ryan Gillis  0G  6--3  . 296  JR  
69  Darin Mitchell  OL  6-4  285  FR  
70  Jim Molinaro  ar  6-o  295  JR  
n  Ryan Scarola  0G  6-5  308  SR  
73  Mark LeVoic  TE  6-7  310  FR  
75  KurtVollers  OT  6-7  312  SR  
76  John Teasdale  OT  6--5  305  SR  
77  Greg Pauly  m  6-6  208  so  
78  Jordan Black  OT  6-6  318  SR  
79  Sean Mahan  OT  6-3  292  SR  
BD  AdamTibble  K  5-11  186  SR  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6--2  180  FR  
81  Jerome Collins  OLB  6-4  242  so  
82  Bernard Akatu  SE  5-10  190  SR  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-1  170  FR  
83  Josh Gentine  K/P  5-11  205  JR  
84  John Owens  TE  6-3  2oO  SR  
85  Billy Palmer  TE  6--3  265  so  
86  Brendan Hart  TE  6-Z  255  so  
~  Jonathan Smith  WR  6-4  195  so  
88  Carlos Campbell  WR  6-1  190  FR  
89  Matt Root  TE  6-o  225  FR  
90  Brian Beida iseh  l.lL  6-4  265  FR  
91  Jeff Thompson  l.lL  6-5  26S  FR  
".12  Kyle Bud1nscak  DE  6-4  265  so  
94  AndyWisne  OT  6--3  285  SR  
95  Ryan Roberts  DE  6-2  262  SR  
98  Anthony Weaver  DE  6-3  286  SR  
99  Jason Sapp  OE  6-3  250  so  

NOTRE DAME 2001 Schedule 
Sept. 8 at Nebraska -L Sept. 22 Michigan St. Sepf;29:".'. at Texa~A&M 
Oct. 6  '''  gh ia  
Nov. 3 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 Dec. 1  Tennessee Navy at Stanford at Purdue  


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING 
Who will play? Last 
For a program that 

game, LoVecchio was 
boasts three talented
LLI 

The loss at Nebraska put 
more poised, but he 
tailbacks, the Irish were
:E 

Davie back under the 
couldn't move the ball. 
embarassed two weeks
<C 

hot seat. And while he 
Holiday gave the Irish an 
ago when they rushed
Q 

took all the blame for 
offensive spark, but he 
for only 43 yards. Jones, 
LLI 

Notre Dame's loss, it 
made several bad reads. 
Howard and Fisher have 
a: 

wasn't all his fault.
t­

It's up to the coaches to 
to play much better this

Davie is also 0-4 against 
o 
week, but they'll need

figure out what quarter­
the Spartans. 
z 

back will help Notre 
help from the offensive 
Dame the best. 
line. 

~::::::::::::::::::::::~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Williams' Spartans
LLI 

started off hot last year,
~ 

but then they hit rock
t-,; 

bottom. Michigan State also made several men­
U) 
z 

tal mistakes that cost
<C 
C, 

them key points. They
-

can get away with that (.) 
:c 

against Central
-

Michigan, but not
:E 

against Notre Dame. 


The Spartans have a pair of experienced quarter­backs in Smoker and Van Dyke. Both are more-con­ventional drop-back quarterbacks and have the capability to throw the ball a long way down the field. 
Again, nobody has stood out. Lovecchio and 
Dyke don't have a lot of talent despite their experience. 

Super Spartan rusher T.J. Duckett will pound through the Irish defonsive liM, total­ing close to 200 yards. Carlyle Holiday will lead .the Irish downfield, passing for 200 more. In the end, Davie will go for it on fourth down three times, leading to a come• back victory. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 
This is pretty much a question mark for the Spartans. They haven't faced a physical running attack like Notre Dame's yet this season, although stopping the run is essen­tial to success in the Big Ten. Shaw and line­backer lead the Spartans. 
Notre Dame didn't rush well last week, but they have the potential to be !~It'dli); i(f'. ~,igbt 'tfY. 
la+,gp 'ifo 
Jones 56-yar touch­down run last year, Michigan State only gave up 93 yards on 36 attempts last year. 


IRISH PASSING 
Notre Dame has the tal­ent, there's no doubt about that. They just have to expand their package. The Irish need to risk throwing down the field more to hit big play receivers Givens and Hunter. LoVecchio and Holiday have the arm strength to do this. 
Tough is the best word to describe Michigan State's secondary. They were seventh in the nation last year in pass defense. Henry is one of the Big Ten's best cover men, and Wright was the leader of the defense last year. However, the Spartans pass rush is very weak. 
. oor e lrish;;~t last
!itt ·.·•.• ..~.· the the stdon't
'm·useft •' 

Andrew Soukup
Michigan State 35 Michigan State 20 associate sports editor 
Hang on a minute. The Spartans had how many punts blocked last w~ek? Four? To the same guy? Notre Dame should bloc,k at least two. Even the sputtering Irish offense will be able to take advan­tage of good field position to score touchdowns. And nobody -especially the seniors -wants to lose to Michigan State again. They won't. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 


Noah Amstadter sports editor 

Friday, September 21, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 


SPARTAN PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
Aside from the botched
The secondary played 

snap two weeks ago, it
well, but then again, 

appears as if special
they only faced nine 

teams will once again be
passes. The Irish do 

a highlight for the Irish.
have a strong pass rush, 

They blocked a punt last
but when thev blitz, thev 
haven't be;n able t~ 

week, and Hild.bold L"> one 
of the best punters in the
cover the open man, 

nation, averaging 46
resulting in big plays for 

yards a punt.
the opponent. 
Probably one of the 

Four blocked punts says
toughest receiving corps 

it all. One expects that
the Irish will face all year. 

out of Navy, not
Smoker and Van Dyke 

Michigan State.
connect with big, tall, fast 

However; the Spartans'
receivers early. often. and 

punter was a first team
unexpectedly to make big 

All-Big Ten pick in 1999.
plays. But the offensive 

And Haygood and
line is another matter ­

Rogers provide speed on
they gave up six sacks 

the return units. 
SPARTAN RUSHING 
The Irish only managed 11 tackles along the defensive line and allowed Nebraska run­ning backs into the sec­ondary. However, Notre Dame's physical front seven might match up better against the Spartan's physical rush­ing attack. 
Michigan State employs a more conventional run­ning game than NPbraska. While the Spartans will still use a little option package. most of their offense revolves around sending Duckett through the mid­dle and letting him grind out yards. 
ye 
a 
de , was fa otre D eri­en't the 
last week. 
ves ver, the 


Central Michigan blocked four punts against Michigan State in the first game of the season. To borrow a phrase from Bob Davie: Are you kidding me? Michigan State's horrible special teams will more than compensate for Notre Dame's stagnant offense. I like the Irish in a rout with at least two blocked punts. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Michigan State 7 

ICHIGAN STATE 2001 Schedule  
Sept. 8 Cent.l\tlcngcrl-W Sept. 22 at Notre Dame Sept. 29 at Northwestern Oc No Nov. 17 at Purdue Nov. 24 Penn State Dec. 1 Missouri  

INTANGIBLES 
The seniors are angry. They want to heat Michigan State for the first time in their career. They want to make an impact at home. They want to avoid slipping out of BCS contention. They want to win. 
Four wins in a row over the Irish is a pretty impressive number, and the Spartans feel they've got Notre Dame figured out. But Notre Dame Stadium is a tough place to play, and jf the Spartans fall behind early, they could be out of it. 
:z 
~ 
:a 
m 
C 
)> 
~ 
ITI 
3: 
n
:c
-
G) 
)> 
z 
(/) 
~ 
~ 
ITI 
:s.,. 
z 
)> 
~ 
(/) 
en 

Kerry Smith 

assistant managing e«litor Michigan State 24 
Four tough losses in four years to the Spartans has Irish head coach Bob Davie and his team more than ready for a home-opening win. The tough losses have the Irish seniors fuming. The defense will have its work cut out for it to keep tailback T.J. Duckett from gaining less than 100 yards. But the Spartans' special teams unit will partly cancel out its offensive produc­tion. Heart will win it and the Irish have it. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 

, 

Michigan State 
Spartans Record: 1-0 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 
Bobby Williams fourth season at Michigan State career record: 
7-6 
at Michigan State: 
7-6 

Williams
against Notre 

head coach
Dame: 1-0 

Roster 
No. Name Pus. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Carlos Rogers WR 6-4 202 so 2 Herb Haygood WR 6-0 190 SR ­3 Rvan Van Dvke QB 6-5 223 SR 4 Robert Strickland WR 6-4 205 FR 5 Lor<1nzo Curss s 6-1 193 SR 6 BJ Lnv~II WR 6-4 208 JR 6 Mark Bojovic K 5-11 196 so 7 Damon Dowdell QB 6--1 209 FR 8 T.J. Duckett TB 6--1 249 JR 9 J<lf Smok<>r QB 6--'.\ 207 so 
lO Aaron Alexander QB 6--5 190 FR 11 Stephen Ratliff QB 6--2 175 so p
12 Craig Jarrett 6--2 212 SR 14 David Schaefer K 5--10 192 SR 15 Derrick Lee WR 206 SR
6-2 . 16 Dave Rayner K 6-3 200 FR 16 Bill Sharkey WR 6-1 191 FR 17 Roderick Maples CB 5-10 180 FR 18 Michael Servis K 6-1 198 so 19 DeMario Suggs CB 5-11 194 SR 20 Charles Barber WR 6-0 165 FR 21 Brodenck Nelson CB 6-0 175 JR 23 Litt!~ Juhn Flowe,,; TB 6-0 210 SR p
23 Jeremy Rolinski 5-10 160 JR 24 Jeremiah Mclaurin CB 5--11 182 so 25 Jason Hannon CB 5-11 186 so 27 Duron Bryan s 6-0 205 SR 28 ZachSanom TB 5--8 192 JR 29 Richard Bryce s 6--3 209 JR 29 Tim fames TB 5-8 164 JR 30 Matt Kropf LB 6-3 246 SR 31 Brian Bums FB 6-3 236 FR 32 Mike McConnell TB 6-0 210 so ­33 Robert Flagg s 6-2 194 FR 34 Tvrell Dortch TB 5-10 193 so 35 Mark Goebel LB 6-2 m so 36 Eric Smith DB 6-1 195 FR 37 Cedric Henrv CB 5-10 190 SR M Damien Fortson CB 6-0 185 FR 39 Jeremy Fairrow CB 6-0 195 so 40 Michael Bazemore LB 6-4 228 FR 41 Malt Dawes LB 6-1 211 SR 41 Aaron Morrell LB 6-1 204 FR 42 Mike l .abinjo DF 6-1 268 so 43 Timmas Wright s 6-1 191 JR 44 Ronald Stanley LB 6-2 210 FR 45 Monquiz Wedlow s 5-11 195 so ,17 Mitch Herrcma FB 5-11 230 so 48 Seth Mitchell LB 6-3 230 FR 49 DawanMos!:i PB 5-10 258 JR 50 Josh TI1ornlull LB 6-2 239 SR 51 Christopher Morris OL 6-4 285 FR 52 1.Jedri°" Roper LB 6-2 247 so 53 Andrew Patterson SN 6-0 204 FR 54 Dominick Brown LB 6-3 249 so 55 Jason Bradley LB 6-0 238 FR 56 Tony Grant SN 6-2 242 SR 57 Paul Harker 0G 6-3 303 JR 58 James Cooper LB 6-3 220 FR 59 Clifford Dukes lJE 6-3 242 FR 60 Joe Brooks 0G 6-3 285 so 61 Joe Patrick 0G 6-5 301 so 62 Darrell Hamilton DL 6-4 220 FR 63 Brandon McKinney DL 6-3 302 FR ... 64 Van Brown DL 6-5 2S0 so 65 Ulish Booker OT 6-7 298 JR 67 DeMarco Monroe C 6-4 310 so 68 Joe Tate OT 6-~ 2R6 so 71 C,ordon Niebylski or 6-4 295 FR 72 Stefon Wheeler OL 6-5 325 FR 73 Brian Ottney C 6--6 305 so 74 Alphonso Town.send or 6-6 310 FR 75 Nick Myers DE 6--2 263 SR 76 William Whitticker oc 6--6 299 FR 77 Steve Stewart or 6--5 305 so 79 Sean Poole or 6--6 289 FR 80 Ben Steckler WR 6-5 205 FR 
-. 

81 Jason Randall TE 6--6 240 FR 82 Ziehl Kavanagt WR 5--11 176 so 83 Ou-is Eaker TE 6-3 263 SR 85 Ivory McCoy LB 6-4 232 SR 86 Eric Easter TE 6-4 230 JR 87 Paul Cummings WR 6-0 176 FR 88 LucMullinder TE 6-4 253 so 89 Ryan Woods TE 6-5 230 FR 91 Kevin Vickerson DL 6--5 288 FR 92 Lonnie Simmons DE 6-3 279 FR 93 Samalj Gordon DE 6--6 265 so 94 Greg Taplin DE 6-5 254 so 95 Josh Shaw DT 6-3 278 SR 
..,. 

96 Greg Yeaster DT 6-1 260 FR 97 Kyle Rasmussen DT 6-4 275 so 97 Nick Thompson TE 6--3 232 FR 98 Dwight Whitfield DT 6-2 292 FR 98 Brian Dieckman TE 6--3 238 JR 99 Matthias Askew DL 6-7 290 FR 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 21, 2000 
.... 
Irish students, athletes one and the same 
A little more than three years ago, I left home for the first time and came as a freshman to Notre Dame. A few weeks earlier, a letter was 
dropped into the mailbox atmy house. 
It told me who my room­mate was 

Noah

going to be in the Amstadter fall: Jordan Black. As Sports Editor in Jordan Black-
the 6­foot-8, 315-pound offensive lineman. 
I anticipated the worst. I had heard about how at other schools football players were pure hell tu live with. Relatives warned me to buy extra air freshener. 
But when I got there, it wasn't bad at all. Jordan had moved in a few davs earlier and was finishing up two-a­day practices. His father bought us a carpet for our room, I helped hook up his computer, and everything was fine. 
My first and perhaps favorite memory of that year happened before classes even started. We were at the "Graffiti Dance" -an event where everybody wears white T-shirts and you carry a marker for girls to sign. 
Everybody leaves their phone number with their name. 
The dance had bem1 going on for over an hour. I was walking by myself when I spotted my roommate. He was signing away, surround­ed by girls. It appeared he had been for quite a while. But he called me over, bent down to whisper a question in my car. 
"Noah, what's our phone number'?" Apparently, hi' made one up for an hour or so. 
Later in the year Jordan went out with some of the other guys in our section ­non-football players -to back up his boasting of Wh h I

being able to en t e rts .p ayers 
scorns may eat the raise their helmets to the not all 
hottest buf­student section in victory reach the falo wings in Notre Dame 
or defeal, they aren't 
town. !lo student 
came back doing it because its a tra­average, 
triumphant dition. They do it because but as a am! thirsty. Sports
they are thanking their
Through lllustratnd
friends;
Jordan, I articlo a hallway. Some football play­ers choose to share a room, but they're generally sur­rounded by average students. 
Don't get me wrong, foot­ball players here are a tight• knit group. They gnnnrally study together, eat together and spend much or their free time together. 
But l can remember sever­al times·seeing Matt LoVecchio in the dining hall, patiently waiting in line to grill a sandwich. He dresses like a normal student and has manners like a normal student. 
Perhaps because football players here arc normal stu­
dents. 
Their SAT

· h l 
came to know some other guys on the team as well. Linebacker Rocky Boiman and fullback ·fommy Lopienski were fixtures in my dorm room that year, and they still say hi whenever we see each other walking across campus. Lineman Ryan Scarola called me up once to discuss strategy regarding room picks. 
When room picks begin each spring, there isn't an athlete dorm or an athlete fow years 

back point­ed out, students aren't accepted here if they don't exhibit enough brains to eventually graduate. 
So when my Government class split up into groups for our major projects last fall, there was no disappointmnnt when Anthony Weaver, now a senior captain, ended up with other students. Ilis group members may have had to revise their meeting schedule, but Weaver was a valuable contributor and pre­senter. 
So when the Irish players raise their helmets to the stu­dent section in victory or defeat, they aron't doing it bocause its a tradition. They do it because they are thank­ing their frinnds. 
When the fans in the stu­dent section look down on the !fold they see the kid down the hall, Urn kid who sits behind them in Government class, the guy who came to the party last weekend. So when we cheer for the Irish. we're cheering for our friends. 
Jordan and I lived together only one year. Our sloop habits contrasted. Ile had to get up ~1arly and lil't, I had to stay up late and type. But we still say hi. Throe years later, Tommy and Hocky still rec­ognize me. 
So when we stand in the student ser:tion tomorrow af'tcrnoon, scrnam, cheer and wave keys to a decibel hwel louder than a freight train, we're not doing this just to be like eyerybody elsn. When we cheer for tlrn Irish, we're not just cheering f'or school spirit, not just pushing on a group of guys wearing our school colors. 
We're r,heering for our friends. 
Noah Amstadter can be reached al i\mstadter. l @nd.edu. The 11iews ofthis column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
game hype 

Anthony Weaver Irish defensive end 
"Our main concern is stopping No. 8 and his big behind.from coming through the line." 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"What happened in the past has nothing to do with what we'll do this weekend." 7 hate Michigan State. I want to go out there and kill them." 


Courtney Watson Irish linebacker 
'1Losing}our straight} is personal ... that's some­thing, to be quite honest. is a little bit embarrassing. " 

T.J. Duckett Spartan tailback 

MAKS /TA MEAL

r------, r ------, 
I J Large, 1 Topping I I 1 Large, I Topping I Papa Predicts:I $8.99 OR I I I
Breadstlcka 

I 2 Large, 2 Topping I I 2 Liter I 
$12.99
L __:!_J=--.J 

L-----·-.J NOTRE DAME -31 
r ------, r ------, Michigan State -14
Manager's Spec/al Famlly Speolal 

I I Large, 2 Topping and 4 I I I Large w/Works I I Cans of I I I Large, 2 Topping I I caca-co10 croure I $17.99 or 
$10.99 I ,x11a· Large $iD, 99 .JI
L ______ .J Notre Dame Saint Mary'sL------271-1177 271-7272
r------, r------, 
I Lat• Night Spec/al I I Grand Papa I Monday-Thursday 11 am• 1 am I 9pm • close ' I I 1 Extra Large, I Fridav-all nig_ht Large one Topping I I 2 toppings I (Only ND •tore • L1mlt•d Dellt1•ry 3am • 11am}
I 
$1.99 

Saturday 11 am -3 ·am
L------.J L --~o=--.J Sunday Noon -1 am 
"'The most··popular # on campus" 


.j ' 

t ,. ' 
AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 21, 2001 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 7 
Assoclated··Press !'op; 2s:: 

team tect)rd points 1 Miami (40) 2"JI. 1,74!J ... 
.· 1,716. ..

2 Florida (14) 2·0 3 Oklahoma (11) S·O 1,638 4 Nebraska {2) 3,0 1,521 5 Texa$ f4) 2·0 1,490 6 Fltlrida State 2·0 1,426 7 Oregon 2-0 1,294 8 Tennessee 2-l) 1,263 g Virginia Tech 2·0 1,227 10 Geor9ia Tech 3·0 1,092 11 Fresno Stat6 (1 I 3-0 973 12 Kansas State 1-0 970 13 Washi.nglon t-0 947 14 UCLA 2-0 895 15 LSU 2·0 856 16 Northwestern HI 676 17 Mississippi State HJ 615 · 18 South Carolina 2,D 580 
2-() 536 20 Mlchi.gan 1·4 511} 21 0ftioState HI zsa 22 Oregon State :M , 212 
23 NOTRE DAME 0-1 211 
19 Clemson 
14$. ·.

24 BYU ~o 
25. •Louisville 3•0 · 129 
ESPN/USA Today: poU"> 

team record\ <pu1.rits\ ~ 1 
2111 
· J1441 
2 2+11·· 3 a-i) 4 ,S01l · ,1;288 5 i-o•· . ;1,232 6 2-0 •• ,· 1;21)4

2•8

7 1,018 
8 i-o·· 1,062 
...·,1;039•.

9 2·0 
10 1,.0 899. 11 3-0 865 12 UCLA 2.0 .886 13 Washington t•O·· 793 14 LSU 2-0 661 15 Fresno State (1 ) .····a~o> 619 16 Mississippi State 1-0··• 513 17 Michigan 1-1· 46ti 18 Clemson 2-1r 452 
19 Northwtstern 
1~0 425 
•t'f3 ..

20 Sonfu Carolina 2-0 21 Ohio State· 307
1~0 22 Oregon State 1-1 .294 
23 NOTRE DAME D-l i:.·1so•.: 24 Purdue .. 1·0. .1ff·.· 25 BYU 3--0 1J4 
Eye on.Irish .Opporl~nts 
Saturday 
Oklahoma St. al JEXAS/l.&M{2~Jf Kent atWEST VlftGINIA(1t'f1:> ·• 
USC(1t1fat BOSTON COLLEGE 
Akron at•PIJR~UE•(f-:lll)ruii.J'··••·· . 



around the dial 

Michigan State at Notre Dame 
1:30 p.m., NBC Wisconsin at Penn State 
11 a.m., ABC Ohio State at UCLA 
2:30 p.m., ABC Arkansas at Alabama 
2:30 p.m., CBS 

Virginia at Clemson 
4:45 p.m., ESPN2 

Auburn at Syracuse 
6:45 p.m., ESPN 

GAME OF THE WEEK 

By GREG LADKY 
Sports W ricer 

The Big Ten needs a big non-conference win. Their teams are 0-4 against ranked opponents in 2001. Unfortunately for the No. 21 Buckeyes, No. 14 UCLA rarely loses non­conference games at home. 
The Buckeyes looked mediocre in their only game, a 28-14 victory over Akron. The Buckeyes did out-gain the Zips 535­248, but only executed three long scoring drives in the game. 
Ohio State quarterback Steve Bellasari completed 15 of 24 for 246 yards and two touchdowns. But three incompletions were dropped interceptions, and a 61 yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Chris Vance hit off a defender's shoulder pads. 
"We did not play the finest game of 2001," head coach Jim Tressel told the Associated Press. 
The Buckeyes must play their finest game against the Bruins. The Bruins have won 11 of their last 15 against ranked oppo-
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Oklahoma State at Texas A&M 
The members of both teams were particularly affected by last week's tragedy. In 1999, Texas A&M lost 12 stu­dents to a bonfire collapse before the Texas game. 
"The atmosphere here [Sept. 11] was very similar to the feelings we had a couple of years ago immediately following the bonfire tragedy," A&M coach R.C. Slocum told ESPN.com's Todd Cooper. 
Oklahoma State also knows tragedy, losing two basket­ball players and eight staff members to a plane crash in January. 
The game itself has upset potential. The Aggies are heavily favored, but may be looking ahead to their show­down at home against the Irish next Saturday. The Cowboys looked impressive in a near upset of Southern Mississippi on the road, and followed that game with a 30-23 victory over Louisiana Tech. 
Texas A&M narrowly defeated Division 1-M McNeese State 38-24, and struggled to a 28-20 victory at Wyoming. But quarterback Mark Farris is averaging nearly 300 yards passing a game. 
The Aggies are the better team. But the Cowboys have played well at times this year. The Aggies need to improve on their first two games to win this Big 12 open­er. 
nents. UCLA looked impressive in victories on the road against Alabama and Kansas in 2001. An improved defense held opponents under 20 points in consecutive games for the first time since 1997. 
The Bruins offense is equally impressive. DeShaun Foster rushed for 189 vards at Kansas,. giving him 289 yards for the season. With his per­formance, Foster has entered the Heisman race while strengthening beliefs he will be the first running back taken in the draft next spring. 

Many experts feel this UCLA team could be spe­cial. The Bruins always have a great offense. But this year they can play defense, protect a lead, and win on the road. 
The Buckeyes have the ability to ruin a special season for UCLA. Ohio State needs to take care of the football, and not sup­port the Bruins offense with turnovers. Last year, Bellasari showed ability to throw for big yardage. The Buckeyes need a great performance from him in order to win. 
Auburn at Syracuse 

Two outstanding defenses will collide in this intra­conference battle. The Orangemen are 1-2 this sea­son, but those two loses came to No. 8 Tennessee and No. 10 Georgia Tech. Auburn stands just outside the Top 25 in both major polls with a 2-0 record. 
Defensive end Dwight Freeney heads the potent Syracuse defense. Freeney is an All-American candi­date and helped Syracuse limit George Godsey ­brother of Irish tight end Gary Godsey -and.Georgia Tech to 13 points. 
Auburn's defense flat out stops the run. They limit­ed Joe Gunn and Ole Miss to 50 yards rushing. On offense, redsbirt freshman Jason CampbeJl completed 15 of 19 passes in a 27-21 victory over Ole Miss. 
Expect a classic defensive struggle inside the Carrier Dome. Campbell will likely put a few points on the board for the Tigers with his play-making ability. Otherwise, both teams will struggle to move the foot­ball. Syracuse must revive their struggling offense in order to score enough points to win. 
Saturday's game is all about two struggling offenses slugging it out against two powerful defenses. The winner will be the team that manages to move the football. 

O
THE 

page 8 BSERVER Friday, September 21, 2001 
MIJJJ;:_I!,, presents: ''A million reasons'' to enjoy your football season! 

'lllfl.'11\ 

MEIJER offers... 
...... --. 
One stop shopping for All your tailgating needs 
List.....u,,. 
*ice *drinks *chips *buns *hot dogs *burgers *coolers *grills *Deli trays *snacks *charcoal 


... 
_ 
*Exclusive* 

TEAM NOTRE DAME 
""· hats, visors and apparel *game day attire *car flags *football yearbooks ... *Irish sweatshirts & T-shirts *ND Womens Championship Basketball Video 
WIN 20 TICKETS FOR THE 

IRISH VS. TENNESSEE (NOV. 3R0 ) 
PLUS... GO INTO THE PRE-GAME TENT FOR FUN & REFRESHMENTS 

PRIVATE 
ENTER BETWEEN 09/10/01 & 09/2Z/Ol AT THE TEAM NOTRE DAME 
DISPLAY 
SPONSOIIED BY: 
...... MEDIER 
& 




Visit us at: 

5020 Grape Road or 3600 N. Portage Road 




