The wonderful world 
Men's soccer names new coach 

Friday
A travel feature explores the parks ofDisney 
Observer sports offers breaking news on the 
World from kingdoms of animals and magic, 
new men's soccer coach, Bobby Clark. See the 
to wild rides and restaurants. 
back cover for details. 
JANUARY 19, 
Scene . page 12 
Sports . page 24 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
.6 



Welcome to the White House, Mr. President 
Inauguration 2001 

Saturday, Jan. 20 
Inaugural Ceremony 11 :30 a.m. 
Inaugural Parade 
2:00 p.m. 

Coverage will begin at 8:00 a.m. on WNDU (Channel 16)1 and 10:00 a.m. on WBND (Channel ~8) and CSPAN-1 
After weeks ofelectoral turmoil, the nation prepares for the inauguration ofits 43rd President, George W. Bush 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Festivities leading up to George W. Bush's inauguration began Thursday with a star­studded show at the Lincoln Memorial. Bush obviously relished the event, smiling, flashing 
a thumbs up sign at enter­ 
taine: yviayne _Newton and prom1smg to give the coun­try "a fresh start."  See Also "After 8 years,  
Before laying claim to the  Clinton bids  
presidency this weekend, Bush and his wife, Laura,  farewell to  
as well as Vice President­ Oval Office"  
elect Dick Cheney and his wife, Lynne, mixed with  page 7  
celebrities including Latin  
singer Ricky Martin.  

Bush took to the stage toward the end of the 
show and, in an unspoken acknowledgment that he had won the presidency despite losing the popular vote, thanked those who didn't vote for him. 
"Wherever you come from, whatever your political party, thank you for taking part in this great tradition of our country," Bush said. "My administration will serve all Americans and this inaugural is for all Americans to enjoy." 
"I am honored to serve and I am ready to start," he said. 
Organizers had anticipated that 75,000 peo­ple would attend, but the cold and an inter­mittent drizzle apparently kept many away although police gave no official crowd esti­mate. Bush and other members of the incom­ing administration sat under a canopy that 

see BUSH/page 4 
Bush Biography 
. Born July 6, 1946 
. Undergrad degree, Yale University 
. M.8.A., Harvard University 
. 
Served as F-102 pilot, Texas Air National Guard 

. 
Elected 46th Texas governor, first to serve two terms 

. 
Became Republican presidential nominee, Mar. 14, 2000 

. 
Elected nation's 43rd President by Electoral College, Dec. 18, 2000 






Generations raises over $1 billion, sets records 
new academic facilities and improving
the end of one of the most lucrative Soon after, Generations became Notre 
program support to existing ones.
By JASON McFARLEY fund-raising ventures for an American Dame's most successful fund-raising 
Assistant News Editor Thirty months and $1 billion later.
university. Already the biggest draw in endeavor, pulling in more money than 
Reagan acknowledged that at least some
Notre Dame and Catholic university his­all previous University campaigns com­
How long does it take to count past a bined. of those objectives remain underfunded.
tory, the campaign makes the school He said the University will continue
billion? only the 18th university overall, and Then, in September 2000, with more 
Organizers of Notre Dame's than three months remaining until its efforts to increase fellowships for gradu­
12th private, to collect $1 billion.
Generations campaign expect to know Dec. 31 conclu­ate students, law school financial aid 
"We've been very
soon, but on Thursday they were still sion, Generations and endowed professorships. Improving 
fortunate all the "We've been very fortunate all
tallying contributions to the record-shat­hit the $1 billion engineering facilities and expanding 
way through.
tering fund-raising project -more than the way through. There has mark. those in the law school will also be 
There has been
two weeks after the effort wrapped up been tremendous support Reagan said sev­goals.
tremendous sup­
and four months after it broke the bank, eral matters will Funds from Generations have already
port for this cam­for this campaign 
surpassing the $1 billion mark. receive priority been used to assist the University press, As of Thursday, gifts and pledges paign from begin­from beginning to end ... consideration for renovate the architecture building and 
ning to end," said
raised through the campaign had proceeds from improve international programs. 
Reagan, who is also 
climbed $53 million past that mark, Dan Reagan Generations. The success of the campaign may be
the University's
according to Dan Reagan, associate vice associate vice president of Specific areas offi­linked to the generosity of the Notre
executive director
president of University relations. cials plan to focus Dame community. Reagan estimated
University relations

of development.
Officials, still busy totaling contributions on include under-that 74 percent of University alumni 
By any standard,
from a December-giving boom, will not graduate financial made gifts or pledges to Generations. 
Generations proved
make available a final figure for at least aid, professorships and endowed chairs, That is in addition to a large response 
a coup for the University. 
10 days. Hesburgh Library collections and reno­from parents and others tied to the 
Announced in May 1997 with an
Reagan said that the sum likely will vations and other building initiatives. school, who boosted donation efforts. 
intended goal of $767 million, the 2 1/2­
not be dramatically different from the Generations began with the objective Reagan also credits Notre Dame 
year campaign exceeded that aim in
current total. of increasing student scholarships and
summer 1999 -18 months ahead of the 
Once Notre Dame accountants close faculty endowed chairs, funding needed see MONEY/page 4 
organizers' target date. 
the books on Generations, it will signal 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, January 19, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Missing: 4'1" fan 

My journey back to South Bend fared unusually well considering that Delta pilots may have been on the verge of striking before my departure. I thought that my arrival back would have been a rude awakening to the arctic temperatures of the Bend. 
But instead, I was kind of used to the frigid weather since the winter in Atlanta was one of the coldest in the last 20 years. I came back to my dorm in one piece, yet dreading the days to come that are sure to bring many 


hours of late night cramming 
Kiflin Turner

and a drastic change of diet consisting largely of coffee and Mountain Dew. 
My roomie, on the other Copy Editor hand had a not so pleasant experience with American Airlines. Her luggage some­how mysteriously disappeared and ended up being on another flight. Thankfully for her, it showed up in the wee hours of the morning. 
During the first night back spent unpacking and rambling about the workload and the miss­ing luggage, we suddenly came to realization that our fan was missing. Now this is not your average cream-white floor or window fan with a 12-inch propeller. 
This is a state of the art, four-foot tall, seven inch wide, remote control. rotating fan. I loved that fan. It had a timer, you could set the mode to different air flow pressures, and it was defi­nitely unique. Everyone visiting our room would eventually ask, "what is this thing'?" And my roomie and I would proceed to rave about our ventilating wonder. 
Because of the fan's unusual size, it became somewhat of a hassle since we had no where to place it except in front of the refrigerator. But now that Windy is gone -the name we so aff ec­tionately named him in his prime -we will defi­nitely miss his presence and his cooling capacity. 
What an impulse, to steal a fan. I mean even, though it was a pretty expensive fan, according to my roomie, no rational person in my mind would want to steal one. And true, Lewis is one of the older dorms that isn't air conditioned, but to steal a fan to me is like wanting to steal a lamp, or a pencil sharpener or some other ordi• narily stupid item. 
Not to say that stealing nice things is a good idea, but if you're going to steal at least make it worth your while. 
\Vho could be so callous and cruel so as to have 
ruined such a wonderfully pleasant relationship 
between two girls and their fan? Whoever took 
the fan, you're not a good thief. You somehow 
failed to snatch the remote on your way out. 
One other thing, anyone so desperate to steal a fan in the middle of January is not on the sharp side, so my advice to them is to seek professional help before you end up stealing something major like a blow dryer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco Kiflin Turner Graphics Scott Brodfuehrer Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Noah Amstadter Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Kelly Lisa Velte 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vac.ition periods. The Observer is a member of the. Associated l'rt·ss. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 

Vanderbilt establishes chair for Malloy  Reagan picks ND alumnus as chairman  
Jan. 19, 1998  Jan.21, 1981  
Vanderbilt University announced the establishment of a  A Notre Dame alumnus had been tapped by the Reagan  
chair in Catholic studies in its school of divinity after  administration to play a key role on coordinating foreign  
University President, Father Edward Malloy, a high honor  policy. Richard V. Allen was called upon to fill the post of  

rarely awarded to a living university president. Malloy, Chairman of the National Security Council. Allen who had who received a doctorate in christian ethics from previously served as a foreign policy expert on the Reagan Vanderbilt in 1975, stated that he is "honored and thrilled transition team, pledged to remain in the background in to be remembered in such a way." U.S. foreign policy as National Security Advisor. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 

T.V. show exposes Ritalin abuse on campus 
COLOMBUS 
spokeswoman, said, "I had two weeks 
In an investigation by N BC's to learn everything I could about "Dateline'.' that aired Tuesday, Ohio Ritalin. I learned from our psychologi• State University was one of three uni­cal substance abuse specialist and versities across the nation that from Student Wellness." showed Ritalin abuse is very common. Ritalin, also known as "Vitamin R" 
"Dateline" investigative reporters, and "R-Ball," is a stimulant that is who posed as students seeking Ritalin, prescribed to people who havc found similar results at OSU, Indiana Attention Deficit/Hyperactive University at Bloomington and The Disorder. University of Texas at Austin. "It takes a pretty significant assess­
"Dateline" approached about four ment to make the diagnosis, and OSU students who were willing to find Ritalin is only to be used by those who Ritalin for the undercover reporters. are legitimately diagnosed," Douce "Dateline" found the students at popu­filmed last summer. She added that said. lar OSU landmarks such as The Oval, "Dateline" gave two weeks notice According to the "Dateline" report, the Main Library and outside the uni• after the investigation before return­which focused on Ritalin abuse, if versity bookstore. ing to speak with a university taken correctly· Ritalin is absorbed 
Louise Douce, director of Counseling spokesperson. into the blood stream and stimulates and Consultation Services at OSU, said Douce, who appeared in the the brain, helping it focus on certain the "Dateline" investigation was "Dateline" program as an OSU tasks more clearly. 

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Official investigates Nike factory Suspicious boxes contain bibles 
A University of Iowa representative in the Worker Though it may not have been intended, the fear of Rights' Consortium will take part in the labor group's God was put in many on the campus of West Virginia first-ever investigation into allegations of worker abuse University Wednesday morning. The six suspected at a factory where Nike sweatshirts are made in Mexico. packaged "bombs" found scattered throughout the Marcella David, a UI law professor and a participating Downtown Campus early Wednesday contained reli­member of the WRC's governing board, will embark on a gious material meant to be read by those who found three-day mission at the Korean-owned Kukdong appar­them, said Bob Roberts, chief of the WVU Department el factory in Atlixco, Mexico, Saturday, with a handful of of Public Safety and Transportation. "The intent was to other WRC representatives. "The purpose of the mission share religious material with students on campus," is to gather enough information to determine whether Roberts said. "All packages had the same materials these serious allegations of abuse are accurate," the inside them -a ringed notebook, a small bible and 
Washington, D. C.-based WRC Executive Director Scott other religious material." The suspect responsible for Nova said Wednesday. "We want to have meetings with Wednesday morning's incident was later found by ofli­all of the relevant parties. We want to meet with the cials. Roberts said. "Two officers drove by and spotted unions, the factory management and local government a suspicious vehicle," Roberts said. "One person, a ofTicials." The WRC, which the UI joined last April, is one 
traveling individual not fram the area, left the pack­of two labor watchdog groups to which the UI belongs. 
ages this morning and did not mean to create a scare." Made of 70 member colleges and universities, the group 
Roberts said that the suspect's name will not be released until prosecution determines if and what
tries to enforce codes of conduct to ensure that apparel 
is not manufactured in sweatshop-like conditions. 

charges will be filed. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather fbreca.st for daytime conditioru; and high rempemtures 

The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 19. 
;
, /
, ·--~,,....----·· 
Sunda ~ 
Mondy ~ 

80a 

...--.------...

Tuesd~y '63-r 

0 2001 AccuWNlher, Inc, COl.0 WARM STATIOf\lARY 
Pressunr 

(b) D D Q D
i d 

® . .
High Low Showers Rain T•1-IOf'm1 Fturrkt& Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Wedrnesd!'Y.~1-_::;:r•·.;:•· 
Viii A.s.toc,:Jatff/ldPress 
f~ ~.<"t ~-'-~.... , ... .r"
;.) .., '\_..· .. 


.,.... '"·-,-' 59 Las Vegas 34 Portland 36
Atlanta 42 53 46 
Baltimore 45 37 Memphis 34 25 Sacramento 53 35 
St. Louis 16

42 Milwaukee 44 34 Tampa 80 63
q_~_~Q.G8 (f ~ c::1 Boston 26 25 11 29 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. CIOudy Cloudy Chicago 29 16 New York 
Via Assoc,alad Press Graph,csNBt Houston 46 29 Philadelphia 43 35 Wash DC 45 36 
. 
' 
Friday, January 19, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Registrar,-students cope with cancelled exams 
By ALLY JAY 
News Wrirer 
One would be hard pressed to imagine a more stressful academic period at Saint Mary's and Nolre Dame than the week of final exams. 
But last December this period became even more stressful when snow canceled the Tuesday, Dec. 12 exams. The cancela­tion was the first time the University 


halted final exams in Pace nine years, accord­ing to University Registrar Harold Pace. 
"It was strictly a safety concern for faculty and off campus students." said Pace. "It was frustrating because we knew that the undergraduates were ready to take their exams and many were on campus, but we weren't sure about the safety of faculty and students coming from off campus and we didn't want to endanger their lives." 
According to Pace, the decision to can­cel exams first became a concern Monday afternoon when South Bend Mayor Steve Lueke issued a ruling that all non-emergency vehicles stay otT the roads. 
While the decision to reschedule exams may have prevented car acci­dents on the snow covered South Bend streets, it threw a monkey wrench into the studying habits of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
"What was also frustrating was that I was mentally prepared to take it that day. and the cancellation threw oIT my other studying and focus for that exam... said freshman Claire Reisinger. 

Pace said that there is a team of Notre Dame administrators and security offi­cials who keep appraised of weather forecasts for the area and road condi­tions and then make the decision whether to close the University. At approximately 5 p.m. Dec. 11, weather 
forecasts showed that there would be heavy snows all night. and because of this the team decid­ed to meet at 4 
a.m. to make the decision. 
"I asked them to include me in the meeting because of the impact cancel­lation would 
"ft was frustrating because we knew that the undergraduates were ready to take their exams and many were on campus, but we weren't sure about the safety offaculty and students coming from offcampus. and we didn ·t 1:J)ant to endanger their lives." 
Harold Pace University Registrar 

have on exams," said Pace. The team gathered by phone in the morning and received word from the city was that roads were in poor conditions and impassable. Consequently, the team made the decision to close the school. 
In a move designed to minimize dis­ruptions of students with travel plans on Saturday, Pace decided along with other Notre Dame administrators, to extend the time period for exams on Thursday and Friday which resulted in some stu­denls having exams with unusual time slots of 10 p.m. until midnight and oth­ers having more than three exams in a 
24-hour period. 
"We felt really bad about not being 
able to be able to enforce the rule, but 
in order to finish exams by Friday so 
that students would not have to forfeit · their Saturday travel plans, it was our 
only solution," said Pace. 
For freshman Lisa Chambelle, whose 
two Tuesday exams were cancelled, 
Friday proved a full day because she 
had to take the two resched­uled exams and one that was originally scheduled for Friday. "I started testing at 8 a.m. And ended at 9:30 
p.m. At the end I was stressed and exhaust­ed," she said. 
The decision to reschedule 
incited a strong student response over the possibility of the new exam schedule conflicting with traveling plans. 
"After I first sent out the list of rescheduled exam times I got over 100 e-mails from students asking what they should do about conflicts," Pace said. Basically my advice was to ask the pro­fessor and the faculty were allowed to have a lot of options. It was amazing because the next day I did not receive any e-mails." 
Pace attributed the drop in e-mails to the faculty's flexibility. "I think ·the fac­ulty really made it work and had flexi­bility so that students could get their exams done and keep their travel plans," said Pace. 
Jill Boroniec, a senior pre-professional student whose Anatomy exam was can­celled. agreed. "My final was resched­uled for 4:30-6:30 on Friday but about 1/2 the class e-mailed my professor that they had a conflict. He e-mailed us and said that the final was optional and we could take the final and have that count, or our grade could be based on the three exams we had already taken. I thought he was re.ally accommodating," said Boroniec. 
Senior Marry Ellen Goodman also had a professor who was flexible about her cancelled Tuesday exam. He e-mailed the students the same exam that they were supposed to take and made it an open notes-open book exam. The profes­sor also advised them to "Have a cup of hot cocoa while you take the test." 
"( thought it was really nice of my pro­fessor to let me do the exam by e-mail instead of having to take it late at night o·n the re-scheduled day," said Goodman. 
While the sudden weather conditions caught the administration off guard this year, Pace said future measures will be taken to ensure that a specific plan will be present in the event or another simi­lar situation 
"We're going to wok on this for the spring, though hopefully we won't still have snow, and we'll have ideas and be better about communicating them in a timely fashion which we could improve on," said Pace. 





is accepting applications for: 
2001-2002 



Editor in Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University ofNotre Dame, Saint Mary's College, or Holy Cross College is encouraged to apply. The editor in chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspa­
per experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and afive-page statement to Noreen Gillespie by 5 p.m., Tuesday, January 23. For additional information about the position or application process, contact l'1oreen Gillespie at 631-4541, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 19, 200 I 
Bush 
continued from page I 
protected them from the ele­ments. 
Martin was the headliner for the show, set on a stage built on the memorial's steps. After Bush spoke, Martin sang one of his signature songs, "Cup of Life," swiveling his hips to the salsa-style music. He brought Bush on stage afterward to watch the fire­works with the other enter­tainers. 
CNN talk show host Larry King was master of cere­monies for the 2 1/2 hour show. 
Later in the evening, Bush and Cheney were appearing at three candlelight dinners for Republican supporters who paid $2,500 per ticket. A table cost $25,000. 
Laura Bush was to make her Washington debut Friday at a celebration for America's authors. The former librarian was to fete best-selling writers Stephen Ambrose and Mary Higgins Clark, among others. Shortly thereafter. Cheney was hosting a salute to the nation's veterans. The presi­dent-elect was to attend both. 
Several inaugural galas were scheduled for Friday night. including the Texas Black Tie & Boots Ball, where Dallas Cowboys quarterback Troy Aikman, actors Chuck Norris, Robert Duvall and oth­ers were celebrating the pres­idential victory of Texas' gov­ernor. Bush's Hispanic sup­porters also were holding a special ball in his honor. 
The focus of the hoopla, of course, was Bush's swearing in at the Capitol at noon Saturday. About 500,000 peo­ple were expected to attend, including 1,000 dignitaries, among them members of Congress, the Supreme Court and the diplomatic corps. The inaugural parade, with 37 marching bands from high schools and colleges nation­wide, plus six military bands, was to follow. Later that night, 
Georgine ~sopranoMaria Stlbleln, piano 

Songs of Olarles Koechlin 
Su~January 21, 2001 2pm, Annenberg AuditoriJm 

Tickets required: $3 students • $6 seniors • $8 ND/SMC • $10 general admission Tickets ava,lable at the Lafortune Box Office, (219) 631-8 I 28 
F0< 1110,e informatlOll. ple•se caM (219) 631-6201 <>< ""1t htlpJ/www.nd.too/~congoe,s 
celebrating Republicans were attending eight official balls and many other parties. 
On Sunday, as president of the United States. Bush was to open the White House doors to public tours. 
Thursday's show included a parachute drop by six para­troopers onto the mall and a military flyover. Among those who gave brief remarks was Cheney, who described his boss as "a good man. a man of generous instincts" and "wor­thy of the trust" of the American people. 
Secretary of State-designate Colin Powell, who sat in the audience with Commerce Secretary-designate Don Evans, at one point stood up and clapped and sang "Let the Sun Shine In" along with Marilyn McCoo and her hus­band, Billy Davis Jr., founding members of the 1960s group The Fifth Dimension. 
Christian singer Sandi Patty performed the national anthem. Other performers appearing country music duo 
• Brooks & Dunn, opera singer Charlotte Church and Radio City Music Hall's Hockettes. Latin singer Jon Secada drew loud applause for a unique Latin-style rendition of "America The Beautiful." Bush. his breath visible in the cold air, clapped his gloved hands for country duet Lorrie Morgan and Sammy Kershaw, who sang "I Finally Found Someone." He gave a thumbs up to Newton as he left the stage after singing "Coming to America." Other politicians at the show were Attorney General-desig­nate John -Ashcroft, and Florida Secretary of State Katherine Harris, who played a critical role in the troubled vote counting that ultimately gave the presidency to Bush. 
British composer Andrew Lloyd Webber presented a piece performed by the All Girls National Jazz Choir and singer Jessica Simpson. The program finale was 10 min­utes of fireworks launched from five sites around the mall. 
•

• 
•• 
•• 
Rock/Funk ••
•
•• 
band looking for: • •
••• bass player. •••• Interested? ••• Contact Jason at 4-1635 • 
NAMES OF GOLD 

TONY FLOYD/The Observer The Notre Dame Sports Heritage Hall in the Joyce Center unveiled 1,700 new names on 38 pan­els Monday. The names consist primarily o.f 1990s monogram winners, in addition to 82 holdovers from the 1980s -including 97 All-Americans and 35 Academic All-Americans. Among the golden names are two 2000 Olympians and 31 former Notre Dame football players who were on 2000 NFL rosters. 

Money 
continued from page 1 
administrators and campaign workers for Generations' suc­cess. 
"This achievement is the result of a solid vision by the University and a lot of hard work of staff and volunteers," he said. 
At its completion in 1990, the University's Strategic Moments campaign was Notre Dame's most successful fund­raiser. That campaign, which raised $463 million, was also the most prosperous campaign by a Catholic university. 


Do YOU LIKE SPORTS? 
KIDS? Do YOU WANT TO GET PAID 
AND 
EARN 3 CREDITS? 


National Youth Sports Program Sponsored by the NCAA 
A program of' athletics and enrichment for economically disadvantaged children from the South Bend area. 
Training dates: June 18 -22 PrograrrJ. dates: June 25 -July 27 
Housing provided on campus 
-

Three meals per day
-

Salary of approximately $1,200
-

Three elective credits
-


Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns Application deadline: February 9 For additional information, call 631-6614. 






ATION 
Friday, January 19, 200 I 
COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Judges deliberate Lockerbie ver­dict: After 84 days of arduous hearings, Scottish High Court justices on Thursday began deliberating the case against two Libyans accused of blowing up Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. The court was considering 10,232 pages of'testimony from 235 witnesses regarding the terrorist attack,. which killed 270 people, including 189 Americans. 
Yemen tribesmen free German man: A German oil expert was released a day after being kidnapped by Yemeni tribes­men, security officials said Thursday. Luther Fielenberg had been in Yemen for only a week when he was abducted Wednesday from an oil field in the province of Shabwa, the officials said on condition of anonymity. The abduction was the first of a Westerner this year in Yemen. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Ruling allows confederate plates: 
A federal judge Thursday ordered Virginia to issue specialty license plates bearing the Confederate battle flag logo of the Sons of Confederate Veterans. The ruling comes after nearly two years of legal wrangling over whether the state can deny a group's request for specialty tags based on the group's view­point. U.S. District Judge Jackson Kiser said the state's refusal to issue the tag violated the group's right to free speech. 
Gas geysers erupt in Kansas town: 
Natural gas shooting as much as 30 feet out of the ground caused an explosion at a mobile home park Thursday, injuring three people. The explosion followed a blast Wednesday that destroyed two businesses in downtown Hutchinson, about 60 miles northwest of Wichita. An expert from the Kansas Geological Survey said the gas may be coming from an old gas well. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


JU, Purdue await sweatshop report: 
Reports of low wages, forced overtime and physical abuse at a garment factory in Mexico have raised eyebrows of officials at Indiana, Purdue and other universities in the \iVorker Rights Consortium. The consortium, which monitors factories for sweatshop conditions, is sending a delegation to the Kukdong International-Mexico apparel factory to see whether allegations of workers' rights viola­tions can be substantiated. The Korean-owned and operated factory produces sweat shirts that bear the logos of Indiana. Purdue and several other universities. · 
Market Watch 1/18 

Dow 
10,678.28 +93.94

]ONES 
Composite
Same: Volume:
/4~¾it· 1'•: NIA
393 
.Yt1 
••. y~~ 
""''"··· .
AMEX: 899.88 . .6.14 Nasdaq: 2768.49 +85.71 NYSE: 651.52 +3.46 
S&P 500: 1347.97 + 18.50 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INTEL CORI' (INTC) +S.S4 • 1.6') 32.1') CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ,7.3K +2.88 41.88 VIGNETTE CORI' (VIGN) -37.52 -4.(,9 7.1!1 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +7.74 ,2.,0 34.88 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) ,4.20 +2.68 66.56 

Jackson reveals affair, child 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 

The Hev. Jesse Jackson withdrew 
from public view at a potentially criti­
cal hour for the civil rights movement 
Thursday after disclosing that he had 
an extramarital affair that resulted in 
the birth of a daughter a year and a 
half ago. 

A steady stream of supporters ­
including Jackson's son, Hep. Jesse 
Jackson Jr. -visited with him at his 
Chicago home. some carrying Bibles. 
But the only word from Jackson was a 
statement issued in the early morning 
hours revealing the affair. 
"I fully accept responsibility and I 
am truly sorry for my actions," he said. 
Spokesman John Scanlon said 
Jackson issued the statement to get 
out in front of anticipated tabloid 
reports. Scanlon said the child was the 
result of an affair :Jackson had with a 
woman who worked in the 
Washington office of Jackson's civil 
rights group, the Hainbow-PUSH 
Coalition. 

In his statement. Jackson said he 
would temporarily step aside from 
public life to spend time with his fami­
ly. 

The statement came amid the Senate confirmation hearings for John Ashcroft, President-elect Bush's nomi­nee for attorney general -a choice denounced by Jackson and other civil rights leaders. Jackson has demanded that Democratic senators vote against Ashcroft. 
Jackson's staff said he has not yet decided whether he will attend a rally Saturday to protest voting irregulari­ties that he says disenfranchised blacks during the presidential election. 
Jackson, a Baptist minister and one­time aide to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., said he has provided "emo­tional and financial support" since the baby's birth. "As her mother does, I love this child very much," he said. 
"I was born of these circumstances, and I know the importance of growing up in a nurturing, supportive and pro­tected environment," said Jackson, 59. "So I am determined to give my daughter and her mother the privacy they both deserve." 
He said he knows friends and sup­porters will be disappointed in him and asked for their "forgiveness, understanding and prayers." 
The Rev. Joseph Lowery, who was a close colleague of King and co-founder of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, said he hopes Jackson participates in the Florida rally but would understand if he didn't. 
"We can't get bogged down. We 
can't let this interfere with his contin­ued public service," said the 79-year­old Lowery, who plans to help lead the rally. "The Bible says let him without sin cast the first stone. So instead of casting stones, he needs our prayers and our support." 
Jesse Jackson Jr. issued a statement appealing to the public to "understand and respect our privacy." 
"Over the course of nearly four decades of marriage, my father and our family have survived many dan­gers and endured many crises and, with God's help, we hope to endure this one as well," the younger Jackson said. 
Chicago Mayor Richard Daley called it "a personal thing with his wife and his family" and would not comment. 
That sentiment was echoed by many in the city that has become the base of operations for Jackson's work. 

"It's his business. We're only human," said Jamese Duckett, a 26­year-old Chicagoan who is a driver for Cook County. "Everybody's allowed to make mistakes. At least he 'fessed up and took responsibility." 
In 1998, Jackson, once a Democratic presidential candidate himself, was a steadfast presence at President Clinton's side as the president strug­gled with the disclosure of his affair with Monica Lewinsky and the impeachment proceedings that fol­lowed. He went to the White House to pray with Clinton's family on a grim weekend in August that year, as Clinton admitted the truth to his wife and daughter and, in a televised speech, to the nation. 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

Deadlock threatens government 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 

Two days of diplomacy failed to crack the deadlock threatening the survival of Northern Ireland's power­sharing government, British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Thursday. 
"There is still a lot more to do," Blair said before returning to London. 
However, he said some progress had been made and he was satisfied that all the key parties were committed to working to resolve differences on dis­arming paramilitary groups and reforming the police force. 
The lack of progress raised fears 
that Britain might have to suspend the local administration's powers for the second time in a year, to forestall its collapse from a Protestant walkout. 
The compromise plan being dis­cussed required the outlawed Irish Republican Army to begin disarming, as it promised to do last year. In return, Britain would launch a new phase of military cutbacks and the government's senior Protestant, Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble, would resume full cooperation with Cabinet colleagues from the IRA­linked Sinn Fein party. 
Blair also left without achieving con­crete progress on potentially the piv­otal issue -whether Catholics will support a plan for reshaping the Royal Ulster Constabulary, Northern Ireland's mostly Protestant police force. 
Both Sinn Fein and the govern­ment's major Catholic-supported party, the moderate Social Democratic and Labor Party or SDLP, continued to oppose a reform package they say falls short on several fronts. 
A lead editorial Thursday in the Irish News. Northern Ireland's main Catholic newspaper, caused political shock waves when it appealed for both parties to join a new Policing Board. 
page 6 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 19, 2001 
HOLYCROSS: 
GROWING INTO THE 21ST CENTURY 

Vince Bernardin Matt Biergans Julio Bozzo, C.S.C. Brian Carpenter Jimmy Carrera Mark Coomes Steve Davidson Lou DelFra, C.S.C. John DeRiso, C.S.C. Phil Donner 
They answered the call. What about you? 
Jeff Drocco Tom Eckert, C.S.C. 





Joe Fagan Greg Giefer John Glynn Mike Griffin, C.S.C. 





David Halm 



Brian Herlocker, C.S.C. Tom Hofmann 

www.nd.edu/~vocation 
ANSWER :W THECALL ~ 





Matt Kutz Mark Laheey Pete McCormick Patrick McGowan 





Chris Nygren Cort Peters 








Kevin Sandberg Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. Andy Sebeslll Matt Vereecke Neil Wack, C.S.C. Nate Wills, C.S.C. Chuck Witschorik, C.S.C. 
Friday, January 19, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
After 8 years, Clinton bids farewell to Oval Office 
. Outgoing president cites improvements in economy, environment among achievements 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

President Clinton, in a farewell from the Oval Office, told the nation Thursday night that "America has done well" dur­ing his presidency, with record-breaking 
prosperity and a cleaner environment. He said President­elect Bush will inher­it a country "in a great position to meet the challenges of the future." 
Offering advice to 


the incoming admin-Clinton istration, Clinton urged that the United States stay on the course of fiscal discipline and continue to pay down the national debt. It seemed to be a pointed alternative to Bush's propos­al for sweeping tax cuts. 
Clinton turns over the presidency to George W. Bush at noon Saturday. 
In the speech, Clinton said that America must continue to lead in foreign affairs "and must not disentangle itself from the world." He said that at home, the nation "must treat all our people with fairness and dignity, regardless of their race, religion, gender or sexual orienta­tion and regardless of when they arrived in this country." 
It was Clinton·s 15th Oval Office address over the course of his presiden­cy, a turbulent eight years that brought unprecedented economic prosperity along with a humiliating sex scandal and bitter impeachment battle. 
While Clinton boasted of economic good times, he made no mention of the Monica Lewinsky sex-and-lies scandal that roiled his presidency or the impeachment battle that followed. 
The president, speaking for seven min­utes in a prime-time, televised speech, said he leaves office "more idealistic, more full of hope than the day I arrived and more confi­
around our common values -and our common humanity." 
Clinton said he was proudly grateful to Americans for the chance to serve two terms -the first Democrat since Franklin D. Roosevelt to be twice elected. 
"This has been a time of dramatic transformation, and you have risen to every new challenge," the president said. "You have made our passage into the global information age an era of great American renewal." 
He said he had been guided by the val­
ues of opportunity 

dent than ever that and responsibility
"[I leave office} more idealistic,
America·s best for all and had 
more full ofhope than the day I
days lie ahead." He tried to give
arrived and more confident
said there is no America "a new higher position than ever that America's best kind of government than president but -smaller, more
days lie ahead." 
that "there is no modern, more title I will wear effective, full of 
Bill Clinton

more proudly than new ideas and poli­
U.S. president

that of citizen." cies appropriate to 
Two days before Bush's inaugura­tion, the imminent change of command was apparent at the \Vhite House. Clinton's aides stripped his photos from the walls and packed personal papers into boxes. Computer drives were being archived and cleared for the incoming administration. Clinton's staff was to lose e-mail capability at the end of the day. 
Emphasizing that the United States must remain a world leader. Clinton said, "We must remember that America can­not lead in the world unless here at home we weave the threads of our coat of many colors into the fabric of one America." 
"As we become more diverse," Clinton said, "we must work harder to unite 
this new time. 
Working together. 

America has done well." 
As he has many times, Clinton boasted 
that America is enjoying its longest eco­
nomic expansion in history, with more 
than 22 million new jobs and the lowest 
unemployment in 30 years. Still, the 
incoming Bush administration says it is 
worried about signs of an economic slow­
down. 

Clinton said his administration had 
achieved progress across the board, 
fighting crime, reducing welfare rolls and 
expanding college opportunities. 
"Incomes are rising across the board. ·Our air and water are cleaner. Our food 
and drinking water is safer. And more of 
our precious land has been preserved 
than at any time in 100 years. And America has been a force for peace and prosperity in every corner of the globe. 
"I am glad to be able to turn over the reins of leadership to a new president with America in a great position to meet the challenges of the future," Clinton said. 
It was the latest, but not the final, goodbye from the nation's 42nd presi­dent. A farewell ceremony is planned at the airport Saturday as he leaves Washington after Bush's inauguration. and a welcoming rally awaits Clinton soon after at Kennedy International Airport in New York. He also will have a final radio address Saturday. 
Outside the White House, Pennsylvania Avenue was lined with thousands of bleachers and a gleaming white presi­dential reviewing stand for the inaugural parade. Bush was in residence at the Blair House, the presidential guest house. 
Clinton leaves oflice with some of the highest job approval ratings of any presi­dent in the last half-century, although many Americans have doubts about him personally. An ABC News-Washington Post poll showed that 65 percent approve of his job performance, about the same as the job approval rating Ronald Reagan had at the end of his term. The same poll found that three-fourths said he lacked high moral and ethical standards. 
Clinton, after a blizzard of executive orders and environmental actions in recent days. still has some last-minute work on his plate. White House press sec­retary Jake Siewert said Clinton would issue presidential pardons on Friday. Siewert said hundreds of requests have been received, and "we'll look at as many as we can." 

Rick Kellev Bahama Beach Partv 
Beat the cold with this one man interactive music shawl In the Huddle 
Mark Reedv comedv Show 
Lafortune Ballroom Saturdav, Januarv 20, 2001 Show Starts at 10:00 pm 
Free Snacks and Mocktails Come ready to LAUGH!!! 
These events are sponsored by the Student Activities Office, Flip Side and the Class of 2004 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 19, 2001 
Physicists make light stand still in Cambri9ge lab 
atoms was reconstituted and continued its journey track and a train vanishes into it," said University of
As5ociatcd Press 

through the vessel. Colorado physicist Eric Cornell, who reviewed the Hau "It's as if you stretched a silk thread across a railroad study for Nature. 
Physicists say they have brought light particles to a 
screeching halt. then revved them up again so that they could continue their journey at a blistering 186,000 miles per second. 
The results are the latest in a growing number of experiments that manipulate light, the fastest and most ephemeral form of energy in the universe. 
Eventually, researchers hope to harness its speedy properties in the development of more powerful com­puters and other technologies that store information in light particles rather than electrons. 
The experiments were conducted in separate labora­tories in Cambridge, Mass., by groups led by Lene Vestergaard Hau of Harvard and the Rowland Institute of Science and Ronald L. Walsworth and Mikhail D. Lukin of the Harvard-Smithsonian Institute for Astrophysics. 
The results will be published in upcoming issues of the journals Nature and American Physical Letters. 
Physicists who did not participate in the experiments said the two research papers make an important contri­bution to understanding the properties of light. However, any practical applications are far off, they said. 
"It's a real first," said Stanford physicist Stephen Harris, who collaborated on a 1999 experiment with Hau that slowed light to 38 mph. "These experiments are beautiful science." 
In the latest experiments, researchers took steps to not only slow light to a virtual crawl, but to stop it com­pletely. 
To do so, they created a trap in which atoms of gas were chilled magnetically to within a few-millionths of a degree of absolute zero and a consistency they described as "optical molasses." Hau's group used sodi­um atoms, while Waldsworth's group used rubidium, an alkaline metal. 
Normally, the gas atoms would absorb any light directed into the trap. The researchers solved this prob­lem by aiming a "control" laser beam into the gas, which transformed it from opaque to a state known as electromagnetic ally induced transparency, or EIT. 
Then they shined a second, probe laser that operated at a different frequency. When the wave of light parti­cles hit the gas atoms, the particles slowed dramatically. 
To stop the probe light entirely, the researchers wait­ed until it had entered the vessel, encountered the gas atoms and imprinted a pattern into the orientation of the spinning atoms. 
Then the scientists gradually reduced the intensity of the control beam. 
As a result, the probe light dimmed and then van­ished. But information in the light particles still was imprinted on the atoms of sodium and rubidium, effec­tively freezing or storing it, according to Hau. 
Then the scientists gradually restored the control beam. The light that had been stored in the spinning 
Pkute eeMf,e,t 
Applebee's Grill Arby's Atlanta Bread Company Carriage House Dining Room College Football Hall of Fame Colonial Pancake House Cosimo's Hair Salon Dairy Queen Fazoli's Francesco's Restaurant Fun Tan Inc.. Grains & Grinds Bagel Cafe Granger Tap & Grill, Inc. Hobby Lobby Honkers Restaurant JC Penney Styling Salon Long John Silver's Luigi's Pizza Majerek's Hallmark 

The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student caller incentive program.
F U N D 
Makielski, Inc. -Your Store to Explore Marco's Inc. #100 KADA Partnership/McDonalds Michiana Paintball Outback Steakhouse Papa John's Pizza Princess Flower and Gift Shop 
Salon Nouveau 

Seattle's Best Coffee 
Shear Phazes 

Siam Thai Restaurant 
The South Bend Chocolate Company 
Sports Page Bar & Grill 
Studebaker National Museum, Inc. 
Target 

Tippecanoe Place Restaurant 
The Varsity Shop 
Wal*Mart 

WNDU AM & FM 

''Discover The Star in You,, 
Grand Master 
S T U D O S 
Recording * Production * Mastering Duplication * Music & Vocal Lessons Demo Production * Music Equipment Sounds & Lights * Sales & Rental Analog 2" & Digital Hard Drive Systems 
"The Biggest Recording Studio in Northwest Indiana" 
Ads * Commercials * Advertising * Jingles 
(219) 288-8273 

csc 
CENTER F'OR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

VEHICLE TRAINING DATES FOR SPRING 2001 
The following dates are the ONLY dates vehicle training will be offered. No exceptions will be made. If you were trained Fall 2000 you do not need to be retrained. Sunday January 28 Sunday February 4 Thursday February 8 Wednesday February 14 Sunday March 4 
Al1 sessions will be at 6:00 p.m. in Room 124 at the CSC .. 
REMINDERS: All groups must submit NEW request forms for second sen1ester scheduling. Requests must have accurate times and name(s) of driver(s) to be accepted. (group leader 
,,,. 

name insufficient if not actually driving) Direct Questions to: cssvans@nd.edu 
Friday, January 19, 2001 page 9 
The Observer . NATIONA.L NEWS 
California struck by more blackouts, hospitals exempt 
Bakersfield area of central home-care patients who rely on Francisco Bay area, causing bors lifting our garages up man­
Associated Press 
California to Oregon, 500 miles electrically powered medical fender-benders in Palo Alto. ually, which of course isn't too away. The rolling outages lasted equipment because of lung dis­Computer screens went dark, good for seniors," Datzman said. 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. 

about two hours. ease or other ailments usually heaters and bank machines \Vith no end to the crisis inThe lights went out in nearly 2 Power managers said they have batteries or backup gener­were silent and lights went out sight. Californians began stock­million California homes and expected to have enough power ators. in classrooms. ing up on flashlights, candlesbusinesses Thursday in a second to avoid more blackouts at night­Utilities refused to disclose The power outage in Sun City and firewood. Stores werestraight day of blackouts as state fall. though more problems were which areas were blacked out. Uncoln Hills, a retirement com­swamped with calls from busi­lawmakers struggled to find a possible Friday. but the effects were obvious: munity near Sacramento, nesses looking for generators. 
way out of the deepening crisis. 
Hospitals and airports were Traffic lights went out for a sec­prompted Jim Datzman, 62, and The Independent SystemThe blackouts began about 10 exempt from the outages. And ond day across the San his wife, Sandy, 59, to take their Operator. keeper of the state 
a.m. and stretched from the 
two grandsons to a community power grid, said the latest black­


playground. The 2-year-old outs were caused by a loss ol' twins, Corbin and Quinn, had thousands of megawatts from been watching Barney on tele­the Northwest, where hydroelec­vision when the power went tric dams are low on water. One out. megawatt is enough to power 
"We saw a lot of our neigh-1,000 homes. 
Regulators to study 

interactive television 

In examining the merger, the 

Associated Press 
Federal Communications Commission heard from con­WASHINGTON sumer advocates and ·content
'Federal regulators said 

companies that recommended
Thursday they would take a 

safeguards to ensure choice as
COMMISSIONER 
closer look at whether rules this new service develops.

are needed to shape the Particularly, those parties

emerging market for interac­expressed fears that a cable

APPLICATIONS 
tive television, which lets con­company could steer viewers tosumers use the Internet from its own interactive program­their TV sets. 

ming and away from competing The process was triggered by content.
the federal review of the AOL The FCC did not impose any

Deadline Extended!!!! 
Time Warner merger. The 

specific conditions dealing with combined company is expected interactive television on AOLto make steep inroads in offer­
Applications Due Sunday, Jan. 21 
Time Warner. But the agencying the new service by drawing said it would study the issueon Time Warner's content and more broadly.
AOL's wide Internet reach. 

Interactive programming car­
Pick up an application at the 
ries special signals that allow consumers to access data or 
ERASMUS BOOKS

Student Activities Office at 
Internet information from 
their sets. For example, inter­
-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories of Books 

active signals might let a view­
314 LaFortune and sign up 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback 

er look up profiles of players 
books in stock 

during a televised game or get
for an interview. 
-Out-of-Print search service 

more data on a news report. 
-Appraisals large and small 

But some worry that cable
Open noon to six 

operators that both distribute 
Tuesday through Sunday 

programming and create their
Check out the website for more info: 
1027 E. Wayne 

own could discriminate 
South Bend, IN 46617 

against rival interactive con­
www.nd.edu/--bkstr/ 
(219) 232-8444 

tent. For example, a cable operator could carry compet­ing programming but refuse to pass through the special sig­nals needed for interactivity, critics say. That could limit viewer choice and leave them 
... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial 
with only certain interactive
institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, 
programming. 
competitive products and pricing, and a level of service 
The cable industry bristled at the initiative to examine
second to none. 

such a nascent industry. "Asking dozens of hypotheti• 
Convenience• With over 40 banking centers and 
cal questions about regulating a business which has yet to take form still puts the cart 
ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you 
might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar 
before the horse," said Robert
College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, 
Sachs, president of the 
or use our ATM in the Hesburgh Library. 
National Cable Television Association. "Interactive TV is just starting to develop and is
Internet Banking • With 1st so·urce Bank's on-line 
likely to evolve in different
banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, 
ways. There is no evidence to 
you can check your balances, transfer money 
suggest that government regu­
lation is called for here." The decision by the agency to study the issue does not 
between accounts, and even pay bills. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from 
guarantee that any rules will
home? 1st Source can make getting money from 
be written. If the FCC does implement new regulations, it could take months to propose 
home fast and easy by arranging to have the money 
transfered to you electronically. 
those steps. The agency acknowledged
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. 
that interactive television is 
still an emerging service but said it wanted to address early on any competitive concerns. 
Interactive TV "has the potential to bring huge bene­fits to the American con­
So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 
sumer, not to mention sub­
M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
stantial revenues to service providers," said FCC Chairman William Kennard. 

A1:HE 

page 10 voSERVER Friday, January 19, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nom: Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Macringly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENERAI. INF0..............631-747I FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 8USINFSS OFFICE........................................631-53I3 NEWS...........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARYS............ .................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 • 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site al http://obseron-.mi.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekJy student reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
onlinc U2tW'es for spe­
cial campus coverage
and rares ofprint ads 
about 1be Observer
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is 1he independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of che University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeicher insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of che majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. L:ners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsrrwr poluin shoula be direct­ed to &litor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

Draw together in honoring King 
Each January. the nation joins together the student body. to celebrate and honor the civil rights Thirty-two years ago, Martin Luther movement by recognizing Martin Luther King, Jr. envisioned a dream in which a King, Jr. Next week, multicultural society Notre Dame and Saint would become a reality. Mary's will attempt to OJhe He envisioned a dream unify the campus com­userver where underrepresented munities to commem­groups would not be mar­orate King through a ginalized, where differ­week-long series of ence would be embraced
Editorial
events designed to and diversity would be eel-­break racial barriers ebrated. At the dawn of and recognize our nation's shared history. the 21st Century, we are inching closer to 
The week-long events, under the that dream. but it is far from a reality. umbrella theme of..It Takes a Village to Each member of this community ­Plant the Future," are critical to creating a regardless of their race or ethnicity -is multicultural environment at Notre Dame responsible for creating a multicultural and Saint Mary's. While the organizational environment at Notre Dame. Such an efforts of the sponsoring groups are com­environment ic;; more than simply recog­mendable, the success of the week will nizing diversity or placing individuals of ultimately be ba.sed in the participation of diverse origins into an environment; it is the concious effort to move beyond our comfort zones and begin to understand the experience ofothers in our communi­ty. While Martin Luther King, Jr. has his­torically been a beacon for the African­American community. next week's events should not be a celebration only for African-Americans. These events should be a chance for discourse to begin. to understand diverse experiences, walk into new territory and begin the stepping stones to a multicultural community. 
The Observer commends the sponsoring organizations of the Martin Luther King, Jr. celebration on campus and encourages the collective community to attend. The discourse these events offer are critical to achieving a multicultµral environment on campus. Take the time to attend -and take the first step in planting Notre Dame and Saint Mary's future. 
Predicting America's next four years 
Despite several nasty e-mails I received from "Notre Dame Republicans" calling me an example of what is "wrong with our country." I find that my insights from the Democratic perspective have not been mean or vindictive. 
For example, I do not make issue of President "select" George W. Bush copying many of Bill Clinton's 1992 cam­paign tactics. From Bush's blatant pla­giarism at his con­vention saying, "it is time for them to go," to his tactics of what former Clinton advisor Dick Morris calls ..triangulation," running on stolen issues from the other party's political ba.se. 
With the inauguration tomorrow. it is time to look into the crystal ball and pre­dict what we Democrats think the second Bush will encounter. Noting that Bush campaigned as an outsider. it is ironic that many ofhis second and third tier appointments are from old Republican administrations a.5 far back as Richard Nixon. We Democrats believe that too many "old folks" will take Bush backward with old ideas rather than forward with new innovations. 
An example ofwhat Democrats consid­er backward thinking is the resurrection of the so-called Star Wars defense system first proposed by Ronald Reagan. It seems that his top-heavy military team -Vice President. Secretary of State and Secretary ofDefense -all believe in a satellite defense program despite the end of the Cold War. Democrats expect Bush to begin pushing on Capitol Hill and ear­marking funding for the effort. Democrats also envision deficit spending as a result ofthis expensive proposal. 
While Al Gore and most Democrats 
opposed Bush's $1.3 trillion across-the­
board tax cut, some Democrats now want Bush to ··stimulate" the economy in hopes of ending the budget surpluses. They rea­son that by giving Bush the chance to either succeed or fail on his own. Bush's fate lies in his own hands. If he succeeds, then the country will prosper and Democrats have no future campaign issue. However. should Bush's tax plan backfire, Democrats can ride that, as well as a host ofother issues, come 2004. 

Many are concerned that Bush's "mili­tary trio" will push for an international isolationist policy in the name of reducing 
U.S. policing throughout the world with American military personnel. Speculation of drastic consequences ranges from merely losing Taiwan a.5 a result of aggression from China to the explosion of a Russian warhead, which most likely will fall into the hands of a terrorist group. Those scenarios are but a few that experts can foresee now that the Central Intelligence Agency has published a book­let looking at the world a.5 it may exist in the year 2015. 
Trouble is also brewing with the OPEC nations reducing petroleum production by 5 percent beginning in February. During the campaign, Bush criticized Clinton for not convincing "our oil pro­ducing friends to increa.se production." Now that the shoe is on the other foot. many Democrats will sit back and wait to see just how effective Bush officials are in convincing "our friends." Some actually expect Bush to succeed if he can success­fully invoke the memory ofhis father's efforts to save the region from Iraqi aggression in the early 1990s. 
Politics makes for strange bedfellows and intolerant zealots. While Democrats close to the party particularly feel bitter about Bush's selection by the Supreme Court, most would not advocate dra.stic consequences that would harm the American public. But Democrats want Bush policies to falter so that they can . offer alternatives, if not say, "we told you so." 
I personally have looked into my crystal ball and seen far beyond this level oflife. It is my belief that President Bush and his son. George W.• are in fact, John Adams and John Quincy Adams reincarnated. Of the first eight presidents in our history. only the Adams family (pun intended} were one-term presidents. With so many similarities between younger Adams and younger Bush. I can see where the soon­to-be new President Bush can easily fol­low in his father's footsteps and prove my theory. 
My crystal ball shows that the new president will not have any personal moral fla~'S like Bill Clinton, but then again will not sustain the American pub­lic's confidence either..l can see that in just a few months. Americans will miss the Clinton charm and ask themselves, "Can this guy ever put together a complex sentence?" 
Four years from now Democrats will campaign on a few basic phrases. "President Bush, you said you would do this or that, and you have not. You said there is too much finger pointing in Wa.shington. yet you blame the Democratic congress. You promised this, but have yet to deliver." 
Four years from now Jeb Bush will have lost reelection in Florida in part because of those who felt they were dis­enfranchised, and who actually got their votes counted due to election reform. 
Four years from now. regardless ifAl Gore or another Democrat carries the banner for our party. Florida will be solidly in the Democratic column on elec­tion night. Four years is a long time in politics. But for Democrats. 2004 is just around the comer, and our freight train has already begun chugging down the track. John Quincy Adams, you never had it so good! 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, today is ending his position as Congressional and Public Affai.rs Director in President Clinton ·s· administration. llis column appears every other Friday. and his e­mail address is llottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this article are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 

E 
~ 
0•
@•
E 
,:,•.. 
= 
0 
•.., E 
0 
(.) 
~ 
Cl) 
.t::J 
i 


WE ALREADY SELL TEN MILLION OF THESE PER YEAR. MY IDEA JUST MAKES THEM BETTER . 
\ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Gray skies are just clouds passing over. " 
Duke Ellington musician 

O
THE 

Friday, January 19, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A New Yorker's guide to the Big Apple 
I liked your piece about New York. but as a New Yorker. I'd like to add a few more suggestions. 
For food, you can't miss the deli experi­ence, or eating New York pizza. For delis, the two tops are Katz's on the Lower East Side and the Carnegie in Midtown. The prices will surprise you at first, but these sandwiches will fill you up for an entire day. 
As for pizza, New York is a daunting place. This is the birthplace of American pizza, and America's original pizzeria is Lombardi's near Little Italy. The pizza here is phenomenal, and you're highly unlikely to find anything to match it anywhere. It's a local haunt. and is almost always packed. There seem to be a gazillian "Famous Ray's," but the one people in the city think of as the original is on Sixth Avenue at 11th Street. This is gooey, cheesey stuff. If you're in New York, remember that your pizza will not resemble that awful stuff they pass off as pizza over at Bruno's. Thin crust pizza gets folded. 
Ifyou want to dance, make sure you dress to impress. and have "the look." Without it, you're not getting past the doorman. It's just that simple. The earlier you go, the bet­ter your chances of getting in. For the ulti­mate in dancing, check out Twilo in Chelsea. The crowd tends to be predomi­nantly gay, and the music is amazing. DJ Junior Vasquez has his permanent resi­dence there. Check with your hotel concierge for passes too, or to get onto guest lists. 
Besides dancing, there are a number of great jazz clubs in the Village, too. And in Harlem, there's a jazz club called Wells that features a terrific swing orchestra and serves their special of fried chicken and waffles. This is kind of secret nightspot. but it's a great place to enjoy some serious swing. People from all walks of life head there for a night out, and it's not that expensive. Just keep in mind that New Yorkers dress up when they go out, so bring your best club clothes or the nicest parts of your wardrobe. 
Classical music is an integral part of the city, and there are literally hundreds of orchestras. ensembles and simply thou­sands of musicians just in Manhattan. If you want to experience some of it, you can pay to sit in the very back row at Lincoln Center or check out what's happening at Juilliard, The Manhattan School of Music or The Mannes School of Music. All three have tremendous orchestras (Mannes's is the most underrated, but it's very good). 
For the visual arts. Manhattan can't be beaten. The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Guggenheim, The Whitney and The Museum of Modern Art are all world class galleries offering student discounts -Notre Dame and Saint Mary's included. 
If Broadway is your game, go to TKTS early in the morning and get tickets at reduced rates. You may not get the show of your choice, but it's cheaper than paying full price. David Letterman is free, and his show tapes at five every weekday afternoon. Send a postcard to this show in advance for tickets or talk with your hotel concierge about getting you in. 
Off-Broadway plays are usually quite good and less expensive than their counterparts. Here you'll find experimental works, and it's worth it just to go. The Village Voice has comprehensive listings for theatres, clubs, galleries and so forth. Pick one up for free, and write down the things you want to do. You'll be surprised at how much is going on right around the corner from your hotel ­and inexpensively. 
Shopping is excellent in the city. Many up and coming designers have their own shops in SoHo and Greenwich Village. Look around and you might find some of these. There are also a number of vintage clothing stores that have unique finds. Flea markets are common on weekends, and you can find anything from an antique refrigerator to a rare Miles Davis recording. 
Shop around on the \Veb for hotels. My favorite is The SoHo Grand. but it's pricey. The best bargain for a full-service hotel is the Hotel Beacon on 76th Street and Broadway. Close to Lincoln Center, Central Park, The Museum of Natural History and a short cab ride from Fifth Avenue, the rooms are actually mini-suites. 
The best way to see Manhattan is to just explore. Spend time in SoHo and Greenwich Village. The best place to people watch is Washington Square Park. Here you'll find Bohemian society at its best. 
Finally, a few words of advice to those of you travelling to New York: Don·t look up at the buildings, and dress like you belong (you'll see what I mean once you get there). This isn't a city for everyone, but everyone can have a good time if they take the city on it's own terms. 
John-Andrew Murphy 

coordinator, International Studies Resource Center 
Hesburgh Library 
January 18, 2001 


Monday's column by Charles Rice, "High tuition reflects University's shift in emphasis," raises serious questions on whether Notre Dame is following the Catholic tradition on education and its role. It may be that Notre Dame is veering from that tra­dition to seek national and interna­tional prestige. Is this school getting so caught up in its own reputation that it has forgotten themes that were previously associated with a Catholic education? 
The fact that our tuition has sky­rocketed is easily seen when I look around campus or walk through the parking lots. There has been a huge socio-economic shift at Notre Dame that can be seen in the student body (and the cars they drive). I have been told that Notre Dame was once friendly to the blue-collar {Catholic) worker. Sweatshirts and blue jeans have been replaced with the trendi­est clothes from who knows what department stores. Fashion, of course, is not bad in itself, but it helps demonstrate how enrollment caters (almost exclusively) to those who have money. 
There is nothing wrong with money or having money. My prima­ry concern is for the student who cannot come to the University. I myself had to leave in 1997 to pay money I owed the school. The debt I had incurred while in school was suffocating. My family was always very supportive, but they could only do so much. There are many high school students who see what can happen when they don't have money, and as a result they pass on an education from Notre Dame. Who can blame them? Why risk not graduating on time? 
When we lose that kind ofstudent, we lose an aspect of the school. We lose a different perspective. a differ­ent opinion and a different friend. Dorms used to have the kid who didn't chip in quite as much as they should have with the pizza, but nobody cared. Why didn't they care? Because the person who put in a lit­tle more was happy to help, and the person who didn't put in enough was proud to have such considerate friend. It is a case of the "have's" and the "have-not's" living together in a mutually beneficial relationship. What will come of us when there are only those left who "have"? 
I encourage anyone who reads this to visit the Brigham Young University homepage. Their tuition (while being heavily helped by churches across the country) is only 1/3 of what it costs to come to our school. They value religion and edu­cation and foster an "everyone's welcome" attitude. Instead of being a leader for other Catholic universi­ties, we have become the anomaly. Instead of looking like Holy Cross, Incarnate Word or Saint Mary's, we look like Columbia, Harvard and Yale. Is this what we truly want, and better yet~ is this what Father Sorin intended? 
Take a look at BYU and remember what we once were. 
G. Tijerina Jr. 
Sourh Bend, Indiana January 18, 2001 

Questioning Notre Dame's choice of role models 
Having seen last month's \VNDU broadcast about the Note Dame Christmas party for kids with cancer or having recovered from cancer, I wanted to take this opportunity to address the hypocrisy that is Notre Dame. My wife is a law student at Notre Dame Law School and during our last two and half years here we have seen many things that have upset us. However, this latest is something that is too much to take qui­etly. 
I think it's fantastic that Notre Dame decided to host such an event and pro­vide fun, games and distraction from their inflictions. My problem is with the choice of role models that assisted with the party -Notre Dame athletes. What was the PR coordinator thinking when they planned that one? 
It is bad enough that we elevate ath­over the second. 

I know of a wonderful man who is studying for his PhD in theology despite being legally blind. I ate lunch with a young man who lives in a wheelchair due to his illness and is hoping to get his baccalaureate in psychology. Ifyou are familiar with the Notre Dame campus, you know his life is difficult as ND is one of the most non-wheelchair-friendly campuses I have ever been on. 
My point is, there are plenty of stu­dents on campus who have hearts larger than Notre Dame's pride and can actual­ly empathize with children who are or have been suffering physically and emo­tionally. They just weren't asked. 
Tim Crouch 
Sourh Bend, Indiana January 7, 2001 



T R A V E L 
page 12 Friday, January 19, 2001 
Mid-terms are over ••• you': 
Disney World is much more than Cinderellas Castle and a few kiddie rides. 
j 
By AMANDA GRECO Scene Editor 

Editor's note: This week Scene is featuring popular spring break destinations. 
Imagine this ... the mound of snow covering campus are starting to melt, the days are getting longer. Midterms are over and you've time for a much needed break. Though the birds may be returning north, it's time for you to migrate south to Florida. Warm weather and plenty of activities await you... 
Disney World 
Perhaps the definitive sight to see for any Orlando visitor, Disney World is far more expansive than the familiar castle and rides you knew as a child. With four theme parks, three water parks, a sports cen­ter and Downtown Disney, you're sure to find enough activities to keep you out of your hotel room. 
The major parks consist of the original Magic Kingdom -Haunted Mansion and all -Epcot center, MGM Studios and Animal Kingdom. 
Magic Kingdom 

Magic Kingdom boasts seven fantasy lands all straight out of favorite Disney storybooks. There are over 40 attractions. shows and parades to be seen. While the rides at the Magic Kingdom can bring back fond memories, this park is definitely tar­geted more towards the small child -or your inner child, whichever you choose to bring along. It will take a full day to get through this park. 
Should you find yourself getting hungry between the rides, stop in at Cinderella's Royal Castle, a high class restaurant located in Cinderella's castle. The cuisine is excellent and the service fit for royalty. and you are addressed as such when there. Every lady is a princess and every gentleman is a lord. Reservations are suggested. 
Epcot Center 

At Epcot center, you can enjoy international travel 
within a matter of minutes. The World Showcase 
provides a taste of 11 different countries, their cul­
ture and cuisine. The Future World features rides, 
interactive learning centers and a glimpse at the 
future of technology. The Test Track ride is a 
thrilling trip on a simulated GM car testing track that 
sends you breaking through barriers and speeding 
sideways along an oval track at tummy-turning 
speeds. 

During the evening, don't miss the Tapestry of 
Nations parade or the Illuminations light show. 
Perhaps one of the most spectacular displays, this 
light show features lasers and fireworks from 360 
degrees around you. It would be impossible to see all 
that Epcot has to offer, even if you devote an entire 
day to this endeavor. But the park is worth a repeat 
visit, so leave some time for this one. 
MGM Studios 

MGM Studios is Disney's own version of its neigh­bor, Universal Studios. Here you can ride a Rock'n' 
I 
7

Scene travel 
-" 

Don't leave your luggage on top of your car. l 1,• label your luggage. Don't forget to verify reservations. Uc. go to the airport early. 
u,, check the ~\it~,;u1t}r report for your destination. When in Africa, don't go barefoot or handle the monkay~. 
.... 
~;::;~=~:t,·~--"~,,.-. 
Roller Coaster with Aerosmith, fall down the Twilight Zone Tower of Terror or watch stunt dare-devils right before your eyes. 
Animal Kingdom 
The newest addition to the rapidly growing cor­porate logo that Disney has stamped on Florida is the Animal Kingdom theme park. In reality, this park is several 
parks in one. Aimed more at educating rather than market­ing, this park is extremely enjoyable 
for  both  kids  and  
adults.  
In  Dinoland,  you  

can blast back in time to track down rare species of di nos, all while risking your life to a dinosaur attack. At the Boneyard, kids can get hands-on experience as an archaeologist while playing in a prehistoric wonderland. 
When you board a Kilimanjaro Safari, it's hard to 
ti, 
S-~~-{~F~i'.
~· 1::,,:.,
c.i../•. J.1 
fn~'1 .-· 
-,Ip· ·. 

believe 
y O U 
aren't in Africa. With several h un­
dred  acres  of  
flora  recreating  
wild  jungles  and  

grasslands, the ele­phants, giraffes, hippos, lions and other African animals have plenty of places to hide from the "poachers" you have to track down while on safari. 
- \i  
~  I,  
"'  

,.'I ...: 
Throughout the rest of the African section of this park you can taste authentic cuisine, purchase hand-made trinkets and dance to 
T R A V E L 
Friday, January 19, 200 I page 13 
re going to Disney World! 
Scene takes a look at what Orlando has to offer the spring break traveller 
at the awe-inspiring Tree of Life located in the center of the park. 
Animal Kingdom is another park that will require a bit of time to truly enjoy, though you can feasibly get through it in 
half a day. All of 
Disney's t h e m e parks are equipped with a computer system called F a s t ­P a s s . FastPass 
allows .--* 
ticket holders quicker
·,.:--··~· ..... i . ,;,. ii access to
• 
More Florida sites to see ... 
. 
Florida beach 1-877-FL-BEACH 

. 
Busch Gardens 407-363-8000 

. 
Splendid China 1-800-244-6226 

. 
Wet 'n' Wild Water 


Park 407-363-8000 
. 
Gatorland 1-800-393-JAWS 

. 
Sea World 407-363-8000 

. 
Universal Studios' 


Islands of Adventure 1-800-564-5764 
Scene is accepting applications for assistant editors. Call 1-4540 

the rhythms of traditional music. Heading over to Asia, you can brave the white waters on the K a l i 
River Rapid. While facing t h e trag­edy of illegal l o g ­gin g, 
y O U w i I I r i s e and fall along the river, getting splashed 
stunt-trained birds swooping over the audi­ence. You'll be wowed by their grace while you learn interesting facts about these majestic creatures. Other areas of the park are. again, more for the youngsters. But youngsters and adults alike can pass a few moments wondering 

certain rides 
~,.._._ 

and events. 
When you use 
your FastPass 
ticket, you are 
assigned a certain 
window of time to 
enter the attraction. You 
are guaranteed entrance ­
no standing in long lines in the 
hot sun. 
Passes can be purchased for individ­ual parks, several parks or for all parks com­bined. Park-hopper passes are valid for several days, depending on which package you pur­chase. They can be tailored to your vacation preferences, allowing access to Disney's water parks and Pleasure Island as well. 
Downtown Disney and Pleasure Island 
Downtown Disney is one huge block party, full of shops, restaurants, Cirque du Soleil. House of Blues and more. When the sun has set and the parks are closing, Downtown Disney is the place to be. 
Pleasure Island boasts eight clubs separated from the rest of the consumer mecca; all but two of the clubs are for the 18 and up crowd. While much of the partying pours out of the clubs and into the "street," be advised that security is strict. Underage drinking is not tol­erated and will result in an embarrassing escort to the area's exit. 
Universal Studios 
Universal Studios is often overshadowed by its rodent entertainment counterpart. But this park has just as much to offer. The rides are more for the thrill seekers or those wishing to step into their favorite action movie, rather than their cherished childhood story. With the addition of City Walk, Universal -Studios has combined great shopping and dining with even more entertainment opportunities. With the Hard Rock live amphitheater and Universal Cineplex, Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville, live music and their first on-site, luxurious hotel. Universal Studios is stepping up the competi• tion for Disney. 
When you visit City Walk, make sure you stop at the best eatery in all of Orlando -famed chef Emeril Lagasse's Restaurant. With three waiters to a table, an escort to and from the restroom and the best cuisine around, you'd be a fool not to go. Be warned, though, a full meal -appetizers, salads, entrees and desserts -is rather expensive, but definitely worth it. 
Whichever parks or rides you choose to take advantage of while in Orlando, you won't be disappointed. There are enough forms of enter­tainment to appeal to everyone's tastes, the young. the old or the young again. 
t 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 19, 200 I 
i 
., 
I l 
' 
HOCKEY 

Sophomore sensation leads by example, not with words 
ByMATTORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
Connor Dunlop isn't known for making big speeches before the game. After all, he is only a sophomore and there are many other older guys on the team. 
But' that doesn't stop Dunlop from making his statements on the ice. In December Dunlop and freshman Rob Globke were named to the U.S. Junior National Team. The team consisted of 
U.S. college players and NHL draft­picks. 
The Junior Team practiced for a couple of weeks in December and then made the long trip to Moscow to compete in the World Junior Championships. Dunlop was named one of two captains on that team. 
"It was a surprise being named cap­tain," Dunlop said. "It was nice to know the guys look up to you." 
Assuming a leadership role isn't easy considering this is only his sec­

l 
ond year on the team. Instead,I Dunlop does his talking through his
I 
I 
play on the ice. 

,.,: "Connor might be a little hesitant because he is young," Notre Dame team captain Ryan Dolder said. "His leadership is on the ice. He makes things happen and sets up other guys." 
Dunlap's first two games back were this past weekend, where he con­tributed to an impressive win and tie against No. 5 Western Michigan. 
His play couldn't have come at a better time for the struggling Notre Dame hockey team. The Irish have battled all season to win games. 
This weekend Notre Dame tries to keep the momentum going with a two-game home series against the Ohio State Buckeyes. The most impor­tant factor going into the game might be Notre Dame's confidence level. 
"We tried to keep momentum and especially confidence this week," Dolder said. "If every guy wants to be there then it is that much easier to play." 
Notre Dame expects an entirely dif­ferent game from Ohio State than it saw last weekend with Western Michigan. While Western Michigan likes to play a fast, open game, the Buckeyes will be looking to slow down the game. That means Ohio State will try to frustrate Notre Dame's tight defensive style that is characterized by lots of penalties. 
When asked about Ohio State, Irish 

coach Dave Poulin noted the Buckeyes are young and talented. Freshmen said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. nice run they could still make the be just what the Irish need to break Dave Steckel and RJ Umberger are The Irish are only two points out of CCHA tournament and move up to as out of their season long slumber. second and third, respectively, in the last playoff spot. and there is a lot high as eighth in the standings. "I want to strive to be a· leader," scoring for the Buckeyes. of hockey left. Including this weekend, This is where the leadership of Dunlop said. "It is something I have 
"Ohio State has a young team, but Notre Dame has 12 games left against someone like Connor Dunlop could be done on every level of hockey. and I with two highly talented freshman," CCHA teams. That means that with a very useful. His play on the ice could am trying to grow into that role now." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for concent without issuing refunds. 
TICKETS FOR RENT 
Need two GA's to the Men's Hoops game against G'town on 3/4. Will 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES pay cash or swap for tix to Seton CLOSE TO CAMPUS Hall game on 2/18. Call Mike 287-232-2595 2562. rnrnmrentals@aol com 
All that you can't leave behind! Selling 2 U2 tickets for cost. Chicago, May 15 Leave message tor Patrick 243-7753 
FOR SALE 
PHONE CARDS $20-2601 min with .49 cent sur­charge or $20 -362 min with no surcharge 634-4210 -sara HOUSES FOR RENT: 

1) 5-br $900/month. 
2) 4-br $1000/month. 
3) 3-br $600/month. 
We'll make almost any changes to 
the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 415 BEDRM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAM· PUS. 773-486-8822 
House for rent near ND. 2 bedrooms. No pets. $525 plus deposit. 219-654-8157. 
Nice and large 2 bedroom apart­ment for rent. Close to campus in a quiet and safe area. Small pets ok. 313 North Frances. Not a driveby. Rent is $425 a month. Excludes utilities. Call 232-1242. Ask tor John. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 277-3097. 
IDEAL 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 BLOCKS EAST OF ND 277-3097 
All the good homes are not gone! We have 2, 4&5 bedroom houses five minutes from campus! Dave 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
WANTED 
Advertising sales Are you a self starter eager to work tor the most respected advertising company? Are you interested in a long lasting and rewarding career selling to business owners? You can easily start earning $40k/year + bonuses and perks and head up our new South Bend terri­tory. Please fax your resume and a brief letter telling us why you're the one. 888-206-4054 
Summer Jobs with gifted kids Northwestern University's Center for Talent Development is hiring residential counselors.IT as. Experience w/kids pref. Room/board provided for coun­selors. Comp. Salary, great work experience 6/24-8/12 +training.To apply, call (847)-467-7884 Great job opportunity: Juggs 53, Knights 52 Care tor adorable children 1 morn--OT, baby! ing a week. -Props to Keenan for a great 254-9466 game 
-The goon hits the hook shot. Rock/Funk Band looking tor Bass then goes back to normal by miss-player. Interested? Call Jason at 4-ing the world's ugliest layup 1639. -''Tim, you're in foul trouble" 
-Playoff bound' 
Parents who are ND grads seek 

older female babysitter to care for Well, I usually fill the cup to the brim two girls ages 7 & 9, one or two weekend evenings & occationally Godel luck 4A track stars , Senior, 
weekends or evenings in our home. Thornberg, and No-Jo 
Must have own car. Call Judith and 
leave message: 287-0260. What can you do with warm snow and a buck ninety-nine? 
GiveMeFreeStuff got a one-way trip 
PERSONAL 

into the city Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and Room 408 will be rocking come deluxe frame. $235 219-862-2082 10:30 • the sequel is now 
Friday, January 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish set to unleash talent at seaso11:-opening indoor meet 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Sporrs Writer 
They're young. They're exuberant. They're talented. And Notre Darne•s women·s track and field team wants everyone to know it. 
"We want to establish ourselves as a national powerhouse this year, not just a Midwest one," said junior Liz Grow. 
'We're getting to the point now where ifthin~ fall into place and we continue to improve, we can do some good things," said Irish head coach John Millar. 
Today's indoor meet against Ball State and Wffitem Michigan is the first oppor­tunity the Irish have to compete against another college this season. The Irish, who have been training as a team since September, are anxious to get out and prove themselves. 
..We're real excited," Millar said. "We've got a good group of athletes who are starting to come around and really want to be successful. It's taken us a few years to build the program, but now we're getting close to where we're at.. 
The Irish are counting on top perfor­mances from Grow, who qualified for the NCAA finals in the 400 meters last sea­son, and sophomore All-American Tarneisha King, who placed ninth in the nation last year. · 
Grow will be running both the 200 meters and the 400 meters today. "I never open the season running the quar­ter." she said. "I just want to run a smart 
race and win.n 
Grow has set loft goals for herself this season. "I expect to improve on my times, and I expect to go to nationals." she said. 
But she al5o has high expectations for the team...We want to get the [4x400J relay to nationals for the first time in Notre Dame history," said Grow. "And breaking school records -that's not even a question." 
The Irish will a.bi<> look for King to com­pete in more events thl; season. Last sea­son, King primarily competed in the long jump. but showed promise in the hurdles. This season, Millar wants to have King work more on the hurdles. 
'We think she can be a national com­petitor in the hurdles as well as in the long jump," he said. "'The talent's there, it'sjust a matter of her working a little bit more on that." 
"We've just been focusing on getting her fit... said Irish &'oistant coach Scott Wmsor. 
In addition to King and Grow. the Irish sprinting corps are a.bi<> expecting contri­butions from senior Carrie Lenz. who took fourth in the 400 meter hurdles at the 2000 Big East outdoor meet, fresh­man Ayesha Boyd, sophomore Kymia Love and junior Tdfany Tatwn. 
Notre Dame has one of the moo versa­tile field events athletes in the nation in sophomore Jaime Volkmer. Against Ball State, she will not be competing in her specialty event, the pole vault. Instead. the Iricih coaches are entering her in the high jump, the triple jump, and the long 
jump in order to pick up 
some valuable points. 
"She has to go into compe­tition with an attitude. She needs to tell herself that she's as good as anyone out there,.. Millar said. "As soon as she develops that. she's going to be one heck of a competitor to deal with." 
The Irish are particularly deep in the pole vault. Volkmer is not entered in the pole vault today because Irish 

Information Session: 

IN MEMORY OF
Tanuary 23 (Tues.) 
6:30 PM 
LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON 
A.B., M.A., PH.D.
Center for Social Concerns 
27 FEB 1943-19 JAN 1994 
• eiglit week§ ofService-Leaming • 3 creaits 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
• $1900.00 Scfwfarsfiip 

Student Activities has immediate
• sponsored 6y afumni c{u6s across tfie 'US. 
openings for the following student employee positions: 
Deadline for application: February 7th Applications at the Center for Social Concerns 
Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew 
Interviews in progress now! 
Sound Technicians 24 Hour Lounge Monitors
Stop by the Center for more information 
Office Assistants
and ask your Hall Rep. (See poster in Hall) 
Cl•Tr• ,.oa 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

coaches believe that Natalie Hallet and 
Bethany Wuson can take first and second 
place. 

The Irish have done a good job of filling 
the gap left by Jennifer Engelhardt, who 
took seventh in the Olympic Trials in the 
high jump. "Jaime hasn't high jumped 
since high school, but we think she can do 
well for us there," Wmdsor said. "Jennifer 
Kearney had a really good fall. We think 
she can win the high jump tomorrow." 
Junior Dore DeBartolo. who could 
become one of the greatest throwers in 
Notre Dame history, will not be compet• 
ing during the indoor season due to a foot 
injury. but is expected to return in time 
for the outdoor meets. 
"Not having Dore hurts a lot," Winsor said. "She's tough to replace." 
The big question mark for the Irish is in the distance crew. The Irish will count on a young, unproven groul? of runners to earn points in the distance events . 
'We've got some kids who are talented, we just have to get them up to their potential," said Irish assistant coach Tim Connelly. "We just need to get off to a good start. If we get off to a good start, they get confident." 
Sophomore Jennifer Handley is the top returning talent for the Irish. She took 12th place in the 3,000 meters at the 2000 Big East final'>. Junior Hilary Bum is also expected to contribute in the distance events. 
But success in the distance will depend on contributions from freshmen. "The freshmen are going to have to decide if they are going to compete at this level right away," Connelly said. 
Nevertheless, the Irish coaches believe their young team is up to the test. 
"There are things you have to do to be successful in college," Connelly said. "But it comes down to one thing -you just have to line up and race." 
The youth of the Irish doesn't concern Millar. 
"They're really competitive, and that's what we need," he said. "Mentally, their focus is really there to perform at a high level." 

page 16 

The Observer . SPORTS 
Women 
continued from page 24 

13). and Villanova (52-50 on Jan. 16). And Seton I lall has yet to play any of the teams (Connecticut, Rutgers, Notre Dame and Boston College) ranked on top of the conference's prcscason poll. 
By comparison, Notre Dame's 6-0 conference record includes a 64-33 win over Villanova. The Irish have also played games against league stalwarts Connecticut, Virginia Tech (twice) and Rutgers. The average margin in those four contests was 17 points per game. 
That's not to say Seton Hall provides little challenge for the nation's No. 3 team. 
Senior forward Arminda Moreno, who started for four years on Spain's Junior Nation Team, leads the squad in scoring 
i j l (16.2 points per game) and sank two
I 
free throws in the final seconds to seal the Villanova win. Plus, the tight victo­ries have given the Pirates some added confidence. 
But they still must contend with the only undefeated team in the country. 
Early in the season, consistent 3-point shooting helped the Irish become a more balanced team. Alicia Ratay's, Jeneka Joyce's and Niele Ivey's accura­cy from the outside have made opposing squads defend the perimeter, which leaves more offensive opportunities for All-American center Ruth Riley. 
The senior has sparked Notre Dame's recent surge. She has averaged nearly 22 points in the past eight games and has won the Big East Player of the Week award in two of the past three weeks. Her performance against Connecticut (29 points, 12 rebounds, 5 blocks and 4 assists) will most likely give Riley her third Player of the Week award. 
Following Sunday's game, the Irish play at West Virginia on Jan. 24 and have seven days off before hosting Providence. 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 10-18, 2001 Experiential/Service Learning 
I, 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 

-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities 
-> Read the work of Jean Vanier, Henri Nouwen 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 

-> Service and political awareness opportunities 
All seminars offer one academic credit 

CEHTER FOIi 
SOCIAL Applications Available Now at the CSC CONCERNS 
A p p I i c a t i o n s D u e: Ja n. 31, 2001 

Friday, January 19, 2001 

•
•
Hey Mandy, : 
•
lookin' for a ride?! •
•
Happy 21 st you : 
•
freak! 

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Love,• The former 3.A.G.'s ••
• 
cinema@thesnite 

Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre 
Coming soon: The Notre Dame Student Film Festival January 26, 27 & 29 
Get your tickets at Lafortune before it sells out! www.nd.edu/~ftt 

Friday, January 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Men 
continued from page 24 
Syracuse 86-80. Both teams beat 
Rutgers at home, Notre Dame 87 ­
80 and West Virginia 70-68. 
West Virginia is a strong 

rebounding team. led by fonvard 
Calvin Bowman, who ranks sec­
ond in the conference with 10.2 
rebounds per game. 
Irish head coach Mike Brey may go with a bigger lineup to combat the Mountaineers' rebounding. In Tuesday's win over Pittsburgh, 6­foot-7 forward Harold Swanagan started in place of 6-foot-5 guard/forward David Graves, who had a sprained ankle. Swanagan. a starter a year ago, scored seven points and recorded 10 rebounds in 22 minutes of play. Combining Swanagan with 6-foot-8 forward Ryan Humphrey and 6-foot-10 All-American Troy Murphy in the post, along with Martin Ingelsby at point guard and Carroll at shooting guard, gives Notre Dame a different look -one that worked against the Panthers. 
The challenge for Irish. will be adjusting to their new roles if Swanagan should remain in the starting lineup in place of Graves or Humphrey. 
"These guys now have to adjust, and that's a sign of maturity," Brey said. "\Ve talked about hav­ing six starters early in the year. The six starters, they're going to get their minutes." 
Humphrey, who played a lesser ­role Tuesday with just 24 min­utes. said he'll make the change if it will help the Irish win. 
"That's not a problem [my play­ing less], as long as we win," Humphrey said. "Harold's been playing great. Night in, night out. people's roles \Vill change." 
Brey could also get Swanagan more minutes by having Carroll sit more while shifting Graves to the two-guard position, or give Ingelsby a rest he rarely enjoys while having Carroll take over ballhandling duties. 
So it comes with a 


3 Houses for Rent -­
--4 Bedrooms/2 Baths -­Eddy & Howard. 3 Blocks from Campus --Domer Landlord -­--CALL 616-699-5841 -­
Humphrey considering football 
Speculation has arisen that 
I lumphrey would add a new uni­
form to his closet next year, one 
with football pads. Humphrey, 
an All-American tight end in 
high school, was quoted 
Saturday in the Lexington 
Herald-Leader as having an 
interest in returning to the grid­
iron. 

After Saturday's loss to 
Kentucky, Humphrey said, "I 
don't want to be one of those 
people that says, 'I wish I would 
have."' 

That same day, Notre Dame's second-leading scorer and rebounder said he had spoken to football coach Bob Davie about the possibility of joining the foot­ball team in the past..The news came as a surprise to basketball coach Mike Brey, who joked, "Does he have to report to spring practice tomorrow?" 
Brey said Humphrey came into his office the next day surprised by the uproar he had created. He didn't realize what would hap­pen by mentioning his name and football in the same sentence on a campus still reeling from the Fiesta Bowl fiasco. 
Back in Tulsa, Humphrey was one of the most sought-after bas­ketball players in the nation but also received attention from foot­ball recruiters -including Notre Dame's Lou Holtz. llis dad, Al, played football ·at Tulsa and then for the Pittsburgh Steelers, while older brother Rod played football for the University of Pittsburgh. 
"That's not going to be an option," Brey said of Humphrey playing football. "He's a basket­ball player. and I think maybe that was taken a little bit out of context." 
Yet Thursday night, Humphrey wasn't quite as willing to rule out doing double duty as a varsity athlete. 
"I don't know what will happen in the future," Humphrey said. "Right now, the only thing I'm trying to concentrate on is being on this team and winning." 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Irish forward Matt Carroll drives to the basket during Tuesday's victory against Pittsburgh. Carroll has started every game for the Irish this season. 
WELLS 
FARGO 

' 

page 18 Friday, January 19, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I 
! 
I 
' 
I 
I I I I
1,, 
I I I I 
I I 
I I 
ij ' 
I ' 
I I i I 

INTERNSHIP FAIR 2001 QUALITY OF LIFE IN THE WORKPLACE Sponsored by The Career Center Wednesday, January 24, 2001 12:00 noon ­4:00 p.m. Bring your resumes to the Joyce CenterR~Fft.£S FOi\ North Dome (Hockey Rink Side)DOOR PRI'££S1 (Enter Gates 1 or 2) EVE,RY MAJOR! • EVERY DEGREE! • EVERY GRADUATION DATE.I  
Employers Attending the Job Fair  
AFLAC Easter Seals Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide ALCOA Emmis Communications Oxford Capital Partners Accenture (formerly Andersen Enterprise Rent-A-Car PNC Financial Services Group Consulting) Ernst & Young LLP Patrick Engineering & Architecture Allegiance Healthcare Corporation Ford Motor Company (3 Divisions) Peterson Consulting Allstate Insurance Company Fox Sports Net ­Chicago Pfizer -Steere Pharmaceuticals American Electric Power General Electric (2 Divisions) PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP American Express Financial Advisors General Mills Procter & Gamble (3 Divisions} American Management Systems Gibson and Associates Retail Expert. Inc. Ameritech/SBC Global Network Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Roswell Park Cancer Institute Arthur Andersen LLP Goldman Sachs Round Barn Theatre at Amish Acres Avanade, Inc. Hewitt Associates SalomonSmithBarney BOO Seidman LLP Honeywell South Bend Silver Hawks Bibb & Associates IBM Corporation Student International Business Council Boston Consulting Group Indiana Department of Transportation TRW Space and Electronics Group CSG Systems. Inc. Indianapolis Motor Speedway Teach for America Cabrini Connections Inland Real Estate Sales, Inc. Technology Services Group Camp Sweeney Intel Corporation Tellabs Cargill, Inc. Interlachen Arts Camp The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Chicago Consulting Actuaries International Foundation of Employee The May Department Stores Company Citigroup/Primerica Financial Services Benefit Plans The Pulliam Journalism Fellowship City of Indianapolis KPMG LLP (Indianapolis Star) Clarity Consulting, Inc. Kids Corporation The Troyer Group Clarke Environmental Mosquito Legal Services of Northern Indiana Towers Productions. Inc. Management. Inc. Lieutenant Governor's Office ­State Travelers Insurance Cochran. Caronia & Company of Indiana Tucker Alan Inc. College Football Hall of Fame Lincoln Partners LLC U.S. Department of Education Compaq Computer Little Brothers ­Friends of the Elderly U.S. Marine Corps Compendit. Inc. Meijer U.S. Steel Corning Cable Systems Minnesota Life Uline Culver Academies Morgan Stanley Dean Witter University Directories Deloitte & Touche LLP Motorola Visteon Corporation Deloitte Consulting Northwestern Mutual Financial Walsh Construction Donnell Systems, Inc. Networks (2 Agencies) WNDU-TV  
Employers Not Attending the Job Fair  
Online Resume/Document(s) Drop Deadline for drops is NOON on Wednesday, January 31. through Go IRISH Blocks Together Jackson Hole Conservation Alliance State of Indiana ­Personnel CB Richard Ellis James E. Childs and Associates, Inc. Department CPPAX Jericho Communications The Brookings Institute Collette Tours Mandalay Pictures The Growing Stage Theatre Cooper Communications. Inc. Martin Riley Mock Architects/ U.S. Securities and Exchange El Pomar Foundation Consultants Commission eResearch Technology Music Theatre Louisville VISIONS/Services for the Blind and Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Musiker Tours and Summer Discovery Visually Impaired First Investors Corporation Northwest Voyageurs Westinghouse Electric Company Governmental Studies Program Paramount \/VISH-TV Greenburgh Nature Center Sagemark Consultants Young and Laramore Indianapolis Convention and Solomon E.T.C. Architecture and Visitors Association Urban Design  



Friday, January 19, 2001 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish dominate Gophers, look ahead to Badgers 
By RACHAEL BIBER Sports Writer  battle. "I didn't expect to win by that kind of score," Bayliss  talked to the four of them and said we may just roll this thing around for awhile and  Bayliss. "Of course, when everyone wins, it's difficult." Fewer question marks exist  said. "They play good doubles. But if we play well, I think we are in good shape."  
said. "Minnesota quite honest­ see who looks good, and at the  in the doubles department for  Wisconsin also includes No.  
Game, set, match.  ly really wasn't ready to play  end  of  a  the  Irish,  1  singles  player  Danny  
It was as simple as  that for  and wasn't in full strength.  dozen or 10  where No.  38  \tVesterman in its arsenal, who  
the 33rd-ranked Irish men's tennis team as they rolled over No. 18 Minnesota in their 2001 dual-match season opener last week. The squad looks to win their next match on Sunday as they travel to Madison, \Vise. to take on the Badgers.  But our guys were sharp and we jumped on them early." Irish jl!nior Casey Smith, ranked No. 95 nationally, led the Irish attack at No. 1 sin­gles against Minnesota, fol­lowed by No. 75 Javier Taborga, Luis Haddock Morales, Aaron Talarico,  matches we'll really have a feel for who's playing well. I'm going to make it competitive in practice,  "Ultimately, it's how they do in matches that wll determine how high they play. Of course. when everyone wins, it's difficult . .,  Taborga and Talarico stand at No. 1, fol­lowed by the pair_ing of Smith and Haddock­Morales. The duo of James  advanced to last weekend's quarterfinals of the Big Ten Singles Championship before being defeated. Westerman. who also had a strong show­ing in the fall Region IV Intercollegiate Tennis Association Singles Tournament by advancing to  
The Irish ended a two­match losing streak against Minnesota with a 7-0 drub­ Brian Farrell and Matt Scott. Although the Irish singles was formidable. the same order  and whoev­er is doing the best job  Bob Bayliss Irish head coach  Malhame and Scott are vying with Andrew  the quarterfinals, is sure to be a tough task for whoever Bayliss decided to play at the  
bing of the Gophers. beating  may  not  be  used  for  the  for  us  in  Laflin  and  No. 1 slot.  
them for the first time since Jan. 17, 1998.  match-up against the Badgers, Bayliss said.  practice will get a little bump up maybe to  third  Farrell for the doubles position.  If the team's clobbering of Minnesota is any indication of  
Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss knew his team was playing at a high level. but  "The top four [Smith, Taborga, Haddock-Morales, and Talarico] are almost  reward him for that." "Ultimately, it's how they do in matches that will determine  Malhame and Scott registered a win against Minnesota in the season-opener, but the pair­ things to come, then the Irish can probably look forward to racking up a lot of W's.  
anticipated  a  much tougher  equal,"  Bayliss  noted.  "I  how high they play," said  ing is hampered by an injury  "I think we really took care  

to Malhame's elbow. 
If the Irish put on the same game face as the one worn against Minnesota, victory is almost certain, but the team knows each match poses new challenges. 
"I think we have a little edge down below [in the line­up] with them, but they are all good enough," Bayliss of business [against Minnesota] and were very well prepared," Bayliss said. "We were anxious and eager and played with some poise, and played real well. My expecta­tions are always pretty high ­the win doesn't raise them. It maybe raises the hopes that we might reach my expecta­tions." 

The tasty Rodeo Cheeseburger for 99(. 
(Cowboy hat, boots and lasso sold separately.) 

,.,.· :· .:o·. o o o-.. 
.{· •~.• • ,.,t1.: 0 0 ,~ C ,.,
/"'ill,•, ,.,,, 0 "111 •. '
·~~IJ{·;~ ~•.:{. :,•,· O C ..
~:{,rPi.~t;c. oOo O c o c
:· tcr;~!:~·r1-:)1: io " 
·:.,h«l \\, \ ~ :.~.\ " O V 0 
~~;{~(~ .. C _O ...
0 ·,., .. :.. 
·.t\·,·-:.~·;,,·~,i. 

/\?,(~,·-i_/:{?t·:.)\:_::·.., : ,, 
.'~/ l, t I ,. : ' 


Got the urgeT The delicious, flame-broiled Rodeo Cheeseburger. 
Just ride in, saddle up to the counter and try a tasty, flame-broiled burger topped with melted cheese, crispy onion rings and tangy BULl.:S-EYE® BBQ sauce for only 99it. Hey, at that price you can afford to feed your whole posse on 'em. 
~:si'~l~•~E~~~!r~ 


6:30-7:30 p.m,,., T~,J~ 23 We4h,PMlor, fl~Co1leff£'Ce+'l.ttw S~Mary'¥Co1leff£' 



Travels in Ireland, S~otland, England and France 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
} ~-' " ·,''{ xi:?>, ,.:;~. 1-•\hef½,{-'r<;~:/15'-"' ;~,:J:.;-., :$,,;.i 
Like· < sJ)Or'ts? Call +14\543 
.:., .... 

. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
For the last six years, the Notre Dame fencing team has entered the season with one certainty ­Penn State was the team to beat. 
This year, however, all that has changed. . 
"There is an entirely different powerhouse out there this year in St. John's," women's sabre cap­tain Carianne McCullough said. "I think St. John's has past Penn State this year." 
Notre Dame travels to New York this Sunday to face the Red Storm in addition to Columbia, NYU and Vassar in its first dual meet of the year. · 
Last year. Notre Dame and St. John's tied for second at the NCAAs with 171 points -four points behind Penn State. St. John's, however, scored 171 points after qualifying only 11 fencers. Notre Dame and Penn State each had the maximum 12 fencers in the tournament. 
St. John's returns all 11 fencers from last year's team but also adds sabreman Keeth Smart ­
the 1999 national champion -to its formidable roster. 
The Irish, however, have plenty ofweapons oftheir own to counter the Red Storm attack. Returning 11 of their 12 NCAA qualifiers, the Irish are ready to make a run for 
the national title. 

I. 
I 
"They are maybe one of the best 


II , 
teams on paper but a lot of things 

'. 
can happen," women's epee cap­tain Kim DeMaio said. "A lot peo~ ii 
ple fence inconsistently but this weekend is going to be big. It will: ! probably be pretty tough for us.
: 
I' il But it will be good to see where we . I I stand before March." 
I c 
I • Gabor Szelle, the 2000 sabre
I / 
I 
I 
national champion, headlines the Irish team and hopes to repeat as national champion. But with Smart returning to the collegiate strips after taking 2000 off to train for the Olympics. Szelle knows his task will be formidable. 

"I think its going to be so much tougher this year than it wa.'i last year because some of the guys that didn't compete last season /! i are going to compete this year," /i the junior from Budapest said. 
I 
// "It's going to be a big challenge to
' 
win the title again." 
The last time Szelle faced Smart. the then-junior whipped the Irish freshman 15-4 in the 1999 cham­pionship match. 

Although Szelle has never 3 defeated Smart, his Irish team­
// 
I' I mate Andre Crompton has. 
I Crompton beat Smart at the
/I 
Penn State Open last fall and is well familiar with both Smart and his St. John's teammate, 2000 All­American Ivan Lee. Crompton, Smart, Lee and Irish sophomore Matt Fabricant all train at the same club in New Jersey. 
"We're all from the same club and we've been training pretty hard," Crompton said. "They are definitely a challenge but I think we are prepared for it." 
The men's team also returns first team All-Americans Ozren Debic and Jan Viviani -both are sophomores. Debic finished sec­ond in foil at the 2000 NCAAs as a freshman and should challenge for the title again this year. 
Viviani finished third last year at the NCAA Championship. He lost to St. John's epecist, and eventual national champion, Alex Roytblat 


'· . -.. ... ....... ­
FENCING 

Irish face tough, early test against St. John's 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 19, 200 I 

in the semifinals but bounced back to beat St. John's Doron Levitt for third place. Viviani will face both fencers again this weekend. 
The men's team also features 1999 All-American Brian Casas in epee and 2000 NCAA qualifier Forest Walton in foil. 
The women's team's hope to impr9ve over last year hinges on the performance of three fresh­men: sabrewomen Destanie Milo and Jessie Filkins and foilist Maggie Jordan. 
Milo and Filkins will compete with 2000 All-American Natalia Mazur and 2000 NCAA qualifier McCullough for a spot in the NCAA Championshps this year. 
The women's sabre team will face tough competition from St. John's who returns two All­Americans. 
McCullough, however, believes the Irish have a good chance of besting the Red Storm. 
"Last year when we fenced them it was also the beginning of the season and we had one recruit and two walk-ons and we man­aged to pull off a 5-4 victory against essentially the same St. John's team we will face this year," she said. 
Jordan will have the difficult task of replacing one of the most prolific fencers in Irish history, Magda Krol. Krol finished her career with the seventh-most wins in Irish history. 
Jordan will be joined on the women's foil squad by 2000 All­American and team captain Liza Boutsikaris. The sophomore from New Jersey finished 12th at last year's NCAA Championships. 
The women's epee team was expect to be bolstered by the addi­tion of freshman Kerry Walton but the third-ranked junior women's epeeist is ineligible to compete this semester. 
"That was definitely a key on our women's side," Crompton said. "That's going to take a toll on the women's side and the rest of the team is going to have to step up." 
Team captains declined to elab­orate on the reasons for Walton's ineligibility. 
Nevertheless, with 2000 All­Americans Meagan Call and Anna Carnick returning for the Irish, DeMaio anticipates a strong show­ing this weekend. 
"We are going to have the same lineup that we had last year so hopefully we can pull together," she said. 
Coach 
continued from page 20 
Then came 1998. Clark proved to be the Dennis Erickson of men's soccer. guiding the Cardinal all the way to the NCAA Championship Game, where they fell to Indiana. 
Before coaching at Stanford, where Clark's final record was 71-21-12 in five seasons, he coached at Dartmouth of the Ivy League from 1985 through 1994, where he led the Big Green to an 82-42-13 record and two NCAA quarterfinal appearances. 
Clark's coaching success can be attributed to his style and dedica­tion to recruiting. Sylvis was con­sidering both Notre Dame and Stanford as a senior in high school back in 1996. It was Clark's personal attention that led him to choose Palo Alto as his next home. 
''I'd get a call every week just asking how I was," Sylvis remem-
Late Night Olympics 

bered. "I was one of the big rea­sons I came to Stanford." 
The late Notre Dame head coach Mike Berticelli, on the other hand, had his assistants, including Apple, do much of the talking \\1th Sylvis. 
"I didn't have much contact with him. I actually talked quite a bit with one of his assistants [Apple]." Sylvis said. 
"It gave me the feeling that the head coach wasn't as in to it." 
"I think that was the big differ­ence. Clark made me feel that he actually wanted me on the team and that he was going to do everything he could to get me there," Sylvis said. 
In terms of his coaching style, Clark concentrates on basic fun­damentals and being an impor­tant person in his athletes lives. 
"Coach Clark is a big believer in the [UCLA basketball coaching legend] John Wooden style of coaching," Sylvis said. "He coach­es life lessons as well as things you need to do on the soccer field. It's very fun to be coached by that kind ofstyle." 

Sylvis also described Oark as a 
more laid-back coach, a contrast 
to the intense environment that 
existed under Apple in 2000. 
"He never yells, he never gets angry with the players," Sylvis said. "Everyone knows he has the experience at top level soccer so everyone respects what he has to say. He never has to yell." 
Following the Cardinal's unex­pected loss to SMU in the national quarterfinals last fall, Clark was nothing but positive. 
"In the last game, he couldn't have been more proud of us. which is very nice to hear," Sylvi'i said. "We felt we had basically given our all in that game." 
Sylvis feels that his coach was attracted to South Bend by more than just the lower cost of living. 
'Tm sure he's always looking for another challenge to turn a team around," he said. 
With the an Irish squad that has one NCAA tournament victo­ry in its history, that challenge is just around the corner. 
Late Night Olympics Raffle 

' erc11an11ise1 U\\tCert.\f\cates \ot foo ~ . BASEBALL CAPS . 
\t\S Sweats 
· 


Friday, January 26, 2001 • 7:00 pm -4:00 am 
.r/ii-· . 

Joyce Center• 631-6100 . . . \.~-, All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Assoc1at1on -,._ ;t_Y-~ Posters Donated by Express Press "·.)it '··-· 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
NOTICE; CSC VEHICLE DRIVERS 
ALL CURRENT VEHICLE REQUESTS TERMINATE AT THE END OF FALL 2000 SEMESTER! ALL GROUPS MUST REAPPLY AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SPRING SEMESTER! 
Comments or questions cscvans@nd,edu 
.... £ ---.. .. .. ----.. -.. ----.. .. ---... ---------.. ... --.. • ---• ----• -----...... ·-.... ---J 
__J 

Friday, January 19, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles tryto avoid mistakes in MIM showdown against Bulldogs 
-

By KATIE McVOY Assiscanr Spores Editor  This week, the enemy will be wearing the blue and white of the Belles themselves.  the season, the Belles hav~ skidded into four consecutive losses, all of them to MIAA  That won't be an easy task, however, unless the Belles can get their team unity back.  Bulldogs. With matching records of 1-4 in the MIAA, the Belles (7-8 overall) and  
"I think right  now  we're  teams. With league position­ "We  need  to  be  a  team  the Bulldogs (6-8 overall) will  
When  the  Saint  Mary's  playing against ourselves."  ing  in  the  balance,  Saint  again," Smith said. "That's  be battling it out on the court.  
Belles take the floor at Angela Athletic Facility on Saturday,  head coach Suzanne Smith said. "It doesn't matter who  Mary's will take on Adrian as they try to. break the tie for  why won  we early  "It's a battle because with  
the enemy won't be wearing the black and gold of the opposing Adrian Bulldogs.  the opponent is, we really have to focus on ourselves." After a strong 7-5 start to  sixth place and move away from the bottom of the MIAA pile.  on in the season. It didn't mat­ "I think right now we're playing against  both teams being down at the bottom of  


U,nphrey's liee 
at the Marri!i PerFarrning Art§ Center 
P:.. St. Patrick's Day Celebration! 
Saturday March 17th 
(the !second §aturday of !spring break] 
Show §tart§ at 7 :00 pITl 
ticket§ on §ale no\N through Ticketn1a§ter 
or the Morri!i Center Box Office ~11 N. Michigan Ave. South Bend, IN 
the department of film, television, and theatre 
presents 
notre 

ame 
~ 


festival 2001 
advanced tickets on sale at Lafortune {c.rllde tne, h,sO 
friday • saturday • monday 
january 26 • 27 • 29 7:30 & 9:45pm 
snite museum of art $4.00 admission 

ter who got ourselves. It doesn't the confer­
the credit ence, no one
matter who the opponent
or who did wants to be 
the dirty is, we really have to left behind." work, we Smith said.
focus on ourselves." 
just went With less out there to than half the 
Suzanne Smith 

win." season left With for­Belle's head coach and several 
w a r d Kristen Matha still questionable after sustaining a hip flexor muscle injury, some of the heart of the Belles team may still be missing on Saturday. The star post player only played for 12 minutes during Wednesday's loss to Olivet, far below her season average. 
"Kristen brings a lot of heart to the court along with the stats," Smith said. 
Matha returned to practice Thursday and Smith hopes to play her off the bench during Saturday's game. 
"Kelly Roberts has really done a good job stepping in [for Matha]," Smith said. 
But Roberts, along with the rest of the Belles, will have to step it up to cage the 
important 
MIAA games 

coming up, the home crowd may give the Belles the extra edge they need to get back into the swing of things this season. 
"It's good for us to play at home in front of the home crowd," Smith said. "We've had some short fuses and it may help us get the team more cohesive." 
Saint Mary's will continue·to focus on defense to shut down a Adrian attack, but it will do some work on -offense as well. Smith is looking for her team to slow it down on offense and take solid shots. 
"We need to work the ball around and get a good shot off," she said. 
The action begins at 3 p.m. at Angela on Saturday. 
see PNWW.umpbr~y!!i;.,CP.m _'lt;lr mare details
---... . ---· -· .-. ... . -­
" 


page 22 The Observer. SPORTS Friday, January 19, 2001 
MEN'S TRACK 

Shay returns to lead Irish in indoor season opener 
that Watson's injury could sophomore Tom Gilbert will Lockport High School in weight."
By NOAH AMSTADTER keep him out longer than just compete in both the 60-and Illinois. will compete along Mbagwu also will compete in 

Assistant Sports Editor 

tonight's meet. 200-meter dashes. Davey ran a with Nick Saracco and Mike the triple jump. as will junior 
.. He has an IT band prob­6.93 in the 60 meters last sea­Ansour in the event. Quill Redwine, who Winsor Ryan Shay is back. lem," Piane said. "They can be son, while Gilbert. whose best · After a season in which sees having a breakout season The senior distance runner, really problematic. They can event is the long jump, ran a Notre Dame did not even both­after being injured much of his 
who missed the fall cross hang on for a long time." 21.68 in the 200 meters. er sending a hurdler to the Big first two years. 
country season following an Competing with Shay in the A surprisingly strong addi­East Indoor Championships, "He had a really good Gold 
intense summer of preparing mile will be sophomore Marc tion to the team this spring is the Irish have two freshmen meet in the fall. He's just look­
for the U.S Olympic trials, will Striowski, who is coming off a William ..Red" Croker, a junior who look able to contribute ing better and better all year." 
compete in the mile run successful cross country sea­who did not compete last sea­immediately. Although Winsor said of Redwine. "He's 
tonight as the Irish men's son. son for academic reasons. Napolean Suarez won't com­done better all fall than he's 

track team takes on Ball State Freshman Colin Quinn. Croker will run the 200 and pete tonight due to a ham­done in the past freshman and 
and Western Michigan in sophomore Doug Gunzelmann 400 meters tonight. string injury, look for Mark sophomore year. He's about 
Loftus. and senior Nate Andrulonis ..Red has been one of the big Barber to compete right away. ready to do some good things." 
Shay finished 10th in the will run the surprises of the "He was the Michigan state Redwine and Andrew Cooper 10,000 meters at the Olympic 800 meters fall." said champ," Millar said. "He's will compete in the high jump.
"In three or four weeks, 
trials, following a 2000 track for Notre sprints coach developed in the hurdles and Cooper, who took off last sea­season that saw Shay take Dame. The he could probably run a John Millar. has made big improvements in son for personal reasons. has home four Big East titles. He trio has better mile. I think Ryan .. He's come on the course of the fall." already cleared the 6-foot-5
' )\ won the 3,000 meters and large shoes and he's shown The Irish also have to mark in practice. _
[Shay] can go 4:r2 or
5,000 meters at the indoor to fill. as that he's got replace All-American West in In the throwing events, look championships in February, last sea­faster.,. really good the long jump. However. with for junior Derek Dyer to place followed by the 5,000 and son's mid­range from the the development of his well in the shot-put. In the 35­10,000 meter outdoor titles in dle distance 60 meters all younger jumpers. field events pound weight throw. Winsor
Joe Piane
May. standouts, the way to 400. coach Scott Winsor feels the has been impressed with the
Irish head coach
"I think he's real excited. Phil Mishka Now I'm trying team is stronger this season improvement of sophomoreHe's fit," Irish head coach Joe and Tim to figure out than it was last. Brian Thorberg.Piane said of Shay, who took Kober. both graduated in the what to do with him." Gilbert just missed the elu­"He gained a lot of strength seventh in the 10,000 meters spring. Another addition to the short sive 24-foot mark as a fresh­over the summer." Winsor at the NCAA championships Despite the graduation of Big events is freshman James man. jumping 23-feet 11 3/4 said. "He's going to do some last season, finishing in East champions Marshaun Bracken, who also will com­inches to take fifth place at the pretty good stuff." 
30:54.65. West and Chris Cochran. the pete in the 200 and 400 Big East outdoor meet last sea­In the pole vault, Wfosor is 
"The kid is really fit. He Irish boast a strong group of meters. s on. Sophomore Ed Fa ustin impressed with his trio of hasn't done much speed work sprinters. "James Bracken has sur­and freshman Godwin Mbagwu junior Josh Heck and sopho­at all," Piane added. "In three Senior Terry Wray showed prised me as far as what he have proven to be more than mores Nathan Cahill and Joe or four weeks he could proba­flashes of brilliance last season was running in the fall com­solid over the fall. Mbagwu has Yanoff. bly run a better mile. I think in the 400 meters while run­pared to what hit in high jumped 23 feet already. "Josh is looking really good. Ryan can go 4:12 or faster." ning in the shadow of Big East school," said Millar. "I think overall we're better He'll vault higher than he did 
Shay's return strengthens an champion Cochran. Wray In the 500 meters, the Irish in that event than we were last last year," Winsor said. "I'm Irish distance core that is com­should challenge a talented will look for football kicker year," said Winsor. "\Ve've got really happy with the number peting shorthanded with Luke group of Ball State sprinters Nick Setta to kick the event Godwin. Tom and Ed. I think of pole vaulters I have this Watson missing the meet with for first place in the 400 into an extra gear. Setta, who Ed is looking a lot better this year." an IT band injury in his leg. tonight. starred in the middle-distance year. He's faster than he was The gun goes off at 7 p.m. 
Piane expressed concern Senior Travis Davey and and high jump while at last year. Tom has lost tonight on the Meyo Track. 

A 'P"'""A'·"R 'TM ·e·-"-N"''"T s 
1111111. Jb.U.Ulliii.Hllll!i!IMl.l!Hilllllll!l!!llll!II!! II!! .. I.U!U !.. ....... ! ..!... ......L !llll!!!..l!l!!_liii!ll!l~.il!IIH~~•!!!J!ti!!H~!iil!O.ll!!!.!!.A.!U.@~!1.U.!..... l ... .o!L.....ILU!. 11 I.I!! 11 
Castle Point 
Select Units 
Available for 
Next Semester 
::•within Minutes of Campus::• 
-Spacious one and two bedroolll·apartrnents, 
sotne with lofts and dens. 
-Includes membership in the new 
Castle Point Racquet Club 
and Fitness Center. 
Friday,January 19, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 



TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

. 
So when do ~ou +hH\ \..; -the. weo.ther /,,/1-// Wt\\ C.\eo.~ vp? 
t' Q ~~;

J ~ .t1At\,.,_ r .__.._.,~ 
let me 
see.Tod~'( l!) Fndo.'I, so the weo.-the.t"' 
Shov\d c\eo.n,p ·· · ne.ve.r. 
---· 

CROSSWORD 
_,. ACROSS 36 One who's not tully in control
1 Sang-froid 38 Flowers named 
7 Trio of myth 
for a Swedish 15 "Too Hot" rapper 

botanist 16 Omens 40 Dance step 17 Elizabeth I in 41 Rice pad
1600 
43 Diminutive 19 Mossad 
44 Diana of stage member 

and screen 20 Electricity 
46 Continue in apioneer Ampere 

parade21 Litmus, for one 
48 Dumas 22 Joint tenant? character 24 Fancy party site 50 McKinley's Ohio birthplace
27 Bored by 51 Back
29 Cuisine that's big on noodles 54 Alcohol burners 30 Make a 56 1993 Tom comeback Stoppard play 33 Losing 58 Cause of some proposition? confusion 35 Rock blaster 61 P.O.W. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.;;..1,,~;.,..,,-1 
...;....;.,..... 

62 Get situated 63 Lecturers' equipment 64 Lead_ 
DOWN 
1 Like thick smoke 2 Frost lines? 3 River of Orleans 4 "Eugene Onegin" mezzo 5 Dangerous situation 6 Part of a steamship 7 Put out, in a way 8 Like many aliens on "Star Trek" 9 "The Hermits" painter Schiele 1 O New Brunswick national park 11 Boat's landing place 12 Winter driving aid 13 Intl. trade inits. 
-+~-t 14 Library sound: Var. 
18 Christie murder 
_,.._.__,._.,.._.,. setting 
23 Curious 
...;;...........~ 

25 P.L.O. rival 26 Stewed ..,;;;;.a......,;,,;.a 27 Prefix with light __._.__.,_.......,....,,.. 28 It's a wrap -+......,.,,..,,,.. 30 West African capital ..;.........._....,__. 31 !...:ke a rare game 

Puzzle by Bob Klahn 

32 Insulating tubing 52 "Brigadoon" 57 Hit the ground heroine played 
34 March time? 58 Marceau's 
byCyd 

everyman
37 Fake tattoo, Charisse

usually 59 Start for a 53 Shabby Spanish count
39 Basketball's_ Elmore 55 Composer 60" Enfants Thomas Terrible"
42 3-0 exam 45 Snagged 47 Like some pots Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone:49 Cartoon canine 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute}.
51 "Damn Annual subscriptions are available for theYankees" 

co-composer best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Richard years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dolly Parton, Robert Palmer, Shelley Fabares, Desi Arnaz Jr., Michael Crawford, Katey Sagal 
Happy Birthday: Get orga­nized or you may find yourself running around in circles. You will have too much energy to bum and not enough discipline to accomplish much if you aren't careful. Direct yourself wisely if you want this to be a fruitful year. Romance, compassion and ac­complishment can be yours if you direct your energy in a posi­tive and productive manner. Your numbers:2,8, 11,26,34,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't speed. The highway is not a racetrack. You should join your lover in physical activities. Too much idle time and talk will lead to disagreements. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make professional changes, or consider starting your own small business. You will have no prob­lems convincing others of your abilities. Go after your goals. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
You need a change and now is the time for self-improvement. Mental stimulation will be impor­tant. Try to spend time with those who provide you with intellectu­al conversation. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try to make residential moves or changes that will benefit the whole family. Additional respon· sibilities may be difficult to han­dle if you try to take them on by yourself. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Offer your home for group meetings or just friendly get-togethers. New friendships can lead to business partnerships and contacts. Listen 
EUGENIA LAST 

to what others have to say. 
00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
You can get a lot done, but don't make promises that are impossi­ble to keep. Children may be counting on you more than you think. Don't give cash to unwor­thy causes. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Greater self-awareness will devel­op through communication with your peers. You can change your lifestyle if you want. Take advan• tage of the opportunities offered. 
0000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Make the most of your time. Plan your activities wisely. Don't take on trivial work that should be delegated to someone with fewer qualifications.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be inclined to get involved in an unwise financial investment or gambling. Talk to someone you trust before decid­ing to take any chances. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let relatives and friends stand in the way of your inten­tions. You can learn a great deal from foreigners if you decide to do some traveling. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2~Feb.18): 
Self-awareness will be necessary . Re-evaluate your motives. Social activity will lead to romantic opportunities. Change whatever is necessary to make yourself happy. You must learn to love yourself before you love someone 
else.0000 PISCES (Feb. 19•March 20): 
Be honest and direct today. Misunderstandings will cause problems with partners if you haven't explained your intentions precisely. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are entertaining, sociable and charming. You have great ideas, and your creativity will not be overlooked. You like the limelight and will use any opportunity to present your ideas. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

IIOTlla IMllll lrlslt AtllleU-:8 
lrlsh llockay I'll. .&n l&T• .rmr.1.11, II AD • 
ft. n 'I 
~ *First 100 Students receive free. 
-

NOTRE DAME *First 350 Students Free Admission 
F£DHAL CftDfT UNION • 
Friday: 1£nDfS Chili Night -First 500 Fans Rec -*First 500 Fans Receive 3 Notre Dame Hockey *Hockey Tuition Shot courtesy of South Bend T US Al RWAYS Saturday: "ROCK THE RINK" ~ *First 500 Fans Receive "Rock the Rini(' T-S 
~]-AnthTA,T--,.,,.J.,
~' 94 u rvi 9lldVCJ *Win 2 Airline Tickets Anywhere in the Continent 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame set to take on West Virginia 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
q ' 
Starting out 4-0 in the Big East 

. ' 
might have had the Irish men's bas­ketball squad sleeping a little sounder, but at 2-2 in the league, they're far from out ofcontention for a conference championship. 
Sunday's game with divisional foe West Virginia {10-4, 1-2 Big East) is the second of a three-game homes­tand. The Mountaineers will follow Pittsburgh in trying to trip up the Irish as they run towards a goal of' going undefeated at home in the Big East. 
"This [home stretch] is extremely important. It's a big stretch to put us right in contention for the top of the league," shooting guard Matt Carroll said. "This will separate the top from the bottom. The league is pretty close right now." 
The Big East is shaping up as one 
,r the most competitive conferences m the nation, with only Virginia Tech holding a losing record at 7-9. The Mountaineers may not be the team to beat in the league, but they're the team to beat for Notre Dame this weekend. 
"Especially in the Big East. you can't really look past anyone," for­ward Ryan Humphrey said. "We have a good West Virginia team coming in here." 
The Mountaineers' early season schedule wasn't as challenging as that of the Irish. West Virginia's 
strength of schedule ranks 83rd in

'I
., 
the country, compared to Notre Dame's 55th ranked schedule. 
Yet in the toughest test of the year for the Mountaineers. a Dec. 2 con­test with now-No. 4 Tennessee, the Mountaineers lost by just a point. Arid in games against the same opponents, the Irish and the 

I , 
Mountaineers have pulled off similar 

I 
results. Notre Dame lost at Syracuse 
79-70, while West Virginia lost at 

I 
see MEN/page 17 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Off and running 
After four months ofhard training. the men's and 

! women ·s track teams begin their indoor season today against West Virginia and Ball State. 
Women -page 15 Men -page 22


'I 
O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER 
Friday, January 19, 200 I 
,, 
•
' 

Irish face dangerous foe in Big East matchup 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Sports Editor 
One team's success has led to national recognition. The other squad's unexpected wins have gone virtually unnoticed. 
But both the Notre Dame and Seton Hall women's programs have upstaged their more her­alded men's counterparts. 
Before the season. prognosti­cators predicted Notre Dame and Seton Hall's men's teams 

• 
Track and Field 
SPORTS 

vs. Ball State and ATA Western Michigan Today, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 

as two of the top rising pro­grams in the nation. With four returning starters for the Irish and three All-Everything fresh­men coming in for the Pirates. the two schools received many preseason accolades. 
Two months later, the women have closed the gap. Whereas the men's teams have struggled as of late, the women have been on a tear. Entering Sunday's contest in New Jersey, Notre Dame and Seton 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Irish forward Troy Murphy splits two Pittsburgh defenders during Notre Dame's 72-58 win on Tuesday. Notre Dame faces West Virginia on Sunday in a crucial Big East matchup. 
Hall may be the two most sur­prising squads in the league. 
The Irish's 17-0 record, and most noticeably the victory over Connecticut, has been well documented. But the less­er known Pirates have also had a solid beginning. 
Seton Hall, which entered the season predicted to finish 13th out of 14 teams in the conference, has an overall record of 12-5, including a 5-1 Big East mark. The five wins in 
Men's Swimming 
• at Bill Ritter Invitational Today, 10 a.m . 
vs. Ohio State 
. 

Today and Saturday 
~ ' 

7:05 p.m. 
six games give the Pirates a slight edge over Connecticut and Rutgers (both 4-1). in the battle for second place in the league. Last year, Seton Hall won just 11 of 27 games and had just five Big East victories. 
However, the Pirates' fast start is a bit misleading. Their last three wins have been close, with victories against Pittsburgh (62-60 on Jan. 10), Georgetown (56-53 on Jan. 
see WOMEN/page16 
at \Visconsin 
.~· 
., Sunday, 11 a.m . 
vs. West Virginia 
SMC 
Sunday, noon 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Stanford's Clarkto be new coach 
By NOAH AMSTADER Assistant Sports Editor 
Stanford men's soccer coach Bobby Clark, who specializes in turning men's soccer teams around, will be named the next Irish men's 
soccer coach today. 
The story was first reported on S o c c e r America Magazine's Web site 

Wednesday Clark afternoon. Clark explained his reasons for leaving Stanford to Soccer America. 
"My reasons for leaving are not about Stanford Athletics. I have loved my five years here on the Farm," Clark told Soccer America. 
"I will not miss the Bay Area cost of living. It will be nice to own a real house again. have a gar­den. and be able to have family visit without having everyone sleeping in the living room," Clark added. 
Stanford Sports Information director Matt Hodson confirmed Thursday that Notre Dame has been granted permission to speak to Oark. 
Notre Dame associate athletic director Jim Phillips, who headed up the search for a new coach fol­lowing the early December deci­sion not to bring back 2000 head coach Chris Apple, was unavail­able for comment. 
Stanford senior midfielder Sean Sylvis confirmed that Clark told his team that he is leaving Stanford for Notre Dame. Clark also expressed his desire to live in a less expensive area to his Stanford players. 
"He has a place up here but it's kind ofsmall," Sylvis said. "I think he wanted a bigger house. I think a lot of it was his family. It's too expensive to live here." 
Clark wasted little time in turn­ing around the Cardinal program after arriving in Palo Alto in 1996. Stanford was coming off consecu­tive 5-12 seasons and hadn't post­ed a winning record since 1991. 
In his first season, the Cardinal finished 10-4-4. In 1997 the team made its first ever trip to the NCAA tournament. 
see COACH/page 20 
M vs. West Virginia Sunday, noon 
at Seton Hall 

W· 
Sunday, noon 








