
---~---------------------------------....---_,..._......,._______,__________________ 
Blown away 
Sense and censorship 
Johnny Depp is back in a new film, "Blow." 
Editors explain to readers the decision to reject 

Thursday
which features Depp in the role ofa drug 
the David Horowitz "Ten Reparations" 

entreprenuer. 
advertisement. 

MARCH 29, 
Scene . page 14-15 
Viewpoint . page 12 

2001 


THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Grandin: People should focus on talents, not deficits 
VOL.XX.XIV N0.112 

Speaking out 
. Censorship, 
academic freedom discussed at forum 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
News Writer 
On the heels of CARE's let­ter of explanation to College president Marilou Eldrep regarding the decision to stage an unofficial perfor­mance of The Vagina Monoluges, students, faculty and staff convened at Dalloway's Wednesday evening to sound off about censorship, rape and academ­ic freedom. 
The forum was the second time Saint Mary's community members had the opportunity to voice opinions about the Monologues, which was per­f'ormed unofficially by CARE officers and several students Feb. 19 in Regina Hall. The first forum came shortly after Eldred·s official decision the Monologues would not be sponsored by any campus group. Nearly a month after the performance, student, facultv and staff concerns are still being vocalized, with approximately 30 people attending Wednesday's forum to speak up. 
Faculty members made it clear that censorship will not be tolerated -and they will not back down in light of Eldred's 
decision  to  not  permit  the  
Monologues  performance  on  
campus.  


Tom Parisi, professor of psy­rationale from Eldred regarding chology, said that he hopes the the decision. faculty will not let the issue die because of lack of a convincing 
see FORUM/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 

Resolution, passes to extend parietals by 1 hour 
By lAURA ROMPF 
Associate News Editor 

The student senate took the first step towards extending parietals Wednesday night. In a resolu­tion that will now be sent to the Campus Life Council (CLC), the student senate asked for visita­tion hours in dorms be extended from midnight to 1 a.m. on weeknights and moved from 10 a.m. to 9 a.m. every morning. 
"This is in no way a jab at the administration," St. Edwards senator Seth Whetz.el said. "We've worked hard with the Administration in hopes of getting this passed." 
Whetzel said he and other members of student government have met with several rectors and Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs. 
"We're clearly trying to do this the right way, the respectful way," Whetzel said. 
In preparation for the resolution, the student senate conducted a survey to the student body about extending parietals. In response to the ref­erendum, 80 percent of students were in favor of extending parietals past 12 a.m. on weeknights, 15 percent were opposed and 5 percent had no opinion. 
In a second question, 78 percent of students were in favor of ending parietals before 10 a.m., 13 percent were opposed and 9 percent had no opinion. The response figures differed by a less than two percentage points between male and female dorms. 
Cavanaugh senator Kristen Caponi cautioned senators about believing the resolution will actu­
see SENATE/page 4 

By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
•
Focusing on talents rather than deficits is a way to help autistic individuals find their niche in the world. said Temple Grandin, a visually autistic assistant professor of animal science at Colorado State University, in a lecture given for Disabilities Awareness Week Wednesday. 
A renowned author of "Emergence: Labeled Autistic," Grandin described how her visual autism has helped her in her field of work. Grandin has designed one-third of all ani­mal-handling facilities for slaughterhouses in the U.S. 
She explained how she does not think in language, but rather in pictures; furthermore, she does not envision general pictures, but relates specific images to words. For example, when she hears "church steeple" she sees the steeple of the church she attended when she was a child, not just a generic steeple. Grandin said her ability to visualize has helped her in her field of work. 
Relating her particular expe­rience to autistic people in gen­eral, Grandin emphasized the importance of developing their particular talents. 
"Too often we have way too much emphasis on deficits and not enough emphasis on tal­ents," she said. 
Grandin added that many autistic and dyslexic people focus a great deal of attention on one area or interest, and this should be adapted to help them learn and find their own niche in the world. For example, if a child likes trains, she explained, then trains should be employed in teaching him math and art and every other subject. 
"A little bit of obsession gets things done in this world," she said. 
Grandin explained how emo­tion is underdeveloped in an autistic person's brain, while other parts may be extremely fine-tuned and high-function­ing. Many autistic people must work on speech, sensory per­ception, and social difficulties. 
"I had to learn social skills like being in a play," she said. 
Grandin said she believes that this aspect of autism should be addressed by getting autistics involved in careers which are intellectually stimulating but do not expose them to threatening social situations or short-term working memory demands, such as computer program­ming. She pointed out the fine line between a "computer nerd" and a high-functioning autistic person, mentioning that Albert Einstein displayed many autistic qualities. 
Grandin is a critically acclaimed author, designer and lecturer, who is also an advo­cate for the autistic. 

Day, Month, Year

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Olly Olly Oxen Free!! 
I remember when I was in elementary school and everyone would go out for recess. I sure miss recess -it was a cool part of the day. You could forget wha.t you were doing in class, run outsido, play kickball. red rover. jump rope, dodge ball, el cetera. It was an awesome release of test anxiety. friend trouble, or fear of cootics. Fiftcen minutes every morning and half an hour at lunch, it 
Angela
was great. 
So what happened? Campos 
It seems that when we 
get older, we don't need 
Lab Tech 
breaks between classes to Int go of everything and just scream. Or run. Or get away from everything that bothers us and lct us be ourselves. Phyi Ed is mandatory in high school and with those corny PE clothes. In college, PE is mandatory for the first year, then whatever you want to do after that for fitness is up to you. Sounds good, right? 
I guess it would if I didn't keep myself so busy. There's always something else more important than going over to the Rock or hiking to Holfs to work out. But that's missing the point. You can work out all you want, and lose weight or build up your muscles, but is that doing anything about your stress? 
So when we get ready to DART, do we have a break in the day where nothing goes on? Do we try to !ill it with a minor or other electives? I'm guilty as charged on several counts of chalking up my schedule. So when do we have recess? 
Most of us don't have recess. We have class­es, clubs, sports, student government. but we don't have recess. Okay, so maybe we do. We do have it in the fall semester (and when spring linally hits, we'll see more of it again), especial­ly when people roam the quad throwing foot­balls, frisbees and baseballs or kicking soccer balls. But during those monotonously grey win­ter months. what's our recess? What do we do to keep ourselves sane? 
We assassinate each other! 
You read right. The game called "Assassins" has students sniping each other all across cam­pus. A group gets together, with water pistols (crickets, snipers, pistols. supersoakers or any other variety), they each draw names of some­one else in the group. A time is set for a fair start. Then they stalk each other around cam­pus until only one person is left 'alive'. 
I'm in a game of assassins right now. We play it 24 hours a day. So if you happen to think you're safe in Heckers at 4:30 am, guess again. Some of it edges on pure paranoia, the rest is just like getting together and playing a game of hide 'n go seek, except we seek with water guns, and instead of one it, we're all it and all targets. 
It's recess. We do it when we're not in class. We take a break for a bit to stalk our victim or maim our attacker. We're tense cause we're excited. not stressed. It's our stress relief. Just watch your back. don't invite anyone inside, and always have your gun loaded. 
Hey ghostbuster, keep it real. You won't find a haunt hiding in the shadows today. Unless the sun is shining, that is. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene .Colleen McCarthy Matt Nania Myra McGriff Graphics Courtney Boyle 
Jose Cuellar Sports Production Kathleen O'Brien 
Andrew Soukup Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Pa uick Otlewski Tony Hoyd 
The Obsmcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chcough Friday except during exam •nd vaca,ion pcriud.s. The Obse,ver is a member of the 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Lecture: "Buried Secrets:  . Event: "Winter's Tale."  . Opera: Handel's  
Truth and Human Rights in  actors for the London  "Xerxes." 7:30 p.m.,  

Guatemala." 4:15 p.m., Stage. 7 p.m., Little Room C-103, Hesburgh Theatre Saint Mary's, 
. Lecture: "Stone Field, . Event: "Latin True Arrow," Kyoko Mori. Expressions," 8 p.m., 
6:30 p.m., Carroll O'Laughlin Auditorium. Auditorium, Saint Mary's Saint Mary's Washington Hall. 
. Movie: "Hequiem for a Dream." 7:30 p.m., Annenburg Auditorium 
Sunday 
. 
Event: Thomas Aquinas Symposium, "Aquinas on Teaching." 2:30 p.m., Sapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's 

. 
Theatre: "The Diary of Anne frank." 7:30 p.m., O"Laughlin Auditorium 


Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 


North Carolina runs Horowitz in opinion column 
DURHAM, N.C. 
The Daily Tar Heel at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has decided not to run an anti-slavery reparations advertisement that has caused a furor across the country and at Duke University. 
Instead, the DTH will run ad author David Horowitz's arguments in the form of an opinion column. The Chronicle ran the ad March 19, lead­ing to a campus protest and demands for an apology. 
"We thought this was the best way," said DTH Editor Matt Dees. "If people see the ad, they're automatically going to go into an uproar. We hope this way. we'll be able to (foster) some thoughtful and sensible discussion." Dees said the news and business staffs of the paper discussed the ad at length but that the ultimate decision came from the paper's general manager and business manager. 

Horowitz's column will run Monday. alongside a column written by Dees and Black Student Movement President Tyra Moore. The editor also hopes to print a commentary written by UNC Chancellor James Moeser. 
Moore, a senior, supported the DTffs decision. "I think that at many of the campuses, they were running this ad under the premise of wanting to create dialogue on campus." she said. "The way that Matt Dees has chosen to present it is a much more effective way of creating dialogue, by giving all sides of an issue." 
She added that regardless of the DTH's decision. members of the black community had been discussing ways to raise the issue campus-wide. 
Dees said he initially thought Horowitz's opinion should run as an ad but that he has learned from the mistakes of The Chronicle and other newspapers. The ad. entitled "Ten Reasons Why Reparations for Slavery is a Bad Idea -And Racist Too," has provoked a debate about free speech and a campus newspaper's role in the community at many universities. including the University of California at Berkeley and Brown University. 
SOUTHERN ILLIN0IS UNIVERSITY UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA 
Search for student's killer continues 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 
The Carbondale Police Department continues to treat the death of Southern Illinois University student Marcus Thomas as its most important unsolved case, even after a weekend that included an armed robbery that turned into a fatal car accident and the shooting of local churches. "It's still the No. 1 priority for the investigations division," said Community Resource Officer Dan Reed. "The detectives are still working the case as hard and as aggressively as they possibly can." Thomas was killed on March 17 from gunshot wounds. He was found lying on the living room floor of 315-B S. Marion St. Tenants of the apartment did not know Thomas and police do not know the exact location of the shooting or how Thomas' body ended up in a stranger's apartment. Police Chief R.T. Finney said the entire investigations division is back on the case, after being pulled off temporarily for Saturday's armed rob­bery at Midwest Cash, 1200 W. Main St., which led to the death of two people. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather a forecast for daytime conditions and high tern rntures 
Friday Monda 


~o<.:i;atcd Pres.~. All rcproduc1ion rights arc rcs.crvcd. VlaA33ociaJodPren <lraphicsNut 
.,.,. • .-• .. ._ .. '.,Ji.••• ••-•~• .. •••, ............ .,., 
I 

Montana senate veto's college tax 
HELENA, Mont. 

A measure that would have asked university towns to foot part of the bill for student scholarships sank in the Montana state Senate Tuesday. The Montana Opportunity Scholarships proposed by Sen. Ken Miller, H­Laurel, would have asked voters to raise property taxes statewide to provide up to $500 per students. This amount, in turn, would have to be matched by local gov­ernments -like Missoula -before a Montana student would get the scholarship. The aid was to have been renewable for up to four years. Miller said that because university towns generate millions in economic benefits because they host schools, then they should be happy to raise the money for his scholarship plan. And university towns wouldn't need to raise taxes, Miller said. but could also create partnerships with corporations to help come up with the matching money. "They get to decide how to raise the money," Miller said. University of Montana and Montana State University student representatives said they supported Miller's bill -at least in concept. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
Ihe Accuweather® torecast tor noon.Thursday, March 29. 

.......,,.. 


------~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
c 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Preuure; 

® © D . c:::JD . D
Tues~ay 

High Low Shower• Rain T~1torm1 flurrlH Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
U'-0--·, ,I -,,? 

Allanla 52 50 Las Vegas 
Baltimore 51 45 Memphis 
Boston 42 35 Milwaukee
4,~,~9 Q Q -Q-~ Ll 
Chicago 48 37 New York 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice SIJnny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 70 56 Philadelphia 

81  56  Portland  57  43  
57  48  Sacramento  79  51  
43  34  St. Louis  55  44  
48  40  Tampa  78  67  
56  46  Washington DC 53  46  
--­- 
...  

Thursday, March 29, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Debate team caps successful season, finishes 14th in nation 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame debate team completed their season with the best finish in more than 10 years at the National Parliamentary Debate Association Championship in lknvcr last weekend. The sea­son -1 ong cumulative results ended with Notre Dame as 14th in the natiou. as well as secur­ing a strong position at the national tournament. 
Twelve of Notre Dame's finest debaters competed against 500 other students from 90 colleges around the country. The com­petition was very difficult, as each school sent its very best to battle for the national champi­onship. 
"A big tournament such as sophomores Maureen Gottlieb we're both deep and consistent; this is a dark pilgrimage." said and Victoria Fetterman, aside from being one of only junior Will McDonald. advanced to the double-octali­three or four teams in the 
"Debate nationals is an expe­nal round. nation to achieve such honors," rience like no other," said The efforts of all team mem­said Styczynski. Rachel Smith, junior. bers resulted in Notre Dame This is just one accomplish­
Smith and her partner sopho­placing ment of many for more Chris Gallo finished the seventh out the debate team,
"/ don't see the national 
preliminary rounds with an of the 90 who also saw the
championship as being
even record of four wins and schools team of four losses, as did the team of attending. too far from our grasp McDonald and Michelle Petersen, junior, and Combined Styczynski go
next year. " 
Clayton Swope. sophomore. with the undefeated to Seniors Kate Huetteman and season­win a tourna­
Michelle Petersen 
Priscilla Clements advanced to long rank­ment at Central the partial-quadra-octafinal ing, this debate team member Missouri State 
round. Juniors Mark Styczynski placing and Will McDonald and fresh­puts Notre men Kara Vey and Mary Dame as one of a handful best Komperda advanced to the in the nation. triple-octafinal round. Notre "The two kinds of awards we Dame's highest placing team. received show that, as a team, 

REtlREMENT f,'tif~llRANEE.~ MUTUAL FUNDS TRUS-T SERVICES l TUITION FINANCING
j 

Attention: New faculty members and staff 
Unsure about your retirement choices? 
Discover the ,:!ii/fr~ TIAA-CREF Advantage. 
If you're a new faculty member or staff employee and not sure about your retirement plan choices, Just contact TIAA-CREF. 
We're the financial organization that's been dedicated for over 80 years to helping people in education and research reach their financial goals. Find out for yourself how TIAA-CREF provides: 
• 
Easy diversification among arange of expertly managed funds 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to !ow expenses 

• 
Plus, afull range of flexible retirement income options 


So call us for a free information package or just talk to one of your colleagues You'll find that choosing your retirement plan provider is simple when you go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 

THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE 
Investment Expertise 
Low Expenses 
Customized Payment Options 
Expert Guidance 


Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape it."· 

www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509. for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. 
• Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co, New York, NY issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04 
University earlier 

this semester, as well as consistently competing in quarterfinal and semifinal rounds. 
"Finishing in the top 10 at the national tournament in Denver is just the beginning for this team. We have made ourselves known nationally, and I can only expect greater success in the future," said senior Priscilla Clements. 
The team is looking to improve upon their record next season. While they lose two of the strongest leaders on the team as Clements and Huetteman graduate, they maintain a strong base. With the accomplishments of under­classmen. the debate team hopes to shine even brighter next semester, 
"I don't see the national championship as being too far from our grasp next year," said Michelle Petersen. junior. 


NYU scholar Molloy to deliver O'Grady lecture 
Special to The Observer 
Leading literary critic and author Sylvia Molloy will make two presentations at the end of March as_ the O'Grady Latin American Literature Lecturer at the University of Notre Dame. 
Molloy will deliver a lecture 
titled "National Parts and 
Unnatural Others: A 
Reflection on Patrimony in 
Turn-of-the-Century 
Argentina" at 4:30 p.m. today. 
in the auditorium of the 
Hes burgh Center for 
International Studies. The lec­
ture is free and open to the 
public and will be followed by 
a reception. 
Molloy also will discuss her 
critical work on autobiogra­
phy and her own writing at 
4:30 p.m., Friday in Room 1100-104 of McKenna Hall. Titled "Autobiography in Translation, or How to Write a Novel," the talk is intended primarily for Notre Dame fac­ulty and students and teach­ers from South Bend-area 
1schools. A reception will fol­low, 
The Albert Schweitzer Professor of Humanities at New York University (NYU), 
Molloy focuses he·r research on 19th-and 20th-century Spanish-American literatures, autobiography, literary theo­ry, and Latin American and European literary relations. She also holds faculty appoint­ments ·at NYU in the depart­ments of Spanish and Portuguese languages and lit­eratures and comparative lit­erature. 
Molloy previously taught at the State University of New York at Buffalo, Vassar College, Princeton University and Yale Unive_rsity. Among her books are "Signs of Borges," "Women's Writing in Latin America" and "At Face Value: Autobiographical Writing in Spanish America." 
Molloy has received fellow­ships from the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities and currently serves as president of the Modern Language Association. 
Sponsored by the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and the Hesburgh Library, the O'Grady Latin American Literature Lecture Series has been funded by a gift from 1963 Notre Dame graduate Robert O'Grady and his wife. 


Thursday, March 29, 2001

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



Senate 
co!ltinued from page I 
ally bring forth change. 
"Don't get too hopeful. I'm pretty sure this will get voted down," Caponi said. "Students should realize that we have it so much better than some schools ... I will support this resolution and think we should go ahead and pass it, but don't get too hopeful." 
Whetzel disagreed with Caponi and said he thought because he and other sena­tors have worked closely with several administrators, he feels the resolution will have enough support to go into effect. 
"We've worked our asses off to get this done. If we get all the students and faculty to vote for it in the CLC. it will pass ... We're doing our best with this archaic institution rof parietals] to try and insti.­iute change." 
In other senate news: 
. 
Wednesday night's meet­ing was the last for the cur­rent senators and senate chair and vice president Brooke Norton, who will for­mally take the office of stu­dent body president on April l. 

. 
The student senate approved Jeff Cussin as the 2001-2002 student business board Adworks Manager. 


. 
Tim Jarotkiewicz was passed an open letter approved as the 2001-2002 requesting the creation of a Judicial Council president. peer advising program to aid 

. 
The stu­sopho­dent senate mores in 


passed an "Don't get too hopeful. I'm making 
open letter decisions
pretty sure this will get 
requesting a about their 
women's voted down. Students future. retreat to be should realize we have it T h e 
offered by advising
so much better than some
Campus would be
schools.,,
Ministry for specifically students from useful for 
Notre Dame, sophomore
Kristen Caponi
Saint Mary's in Arts and

Cavanaugh Hall senator
and Holy Letters who 
Cross. have sever­"Campus Ministry is happy we al majors to decide between, brought this initiative forth," said Kathleen Bufalino, Farley Caponi said. "This is definite­
senator. 
ly going to happen." 
. The senate passed an . The student senate open letter regarding the 
development of service and experiential learning opportu­nities. 
The senate specifically requests that more programs be offered to students where they can learn outside of the classroom through personal experience. The senate sug­gested the programs be creat­ed in conjunction with the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
. The student senate passed a resolution which requests the University's mis­sion statement be printed in full in DuLac. 
Because DuLac makes sev­eral references to the mission statement, the senate agreed it should be included within the manual. 


Forulll 
continued from page 1 
"If the president persists in this narrow way of thinking, the faculty have to go at it. This is not about civility, but about the freedom of process. The administration is using it as a screen !'or other things." 
Faculty members offered the audience insight into recent faculty dialogue about the issue, raising the point that there is some faculty division. A departmental chair meeting last rriday may have 
"l was told by th<:i adminis­tration that I had a moral obligation to support them {in my role as advisor]." Pittman said. "In our classrooms we have academic freedom, but in the role of advisors, the administration feels there are limits in what we can define as topics of discussion." 
Other faculty members dis­cussed how to proceed with the campus dialogue in light of outside pressure on the College. Peter Smith ques­tioned the administration's choice of allegiances between the College and the outside 
community. 
"Instead 

revealed this. "In our classrooms we have of support­ing us, they
said Marcia academic freedom, but in 
Hickard, are cowed
the role of advisors, the
associate by outside professor of administration feels there pressure," 
art, but are limits in what we can Smith said. called it "the "but they
define as topics of
best discus­are paid to sion in all my discussion. " stand up for 
us."

2 3 years at S a i n t A n n
Catherine Pittman 
Mary's." Clark, pro­
CARE advisor
"Not all fessor of faculty philoso­agree," p h y • Hickard said. "but all care very agreed with Smith, attributing deeply. The discussions will be the administration's choice to 
ongoing and actions will be listen to outside pressure to taken in an educational sense. 
financial reasons. 
It's at the early stages, but it's "Our school is subject to not going to drop here. As outside pressure," she said. issues become more polariz­"And until we get richer, 
ing, we must create an envi­there will be pressure with ronment where we can the exterior public. The only respond in a civil way." thing we decide to do is
can what we're going to do about
Catherine Pittman, CARE advisor, expressed concern it.' 
Community members at thethat the administration expect­
ed faculty to support the deci­forum suggested focus groups sion -even in her role of as a possible option to stimu­late communication between
advisor. That expectation is the administration and stu­
different than the one held in 
the classroom, she said. dents about censorship issues. 
T 

ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
SPONSORED Bl'nodcfoS 
~~ .OT&f~fOOIIIUvtc:ll 


"I feel so jaded and don't know what to do," said CARE officer Emily Koelsch. "I can get an e-mail from [vice presi­dent for Student Affairs Linda Timm] and not believe a word of it. [Students at the forum are] not the only ones that have opinions. Maybe focus groups will be a way to get opinions," she said. 
Somo students disagreed about the effectiveness of focus groups, however, referring to negative experiences with prior College focus groups. 
"I have a bad feeling about focus groups." said senior Jami Newcomb. "The no-smoking task force was organized by the administration, and yet, they rejected all our proposals last year." 
Overall. students and faculty alike discussed the concern there is not enough open dis­cussion about issues of rape and censorship on campus. 
"Those of us leaders on cam­pus should be concerned," said CARE officer Katie Poynter. 

Fourth Annual 
Thomas Aquinas Symposium 
STdPENTS ARE ESPECIALLY WELCOME 
Le Mans Hall, Stapleton Lounge Saint Mary's College 
Sunday April 1, 2001 
2:30 p.m. Aquinas on Teaching 
-Keith]. Egan, Saint Mary's College 
4:00 p.m. Right Reason and the Love of God: The Parameters of Aquinas' Christian Ethics 
-Jean Porter, University ofNotre Dame 

This Symposium is Sponsored Free and Open to Public by the Joyce McMahon Hank Information (219) 284-4636 Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology E-Mail: mlukasze@saintmarys.edu 

SaintJsColle~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


Thursday, March 29, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
EU approves foot-and-mouth shot: Army butchers began slaughtering sheep in northern England on Wednesday, and Britain received the green light to vaccinate thousands of cattle against foot-and-mouth disease -but officials are still debating whether to use the last-resort measure. As Britain's top-ranking ground commander stepped into the battle to contain the livestock disease, EU veterinary experts approved the government's request for authorization to vaccinate up to 180,000 dairy cattle. 
Police crack down on Hell's Angels: 
Police raided homes and suspected Ilell's Angels hangouts across Quebec on Wednesday, arrest­ing more tha11 100 suspects in a major crack­down on alleged organized crime by biker gangs. The raids began around dawn and con­tinued though the day. Police in Quebec had taken 118 people into custody by afternoon. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Labor department files low injuries: 
Work-related repetitive strain injuries and similar muscular disorders decreased in 1999 but still accounted for more than a third of all joh injuries, the labor department said Wednesday. The new data were released a mwk after Prnsident Bush signed a repeal of Clinton administration ergonomics rules aimed at reducing such injuries. Congress passed the repeal after a stinging legislative fight waged by business 'interests and labor unions. 

Judges hear Utah's census plea: A 
federal judge said Wednesday it would be "wildly" unfair to count Utah's Mormon mis­sionaries overseas in the 2000 Census because other Americans abroad can't be so easily counted. "Including only missionaries would not advance the cause of equal repre­sentation," said Stephen Anderson, a 10th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals judge. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Inmate escapes through kitchen: 
An inmate escaped Wednesday from the Westville Correctional Facility by stealing a state-owned van and driving it through a prison fence. Fred Bishop, 27, was working in the kitchen area of the northern Indiana prison about 3 p.m. when he fled the building, stole a van and drove it at high speed through the fence. "He just drove it through the fence. There's a big hole in our fence," said Sharon Hawk, an administrative assistant to the prison's superintendent. 
Market Watch March 28 
Dow 
9,785.35 -162.19 
Composite
)~Up: Same: 
Volume: 
,08. 195 
NIA 
AMEX: 864.81 -11.15 NASDAQ: 1,854.13 -118.13 NYSE: 590.06 -9.63 S&P 500: 1,153.29 -28.88 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -13.10 -2.37 15. 75 
PALM INC (PALM) -48.00 -7.44 8.06 AGERE SYSTEMS-A (AGRA) +0.33 +0.02 6.02 NASDAQ 100 INDX CQQQ) -8.21 -3.55 39.70 INTEL CORP (INT() -8. 29 -2.43 26. 94 
GAZA STRIP 


Associated Press 
GAZA CITY 
Israeli helicopters rocket­ed headquarters of Force 17, Yasser Arafat's elite guard, in Gaza and the West Bank town of Ramallah on Wednesday, retaliating for a wave of' bombings, including a sui­cide attack that killed two Israeli teen-agers. 
Red flares lit up the night sky over Ramallah, where two people were killed in the assault, and flames leaped from burning build­ings and cars as firefighters tried to put out multiple blazes. · 
Doctors in Ramallah said the dead included a mem­ber of Force 17 and a female civilian. Overall, more than two dozen Palestinians were injured in Ramallah and Gaza, several critically, doctors said. 

The attacks on Palestinian government buildings were the first since last fall and further eroded the fabric and foun­dation of the peace agree­ments that granted the Palestinians autonomy and self-government. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has repeatedly accused Force 17 of involvement in attacks against Israeli civilians. 
"The purpose is to strike directly at those responsible for terrorism," the Israeli military said in a statement. The military said it hit the Force 17 headquarters in Ramallah, and four Force 17 targets around Gaza City and Deir al-Balah in the southern Gaza Strip ­including a training camp and an arms depot. 
The buildings under attack -all in areas gov­erned by Arafat's Palestinian Authority under peace agreements -had been evacuated after the Israeli military warned the Palestinians to leave. 
In Gaza City, the low-fly­ing Israeli gunships blast­ed a Force 17 building that had been used as a weapons arsenal and is only 100 yards from Arafat's house. 
The Palestinians said the building had been empty for some time, but women and children screamed as they fled nearby buildings. The smell of gunpowder hung in the salty sea air after the attack. 
Arafat was in Amman, Jordan, where Arab lead­ers wrapped up a two-day summit earlier Wednesday with pledges of financial aid to the cash-strapped Palestinian Authority. 

Dot-com demise lowers office rents 
Consulting Group. a commercial real estate brokerage
Associated Press 

It's the first quarter-to-quarter ihat supplied the data used in 
SAN FRANCISCO rent decline for so-called Class A Rosen's report. 
The dot-com meltdown is flooding space in San Francisco's financial Internet companies accounted for the San Francisco office market district since the end of 1998, when 77 percent of the 3 million square with vacant space and lowering landlords charged an average of feet returned to the San Francisco average rents in the city's main $47.75 per square foot. Despite the office market between October business district for the first time in decline, average Class A rents for 2000 and February 2001, the more than two years, according to a new San Francisco financial district report said. new real estate study. leases remain 9 percent higher In an unusual step. Cushman & 
Rents for prime downtown San than a year ago. Wakefield distanced itself from Francisco office space averaged San Francisco's office rents are Rosen's report, which the broker­$74.16 per square foot in the first still the highest in the country. New age called "premature." The firm quarter, down 7.5 percent from an York's midtown Manhattan office said it planned to release a more average of $80.16 per square foot market is the second most expen­extensive report Thursday compar­in the fourth quarter, according to sive at $67. 7 5 per square foot, ing San Francisco to other cites fac­the Berkeley-based Rosen according to Cushman & Wakefield. ing an economic downturn. 
•--------------------------------­

-:-,.--­
Thursday, March 29,200]

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Court throws out $107 million verdict against abortion foes 
Bruno's Piua All-you-can-eat Buffet (Includes Drink) *Pizza *Pasta $5.99*Salad *Other Italian Dishes *Parties Welcome Every Thursday at 5 2610 Prairie A venue 288-3320  
NEED CASH? NEW DONORS EARN. $20 TODAY MENTION THIS AD FORA$5.00 BONUS Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week SERA CARE PLASMA 234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST  

Associated P rcss 
SAN FRANCISCO 
A federal appeals court threw out a record $107 million verdict against anti-abortion activists Wednesday, ruling that a Web site and wanted posters branding abortion doctors "baby butchers" and criminals were protected by the First Anrnndnwnl. 
/\ three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously said the activists could be held liable only if the material authorized or directly threatened violence. 
The ruling came two years after a jury in Portland, Ore., ordered a dozen abortion foes to pay damages to Planned Parenthood and four doctors. They had sued under federal racketeering law and the 1994 federal law that makes it illegal to incite violence against abortion doctors. 
The case was widely seen as a test of a recent Supreme Court ruling that said a threat must be explicit and likely to cause "imminent lawless action." 
"If defendants threatened to commit violent acts, by working alone or with others. then their [works] could properly support the verdict," Circuit Judge Alw1: Kozinski wrote. "8t1t if their [works] merely encouraged unrelated terrorists, then their words are protected by the First Amendment." 
Planned Parenthood and the doctors were por• trayed in the Old West-style wanted posters as "baby butchers," and a Web site called the "Nuremberg Files" listed the names and addresses of abortion 
Graduate students may unionize 
A»ociaced Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Temple University graduate teaching and research assistants voted Wednesday to unionize. 
The students voted 290-16 to join the Temple University Graduate Students Association, an affiliate of the American Federation of Teachers. The Pennsylvania Labor Helations Board ruled in October that the union could be formed. 
The O'Grady Latin American Literature Lecture Series 
,. 
f;·"'\. . 
The union now intends to begin contract negotiations with the Temple administration for better pay, enhanced health care coverage and a lighter workload for its members. Most assistants make $11,000 a year, the union said. 
"It gives us a mandate to go to the table and negotiate a strong contract for the folks who teach and conduct research here at the university," said Rob Calahan, a union organizer and teaching assistant. 
providers and declared them guilty of crimes against humanity. 
Planned Parenthood said it would ask the court to reconsider its decision, or petition the Supreme Court to review the ruling. 
"We are obviously disappointed with the panel's decison and firmly believe that it is wrong." said Maria Vullo, the group's attorney. 
Don Treshman. one of the abortion foes named in the PlannPd Parenthood suit, said he no longer had to pay his $8 million share of the . 
jury's verdict. 

"We were all accused of creating an umbrella of fear in the minds of abortionists that it wasn't safe for them to go to work," the 57-year­old Baltimore man said. "We now retain the free speech right to call abortion what it is: cold-blooded murder of a baby in the womb." 
The anti-abortion activists said their posters and Web site were protected under the First Amendment because they were merely a list of doctors and clinics -not a threat. 
"I think its a great relief that our posters are just as protected by the First Amendment as the posters of any other movement," said Christopher Ferrara, the attorney who represented the activists. 
During the trial, U.S. District Judge Robert Jones instructed the jury to consider the history of violence in the anti-abortion movement, including three doc­tors killed after their names appeared on the lists. 
The state-supported university had said that graduate students did not have the same right as other workers to unionize because their jobs are part of their education. 
The union argued that the uni­versity still benefited from the work of graduate students, and that many of the students' jobs had little to do with their fields of study. 
Temple released a statement saying only that the university will follow PLRB procedures. 
"We were all accused of creating an umbrella offear in the mindsof abortionists that it wasn't safe for them to go to work." 
Don Treshman anti-abortion activist 
Among the defendants was Michael Bray of Bowie, Md., author of a book that justifies killing doctors to stop abortions. Bray went to prison l'rom 1985 to 1989 for his role in arson attacks and bombings of seven clinics. 
Another defendant was Cathy Hamey of Portland, an editor at Life Advocate magazine and author of "In Defense ol' Others," which defends people who refuse to condemn the killing of abortion providers. 
One was Dr. Barnett Slepian. who was killed by a sniper in 1998 at his home near Buffalo, N.Y. Slepian's name was crossed out on "The Nuremberg Files" Web site later that same dav. 
Doctors who were on the list testified that they lived in constant fear, used disguises, bodyguards and bulletproof vests, and instructed their children to crouch in the bathtub if they heard gunfirn. 
The defendants maintained they were political protesters collecting data on doctors in hopes of one 
day putting them on trial like Nazi war criminals were al 
Nuremberg. 
After the jury's verdict, the judge called the Web site and the wanted posters "blatant and illegal communication of Lrue threats to kill." 
The man who ran the Nuremberg Web site was not a defendant in the law:-;uit. but his Internet provider pulled the plug on the site after the ver­dict. 



Thursday, March 29, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page7 
House questions Olympics in China 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Unless China radically 
improves its human rights 
record, the 2008 Olympics 
should not be held there, the 
Ilouse International Relations 
Committee said Wednesday. 
By a 27-8 vote, the commit­te c approved a nonbinding resolution "expressing the sense of Congress that the 2008 Olympic Games should not be held in Beijing unless Lhe Peoples Republic of China . releases all political prisoners, 
Bush prefers informal interviews 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush would prefer to talk to reporters in informal settings, rather than in the for­m al East Room news confer­ences staged by many of his predeces­sors, the W h i t e House said Wednes­day. 
W h it e House spokesman A r i Fleischer said Bush considers his almosl daily inter­actions with reporters as news conferences. Outside of his daily appearances and sessions with world leaders, Bush has held only one solo news confer­ence, a 30-minute session in the White House briefing room on Feb. 22 that was announced only an hour earlier. 
"He always reserves the right to come down here on short notice," Fleischer said, refer­ring to the briefing room. "The president continues to be 
· accessible, and that will be his approach." Bush has not categorically 

Do you still want to be doing thfs a year from now? 
\' 
EMPLo!erSare StaNd•Na L!... 
Don't miss the Working section. Pages of great jobs. Legions of lop companies. Because college is almost over. 
chicagotribune.com 

ratifies the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and observes interna­tionally recognized human rights." 
Rep. Tom Lantos, D-Calif.. the panel's top Democrat, who has said China's "abominable human rights record violates the spirit of the games," likened the choice of Beijing to the 1936 Olympics held in Nazi Germany. 
Beijing is competing with Toronto, Paris, Osaka, Japan, and Istanbul, Turkey, for the right to hold the 2008 Summer Olympics. The International 
think the American peo­
"The president prefers an

ple really care a whit" about informality about certain whether Bush 
things."

speaks to the press in a for­mal or infor­Ari Fleischer mal way, or White House spokesman which room of the White House he 
Olympic Committee will select the host July 13. 
The measure's original co­sponsors were Reps. Christopher Cox, R-Calif., Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.. and Frank Wolf, H.-Va., but it later gained three dozen more sup­porters. 
It was not immediately clear how soon lhe measure would be taken up by the full House. 
In the Senate, Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Jesse Helms, R-N.C., and Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn:, plan to introduce companion legis­lation. 
to the press every day." 
Former President Clinton held formal news conferences in the East R o o m . Bush's father held one East 
Rich reps offered AJC 
donation for help 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The head of the American Jewish Congress says repre­se ntatives of Marc Rich offered a donation to the AJC if the organization would support his application for a pardon. 
"It was made known to us that if we were to speak favorably of Mr. Rich, we would be the beneficiary of a gift," Phil Baum, executive director of the AJC, said Tuesday. 
The orga­
nization did placed
"It was made known to 
not write a Wednesday 
us that ifwe were to to the Rich
letter sup­porting Rich, speak favorably ofMr. Foundation, and he did headquar­
Rich, we would be the 
not make a tered in Tel 
donation, beneficiary ofa gift." Aviv, and to Baum said, the home of "We said A v n e r
Phil Baum 
we'd be glad Azulay,
executive director, American
to accept a who heads 
Jewish Congress
gift but it the organi­
cannot be done with any expectation or any hope at all," he said. 
Less than a week ago, the head of another major Jewish organization, Abe Foxman of the Anti­Defamation League, said he erred in writing a letter of support for Rich. The ex-fugi­tive financier's foundation pledged $100,000 to the ADL months before his lawyers sought a pardon for him. 
Baum said his organization was "approached by Rich representatives to do the 
same thing and we declined to do so." 
"There was no direct quid pro quo. but there was an understanding communicat­ed to us," Baum said. 
Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel said Wednesday that he was also asked to write a letter supporting Rich's pardon, but that there was no implied promise of a gift. 
"I was approached, but I was not offered any money," the author and humanitarian activist said. He declined to write the letter. 
C a I I s 
zation. were not immediately returned. 
Rich was left the United States in 1983 rather than face racketeering and other criminal charges. 
President Clinton pardoned Rich in the final hours of his presidency and said he made his decision in part at the urging of Jewish leaders who cited-Rich's extensive philan­thropy. Rich. a billionaire, has given $100 million to charities in Israel and else­where. 


INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you may develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2001 may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal a ointment. 
,, 
ruled out an East Room news conference, but had not sched­uled one as of Wednesday. 
The president made four appearances Wednesday, all of which were open to reporters. But he deflected all questions in two of the sessions and took no 
questions during his meeting 
with high-tech leaders and 
when greeting King Juan 
Carlos ofSpain. 
Fleischer said Bush "doesn't Bush's preferences are not out of line with those of other presi­dents. Plus, he said, TV net­works have begun opting not to air presidential news confer­ences in prime time. 
"So what's the use?" Fitzwater said. "He talks to the press every day. The American people see it every night on ~ television. J'l! bet you can't find 10 people in all of America who don't think the president talks 
speaks in. 
"The president prefers an informality about certain things," Fleischer said. "What's important is that people have an opportunity to ask ques­tions.... Not all the presidents always took questions at daily events the way the president does." 
Marlin Fitzwater, former White House spokesman for Bush's father, said the younger Room news conference but did most of his talking with reporters in informal sessions, Fitzwater said. 
Former President Reagan held 48 news conferences dur­ing his eight years in office, mostly formal East Room events aired in prime time. "But he liked them," said Fitzwater, who was also Reagan's press secretary. worked to his advantage." 
Thursday, March 29, 2001 

page 8 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS 
Silicon Valley money dries up 
. Investment slowdown hurting tech companies 
A•socia1ed Pre•• 
SAN FHANC!SCO 
In another sign of the tech­nology industry's jarring about-face. the amount of money flowing into Silicon Valley companies from the public markets is quickly evaporating, according to new data provided to The Associated Press. 
Silicon Valley firms received $2.7 billion from the sale of stock and other securities through March 15. down from $14.1 billion during the first thrnc months of last year. The first quarter also figures to be down sharply from the final three months or last year. when Silicon Valley compa­nies raised $6.5 billion from the public markets. 
The report, compiled by financial publishing company Bowne & Co. from Thomson Financial Securities data, pro­vides a snapshot of how much faster the Silicon Valley is slowing than the rest of the nation -and even other parts of California. 
Nationally. companies raised $361 billion from the public markets through March 15, down from $407 billion during the first three months of last year and up from $213 billion in last year's final quarter. . 
In Southern California, com­panies raised slightly more cash from the public markets than they did last year -$4.8 billion through March 15, the report said. 
To a degree, the severity of this year's plunge in Silicon Valley investment reflects a mania that peaked in early 2000. Until last year, the Silicon Valley had never raised more than $1.9 billion from the public markets dur­ing the first quarter, accord­ing to the report. 
The Silicon Valley's current cash drought extends beyond the public markets. The ven­ture capitalists that showered cash on start-ups during the last few years also capitalists expect the numbers to reflect a steep dedinc. 
The decrease in money pouring into Silicon Valley companies is bound to have a ripple effect on households and businesses throughout the region, economists said. 
That's because companies that receive cash from the public markets redistribute the money by hiring more workers, buying new equip­ment and investing in new offices. 
"This (data) sort of cements it for me. You are going to get a serious downturn in the Silicon Valley economy," said Tom Lieser, a senior 
are tighten­ing the spig­ot. 
"It's really dry out there," Jim Dorrian, a general partner at Crosspoint Venture Partners. 

s a i d Tuesday. "We are teaching the CEOs at all our companies how to be thrifty right now." 
In the final three months of last year, venture capitalist investment in Northern California fell 19 percent from the previous year to $6.9 bil­lion, according to Venture Economics, an industry research firm. Statistics for the first quarter aren't avail­able, but virtually all venture 
has a viral 
effect. As more businesses conclude their customers won't have as much money to spend this year, they table their own expansion plans and hold off on raising more cash from investors. 
"We probably won't see this economy bounce back any time soon," predicted Gary Schlossberg, a senior econo­mist with Wells Fargo Capital Markets. 
Nortel plans to cut additional5000jobs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Shares of Nortel Networks fell 
16.5 percent Wednesday after the maker of optical and wire­less network equipment said it won't meet the sharply reduced profit forecasts set just a month ago, and now plans to eliminate 5,000 more jobs on top of the 10,000 already cut since the start or2001. 
The warning Tuesday by the Canadian company, echoed the increasingly dire projections 
coming from Cisco Systems, the world's leading producer of net­work equipment for the Internet. Nortel also made the unsettling suggestion that busi­ness conditions have turned too difficult to make any forecasts for the rest of 2001. 
"Given the poor visibility into the duration and breadth of the economic downturn and its impact on the overall market growth in 2001, it is not possible to provideguidance for the com­pany's financial performance. year." John Roth. president and chief executive officer said. 
"This [data] sort of cements it for me. You are going to get a serious downturn in the Silicon Valley economy. " 
Tom Lieser Senior economist, UCIA Business Forecasting Project 

economist for the UCLA Business Forecasting Project. 
An invest­ment slow­down such as the one emerging in Silicon Valley frequently 

at the 11 :45 a.m. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, we will celebrate the Rite of Reception into Full Communion. At this Liturgy, Candidates for Full Communion (those who have been baptized in another Christian denomination or were baptized Catholic and have received no other Sacraments) will complete their Initiation into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacraments of Eucharist and Confirmation. These Candidates have been participating in the RCIA process since 
September. ]Please he[rrJ> us to welcorrne therm into oiuur Catholic corrnrrnunifyo 
CANDIDATE§ and their SJP>onsors 
GUJETON CUJBITLLO CinJy Sanfalllla MARK. MATSON Rodriigo Morales KJERSTEN FERGUSON Beclky KJeiin MHffi MORGALK§ Pat MiBea JULIE FOSTER Liisa Gutowskn NJ[COL..A.S PACELL][ Chriistiina SuHiivau1 T[SHA GREENSLAIDE JnH Perry ANDREW POKER Jeanne-Niicole Sa1nt-La11.went ERJIN GRJISWOLD Tom c'lUll'tnll1l HOPERillZ Mark Ruiz FRAl\TJKLIN HARKJIN§ SheiJa .M[cCardll.y J..4J\HE SCHIEK1DERER JJason Sd1eiidereir TAl{lLOR HEAlPS Chris ReiHy NHKE \¾1ELL§ Carrie Stll'o1bel SORIEl\J JOHNSON Caleb Congrove Ki\TIE WliLD Erin Flyrrm 
Thank you to the RCIA team for all their support and assistance in the faith formation of our Candidates: 
Gretchen Baumgardt  Ed Hahnenberg  Tami Schmitz, Director  
Vince Bernardin  Colleen Moore  Chris Toner  
Fr. Gary Chamberland, c.s.c.  Brett Perkins  Becky Welch  

John DeRiso, c.s.c. Fr. Peter Rocca, c.s.c. Justin Dunn Mark Ross 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


Thursday, March 29, 2001 The Observer . POLITICAL NEWS page 9 

Bush ends Office for Wolllen's Initiatives 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush will not revive a special White House office on women's issues that ,vas created under President Clinton, a spokeswoman said 
Wedne­sday. 
T h e National Organiza­tion for Women decried the deci­

sion as Bush 
"really foolish and high-handed." 
White House spokeswoman Claire Buchan said the func­tion of the old office -gath­ering policy and political input from women's advocacy groups and disseminating information on the adminis­tration's activities -will be handled by aides in the White House Office of Public Liaison. 
"We're still working on how exactly that will be struc­tured, but we're committed to having a strong relation­ship with women's groups in the Bush White House," Buchan said. "The president believes the best way to address issues important to women is through a broad variety of fronts, through his policy initiatives, through outreach by the White House and by the agencies." 
Since Bush's inauguration in January, an answering machine at the White House Office for Women's Initiatives and Outreach has notified callers: "We will no longer be able to receive your calls." 
NOW President Patricia Ireland pointed out that, to date, Bush has not reached out to women's groups ­except for a meeting last week with Republican-lean­ing women business execu­tives. 
"We don't really think that is sufficient if he wants to have support from women in congressional elections a year and a half from now or in the presidential election in 2004," Ireland said. 
The office that Clinton cre­ated in 1995 gave women activists a voice in policy deliberations, Ireland said. 
"Can we talk about the budget and which domestic programs are going to be slashed, which are going to be preserved? All this discus­sion about outreach to the communities, about not being polarized, about (Bush) being the president of everyone ­it sounds like just so much hot air when we don't have any way to even approach the White House," Ireland said. 
Bush budget clears House, 222-205 
. $1 .94 trillion budget clears first Congressional hurdle 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Republicans overwhelmed the Democrats and pushed a $1.94 trillion budget for 2002 through the House on Wednesdav, as President Bush's blueprint for tax cuts and cur­t a i I e d spending cleared its first major congres­sional hur­

Armey
dle. The vote was a near party-line 222­
205. Though devoid of sus­pense because of the GOP's thin but unified majority, Republicans hailed their victo­ry as a triumph for their view of government. 
"The choice is between two visions," said House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas. "A vision of bigger and bigger government, a choice between larger and· larger taxes or a choice of smaller government that trusts the people." 
The House roll call, though, was but a warmup for a rougher test next week in the evenly divided Senate. There, the GOP not only faces near-lockstep Democratic opposi­tion, but some moderate Republicans have said Bush's 10-ycar, $1.6 trillion tax cut is too big and his proposed spending restraints too stingy. 
Even so, Bush said the House action made Wednesday "a big day" and said the budget's centerpiece -an across-the-board cut in income tax rates -would help all Americans. 
"We need to cut all rates so 
that there's certainty in our 
economy when people plan, 
and I'm confident we can get 
this done," he said before 
meeting with GOP congres­
sional leaders at the White 
House. 
Hoping 
to claim "The choice is between two envisions the eco­$2.3 trillion
visions. A vision ofbigger
n o m i c in debt
and bigger government, a
stimulus reduction argument choice between larger and over the as their coming
larger taxes or a choice of
6Wn, House 
decade,

smaller government that 
Democrats 
using partsjoined their · trusts people. " of the Senate col­
~ocial 

1ea g u es 
Security

Dick Armey
and said 
a n d 

they want­House Majority Leader 
ed a $60 billion tax reduction effective this year. If moved as a separate bill -instead of attached to Bush's big tax cuts, as Republicans insist ­the measure could zip through Congress in a day, Democrats said. 
"But they refuse to do it because they have an obses­
sion with a year-old tax plan, like a dog after a bone." House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., said at a news conference, referring to Bush's plan. 
Senate Republicans have said they favor a $60 billion tax cut for this year, but have yet to determine all the details. House GOP leaders remain undecided on the size and shape of a package meant to stimulate the economy. A final figure will be set in the final congressional budget, which House-Senate bargain­ers hope to complete next month. 
Besides its tax reduction, the 
House GOP 
budget 
Medicare 
surpluses 

to overhaul both programs, and limiting many programs to 4 percent growth next year. That would be half this year's increase. 
Besides drawing Democratic fire, Bush's fiscal plans have prompted calls from some Republicans for deeper tax cuts and added spending for defense. 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
BEAU'§ 


>:,> gou--iu B\;,N01g BIGG{;.g-{" PA~1Y<< 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
11 COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. CALL THE HEARTI.AND CONCERT &IVENT UNE 219.251.2568•MORE PICTURES@ WWW.HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
iRIDAYS-LENT SPECIAL All-You-Can-Eat Fish Fry
Lake Perch, fries & coleslaw, 8.99 
get your 

-et. 
Steaks your consuming passion$ Then fill up on these sizzlers: Londonbroil 113.99), t-bone (17.99) or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York strip 114.991. Lighter options, tool 
NOW OPEN fOR LATE Nl6UT DINING fRIDAY &SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 
219-234-5200 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 29, 2001 
Calendar of Events 
Monday, February 26 through March 26 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #35 (March 30-31, 2001} Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at 
www.nd.edu/ ,.,mini.strylfreslmumform.html 
Monday, March 5 through March 30 
Sign-up Senior Retreat #6 (April 6-7, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online 
at www.nd.edu/... ministrylseniorform.html 
Friday, March 30. 8:00 p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother 
Coleman-Morse Center 
807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday-Sunday, March 30-April 1 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #65
. ­
Friday-Saturday. March 30-31 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Freshman Retreat #35 
Sunday, April 1, 11 :45 a.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Rite ofReception 
Sunday. April 1, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Tom Bednar, csc 
Sunday, April 1. 8:00-10::00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
St. Joseph Cathedral Choir Columbus, Ohio 
Monday-Tuesday. April 2-3, 11 :30 pm-10:00pm st. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hau 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, April 2. 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, April 3. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Fifth Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, March 31 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, c.s.c. 
Sunday, April l Mass I0:00 a. m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Is 43: 16-21  
2nd Reading  Phil 3: 8-14  
Gospel  
 

Community or Merely a Collection of People? 
by Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
Last week I was speaking at a high school run by the Holy Cross Brothers in Cleveland. 
A student there asked me to help convince him co accept ND's offer and come here as a 
freshman in the Fall. Basically, he wanted to know what this school has over all other 
schools. (He has a perfect SAT score, so he can pretty much go wherever he wants). 
I told him about the excellent academics and enriching extra-curricular life here. I 
talked about the great sports programs and the beautiful campus environs. I shared with 
him the vibrant faith life and dedication to service which is very evident and prevalent. But 
the most compelling reason for coming here, I told him, is the emphasis we place on com­
munity. In residence halls, sports teams, in clubs of all kinds, and in classes, we encourage 
and promote teamwork, cooperation, and Christian love. 
He looked at me with a suspicious eye as if to say, "Do you really believe that?" 
Well, I'd certainly like to. I would like co think that all of us -religious, faculty, stu­dents and staff-are learning how to live as a community, rather than simply as a collection of individuals. I'd love to think that our students leave here more ready co reach out co others and invite them to share in their resources and talents. 
Community is nor an easy thing to teach, of course; especially when much of society is pressuring us to move in the other direction. Individualism seems co hold a high value today. Even rhe Army has gotten into the act with their new slogan: "An Army of One". I am told that the trend on college campuses is to get away from triples or even doubles for freshmen. More and more students are demanding singles, even in their first year on campus. 
"Community" is not a concept
Community is not an easy 
that readily springs to most peoples'thing to teach, of course; minds. Many have never had a especially when much of roommate un ti! coming here. 
Sharing a bathroom or study space is
society is pressuring us to 
foreign to a lot of people. Bumping
move in the other direction. 
up against other opinions can be 
Individualism seems to hold a 
quite a jolt. Having to wait to use a high value today. Even the washing machine or computer or TV is aggravating and deemed
Army has gotten into the act 
"unnecessary."

with their new slogan: "An 
One answer to these concerns Army of One". would to isolate ourselves from it all. 
We could buy all the appliances and resources we need personally and not have to rely on their availability. We can put in for a single after our first year and then not worry about being bothered by others raking our space or using our things. We could ignore others' opinions and beliefs and hold tightly to our own. 
The better solution, of course, is to learn how to share our goods, our space, and our beliefs with each other. 
Living in community requires a great deal of patience and tolerance, forgiveness and understanding. It means anticipating others' needs while respecting their opinions. It means focusing on the good of your neighbors -even over your own wants and desires. 
We learn to do this in small ways, such as: picking up trash in rhe halls or on the quad, opening doors for others as you enter/exit a building, inviting people to step ahead of you in line if it appears that they are in a hurry, spending time in the common areas of the dorms and inviting ochers into your own room. 
More risky -and more rewarding -is meeting people here you wouldn't normally hang out with, like those who are of a different ethnicity or race or creed or philosophical mindset. Join a faith-sharing group or go on a retreat. Volunteer to serve others who are in need on and off campus. Get co know some of the dining hall workers, office administra­tors, or hall maintenance staff. Attend some of the lectures offered continually here, even those whose topics may turn you off. 
le rakes work to live in a community. It's a whole lot easier to do what we want, when we want. Community living, on the other hand, requires sacrifice, risk, effort. Building the Kingdom of God on earth necessitates drawing people closer together and loving our neighbor. And for us Christians, it is our hope and our goal, on earth as well as in Heaven. 
I don't know if that high school senior will be here or not next Fall, but I do know chat 
he has the opportunity-as do we all -ofliving in and building up a community of diverse people with a tremendous variety ofgifts and ideas. It is my prayer chat, as we so often sing 
c~ 

in our chapels and on retreats, that together we will "Build che City of God". J' 
Campus Mrnlstry 

Thursday, March 29, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
page l l 

~STUDENT TICKET Senate OKs caIDpaign funds raise 
[i?ISIC 
[i?HOSTEL CARD 
[i?BACKPACK 
[i?PASSPORT 
~EURAILPASS 
10U ll\t SO Qf.l\Dl f01\ tUI\OPf.. 
rmnoTravel -----­
AMERICA· s LEADER IN STUDENT TRAVEL 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK WWW.COUNCILTRAVEL.COM 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Senate voted overwhelm­ingly Wednesday to raise the limits on contributions to candi­dates and political parties, hop­ing to strike a balance on cam­p a i g n finance leg­islation one day after moving to flush mil­lions of dol­lars out of the nation's political system. 
The 84­16 vote on a hastily crafted com­promise cleared the latest -but not the last -hurdle blocking passage of legislation pressed by Sen. John McCain and his allies to curtail the influence of big money in politics. 
"Money is not evil in and of itself," said Sen. Fred Thompson, R-Tenn., shortly before the Senate agreed to increase dona­tion limit<i enacted in the wake of the Watergate scandal a quar­ter-century ago. He said the increases would "help chal­lengers and will help our par-ties do the legitimate things that par­ties are supposed to do." 
Donors would be permitted to give $2,000 per election to candi­dates of their choice and $37,500 overall to candidates and politi­cal parties for use in direct cam­paign expenses. These limits would rise with inflation in the 
: future. 
I 


The current limits are $1,000 and $25,000. 
The compromise called for smaller increases than Thompson originally wanted, but more than Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., proposed in an alternative that caused a leg­islative standoff and prompted closed-door negotiations in a meeting room a few paces off the Senate floor. 
Supporters of the bill expressed elation at their handi­work at a time when Senate leaders are pressing for a final vote by Thursday night or Friday. 
"I think 
money." 
Even with the compromise, other obstacles remain, including a thorny question of whether the Supreme Court should be direct­ed to consider the measure one provision at a time or render a verdict on its constitutionality as a whole. 
Lawmakers on all sides of the bill have raised questions about the constitutionality of a variety of its provisions, and the impor­tance of the issue was reinforced during the day when the conser­vative Southeastern Legal Foundation, based in Atlanta, announced plans to file suit chal­

McCain­
"Money is not evil in and lenging the bill if 
Feingold is 
it becomes law.

ofitself"
on its way 
In addition, 

to pas­
Sen. Mitch 

sage," said 
Fred Thompson McConnell, R-Ky.,
Feinstein, 
Senator, R-Tenn. the bill's most 
referring to the first major over­haul of the campaign finance laws since 1974. "I think we're developing something that the president can sign," added Thompson. 
Sen. Russ Feingold of Wisconsin. the leading Democratic supporter of the bill, said he was giving his support reluctantly to the increases. "We have to make this move," he said, or risk the unraveling of a coalition that has been painstak­ingly put together in nearly two weeks offloor debate. 
"It's so hard in the big states to raise money," said Feinstein. 'This makes it a little easier to raise regulated, disclosed 
Saturday, March 31 Jordan Auditorium, MCOB First Speaker Begins at Noon 
outspoken oppo­
nent, has not yet 
agreed to set a time for a vote on final passage. raising the threat, at least, that he or others might attempt to mount a late filibuster against a measure he has long opposed. 
He quietly served notice last week that ho might propose a rules change to extend the Senate's ethics guidelines to sen­ators-elect. 
A spokesman said Wednesday night that McConnell has no plans "at the present time" to seek a vote on his proposal. 
The overall legislation would ban so-called soft money, the unlimited donations that individ­uals, unions and corporations make to the political parties. 

Come hear 7 brilliant speakers share their views on the international·marketplace! 
Speakers Include: 
-A former executive at Gucci, Florence -Experts on £-business -A Colonel from the U.S. Army 
-An executive from RCA Multimedia -And more.... 
First 150 people to arrive receive a free Council T-Shirt! 

'~The Council is the Future~ 

IEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, March 29 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H:ill, Notre Dam,, IN 465'>6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDrr<>R  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EOITUR  
Kerry Smith  

Nf.WS EDITOR: Jason McFarley Ylf.Wl'OINT EDITOR: Pac McElwcc SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadtcr SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer An DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS Al>MINIS7RATOR, Pahvcl Chin WEB AIJMINIHRATOR, Adam Turner CONTROU.ER, Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: K.irie McKenna 
CONTACT Us Ol'FICE MANAGERIGENERAI. INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX'. ......................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4 543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE ........................................................631-4540 observer.scenc. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar http://obsnver.nd.edu for daily updares of campus news, sport.s, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
onlinc leatuns for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage: 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
arricles published after 
to mee1 the cditors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre: Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insriwtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as pos.sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of cfJC: ma,oricy of the Editor m Chief, Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include conc;icc information. 
Qurstions regdrdir,g Obmw:r paiicies should b, dircct­td 10 Editor in ChufMike C.onnolly. 
Outsiders will not dictate ad policy 
Dear Readers, 
David Horowitz and editors of college 
newspapers have become embroiled in 
a controversy in recent weeks surround­
ing Mr. Horowitz's attempt to place an 
advertisement, "Ten Reasons Why 
Reparations for Slavery is a Bad Idea ­
and Racist Too," in college publications 
throughout the country. 
Mr. Horowitz sent the advertisement 
to The Observer in late February, and 
The Observer rejected his request that it 
be published on Feb. 28. We do not 
regret the decision we made; however, 
we do regret the erred process by which 
we made the decision. 
Like any other newspaper, The Observer's advertising department accepts and rejects advertisements on a regular basis according to an outlined advertising policy. The usual procedure for refusing controversial advertise­ments, however, includes a referral of the advertisement to The Observer's editorial board for internal review. 
This did not happen in the case of Mr. Horowitz's advertisement. Based on past precedent, it appeared to the advertising department that the decision to reject the advertisement was obvious. The Observer's editorial board never saw the advertisement before it was rejected and did not have the opportuni­ty to review it. 
However, had the proper channels been used, the advertisement still would have been rejected by the editorial board. 
Mr. Horowitz and others have turned the debate surrounding the advertise­ment's rejection into a debate about the First Amendment and free speech. In truth, the decision regarding whether to print the advertisement is not a free speech issue, but an issue of a newspa­per's right to control its own content. While we respect Mr. Horowitz's right to have and spread his opinions, the First Amendment does not mandate his opin­ions must appear in The Observer. 
As Clarence Page, a member of the Chicago Tribune's editorial hoard wrote in the March 25 Tribune, "The First Amendment only protects you from gov­ernment censorship. This is not a cen­sorship issue. It is an editing issue. On the day that an outsider can force an editor to run an ad, that's the day you will have a true free speech issue." 
That being said, The Observer has a history of fighting to ensure its pages, above and below the ad line, are unbi­ased, yet respectful of the community it serves. 
Although Mr. Horowitz claims in a let­ter to Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates, that his advertisement was designed to promote a discussion of reparations and respond to pro-repara­tion viewpoints, this advertisement clearly intended to catapult Mr. Horowitz to the front of national debate. 
Mr. Horowitz's treatment of Daniel Hernandez, editor in chief of the Daily Californian, proves this advertising cam­paign is more of a publicity stunt than an academic debate. On Feb. 28, the Daily Californian ran the advertisement. The next day, Hernandez ran a front­page apology for running the advertise­ment and denounced it for turning the paper into an "inadvertent vehicle for bigotry." Mr. Horowitz responded to the apology with attacks against Hernandez accusing him of censorship and a con­servative journal. The American Spectator, named Hernandez "Enemy of the Week." Considering Hernandez ran the advertisement and then responded with h~ opinion of the advertisement, it is hard to understand how Mr. Horowitz can accuse Hernandez of censorship. 


If Mr. Horowitz's goal was to open a discussion about reparations. he should have accepted Hernandez's response and recognize that it served as the per­fect springboard to launch an academic discussion of the material in the adver­tisement. Mr. Horowitz's response proves he is not interested in academic debate as much as he is in gaining noto­riety. Mr. Horowitz is nothing more than a bully using the institution of college media to further his own agenda. 
He launched his advertising campaign in an attempt to ensure that he emerged the victor regardless of college newspa­pers' responses to the advertisement. If editors rejected the advertisement, Mr. Horowitz played the role of the victim because they were suppressing his self­proclaimed right to put forth his views on their pages. Ifthey accepted the advertisement, Mr. Horowitz portrayed himself as the victor in his cause against what he has called "a horrific situation on American campuses in which the political left" is "fully in control of the campus public square." 
If Horowitz wanted to stimulate a debate on reparations, he could have submitted his viewpoint for publication in college opinion sections without spending a dime. When the Harvard Crimson requested Horowitz resubmit his advertisement as an op.led piece, he refused. Were Horowitz truly interested in stimulating debate, it shouldn't have mattered if the opinions were submitted as an advertisement or an op.led piece. 
Advertising controversy is not a new issue for The Observer. In past years the paper has dealt with two specific adver­tising policy questions worth noting. In 1999-2000, The Observer fought for its right as an independent publication to retain control of its own advertising pol­icy. Spawned by attempts to ban unrec­ognized student groups from advertis­ing, we argued that advertisements should be considered editorial content and should be subject to the same edito­rial freedom and review as the articles published. 
Secondly, The Observer ran in 1993, as Mr. Horowitz has pointed out, an advertisement from CODOH, a group that claims the Holocaust never hap­pened. At the time The Observer ran the advertisement, it did not realize CODOH's mission; the group misrepre­sented itself in the advertisement. While the advertisement appeared to be 
an academic discussion of the 
Holocaust, in reality the group is bla­
tantly anti-Semitic, denying the 
Holocaust. Mr. Horowitz has repeatedly 
claimed The Observer is espousing a 
double-standard by rejecting his adver­
tisement after accepting the CODOH 
advertisement. However, in yet another 
attempt for sensationalism rather than 
accuracy, he has failed to mention that 
we realized our poor judgment in run­
ning the CODOH advertisement and ran 
a front-page apology in the newspaper's 
next edition. Subsequent attempts by 
CODOH to run similar advcrtisemenl.s 
have been rejected. 
Unlike CODOH, however, Mr. Horowitz is clearly not misrepresenting his viewpoints in his advertisement. Wariness stemming from the past inci­dent with CODOH led tho advertising department to reject the advertisement believing that editorial review was unnecessary in this situation. The Observer's advertising department had reservations regarding the volatile lan­guage in the advertisement, the rele­vance of the advertisement in regard to the current discussion on campus and had doubts about the reliability of the information presented as facts to strengthen the opinions in the advertise­ment and therefore rejected it without the approval of the editorial board. The Observer's editorial board is reviewing the newspaper's current advertising policy to ensure this situation of mis­communication does not occur again. 
As editors of The Observer, we do not fashion ourselves as thought police, fas­cists or suppressors of free speech as Mr. Horowitz and other columnists have alleged, but we do understand our role as editors. We encourage healthy debate by our community on all issues. While we disagree with Mr. Horowitz's tactics, we welcome the opportunity for our community to debate slavery repara­tions and free speech. 
To encourage this debate, we will set aside Wednesday·s Viewpoint section for this discussion. We encourage all of our readers to write in and let their opinions on these issues be heard. If you are interested in Mr. Horowitz's views and/or the advertisement The Observer rejected, they are readily available on the Internet at www.frontpagemag.com. 
We do not fear Mr. Horowitz or his perspectives; we merely disapprove of his tactics to communicate those per­spectives. As editors with a responsibili­ty to our newspaper and community, we refuse to let The Observer be a pawn in Horowitz's manipulation of college media. 
Mike Connolly Editor in Chief Noreen Gillespie Managing Editor Kerry Smith Assistant Managing Editor Kimberly1Springer Advertising Manager 

DILBERT 

PHOTOGRAPHY !S MY N£.W HOBBY. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"With freedom ofthe press goes the freedom to read or to close the book, and it will linger so long as we retain the power to say no." 
Curtis Bok 
U.S. federal judge 
Feb. 15, 1954 
............___::---______~---.--~--=.,==.,,......,..,._iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiii<~iiiiiiiiii,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii"'--•ir-'-',iii;.wi,iii,iiiiijiiiiiiF..-ii-L,;..iii.iijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiijiiiiiiiiij;iiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-----;;;;;..:.;;:;;;:;;;;.._v'_;:;;;,,..._.::;;_;;.;;;::;;;;.;.__,,..._______, 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, March 29, 200 l BSERVER 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Shallowness and bias tarnish personal image 
I am writing in ordAr to discuss a recent event that rexperienced and that I never imagined could happen at the greatest Catholic university in the United States. On a re1.:ent night. a close friend of mine and J decided to go out for a drink. After spending some time at one local establishment we headed to Club 23. 
When we entered my friend saw an acquaintance, and we sat down at a table and started talking. I had met the acquain­tance before but had never met his two friends. 
After a short time, my roommate joined us at the table. During the course of the night the only people I talked to at the table were my friend and my roommate. Later, my lri,md and I decided to head home. After climbing intu bed, the phone rang and the voice on the other end was my roommate. He informed me that after I left one of the people at the table (I refuse to call him a gentleman) began talking negatively about me. 
Before I continue, I should give a little background on myself. I was born with a birth defect known as spina bifida and one of the side effects is walking with a limp. As soon as I had left the table, the ignorant individual began referring to me as a "gimp" and how he was glad that I had left. My roommate spoke up on my behalf. but this insecure person continued his barrage. 
Throughout my life I've had similar experi­ences, but I never expected it from a Notre Dame student. Please don't misunderstand me, I am not generalizing all Notre Dame students in this ignorant person's category. In fact I am positive that this person is in an infinitely small minority in his views. But I just wanted to tell this person. since I've never spoken to him before, to not judge individuals by appearances and also not to talk about people after they have left. · 
The first characteristic depicts a shallow personality while the second is very cowardly and neither does it reflect weU.on you as a person. l also wanted to take this opportunity to thank my roommate for his actions. I am glad that I've chosen to surround myself with friends like you. 
Finally, I must be critical of myself' other­wise I would consider myself a hypocrite. I, like the guy in this column, am also guilty of judging people by looks that night. When I first walked in and saw this person I judged him as a normal Notre Dame student that would exude positive qualities. I was wrong. 
Brendan Sullivan 
sernor 
off-campus March 28, 2001 


Recently, my girlfriend and I debated moving from Florida to Chicago. One of the masons I did not want to go was Chicago's ban on handguns, a city where criminals are often armed. 
My girlfriend stands only 5 feet tall and weighs roughly 100 pounds. She is virtually defenseless against even very small men. At 5 feet. 10 inches and about 200 pounds and a weightlifting regular, I stand a little bit better chance against most men. 
However, by carrying a concealed weapon, we are both protected from attack, especially against an armed attacker. That is why I am happy that florida is a "must" carry state (which refers to the type of con­cealed weapon permitting). 
While Brian Price, in his letter Wednesday, points out that guns allow much more damage than bats, banning them would not solve the problem of school shootings. This is a case of the toothpaste being out of the tube, meaning there are millions ofguns in existence and they can­not all be confiscated. By disarming law­abiding citizens of their handguns. the only handguns remaining would be in the hands ofcriminals. 
For evidence of this reality, look at England where the criminals are armed and the people are not. The result is a growing problem of gun violence, not a diminishing one. Despite some of the strictest gun con­trol in the world, British cops are armed for the first time in history. 
While space limits my arguments here. I suggest that before advocating banning handguns. one read Professor John Lott's "More Guns, Less Crime." 

Tom Carrasquillo 
class of '96 
Forr Myers, Fla. 
March 28, 200 I 
page 13 

Having a Kentucky fried spring break 
Spring break. A time for fun in the of fresh air. The supposed eight sun, wild parties and eventual arrest hour drive took us roughly 56 hours. and imprisonment in a Cancun Our trip was delayed by our ability "jail." Well, maybe your spring to stop every five minutes for bath-break wasn't that wild, but I hope room breaks, food breaks, driver you all had a switches, 40s at 4, et cetera. great time. Amy Schill Thankfully, we had walkie-talkies to However, I _______ aid us in our inter-van communica­have a sugges-tion. through which we conveyed tion for next Dazed and such messages as, "Dude, I think year's spring Amused you missed the exit," ''Are we there break (or yet?" and "Hey mutha, we just frozen waste-passed you. Who's yo' daddy?" land break, as it should be called Yes, that road trip taught me about here). I'm talking about a destina-life. love and disgusting gas sta­tion known for good times. great , . . . tions. beaches and sexy singles. You ,-''. .:~--· , Oh. and Laura is defi-
g~!i5~f:h~~·!!;~~c~TV has rr"f{;~::-=.:.~~*:;~.:,~~ nit~l;~{t~i~l~tops, 
n~ver been there and you -. ' .-4 .J~~ 20 McDonald's and 
might never see anyone f ilfj --·. -:\.1 15 listenings of sing tho Bluegrass ~ :....:: " "'c'.\ Ludicrous later, we Gospel Boys on "Say f flll:;-'. .r · finally arrived in 
What? Karaoke" :., ,,, ,--the Bluegrass (because the world is ....!. state. As it turned not right), but while out, there were Kentucky may not be several other col-the most obvious place '--r--e,r+x!.:-:' leges there, and tog~ and get busy, it is ~ they split us up to possible to have a good . work with kids from time without spending the --......~,-other schools. Upon 
entire week with Carson 
Daly. 
I went to Kentucky as a part of 
the Appalachia Seminar (a.k.a. 
working for a week is not enough; 
you have to write a paper too, 
sucka!). The greatest thing about 
going to Appalachia is the complete 
lack of adult supervision provided 
for this University-sponsored trip. 
Good old Notre Dame gave us the 
brand spankin' new, fully loaded 
minivans and some vague directions 
telling us to go "somewhere yon­
der," written on a greasy Taco Bell 
napkin. Of course before we were 
entrusted with the very expensive 
machinery, all the drivers had to go 
to an extensive training meeting, 
where we were told, "Guys, be care­· ful, okay?" and were then certified 
as professional race car drivers and, 
strangely enough, lifeguards. This 
apparent absurdity fascinated me so 
much that I had question the admin­
istration about it. 
Me: Is this for real? 
Administration: Straight up, Dawg. 
Me: So what you're telling me is, 
we can't be in the same room with a 
member of the opposite sex after 
midnight, but you're entrusting us 
with brand new minivans, which I 
will undoubtedly either crash or in a 
desperate moment sell in exchange 
for Pop Rocks, and are letting us 
drive halfway across the country 
with absolutely no university super­
vision? 
Administration: True dat. 
Me: Sweet. 
Administration: Don't have sex in 
the vans. 
Recipients ofsuch a rare glimpse 
of a duLac-free world, I'm still 
amazed my group didn't end up in 
Canada, never to be seen again. 
We did end up going to Kentucky, 
but if there's one thing I learned 
from this trip, it's that college stu­
denlc; are in no hurry to get any­
where. Having experienced many 
road trips with my parents, I know 
what it's like to get up extremely 
early, eating on the run and urinat­
i~g in)ars all in the name of "good 
tune. 
The Appalachia trip was a breath 
. learning that we were to 

~ work with people other than white, upper middle-class, Catholic, Republican Notre Dame students, we became very confused and nearly high-tailed it to my daddy's (my real daddy's) place in the Hamptons. 
Actually, getting to know the other students was one of the best parts of my Appalachia experience (though I still don't understand why they didn't all follow Irish football). 
Okay, on to the actual work we did. I was the only Notre Dame student not assigned to shingle a roof. and I think that has something to do with the fact that on my application, under "construction skills," I wrote: Falling off of roofs and dying. So I was told to work on the outside of a trailer and try not to cause trouble. 
I spent the entire week working in ankle-deep Kentucky mud, which is kind of like Woodstock mud except thicker and less mind-altering. So here I am, covered in mud, with absolutely no skills and no idea what I'm doing. After countless failures at hammering, drilling, measuring and souffie-ing, I was assigned to be "the girl who holds the box of screws and tries not to burn down Kentucky." Though the title sounds humiliating, J did get the pleasure of uttering the phrase, "Hey baby, wanna screw?" multiple, multiple times. And J only burned down the really shady parts of Kentucky. 
But seriously folks, I wasn't that bad. I certainly wasn't the best worker on my team and I made some mistakes, but I finally got a handle on the whole drilling thing and I had mad fun using the electric saw (yes, they let-me use power tools). So the moral of the story is ... go to Appalachia. fool. It's a lot of fun, you do important work and you just may find out who's yo' daddy. 
Amy is a sophomore arts and let­ters major and she would like to give a mad shoutout to her Appalachia group. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
M 
c~ne E 
page 14 Thursday, March 29, 2001 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Demme's 'Blow' cracks under pressure 
By JUDE SEYMOUR and MATT NANIA Scene Movie Cririi:s 
1-ior director 'fod Demme, "Blow" represents much more than a movie "about a bunch of people smuggling drugs." Ile acquired the rights to the book by Bruce Porter six y1)1trs ago. DPmme was "completely hooked by_ the byline of tile book. !That byline1 was: how a small time boy, a high school football All-American, went on lo be Pablo Escobar's right hand guy. Ilad about a 100 million dollars cash in two years and then lost it all. It was classic Shakespeare." 
·oemme decided to follow up his reading by meeting its main non-fictional protagonist: George Jung. Jung. cur­rently serving a prison sentence until 2015, was responsi­ble for 85 percent of the cocaine distributed in the United StatPs in the l 970s and 80s. 
''Bl 

Demme was surprised in his prison cncount!'r with Jung: "Ill found him intoxi­
cating 1L<; a human br,ing, r<'ally funny, real­

sent to jail for the last time is not the loss of 
ly smart, really sad. I was really judgmental 
money or wanting to know who snitclrnd,
about him when I first met him .. I could 
but the fact that he can't pick up his daugh­
out of five shamrocks

nol slop thinking aboul him, so I figured this 
ter for the weekend. 
must be a good sign. It will be a really good Director: Ted Demme 
As a storyteller, Demme docs not put
challenge as a director to make a classic 
Starring: Johnny Depp, enough emphasis on the daughter's role,
anti-hero and have many sides to him," 
and the film's heart is lost among the drug
Demme told his audience at a post-screen­Penelope Cruz, Ray Liotta, 
runs and distributors. Early scenes of 
ing interview in Chicago. 
Franka Potente, Rachel Jung's dope peddling could have been con­
IJemme (who directed "The Ref' and 
densed so that the daughter scenes would
"Beautiful Girls") hoped to bring to the Griffiths, Jordi Molla and 
feel more important. As Demme himself 
screen a complete picture of Jung, including Paul Reubens all that he learned through the hook and from subsequent interviews with Jung in prison. 
"Blow," however, resonates as a frequently distracted piece. The beginning is a dizzying array of great moments, the middle sputters like the life of Jung (Johnny Depp), and the final message is muddled by its late arrival. 
"Blow" tells Jung's story, starting with his early child­hood. George leaves his home in 1968 to go out into the world and "be nothing like his parents." His father, Fred, (Hay Liotta). a punching bag for his alcoholic mother (Rachel Gritliths), is a man who believes in the old proverb "money isn't everything," mainly because he doesn't have any. Young George relates money concerns with domestic troubles and runs off to make a fortune. He partners with DerPk Fornal (Paul Hcubcms) and they begin running a large pot distribution agency. 
George's progress is stilled when the cops bust him and send him to Danbury Correctional Institute. In the peniten­tiary, George meets Diego (Jordi Molia), who acquaints him with something much bigger than pot: cocaine (or blow). 
George's quest to distribute cocaine in the United States leads to an arranged encounter with Pablo Escobar (for those who don't know, Escobar was the ruthless leader of the Medellin Cocaine Cartel for two decades, and the United States' biggest drug problem). As Escobar·s distrib­utor, George makes 100 million dollars in two years. Allegiances in the drug business are not stable however, and George is soon double-crossed. 
In an epiphany during the birth of his daughter, George decides to give up the business, get clean and raise his child with his fortunes. But, as as George tells the audi­ence in a voice-over, no one ever gets out that easily. Denune wishes to make evident that, despite George's 
"  bad decisions, he was a driven man.  His  
OW  drive was at first the m011ey, but the incen­tive became his relationship with his daugh­ 
ter. What disturbs him most about getting  

admitted, "The movie is called 'Blow'. What 
are we doing with scenes involving pot?" 
In the end, Demme is left with themes that should have been eliminated to help make his message clearer. The director sets up a comparison between George's lovers, Mirtha (Penelope Cruz) and Barbara (Franka Potente). and dawdles with introductions to George's friends. All of this wears on the film, and since the important relationship doesn't start until the last half hour, the first hour and a halfseems wasteful. 
Despite the thematic choices, Demme excels with his casting decisions. Depp, bad Boston accent aside, makes an engaging character out of George. Demme applauded Depp's ability to become "a master of disguise. IThe movie needs] an actor that will dummy themselves up for the role of George Jung. [It] didn't need a movie star." In addi­tion, Reubens excels in his first big dramatic role, captur­ing the humorous aspect of his character while being in close touch with his human, emotional side. 
Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema 

In "Blow," Johnny Depps portrays real-life drug entreprenuer George Jung. 
"Blow" is an engaging, well-made lilm in many respects. Unfortunately, the less important themes strangle the film's message. 
After six years working on the project, Demme had enough George Jung material for two feature lilms. In ret­rospect, scenes from the beginning that do not deal with "blow" or the daughter should have been eliminated so that the film's message would be dearer. "Blow," in trying to make two films in one time period, ends up being half of a great film. 
"Blow" opens nationally on Friday, April 6. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Top notch cast can't mend 'Heartbreakers' 
By JUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Criric 
The male stereotype that propagates in books, movies and Ani DiFranco music is that a man is not monogamous, thinks only of himself and should therefore be pun­ished by empowering women. 
"Heartbreakers" plays as a con movie where the targets are men who think only with what is in their pants. So the women seduce, deny, destroy and then empty their victim's bank accounts. 
The plot centers on Max (Sigourney Weaver), who as a teen was impregnated and then left by a heartless man. In order to exact revenge, Max decided to raise her 


Jason Lee, Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt and Ray Liotta star in the male-female relationships comedy, "Heartbreakers." 
daughter, Page (Jennifer Love Hewitt), to troubling. After executing her con woman­believe in the ideal that all men are des­scheme 13 times, Max seems unable to tined to break hearts, so it is imperative for come to grips with the true nature of men women to take the initiative. Their motive even after Page finds true love; the movie becomes the annihilation never explains how Max of the male heart and the could continue to con subsequent draining of "Heartbreakers" knowing that her prior their bank accounts. assumptions are false. 
The movie's pivotal It would have been a flaw. though, is that it different and more does not really want to interesting movie to
out offive shamrocks
be heartless at all. view the effects on Instead, it wanis to dis-Director: David Mirkin Max's psyche after play Page's evolution as !'age's attainment of she forms her own per-Starring: Sigourney Weaver, true companionship. If 
spective on life. Perhaps Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ray Liotta, every subsequent vie­time is a chance at true
not all men arc looking Gene Hackman and Jason Lee 
to break women's 
hearts, and genuine love may exist. "I leartbreakcrs" addresses this dramatic problem with a comedic approach. 
Unfortunately, that approach does not tit well with the supposed heartless intent. In addition. several scenes oddly repeat them­selves and dull the laughs. 
The two hours spent watching "Jleartbreakers" feels about twcntv min­utes too long. The gruat wmcdic bits·. espP­cially those involving Hay Liotta and Jason Lee. become the sacrilicial lamb to the movie's other vapid momenL'i. 
Max's character becomes e:;pecially 
love, how can Max con­tinue her heartless cru­sade against men'? 
"llcartbreakers" portrays iL<; male char-• acters as one-dimensional and underdevel­oped, which leads to numerous questions about their actions. Jack's (Lee) motives for forgiving Page. for example, are ncvnr explored (which complements his unex­plained reasoning for loving lrnr in the !irst place). 
Ultimately, the women's conqunst of these stereotypical malc1> does not leaw the audience impressed; rnttwr. the viewer is bored by the defeat of a male cliclH; fow believe in the first placn. 
___.,_,.7"._,,,.._•w_,,,_,,._,..,,,.,,.., __ _ _,...__•--~-----.,._w_?t.)t'...P-.. ...-::,.,__..,_.____..,_,....
..,w .N•,--•------•,,-;s-,...---: ____-,-,.________ 
M ce 
E 
Thursday, March 29, 2001 page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'15 Minutes' isn't worth the time 
The film's plot is simplistic from the beginning. The story with the leads. The television personality (Kelsey
By CHRlS BANNISTER 
follows an arson investigator (Edward Burns} and a veter­Grammer, TV's "Frasier") who purchases the video 
Scene Movie Critic 
an police officer (Robert De Niro) as they attempt to track footage from the killers is gratingly annoying. Grammer down two criminals who arc on a murder spree around has played Frasier Crane for so many years that he seems 
It would be frustrating to describe "15 Minutes" in one New York City. unable to produce anything significant outside that per-word, because it is not simply mediocre. Many mediocre However, this blase concept is made some­sona. His character in the film is just a lilms can produce some amount of satisfaction. However, what interesting because one of the crimi­"15 M·1nutes" vulgar version of his sitcom personality,"15 Minutes" teases the audien1.:e with shots of something nals, a cincina aficionado, is filming the and the charade is whollv ineffective. better than the average tilm and then plunges dramatical­crime spree with a home video camera. This Perhaps the most ineffective charac­ly into failure. provides the chan1.:e for the movie to create ters, though, are the film's villains. Like 
an intriguing, self-reflexive work. In fact, every action movie. they are of course some of the early shots in the film that use out offive shamrocks foreigners from Russia who walk around footage from the home video camera are speaking with heavy accent'l. It is as if no visually interesting and provide the ground-Director: John Herzfeld one reminded the filmmakers that the 
work for what might be an excellent film. Starring: Robert OeNiro, Cold War is over. Of course, the film Instead, ·•15 Minutes" resolves its initial could have infused something new into questions with perfunctory answers and Edward Burns and Kelsey these villains and redefined generic char­
turns its attention to being a run-of-the-mill Grammer acters: however, if the film does any-action movie, thus blotting out any redeem-thing, it retreats and relics heavily on two ing qualities it might have had. obligatory "bad guy" performances. 
. Despite the presence of Burns and De Niro, who seem to As if the characters did not do enough injustice to what­be a powerful leading duo, all of the acting in the film is ever redeeming parts the film had, the ending is so trite less than remarkable. Burns does an average job mth his that it is almost painful to watch. Refer to any "Die Hard," character in the film, and since hls arsonist character is "Lethal Weapon" or Arnold Scharwztenoggcr movie to not much to begin with, the performance leaves much to guess how it all ends. be desired. Yet, it is understandable that Bums' character Finally, while "15 Minutes" outdoes itself in its race is underdeveloped. The film seems to want to provide a towards mediocrity, it shifts tone for a horrendous final showcase for De Niro's talent and give the actor a charac­humor sequence. The scene is so out of place that it pro­ter with depth and range; however, an evident lack of vides a crowning, solidifying touch on the idea that a film writing skill leads to the supposed many layers ofDeNiro's can have no knowledge of its purpose and waste itself character simply disappearing into a collection of choppy, away in convention.
Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema 
extraneous details that are never explored in any depth. "15 Minutes" is average at best, but it is made worse by
In the failed action thriller "15 Minutes," Robert 
However, the parade of banal characters does not stop the fact that it leaves the viewer feeling cheated. 
Deniro and Ed Bums have to stop a couple of killers. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Melodramatic plot elements invade 'Gates' 
("The Truman Show," "Apollo 13")

By MARIO BIRD 
appears as the Nazi sniper counter­

Scene Movie Critic 
part to Vassily, and the majority of the plot is driven by the multiple standoffs With a strong cast featuring multiple 
between the two. 

Academy Award nominees, wartime 
Similar to "Saving Private Ryan," the special effects rivaling the monumen­first 20 minutes of "Enemy at the tal. "Saving Private Ryan," and a pro­
Gates" are rife with explosions, death paganda campaign approaching the 
and the horrible shock each soldier Soviet version within its story, "Enemy 
faces when approaching front lines for at the Gates" was positioned to be the 
the first time. However. the Soviet 

first blockbuster hit of 2001. 
defense of Stalingrad was much differ­Unfortunately, the above qualities do ent than the Allied invasion of not a movie make. as writer-director Normandy. The chilling command .lean-Jacques Annaud ("Seven Years in bawled out by a weary officer as sol­Tibet") implies through his latest cine­
diers disembark in pairs, "The first matic effort. 
man takes a gun, the second man Joseph Fiennes ("Shakespeare in 

takes it when the first man is killed," Love"). one of the actors who helped frighteningly captures the utter pover­usurp "Saving Private Ryan's" rightful 
ty and disorganization Russian forces place as Best Picture of 1998, stars as 
brought against the Nazi blitzkrieg.Hussian propaganda officer Danilov in 
Men are ordered to charge against a an enigmatic performance. His fate 
well-entrenched German line while 

becomes inextricably entwined with 
being mowed down by enemy machine the sharpshooting GI Vassily, played guns, and then face "friendly" fire 
as by Jude Law (Supporting Actor nomi­
they are forced to retreat. Annaud nee, "The Talented 
captures the emotion 

Mr. Hipley··i. when he and ruinous land­
Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures

watches Vassily kill "Enemy at the scape of this hair­
five German officers Joseph Fiennes (left) and Jude Law face the Nazi blitzkrieg in Jean-Jacques
raising scene in a 

during the initial Gates" Annaud epic World War II film "Enemy at the Gates." 
realistic and artistic mclce of the battle for 
manner. 

Stalingrad. 
Regrettably, this tion reeks of pulp romance novels. Law and Weisz lacked. Although nudi­RPcognizing the realism is replaced More than one character is presumed ty is admittedly kept to a minimum, heroic potential of a out of five shamrocks with shoddy romanti­dead. only to miraculously appear the extremely suggestive nature of the 
working class hero 
cism for the remain­after an appropriate interval of sus­scene is disconcerting in its simplicity,
Director: Jean-Jacques Annaull
sucb as Vassily, der of the film. For pense. And the vengeful motives that and perhaps recollects Annaud 's Danilov launches a Starring: Jude Law, Joseph starters, the two propel Weisz to the front lines as a directorial work in "Quest for Fire," nationwide campaign underlying obstacles sniper are incongruous with her other­which featured graphic intercourse 
to immortalize the Fiennes,RachelWeiszandEdHarris 
Nazi forces faced in wise sensitive character. between caveman and cavewoman. 
sniper that single­Stalingrad were the The only deviation Annaud makes There are some redeeming aspectshandndly resurrects the Russian fight­blistering cold and supply shortages. from this starry-eyed setting is the of "Enemy at the Gates:" Ficnnes· ing spirit. Nowhere arc these two effects evident. requisite sex scone between Law and character is ultimately disillusioned 
Tilings are even further skewed Fiennes is the only actor who appears Weisz. This is not a stereotypical with the Soviet regime he served so wlrnn Annaud introduces the to be subject to starvation. due mainly Hollywood copulation. Instead of being diligently. and the scale of Annaud's inevitable love triangle between to his naturally gaunt disposition. marked by sensuous foreplay, appro­vision is reflected in the cinematogra­Danilov, Vassily and the militant-yet­Annaud apparently justifies this loss priate lighting and aspects of mise-en­phy. However, the hackneyed plot and beautiful Tania. rendered bv Rachel of realism by inflating the quasi-rela­scene that idealize sex, Annaud wasted use of a potentially intriguing Weisz ("The Mummy"). Two-time tionships between Fiennes, Law and frames this grotesque liaison with all historical landscape make "Enemy at Supporting t\ctor nominee Ed Harris Weisz. But the script for such interac-the realism the relationship between the Gates" an enemy only unto itself. 

·1 
! 
~ l I 
... 
r 
I 
I page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2001 
I
(--r NBA 
I 
I 
I I I McGrady turns in Magical performance in 96-95 win 
I 
I I 
Associated Press 
Pl IIIADELPHIA 
Tracy McGrady thought he 
would have a lot more company 
on his winning drive to the 
hoop. 
McGrady, who matched a careAr-high with 44 points, took an inbounds pass at half­court, drove and banked a shot high ofT the glass with 2. 7 sec­onds as the Orlando Magic held off a frenzied comeback by Philadelphia and beat the 76ers 96-95 WBdnesday night. 
"I had a good running start and definitely had my man beat." said McGrady. who shot 18-for-35 frum the field. "It was a shot I had to make. Arter I got by my man, I thought somebody would be there to meet me. I got it up high on the backboard because I thought somr.one would be coming." 
Philadelphia coach Larry Brown wasn't shocked by McGrady's play, even though the Sixers didn't look ready for it. 
"Tracy made a great play but I could kick myself because I kind of figured he would pene­trate," Brown said. 
A desperation heave by Allen Iverson fell short for Philadelphia, which lost for the sixth time in seven games. Iverson, battling bronchitis, fin­ished with 37 points and 10 turnovers. His 3-point play with 
7.6 seconds remaining gave the Sixers a 95-94 lead. 
Darrell Armstrong had 14 points and Mike Miller added 13 points for the Magic, who forced the Sixers into a season­high 27 turnovers and won their second straight. 
Eric Snow scored 10 of his 14 points in the fourth quarter and added 10 assists. Jumaine Jones had 13 points and Tyrone Hill finished with 17 rebounds for Philadelphia, which outrebounded Orlando 56-40. Matt Geiger had 11 points and eight rebounds. 
Orlando led by as many as 12 points in the fourth quarter and was ahead 90-79 with 3:4 7 left. The 76ers went on a 13-4 run, closing within two points at 94­92 when Snow, who scored eight points in the outburst, hit a pair of free throws with 1 :07 remaining. 
"We tried to give it away at the end but couldn't do it," 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Magic coach Doc Rivers said. 
The Magic scored 24 of the 
last 30 points in the third peri­
od and outscored the Sixers 30­
10, opening up a 73-63 lead by 
the end of the quarter. 
McGrady had 11 points in the 
outburst, which came in the 
final eight minutes of the quar­
ter. 
"The third quarter was a dis­
aster," Brown said. 
Mavericks 94, Trail Blazers 84 
Juwan Howard scored 24 
points and Michael Finley 
Mavericks set a franchise 
record with their 21st road vic­
tory by defeating the Portland 
Trail Blazers. 
Dirk Nowitzki added 19 
points and 14 rebounds, and hit 
consecutive 3-pointors during a 
10-0 run early in the fourth 
quarter that put the game 
away. 
Arvydas Sabonis scored 19 points and Scottie Pippen had 10 assists for the Blazers, who had won three in a row but fell into a tie for fifth place in the Western Conference playoff race with the Mavericks at 46­25. 
The only low moment for the Mavs came when Howard land­ed awkwardly on his left hand while going for a loose ball with 
52.7 seconds left, apparently dislocating his left ring finger. 
Dallas, guaranteed of a win­ning road record for the first time in the team's 21-year his­tory, had won 20 road games three times, most recently in 1987-88. 
The Mavs, who have won three straight and nine of 11, also broke a 10-game losing streak in Portland. They improved to 2-0 on a brutal road trip that began in Utah and still includes the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento and Houston. 
A 3-point play by Sabonis to open the fourth quarter pulled the Blazers within 67-66. But Nowitzki's 3-pointers, followed by a fastbreak layup from Steve Nash, pushed the lead to 77-66. 
The teams split the season series at 2-2 with another rough game. They had com­bined for 18 technicals in the previous three games -14 on the Blazers -but the only one issued Wednesday night was 

Allsport 

76ers guard Allen Iverson battles with Magic forward Tracy McGrady during Orlandos's win. Iverson finished with 37 points and 10 rebounds, while McGrady Jed all scores with a career-high 44 points. 
against Dallas coach Don The victory snapped Gary Payton led Seattle with Nelson with 4:13 left. Minnesota's four-game winning 23 points, in addition to 11 
Nowitzki set the tone for a streak and kept Seattle's slim assists. Wally Szczerbiak had sloppy night by committing playoff hopes alive. 20 for Minnesota, and Terrell three turnovers in the first five Patterson finished with 19 Brandon added 16 points and minutes. Dallas finished with points and Patrick Ewing 12 assists. 17 turnovers, to Portland's 15. scored a season-high 19 to go Ewing and Patterson ignited The Blazers also made just 19 with 10 rebounds. the Sonics in the final minutes, of 31 free throws. Garnett finished with 21 for after they were down by seven 
Minnesota, but he was held to in the third and then trailed in 
four in the final quarter under the final period. 
Supersonics 94, 
Ewing's guard. Ewing dunked a Desmond 
Tlmberwolves 93 
The Sonics (40-34) have now Mason miss and then blocked 
Ruben Patterson sank two 
won nine of their last 10 Laphonso Ellis' shot to set up a 
free throws and soared from 
games. With eight games left to fast break dunk by Mason that 
the side to block Kevin 
play, they are four games pulled the Sonics within two. 
Garnett's shot in the last 32 
behind the Timberwolves (42-On the next possession, Mason 
seconds as the Seattle 
29) for the eighth and final tied the game at 84 with a 20­
Supersonics beat the 
Western Conference playoff foot jumper with just under five 
Minnesota Timberwolves. 
spot. minutes left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Hours 8·12 Mon. ­ Thurs  Get info-packed booklets, tons of  tickets online www airtech com or  3-bdnn home 2 btcks from campus  And my bed.  
LOST & FOUND  Calf 254-9466  super-easy recipes, samples of your 11reat snack bars and special·  (877) AIRTECH  FOR RENT  Fall 01. 273-1566  3  And my twin.  
A black carry-on bag at Mam Circle  Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We  ized online support from trained Weight Watchers staff. You pay just  Fon RENT  Houses still available for 2001-02. 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime  Protesora Capronigri, estarnos  
on Thursday (3/22) between 8 p.m  can provide your baby with lots of  $59 for 5 weeks. Summer is just  
 locations, 233-9947 Gre11.  demasiado cansado asistir a la  
and midnight If found or have any  love and a secure, stable life  around the corner ­ register today  Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview  clase hoy  
info on its whereabouts, please  Reasonable expenses will be paid.  over the phone: 1-800·572-5727.  owned by Dome, nice closets, brick  3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near  
contact  For more info, please call Rebecca  Visa, MasterCard, and Discover  6-flat, Hardwood Floors, bright  campus 2001I02&summer 272·  Chiste!  
Pablo at xi 775  regarding Larry &Kathy: toll-free 1.  Accepted  apartment, decorative fireplace,  6306  
866-30-ADOPT  near el, heat included' May 1  Hey Dan, wink, wink  
CHILDCARE NEEDED· ND prof needs childcare in home T-Th  WANTED  1250/mo. 773-472-7775  Nice 3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace,  Who cares if t don't gel any sleep?  
-­ mornings, ideally 9·2 but at least 9· 1. Three great kids, 5,3, 1. Large  NOTICES  Need infant childcare tor 6 month  HOUSES FOR RENT; 1)4-br $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month  fenced backyard, 2-car gara11e. $995/mo.  Sleep's overrated, anyway. All I need is some quality ... sleep  
comfortable home 1 mile from cam- old Wed and Fri 8-5. Contact kris•  We'll make almost any changes lo  Call-219-232-4527 or 616683-5038  
pus  Own transportation required.  LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU  ten 631 ·8270  the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776  Hmm -what can you do between  
Please call 631-3654 days, 289·  LIKE!  Full size bed with box spring and  3: 15 and midnight  
3865 e11enings or email meiss­ner.l@ndedu  WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAM· PUS SERVICE  frame $150 call 634-4575  New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm, 3 bath home is close to campus  PERSONAL  Study, eat, study, play soccer,  
Europe $199 one way.  with features like fireplace, cathe­ study, sleep, study· yeah, that's ii  
JOB OPPORTUNITY  Your super-convenient dream diet  Mexico/Caribbean or Central  drat ceilings, family room, deluze  Well. the night is drawing to a close,  
Four ND families lookin11 for ere- from a name you trust is coming to  America $250 round trip + tax.  appliances, 24x30 garage  but unfortunately, my work is not  Among other things  
ati11e tutor to instruct grade school  Notre Dame! No complicated count- Other worldwide destinations  $1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or  
childrn in home setting. Ed. Degree  ing! Eat pizza, cookies, fast food ­ cheap. If you can beat these prices  616-683-5038  I miss mooria.  Yippie! Bed timer  
not req. Normal school calendar  any food you crave and lose weight.  start your own darn airline I Book  


au MQ!Ullb aw m > 
PUT ON YOUR DANCING SHOES... 
SUB has some concerts for you! 
G.Love and the Special Sauce 
Friday March 30th Stepan Center 7:30 
Students: 10$ Non Students: 15$ 
The Samples 
Thursday April 5th Stepan Center 
Tickets on sale now at Lafortune Box Office 
SUB movies this weekend: 
Vertical Limit Remember the Titans 
101 DeBartolo 155 DeBartolo Thursday 10:30 Thllrsday 10:30 Friday 8:00 & 10:30 Friday 8:00 & 10:30 Saturday 8:00 & 10:30 Saturday 8:00 & 10:30 

_.,. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Ingelsby hopes to shoot lights out in 3-point contest 

I 
Special lo The Observer 
Notre Dame senior point guard Martin lngelsby is one or eight participants in the 13th Annual Three-Point Shooting Contest presented by National Car Hental at Concordiu. University-St. I' au I's Gange Ih oft' in 
L 
..... 
Minneapolis, Minn. The event is part of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Final Four and will be held today. Tho contest will air on a twu­hour ESPN telecast on Saturday from L30-3:30 p.m. 
Also scheduled to take place that evening is the women's 3­point shooting and men's slam dunk contests. Along with lngclsby, the seven other com­petitors in the men's 3-point shooting event include: Joe Crispin (Penn State). Shaun Fein (Georgia Tech), Keith Friel (Virginia), Tony Harris (Tennessee), Ryan Mendez (Stanford). Dean Olver (Iowa) and Quincy Wadley (Temple). 

Ingelsby started all 30 games for the Irish who fin­ished with a 20-10 overall record and won the Big East West Division title after finish­ing its conference slate with an 11-5 mark. the most con­ference wins since joining the league in 1995-96. They also advanced to the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
The senior point guard aver­aged 8.2 points, 2.8 rebounds and 6.4 assists during the 2000-01 campaign. Ingelsby shot 45.6 porcent from the field and 46.4 percent from 3­point range. lie f'inishncl third among all Irish players in 3­point field goals made. 
...------------------------------------------------------------·--·--------­
Thursday, March 29, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
Irish recruit Thomas on losing end of· East-West game 
-·----iI 
I 
j I 
Associated Press 
DURHAM. N.C. 
Eddy Curry had 28 poinl<; and David Le~ ha<I 21 as the West rallied from a 15-point deficit to bnaL Lhe East 131-125 in the McDonald's All-America high school game Wednesday night. 
The East led 7 5-60 at halftime after making 31-of-63 shots, but the West went on a 20-6 run late in the third quarter. The West took its first lead at 96-94 on a dunk by Curry with a minute left in the third. 
Curry, who has committed to DePaul but is still considering a 

DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
·4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS -BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR 
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES 
-SECURITY SYSTEM -WASHER & DRYER ·HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT 
CONTACT KRAMER 

(219) 
298-9673 CELL PHONE (219) 234-2436 OFFICE 

(219) 
674-2572 VOICE MAIL 


ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
jump to the NBA, was 12-for-21 by both teams setting up in half­
from the field. Ile also had eight court offenses. 
rebounds and four blocks. The East's Rashaad Carruth 
Memphis recruit Dejuan actually called out a play on the Wagner. who became the first first possession of the game and son of a former McDonald's All­one fan asked if thfl players were American to play in the game, allowed to dunk late in the first led the East with 25 points. His quarter. father, former NBA player Milt The teams combined to miss Wagner, played in the 1981 eight straight shots to open the game with Michael Jordan. game and the first point didn't 
The first quarter featured come until 1:30 in, when Curry sounds rarely heard at all-star hit a free throw. games -groans. The first dunk didn't come 
The highlight reel dunks and until the West's Josh Childress no-look passes typical of the broke free underneath with 15 McDonald's game were replaced seconds left. in the first quarter. 
;;;i 


The Notre Dame Center For Pastoral Liturgy announces 
The 3rd Annual Mark Searle Lecture in Liturgy 
Thursday, March 29, 2001 
8:00 pm (est) 
McKenna Center for Continuing Education Room 112 -114 
Rev. John Huels Professor of Canon Law • St. Paul's University 
"The New 'General Instruction of the Roman Missal': Subsidiarity or Uniformity?" 
For information contact The Center for Pastoral Liturgy 219-631-5435 f ndcpl.1@nd.edu 
but teammate Kelvin Torbert fol­
lowed with a rebound slam at 
the buzzer and the pace picked 
up from there. 
Torbert. who's headed to -Michigan State, had 21 points. 
The game featured 24 of the 

top high school seniors in the 
country chosen by a seven-mem­
ber selection committee and an 
advisory panel of scouts and 
media members. 
Three players -Ousmanc 

Cissc, DcSagana Diop and 
Wayne Simien -were hurt and 
didn't play. Tyson Chandler. who 
is considering a jump to the 
NBA. did not make the trip. 
North Carolina recruit Jawad 

Williams had a tough first game 
at Cameron Indoor Stadium. He 
was booed loudly by the Duke 
fans during introductions, then 
took an inadvertent elbow and 
broke his nose midway through 
the third period. 
Williams. who finished with 11 

points, had one of the best 
dunks of the night, taking a 
rebound with one hand and 
windmilling it down just before 
he was hurt. 
Future Florida teammates 

Lee. James White and Kwame 
Brown combined for 57 points. 
White had 19 and Brown 17 for 
the East. Lee was 9-for-13 and 
had 13 rebounds. 
Julius Hodge, who will attend 

North Carolina State, had 17 
points for the East. 
Chris Thomas. who will play 

for Notre Dame this fall, played 
most of the first half for the 
East. The point guard hit several 
long jump shots and distributed 
the ball well. 

Thursday, March 29­
:oo p.m. Men's Tennis vs. Illinois, Eck Tennis Pavilion, Matches begin at 4:00 p.m. :OD p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language 
Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 
131 
5:00 p.m. Senior Recital with catherine Danner and Sheree Wesenberg, Hesburgh Library 
7:30 p.m. Belinda Womack, lead singer with 
azz/Gospel Band "Kool Reflektions" -Coleman-Morse Lounge 
e 
7:30 p.m. Freshmen Class Rosary, Grotto :30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec lacrosse, ourt 1, RSRC :30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards 
games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 
10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Vertical Limit~ DeBartolo 101*and "Remember the Titans~ DeBartolo155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. 


4:00 p.m. Women's Tennis vs. Iowa, Eck Tennis Pavilion, Matches begin at 4:00 p.m. 
6:30 p.m. Keynote Address for the Missing Peace, "Stepping Outside the Box: Paving One's Own Path as an Independent Writer on Human Rights", Hesburgh Center 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badmin­ton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 
p.m. G. Love with Special Sauce, Stepan Center* 

7:30 
p.m. Latin Expressions -Performances by students, O'Laughlin Auditorium SMC* 

7:30 
p.m. Notre Dame Opera: Handel's Xerses, Washington Hall* 


7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Requiem For a Dream~ Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "Vertical Umit~ DeBartolo 101* & "Remember the Titans: DeBartolo 155* 
8:00 p.m. McGlinn casino Night, McGlinn Hall* 
8:07 p.m. 807 Friday Night Mass, Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother, Coleman-Morse Center 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Women's Basketball game watch, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Requiem For a Dream~ Snite Museum* 
10:30 
p.m. Movie, "Vertical Limit", DeBartolo 101* & ''Remember the Titans: DeBartolo 155* 

10:30 
p.m. John Rush in Concert, Student Center Ballroom 


11:30 p.m. Flipside Virgin Island dance, Student Center Ballroom 
Saturday, March 31 
5:30 p.m. Lecture, "Do You Want to Kill the Ref? Do You Hate Your Room-mate? Adven­tures in Everyday Peacemaking from the campus Frontlines", Hesburgh Center 
6:30 
p.m. Sophomore Class Ball, Century Center* 

6:30 
p.m. Hawaii Club luau -Hawaiian Food & Entertainment, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom* 


7:30 p.m. Notre Dame Opera: Handel's Xerses , Washington Hall* 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Requiem For a Dream'; Snite Museum* 
7:45 p.m. "Picture Perfect", Spring Fashion Show, Bendix Theatre, Century Center 
8:00 
p.m. ND Express Co-ed Billiards Tourna­ment 

8:00 
p.m. Movie, "Vertical Limit'; DeBartolo 101* and ''Remember the Tttans:DeBartololSS* 


8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune student Center 
9:00 p.m. Class of 2004 All Ages Dance: "Glow with the Flow", Alumni Senior Club 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Requiem For a Dream~ Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Vertical Limit", DeBartolo 101* and "Remember the Tttans';DeBartolo155* 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune Student Center. 
r 
t 
I page 20 ·The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2001 
I 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL FINAL FOUR 
Stiles, Ivey highlight hometown heroes in St. Louis 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Four rounds filled with sur­prise, suspense and yes, even a bit of the expected has come down to this: a women's Final Four with the champions from the last two years and a dash of local flavor. 
Connecticut has survived injuries to its top two players to stay in the hunt for a second consecutive championship. Purdue, the 1999 champion, has overcome change and heartbreak to earn its trip to St. Louis. 
Southwest Missouri State, just 3 1/2 hours down Interstate 44 in Springfield, is ready to unleash Jackie Stiles and its horde of well-traveled fans on the city by the Arch. Notre Dame brings the nation's most dominating center, along with St. Louis native Niele Ivey. 
"I know my phone is ringing off the hook with people wanti­ng tickets," Ivey said. 
They'll all be on the court at the Savvis Center for the national semifinals Friday night -Southwest Missouri Slate against Purdue, and Co)lnccticut meeting Big East rival Notre Dame for the third time this season. 
The winners meet Sunday night to determine the 20th NCAA champion in women's hoops. 
"The Final Four is every girl's dream," Purdue's Kelly Komara said. "When you're out there working your butt off every day. this is what you live for." 
With almost everyone back from last year's team, Connecticut (32-2) seemed a lock for a second straight title and third overall. Coach Geno Auriemma even guaranteed it. 
But a 92-76 loss at Notre Dame on Jan. 15 made the Huskies appear human and things looked even shakier when All-Americans Svetlana Abrosimova and Shea Ralph were lost with season-ending injuries. 
Shaky? Forget it. Connecticut hasn't had a game closer than 14 points in the tournament and thumped Louisiana Tech 67-48 in the East Regional final. 
Freshman Diana Taurasi has emerged as flashy and fearless go-to player, while point guard Sue Bird remains as steady and effective as ever. 
"Svet and Shea are such strong personalities that it was hard for someone to come for­ward," Auriemma said. "But when something in the huddle needed said, it was Sue. When the right thing needed to be said, Sue said it." 
With center Ruth Riley lead­ing the way, Notre Dame (32­
2) looked like a national cham­pionship contender when it won its first 23 games, includ­ing that victory over Connecticut. Nothing has changed. 
The two losses were by a total of three points -54-53 at Rutgers and 78-76 at Connecticut in the Big East championship game -and Riley has been sensational in the tournament. 
Notre Dame made its first Final Four trip in 1997 and lost to Tennessee in the semifi­nals. Coach Muffet McGraw senses a different attitude this time. 
"Last time we went, we took over a thousand pictures," McGraw said. "Now. this team is focused." 
After playing two games in New Jersey and two more in Spokane, Wash., Southwest Missouri State (29-5) gets to finish the season in the neigh­borhood. Look for the Lady Bears' maroon-clad fans to show up in droves looking for tickets to the sold-out event. 
"Tickets 4re going to be a nightmare for our administra­tion," coach Cheryl Burnett said. "What a great thing." 
Stiles, often heard about but rarely seen by a national audi­ence, finally gets to show what she's been up to these last four years. The NCAA career and single-season scoring leader, Stiles has averaged 35 points in the last three games after being slowed by a mild concus­sion in the first round. 
"St. Louis -you can't script it any better than this," Stiles said. "I can't even describe it." 
A strong freshman class at Purdue (30-6) has comple­mented veterans Katie Douglas, Camille Cooper and Komara. all members of the 1999 championship team. That trio has endured a lot since then. starting with a change in coaches. with Kristy Curry tak­ing over for Carolyn Peck. 
Four months after the title, team member Tiffany Young died in a traffic accident. Douglas, whose father had died in 1997, then lost her mother to breast cancer. Back­up center Mary Jo Noon blew out a knee at midseason and starting point guard Erika Valek did the same in the regional semifinals. 
"I can't put into words what this team has been through," Curry said. "To lose Tiffany, to see what Katie's been through, we've been through so much. I think that makes it even more special." 




t\TTLNTION SOPHOMORLSI 11ELP MtlK[ YOUR JPW GR[tlTJ 
i\PPLV TO BE THE JUNIOR PARENT1S WEEKEND CHAIR tlPPLICt\TIONS ARE t\VAILABLE OUTSIDE THE STUDENT 
tlcT1v1r1Es Orrrct., 315 LAFORTUNt. 
i\PPLICATIONS ARE DUE TttURSDAV, i\PRIL 5, 2001. 

----------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 29, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
College coaches climb on, off carousel of changes 
Associated Press 
[OWA CITY, Iowa 
Iowa coach Steve Alford has reached a tentative agreement on a five-year, $4.5 million con­tract extension that would keep him with the school through 2009. 
The $900,000 annual salary doesn't include incentives, Iowa athletic director Bob Bowlsby said Wednesday. 
"I appreciate very much the commitment that Mr. Bowlsby and the University of Iowa have presented," Alford said. "I Pecora becomes Hofstra coach couldn't be more pleased with all Tom Pecora is Hofstra's new phases of our program." basketball coach, promoted 
This season, Alford's second at Wednesday after seven years as the school. Iowa went 24-12, an assistant to Jay Wright. won the Big Ten tournament, Pecora has never been a head and reached the second round of coach in Division I, but went 62­the NCAA tournament. The team 24 from 1989-92 at SUNY­wAnt 14-16 in his first year. Farmingdale, a junior college 
Before heading to Iowa in program. 1999, Alford went 78-48 in four He's been an assistant at five seasons at Southwest Missouri schools, including UNLV under State. Rollie Massimino in 1992-93. 
As a player, he helped Indiana "This is my dream job," win the 1987 NCAA champi­Pecora, a Queens Village native, onship. said. "Even though I spent time 
··········································································································;;-·.
. 
If you wish to have abetter sense of how you can make a differencc ... If you want to know more about the life of aBrother... If you desire to discover the way God calls... 


LISTENING 
RETREAT 
On the University of Notre Dame Campus 
April 20-22. 
There is no costs. You will be aguest ofthe Brothers of Holy Cross. 
For more details contact Bro. Bob Fillmore,csc. 

out at UNLV and Loyola­Marymount, my body has always been on east coast time." 
Wright left to coach Villanova after taking Hofstra to the last two NCAA Tournaments and going 122-85 in seven seasons. 
Pecora is known as a top-notch recruiter, and he said that his pitch to potential recruits won't change. 
"We've graduated every one of the kids we recruited here -all 31," Pecora said. "When we talk to a potential recruit, we tell them that we ex.pect them to hold up their academic stan­dards. We've had some kids tell us frankly that Hofstra's not for them." · 
Friars extend Welsh's contract 
Tim Welsh, who coached Providence to a 21-10 record this year and a spot in the NCAA Tournament, reached a prelimi­nary seven-year agreement Wednesday to stay with the Friars. 
'The essence of the agreement is done," athletic director John Marinatto said. "Tim is happy, and he's committed." 
Marinatto would not disclose Welsh's base salary but said he received a raise. He had four years left on a contract that paid him an annual base salary of $375,000. 
Welsh will sign the agreement when he returns from this week­end's Final Four in Minneapolis. 
"I agree with the mission of the college and I enjoy living in Rhode Island," he said. 
Rutgers had asked Providence for permission to talk to the coach, and Tennessee and UNLV also inquired, Marinatto said. 
The 40-year-old Welsh has a 48-43 record in three years at Providence. 
Kanaskie to stay at Drake 
Drake's Kurt Kanaskie, the runner-up for Missouri Valley Coach of the Year honors this season, on Wednesday had his contract extended through the 2005-06 season. 
Picked to finish last in the MVC, Drake, despite playing its last 14 games with just seven scholarship players, finished with an 8-10 record, their most 
conference victories since the 
1995-96 campaign. 
The Bulldogs finished 12-16 
overall and iost to Northern Iowa 
in the opening round of the MVC 
Tournament. They were led by 
guard Luke McDonald, the con­
ference's Freshman of the year. 
Kanaskie owns a 38-101 
record in five seasons at the 
helm of the Bulldogs. He is the 
only coach in Drake history tu 
improve the school's victory total 
in four consecutive years: two, 
three, 10, 11 and 12. 
MacDonald stays with Canisius 
Mike MacDonald, considered a . coaching candidate at St. 
Bonaventure, signed a four-year 
contract extension Wednesday to 
remain with Canisius. 
MacDonald, 58-57 in four 
years with the Golden Griffins, 
had one year left on his five-year 
deal. He is coming off a 20-11 
season. falling one win short of 
reaching the NCAA Tournament 
when seventh-seeded Canisius 
lost the Metro Atlantic Athletic 
Conference championship final 
to Iona. 
The 20-win season was only 
the sixth in the 97 -year-old pro­
gram's history and follows a 
year after the team went 10-20. 
The contract extension comes 
two days after Jim Baron left St. 
Bonaventure to coach Rhode 
Island. MacDonald, a Bonnies 
grad, was thought to be among 
the front-runners for the job. 
"Mike is a very special person 
in the department and we are 
thrilled that he will continue to 
lead our basketball program in 
the upcoming years," Canisius 
athletic director Tim Dillon said. 
MacDonald began his coaching 
career at Canisius as agraduate 
assistant coach in 1988. 
"The commitment they have 
made to me makes me very hon­
ored to be the coach here," MacDonald said. "I'm excited about the possibilities of the future of the program." 
Ryan may retum to Badgers 
Bo Ryan might get the job he 
wanted all along -nine years 
after he first applied. 
Ryan, who two years ago 
stepped up to Division I with 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, could be 
..
hired as Brad Soderberg's 
replacement at Wisconsin as 
early as Thursday. 
Ryan can officially be offered 
the job after the Wisconsin 
Athletic Board's personnel com­
mittee meets at 9 a.m. The 
school scheduled a news confer­
ence for 9:45 a.m. at the Kohl 
Center. 
The 53-year-old Ryan is a for­
mer Badgers assistant who 
wanted the head coaching job in 
1992 but was beaten out by Stu 
Jackson. 
He met Tuesday night with 
athletic director Pat Richter, 
chancellor John Wiley and ath­
letic board chairman David 
McDonald, spokesman Steve 
Malchow said. 
"Our people were very 
impressed with Bo Ryan, but to 
my knowledge, the job has not 
been offered yet." Malchow said 
Wednesday. 
Ryan, who didn't return a 
message left at his office 
Wednesday, probably will attend 
the committee meeting, Malchow 
said. 
Ryan would replace 
Soderberg. who wasn't retained 
after going 16-10 in place of 
Dick Bennett. who retired in 
November because of burnout. 
page 22 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Coaches speak out in defense of NIT 
As,odatcd Press 
NEWYOllK 
Neither Alabama coach Mark Gottfried nor Tulsa coach Buzz Peterson wants to make a return trip to the NIT. 
But they both hope the oppor­tunity is there if they need it. 
The status of the nation's old­est college basketball tourna­ment is in jeopardy as the NCAA is considering legislation next month that could lead to the elimination of the preseason tournament that finances the NIT. 
"I love the NIT," said Peterson. whose team plays Alabama (25-10) in Thursday night's championship game. "I 
can't tell you how fullllling this has been as a coach, a staff and players. It made our season. Take this away and it would be cheating the kids. It really would be." 
The conference commission­ers voted in September to elimi­natr. the exemption that allows rwents like the Prcseason NIT, Maui Invitational and Great /\laska Shootout to count only as one game on a school's 28-game schedule regardless of how many a team actually plays. 
That would effectively elimi­nate the tournaments as most teams would be unwilling to commit to three or four games. 
ir 
, 
Without the revenue from the preseason event, NIT officials said they would have a hard time putting together the post­season event, which has strug­
gled to generate much interest. 
Tuesday night's semifinals, featuring no teams from the Northeast, drew only 6,597 fans. But the coaches don't feel that moving the event to a smaller, more accessible city would be good for the NIT. 
"If the NIT moved around, it would certainly lose its luster," Gottfried said. "It has a lot of history and tradition. It's a chance to come to New York. 
It's a great experience for the teams and a positive for college basketball. By being here we've gotten the exposure 01' playing on national TV and the experi­
.. 
ence of being in New York City." 
The NIT has provided a boost 
for both the Crimson Tide and 
Golden Hurricane (25-l l). who 
fell short of their aspirations of 
making the NCAA tournament. 
Tulsa. regional finalists last 
season, lost the WAC champi­
onship game at home to Hawaii 
to miss out on the NCAAs. 
Alabama, which was ranked 
in the Top 25 for 14 consecutive 
weeks, lost five of six games to 
end the season and had to settle 
for the NIT. 
'The NIT experience has been 
a real positive for our team," 
Gottfried said. "Our young guys 
have taken a situation that could 
have been tough and turned it 
into a very positive experience." 
That's especially so for young teams like Alabama and Tulsa. Seven of the top nine players on the Golden Hurricane are fresh­men or sophomores. 
The Crimson Tide start five sophomores and their top reserve, Gerald Wallace, is a freshman. 
"It would be a great step for­ward for us," said Erwin Dudley, who had 20 points and 16 rebounds in Alabama's 74­63 semifinal win over Detroit. "We didn't make it to the NCAA, but hey, if we are still playing, we can win this right here and that will be a great start for us." 
Tulsa broke out to a 20-point lead in its semifinal win against Memphis. before holding on 72­
64. That's been the formula during the NIT for the Golden Hurricane, who nearly blew 18­point leads earlier in the tourna­ment to Minnesota and Mississippi State. 
"Last night's game was a typi­cal game for Tulsa," Peterson said. "We build a big lead and let teams back into the game. If anybody has a solution, let me know. I'll pay for advice." 
Alabama has two players nursing injuries. Travis Stinnett sprained his left ankle Tuesday night and expects to play in the final. 
Terrance Meade bruised his hip bone and is questionable. 
Detroit (25-1 l) plays Memphis (20-15) in Thursday's· consola­tion game. 
I • 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2001 
Amaker leaves Hall for Michigan 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Four months ago, Seton Hall was on top of the college bas­ketball world. A stellar recruit­ing class imported by Coach Tommy Amaker had elevat­ed the pro­gram into a preseason top-10 
ranking, 
and the 
future 
looked lim­
itless for 

the small school in South 
Orange, N.J. 

Now the Pirates are in sham­bles. Their season degenerated into infighting among players, their record crashed to 16-15, and yesterday the school announced that Amaker was leaving to become coach of Michigan. He is scheduled to be introduced at Ann Arbor in a news conference today. 
Amaker's move leaves both Big East programs in New Jersey without a coach, and highlights a week of chaos among college basketball teams in the New York City region. 
Rutgers was already search­ing for a coach and learned yes­terday that it would not get the chance to interview Tim Welsh, who agreed to a seven-year contract extension with Providence, another Big East school. And Rutgers was turned down by Phil Martelli of St. Joseph's. 
St. John's Coach Mike Jarvis has repeatedly said he would not take another college job. but he was in danger of losing his best player. The freshman point 

guard Omar Cook is contemplat­
ing entering the National 
Basketball Association draft. 
Things could get worse at 
Seton Hall, where Amaker, 36, 
spent four seasons while com­
piling a 68-55 record. The star 
freshman forward Eddie Griffin 
was already considering a jump 
to the NBA, and had said 
Amaker's potential departure 
would be a factor in his deci­
sion. The sophomore center 
Samuel Dalembert could follow 
him out the door. Other players 
had said they might consider 
leaving if Amaker were no 
longer the coach. 
Amaker, who had resisted commenting on persistent reports that he would take the Michigan job, spoke by phone on Monday with Michigan Athletic Director Bill Martin. They agreed to meet Tuesday at Philadelphia International Airport. Amaker was in Philadelphia to attend the funeral of Marvin Powell, Griffin's brother. 
"He was struggling what to do with it," a person close to Seton Hall said yesterday of Amaker and the Michigan job. "He didn't make up his mind until last night." 
Yesterday morning, Amaker met with Pirates players to tell them of his plans, said Coach Bob Hurley Sr. of St. Anthony High School in Jersey City. But Amaker remained secluded in his office the rest of the day as a group of reporters waited out­side, a spokeswoman said. Amaker did not make a state­ment or acknowledge his depar­ture, and neither had Michigan as of early last night. 
Reached at his home, Martin confirmed Tuesday's meeting, but would not say whether Amaker was made an offer. 
"Nobody has signed a contract." 
Martin said. 
But Seton Hall said in a state­
m ent that Amaker took the 
Michigan job. and that it had 
begun a search for a new coach. 
"We appreciate all that Tommy has done to position our basketball program among the best in the nation," Seton Hall Athletic Director Jeff Fogelson said in the statement. 'Tve met with the team and have empha­sized the university's commit­ment to them and to our baskPl­ball program." 
Amaker will replace Brian Ellerbe, who was fired two weeks ago after four years at Michigan. Amaker will earn $700,000 annually in a five-year deal. according to ESPN. 
Fred Hill, an assistant to Amaker, who this week was interviewed for the Hutgers job. will probably get consideration to succeed /\maker. Fogelson hired Coach Skip Prosser of Xavier when Fognlson servnd as the athletic director there, and could pursue him for Seton Hall. Prosser guided Xavier into the NCAA tournament this season. and is constantly considered for jobs at larger schools. 
Meanwhile, after watching il'i top candidate. Jay Wright. tlw Ilofstra coach. sign with Villanova on Tuesday, Rutgers learned that Welsh had agreed to stay at Providence. 
Welsh said Providence pre­sented a commitment to support the program. "I love it here," he said. 
Hutgers, which fired Coach Kevin Bannon last week, then called St. Joseph's and received permission to speak with Martelli, who quickly said he wasn't interested. 
Rutgers. and now Seton Hall. must start over. 

An Evening ofMusic With Jazz and Gospel Artist 
Be1inda Womack 

With Special Guests VO i CeS of 
Faith 

Thursday, March 29th 
7:30 p.m.· 

Coleman-Morse Building Lounge 
Sponsors 

Howard Hall • Cavanaugh Hall • Dillon Hall 
Thursday, March 29, 200 I The Obseroer . SPORTS page 23 
NBA 
Nets' Marbury will miss rest of season 
comes less than a week after [(:;aryl Payton, [Jason] Kidd. than 340 manpower games
Associated Pres. 
Kenyon Martin, the first pick In the next couple of years to injury this season. in last year's NBA Draft, there won't be any question." "I wish things could have EAST HUTIIERFORD, N.J. broke his right leg for the Marbury is the only player gone a different way this 
All-Star guard Stephon second time in a year. in the league to rank in the year," said Marbury, who Marbury will miss the Marbury averaged 23.9 top 10 in both scoring and missed the final eight gamesremainder of the New Jersey points and 7.6 assists in 67 assists. The All-Star appear­of last season with tendinitis Nets' injury-plagued season games. He scored a career­ance was his first. in his left knee. "Everythingwith a ruptured tendon in his high 50 points against the The Nets have been deci­happens for a reason." left pinkie. . Los Angeles Lakers on Feb. mated by injuries this sea­When asked what the rea­
Marbury is scheduled lo 13, and he had his first son. son was, Marbury said, "I undergo surgery in New York career triple-double on Jan. Guard Kerry Kittles has don't know. I hope to make City on Thursday. He sus­20. when he had 33 points, missed the entire year after us stronger." tained the injury in mid­12 assisis and l l rebounds undergoing knee surgery. The Nets signed forward January, but kept playing. against Chicago. Forward Keith Van Horn also Mark Strickland to a 10-day 
"It was getting to the point Nets coach Byron Scott said had a hairline fracture of his contract Wednesday. The 
· where the pain was unbear­Marbury had a great season, fibula in training camp and six-year veteran played 46 able because I have been his best in five years in the missed 32 games. games this season for getling hit on it so much." NBA. Forward-center Jamie Denver, the team New Jersey Marbury said before the "He ·s 24 years old and he's Feick has missed more than played Wednesday.Nets' game with lhe Denver already one of the best point 60 games with an Achilles' "Everybody I have been Nuggets on Wednesday night. guards in the league," Scott tendon injury. Forward­seeing in the city, I went to "It's tough to play with a said. "He has some things he guard Kendall Gill has the store to get some sneak­pinkie that is curled up." has to work on on the defen­missed more than 40 with ers, told me that gym is 
Marbury said he would sive end, but I think in the tendinitis in his knee, and jinxed," Strickland said of have continued lo play if the next couple of years it won't center Jim Mcilvaine has joining the Nets. ''I'm just Nets had been in the playoff be a question.of who's the missed more than 35 with here to play, have a little hunt. best point guard. There's back and calf injuries. fun, and we get some Ws out 
The decision to sit Marbury questions now. People say The Nets will lose more of these last few games." 
TENNIS 
Players may become witnesses in stalking trial 
Hingis. Hingis, the No. 1 female Rajcevic, a 46-year-old
Associated Press 
The lawyer for Dubravko tennis player in the world, Australian who was born in 
Rajcevic said Wednesday he will be a prosecution wit­Croatia, is charged with one 
MIAMI wants the players to support ness and is expected to tes­count of stalking and three 
Tennis stars Venus and his contention that Hingis is tify Monday. counts of trespassing at the Serena -Williams and not emotionally distressed, Four men and two women 2000 Ericsson Open on Key Lindsay Davenport might be as the prosecution claims, were chosen for the jury Biscayne near Miami. Each called to testify next week at by his client's professed love Wednesday, and opening count carries a possible one­the trial of a man charged for the 20-year-old Swiss statements were set for year sentence. 
with stalking Martina star. • Friday. 
The Faces Of Holy Cross 

New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER * 
THECALL W 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Rajcevic frequently inter• rupted his lawyer in court before jury selection began Wednesday. 
"You're going to have to control that impulse when you're in front of the jury," Judge Kevin Emas said. 
Rajcevic has been in jail for a year, unable to post $2 million bond and unwilling to promise to stay away from his avowed love inter­est in exchange for his free­dom . 
•
----'!<:: 5D!""(AJ 

Baseball 
continued from page 28 
recorded 14 hits, with every starter getting at least one. 
The team left many run­ners on base in the early innings and made uncharac­teristic judgement errors on the basepaths. Despite these flaws, head coach Paul Mainieri was pleased with the offensive outcome. 
"I think our hitters broke out tonight," he said. "This is definitely a win we can build upon." 
For a while, it appeared that any lead would be safe behind Notre Dame's start­ing pitching. After allowing a lead-off double in the first inning, Ogilvie settled down and pitched five innings of flawless baseball. 
His most significant jam came in the sixth inning, when Toledo had runners on second and third base with only one out and a three-run Irish lead. With the prospect of a comeback looming, Ogilvie caught Phil Pilewski looking at a third strike and induced Jay Juras to ground meekly back to the mound. 
"Peter definitely made some clutch pitches. I thought he was outstanding tonight," said Mainieri. 
After pitching seven innings of scoreless base­ball, Ogilvie gave way to relievers Brandon Villoria and Matt Blair who locked up the game, allowing only a meaningless run in the eighth inning. 
Once again. the players had nothing but praise for the team's defensive effort. 
"Pitching and defense have been our strongest aspects as a team all year," said Stavisky. "They played really well again tonight." 
The win improves Notre Dame's record to 17-4-1 on the season. Toledo falls to 11-10. The next test for the Irish comes today at Eck field when they play Hillsdale College. 
The game was added to the schedule after weather concerns caused the cancel­lation of Tuesday's matchup against Western Michigan. The first pitch is scheduled for 5:05 p.m. 
Caring. fun, sensitive people needed to co-lead small groups of adults with developmental disab1Iities on 3­1oday vacations. Oversee the safety & enjoyment of groups, provide physical and emotional support when needed and meet lots of fun people. 
No experience necessary --training provided. 
Getting involved with Sprout carries no fees or pro.. gram costs. While on Sprout trips, all expenses (re~taurants, hotels and activities} are covered. plus 
a daily stipend is paid. Commitment variable, from 
one trip to several months. 
Leading Sprout trip• I~ a fun & rew•rdlng experience. Apply today/ 
Please call: (212)222-9575 or toll-free (888)222-9575 emall. leadership@GoSproutorg website: www.GoSproutorg 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2001 
-,( SOFTBALL 
Irish sweep doubleheader, look ahead to Western Michigan 
By ANTHONY BISHOP 
Sports Writer 
The blusterv South Bend afternoon didn't bother the lrsh pitching staff. as it only gave up thrCTe hits in Notre Dame's two-game sweep of Valparaiso 
The Irish easily defeated 
t h e 
Crusaders 
6-0 and 4-0 
to move to 
20-3 on the season. 
In the first ga.me, senior Jen Sharron pitched a complete game, allowing only two hits and no runs in seven innings. Sharron felt she played "great. but there is always room for improvement. My pitches all seemed to work well and [catcher] Jarrah Myers and I were in sync. 
The game started out fast as Sharron struck out two of the 

first three batters. She finished formance by striking out 11 the game to move to 11-2 over­and allowing only one hit. all with a 1.80 ERA. In the Schmidt moved to 9-1 on the bottom of the first. a line-drive season with a 0.88 ERA. double by Myers into right­Sharron closed out the game center field scored in two run­with two strikeouts and never ners give the Irish a 2-0 lead. gave up a hit. 
Notre Dame's bats became Alkire knocked in Alexis quieter as the game pro­Madrid in the first inning with gressed as the Irish stranded a double and then a hit by base runners innning after Lizzy Lemire moved Alkire inning. But Sharron kept the around the bases to again start Irish ahead with dominating the Irish with a 2-0 lead. pitching. She struck out a total Andria Bledsoe walked in the of 14 batters in the game, a second inning and then stole new personal best. second. She mov.ed to third on 
The Irish came alive again in the fifth inning. A Danielle Klayman single, followed by a double by Jenny Kriech, put both runners in scoring posi­tion. 
Melanie Alkire singled, bringing in Klayman. On the first pitch Myers faced, she belted the ball 240 feet into leftfield, sailing well over the wall. It was Myers fourth 

Thursday, March 29 

Bowl-A-Rama! Unlimited bowling + shoe rental from 9-12 at the Beacon Bowl for $5.95 per student. The first 100 students with Notre Dame ID at the door will receive a $3 discount and plenty of pizza! Buses will leave for the Beacon Bowl beginning at 8:45 from main circle. 

Dessert AND the Movies! There will be beverages and free dessert from the South Bend Chocolate Company before the SUB Thursday night 10:30 movie. Begins at 
9: 30 outside of room 101 DeBartolo. 
ERNESTO LACAYOfThe Observer 

Irish pitcher Jessica Sharron hurls a pitch during Notre Dame's 
4-0 victory over Valparaiso Wednesday night. Sharron didn't 
give up a hit and recorded two strikeouts. 
home run of the season and her 22nd RBI. 
In the second game, ,fresh­man Kristin Schmidt echoed Sharron's strong pitching per-
a ground ball and scored on a focus to today's rescheduled wild pitch by the Crusaders. doubleheader against Western 
Alkire later reached base Michigan. The game was post­and stole second to be knocked poned due to unplayable in on a Lemire single. weather conditions. 
"The pitchers threw great," Western Michigan will enter said head coach Liz Miller. "It Tuesday's games with a 6-11 was a strong performance. record, including a 1-3 mark in The offense is a little up and the MAC Conference this will down and is relying nn streaks be the 12th and 13th meeting right now. We need to become in the series. with the Irish a bit more aggressive." -holding a 7-4 advantago over 
With the win, the Irish the Broncos. jumped up to No. 11 in the lat-Last year, Notre Dame post-est national poll released. ed a 6-1 victory. as the Irish 
The Irish next turn their pounded out 13 hits. 
HPC DATE EVENTS 
ALL ARE INVITED... 

I ­i 
I 
I I I
,--~ 
Write Sports Call 
1-4543 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in slack. -Out-of-Print search service -Appr•isals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
The ND Guitar Players Association Presents 
Don Savoie 
•

Blues Guitarist & ND Guitar Instructor 
Thursday, March 29th Reckers 10 PM 

Thursday, March 29, 2001 
O'Toole 
continued from page 28 
"When [Paul] was in high school. he played the infield and the outfield -he is a very talented athlete," said Mainieri. "Right now, he is one of the biggest base-steal­i n g threats on our team because he runs so well.'' 
But once O'Toole puts the mask on and crouches down behind the plate, he becomes everything the prototypical catcher is supposed to be. He is a smart. solid defender with the 
confidence playing in
"It's kind ofintriguing for 
and fire to the Cape 
be a leader people to see a C o d on the field. left-handed hitting catcher League, the "He's a nation's
who can run fairly well
fiery guy," premier
because it hasn't been that
s a y s wooden bat 
Mainieri. common in baseball." league for " A n ct college there's no players.
Paul O'Toole 
one who along with has more teammates
Irish catcher 
spirit than Paul. He really goes after it on the field because he holds so much enthusiasm for the game. He plays iL at full-tilt all the time." 
It onlv seems natural that the tough-minded junior would have to be this way. In just his first year at Notre Dame, O'Toole demonstrated exactly what he could do as an all-around player when he was thrust right into a full­time job at catcher. 
He caught 90 percent of the innings that year while still batting . 318 and leading the team in runs scored. At the plate, he showed his power with a .552 slugging percent­age. On the b.ases he showed speed with 12 steals in seven­teen attempts. Behind the plate, he showed dependabili-
Gniversity 0 f not re dame 
0 ~\Vt,, ~~.:,:,18The~~~~::,:,•be~~~1 
en 
• -~ ~ architecture/n ,/I ~ rtV J l"r/ )\' '\_ biol~yI \ business chemistry 
chinese classical languages 
(I) 
en 
computer applications economics engineering english 
film trench germanL government 
E 
history irish studies italian mathematics music philosophy physics psychology 
(I) 
E 
spanish sociology theatre theology 
DART will be available for summer regstration from March 21 to June '22. Students 
:J 
may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; 
no appointment times are necessary. 
en 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the fir$t day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 22, must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer sesion of 2001 will be $243 per credit hour plus a $40 general fee. 
committing only thirteen errors -a . 972 fielding per­centage. 
But most importantly, he demonstrated the leadership 
abilities that make a  catcher  
"the quarterback"  of the  
baseball diamond.  

"When I first came in, I felt I had to gain the respect of the upperclassmen," said O'Toole. "But I think through­out the course of the year, just by working hard and by showing that I only cared about winning as a team, I really gained their respect." O'Toolc spent this past 
summer 
S t e v e 

Stanley and Brian Stavisky. Through this league, O'Toole made a bit of a name for himself in profes­sional circles by displaying great power and hitting abili­ty. and by being named to the league all-star team along with Stanley and Stavisky. The modest O'Toole, howev­er, does not like to look to the future too often. 
"I try not to think about it too much because I wouldn't want it to affect what I'm doing now," he says. "If you start thinking about what you could be doing, you could begin to change what you have been doing, and you'll just mess yourself up. I just want to go out there right now every day and keep doing what I've been doing these past few years." 
Monday, June 18 (enrollment), and end on Wednesday, August 1 (final exams). Some courses -primarily in science and languages -will begin and end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Bulletin contains complete schedule information. The Bulletin is available at the Summer Session Office (510 Main Bldg.) beginning on Thursday, February 22. Information on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer Session Web site (www.nd.edu/-summsess). 
Notre Dame continuing students -under­graduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2001 who are eligible to return in the fall -must use DART (1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 22. The DART PIN (per­sonal identification number) for summer is available on lrishlink for all continu­ing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) are available at 
www.nd.edu/-ndreg/dartbook.html. 
Course call numbers are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session Web site. 

Erikson, Pruzinsky receive honors 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Obse,ver Senior forward Meotis Erikson shoots the ball during a game earlier this season. Erickson, along with sophomore Vanessa Pruzinsky are eligible to be named Academic All-Americans. 
Associated Press 

Two members of the 2000 Notre Dame women's soccer team, senior forward Meotis Erikson and sophomore defender Vanessa Pruzinsky, have been named to the 10­member Verizon/CoSIDA Women's Academic All-District Five At-Large Team for fall and winter sports. as selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America. 
Both players now advance to the Academic All-America bal­lot for women's fall and winter at-large sports, with that team to be announced on April 19. 
Pruzinsky has posted a 4.0 grade-point average in each of her three semesters at Notre Dame while pursuing a degree in chemical engineering. She earned second team all-Big East conference and second team all-region honors after helping the 2000 Irish squad lead the nation with an 0.39 season goals-against average (10 total goals allowed, 16 shutouts). A starter in all 51 games of her Notre Dame career. Pruzinsky helped the Irish hold their 2000 oppo­nents to an average of three 
r
·ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now . 
accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages 
three through six and 2001-2002 School Year 
Registration for children ages two through five. Both part time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For 
more inforrnation, please call one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please call ­
631-3344 
or 


,,. -~.::~~-284-4693 
shots on goal per game with the team trailing just twice all season for a total of 35 min­utes. 
Erikson, who owns a 3.57 cumulative grade-point aver­age as a film, television and theatre major-also earned sec­ond team all-Big East confer­ence and second team all­region honors after ranking as Notre Dame's second-leading scorer in the 2000 season (13 goals-13 assists). behind national player of the year Anne Makinen. Erikson tied the Notre Dame record for career games played (101) and ranks seventh on the Irish career scoring list with 164 points (59G-46A), including points in 10 of her final 12 games. She helped Notre Dame compile an 88-9-4 record (.891) from 1997-2000 and scored the overtime game­winner vs. Santa Clara in the 2000 NCAA quarterfinals before being named to the NCAA all-tournament team. 
page 26 
Belles' Hildebrandt resigns from positions 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spnrrs Editor 
Assistant athletic director 
and head swim coach 
Cirr.Lchcn Hildebrandt will 
vacate her positions in the 
athletic department at the 
end of this semester to 
attend school and focus on 
triathlon competition, 
Hildebrandt announced last 
week. 
Hildebrandt was accepted to the University of Westchester in Philadelphia Tuesday. where she hopes to earn her masters degree in exercise and sports physiolo­gy. llildcbrandt, who also holds an und1:rgraduate c!Pgrce in elementary educa­tion. will focus her master's Lhcsis on sports psychology. 
"As hard as it .is for me to see her move on, I'm excit­ed," athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. "She's just coming into her own as an iithlcte." 
After receiving her mas­tpr's degree. she plans to look at several options ­such as returning to college athletics, coaching or follow­ing more administrative lines. 
"[The masters] opens up a lot more doors," Hildebrandt said. 'Tm thinking about going into a more corporate kind of athletics. possibly working for Sports Illustrated." 
However. education isn't the only thing llildebrandt will be furthering. She plans on training full time as a Lriathlete. Hildebrandt, who competed for the United States last year in Perth, Australia. is looking to expand the scope of her com­petition. 
"It will give me an idea of where I can go with triathlon," she said .."Last year I wanted to do it for fun. This year working under a coach it's become a Jot more serious. Ultimately, I want to go professional. At my age I can afford to explore this and see where it takes me." 
Hildebrandt came to Saint 
Mary's in the fall of 1999. 
During her time at Saint 
Mary's as the assistant ath­
letic director. one of 
Ilildebrandt's main responsi­
bilities was intramural sports 
and club sports. 
Since 1999, participation in 
club sports has almost 
tripled, Midnight Madness ­
the intramural champi­
onships -was instituted, 
and Saint Mary's introduced 
new club sports, such as the 
triathlon club. 

"[Hildebrandt! has moved this program forward so that we can attract really quali­f'ied people [to fill her posi­tion]." Kachmarik said. 
Hildebrandt also led the swim team to a sixth-place finish in the MIAA this sea­son. 
Upon her arrival and Saint Mary's, Hildebrandt was reunited with Kachmarik, who had served as her swim­ming coach at Bucknell Uni­versity during Hildcbrandt's undergraduate years. 
"It was an instantaneous colleague relationship," Kachmarik said. "I've been inspired working with her not only professionally but personally as well. But I know that people move on." 
The athletic department has already begun to accept applications to fill the spot Hildebrandt will be leaving. The new assistant athletic director will also be serving as the swim coach and han­dling intramurals, according to Kachmarik. The applica­tion deadline closes in the middle of next week. 
After interviewing the top 10 applicants, "We want to bring the top three candi­dates to campus," Kachmarik said. "Not only do the ath­letes need to meet the candi­dates, these candidates need to meet the athletes so they can be excited about being a part of this program." 
Kachmarik is looking for an applicant who already has successful collegiate experi­ence. She expects to name a new assistant athletic direc­tor by mid-April. 
I 
iI , 
r 
vl~fOO~J'J~ 
.,••,..,.,., 
The Student Activities 0flice is now acceptingapplications for student en1ployee positions ror the 2001-2002 acaden1ic year. 
Possible positions availa/:zfc: 
24 HOUR LOUNGE MONITORS BALLROOM MONITORS INFORMATION DESI( & BOX OFFICE ASSISTANTS LAFORTUNE BUILDING SET U'P CREW LAFORTUNE BUILD/Nfi MANAGERS ND CAl(E SERVICE ND EXPRESS SOUND TECHNICIANS STEl>AN CENTER MANAGERS STUDENT PROGRAMMERS STUDENT OFFICE ASSISTANTS 
Applications available outside the StudentActivities 0flice, 315 laFortune or on-line at www.nd.edursao/f'orms 
A'P'PLICATION DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, A'PRIL 6. 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Saint Mary's upsets Division I foe 
play and it was a trial to theBy KATIE McVOY 
end. 

Associate Sports Edicor 
"She started playing morn consistently and pushing me to 
By 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. fans my limit," Spriggle said..., had outside of Angela Athletic facili­to regroup." ty were huddled together to After Spriggle dropped the keep warm as the temperature second set 3-6, she was playing 
kept dropping. But the fans on shaky ground and shaky couldn't get any closer than the footing. During the match, two tennis match between Saint blisters had opened on Mary's and Division I foe Spriggle's foot, leaving her feet Valparaiso. feeling a little tender. 
Ultimately, it was depth that "(The blisters] started to brought the Belles to a 5-4 vic­affect me when I got down on 0-6 and 1-6, 2-6 resp,\ctively. 
tci ry. Although  myself."  
Valparaiso claimed No. 1 and No. 2 sin­ "[Valparaiso's Sarah Engelbert) started play­ Spriggle said. "If I forgot them  
gles and No. l  ing more consistently  then I could  
doubles, the Belles hung onto Nos. 4-6  and pushing me to my limit. I had to regroup. "  go on play­ing." With twi­ 
singles and No.  light falling.  
2 and No. 3 doubles to claim the victory.  Kris Spriggle No. S singles  a back and forth third set resulted  

"I Kollaroval was really consis­tent and made some goud angle shots." Knish said. "Sim didn't make any mistakes at all.·• 
Coming into the match, Knish was expecti11g tough competi­tion. Kollarova. who hails from the Czech Republic. has sported an impressive record her fresh­man season. 
"I knew a little background about her; she has an impres­sive record," Knish said. "I went into the match thinking that I had nothing tu lose." 
Knish and Cook faced off against Kollarova and Sonkin again in No. l doubles and won a good game bdore dropping the match 8-1. 
Freshman .Jnanin Knish also had a close call. She fought back from a 1-4 deficit to win her first set in No. 3 singles 7-S. However. she dropped her next two matches to Patricia /\rakaki 2-6, 2-6. 
But Knish teamed up with Kaitlin Cutler. who won her No. 4 singles match easily 6-0. (,-0, to defeat Arakaki in No. 2 dou­bles. They won the match 8-3. Sophomorn Elisa Byan c;laimcd No. 6 singles 6-2. 6-0. and then teamed up with Trisha Jones to win No. 3 doubles 8-5. 
"I would say our doubles pulled it out." Stevenson said. "We have good doubles teams." 
The Belles will play a double­header this weekend against 
"Our depth [was our greatest asset]." head coach Dee Stevenson said. "We knew they had good players up top. but we had more depth down the line." 
Freshman Kris Spriggle's match would serve as a good analogy for this nail-biter between Saint Mary's and Valparaiso. Spriggle faced off against Sarah Engelbert in No. 5 singles and played for over two hours. 
Spriggle claimed a straightfor­ward 6-3 victory in the first set. Then Engelbert stepped up the 
in a 6-6 tie that called for a tiebreaker. Spriggle claimed the tiebreaker 8-6 to clinch her match and a Sa.int Mary's victory. 
"I kept telling myself that I could win the set and I wanted to win it and my team needed me," Spriggle said. lier team certainly did. Annie Knish and Natalie Cook faced off against the worst competition 
Valaparaiso could throw at them -Kate Kollarova and Mara Sonking -in No. 1 and No. 2 singles. Both women drQpped their matches 0-2, 6-0, Adrian College at 9 a.rn. Aquinas College at 4 p.m. 
-Commerce and Bevonde Lecture Series 
http.//www.nd.edu/%7Ekmotta/mgt648/speokers.l 
February2 Khalil Matta (Director. MIS Program. University of Notre Dame) "Overview of the Lecture Series· 
February9 Allen Hammond (CIO and Senior Scientist World Resources lnstiMe) "Impact of Globalization· 
February 16 Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) ·Awareness and Collaboration in the Workplace of the Future" 
February23 Mike Mazarr (President, Henry L. Stimson Center) ·Sociology and Psychology of People in the Electronic Workplace· 
March 2 Greg Hedges (Partner, eBusiness Risk Consulting. Arthur Andersen ·privacy Concerns in the Electronic Age· 
March 23 Bob Reilly (President OHR International) 
•New Age Leadership Skills· 
co-sponsored by "Leadership for Competitive Advantage and Personal Success" lecture series 
March 30 Gary Reiner (Senior VP and CIO, General Electric) ·technology and E-commerce Organizations: Future Directions# 
April6 Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President. Buckman Labs) ·Knowledge Management in the New Millennium# 
April 20 Don Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO, Terabeam Networks) ·Wireless and Optical Technologies and their Implications" 
All Notre Dame faculty, staffand students 
Unlversllyof Notn= Dame 

Mendoza College ofBusiness
are welcome to offend 
and 
m 

Thursday, March 29, 200 l The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TYLERTOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSEFOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

'I stole. th.,~ buzze.f t,of\'\ 
P.e.:.Ker5, The.~ )O~t hM~ed 
1+to ,-,~ 1 C\ f\cl J:.. f<:\J'\, 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
A.AAA! 
Yuc.1<1 GROSS! 
\_ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
63 Senate accusation 
64 1V or radio station 
65 Cheerleaders' practice 
66 Split in the cold, perhaps 
67 Marble­producing Italian city 
DOWN 
1 Annexes 2 Relative of cerise 3 Take to one's heart 4 Airport near Tokyo 5 New driver, maybe 6 Rembrandt, for 
one 7 Socialite Duke aSome exhaust 
systems 9 Subway station 
sight 10 Kind of flute 11 Shower apparel 12 Diminutive, in 
Dogpatch 13 It's tine for a refiner, 19 Guitarist 
Lofgren 21 Harmonize 25 Sgt. Snorkel's 
dog 26 larrup 28 Ogden Nash's 
"_ Stranger Here Myself" 30 Mark's planet 

HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Karl Malden, Marcel Marceau, William Shatner, Lena Olin, Bob Costas, Matthew Modine, Andrew Lloyd Webber, Reese Witherspoon 
Happy Birthday: Don't let things bother you this year, or you won't reach your goals. Put your feelings aside and focus on what you can do to make your life better. The changes may not always be what you want, but if it will help your situation, you must move ahead. The rewards will be satisfying and probably lead you in a far more positive direction, Your numbers: 9, 14, 18, 22, 37, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Opportunities to show your worth will lead to sudden advancement. Your intuition will lead you in the right direction. Don't be afraid to start something new. You'll be sur­prisingly good at it. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Your health will suffer if you are eat and drink excessively. Don't overreact to changes at work. Your reluctance to accept them
Punle by David Ainslie ~cleod 

will be viewed harshly. 000 
32 ThinkPad 47 Drives (along) 54 Cardiological 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):
producer concern 
Don't stretch the truth. You may
48 Parts of feet 

get blamed for something you
33 Cutting 57 Ginsberg poem
49 Most of 

didn't do. Social events will lead
repeatedly Mauritania 58 Word with yes, 

to romantic connections but if
34 Malacanang no or thank you
52 Mediterranean 

you're already involved don't
Palace locale ship 59 Go~ looker? 

even consider the offer. 000
36 By way of, 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
53 Canines 60 Half of sei briefly 
Don't become involved in the 
37 Troubles 

personal affairs of others. You'll 
38 like a beat cop Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
be blamed for taking sides or 
39 Haole's souvenir are available by touch-tone phone: 
interfering, You'll be interested 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ par minute). 
in foreign cultures. Attend cul­
40 The 900's, e.g. 

tural events and experience the
Abbr, Annual subscnpllons are available for the 
differences. 0000

44 Benchmark bast of Sunday c10sswords from the last 50 
LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): You're
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
46 List ender 

too ~enerous with your friends. Don t overextend yourself unless you're prepared to suffer the con-
EUGENIA LAST 
sequences. Financial problems will lead to a poor credit rating and a loss of respect. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Handle your personal partner with kid gloves. Don't neglect his or her needs. You may receive an invitation meant just for you. Think twice before you accept 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put a little pizzazz into your work. Your extra efforts will be appreciated. You need to spend some time get· ting back into shape. Shopping will be tempting, but you'll have to stick to a set budget. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Pleasure trips and involvement with organizations will promote romance. Your ability to find solutions to benefit all involved will aid you in getting the approval you require. 00000 
SAGIITARIUS (Nm122-Dec. 21): 
Someone you live with is curtail­ing your freedom. Don't let him or her talk you into doing things you don't have time for. Lay down some ground rules before the situation escalates. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
A sudden infatuation will bloom into a passionate love affair. Get together with friends or relatives, and you will find out valuable information about someone from your past. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Financial gains can be made through money that you haven't worked for. Wmnings, insurance, dividends or investments may pay off. Be careful: easy come, 
easygo.000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Romantic encounters will devel­op through group activity. Don't overreact to someone's advances. Use your genuine warmth and compassion to win hearts. 0000 

4 NOTRE DAME~ /\ BASEBALL ~' Saturdayvs. Seton Hall (2) 12 pm 
Sunday vs. Seton Hall 12 pm 

NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Today vs. Western Michigan 3:30pm Saturday vs. St. John's (2) 11 am 
Sunday vs. Se:(<Jn Ha}l (2) 11 am 
Notre Dame<Tennis 
Men -Today vs. Illinois 3 pm Women -Friday vs. Iowa 4 pm Sunda vs. William & Mar 11 am 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
One getting a cut 6 Tout's tabulation 10 1968 folk album 14 Mother of 
Perseus 15 lug 16 Animal house? 17 Producer of 
Eazy-E and Eminem 
18 Item used in basement waterproofing 
20 Sonia Henie's debut film, 1936 22 Methodical 23 Commencement dangler 24 Bully 27 Geographical connectors 29 Truth. old-style 31 Inability to speak 
35 Pro 36 1971 James TaylortWarren 
Oates cult film 41 Perfect 42 Politically 
incorrect coat 43 Adjust, as a brooch 45 They may have shorts 50 24-time Ryder 
Cup winner 51 Kind of soup 55 When tripled, an 
old war cry 56 1932 Bette Davis melodrama 59 "The Thin Man" producer Hunt 
61 Hi from Ho 
62 Nautical nose 


Blowing away Valpo 
The lrish softball team overcame windy conditions to beat Valparaiso Wednesday. At, 20-3, the No. 1 1 Irish are off to their best start in school history. 
PORTS 
page 24 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER 

MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 10 Irish host No. 1 7 Illini in regional rivalry 

By KATIE HUGHES Sports Wrirer  title last week by defeating Tulane. Rice, Auburn. and Fresno State, the lntercollegate  more like the rock and roll. pump your fist. in your face type atmos­phere. Once they get here, people  bles," said Pate. "Javier is like the passionate Latin, and Aaron is more of the laid back  Pate expected that either senior Matt Daly. who has been plagued by an injury for much of  
Tennis Association's computer­ will realize that you really can be  California guy. I think we have a  the season, or 10-1 freshman  
Top-10 adrenaline will be ema­ generated rankings put Notre  loud and go nuts,  pretty good balance  sensation Matthew Scott will play  
nating from  the  Eck Tonnis  Dame at No. 10, while Illinois  and  it  really  there."  No. 6 singles.  
Pavilion today as the Irish take on rngional rivals Illinois in a piv­otal midseason match. "Motivation is at an all-time high." said assistant coach Billy Pate. "Illinois is known to be real­ly aggressive. They're in your face, they're ydling and scream­ing. We've got to meet that chal­lenge and be able to have poise and composure. and just focus on the task at hand." t\ win for the Irish would mean redemption for two close losses  comes into the match ranked No. 17. "We're pleased to be in the top 10, but it's really more important at the end of the season," said Pate. Illinois crowd support has always been an obstacle for the Irish, and a horde of orange and blue supporters would not be unexpected on Thursday. "We would really like to prioritize crowd support at matches," Pate said. "There is the perception  makes a differ­Juniors Casey"Motivation is at an ence." Smith andall-time high." To win against Taborga, both the Fighting Illini, ranked in the top the Irish will have 100 singles players Billy Pate to focus first on in the nation, willIrish assistant coachconsistency in lead the 62-18 sin-doubles. Notre gles lineup. Smith Dame's No. 1 doubles team of has biggest challenge of the meet juniors Javier Taborga and -he has to play Illinois All­Aaron Talarico. ranked in the top American Graydon Oliver. 20, will set the tone for the Sophomore Brian Farrell, who match. leads the Irish with a 12-2 singles "They both have different syles, record, freshman Luis Haddock­ Another win would stretch Notre Dame's winning streak to 11 games. If the Irish maintain a top 16 ranking, by the end of the season, they would be eligible to host a regional match. "We've got the bus going," said head coach Bobby Bayliss. "Now we just have to keep it moving down the hill." The match will be played inside at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 3 p.m. To attract fans. the athletic department is sponsoring prize  
to the Illini last season. After claiming the Blue Grey  that college tennis is country club-ish, and white shirts, but it's  but you don't want to have two identical personalities in dou- Morales and Talarico will also be key in Irish singles competition.  drawings for those who attend today's match.  

BASEBALL 
Cold weather does not affect Irish in 6-1 win over Toledo 
By COLIN BOYlAN 
Spom Writer 
The scattered groups of fans at the Eck Baseball Stadium Wednesday night wore heavy win­ter coats and mittens as a testa­ment to the chilly March weather. So what the heck was right fielder Brian Stavisky doing wearing short sleeves'! 
"I just came out to take batting practice this afternoon and I was so pumped up -I didn't really feel cold," Stavisky said. 
Weather notwithstanding, Stavisky was red-hot at the plate and his three hits sparked a solid offensive outburst that propelled the Irish to a 6-1 victory over Toledo last night. Earning the win was starter Pete Ogilvie, who improved his record to 2-0 on the year. 
Notre Dame took control of the game early. loading the bases in the first inning. A walk by catcher Paul O'Toole brought designated hitter John Heintz home and gave the Irish a lead they would never relin­quish. 
In the fourth inning. Notre Dame expanded their lead when Andrew Bushey scored on a wild pitch and Steve Sollman came home on Steve Stanley's sacrifice fly. 
The lead was pushed to 6-0 on sixth inning Hl:H's by Heintz and Stavisky. and another sacrifice fly by Stanley in seventh. However, the cushion wasn't as large as it could have been. Notre Dame hitters 
see BASEBALUpage 23 

. O'Toole defies common expectations about catchers 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Paul O'Toole isn't your average player. 
In a sport that ol'ten characterizes catchers as unproductive offensive contributors, O'Toole breaks the mold. 
In fact. the junior backstop is one of the real driving forces of the Irish, especially on the offensive side of pro­duction. Having played in just about every game since tho start of his freshman season. O'Toole has shown very impressive offensive skills. bat­ting for a .301 carePr average. 
In his first three years. he has often looked more like a speedy utility play­er than a catcher. His career .382 on­base percentage and 33 stolen bases are numbers that are expected of a leadoff hitter. With just four more stolen bases, O'Toole can move into the top 10 list at N'otre Dame for stolen bases -and he would be the only catcher on that list. 
"I think it's great that I don't fit the regular mold of a cati;her," O'Toole proudly claims. "It's kind of intriguing for people to see a left-handed hitting catcher who can run fairly well, because it hasn't been that common in baseball." 
Notre Dame baseball coach Paul Mainieri likes the fact that O'Toole is not like just any other catcher. 
see OTOOLE/page 25 
Softball
vs. Illinois Final Four 
.,,

Today, 3 p.m. vs. Western Michigan vs. Connericut
(I) 
Track and Field

SPORTS 
Today, 3:30 p.m. Friday, 9 p.m. 
at Arizona State 
at Stanford 

ATA .,,
Bmball 

Men's Lacrosse at Purdue 
vs. Iowa 
vs. Hillsdale 

at Ohio State Saturday
GLANCE ~ Friday, 3 p.m. 
Today, 4 p.m. 
Saturday, I p.m. 

. . ,..
, • , " I Ai I I '· 
' ' 4 .\ 
• 








