
Great American Rock Albums 
Is the parietals debate worth it? 
Scene Music critic Tim Bodony takes a 
According to two students. spending one extra 
Tuesday
look at what makes an album truly 
hour with the opposite sex is not worth 
standout arid last through the test of time. 
protesting. 
MAY1, 
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL xxxrv NO. 132 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Students protest parietals with campout 
. Protest draws 300 students to South Quad 
ByPATMcELWEE News Wrirer 
Sleeping bags were unrolled on South Quad Monday night as students vowed to stake out a claim to respect on the issue of parietals extension. They planned to spend the night outdoors in protest of what many see as an unwillingness among administration officials to take student viewpoints and concerns seriously. 
Students began drifting into the section of South Quad cor­doned off by Notre Dame Security/Police around 9:30 
p.m. The three students responsible for obtaining per­mission to hold the protest from the Office of Student Affairs -Seth Whetzel, Adam Graham and Mike Praff ­were the first on the scene. 
At one point, as many as 300 protesters were on the quad. 
Whetzel saw the protest as a way to overcome what he calls a vicious cycle. 
"You hear a lot about the student body being apathetic," Whetzel said. "But I don't think it's apathy as much as an inherent sense of frustra­tion. Students voice their opin­ion to the administration, and then it's ignored or even squashed. Next time, you don't want to waste your time." 
Similar feelings of frustra­tion were expressed by Stuart Greene, a professor with a seat on both the Faculty Senate and the Campus Life Council. He came out in sup­port of the student protest. 
"I think [the protest] repre­sents a real frustration among the students that they're not being heard, and if they're heard, they're not being lis­tened to," Greene said. 
Many students brought blan­kets and some came with 
see C,AJvlPOUT/page 9 

Students peacefully demonstrated on a roped-off section of South Quad with some students capturing the mood of the 
protest by playing music from the 60s protest era. 

compelling enough and the pro­security, said more officers would
. Kirk doubts 

posal wasn't passed." be on duty for the campout, but he campout will Kirk said because he is both a doesn't expect any problems. 
impact parietals member of the 
Campus Life Council and is 
By lAURA ROMPF also in charge Assistant News Editor 
of ensuring safe demons­Because a resolution to extend trations by the parietals failed in the Campus Life student body, Council (CLC), vice president of he has played a Student Affairs, Bill Kirk, said the unique role in student-facilitated campout would the student ini­probably not change the current tiated protest. weekday visiting hours that end at Kirk met with 
"The arguments for the resolution were not compelling enough and the proposal wasn't passed." 
Bill Kirk vice president of Student Affairs 
"We're fully staffed and ready," Rakow said. "We're always expect­ing, but nothing usually hap­pens." 
Kirk said the Campus Life Council was cre­
ated by Father Hesburgh to 

12a.m. demonstrators on Monday after­
'The Campus Life Council is the noon. means by which these kinds of 'Tm in charge of making sure issues can be brought to Father the demonstration can happen Poorman," Kirk said. "The argu­without difficulty," be said. ments for the resolution were not Rex Rakow, director of campus provide a forum where students, administrators, faculty and rectors can all collaborate on issues such as parietals. Kirk said because the CLC rejected the proposal, further action this year is unlikely. 

Athletes afforded special privileges on campus 
but they also are afforded "We get a lot of help with their own revenues," said ing hall is closed so we get
By MARIBEL MOREY 
other benefits. John Sejdinaj, director of five to ten dollars for dinner,"
Assistant News Editor tutoring. I can tell my 
budget and planning. "What said Battle.
advisor who I want for

Grab 'n' Go the athletic office does with When they travel, women's
Notre Dame women's bas­
Certain student-athletes, tutoring for any subject ... the money they have. I don't basketball players also
ketball players have won a 
including football, basketball know." receive incidental money and
national championship, visit­
and baseball players, can get For this reason, the extra a certain amount for meals,
ed the White House and been Matt Fabrlcan
two sandwiches and six sides food from Grab n' Go is billed called a per diem. The 
guests on national television. 
instead of the average Grab ' sophomore fencer directly to athletics, said amount of money depends on
The team has earned extra 
n' Go of one sandwich and Tina Durski, card services the city and the event.
benefits because it brought four sides. 
manager. While on campus, the
home a national title, but all But, coaches from each
"It helps us out because we However, sometimes ath­women are obligated to use
team choose whether or not

varsity athletes receive many 
go on and have three class­letes cannot make it to the at least 75 percent of their
to pay for this extra meal ser­

perks that regular students es," said junior football play­dining hall at all. During the meal plans. "We have team
It's common knowledge auxiliary of the University,
get food before practice -the dining halls are some­you don't use your
like food services and the

that varsity athletes receive it's your one opportunity to 
times closed.

free clothes and sneakers, get food." Morris Inn -they generate see PERKS/page 4
"When we get out the din­
Tuesday, May l, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

For Mom and Dad 
Today, my parents celebrate their 25th wed­
ding anniversary. 

On the first day of May, 1976, my mother and father stood together in the of sight of God, their families and their friends to profess their love for one another as they took the vows of marriage. In the presence of all gath­ered in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart that Saturday, they pledged their commit­ment to one another and promised to face together whatever joys and sorrows life might send their way. 
Today, 25 years later, they continue to stand by one another, representing love, faithfulness and gen­uine mutual respect. In a word, I believe they are a model of all a strong mar­riage should be. 

Through their relationship with one another, my parents have taught me what it means to give oneself to another human being. 
My mother told me once that if she had known how my father would change and what type of man he would evolve to be 25 years later. her then-25-year-old self might not have married him in the first place. But love is a choice as much as an emotion, she explains, and that choice means that she accepts each unexpected fault together with each newfound strength. At the end of the day she finds that her marriage is not exactly what her 25-year­old self envisioned, but she regrets nothing. 
My father regularly visits Notre Dame for board meetings and has done so since my freshman year here. Not one of these visits goes by without my dad commenting how much this University has impacted his life. But it is not the education he received here, the pres­tige of being an alumnus or the excitement of being able to come back for football weekends that is causes him to cast such a sentimental eye on his years under the dome. 
Notre Dame is important to him, he tells me at each visit, because "It gave me your moth­er." It is always my mother who is the first rea­son why he is grateful for his time here. Indeed. my father has always shown a genuine appreciation for my mother and expressed a belief that he has been blessed to be able to share his life with her. 
These are just the two examples that stand out most in my mind of the ways in which I have witnessed my parents' devotion to one another through the years. There are many more. 
For the past 25 years, there has been no 'I,' in my parents relationship -only "we." They have worked together, laughed together, cried together. succeeded together. failed together and overcome together. They have challenged one another to become more than either could be alone, and they have buHt a Hfe that neither would exchange for any of their childhood dreams. And they have done all this by holding fast to the vows they shared with one another, 25 years ago. 
Nothing that I can write here will every fully express the admiration I have for my parents, today and every day. I can only say thank you, Mom and Dad, and congratulations. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Kiflin Turner  Sam Derheimer  
Scott Brodfuehrer  Chris Scott  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Sports  Katie McKenna  
Bryan Kronk  Production  
Viewpoint  Jeff Baltruzak  
Kurt BogaJrd  Lab Tech  
Naomi Cordell  

The Obmvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hcd Monday through Friday except during cum and v.tcation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Pres,. All reproduction rights a,c tcmvcd. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"I think it's about  "It's really an  
time that we get  indescribable feeling  
together and say,  because I've never  
'Hey. we disapprove  felt it before. I'm  
ofthis..,.  pretty overwhelmed  
Paul Grahm, parietals protest  by it."  
organizer, on the Campus Ufe  Baseball coach Paul Mainieri  
Council's rejection of a  on his team's first-time  
proposal to extend parietals  No. 1 ranking  

"I regard the "We haue a very rankings as a distinguished flawed system ... faculty. but our 
current facilities are Patricia O'Hara, dean of the far less Notre Dame Law School, on 
distinguished. ·· 
Notre Dame's recent ranking 
Frank lncropera, dean of as No. 27 by US News and 
Engineering, on the need for a World Report new Engineering building 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. Illinois students protest campus paper 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

Students marched to the Illini Media Company parking lot Friday to protest The Daily lllini's decision to publish a controversial advertisement against reparations for slavery. 
The protesters. members of a large­ly black student group called The Initiative, said the advertisement is racist and that the DI promoted dis­crimination on campus by running it. 
"The way that you all have handled this has been unprofessional and dis­respectful and adverse to the initia­tives and goals of the UIUC adminis­tration," said Clay Garrett, law stu­dent and member of The Initiative. "The University has strived to pro­mote diversity and remove hostility from this campus, and the DI has gone and undone that." 

The advertisement, "Ten Reasons Why Reparations for Slavery is a Bad Idea -and Racist Too," was written and paid for by David Horowitz, a right-wing political activist who was formerly associated with the Black Panthers and now believes repara­tions are racist. The ad suggested that reparations have already been paid and that blacks owe a debt to the United States. 
Members of The Initiative gathered on the Quad midday Friday to rally before the march. The group then marched to 57 E. Green St., the park­ing lot of the Illini Media Company. the parent company of the DI. There, the group attempted to present its demands and speak to DI Editor-in­Chief Kat Schwartz. Among other things. The Initiative demanded a printed apology or retraction for the running of the Horowitz ad. 
The decision to run the ad was made by Andrew Savikas, who ended his term as Editor-in-Chief in March. 
Savikas said he chose to run the ad because he believes in a marketplace of ideas and allowing all opinions to be heard. 

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Researchers find SAT link 
MINNEAPOLIS 

University researchers analyzing the validity of the widely used Scholastic Aptitude Test presented their findings to the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology Saturday in San Diego, Calif. After compar­ing SAT scores with a student's first-year grade point average at a variety of two and four year colleges, researchers determined that test scores correlate with a student's performance in college. "We located inore than 1,700 studies, representing over a million students, that had looked at how well SAT scores predicted first-year grade point average," said Sarah Hezlett, manager of the research team and a University of Minnesota graduate student. "People who do better on the test have higher GPAs in their first year of college," she said. Hezlett said the SAT predicts GPA for a student's later college years, along with study habits, persistence and degree attain­ment. Researchers compared SAT scores with state nursing board exam scores, finding that the SAT pre­dicts success in entering the nursing profession. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

·weane day' 
Thursd Friday Saturd~y 
4,~-~9Q.Q (f ~ u 

SllOWers r-storms Rain Flurrfss Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via .iUttocl1119d p,_q Ori,p,hQNel 
UNIVERSITY OF OHIO 



Tension remains high with police 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Ohio State University students once again faced off against the Columbus Division of Police during the early­morning hours Sunday in two separate disturbances. The events followed a riot April 21 and massive preventive efforts by Ohio State. The events that led up to rioting began escalating on East Norwich Avenue when students overflowed into the street. blocking traffic. Several peo­ple surrounded a car, rocking it while the gathering crowd of spectators chanted 'Tip it! Tip it!" and threw bottles. Throngs of people lined both sides of the street. 
jeering and throwing bottles as nearly 80 police officers dressed in full riot gear assembled at the comer of Norwich Avenue and Indianola Avenue. "This is ridicu­lous. They all should be thrown out of school," said Interim Vice President for Student Affairs Bill Hall, as he watched the crowd grow. Columbus Police gathered on Indianola, and the police began to move down the street around 1:35 a.m., dispersing the crowd with tear gas, knee-knockers and flash grenades. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Tuesday, May 1. 

0 2001 AccuWeethor Inc.  COLD  WARM  srATIONARY  
fl1ff1Uf'W:  
® High  © LOW  ...... Shower a A ¦ ln T-•torm¦ Flu«ie• Snow kxi  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
V1i11 AaBodotlWI p,es.g  
Atlanta  76  60  Las Vegas  94  66  Portland  71  50  
Baltimore  79  58  Memphis  78  61  Sacramento  81  55  
Boslon  75  61  Milwaukee  73  57  St. Louis  85  63  
Chicago  80  62  New York  78  61  Tampa  80  67  
Houston  80  66  Philadelphia  82  60  Washington, DC 80  60  


Tuesday, May 1, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

A I\ yay sub!
e•o 


Peace Corps denies inadequacies 
ByTIMLOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
The Peace Corps defended its efforts Monday to locate missing volunteer Walter Poirier, a 2000 Notre Dame graduate who disappeared in Bolivia Feb. 22, and pledged to continue look­ing until he is found. 
In a state­ment released Monday, the organization said that FBr 

Poirier

investigators had praised the Bolivian government and police's methods and dedication in the search for Poirier, which began March 5. 
"We are pleased with the FBl's as.sessment of the investigation to date," said Otarles Baquet III, acting director of the Peace Corps. "We continue to share in the frustration and anguish of the Poirier family that the investigation and search has yet to yield useful infor­mation regarding Poirier's where­abouts." 
The statement came in response to Poirier's congressman, Marty Meehan (D-Mass.) who has criticized the efforts. He called them "haphazard" and co­signed the letter with Massachusetts senators Edward Kennedy and John Kerry. Two weeks ago, Meehan asked Attorney General John Ashcroft to put FBI investigators on the case. On April 19, six were. 
Meehan specifically criticized investi­gators' failure to transcribe interview tapes and access Poirier's Yahoo! e­mail account to look for clues to his whereabouts. The Peace Corps state­ment addressed Lhe e-mail question. 
"Early in the investigation, the Peace Corps attempted to gain access to Walter Puirier's e-mail account," Baquet said. "We have been unable to do so, however, as his right to privacy is protected by the law unless there is evi­dence ofa crime." 
There has been much speculation in the media, and by Puirier's parents, that the volunteer was kidnapped. or perhaps was killed in a mudslide. The Peace Corps noted that there is no evi­dence supporting either scenario. Its statement did not suggest any scenario at all. 
Investigators have very few hard facts to go on. They know he was last seen on Feb_. 22, at a meeting with his pro­gram director in La Paz, Bolivia's capi­tal. Poirier was working on eco-tourism development and regularly traveled between La Paz and several different villages in the Zongo Valley, two hours away. Poirier's wallet was found in his home, but that is not unusual, as Peace Corps volunteers often travel without their wallets, according to Susan Buchanan, a spokeswoman for the organization. 
The investigation has included ground and river searches and ongoing questioning of those who knew or might have encountered Poirier. Investigators have monitored hospitals, jails, transportation centers and border crossing-s since he was declared missing March 5. The volunteer's picture has been broadcast ,on Bolivian television and printed in newspapers, and the Peace Corps has offered a reward for information that might help the search.Poirier arrived in Bolivia in June and spent his first three months receiv­ing training in language and life skills. He began work in August. 
The two months he has been missing is the longest period of time any volun­teer has been unaccounted for in the organization's history. according to Buchanan. 



University students receive fellowships 
Special to the Observer 
Four Notre Dame students -two undergraduates and two graduate students -have been awarded National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowships and six members of Notre Dame's class of 2000 also received NSF fellowships. 
The fellowships are the most prestigious in the nation in the fields of mathematics, science and engi­neering. Recipients currently at Notre Dame arc: Sarni Assaf, a senior from Gastonia, N.C., in math­ematics; Rebecca Glatz, a senior from Ames, Iowa, in geology: Jason K. Keller, a graduate student from Powell, Ohio, in biology; and Justin Biddle, a gradu­ate student from Dayton, Ohio, in the philosophy of science. 
Members of Notre Dame's class of 2000 who received fellowships were: Jada Benn. anthropology: Casey Brown, biology; John Camden, chemistry; Shelby Highsmith, mechanical engineering; David Langenau, biology; and Jami Meteer. electrical engi­neering. 
Nine other members of the classes of 2000 and 2001 received honorable mention in the fellowship competition. 
The National Science Foundation offers three-year graduate research fellowships in science, mathemat­ics and engineering, including Women in Engineering and Computer and Information Science awards. 
Fellowships are awarded annually for graduate study leading to research-based master's or doctoral degrees in the mathematical, physical, biological, engineering, and behavioral and social sciences, including the history of science and the philosophy of science, and to research-based Ph.D. degrees in sci­ence education. 



u 
t \Nee 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, May I, 2001 
Perks 
continued from page 1 
[University meal plan}." said sophomore guard Karen Swanson. 
Like the football and the basketball teams, the base­ball student-athletes try to balance their time on and off the field -and are some­times left with little time for meals. 
"We get a lot of team meals together at the clubhouse." said freshman baseball play­er Javier Sanchez. "If our game ends at 8 p.m., we just have sandwiches in the lock­er room." 
Most athletes' entire after­noons are spent at practice, yet they still need to accom­plish the academic workload of any other student. 
Professors, Classes and DARTlng 
Some University professors are understanding of an ath­lete's schedule, while others are not. 
"[Academic services] have 
it and

"/ did poorly on my
a list and they 
Battle is 

know which second test. I didn't still not teachers have 
understand the material sure how 
an unwilling­
m a n y

and I had more work in 
ness to work pointswith athletes other classes so he let me he'll get so they steer for it.
take the test again."
you away from "If a those teachers regularand towards Arnaz Battle 
student those teachers junior football player w o u l d 
who have a reputation for being very flexible with rigor­ous schedules," said Karen Swanson sophomore basket­ball player. 
Student-athletes also have tutors at their disposal, for any subject in which they might need help. This is to make -sure that each athlete stays afloat academically. 
"We get a lot of help with tutoring. I can tell my advisor who I want for tutoring for any subject," said sophomore fencer Matt Fabrican. "If I have a CORE paper due, I could go to them, but I basi­cally use it for math." 
Along with course advising, student-athletes are also guaranteed the first two days of DARTing so that their aca­demic and athletic schedules do not conflict. 
Once in the class, many student-athletes cannot meet every deadline while traveling or participating in tournaments. Like other students, student-athletes ask for extensions when needed. Some teachers will work with the students when tests and papers con­flict with athletic events. 

"During March Madness I maybe went to school three days this entire run. [The professors) organized the make-up midterm exam. giving me extensions with the work due and even helping through the email," said senior women's bas­ketball guard Imani Dunbar. 
Because of the demand­ing schedules, the academ­ic advisors direct athletes to certain professors who will be more accommodat­ing. 

During the first semester. Swanson did not take advantage of her advisor and she had a bad experi­ence. After that experience, she feels that it's necessary to consult her advisor. "It can make or break your 
academic success," said Swanson. 
However, at the same time, athletes might abuse their professors' willingness to accommodate them with assignments and tests. Some student athletes will say they're going on a tourna­ment just to get out of a test or paper, said Fabricant. But Swanson disagrees. 
"I've never done that and I've never seen that [abuse on extensions]." 
Many students, be it athlete or not. receive extensions on their papers if they have a good excuse. Student-athletes take advantage of this oppor­tunity when their schedules leave them with less time to complete the assignments or study for a test. 
"I feel like a lot of these athletes go to these profes­sors more than the regular student," said Battle. "I did poorly on my second test. I didn't understand the materi­al and I had more work in other classes so he let me take the test again." 
This second test was for 
extra-cred• 
"In a classroom, the teachers say it's OK to give that person an extension because she's an athlete. " 
Karen Swanson sophomore basketball player 
to contribute as much during group work. 
"Yeah, to the point it's not a perk [to be an athlete). people don't want this person in my group -nobody wants to be viewed as a dumb jock -I see academics as impor­tant as athletics -if you just write me off that's your loss," said Dunbar. 
Student-athletes see that other students have much more time to complete assignments while they hard­ly have time for practice, dinner and the coursework. Although some students might think that athletes have it easier in class, some would disagree. 
"I think it's a burden on me [as a student athlete] because of the time con­
straints. [The students] are more ahead of the game," said Sanchez. "They can go to the library at normal times -they can do these things. Whether they do these things or not is anoth­er thing." 
Books 
In August and January, students run in and out of the bookstore, complaining about the $300 or so that they just spent on books they probably won't read. 
They pace back and forth between the rows of books, searching for each class's required texts. Scholarship student-athletes need just to walk towards the student­athletes section of the book­store. 
"They've checked your schedule and they pull the books that you need and then they have it set aside in boxes," said Swanson. "You do have to return them, but you save so much money ­and they're all brand-new." 
Along with books, academ­ic services supply student­athletes with laptops so they can complete their work on 
the road. 
Image 
Student-athletes are seen in a different light because tof the emphasis on sports at Notre Dame. 
"The main difference is that people look at you in a more favorable light. In a classroom, the teachers say it's OK to give that person an extension because she's an athlete," said Swanson. "People are more willing to accept if you have a few shortcomings." 
Local establishments around town have the Women's Basketball poster up. so they recognize the women. Because of NCAA restrictions, the women can• not get discounts, but the people treat them really well. 
"Even if you're trying to get on campus, they say, 'oh, it's a woman basketball player.' We just get the wave to go ahead." said Swanson, "I feel bad saying that because people have major issues getting on campus with their cars, but that's how it is." 
have gone 
in. he probably would have done the same too," Battle said. 
But some athletes resent the "dumb jock" image that is placed on student-athletes because for some, acade­mics are just as important as sports. 
"Professors understand that student-athletes also scored 1300 or 1400 on their SATs, but then there are some that need the extra help to make it," said Battle. 
Some student-athletes might need the extra acade­mic help from academic ser• vices and from their own professors. Other students also know that athletes trav­el a good part of the year and that they won't be able 


The Office -lo.-Students w,"th 'Disetbil,-fies is takiH9 applicedions -lo.-the -lollowi"9 pos,-fions fo.-fall 2001: 
Drivers, On-Campus Cart Transportation 3 -12 hours a week. Provide rides to class and residences halls for students with temporary injuries. Service operates on class schedule. Safety training required. 
On-Campus Cart Transportation Student Coordinator 12 hours a week. Supervises drivers and develops daily ride schedules. Safety training required. 
Textbook Recorder Flexible hours. Tape record textbooks and other class materials for students with visual impairments and dyslexia. 
Courier Flexible hours, 3 to 5 a week. Make deliveries and pick ups for the office oftime sensitive material. 
Ifyou are interested in any ofthese positions please stop by the Office at 109 Badin Hall. Ifyou have questions please call 631-7157. 
-~--------------------------------, 



ATION 
Tuesday, May I, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Socialists lose in Senegal election: 
Allies of Senegal's president claimed victory Monday in weekend legislative elections, wrest­ing control of parliament from the 40-year grip of the opposition Socialists. Unofficial results compiled by independent and government media appeared to back the claims by the rul­ing coalition of President Abdoula.ye Wade. 
Junta in talks with opposition: 
Myanmar's ruling junta said Monday it was pursuing reconciliation with democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi, insisting the overtures to the Nobel Peace Prize winner were not a "public relations stunt." The statement was the clearest sign yet of the junta's desire to end the political deadlock since the generals refused to hand over power to Suu Kyi's party after it won gen­eral elections in 1990. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Gunman kill 2, injures I: Two people were killed and one was in critical condition Sunday after being shot by at least two men in drive-by shootings in St. Louis, police said. A woman who was grazed by a bullet in one of the shootings was treated at a hospital and released. Police were searching for the men suspected in the shootings. They said that after the third shooting, the men got out of the car and ran. 
YMCA program deemed racist: 
Critics of a 75-year-old YMCA program that uses American Indian themes to foster bonds between parents and children say the pro­gram demeans Indian cultures. As many as 250,000 parents and children nationwide take part in the Y-Indian Guide Program, organiz­ing themselves in neighborhood tribes to make crafts, tell stories and participate in annual camp-outs. Some participants sport feather headdresses and face paint and greet each other with a burlesque "How-How" at meetings. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Anti-telemarketing law passed: A 
popular proposal designed to curb unwanted sales calls won approval, more than a year after lawmakers abruptly killed a similar bill. The legislation will allow residents to place their names on a quarterly list of people whose telephone numbers would be off-limits to telemarketers. The measure inc-ludes exemptions for charities, newspapers, insur­ance agents and real estate agents, so long as they use local employees rather than national telemarketing centers. 
Market Watch April 30 

Dow 10,734.97 -75.08 Jones 

Composite Volume:

~s~rt 
NIA 

AMEX: 951.78 +293 NASDAQ: 2,116.24 -+40.56 NYSE: 634.683 -281 S&P500: 1,249.46 -359 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) --5.77 -0.99 16.16 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +8.85 +1.38 16. 98 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +2.21 +1.00 46.15 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1.50 -0.26 17.12 JDS UNIPHASE (JOSU) +11.06 +2.13 21.39 
AFGHANISTAN 

Associated Press 
ISLAM QALA 
Tens of thousands of anguished Afghans fleeing drought and war are being turned away by neighbor­ing nations or forcibly returned to an inhos­pitable land where half a million people are refugees in their own country. 
The United Nations warns that the result will be catastrophic. 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Ruud Lubbers, arrived in Afghanistan on Monday from Iran, and made a tor­turous three-hour road journey from the Iranian border to Herat in western Afghanistan. 
Lubbers said on arrival that it is crucial that fight­ing stop between the rul­ing Taliban militia and rebels led by Ahmed Shah Massood so that refugees can return to their coun­try. 
"We think it is really insane ,to see the drought and the miserable condi­tions in Afghanistan and you still go on fighting," he said. "My plea to both the Taliban and to commander Massood will be to stop fighting at least for six months or one year to give us an opportunity to help." 
He said the United Nations would like to see more aid but "it is too sim­ple to blame the interna­tional community. There is a sort of hopelessness because there have been so many diplomatic and foreign missions and still the fighting continues." 
Lubbers was driven up to the border in a white Mercedes and then walked across the frontier, a deso­late, barren, wind-swept desert where dozens of trucks loaded with fruit, sugar and tires roll across into Afghanistan. 
He was met by a Taliban guard of honor and U .N. officials. A small boy pre­sented a red flower to the former Dutch prime minis­ter. 
Taliban deputy minister for martyrs and refugees, Rehmatullah Wahidyar, told reporters that they need camps "so that there will not be any more need for our people to cross into Iran and into Pakistan." 
Most of those at the Safed Sang camp in Iran, which Lubbers visited, are likely to be deported. 
The Iranian government has deported 20,000 Afghan refugees this year, said Hans-Christian Poulsen, U.N. regional coordination officer in Herat, in western Afghanistan. 
Millionaire docks at space station 
• cosmonaut Talgat Musabayev at the of this week to allow time for "enter­
Associated Pres$ 
controls. taining," as one NASA manager 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. A Russian flight controller asked described it over the weekend. 
A Russian spacecraft carrying how Tito, the world's first space Tito is paying as much as $20 mil­California millionaire Dennis Tito tourist, was doing. "He's doing fine." lion for this adventure of a lifetime. pulled up to the international space Musabayev replied. All the money is going to Russian 
station on Monday, within hours of The Soyuz's arrival marked the space officials; neither NASA nor any space shuttle Endeavour's depar­beginning of six days of anxious of the other space station partners ture. monitoring by NASA, who opposed get a cut. 
The Soyuz capsule docked just Tito's visit for months on safety Tito, Musabayev, his commander, before 4 a.m., ending a two-day jour­grounds and capitulated just last and flight engineer Yuri Baturin ney that began in Kazakstan. week. were undoubtedly thrilled to reach 
NASA broadcast the 245-mile-high Alpha's three residents were under space station Alpha, a palace com­linkup, using the gray and grainy orders to conduct safety briefings pared with the cramped, spartan images provided by Russian Mission and emergency drills as soon as the Soyuz. They've already accomplished Control. The Soyuz -Tito's taxi -hatches opened. NASA cleared the their major objective: delivering a made its slow approach with Russian station crew's schedule for the rest fresh Soyuz lifeboat to the station. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, May l, 2001 
Sherry discusses flaws in 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy 
By ANDREW THAGARD  Although the ban prohibited homosexuals from serving, Sherry  the former president's reputation and resulted in the expulsion of  
Nl'Ws Wri1er  said that many still enlisted because  more homosexuals from the anned  
the policy was difficult to enforce,  forces. He criticized the policy for  
Bill Clinton's "Don't Ask, Don't  some commanders were gay and  fostering a false sense of hope and  
Tell" policy for gays in the military  there was a presence of homoerotic  establishing an unofficial rule into  
has actually harmed the gay rights  behavior in the institution.  law.  
movement, said Michael Sherry, a  Additionally, Sherry maintains that  "The 1993 debate was the first  
professor and historian at  the ban was hypocritical.  event to open up the 0oodgates of  
Northwestern University, in a  "The issue is not whether gay peo­ mistrust that characterized  
Monday night lecture.  ple could serve," Sherry said. "It is  [Clinton's tenn]," he said.  
"In many ways, this debate was  under what issues they will."  Sherry highlighted the similar  
not about gay men in the military,"  The issue, however, did not  arguments that conservatives used  
Sherry said. ''Men readily admitted  receive the sustained attention of the  in discriminating against gays in the  
that gay men served in the military.  public and lawmakers until 1993  military to their rejection of interra­ 
The focus was on how straight men  when then presidential candidate  cial integration decades earlier. He  
would act to the open presence of  Clinton made an "off-hand cam­ also maintained that the "Don't Ask,  
gay men."  paign promise to queer voters to end  Don't Tell policy" set back the rights  
Sherry discussed the environment  the ban," said Sherry.  of women in the military.  
surrounding the 1993 policy, a time  Members of the right wing fought  "Statistically. women were far  
he called ..a very weird moment in  the measure and some gay leaders  more likely to be expelled from the  
American history." According to  opposed the policy because they  armed forces for being gay than  
Sherry, the issue of unoflicial gov­ rejected the military in general.  men," Sherry said. "Relations of  
ernment policies excluding homo­ "In practice the new policy was  men dominated the surface of the  
sexuals in the armed forces originat­ just as bad, and probably worse.  debate, relations between men and  
ed during World War II. During this  then the old policy," Sherry said. "It  women drove much of the underly­ 
time, gays were banned from serv­ was also not clear that Ointon had  ing discussion."  TONY FLOYD/The Observer  
ing in the military and faced charges  the muscle to impose or enforce his  "There's been a considerable rise  Northwestern professor Michael Sherry finds the policy  
if their sexual orientation was dis­ order on the Pentagon."  since 1993 in the [dismissal) of  outlining the conditions under which gays can serve in  
covered.  Ultimately, he said that the policy  queer personnel," he added.  the military as weak and regressive.  
"Because ofthat ban. thousands of  was ineffective for Clinton  

gays were kicked out of the military and the gay military popu-~----------------------------------------. 
and prosecuted," Sherry said. lation because it damaged 

No Summer Plans ?? Here is a three credit _ service-learnin Internship 

~..:..·.--~' ~--· _-------_~:1111111 
• Service-Learning opportunity • $1,900 Scholarship/3 credits 
(additional $}000.00 from Americorps available)t·c -• 8 Weeks volunteer work with . IW,;c·
...·:{]--.... 

:.\.:,. ;:. au underserved population /Jlsf),,.~ s O c I A L • room and board provided " 
CONCERNS 

Sponsored by UND Alumni Clubs 
(ND Jtud•nr• only} 

Applications; Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available: 

Albuquerque Dismas House (community with ex-offenders) Columbus, GA Stewart Home (transitional home) Evansville, IN project of choke Hartford, CT House of Bread and Vermont camp (kids) Indianapolis, IN 2 -inner city summer day camps Kalamazoo migrant worker ministry -(Spanish needed) Marion, IN Family Services (abuse programs) Nappanee, IN Boys & Girls Club NW lndiana Clinic Omaha, NE Boystown -home for children (car) San Antonio Pre-Engineering program for H.S. minorities Savannah, GA St. Mary's Home for children (M -21 yr.) South Dakota homeless shelter & reservation youth camp Springfield, IL Women's Care & St. John's Hospital (F) Tulsa, OK Neighborhood project SLC, Utah Kidstart -homeless four year olds, pre-school Ventura, CA Emergency services (car) 
D.C. St. Ann's Infant and Maternity home 
+ others is.an Cook 1-7867 or Tra 1-9402 
THE WHOPPER SAYS:™ 
LET'S MAKE AMEAL. 


EXC/TIWG WEW HISTORY COURSES FOR FALL 2.001 
HIST 426 -·HISTORY OF MODERN FRANCE ­TH 12:30 -I:45 
HIST 439 MIN HISTORY OF CUBANS IN THE UNITED STATES, NINETEENTH AND 
lWENTIETH CENTURIES -MW 1:30 -2:45 
HIST 453 M -·PRE-MODERN JAPAN -MW 
1:30 -2:45 

HIST 455 M -CONCEPTS OF NATURE AND TH&-ENVIRONMENT IN JAPAN AND EUROPE 
J~::V/t_:3? -~:45 

Now for 99C you can get fries and a COKE® when you buy a WHOPPER® Sandwich. 
Come into BURGER KING® today and enjoy a medium order of crispy, golden brown fries, and an ice-cold medium soft drink for just 99¢ when you order a delicious flame-broiled WHOPPER~ 
In The Land Of Burgers, WHOPPER®ls King. 
For a limited time only. Price and participation may vary. 
The Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 
TM & fi;) 2001 Burger King Brands, Inc. All rights reserve<J 

Tuesday, May 1, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Doctors Without Borders 
Grad students earn awards 
Special to the Observer 

nurse calls others to action 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
Mary Lightfine brought the volunteer organization Doctors Without Borders to life Monday during a presentation of her work at Saint Mary's. The longtime volunteer nurse explained the aim of the project and passion for the work through slides and stories of her expe­rience. 
Lightfine hoped to reach out and convince her audience that caring for others was a vital part in improving conditions around the globe. 
"l want to get you to care about the world, care about your neighbor. Take that step to learn more," said Lightfine. 
Lightfine began by discussing her dream of going to Africa, and her wish to help people. These passions pro­pelled her into nursing and, in 1993, the program of 
and engi­

Doctors Without was trained to per­
"/ want to get you to care 
neering. would reduce

Borders, a Nobel form emergency
about the world, care 
Nominated

Peace Prize winning surgery. Family 
pollution
by their depart­emission by 80 

volunteer organization about your neighbor. Take members of 
that delivers help to patients even
that step to learn more. " 
ments, the

victims of war epi• became responsible 
percent demics others lacking for care. 
Shaheen 
. Eileen
Aw a rd

health care. Mary Ughtfine "Families gave Her first assignment volunteer, Doctors Without mo~t of th.!'l nursing 
winners McConnell: are chosen

was in Sri Lanka care," said
Borders 
for their analyses of the

where she was exposed to what she described as horrific living conditions. In those experiences of struggle, Lightfine found stories of hope. She told the story of a dying man that walked to the refugee camp and the only help she could offer was a bath. The man's wife chanted while washing and an interpreter present told Llghtfine the women was saying "God bless you." 
"I said don't God bless me, God bless you," Lightfine said. "This is my job; you carried him here. I gave her hope and I gave him some dignity." 
The man died two hours later. 
In her work, Lightfine not only had to 

• 
Four doctoral candidates sent to help, but also the death of col­
deal with the death of those she was 
at Notre Dame have leagues, part of the reality of war. 
received the 2001 Eli J. Sent to Burundi to help with the 
and Helen· Shaheen cholera outbreak, Lightfine came face 
Graduate School Awards. to face with the ongoing war between 
Named in R . , ts 
honor of a ecipaen

the Hutus and Tutsis. Lightfine eX:plained that many Hutus live on 
N o t r e . Reka Albert: refugee camps and lack the necessary 
D a m e 
research offers 
alumnus

food supply. 
key findings in

and his appalling," said Lightfine. 
"Their sanitary condition are 
wife, the cancer In the same light, Llghtfine talked of 
award rec­
ognizes the . Monica Brady:-her time in Somalia during times of 

top gradu-studied the Dead

governmental upheaval. Doctors and nurses were forced to practice without 
ating doc­
Sea Scrolls 
t o r a 1electricity and needed medical sup­

systematically

degree patients even became a struggle. 
plies. In light of the war, taking care of 
recipients for the first time "It was so dangerous we could not 
in the 
h u m a n i _ . Jason Keith:

travel to health services with out 
ties, social spurred design

armed guards," said Lightfine. When area doctors fled the war torn area, 
sciences, 
of aconverter anyone interested 
science 
system that 
Llghtfine. 
s up e r i or growth Hispanic

Lightfine also worked in South Sudan, where the 
ability as population political structure teetered on breaking 
exhibited by grades, research and

into a war over natural resources. "I was forced to step over bodies of 
publication records, fel­famine victims so that I could supervise 
lowships and other the feedings of hundred of malnour­
awards received during ished and dehydrated children a day. 
the course of study at Notre Dame, and teachingDozens died before my eyes," said ability. ...

Llghtfine. Although her experiences speak to 
Reka Albert, a doctoral human tragedy and war, Lightfine also 
candidate in physics, explained how they speak to the reality 
wrote her dissertation, of people's every day lives. "Statistical Physics of 
Complex Networks,"

She urges people to understand the truth of other's lives and care enough 
under the direction of to want to know more. 
Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, 
¦ 


THURSDAY MAY 3: FRIDAY MAY 4: SATURDAY MAY 5: SUNDAY MAY 6: 
Emil T. Hofman Professor of Physics. She already has had four papers pub­lished in prestigious jour­nals -three in Nature (one of which was fea­tured on the cover) and one in Science. 
By investigating the. typology of the World Wide Web, Internet, cellu­lar and social networks, Albert has discovered that networks in nature follow a common blueprint. 
In a recent paper in Nature, three prominent cancer researchers pro• posed that her work offers the key to understanding within a single framework the over 17,000 papers on the role of the p53 tumor­suppressing gene in cell death and the develop­ment of cancer. 
Monica Brady, a doctor­al candidate in theology, wrote her dissertation, "Prophetic Traditions at Qumran: A Study of 4Q383-4Q391," under the direction of James 
VanderKam,  John  A.  
O'Brien  Professor  of  
Theology.  

In her dissertation on the Dead Sea Scrolls, she organized a large set of scroll fragments, studied them systematically for the first time, and offered an original interpretive framework for under­standing their origins. 
Her dissertation has been accepted for publica­tion by the E.J. Brill Publishing Company in the Netherlands in its distin­guished series Studies on the Texts of the Desert of Judah. 
Jason Keith, a doctoral candidate in chemical engineering, wrote his dis­sertation, "Novel Reactor Designs for Pollution Reduction Utilizing Enhanced Transient Thermal Dispersion," under the direction of Hsueh-Chia Chang, Bayer Professor of Engineering, and David Leighton, Professor of Chemical Engineering. 
Keith's research improved the dynamics of several important reactors and also examined the ignition dynamics of cat­alytic converters. The later research resulted in the design of a converter system that would reduce pollution emission by 80 percent and would meet most new clean air laws. 
Keith's catalytic convert­er, which is now on dis­play in the Eck Center, has generated considerable interest from the auto industry in Michigan. where he is now an assis­tant professor at Michigan Tech. 
Eileen McConnell. a doc­toral candidate in sociolo­gy, wrote her dissertation. "The Influence of Context: Regional Analyses of the Mexican Immigrant Experience in the United States," under the direc­tion of Felicia LeClere, associate professor of soci­ology. 
McConnell's dissertation focuses on the regional factors affecting the Mexican immigrant expe­rience in the United States. In a Census Bureau-funded research project, she will use the recently released census 2000 data to provide a comprehensive descriptive and analytical picture of Hispanics and will identify the components of change for this population between 1900 and 2000. 
After earning his bache­lor's and law degrees from Notre Dame in 1934 and 1936, Eli Shaheen taught at the University for five years then served as an officer in the Army during World War II. Shaheen was an honorary member of the Notre Dame Monogram Club and served as secretary/trea­surer. trustee and advisor to the Notre Dame Council ·of the Knights of Columbus 
for more than 50 years. 
Shaheen, who died in 
1993, and his wife, Helen, 
supported the University 
in many ways_ including 
four fellowships in the law 
school, the Shaheen­
Mestrovic Memorial on 
campus and the Eli J. and 
Helen Shaheen 
Endowment in 
Architecture. 

OPEN 6:30AM CLOSE 10:00Pl\tl OPEN 6:30Al\tl CLOSE 3:00Al\tl OPEN 10:00AM CLOSE 3:00AM OPEN 1:00PM CLOSE 3:00AM 


10:00pm FREE LATE NIGHT SNACKSU!I 
¦ 
¦ 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, May l, 200 l 

FORTUNE® 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR~ 

FORTUNEa 
2000 
FORTUNE
1on~ re~~ 1999 
~PANIES TO WORK FOR 

History ha·s a way of repeating itself. Pretty cool, huh? 
For three years in a row, we've been named one of the 100 Best Companies To Work For. With real opportunities for leadership and advancement, perhaps you'll want to join us as we go for four. 


-· -· ·--· 

Tuesday, May 1, 2001 page 9
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Campout 
continued from page 1 
stereos, playing Bob Dylan, Grateful Dead and other bands reminiscent of the protest era of the 1960s and '?Os. As midnight approached. more and more students began to emerge from the comfort of their dorm rooms to the grassy area around South Quad's flagpole. 
The group of nine on the Quad at 10 p.m. grew to about 100 at 11 :30 and to about 200 at midnight. Many of the campers were expected to remain on the quad until the sleepout's 10 a.m. end today. 
The students spent time together, even fe}l asleep together -activities they could not do in their dorm rooms under the current visit­ing hour regulations. 
Brooke Norton, student body president, attended the protest and was happy with the turnout. 
"I think the students have shown unity tonight. It's a really important thing that they've come together to sup­port this cause," Norton said. 
Several priests also ma.de appearances in support of the campout. 
All students in the area, however. did not support the protest or agree that parietal hours should be extended. One biology major, walking through the area, complained that an extension would make it more difficult for those who want to study or sleep. 
"It's frustrating when you need to study and others in easier majors are having a drinking party. It really puts people in a difficult situation to be the loser that studies and has to go into a room and say, 'Guys. can you quiet down?' It really makes you the bad guy, and I don't think that's fair," said the student, wishing to remain anonymous. 
Others criticized the motives of the protest, drawing com­parisons to the current Harvard sit-in demanding a living wage for Harvard work­ers. The issue of parietals extension was seen as much more inconsequential. 
Whetzel addressed this, say­ing, "At Harvard, they're a lot more open and they allow their students to do things like this." 
Parietals are the 
overnight protest. 
A letter also ran in yester­days Viewpoint section outlin­ing the organizers position and calling on students to sleep uut in protest. 
Notre Dame's police force planned to have an enhanced staff available last night, but would not give an exact num­ber of officers. Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police, said that offi­cers would do whats neces­
sary to  keep the peace and  
safety.  
"There'll be no  
alcohol. There'll  


hours dur· "I think [the protest} rep­be no fires. ing which There'll be no
resents a realfrustration 
opposite­amplified sound.
among the students that
sex visita­tion is allowed in N o t r e Dames res­idence h a I l s . Currently. such visi­
they are not being heard." 
Stuart Greene English associate professor 

tation is allowed from 10 a.m to midnight on weekdays and 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. 
Last night's protest was organized in response to a vote in the Campus Life Council (CLC) last week that went against a student-spon­sored resolution on parietals extension. 
The vote divided between students and faculty in favor and rectors and Bill Kirk, the only administrator on the council, against. 
The failed resolution stated support for extending pari­etals one hour from midnight to 1 a.m. on weekdays. 
A similar resolution was passed by the _CLC supporting an extension of parietals on weekday mornings -from 10 
a.m. to 9 a.m. 
Pamphlets were handed out Friday and Monday calling on students to take part in the [The protest] can't disrupt any other activi­ties happening on campus," Rakow said. 
There were four officers sta­tioned on the 
protest site before 10 p.m. Officers maintained a pres­ence throughout the night, but expressed respect, not antago­nism, toward student efforts. 
"I've been here 14 years, and I've learned that we've got the greatest students in the world," said Officer Dan Kavanaugh. "When they believe strongly in something, they know the right way to go about it." 
Notre Dame landscaping had planned to run the sprinkler system for thl:l first time around 10:30 p.m., but promised to shut them off upon learning of the planned protest. 
Asked why last night was selected to be the inaugural run of the sprinklers, William Thistlethwaite, superintendent of landscaping, replied, "I just decided the grass was dry. 
"It had nothing to do with the protest. It was purely 

OFF CAMPUS SECURITY INFORMATION SESSION 
with Rex Rakow, asst. director, NDSP 
Present and future off campus students are welcome to come and join in an informative discussion about security precautions. 
• 
Pointers from Rex Rakow 

• 
Special Q&ASession with SBPD and NDSP Tuesday, May 1 7:00 p.m. 131 Debartolo 


Saint Mary's creates new academic theme 
By EMILY WELSH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will be "Crossing Borders and Crossing Boundaries" in the 2000-2001 school year. 
As this academic calendar comes to a close, a commit­tee of personnel at Saint Mary's has decided on next year's academic theme. "Crossing Borders and Crossing Boundaries." The committee consisted of pro­fessors and staff from the First Year of Studies Office, the Office of Academic Affairs, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and Leaders of a New Indiana. 
"This theme takes us across the conventional lim­itations that exist everyday at the school." said English Professor Linnea Vacca. "Students cross borders in going to college as well as in their schooling by traveling from one class to 
"This theme will be at the
another Boundaries" c l a s s forefront in showing will also assist 
every­students how all ofthe in the adjust­
day. This ment that stu­
intellectual academics 
theme dents studying will be are interrelated. " abroad have at the· traveling to forefront other coun­
Linnea Vacca 
in show­tries and then
Eng1ish professor
ing stu­returning to 
decided upon for the upcom­ing year because the group is waiting for input from students and other faculty. This year's book. Under the Feet of Jesus, is being con­sidered again because it is applicable to many fields of study. 
The theatre department has already agreed to par­ticipate in the with the play they choose to perform in the coming academic year. It will push its audience to think beyond the conven­tional norm. 
This metaphor of crossing borders and boundaries may be used beyond the class­room with events around campus. 
"The beauty {of this theme] is that it can provide a lens for all students to look through when visiting the art gallery, attending the spiritual lecture series and Multicultural Affairs lecture series. "Crossing Borders and Crossing 
dents how all of the intellectual academics are interrelated." 
Vacca said she hopes the theme will unify the activi­ties of students who feel dis­jointed and programmed shifting between various classes 
Traditionally the group 
chooses a book that can be 
used in multiple curricu­
lums to achieve this unifica­
tion. A book has not been 
the United States," Vacca said. "Students leave their com­fort zones when studying abroad. They notice all that they have taken for granted in thinking others will be just like them. At the same time, they learn that they may have crossed borders with regard to cultural specifics but there are cul­tural similarities in all human beings." 





VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, May I, 2001 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You gotta learn that ifyou don't get it by midnight, chances are you ain't gonna get it, and ifyou do. it ain't worth it." 
Casey Stengel baseball manager 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame, IN 46556 024 Soum Dining Hall. Noerr Dune, IN 46556 
EDITOll IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespi<:  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOII  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOll: Jason McFarley V1EWl'OINT EDITOR: Pat McElw,:e 
SPORTS EDITOlll Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Myra McGrilf 
PHOTO EUIT0lll Peter Richardson 
AoVERUSING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 

AD DESIGN MANAGER; Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: i'ahvel Chin WEB A.DMINISTIIATOll• Adam Turner 
Col'lrTllOl..l.Ell: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANt.c.ER/Gmt:IW.. INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVF..R'nSINC.....................................631-6900/8840 
ob.crvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEl'........................................ 63I-4542 MANAGING ED1roR1AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obs news. I@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. vicwpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS.............. ,.........................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu ScENE................... , ..................................... 631-4540 obscrvcr.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AnMINlSTRA.TORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi1 our Web sice at http:llob,=.nd.rdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fcarurcs and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from th<: Associa1ed Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/mwic for
wachcr for up-ro-the 
minuce forecasts 
wcd<ly student reviews 
advcnisc for policies 
online feanucs for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives 10 search for 
aboul The Obsen,er 
articles published afta 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is me indcpenden1, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the scudents ofthe Univcrsicy of Noire Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conccm, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminiscracion ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves 1he riglu to refuse adverrisanents based on con1en1. 
The news is rcponcd as accurately and objectively as po..ible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 1hc majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assis&u1t Managing Ediior and department editors. Commentarics. letrcrs and columns present the views of the auchors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available 10 all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters 10 me Edi1or must be signed and must include conr.u:r information. 
Qunticns ~11r,/ing Obr=erpolicin ,hould b, dirn:t­d to F.,/it,,r in ChiefMilrr C,,n11JJ!JJ. 
' 
lQ nn LDL}.:tlll l
7nn1n1 . 
. I Cl , 
Ex Corde is a Catholic necessity 

Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the constitution on Catholic higher education issued by John Paul II in 1990. will go into effect in the United States this month. The Vatican and the American Catholic bishops have worked out an 
application of Ex Corde to the United States which emphasizes dia• logue rather than confrontation. 
The requirements of Ex Corde as spelled out in the bishops' 


Application are Charles E. Rice hardly oppres­sive. The contro­versy has focused Right or on the rights of Wrong?faculty and of the universities them­selves. But Ex Corde and the applica­tion are really a students' bill of rights. The local bishop has a duty to "watch over the ... Catholic character of the university." The bishops do not run the place but "they should be ... participants in the life of the Catholic university." The bishop is concerned with the rights of all involved, includ­ing students: "Catholic students have a right to ... instruction in authentic Catholic doctrine and practice [and) to be provided with opportunities to practice the faith." Students' rights are implicated also in the requirement that "The university should strive to ... appoint Catholics as professors so that, to the extent possible, those committed to the witness of the faith will constitute a majority of the facul­ty. All professors are expected to be ... committed to the Catholic mission and identity of their institutions." 
The most controversial point in the application is that "Catholics who teach the theological disciplines in a Catholic university are required to have a mandatum granted by compe• tent ecclesiastical authority." The mandatum is not an appointment. It acknowledges merely that a Catholic theology professor "is a teacher with• in the full communion of the Catholic Church." 
All these requirements protect stu­dents' rights through the principle of truth in labeling. A university that claims to be "Catholic" ought to be such as that term is defined by the pope, the only person on earth with the authority to define it conclusively. But what will be the effect of Ex Corde? It is fair to speculate that, in addition to the emerging technologies of "distance education," potential stu­dents will have four main alternatives: 
1. Some major Catholic colleges and universities will reject Ex Corde for­mally or in practice. Some will be committed to the model of the secular research university, especially in fac­ulty and student recruitment. 
They may have a Catholic presence and student groups and individual faculty with Catholic interests. They will profess their "Catholic" character, especially to potential Catholic donors. But the evidence of that character will become anecdotal and marginal because the institution will be cut off from active communion with the Church. Those "Catholic Lite" univer­sities will be pretentious and expen­sive. They will retain an upscale con• stituency. But for those who want the real Catholic thing, they will not be worth the money. As secular, they will never be among the best. As "Catholic," they will become irrele­vant. 
2. 
Some Catholic colleges and uni­versities, including some major research universities, will accept Ex Corde and will seriously try to imple­ment it. 

3. 
Institutions such as Franciscan University of Steubenville, Christendom College, Ave Maria University, Thomas Aquinas College in California and others enthusiastically accept fix Corde. They offer on a smaller scale an excellent Catholic lib­eral acts education at a much lower 


cost than the major institutions. 
4. Catholic centers at secular insti• tutions may be a window on the future, enabling students to integrate their studies into a Catholic intellectu­al and spiritual life. For in-state stu­dents at state universities, this may be a way to achieve a sound Catholic for­mation without heavy debt. One example is the Newman Foundation at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana. where 12,000 of the 35,000 students are Catholic. The Foundation includes St. John's Catholic Chapel, the Newman Library· for research and study, residence halls for men and for women, with a dining hall, computer lab and 350 stu• dents in residence, and four religion courses which students may take for university credit. The chapel seats 800, with six Masses on Sunday and three each weekday, including a Spanish Mass. 
Such centers fill a need, especially for non-wealthy Catholic students. 
"It is certainly easier," said Father Hesburgh two decades ago, "just to be a great university, and not to worry about being a Catholic university as well." But the great universities were Catholic in their origin. Only a Catholic university can really be great, because, as Ex Corde put it, "by its Catholic character a university is made more capable of conducting an impartial search for truth, a search that is neither subordinated to nor conditioned by particular interests of any kind." 
This is a time for choosing, for truth in labeling, requiring every college or university that claims to be "Catholic" to put up or shut up. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School f acuity. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces• sarily those ofThe Observer. 


·-· -· 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, May l, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Parietals protests draw criticism 
There are better 
Over-zealous activists 

things to protest 
annoy student 
I would like to take a moment to thank the

I am writing in response to those who find it worthy to protest pari­
etals. I would like to offer advice: stand up for something that might actu­
kind flier distributor outside of DeBartolo 

ally be worthy of a protest. And I like how you call it a protest when 
who this morning aided my ongoing quest to 


that the parietals campout will accomplish anything. I just think you should take a step back and look around in the world. Take up a more noble cause -trust me, there are more important issues than that of the addition of an hour or two to parietals. 
Ben Powers 
junior Alumni Hall April 30, 2001 
suddenly attuned me to the fact that the presence of boys in my room for another hour during the week would completely enrich my life, along with solving gender issues on campus. What boy wouldn't respect me more if he could stay long enough to watch not only Almost Famous but also half of Dirty Dancing? Clearly, no guy would sexually assault or disparage a girl with such amazing powers of procrasti­nation -especially if she wasn't even in the room with him (because she was at Lafortune or the library or a charming off­campus establishment). 
What was wrong with me? I have no idea -but I do know that I owe this exemplary young woman my heart-felt gratitude. Without her loving input, I may well have made the horrendous mistake of personally deciding that I can deal with parietals and should really write some of the 40 pages I have due on Wednesday instead of sitting on South Quad all night. Her deferential and polite response to my choice to turn down her flier sharply contrasted with the appalling lack of respect that administrators show for student opinion. To my mystery savior: thank you so much for helping to encourage respectful dialogue at Notre Dame. 
Brigid Sweeney 
sophomore Pasquerilla West April 30, 200 I 
)) 
) . / 

Understanding ultimate and those who play it 


In his personification of a frisbee that appeared in yesterday's edition of The Observer, Jeff Baltruzak wrote in a column, 'Tm associated with people that don't ever wear shoes and go to Phish concerts all the time. Maybe that's why ultimate hasn't become a major sport. Football players all wear cleats after all." 
Over the past four years. there have been recurrent references, both in Scholastic and The Observer, to the Notre Dame ultimate team as bare­foot, longhaired, pot-smoking degen­erates who litter the quad like empty Heineken bottles after a Phish concert. 
Although I expect that few people (apart from those that are close friends of members of both the men's and women's teams) are aware, both squads traveled this past weekend to Ohio State University to participate in the regional tournament. Regionals consist of the top 16 teams from Ohio, Illinois and Indiana competing for two bids to the national tournament, held in Boston on Memorial Day weekend. My hopes to make back-to-back appearances at nationals ended yes­terday when we lost a tight game 17­16 to OSU. 
As a team, we have been training and practicing since September and have traveled to tournaments from Stanford University to UNC­Wilmington nearly every weekend since spring break. In contrast to the implications of Mr. Baltruzak, we did not invest all of that time and travel those distances to frolic around bare­foot or get stoned. 
To return to Notre Dame the day after a heartbreaking loss that ended our season to find that the University paper has printed such remarks is both saddening and terribly insulting. 
lf I were to write a column to The Observer, even in jest, criticizing the appearance of the Notre Dame football team or comparing them to the legion of kids who toss footballs around after class, I doubt it would take more than an hour before my car was vandalized, the windows in my house broken and my personal safety threatened. The simple fact is that I would never do such a thing. 
Although I may not agree with this University's obsession with Division I athletics, as a student athlete I would never, even for a second, criticize or make fun of any member of one of these teams. The amount of personal sacrifice and strength required of them is substanJal and I have an enormous amount of respect for any person, no matter what his gifts, who commits himself completely to any worthwhile endeavor, be it playing Notre Dame football or teaching English at L~ Casa de Amistad. 
It is unfortunate that my sport has a cloudy reputation that has been per­petuated by close-minded nonsense such as that proposed by Mr. Baltruzak, and perhaps furthered by the relative silence of the ultimate club. As I prepare to graduate from this fine (albeit frequently regressive) institution and my role as a member of the Notre Dame ultimate team is fin­ished, I would like to encourage the Notre Dame community to continue to support those students who partic­ipate in clubs and organizations that frequently go unnoticed, and further­more, to not tolerate mindless drivel like Jeff Baltruzak's being said, much less printed. 
Steve Hemkens senior 
off-campus April 30, 200 I 
, .................... ......... , ............ ............... . 
_. , 

C<tnec 

page 12 Tuesday, May 1, 200 I 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Cave takes smoky style to limit on No More 
By GEOFFREY RAHIE 
Scene Music Critic 
Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds has been known throughout the '80s a.nd '90s for crafting heartfelt, poetic compositions that appeal to the artsy crowd. No More Shall We Part is the group's first album of new material since 1997, and it seems as if Cave and his band are feeling especially reflective. The album is a tribute to love and its joyous and often crushing qualities. 
The disc kicks off with a beautiful piano line by Cave that is reminiscent of early Tori Amos. The piano in "As I Sat Sadly by Her Side" flutters in and out, weaving textures that a guitar would be hard­pressed to copy. Almost all of the tracks are based around Cave's piano playing, leaving the listener feeling as if Cave could have performed all of these songs solo in a smoky piano bar. 
But that is not meant to take anything away from The Bad Seeds. Cave's band is versatile and cha!­

lenging throughout the entire effort. This large band consists of two guitars, drums, bass, organ, violin and female backing vocals. The ensemble accentuates Cave's piano figures and vocal stylings. The violinist Warren Ellis is the biggest treat of the bunch, weav­ing in and out of the song struc­tures with earthy string work. 
The sentimental value of the album's lyrics does not bring the disc down, but rather gives the release a different feeling from other rock albums. Cave describes his love with so many words that the lyrical content does not get overdone: "A wicked wind whips up the hill/ A handful of hopeful words/ 1 love her and I always will/ The sky is ready to burst." Cave's words are a nice break 
from the over-simpli­

fied words of currentNo More Shall rock music. However, the record is hard to take in
We Part 

just one sitting. After the fifth track, the Nick Cave and album really just starts to sound the same. A typical track starts with a
The Bad Seeds 
somber piano line, an entrance by the rest of the ensemble at a slow tempo
Reprise Records 
and haunting vocals. The beginning of the album is just fine, but one can only take so many songs about lost love or empty promises. Cave writes very good
Rating 
songs, but it seems as if he is not really capable of writing a complete album
,....... 
ready for the masses. If Cave wrote some different sounding 

By SAM DERHEIMER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
They are a dying breed. Heavy metal acts. Not rap/metal, not alternative rock (whatever that might be any­more). We're talking good 'ol straight head bangin', authority hatin' thrash rock. 
Long gone are the days when "Head Hanger's Ball" religiously aired Pantera and Anthrax to an audience ready to rip the furniture up from their own homes and trash the place. But based on its variety of hard-hitting, abrasive heavy metal. no one ever let the Miami-based quartet Endo in on the fact that the show was actually cancelled years ago. 
With its debut album, Evolve, Endo is crashing its way into a rock scene starving for anything with substance. Tackling subjects such as social alien­ation, depression and just pure unadul­terated anger, Endo has struck a cord with a pissed-off and discontent American youth. Former Nirvana front­man and alternative rock legend Kurt Cobain said it best: "Teenage angst has paid off well." And Endo is cashing in. 
More than anything, Evolve is the physical manifestation of the relentless and blind rage of lead singer Gil Bitton. 

Heavy metal may not be as prevalent as It once was, but from the pounding intensity of Endo's debut album, Evolve, It ls counting on a major revival. 

melodies and changed up a few of the instrumenta­tion on a few tracks, he would be able to write a killer disc. The band should be commended for hav­ing backup singers, but the two ladies do not even need to sing on the majority of the tracks. There is a difference between an instrument used for ornamen­tation and one used for domination. Their instru­ments -their voices -should be used for ornamen­tation. 
On a whole, the album is interesting to listen to. There are not many artists writing music like Cave. The work is reflective and thought provoking, but it also becomes tedious. Cave should be commended for his efforts, but maybe pushed a little harder to write more accessible music. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Heavy sound and angry attitude define Evolve 

Combine this with the pounding riffs of gui­tarist Eli Parker, a throbbing bassline pro­vided by bassist Zelick and the heavy beats of drummer Joel Suarez, then mix in just enough elements of hip-hip and techno to sound current, and say hello to Endo. 
The difference with Endo -and the difference in heavy metal music in gen­eral -from the metal bands that once 
ruled the air waves, is the addition of the completely twisted and demented. Acts like Marylin Manson have moved from sideshow freak acts to full blown musical influences. 
Both stylistically and lyrically, Evolve is wrought with traces of Manson's touch. "Listen" crackles with the very same emotionally angst-ridden senti­ments that made Manson's anthology of deranged righteousness, Anti-Christ Superstar, the Bible of social outcasts it is today. "Sell, sell everything's for sale/ hey there kid you're lookin' kind of pale/ victim of society's hell/ sell your soul for the dollar bill." 
The spacy. futuristic throngs and neo-industrial riffs that open "Suffer" don't have nearly the effect of adding dimension to the song they were included to produce. Bitton howls about the glory of dispair as his band explodes behind him in a thick frenzy of power cords and metallic energy, but ultimately, no redeeming or origi­nal rock 'n' roll quality is ever uncov­
erect. 
"Malice" literally erupts in standoff­ish anger and paranoia -before Bitton ever utters a single word. Though, not to be outdone, Bitton soon crashes into a song already volcanic 
enough with the thunderous chorus, "F*** your perfection!" Spoken as a true outsider. 
There is no doubt that Endo is com­prised of four young and talented rock musicians. The problem is, you can only ride so long on pure anger. Rarely do thrash bands portray much in the category of staying power. And unless Endo linds its nitch, its debut could very well also be its farewell. 
For now, teenage angst may be pay­ing off well enough, but Endo would be doing itself a_ big favor by paying even closer attent10n to the second half of Cobain's words, "Teenage angst has paid off well, now I'm bored and old." 
.-.1•, • •••••1,1&-ftG" .-.­
.-, I .• • , 


cctnec 

Tuesday, May I, 2001 page 13 
FEATURE COLUMN 
What makes a great American rock album? 
on the Fourth of July, as my and The Ghost of Tom Joad all Even when horses turn into Tree are robust and seductive. a candle. Chris Robinson, sup-
fellow residents of Glen contain compelling songs about ca.rs, the themes remain the At the height of the synthesiz-ported by two female backup Ellyn, Illinois. gather for our America and its people, but same, as the autobiographical er's reign over rock music, the singers, puts his whisky-coated town's firework display, my they belong on a different list. "Truckin"' shows. It takes a driving reso-voice to work on friends and I set up our instru-At the same time, Born in the true rock star to say: ''I'd like to nance of The songs about ments and U.S.A is too obvious. Here are get some sleep before I travel, Edge's ~itar at angels, demons amplifiers some albums you might not but if you've got a warrant, I the end of and the ever-elu-
Tim Bodony

in a nearby have thought about, but still guess you're gonna come in." "Where the sive cure for driveway. deserve the title of the Great But somehow, the earthy charm Streets Have No what ails ya'. As dusk American Rock Album. of this album allows .its stories Name" affirms Guitarists Rich 
Scene Music 

approaches, to become our stories as we the raw power Robinson and we rock. Critic The Grateful Dead -seek comfort in a country that of rock, and Marc Ford man-This year, American Beauty is perpetually on the run. remains one of age to sound instead of The name says it all. This the most beauti-both powerful stumbling through the same album exudes a go-where-the-U2 -The Joshua Tree ful sounds ever and subtle on jagged array of Phish songs and wind-blows-you spirit, especial-The Irishmen take a very dif-recorded. songs like "Thorn fully authentic Christina ly on the summertime epic ferent look at American roman-in my Pride" and Aguilera covers, "Sugar ticism. Pioneers of all kinds The Black Crowes -The "Sting Me" -just one of many I have proposed Magnolia." have been drawn to the great Southern Harmony and reasons why this album vali­that we perform, Throughout the open spaces of the West, where Musical Companion dates its title. in its entirety. album, Robert the streets have no name If the Dukes of Hazzard were the "Great Hunter's lyrics because they arc all paved with shopping for a new theme song, The list could go on to include American Rock vividly transport gold. But once they get there, fellow Georgians The Black garage rock classics like Album... us back to the after climbing the highest Crowes would be the ones to Weezer's first album or 
To qualify for America of Zane mountains, they this distinction, Grey and realize that they an album must Frederic still haven't satisfy one of the Remington, found what following two when despera-they're looking criteria: it has to dos earned their for. Yes, we be recorded by an American living off of tumbling dice and must acknowl­band -not necessarily about five-card stud. The characters edge the harsh America, but definitely captur-in songs like "Friend of the realities of this 
ing the country's spirit in its Devil" and "Candyman" are country, where sound -or written explicitly restless, always trying to stay fighter planes about America or the American one step ahead of the sheriff. bullet the blue condition, made by anyone. And They only seem to sleep out-sky over broken 
overall, the album must rock. doors, as they "listen to the workers and dying dreamers. secessionist causes. The fin-column are those ofthe author Bob Dylan's early records and river sing sweet songs" and try Though it is stark in its themes, ished product can both fire you and not necessarily those of Bruce Springsteen's Nebraska to forget about the last girl. the aesthetics of The Joshua up and make you want to light The Observer. 
·--·-----··------·--··-·· 
U2·•··· 
SoundTri 
Edwln;Mc
Black66W 
OasisJ~~,';; 
EricCtapto 
Ozzfest .WarpedTou 
G. Love.. an Blink is Blues Tra Common 
Black E *NSYN O.A.R: 
\>¾W~M
rric'·c1a' 
Jc1netl.·
C,owo9.·· 
provide it. On this R.E.M.'s Life's Rich Pageant. 
1992 release, the But according to my band-
Crowes cook up a mates, nothing captures sum-
smoldering caul-mer heat and the smell of 
dron of Southern grilled meat better than 
voodoo rock, Cosmo's Factory by Creedence 
mixing all that's Clearwater Revival. So if you 
good about Otis happen to be anywhere near 
Redding with all Lake Ellyn on the fourth, that 
that's good about just might be what you will 

Lynyrd Skynyrd hear. ­
-without bla­
tantly endorsing The views expressed in this 



midway 

and the Buffalo 
Sabres rediscov­ered their offense to avoid going down three games, beating the Pittsburgh Penguins 4-1 Monday night. 
The Sabres 


trailed 2-0 in the Woolley series and 1-0 in the second period until solving rookie goaltender Johan Hedberg twice in the third period. The Sabres added an empty-net goal in the final minute. 
Hedberg limited them to one goal in two Pittsburgh victories in Buffalo. 
Curtis Brown tied it at 13 :04 of the second period. and goalie Dominik Hasek then shut down Pittsburgh's ineffective offense before Woolley, a former Penguins player. got what proved to be the decisive goal at 9:51. 
Miroslav Satan carried the puck into the Penguins end, shot and missed, but grabbed his own rebound, allow­ing Doug Gilmour to steer the puck from behind the net to an open Woolley at the right side of the crease. It was Woolley's first playoff goal since June 8, 1999, during the Stanley Cup finals in Dallas and gave Buffalo its first lead of the series. 
Satan then prevented any Penguins comeback. with a wraparound goal at 
13:03 off a rebound after Maxim Afinogenov faked defenseman Darius Kasparaitis off his skates with a drive to the net. 
James Patrick added an empty-net 

goal to make it 4-1. 
The Sabres regained their offense just in time -they scored on only one of their first 64 shots in the series ­and after Hedberg, cheered on by thousands of fans wearing golden foam moose antlers in his honor, turned aside a flurry of Buffalo chances in the first 30 minutes. 
The Penguins' offense badly missed five-time NHL scoring champion Jaromir Jagr, who sat out his second successive game with a shoulder or rotator cuff problem. Pittsburgh also was without Josef Beranek (arm), who effectively replaced Jagr in Game 2. 
With the seldom used Rene Corbet unable to make up Jagr's missing offense on the Mario Lemieux line, the Penguins were held to 20 shots, only 12 after the first period. 
Game 4 will be Wednesday night in Pittsburgh, where the Penguins had been 8-1-3 against Buffalo since 1996 -with the only victory coming Dec. 2 -until Monday. 
Pittsburgh had plenty of good scor­ing chances despite being outshot 9-8 in the first period, clanging three shots off the posts, before taking a 1­0 lead for the third straight game. 
With Woolley in the box after a slashing penalty well behind the play, Andrew Ference's slap shot from the right point deflected off Kevin Stevens' stick at 5:34 of the second. 
With the Sabres now in real danger of going down 3-0, they responded by outshooting the Penguins 10-3 in the period and finally tied it on Brown's deflection off Ference's leg. 
Penguins defenseman Marc Bergevin couldn't clear the puck, and Brown put a hard shot on net from along the edge of the right circle that deflected past Hedberg inside the near post at 13:04 . 
Avalanche 4, Kings 3 
Milan Hedjuk had a goal and two assists and the Colorado Avalanche held off the Los Angeles Kings Monday night to take the lead in the Western Conference semifinal series. 
Peter Forsberg added a goal and an assist to help Colorado take a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series. The Avalanche won for the first time at Staples Center after going 0-4 during the two regular seasons at the 2-year­old arena. 
Game 4 is Wednesday night in Los Angeles. 
The Kings twice fell behind by two goals in the final period only to nar­row the gap each time, the last on Ziggy Palffy's score with 40 seconds remaining. 
Rob Blake opened the scoring against his former Los Angeles team­mates with a 65-foot slap shot that got past goalie Felix Potvin just 4: 33 into the game. 
After Forsberg snapped a 1-1 tie midway through the second period. Hedjuk made it 3-1 at 8:21 of the third period. 
Glen Murray scored for the Kings on a power play 1:39 later. 
Defenseman Jon Klemm restored Colorado's two-goal pad, which proved to be just enough, when he scored 34 seconds later. 
The Avalanche got their two goals on only three shots in the final period. 
Luc Robitaille had a goal and an assist for Los Angeles, which scored its first two goals on the power play. 
Klemm's first goal of the playoffs came after Alex Tanguay muscled around Jere Karalahti in the left cir­cle and threw the puck into the crease, where it bounced off the skate of Kings defenseman Mattias Norstrom and straight to Klemm. 
Murray chipped a backhander past Patrick Roy for his third playoff goal. 
Hedjuk scored his second goal of the postseason at the end of a 2-on-1 with Forsberg. Hedjuk beat Felix Potvin on the glove side at close range. 
Hoy faced 25 shots, 14 when the Kings dominated the action in the third period. The Avalanche took 21 shots at Potvin. 
Forsberg put Colorado ahead to stay when he knocked in a rebound over the sprawling Los Angeles goalie. 
Robitaille 's third goal of the post­season and first of the series came with the Kings holding a two-man advantage. After Blake was whistled for roughing Scott Thomas, Adam Foote drew a holding call, giving Los Angeles a 5-on-3 advantage for 1 :54. 
Seconds after Palffy's shot from the right side of the crease bounced off the left post, he slid a centering pass that Robitaille redirected into the net to tie it 1-1 with 39 seconds left in Blake's penalty and 3:43 remaining in the first period. 
Blake's goal, also his third of the postseason, came on a long shot that he didn't even seem to hit cleanly. At first, Potvin dropped to his knees and appeared to have squeezed the puck between his pads, but it somehow rolled across the goal line. 
The early score came on Colorado's fourth shot of the game. 
Colorado captain Joe Sakic, the NHL's second-leading scorer this year with 54 goals and 64 assists, went out with a shoulder injury after five shifts in the first period and did not return. Sakic had stitches between periods in Game 2 to close a wound caused by a Kings player's skate. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. m 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid.

CLASSIFIEDS 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Furniture for Sale (entertainment center w/ 27" TV and VCR (sepa­rate), desk, dresser, shelving unit, 
TICKETS 
etc.) all in great condition! Prices negotiable. Call Dustin @ 243­
4 U2 Tickets 4 May 4 1751. 
Fri. Before Derby Lexington, KY. WOODBRIDGE CONDO Call 243-1487 18199 Stoneridge -Apt F 
1239 sq. ft. $84,300, 3 bedrooms, 1 Need one ticket for graduation, call 1/2 baths, dining room, living room, Mike at 246-9085 for info. kitchen. Condo fee $165 per month. 
The Hickey Group-Karen castelluc-Need one ticket to graduation. Price cio 674-1682 
negotiable. Call 4-3760 
Relax and enjoy life in this beautiful 2 tickets for graduation needed. Will two bedroom condominium watch-pay $$$ Call Dustin @ 243-1751 ing the St. Joseph River. This North 
Shore Club condo, close to cam­pus, has a ceramic tiled entryway and kitchen floor, with mirrored bar, 
FOR SALE whirlpool bath, large bedrooms, 1.5 
baths and storage shed. Call '87 Saab 9000 Century 21 Goldstar office, 272­Bk, 4 door, sunroof, gd condition 2121 or 235-7207. Ask for John BRA0:251-1465 Beard. 
Looking for a car to drive locally? Europe $199 one way 1987 tand Ford Taurus in good con-Mexico/Carribbean or Central dition for sale. Great tor students America $250 round trip plus tax. living off campus who need a car to Other world wide destinations commute. Call Sally at 247-0691 cheap. If you can beat these prices 
start your own airline. Book tickets Moving off campus? Senior S11lling on line www.airtech.com or toll free bed, desk, anddresser. Great condi-(877)AIRTECH 
tlonl 
Please call 272-2796 or email 1428 Marigold Way Northshore mdunne@nd.edu Condo Close to NO. 1 Bdrm, 1 
bath, LR, DR & Kitchen include. All mWe have balls Ill appl. 1 car garage & large storage For Sale 9000 balls closet. Condo fees inc. ext. mainte-Suitable for dormroom ballpit nance, pool. tennis, club house, Contact arodrig6@nd.edu cable, gas heat, water, sewer, 
trash, water heater & water soften-Bunk Bed/Futon-er.$72.500 Call Doris 255-7862 Fits ND mattress on top, Duplex apartment 1 mile from cam­pus, good neighborhood. Downstairs large 2 BR $500/month. Upstairs 1 large BR Laundry avail­able for both. Landlord pays gas/water/trash. Mature seniors/grads preferred Call Tom 233-1604. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $180 per person. Furn. Summer/Fall 272-6306 
Pebbles of Brandywine Creek Bed and Breakfast Niles, 15 mins from Notre Dame 616-687-8924 www.PebblesofBWC.com 
EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom furnished executive suite Ncable & local phone, housekeeping included 
@ $60/night (footbalVgraduation weekend rates higher). (219) 271­6808 or e-mail: www.belleterre­suite@aot.com. ND Alum owned/managed. Near ND. 
Studio apartment in quiet neighbor• hood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo. Plus electric. Available June. Telephone 616-687-8924. 
Rent for fall semester 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & dryer, basement w/hot tub, new fur­nace, security system. Call to see 2TT-0636. 
Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house available to rent for fall semester. 2 full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to see 277-0636 

couch/double bed on bottom. $175 Looking to share/sublet summer or best offer. 243-1366. FOR RENT apartment. Will be performing 
internship in South Bend May 13 WATERBED-5 bedroom 2 baths 1 /2 mile from through August 18. Non-smoker. great for off-campus. $60. campus washer-dryer just remod-(419) 352-4136 Eric 2TT-7950 eled288-6383 (timgoodenow@yahoo.com) 
Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2 bath. Available June 1. 1-765-362­1040. Ask for John 
5-6 BR House, furnished, W/D, Popular location, 10-mo. Lease. 233-9947 
ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND Wild Irish Rose Inn 3mi north of campus 
•brkfst 
buffet ea AM 

•clean, 
comfortable & afford­able (2190 2TT-4303 or 


www.wildirishrose.com 
3 bdrm duplex 501/503 Eddy St. Appliances, W/O1 mile from cam­pus 273-8332 or 250-7080 
WANTED 
STUDENT/AMATUER PHOTOG­RAPHER wanted to photograph wedding at ND, May 12. Please have examples of work. Gall Elizabeth 4-1447 
FEMALE ROOMMATE ­DETROIT SUBURBS Join another '01 ND grad! Call Alison 4-2339 
SECRETARIAL WORK Part-Time/work at home-Word pro­cessing from dictation involving client case studies. Must have com­puter. Dictaphone provided. Call for info+interview, mornings M-Thur. Ask for Cindy. 287-3373 
Summer Sitter 2 families wt four children (5-8) seek mature student who enjoys children and will have fun creating activities at the pool, beach, muse-urns, library. Car a must. Close to ND. 9-5, M-F June 7 -Aug 24. Jennifer@ 235-6551. 
1 FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE 2-BEDROOM APT 
W/SENIOR FEMALE FOR NEXT PERSONAL 
YEAR. TURTLE CREEK. CALL 243-1487 
TOMORROW IS THE LAST REGU­ROOMMATE WANTED LAA ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER. 
For DC 2001-2002 Dillon senior going to school in DC great, now i get to Iii all this space next year is looking for a cool roo­mate to share apartment ok guys, last shoutout before the CALL4-0956 final 21, better make it count ­
sophomore managers, you've Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell rocked all year, its been fun. Good your apartment furniture (beds, luck tonightl desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors -Kronk ("have you seen my base-looking to buy. Call Nick 4-4716 if ball?) 
interested. 
Beth S -sorry about last week, Are you moving to the DETROIT hope this makes up for it -Bryan area? The Notre Dame Club of withaY 
Detroit would like to welcome you to out area and extend an invitation to Lisa needs braces join us at club events. Please join DENTAL PLAN! 
us this summer for a trip to the Second City Comedy Club, a golf What is the deal with the 15% of outing, monthly Happy Hours, a people that voted against moving Tiger Game outing, and much, parietals? 
much more! To get involved with the club please contact Rachel yankees suck 
Bradford-Smith (patandrachel@peoplepc.com) or Now ii you excuse me, I need to go AmyZwerk us the outhouse. (Amy.J.Zwerk@Accenture.com) or We don't have an outhouse. check out the club website MY TOOLSHEDI 
(http://alumni.nd.edu/-ndc­_deVhome.html). Thanks and best speaking of toolsheds... 
of luck. no, that's not very nice 
Weather for this week: Cloudy with a chance of Mike Lane we'll get letters 
Did you miss Chance at Love the I am a professional napper, I expect first time? Well, now you have a employment from you -BEST second Chance at Love. Come se JOB EVER this hilarious musical written by 2 
ND students. Question #33 II no one shows up for your class, Saturday, May 5th are you still pure evil? 
Washington Hall Tix $5 at the door that wasn't me CDs on sale at show wasn't me 

Tuesday, May 1, 2001 
The Observer . PAJD ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 
Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. 
C::.-.::Jfl'7 E \/4

ey.com/us/careers -:}Jj RNST3' 10LJNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 

©2001 ERNST & YOUNG LI, 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 1, 200 l 
NBA 

Duncan, Robinson lead Spurs over Timberwolves 
. San Antonio wins series 3-1 with 97-84 victory 
Associated Press 
Tim Duncan scored 24 points and David Robinson added 21 as the San Antonio Spurs wrapped up their first­r o u n d series against Minnesota with a 97­84 victory Monday night. 
T h e Spurs, 3-1 winners of the series. also knocked the Wolves out of the first round in 1999, before going on to win the NBA Litle. They will play the winner of the Dallas-Utah series. 
"It doesn't matter who we play." said Duncan, who also had 16 rebounds. "You can say that, and sometimes it does matter. This time, it real­ly doesn't. If Dallas comes back, that could take a 

on Timmy's

"We've ridden on
lot of them. 

back all sea­Utah would Timmy's back son, but when 
be fine, too." teams double­
all season." 
T h e 
team him we 
Wolves lost 

have guys who in the first Danny Ferry can shoot the 
round for 

Spurs guard ball." 
the fifth time in as many sea­sons. Their 0-5 series record in the play­offs is the worst among all NBA franchises. 
Minnesota's Anthony Peeler and Terrell Brandon, both scoreless in the first half, hit back-to-back 3-pointers with less than six minutes left as the Timberwolves rallied from a 10-point deficit to make it 75-73. The Spurs outscored the Wolves 22-11 the rest of the way, including a pair of baskets by Robinson that pushed the Spurs' lead to 79­73. 

"There was a tough stretch where we got into a slump there," said Robinson, who had 14 rebounds. "Coming back down the floor, I felt pretty good so I put them up there. 
"Finishing out this game means so much to me. We've still got to get beHer." 
The Wolves' Wally Szczerbiak scored 20 points, giving him 38 over the last two games. He was held to 18 points in the first two games of the series. 
Kevin Garnett added 19 points and 15 rebounds. and Brandon finished with 17. 
Robinson played the fourth period with four fouls. He picked up his fourth with 4:26 remaining in the third period, and the Spurs leading 63-57. 
They took a 71-63 lead into the fourth quarter, with the help of 3-pointers by Danny Ferry and Antonio Daniels. They both made four 3-point­ers for the game. 
Ferry finished with 18 points and Daniels had 16 to make up for a poor shooting night by Duncan, who was 8-for-23. 
"It was either a swish or an airball, it seems," Ferry said. "We've ridden 
T h e 
Timberwolves' 

guards missed their first 10 shots. Brandon and Peeler were a combined 0-for-6 in the first half, which ended with the Spurs leading 44-43. 
Reserves scored 17 of 19 points for the Spurs during a stretch between the first and second periods, boosting their lead to 31-26. 
Malik Rose scored the Spurs' final seven points of the first period, which ended at 19-19. Reserves Daniels, Rose and Samaki Walker combined to score 21 of the Spurs' 44 points in the first half. 
Snite Museum Shop End of School Year Sale 
15% off Everything in the shop 
Some items with even greater markdowns 
Come find the perfect Mother's Day or Graduation gift 
Today and Tomorrow Only Tuesday, May 1, 1Oam to 4pm Wednesday, May 2, 1Oam to 4pm 


As a Brother in the Congregation of Holy Cross you will share in a rich tradition of unselfish service and become a brother to many. 

,or more information about beginning a new life as a Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
e-mail: dgibbs@hcc-nd.edu 
(219)-251-2222 

Tuesday, May l, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page li 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday-Tuesday, April 30-May 1. 11:30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall · Eucharistic Adoration Auditionsfor Readers at Graduation Mass & Senior's Last Visit to the Grotto Tuesday, May 1, 4:00 p.m. and Wednesday, May 2, 12:00 noon Basilica of the Sacred Heart Wednesday. May 2. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Friday, May 4, 8:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights Friday, May 4, 12:00 midnight Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge Midnight Movie Sunday, May 6, 10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center RCIA Faith in Action Sunday. May 6. 1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Tom Bednar, csc Monday-Friday, May 7-11 103 Hesburgh Library Study Break: Coffee and Donut Holes Monday through Thursday: 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Friday: 8:00 a.m.-Noon Thursday, May 17, 9:00 p.m. ~ Don't Basilica of the Sacred Heart ~. Miss!!Senior Last Trip to the Grotto  
Campus Ministry Contact us or Drop by: Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 email ministry. l@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ ministry  

LAST DAY OF CLASS!!! 
Davi~ ilcox 
N C 0 N C E R T 

FREE SHOW! FREE Food & Drinks! 
Tomorrow On South Quad outside the Coleman-Morse Center SHOW STARTS at 5 p.m. 
Opening Acts: Justin Dunn & Danielle Sl~orich 
Coleman-Morse Center Dedication Kick-off 
I 
Reader Auditions 
Attention Seniors! 
Auditions for readers at the 
Graduation Mass & Senior's Last Visit to the Grotto 
will take place on Todqy at 4:00 p.m. or Tomorrow at 12:00 noon in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Ifyou have any questions please e-mail Steve Camilleri at Camilleri.4 
lnterfaa1h Chris-Calan Wednesdays at 1 O:00pm Niaht Prayer Morrissey Chapel thru Finals Week 

I 
, I 
t t 
I I 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 1, 2001 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Piazza's dinger powers Mets past Astros in 8-2 home win 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
•

Radke, Twins take down Pettitte, Yanks in 2-1 Will 
Associated Press 
Mike Piazza's three-run homer capped a five-run sixth inning and helped Steve Trachsel get his first win with the New York Mets, 8-2 over the Houston Astros on Monday night. 
After losing five of the final six games on a nine-game roadtrip, the National League champion Mets returned home with the worst record in the league. A rare offensive outburst and solid pitch­ing by Trachsel (1-4) helped straighten New York (10-15) out for at least one night. 

The Mets entered as the lowest scoring team in the majors with 81 runs in 24 games. The eight runs were the most for the Mets since beating Atlanta 9-4 in the home opener on April 9. It was also four more runs than New York had scored in Trachsel's first four starts. 
It took until the sixth inning for the Mets to break through against Scott Elarton (3-3). 
With the score tied at 1, Jay Payton led off with a double. Elarton retired the next two hitters and looked like he would thwart yet another Mets rally ­New York stranded eight runners in the first four innings. 
But Benny Agbayani worked a walk after falling behind 1-2. Timo Perez fol­lowed with a hard single off Elarton's foot, scoring Payton with the tiebreaking run. An RBI single by Edgardo Alfonzo made it 3-1 and ended Elarton's night after 123 pitches. 
Piazza, ejected for the first time in his career during Sunday's 12-1 loss at St. Louis, let out his frustration from the Mets' recent slide against reliever Kent Bottenfield. Piazza drove a 2-2 pitch off the scoreboard in right-center for his eighth homer to make it 6-1. 
Trachsel, a disaster at the start of his Mets' career, had his best start of the season. He allowed one run and six hits in six innings to lower his ERA from 

10.42 to 8.28. The right-hander, who signed a $7 million, two-year deal in the offseason with New York, struck out seven and walked one. 
Lance Berkman homered off Trachsel to lead off the second, drawing boos from the frustrated Shea Stadium crowd. 
After Todd Zeile's RBI single in the third tied the game, Trachsel pitched out of a first-and-third, no-out jam in the fourth. He struck out Chris Truby, got Jose Vizcaino to pop to shortstop, and retired Glen Barker on a groundout. 
Associated Press 
Brad Radke pitched his second complete game of the season and Doug Mientkiewicz hit a tiebreak­ing home run in the seventh inning as the Minnesota Twins beat the New York Yankees 2-1 on Monday night. 
Radke (5-0) became the first five-game winner in the major leagues by outdueling Andy Pettitte. Radke allowed six hits, including Tino Martinez's home run in the fourth, struck out four and walked one. 
The Twins improved to 11-2 at home and snapped the Yankees' three-game winning streak. 
Mientkiewicz, who extended his hitting streak to a career-high 13 games, drilled Pettitte's pitch into the bank of folded-up football seats in right-center field to give the Twins a 2-1 lead. Pettitte (3-3) had retired 15 of his last 16 hit­ters before Mientkiewicz. 
Pettitte gave up three hits and one walk in his second complete game of the season. He struck out a season-high eight. 
Pettitte, who lost to the Twins for the first time since 1998, had allowed 45 hits in 36 1-3 innings in his first five starts. 
The Yankees hit several balls hard against Radke, but many times right at a Twins fielder. Matt Lawton made a leaping catch against the right-field wall in the fifth to take an extra-base 

~ 
~. 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LI NCOLNWAYWEST 
hit away from Alfonso Soriano. 
The Twins (17 -6) have had 18 quality starts and are 16-2 in those games. Radke, a 20-game winner in 1997 who won only 12 in each of the last three seasons, has pitched at least seven full innings and allowed three runs or less in every outing. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre made a last-minute switch in the lineup, flip-flopping Martinez and David Justice in the fifth and sev­enth slots. Martinez responded, getting three hits -including his fifth home run with one out in the fourth to right field that tied the game at 1. 
The Twins took a 1-0 lead in the second Mientkiewicz's RBI single to drive in David Ortiz, who hit a double. 
Chuck Knoblauch walked to lead off the game amid hearty boos from the Metrodome crowd. Knoblauch, who played for the Twins from 1991-97 as a second baseman, made three putouts in left. 
Orioles 5, Devil Rays 3 
Brady Anderson and Melvin Mora. homered, and Willis Roberts won his third straight start as the Baltimore Orioles beat Tampa Bay. 
Anderson hit his 44th career leadoff homer on the fourth pitch from Paul Wilson to put Baltimore ahead for good. Mora's two-run drive sparked a three-run second 
NEED CASH? 
NEWDONORS EARN"$20TODAY· 
MENTION THIS AD FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a ­month in 2-4 hours a week 
inning that made it 4-0. 
Roberts (4-0), forced into the rotation after Sidney Ponson went on the disabled list two weeks ago, allowed three runs on four hits in six innings. The right-han­der is 3-0 with a 2.37 ERA 'in his three starts, defeating Tampa Bay twice and winning in Detroit. 
Roberts didn't pitch in the majors last year and was signed as a minor league free agent in November. He has accounted for one-third of the Orioles' 12 wins this season. 
Chad Paronto pitched two scoreless innings and Ryan Kohlmeier worked the ninth for his fifth save. 
Jose Guillen drove in two runs and Ben Grieve had two hits and scored twice for the Devil Rays, whose 8-18 record is the worst in the majors. 
After Anderson got the Orioles started in the first, Wilson (1-3) struggled with his control in the 
SUMMERJOBS t ENVIRONMENT 

If you ~e staying in the South Bend area this summer, The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to staff environmental and consumer rights campaigns. 
Citizens Action Coalition is atwenty-five year old citizens lobby organization. 
With 350,000 memben statewide, we routinely battle the largest utilities and polluten in Indiana on behalf of citizens...and win! Work on issues concerning fair utility rates, acleaner environmen~ campaign finance reform, affordable health care, and economic justice for Indiana,sfamily farmers. 
Work MMF 2M 1O:SO pm.P.Earn $350•$425/w~Work outdoors. Sleep Late~asual atmosphere...Serious work. 
Call z3z,.7905 for more information. 
c~ecY<. us out o~ t~e world wt~i web @www.cttact.Drg 
second. Jay Gibbons drew a lead­off walk and Mora homered, and the Orioles loaded the bases on two walks and a single before Delino DeShields hit a sacrifice fly. 
The Devil Rays used an RBI double by Fred McGriff and a run-scoring groundout by Guillen to close to 4-2 in the fourth. The Orioles got an unearned run in their half on a two-out throwing error by shortstop Felix Martinez and an infield single by Anderson. 
Guillen hit a sacrifice fly in the sixth. 
Wilson allowed four earned runs and six hits in 6 1-3 innings. his longest stint of the year. 
Royals 6, Blue Jays 3 
Mike Sweeney wouldn't mind hitting against the Toronto Blue Jays all the time. 
Sweeney hit his sixth homer of the year, all of them against Toronto, and the Kansas City Royals won their third straight over the Blue Jays. 

"It just happens to be that on the days I'm facing them I'm get­ting pitches to hit," Sweeney said. 'The guys gave me a hard time, but I'm just happy we won." 
Sweeney went 3-for-4 with two RBIs for the Royals, who won the season series 4-3. 
"Good riddance to Mike Sweeney," Toronto manager Buck Martinez said. "We just can't figure out Sweeney. We tried every approach." 
In seven games against the Jays, Sweeney went 13-for-27, a .481 pace, with 10 extra base hits and eight RBIs. For the season, he is batting .292. 
The game was originally sched­uled for April 12, but it was post­poned when chunks of SkyDome's roof fell to the ground in left field. 
Monday was supposed to be a day off for both teams. 
----------­ ----------------------------­ 
- - - 
Tuesday, May 1, 2001  The Observer . SPORTS  page 19  

Agent 
continued from page 24 
your apartment, 1'll fly out there. I'll get your cable. your water and your electric turned on. I'll get your first month's food. I'll go to the first game. Then I'll get on a plane and go back to Atlanta." 
To be able to concentrate on the on-field aspect of the game has proven essential for many of the so called "elite athletes" who fail upon entering the profes­sional ranks. In recent years, top NFL draft picks such as Curtis Enis and Ki-Jana Carter have seen their careers end prema­turely. 
"The NFL is not playing around any more," Jones said. "If you don't produce, you're not going to be there. They're not going to pay you all this money to have you sit on the bench and be a backup." 
With a career as a professional athlete vulnerable to ending at any second. Jones stresses to his clients the importance of not spending frivolously. 
"In the pros everything is accelerated because you have all the time, all the money to act on your intuition," Jones said. "In pro sports there's really no 'I can't do this.' There's no bound­ries and you have to have the right mindset." 
Where many athletes falter and end up penniless is in the transition from an athletic career that awards paychecks in the five figures to an alternate working life that has smaller, more reasonable, salaries. Jones thinks that if athletes can survive this transition, they can be set for life. 
"It's kind of hard to go from making $20,000 a month to making $4,000 a month," said Jones, who played for the Pittsburgh Steelers and Detroit Lions in the NFL. "It's a lifestyle change and that's another thing that we do. For us. we want to make that transition as smooth as possible. If you save the majority of that money, money's not the issue. That's a freedom that everybody should have." 
By taking care of its clients, Jones' company has proven suc­cessful and expanded. While rap stars such as Master P have failed in attempts to combine the entertainment and sports indus­tries, Columbia Records was eager to enter into the business relationship that formed So So Def Sports. 
"We went and approached them and the only reason that they really looked at our firm was the fact that we had been in business for eight years," Jones said. "We had already done $75 million worth of contracts before we came to them. They knew that we were a proven product in the marketplace." 
With such success already behind him at age 31, Jones has returned some of his attention to his alma mater, a place he Houston in the WNBA. But once Ivey met Jones, there was no decision to make. 
"I think he understood me and what I was going through. His being from Notre Dame was per­fect," Ivey said. "It's kind of a continuation from my coaches and who I've been working at at Notre Dame. I didn't even look at anybody else, honestly, after I talked to him." 
Jones found the WNBA negoti­ating process interesting. While contracts are flexible in the NFL and agents deal with team rep­resentatives. the WNBA presents a completely different animal. 
"The WNBA is unlike any other league because all the deals are negotiated with the league," Jones said. "In the NBA and pro football you negotiate with the individual teams. The reason they have you negotiate with the league is to keep the salaries down." 
Many WNBA players like Ivey, 
who was 
drafted in the 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Tigers sport losing record in April for 8th consecutive year 
Associated Pre.s 
New year. Same slow start. 
For an eighth consecutive season, the Detroit Tigers (8-15) 
have a losing record in April. 
The last time they were above .500 after a month was 
1993, which also is their last winning season. 
"It better get better soon," Bobby Higginson said, "or it's 
going to be over for us before we get to June." 
Detroit was expected to struggle this season, especially 
when it decided to trim about $5 million from the payroll to 
bring it to about $50 million. 
However, when low-budget teams such as Minnesota find 
ways to win, it makes it tougher to make money issues an 
excuse. 
Seeing former Tigers Luis Gonzalez, Juan Gonzalez and 
Hideo Nomo enjoy success this season doesn't help either. 
"We were criticized when we brought those guys here," 
said general manager Randy Smith, bristling at the criticism 
of his moves over six years. "And now we're criticized for let­
ting them go. It shouldn't be able to work both ways." 
Because of a lack of talent and depth, Detroit's margin for 
error is minuscule. 
The Tigers got away with some foolish baserunning in a 6-1 
win over Tampa Bay on Sunday, but such mistakes have hurt 
them against other teams. 
"We can't afford to make mistakes and still win, like some 
other teams can," Todd Jones said. "Our mistakes seem to 
turn into two or three runs for the other teams and all too 
often, we haven't made teams pay for mistakes against us. 
"I don't really know who we are yet. We show glimpses of 
decent play, then we show glimpses of playing horribly." 
Several key players have not been playing well. . 
Jones is 0-2 with five saves and a 7 .56 ERA, after becommg 
the first Tiger to win the Rolaids Relief Man Award last sea­
son. 
Damion Easley is batting .193 and Deivi Cruz is hitting 
.215. 
Center fielder Juan Encarnacion has compounded his prob­
lems defensively by batting .231. 
The Tigers only significant move in the offseason was trad­
ing catcher Brad Ausmus along with relievers Doug Brocail 
and Nelson Cruz to Houston for catcher Mitch Meluskey. out­
fielder Roger Cedeno and starter Chris Holt. 
Meluskey will miss the entire season with an injured ri~ht 
shoulder, which also ended his season after 10 games with 
the Astros two years ago. 
Cedeno, counted on to be a leadoff hitter, is batting .171. 
Holt has been relatively solid with a 2-2 record and 5.40 
ERA. 
Meluskey's injury was just the start of the Tigers' health 
problems. 
Dean Palmer, who hit a three-run homer Sunday after com­
ing off the disabled list, has played just sev~n g~mes. _Ace 
Brian Moehler started once, but has been sidelined smce 
April 6. Both have shoulder problems. 
Utility player Wendell Magee will miss the next four-to-six 
weeks with a broken bone in his left wrist, after leading the 
team with a .424 average. 


expects to find "In pro sports there's second round the quality type of the draft by 
really no 'I can't do-this.· 
of person his Indiana and is
There's no boundaries

company looks not expected to represent. and you have to haue to be her "We really team's star,
the right mindset." 

feel we have a coach or play unique oppor­overseas dur­tunity for the Andre Jones ing the offsea­right person," sports agent son. 
Jones said. "That's really what I'm all about and why I'm coming back to Notre Dame now." 
An arrangement already exist­ed between Washington and Jones during the NCM basket­ball season. As the Irish advanced to the championship, the WNBA draft, only two weeks after the Final Four, drew closer. But, as she was still playing, Ivey was not allowed to hire an agent. 
But Ivey was prepared. She had discussed possible agents with Washington, her point guard coach who plays for "If you're 
out of the first round you're basically making about $35,000 a year," Jones said. "It's a means to cure your off-season life and if you have the ability to play or coach then why not make money doing it." 
However, with the entertain­ment connections that So So Def offers, Jones could see Ivey mak­ing money in the off-season from venues away from the court. 
"There's a lot of things we can do with her that we couldn't do with somebody else, from the fact that she came out of Notre Dame and she's halfway attrac­tive," Jones said. 


page 20 
ROWING 

Irish take second in Big East Challenge 
By JOHN BACSIK 
Sports W ricer 
The women's rowing team had something to prove this weekend in Worcester, Mass. 
It wanted to show the Big East and the rest of the nation that it was not to be taken lightly as an opponent. and it was determined to make some rumblings in the water. 
The Irish took second place overall in the inaugural Big East Howing Challenge held on Lake Quinsigamond. The team com­peted against eight other Big East schools, including nationally ranked Syracuse and Rutgers. 
With temperatures in the 60s and mild winds, the Varsity Eight squad competed against talented squads from both Syracuse and Rutgers. The Irish battled Hutgers most of the way for sec­ond place, but they could not keep pace down the stretch, coming in a close third. 
The second Varsity Eight was not to be outdone by Rutgers though. They went ahead of the Scarlet Knights early, and came within one second of upsetting Syracuse. 
"Syracuse jumped out to an early lead, but we pulled close within the last 400 meters," said senior Leah Ashe. "This was one of the best races I've been involved in all season." 
Despite its youth and relative inexperience for some with row­ing, the Novice Eight has been far from a weak link for the Irish. They took second in their race in Worcester. coming within one half second of the Georgetown squad. 
With two boats entered in the Varsity Four race, the Irish placed third and fifth to complete the afternoon. 
The team continues to face tougher competition as they attempt to qualify for the NCMs. 
"Our main goal in the begin­ning of the season was to qualify for the NCAAs," said junior Katherine Burnett. "It was a bit abstract at first. but as the sea­son went on, we started to believe in it more and more." 
Finishing ahead of the higher ranked Rutgers was a step in the right direction for the team, and this momentum will be key as the team heads into the Central Region Championships. 
"The strength of this program is its ability to continuously strive for the best," said coxswain Claire Bula. "No one in the NG\A even thought we'd make it into the rankings this season." 
The squad hasn't seemed to mind their role as underdogs though this season. 
"When someone throws down a challenge, we just dig deeper," said Bula. "When it comes down to it, it's all about heart." 


av1• 


N -C 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 1, 2001 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame keeps top poll spot 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team has maintained its No. 1 ranking in the Collegiate Baseball magazine poll w hi 1 e a l s o moving into the top spot in the Baseball America poll and jumping to a No. 2 rank­ing in the USA Today/ESPN coaches poll, after winning five of six games last week to yield an overall record of 40-6-1 for the Irish. 
Notre Dame nearly gained consensus No. 1 status but Louisiana State (35-13-1) jumped from fifth to first in the coaches' poll, after a 5­0 week for the Tigers that included a three-game sweep at Alabama. Notre Dame -which was ranked fourth in last week's coach­es poll -actually received the most first place votes in this week's coaches poll (15 of 41, with LSU receiving 
14) but the Tigers collected 956 total points, followed by the Irish (930). Miami (904). last week's No. 1 Stanford (894) and Southern California (810). 

Each of the rankings is 
the highest ever for Notre 
Dame in each poll. 
Notre Dame maintained the same point total in the Collegiate Baseball poll 
(473) while LSU climbed from third to second place in the CB poll (rising from 463 points to 469) and Stanford (33-13) dropped from second to 6th. follow­ing a 1-3 week. The other top five teams in this week's CB poll include Cal State Fullerton (33 -11), USC (32­16) and Miami (35 -11). 
The Irish moved atop the Baseball America poll while Nebraska (35-12) fell from the top spot into fourth, after losing three games last week. LSU. Miami and USC round out the top five in the current BA poll. 
Notre Dame nearly joined Georgia Tech and Stanford as the only teams in 2001 to be ranked No. 1 in all three polls during the same week, with the Yellow Jackets holding that distinction in the preseason polls and again on Feb. 5, Feb. 26 and March 5 while the Cardinal were a consensus No. 1 on April 9 and 16. 
Notre Dame -which owns the nation's fourth­longest active streak of con­secutive seasons with 40 wins with 13, currently leads the Division I ranks in team ERA (2.51) while ranking just behind Stetson (40 -6) for the nation's top winning percentage, at .862. The Irish have won 19 of their last 20 games while batting .338 as a team dur­ing that 20 -game stretch. 
The Irish rolled to 20 vic­tories and just two losses during the month of April ­highlighted by three-game sweeps on the road versus two of the top teams in the Big East Conference. defending champion Rutgers and St. John's (for perspective, the previous five ND teams combined to post just two three-game road sweeps in Big East play). 
The baseball team last week became the fourth Notre Dame sport to earn a No. 1 national ranking in 2000-01, with the others including the women's soc­cer team. the men's fencing squad and the national championship women's bas­ketball team. 
CORRECTION 
The picture of the Notre Dame softball team that appeared Monday was incor­rectly identified as having been taken this season. The photo came from the 2000 season. 
The Observer regrets the error . 

cox 
0 N C E R T 

h I 
' 
CoJel})an_111
.LVJorse
D
edicat·101) 
Kick-Off 

FREE SHOW! FREE FOOD! 

Tomorrow On South Quad outside the Coleman-Morse Center
C-M 

Campus Ministry SHOW STARTS at 5 p.m. 
Tuesday, May 1, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

NBA 
Dunleavy's job status uncertain 
Associated Press 
Mike Dunleavy's job is safe -for at least another week, anyway. 
The Portland Trail Blazers' late-season collapse, which ended with a first-round play­off sweep by the Los Angeles Lakers, brought speculation that the coach would be the fall guy. 
President and general man­ager Bol> Whitsitt said Monday that nothing has been decided, and took the blame for the making a series of personnel moves that backfired. 
"The things that didn't work out, that's my responsibility," he said. ''That's my fault. I'm in charge of everything that goes on in this organization, and I feel bad." 
Dunleavy, the 1999 coach of the year. met with Whitsitt after Sunday's loss and again Monday afternoon, and Whitsitt said he would decide soon what changes to make. 
"We tried to both talk about the season, the last several years. where we are, where we're going. but the main thing is, we both agreed the 
rvoTED#1 
. bypeople
I whoknow 
I tanning! 
I I 1111
I I I 
~~ ..
· 

best thing is. let's get out of here for a week or two," Whitsitt said. 
'Tm sure Mike's as frustrat­ed as I am and more so, because going into the season, we were all trying to get to the top of the mountain." 
For the first time in his seven seasons with the Blazers, Whitsitt's job status also was uncertain. But Whitsitt said he had been assured by owner Paul Allen that he will return next season. 
"I think Paul's just like all of us: he's very disappointed, 
times when you strike out," Whitsitt said. 
Despite an NBA-record $89.7 million payroll, the Blazers never quite came together as a team, and their lack of unity showed on the court in some ugly losses to inferior teams. Counting the playoffs, Portland lost 10 of its last 13 games, and the only victories came against Golden State (twice) and Vancouver. 
They never were a threat to the Lakers in the playoffs, los­ing by 13, 18 and 13 points. In the last game, the Blazers played without Dale Davis and Stacey Augmon, who were sus­pended for an altercation in Game 2. 
"It's a shame," Portland point guard Damon Stoudamire said. "It's some­thing we're all going to have to take into the summer -a long summer -and think about." 
After the 
Blazers lost
·The things that didn't 

and he knows to the Lakers 
when you work out, that's my in the seven­swing for the game confer­
responsibility."

fences, you're ence finals trying to hit a last year,
Mike Dunleavy

home run, but Whitsitt there's also Trail Blazers coach immediately 
started col­
lecting veter­
an players in an attempt to stop Shaquille 0'Neal. He traded young for­ward Jermaine 0'Neal to Indiana for Davis, and dealt Brian Grant to Miami and got overweight, overpaid Shawn Kemp from Cleveland in return. 
At midseason, Whitsitt 

nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
For Your Best Tan·Ever! 1 Get a Fun Tarlo I 
1111 

Y:urchoice! Eithe:IO tann;ng bed :esskmsforjust $35 . I OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! I 272.-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood 
I 


.. . . 
01~,
~ 
ij I ~I 
•;j 0 I 
cu 
·a I-< 1 
SOFTBALL 
Belles drop final 2 contests of season 
scoring five  runs before the  
By MOllY McVOY  Belles  put  a  run  on  the  
Senior Staff Writer  board. They scored two in  
the first and one run in the  
The Saint Mary's soft ball second, third and fourth  

team ended its season in the same fashion it played most of their season. It had solid pitching and some hitting, but not quite enough put together to bring out a win. 
The Belles dropped their last double header to Goshen College Saturday, 4-0 and 8­3. 
"I think the pitching was decent, but we just didn't have it at the plate," head coach John Kovach said. 
Junior Kristin Martin pitched the first game, going seven innings, while giving up seven hits and three earned runs. The fourth run came on an error by the Belles. The Belles recorded six hits. but none came home for a run. 
"We just could never get anything put together," Kovach said. 
Junior Rachel Deer and senior Cindy Traub both went 2-for-3 in the game. 
"It seemed that when we did get runners on, we had them on with two outs," Kovach said. "We also had a couple of really good defen­sive plays against us, and then, as hitters, I think we started trying to do too much." 
Goshen recorded one run in the first and third innings, and then put two runs on the board in the fifth to make the final score 4-0. 
Senior Anne Senger pitched her last game at Saint Mary's in the second game against Goshen. She gave up 13 hits and five earned runs. The three unearned runs came off errors by Saint Mary's in the sixth inning. 
"Even without those unearned runs, we were still in a 5-3 hole that we had to come back from," Kovach said. 
Goshen took the early lead, 

We'rejust trying to change the lives of a few kids. Four thousand inner-city kids in Newark, NJ, to be exact. We have this crazy idea that summer schools, after-school programs, trips to a eladership camp and comprehensive medical care will give our students a fair shot. 
We're not trying to change the world, but we're pretty sure our students will. 

For more info on becoming a student teacher or camp instructor this summer, 
Call 973-877-0980 

Or visit www.kidscorporation.org 
innings. 
"They just jumped out to an early lead against us," Kovach said. 
The Belles recorded their first run in the fifth inning on an RBI ground out by Traub. Freshman third baseman Mandy Hayes scored the run after walking to start the inning. 
Goshen struck back in the 
sixth with three runs, 
although all of them were unearned. 
~There were a couple cases where Anne made a really good pitch but the batter got enough of the ball to drop it in," Kovach said. "That's really frustrating if you're a pitcher." 
The Belles added two runs in the seventh inning to close out the game. 
Deer was hit by a pitch to start of the inning, and Traub moved the runner to third on a single. Traub then stole second base and fresh­man Sandy Harmon recorded an RBI ground out and fresh­man Katie Friggie brought in the second run with an RBI single. The game ended 8-3 in favor of Goshen. 
The Belles ended their sea­son with a 14-19 overall record and a 4-10 record in the MIAA. 
"Overall, I was pretty pleased with our pitching this year," Kovach said. 
"I was impressed with a lot of freshman players. Libby Wilhelmy ended the year with a 6-1 record for us." 
Despite a losing record, team captain Cindy Traub was pleased with the team's performance. 
"I think that our season, although peole may not see it as a success with our wins and losses, was a success because of the way we were able to deal with adveristy on and off the field." 
NDNATION.COM 
An online site devoted to ND sports is looking for student contributors. Interested parties should email SEE@NDnation.com 
,------------,
49¢Color 
Copies 
single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(Qpy SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. 
Coupon required. Hurry -expires 5/4/01. 
,:v~d~it~a:o:e::f::d:o:n/ 
page 22 

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May I, 2001 
Triathlon 
continued from page 24 
than results, was amazed. 

"I was shocked," Tierney said. "We went in there 
for fun and ended up doing really well. The whole 
day was a blur." 

Senior Matt Johnson, who joined the team from 
Notre Dame. claimed the first place finish in the 
men's collegiate division. with a time of 37 minutes. 
But the medals didn't end there. 

Mary Pendergast grabbed a second place finish, 
followed by seniors Colleen Sullivan and Lori 
Schulte. Schulte joined Tierney last year as one of 
only two members on the team. 

"Last year we just did this for fun and it was just 
Lori and I," Tierney said. "It grew and now we're 
out there with the rest of these colleges. It's great." 
Hildebrandt, who wants the focus to remain on the 
student athletes. cannot go without mention. She 
came home with a gold medal for winning the entire 
triathlon. 

Although bringing home the medals was a major 
victory for each athlete. it was a great success for 
Saint Mary's as a school as well. With this victory, 
the Belles have their name out there as contenders 
and they plan to make use of that. 

"All of [the other participants] are going to spread the word," Hildebrandt said. "We already had a par­ent come up to us to ask about Saint Mary's." 
This is only the second year of the club's existence. Hildebrandt started the club last year as a personal project, as well as a way to encourage enrollment at the college. After completing their first intercolle­giate triathlon. the team still has places to go. 
"[The athletes] have been seriously training since Christmas break, but we still have a far way to go," Hildebrandt said. 
The team is done participating competitively until September. but the training will continue. According to Hildebrandt, workouts will focus more on biking now that weather allows for long outdoor rides. 
Next fall. the team will be short most of its mem­bers and its coach. Pendergast will be the only returning member. Hildebrandt. who is leaving Saint Mary's to train fulltime, will be replaced by the new assistant athletic director. 
Despite its losses, the team is already registered for two races in September. 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
in every game. Its last four 
losses have been by a com­
bined five runs. 
Notre Dame's exceptional 
mental toughness can be 
attributed to the excellent 
work done by head coach 
Paul Mainieri and his coach­
ing staff. Since attaining the 
top ranking one week ago, 
the Irish have displayed no 
signs of a letdown. 
"Everyone on the team has 
put the rankings in perspec­
tive," said O'Toole. adding, 
"we don't play tight." 
Taking the mound for the Irish will be sophomore Pete Ogilvie. Sporting a 3-1 record, Ogilvie has been a pleasant surprise for the team this year. He has developed into a reliable mid-week starter who cur­rently boasts the team's low­est ERA at 1.20. 
And while the odds defi­nitely seem to be stacked in Notre Dame's favor, the Irish have every reason to be cautious of their oppo­nent. Hecent midweek games against Ball State and Valparaiso have resulted in losses to an inferior team. 
Today, Notre Dame will try to make sure that doesn't happen again. 
"I think we will win if we do the small things; make defensive plays and get key hits," said O'Toole. He added. "I think its going to be a good game -there's definitely some bad blood between us." 

Do you drive Italian? Why not speak it, too? Take Italian this summer! ROIT 101, 3 credits ROIT 102, 3 credits Complete two semesters of foreign language requirements in six weeks.  



Tuesday, May 1, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
WE'RE PROTESTING PARIETALS, FATHER 
MALLOY, AND THERE'S 
NOTHING YOO CAN 00 A80IJTITI 
Fox TROT 
WE'RE NOT BREAKING 

ANY RULES. WE'RE JUST 
HOLOIN6 A PEACB"UI. wATHBUN6. YOV CAN'T 
TOUCH US 

----,._____, 
TOM KEELEY 
E IT SURE DOES 
¥t,••·~
'I\...;.... : 
BILL AMEND 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 The Eagle, e.g. 54 Below-the-belt combination
1 Kellogg's brand 27 Dirty rat 
punch?5 Self-styled 29 Many eBay 57 Samuel's mentor _....,_____
"Original users 
Gangster" 58 Tum color,
31 Brain-teasing maybe9 Congressional Rubik 59 LushV.I.P.'s 

32 Height for Heidi 60 wBeowulr14 "A Doll's House" 34 Author Harper beverageheroine 35 Combination 61 It begins "Sing, 15 One end of a punch? goddess, the narthex wrath of .. ."

40 Prefix with 16 Roundup 

nucleotide 62 ·1 will sing _ 17 Alternative to a the Lord":
41_juris

fence Exodus 42 "The Open 
18 X-file examiners 63 Daly of "Judging 
Window" writer 

19 "All My Amy" 
Children" vixen 44 Responsible for 
64 Smackers 20 Cooper's tool 48 Fizz maker 65 Drudge 21 Combination 50 Big inits. in the 66Zig punch? defense industry 23 Basketball 51 Country's DOWN announcer's cry Brooks 1 All together 25 Parade 53 Supports 2 Positive news 3 Boxing champ portrayed in
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
the biopic wsomebody Up Puzzle by Nancy Salomon and Harvey Eatw
ME CC There Likes Me" 13 Cramps, e.g. 38 Scout's skill 49 Words of wonder 4 Granola bar bit 
21 Quite a scholar, 39 Arctic flier 52 Biblical 5 TV's Swenson for short 43 Clique member possessive 6 Negligee jacket 22 Heating need 44 Kind of acid 55 Laser light 7 Six-time U.S. 
24 Anteater 45 Freely 56 Warner Bros. 
Open champ features 46 Sweet spot? creation 8 Some Met stars 28 Mexican 47 Matured 60 Place for V.J.'s 

9 Has a lock on? 

president, 10"My_!" 1988-94 Answers to any three clues in this puzzle11 One hanging 30 Renter are available by touch-tone phone:• • ~ around the 33 Fujitsu products 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
house __.___,... 12 Mail order 36 Banded bandits Annual subscriptions are available for the company 37 Not enter best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 I RT employee deliberately years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
#1 NOT'I 
· ··c~\ s. 


~--·,r,:;1.,n,~QTl.a.a Commemorative Poster 
Saturday vs. Connectieu, · 
The Dorm with.,the.MQSI$' 
110 Fr'eC ·Sl.m ; Ars-t: S()Q f:ans \vii ~'an 
Birthday Baby: You just need to know everything. You are curious, bright and eager to follow whatever direction looks most interesting. Plunging into unfamiliar territory without a care in the world, you are hard to keep up with and full of life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 1999 Universal Press Syndicate 
!~,!!tl~Eck'~ 
Game Will Receiw olfie'sl 't:>atv,e.&sesall 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Olivia Brown, Steven Seagal, Chuck Connors, Omar Sharif, Clare Boothe Luce 
Happy Birthday: Try to control your temper this year. You will be easily annoyed by incompetence and laziness. It is best .to follow your own dreams and do your own thing if you really want to succeed. You need a challenge in your life in order to feel satisfied and fulfilled. This can be an interesting and prosperous period for you if you follow your heart. Your numbers: 7, 12, 22, 28, 39, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Social functions will bring you in contact 
· with romantic interests. An intellectu­al approach will be your best bet. Your desire for passion will enable you to show sincere affection. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your partner is likely to be uncertain. Understanding will be a must when dealing with those you love. Do not make major decisions regarding your professional direction. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will accomplish the most if you work with your peers. Keep in mind that your relationship will suffer if you haven't been spending enough time with the one you love. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get together with friends. They can shed some light on your emotional situa­tion if you lay all your cards on the table. It's time to put yourself first for a change. You've been taken for granted. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect to get some opposition from loved ones. It is best to keep your opinions to yourself. Your partner will get jealous if you continue to flirt. Make sure that your mate's accusations are 
EUGENIA LAST 
justified. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your mind will not be onyour driving. You can put your creative ideas to use. You and your mate should curl up and enjoy one another's company. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't expect anyone else to pay your bills. You will feel tired and run-down if you have allowed yourself to get into a financial mess. Find a way to con­solidate your debts. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Don't hold back your true feelings. Some­one you have vouched for in the past is likely to let you down. Let him or her know how you feel and that you'll never stand up in his or her defense again. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't get railroaded into spending money you don't have. It is best to do your own thing and not pay too much attention to the extravagant things that others are getting involved in.0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You've been growing in a different direction than your mate. A change of heart may lead to a major breakup. Don't get involved with someone new before you deal with your past. 
000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Unpleasantries will evolve between family members. Try to spend more time with the ones you love. Neglect has been the source of the discord that has evolved. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need to follow your dreams. Travel or learning about distant lands will get your imagination flowing. Creative projects will be enticing. 000 

First 500 Fans will also receive a.I}. 
As Always, Students Free!

~~:11:la!5GeSi11~~:~a!~a 1 
Team Autographs afte:rrfhe Game!! 
-



The last out 
The Saint Mary ·s softball team dropped its final two games ofthe season to 
Goshen College. 4-0 and 8-3.

PORTS 
page 21 

THE page 24 OBSERVER Tuesday, May I, 2001 
BASEBALL 

No. I Notre Dame battles unranked Michigan 
.., . Irish look to pad 40-6-1 record against 22-18 Wolverines 
By COLIN BOYLAN Sports Writcrt 
The top-ranked Notre Dame men's baseball team will take the field against unranked Michigan today at Comstock Park. but don't expect the game to be a See Also pushover for 
"Notre Dame
the Irish. "Its always a keeps lop poll tough battle 
spot"
whenever we p I a y page20 Michigan," said catcher Paul O'Toole. 
These words have never rung more true than in the most recent games between the two squads. Two years ago, the Wolverines delivered a crushing blow to Notre Dame's season when they beat the Irish in the regional playoffs. Last year, the teams waged a tight regular season battle that the Irish eventually pulled out in extra innings. 
This year, the 40-6-1 Irish appear to have the 22-18 Wolverines outmatched. 
Ranked number one in both the Collegiate Baseball Poll and the Baseball America Poll, Notre Dame has displayed an uncanny ability to keep themselves close 
see BASEBALUpage 22 


Alumnus agent Jones signs Ivey 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Ediror 
Ten years ago, he had just finished his career at Notre Dame before moving on to play five seasons of professional football. Today, for­mer Irish linebacker Andre Jones is the Director of Business Develop­ment for So 

Jones

So Def Sports. an Atlanta-based firm that repre­sents professional athletes. 
Recently, So So Def expanded beyond its usual clientele of 
NFL players and signed gradu­ated Irish point guards Niele Ivey and Coquese Washington. Ivey was the starting point guard on Notre Dame's national championship team this past spring. Washington, who played under Irish coach Muffet McGraw during the early 1990s, served as an assistant 
coach. 

Jones' firm also represents 
former Irish football stars 
Shawn Wooden, Allen Rossum 
and Autry Denson. So So Def, 
which is affiliated with 
Columbia Records, has rela­
tively few clients and. as such, 
is able to focus more individu­
ally on the athletes as people. 
"When I was in the pros I saw so many guys who were getting ripped off," Jones said during a last Friday. "So many false insurance scams and deals that weren't going through. people were losing a lot of money. What I planned to do was come from a Godly perspective and bring integrity back to this game. If you have one piece missing out of your life, then you don't have integrity. Our job is to make sure that you have that integrity." 
Jones and his associates at So So Def sports serve young clients starting out in the pro­fessional leagues from the start, helping them get situated and concentrate on their jobs. 
"We're a full-service firm." Jones said. "When you get drafted, if we need to fly out there and help you move into 

visit to Notre Dame's campus see AGENT/page 19 
Belles triathalon club returns with 5 medals 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spam Editor 
Sometimes unxpected victo­ries can be the most reward­ing. 
For the seven Saint Mary's and Notre Dame athletes par­ticipating in the Southern Illinois triathlon. those unex­pected victories made a last­ing impression. 
The Saint Mary's triathlon club made its first trip to par­ticipate as a club team at Southern Illinois University expecting little, hoping only to finish the race with more experience. 
But it came home with five medals and three first place finishes. 
"The [athletes] weren't going out there to win." head coach and participant Gretchen Hildebrandt said. "For them, mentally and physically, this was a great first step.n 
Jeanne Tierney, who was a founding member of the triathlon club last year. came home with the gold medal in the women's collegiate divi­sion, finishing the race, which was slightly over seven miles, in 47 minutes. The senior, who was looking for fun more 
see TRIATHLON/page 22 
Tennis 
Baseball 
at MIM Tournament 
at Michigan 
Kalamazoo, Mich. 

SPORTS • Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. f!f • Women's Lacrosse 
Friday-Saturday 
at Syracwe 

-ATA • 
Softball Saturday, 1 :00 p.m. 
Traclc and Field 
at Villanova 
at Hope College 
GLANCE 
Friday, noon 
Friday~ Saturday 



