
Students, faculty suggest ways to proceed
SUNNY 
Friday 

Students and faculty make give their opinion on how the country should 
SEPTEMBER 14, 

HIGH 66° 
move forward after the worst terrorist attack on American soil. 
LOW46° 
2001

Viewpoint . page 1 O 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 14 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



ises victor 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Fighting back tears, President Bush vowed Thursday that America would "lead the world to victory" over terrorism in a struggle he termed th~ first war of the 21st century. Secretary of State Colin Powell identified Osama bin Laden as the prime suspect in Tuesday's attacks in New York and Washington. 
"There is a quiet anger in America," Bush said, adding he would travel Friday to New York, site of the World Trade Center twin towers obliterated in fearsome attacks earlier in the week. 
Bush spoke as officials said 4,763 people were unaccount­ed for in New York, where ter­rorists on Tuesday flew hijacked jetliners full of fuel into first one tower and then the other. The death toll was likely to reach 190 at the Pentagon, which took a similar hit. 
The nation's anger rising as the death count climbed, Congress hastened to vote $20 billion as a first installment on recovery and anti-terrorism efforts. There also was discus­sion about passage of legisla­tion authorizing a military response to the attacks, although administration offi­cials made clear they believed the president already had the authority he needed. 


There was a jarring reminder of the events of Tuesday at the White House. At midafternoon, streams of people left the Old Executive Office Building next to the White House, saying they had been told to evacuate by the Secret Service. However, White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said there was no evacuation. Uniformed officers cleared people from Lafayette Park across from the White House in what Fleischer said was an expansion of the securi­ty perimeter around the presi­dential compound. 
Two days after the terrorists hit, officials said they believed there had been 18 hijackers in all on four planes -one crashed in a field in Pennsylvania -and were pur­suing thousands of leads in the investigation. 
A few hours after Bush spoke, Powell confirmed pub­licly what other officials had been saying privately. He said bin Laden, linked to the bomb­ing of the World Trade Center and attacks at America·n embassies in Africa in the l 990s, was the prime suspect in Tuesday's attacks. Bin Laden uses Afghanistan as his base of operations. 
"We are looking at those ter­rorist organizations who have the kind of capacity that would have been necessary to conduct 
AFP Photo 
the kind of attack that we saw," 

President George W. Bush and first lady Laura Bush leave the Washington Hospital Center on 
Thursday after visiting victims Injured during the attack on the Pentagon. An emotional 
see VICTORY/page 8 President Bush promised he would "lead the world to victory." 
Studen~ hope for good news 
By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 

Tuesday's tragedies left Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with many questions about missing family members and friends. For some, the questions were answered with­in hours, while for others, defi­nite answers will most likely take a long time. 
For freshman swimmer Georgia Healey, the hours it took to hear from her family in Manhattan still seem surreal. 
"When it happened I was at swim practice. I got out of the pool, and the radio was on with eyewitness accounts. It was strange, I couldn't believe it," said Healey. "I got dressed and went up to the coach's office, where I saw the picture -buildings gone and huge smoke-and I realized what had happened. Immediately I tried calling home. but I couldn't get through. Then I started crying because I knew my parents had big meetings near the World Trade Center." 
Healey's teammates were supportive, and her captain took her to her house and made breakfast for her and fellow teammates. 
"After breakfast I managed to talk to my grandfather and he said my uncle had talked to my dad. He's an early riser because he's a bone cancer doctor. Later I found out that they turned his clinic into an emergency care center," said Healey. 
Healey received more posi­tive news regarding her family when she returned to her room at 12:30 p.m. to find an e-mail from her mother saying that everyone in her family was fine. 
"I was relieved, and went to the Grotto with my friends," said Healy of receiving the e­mail. "When I got back to my room I had a call from my sis­ter. At first she was fine, but then she started crying and I started crying. I feel so lucky that I have my parents, because so many children don't have their parents, and wives don't have husbands." 
After talking to her sister, Healey spoke to her mother, who reported that when she looked down the main avenues, they were filled with black smoke, and that Air Force jets were flying all around. Her mother also told Healey that all the police were out, even those in the police academy, and there were two­hour lines to donate blood. What Healey remembers most about her conversation with her mother is her mother's advice. "My mother said, 
see STUDENTS/page 8 

Officials plan library prayer vigil for Sunday 
By ERIN LARUFFA Associate News Editor 
In honor of the victims of Tuesday's terrorist attacks, sev­eral campus organizations are joining together to plan a memo­rial candlelight procession on Sunday. 
The procession is the work of multiple groups on campus. including different organizations within student government, as well as Student Activities and Campus Ministry, according to Jesse Flores and John Cannon, two students helping to plan the memorial service. Many of those groups called the student gov­ernment office, added Cannon.I ooking for a way to do something to help relief efforts in New York City. 
"We were looking for a way to bring together all the campus groups to provide some relief," said Cannon. 
Campus leaders also said that prayer is a powerful way to help victims and their families as well. 
"I think that this will be a good way for our community to come together in prayer," said student body vice president Brian Moscona. 
The procession will begin at 
7:45 p.m. at the Grotto. Father Mark Poorman will preside over the opening of the vigil, and the Folk Choir will also perform. 
Then, the procession will move to the reflecting pool in front of the library, where Father Richard Warner will preside. The Glee Club will also perform near the reflecting pool. 
In addition, there will be 
see VIGIL/page 8 


page 2 Friday, September 14, 2001 
The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Deus Dona Nobis Pacem 
The dust is being cleared from the wreckage of the World Trade Center towers. It is gradually set­tling and people are being found, dead and alive. I. like most of the country, am still trying to come to grips with what happened. I'd like to clear my mind of all the hurt, pain and that 
happened. 
But I can't. 
Everyone from President Bush to the people next door have been talking about how we are going to punish those who hurt us, going to get revenge for what happened. 
But revenge won't bring 


the friends back that were in 

Angela Campos
the towers when they fell. It won't bring the family back that were on those planes that 

Lab Tech 
crashed. It won't even take away the hurt, fear, pain and anger we're experiencing because ofthis travesty. It might make us feel vindicated for a while -like we did some thing in the honor of those innocent that were killed. 
But then, what about the innocent that we would kill in gaining vengeance for our beloved? 
Does getting revenge stop the hatred from hap­pening? Does it make things right -is it justice? Does it make us any better than the terrorists if we blindly seek revenge on the people who are like those who attacked the towers and the Pentagon'? 
I think of Tuesday. I remember waking up and finding my dorm mates frantically trying to find if their friends and family are okay. I remember going to class and hugging my classmate ·as she watched the television screen. I remember letting people know classes were cancelled for a day of prayer, Mass would be at 3 p.m. on South Quad and they could watch the news from the rooms on the North Wing of DeBartolo. I talked to someone who hadn't heard from her father in New York as we watched the newscast. I remember the Mass, where more than 6,000 students, staff and South Bend locals came together to pray for those who were hurt or dead and offer solace to those who hadn't yet heard from their families. 
I think of Tuesday and I see people helping each other rebuild their lives. I see people searching for peace. 
We're looking for peace of mind and heart, a peace that would help us rest without nightmares, without terror. Could we rest with that peace know­ing we were causing others to suffer? 
I'm not happy with what happened in New York and D.C. on Tuesday. I'm appalled at the audacity and blindness of the people who organized and car­ried out the attack on our way of life. Yet, I'm searching within myself to forgive them. It is hard. I have friends in both places and don't yet know if they're all safe. But my panicking isn't going to find them. My raising Cain isn't going to bring them back from the dead. 
On the message board outside my room, I have a quote from Eleanor Roosevelt: "You must do the things you think you cannot do." 
l challenge you, Americans and residents of the United States, to find it somewhere in yourselves to forgive the unforgivable. Look past the horror and see a way to peace. Become strong from the love and friendship we share. Hating will not stop hatred, but love will. Be strong and be at peace. 
Deus dona nobis pacem -God grant us peace. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for rhc highest standards of jownalism at all times. We do, however, rc:cognii.c that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Ol>sawr (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation period.. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Preu. All rcproduaion righu an: reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Dulac revisions made SMC Development director named Tuesday, September 14, 1993 Saturday, September 20, 1985 
Dulac, the student handbook. was revised in order to Becky Drury was appointed to the position of Director of make it easier for students to read and understand. The Development at Saint Mary's. Drury's hoped to estab­edited sections included descriptions of support services lish a larger endowment for the College. especially for rape victims and the univeristy's policy on harassing through fundraising programs with alumnae. She phone calls. It did not, however, lower the rate of mini-planned to create a program that would hire students to 
mum participation in dorm SYR's, as the Campus Life phone alumnae soliciting donations year-round, in lieu Council had hoped it would. of one phone-a-thon each year. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 

Indiana University Muslim student attacked 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
said. 
While walking to class Tuesday "I know at the moment. people are afternoon. a Muslim student was going through a lot of emotions but physically assaulted and verbally they should not go around hurting harassed by a white student. others," Yunos said. "This will not 
Nurakmal Yunos, a Muslim­bring anyone back." Malaysian taking classes at IU. was Yunos is not the only student on greeting a friend in Arabic when she campus who has been assaulted was forcefully slapped on her back since Tuesday's attacks. The Muslim by a white male. Student Union reported three other 
According to Yunos, the aggressor unconfirmed reports of other inci­asked if "she was going to the dences evoked by the aftermath of mosque for one of those killing-spree the attack on America. classes? ...Well you should just go The IUPD is aware of the hate home bitch, we don't want you here. morning, she said. crimes that have been occurring on You are nothing but Muslim trash." Yunos stressed that other interna­campus and are actively pursuing all 
While Yunos is physically fine, she leads.
tional students on campus should be still feels threatened that others will aware that this could happen to "We are patrolling all areas that judge her based on her appearance. them as well. might be at risk," said Lt. Jerry Yunos reported the harassment to "We as Muslims in no way con­Minger. the IU Police Department Wednesday tribute to any act of violence," Yunos 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
School receives bin Laden money 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
With federal authorities investigating Osama bin Laden, Harvard University has come under fire as a recipient of bin Laden family money. Sheik Bakr Mohammed bin Laden, Osama bin Laden's brother, made two gifts to the University to fund fellowships for advanced study in Islamic culture. One such fellow­ship, at the Harvard Law School, provides funds for "research on the history of legal institutions in Islamic states past and present, particularly insofar as they uphold or apply the Islamic shari'a." Another, at the Harvard Design School. provides money for "advanced studies in Islamic architecture ... and appropriate building technologies as they pertain to Islamic built environments." Wednesday, University officials quickly distanced themselves from Osama bin Laden, saying the gifts are "in no way connected" to the terrorist. "The bin Laden family is very large, with dozens of siblings and half siblings who bear the bin Laden name," read a statement released by the University. 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 

Abroad students in the dark 
MADISON, Wis. 

There is no shortage of media coverage to keep American citizens informed about the recent attacks, but the news abroad is sometimes less extensive. Stefanie Carton, a sophomore studying in Madrid, Spain, said the local television channels show the same images and run the same stories repeatedly. "Being here I felt totally disconnected", she said. Carton said representatives of the U.S. Embassy visit­ed the campus Wednesday to give American students information on precautionary measures they should take. "Basically, watch your tracks," she said. Being abroad also exposes students to a number of differ­ing opinions from other international students. "It's a good lesson for America," said Clea Mailliard, a freshman from Paris also studying in Madrid. "The Europeans are happy because it proves the U.S. is weak." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
The AccuWeathe,. forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 13. 
I 
I 


................ 
0 2001 AccuWMther, Inc. CQ.0 WARM SfAJ'JO\IARY 
®-© D C'.21 ITJ u ~ fS3 l:~ C~.> 
Hlgl, Low Shower• -T...torms A"'"" -kle lunny Pl. Qoucly Cloudr

Mo--


~ ~G.Q.<Q-1) ~ ~ 68 Memphis 59 87
Baltimore 48 84 Sacramento 56 
''''' •• -r • 
Showers T-storms RI/in Flurries Snow Jee Soony Pt. Cloudy Goudy Boston 63 50 Milwaukee 61 49 St. Louis 71 53 l'laA-.ct,,,_~ Oiicago 64 -49 NewVorl< 65 51 Tampa 84 74 Houston 89 70 Philadelphia 68 54 Washington DC 69 53 
Friday, September 14, 200 l The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Attacks force change 
in ROTC uniforms 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Tuesday's terrorist attacks 

prompted Notre Dame Navy 
and Air Force ROTC comman­
ders to temporarily suspend 
students from wearing their 
uniforms. The Army ROTC's 
uniform policy, however. 
remained unchanged. 
According to Col. Mark Gehri, Notre Dame Air Force ROTC commander, the deci­sion to halt wearing military uniforms was made at the Montgomery, Alabama head­quarters Tuesday. 
"It was just a prudent mea­sure, even though there was no local terrorist threat," he said. 
Gehri emphasized that the decision was made as a pre­cautionary action to ensure the safety of the students and not in deference to terrorists. 
Similarly, Notre Dame Navy ROTC's decision on uniforms followed a precedent set by the Navy as a whole, though each individual unit could decide whether or not to observe it. 
"We pretty much followed suit with the rest of the mili­tary," said Capt. Jim Shelton, commanding officer of NROTC. "The actual decision was part of a reaction to the initial attack that occurred." 
Air Force staff resumed its regular uniform policy Thursday afternoon, and the Navy expects to follow suit soon. 
"I was very anxious to get 

mine back on," Gehri said. 
"(Friday] you can expect the 
Air Force ROTC back in uni­
form. Ifs time to represent 
ourselves to the citizens." 
"We're going to be getting back into uniforms very soon," Navy Capt. Shelton echoed. "If things go the way they're cur­rently going, they [midship­men] will show up in regular uniform." 
Shelton, however, down­played the effect the absence of uniforms has had on the unit. Navy ROTC students do not wear their uniform to every class and there is not a scheduled event that requires uniforms until next week. 
"Thursdays students are typ­ically in uniform but they obvi­ously didn't wear them [yester­day]," Shelton said. "It really wasn't a huge change." 
Similarly, Gehri said that the temporary uniform policy change attracted little atten­tion. 
"I think everyone is so absorbed in processing the shock and disbelief [of Tuesday's tragedy]," he said. "I wouldn't be surprised if there were multiple reactions by the campus community; however in times of national strife like this, support goes up." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at Thagard. l@nd.edu. 
------.:.::­

Recently licensed campus vendor providing: 
T-Shiru Design Services Caps Qukk Printing Polo Shirts 
CGmmercial Printma 
Jackets Embroidery Ad Speda)tin Screen Prln 
Ask about our new DORMSTORE! Call 800-813-2113 
l 3112 Lerlnaton Park Drive, Elkhart, In 46514 


Panelists address terrrorism 
By ERIN LARUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Students and faculty crowded into a DeBartolo classroom Thursday to participate in a panel discussion entitled "After September 11: Rethinking Terrorism, War and Security." 
Organized by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the panel contemplated the meaning of Tuesday's ter­rorist attacks against the United States. 

"After a day of prayer Tuesday and reflection yes­terday, we 
gather as an "Our greatest weapon is 20 percent intellectual of the world
our values and our way
comm unity," is 1/60 of
oflife . .,
said the that of the panel's moder­wealthiest a tor, Scott 10 percent.
Daniel Lindley
Appleby, a his­"Such a
government professor
tory professor world feeds 
said. "But to address the diffi­cult part: how one deals with the sources of terrorism." 
In part, Americans must rec­ognize that most of' the world is not as well off as the U.S. A long-term response to Tuesday's violence would therefore involve dealing with the causes of enmity in the world. 
"Let us admit, if we can bring ourselves to do so, that we live a world of excessive inequali­ties," said Williams, citing the AIDS epidemic in Africa, the crisis in Indonesia and the hatred in the Middle East as examples. Furthermore, she added, the income of the poorest 
and fellow at 
the Joan B. 
Kroc Institute 
for International Peace Studies. 
Panelist Shirley Williams, a 

member of the British House of 
Lords. brought her European 
perspective to the discussion. 
"We in the Western world 

have to forge a common 
response," said Williams. She 
added that she and her fellow 
Europeans feel sympathy for 
Americans. 
Williams pointed out that unlike most of the world, the United States has been, until now, relatively free of terror­ism. 
"This is not the first time there has been a major act of terrorism," \Villiams said. "The remarkable fact is that for so long the United States has been invulnerable." 
"Since the end of' the Cold \Var," she added, "the United States has in some ways felt itself to be invincible, the great superpower that did not feel itself to be vulnerable." 
Although some people might desire revenge, \.Villiams said that retaliation is not a long­term solution to terrorism. Instead, Williams encouraged Americans to ask themselves, "What did we do wrong?" 
"I would plead with you not only to think of retaliation," she 
terrorism. 
People have 
nothing to 

lose," Williams said. 
Panelist George Lopez, a gov­ernment professor and fellow in the Kroc and Kellogg Institutes, said that the U.S. should respond to the attacks with "unprecedented" policy deci­sions. However, he added, Americans must act according to the rule of law. 
"This is the time when the 
rules matter most," he said. In 
part. that means not completely 
destroying Afghanistan, the 
country thought to harbor sus­
pected terrorist Osama bin 
Laden. 
"We could turn Afghanistan into a parking lot tomorrow. And then what happens after that?" he said. He pointed to the problems the international community had with Libya, the country that was protecting the individuals who were believed to be responsible for the bomb­ing of PanAm Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. However. because leaders involved in the crash investigation followed the rules of law, the suspects were eventually brought to trial. 
However. another panelist, government professor Daniel Lindley, predicted that the U.S. will launch a counterattack, even if it is not the most appro-
I 
i 
¦¦ Ill Notre Dame Center ¦¦¦ for Ethics andReligious ¦¦¦ Values in Business 
I 
Proudly Presents 

Mr. Roger Sant 
Brown Bag Luncheon Tuesday, September 18, 2001 339 Mendoza College of Business 
I 12:30 p.m. -1 :30 p.m. 
* Beverages will be provided. Please bring your own lunch. ** You can find additional information at www.nd.edu/-ethics/ 
priate response. 
"We will conduct attacks. We 
will kill lots of people," he said. 
Further, Lindley said, it is 
impossible to rid the world of 
terrorism. 
"We can just hope to slow it 
down." said Lindley. "Vicious 
surprises are the way of the 
world." 
He explained that while such 
attacks are not moral, they are 
nevertheless frequent. It is also 
common for civilians to die in 
such attacks, and wars are 
much more common than 
Americans typically think, 
according to Lindley. 
"War only seems rare to us 
because we fight our wars on 
other people's soils," Lindley 
said, adding that the "luxuri­
ous" position the U.S. has in the 
world is what makes Tuesday's 
violence such a shock to 
Americans. 
"There's a lot of hysteria right 
now," Lindley said. "There's no 
reason for the hysteria. In the 
end, we will all be fine." 
Although the final death toll 
will be large, it is a tiny part of 
the country's population, 
according to Lindley. He 
explained that he made that 
observation not to be callous, 
but instead to put the events in 
context to help Americans 
understand that the country 
will recover soon. 
"Our greatest weapon is our 
values and our way of life," 
Lindley said. 
The way U.S. consumers 
respond to the terrorist attacks 
will also have an impact on the 
world, according to panelist 
Layna Mosley, a professor in 
the government department 
and Kellogg Institute. 
Mosley said that the U.S. economy has been keeping the rest of the world out of a reces­sion over the last few months. The U.S. makes up a quarter of the world's economy, according to Mosley, and New York City accounts for 6 percent of the American economy. 
"A recession is likely. \Ve were already heading that way. This will probably make it worse," she said. 
Mosley also said she predicts the U.S. surplus will disappear. As a result, Americans will have to take a look at what the government is funding. and may also have to pay higher taxes. 
"U.S. citizens may have to make some tough choices," she said. 
The Kroc and Kellogg. insti­tutes plan to hold more University-wide discussions in the near future to address the consequences of the terrorist attacks. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at LaRuffa. l@nd.edu. 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002-2003 DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2,4,5,6,7,8,9 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS SECURITY SYSTEMS WASHER & DRYERS DOMUS PROPERTIES CONTACT KRAMER 
298-9673, 23-4-2436, OR 674-2571 


God Bless America 
PARTYON THE PATIO 

Grtal food &daUy drink &peciala Fri. 9/14 Art &The Artichokes Sa1. 9/15 Quick Change 1606 W. Indiana A,e. 289-1361 

-. -..... 
--' 

page 4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 14, 200l 




4,763 01issing in trade center attack 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The gruesome search through the graveyard of the Worfd Trade Center yielded no survivors as the death toll mounted Thursday, and hopes dimmed for more than 4,700 missing souls. President Bush promised to visit New York to "hug and cry" with its shaken citizens. 
Two days after the trade cen­ter was hit and destroyed by two hijacked passenger planes, swirling dust kept visibility lim­ited and sanitation trucks waged a losing fight against the residue of the blast. Hundreds of family members searched for any sign of their loved ones. 
Tens of thousands of resi­dents still could not return to 


their homes in a closed-off lower Manhattan. Nerves were frayed by bomb scares and false alarms, both in New York and in Washington. 
Even a small semblance of normalcy was yanked away: Airline flights at the New York area'.s three busy airports began for the first time since Tuesday but were abruptly halted. Police said a man was arrested at Kennedy airport after trying to slip past security with a false pilot's identifica­tion. 
The city also brought in 30,000 body bags for pieces of human remains. 
"Even scary movies do not happen like this," said Enver Kesti, 42, a pizza chef who returned to clean up a gourmet shop that once sat in the tow­ers' shadows. 
Bush declared Friday, the 
Mll{A­


A JAPANC<;C RE:S'TAURANT Carry Out and Dine In 
Cleveland 

402 US 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-2535 
day of his New York visit, a "national day of prayer and remembrance." He asked Americans to spend their lunch breaks taking part in services at their chosen places of wor­ship, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. 
The president praised New Yorkers for showing "the com­passion of America and the bravery ofAmerica." 
New York was not alone in counting its missing and dead. The Pentagon said 126 people in the building were killed in Tuesday's plane attack. Seventy bodies had been recov­ered. 
Add the 4,763 missing reported by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, plus the 266 passen­gers and crew members who died aboard the planes that hit the trade center, the Pentagon and a field southeast of 
Great Japanese food at great prices. 
Come join us for our lunch specials! 
Pittsburgh, and the total dead in Tuesday's carnage could be more than 5,000. 
That would be higher than the death toll from Pearl Harbor and the Titanic com­bined. A total of 2. 390 Americans died at Pearl Harbor nearly 60 years ago, and the sinking of the Titanic claimed 1,500 lives. 
Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz told reporters at the Pentagon that the U.S. response to the attacks that wrought these horrors would "unfold over time." 
"One thing that is clear is you don't do it with just a single military strike, no matter how dramatic," Wolfowitz said. 
In Congress, a bipartisan coalition worked on approving two measures: an emergency anti-terrorism package that could cost $20 billion, and sup­port for the use of force by Bush against those responsible. 
Up to 50 people were involved in the attack, the Justice Department said, with at least four hijackers trained at U.S. flight schools. Saudi 

fugitive  Osama  bin  Laden  
remained a top suspect.  
Attorney  General  John  

Ashcroft said authorities had "thousands and thousands" of leads. He said they had deter­mined that 18 hijackers were on the planes: groups of five on two planes and groups of four on the others. 
In New York, the difficulties of extracting bodies from the rubble meant that while 184 deaths had been confirmed, city officials prepared to watch the total soar. The missing 

. included nearly 400 city fire­
fighters and police officers. Another 2,300 people were injured. 
The lone bit of bright news was the recovery of two fire­fighters who slipped into an underground pocket beneath the rubble while searching for survivors on Thursday. The two radioed for help and were rescued by fellow firefighters several hours after they fell. 
At One Liberty Plaza, an office building near the trade center site, volunteers were evacuated when the top 10 sto­ries of the complex appeared unsteady. Workers fled, sprint­ing down the street. 
At a grief center set. up for families with missing relatives, Jeanine Nardone arrived to look for her brother. She had hung his photo in a Brooklyn subway station, hoping some­one would recognize Mario Nardone -a 32-year-old Staten Islander, 6-foot-1, 180 pounds, bald with blue eyes, who worked on the 83rd floor of Two World Trade Center. 
"He's a strong person," Nardone said. "He would not give up on us. And I'm not going to give up on him." 
Many family members stopped by the armory-turned­counseling center established by the city. Looking south from there, the seemingly endless plume of acrid, white smoke 
from  the  wreckage  still  
corkscrewed  above  the  
Manhattan skyline.  

At Bellevue Hospital, a blue wall erected around a con­struction site was covered with pictures and descriptions of the missing, and prayers for safe returns. 

Friday. September 14. 2001 
Evolution 

7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 101, admission $3.00. Sponsored by the Student Union Board 
Space balls 

7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 155, admission $2.00. Sponsored by 
the Student Union Board Free Billiards 
8:30 pm to 12:00 mid in ND Express in Lafortune Student Center. For more information visit www.nd.edu/~sao/ Clover Comedy Club-Andrew Kennedy 
10:00 pm in Lafortune Student Center Ballroom. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information 
visit www.nd.edu/,.,,,sao/comedy ND Crafting Corner-Decorate a flower pot 
9:00 pm to 11:00pm in the Dooley Room in Lafortune Student Center. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting Tournament Time-9-ball Tournament 
Tournment begins are 8:30 pm in ND Express. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information visit www.nd.edu/""Sao/tournaments 
Saturday. September 15. 2001 
Second City 

7:30 pm in Washington Hall, admission $7.00. Sponsored by the Student Union Board, DICE and the Student Activites Office 


Evolution 

7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 101, admission $3.00. Sponsored by the Student Union Board 
Spaceballs 

7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 155, admission $2.00. Sponsored by the Student Union Board Free Billiards 
8:30 pm to 12:00 mid in Nd Express in Lafortune Student Center. For more information visit www.nd.edu/.....sao/ Karaoke and Music 
10:00 pm to 1:00 am in the Huddle in Lafortune Student Center. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information visit www.nd.edu/....sao/music 
¦ 








ATION 
Friday, September 14, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
AIDS drugs to be exported: An international medical relief group said Thursday it planned to use Brazil's anti-AIDS program and AIDS drugs -including locally made copies of patented medicines -in other developing countries. Dr. Bernard Pecoul, director of a medical access campaign run by \fodecins Sans Frontieres. signed an agree­ment with Brazil's Health minister Jose Serra during a visit this week to Brasilia, the capi­tal. 
Peru issues Fujimori arrest warrant: 
A judge issued an international arrest war­rant Thursday for disgraced ex-President Alberto Fujimori over his alleged role in two death-squad massacres in the early 1990s, a court spokeswoman said Thursday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Second man receives heart: A man was implanted with a self-contained artificial heart Thursday. becoming only the second patient in the world to receive the experimen­tal device. Tom Christerson, 70, was resting comfortably-at Jewish Hospital, spokeswoman Barbara Mackovic said. The first implant was done at the same hospital in early July. 
3 found shot to death: A man, his estranged wife and another man were found shot to death at a rural home in Wisconsin, and authorities were investigating the deaths as a possible murder-suicide. One man was found outside the home. and his wife and the other man were inside. A shotgun was found near the man outside. Deputies went to the scene after the woman's teen-age daughter called 911 for help, authorities said Thursday. The shootings happened about 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. No names were released. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Officials question sheriff's pay: 
Some Lake County officials said they were surprised to learn that Sheriff John Buncich paid himself almost $2,000 for overtime last year even though he is paid a set salary. County Councilman Thomas O'Donnell raised the issue during a council meeting Wednesday. Buncich said he divided the $1,962 in overtime pay in half and donated it to the Lake County Fraternal Order of Police lodge and the Lake County Police Association AFL/CIO Local 72. "I have the canceled checks and these people should look some­where else for a news story," Buncich said.. 
Market Watch September 13 
Due to the ongoing tragedy in New York City, U.S. financial markets are closed. They will reopen on Monday, Sept. 17. 
Arab Americans attacked, threatened 
Associated Press 
FREMONT, Calif. 
Tension and fear still plagued ethnic and reli­gious minorities Thursday, even as President Bush urged the public not to take vengeance against Arab­Americans or Muslims for the terrorist attacks. 
In a neighborhood that is home to about two dozen Afghan-American businesses, people felt the president needed to extend protection to all the groups that now feel targeted or under suspi­cion because of the dev­astation in New York and Washington. 
Afghan-Americans also "don't have anything to do with this situation," said Zabi Habashzada as he bought bread in an Afghan market in Fremont, a city about 35 miles southeast of San Francisco. "They don't have to be blamed for an action done by some ter­rorists." 

The prime suspect in the terror plot is Saudi­born terror mastermind Osama bin Laden, who was given asylum by Afghanistan's Taliban rulers. Federal authori­ties have also identified more than a dozen hijack­ers of Middle Eastern descent in Tuesday's attacks. and a bottle at his store. Association warned mem­continued to report 
The president said His wife begged him to bers of the group to stay harassment and violence. Thursday that "we must stay home from work, close to the campus in Police in Bridgeview, be mindful ... we treat saying, "Please don't go, Manchester, N.H. Ill.. turned back 300 Arab-Americans and maybe something could "Most people are telling marchers -some waving Muslims with the respect happen to you," Khamosh me that they are scared," American flags and shout­they deserve." said. said Mahboubul Hassan, ing "USA! USA!" -as 
"We should not hold one But he went, and hung a who also is president of they tried to march who is a Muslim responsi­patriotic banner from his the Islamic Society of Wednesday night on a ble for an act of terror," shop window. Greater Manchester. mosque in the Chicago Bush said in \Vashington. "I have to life my life." Around the country. suburb. 
But Homayoun he said. Arab-Americans, Muslims "I'm proud to be Khamosh. who owns At Southern New and others groups American and I hate Pamir Food Market in Hampshire University, a including Sikhs, who wear Arabs and I always have," Fremont. said someone professor and adviser to turbans and grow beards said 19-year-old Colin had already thrown rocks the Muslim Student as a sign of their faith, Zaremba. who marched 

GERMANY 


Suspect of attacks sought in Germany 
and Marwan Alshehhi, both from the The president of Hamburg
Associated Press 

United Arab Emirates. Both had ear­Technical University, where the two 
HAMBUHG lier been named as former students men studied until last year, said he 
German investigators said of a Florida flight school and are sus­had been informed that Atta was Thursday that three hijackers pected of having flown two of the aboard American Airlines Flight 11, aboard the planes in the U.S. terror hijacked jets. which crashed into World Trade attacks once lived in Hamburg and The German authorities indicated Center Tower One. Alshehhi was on were part of an organization formed that they'd made no immediate links American Airlines Flight 175, which this year to destroy American tar­to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi mil­crashed into the other tower 20 min­gets. lionaire who was identified Thursday utes later, he said. 
German authorities, acting on tips by U.S. Secretary of State Colin German investigators believe the from the FBI, also said that they had Powell as a prime suspect in the two men, and a third suspect who detained at least one man in connec­attacks. However, chief federal pros­also died, belonged to a terror group tion with Tuesday's attacks and were ecutor Kay Nehm said that they did formed "with the aim of carrying out searching for another. have links to other terror cells serious crimes together with other 
In France. special anti-terrorism abroad. Islamic fundamentalist groups prosecutors tried to find links with Meanwhile, Attorney General John abroad, to attack the United States in militant Islamic networks in their Ashcroft said the FBI has determined a spectacular way through the country. while police in Rome re­that a total of 18 hijackers were on destruction of symbolic buildings." opened the case of a theft of uni­the four hijacked planes. There were Nehm told reporters in Karlsruhe. forms and badges belonging to two five on each of two planes and four In the United Arab Emirates American Airlines pilots in April. each on the other two. U.S. officials authorities called in people familiar 
Two of the men identified by said all have been identified the with a Emirates man named Marwan llamburg police as having perished hijackers but they have not released Alshehhi for questioning. officials in the attacks were Mohamed Atta any identities. said Thursday. 
1 

page 6 Friday, September 14, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Parasitic computing threatens Web ethics 
By EMILY HOWALD 
News Writer 
Four Notre Dame professors recently discovered a new Internet vulnerability that is commonly known as "parasitic computing." 
The researchers found a way to "trick" Web servers around the world into solving logic math problems without the server's permission. 
"We're using other people's computers to solve problems," said Jay Brockman, an associ­ate professor of computer sci­ence and engineering. "You come up with a question and they can respond if the logic question is a match." 
Along with Brockman, the team consisted of Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, Hoffman Professor of Physics; Vincent Freeh, assis­tant professor of computer sci­ence and engineering; and Hawoong Jeong, research assistant professor of physics. 
The research was primarily an academic exercise and used as a lecture topic for the pro­fessors; however, the findings were printed in an issue of Nature. 
The researchers found that they could tag a logic problem onto the check sum (the bit amount that is sent when a Web page is requested) and the Web server would process the request. When a Web page was requested without the cor­
rect check sum, the server 
would not respond to the 
request. 
Each of the math problems 
that were tagged on to the 
request by the researchers was 
broken down into smaller 
pieces that were evaluated by 
servers in North America, 
Europe and Asia. The results 
from each were used to build a 
solution. 
The major discovery. in this 
experiment is that other com­
puters are answering logical 
questions without knowledge 
of doing so. The work is per­
formed without consent, creat­
ing an ethical dilemma. 
The researchers agree that if 
"parasitic computing" becomes 
more widespread, then the 
procedure is not ethical. 
"We are using other peo­
ple's computers in this proce­
dure," said Brockman. "It can 
be seen as unethical because 
the whole process is borrowing 
a little bit of computation from 
another server." 
The technique does not vio­late the security of the unknowing server; it only uses areas that are open for public access. They find it useful ,because they found a way to use a computer elsewhere to 
solve a problem. 
Contact Emily Howald at Howald.2@nd.edu. 
NEWS BRIEFS 
Taxi company offers free rides to blood donors: 
Beginning today, Shamrock Cab Company will give students free rides to the South Bend Medical Foundation, 530 N. 
Lafayette Blvd., to donate blood. Cabs will be available at the  
top of each hour from 1 to 4 p.m. today through next week in.  
Main Circle, according to company owner Bill O'Brien.  
•  Concert to raise funds for families:  The Irish Law  
Society has planned a  concert for Saturday at 9 p.m. at  
the Alumni/Senior Club  to  benefit victims of' Tuesday's  
terrorist attacks. Musical guests include  Kennedy's  
'  Kitchen and the Notre Dame Pipe Band. A recommend­ 
ed donation of $1 O will be  taken  at  the door.  Money  
raised through the event will benefit the FDNY & NYPD  
Fallen Officers Fund.  

Notre Dame Film, Television. and Theatre presents 

Shirt promotes unity, raises funds 
By ELIZABETH LEE 
News Writer 
For the 12th straight year, Notre Dame students, alumni, faculty, staff and football fans nationwide will don what has come to be known simply as "The Shirt." 
A proud display of school spirit at football games, The Shirt aims to unite Irish fans while also rais­ing funds for worthy causes. 
The tradition of The Shirt began in 1989, when graduate student Zheng de Wang was injured in a car crash on Notre Dame Avenue. Wang's parents made the journey from Tianjin, China to be with their son but soon found his medical expenses overwhelming. 
Sister Jean Lenz. sensing the family's hardship, made and sold T-shirts to students in order to raise money for his medical bills. Students took to the idea quickly and raised more than $100,000 for the Wang family. 
The idea of a shirt that both· helped students and unified the community was so popular that it became a tradition to sell a shirt every football season. 
Stemming from Lenz's initia­tive, half the proceeds from The Shirt's sales go into an account set up to assist students faced with unexpected costs associated with accidents or tragedies. The other half of the money goes to Student Activities to help fund student groups and clubs on campus. 
About 40,000 shirts are sold each year, raising an average of $250,000 per year. 
The design for each year's shirt comes from a contest open to all students. This year's design came from senior Michael de la Hosa, with the help of the Shirt committee president, junior Scott Palko. The University must also approve the final design. 

This year's shirt is navy blue and features an interlocking ND framed by the lyric "What Tho the Odds Be Great or Small." Inside the ND is an Irish ball car­rier striding toward an excerpt from George Gipp's famous plea to Knute Rockne: "When the team is up against it. When things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys. Tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one ... " 
This year. in addition to the usual extra larges, 1,000 medi­um shirts were offered. Next year. the committee plans to make more shirts in different sizes. 
"We found that the smaller size was definitely a demand the stu­dents had, and with the success of the [medium shirts] this year, I am certain that no longer will XL be the only available size," said Palko. 
Palko, a management and the­ology major from Ontario, Canada, is very excited about The Shirt this year and hopes to eventually have the entire stadi­um sporting The Shirt to make the stands one solid color. 
"After the Nebraska game last year, l realized that something needed to be done to restore the legend and lore to Notre Dame Stadium, and I am hoping that The Shirt 2001 will help to accomplish this goal," he said. 
This year's shirt sells for $15 and is available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Irish Express, the information desk at LaFortune Student Center, the Varsity Shop in the Joyce Center and the Athletic Department at vvww.fansonly .com. 
Contact Elizabeth Lee at Lee. l 20@nd.edu. 


ATTENTION: '01-'02 CSC VEHICLE DRIVERS 

September 16th and 19th at 6:00pm 
Session will be held at 6:30 p.m. in Room 124 at the CSC. (Bring d~ver's license) 
REiVIINDERS: 

.!. Anyone wishing to use a CSC vehicle must attend certification each year 
.! Requests must have accurate times an~ name(s) of person(s) driving (if group leader schedules various vehicles, they must inform coordinator (csc vans@nd.edu) as soon as possible ofactual drivers) 
.l Direct questions to: cscvans @nd.edu 
VehicJe runs begin r,1onday, September 3 
Please note: • Coordinator is a part time position. E-mail will be checked on Sundays. 
• 
A(·l<)r8 , .., }"( Htl rrflP 1.i)I l <I< H l S l clg·( • 
AMidsummer Night's Dream 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 20 .............. 7:30 p.m. 
Friday, September 21 ................... 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, September 22 ............. 7:30 p.m. 

Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 

-

Friday, September 14, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . NEWS 


Families of Pentagon workers wait 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Va. 
Sonya Rush, cradling a framed picture of her stepmother, says the hardest thing is not knowing whether to talk about her in past or present tense. 
Pentagon budget analyst Brenda Kegler, 49, has been missing since Tuesday, when a hijacked plane plowed into the military complex. Kegler, of Capitol Heights, Md., worked at the Pentagon for 30 years. 
"She's like the backbone of the family," said Rush. 
Rush was among more than 100 families who came to a Sheraton Hotel in Crystal City ­about two miles from the Pentagon -seeking information about their lost loved ones. The Department of Defense set up an outpost at the hotel to help fami­lies get answers. Volunteers tried to provide solace: holding a hand, gently rubbing a back or just listening. 
"They want to know_ where their loved one is, and unfortu­nately, at this time, we can't 
:Here ge, /ie,re ge, Afem6ers oftlie Stutfent 'Boay 
Your presence is requested at the Notre Dame Student Government's first 
Issues to be debated shall be... *FOOTBALL TICKET DISTRIBUTION *FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
Please report to... The NOTRE DAME ROOM 
(Second floor of LaFortune) 
TUESDAY, SEPT.18 8:00 P.M. 
!R:_E:J~ESJ{Af 'E9(TS SJl.9U£ 13'£ S'E'l(VE/D "They want to know where their loved one is, and unfortunately, at this time. we can't answer that." 
Marine Corps Maj. Ben Owens Defense Deparbnent spokesman 
answer that," said Marine Corps Maj. Ben Owens, a Defense Department spokesman. 
"It's going to take a while," Owens said. "We don't expect it to happen any time soon. We want to be able to answer the question almost as badly as they want the answer." 
The Pentagon announced a preliminary death toll from Tuesday's attack of 190 people. Hours later, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said in an interview on ABC News that the final toll could go as high as 250. 
Floyd Rasmussen, a manage­ment analyst at the Pentagon, was at the Crystal City Sheraton. He had a picture of his missing wife, Rhonda Ridge Rasmussen, 
. ••.i••·•··•.·· .... · I•·••.·.·•·.·,·"·•·.·.··· 
' , -·,·,··-·
a ·rm·....·.1·.... ···•.··.···

.d b~th. Neat'Nofr, 
i;r· uiet family neigh"' breakfast pr . · 
iifa;::. 
:: ~~}::..­


pinned to his shirt. She began 
her job as a budget analyst in 
April. 

''I'll spend the rest of my life 
celebrating hers," said 
Rasmussen. The Woodbridge, 
Va., couple planned to move to 
California in October. They 
would have been married 27 
years on Nov. 23. 

Rasmussen said the airplane 
crashed into the building pretty 
much where his wife's office was 
located. Her body hadn't been 
recovered, he said. 

About 70 bodies had been 
removed from the buckled sec­
tion of the Pentagon as search­
and-rescue workers toiled with 
little hope of finding more sur­
vivors. 

Rescuers said they had received a signal from the flight recorder of the commercial jet­liner that crashed into the Pentagon, but they won't be able to retrieve the black box yntil they can get into the area of the building that collapsed. The black box may provide investiga­tors with information about the flight's last moments. 
Crews begin removing debris in that area by Thursday night, said Arlington County, Va., Fire Capt. Scott McKay. Rescue work­ers spent most of the day erect­ing wooden columns to stabilize the area to the left of where the plane crashed . 
The process of going through the rubble piece by piece and looking for remains is arduous, said Arlington, Va., Fire Chief Edward P. Plaugher. "We're going to be there many, many days," he said. 
The Army estimated it had lost 74 people: 21 soldiers, 47 civil­ians and six contractors. The Navy lost 42 people: 33 sailors and nine civilians. The Marine Corps and the Air Force believe they lost no personnel at the Pentagon. 





Airline landings halt in New York 
Associated Press 
The nation's skies remained 
practically empty on Thursday 
as only a smattering ofjetliners 
took off and several major air­
ports remained out of service 
for most of the day. The few 
nervous passengers who did 
travel faced strict new security 
measures following the terror­
ist attacks in New York and 
Washington. 
There was tension and con­
fusion as the aviation industry 
inched back into service for the 
first time in two days. 
The New York area's three 
major airports -Kennedy, 
LaGuardia and Newark, N.J. ­
were opened and then abruptly 
shut down as FBI officials 
detained several people for 
questioning in the attacks. 
Police said a man carrying a 
false pilot's identification was 
arrested at Kennedy after try­
ing to get past security. 
Earlier, Orlando International Airport and a ter­minal at LaGuardia were briefly evacuated over sepa­rate, unfounded bomb scares. And after briefly resuming lim­ited service, Northwest Airlines canceled all flights Thursday evening after receiving infor­mation a spokeswoman said indicated it was "not prudent to operate." No other details were released. 
Elsewhere, no planes had left Chicago's busy O'Hare International Airport by evening and authorities said Washington's Heagan National Airport, near many of the capi­tal's landmarks, would remain closed indefinitely. 
FAA Administrator Jane Garvey told reporters that Boston's Logan airport would not be reopened until new stricter safety measures are in place. The airport is under investigation for possible secu-
The College Football Hall ofFame Presents the 
MICHIGAN STATE .: NOTRE DAME • 
-~~, STORIED RIVALRIES BANQ1JET 
Featured Speakers -Bubba Smith & Bob Gladieux Thursday, September 20 at the College Football Hall of Fame 
Come celebrate one of the ~reatest matchups in colle~e football on the 35th anniversary of the historic 1966 MSU-ND game. Featured speaker Bubba Smith, and others, will reflect upon their memories of this ferocious rivalry that dates back to 1897. 
Order tickets by phone at 235-5715 or in person at the Hall of Fame ticket counter. The banquet starts at 6:00 p.m. with acocktail reception followed by dinner at 7:00 p.m. in the Press Box at the College Football Hall of Fame. 
Cost: $50.00 per person. 
. 

Space is very limited. Call for tickets today! 


111 S. St. Joseph Street J,'._rJ:>1BAJJ./lo~ 
South Bend, IN '46601 f t~~~ www.collegefootball.org ~ !i 
rity breaches before the 
attacks. 
Despite all the confusion, 
travelers for the first time since 
Tuesday had the option of fly­
ing in the United States -even 
if the service was limited to a 
handful of flights. 
At Sky Harbor International 
Airport in Phoenix, Sam 
Hemphill was among a dozen 
people lined up at a TWA ticket 
counter. He said· he was 
uneasy about flying but wanted 
to get home to Jacksonville, 
Fla. 
"Whatever happens, hap­
pens," Hemphill said. "You 
have to keep going. If you stop 
living life, they've won." 
Lisa Adamson of Vancouver, 
Wash., was among the passen­
gers on the first commercial 
flight to leave Portland, Ore., 
since Tuesday -a Delta jet 
headed for Kansas City, Mo. 
"I feel nervous," she said. People at the food court cheered as the jet took off. 
The airlines were grounded Tuesday after jets hijacked in Boston, Newark and Washington's Dulles airport were crashed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a Pennsylvania field. 
Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta cleared the way for commercial flights to resume Thursday, saying air­ports would be opened and flights resumed on a case-by­case basis -but only after the new security measures are in place. Private flights are still banned. 
Under the tightest airport security since the Persian Gulf War in 1991, there will be no more curbside check-ins or vis­its .to terminal gates to meet passengers. 
Knives and other cutting tools, even plastic ones, are prohibited. Mail and cargo are temporarily banned from pas­senger flights. 

page 8 Friday, September 14, 200 I
The Observer . NEWS 

deployed in past anti-terrorist think about what that means." ond plane hit the second build­operations. Among them: bomb­For all the planning of retalia­ing. They started evacuating
Victory Students
ings from manned aircraft and tion, the nation was struggling to her building. We knew a lot of 
continued from page I 
Powell said Asked later whether he was pointing to bin Laden, he said, "yes." 
The president and Powell both said the United States had been in diplomatic contact with Pakistan, and wanted to give the government there an opportuni• ty to cooperate. Pakistan has close ties with the Taliban gov• ernment of Afghanistan. 
One senior administration offi• cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said some of the mili­tary options under consideration by Bush would go beyond the low-risk unmanned cruise mis­sile strikes that have been 
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 
the deployment of special troops on the ground. 
At a midday briefing, Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz said the administra• tion would mount a "broad and sustained campaign" iq retalia­tion for the attacks. "It's not just simply a matter of capturing people and holding them accountable, but removing the sanctuaries, removing the sup"' port systems, ending states who sponsor terrorism," he said. 
Asked later to amplify on that statement, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said, "The U.S. will use all our resources to conquer the enemy. Anybody who chooses to be America's enemy will ha~e__to 

INNSBRUCK 
2002-03 Academic Year 

BERLIN 
2002-03, Fall '02 a~d Spring '03 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
Tuesday, September 18, 2001 119 DeBartolo 
4:30 pm 
Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec. 1,2001 Berlin: Oct. 1, 2001 for Sp '02 
Dec. 1, 2001 for F '02 and AY 02-03 
Questions??? Weber.15@nd.edu Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
return to business three days after the attacks. 
The Transportation Department began giving clear­ance for airports to open for the first time since Tuesday. The New York financial markets remained closed until Monday. The National Football League canceled a full slate of games scheduled for this weekend. 
"My resolve is steady and strong about winning this war that has been declared on America," the president said. "It's a new kind of war.... This government will adjust and this government will call other gov­ernments to join us." 



Vigil 
continued from page I 
booths set up nearby to collect don,:i.tions for families of New York City police officers and fire­fighters killed in the World Trade Center rescue effort. 
"Donations aren't required but they are encouraged," Flores said. 
Although student government may organize a blood drive for the "not so distance future," stu­dent body president Brooke Norton said that sending money is an immediate way to help. She added that the money collected at the processional will be com­bined with donations received at other campus masses. 
"This is going to be an extremely powerful and beauti­ful ceremony that should bring together the student body. South Bend community and staff and faculty," said Cannon. "Everyone should make an effort to attend. It's something they won't forget." 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at LaRuffa. l@nd.edu. 

continued from page I 
'Georgia, there are people we know who are going to be dead. Be prepared for that. We just have to pray for them and help them the most we can."' Since talking to her mother, Healey has learned that a friend's father is still missing. 
Other students were also affected. 
On hearing the news Tuesday morning, freshman Greg Bosl, from Long Island began to worry about his brother, who works on the trading floor at the Stock Exchange, about 10 blocks from the WTC. He soon learned that his brother was fine, but later learned a friend had died in the WTC. 
"A guy I've known for six years died. He was in the first building that got hit. and was within eight of the floors where the hit occurred. On the news they said those people were counted as dead, instead of missing. He was my high school basketball coach's best friend. He came to all our games, and I'd coach his kids at camps," recalled Bosl. 
Junior Mike Donahue from Rockaway Beach in Queens, like Healey, recalls Tuesday as surreal. 
"My mom called me at 8:50 
a.m. and told me to turn on the 
T.V. I didn't understand the full severity of what was happening when I went off to class. When I returned after my 9:30 and saw the buildings fall I tried calling my house, but there was no answer. I called my aunt's cell phone and she was there and knew my mom was 
OK." 
Donahue was still worried about his sister, who works in Midtown Manhattan, two miles away from the WfC. 
"She was working in Midtown, and she saw the sec-people working at the WTC. A close family friend is still miss­ing in action," said Donahue. "I called my sister in the city, and she picked up. She said, Tm OK', but then she started cry• ing, saying it was like a night­mare, surreal." 
Donahue lives next door to a fireman in Rockaway who has been involved in the rescue efforts. 
"He told me that Rockaway is one of the hardest•hit areas. About 100 people are still mis.5­ing, which is a lot for a small town,'' Donahue states. 
Senior Molly Moran, from Brooklyn woke up to the news of the tragedies. 
"I was just worried and my father was at work in the city. I didn't know exactly where the rest of my family was, and what they were going to hit next. I called my mom at [her work]. and she was comforting parents all day who didn't know where their spouses were. I also have had a lot of problems getting through." 
Freshman Kate Musica, who is from Washington D.C., was worried about her family there. 
"Both my sisters go to school across the river from the Pentagon, but I called and found out that Georgetown, where one of my sisters goes, was shut down. When I talked to my mother, she said that Tuesday and Wednesday night, soldiers were patrolling the city. I was very scared because I couldn't get in touch and couldn't talk to my family." 
For those still without answers, Healey offered advice. "Keep praying for families. Even after they rebuild the buildings, this is never going away." 
Contact Ally Jay at Jay.5@nd.edu. 
BUSINESS, ECONOMICS AND COMPUTER APPLICATION MAJORS ... 
LOOKING FOR A UNIQUE CAREER OPPORTUNITY? 
Then take a look at Peterson Consulting (a unit of Navigant Consulting, Inc.) 
during our Presentation and Information Session September 18th, 2001-7pm Center for Continuing Education (CCE), Room 100 

The Special Guest Speaker will be: 
William M. Goodyear 

Navigant Consulting Chairman and CEO  
Notre Dame Graduate and Trustee  
Peterson  
A Unit of Navlgant Consulting, offers:  a new Compaq IPAQ  
o Highly competitive compensation packages o Year-end bonuses o Travel opportunities o Extensive growth potential o Dynamic work environment  All you need to enter is to: 1. Tum in your resume for entry at the start ofthe presentation 2. stay until the end and hear the name ofthe winner announced  


Visit us at : www.petersonconsulting.com 
"Navigant" is aservice mark of Navigant International, Inc. NavigantConsulting, Inc. (NCI) is not affiliated, associated, or In any wayconnected with Nav1gant International, Inc. and NCl's use of "Navlgant" is made under license from Navigant International, Inc. 
I • 
• 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 9 Friday, September 14, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notce Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINFSS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY"s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l @nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0.............................n .........................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reM:rves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm;apolicies should be direct­rd to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 




, -:_:_:::::-·:2!.._=<"_·:..._·__:;-~:_~_-·:,_•·~_;.;--_:;;,_i-._-:_s 
' 





Responding nobly in a time of crisis 
Last Saturday while Notre Dame alumni and fans watched the opening kickoff of the Nebraska game, I was completing a day of softball on Andrews Air Force Base. During the early tournament games, I watched Air Force One practice taking off and landing. Later several fighter jets practiced their take offs and flying maneuvers. Finally an older Air Force One jet took off for California where it was to become a permanent exhibit at the Reagan Presidential Library. 
None of us dared to imagine that two days later, on the following Tuesday. these planes would be involved in preserving the integrity of our government. 
Shortly after Tuesday morning's ter­rorist attacks in New York and across the river at the Pentagon, an eerie silence hung over the nation's capital. Many walked without speaking at all, while some spoke on their cellular phones as they passed by on the side­walk. Most who did conduct a conver­sation only spoke in subdued tones. 
It was nothing like the atmosphere of the Persian Gulf War a decade ago. It reminded me more of the long somber walk across campus from the Notre Dame stadium after a visiting team had upset the Irish. 
Washington workers evacuated the city at mid-day. It was a surreal scene in front of my residence on 15th Street. The one-way street ironically looked like a New York City avenue with cars quickly zipping by and the sidewalks uncharacteristically crowd­ed with solemn, numb pedestrians quietly walking away from the White House. 
Occasionally, police cars leading mini motorcades screamed as they 


carried cabinet and congressional 
members to secure locations in 
bunkers throughout the city. 
Overhead the sky was quiet except for 
the quick bursts of jet fighters 
patrolling above. 
As a Clinton White House pass hold­er still residing six blocks from the White House, I remembered when a small plane crash-landed on the south lawn several years ago. With the Secret Service's capability to down an approaching aircraft, I knew that it was more likely for a jet to crash on me than on the White House. After I heard of the hijacked jet that had crashed near Pittsburgh, I knew that the White House was a target on that sunny Tuesday morning. 
Undoubtedly the callous actions by those terrorists shocked our nation like nothing before in our history. Those heinous acts are the 21st cen­tury's slap of reality to our current college students' generation, more shocking than the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. It is the equivalent of Pearl Harbor's call to my parents' generation or the sense­less killings in Vietnam that forced my generation to prematurely set aside our youth. Tuesday's assaults just may or may not have created our next great generation. 
The greatness of our nation is unparalleled throughout the world. While Americans are resolved to iden­tify those responsible for this atrocity and bring them to justice, we walk a thin line between revenge and justice. 
Almost immediately after Tuesday's incidents, hundreds of hate e-mail messages and acts of vandalism were perpetrated against Muslim organiza­tions in the United States by Americans seeking revenge. Many callers on both radio and television talk shows have advocated war against all Arabs. It is reminiscent of the World War II internment of inno­cent Japanese Americans following the Pearl Harbor attack. 
Blind patriotism can cause some to act in a manner that is just as low and 
cowardly as those acts perpetrated by 
terrorists. Americans have set the 
world standard for freedom and 
democracy by openly living our val­
ues. Now is not the time to abandon 
our example by reacting like wild 
west cowboys. Diversity is the thread 
that binds our democracy. 
Ironically, initial indications point to extremist Muslim fundamentalists whose prior terrorist activities have been based on love of their religion. They believe that the United States defiled their holy land during the Persian Gulf War of the early 1990s. As a result, they have identified us as the "Great Satan." 
How do we combat such fervor? Many will propose that our govern­ment be permitted to monitor and intercept internet communications in the name of national security and intelligence. Some will advocate lifting the ban on assassinations abroad by our country's agents and military. Others will propose a form of domes­tic profiling based on heritage and personal appearance. These are some of the new challenges that will face our society as we attempt to sort out our response to Tuesday's terrorist assaults. 
The coming months will test our ability to balance our freedoms with our ability to fight terrorists with their own terrorist tactics. Our declaration of war on terrorists will give this country the temporary excuse to abandon certain civil liberties. The issue will be whether or not we act like a great satan in the name of free­dom. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame class of '73, served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His col­umn appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. \ 
The views expressed in tffls column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Scott Gordon Brodfuehrer Strickland Kate Mosesso Graphics Sheila Egts Andy Devoto 
Sports Production Matt Lozar Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Pat Kelly Angela Campos 
POLL QUESTION 
U.S. News and World Report recently released its annual college rankings. Did these rankings play a role in your college decision? 
Please e-mail observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Charisma knows only inner determination and inner restraint ... The charismatic leader gains and maintains authority solely by proving his strength in life." 
Max Weber German philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



Friday, September 14, 2001 page 10 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


What action should America take? 
Economic measures are viable alternative to perpetuating the cycle ofwarfare 
First off, we would like to express our deepest sympathy and prayers for all those killed, injured, emotionally harmed and struggling with the inhu­manity that occurred earlier this week. 
Retaliation is the word on every American mind over the past days. Sanctions, declarations of war and most prominently military action are just a few of the options the American people have been bom­barded with since the tragedies in Washington D.C. and New York. This call to action is more than expected when thousands of American civilians are brutally murdered. In the minds of the majority, nothing would be more satisfying than an all out military action; completely wiping out whichever terrorist or government committed these atrocities. 
It is imperative for the future security of America to hunt down those responsible and punish them. We must not passively turn and give the other cheek to terrorism. However military retaliation is not a viable option. Instead, an all out military action would continue and increase this vicious cycle of terrorism. Economic action can go a lot further in winning this type of war than military action. 
Instead of an all out military assault on whoever is responsible, the United States and its comrades should negotiate with countries like Afghanistan. We should offer those countries grain, money, edu­cational materials and other supplies that they need in return for the terrorists in their countries. In other words, off er them such overwhelming eco­nomic benefits that they can not pass up the oppor­tunity to improve their countries. America must make it known that is willing to offer enormous amount of economic benefits in the new global busi­ness of bringing terrorists to justice. 
If the United States decides to send aircraft carri­ers to the Indian Ocean and launch a series of air attacks, we might take out terrorists like Bin Laden. However, inevitably we will also manage to wipe out towns· full of innocent people, an act of terror­ism. Then all the husbands, sons, brothers, etc. of the innocent people killed will vow revenge on America and a seed of terrorism will be sowed. In attempting to wipe out terrorism the United States is only feeding a fire; the more you try to eradicate them, the more you will end up fighting. 
Retaliating and killing innocent people is exactly what terrorist like bin Laden want the Article Five nations to do. It will make martyrs out of the inno­cent people killed. In the eyes of the martyrs' family and friends, the United States will even more resemble the "head of a snake" that many believe it already is. Retaliation, bombing and wiping people out will only cause numerous more terrorist acts and more followers in their ludicrous ideologies. 
Economic and political negotiating is a course of action that should be considered. The Article Five nations need to open up a dialog with so-labeled "terrorist nations." Article Five nations, led by the United States, should offer them significant materi­als and money to help out their economies and increase their standard of living. In return for these handouts, as in the Marshall Plan, those designated countries will cooperate with the United States. By agreeing to cooperate, they will hand over the mas­terminds behind these heinous actions and agree to work in eradicating terrorism from our communal planet. If we can negotiate with these countries by offering them money and other economic goods, the Article Five nations will become allies with such countries as Afghanistan in the war against terror­ism. 
America can accomplish more utilizing this "eco­nomic warfare" than using our enormous military power to fight terrorism. The United States contains cities such as New York, Los Angeles and Chicago that each have a higher gross domestic product than Russia. Clearly we can offer numerous eco­nomic opportunities to third world countries. This course of action might be expensive, timely and dif­ficult, but it is more than worth suffering through another September 11, 2001. 
Christopher C. Cordes Edward T. Prusiecki 
• seniors 
Alumni Hall Sept. 13, 200 l 

Solutions other than traditional warfare must be sought 
Our best weapons against terrorism are not guns, planes and bombs. It is instead our devotion to the pursuit of liberty and the creative means with which we pursue it. 
Some reactionaries might call for war, but a War on Terrorism is likely to end up just as much a failure as our War on Drugs and our War on Poverty. War against an ideol­ogy is not felled by soldiers but by civilians with open minds and open hearts. An important part of winning a traditional war is demonizing one's enemies to stir up passions. That's exactly the opposite strategy required to win this new war that our President has declared. 
If we would focus some of our energy inward to reflect upon why certain people are so angry with the United States, we might understand that to be better accepted by foreign nations sometimes it's better not to throw our weight around like the world's bully. There's no way to befriend everybody all the time. but it's possible that if we paid more attention to the consequences of our actions we could avert all but the most militant of our enemies. 
And perhaps we should try leveraging the goodwill we share with our allies in order to freeze Osama bin Laden's assets, or even turn over his bank accounts to the people who lost their loved ones in the tragic attacks. This is just one example of a creative way to strike back against a known ter­rorist that would limit unnecessary bloodshed. 
Simply flying into Afghanistan, guns ablazing, will not shut down a terrorist network like Al Qaeda. That's because any Muslims we kill would likely become martyrs. Defusing the time bomb of terrorism will require honest dialog amongst our friends -and enemies. It will mean recognizing govern· ments that we don't like, such as Afghanistan's Taliban. It will also mean changing course on silly plans that the entire world is against, such as the militarization of space through a Missile Defense Plan. If we actively participate in making the world a better place for everyone, instead of making our decisions in an "I don't care what you think" kind of vacuum, we'd win more respect from friend and foe alike. 
Jeff Sepeta 
class of '91 Sept. 13, 2001 



A new line has been drawn in the sand since Tuesday's tragedy and it is not between the 
U.S. and foreign terrorists. It is between the people who believe in action and those who believe in dialogue. 
I believe that our country's military needs to take action. My opinion has been called a knee-jerk reaction and an ignorant response to what has happened. Tell that to the dead Secret Service officers murdered in the World Trade Center. Tell that to the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines who have lost so many lives to terrorist attacks (Have we forgotten Beirut, or the U.S.S. Cole?). Tell that to the children out there without mothers and fathers. 
Our current government will have to make difficult decisions in the coming weeks. They will get their hands dirty, and there is a good chance of added bloodshed. Do I want more civilians killed? No I do not. But let's face it, the courts have not been a deterrent. Talking has not been a deterrent. The old saying "actions speak louder than words" rings true in how I feel America should respond. 
So continue to talk, as I hope you all will do. Speak loudly in support of our government or protest the actions they take in the future. I welcome and cherish all responses to this let­ter. Why? Because I live in the United States of America, where you can call the President an idiot or my father a baby killer because he served in Vietnam. That is a right you have. And God Bless that. 
Ryan G. Lockwood 
junior 
off-campus Sept. 13, 200 l 

The tears of Our Lady wash away pain 
In this silence is screamed the horror, In this silence the terror reigns. The flight of evil has pierced sharply, And now such sorrow consumes the day. 
But one sound defeats this silence, One sound so bright in this darkened blaze. From the Sacred Heart are we bound tighter, As the tears of Our Lady wash away the pain. 
A family gathers to sing of faith united, A family cherished with her blessed name. The bells of this mourning are waking the silence, The toll of her tears hums a trickling peace. 
We wade together in this water of promise, And we walk beyond the hopeless strain. Tomorrow will come with the dark silence conquered, While the melody of her tears will pardon through strength. 
For there is but: One struggle, one family, one nation, one race ­One echo of one people, One God of All Grace. . . 
Leonard J. Delorenzo II 
junior Zahm Hall Sept.12,2001 
r'\!_HE
vnSERVER 


page 11 Friday, September 14, 2001 
Students, faculty offer views on attack 
Attack the root of the problem 
While our hearts continue to go out to all of those 
who mourn the loss of loved ones, it is important 
that we at this University begin to ask ourselves 
what lessons we might learn from the terrorist 
attacks that took place on Sept. 11 in New York and 
Washington, how we might minimize the likelihood 
of something so devastating from happening again 
and how we might best build peace in our world. 
The lessons we learn and how we respond as a 
nation to these destructive acts is of greatest impor­
tance and will affect the likelihood such attacks will 
be attempted again. 
Although it is important to find and prosecute 
those responsible for participating in the murder of 
so many. it is also very important to realize that the 
tough talk of reprisal that may play well to 
Americans, who are understandably angry, does 
nothing to prevent further attacks and in fact there 
is reason to believe that threats and tough talk sim­
ply make such attacks more likely rather than less 
likely. Remember, we are often dealing with people 
who apparently do not value their own lives, let 
alone the lives of others. To issue threats and to 
engage in tough talk is in effect to lay down the 
gauntlet. 
While it is important to do all we can to bolster our 
security and intelligence capabilities in order to 
expose terrorist plots before they can be carried out, 
it is of even greater importance to begin to do what 
we can to make such plots less likely from material­
izing in the first place. In other words, we must 
address the causes of terrorism rather than just the 
symptoms. 
While there will always be some "sick" people with a cause who have little regard for life, including their own, and there is no completely fail-safe way to pre­vent such people from attacking others, we should ask ourselves how we might make it less likely for such sick people to gain disciples, sponsors and pro­tectors. 
There are no easy answers but for anyone who has spent any time in developing countries, it is easy to see how poverty and, thanks to greater access to media in the developing world. a growing awareness of relative deprivation among people in poor coun­tries, breeds hate and is making it increasingly easy for "sick" people to recruit disciples willing to mur­der millions of people and end their own lives in the process. 
After World War II, the United States recognized that unless the winners of that war did something to, among other things, promote economic development in the countries defeated in that war, hate would increase, people would seek revenge and violence would resume. The Marshall Plan served to decrease animosity, to squelch the desire for revenge and to promote peace in Europe, a region where war had raged off and on for several hundred years. 
While the United States and Western Europe have grown increasingly prosperous during the last decades of the 20th century, many of the least devel­oped countries in the world have become increasing­ly impoverished. Any "war" on terrorism must also be a "war" on poverty. We cannot expect peace to prevail in a world where the gap between the rich and poor countries continues to grow as it has recently. 
Although anger is a natural response to the terri­ble events of Sept. 11, at a University like our own. especially at a Catholic University like our own, we must do our best to resist letting the anger ke.ep us from asking ourselves what lessons we might learn and how we might respond in a way that promotes true peace. While there is only so much we can do, let us dedicate ourselves to working for a more secure world by identifying and addressing the con­ditions that make terrorism more likely. 
While complete security is an illusion, it is possible that the world gradually become more secure if we attack the root causes rather than just the symptoms of terrorism. May God help us to do so. 
Father Robert Dowd The Helen Kellogg Institute for lncernational Studies Sept. 13, 2001 
God has not abandoned us 
I may not be a terrorist expert or a former govern­mental position holder, but I do know something about human nature and about humanity as it relates to tragedy and death. 
Firsthand experience has unwillingly shown us our natural feelings following _3--·­an eve~t of this level of atrocity: ,1,;/~ confusion, sorrow and pure , ~~ ~nadulterated an~er. And who >­
"?~·:"'ffjj_­
IS to blame us, we re all ...:, , . . _.., -, , . human, aren't we? 
This brings us then to how a civilized man must look at himself and deter­mine which feeling he is to uphold and rely on to carry him through the days to come. All my heart and my most human of emotions tell me anger is not that feeling. 

I've lived this tragedy just as you have and have felt the same emotions that have come and gone in ,, your mind. Cries of l I 
. r 
revenge and retaliation -i ; I seem to be the common response on campus to the \ "7\, ;' 
\ \.}4­
tragic events, but how does killing justify more killing? ~j Are we to play God and take 

Many friends of mine from near and far have brought up the insanity of the situation and how those who celebrate it call it "God's will." Is this to say that God has created this evil? Isn't God the 
Almighty in Himself considered to be the root of all good? Why then has this hap­
pened? The simplest of all responses lies in the definition of evil. It is not 
something in itself but rather the lack or something. the i,~ lack of good. God has not abandoned us. He has not turned 
away. We have failed as a nation to be the corner­stone of freedom. We 
have failed as a people to be human. 
Unleash not the mili­tary, but the good Samaritan. Build not a missile defense, but a cure for hunger, a cure 
for disease, a cure for 

poverty. Show them not how America reigns superior, but how we as h~mans are human and ::: share the same future, ·\ }-~ share the same dreams. 
• \, We do this not in the name 
\ ·'; ofAmerica, but in the name of life, in the name of love and in 
the lives of those which we know 
the names of our children who will not for certain have taken our · one day inherit the one and only neighbors'? Will we not celebrate and place where they can call home ­parade through the streets once "justice" ·; /Earth. has been served? How does that make us dif­ferent from them? Why won't the people of those for­Ricky Austin eign countries have the right to call us, the people of freshman 
the United States, terrorists? Who wins? Who becomes the enemy? 
Everywhere they are asking 
Everywhere they are asking were you watching, were you watching when the airplanes met the giant, struck the giant in the groin? 
But the planes were full of people and the towers were full of people and the streets were filled with people when they toppled to the ground. 
Were you watching, were you watching when the airplanes struck the giant when the airplanes felled the giant, bloodied the giant in his nose? 
But the buildings were full of people and the planes were full of people and the towers were full of people and there were people on the ground. 
Everywhere they are asking are you watching, are you watching? Is the giant's vision clouded? Have his stinging eyes begun to clear? 
For the wronged and wronging giant is still a giant, still a giant, And everywhere are people waiting, terrified of his reply. 

Mike Smith 
assistant to the director of creative writing Sept. 12, 2001 
Alumni Hall Sept. 12, 200 l 

Student union encourages solidarity, prayer 
On this day of national mourning, we would like to offer our thoughts and prayers to all those touched by Tuesday's tragedy. Words cannot express our deep sor­row. 
It is especially important in times such as these that we unite as one in prayer as we did so powerfully at the campus Mass. Let us remember that spirit of compassion and hope in the coming days as we strive to embrace the Christian call to forgiveness. 
In memory of the victims of this tragedy and in solidar­ity with their loved ones, the University will come togeth­er for a candlelight vigil on Sunday evening. All are invited to meet at the Grotto at 7 :45 p.m. for a proces­sion to the Library Reflecting Pool. 
Donations will be accepted to benefit the families of New York City firefighters and police officers who lost their lives in the relief effort. 
May God bless our community, our country and our world. 
Brooke Norton
• 
srudenc body president 
Brian Moscona 
scudent body vice president 
Jonathan Jorissen 
chief of staff Sept. 13, 200 l 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



mes 
page 12 
Friday, September 14, 2001 

contention are the 

game cartridges to cd 
ByGORDON STRICKI.AND 
availability of periph­
mini-disks, does not 

Assistant Scene Editor 
erals and their pric­
boast a DVD player, stat­ing. For example, the 
ing that their platform is We have definitely come a long PS2 was not released 
meant for gaming, not way since Willy Higinbotham, with a modem or 
watching movies. The hero to all children and enemy to hard drive for inter­
Gamecube runs a 485­all parents hoping to spend qual­net connection as the 
megahertz processor. ity time with their children, creat­other two will be,-but 
Which system will give ed the first video game ever in for $40 you can pur­
you more bang for your 1958. We were amazing with chase one, with the 
buck? While Gamecube such amazed graphics as those of additional require-
and X Box are expected Pong when the Atari gaming sys­ment of purchasing 
to retail at $300 apiece, tem was released, one of the first hard drive space, 
Playstation 2, in a move of its kind. We were introduced to which wilJ run you 
to keep fickle gamers Colecovision in 1976 and ever about $100 (advan­
everywhere still straining since then the war between gam­tage Gamecube and 
at the leash to buy a sys­ing systems for time in front of · X Box). Functionality 
tem, is expected to slash the television has been waged in is essential to these 
its price from $300 to the living rooms of every small gaming systems as 
maybe even as low as child and game lover all over the well, as mentioned, 
$150. With the expected world. they are all internet 
price cuts, PS2 basically The next generation of video compatible, but the 
makes up the difference gaming is upon us and the battle PS2 and X Box are 
of buying their peripher­rages on. After a period of stag­also DVD players, 
als. Lack of a DVD player nation, the game market is tin­though the X Box 
and inability to play gling in anticipation of the does require a $30 music eds diminishes upcoming race for supremacy in remote in order to activate this titles, something every gamer into video game consoles, is in Gamecubes versatility and gives 
covets. Failure to produce vast this respect at a decided disad­
the heats and minds of worldwide feature (advantage PS2 and X the other two systems a big leg gamers. Box, in that order). quantities of games will disap­vantage because gamers, though up. X Box, with its hard drive for People were blown away by All of the systems do attempt to point gamers and drive prices for assured games will undoubtedly saving games, pushes its value Playstation 2, with units on back­correct the mistake of previous systems higher, damaging the be of high quality because of the over the top and to the spot of 
console's appeal. 

order for months after its release consoles and allow for greater Microsoft name, have yet to sam­highest value, saving you money at the end of 2000 and the revolu­multiplayer capacity, with ports Though other systems have ple actual game-play and get time on numerous peripherals. tion in gaming is expected to for four controllers on each, so provided high-quality graphics, logged on at the joystick. Regardless of if you are a Sony explode with the upcoming game fans everywhere can play some seemingly ahead of their Nintendo has already cornered fan, rooting for Microsoft's effort, releases of Gamecube by Monster Truck Madness and time (remember Neo-Geo and the the market on handheld games or a solid Nintendo supporter, the Nintendo and the X Box from become closer through friendly Atari Lynx?) the ultimate with Gameboy and the recently fact of the matter is that gamers software giant Microsoft. Both competition. endorsement of a system's appeal released Gameboy Advance, it everywhere will have the delight
is given by the programmers. boasts hundreds of titles. In the
companies are already jockeying Improvements like this one of being able to try all three. for release date position. make gaming more enjoyable and While Nintendo boasts that its market for home consoles, the So there you have it, the three 
A battle the companies wage illustrate the benefits consumers new system is very easy for pro­battle will undoubtedly be won by gaming giants have slugged it out amongst themselves. Learning reap from such a cut-throat sys­grammers and undoubtedly the X the gaming system with the best in the ring, the facts are before from PS2's mistakes, both gaming tem of competition. Box can claim the same, being range and quality of titles. you, what remains to be seen is 
created by the patriarch of pro­PS2 comes equipped with a
companies hove vowed to have Though improved graphics and the public's reaction. Let the more than enough units of their game play factor in as huge parts grammers himself, PS2 has 300-megahertz processor, DVD games begin. consoles available for sale on the of the success or failures of these already received complaints from reading capability and the added day of their releases. systems. programmer friendly gaming companies for being a bonus of being able to play origi­
Other issues at the vanguard of consoles will be able to off er more harder platform for which to nal Playstation games. X Box, has Contact Gordon Strickland at 
write games (advantage by far the most innovative added strickland.5@nd.edu. 
Gamecube and X Box). features of 
Still, the titles will undoubtedly the three, a 
come for the PS2 as it enjoys the large inter­
luxury of being the current king nal hard 
of the hill, it was released a full drive and a 
year before its competitors. The 733-mega­
question remains still, regardless h e r t z 
of who came first, who will have processor in 
the last laugh? order to 
One huge advantage that make saving 
might establish PS2 as the ulti­games easi­
mate gaming machine is that, er than the 
on top of improved game-play current 
and graphics, you can still use standard, 
your original Playstation con­w h i C h 
trollers and games with the new involves 
system. memory 
Taking into account that its cards. 
predecessor is still the platform It also 
with the most titles ever (the comes with 
number of titles for playstation is a DVD play­
upwards of 700) this added fea­er and an 
ture definitely earns major Ethernet 
brownie points for PS2 in the connection 
hearts of gaming fans the world for connect­
over. ing to the 
Nintendo has changed con­internet and 
trollers and game cartridges for online gam­
every system it has ever created, ing commu­
making the change of systems nities. 
somewhat inconvenient if you're Gamecube, 
looking to hold on to just one. X switching 
Box, Microsoft's first venture over from 



O
THE 
BSERVER 

eo games
Friday, September 14, 2001 

page 13 


Or time in front ofyour television. 
30 years of rotting your brain a video game system retrospective. 
tainment sector. licensing of game design Sega was the first to enter battle for the home gaming By C. SPENCER BEGGS Atari tried to rekindle its equipment and architecture. the market with the Sega market. Other companies Associate Scene Editor former glory with the Atari In fact, the NES entered the Genesis in 1989. Genesis tried a number of products to 
7800 in 1984, but the system market a few months behind boasted a palette of 512 col­break into the scene but most 
In 1972, the earliest whis­met the same fate as the Atari the Sega Master System, but ors and 80 displayable fizzled or outright failed. pers of the technological rev­5200 and the Vectrex. Video due to third-party support, sprites, or rendered moving NEC introduced the olution began to reach the game historians (yes, they Nintendo had captured 96 objects. The powerful (at the TurboDuo in 1991 and home entertainment market exist) consider the period percent of the video game time) 16-bit processor and Phillips took a crack at the when Magnavox released the from 1981 to 1984 to be the system market by 1986. increased screen resolution SNES with the CD-I in 1992. first home video game system "Dark Ages" o( the industry. The Sega Master System, spooked Nintendo into pro­Panasonic tried its hand with known as the Odyssey. Of course. the light was about although superior in technol­duction of the Super Nintendo the 3DO in 1993 and Atari let Interestingly enough, the to shine through the clouds ogy to the NES. could not pro­(SNES). which overshadowed out its death rattle with the Odyssey was not even consid­with new technology from duce the same kind of games the Genesis in all technologi­Jaguar the same year. All ered a computer by the indus­Japan. that the NES could. The NES cal specifications except for competed with the SNES and try of the time. The Odyssey The hot toy for Christmas of effectively locked Sega out of processor speed. Genesis in the 16-bit proces­came preprogrammed with 12 1985 was the Nintendo the market by manipulative The Super Nintendo, which sor market and none made a games, however, consumers Entertainment System (NES). business practices and entered the market in 1991, dent in market share. generally found only two of The NES set the standard for alliances with other mega­crushed all competition Neither Nintendo nor Sega them to be satisfactory enter­video games. It boasted a corporations, specifically including SNK's Neo-Geo, a could force the other out of tainment. palette of 52 colors, 16 of Pepsi and Toys R' Us. better system but far over­business but Nintendo eventu­
Following directly on the which could be displayed at NES's 8-bit competitors priced. Nintendo had been ally gained the upper hand heels of the Odyssey was what any given time, and an 8-bit such as the NEC Turbografx-faking supply shortages on even though its system most people imagine as the processing unit. (The term 16 (which ironically contained games since 1988 and the couldn't compete with the first home entertainment sys­"bit" refers to both the graph­an 8-bit processor) and Sega strategy continued to work to superior coding of the tem, Atari Pong. Pong had ic and work capabilities of a Master System met with produce support for the Super Genesis. long been an arcade stan­processor. In video game sys­inevitable financial hardships Nintendo. Nintendo could not, Eventually, Sega released dard, but Atari Pong brought tems, in most cases, a higher and technological short-com­however, dominate the mar­the Sega Saturn in 1995. A the game into homes. bit rating means better per­ings. They saw that the only ket with the SNES as they CD-based system that was too 
Both the Odyssey and Atari formance.) way to compete with the NES once had with the NES. little, too late against the new Pong were low tech by today's Nintendo Inc. was noted for was to surpass its technology. For the next four years the king of the hill, the Sony 
_standards-. The Odyssey did Machiavellian business prac­They needed to enter the 16-Super Nintendo and the Playstation. not have enough power to dis­tices, specifically regarding bit world. Genesis engaged in a bitter The Sony Playstation, the play full screen graphics so herald of the new 32-bit 
gaming standard, debuted in
users applied overlays, 
1995 causing Sega to discon­
sheets of plastic with pic­
tinue its line of Genesis prod­tures on them, to TV screens 
ucts. Over the next five
to simulate the full screen 
years, the Playstation ate
effect. 
In May of 1977, the first into the market share of the gaming industry. Sega retali­
modern video game system 
ated with its Dreamcast in
was released, the Atari 2600. 
late 1998 but internal com­
The Atari 2600, or Atari pany problems caused the
Video Computer System as it system to all but vanish fromis known, was the first sys­the market.
tem to use interchangeable In the end, the two con­
read-only-memory (ROM) 
tenders left standing are thecartridges to contain games. 
recently released 64-bit
Each 2600 cartridge could 
Playstation 2 and Nintendoonly hold four kilobytes of 
64 (N64). Other competitors
information. Today's stan­
have withdrawn their consoledard DVD ROM can hold 4. 7 bids from the market, folded
gigabytes of information ­
entirely or merged with
over 1 million times (disre­stronger companies.
garding compression and Both Nintendo and Sony
emerging formats that can 
are planning future systems;extend the amount even fur­however, they may encounterther) the information of the competitions for unexpected2600 cartridges. 
sources. Microsoft is slated toThe next leap in technology release the much-anticipatedcame with the release of the 
X-Box late this year againstColecovision and the Atari 
Nintendo's release of the
5200 SuperSystem in 1982. 
Gamecube. There is almostNeither gained the market 
no way to predict which con­share their parent companies 
sole will win the market in
desired because personal 
the end.
computers had recently 
The history of video game
entered the market diverting systems is rife with corporateresources from game to soft­
dealings and public relation
ware production. Milton 
strategies. Only time will tell. 
Bradley also entered the market in 1982 with the GCE Vectrex game system. The system never had a strong 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
showing in the home enter­
beggs.3@nd.edu. 

Friday, September 14, 2001 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 

League cancels more preseason contests 
their Sunday game against Rye. Robinson, who coached four Leafs held the first scrimmage
Associated Press 

Dallas at the United Center Garnet ..Ace" Bailey, the Los seasons with Los Angeles, at their practice rink. has been rescheduled for Angeles Kings director of pro knew Bailey. "Even if we could fly. there 
NEW YORK Monday at 7:30 p.m. scouting, and Mark Bavis, an "I lost a friend yesterday," is no room in St. John's so, 
The NHL canceled Sunday's The NHL offices in amateur scout, were among Robinson said. "It just left a unfortunately, we won't be preseason games Thursday. Manhattan were open for a the 65 people on United horrible empty feeling in the able to go," general manager Saturday's games were can­brief time on Thursday. They Airlines Flight 175 -the sec­pit of my stomach." and coach Pat Quinn said. celed on Wednesday, a day were closed at 1 p.m. ET and ond plane to hit the skyscrap­Only the Rangers canceled Montreal and Toronto are after the terrorist attacks on will remain so for the rest of ers in New York. The Boeing practice, but other teams supposed to play each other the United States. the week. The league will 767 was scheduled to fly from struggled to go on. Sunday night in St. John's. 
The cancellations include operate out of its office. in Boston to Los Angeles. "It's not an easy thing to try The Buffalo Sabres hoped to Colorado Avalanche's games Toronto. The Kings, however, opened to motivate yourself for prac­open their camp Wednesday in in Sweden. Attempts are being The New York Rangers camp on schedule Wednesday, tice," Minnesota goalie Manny St. Catharines, Ontario, but made to reschedule at least called off plans to hold their but postponed their Saturday Fernandez said. changed their minds because one of those games. training camp at Madison game against the Anaheim Devils left wing Jay Pandolfo of Canadian border concerns. 
Teams have been given per­Square Garden on Wednesday. Mighty Ducks before the NHL and Bavis were teammates at The Sabres practiced in mission by the league to The team was scheduled to made its decision to cancel all Boston University. Buffalo on Wednesday and will reschedule preseason games train at its home arena for the games. The Toronto Maple Leafs try again to shift operations amongst themselves. first time in its 76-year histo­Once the game is played, the decided not to go anywhere. into Canada on Thursday. 
The Chicago Blackhawks ry. team said all proceeds will be Instead of having camp in St. "I think for a while it will be announced on Thursday that Practice was postponed until donated to the families of New John's, Newfoundland, the very hard for anyone to go their Saturday game at Thursday. but will be held, York City police and firefight­Leafs scrapped those plans about doing anything and feel Nashville has been resched­without fans in attendance, at ers killed in relief efforts. and remained in Toronto. normal," Sabres defenseman 
uled for Sept. 23 at 5 p.m. and the team's training facility in New Jersey coach Larry On Wednesday, the Maple Jay McKee said. 
I. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. After school care for two children, 3 Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Beautiful brass bed, queen size, For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAS 654­NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL pm • 5:30 pm. Good pay! Please Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, with orthopedic mattress set. All 0168 273-2872. call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564. DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car new, never used, still in plastic.
LOST AND FOUND 
garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-$235. 219-862-2082. $$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET WANTED: FOOSBALL -Looking for high 1772 for more info. 915-241-5999 
NECKLACE. Highly organized, experienced legal level players. Do you have it? Call PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL secretary or assistant to Pl trial D 257-4441. 
AT SAINT MARY'S. lawyer for new, spacious offices GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. next to Notre Dame campus; hours THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL flexible; competitive pay and bene-BE PID IF NOT SURRENDERED. fits.. BUT WE WANT IT BACK, Call 231-1868 and leave message. PLEASE. CALL 765-659-4928. Sitter wanted by professor for two Looking tor someone to care for/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys while I work in home office. 3-5 hours per week -flexible. 5 miles from campus. Tricia 232-1285 
60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk + office PARADISE LAKE chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. ND-PURDUE fooball tix for sale. Newly rehabbed, 6 bedroom, year Cheap! round home on low traffic, al sports Gently used loveseat + chair. AM · 232-2378 lake 30 min. from Notre Dame. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood PM· 288-2726 Tranquil setting with spectacular trim-"Broyhill" $150 674-6150 views from every room. Near Need 2 Purdue tickets! Call Cassopolis, Ml and Swiss Valley 52055 Old Post Lane Maureen at 233-8513 Ski area. $234,000. 708-203-2685. Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private 
I HANDSOME REWARD. boys (7&10) some evenings and lane in Farmington Square. 2373 NEED 2 GA'S TO TENNESSEE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED late afternoons. Looking for a female English tutor THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and SF + professionally finished base-WILL CONSIDER OTHER. CALL 
Constable.1@nd.edu or 234-9597 for Japanese native girl aged 8 in Breakfast Inn has space available rnent. Call Jack at 280·7730. JACK 674-6593. Lost High School Class Ring Wanted by elderly couple a respon-Granger. Twice a week $40 (1 hour for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. Chillicothe High School sible man or woman graduate stu-each some time between 4 to 7 with private baths, $80-$115, WILL TRADE TICKETS. ND FOOT-Jessica inscribed on the inside dent to drive our car for errands or pm). Contact Yoshi at 219-654-Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Futon w/solid wood frame $500. BALL FOR U2. 232-0964 Please return! Girlfriend will kill me short drives from our home in ND 1219 Toll Road Exit #107. Krups cappucino & coffee maker Please call 634-3580 neighborhood. Wages per hour 1-800-418-9487 $70. Sony cordless phone & WANTED U2 TICKETS. 232-0964 
negotiable. 288-0074 Morn's helper. answering machine $30. Lost a silver bracelet possibly in Seek student to help with twins 1 o-HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM• 277-0666. Need 2-3A&M vs ND tickets. Call South Quad directly outside Dillon Wanted by elderly couple a respon-20 hrs/moth. Good pay. Full PUS Pat-277-2243. Hall's front door. sible man or woman graduate stu-description available by e-mail mmmrentals.com LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. Bracelet has a gold plate with the dent to drive our car for errands or request: email: mmmrentals@aol.com 12" drivers. $250 obo/pari. Call 2 ND-Purdue tickets for sale. 277­inscription "TJ 1999 LIV." If found, short drives from our home in ND Je ..:il.s~!s ~ aQl.~Qm Mike 4-4695 9322. please call 4-0951 and leave a neighborhood. Wages per hour HOUSE FOR RENT: 1) 9-bdr message for T J. negotiable. 288-0074. Babysitter(s): non-smoker, playful, $2400/month. 2) 5-bdr '88 GMC pikcup truck. Looks good, Help! Need 8 WV tix! Call Kerry at REWARD over $50. responsible. Needed for various $1500/month. 3) 4-bdr runs great. Call Mark at 273-0449. 243-0928 
Babysitter needed times: Mon & Th. Fternoons (12-5), $1000/month. Call Bill at 532-1896 Seeking experienced caregiver to Sat. nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In SPRING BREAK Need MSU tix! Call Lora at 243­help mother with oddler and infant Granger. ND/Mich. St.Hotel-sleeps 4 Largest selection of Spring Break 0928
WANTED in our home. Needing assistance 2 273-9476 Jacuzzi-refrig-hottub-exercise-rm-Destinations, including Cruises! times per week in later afternoon. pool-food-plygrd-shuttle-min 3 nites Rep positions. Free Drinks and Must have own transportation. SEEKING STUDENT FOR PART $175/nite 9/21-9/27 Free Trips available. 
PERSONAL

1 ROOMMATE WANTED: Training in CPR and first aid pre-TIME REPRESENTATION ON 219-291·5849 / 255-1020 www,l;s.2i~uBBtrnn.QQm. 1-800-231­!erred. $7.00 per hour. Please call CAMPUS FOR SCREEN PRINT & 4-FUN. Looking for a male or female 219-287-5086 for appointment. EMBROIDERY COMPANY. FLEX B&B SENIORS: 
~ 
rommate for house off-campus HOURS & FLEX PAY. CALL DAVE 4 rooms for N.D. football. Senior Portraits taken until Sept. at 822 N. Francis St. WANTED: AT 800-813-2113. 3 miles from N.D. Best location. 21. Sign up now @ Close to campus. Assistant to trial tayer with desktop 287-4545 TICKETS www.Laurenstudios.com while If interested, call 288-8249 publishing skills for new spacious Seeking part-time Daycare provider there is still space available. 
offices next to Notre Dame campus; for two children. Granger area. Own Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private Seeking part-time Daycare provider part-time or flexible hours; competi-transportation required. lane in Farmington Square. 2737 BUY-SELL Anyone seen Turner's bike? for two childen. Granger area. live hourly wage. References. Call 277-1622. SF+ professionally finsihed base-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Own transportation required, ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. 277-6619 Missy, help me find my bike 
-· References. Call 231-1868 and leave message. STUDENT WORK Century 21 Jim Dunfree Realty. $14.05 Base-appt. GA'S 4 use. MSU, TN, WVA 271• If you want to destroy my sweater Call 2TT-1622. ROOMMATE WANTED: Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. Villa-style home for rent. 2 bed-1654 
svc./sales positions (5-20 hrs) room, attatched 2 car garage. I got my hashpipe RESPONSIBL.E, QUALITY CHILD-Campus View Apartments Flex around classes. Scholarships. Clean, Cross Creek subdivision. WANTED-ND TICKETS 289-9280 CARE NEEDED Private bedroom & PRIVATE Cond. apply www.work-$850/month. 679-9480. And here's to you, Mr.s Robinson, in my home for 3 year old & 7 BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free forstudents.corn/np call M-W 12-5 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED Jesus loves you more than you month old. Monday thru Thursday parking. $282.5/month. Contact me pm Apt. 2-bedroom. $350/ person AM. 232-2378 should know....whoa, whoa, whoa 
2:30 pm • 5 pm. at quw@nd.edu. 282-2357 including util. $150 dep. Close to P.M. 288-2726 1 Saturday a month. Emergency call: 219-243-2383 Notre Dame. 120 W. Cripe St. 277-All that and more on the official CD Own transportation required. ND prof seeks reliable person for 9455. Tickets swap use for TN up to 6. of 329 Knott Hall 5 mins from ND. PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal daytime babysitting of 2-yr-old on Days 901-332-6735 Major in early childhood develop• shelter just 10 min from campus, MW 8:30 am-12:30 pm. Generous This terrific one bedroom condo in Wow -I actually have classifieds ment or child psychology a plus. urgently needs FOSTERS and rates. Well-behaved child. Transp. Woodbridge Condominiums is close NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX space this week and I don't know References required. VOLUNTEERS for its cats and req'd. (5 min. from ND). enough to walk to ND. Why rent? FOR SALE what to do with it 
dogs. 288-4170 or kbaldwin@nd.edu Own this $62,9001 Contact A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 Call 288-6795. Prudential One Realty or Cherie Thank goodness for blankets 
Please e-mail webmaster@petre• Spanish translation needed for edu-TeRoller at 284-2600. ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. LOVE KIDS? fuge.com, visit www.petrefuge.com, cational material. Good pay. Work 232-0964 Saving Silverman rocks WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ or call 256-0886. at home. IHRD (8-5, M-F) 273-8857 For Sale. Large desk w/credenza. BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS $400. 282-2228. GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 Gordon Swartz for president 
A WEEK? 

Area family needs individual to care for our two daughters Mon-Fri from 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom attends grad sehool in Chicago. Girls are tun and dltlightfull 
Transportation needld. Generous payt 
Hinleinnlld, plea• call Karen Slonthill at 272•5013. 
IN-HOME NANNY needed to care for infant. Must have transportation. Experience with infants and refer­ences required. Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631--4262 or aknoedle@nd.edu. 
Seeking student for part time rep,e-­sentation on campus fOf' screen print & embroidery company. Flu hrs and flex pay. CaR Dave at 800­813-2113. 
FOR RENT 
This terrific one bedroom condo in Woodbridge Condominiums is close enough 10 walk to NO. Why rent? Own this for $62,9001 Cobntact Prudential One ~alty or Cherie TeRoller at 264-2600. 

COMFORT AND PRIVACY -great 2 bdrm -near ND. Appliances including WA/DR stay. Garage. 919 
N. Twyckenham. $59,900 Cressy and Everett 2n-266e. 
FOR SALE 
canon Bubble Jet 4200 printer. $100 288-4241 Buying some I Semng a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets 219-289­
8048 

Abusinessman needs football sea­son tickets •GAs only• Will buy individual games 2TT-1659 
Wanted: 4-6 tickets for USC. Seats do not have 10 be together. Call Nicole 233-8513 How 'bout that new Grotto/Running Club -there's nothing like running through the dark woods in the mid-die of the night 
Hey, sorry I missed dinner tonight 
A whole weekend off • whoo-hoo! 
Sports is simply unconcious tonight Tame Andrew finished: 11:50 
page 15

Friday, September 14, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


emorial 

•·n

-\>"';.:'~\--) ' i · I 
.· .. ... . . \ 1. ;• t . : l • ·.· 
<,..~..,_ ;;,ditfl~1.4.'Y /-,' I -. .-~ .·. ,. -~~ ,''•t_...... j J. \ :·_ i 
., .. .,~~, ff "I . " ) . 


1 ,,: '. 
,. 
\: 
• 'i" '­
,>".~--: --,~:~~~·},.f 
-. i ~ 
·. •· r····.. •_-,_ "";,;,· ~~~v) -, . i . T;:1,:-.. I 
_~ ¾ · , r,~:-,·\ '/~~, ..·.} 
. ;, i . /·· ·., 'iiJf~Mf/
:; \ : ' ~,.~ '' ' ,:,,<!',-•..-!lb)., 
.,.,_ ' ,, .;:r '•
-----:--.,.;"',1~)--'t-~--:...__, 1~ ~ --........,~\,"----+--:~_j,_tl'i'-i'l--­
....---~~---__ f; / It t;, J 
f ' l ~'-ti fl •: 
i1 
. # .~ }§. rs: ~.... ,_;
~J 

,-,, ~ " ti! • Ji ·~ ~ 
Gather @,7:4Spffi $hind~y in; ih,ec_,Grotto Procession. to ,~iiirity ~efl~~tfllg Pool 
. '  .  ,.. ~  .  I i  '  .  . ' . .  tc . ­. . .. .. •  , j{'·¼ I ~ ,! m  '\..-i.:r·.. . ' : . .  
I  '  ;.  j  ~.:  ~-·  I.;  
.,  ~  

Donatic#is ~e}?te~ for. t~ndles to benefit r!Je families' of fF"Y~ l,ii_refighters and Poli~e Officers wh~ /lost their lives. 
? ~ 




· Music by N-otre Dame Fol~ Choir & Glee Club ·· ,~ -•. )~~v~_nt will C:9n.clude by 9:00pm
·, 

~\ •. . ......., 


i ( 
r )' 
'j \\ \\ I \\ page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 14, 2001
I ,\ I \\ 
; {\:I
, 
I 
LPGA

' 
I \ 
' 
LPGA cancels 3-day Safeway Classic 
already in Portland or en
Associated Press 

route by Tuesday morning. So, the question did not involve 
PORTLAND, Ore. getting players to the site. 
The LPGA canceled the "We also were urged by the Safeway Classic at Portland's governmental officials in the Columbia-Edgewater Country area to continue to hold the 
Club because of the East Coast event as a sign that life is terror attacks, officials slowly returning to some sem­announced Thursday. blance of normality.
Earlier in the week, the "However, in the end, we LPGA had decided to cut the have to follow our hearts and tournament from 54 to 36 minds, and we believe not holes. playing this weekend is the 
"We delayed making this right decision for the LPGA." 
final decision until we had Players were going to wear 
thoroughly evaluated this black clothing or black rib­
issue from all sides," LPGA bons to honor and recognize 
commissioner Ty M. Votaw the victims and survivors of said. "In the end, we have to the terror attacks. 
follow our hearts and minds, Instead, a prayer service and we believe not playing will be held Friday morning this weekend is the right deci­for the players, caddies, tour­sion for the LPGA." nament organizers, volunteers 
"Unlike many other sports, and LPGA fans at the 18th the majority of the players for green at Columbia Edgewater the Safeway Classic were c.c. 
JOIN THE 
NOTRE DAME FIGURE SKATING 
CLUB 
\ 
I 
I 
) 
~ ,l 
All are welcome! 
(
,;1 
i 
I 
No experience ;,: necessary!
r 
QUESTIONS? [-MAIL NDFSC@ND.EDU OR CALL TRACEY AT 4-1276 

l 

;}'··•;;?'.~":; -::· 

~:Pi* 
~Great Deli (in the Schlotzsky's "tradition") -Fresh Fruit Smoothies -Hand Dipped Ice Cream 
--•-N°t,,~\ -Live Music Daily at Lunch Friday & 
-~ Saturday Night -It's Kennedy! Nf,'-\1\ -I000 magazines & Best-Sellers ~£'\'1'.-Weekend Outdoor Grill 

• -Thurs -Sat/Nights, All Day Sun & Gamedays 

l /2 lb. Sirloin Burgers, Brats. Chops. FAX & Great Steaks PHONE, 
, I 
l4l-m4 

TJ,tiJr¥i 
N;:;n
l Hiring 
State Rd. 23 at Ironwood 

FREE LUNCHTIME DELIVERY, 
Bring a copy of this ad in for a free 32 oz drink with the 

Want to write Sports? Call 1-4543 
prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the Far East, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 9, 2001. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end ofMay 2002) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information contact Lisa Tranberg 631-5430. 

C!L6Vl1R (!C.,.KSDY C!LtfB 
Presents: 
....
"•' 
~ _._. 
~ 
• 
HAI
HAI 



~
"•' 


Comedian Anarew Kennedy 
Friday, Sep-r;ember 14, 2001 Show etart;e at 10:00 pm i11 the Ballroom of LaFort;une Student Center. Free enacke. 
Sponsored J?:y-the .st.udent; Activities Office. For more itrformation oall 1-7308. 
t . 


I I \ , 
Friday, September 14, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
t-;:======================================~--==:.:.::.:....::::..:_=::.:...=:...:..::=.::...:.:=-there's no other way to put it. 
The Observer is currently accepting applications for the position of Scene Editor. Applications are due Tuesday, Sept. 18. For more information, please call 631-4541. 
INSTITUTE for 

Latino Studies 

PRESENTS: "CENSUS CURRENT POPULATION SURVEY DATA FOR MONlTORING THE WELFARE OF LATINO YOUTH AND CHILDREN" 
GUEST SPEAKER: RENE HINOJOSA, MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2001 
1:00 PM IN DEBARTOLO 3 1 6 

~~~··~···:........'. . 
The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
.-0.­
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
219/239-6611 · 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 

,G) 
(QUU NOUSINC 
LENDER 
Independent of the University 

proud of its efforts and most players left the field satisfied
Soccer 
with play. continued from page 24 "This season our team just 
really came together a lot," time to Millsaps College during Muth said. "Our team looks 100 an invitational in Tennessee. percent better [than last sea-
A majority of the game the son]. You can see the difference Belles found themselves defend-on the field. Everybody is work­ing their goal, responding to ing together. We have good syn­Hope's aggressive play. But the ergy." first half came to end at a draw Two factors that could have with Hope thinking twice about had a major impact on the the team they were playing. Belles, the weather and Hope's 
"I don't know if they really aggressive play, may have a pos­took us seriously at the begin-itive effect on the Belles in the ning of the game," Johnston long run. By the time the game said. "But we came out here and started, it was raining hard at proved that we could play with the Saint Mary's soccer field and them. We had the pressure on most spectators were wrapped them the whole first half." up in blankets, sweatshirts and 
Two minutes into the second hiding under umbrellas. But the half, the pace of the game Belles took the weather and changed. The Belles took control made the best of it. of the ball early and scored a "I don't think [the rain] affect­goal within the first five min-ed us too much," Johnston said. utes. Freshman midfielder Emily "I wouldn't say that was the Wagner kicked the ball past cause of anything. Conditions Hope goalie Mary Ayres off of an were great. It was a fun day to assist from freshman Victoria play." Necroto giving the Belles a 1-0 "[The rain] could have played lead. a part, but our team is really 
For the next 20 minutes, good at adjusting," Muth added. things were looking good for the "The ball was skipping down the Belles. Despite Hope again con-field, that was really the only trolling the ball, the Belles pre-problem. Overall I think we vented several shots on goal and adjusted really well to it." managed to hang on to their one Hope's aggressive play was goal lead. another factor. Two Hope play-
With less than 20 minutes to ers were cautioned during go the Flying Dutch realized Thursday's game, one for side their position and got serious. tackling, the other for inappro­Midfielder Catie Neidlinger priate language. The large num­made a solid pass to midfielder ber of freshmen on Saint Mary's Danielle Nave who kicked the team had their first real taste of 
ball  over  the  a  physical  
head of Saint Mary's goalie  "We've got to keep  team... "I don't  
M  a  u  r  e  e  n  staying positive and  t  h  i  n  k  
MacDonald and tied the game at  hopefully we, ll get a break.  [ H o P e , s aggressive­ 
1.  ness] really  
But  a  tie  Bobby Johnston  took  us out  
wasn't enough  Belles' coach  of our game  
for the Dutch.  too much,"  
When  Saint  Johnston  

Mary's forward Heather Muth said. "I think they surprised a lot entered the game and almost of the freshmen at first who scored, the Dutch again took haven't played against them action. personally, but our younger 
Janet McDonald found Liz players really stepped it up." Dornlas open and Dornlas found Muth, a returning player with an opening right next to a lot of MIAA experience, MacDonald to give Hope the thought playing an aggressive lead. team early in the season would 
The Belles couldn't recover benefit the team later on. and Hope went home victorious. "Our team isn't very strong so 
"We were prepared for we struggle with [physical [Hope's] defense, but we games]," she said. "-It was good couldn't get the ball in the net to play a team like that early in unfortunately," Muth said. the season because other teams 
Despite the loss, the team was in the conference are brutal, 
It's good to prepare for that coming up." 
With one MIAA game under their belts, the Belles will have to face the Knights of Calvin College on Saturday. The Knights, who finished third in the MIAA last season, losing only four league games, have won the one MlAA game they have played thus far. 
A victory Saturday is going to depend not only on physical skill but on mental strength as well. 
"Now we're going to need to continue to keep our focus and not get laid back a little bit before the game," Muth said. "Our biggest problem will be holding focus throughout the game keeping our playing level up to one hundred percent throughout the entire game." 
"We've got to keep staying positive and hopefully we'll get a break," Johnston added. 
The game kicks off at the Saint Mary's soccer fields at noon. 
Contact Katie McVoy at rncvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 14, 2001 
GOLF 

Despite American concerns, Ryder Cup still on 
Associated Press 

LONDON The Ryder Cup is still on -at least for now. Tuesday's terrorist attacks on New York and Washington have 
www.att.com/np ) 

put the biennial golf event in serious doubt, with several of the American players express­ing fears about flying to Britain for the Sept. 28-30 match at The Belfry. 
"It's not so much the matches that concern me, it's the travel-


As the global telecommunications industry grows, so does the level and intensity of competition. At AT&T, we build on our achievements and seize new opportunities worldwide by relying on our employees. We believe that tenacity in the face of fierce competition and dedication to winning are among the key attributes required for success. That is why our people are our major competitive advantage for the future. 
For more information, please visit our website at www.att.com/flp 
AT&T wants you to build your capabilities and grow with us. We are committed to your development by offering state-of-the-art technology and immense resources to fuel your growth as well as generous salaries and benefits. 
-AT&T 

r: 

Z?~~ 
Latin Club Dancing 
This exciting new class will present two different levels of Latin Club dancing styles, introducing new dancers to Salsa, Mambo,Merengue and Chachacha'. The focus is on learning to hear dance rhythms, leading, following and gaining the confidence to get on the floor as soon as possible. 
De.mon,-tration: TutW1, ~pte.mber IS, 1:oopm 
N.t. \Zrn. 2. -~Ill.
I
I 
lntro to Latin Danc.ing c.\~ ~i\\ rout T~from 1-&:oopm in N.t. ); 
/ 
of1m ~.and fut. lntmnediat& daM ~iU mutfrom S-'f:Oopm. The I,• ! for 1hr. tMnU,ffl' long daM i& $to. ~itte.r in advanu at flta>port&.
i , 
it»1ration ~im immediat\r.1 fo\\ovfing 1m. dun0061ration. Opm to a\\ ND ,tudf.nt,, faw\1'f, ,taff, ~tiru& and hir ,pouw,. fyaa i& \imite.d.
Ii· .. ' ft6t1 
v'\Jea Ino_. 

produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events ~ 
September 23r)nn1 t
Lefltury cen er 
' 
I 
12:00 -5:00 pm General admission, $5 per pers0n at the door 
J' 
10:00 am -5:00 pm VIP admission, $15 per person, advance sale or:ly; includes luncheon with food stations and strol!ing fashion show 
reaister to win! 
a honeymoor, package sponsored by Premier Travel 
.. 
aSuperclubs honeymoon package sponsored by Travelmore 
contact 
Jessica at ProShow, 271-7469 for VIP tickets and more information 
OPPORTIJNlTY lN NEW JERSEY 
FINANCIAL LEAUERS.IIP PROGR/\M 
Designed to provide participants with the opportunity for development and growth of technical and management/leadership competencies in an accelerated fashion through diverse job rotations and hands-on classroom training through a two and a half year curriculum. Participants develop critical skills in several financial disciplines and receive leadership and personal effectiveness training which is maximized through the application of AT&fs dynamic and changing business and participation in team projects and individual job rotations. Seize this opportunity to learn from AT&T executives 
through "Leadership Insight Dialogues" and become a future leader of the Finance Organization and ultimately AT&T. 
It's all within your reach. 
ing," British Open champion David Duval said. "Will I be pre­pared to fly? I honestly don't know. I don't have the answers, I don't think any of us do right now." 
Event organizers and officials from both teams spent much of Thursday discussing the securi­ty surrounding the event and issued statements saying it might be several days before a final decision is made. 
Most of the Europeans, many of whom are stranded in the United States, want the match to go ahead, but U.S. stars have expressed reservations. 
Jim Awtrey, chief executive officer of the PGA of America, said their security was the high­est priority. 
"We continue to have discus­sions with U.S. captain Curtis Strange and have communicat­ed to a number of players that the safety of the team and their families is of utmost impor­tance," Awtrey said in a state­ment. 
"It is our desire for the Ryder Cup matches to go forward. Having said that, the magnitude of the matches requires many logistics which are impacted by the events of this week. 
"We are reassessing every logistic connected with the matches -a process which will take a number of days and which will require input from our government. When our assessment is complete we will make further announcements as appropriate." 
The European Ryder Cup Board also issued a statement saying it would increase security for the match to allay the fears of the Americans. 
Mark Calcavecchia, who ini­tially said he didn't want to trav­el, hasn't yet made up his mind. 
"If you would have asked me yesterday, I'd probably say that it wouldn't be played," he said. "Ask me again next Monday or Tuesday and you might get a different answer. 
"It's a timing thing. Time heals all wounds, and maybe next week it won't seem so bad. Maybe it will. If they play, I'll be there. If they don't, I'll support that, as well." 
Colin Montgomerie, expected to be one of Europe's key play­ers, wants it to go ahead. 
"If the Ryder Cup is canceled or postponed, you are allowing these terrorists to win," the Scot said. "We have to respect what­ever the Americans decide. They are our closest allies and we should bear in mind that this was not just an attack on America, it was and attack on the free world." 
NASCAR 

Winston Cup, truck races cancelled 
Associated Press 

LOUDON, N.H. 
NASCAR called off Sunday's Winston Cup race in New Hampshire because of the terror­ist attacks, only the second non­weather postponement in the cir­cuit's 53-year history. 
The decision on the New Hampshire 300 followed a move by the NFL to scrap games Sunday and Monday night. The race was rescheduled for Nov. 23, the day after Thanksgiving. 
"This is a time for families to come together," NASCAH presi­dent Mike Helton said Thursday. "We felt that postponing this weekend's race was simply the right thing to do." 
NASCAR also called off its truck race at Texas Motor Speedway on Saturday, rescheduling it for Oct. 
5. The Indy Racing League, whose season-ending race was scheduled for the Texas track on Sunday, postponed the event until Oct. 6. 
Two other weekend races at the New Hampshire International Speedway, in the Featherlite Modified Series and Busch North Series, also were postponed. It was unclear whether they would be rescheduled. 
"We hated to cancel, but at the same time you have to think of the people, all the problems they have in New York," said Bob Bahre, whose family owns the New Hampshire track. 

COME TO PAPA .• FOR DINNER
I' 
,~·I 

\ Join us for dinner and enjoy generous portions of 1, ·• 
Italian entrees and pastas like: 
'...\
~--. \ 
,-~-:·•':-·~---. 
Shimp Farf alle 
<.-: ..... ..-: 
• 

Chicken Parmesan
• 

Salmone alla Griglia
• 
Sizzlelini®
• 

Chicken Scallopini 
• 
Shrimp Ravioli
• 

And remember, Papa recommends that you complement your ·meal with out delicious appetizers. desserts, and wines. 
Fantastico! 

T C H E N 
A Celebration ofGreat Taste. 
MISHAWAKA 5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219-271-1692 
RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: Sunday -Thursday 11:00 a.rn. -10:00 p.m. Friday -Saturday 11 :00 a.rn. · 11:00 p.m. 
• 

Friday, September 14, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Friday, September 14, 2001 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Conferences vote to postpone games 





!I 
It.; 

. NFL 
Owners postpone Week 2 
Redskins -what the league spoke about their experiences. 
Associated Press 

called "the teams at ground "The hair stood up on the NEW YORK zero." There opponents were back of my neck ... " said Phil The NFL's decision to cancel Green Bay, Oakland and Hansen of the Bills. "Those Sunday's games was a simple Arizona. guys told the way they felt and one. "It would have been horrible the way their teammates felt 
Players were distracted. They trying to get ready for this about security, about friends, didn't want to fly. Some said game," said Lomas Brown of about neighbors who hadn't they wouldn't have played even the Giants, who were scheduled returned home yet. It was very if the rest of the league did. · to play the Packers at Giants vivid." 
"It really came down to the . Stadium, 10 miles from the John Kasay of Carolina said: loss of life and the ability of World Trade Center and a stag­"The New York teams obviously players to absorb what we've ing area for rescue vehicles. had a very focused interest, all been through," commission-"How can you sit in the stadium especially the Giants, whose er Paul Tagliabue said and enjoy a football game, and practice facilities overlook Thursday after calling off Week you look wherever you are sit-where the Twin Towers were." 
2. "We felt it was right to take a ting and you see smoke. It just "That had a profound impact week to reflect and to help or would not have been right. Just on those guys. So It was helpful friends, families and people in coming in here today was bad." and very beneficial for every­the community who need our But players from other teams one on that call to listen and support." seemed equally distracted by hear what was going on around 
Tagliabue's decision to cancel the events, especially those the country." because of the terrorist attacks with ties to New York. The White House said it was in New York and \Vashington "I really haven't had my mind consulted, but did not take part had the full support of owners, on football," said Marco in the NFL's final decision. "We coaches, players and, he said, Battaglia of Cincinnati, who asked them to use their best even fans. Calling off the games grew up in New York, and was judgment about whether to changes the NFL season dra-one of many players concerned proceed," administration matically as did the strikes in about friends in the path of the spokeswoman Anne Womack 1982 and 1987, the only other attacks. "Right now, nobody said. time the league wiped out feels safe anywhere. The thing Tagliabue said he was influ­games. right now is, let's get America enced most by New York Gov. 
There are two options for the secure." George Pataki. rest of the season: 30 teams Bengals teammate Willie But, he added: "Ultimately, would play 15 games and San Anderson said: "I don't think we knew we had to make our Diego would play 16: the we should be playing a game decision in the best interests of Chargers were scheduled to be when they're still pulling out football." off this week, or wild-card bodies in New York. Kids still Owners agreed. games would be canceled and don't have their parents." "The overriding concern is this week's games would be The players, many of whom that it's inappropriate," played on wild-card Sunday, said they couldn't focus on foot­Philadelphia's Jeffrey Lurie Jan. 6. That would put eight ball, had a major role in the said. "We have an incredibly teams instead of 12 in the play-cancellation. popular sport. It's kind of like a offs -the six division winners Although the vote wasn't church on Sundays for America and one wild-card in each con-unanimous, player representa­to watch the NFL. The church ference instead of three. tives decided Thursday night on this Sunday should not be 
Even if the league had not to play the weekend, about cheering for one team played, three teams would not swayed after New York reps over another. It should be sup­have -the New York Giants Michael Strahan of the Giants porting all the victims and their and J.ets, the Washington and Kevin Mawae of the Jets family and friends." 
ATTENTION 
CLUB OFFICERS 
Due to thepost111ent oft,,vo clu info 111eetings, so111e additional 111eetingshavebeenplanned. 
LAST CHANCE CLUB INFO MEETI.NGS 
(ATTENDANCE REQUIRED FOR EVERY UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT CLUB) 
Mon., Sept 17@ 5:00 p.m. Montgomery Theatre ~-Mon., Sept. 17@ 9:30 p.m. Notre Dame Room 
~ Pleasenote these progran,salsoE) 
CONCESSION STAND TRAINING . 
Thursday, Sept. 27@ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room Tuesday, Oct. 30 @4:00 PM Notre Dame Room 
FOOD SERVICE TRAINING 
(HOW TO PLAN A PARTY) 
Wednesday, Sept.19@ 5:00 PM Montgomery Theater (Vendor Fair to follow) 
VENDOR FAIR 
Wednesday, Sept. 19@ 5:30 PM -7:30 PM LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
FORMOREINFORMATION, VISIT: 
www.nd.edu/-sao/ 
Associated Press 

The Big Ten, Big 12 and Southeastern conferences reversed field Thursday and postponed all football games this weekend because of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. 
A day after announcing its teams would play, the three leagues joined the Atlantic Coast, Big East and Pac-10 conferences in calling off the games, meaning there will be no major-college football on Saturday. The NFL also post­poned its Sunday games. 
The schools from the six major conferences plus Notre Dame form the Bowl Championship Series, which picks its top two teams at the end of the season to play in its national championship game. 
This weekend, 116 games involving Division I-A and I-AA teams were scheduled. None of them will be played. 
"The Southeastern Conference joins all of the other major sporting entities in the nation in postponing all athletic events," the SEC said in a statement. 
"The conference continues to believe this country must begin the healing process following the horrendous events of the past week and will evaluate all future schedules at an appro­priate time." 
Other conferences canceling their games are, the \Vestern Athletic, Conference USA, Mid­American, Mountain West and Sun Belt.have not yet officially postponed its games. 
Notre Dame, an indepen­dent, called off its game at Purdue, a Big Ten school. 
Among the games postponed were three marquee matchups in Florida No. 13 Washington at No. 1 Miami, No. 8 Tennessee at No. 2 Florida and No. 10 Georgia Tech at No. 6 Florida State. 
Saturday's schedule had fea­tured 18 games involving 22 of the AP's Top 25 teams. 
Earlier Thursday, three games involving Top 25 teams were postponed -Utah State at No. 11 Fresno State, Bowling Green at No. 18 South Carolina and No. 25 Louisville at Illinois. 
It was an indication that schools disagreed with earlier conference decisions to play those games. Player reaction and travel concerns played a big part in the postponements. 
"There was real anxiety as the week went on on the part of our football team about traveling by air," Bowling Green athletic director Paul Krebs said. 
Before the Big Ten's change, seven of its teams had its games postponed -Illinois, Indiana, Northwestern. Ohio State, Penn State, Purdue and \Visconsin. Northwestern 's game against Navy won't be made up .. 
Some games have been rescheduled and conferences will be working_ to try to reschedule other games. 
On Wednesday, SEC commis­sioner Roy Kramer decided to go forward with the games. 
"We just feel very strongly that this was the appropriate decision to make," Kramer said. 
ACC commissioner John Swofford said, 'Tm sure every­body's preference would be for life to be normal and therefore play the games that were scheduled. But life isn't nor­mal. These are extremely extenuating circumstances, and consequently those cir­cumstances have been very impactful." 
The NCAA executive commit­tee, which will donate $5 mil­lion to disaster relief funds, had recommended that schools hold a moment of silence or some form of public recogni­tion at this weekend's events. 
"The White House has con­veyed to the NCAA that it is encouraging a return to nor­malcy across the country," NCAA committee chairman Robert Lawless said. 

-¦¦ Notre Dame Center 
¦ ¦ ¦ for Ethics andReligious 
-¦¦, Values in Business Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series Proudly Presents: 
Mr. Roger Sant 
Mr. Roger Sant is co-founder and Chairman ofthe Board of the AES Corporation,which is dedicated to providing electricity worldwide in a socially responsible way. 
"Giving Up Power'' The AES Experiment 
Tuesday, September 18, 2001 
Jordan Auditorium, 
Mendoza College of Business 
7:00 p.m. 
*Sponsored by the Center for Ethics & Cargill 
.. 

Friday, September 14, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Owners vote to cancel games through Sunday 
• Teams to play games at end of regular season 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Major league baseball post­poned all games through Sunday and will resume play the following day. 
Since Tuesday's attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, base­ball has 
wiped 

"/ believe in the sanctity 
out six days of He said play. The latest ofthe I62-game t h a t decision raised schedule.,. wasn't a the total of post­factor in poned games to his deci­
Bud Selig
91. the most sion. since World War baseball comissioner Initial 
I forced the can­cellation of almost the entire final month of the 1918 sea­son. 
Commissioner Bud Selig said all players will wear American flags on their uni­forms for the remainder of the season, and the Stars and Stripes will be given to fans at all games Monday. 
Baseball will make up all the games by extending the regular season, which had been scheduled to end Sept. 
30. The games will be rescheduled for the week of Oct. 1. 
"I believe in the sanctity of the 162-game schedule,"' Selig said. 
That leads to the possibility of the World Series, long known as the October Classic, producing its first Mr. November. It originally had been scheduled to end Oct. 
28. 
"I believe that extra week will not be harmful," said Selig, who made his decision after examining which teams were in contention for the playoffs. "I worry about weather in October. Fortunately, we have a lot of warm-weather teams, a lot of West Coast teams." 
Selig made his announce­ment more than four hours after the NFL said it would not play this weekend. 
response appeared to be positive. 
"It's a good thing, in light of the events that have hap­pened," Cleveland Indians assistant general manager Mark Shapiro said. 
By rescheduling the games, baseball ensured Cal Ripken and Tony Gwynn would finish their Hall of 
Fame careers "It ·s a good thing, in light Blue Jays at home f r o m
ofthe events that have

instead of on Baltimore. 
the road. happened.·· T h e Ripken and the Indians Baltimore arrived
Mark Shapiro 

Orioles were to home at 11
Indians' assistant manager

end the season a . m . 
at Yankee Stadium, while Gwynn and the San Diego Padres were to fin­ish in San Francisco. 
Within 30 minutes of Selig's announcement, the New York Yankees planned to travel to Tampa, Fla., spend three days at their spring training camp, then play the Devil Rays on Monday in St. Petersburg. 

Two teams already had started traveling to the cities where they were to have played Friday. The Pittsburgh Pirates left their ballpark in buses at 11:15 a.m. EDT Thursday to travel to Chicago, where they were to play the Cubs. 
The Philadelphia Phillies worked out at Turner Field in Atlanta, then left at 1:30 p.m. in four buses headed for Cincinnati, where they were to play the Reds. After hearing the news, the Phillies decided to continue on, spend the night in the Cincinnati area, then head to Philadelphia. 
With air traffic grounded, many teams on the road at the time of the attacks chartered buses to get home: the Chicago White Sox from New York, the Minnesota Twins from Detroit, the St. Louis Cardinals from Milwaukee, the Cleveland Indians from Kansas City, the New York Mets from Pittsburgh and the 
Toronto 
Thursday after a 14-hour trip and the Mets arrived at 2:30 a.m. after a 7-hour trip. The Blue Jays got back to the SkyDome at 
8:30 a.m. following 12 hours on the road. 
The Boston Red Sox, in St. Petersburg, to play the Devil Rays. went by bus to central Florida and boarded an Amtrak train headed north. at first unsure whether they would get off in Baltimore to play the Orioles or keep going to Boston. 

• McGwire rips into baseball for decision-making delay 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Mark McGwire criticized major league baseball Thursday for taking so long to postpone games the rest ofthe weekend. 
McGwire launched into an impromptu state of the game speech minutes before the deci­sion to take the rest of the week off was made public, and after the St. Louis Cardinals worked out at an empty Busch Stadium. 
"It doesn't take a rocket scien­tist to figure out sporting events are absolutely meaningless com­
pared with what's going on in Washington and New York," McGwire said. "And why are people taking so long to make a decision, I have no idea." 
In the wake of the terrorist attacks that lev­
eled the World Trade Center and damaged the Pentagon, President Bush said Americans should resume their lives. Baseball. McGwire said, shouldn't even be on the list. 
"For people to think it's OK to play sports this weekend is absolutely asinine," McGwire said. "This is the worst thing that can ever happen to the country and people are worried about making decisions on playing sporting events. 
"I have no idea where their minds are, but I guarantee you if they knew somebody or had a family member in Washington or New York, they wouldn't even think about it." 
McGwire said the call commis-

NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Seasons Wanted Individual Games 
I 
_J 
sioner Bud Selig made on Thursday was an "easy deci­sion." 
"I feel ashamed we're even talking about it," McGwire said. "For athletes to presidents of universities, general managers, owners of teams, to even think about taking a field, they should be ashamed. It's absolutely asi· nine." 
McGwire also ripped educators for keeping school in session the day of the attacks. 
"I was really upset when I called home to see if my son went to school that day, that his private school was in session," McG¼ire said. "What are people thinking about? 
"You send everybody home and you let everybody watch the TV and take in what's hap­pened." 
T h e 
Cardinals

"/t doesn ·t take a rocket 
have been

scientist to figure out taking the 
sporting events are field this week, except
absolutely meaningless ... 
for Tuesday. the day of Mark McGwire the attacks. NFL teams
Cardinals' first baseman 
rvoTED#<f 
, bypeopleI whoknow It:annlngl 
For Your Best Tan Everl-1 Get a F~n Tan I I 

Your choice/ Either 10 tanning bed sessions forJust $3S OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off ovr wide selection of tanning lotions! 
272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I 256-9656 Con"IGr" of Gr:as:,e and McKinley 291-2000 Southlarld Plaza Ireland & Ironwood · -----t....: -----.;... ..... ----... -----· _,.-... ---J 
1 
1.~0~ 

I 0"'
:~#-~ 
I I I I 
I I I I I I 
sent players 

home for the weekend on Thursday after deciding not to play this week­end, but manager Tony La Russa • said day-to-day contact is impor­tant in baseball because timing is everything. 
The Cardinals are taking the day off Friday, the national day of mourning, but have a workout scheduled for Saturday morning. 
"The way you keep your timing is keep repeating as much as you can," La Russa said. "The boys have put a lot into these work­outs, for whatever it's worth." 
It hasn't been easy, for the manager or the players. 
"It's hard to concentrate on anything," pitcher Dustin Hermanson said. "I know you can't be sad all the time, but it's hard to crack a smile, especially when you think about all of this. It just eliminates all kinds of hap­piness." 
La Russa. speaking before the decision was announced, agreed with McGwire about baseball being of no importance right now. 
"Sports is entertainment, and when it's appropriate to be entertained, I'm all for getting our games going," La Russa said. "But until that time, I think we're better off holding back. 
Shori.n-Ryu 1 IKarate: 
•Discipline 
I 

•Self-Defense I 


•Self 
Confidence I 


•Fitness I I I I I I I 

I  Register in Advance at RecSports  I  
I  For More Info. Call 1-6100  I  
I  Demonstration  I  
I Tuesday, September 18, Rockne Rm.  219 6:30PM I  
I  zz~~  I  
I  www.nd.e<lu/~recsport  I  

·----------------------~ 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 14, 2001 
To play or not to play 
\ 
\ ' 
' 

:
] ·, 
i 
I 
' 
I 
.r 

; 
I, 
. In wake of terrorist attacks, sports quickly become insignificant 
Rarely does Robert Mueller, director of the FBI, the man in charge of investigating all the country's federal crimes including Tuesday's terrorist attacks, get on national television. 
Same goes for Scott McKay ofArlington County, Virginia Fire and Rescue, the man charged with the res­cue effort at the Pentagon.· 
These guys, like all the men and women suddenly thrust onto the world stage in the aftermath of the ter­rorist attacks in New York and Washington, do their jobs catching crimi­nals and rescuing children each day and return home to their families. 
No microphones. no reporters buzzing around their every word like bees. 
Barry Bonds rarely goes a day without being on national TV. He hits home runs, runs down an occasional fly ball, saves no children's lives, catches no terrorists and returns to the clubhouse to a glut of national media asking him about that 3~2 fastball in the third inning. 
People love Barry Bonds. They think he's a hero because he hits baseballs over fences in ballparks. That's what makes a hero, right? That's why everyone pays attention to him, and splashes his face across every newspaper in America, right? 
Barry Bonds is not a hero. 
Who are the heroes? 
The heroes are the men and women of 
America, the nameless and faceless people that pull away the guts of the World Trade Center, looking for both the living and the dead. The heroes are the federal agents, staying up all night, following every lead, every tip, every hunch, trying to find out who did this. The heroes are the New York City firemen and police officers that ran up the crumbling twin towers, rescuing terri­fied civilians, only to have the buildings come down on them, burying their hopes and dreams, but saving the hopes and dreams of others. 

The sports world seems so trivial right now. Your favorite team's record doesn't seem to matter when you're frantically dialing family and friends in Manhattan, looking for any sign that they're OK. 
Every other week, we focus on sports and athletes. Who's injured? Who's win­ning? Who's the favorite in the third race? 
Now we focus on the true heroes, and the things that should be most important to us. Is my brother still alive under all that rubble? How can I ever thank the Lord that I was late to work that day? Will my family ever feel the same? 
If there is any, however small, silver lin­ing to this most horrible of tragedies, it was that America has stopped and appre­ciated what's most important to them. Families have stopped, and given each other that extra hug that wouldn't have happened last week. The TV that normally doesn't budge off ESPN is stuck on CNN. 
Sports are games. And only games. 
Sports do not decide life and death, or catch terrorists who have killed 10,000 innocent people. Sports are not at the core of what makes us human beings, living, breathing, people. 
The core of us is our caring, caring for our families and friends but also that com­plete stranger, stuck underneath tons of dusty concrete. The core of us is our feel­ings that we are part of something bigger, an idea, a way of life. The core of us is that feeling, when you love other people so much, the thought that they could be sud• denly taken from you makes you numb and humble before God. 
I think we all remembered that this week, and I hope we won't soon forget it. 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. contact JeffBaltruzak at Baltruzak.2@nd.edu -·-----'­

. Saint Mary's-Hope soccer game still keeps respectful tone 
Tuesday morning I woke up to the news that two of America's most influen­tial cities had been attacked by terrorists. By 10 o'clock Tuesday morning both World Trade Center towers had crum­bled under their own weight. By Tuesday afternoon I knew that four hijacked planes full of American citizens had been the cause of the destruction. Wednesday morn­ing rescue workers were trying to sal­vage what lives they could from the wreckage. Wednesday after­noon Saint Mary's decided that its soccer team would play a game on Thursday. 
That seems like quite a decision to make in the wake of a national tragedy. You could ask how anyone could play sports in the wake of such destruction. The Big East has cancelled all of its events for the weekend and even Major League Baseball stopped playing. The question of how anyone could move on like that looms large in the minds of many. 
There is an answer. Because you have to. There were a lot of questions floating 
around on Wednesday night after the news that Saint Mary's would play came to light. And the only response is to say that life must go on. It is true that tragedy has struck the nation and any game at all seems trivial in its wake. But what hap­pens if the whole nation stops forever? 
The answer -the terrorists win. Thursday's soccer game began with the national anthem, a reflection and several 



minutes of silence to remember those 
who have suffered and still suffer under the weight of this disaster. And then the game began and the women on both teams sent a message to the spectators, to the nation and to the world. 
This tragedy, immense as it is, cannot kill the American spirit. Life in this coun• try will go on. Although they may have destroyed part of our landscape, no ter­rorists will ever destroy our history, our past-times or our will to go on, to live. 
The women who played today and those who went to watch them offered a prayer to those who died telling them they did not suffer so that a country could be crushed forever. This country will not only remember them in its sadness and in its moments of silence, but this country will remember them in its passion to play and its passion to win. We will not go qui· etly about the business of falling under the weight of our fears. We will go on with our lives and live well in the freedom so many have worked so hard to secure. 
Canceling Division I events and profes­sional events is a matter of security and a matter of respect. The media circus that often surrounds Notre Dame football games and playoff races in baseball could take away from the solemn feelings still covering the country. 
But Division III soccer doesn't take away from the solemn sense of the coun­try. It doesn't attract the media and it truly offers, in its own way, a promise to goon. 
The terrorists responsible for the explo­sions on Tuesday were looking to scare the American people. And we are scared, but we won't let that fear destroy us. 
This country will go on, and this coun­try is already going on. Destruction may have caused us to pause but it will never cause us to stop. We will live and we will live in the way we always have, with pas­sion, in freedom, and with eternal grate­fulness for all that we have. 
The views ofthis column are those of the author and are not necessarily those ofThe Obsever. Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo@5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Sure, like most companies, we at Andersen think we're pretty good. But don't take our word for it. 
Voted one of the Top 100 Companies to Work For in Am ,ca by Fortune magazine. Named one of the 50 Best Places to Work in the UK by The Sunday Times. One of Training Magazine's Best Training Organizations. Among Consulting magazine's Top 1OConsulting Firms worldwide. 
Good projects. Better people. The best at exceeding client expectations. It's a great time to be at Andersen. 
Seniors submit your resume online through GO IRISH no later than Sunday, September 16th to be considered for our October 3rd on-campus interviews 
We are on campus today 
Stop by the Joyce Center between 9:30am -3:30pm and visit us at the Mendoza College of Business Career Fair 
ANDERSEN 
www.andersen.com/careers 
©2001 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 


Thursday, September 13, 2001 page 23 
The Observer . TODAY 


RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 


THE P~08LEM WITH THESE SALSA wooD AIRPLANES IS THEY 8REAI< So EASILY.  (8011141() OW! J'ASoN, I SNAP! TOLD YOU WHAT WOULD SNAP! CRUNCH!HAPPEN IF YOU HIT ME SToMP!WITH THIS THING AGAIN! ...,/ "' .  I SEE WHAT YOU MEAN.  MAYSE IF l COATED oNE IN TITANIUM... I  

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  31 Critics, often  55 Damaged by  
1 Off-topic;  33 Dissolve  drought  
remark? 9 Elbow 15 "Eleni" star 16 Person of great interest? 17Combined 18 lime piece?  34 Family name of 50's-60's TV 37 Shake alternatives 39 Entertainers 40 Clothing category  56 Newspaper ads figure 58 Equestrian exhibition 60 Big feller? 61 Start of a letter accompanying a manuscript  
19 It's not clean  42 Broadway  62 Golf legend's  
20 Unforested tract  opener  family  
22 Enumeration follower  43 Small hearing aid?  63 Skedaddles  
23 Some bridge players 25 Program problem 26 Court ruling? 27 Anglers' burdens 29 Strauss's " Heldenleben" 30 Word with bed or saddle  44 Draws out 48 Long-jawed swimmer 49 It may be in the closet 51 Lover of lean cuisine 52 Loss leader? 53 Restless  DOWN 1 Shortly 2 San Diego suburb 3 Maltreat 4 Beautiful people 5 Sen division 6 They're inflatable 7 Henri's health  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  8 Snidely Whiplash, often  
9 Reprimand  Puzzle by Ellubelh C. Gorsld  
10 Purple willow, e.g.  32 Fine coat 33 Winter toy•store  43 Workers with headlights?  50 "Bye Bye Bye" band  
11 Juliet, to Romeo 12 Juliet, to Romeo  stock 34 "Morning  45 Laugh line, e.g. 46 Bread maker  54 Sir George Williams's org. 
13 Educated crew 21 Periscope parts  MySlery" and "Bouquet de Fleurs," e.g. 35 A film may be  47 Positions 49 Raced down a chute, perhaps  57 Ottoman officer 59 Initials at J.F.K.  
24 People along the old Iron  shot on it 36 Keep at a  -------------­Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
Curtain  distance  are available by touch-tone phone:  
_  Anne de  38 Polymer  1 ·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).  
Bellevue, Que.  follower  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
30 Begins a  41 No mere cold  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
business  snaps  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

"Did you scare him?" 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA T  
,: 8RITIES BORN ON  direction. Don't be afraid to try  
Th.t1' DAY: Fran Tarkenton,  something totally new. Your  
James Michener, Morgan Fair­ unique approach to your work  
child, Nathan Lane, Paul Sar­ will be appreciated by the right  
banes, Blythe Danner, Maitland  boss.00  
Ward  LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Happy Birthday: You can take  Don't be too quick to make deci­ 
just about any idea, project or  sions regarding legal matters.  
object and tum it into something  You will have to go over con­ 
great. You are creative this year  tracts with a fine-tooth comb.  
and can cleverly spin your own  However, if all pans out, you  
innovative plans into action. Your  could sign a deal of a lifetime.  
concern with the environment  0000  
will help you meet the necessary  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
individuals who can help you go  Expect your partner to be unsta­ 
the extra mile. Your numbers: 7,  ble. Understanding will be a  
11, 13, 21, 29, 33  must when dealing with those  
ARIES (March 21-ApriJ 19):  you love. Give them a chance to  
You can make professional gains  explain the way they feel. You  
if you talk to your boss about  can probably help them by pro­ 
your findings. Promotions will be  viding some tender loving care.  
yours if you have acted profes­ 000  
sionally in times of crisis. 0000  SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20):  21): Don't let love interests at  
Reading books on philosophy  work stand in the way of your  
and self-awareness will bring  performance. You need to do the  
about a definite change of atti­ best job possible if you want to  
tude. You can influence those  hang onto your position. 00  
around you by sticking to your  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.  
convictions. 000  19): Spend time making personal  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  improvements that will help you  
Your curiosity will force you to  feel better about yourself.  
do some research. Your interest in  Changes in your domestic scene  
a moneymaking opportunity  will be necessary even if you  
looks prosperous as long as you  don't welcome them. 000  
do your homework. 000  AQUARIUS Oan. 20-Feb. 18):  
CANCER (June 21•July 22):  Be prepared to face oprosition.  
Romance will find you if you  Family members wil not be  
participate in group events. Don't  hapey with the nwnber of hours  
be too eager to talk about your­ you have been spending at work.  
self. Listen and you'll learn a  Try to free up more of your time.  
great deal about others. 000  000  
LEO Ou.ly 23-Aug. 22): Decep­ PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
tion is apparent if you are dealing  Don't give away your secrets.  
with your peers. Don't give away  You can prosper if you focus  
your secrets if you don't want  energy on your work and present  
them spread around. Jealousy is  your accomplishments by your­ 
likely among arworkers. 000  self. You need to make profes­ 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  sional changes. 00  
You may want to change your  

. Bi.rthd~y Baby: You are energetic, inquisitive and inventive. You will surpnse everyone around you with: your creative approach to whatever you do as well as your carefully thought-out questions. You will always be asking who, where, why and when. 
(Need advice? c:Iieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialuLcom, astromate.com.} C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~~---~~~­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

National Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. MLB, p. 21 
. NASCAR, p. 18 
. 
NFL p. 20 . LPGA, p. 16 

. 
NCAA football, p. 20 . NHL, p. 14 


. Golf, p. 18 
Friday, September 14, 2001 
Weekend games called off 
. MLB, NFL, Division I . ND football cancels 
. i football cancel games in practice for second wake of terrorist attacks time in 3 days 
. l 
Associated Press 

~ By ANDREW SOUKUP Major League Baseball, the National Associate Sports Editor r·· Football League and Division I football
,~J ~. 
conference commissioners cancelled all Notre Dame's football team can­competition originally scheduled for this celled practice Thursday afternoon weekend. for the second time in three days. 
.....~ 
The decision to cancel games comes in No immediate reason was giventhe wake of Tuesday's terrorist attacks. for the cancellation, but Notre .~: Major League Baseball has cancelled Dame head coach Bob Davie hinted 
-, ~. 
all games though Sunday. Commissioner Wednesday that the Irish might not 
'i"'.
\.· Bud Selig said games will definitely be be practicing Thursday. 
i!.":" 
( \, '~ played Monday. "We've pushed our players to the "The more I thought about it, I limit," he said. "At some point, youcouldn't rationalize starting before have to let your players get their
11 
Monday," Selig said. wind." The cancelled games will be played in Wednesday afternoon, Notre I' . October. Dame and Purdue postponed their ) NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said game originally scheduled for 
\ 
the league reached a decision after a Saturday, just one day before con-_! < conference call between all owners. ference commissioners decided to However. the deciding factor appeared postpone all Division I football to be the overwhelming sentiment of games.players to postpone the games. After Wednesday's announce­
'. 
(, "It really came down to the loss of life ment, Davie suggested he might' I 
and the ability of players to absorb what give his players Thursday off to we've all been through," Tagliabue said. mentally prepare themselves for
t 
I 
"We felt it was right to take a week to Michigan State, Notre Dame's next ' I 11 reflect and to help our friends, familes opponent. ' .t and people in the community who need "We started Sunday morning f our support." fully planning on playing this 
Owners also remembered the backlash weekend," said Davie. "With all the
I 
when the NFL decided to play following different things going on this week
' 
I 
I President Kennedy's assassination in -game on, game off -there's I f 1963, a decision then-commissioner Pete much bigger things going on now :) Rozelle called the worst of his career. than what we have going on here. ··,' ) The NFL has not yet decided how it We just need to take a deep breath
' 
' '' will make up Week 2 games. and pull away from this ... " 
Division I football commissioners Davie said it was difficult for the reversed their decision yesterday, unani­Irish to focus Wednesday after­' If,,:~ mously deciding to postpone all of noon. While no Notre Dame players 
: ) 
,;ii Saturday's games after originally choos­have been immediately affected by '1 ing to leave the decision up to the indi­Tuesday's terrorist attacks, both
I 
~ 
I 
\ ~ vidual conferences. players and coaches agreed that 
4 
"i The reversal came after the NFL and there was a different atmosphere -:.1 \ MLB announced their decision. in practice Wednesday. 
r· 
t 
<
'/I "The SEC joins all the other major "I think it's a real good decision
l 
I { I ·:, sporting entities in the nation in post­not to play," co-captain Anthony
t l 
~~
I 
poining all athleteic events," the SEC Weaver said. "A lot of players on said in a statement. "The conference this team and all the other teams
f 
continues to believe this country must have family that are in that area.
·~ 
I 
'·1-; begin the healing process fouwling the Our thoughts right now need to beI ·).? horendous events of the past week and with the families back there and to
I ' .
I ·. t,:I
t will evaluae all future schedules at an come together as a nation.,. appropriate time.,. The Big East and Pac-10 already 
Contact Andrew Soukup at
decided Wednesday to postpone all 
asoukup@nd.edu
weekend games. 


SMC SOCCER 
Belles ·resume soccer action, lose 2-1 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spom Editor 
The Belles 2-1 loss Thursday showed just how young the Saint Mary's soccer team is. 
The players came ready to play, but for most it was their first home collegiate athletic event and it came under circum­stances that could ground any team. . 
Playing for the first time since Tuesday's devastation and play­ing in the cold, South Bend rain the team had a lot to deal with in its home opener against the Flying Dutch of Hope College. 
Following a moment of reflec­tion and prayer for those atTect­ed by the terrorist attacks, it was a difficult game to play. 
Despite the loss, both team members and coaching staff were happy with the overall per­formance of the team, although 
disappointed in the game's out­come. 
"I think it went well. We played well," said freshman midfielder Katie Taylor. "It's too bad we didn't win." 
'Tm very happy," said Saint Mary's head coach Bobby Johnston. 'Tm more upset and sad for [the team] because we have been working hard and it would be nice to sneak a win in instead of losing these two games." 
Two weekends ago Saint Mary's dropped a game in over­
see SOCCER/page 17 

OBSERVER
. SMC Soccer vs. Calvin, Saturday, noon
SPORTS 
online classifieds 
. SMC Cross Country at North Park, Saturday, 10 a.m. 
AT A GLANCE http://www.nd.edu/~observer 



