
U2 Preview
PARTLY 


Tuesday
CLOUDY 
Prepare for Wednesday's U2 concert by reading about the band's history, 
OCTOBER 9,
their performance at Notre Dame and the story of a student who met Bono. 
HIGH 68° 
Scene . pages 12 -13 
2001 
LOW 50° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 31 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Attacks are successful 

. Second day of least modestly successful The Pentagon initially said Sunday's attacks but none 
against its first set of targets, 10 bombers were involved but were involved Monday, U.S.campaign utilizes senior Pentagon officials said it later corrected the number officials said. 5 bombers, Monday. to five. Officials said early indica­
Five long-range bombers -Two U.S. Navy ships, the tions were that strikes against 
10 strike planes, 
a pair of B-2 stealth bombers destroyers USS John Paul air defense sites and airfields
15 Tomahawks flying from Whiteman Air Jones and USS Mcfaul, and were at least partially suc­Force Base, Mo., and three B­one submarine launched a cessful, although it was less l B's from the Indian Ocean total of 15 Tomahawk cruise clear in the case of "leader­
Associated Press 
island of Diego Garcia -missiles. ship targets" -leaders of WASHINGTON joined 10 strike planes In Sunday's opening assault, both the al-Qaida terrorist 
The U.S.-led bombing cam­launched from aircraft carri­15 bombers and 25 carrier­network and the Taliban mili­paign in Afghanistan, scaled ers in the Arabian Sea in based strike aircraft partic­tia that harbors the terrorists. back on Monday in a second sending bombs and missiles at ipated. A British submarine In addition to Monday's round of air-and sea­air defense and other military was among the vessels that launched attacks, has been at targets across Afghanistan. fired 50 cruise missiles in see ATTACKS/page 8 
Johnson ready to help with harassment 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
Max Johnson, the 
University's new ombudsper­
son for discriminatory harass­
ment, stands ready to help all 
those in the Notre Dame com­
munity who feel their civil 
rights have been violated by 
harassing speech or actions. 
The position provides one central point of contact by which students, faculty and staff can learn their options of reporting allegations of dis­criminatory harassment, according to the University's policy detailed in duLac. 
Johnson, also a member of the theology faculty, is responsible for investigating all complaints brought to his attention and making follow­up recommendations to the administration. He can pro­vide community members with the resources needed to pursue their complaint to a satisfactory end. 
"The best thing that could happen for this office is that my phone doesn't ring all year," Johnson said. 
Johnson said his job is "to help see that [complainants] know what's available to them" in terms of reporting offenses and obtaining poten­tial remedies. 
The University broadly defines harassment as "any physical conduct intentionally inflicting injury on the person or property of another, or any intentional threat of such con­duct, or any hostile, intention­al. and persistent badgering. addressed directly at another, 
see HARASSMENT/page 6 


Watch dog group calls for ban to be upheld 
. Security on Campus says allowing Rego to return will undermine University judicial system 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The watch dog organization Security on Campus responded to the University's indecision in upholding former Notre Dame tailback Cooper Rego's alleged campus ban in a letter addressed to University President Father Edward Malloy on Monday. The organization's campus security spokesperson S. Daniel Cater called for Notre Dame to uphold Rego's alleged expulsion. 
Rego was a member of the Irish foot­ball team in 1997 before being dis­missed for sexual assault and banned from campus in 1998, according to sexual victim and 2001 Notre Dame graduate Kori Peinovi. The ban was confirmed in an e-mail from a senior Residence Life official obtained by The Observer. Rego is scheduled to return to campus Saturday as a member of the West Virginia football team. 
Carter's concern with the ban lies on two levels. One concern is that the dis­ciplinary decision to ban was made by Note Dame. If the University does not enforce its own decision, then what faith will other sexual victims have in the future. The credibility of Notre Dame's judicial process is in question by the delay in response as well as if Notre Dame does not uphold its own decision. 

"Our main concern is ..that a student should be able to rely on the schools assurance that the accused has been banned. The victim should be able to rely on what they are told," Carter said. 
Carter's other concern and heart of Monday's letter rest in Notre Dame's ability to stay in compliance with the Jean Clery Act's "Campus sexual Assault Victims' Bill of Rights." The act outlines that schools must inform, "the accuser and the accused must be informed of the outcome of any institu­tional disciplinary proceeding brought alleging a sex offense ... with respect to the alleged sex offense and any sanc­tion that is imposed against the accused." 
Since the parties have been notified, it is now up Notre Dame to recognize that sanction, according to Carter. 
see BAN/page 6 


• 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE Vt/EEK 
Bush earns respect 
It's always hard to put things in perspective. but after the events of Sept. 11, at least now we knowhow. 
Just think where we stood as a nation just 10 short months ago. We, as a nation, stood divided as to whom we wanted to run our country. Bickering and partisan complaining became commonplace, as it took over a month to official­ly declare George W. Bush as the 43rd President of the United States. Every day, we would hear on the news about some effort to get bal­lots recounted or to prevent them from getting recount­ed. 
Doesn't it all seem so petty now? 
I firmly believe that where we stand as a nation today, Oct. 9, 2001, is significantly above and beyond where we stood in early November. 
Of course, it helps to add a little perspective. 
Obviously, when we all lined up at the voting booths, we didn't think of who we would want to lead our nation through a tragedy such as this. If you did, congratulations, you're a psychic (or a pessimist). 
But because of what has happened, both on Sept. 11 and the retaliation on Oct. 7 (and beyond), a certifiable majority of the US popula­tion now stands behind our president, regardless of who they voted for on Nov. 7, 2000. We (the majority) stand behind his actions because we all stand unified behind an overwhelmingly popular cause -ending the threat of terrorism in order to protect the innocent civilians of the United States of America and nations across the globe. 
But the U.S. stands at the center of this move­ment, for many reasons. And as the central nation in this movement, we, as voters, represent a powerful force, whether we know it or not. We (ideally) make educated decisions as to whom we would like to represent the focal point of the modern free world. Whether Democrat or Republican, we choose who we feel will best lead the country. · 
For the most part -but with some rare excep­tions -we vote along party lines. Democrats vote for Democratic candidates, Republicans vote for Republican candidates, and so on. 
However, because of the events of the past month, bickering has subsided, and partisanship has fallen by the wayside. Democrats are sup­porting a Republican president at an astounding rate. Congressmen and women of any political affiliation gathered to sing "God Bless America" on the steps of the United States capitol. Political parties have more or less united as one. 
Of course, perspective accounts for most of that. 
Coming to this school from my vastly Democratic home state of Massachusetts, it was extremely easy for me to be freaked out at the prospect of having a Republican president for four years. I know the election results were a lot easier to swallow for much of the Notre Dame community, but for me, I wasn't concerned with how anyone else felt about it. 
When it was officially decided on Dec. 13, 2000, that Mr. Bush would be leading our coun­try until 2004, I couldn't fathom even agreeing with a single thing that he would propose. It would seem preposterous to concede anything to a Republican. 
Of course, then I added perspective. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
Denny Moore, director of public relations, was misquoted in the Oct. 8 edition ofThe Observer. In the article entitled"Accused rapist may return to campus," Moore's quote should read, "Prohibited from discussion under federal law." The Observer regrets the error. The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
"If they don't uphold the ban it will make other women more hesitant to come forward in the future." 
Kori Pienovl, sexual assault victim on Cooper Rego returning to campus 

..We made a lot ofour own errors. They did force some errors on us. but we forced them on ourselves. ,. 
Julie Schroeder-Biek, Belles volleyball coach on weekend loss 
''.As you look back over the beginning ofthe season until right now obviously this is the first time what we've been able to follow the plan [to 
. ,,
Wln. 
Bob Davie, lrlsh head football coach on Saturday's game 

"/ hope to get my citizenship so that I will be able to visit my f amity in the Philippines. " 
Jenalee Almes, Saint Mary's freshman on coming to school in America 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 
BEYOND CAMPUS 


Trustees confirm Bollinger as new president 
NEW YORK 
The final "if" fell at last on Saturday when Columbia University's Trustees made it offi. cial: Lee Bollinger will be the uni­versity's 19th president. 
Bollinger, who is currently presi­dent of the University of Michigan, will take over for current university president George Rupp on July 1. 
The university trustees unani­mously confirmed Bollinger at their meeting on Saturday. only days after the presidential Search Committee voted to recommend him. 
"We are delighted to have Lee Bollinger re-join the Columbia fam­ily," trustees chairman David Stern said. "Columbia has gained tremen­dous momentum during the last eight years under George Rupp's 


Bollinger joins Columbia from 
Michigan, where he is known as a "people's president" who has devel­oped close ties with Michigan's 24,000-student undergraduate pop­ulation. At Michigan, Bollinger has held monthly "fireside chats" with students and has taught an under­graduate class, something he plans to do at Columbia. 
But Bollinger also has significant administrative credentials to his name. At Michigan, he has seen both the number of applications and the graduation rate reach record highs. He has increased Michigan's endowment dramatical­ly, launched a $90 million Life Sciences Institute with its own new building and developed a partner­ship with the Royal Shakespeare Company, of which he is a board member. 
BOSTON UNIVERSITY 

University may begin cell research 
The funds to support scientific research projetts have to come from somewhere -· usually either from~ the government or from private businesses. Ever since the Bush administration's decision last August to allow federal funding for stem cell research under certain limitations, both politicians and scientists have questioned what role federal funding will play and how private companies will contribute. Boston University, while not currently involved in embryonic stem cell research, has molecular biologists working on adult human stem cells that come from fat. Steve Farmer, a molecular biologist at the BU School of 
Medicine, said he believes the University could begin stem cell research soon. "I think that in three to five years, or somewhere in that vicinity, you may see researchers at BU get involved," he said. Farmer pointed out federal money is important for any sci­entist who plans on taking part in embryonic stem cell research. 
LOCAL WEATHER 


NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Jewish organization questions e-mail 
New York University Jewish student organization, TorchPac, considered filing a judiciary complaint last week against NYU's Arab Students United (ASU) on the basis that the group distributed anti-Semitic literature in an e-mail to its members, a TorchPac representative said. On Oct. 1 ASU President Nadeen Al-jijakli sent the e-mail, which contained an article by former Ku Klux Klan Grand Dragon David Duke, to students subscribed to the ASU listserv. The listserv was provided to the club by NYU Information Technology Services, which provides listservs to many students, staff and faculty. \Vhile Al­jijakli said she did not object to the content of the article, she added she did not know Duke was a former Klansman when she sent the e-mail. "I read the article by David Duke and I'm not going to deny that I agreed with some of its content," she said. "If I had known his history I would not have sent it out. ff the article was written by somebody else I would've still sent it out. I feel like the article is valid." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon,Tuesday, Oct. 9. 

ee 
~ 
•e •
WARM STATIONARY

O 2001 AccuWeather Inc:. cow 
®,,_,,.©  D  . . D  D  .  
High  Low  Shower•  R ¦ ln  T••torma  Aurrtfl  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
\lfa Assooat9d Pma  
Atlanta  70  43  Las Vegas  81  59  Portland  63  45  
Baltimore  64  37  Memphis  79  55  Sacramento  81  52  
Boston  57  37  Milwaukee  66  50  St Louis  75  55  
Chicago  68  52  New York  61  39  Tampa  86  70  
Houston  82  64  Philadelphia  63  39  Washington DC 61  39  

page 3 

Tuesday, October 9, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Freshmen focus on fundraising 
planning range from holding a

By .MEGHANNE DOWNES 
date auction with a Council­

News Writer 
sponsored dance to working in conjunction with the other class The Freshman Class Council is 

councils to host a Survivor take focusing its time on creating a off. . class T-shirt and sponsoring a "We encourage the council concession stand to raise money members to think out of the box for future activities for the class and to use their creativity to 
of 2005. The 27 representatives come up with ideas that would are hoping the theme of the T­service the students," O'Neill shirt will promote class unity Hall representative Enrique
and are looking to freshman Schaerer said. class members for design ideas. The Council also intends to The deadline for design submis­increase its publicity in order to 
sions to hall representatives will include all students. Another be Oct. 29. possible idea is to recognize
At the Navy football game, the freshman on either a weekly or council will be selling refresh­monthly basis who exemplify the ments in front of Alumni circle. Catholic tradition of service. The council "We want had hoped to to take 
.sell the T-shirt "It is unfortunate that we advantage of at its annual 
cannot sell our own every oppor­

concession tunity here in
T-shirts at our concession

s t a n d order to get
fundraiser, stand until the remaining into the spiritbut the 
25.000 'The Shirt· of Notre University Dame and we
T-shirts are sold. Our

prohibits the do not want vending of current option is to sell to waste anyapparel items 
shirts through the hall time that 

at concession could be used
representatives. ,.

stands before to bring peo­football games ple togetheruntil "The Andrea Brault and to getShirr' is sold t h e m
Walsh Hall representative

out. involved," "It is unfor­said Lyonstunate that we Hall repre­cannot sell our own T-shirts at 
sentative Rozann Carter. our concession stand until the 
The Council intends to use its remaining 25,000 "The Shirt" T­combined creativity to "push the 
shirts are sold," Walsh Hall rep­envelope," according to Aberger.resentative Andrea Brault said. Several representatives"Our current option is to sell 
emphasized that the council shirts through the hall represen­intends to start putting its ideas 
tatives." 
into action so that most of them 

The council is also sponsoring are realized. Freshmen are a dance for underclassmen at encouraged to submit ideas for the Senior-Alumni Bar Oct. 18 to suggestion to their hall represen­
. '

relieve midterm stress. 
tat1ves. 

"All freshmen should come out "We have some incredibly pas­and celebrate the fact that we sionate people who are on the will have survived our first Notre council this year. I am excited to Dame midterms. It's guaranteed see us work together to bring 
to be better than studying," our ideas to the forefront, and it Pasquerilla East representative promises to be a productiveStephanie Aberger said. year," Zahm Hall representativeThe informal dance is free and Andrew Hoyt said. glow sticks will be passed out at the door. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at 

Other activities the Council is 
mdownesl@nd.edu. 

Belles take on a marathon 

By ALLISON ROCHE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's student Alissa Blair started running only a year ago. 
Just 18 weeks ago she began marathon training with fellow Saint Mary's stu­dent Jennifer Wagner. 
. And on Sunday, Blair and Wagner completed the 26.2 miles of the Chicago Marathon with respective times of 3:38:05 and 5:31 :05. 
Blair finished comfortably within her goal time of three and a half to four hours, while also qualifying for April's Boston Marathon. Though excited by the results of her first marathon, Blair is not sure if she is ready to start thinking about a sec­ond. 
"I think I might just do it, but we'll see," Blair said. 
Wagner could not be reached for comment after the marathon, but before­hand she was optimistically looking forward to running another marathon in the future, regardless of difficul­ties she experienced while training for Chicago. 
"Originally I had a goal time of four hours, 15 min­utes. Because of the injuries in the final few weeks of training, I will be happy with finishing. I've worked 20 weeks to see that finish line. It is disappointing to have such a big setback, but next time I'll reach my goal time," Wagner said Thursday. 

Blair found the energy of itive experience," she said. more than 37,000 runners The weekly training sched­
longest run was ·20 miles, 
and  near  1  ule Wagner  
million spec­tators to be  introduced to Blair  
an empow­ering pres­ence that kept her motivated throughout the most  "It was awesome. There were 65.000 feet hitting the pavement at the same time. It was a very positive experience. ••  consisted of four days running with one long run, one medi­um run and  
grueling miles of the  Alissa Blair  two shorter runs, then  
event. "It  was  Chicago Marathon participant  one day of cross-train­ 
awesome.  ing and two  
There  were  days  of  
65,000 feet  rest. Their  

hitting the pavement at the same time. It was a very pos-which the pair completes 

THE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM 
Dr. Ronald E. McNair 
ANNOUNCES THE 2001 -2002 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2001 and/or THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2001 
7:00 -8:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
IN ROOM 117 HAYES-HEALY (DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: Nov. 20) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds are eligible) 
OR 
CANDAX-ME is 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
A Federally Funded TRIO Program 
( visit the ro ram at htt ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/ 
two-thirds of the way through training. Their work­outs slowly tapered from that peak to Sunday's race. In the last few days of training they ran just a few miles, rested and loaded up on carbohy­drates and water. 
Blair attributed her easy progression as a runner to the gradual build in distance during training. She encour­aged other beginning runners to start with just a few miles and then build their physical and mental stamina as their mileage increases. 
Unlike newer runner Blair, it has been Wagner's goal to run a marathon since her senior year of high school. 
Despite tendonitis, shin splints and harsh weather while training, Wagner did not wavered in pursuit of her goal. 
"All I have to do is think about crossing the finish line and I run faster," she said. 
Contact Allison Roche at Roch0584@saintmarys.edu 


BOG debates leadership center 

By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Mana Derakhshani, interim director of the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, presented the pur­pose of the organization and asked the Board of Governance for suggestions on how to pro­mote CWIL to Saint Mary's at Monday's BOG meeting. 
CWIL, sponsored the Lilly Endowment, plans to place an 
emphasis on diversity in the class­room, con­duct semi­nars and encourage students to study cul­tures on-site or during a summer sem­inar. 
"This pro­gram [CWIL] is designed for student involvement at every level," Derakhshani said. 
Hopefully, as soon as next year, students at Saint Mary's will have the opportunity to live in an intercultural resi­dence with students from vari­ous ethnic, cultural and racial backgrounds Derakhshani said. These students will choose to live together and participate in programs that examine intercultural living. 
"This would help create a focus on innovative thought and provide a wider range of experiences to Saint Mary's students in order to prepare them better for the world," Derakhshani said. 
The Board also discussed 
ideas regarding how to pro­mote and encourage student involvement in CWIL. The ideas included promotion in the dining hall and increased advertisement of events spon­sored by CWIL. 
BOG also emphasized the importance of appointing fac­ulty with a diverse background to bring new ideas to campus. 
Kristen Matha, vice-presi­dent, suggested that faculty incorporate and promote CWIL's events into their class­
"This would help create a focus on innovative though and provide a wider range of experiences to Saint Mary·s students in order to prepare them better for the world. " 
Mana Derakshanl Interim director, Center for Women's lntercultural leadership 
es to pro­mote a form of cospon­sorship. 
In other news: 
. Saint Mary's Graduate, A m y Kano use, asked for donations of care pack­age back­packs, for Kids Peace National Centers. The 
organization is a therapeutic foster care program for disad­vantaged children. 
"This is an easy task for each of the Boards to pick up or it can be sponsored by the whole student government," said stu­dent body president, Michelle Nagle. 
. The extra study day propos­al set to begin before the Spring 2002 final exams was presented to the Registrar and was received without resolu­tions. It is now is set to be reviewed by the administra­tion. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 

Students issued discount cards 
By JASON MCFARLEY 
News Editor 

In a joint venture between Notre Datne and South Bend merchants, student govern­ment officials expected today to issue about 8,000 cards good for discounts at local business­es. 
"This is something suggested numerous times in the past by students," Brooke Norton, stu­dent body president, said of the effort that began last year with the Student Services division of her office. "We decided to keep going on the process and make sure that students' wants were being met." 
"We just wanted to have stu­dents feel like they got some­thing in the South Bend com­m unity." said Danielle Ledesma. Student Services divi­sion head. 
Every Notre Dame under­graduate is eligible to receive one credit card-sized discount card, Ledesma said. 
The cards are available today in North Dining Hall from 5 to 7 p.m., in South Dining Hall from 5 to 8 p.m. and in the new Student Services Center on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Students can use the cards at 12 participating businesses: 
. 
Dairy Queen, 2015 South Bend Ave .• for 50 cents off chicken strip baskets and dou­ble cheeseburgers 

. 
Emerald Cut Salon & Day Spa, 6331 University Commons, for 10 percent off any purchase 

. 
Fun Tan, 2258 South Bend Ave.. for 20 percent off any reg­ular-priced tanning package 

. 
Jersey Mike's Giant Subs, all locations, for 15 percent off any purchase 

. 
K's Grill & Pub, 1733 South Bend Ave., for 10 percent off any purchase and $1 hotdogs and drinks daily from 5 p.m. to close 

. 
Keistler's Kreamer, 54570 Ironwood Rd., for 10 percent off any food purchase and free 16­ounce drinks with any purchase Monday through Wednesday 

. 
Michael & Co. Salon, 236 W. 



Edison Rd., for 10 percent off any services 
. 
Molly McGuire's Coffee House, 1025 South Bend Ave., for 15 percent off any purchase 

. 
Papa John's Pizza. 1827 South Bend Ave., for 20 percent off any purchase 

. 
Scoop's Ice Cream and Frozen Custard, all locations, for 15 percent off any purchase 

. 
Shear Phazes, 1811 South Bend Ave., for $2 off a haircut 

. 
Studebagels. 1801 South Bend Ave., for 10 percent off any purchase 


Discounts may be used more than once at each location. 
Discounts at other businesses will become available through­out the year, according to Ledesma. 
Students who don't receive a discount card today can obtain one through the Student Services Center or the student government office on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune. 
The cards expire in June. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Watts lost temper at airport 
Associated PrC55 

OKLAHOMA CITY 
An aide to Rep. J.C. Watts said Monday that the congressman lost his temper when he stuffed a parking ticket for violating air­port security rules under an offi­cer's badge. 
Watts. the fourth-ranking House GOP leader, was cited Sept. 28 after he left his car unattended in a loading zone at Will Rogers World Airport. a vio­lation of security measures that police have enforced especially aggressively since the Sept. 11 attacks. 
After arguing with police Sgt. Edward Stupka, Watts shoved the $15 ticket under his badge and told him to "take care of it," said Pam Pryor, Watts' chief of staff. The officer tossed it into the congressman's car, and Watts' wife later paid the ticket. 
"J.C. makes no excuses, what­soever," Pryor said. "He does recognize that he got angry and he shouldn't have." 
Pryor said Watts called Stupka over the weekend and apolo­gized. 

Police spokeswoman Capt. Jessica Cummins said the police department considers airport terminal parking an important security issue. 
"Signs have been added in loading and non-loading zones not to leave your vehicle unat­tended," she said. "Our position is it doesn't matter who an indi­vidual is, we're going to enforce any security-related issues that occur at Will Rogers World Airport." 
Teach children the importance of compassion in the world. 
Teach them to make adifference. 

¦ 


ACE has moved to the north side of Badin Hall (the old Campus Ministry offices). 
Please stop by to learn how YOU can make adifference! 
) 

ATION 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
N. Ireland government nears col­lapse: Northern Ireland's power-sharing government headed for collapse as moderate Catholics refused to support Protestant demands for expelling the party linked to the Irish Republican Army. David Trimble. who leads the major Protestant party, said his Ulster Unionists "have no choice" but to bring down the government to protest the IRA's refusal to disarm. which, like power­sharing, was a goal of the 1998 peace accord. 
Milan runway crash kills 118: An SAS airliner taking off for Denmark hit a private jet that wandered across the runway, then careened into an airport building in a fiery crash that killed all 114 people on both planes and four people on the ground Monday. It was Italy's worst aviation disas­ter. The government ruled out terrorism and said the crash was likely caused by human error compounded by poor visibility due to heavy morning fog. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. orders refunds for power sales: 
Federal energy regulators have directed four energy companies to refund excessive charges for electricity sales in California and 10 other Western states in July. The order from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission does not include the amount of the refunds, which the California Independent System Operator. which manages much of California's electricity grid, was attempting to calculate Monday. 
Military drops pro -U.S. messages: America is battling terrorism with messages as well as might -dropping leaflets and filling radio airwaves with words urging Afghans to shun the ruling Taliban and back the war on terrorism. The psy-ops soldiers have planes to scatter leaflets, mobile print shops that can be dropped by parachute and loudspeaker systems to blare messages on the ground. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Notebook of planned crimes found: 
A wanted man from Rochester wrote out a plan for a robbery and other crimes in a jour­nal, then left the journal in a Bartholomew County telephone booth, police say. A police officer found the notebook on Sunday and noti­fied police in Rochester. Nicholas G. Donahue, 26, was later booked at the Fulton County jail on warrants charging him with criminal con­finement and criminal mischief. The warrants stem from a Sept. 20 incident at Donahue's home, during which police say he pulled a gun on a door-to-door perfume salesman. 
l\11arket \,Vatch October 8 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration is struggling to maintain the backing of Arab and other Muslim states even as it warns that it may take its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan. 
In alerting the world the attack had begun, President Bush said Sunday, "The United States of America is a friend to the Afghan peo­ple, and we are the friends of almost a billion worldwide who practice the Islamic faith." 
The warning the fight may go beyond Afghanistan was con­tained in a letter to the United Nations. 
"We may find that our self-defense requires fur­ther actions with respect to other organizations and other states," John Negroponte, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations said Monday. 

It was only the latest such warning. 
"The letter states what the president has been saying all along, that the United States reserves the right to defend itself wherever it is necessary," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. 
By all accounts, the al­Qaida network headed by Osama bin Laden has cells in several nations, most of them predominantly Muslim. Bush has told these governments they must choose between sup­porting the fight against terrorism and U.S. hostili­ty. 
In Pakistan, which bor­ders Afghanistan and is vital to the U.S. military operation, protesters have clamored against the United States and the cooperation of their gov­ernment, headed by President Pervez Musharraf. 
Other Muslim nations, including Uzbekistan and Saudi Arabia, also have leading roles. 
To help Musharraf, the administration and Congress have worked together to lift almost all sanctions against Pakistan. A move to end the remaining ones is near completion on Capitol Hill. 

President Bush has approved $320 million in humanitarian aid to the Afghans. A senior U.S. official said Monday that Pakistan could expect additional support as it copes with a flood of refugees. 
Despite the concerted 
U.S. effort. Shibley Telhami, a University of Maryland professor, said, "There are people in the Arab and Muslim world who simply will not be satisfied by what the United States will do. There is a lot of sentiment built up over the years. Clearly, the United States is not trusted." 
But there are people throughout the region, including governments, who are so frightened by the prospect of having groups linked to bin Laden dominate the Middle East that they are looking for an opportunity and a reason to stand up to their extremists, Telhami said. 
Dow 9,067.94 
J~ Same: 
~ 213 

-51.83 
Composite Volume: 
NIA 

AMEX:  830.13  -3.15  
NASDAQ:  1305.95  +0.65  
NYSE:  549.16  -5.24  
S&P500:  1062.44  -8.94  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

:OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:rsco SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.74 +0.11 15.05 ~SDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +0.31 +0.10 31.86 5UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.74 -0.27 9.60 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.28 +0.28 22.24 )ELL COMPUTER (DELL) +2.48 +0.56 23.12 
Passenger tries to enter cockpit 
Associated Pre55 
CHICAGO 
Air Force fighter planes were sent to escort an American Airlines jetliner Monday after a passenger tried to enter the cockpit of the plane, federal officials said. 
Preliminary reports indicated there was not an attempted hijacking aboard the plane, said Federal Aviation Administration spokeswoman Marcia Adams. No one was injured, and the plane was escorted safely to Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. 

The passenger. described later by his father as having a history of mental ill­ness, was subdued aboard Flight 1238 from Los Angeles to Chicago after try­ing to get into the cockpit, said FBI spokesman Ros.s Rice. 
"The male individual was physically restrained by other passengers," American Airline spokesman Al Becker said. "This appears to be an isolated incident." 
The captain of the Boeing 767. which was carrying a crew of nine and 153 passengers, declared an emergency. The F-16s were then dispatched to escort the plane, Chicago Aviation Department spokeswoman Monique Bond. 
The passenger was taken into cus­tody but was not immediately charged with a crime. 




page 6 
Harassment 
continued from page 1 
or small group of others, that 
is intended to intimidate its 
victim(s) from any University 
activity, or any verbal attack, 
intended to provoke the vic­
tim(s) to immediate physical 
retaliation." 
Harassment takes on a dis­criminatory character if it is ."accompanied by intentional­ly demeaning expressions concerning the race, gender, religion, sexual orientation or national origin of the vic­tim{s)." 
The position is appointed by University president Father Edward Malloy, under the discriminatory 
Ban 
continued from page 1 
"All that we ask is that is that [Notre Darnel enforce its know decision to ban this expelled student from the Notre Dame campus in any capacity," Carter said. 
University spokesman 
NEWS BRIEF 
Miami Wind Quartet to perform: The Miami Wind Quintet, one of North America's leading performing groups and a faculty ensemble-in-residence at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, will perform tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. T~e _concert is free and open to the public. Featuring guest piamst Andrea Trovato, the ensemble will perform works by Mozart, Poulenc, Luigi Dallapiccola and Bohuslav Martinu. Each member of the ensemble performs regularly as a soloist, and as a group the quintet has traveled to Taiwan, Canada, Luxembourg, Austria, Germany and the Czech Republic. In August, the group was a featured ensemble at the Stratford-Upon-Avon Music Festival in England, and in May, the quintet performed and led master classes at the Hochschule fur Musik in Saarbrucken, Germany. The quin­tet has four recordings to its credit, including three joint efforts with the Prague Wind Quintet on the Mastersound label. 
FRESHMEN REGISTERS 
If you ordered a copy of the Freshmen Register, you have until Oct. 19 to pick it up at the La Fortune Information Desk (9-9 weekdays, 12-8 Sat/Sun). After that remaining copies will be sold for ~14 each. Student ID required . 
.1'. Wet Your Whistle! 
~ (and stuff your face) 
DAILY SPECIALS Big 
Rated # l Hot Wings ~ Screen in the area ~-. 
TVs 
Tuesday: 
$200 32oz Draft Beer 
Individual speakers at each booth! 


harassment policy as revised last year. The office was cre­ated in 1994 and has han­dled from zero to "four or five" complaints per year since that time. 
Any student, faculty, or staff who has been a victim of discriminatory harass­ment is encouraged to call the office of the Ombudsperson at 631-3909. 
ln keeping with the University's commitment to human dignity, he added that the administration has "the resolve that any harass­ment is not acceptable on this campus." 
Denny Moore confirmed that no decision has been reached. 
Rego was also unable to be reached Monday for ques­tions and his listed phone number had been disconnect­ed. 
West Virginia football information office confirmed that Rego was not at player interviews Monday and that "he isn't giving interviews." 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 

The Observer . NEWS 
ACE receives $300,000 
age stu­dents. 
The fund will support a multi­pronged approach. including enhanced preparation of ACE teachers, curriculum develop­ment dis­seminated among net­works of mathemat­
and access and to 

..The opportunity to 
strengthen partner with the GE fund community ties," said
through the ACE program 
J O y C e

to encourage and achieve 
Hergenhan,math excellence in our president of the GE Fund.
nation ·s primary and 
"We are

secondary schools is 
delighted to 

unique and exciting.·· partner with ACE to extend the impact of
Father Edward Malloy 
their current 

University President program and help other schools of all types adapt 
cational alliance among sup­porters within the Notre Dame campus and throughout the nation," said said University executive vice president Father Timothy, who founded ACE and serves as director of University's Institute for Educational Initiatives. "In syn­ergizing Notre Dame's commit­ment to education with the tal­ent and vision of the GE Fund, we have designed a multiyear project that will provide exem­plary quantitative instruction to some of the neediest schools in the United States." 
ACE was founded in 1994 to provide committed Catholic teachers for understaffed parochial schools and to pro­vide recent college graduates with intensive teacher training and opportunities for an expe­rience of Christian comm unity and spiritual growth. 
The GE Fund, the philan­thropic foundation of the General Electric Company, invests in improving education­al quality and access and in strengthening community orga­nizations in GE communities around the world. All told, GE, the GE Fund and GE employees and retir-ees contributed $100 million to community and edu­cational institutions last year. For more information on the GE Fund, visit http://www.gefund.org. 
Special to the Observer 

The Alliance for Catholic Education at Notre Dame has received a three-year $300,000 grant from the GE Fund for programs to support math­ematics education and engen­der an interest in math-based disciplines and careers among elementary-and high-school-ACE program to encourage and achieve math excellence in our nation's primary and sec­ondary schools is unique and exciting," University president Father Edward Malloy said. "We're most appreciative of the fund's support of this pro­ject." 
"This project proposal meets all the goals of the GE Fund: to improve educational quality, 

ics teachers, and career devel­opment for sixth-through-12th graders. The latter element will involve a partnership between ACE teachers and members of GE's community service volunteer force, the GE Elfun network. 
"The opportunity to partner with the GE Fund through the this model across the country." 
ACE has launched the ACE­Epsilon Initiative to formulate the elements of ACE's success into curriculum development models and teacher develop­ment models that can be repli­cated by other schools. "The ACE-Epsilon Initiative repre­sents an innovative K-12 edu-


Saint Mats College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
The Nation's Premier Catholic Women·s College 
29TH ANNUAL 

EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY TOUR 

Courses offered in History, Education, Music, Culture and International Business. 
For further information contact: 

Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (219) 284-4866 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 The Observer . NEWS _page 7 
SMC Web site gets a facelift 
By JENNIE BUEHLER News Writer 
After a month of preparation and redesign, Saint Mary's Web page posted an updated look during the weekend. 
A subdued blue background, 
' quick access bars, scrolling links and loading images are all part of recent updates to the Saint Mary's Web page. "The Web site· has been undergoing a change since the last version was developed. The last company working on it didn't finish it, and we. had always planned to complete it later," said Nick Farmer. mar­keting and content organizer. Efforts to improve the Web site began last March with the help of Saint Mary's vice presi­dent and dean of faculty Karen Ristau. She signed off for the project and oversaw the progress. A team of four including a Saint Mary's alum­na coordinated and designed the Web page with the help of a Web company. The team's goal was "to pro­vide a much more high impact sight organized with the user in mind," said Dan Mendell, a member of the design team. More interactive and user friendly, the Web page caters to all. Prospective students will find it easier to navigate and 
research the College with the newly layout and redesigned admissions link. Current stu­dents will enjoy an upgraded e-mail system with new fea­tures and more security. Alumnae can also appreciate flexibility and easier access to links within the site 
These upgrades are just a start to the construcion being done, as more upgrades are being planned for the future to "achieve consistency and inte­grate the new look to other area's within the Web site," said Mendell. 
For instance. departmental pages were unaffected by the changes along with other organizations within the Web site this time around, however, plans to establish the new look in these areas is scheduled in the future. 
"We wanted to go in without necessarily changing every­thing" said Mendell. "It gives the departments flexibility." 
The response from the Saint Mary's community has been accepting to the changes. 
"We've had a positive response from the community. They like the availability and the dynamic new look." said Farmer. 
Contact Jennie Buehler at bueh1658@saintmarys.edu. 
GERMANY 

Food drops are successful 
Associated Press 

RAMSTEJN AIR BASE 
Crew members of two American C-17 cargo planes hugged and exchanged high­fives Monday on returning safe­ly to their base after dropping 35,000 food packets over Afghanistan. 
The overnight operation was meant to underscore that the U.S.-led military attacks carried out simultaneously were not aimed at civilians. 
The cargo planes were air­borne for 24 hours, dropping the packets from high altitudes onto areas in southern and east­ern Afghanistan where the civil­ian need was deemed greatest. 
"It did present dangers with the high altitude and the poten­tial ground threat," Air Force Col. Bob Allardice told reporters at the United States' Ramstein Air Base in southwestern Germany after the planes land­ed. 
He would not comment on whether the planes encountered any hostilities, but the 20-per­son crew, attached to the 437th Airlift Wing at Charleston Air Force Base in South Carolina, was unharmed and in high spir­its. 
One of the flight commanders, whose name was withheld due to security concerns, described the mission covering 6,000 miles from Ramstein to Afghanistan and back again as difficult, but uneventful. 
The airdrop over Afghanistan was executed at higher altitudes than ever before attempted to avoid any enemy fire, the com­mander said, without specifying the altitude. Food drops previ­
ously have been made  over  
Iraq,  Bosnia,  Kosovo  and  
Somalia.  

"That's the way you want it to be over the drop zone, boring. And it was," the commander said. "There was a haze on the ground and a couple of lights but we couldn't see anything else." 
The packets were dropped from the back of cargo planes. To do that, the cabin and cock­pits were depressurized, requir­ing crew to put on oxygen masks and endure near-freez­ing temperatures. Medical crew were on board both planes to make sure the flight crews didn't experience altitude sick­ness, he said. 
"It was an outstanding suc­cess. It's a testament to the pro­fessionalism and the dedication of the crews and people sup­porting them," the commander said. "An unprecedented mis­sion. A difficult one." 
The packets contained a day's ration of red beans, rice, fruit bars, peanut butter and straw­berry jam, providing at least 2,200 calories. The food does not contain any animal products so as not to violate any religious or cultural practices. Muslims, for example, do not eat pork. 

.A day's food 
Each yellow plastic container of "humanitarian daily rations" is about the size of a hardcover book. The pouches, airdropped by the U.S. military to assist Afghan civilians, contains a day's worth of food for one person. The rations are vegetarian and conform to Muslim dietary laws. A typical 2,200-calorie package may contain the following items: 
• 
Bean salad 

• 
Rice with beans 

• 
Crackers 

• 
Peanut butter 

• 
Raisins 

• 
Flat bread 

• 
Strawberry jam 

• 
Apple fruit bar 

• 
Utensils package 


SOURCES: Defense Supply Center; AP Associated Press 

''THE LAND DOWN UNDER'' Information Meetings Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
155 DeBartolo 283 Galvin Life Science 5:00-6:00 PM 7:00-8:30 PM 
for Arts & Letters for Science and and Business Engineering Students Students ( use ntain entrance by library) 
Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
Attacks 
continued from page I 
bombing, C-17 cargo planes air dropped about 37,000 pack­ages of food rations for dis­placed civilians in Afghanistan, Rumsfeld said. A similar mis­sion was carried out 
Sunday, and officials said they expected to continue the humanitarian air drops for at least several more days. 
In revealing more details about the first salvos of mis­siles and bombs, Air Force Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, cau­tioned that the number of munitions fired and the num­ber of targets hit are not the best measure of success for President Bush's campaign against terrorism. 
"In this kind of warfare, against this kind of enemy, the true measure of effectiveness, in my opinion, will not neces­sarily be in numerical terms," Myers said at a joint news con­ference with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. Success depends on weakening the Taliban, aiding opposition groups, feeding displaced Afghans and demonstrating that harboring terrorists will not go unpunished, he said. 
Rumsfeld made a similar point. 
"There is no silver bullet,"he said. "The cruise missiles and bombers are not going to solve this problem. We know that. What they can do is to con-· tribute by adding pressure, making life more difficult, rais­ing the cost for the terrorists and those that are supporting the terrorists, draining their finances and creating an envi­ronment that is inhospitable to the people that are threatening the world." 
Even though the Taliban have only a rudimentary mili­tary, the U.S.-led bombing is not aimed mainly at those forces, he said. 
"It's unlikely that the airstrikes will rock the Taliban back on their heels,"Rumsfeld said. "They have very few tar­gets that are of high value that are manageable from the air." 
Rumsfeld declined to discuss the possibility of sending U.S. 
0 PE RATION 'ENDURING FREEDOM' 
Targeting the Taliban military 
U.S. and British forces pounded targets in Afghanistan Sunday, striking Taliban and al-Qaida installations with missiles and bombs launched from warplanes and ships. In a televised address, President Bush said the action is intended to not only disrupt Osama bin Laden's terror network, but also to pave the way for future sustained operations to bring terrorists to justice. 
From Diego Garcia 

ilii:i Thirteen bombers -8~52s and .j .. 8-1 Bs -staged strikes 
'.+m ~ 

!;'.?I
.... 
,s 
UIY !OPUOMORI!!!!! 
Are t1ou LV\-terestect tV\, plat1L~ a Vt,l.,ajor role LV\, k'.jDUY JuV\-tor PcireV\,t's weeluV\,ct? tf so, get LV\,voLvec{ 11\,0W! ! 
JPW 2002 is looking for a Sophomore Chair. 

L.eClYV\, tvie ropes. em·-Lt1 aV\,ct get to ~V\-OW a grecit group of juV\..Lor.s! 
What more could you ask for? 

you cetV\.. pt.c~ up ctppLLccitt.oV\-S outslcte of tneJPW offt,ce locliltect LV\, :2.i4 LC!FortuV\-e. Applt.ccitwV\,s ewe ctue October ii to tltleJPW offt,ce. 
<;ot questLOV\-S.?? C0V\..tetct KeLLt. at G.34-2~0.r! 

Kandahar  Mazar-e Sharif  Kabul  Jalalabad  
Taliban military  Taliban military  Reports of  Explosions  
headquarters,  equipment  explosions  heard near  
airport and al­ including tanks  near  Farmada, a  
Qaida housing  targeted.  airport.  bin Laden  
units targeted.  training  
camp.  
Areas controlled  
by the northern  

j ;~1~;ea~••.;:;~~~••~~tsfanesla~:~;J1~~vytwo 
•···":ttJ! dropping dozens ~~ ...· ..... ' . ·90rriers in the region -the USS · of 500-pound bombs on~ ·· Carl Vinson and the USS 
al-Qaida camps and other targets. Enterprise. The Navy F / A-18s and F-14s were supported by EA-68 electronic warfare and 
From the United States E2-C Hawkeye early warning Two B-2 stealth bombers flew from Whiteman planes. The flight to Afghanistan 
A.F.B. in Missouri to their targets in Afghanistan required in-flight refueling from and then on to Diego Garcia for rest and refueling. U.S. and British tanker planes. 
ground forces into Afghanistan. 
Like any air campaign. early strikes have targeted air defenses that jeopardize allied pilots. And some strikes have been aimed at military com­mand and control facilities, airfields and the small number of Taliban aircraft on them, as well as the training camps of the al-Qaida network, Myers said. 
But more broadly, the mili­tary campaign is meant to par­alyze al-Qaida's operations inside Afghanistan and set the stage for opposition groups like the northern alliance to put further pressure on the Taliban and eventually topple the religious militia. 
alliance 
Four U.S. warships and a submarine were joined by a British submarine in launching 50 Tomahawk cruise missiles from the Arabian Sea. 

SOURCES: Federation of American Scientists; Associated Press AP 
"The only way that the Afghan people are going to be successful in heaving the ter­rorist network out of their country is to be successful against ... that portion of Taliban and the Taliban lead­ership that are so closely linked to the al-Qaida," he said. 

"We are working with the elements on the ground that are interested in overthrowing and expelling that group of people," Rumsfeld said. 
In a related development, another 1,071 members of the Army Reserve and Army National Guard were called to active duty as part of a mobi­lization authorized by Bush shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks. Among those called up are personnel who specialize in criminal investigation, infantry or special operations. 
In all, 27,025 reservists from 44 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have been called up. 
ENVIRONMENTAL GEOSCIEf\JCES 




i:::>.. .. .,.,.('') 

DI.Sl~OV'ER: How· you can major OR minor in the 


Environn1ental Geosciences; Career and Research opportunities; How to spend asemester abroad. 


Contact: Dr. Clive R. Neal (neal.1 @nd.edu) www.nd.edu/-cneal/ENVGEO 

Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Ridge goes to work on security 
Associated Press 
PROFILE 
WASHINGTON 

Tom Ridge, Office of Homeland Security! 
In a windowless space 10 
Former Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge was sworn in by Supreme

paces from the Oval Office, Tom Ridge reported for duty Monday 
Co~rt Justice Clarence Thomas on Monday as the head of the 

Office of Homeland Security, a new Cabinet-level position. Security. His assignment: figure out where America is vulnera­ble to terrorist attack and try to 
at the new Office of Homeland 
Education: J.D., Dickinson School of Law (1972); 

ensure it doesn't happen again. 
B.A., government studies, Harvard (1967). "The task before us is diffi­
Experience: Pennsylvania governor, 1995­

cult, but not impossible," said 
present; U.S. House of Representatives, 1983­

Ridge, who resigned as 
95; assistant Erie County district attorney, 1979­

Pennsylvania governor just 
82; staff sergeant, U.S. Army, 1968-70. Awarded 

three days earlier to accept the 
Bronze Star for bravery in Vietnam War. 

daunting challenge laid out by President Bush. Family: Wife, Michele; son Tommy; In an executive order, the daughter Lesley. president instructed Ridge to SOURCE: AP wire reports 
AP 
bring all federal, state and local agencies together in drawing 
wants to "give him the tools," towers. Ridge, who befriendedup a plan "to detect, prepare Shelby said on CNN's "Larry Bush after volunteering for hisfor, prevent, protect against, King Live." father's 1988 campaign, willrespond to and recover fro·m The six-year governor and also have carte blanche to see
terrorist attacks within the 
former six-term congressman the president without firstUnited States." 
began work on the second day clearing

It was a mouthful that Ridge a request through 
of U.S. military strikes in White House chief of staff
stumbled over as he restated 
Afghanistan. That operation Andrew Card. 

his mission to an audience of will likely spark terrorist Ridge will not have an auto­
family members and govern­
reprisals_. according to intelli­matic seat in the president'sment VIPs in the East Room. He gence community warnings. daily' intelligence and Nationalalso said his job will be to find As if to underscore that Security Council briefings, but
the gaps in America's law 
threat, Vice President Dick will be invited in on an "asenforcement and intelligence Cheney remained at a secret required" basis, said press sec­operations, and close them. 
location and left Supreme Court retary Ari Fleischer. 
His portfolio bulged with 

Justice Clarence Thomas to Ridge will set the agenda forweighty mandates: administer Ridge's oath. a new Homeland Security
. Set priorities for spying over­Ridge, 56, a bulky Army vet Council -a domestic version of seas and make sure intelligence decorated for his bravery in the National Security Council ­agencies have all the money Vietnam, bent to kiss his that includes the secretaries ofand technology they need. 
daughter Lesley. 15. "I love Treasury, Defense,
. Develop a system for detect­you," he whispered. Transportation, and Health anding any release of biological Within the hour, bidding Human Services; and the direc­and chemical agents, and for began for the money newly tors of the CIA, FBI and Federalcontaining their spread. 
under Ridge's control, including Emergency Management. Review hospital capacity and 
$25 million from an emergency Agency.

supplies of vaccines and phar­fund Congress created last Aides to deputy White Housemaceuticals. 
month; The International chief of staff Josh Bolten had to
. Fortify security for power 
Association of Fire Fighters dis­double up in an office next door
plants, phone systems, rail­
tributed a press release com­to make room for Ridge on theways, highways. shipping ports. 
plaining that too many coun­interior West Wing corridorand food and water supplies. 
terterrorism dollars are steered that connects the Oval Office toRidge will be working with to the military. think tanks and Card's corner suite.
bureaucracies that have a tra• 
universities, rather than fire A freshly designed seal ­
dition of turf battles over 
fighters "who are the first with a fierce-looking American
money and jurisdiction, a 
responders" to terrorist attacks. eagle perched atop a red ban­
potential obstacle that he 
How much money Ridge has ner -was put up outsideacknowledged with a plea for to work with remained unclear. Ridge's quarters and the cabi­cooperation. 
Bush's order only directed nets inside were hastily stained "The only turf we should be Ridge to instruct federal budget a stately dark brown.
worried about protecting is the officers on what funds are nec­Likening his mission to con­turf we stand on," he said. 
essary. struction of the transcontinen­
Sen. Richard Shelby of 
Even before he was sworn, tal railroad and putting a manAlabama, senior Republican on Ridge sat in on the morning FBI on the moon, Ridge said it will 
the Senate Intelligence 
briefing that has been on take patience. He quoted theCommittee, said Ridge will need Bush's daily schedule ever since Army Corps of Engineers motto:new legislation to carry out his the Sept. 11 attacks on the "The difficult we do immediate­job successfully. Congress 

Pentagon and New York's twin ly; the impossible takes a little onger." 
¾ J 

kc Facuity 

Anthrax cases not terrorist acts 
Associated Press 
Health experts say the 
Florida anthrax cases traced 
to the newsroom of a super­
market tabloid do not fit the 
classic bioterrorism scenario 
and the public should not 
especially fear for its safety 
while the FBI continues its 
investigation. 
Among the major questions 
to be answered: Where did it 
come from? How was it 
spread? And, why has only 
one person died? 
"There are things about this 
case that I find rather 
strange," said Donald A. 
Henderson, a biodefense 
expert at Johns Hopkins 
University in Baltimore.· "If 
you put them all together, they 
don't add up." 
Anthrax is one of a handful 
of microbes turned into biolog­
ical weapons designed to 
infect and kill large popula­
tions. A treaty signed by 143 
nations bans their use. But 
U.S. officials have long feared that extremists might grow a large batch and release anthrax spores on unsuspect­ing, innocent people -· fears that have become acute since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
In Florida, Bob Stevens. 63, died Friday of inhaled anthrax. It was the first con­firmed case in the United States since 1976. The bacteri­um also has been found in the nasal passages of one of Stevens' co-workers at The Sun newspaper. That man is being treated at an undis­closed Miami-area hospital. 
However, experts said the bacterium's presence in the man's nose does not necessar­ily mean he is suffering from the inhaled form of the dis­ease, in which tiny spores flourish deep in lung tissue. 
Anthrax spores also were found on Stevens' computer keyboard, a state health offi­cial said. The FBI has sealed off the office building and is expected to begin combing it for clues. 
National health experts said the FBI investigation was "appropriate," but doesn't 

necessarily mean it was the 
work of terrorists. 
"If you had a large release 

(of anthrax spores), you 
wouldn't see just one case," 
said Bruce Clements, associate 
director of St. Louis 
University's Center for the 
Study of Bioterrorism and 
Emerging Infections. "We 
would see quite a few cases." 
"Anthrax is so persistent," 

he said. "If somebody let 
aerosolized anthrax loose in 
air system of that building, it 
will still be there." 
All 300 employees who work 

in the building housing the 
Sun tabloid were asked to 
come to a clinic so they could 
be tested. Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention offi­
cials said nasal swabs would 
be taken, and antibiotics pro­
vided to combat the disease in 
its early stages. 
Anthrax symptoms -which initially resemble the flu ­usually take up to a week to appear, but may not develop for 60 days. 
In inhaled anthrax, the body quickly produces toxins as a result of infection that antibi­otics typically cannot over­come. 
Health officials said they have not heard anything yet to suggest the second newsroom worker has the inhaled ver­sion. Nor do the spores sug­gest they were biologically manipulated. 
"It looks like garden-variety anthrax," said Henderson of Johns Hopkins. "We should know more in a few days when the tests are concluded." 
The CDC has identified two antibiotics -Cipro and doxy­cycline -to treat anthrax. 
Health experts said "it would be prudent" to treat workers in the Sun building, as well as any visitors. mes­sengers, delivery people and service workers who went there in the past two months. Family and friends who were not physically there would not need treatment because anthrax cannot be passed from person to person. 
"You want to treat people before they show symptoms," Clements said. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF..SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason Mcfarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ......................... ............631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDlTORIAssT. ME..... : .............. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIr.'WPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS..................................................... ...631-4 543 observer .sports. f@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s... ..........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB AnMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily -updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
rnoviwmwic for 

minute forecasr.s 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for palicies 
online features for spe­

and rares ofprior ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observ~r 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nae governed by palicies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves che right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpainr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct• ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
Are we safe at Notre Dame? 
Are we safe on this campus? 
I've never really asked myself this question in the past. I've always felt safe walking to and from class, I don't lock my door most of the time and I even feel safe walking around the lake or to Saint 
John Litle 
Mary's alone late at night. Maybe it is . just because I am a 
Frankly
male (insert feminist 
Obnoxious 
rage here), or maybe it is because 
no matter where I go I get the feeling that the administra­tion is watching me. Had I asked myself this question a week ago my answer 
would have been unequivocally, "Yes I am safe on this campus." 
Sadly, since then my whole idea of safety has been turned upside down. On the surface, yes, Notre Dame is very safe. But below this image there is a dark monster lurking. No one wants to talk about it, understandably, but it's there. I am referring to date and acquaintance rape. I used to imagine Notre Dame as one of the most rape-proof campuses in the country. I have since changed my mind. Rather, Notre Dame has an abun­dance of rape; it's just that no one reports it because women are made to believe it is their fault. You see, there is some sort of attitude that ifsomeone is drunk, they don't deserve respect and common human dignity. This appalls me. 
A lot of times the phrase "taking advantage of' replaces the correct term "raping" when referring to these instances. There is some sort of built-in aversion to using the term rape at this "perfect" place. Taking advantage of a girl who is incapable of giving consent while you are aware of her inability to consent is rape -even if you've been drinking. The scum who would do this make me sick. Sex is not an "opt-out" activity. The inability to say "no" does not mean 'yes." 

How can I feel safe, even as a guy. on a campus where there are individuals will­ing to cause a lifetime of hurt and pain for another person for one night of personal physical gratification? The concept; until recently, just never took hold with me. There are people like this, and chances are you've met, talked to or had a class with them. That's frightening to me, and I imagine it must be more fright­ening for a woman. 
The worst part of the crime just may be the aftermath. In the aftermath of this terrible experience our "community" pressures women to take the blame for the attack. Perhaps they shouldn't have gotten that drunk, per­haps they should have been more care­ful, perhaps they did something to deserve it. 
I can't believe this attitude. While I agree that a man accused must be given a fair shake, here the woman-, the victim, endures more scrutiny than the alleged perpetrator. This crime is not a woman's fault. Getting drunk and passing out does not and will never constitute consent for sex. Men who prey on women in this state are rapists. There just isn't any question about it. The betrayal of the women by our community is almost as bad as the crime itself. 
The whole thing makes me physically ill and has kept me up nights over the past week. Our campus needs desperate­
ly to address this issue but not through 
the abysmal methods of ihe past. 
No yellow journalism, tabloid­style news coverage and not a 
20 minute meeting at the 
beginning of freshman year. 
There is an immediate need 
for updated and relevant 
information on this campus. 
Case in point, a few weeks 
ago the issue of date rape 
drugs was brought up in The 
Observer. Who here knows anything about these drugs and their effects on victims'? I don't, and I don't even know where to go to find out. Should not someone at this University 
direct some energftowards informing us? Instead of sweeping it under the car­pet, a mature, informed discussion must ensue to help lessen the chance that this should ever happen again. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major. Ile can be contacted at jlitle@nd.edu. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Acknowledging collective guilt 
In his second inaugural address, the great Abraham Lincoln Flipse also seems to deny collective guilt for the sins of soci­suggested that the devastation our nation suffered as a result ety. On the contrary.just as we believe in the communion of of that war was punishment for our sins as a nation. Strangely, saints, we must also acknowledge our membership in the com­I do not remember reading anything to the effect that he had munion of sinners. We are all complicit in our public crimes. no right to claim any knowledge of the will of God. even those of us who condemn them. Unless we spend every 
Yet today. when a few outspoken ·preachers make an analo­ounce of energy and every moment we have in fighting the bla­gous statement about the recent tragedies in this country, they tant injustices around us, we cannot say we have no part in get lynched in the press (see the Monday column by Scott those injustices. We are all guilty to some extent; even you, Flipse), and this even though our sins today are worse than Scott Flipse, and especially me. they were 140 years ago. (Horrible as beating a man and mak­What makes me respect what those preachers have said is ing him pick cotton may be, it pales in comparison with pulling not just that it is true, but that they would apply it to them­a baby half out the womb, piercing her skull, and sucking out selves. From what I have heard from them before, I am sure the contents). And this disaster was not nearly as bad as the they would tell you that they deserve misfortune also -their Civil War. So what is the big deal? faith tells them they are sinners. even if it were not obvious 
True, Falwell and Robertson do not have quite the stature otherwise -but it is only through His mercy, which they do that Lincoln had and continues to have. But that does not mean not deserve, that God spares them. they cannot call a spade a spade. Flipse seems to think these I do not think those attacks were just; nor do Falwell and guys claim to know the "secret will of God." Well, that will is Robertson. But we can either use them to make us angry at not so secret. It is no secret that God does not want unborn "religious extremists" or we can see them as a call to repen­babies slaughtered by the millions. It seems the only time that tance. I think the choice is clear; skewering the men and will is considered secret is when it does not correspond with women who point out the wickedness of our culture docs not what most people want it to be. If you proclaim that racism is lessen our own guilt at all. wrong, and racists get what they deserve when bad things hap­pen to them (true enough), nobody accuses you of knowing the Greg Yatarola "secret will of God." But if you were to say the same when a clas.s of'99 pornographer got hit by a brick from the sky, you would just be Oct. 8, 2001 a bigot. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Scott Brodfuehrer Courtney Boyle Meghanne Downes 
Sports 

Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 

Kristin Yemm 
Scene 
Sam Derheimer Chris Scott 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Production 
Andrew Soukup 
Lab Tech 
Brian Pucevich 
POLL QUESTION 

Is the administration unfair to OutreachND by not giving the organization official club status? Please e-mail viewpoint. l@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Death and sorrow will be the companions of our journey,· hardship our garment,· constancy and valor our only shield. We must be united, we must be undaunted, we must be inflexible." 
Sir Winston Churchill former British prime minister 
' \ ' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
page 11 
Fear accompanies a new beginning 

I am scared. In two, days I leave Nouakchott, the capital, to go to my vil­lage. I arrived three days ago and have been indulging in all I possibly can, beaches and pools, ice cream, hamburg­ers and pizza, tank tops and bikinis. . 
Currently I sit in an Maate Uranga air-conditioned internet cafe which serves lattes. 
Life in Africa 

After I type this out I return to the Peace Corps house with a party already in progress. There is a DJ with at least some American music, a bar, a karaoke machine and about 50 Americans. Tomorrow is anoth­er free day, which most likely means another day by the pool at the embassy. Right now life does not seem that much different than in the states. 
The scary part is that this is all very temporary, and my actual life in Mauritania is about as different from my Nouakchott experience as is possible. In two days my Peace Corps service commences. After 10 weeks in training I am more than ready to enter this next phase, but there is a part of me that is ter­rified. 
Peace Corps has been a part of my 
I try to imagine the first day. The Peace Corps car will drop me off with all my possessions. My possessions will most likely be more than most families could ever afford. After about 10 min­utes of settling-in time I may meet and greet the notable members of the com­munity. They will speak in a language I do not understand and eat food I can not identify. I may smile and laugh a lot and pretend that I understand. 
The kids will follow me. Everyone will ask ifI am married and when I say "no" they will have many possible husbands lined up. Someone will get my water for me and carry my bags. I will be treated like a celebrity. After a few days this sta­tus will disappear. I will have to figure out how to use a well. I will have to learn enough Pulaar to communicate at least my basic needs and feelings. Eventually, hopefully not for a very long time, I will have to learn to take care of myself when I get sick. I will not speak any English. I will get lonely. 
All of these are realities. They were 
not a part of my Peace Corps dream 
of the past two years. The Peace 
Corps pamphlets and website 
do not show this part of the 
experience. How many 
people would sign up 
for a program with a 
picture of a volunteer 
on the cover who is 

life plan for at crying in her hut? least the past two 
----,llf'I~/\,,,_~~---~~;:==~ Or a volunteer 

years and on ---~ who fails to learn 
some level a part of my identity. 
When people asked what I 
planned on doing after graduation from college I always said Peace Corps, and during the year I took off between col­lege and Peace Corps it was a major topic of conversa­tion. What would I do? Where would go? Would I have water and electricity? 
Now these ques­tions are answered. As of the swearing-in ceremo­ny yesterday I am finally a Peace Corps volunteer. My dream is now reality. The movement between these two realms is hard. Training was difficult, but I also realize it was a bubble. That envi­ronment became and still is very com­fortable. 
I do not know what the next few weeks will bring. I knew when I signed up for Peace Corps that a large part of the pro­gram was to live alone and in a fairly isolated village. This idea sounded absolutely fascinating when I sat in the recruiting office in a skyscraper in downtown Chicago. After visiting my vil­lage and hearing current volunteer sto­ries the excitement and dream still exist, but now it is compounded with knowl­
edge of reality. 
•--------\ 
the language so
r all he does is read and write? These next 

few months are looming over me and the
dlll\Pij!lllr,fl•-----.-.•.-\ reality of , Peace Corps weighs down on me. Self­examination overwhelms me. Do I sim­ply like the idea of Peace Corps and the unique status is gave me among my peers, my par­..~ ents and my ~v parents' friends? Do I like the look of astonishment and awe that peo­ple gave me when I told them I was going to live in Mauritania for two years more than I like the reality of living with­out running water? Why am I here if I know I want to go to law school? Why do I want to live in an environment that is so conservative that I cannot show my ankles and where female circumcision is common? The answers will present themselves in the next few months. I am scared. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tailgate rules 
stifle football fun  
Spoiling a tradition  
Oops, I was tailgating again.  
I was shocked and appalled by members of the Notre Dame Security/Police  
force for their disruption oftailgating across the street in the soccer fields,  
better known as the "Radio Tower." I grew up in South Bend and have  
attended football games for as long as I can remember. I can never recall  
seeing any incidents like I witnessed Saturday, when NDSP felt the impulse to  
disrupt football Saturday for a host ofstudents.  
First the facts ofthe case: I am 21 years of age, the legal drinking age in  
Indiana. My friend's parents decided they would like to throw a tailgate for  
their son and all his friends. We attended merrily with the intent to enjoy the  
day with family and friends before attending an Irish victory. Little did we know that our mere association with a tailgate is an offense deemed illegal by  , l  
the word tailgating, regardless ifwe were in line with Indiana state law.  
Simply holding a hot dog was the only offense of a particular friend. No legal  
c_itations were handed out at the tailgate, but ResLife has its own interpreta­ 
t10n ofthe law. Apparently we are not allowed to take any part in a parent­ 
sponsored tailgate, unless we have the comfort ofthe Senior Bar and the  

presence ofalumni and benefactors protecting us. I suppose it would look bad if NDSP were handing out citations so near to the stadium and disrupting the tailgating there. Only those hooligans across the street are in jeopardy of having their day ruined by a yellow slip of paper with the crime of tailgating. 
I have nothing against police presence on Saturdays because some people do get out of hand. But when the police use their power to deny students the right to enjoy these Saturdays by causing a major disturbance, we have prob­lems. Not only were those cited affected by the events, but also everyone that witnessed or heard about the police action, students and parents alike, were disappointed. It spoiled one of the six days that parents and students annually share to come together and take part in one of the cherished traditions of Notre Dame football. I speak out on this matter because the University needs to address this disturbing change in the way football Saturdays have been enjoyed for years. 
Jimmy Rogers 
senior off-campus Oct. 8, 2001 

Citations are unnecessary 
Continuing a tradition of bizarre and unnecessary rules, the administration 
has cracked down on tailgating. 
Tailgating, that wretched activity involving thousands ofstudents, parents 
and (check-writing) alumni waking up to go out to have fun with their friends, 
meet each other's parents and show unbelievable amounts ofschool spirit. 
The tailgate party is as big a part of Saturdays as the game itself, perhaps an 
even larger part given recent football struggles. 
But tailgating involves drinking, so Notre Dame has decided that it has to be scaled back. On Saturday morning I saw NDSP officers roaming fields ticket­ing people. These were students who were minding their own business, not dancing on cars or crushing cans on their heads. I won't bother railing against ticketing underage students because it's too easy for officials to hide behind the law of the land and the bottom line is that it's impossible to argue against that. I'll just say that it seems very unnecessary, especially considering how many of the beers students are drinking come from their parents. I will note that underage drinking at tailgates was ignored by real police for years until University officials asked for tougher enforcement. 
I'm more troubled by ticketing students who are of legal drinking age sim­ply for the offense of "tailgateing" (that's right, it was misspelled on a ticket I saw). The students are owed an explanation as to why 21-year olds can be in violation of University rules just for being present at a perfectly legal gather­ing. 
Rex Rakow tells us that 17 students have been treated for excessive drunk­enness. Wow, 17 out of 160,000 fans at two games! Those are like Powerball odds. This is hardly an epidemic. It's a great tradition and a great time that is being trampled on for no apparent reason. 
Even more ridiculous is the ticketing of students for talking. While witness­ing someone being ticketed, a Sorin resident turned to a friend and described Bill Kirk using an expletive. He turned around to see Mr. Kirk standing behind him and was promptly ticketed for "blatant disrespect for University policy." What?! Come on, what road are we heading down here? 
Well, Mr. Kirk, I guess I also have blatant disrespect for this policy, so I guess I also deserve a ticket. 
See you in the lots on Saturday. 
Chas Eberle 
senior 
off-campus 
Ocr.8,2001 
O
THE BSERVER 


music• 
Page 12 Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
l 
I Irish rock band to play Irish 
I 
Anticipation for U2 supcoming performance reaches a height as students prep( 
senior Nick Wymbs, music direc­file performances -which hap­nary for an event of 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
tor for WVFI, said. "U2 is the pen to include Elton John, this magnitude.
Assistant Scene Editor 
biggest and most significant mod­Aerosmith, Garth Brooks and "We're not beefing ern rock band of our generation. Frank Sinatra, just to name a few up security," he said, U2 is coming to Notre Dame. Previous acts [to come to campus] -there hasn't been a buzz this "we're merely oper­Just in case you've been out of since freshman year don't even big on campus in quite some ating at our maxi­
the country or you haven't come compare." time. mum level." out of a Fitzpatrick computer lab But just before students allow "People have been hearing the Most students. in the last three weeks, here that themselves to get swelled heads rumors that U2 might be coming however, seem to is again: U2 is coming to Notre thinking they get to see the great­forever. Now it's finally happen­have a significantly
Dame. 
est concert in the history of the ing," senior Matthew Smith said. grander vision of the That's right, this Wednesday. Notre Dame, there is one name, "This is going to be one of the concert. Even the one of the biggest rock bands in one man, they might want to things people look back on as one concert's promoter,
the world will play one of the 
keep in mind: of their Andrew Wilson of 
smallest venues on their tour Elvis Presley. greatest Clear Channel
U2 is the biggest and most

when U2 kick off the third leg of Oh yes, at the experiences Entertainment, their North American tour here height of his significant modern rock at Notre voiced his enthusi­at Notre Dame. career, Elvis band ofour generation. Dame. This is asm for the show. 
And as students busily over­rocked the on a com­··something like this
Previous acts [to come to

whelm the University's band­Joyce. Notre pletely other is very unique,"
width limit downloading Joshua Dame stu­campus] ... don't even level from Wilson said, "this is Tree MP3s, it's hard not to get 
dents were compare.,, anything else the biggest band in 
caught up in the sense of excite­
actually privy Notre Dame the world playing
ment growing around campus. 
to the dash-has ever such a small venue "I was really surprised they ing good Nick Wymbs had." at Notre Dame. I am definitely enjoy the show, with views from came," senior Stacie Green said. looks and WVFI music director Bigger looking forward to this." all over the stage -including a 
"I'm so excited. I think it will be 
mesmerizing than Elvis? Adding to the mystique sur­pioneering 360-degree -camera 
amazing, because the place is so 
hips of the King of Rock. One can "It's clearly as big an event as rounding this show is the fact delivering you to 'the heart' of the 
small. I saw them in D.C. and the 
only imagine the Brothers of Holy we've had," Joyce Center events that the entire concert will be Elevation live experience."
place was huge, and it was still 
Cross, quietly gathered in one manager Joe Sassano said. But ·broadcast live on the band's offi­For truly zealous fans. the Web 
awesome. So rm sure the show 
corner of the Joyce, secretly tap­Sassano pointed out that this is cial Web site, U2.com. According cast will be replayed on Thursday
here will be great." 
ping their feet to the beat of not the first time the Joyce Center to the page, "U2.Com is offering at 9 p.m. CET (that would be 2 
Truth is, you'll be hard-pressed 

..Hound Dog." has sold-out. He said though fans a unique ringside seat for p.m. our time) for European fans. 
to find students who don't share 
Those are going to be some there will be some added security the band's critically acclaimed So just in case you want to relive 
Green's enthusiasm. 
seriously big shoes to fill. on the floor, the Joyce will not be show -live from Notre Dame, the memories of getting manhan­
"People are really excited," 

But regardless of past high-pro-doing anything out of the ordi-Indiana. So get comfortable and dled by Joyce security guards as 

MUSIC FEATURE 
All That You Can't Leave Behind: the history of 
castle grin, reinventing itself with Dave Evans {the Edge, lead gui­Unforgettable Fire in 1984. The mouths -one that would not go
By JOHN HEIECK 
the 1991 release Achtung Baby. tar, keyboards and backing album echoed the band's interest away until the band's release of' 
Scene Music Critic 
And now, with a world in need of vocals) and his brother Dick in America with the songs "Pride the Achtung Baby album. a little hope, U2 -with its criti­Evans, answered the ad. The (In the Name of Love)" and By the time the band was ready
During a time when hair bands cally acclaimed All That You band chose the name Feedback "MLK." to begin recording their next shared the success and excess Can't Leave Behind. and its hope­and performed their first U2 remained successful in the album, tensions at the Berlin stu­that typified the 1980s, the Irish ful message of peace -seems to rehearsal in Mullen's kitchen. 1980s, selling out stadiums and dio were running high. Bono and rock band U2, with its honest, be more relevant than ever . Dick Evans soon left, and the music stores throughout America. the Edge, later dubbed "The heart-on-the-sleeve mentality, The band formed in 1976 in group changed their name to U2. However, it was the 1987 release Hats," wanted to experiment son­became one of the biggest rock Ireland when Larry Mullen Jr. U2 got its first break after the of The Joshua Tree that estab­ically with the new material, bands in the world with its 1987 (drums) posted a flyer on his high 1978 Guinness talent contest, lished the rock band as one of the whereas Larry and Adam, release of The Joshua Tree. school bulletin board seeking catching the attention of manager premier in the world. Once again dubbed "The Haircuts," wanted During a time when Nirvana other musicians to form a Beatles Paul McGuinness. Two years teaming up with producers Eno to stick to the traditional and seemed to slay any and every and Rolling Stones cover band. later, with the help of the single and Lanois, U2 recorded and more established U2 sound. The band that embodied that very Paul Hewson (Bono, lead vocals "Another Day," the band signed a released the chart-topping singles conflict became so heated that excess, U2 responded with a sar-and guitar), Adam Clayton (bass), record deal with Island Records. "With or Without You" and "I Still the band contemplated breaking Later that year, U2 Haven't Found What rm Looking up. However, inspiration inter­released their debut For." The singles were the most vened in an almost mythical way, album, Boy, which heavily rotated songs on the radio into one U2's best and most rec­received critical that year, and landed the band on ognizable songs. The band was in acclaim for its vision­the cover of Time magazine. the studio, not speaking to each ary atmospheric, yet After the success of live E.P.s other, when the Edge began play­edgy, sound. and vidoes like Under A Blood ing a beautiful piano melody. U2 soon broke out Red Sky and Wide Awake in Bono stepped to the microphone in America with the America, U2 filmed various other and began singing "Is it getting 1983 release of War, live performances from the tour better?/ Or do you feel the same'?/ supported by the polit­and to record new songs for \Nill it make it easier on you/ ically charged singles Rattle and Hum, a visual and N,ow, you've got someone to "Sunday Bloody sonic immersion into the heart of blame." One by one, the members Sunday" and "New American blues and soul. \Vhile of U2 came together and wrote Year's Day." the album was a hit, music crit­"One," which reinstated the 
Capitalizing on this ics, who misunderstood the moti­band's faith in music and in each momentum, U2 vations behind the film, blasted other. teamed up with pro­the band for placing themselves The rest of the sonically experi­ducers Dan Lanois in the same category as Bob mental album, influenced by elec­and Brian Eno in the Dylan, Elvis Presley and Jimmy tronic and dance music was recording of the ambi­Hendrix. As a result, the band left released in 1991 as the album ent and experimental the incredibly successful album Achtung Baby. On the strength of album, The and tour with a sour taste in their singles "One" and "Mysterious 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
page 13 


un1vers1ty 
1re for the concert ofa lifetime 

Photo courtesy of www.U2.com 

you attempted to climb onto stage and profess your undying love to the Edge, you have that option. 
Finally. one thing that seems to have been lost in all the previ­ously mentioned hoopla of this concert, is a radically different view on U2 coming to Notre Dame. As anxious as all us stu­dents are to see U2, U2 have to be at least a tiny bit anxious to see us as well. A band like U2 doesn't come to Notre Dame because they heard the Joyce has some really great acoustics. U2 had to make a conscious decision to play at this school. Seriously, think about that. For every U2 CD and every U2 poster at Notre Dame, Bono, the Edge, Larry and Adam want to play for us just as much as we want to hear them play. 
Yes, we all probably have a ton of questions we would love to ask them, but think about it, they must have at least a few ques­tions they'd like to ask us. And no, none of us are famous (yet). but we were accepted to one of the most elite and well known Catholic universities in the world. That's got to say something. 
So just think about that this Wednesday, when U2 rock the Joyce like no one ever has. For all our admiration toward them, they have at least some admira­tion for us too. And it's a rela­tionship like that can not help but create an amazing performance. 
So Elvis they may not be, but this will still be the greatest con­cert the Joyce has ever held. 
Contact Sam Derheimer at sderheim@nd.edu. 

rock legends, U2 
Ways," the album received criti­cal acclaim and strong record sales. What followed was an elaborate live spectacle called "The Zoo TV Tour," in which Bono pranced around an enor­mous stage backed by huge tele­vision screens and made prank phone calls to the White House. During the middle of Zoo TV, U2 returned to the studio in 1993 and recorded Zooropa. 
In 1995, under the disguise of a different name, U2 released The Passengers' first -and only ­album. Quite experimental, it was met by lukewarm critical and public response. U2 soon returned to the studio to record their next, and most difficult album, Pop. 
Both critics and fans assumed that U2 would retreat from the intentionally bombastic nature of Achtung Baby and ZooTV with a more stripped-down, traditional album. However, the band had other ideas in mind. Pop, released in 1997, was even more techno and dance-influenced than either Achtung Baby or Zooropa, and Pop Mart, the name of the new tour, was even bigger and more visually stimu­lating than Zoo TV. 
Unfortunately, the album and the tour met lackluster sales. Coupled with the enormous price tag of the tour itself, U2 was yet again left at the end of the tour with a sour taste -although this time financial and not critical ­in its mouth. 
After the seemingly disastrous Pop Mart, the band regrouped and reinvented itself yet again. Bono and the Edge began writing songs for the All That You Can't Leave Behind outside of the stu­dio; something the band had not done in almost 20 years. The band also changed its focus, stripping away the glamorous glaze left over from the ZooTV and Pop Mart tours. What emerged was one of the most honest albums U2 has ever recorded. Released in 2000, All That You Can't Leave Behind, riding on the strength of such singles as ''Beautiful Day" and "Elevation" was met with ener­getic and excited applause, both critically and publicly. 
U2 has evolved over the years from an earnest and idealistic group of teenagers to one of the best rock bands of this genera­tion. The band's latest album sings of a wiser yet still hopeful U2, one that seems to touch even more people, especially given the events of September 11. The world needs a hopeful voice, and that voice is U2. 
Contact John Heieck at heieck.3@nd.edu. 
MUSIC COLUMN 


Bono: Notre Daine has soul 
My name is Tim Collins and the story that I am about to tell you is true, every word of it. 
It is a story about U2, the band that is opening the third leg of their Elevation Tour on our campus this week. It is a story that proves life moves in mysterious ways. A story where I found what I was looking for. 
I took part in the University's London Program ~uring the Spring 2000 semester, and during the first of my two one-week breaks I traveled to Dublin, in God's country, to spend a week with my girlfriend, Julie, who was a part of the Dublin study-abroad program. 
On Feb. 15, Julie and I walked along the south side of the Liffey River on a self-guided tour through Dublin. The final desti­nation was the recording studio where U2 recorded Pop and All That You Can't Leave Behind. About a 15-minute walk from the Pearse Street train station, the studio is in a very industrial­ized area of the city; there are no sidewalks and few street signs. But we were determined to get there and take a few pic­tures while pretending that our favorite band was just behind the wall in front of us. • 
Well. after hanging around for about 30 minutes we found out the band actually was behind the wall in front of us. We knew this because Bono walked out of a door about 50 feet away from us to get something out of his Mercedes parked on the street. I was unable to get over to him in time to get an autograph, but our desire to meet the band was now at a fever pitch, and we were going to stay at the studio until we got an autograph. Fifteen minutes later, a garage door opened and out drove Adam Clayton, the band's bass player, in his hatchback Mercedes. He pulled up next to us and signed an autograph on the All That You Can't Leave Behind album booklet that Julie had luckily brought just in case something like this happened. I told him that I couldn't wait to see him on tour and he drove off. 


We were ecstatic, but nothing could prepare us for what was going to happen next. 
Ten minutes later, Bono again walked out of the door in front of us, this time with his wife. I walked up to him as coolly and cahnly as I could and asked for an autograph, album booklet extended in my right hand. He agrees and shook our hands, asking what we were doing in the area. He thought we worked in one of the factories or build­ings around the studio since it was in such a secluded area. When we told him we were there to just see the band, he was shocked. He said, "You're here just to see us?" 
After again explaining to him that we were only there to see him, he made us an offer we couldn't refuse. He said, "I'll tell you what, why don't you get in the car? We'll give you a ride to Pearse Street, is that OK?" 
Let me repeat that: Bono offered us a ride in his S600 Mercedes. 
Julie accepted the offer (I was incapable of speech) and we got in the car. He sat with his brief­case on his lap, so we could have more room in the back. We were introduced to his wife and thus began our double date with Bono and his wife. 
It was about a 10-minute ride in the car with Bono; luckily there was a fair amount of traf­fic due to construction that dav. I asked him if he was excited for the tour that was scheduled to begin in about a month and we talked about the Grammy's, which were only a few days away. He said he didn't think they would win any of the awards they were up for (they went on to sweep all of the awards for which they were nominated). He signed our album booklet, told us we were in his "posh car" and even wrote a lyric from the song "I 
Fall Down" with his autograph 
because the song is about a girl 
named Julie ("Julie says John 
I'm going nowhere"). 
Then the University of Notre Dame came up. We told him that we were students here and he said that the ex-Canadian Ambassador to Ireland lives across the street from him and that he was somehow associat­ed with Notre Dame (this is ex­athletic director Mike Wadsworth). Bono said that he has heard Notre Dame is differ­ent from most colleges in America and he asked us why that is. 
Julie explained that our school has a great sense of com­munity and it is a really spiritu­al place. Bono responded by saying, "So, it's a place with a lot of soul." We said that we couldn't have agreed more. Notre Dame has never been as cool to us as when Bono said that we have a lot of soul. 
As Bono's wife informed us that we would have to jump out of the car at the next stoplight, Bono turned around and shook both of our hands. We thanked him about 15 times and said we would see him on tour later in the summer. I almost knocked his leather jacket out of the car as I jumped out. 
Bono and his wife sped away, with Bono giving us a quick wave we could see through the rear window as they pulled away. Julie and Ijumped around the streets of Dublin for about 10 minutes willing to tell people passing us on the street what had happened before call­ing our parents to tell them on her cell phone. 
Some days are better than others, and Feb. 15 was truly a beautiful day. So when the biggest and best band in the world plays on Notre Dame's campus later this week, just remember: Bono thinks Notre Dame has a lot of soul. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Tim Collins can be contacted at collins.87@nd.edu. 
lf'-t ~ -­
. ) ~­
I \ 
1 \ 
I I 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 


Doan's overtime goal beats Flames 
Associated Press 
Shane Doan scored a power­play goal 28 seconds into overtime as the Phoenix Coyotes beat the Calgary Flames 2-1 Monday night. 
Doan deflected a slap shot by Teppo Numminen from the blue line past Calgary goal­tender Roman Turek. 
Calgary's Rob Niedermayer had been called for tripping with 1:13 left in the third peri­od. 
Daniel Briere also scored for Phoenix (1-1-1-0), which fin­ishes a season-opening four­game road trip in Chicago on Thursday. 
Dean McAmmond scored for Calgary (2-0-0-1). which was coming off a pair of shutout victories. 
Phoenix goaltender Sean Burke finished with 26 saves and foiled several Calgary scoring chances in the third period. 
On one sequence, Burke made a pad stop on a slap shot by Chris Clark, and made a glove save on a shot by Dave Lowry off a rebound. 
Later in the third, Burke stopped Scott Nichol on a breakaway. 
Briere ended Turek's shutout streak of 153 minutes, 23 seconds at 13:23 of the 

, I second period. Turek's streak
I '. 
was just under seven minutes short of the Calgary record set last season by Fred Brathwaite. 
With Phoenix on a power­play. Briere circled out from behind the Flames' net and scored on a rebound. 
Calgary opened the scoring 2:41 into the first period, capi­talized on a two-man advan­tage. Toni Lydman and Nichol combined to set up McAmmond, who beat Burke with a shot from the low slot. 
Calgary finished 1-for-10 on the power play. The Coyotes were 2-for-6. 
Blue Jackets 2, Flyers 2 
Jan Hlavac scored in the third period on a shot that ric­ocheted off the skates of two Columbus defenders as the Philadephia Flyers rallied to tie the Blue Jackets 2-2 Monday night, 
The Flyers trailed by two goals in the final period before tying the game. Philadelphia rallied from a two-goal deficit to salvage a 3­3 tie against Columbus on Saturday night. 
Hlavac's unassisted goal with 6:47 left came on a shot from the slot that bounced off the skate of Columbus defenseman Deron Quint and then off the skate of Jamie Pushor. 
Hlavac's goal came 50 sec­onds after Philadelphia's Simon Gagne accepted a pass from Mike Recchi and scored on a backhander past goal­tender Marc Denis, who fin­ished with 30 saves. 
Columbus had outplayed the Flyers for most of the first 50 minutes before the two quick goals. 
The Blue Jackets had the first four shots of the over­time. Flyers goaltender Brian Boucher stopped two shots by Geoff Sanderson in the first 15 seconds of the extra period and blocked Ray Whitney's wrist shot from close range. 

Boucher finished with 28 saves. 

Philadelphia was on the power play for the final 53.5 seconds of overtime after a holding call on Mattias Timander. Keith Primeau whiffed on a shot from the slot with 6 seconds remaining. 
Columbus (0-0-3-0) has three points in its first three games -matching the Blue Jackets' total through the first nine games of their expansion season a year ago. They also ran their unbeaten streak at Nationwide Arena to seven games (4-0-3-0). 
After capitalizing on both power-play chances in Philadelphia on Saturday night, the Blue Jackets failed to score on six man-advantage opportunities Monday. 
Leading 1-0 early in the third period, the Blue Jackets stretched the lead off a nifty pass by veteran Kevin Dineen. 
After a takeaway near cen­ter ice, a slap shot by Columbus' Serge Aubin was high and wide off the back glass. The puck took a big bounce and ended up near the boards on the right side. Dineen dug it out, coasted in from the dot and passed under the stick of Eric Desjardins w Aubin at the left post. 
Aubin tapped the puck past a sprawling Boucher. 
Quint scored the Blue Jackets' first goal with a slap shot that glanced off the skate of Todd Fedoruk and slid just inside the far post. 
Maple Leafs 6, Mighty 
Ducks 1 

. Alexander Mogilny had two goals and an assist to lead the Toronto Maple Leafs to a 6-1 victory over the Anaheim Mighty Ducks on Monday night. 
Mogilny, signed as a free agent in the offseason, gave Toronto a 4-0 lead at 1:14 of the second period with his 400th career goal. The 32­year-old winger, who scored 43 goals for New Jersey last season, has four goals in three games. 
Robert Reichel and Mikael Renberg scored their first goals for the Maple Leafs. Reichel had a goal and two assists, and Renberg finished with a goal and an assist. 
Jonas Hoglund and Alyn McCauley also scored for the Maple Leafs. 
Anaheim goaltender Steve Shields allowed five goals on 19 shots before being replaced by Ilja Bryzgalov at 7:58 of the second. 
Mogilny snapped a wrist shot past Shields 53 seconds into the first. 
Renberg passed in front to Hoglund, whose one-timer beat Shields at 12:51 of the first, and Mogilny assisted on Renberg's goal at 19.57. 
Toronto scored three goals in the second. 
Reichel passed from behind the net to Mogilny, who scored the Leafs' fourth goal. 
Alyn McCauley extended Toronto's lead to 6-0 lead at 12:40. 
Mike LeClerc scored for Anaheim at 4:51 of the third. 
Toronto goaltender Curtis Joseph, who finished with 20 saves, made a diving glove save midway through the sec­ond period on a shot by Paul Kariya. 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
MLB 
Rocker 
makes 
roster 
Associated Press 
John Hocker's pitching was not insulting enough to keep him off the Cleveland Indians' postsea­son roster. 
Rocker, who has been more erratic than effective since coming to Cleveland in a June 22 trade with Atlanta, made the roster amid speculation he would be left off. 
Cleveland manager Charlie Manuel wouldn't say exactly how he plans to use the fiery reliever in the best-of-five series against the Seattle Mariners. But Manuel indicated Rocker was kept for a reason. 
Rocker could be valuable against Seattle's John Olerud, who is O-for-7 in the regular season against the left-hander. Olerud did ­have a game-winning hit for the New York Mets against Rocker in the 1999 NLCS. 
Right-hander Bob Wickman took over as Cleveland's closer and has 32 saves, but Manuel didn't rule out using Rocker in that role if necessary. 
"Even though he strug­gles at times, you've still got to stay with him," Manuel said of Rocker. "He's going to get back on track. I think we trust him more than he realizes." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
B&B  BUY-SELL  ••• ACT NOW! Guarantee the best  
2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  spring break prices! South Padre,  
LOST AND FOUND  2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124  FOR SALE  277-6619 or 273-3911  PERSONAL  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Madrigas.  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Reps needed. Travel free, earn  
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall  5 Rooms for rent on Football week- Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold  SPRING BREAK  $$$. Group discount for 6+ 800­ 
Tuesday, It's blue and white  ends. Many happy repeat cus­ way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR  A.M. -232-2378  Largest selection of Spring Break  838-8203 / www.leisuretours.com  
Jansport with Leprechaun patch.  tomers. 2 miles north of campus  & kitchen with appliances. 1 car  P.M. -288-2726  Destinations, including Cruises!  
Please return to Laura Lacayo 4­ 277-8340  garage, $69,000.  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  $300-$800 Scholarships  
4273  Call Doris at 254-1772  ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  Free trips available.  Available per semester!  
Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45  232-0964.  www. EpicuRRean,com  Looking for a job which lets you  
minutes from Notre Dame. T&A  '98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19"  1 ·800-231-4-FUN  work around your school schedule?  
1 (  FOR RENT  INN Between the lakes. PH (616) 244-9084  Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277­8208 after 3:30  WANTED-ND TICKETS 289-9280  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  We have several part-time and full-time day & evening positions paying  
www. innbetweenthelakes.corn  
 Sun Coast Vacations wants to send  $7·$11/hr.  
5 rooms for rent on football week­ 52055 Old Post Lane  Buying some/ Selling a few extra  you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  We offer the following:  
ends. Many happy repeat cus- Spacious 4 bdrm, 2 story on private  N.D. Football Tickets.  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  *Scholarship money  
tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 277­ lane in Farmington Square. 2373  219-289-8048.  FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­ •Flexible Schedules  
8340  WANTED  SF+ professionally finished base­ment. Call Jack at 280-7730.  Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC  888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.corn  *Paid vacations/holidays *Optional Saturdays  
Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty.  game. Call Noreen at 284-4417.  *Health/Life/401 (k)  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM·  Spring Break Insanity!  *Incentives/Raises ,  
PUS  STUDENT WORK  BMW 94 325i, 4dr, green, loaded, 1  USC: Loyal alum who missed the  WWW.INTER-CAMPUS_COM or  •supervisory/Mg!. Positions  
rnmmrentals.com  $14.50 Base-appt.  owner, all records, $11,000 289­ lottery needs 6 USC tix, Top Dollar!  call 1-800-327-6013  1-(888) 801-JOBS  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  4082  Ask for Gary at toll free {888) 893­ Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­ jobs@americallcorp, corn  
Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust  6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com  nations! Fifteen years experience!  Just minutes north of campus  
svc./sales positions {5-20hrs)  Selling Varsity Club time share 1  Wanted: Representatives and orga- 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  soph. wk. $9,500  WANTED U2 TICKETS  nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your  Oh me oh my I'm not going to get  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Cond. apply  272-1753  232-0964  resume  any sleep tonight  
for footbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms  www.worklorstudents.com/np call  
 
 
with private baths, $80-$115,  M-W 12-Spm 282-2357  Need 6 W. Virginia Tickets. Call  SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge  But guess who won't have to work  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  
 Tim 634-1754  in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and  Thursday night!  
Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­9487  WANTED: Small dorm refrigerator. Call Katie 4-1188  TICKETS  2 WVU/ND Tix (GA) for sale  Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica,  I humbly bow to Kerry's superior  
Call Kim: 634-3541  Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to  belief in the Notre Dame spirit  
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1 )9-br  The Coffee Spot Cate on Bendix  StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­ 
$2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month.  near Cleveland Rd.  Help! Family coming in. Need WV  1443 or email  Wow -two parties in two nights ­ 
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at  Part-time work available. Gorumet  tickets. Call Kerry at 243-0928  sales@studentcity.com to find out  lucky me!  
532-1896,  Coffee Shop.  Have 3 pair of USC tix. Need Tenn.  more.  
Call 273-2931  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Tix. Let's talk. 901-332-6735  Hey, thanks for a great weekend  
Turtle Creek Apt. Opening  A.M. -232-2378  Spring Break with STS, AmericaOs  
1 Br $655 276-4809  Babysitting 1,5,7 yr. olds 12-15  P.M. -288-2726  Need 1 Tennessee ticket Contact  11 Student Tour Operator.  2 more days until ELEVATION!  

 hours/wk  Scott at 634-4946  Promote trips on campus earn cash  
For rent remodeled 4-bdrm house.  flexible hrs  Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix.  
 and free trips. Info/Reservations  They took your tite, but they coold  
3 blka from ND. Garage avail. 233­ 271-0786  Need: ND-SC fuc and/or cash  U-2 tickets 2 seats sec. 12 rCM 13  1-800-648-4849  not take your pride ...  
210,  CaJI Bob at 219-315-8964  287-9342  WNW.ststravel.com  IN THE NAAAMME OF LOOOVE  

Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish 
•
improve 
to 6-2 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's water 
polo team placed second in the 
Midwest Division tournament at 
Kalamazoo this weekend, posting 
a 3 -1 record. 
The Irish opened with an 11-3 drubbing of Toledo, before falling for the second time this season to Grand Valley State, 12-7. 
Grand Valley State is currently ranked 14th nationally. 
The Irish rebounded with a 25­5 victory against Bowling Green , and an 11-3 win against host Kalamazoo. 
Jay Deimel and John Penilla continue to pace the attack, with 17 and 10 goals respectively this weekend, while Devlin McCormick was strong in goal with 54 saves. 
Eric Saul, Danny Wiederkehr and Steve Schrantz ranked among the Irish leaders in goals and assists. 
The Irish now boast a 6-2 record, with the Midwest Championships at Miami next on the schedule in three weeks. 
Coming Events 
Many clubs will swing into action this weekend. 
The Field Hockey.team will open the season by hosting a round robin at Riehle Field this Sunday. The team will play the University of Chicago at 11 a.m. and then take on the North Shore Oubat noon. 
The Bowling Club will be in Indianapolis for the Brickyard Oassic, while the Equestrians will travel to Taylor University. The Cycling club will compete in the MWCCC Regionals in Albany, Ohio where Sean Flynn will attempt to qualify for the nationals. 
The Men's Rowing club will take to the water at the Head of the Rock in Rockford, IL. in their final tune-up before the Head of the Charles in Boston the follow­ing week. 
NFL 

St. Louis blows out Detroit 35-0 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
The St. Louis Rams thrive 
on the pass. The Detroit 
Lions die by it, which is 
one reason the Hams are 
unbeaten and the Lions are 
winless. 
Kurt Warner threw three 
touchdown passes and Dre' 
Bly returned an intercep­
tion of Ty Detmer 93 yards 
for a score Monday night 
as the Rams remained the 
NFL's only unbeaten team 
with a 35-0 victory over 
the Lions, 
It was hard to tell if the Rams (4-0) were good or the Lions (0-3) were bad in a game that was really never in doubt after Warner threw first-half touchdown passes of 15 yards to Az-Zahir Hakim and 36 yards to Torry Holt. Those scores capped two drives in which Warner threw 16 straight times. 
"You know Kurt, he'll get you the ball," Holt said. "You just have to make sure you get in the right spot." 
Bly picked off an ill­thrown pass by Detmer, who was intercepted seven times by Cleveland in the Lions' last game, and returned it for a TD to make it 21-0 at halftime. ered by Grant Wistrom, 
On came Charlie Batch, who returned the ball for whom Detmer had an apparent touchdown, rep Iaced a ft er a 2 8 -6 but the Rams were penal­opening-ized for week loss running in Green on the
"You know Kurt. he ·u get
Bay. Batch field after
you the ball. You just
had no the recov­better luck have to make sure you ery and -he com­the touch­
get in the right spot. " 
pleted his down was first two nullified. passes, Torry Holt "It just but his Rams wide receiver felt good third was to get in," intercept-s a i d ed in the Batch, end zone by Dexter who was 11-of-16 for 113 McCleon. yards. "I'm just disappoint­
Then, after driving the ed that we didn't score.". Lions 55 yards to the St. It really didn't matter. Louis 8, Batch was sacked So easy was it for the by Leonard Little and fum­Rams to pass on a Lions bled. The ball was recov-secondary minus Bryant 


Westbrook, recovering yard scoring play was a 5­from a torn Achilles' ten­yard flip over the line to don, that St. Louis ran the Hakim, who sidestepped ball just three times in the Jimmy Wyrick and danced first half while Warner in. went 16-of-21 for 197 It was like most of the yards, many of them drive -short hitches and underneath Detroit's deep outs underneath the zone. Warner finished 29-Detroit defense. of-37 for 291 yards. The first time Warner 
Detmer was 15-of-18 for went deep was on the next 149 yards, a deceptive fig­series, hitting Holt from 36 ure if there ever was one. yards behind Ron Rice to 
The Rams scored twice in make it 14-0 2:29 into the the final quarter on second quarter. Warner's third TD pass, a Even when the Detroit 1-yarder to. Ernie Conwell, offense moved, it ultimate­and a 6-yard run by ly failed. Marshall Faulk. Late in the second quar­
The Rams took a 7-0 lead ter, it drove from its own with 3:30 left in the first 38 to the St. Louis 16. But quarter on Warner's pass Detmer threw off his back to Hakim at the end of an foot right to Bly, who took 80-yard drive that took 10 it 93 yards untouched to plays, all passes. The 15-make it 21-0. 
I£EI8TLEI&~8 LA._TE 1WIGIIT ~IDNIG-IIT ~U1WUIIIE8 ~A._DNE88 
flog Sandwich or Pizza 
2 for 1 
from midnight to 4am 
• 
"THE CRflSH PHO" 

• 
Clean 6 Comfortable 

• 
Great food 

• 
fresh fruit Smoothies 



Ue.istle..-~8 I:r«.>II ~'OC:>d @ 8t:,a,t.e Rd 23 
Offer expires 10-22-01 


.( 
I • ) 
\ 
I 
I 
page 16 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Weasel punter pins Pyros' hopes 
ByMRON RONSHEIM and DANIEL TARSHA 
Sports Writers 
Not too often the hero of a game is punter. 
For Pasquerilla West its punter turned in the biggest play of the day. Late in the second half freshman punter Abby Nerlinger pinned Lyons inside their own 2-yard line. 
On the next play, a low snap was dropped by Lyons quar­terback Sara Jenkins in her own end zone. The result was a safety for the PW defense. 
The safety was difference in the game as PW held on for the 2-0 win. 
"Abby definitely gets the game ball," said Coach Mike Canfield. "She is the greatest coffin-corner kicker since Reggie Roby." "It the first time I have ever 

\ \ played flag-football,"i Nerlinger said. "I used to play soccer, so I thought I would give kicking a try. This is actually the first game I have gotten my kicks down." 
The punt was sent up by a goal line stand by the Weasels defense. 
On the Lions' first drive of the second half they moved the ball down to the two-yard line of the Weasels on Jenkins pass. On a third and goal the Lions tried a halfback pass, but the play was sniffed out by the defense, as the pass fell incomplete. 


The PW defense came up big on fourth down, and the Lyons offense left the field frustrated. 
"That differently help change the momentum of the game." said defensive end Gina Lopresto. "It was a huge stop." 
PW, on the ensuing drive, moved the ball to midfield with a series of reverses and a hook and ladder play to set the stage for Nerlinger's per­fect punt. 
The safety by the PW defense overshadowed a great performance by the Lions' defense. 
PW quarterback Leslie Schmit was 0-8, including one interception in the first half. The Weasels were also held to only 10 yards of total offense in the first half. 
"I am really proud of our defense," said middle line­backer Irene Onyeagbako. "We played well. It was just a heartbreaking loss." 


For PW, this game was a must-win. 
Coming off a disappointing 6-0 loss to Pasquerilla East, it was win or go home for the Weasels. 
PW is 3-3 and has almost assured themselves a spot in the postseason. 
"Our goal like any team is to go to the Stadium," said PW coach Tim Haggerty. "It is a new season. All we need is the offense to play a little bet­ter and we will have a great shot." 
As for Lyons, it has a one 

i ) 
game left against BP this Thursday. 
"We definitely need to win if we want to keep on playing," said Onyeagbako. 
Badin 21, Pangborn O 
The match up between the Bullfrogs of Badin and the Phoxes of Pangborn had all the makings of a Wild West shootout and didn't disap­point for intensity. 
When the dust had settled, Badin went home with a hard fought victory. 
Badin captain Beth Rimkus said, "We knew we couldn't let our guard down. They have good receivers and can make plays." 
The Badin offense didn't fail to rise to the occasion, with an 18-yard touchdown pass over the middle from sopho­more quarterback Erin Zachry to the sure-handed Nicole Jelovic to put the Bullfrogs in the lead, 7-0. 
On Pangborn's first posses­sion, the offense mixed in a quarterback draw to dissuade the Badin pass rush. Badin's Katie Bears was all over the field making key plays at line­backer. The drive stalled and on the punt that followed, the Pangborn special teams came up big by downing the ball at the Badin 3-yard line. 
Badin mixed in a few options on their next drive, only to find themselves at a critical fourth-and-long after a pass interference call got them into Pangborn territory. Zachry hit Stephanie Heath on a 17-yard strike to put them ahead 14-0. 
With the clock working against them, Pangborn worked into scoring territory. Tia Vonil had a 30-yard sprint before time ran out to end the drive. 
In the second half, Badin's offense came out in a swing­ing gate formation, only to be stopped by a staunch Pangborn defense. Pangborn quarterback Charlotte Troupis faced a heavy pass rush all -day. Badin mixed a few stunts and twists to go with its linebacker blitzes. 
On Badin's next possession, Zachry hit playmaker Amy Marshall for a 67-yard touch­down catch and run. Marshall put more jukes on than a LaFortune Ballroom DJ to get into the end zone to put Badin ahead 21-0. 
Pangborn's next drive ended in hostile territory, after a 26-yard run was ques­tionably called back. 
Earlier, a nasty hit on Zachry from a cornerback blitz put her out for a series. All this mixed together made for a rough one in a "non­contact" sport. 
Rimkus said, "It got intense, really rough. Girls were hit­ting each other hard." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at Ronsheim. l@nd.edu and Daniel Tarsha at dtarsha@nd.edu. 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001

The Observer . SPORTS 
Walsh wins, makes playoffs 

By MATT FURRIE 
Sports Writer 

Who said Walsh couldn't put points on the board? 
From the way they played Sunday, it was not apparent that the Wild Women had only scored one touchdown all season. But with a 21-0 win against the now 0-5 Off­Campus Crime, the Wild Women proved that they were much more than just a defensive powerhouse. 
"We scouted their defense," said team captain Alison Troy. "We noticed some things -but basically we just played really well on offense and were successful." 
Whatever weakness the Wild Women saw in the Crime's defense, Walsh was quick to exploit it scoring two touchdowns in its first three plays of the game. 
The first score came on just the second play of the game. 
After failing to gain any­thing on a quarterback draw on first down. they came right back firing on second, as Walsh quarterback Lauren Walsh hit running back Carrie Cambell for a 43-yard touchdown pass. 
Following an Off-Campus punt and a big return, Walsh had the ball on the Crime 18. 
On the first play of the drive Cambell, this time assuming the role of quarter­back, faked a handoff and cut up the right sideline for the touchdown untouched. 
As for the Crime, its half consisted of three consecu­tive series of three-and-outs. 
The second half, just like the first. started with a bang for Walsh. 
After holding the Crime offense and forcing another punt, the Wild Women mounted a four-play, 57-yard drive, culminating in an 18­yard touchdown pass to Jenn Lynch. 
For the day, the Wild Women duo of Walsh and Cambell combined for four of nine passing while the Crime stuck more to the air com­pleting 9-18 passes. 
"This is nice to have a playoff spot secure," said Troy. "It's a confidence booster. I think we can play with any team in the league." 
McGllnn 6, Howard 0 

Forget the past three years. 
After three straight wins, the current McGlinn Shamrocks should no longer have to be associated with past. With a victory over Howard. they have bolstered their record to 3-1-1, and have put themselves in posi­tion to earn a playoff spot. 
The game was a constant up and down field battle, with both teams being able to drive, but neither being able to put up any points. 
"It took us awhile to get things going," said McGlinn defensive back Christa Gray. "But once we finally did, it really clicked." 
The first half was pretty uneventful. Each team put up at least one drive of 10 plays or more, but none resulted in any points. 
With the loss of the starting quarterback Jill Veselik, who was running the Chicago marathon, the Ducks looked to Meg Mackin to lead the offensive attack. 
Mackin, 6-16 passing looked very poised in the pocket and seemed confident in her receiver's capabilities to make plays as they drove down the field. 
"We drove the ball the entire game," said Howard captain Katie Cawley. "Our offense did a really great job. we just couldn't finish." 
The score remained tied at zero as the first half ended. 
It was not till halfway through the second that the first touchdown was finally scored. 
McGlinn, starting from its own 30, moved the ball down field to the Howard 10 in eight plays. 
Then, on fourth down, quarterback Julie Kremer hooked up with wide receiver Sarah Vatterott for the touchdown. 
The Ducks would get one more shot to win the game, but a third down interception by Gray in heavy traffic sealed the victory and dropped the Ducks to 2-3 for the season. 
"I think this is getting our confidence high for the play­offs," said Gray. "\Ve're real­ly happy with the outcome." 
Contact Matt Furrie at mfurrie@nd.edu. 

: 

Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 




Inter hall 
continued from page 24 
times and giving up seven sacks. 
"Our offense is better than 
what we showed today;" said 
Zeller. "We just didn't execute 
like we have in practice. I think 
that after another week of prac­
tice we will be that much bet­
ter." 
After starting the season 3-0. 
Fisher feels confident they can 
continue their solid play. 
"Everybody's really optimistic right now," said Gorman. "We think we have a pretty good shot at playing in the Stadium. 
Sorin 27, Knott 6 
Last year. Knott's defense gave up only one touchdown all year. Against Sorin. it gave up four. 
Otter quarterback Greg Carney was 7-10, with two touchdowns passes to Tom Doar, as Sorin picked up its first win of the season, against the Juggs. 
"If we keep playing like we did today, there aren't many defenses out there that can stop us," said Sorin's Luke Burke. "If that team shows up, instead of the one that showed up against Zahm, that offense is going to put points on the ball." 
Sorin mixed a strong passing game with an adequate running game and moved the ball all day. 
"Doar and Carney are just on all the time," said Burke. "If you give [Carney] four seconds to throw the ball, he's going to complete it at any time." 
Knott, on the other hand, was hampered by injuries and inex­perience. 
"We were missing a lot of guys on both offense and defense," said Knott center and defensive lineman Lou Perry. "We had guys going both ways, and a lot of new guys in there as well." 
The scoring began when Carney connected on a 35-yard touchdown pass to Doar, despite double coverage. On its follow­ing drive Sorin faced a fourth and 17 near midfield. Rather than punt, the Otters went for it and Carney hit Doar again for 45-yard completion to Knott's 2­yard line. On the next play Dave Fiorini punched it in for the touchdown, making the score 14-0. 
On Sorin's next drive, Carney completed three straight passes before running it in himself from eight-yards out to give Sorin a 21-0 lead. 
. Knott finally answered when quarterback Ben Gilfillan com­pleted a 12-yard touchdown pass to Brian Pawloski. 
The scoring ended when Doar caught a 15-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
With the win, Sorin is looking toward the playoffs. 
"I think we're in a good posi­tion to make the playoffs," said Burke. "If we just show up and play our game, we should be fine to make the playoffs." 
Despite being winless, Knott is looking to end the season on a positive note. 
"We're definitely going to try to play the role of spoiler next week against Zahm," said Perry. 
Siegfried 13, O'Neill O 
The Siegfried-O'Neill trophy will stay in Siegfried for at least another year, as the Ramblers 
beat the Angry Mob from 
O'Neill. 
"The trophy is pretty cool," 
said Siegfried senior captain 
Rob Plumby. "Mrs. Siegfried 
talked to us before the game 
and told us how much the tro­
phy meant to her." 
The Rambler defense domi­nated the Angry Mob, yielding just three first downs. 
Numerous big hits, constant pressure on O'Neill sophomore quarterback Troy Montgomery and the swarming Rambler tackling led to the Siegfried shutout. 
"It was an entire team effort," said Plum by. "Pete Aguiar's interception was big. The line stepped up as well." 
After a scoreless first quarter, Siegfried put together a seven­play drive in the final minute of the first half to take a 3-0 lead on Aguiar's 20-yard field goal. 
"That [field goalJ swung momentum and showed we could drive down the field on [O'Neill]," said Plumby. 
Their opening drive in the second half saw the Ramblers use their first half momentum and drive down the field with a solid running game. The Angry Mob defense held its ground inside the 20 and limited the Ramblers to a 30 yard field goal. 
"They made some adjust­ments in the second half," said O'Neill sophomore captain John Enterline. "Momentum helped, but they brought out some new stuff." 
In the fourth quarter, Siegfried went 85 yards on a 10­play drive to score the game's only touchdown. Plumby's 25­yard touchdown pass to John Kup gave Siegfried their final 


Ministrv 

Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Conference Room 
1~£nesdav 

Coffee at the Co-Mo 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

Blue Mass 
in honor of the firefighters andpolice officers ofSt. Joseph County 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

......dav 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Dedication of Paese Fountain and Mass 
6:30 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 

RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p..m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p..m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

1 1 
dav 
The Way Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Dia de los Muertos 
6:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Lounge 

Ofrendas (altar) building to honor those who perished as a result ofthe terrorist acts ofSeptember 11. The community is invited to bring tokens ofrememberance (poems, prayers, pictures, etc.} to add to the altar. 
Freshman Retreat #37 
(November 9-10, 2001) Monday, October 1through Monday, November 5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 
Ca(( Katie at 1·3390 

score. 
"It feels excellent [to be 3-0]," said Plumby. "It is great feeling to have beaten who we have beaten." 
The final week of the interhall season has the Angry Mob (1-2) playing Sorin, while the Ramblers will play St. Edward's. Both teams have areas of con­cern to address. 
"I thought our defense made some big hits and god a couple of sacks early," said Enterline. "However, we've gone scoreless the past two weeks and need to mix things up on offense better. We have to play hard and get ourselves into the playoffs." 
"You can never be too good at fundamentals," said Plumby. "We have to fix some small mis­takes here and there before the playoffs." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu and Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 

Tuesday, October 9, 2001 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBAL BLUE LEAGUE 

Howard, Cavanaugh to face off after mix-up 
By KEN CHAMPA and BRIAN LONG 
Sports Writers 
For the second time this week, Howard is preparing to play Cavanaugh, and this time the two teams will finally get a chance to play. 
A scheduling mix-up last Sunday resulted in Howard playing against McGlinn, when they thought they were going to play Cavanaugh. 
The Ducks lost to the McGlinn Shamrocks, dropping the Ducks to 2-2, but Howard is motivated to make the best of the foul-up. 
"We're mad about the sched­ule, but we feel like we are ready, and determined to play on Tuesday," said Ducks senior captain Katie Cawley. 
This season has been full of close finishes and frustrating losses for Howard. 
"It's been really frustrating, we know we're good, we just need to finish off our drives and score," said Cawley. 
Howard will use the talented offensive trio of quarterback Jill Veselik, receiver Elizabeth Klimek and running back Cawley. 
Although Howard's offense has been solid, it is its defense that will be needed to stop the high-flying attack of senior quarterback and capta,in Mandy Reimer and the Chaos of Cavanaugh (2-1-1). 
This season, Howard's defense has benefited from scouting done by its coaches Chris McBride and Paul Gazetta. 
"The coaches have really helped us by scouting other teams for us, it helps a lot with what we should be doing on every play," said junior safety Kate Dinardo. 
In Cavanaugh's offense, tail­backs Megan Land and Megan Myers, along with receiver Katie Burdick, compliment Reimer's game. 
The Chaos is hoping to earn the win to sure up a playoff spot. 
"We're hoping to win and get a good spot in the playoffs," said Reimer. "The season has been a lot of fun, and we have a lot of competitors on the team who are hoping to do well." 
The cold weather doesn't 
seem to be dampening the spir­
its of the Chaos as it goes into 
battle again. 
"The weather has hurt our 
practices, but this season has 
been great, we are ready to 
go," said Reimer. 
The two teams are set to 
square off this tonight at 9 p.m 
at West Riehle Field. 
McGlinn vs. Lewis 
After four seasons of winless play, the McGlinn Shamrocks are suddenly playing mistake­free flag football and riding a three-game winning streak. 
Heading into the regular sea­son finale against league rival Lewis Hall, McGlinn looks ready to make its first trip to the postseason. 
However, a victory will not come easy for the Shamrocks, as the Chicks of Lewis also know a little something about winning. Standing at 4-0-1, Lewis is atop the Blue League going into the last week of divi­sion play. 
With the playoffs in sight, the Chicks could be thinking Notre Dame Stadium already. However. during pregame interviews, Lewis players made it clear that they were not tak­ing the McGlinn Shamrocks lightly. 
"We are looking at this game as our first play-off game -we just want to play our game and finish up the regular season with a victory," said Kara Helmig. 
The Chicks "play their game" with a stifling defense and an explosive offense. 
Look for sophomore quarter­back Erin Nasrallah to play a large part of the Chicks' suc­cess on the offensive side of the ball. 
In order for the Shamrocks to compete with Lewis, the perfect execution that has highlighted McGlinn's winning streak must be present. 
In their wins over Off­Campus, Farley and Howard. the Shamrocks rolled with cre­ative play-calling and beautiful execution on b9th sides of the ball. 
While individuals such as Sarah Vatterott and On-Kay Wong have come up with big plays for McGlinn, the Shamrocks are looking for a total team effort in order to shut down Lewis. 
"We have really stepped up in our last three games with a complete team effort," said Sarah Vatterott. 
The Shamrocks will definitely need to be on the same page in order to pull out a victory over Lewis Hall, but if the last three games are any indication, McGlinn looks ready to roll over the Chicks and into the playoffs. 
Contact Ken Champa at kcham­pa@nd.edu and Brian Long at hlong@nd.edu. 


LISA VELTE/The Observer A Lewis player runs around the offensive llne during a game earlier this season. The Chicks did not play Sunday afternoon. They face the McGlinn Shamrocks today. 

presents 

2001 Pre-Law Symposium 
Mock Courtroom of the Law School October 15th, 2001 6:30 -8:00 pm with dessert reception following 
Topics 

Admission Trends, Program Research Individualizing Your Application, Test Preparation


I Special Guests 
Michael Burns-Chicago Kent 1 
Rem Fairlamb-Kaplan Regional V.P. Janet Hein-University of Dayton Marilyn Olson-Valparaiso University and other Law School Representatives 
Also join us on Sunday, October 14th l Free Test Drive MCAT/LSAT 
DeBartalo Hall, registration 12:00 -1:00 pm Pre-register by calling 1-800-KAPTEST 



-
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles hit the road again against Knights 
By KATRINA KAIASKY 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will hit the road again today, for the third away game in a row, against third­ranked Calvin College. 
This game will be a challenge for the Belles. The Knights have the league's two best scorers. junior Tricia Dyke and senior Larissa Onderlinde. Dyke and Onderlinde also lead the league for total points this season and are number three and number four, respectively, for assists. 
Calvin also defeated Saint 
Mary's earlier "In the beginning of six games, los­
this season, 3­
1. the season, we were ing only to top­
ranked Albion.

Despite all trying to find our-: 
Saint Mary's

this, the Belles 
selves. The last cou­started out

feel ready for 
ple ofweeks we've with a record

the game. 
of 0-5. Since

"In the begin­come together as a 
then, the Belles 

ning of the sea­
team.·· have under-

son we were 
gone a sensa­

trying to find 
tional turn­

ourselves. The Bobby Johnston 
around, com­

last couple of Belles head coach 
mencing at the 
Knights have 10 returning upperclassmen, including Dyke and Onderlinde, and there are only four freshmen on the team, compared to Saint Mary's having thirteen freshmen on its squad. 
The sudden turnaround in the Belles' record suggests that they are overcoming their inex­perience. 
"We're playing more as a team. The freshmen have adjusted and now have valu­able experience," said fresh­man Jen Concannon. 
The Belles are hot right now. 
They have won 
five of its last 

weeks we've come together as a team. The whole package came together against Hope this weekend," said head coach Bobby Johnston, of the transi­tion from the beginning of the season. 
The Knights were third over­all last year in the MIAA con­ference. 
They also beat Saint Mary's twice last year. They have a lot of that same experience back on the team this year, as the 
end of 
September. 
The team is hopeful about the rest of the season. Junior cap­tain Heather Muth said, "It's really exciting coming off a win. We're really pumped about the rest of the season." 
The game is at 4 p.m. at Calvin College. 
Contact Katrina Kalasky at kala5482@saintmarys.edu 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
1-3 looking pretty good 
I missed it. 

Carlyle Holiday takes off on a 67-yard touchdown run, one that would have represented more than 10 percent of Notre Dame's offensive output for the year going into 
Saturday, and I'm talking on a phone. 
Granted, I looked up from the con­versation 


with a 

sideline Ted Fox reporter at a TV, so I did Fox Sports ... 
get to see Almost 
the last 60 yards or 
so. ­

"He's gonna go, Jon! He's gonna go!" I yelled into the phone like a man whose been waiting to see this since his second birthday 
Or like everyone else in the stands and on the field, for three games. 
The Irish got one of those big plays we've heard so much about, and went on to win 24-,7 over Pittsburgh. 
And it's no wonder Nebraska wanted Notre Dame's quarterback run­ning their offense when Eric Crouch moves on. 
Holiday's performance in his first win as the Notre Dame signalcaller, and the team's first win since peo­ple were counting chads in Florida, exhibited Crouch­like precision. 
He threw for 10-13 pass­ing for 70 yards with no 
interceptions. Not exactly 
Drew Brees quality, but it 
was enough to pick up five 
passing first downs and 
keep that clock rolling. 
He ran for 19 carries for 

122 yards and a touchdown, 
with that long 67-yard out­
burst reminiscent of a run 
by another No. 7, Jarious 
Jackson, against Navy into 
the same end zone two 
years ago. 
Throw in a workman-like 

performance from Julius 
Jones and some explosions 
from Tony Fisher, and the 
Irish were able to rack up 
249 yards on the ground, 
almost three times their 
per-game average. 
Not only did these passing 

and rushing numbers allow them to produce the "big plays" or the rumored to exist "long drive". they also let Notre Dame possess the ball for 70 plays and 37:23 of game time. 
As any defensive coordi­nator will tell you, keeping Panther wide receiver Antonio Bryant off the field is good. They don't give out Biletnikoff Awards to sophomores for run block­ing well. 
For their part, the defense stepped up even more than they have already (they're only giving up 286 yards per game) and found what they've been missing: turnovers, and lots of them. 
Five, to be exact. 

The offense and the defense finally complement­ed and supported one another with results on the field. That led to, as much as it pains me to say it, a very Husker-type win, minus about 100 yards of around like an annoying lit­
tle brother. 
They cracked 300 yards of 
total offense for the second 
time this year. but it came 
at home, against the weak­
est unit they've faced so far. 
Bob Davie gave all the 
credit for the win to his 
team, and was happy just to 
see them excited around 
five on a Saturday after­
noon. However, he, too, 
kept it in perspective. 
"I'm not going to get too dramatic about it. We're a 1-3 football team. But it's a heck of a lot better than being an 0-4 football team." 
The record isn't that much better, but the team's mindset has to be. No longer is the endzone off limits like your dad's power tools, or is 20 points some­thing spoken of as what happened in "the good old days." 
"It is a big win, not only for our football team, but for the community," Holiday said. "It gives us a big boost and takes a lot off our shoulders. We needed this to keep us going -for something to build on. We didn't want to get used to losing." 
The Irish offense is still pretty predictable. In fact, they ran on every first down against the Panthers. When it's working the way it did against Pittsburgh, that's easy to forget. 
Most likely. though, the game plan will have to be more varied when Notre Dame again faces off against some of the stronger teams on the schedule, or we'll all be talking a about lack of pro­
offense Ten years ago, you probably would have called it a very Notre Dame-type win. 
Control the ground, pass efficiently and control the clock. 
Obviously, the Irish didn't go out and roll to a high profile victory on Saturday. They beat Pittsburgh, now also a 1-3 team, with a loss to South Florida hanging duction one more time. 
But for now, the Irish are riding a fourteen game win­ning streak. In October. 
If you're Notre Dame, that feels a lot better than 13-1 
Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The views of this column are those of the author and are not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
THIS WEDNESDAY AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB... PRE AND POST U2 
CONCERT PARTY 

Come partywith your friends BEFORE the show (we're a minute's wall< from the JACC) and then wall< bacl< over after the show to l<eep the party going! IRISH SPECIALS AND CUP NIGHT ALL NIGHT LONG!! 
Pre-party goes 6-8, then 


regular hours of 9-2 after that. 
Visit www.nd.edu/~asc for more info on this party and our huge Halloween party coming up. Must be 21 with valid ID to enter. 

STUJDY ~AU[STRAlLIA
,,, 

Study Abroad in Australia and New Zealand 
Open to all Majors at •  Available Programs  
ND and SMC  • Semester/ Year  
Locations: Sydney,•  • Internships  
Melbourne, Brisbane,  • Summer  
Gold Coast, Auckland  • Winter  
Academic Credit can be fully transferable to ND/SMC  • Student Teaching  

Still accepting applications for Spring 2002 
Study Australia Ltd. 
Contact: Chris Shepherd (ND Class of '94) Phone: (800) 585-9658 Email: info@study-australia.com Internet: www.study-australia.com 
' _\ 
Tuesday, October 9, 2001 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 20 

., s o c I A L -~_H_o_u_rs_·:_M_-_F_8_A....._M_-_1O_P_M_S_at_._l_O_A_M_-2_P_M__S_un_._6_P_M_-_9_PM_--t 

, CONCERNS I Vv 'R~011\,¼e/"to-~Ev~ofSept'embe¥ 11t;n; 
L ---·-----.--, , --~ -----. 
, ~ . • -. I 

' ::---'.: ~ ~: In this time of terrible loss and momentous decisions, the Center for Social Concerns offers resources through this website to assist individuals develop informed views, seek spiritual sustenance, and find just, wise, and effective ways to respond. 
please visit: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/septll
•' ,! 
;_,,.,: j 
::,,;: -1. 
---.-."' ' 
.. '-"'' . 

With Gratitude ... Upcoming Presentation 
'=",.._._ 

Thank you to all who participated in celebrating Henri Nouwen 's Fifth Lessons from the Anniversary Celebration on Saturday, September 29th. To order the post-History of Literacy -,;_ -_ ---~ event video and the accompanying packet to view with others for discus-

A talk by Harvey Graff '.:li1 sion and personal enrichment contact the CSC. Also, the event can be streamed on Thursday, October 11 -__ your computer by visiting the CSC's website. 100-104 McKenna Ha/13:45 
,; 
" 
i'f 
; 


Current Volunteer Needs: 
Bring pen and drivers' license. SAT Help *Milt Cooper at Washington High School *283-7200 In Addition: All drivers will need to Know how to ace the SAT? Please share your knowledge and help students prepare 
attend a 2nd meeting, October 19 at for their SATs. Afterschool or evening hours, flexible regarding location. 
4: 15 p.m. at the CSC. 
Greater Holy Temple Church of God & Christ* Howard Dukes* 235-6369 or 288-1199 This church runs a bible study/youth group Tuesday nights and is looking for tutors to assist students with their school work, from 7-8:30, within walking distance from ND. 
Riley High School* Irene Patterson* 283-8114 

Looking for tutors to assist high school students weekdays from 3:00-4:00 in al1 subjects including Chemistry, Algebra and Foreign Languages. Ideally, they would like a group of students that can commit to a couple of days per week. 
I' 
)_ 
General Tutor for Sixth Grader* Cindy Black* 237-0725 * Dociblk@cs.com 
A sixth grade student, Corey would like a tutor to asist him with general homework including reading comprehension. Flex­ible schedule (a couple times a week), a meeting place on campus could be arranged. 
r' ­

Swanson Elementary School * Lisa Horning or Kristine Torok * 243-7250 Looking for tutors to assist an after school program M-Th 2:30-3:45, could commit to just a couple days a week. 
't 
:~ 
-! 
' 
I 
1 
} ~ 
> I 
/• 
t 
)­
i 
i,
A, ,\ 
f I
,, 
~­
/f
,) 
~ 
Ii , 
/{) ~ ­
,, 
\ 
'i ( 
Harvey J. Graff is Professor of History and a member of the doctoral faculty for 
Faculty Opportunities 

the Ph.D. Program in Culture, Literacy, Faculty Needed! Through the Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame and Language, and in English at The students participate in service experiences so powerful that the lenses through University of Texas at San Antonio. In which they've seen the world are permanently altered. Such experiences -his talk, Graff suggests new perspec­providing health care to poor people in Ecuador, an intensive week in tives by probing how the past has influ­Appalachia -make our students want to know more. To deepen the learning enced the ways that we use and abuse these experiences inspire, we need f acuity members to help them formulate the skills of literacy in the present. questions for academic pursuit; professors who can provide bibliography, 
Center for Social Concerns 
direct students to relevant courses, help them design research projects; teachers 
Vehicle Training Sessions: 
who wi11 guide our students in thinking carefully about the issues. If you have 
Final Date: Wednesday, October JO
interest in working with these students in these or other ways, please contact (6:00 p.m., Rm. 124 CSC)
Mary Beckman at the CSC. 

All seminar drivers must take a vehicle info session in order to drive for their seminar trip. No registration required. 
Don't have a car? No problem! The CSC has vans available for service projects. All you have to do is attend a van training class to become certified and sign up for a time slot to rent the vehicle. The next training session is October 10, 6:00 p.m. in room 124 at the CSC. 
-----Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 
~1-Summer Service Project Internships: Summer Service Project Internships are eight-week service-learning 
r1 

experiences sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs across the country. Room and board is provided while students _.,__ work with agencies serving disadvantaged populations. 
First Information Session: Thursday, October 18th 6:00p.m. at the Center for Social Conerns 


ACCION Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10 -12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are micro-lending organizations. $2500.00 Scholarship. Room and board stipend provided. 
International Summer Service Learning Program: Sites represented this week are: Ghana, S. India, Tijuana (Mexico), and Ecuador Tues. Info nights: 7-9 pm CSC Satellite Office (Coleman-Morse Center, Room 113) 
Applications are now available and due: Nov 1st 
~ 

,... Border Issues Seminar Applications are now available at the CSC. Application Deadline: October 15th 

Tuesday, October 9, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Dillon demolishes Stanford, clinches berth 
its league leading points scored prepare any less for this

By MATT DeNICOLA,JOE 
to 70 -more than twice any week's game. 

LINDSLEY and BRYAN 
other team. ''We don't want to take any­

KRONK 
The Big Red are also ranked thing lightly," said Odom. "We 

Sports Writers 
first in touchdowns allowed at plan on being even better next one. The have scored 10 touch­week." Throughout the season, every downs on-offense for a touch­team has poured weeks of downs scored-allowed ratio 
Keenan 13, Keough 7

preparation into their respec­that is five times better than 
Heading into the match-up,

tive football teams. However, it any other team in the league. 
both Keenan and Keough need­

took the Dillon Big Red (3-0) However, Dillon captain Tayt 
ed a win to help any glimmers

just slightly over an hour to Odom refuses to allow success 
of hope for postseason play. In

clinch a spot in the playoffs. to go to his players' heads. 
a strange game which featured 

Sunday afternoon, the Dillon "We don't want what happened 
strong defensive play, the

running game pounded down last year to happen again [not 
Knights defeated the 'Roos.

the field with force and consis­winning the championship]," 
"\Ve definitely wanted to use

tency and its defense stood said Odom. "We want to keep 
this as a litmus test to see how

solid in a 35-0 victory against getting better every week." 
we compare with the big

Stanford (0-3). The Big Red have been doing 
names in interhall football,"

"They are far and away the just that, increasing its margin 
Keough captain Andy Hess

best team in the league," said of victory each week. 
said. "I think we proved to our­

Stanford captain Dave The Dillon defense posted its 
selves that we can play with

Dilworth. "You don't like to second shutout of the year. 
anyone." •

lose by that much, but they Interceptions by J.P. Cam a to 
The first half showcased the

[Dillon] played real well." and Brian Fontana combined 
talented defenses of both

Safety Adam Oyster and cor­with two recovered fumbles 
Keenan and Keough, and the

ner back Kevin Barry kept the kept the Griffins away from the 
teams headed into halftime

Dillon passing game slightly end zone all day. 
tied at 0-0.

under control. However, the Dillon, on the other hand, 
Keough broke the offensive

Griffins could not contain the virtually lived in the end zone. 
struggle early in the first half,

rushing game. Performances by tight end Rick 
as Hess threw a long touch­

Stanford's offense had trou­Hasty and split end Brian 
down pass to receiver John

bles as well. Meyer helped contribute to 
Trischner. The extra point put

"They shut us down on this. 
the 'Roos ahead 7-0.

offense," said Dilworth. "We "The offense worked pretty 
On the next drive, Keenan

fumbled the ball a couple times well," said Odom. 
ground down the Keough

and never really got anything The Griffins would say that is 
defense on a long drive and

going." an understatement. 
scored. The Knights then

Despite the score, the Griffins "I don't see who could beat 
attempted a two-point conver­

were not lackadaisical. them," said Dilworth, who 
sion, but failed, leaving the

Missing several starting posi­plans to have his team ready to 
Knights behind 7-6.

tions, Stanford played tough. win next Sunday. "We are 
"[That drive] was good for us•

Two players were sent to the going to work on passing a lit­
because it was our first sus­

infirmary, one with a concus­tle more." 
tained drive all year," said

sion and the other with a bro­If the Griffins win, there is 
Keenan captain Brent Morlok.

ken wrist. the possibility of earning a spot 
On the next drive, the

Dillon shattered more than a in the playoffs from the 
Keenan defense responded,

few bones. The Big Red topped tiebreaker. 
preventing the 'Roos from get­

this season's single game scor­Dillon does not need to worry 
ting a first down, and forcing

ing mark at 35, and increased about that, but they will not 
Keough to give the ball back to 
Arts 
Letters Career Internship 
¦
Exploration Night 
11th
Thursday, October 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 102 DeBartolo 
Industry professionals present information sessions about their career areas and what they do. 
Radio Graphic Design Broadcasting Event P1anriing Human Resources Workforce Deve1opment
Schoo1 
Community Health
counse1ing 
Services
Trave1 Chi1dren's Theatre/Entrepreneuria1 community/ Economic Deve1opment 
Get Your Foot in the Door at the career & Internship Exploration Night! 
Sponsored by The Career Center 

the Knights. 
Once again, Keenan marched down the field, and stood with­in field goal range with just 50 seconds left. 
Then the confusion ensued. 
As Keenan attempted the game-winning kick, a bad snap forced holder and quarterback Patrick Downey to lose the ball. However, Downey regained possession of the ball and quickly fired to receiver Kevin Fallon to give the Knights the late edge over the Kangaroos. 
Overall, Hess was satisfied with Keough's losing perfor­mance. 
"Everyone played really well," Hess said, "except we hadn't run a field goal defense before. We weren't really ready for what happened. [But] in interhall football, crazy stuff can happen." 
Morlok expressed excitement over the postseason prospects for his team. 
"There were four teams in our division that were 1-1 heading into this game, so pretty much this game and next week's game are must­wins to get into the playoffs." Morlok said. "It was definitely a big game for us." 
Alumni 17, Morrissey O 
When Alumni (2-1) met Morrissey (1-2). both teams had an identical record and both had identical hopes for the playoffs. 
But after the Dawgs' victory against the Manorites on Sunday, it gave Alumni a much clearer view of the post-sea­son. 
While the Manorites have not been eliminated from the play­offs, they must beat undefeated Dillon to even have a· chance. In other words, the loss on Sunday was crucial. "Actually, Alumni didn't beat us," said Morrissey captain Andy Baum. "We beat ourselves." 
Both sides of Morrissey's game faltered at times, but the defense managed to keep the game somewhat close. 

"Our defense as a whole was good," said Baum. "But our offense couldn't do anything.". 
As a team, the Manorites looked lackadaisical. Their dri­ves were uninspired, and they just could not convert key plays. 
"There was no focus," said Baum. "We weren't fired up." 
The Dawgs take credit for extinguishing this fire. Alumni was able to score off broken coverage, and never looked back. 
"We had a really strong attack in the middle of the field with our tight ends," said Alumni captain Nick Linstroth. 
Tight ends Nick Althoff and Drew DeWalt controlled the ball very well and were the pri­mary part. of the Alumni offense. 
The Alumni defense was also on top of the ball. Corey Harkins pulled down two inter­ceptions and freshman defen­sive end Higgins was part of several third down stops. "The defense was solid all day," said Linstroth. 
Morrissey experienced this first hand. "Our offense couldn't do any­thing," said Baum. 
"We are definitely going to work on motivation and atti­tude," said Baum. "We have to win to get into the playoffs." The Manorites are going to have to pull off a big upset for this to happen. "It all comes down to what team shows up," said Baum. "We have the tal­ent to beat anyone." 
Alumni still has to win this week to clinch a playoff berth. 
"We want to be more orga­nized and work on the bread and butter plays," said Linstroth. "This final week will be a good indication of where everyone stands going into the playoffs." 
Contact Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu. Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsley@nd.edu. Contact Bryan Kronk at bkro­nk@nd.edu. 
Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 9, 2001 


Football 
continued from page 24 
ment since he took his first snap in Memorial Stadium in Lincoln. Neb. He doesn't try to make a big play happen every play. Instead, Holiday is much more patient and much more confident. 
"I think I'm more mature now," he said. "I've worked hard to get to where my feet aren't wet any­more." 
Holiday has showed how he's matured in the two games he has started. Against Texas A&M, Holiday spent most of the day scrambing around in the backfield, and was .sacked three times. But against Pittsburgh he stayed the the pocket much more often, and when he did scramble, he threw the ball away. 
"I looked at film and felt it was my obligation to not do those things," he said. "Those were real costly mistakes. I felt if I don't have that play. then get rid of the ball instead of losing yardage." 
One of the reasons Holiday is starting at quarterback is because of his ability to create his own plays. Offensively, the Irish have made minor changes to allow Holiday to keep his hands on the ball more. But coaches are making sure he stays within the game plan and doesn't try to make too much. 
"I don't want him to look like a chicken with his head cut off," Rogers said. "There's times where he gets back there and misses a read and runs all over the place. There's a difference between that and creativity." 
Davie and Rogers are particularly excited about the opportunities Holiday allows the offense. He averages four yards a carry -and 
most of those carries come off the 
option, when Holiday sneaks inside 
the linebacker to pick up key yards. 
Rogers said that while he isn't too 
comfortable with Holiday's passing 
abilities -the sophomore is 22-for­
35 with three interceptions -he 
was impressed with how Holiday 
threw the ball Saturday. 
"He made some really really good 
throws under duress," Rogers said. 
"He was getting hit as soon as he 
threw it and threw it well and accu­
rately." 
But Davie, Rogers and Holiday are quick to say that the young quarterback still has a lot to learn. While it's still too early to learn how good Holiday can be. Davie said its obvious that he provides the spark that the coaches feel the Irish · offense needs. All he has to do is 
gain more experience. 
"He's going to go through a lot of 
different phases," Davie said. "He's 
going to run the gamut before this 
year is over." 
Notes: 
. Head trainer Jim Russ talked briefly about various injuries sus­tained by Notre Dame players on Saturday. 
Tony Fisher, who hurt his knee 
and his hamstring on the same 
play, was able to run at full speed, 
but coaches held him out of prac­
tice. 
Jeff Faine is listed as probable for 
the West Virginia game after 
spraining his ankle Saturday after­
noon. He played the entire game. 
Huss also said that Grant Irons, who did not play Saturday, could have played as a backup. He prac­ticed at full speed Monday. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Sophomore quarterback Carlyle Holiday runs the option during Notre Dame's 24-7 win against Pittsburgh Saturday afternoon. 

~ .• f 

'I 
I· 
) , 
.,' 
;if.: 
,. 

,I ' . ,< ,,C' 'A , 
., t • ~~-; 

'\:,-;t,/L;f ~ 
:'•.k,i1;;I~~-,.. ­
"~~:}~r,~1~~~ ".E,r,r--• .,, -"~~Pf~~~:(~~ ':; 
• !I" .... • ~ 
~/1,~ f ~·"'-i 
,3''.,~-·---lot"+-~·~\.:~:-·: 
•i / 
-.~ .· .-_-?·~·r . 

.. ·,. •. ··~ ,,1.:, ·• :r:.=:.,,;·.~.:.~·,,, ; •-. 

-','l'' f 



,.,,,.••...,.IIIMelll!tl'-IMI#''.. •••,,..,.,,..,, "' 
----_,,,,,__ """"--,.,, ­
· .. ·.·. , . . 
..· . 
.• f 




Tuesday, October 9, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
ALL I GET IN FIFTH 6RA0E 
THIS IS
1T1S NOT FAIR! 

SEE?! WHY'S 
,t.RE WIMPY LITTLE EASY 

ANOTHER HARD
I WANT A HARD 

THIS IS WHY THAT? 
TEXT8001<S, WHILE YOU 
TEXT8ook'! 

REASoN I ENoUGH? 
I HATE 
6ET To STAY uP LATE 
1 DESERVE 
HATE BEING 

BEING THE 
BATTLING PAGE AFTER 

THE YOUNGEST, I
A HARD 




"Are you even peddling?" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Instructor's 50 Account access 1 nn lizzie charge requirement, often
7 Concept, in 30 Computer Quebec bulletin board 54 Knew the overseers answer
11 It first aired on 8/1/81 31 Sidesplitter 56 "My stars!" 
14 Revolt leader, 32 Opposite of dep. 57 Spanish letter addenda?
old-style 33 Redundancies, like 20-and 58 Protected, in a
15 Resort island northeast of 50-Across and way Sydney 5-and 29-Down 59 Swallow 17 Flout 36 Armageddon 60 Slalom path nation 61 Inventors' cries 
18 Dickens, in his formative years 39 Parentheses, 62 Simple shelter e.g.
19 Like some furniture 40 Photocopier DOWN 20 Auto-stopping 44 Parson who 1 Reckless types innovation breaks down 
2 Vitamin regimen 21 Summer slaker 46 "X-Men" creator 3 People who get 
22 1950's 47 Shot fluids rid of holes Hungarian 48 Former 4 Cleveland Indian premier Nagy blacklisting org. S Laptop readout 
24 nny Archibald 49 Prince Valiant's 6 U.S. 25 Takes a load off son Constitution's first article 7 "Would you look
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
at that!" 
Puull by WIiiiam I. Johnston

8 Ski­(snowmobiles) 28 Mary Pickford 43 Provides a room 52 It has its share 
9 Coastal raptors title role of 1923 for, perhaps of problems 10 Swirl 29 Cash source 45 Charger's 53 Town north of 11 Flathead 31 I.C.U. personnel weapon Anaheim
......,.,...........,._..,-t Indians' home 
34 Fall time: Abbr. 46 180° from norte 

55 Bit of ocean
12 Speaker part 35 _ Pedro 48 Obeys flora 13 "View of Delft" 

36 lt_may lead to a 51 Skeleton part 57 Up to, informally
painter pilot 16 Egypt's Mubarak 37 New York 20 13-Down's natives Answers to any three clues in this puzzle output are available by touch-tone phone: 
38 Symbols of 

......,.....,..,._..,. 23 Scrooges January 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute) . .......,....,...,._..,. 26 Keystone figure 41 Cheer Annual subscriptions are available for the --+--+...,._...., 27 Female in la 42 Superlatively best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
familia strange years: 1 ·888-7-ACROSS. 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q ­Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2001 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON deliver. Get them to pitch in. 
IIS DAY: John Lennon, Sean· 000 Lennon, Jackson Browne, Scott VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Bakula, Robert Wuhl Travel for business or pleasure. 
Happy Birthday: Focus on Much can be accomplished if you enjoyable projects that will pro­organize your time well. You will duce the greatest rewards. Your enjoy organizations that make a ideas are innovative, but don't contribution to a cause you waste time daydreaming. Be hon­believe in. 0000 est about what you really want LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): and make the right choices. Tius Don't bother starting a dispute could be a stabilizing year. Your with anyone today. It won't be numbers: 15, 22, 24, 28, 33, 36 worth the time or effort. Financial 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): speculation with family members You'll be unable to contai,n your or close friends should be put on anger if you discuss emotional the back burner. A loss might issues with family members. lead to a family feud. 00 Direct your energy into physical SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): work rather than discord. Resi­Pursue outdoor activities or dential moves will be favorable. physical pursuits. You're a self­00 starter. You get things things 
TAURUS {April 20-May 20): done and motivate others. Self­Make plans for outings with rela­improvement will bring amazing tives or good friends, which will results. 00000 provide stimulating conversation. SAGfITARIUS (Nov.22-Dec ZO: Your knowledge and good sense Don't put up with people who 
will help relationships become drain you. Use your courage and stronger. 0000 will power to eliminate destruc­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): tive nabits and situations. 000 You're apt to make a move or CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): experience changes at home. H you're feeling stressed out, cut Accept the inevitable. You can your losses. Let go of whatever is make money if you commit to a causing grief. If you are uncertain solid investment plan. Your hard about your feelings, spend time work will pay off in advance­alone to re-evaluate your motives ment. 000 and needs. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be overly emotional If you concentrate on your pro­today if you don't make plans. fession and on getting ahead 
Even though you don't like to financially, problems will smooth drift too far from your usual area, over. To tackle personal problems you need a change of scene. Dis­right now would lead to aggrava­cover new places. 000 tion. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Start PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
on all those endeavors you've You enjoy entertaining and can been talking about for so long. host many events if you wish. Family members will be anxious You will attract attention and if you make promises and don't new love interests. 00000 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, aggressive and willing to stand up for your rights. You are one to take a chance and to loo~ for alte~­tive routes. You aren't one to follow the crowd or get involved m trendy groups. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.c:om, eugenialastc:om, astromate.c:om.) 
~ 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
> 


Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's lnterhall Football, p. 21 
. NFL,p. 15 
. 
SMC Soccer, p. 19 . NHL, p. 14 

. 
Club Sports, p. 19 . MLB, p. 14 

. 
Ted Fox, p. 19 

. 
Women's lnterhall Football, p. 16, 18 



Tuesday, October 9, 2001 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Gonzalez sues University 
• Senior defender files suit to challenge drug suspension 



By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Monica Gonzalez. a senior defender for the Notre Dame women's soccer team, has filed suit in St. Joseph County Superior Court against the University, seek­ing an injunction to continue play­ing soccer for the Irish. 
She was suspended from varsity athletic competition Sept. 25 stem­ming from an incident involving marijuana: while Gonzalez was a student at the University of the Americas in Puebla, Mexico. 
Gonzalez received a temporary injunction from Judge William T. Means allowing her to continue to compete for the Irish while the liti­gation continues. 
William Hoye, associate vice president and deputy general counsel for the Universitv, would not comment on the suit, saying the University does not comment on current litigation. 
A  hearing  is  scheduled  for  
Thursday.  
Charles P.  Rice. attorney for  

Gonzalez, said that the University had not yet filed an answer to the complaint submitted by Gonzalez. 
Rice expected Means to hear arguments from the two sides on Thursday. 
Gonzalez could not be reached at her listed student number Monday. 
The suspension was a result of an incident where "[Gonzalez] was in the wrong place at the wrong time. She was with a student who had drugs," said Rice. 
Rice said that Gonzalez was not in the room at the time the drugs were confiscated at the University of the Americas. He also said that originally, the individual who "had the drugs blamed it on her. The kid had been in trouble before." 
The other student, Gerardo Vallejo, eventually came forward and asserted the drugs belonged to him, and that he asked Gonzalez to lie about the owner­ship of the marijuana. according to Rice. 
Gonzalez was never charged with any crime in Mexico involving marijuana, but was put on proba­tion by the University of the Americas, according to Rice. 
Gonzalez finished her semester in Mexico with a 3.93 GPA. 
In regard to the University's punishment, Rice said that it seemed "quite extreme." 
"[The University's] court plead­ing is clear. Gerardo paid for the drugs," said Rice. 
Gonzalez is a member of the Mexican National soccer team, and a starting defender for Notre Dame. She had played in all nine of the Irish's games this year, scoring one goal and dishing out two assists, and is considered one of the top outside defenders in the country. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 


MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Fisher's game plan works again 
By JOE HETTLER and MATI LOZAR 
Sports Writers 
Fisher's interhall football team employed the same game plan against St. Edward's that they had in their first two victo­ries. 
And for the third straight week, it worked. 
A solid running game and a stifling defense led the way for the Wave, as it continued its undefeated season Sunday with a 20-0 win over St. Ed's. 
"We tried to pass a little more this week, but basically our strength is our running game so we didn't change [that part of our offense] that much," said 
quarterback Jimmy Constanzo. 
As usual, running back Kameron Chappell was the workhorse, carrying the ball 13 times and scoring a touchdown. 
The Wave's defense also played stellar, holding its oppo­nent to a touchdown or less for the third straight week. 
"[Our defense) was 11 helmets to the ball every time," said tight end Tom Gorman. "They were all over the field and St. Ed's couldn't pass anywhere." 
St. Ed's knows its offensive line must improve if they hope to win their remaining two games. 
"We're going to look into some more intricate blocking schemes," said coach Dan Zeller. ··we just went with base blocking up until now, but we're probably going to put in some X-blocking and maybe some pulling guards for next week." 

The scoring began when St. Ed's quarterback Dan Tarsha threw an interception to Rich Rendina, who returned it 18 yards for a touchdown, giving the Wave a 6-0 lead. 
On the following drive, Fisher recovered a fumble, and scored two plays later when Gorman caught a 29-yard touchdown pass to make the score 14-0. 
Chappell also added a touch­down late in the fourth quarter on a three-yard run. 
St. Ed's offense sputtered all day, turning the ball over three 
see INTERHALL/page 17 
FOOTBALL 

Holiday's maturity starting to show 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 

Two weeks ago, Bob Davie decided to start sophomore quarterback Carlyle Holiday because he thought the Irish offense needed a spark. 
Against Texas A&M, Holiday was beat up and smacked around. He threw a pair of interceptions and left at half­time with a neck injury. 
But last Saturday, when Holiday broke multiple tackles and scored a 67-yard touch­down, he finally showed Notre Dame fans the explosiveness 
coaches have been touting for weeks. 
"The reason we're playing Carlyle right now is because of the positive things that come with the unexpected adjust­ments he makes," head coach Bob Davie said. 
••tte seems to be developing more confidence ... but there's no substitute for experience," offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said. "The more times he gets under center and the more things he sees, the better he'll be." 
Holiday has shown improve-
see FOOTBALUpage 22 


. Hockey vs. Union College, Thursday, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Volleyball vs. Villanova, Thursday, 4 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classifieds 
. Men's Swimming vs. Kalamazoo, Thursday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Soccer at West Virginia, Thursday, 7 p.m. http://\\'W\\'.nd.edu/~ohserver 




