
Hungry for aflick? 
Under scrutiny 
Movie critic Van Buren Giles reviews the new 
Former President Clinton's pardon ofMarc Rich 

Thursday
film "Hannibal" but says it is not as appealing 
has led federal prosecutors to launch an 
as its predecessor. 
investigation into the last-minute measure. 
FEBRUARY 15,
Scene . page 12 
News . page 9 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 90 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Planetlrish.com provides diverse links, services 
• Student-run site overshadowed by other online media 
By NATE PHILLIPS 
News Wricer 
Largely unknown to the Notre Dame student body, the University-sanctioned Web site Planet Irish may be a diamond in the rough. Deeply shadowed by such prominent sites as NDToday and the Notre Dame homepage, Planctlrish.com serves as a stu­dent-run online community that u!Tcrs many links and resources. 
"We, as the students, built the site and keep it up and running," said student manager Kevin Campbell. 
Proposed in November 1998, Planet Irish serves as a pet pro­ject for the on-campus Dome Designs. "The idea of an online community was getting big, and we thought it would be a good idea to jump aboard," said Campbell. 
"We thought it would be cool to have a weekly campus calendar, message boards, class and extracurricular information," said assistant manager Mat\ Wilkerson. 
Campbell, a senior. has been with Planet Irish since its concep­tion. He helped present the idea to the administration, and asked for school funding for the project. It took two years for the adminis­tration to grant its approval of the site, and even then, they still neglected to provide it with any monetary support. 
"We really wanted the school to not only endorse us. but also to 


p aN00,1 
fund us," said Campbell. "Unfortunately, we did not end up getting that." 
In order to fund the Planet Irish project, Dome Designs opened the site to advertisements from a plethora of restaurants and other local establishments. The site also offers the screen times for all of the local movie theaters, hotel and taxi informa­tion, and details about a number of local churches. 
"Restaurants pay us to put their menus on the site," said Campbell. "It provided us money that helped us develop it, consid-

Losing tickets IDake endorse01ents 

MOLLY WALSH/The Observer Student body presldentlal ticket Demetra Smith and Yogeld Andre threw Its support to rlvals Brooke Norton and Brian Moscona,· following Smith and Andre's third-place finish in Monday's primary election. Other losing tickets have followed suit, backing either Norton and Moscona or Ryan Becker and Nikki McCord In today's run-off erection. 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
With 35 percent of the student body's vote going to the four tick­ets eliminated in Monday's pri­mary election for student body president, certain tickets have decided to support either Becker/McCord or Norton/Moscona. 
The Smith/Andre ticket said their platform, which focused on social concerns, has more in common with the Norton/Moscona ticket. 
"I feel strong about supporting Brooke and Brian," Demetra Smith said. "Although l am impressed by the Becker/McCord ticket, I feel Norton and Moscona are best equipped to accomplish all their goals." 
Thj:l Zimmerman/Nelson ticket said their main concern was to have student government acces­sible to the needs of every stu­dent on campus. Chris Zimm merman said the Becker/McCord ticket addresses this issue best. 
"We feel Ryan and Nikki will best represent the student body here at Notre Dame," Zimmerman said. "It is time to get some new blood into the office of the president." 
The Zeidler/Henisey ticket chose not to endorse either tick­et. 
"I think they both would do a wonderful job if elected," Zeidler said. 
The Gottlieb/Fetterman ticket could not be reached for com­ment Wednesday night. 
Run-off election voting will be today in dorms. Off-campus stu­dents vote outside the DeBartolo computer cluster from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. or 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. 

ering we 
iS 

really have limited 
funds. Frankly, J think it's a real asset to the site and to the stu­dents." 
"We put in the menu of nearly every restaurant in the area, page for page," said Wilkerson. "It's just a really awesome resource for everyone at Notre Dame." 
Despite not having school fund­ing, the site does have official University backing, unlike other sites like NDToday. This is a major advantage for the site; they are able to use any of Notre Dame's resources. 
"I laving official backing by the University allows us the oppurlu­nity to use Notre Dame trade­marks, and it gives us resources through the OIT and the web administration that we can tap into," said Campbell. 
The site posts official University links to the Notre Dame phone book. lrishLink. Webmail and the official University calendar. 
"Planet Irish is a faster way for students to access important Notre Dame information." said Wilkerson. "The key is speed. We don't have a lot of cosmetic details; we just bring students what they really want to see." 
On top of the academic resources and local information, the site offers a link tu the Chicago Tribune and to the Observer for up-to-date news 
see PLANET/page 4 

Renowned political philosopher Young to lecture at SMC tonight 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
One of the pre-eminent female political philosophers in 
the United States will take center stage at Saint Mary's 
when Iris Marion Young speaks at the College tonight. 
Young, a political science professor at the University of 
Chicago, will speak as part of the third annual "Women in 
Philosophical Landscape Lectures." 
"The idea [of the lecture series] is to bring in distin­
guished women philosophers in a variety of fields," said Patti Sayre, philosophy department chair. "(The speakers] lecture on why philosophy is important drawing on their special field." 
Young's field of philosophy includes political theory. norma­tive analysis of public policy and feminist social theory. Much of her work involves connecting theory to practical application in policy and politics. She argues against repressing group identi­ty and encourages affirming pre­sent differences between gen­ders and cultural groups. 
"The idea [of the lecture series] is to bring in distinguished women philosophers in a variety of.fields." · 
Patti Sayre philosophy chair 

Young's lecture, entitled "Self-sufficiency, Autonomy and Welfare Justice," will be in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall at 7 p.m. 
Young will also be part of a colloquium discussion entitled "Power, Violence and Legitimacy" on Friday at 12:30 p.m. in Stapleton. 
Young received her Ph.D. in philosophy from Penn State University and is currently teaching at now teaches at the University of Chicago where she is also associated with the Gender Studies Center and the Human Rights program. 
Before going to Chicago, Young taught political theory to graduate students at the University of Pittsburgh. Young is the third speaker to be a part of the "Women in Philosophical Landscape Lectures." 
Other speakers were Naomi Schuean and Mary Mahowald. The lecture series began three years ago and is sponsored by the Saint Mary's philosophy department. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 15, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Roses make 
me sneeze. 
Dorothy's trip through the poppies was nothing compared to walking past my hall's front desk yesterday morning. Even Glenda the Good Witch couldn't revive me. rwas in awe, but luckily, I was ready. A previous Valentine performance had prepared me. 
La.st year I was in shock when I left my room and saw the stacks and stacks of flowers and gifts at the front desk. Never before had I seen such an array of colors, plush and pollen all in one place. To put it another way, Wal-Mart's 

garden center ain't got nothin' on a front desk in a  Kelly Hager  
women's hall on Valentine's  
Day. It was like a war zone. They were all over, I was  Copy Editor  
surrounded.  
There were lilies. daisies,  

roses. There were teddy bears, kittens. goldfish. There were girls standing in line to claim their goodies. There were girls standing and watching the other girls. And, there were girls standing in front of the delivery board, searching for their name. This year was no different. 
There were so many, gift<; and girls. that the deskworkers had made signs of the alphabet to direct traffic. The constant flow of girls picking up flowers was only matched by the constant flow of more gifts coming through the front doors. 
On Valentine's Day, it seems like everyone can be divided into two categories: those who got something, and those who didn't. And then, even further than that, there are those who care about not getting anything and those who couldn't care less. I am one of those people. I just don't see the need for all the hoopla. My view: Save a tree, boycott Valentine's Day. 
I think it is silly for there to be a day specified to say I love you. That doesn't mean that I think St. Valentine doesn't deserve recognition, but I think he is strangling cupids in the heavens with each delivery truck that unloads into my hall. Although the feast day of St. Valentine is marked only once on the calendar. I think the spirit of Valentine's Day should be a 365 day a year holi­day. Love should be shared, expressed and felt everyday of the year. Feast day or no feast day. Girlfriend or no girlfriend. Roses or no roses. Name on the board, or no name on the board. 
If at anytime you feel the need to tell your girl­friend or boyfriend you love them, don't wait until February 14th. It is already a year away ­and, perhaps, it will be a year too late. 
So, to everyone who felt left out because they didn't receive !lowers or candy, consider this a special valentine from me to you: Happy Thursday of the sixth week ofordinary time. 
Now it's your turn. Go on over to their dorm and be the first to wish your girlfriend or boyfriend the same sentiment. Remember, noth­ing says I love you like a big hug and a goofy smile. And, I am sure that your heart will be as happy as all the roses whose lives you spared. Because, after all. love should be about the sim­ple things. not about how much money you spend on roses, dinner and chocolate. Love is great, and the best love is free. 
A dozen dead red roses, sent and delivered ­45 dollars. An expensive dinner with live enter­tainment -100 dollars. Seeing your significant other's face when you run up to hug them and wish them a Happy Thursday of the sixth week of ordinary time -priceless. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Jason McFarley MattNamia Kelly Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Katie McKenna Sports Production 
Katie Hughes Rachel Proz:tman Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Otlewski Liz Lang 
The Observer {USPS 599 2---4000) is published Monday through Frid..y exa,pc during exam and vacation periods. The Obscrvcr is a member of rhc Associated p..,,,. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Performance: "Verdi's  . Event: "Blak Koffee  
Requiem," Swedish Radio  House," to purchase tick­ 
Symphony Orchestra and  ets call 631-6841, 3 p.m.,  
Choir, 8 p.m., O'Laughlin  LaFortune Ballroom  
Auditorium, Saint Mary's  . Event: "Dancer's  
. Event: Acoustic Cafe,  Palettes,'' dance program,  
8 p.m., "open mic,"  8 p.m., little Theater,  
LaFortune Ballroom  Saint Mary's  

Saturday 
. 
Event: Notre Dame Juinior Parents' Weekend 

. 
Concert: Notre Dame Jazz Band, 2:30 p.m., Washington Hall 

. 
film: "The Eyes of Tammy Faye," 7:30 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium 


Sunday 

. 
Event: Notre Dame Junior Parents' Weekend 

. 
Chess: get together and play, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m., North Dining Hall 

. 
Mass: "Misa en Espanol," 1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall 



Compil~d from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Threats become concern for college campuses 
SAN JOSE 

Rich Barbaria said his reaction to bomb threats hasn't changed much throughout the years. 
The San Jose State University junior recalled his nonchalant response when his middle school was evacuated because of a bomb threat. 
Barbaria, who was in eighth grade, said he walked casually out of the school and hoped he would be allowed to go home. 
"I look at it as a way to get the hell out of class. I just walk out and go home," Barbaria said, echoing the response of a number of other SJSU students who said they are no longer scared of bomb threats. "I look at it as kind of a release. It's cool. It's kind of a surprise day off that the 
"For years. college campuses have received bomb threats from students hoping to avoid taking final exams. " 
San Jose State University 
Administration 
school gives you." 
Three Bay Area college campuses have been evacuated in recent weeks because of threats of violence. 
In the case of De Anza College, it was because a student had allegedly planned to blow up buildings on cam­pus. 
Two days later, Las Positas College and Santa Clara University evacuated their campuses because of bomb threats that were called in. Both threat.1; turned out to be false. 
For years. college campuses have received bomb threats from students hoping to avoid taking final exams, SJSU administrators said. 
But now, the administrators said, it seems students are becoming increas­ingly frustrated throughout the school year -not just at finals time. 
President Robert Caret, whose son attends De Anza, said the averted plan at the college signals the need for counseling for "really, really frustrat­ed" students. 
"It brings home the danger," he said. "It's a siren that we seem to have created a society which has a lot of individuals who want to lash out at society,"said Caret. 
KENT STATE UNIVERSITY 
Cheerleader suffers back injury 
Kent State University cheerleader Angie Crace suf­fered severe back injuries after an accident during practice Monday. According to Athletic Director Laing Kennedy, the cheerleading team was practic­ing a normal pyramid routine at the Kent State Field House when the pyramid gave way. The spotters were moved out of position by the falling pyramid. Crace, who was on the top of the pyramid, landed on her shoulder causing the back injury. Hospital offi­cials report that Crace is currently listed in serious condition at St. Thomas's Intensive Care Unit in Akron. "The prognosis for recovery is good," said Kennedy, who has been in contact with Kent State Sports Medicine, "but in a situation like this, you can't be 100 percent sure." This will end her cheer­leading for the year and "she'll have to go through extensive physical recovery," Kennedy said. Both Tim McAtee, a current cheerleader, and Lenee 
Buchman, cheerleading coach, were reached but refused comment on the situation. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealrer la-ocast fer daytiin, conditions and high temperatures 

4,Q,~9.GQ l) ~ u 

S/1CM'9tS T-stouns Rain F/urriBS snow Jee Sunny Pt. Cloud, Clout 
\Ha A!fsociated Prr.,s~ Gra,ihleaNel 
MIDDLE TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERISTY 
Gore's presence sparks protest 
Middle Tennessee Solidarity, a campus organiza­tion at Middle Tennessee State University that pro­motes socialism, feminism and anti-racism, protested Monday afternoon against Al Gore's course on com­munity building. The protest began on the steps of the James Union Building at 3 p.m., one hour before Gore's class was to begin. The protesters marched across campus to the Business and Aerospace Building, the site of Gore's first lecture, chanting, "Al Gore's a corporate whore. We demand so much more," and carrying signs reading, "Practice What You Preach" and "Money's Tyranny is Shamefully Ugly." The protesters believe it hypocritical for Al Gore to claim to advocate community building while supporting organizations like NAFTA, which attempt to globalize the economy, which they say has very negative effects on many third-world communities. Members of Solidarity claim that it is a social injus­
tice to allow communities to be exploited in the name of corporate profit. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

................... ...,.a.y. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
2001 AccuWeather, Inc. 

®,.,......© D Q . D EJ D ·: 
lgh Low Shower, R¦ ln T..torm¦ Flurrlea Snow l'-41 Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
A~•tfld Pl8SS 

Atlanta  80  57  Las Vegas  52  40  Portland  48  32  
Baltimore  71  54  Memph·,s  61  53  Sacramento  60  48  
Boston  50  30  Milwaukee  37  21  St. Louis  45  38  
Chicago  48  32  New York  49  31  Tampa  82  65  
Houston  70  50  Philadelphia  48  36  Washington DC 42  54  

Thursday, February 15, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Woo lectures on ethics in COB 
• Dean's speech headlines ND's annual Ethics Week 
By GEOFFREY BRODIE 
News Writc:r 
Turning out ethical as well as successful graduates has long bnen the major goal of thn Mendoza College of Business. 
Diiun Carolyn Woo cmpha• sized this and more in her lecturn "What Ethics Week rnnans to the Mendoza College of" Business," which Wednesday in the .Jordan Auditorium. 
Woo's lecture headlines Ethics Week 2001. which bllgan Monday with a series of daily lectures and one panel session. A wide variety 
of subjects ranging from personal bch11vior to confronLing investment advisors were represented. 
flanked as the lop ethics program in the nation by Business Week magazine, the 
College of Business has more than enough reason to reflect on the meaning of the week and showcase their own accomplishments in the area at ihe same time. value based thinking, instill­
"Ethics Week is about who ing a sense of community and we are," said Woo. "It is becoming technologically about the Notre Dame value savvy are all goals of the system." College's curriculum. 
Notre Dame as a whole has Later in the lecture, Woo 
always been con­cerned with the 

"Values are needed/or
teaching of 
moral and social res ponsibilities to its students. Success is not always defined by just financial 
gain. 
"Success is not whal we achieve, but how we achieve," said 

current trend of unethical practices in the business world today and the toler­ance that has grown in soci­ety for such actions. Extreme views of tolerance have often lead to feelings of unaccount­ability. 
These practices can also end up being illegal. and are "playing with fire," according to Woo. 
When business practices become a legal matter, it begins to involve society as a whole. The interdependence between the business world and society is quite strong. Strong values are needed to keep the relationship bal­anced. 
"Values are needed for the economy to run properly," said Woo. "One cannot suc­ceed on a narrow view of self interest." 
Woo concluded the lecture 
by reaffirming the impor­
tance of the week to Notre 
Dame business students 
and how the College will 
continue to emphasize its 
ethical teachings. 
"Ethics week is about our 
tradition, faith, mission, 
and hope." 
got news? 
631-5323. 


want students to !ind the dig• nity or soul of their profes­sion, and care about the rules involved with it." 
But the goals of the college involve much more than just ethics. According to Woo, the 
objective to 
"We want-students to find the dignity or soul oftheir profession and care about the rules involved with it." 
Dean Carolyn Woo Mendoza College of Business 

the economy to run properly. One cannot succeed on a narrow view ofself·interest." 
Dean Carolyn Woo 
Mendoza College of Business 
Woo. "We 
"raise life's big qucs· tions in a y o u n g adult's mind" has been anoth­er recurring i s s u e emphasized by the col­lege's facul• ty. 
"If we only emphasized ethics, we would be failing our students," stated Woo. 
That is why providing a vig­orous workload, instructing 
--_,__
------=(Ii
==-=~ 
IBM will be on campus March 1 and 2 to 

interview for full time accountingpositiom at 
our U.S. locations. 
* 
Ifyou are interestedin anAccountingtFinance c~eer opport.unitv 8Ild have at least.12 credit hours m Accounting.. please make ume to talk with us about the excellent. opportunities available. 
IBM offers competitiw benefits, including flexible work weeks, casual dress, a qualitywork environment. . 
Resumes acceptedthru Thurs2/15 IBM is an equal opportunity employer. 
spoke of the importance of trustwor­thiness, ·and how it is the t O p attribute the faculty are trying to 
inSlill in 
their stu­
dents. This is due to the 

Campus events honor Black History Month 
By KELLY HAGER 
News Wrirer 
Halfway through Black History Month. the evenls con­tinue on the Notre Dame and Sainl Mary's campuses. 
Terri Johnson. director of the Office for Multicultural Affairs (OMA) at Saint Mary's, is pleased with the turnout of events so far. 
"I think it is important to learn about the history and traditions of different cul­tures," said Johnson. 
.Kevin Huie, assistant direc­tor of Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) for Notre Dame agrees. 
"The programs try to give opportunities for people lo celebrate their own culture and give other people the opportunity to learn about each other," said Huie. 
Together. MSPS has been working with the Saint Mary's organization to promote events on both campuses. 
The Notre Dame community 
will continue the events on Friday with Blak Koffee House. Featured artists will perform a variety of acts remaining true to the "coffee house" form, however, in a more formal environment. The perfor­mance will 
include dancing and music, including an appearance by "Voices of Faith," the Notre Dame Gospel Choir. Also fea• tured will be some original poetry works and songs, being premiered at this event. The show will begin at 8:00 p.m. in Lafortune Ballroom. Seating is limited, so MSPS asks that ticket preparations be made ahead of time by 
calling 631·684l. 
On Feb. 22. MSPS will co• sponsor a relationship forum in association with the NAACP titled, "What Brothas Think, What Sistahs Know." The 
lA~TCMNCt,ONLY AfEW Lfff! ~fACt~ ARE rlLL™G rMT, A~~LY iODAY TO GET THEBE~T ~ELECTION Of 1-BfDROOM~ AND 1, 1BEDROOMTOWNHOME~ rOR1HE1~~\,1001 ACEDEMlC YEAR. CAltin.m~rORfURiHER Dt1Al1~l 
"The programs try to 
Horizon's give opportunities for Church of 
South Bend
people to celebrate 
will be in
their own culture and 
attendance to give otehr people the lead the com• 
opportunity to learn munity . in 
song and
about each other. " 
prayer. Also, the Outreach Kevin Huie Ministry Love Choir will
MSPS assistant director 
forum will focus on inter• racial relationships. Dcneva Milner and Nick Childes will facilitate the discussion. co­authors of the above titled book, "What Brothas Think, What Sistahs Know." At the forum, students will be encouraged to share their own experiences and com­ment on the issues of inter• racial dating. This event will begin at 7 p.m., at LaFortunc Ballroom. 
Sociologist Ronald McGrifl' will be lecturing regarding inter•racial discrimination, Monday, Feb. 19. In this Ice· turn, he will explore thu his­torical roots of this genre of prejudice and how it has been played over time. lie will also discuss different strategics that will hopefully mitigate this ongoing issue. McGriff is the author of "lnter•racial Prejudice: the Myth of the Brotherhood." The lcctu re will begin at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor, Saint Mary's. 
There will be an Interfaith Prayer Service on Thursday, 
Feb. 22. The 
N e w 
share their ministry in song. The service will begin at 
9:15 p.m. at Sacred Heart Chapel Holy Cross, Saint Mary's. People of all faiths and background are encour• aged to attend. 
Journalist and contributing writer for Essence magazine Joan Morgan will be giving a lecture explaining the impor• tance of hip•hop culture on Monday, Feb. 26. Morgan, author of the book. "When Chickcnheads Come Home to Roost -My Life as a Hip Hop Feminist," is a feminist writer who is committed to accurate documentation of hip•hop cul­ture. In this lecture. she will plunge into heated issues such as sexism in hip-hop; the pre· carious state of her genera­tion's relationship with femi­nism; the crippling mouth of the "endangered black man" and its equally destructive counterpart, the myth of the "strong black woman." This lecture will begin at 7 p.m., and will be held at Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's. 
Together, both OMA and MSPS have worked to promote awareness of black traditions and culture on campus. Through these events, they hope to give students the opportunity to explore their own culture. while learning about others in Black llistory Month. 
"If you don't attend. you're missing out on an important bit or culture," said Johnson. "You learn by meeting new people and new challenges ­and when given the opportu­nily to learn, you should." 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 15, 200I 
STUDENT SENATE 

O'Donoghue runs for finish line 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News Editor 
Notre Dame's 2000-01 student government team will keep working for the student body through their last day in office, said representa­tives from the Office of the President at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
In his opening remarks, student body president Brian O'Donoghue said his administration will not shut down between today's election and the end of their term April 1. 
"We are not going to do that this year," he said. 'There won't be a lame duck president this year." 
O'Donoghue noted that he, student body vice president Brooke Norton and others in their administration have 45 more days in office and 16-17 projects in progress. Norton encouraged the senate to stay active. and chief of staff Jay Smith reiterated O'Donoghue's comments. 
In other Senate news: 

. Mary Edgington, acting director of Student Activities, announced that the computer lab in the basement of La.Fortune is now open 24 hours. Students may access the lab by showing their ID to security personnel, who will then give them a key code. TONY FLOYDrThe Observer 
. Student union secretary Trip Foley Student body president Brian O'Donoghue told 
announced that the Blessing Unto Others cam­

the Senate Wednesday that his administration 
paign had raised a total of approximately $10,000 

will work until April 1 -its final day in office.
for Chilean orphanages, including $2,000 in pro­ceeds from two concerts. was present at the Fiesta Bowl and has been 
. ·Senate Parlimentarian John Osborn billed as the nation's largest grill, to campus for announced that in coordination with the "Affairs student appreciation day on Feb. 28. The group is of the Heart" Celebration, a blood drive will be still soliciting funding for this event. held at Rolfs from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Feb. 22 and . Student body Vice President Brooke Norton 
23. The celebration will also offer free aerobics informed the senators that the week of Feb. 26 to and blood pressure checks. Students may call 1-March 2 is Body Image Awareness week. The 6100 to register. group is working to bring Rosie O'Donnell's per­
. Student government chief of staff Jay Smith sonal trainer to campus to speak about fitness, reported that student government has tentatively among other visitors. booked the Johnsonville brat grill truck, which . Matt Lafratta is the new Alumni Hall senator. 

Worker sparks morning fire in Main Building 
Observer Staff Report 
A fire Wednesday morning in the Main Building caused no damage to a second-floor office and resulted in no injuries, Notre Dame Security/Police officials said. 
According to Rex Rakow, director of Security/Police, tho fire occurred at a meeting in Room 218 at 7:10 a.rn., after a student caterer knocked over a heating unit which ignited a tablecloth. Workers responded quickly to the fire, and damage was con­tained to the tablecloth, Rakow said. · 
"The employees grabbed an extinguisher and had the fire out in a matter of a few seconds. There was some smoke but no damage," he said. 
Rakow said the room remained open for use Wednesday. and the fire did not affect operations in other classrooms and admin­istrative offices housed in the Main Building. 
Planet 
continued from page 1 
coverage·, a local weather fore­cast, and a "ND book bag" which provides students an alternative way of selling their books. 
"We wanted to provide a venue for students to place their books on sale in order to escape the rip-offs from the bookstore," said Wilkerson. "The website offers much more than just an ordinary academic resource." 
The site also offers 30 different online games, message boards for students to communicate to each other, and a driver-rider board. The driver-rider board provides students a place to request rides to or from Notre Dame. 
"It's all about responding to the students' needs, without making them hunt for it, "said Wilkerson. 
Although the site is just begin­ning to take off, there is still quite a bit of work that needs to be done. Wilkerson and Campbell have set their sights high, and to them, the sky is the limit for Planet Irish. · 
"We want to provide a place for all student to come together as an online community," said Wilkerson. 
"We want it to grow, and to be a place where students can go hang out online," said Campbell. "We want Planet Irish to not only he a resource for Notre Dame students, but also a place for them to come together." 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's students ac­cepted will be enrolled in "Shakespeare in Performance," a Summer Session course team-taught by Professor Paul Rathburn (Notre Dame) and Kate Pogue (Houston Shakespeare Festival). 
students accepted for the cast of Much Ado About Nothing will receive: 
a summer stipend a su1n1ner tuition scholarship a role in an equity production 
for more information call or email 
Paul Rathburn 631.5069 -rathburn.l@nd.edu 
or 

Mark Abram Copenhaver 
284.4645 -macopen@saintmarys.edu 
open auditions for the 

much ado about nothing 
audition dates: 
friday, february 16 
3:00 pm -6:00 pm 
saturday, febrnary 1 7 1 :00 pm -3:00 pm audition location: 
mckenna hall (across the street from the Morris Inn) lower level ETS theatre 
prepare: 3-4 minU:te selection from the Shakespearean comedy of your choice 

ATION 
Thursday, February I 5, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Afghan opposition gains major city: 
Opposition troops captured a key city in central Afghanistan, cutting the only road that links the capital of Kabul to northern areas of the coun­try. The capture of Bamiyan is the first major military victory for the opposition, led by ousted President Burhanuddin Habbani, in more than ono year, opposition spokesman Gulam Raza Azizuda said Wednesday. 
Couples marry in the buff: Wearing top hat<;, veils and body paint, 11 couples mar­ried in the buff in Jamaica on Wednesday, "People get married skydiving. in hot air bal­loons, scuba diving," said one bride, Jane Jonus, a 43-year-old native of California. "It's just nice to do something different."· The nup­tials sparkod protests from clergy, the govern­ment and about 12 demonstrators. But the pas­tor wa:. undeterred. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge decides Internet case: A st. 
Louis custody battle that is part of the tangled intnrnational dispute over the Internet adop­tion of twin girls should be closed to the pub­lic, a judge ruled Wednesday. Circuit Judge Steven Ohmer. assigned to the case after the lawyer representing the twins' natural moth­er asked for a change of judges, decided a hearing on the case should be delayed indefi­nitely and ordered it closed. attorneys in the case said. 
Democrats to unveil tax cut: Congress' top Democrats planned to lay out their own broad principles for cutting taxes on Thursday, following weeks of attacking President Bush's $1.6 trillion. 10-ycar plan as being too big and tilted toward the rich. House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt. D-Mo., and Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschlc, D-S.D., will embrace no specilic proposals. But their goal is to try taking the offensive in a tax debate that Bush has so far dominated and give their rank-and-file law­makers something to favor, rather than only attacking Bush's plan. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
State trooper under investigation: 
An oIT-duty Indiana State Police trooper who provided security at a fraternity party in Bloomington, is under investigation in connec­tion with the death ofa student. The officer was working at the time for Alliance Security, a security company operated by the Indiana State Police Alliance, the executive director of the trooper group, Don Cook, said Wednesday. Cook would not disclose the name of the troop­er or the nature of his duties at the party. 
Market Watch 2/1 3 

Dow 
10903.32 -43.45

]ONES 
CompositeUp• Same: Volume:
1,59$ 216 
NIA 

AMEX: 934.3t.~ --_.," ~:-uf·,;·:1 
Nasdaq: 2427.72 -61.94 
NYSE: 657,72---,....,:~ '-~7:""'23 

S&P S00: 1318.66 -l l.65 
TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  .J.j')  ~ 1.06  28.50  
NASDAQ JOO SHAR (QQQ)  -J.12  -1.78  55-30  
JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU)  -S.2J  -2.13  JB.50  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  .1,91  •.44  22.SG  
L.UCENTTECII INC (LU)  .8.51  -l.26  13,54  

f" ,. 
1,· 

i:\;¥-'t~ 
.'»>1.:< 
···.··;J>.f', 
..?:11. i,,, ' 
,, -:~ 
'·· •·· i 
"'"
f...., 
,. ;,,,,, . 

:~~4, 
..

. . 
~.1 
AFP Photo 
Two Black Hawk UH-60 helicopters crashed during exercises Monday at the Kahuku MIiitary range on the northern part of the Island of Oahu, Hawaii. 
Soldier: Humvee struck helicopter rotor 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU 

A soldier aboard one of two Army helicopters that crashed on a night training flight. killing six men, said Wednesday he believes a Humvee carried on a sling beneath one of the Black Hawks struck the rotor on his aircraft. sending both plunging to the ground. 
An Army spokeswoman said the soldier was specu­lating. 
The accident happened Monday night. The military said there was a light rain at the time and the pilots were wearing night-vision goggles. 
"As we came in above treetop level. I saw some­thing smack into our rotor blades," Sgt. 1st Class Leslie Frye II said in a telephone interview from his home. "I believe it was the Humvee underneath" the other heli­copter. 
Frye's helicopter crashed on a dirt road, and he and the 10 other soldiers aboard were injured; he was treated and released. The other Black Hawk went down in a ravine about 100 yards away, killing all six people on board. 
He said he and his fellow soldiers had been riding on the No. 1 helicopter in a group of four. and had been assigned to secure a land­ing zone for the other Black Hawks. 
Frye said his helicopter "hit the ground like a sack of rocks. We, were like a fish out of water, bounc­ing and shaking." 
A spokeswoman for the 25th Infantry Division at Schofield Barracks, Maj. Cynthia Teramae, con­firmed that one helicopter was carrying a sling load but said the crash was still under investigation. She said of Frye's account, "He's speculat­ing." 
A team from the Army Safety Center at Fort Rucker, Ala., was brought in to investigate. 
It was the second major accident involving the mili­tary in Hawaii in less than a week. A surfacing Navy submarine sank a Japanese fishing trawler off the coast of Oahu on Friday. Nine men and boys aboard the Japanese ship were feared dead and 26 others were rescued. 
Flags were nown at half­staff Wednesday for the victims of the helicopter accident. 
The dead were identified as Maj. Robert Olson, Minn.; Chief Warrant Officer George Perry, Calif.; Chief Warrant Officer Gregory Montgomery, Calif.; Sgt. Thomas Barber. Champlin, Minn.; Spc. Bob MacDonald, Alta Loma, Calif.; and Spc. Rafael Olvera-Rodriguez, El Paso, Texas. Some hometowns were not released. 
ECUADOR 
Kidnappers agree to ransom, 7 hostage 
Associated Press 
QUITO 

Kidnappers who murdered a U.S. oil worker last month agreed to a ransom offer shortly before a dead­line to kill another captive, Ecuador's military chief said Wednesday. Four of their seven hostages are American. 
"The crimi-nal group said it would not execute anyone else and I understand they have reached some economic arrangement," said Vice Adm. Miguel Saona, adding that he did not know details of the ransom plan. 
The body of kidnap victim Ronald Sander, 54, of Sunrise Beach, Mo., was found in the jungle Jan. 31. He had been shot five times in the back and was covered in a white sheet scrawled with the words in Spanish: "I am a gringo. For non­payment of ransom. HP company." 
Sander, a technician with Tulsa, Okla.-based Helmerich & Payne Inc., was seized from oil camps in October in the El Coca jungle region, some 150 miles east of Quito. Nine others were seized ­four other Americans, a Chilean, an Argentine, a New Zealander and two Frenchmen. The two Frenchmen escaped, 
Unconfirmed media reports here said that the kidnappers had warned they would kill another of the hostages if ransom was not paid by Feb. 15. 
"With relation to the deadline of today or tomorrow to execute a sec­ond captive, I have information that yesterday negotiations were restart· ed," said Saona, who is head of Ecuador's military Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
"The information that we have about this is not very broad because all negotiations arc being conducted between the criminal group and the embassies or companies that employee the captives," Saona said. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 15, 200 I 
• 

Culligan discusses Super Bowl ads 
By CECILIA OLECK News Writer 
An estimated 46-million people watched the Super Bowl this year and not all of those people were paying attention to the game. The Super Bowl is as important to advertisers as it is to football fanatics. 
The unveiling of new commer­cials has become a much-antici­pated event, becoming competi­tion for the game itself. There are the good ones, there are the bad ones and there are the forget­table ones. So what actually makes a Super Bowl ad success­ful? 
Sponsored by the department of Business Administration and Economics, Executive-in-Residence Beth Culligan addressed that issue Tuesday and Wednesday at various speaking engagements at Saint Mary's. Currently the chief operating offi­cer of A&P, a grocery chain on the East Coast, Culligan began her career with a strong interest in marketing. 
As the executive-in-residence for 2001, Culligan will spend most of this week speaking to and working with business classes and clubs. 
At her lecture Tuesday night, 
Culligan highlighted 30 ads that 
aired for the first time during this 
year's Super Bowl on Jan. 28. 
Because a 30-second Super Bowl 
spot costs a company at least $2 
million, not to mention the cost of 
developing an ad, Culligan main­
tained that the "stakes are really 
high for advertisers." In 30 sec­
onds, a company needs to pro­mote its product in such a way that viewers are able to see its value, be able to distinguish it from other products, and remem­ber it. 

Commercials from a variety of businesses won Culligan 's approval. including Snickers, Staples, Federal Express, e-busi­nesses and investment compa­spraying his date with a Bud Light. A third was also a reminder of the "Wiizzupp?" ad, with an alien returning to its planet to tell what it had learned while on earth. The final spot was a public service announcement discouraging underage drinking starring boy band N*Sync. Culligan applauded the ads for 
nies. among oth­ers. 
The ad that caught Culligan's attention and won her vote for the best Super Bowl ad was a series from Verizon Wireless. The ads featured 2 young people at a Woodstock-like concert. Unable to hear each other over the 
'il commercial is meant to sell a product. Yes, it can be entertaining or provocative, but the bottom line is to communicate the product." 
Beth Culligan executive-in-residence 

looking at the com­pany from differ­ent angles. 
Not all the ads featured received such praise. Some of the more popu­lar ones seemed to baffle Culligan. l'epsi. which pur­chased four spots, was at the top of Culligan's list for vague marketing strategy. The com­mercials depicted 
noise of the crowd, they pull out their cell phones are able to page each other. "In my opinion, based on marketing and advertising principles, this is the best. It's directed to the target audience, it has news to talk about, and it's creative and captures interest," evaluated Culligan. 
Also receiving high marks from Culligan were the commercials from Anheuser-Busch. Culligan estimated that the company spent around $21 million on ads. The goal was to bring awareness of Budweiser to its highest level. One of the ads was a spoof on last year's popular "Wazzupp?" com­mercial, showing the preppie counterparts asking the question "What are you doing?" Another featured a man accidentally a young man drinking Pepsi on a subway who was transported into a picture of Hawaiian beauties; Bob Dole performing a back flip after drinking a Pepsi; a Pepsi machine being taken captive by 
inmates at a state correctional facility; and a Pepsi machine tak­ing revenge on a cocky chess champion. Culligan reasoned that although the ads were amusing, they actually did nothing to sell the product, and she was not sure Pepsi had received its money's worth on the ads. 
In the end, Culligan expressed that as a marketer, the goal is to keep focused. "A commercial is meant to sell a product. Yes, it can be entertaining or provoca­tive, but the bottom line is to communicate the product." 
Bush plans trip to Mexico, promises 'we'll be friends' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush is promising Mexico. "We'll be friends" in advance of his landmark visit to a dusty central Mexican ranch Friday, setting a cozy, casual tone for the first foreign trip of his presidency. 
Bush and Mexican President Vincente Fox are likely to dis­cuss immigration, drugs. trade and energy during their schedule 7 1/2-hour summit amid the broccoli fields sur­rounding the village of San Cristobal, 210 miles northwest of Mexico City in the state of 

Guanajuato. Bush 
But the leaders -both newly elected presidents who favor western wear, enchiladas and ranch life -plan to stress their personal ties, not their nations' differences. 
"l think it's going to be a good signal to the Mexicans. and others in our hemisphere, that the best foreign policy starts at home," Bush told reporters previewing the trip. "We've got to have good relations in our hemisphere." 
The former two-term Texas governor is making a quick trip to a familiar country before taking the training wheels off his foreign policy: He trav­els to Canada in April for the Summit of Americas, and has overseas journeys penciled in for later this year. 
When criticized during the campaign for lack­ing foreign policy experience, Bush pointed to his relations with Mexico. He made more than a half dozen trips to the country as Texas governor from 1995 to late 2000, though much of his work was ceremonial. He and Fox have met about three times, just enough for Bush to claim Fox as a pal. 

5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
8:00 
p.m. Ginseppe Verdi's "Re­quiem" -Swedish Radio Symphony Orchestra and Choir , O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC)* 

8:00 
p.m. Mary Lee O'Connell speaking on "Women and Sexual­ity", A women's only presentation, Farley Hall 


8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m.-Midnight Best of Acous­tic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Movie,"The 6th Day", De Bartolo 101 *and "Girlfight", DeBartolo155* 6:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 p.m.Cinema at the Snite, "The Eyes of Tammy Faye", Snite Museum* 
8:00 
p.m. Movie, "The 6th Day", DeBartolo 101 * & "Girlfight", DeBartolo 155* 

8:00 
p.m. Blak Koffee House, LaFortune Student Center-Ball­room* 


8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
8:45 p.m. Flipside Movie Night at Movies 14, Van departing Library Circle at 8:45pm* 
9:00 p.m. JPW "Gala", Joyce Center Arena (ticket needed for admission) 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Eyes of Tammy Faye", Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m.Movie, ''The 6th Day", DeBartolo 101* & "Girlfight", 155* 5:30 p.m. Junior Parents' Weekend Mass -Joyce Center 
6:45 p.m. JPW "President's Din­ner", Joyce Center (ticket needed for admission) 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Eyes of Tammy Faye", Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, ''The 6th Day", DeBartolo 101 * and "Gir/fight", DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 9:00 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. "Bounce" Inflatables, Games and Music, Stepan Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Eyes of Tammy Faye", Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie,"The 61h Day", DeBartolo 101 * and 
"Girlfight",DeBartolo155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students. 
Programs are subject to change without notice. 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 

Thursday, February 15, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Student murder suspect: robbery was motive 
to Krug Hall, where Mesa lived. Associated Press 
Plunkett was found beaten to 
death Sept. 28 in his first-noor 
WASIIINGTON room. Varner was round Feb. 3 
A 20-year-old freshman accused stabbed to death in his fourth-floor of' murdering two fellow deaf stu­room. denL'l at Gallaudel University admit­Details about the videotaped con­ted in a videotaped confession that fession and the crimes were provid­robbery was the reason he stabbed ed in a statement outside court from one classmate to death and fatally the U.S. attorney's office. beat the other, prosecutors said According to prosecutors, Mesa Wednesdav. said robbery was the motive for both 
Joseph 0 Mesa Jr. of Guam was killings. There is evidence that on ordtired held without bond after an Feb. 2 -within an hour of Varner's appearance in District of Columbia murder -Mesa cashed a $650 Superior Court. check on Varner's account. Also. 
"There is substantial probability Plunkett's debit card was used in that Mr. Mesa committed those mur­several transactions after the time ders," said the hear­they believe Plunkett 
ing commissioner, J. died.
"There is a 

Dennis Doyle, who Prosecutors said
substantial

rnjoctcd a del'cnso Mesa said stabbed tcquest that Mesa be probability that Mr. Varner in the neck with released to a halfway a knife he found on top
Mesa committed 

l10use. /\ preliminary of a. microwave oven in hearing was set for these murders." the victim's room, and Feb. 23, beat Plunkett to death. 
Mesa's lawyer. Mesa spoke to detec­
J. Dennis Doyle 

F(1rris Bond, did not tives for the first time
hearing commissioner 

contest the evidence on Monday, but did not that Assistant U.S. admit to the killings Attorney Jennifer Collins presented. until Tuesday. when he provided the "We'll have a lot to say about that videotaped statement with the aid of later," Bond told Doyle. · interpreters, authorities said. 
Mesa is charged with two counts Mesa's arrest lifts the cloud of sus­of felony murder while armed in the picion from former Gallaudet stu­deaths of two 19-year-old freshmen dent Thomas Minch, 18, of killed about five months apart at the Greenland, N.f·I., who was arrested nation's only liberal arts university five days after Plunkett's death but 
for the deaf. later released. He has not been 
Both Eric Plunkett of Hurnsville, allowed on campus since that time. Minn., and Benjamin Varner of San "Mr. Minch was not involved in the Antonio were killed in the dormito­murder of Eric Plunkett," said the ry, Cogswell llall, which is next door city's police chief, Charles Ramsey. 
Clinton book deal gets go-ahead 

tions surrounding it, aides book deal prompted the
Associated Pres, 

said. llouse to revise its ethics 
WASHINGTON. While Republican criti­guidelines to bar members 
Sen. Hillary Rod ham cism for the former first from accepting advances, Clinton has received lady's book deal has been but there is no similar bun approval from the Senate muted, watchdog groups in the Senate as long as the Ethics Committee for her questioned its ethics. Gary deal is "usual and custom­$8 mil­Ruskin of the ary." l i o n Congressional Clinton's $8 million b o o k Accountability Project advance is believed to be deal, wrote a Dec. 18 letter to the second highest ever for s h e Clinton urging her to sub­a nonfiction book, trailing s a i d mit the deal to the commit­only $8.5 million received Wed -tee and asking her to for­by Pope John Paul II. nesday. sake an advance in favor of' Her lawyer, Bob Barnett. 
Clint­straight royalties. said Wednesday that on, O­Asked at Clinton 
N. y .. the time if already
"/ am pleased that the 
quietly she would received submitted her memoir deal seek ethics Senate Ethics one-third for the committee of the
committee's Committee has found 
approval Jan. 11, almost a approval, the advance
that my agreement
month after she made the Clinton camp on royal­lucrative agreement with said only that with Simon & ties, or New York-based publisher she was com­Schuster fully a b o u t Simon & Schuster. She was plying with $2.7 mil­
complies with the 
notified the committee ethics guide­lion. The approved the deal lines. Senate ethics rules." rest of the Tuesday. Ruskin said advance "l am pleased that the Wednesday is paid
th e cOm m it_ Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
Senate Ethics Committee out is to has found that my agree­tee's approval D-N.Y. be paid ment with Simon & demonstrates out over Schuster fully complies it had no teeth. several years. with the Senate ethics "This is part of the liber­The book is to be pub­rules," Clinton said in a al permissiveness about lished in early 2003'. statement. public corruption of our Clinton has yet to begin 
Clinton did not have to ethics laws that has been writing the memoir, which obtain the committee's embraced by both parties," will focus on her eight approval for the deal, Ruskin said Wednesday. tumultuous years in the which was agreed before There was no comment White House. She also has she was sworn in as a sen­from the ethics committee. yet to select a collaborator 
ator. She chose to submit Controversy over Newt from the 40 people who the matter to remove ques-Gingrich's $4.5 million have applied for the job. 

l. 631-5323. 
escape the 
Give a cold shoulder to your "usual" night out & warm-up 
your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet (13.99), 
t-bone (17.991 or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York 
strip I14.95). Lighter options, too! 
HOW OPEN fOR LATt Hl611T DIHIH6 fRIDAY &SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219·234-5200 ' 

11 COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. 
CALL TttE HEARTlAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219.251.2568•MORE PICTIJRIS@ WWW.HEARTIANDSOUTHBEND,COM 
Thursday, February 15, 2001 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Calendar of Events 
Beginning Monday, January 29 through February 19 
Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #34 (February 23-24, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at 
www.nd.eduJ,,minirtrylfreshmanfarm.html 
Beginning Monday, February 5 through February 23 
Sign-up for Senior Retreat #5 (March 2-3, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesborgh Library or print one out online 
at www.nd.edu/ .-,ministrylseniorform.html 
Saturday-Sunda¼ February 17-18, 5:30 p.m. Joyce Center 
Junior Parents' Weekend Mass 
Sunday, February 18, 10:00 a.m. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
RCIA Class Mass at 11:45 a.m. 
Sunday, February 18, 1:30 p.m, Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. Thomas V. Bednar, c:.s.c. 
Beginning Monday. February 19 through February 231 
Sign-up Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #65 (March 30-April 1, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at www.nd.edu/ ,.,ministry/ndeform.htm 
Monday, February 19, 6:30 p.m. 201 DeBartolo 
RCIA Study Session . 
Monday-Tuesday. February 19-20. 11:30 pm-10:00pm 
St. Paul'§ Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, February 20, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. February 20. 7:00 p.m, Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confi..mi:ation -Session #9 
Wednesday, February 21, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfu.ith Christian Night Prayer 
Seventh Sunday In Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, February 17 Mass 
5:00p.m. 
.~v. James F. Flanagan, c.s.c. 
Sunday, February 18 Mass 
10:00a.m. 
Rev. John I. Jenkins, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. J. Steele, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings.· for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading 1 Sm 26: 2, 7-9, 12-13, 22;..23 
2nd Reading.· 1 Cor 15: 45 -49 
Gospel Lk 6:27-38 

How is you-r (prayer) life? 
by Fr. Bill Wack,c.s.c. 
While walking on camp Lis or eating in the dining hall or waiting for a class to begin it is very common to see two people greeting each other. Usually the conversation starts off with "How was your weekend?", or "How was your break?", or just, "How's it going?" It's an easy way to begin a conversacion from scratch. 
What would happen if: when passing a friend on the quad, you did something completely different and asked her, "How's your prayer life?" Now I'm not advocating a total change in the way we relate to each ocher in the dining hall. Nor am I saying that something like our prayer life can (or should) be discussed in a 30-sccond conversation before a class. I simply want to suggest chat, if we really care about each other and want to know how the other person is doing, it is very appropriate that we ask about and encourage one another's spiritual life. 
So how IS your prayer life? Are you satisfied with the way you pray each day and throughour the week? Are you doing more or less than you did before you came here? If you are like most 
the Constitutions of the Congre­
people in the world, you're  
While walking to class or driving in a car  probably not totally content with  
the way you pray or the amount  
or waiting in line for tickets or admission  of time you put into nourishing  
.to something or even while eating, we  your relationship with God. know I'm nor.  I  
can be praying.  I'm not saying we need  Fortunately, it's never too late to  
to  be  on  our knees 24 hours  a  day  start praying well.  
engaged in contemplative prayer, but I  The saints from Sr. Paul onward  
do hold that we can all do better in our  tell us to pray without ceasing. St. Teresa ofAvila simply invited  
relationship with God.  us to "Pray always." A quote from  

gation of Holy Cross comes to mind: "To serve [the Lord] honestly we must pray always and not give up" (#25). There is much evidence that, when he wasn't teaching or healing or per­forming miracles, Jesus spent the bulk of his time in prayer to his Father. 
While most of us would probably agree that constant prayer would be the ideal, we tend to think that this is something best left up to monks and nuns. After all, we are engaged in all sorts of activities that take up a lot of time: studying, eating, traveling, working, sleeping, socializing, etc. How can we "pray always" when we are doing so much already? 
It is true-· many prayer activities involve a certain amount of commitment and rime, and there is no shortage of prayer forms available to us on campus. We can spend time in adoration before the Blessed Sacrament, read the Bible or other spiritual books, pray the rosary, join a prayer group (like Emmaus or Interfaith Christian Night Prayer), go on a retreat, or simply sit in our room and quietly converse with God. It is most helpful to have a routine or a regular rime set aside for prayer; for example, for 10 minutes in the morning or at night, or reading one book of the Bible a day or stopping by the chapel or a church a couple of times a week. 
In addition to all of that (which, believe me, CAN be fit easily into our busy lives), we would do well to communicate constantly with Christ. By that I mean that we could go throughout our day -whatever we are doing -keeping in mind chat we are never alone. While walking to class or driving in a car or waiting in line for tickets or admission to something or even while eating, we can be praying. I'm not saying we need to be on our knees 24 hours a day engaged in contemplative prayer, but I do hold that we can all do better in our relationship with God. 
St. John Damascene said that prayer is "The raising of one's mind and heart to God." Our Holy Cross Constitutions puts it this way: "Prayer is our faith attending to the Lord" (#23). Simply stated, then, prayer is paying attention to God. It can be as simple as recognizing God's presence in nature, in a friendship, or if! ourselves. One student told me that she thinks of God whenever she is walking outside and feels a breeze. Ochers quietly pray a decade of the rosary or praise God in their heart as they walk to class. Still others like co sit in their room early in the morning or late at night and meditate on a passage from Scriptures. 
I constantly hear myself and others saying, "I jus_t don't have time to pray." As Christians who rely on God for the very air we breathe, that is unacceptable. There is always time for prayer. God waits for us and invites us: "Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If you hear my voice and open the door, I will enter your house and stay with you" (cf, Rev. 3:20). May the doors of our souls be opened constantly to God. 
C-M 
Complls Ministry 
Thursday, February 15, 200 l The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AFL-CIO to oppose Bush tax cut 
AssociareJ l'rcH 
LOS ANGELES 

The nation's union leaders on Wednesday endorsed a one-year $400-per-person "prosperity dividend" pay­ment from the gov­ernment as part of an alter­native to President Bush's tax cut plan. 
A payroll credit and a n increased child tax credit also won support from the AFL­CIO executive committee as organized labor leaders pledged at their winter meet­ing to fight Bush's $1.6 tril­lion, across-the-board tax proposal. 
"Workers believe the sur­plus should be directed at their priorities like prescrip­tion drugs and Social Security and children's health care and education -and not a huge tax cut to those who need it the least," AFL-CIO President John Sweeney said. 
Also Wednesday, Labor Secretary Elaine Chao met with the council and said later that she came "to listen and to learn about the concerns of organized labor." She said the meeting was "productive," and looked forward to "a very cordial and long and prod uc­tivc rnlationship." 
"I am going to work very. 


very hard to find areas of commonality in which labor and the department can work," Chao said. 
The resolution on tax cuts said the APL-CIO supports: 
. 
A one-year, $110 billion "prosperity dividend" of $400 per person paid this year to all Americans regardless of income. 

. 
A refundable income tax credit that exempts the first $5,700 in earnings from the employee portion of ihe pay­roll tax. The plan would cost about $45 billion annually and yield an annual tax cut of $427 a person. 

. 
Increasing the child tax credit from $500 to $1,000 and.making it refundable, which would cost $44 billion annually. The average benefit would be $1.120. 


"For tax relieve to provide an efficient and clTective stim­ulus, it must flow to those who will most likely spend it," the resolution said. "This means ensuring that low-and middle-income families receive the bulk of the tax cuts." 
The dividend, compared to companies' payouts to share­holders, "would put money in people's hands quickly rather than out in the sixth year" of Bush's plan, said Richard Trumka, AFL-CIO secretary­treasurer. 
The dividend plan is similar to a proposal in Congress by Rep. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., which would offer a $300 rebate to each person. Sanders' plan also suspends the dividend if there is no budget surplus. 
"Right now, we have a sur­plus and some of it can be returned to the American peo­ple. But it should go to every­one equally, not given mostly to the rich," Sanders said. 
Leaders who met with Chao said she did not provide sub­stantive answers to policy questions such as Labor Department cuts or the future of the new ergonomics stan­dards. saying she had only been on the job eight days. 
She did tell the labor lead­ers that she and the Bush administration would disagree with unions on labor-manage­ment partnership agreements, said Denise Mitchell, AFL-CIO official. Bush is considering disbanding such agreements created by President Clinton. 
Sweeney said Chao assured union leaders she would listen to them. 
"I think she conveyed a sim­ilar message as the president has conveyed to me, that we will have our differences, but we will have the opportunity to discuss these issues," he said. 
Meantime, Sweeney said unions are concerned about the slowing economy and the potential for many more lay­offs. Those uncertainties show a need for unions for American workers. Sweeney said. 
"We'll be mobilizing and organizing in whatever politi­cal atmosphere and whatever economic atmosphere we're faced with." he said. 
.:::.::.:· -::r=>:.·:· >, ·-: ?·:.<_, ... ,.. :: ,. ·11·11·,.:1~i'nij•u1:\··:~:]::;·::.'':'\ ti;·:t· .~ u n ior .. Parent Wee I< e.~ ~ 
. t1~:w;,:,:=uF'.,, :February 15-19, 2oq1>:, ,, -,,,-,,,,,_,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,, 
•
• 



INTERNATIONAL SERVICE 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 
Arc you interested in the possibility of International Service after graduation? If so, please attend a presentation by recently returned volunteers that will give you perspectives from the following overseas progrants: 

Holy Cross Associates (Chile) Farm ofthe Child (Honduras) Cap Corps (Nicaragua and Papua New Guinea) Irish Christian Brothers (Peru) 
Each program has a different geographic, time commitment, and ser­vice focus, but all represent faith-based, community living efforts at overseas service. 
Please join us on: Thursday, February 15, from 7:30 p.m. to 8:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. Refreshments will be served. 
http://www.nd.edu/,.,hcassoc/ 
U.S. attorney to probe Clinton's Rich pardon 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Federal prosecutors have opened an investigation into former President Clinton's last­minute pardon of fugitive financier Marc Rich, a source familiar with the case said Wednes­day. 
u . s . 
Attorney Mary Jo White in New York "is trying to deter­mine if there was a transfer of money to buy the pardon," the source told The Associated Press, speaking on the condi­tion of anonymity. 
White was expected to exam­ine bank records, telephone records and other documents to determine whether there was anything criminal in Clinton's decision to grant Rich a pardon, the source said. 
White, who was named U.S. attorney by then-President Clinton in June 1993, has said the pardon was granted with­out consultation with her office. A spokesman said she would have no comment. 
Sen. Hillary Rodharn Clinton, through a spokesman, declined comment and referred ques­tions to her husband's transi­tion office. which did not immediately return a call . 

The Jan. 20 pardon was one of 141 by Clinton, who also commuted the sentences or 36 others on his final day in office. It has prompted biparti­san criticism and probes by House and Senate committees. 
Before the pardon, Hich was wanted by the Justice Department on charges of evading more than $48 million in taxes. fraud and participat­ing in illegal oil deals with Iran. 
He was indicted in New York on federal charges in 1983, shortly after he fled the coun­try to Switzerland. The indict­ment was tiled when Hudolph Giuliani, now the Republican mayor of New York and Mrs. Clinton's one-time Senate adversary, was running the 
U.S. attorney's office. 

Also in the mix is Rich's for­mer wife, Denise, a major con­tributor to the Democratic Party and Mrs. Clinton's Senate campaign. Denise Hich also gave at least $450,000 to the Clinton Presidential Library Fund. 
She has refused to answer questions from the !louse com­mittee, citing her constitutional right against self-incrimina­tion. 
The House panel also expects to subpoena records this week from two of Denise Hich's American banks; records from the Clinton library on all dona­tions and pledges of $5,000 or more; and records from the Democratic National Committee related to her. 

SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE 
OPEN HOUSE 
EXPO ROMA 2001 
The University ofNotre Dame School ofArchitecture Class of2002 cordially invites you to share in 
a celebration ofgood times together and a presentation ofstudent work from the Rome Stu dies Program. 
Festivities will begin with a lecture and reception in the Bond Hall Lobby at 4:30 pm Friday, February 16, 2001. 

VIEWPOINT 
A!_HE 

page 10 vnSERVER Thursday, February 15, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
!'.0. Box Q, Notn, Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith Sc.ENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAJty's. EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGEII! Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINl~'TRATOR: Mike Gunvil!e WEB AoMINISTRATOll! Adam Turncr CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRA!'HICS ED11'011.: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX..................................................... ........631-<>927 ADVERTISING .............................. .......63 !-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnroR/Assr. ME .................... 631-454 l BUSINESS Omcr........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPOllTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 • observer.scene. J@nd.edu SAINT MARy's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSIWEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsawr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for ur-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forec:ists 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online featu.res for spe­
and rares of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
ro meet che editors and 
August 1999 
sraff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the righr co refuse advertisements based on conren t. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriryofche Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparcment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofa.II opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro rhe Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qu«tions rrgarding Obsm.,er policies should be dirut­d to &litor in ChiefMilu Connolly. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thepowerofyourvo~ 
Today is the run-off election for the platforms or maybe just because you uc to serve and lead in life wherever 2001 Student Body President/Vice like their last name, a vote is an they go. They have attained many new President race. When l took on the job expression of what matters to you. skills and built on existing strengths 
. of elections commissioner a year ago, There is no wrong reason for why from their experience in this election. there was a great deal of skepticism one casts a vote. Many people will not It is my belief that your vote mat­and doubt about the value of student vote today. I do see this as an abomi­ters. While it might not be the statisti­government and the quality of the nation of civic duty. However, I would cal significance that sets your vote elections process here at Notre Dame. like to offer some thoughts on what a apart from the rest in the end, by Over the past year, Judicial Council vote can mean. marking that ballot today, you have and I have worked to provide the stu­Every candidate in this election has endorsed leadership. service and hard dents with the best possible atmos­worked long and hard to discuss work. You have acknowledged the phere for an election. ideas, propose changes and solicit efforts your peers are making to cre­
Many people have worked hard to your support. By voting you show ate a better Notre Dame and you arc bring you organized campaigning, a appreciation for their efforts. Whether solidifying those qualities that will candidate forum and a debate. a candidate gets 1,000 votes or one make them successful when they leave Perhaps the people who have worked vote, that one vole recognizes the here. Having said this. I ask only that hardest however are the candidates efforts they have made to serve oth­you reflect for a moment on one time themselves. ers. when you put all your efforts into a 
As a government major I have lis­When this day is over, one ticket will task. tened to many distinguished profes­ascend to the office of student body The most wonderful feeling is know­sors and scholars discuss elections in president/vice president, hut there ing that other people found value in a variety of contexts. A number of my will not he five losing tickets. The your contribution. Don't let numbers professors have addressed the signifi­power of that one vote can give any interfere with expression. Support. cance of the vote. "One vote," they student, person or candidate the sup­Confirm. Create. Your vote is what have said, "does not matter." port they need to realize that their will turn students into leaders. According to their views, which I contribution was valuable. Having Thank you also to everyone who has highly respect, the only case where a worked with all six tickets in this worked so hard to make this election vote matters is when an election is year's election. l have realized the the success it has been. I can't believe decided by only one vote. Statistically quality of the student body here in a I will actually regain my social life this speaking, I suppose that this is indeed way I never experienced before. weekend. Most importantly though, correct. Everyone who has run this year has thank you to the 12 candidates who 
However, as a social science major been truly committed to serving stu­participated in this year's election. and in the spirit of election day here dents to the best of their abilities. Your diverse range of backgrounds, at Notre Dame, I would like to offer a Though they can not all win this elec­ideas and modes of creativity has varying perspective to the Notre Dame tion, they have demanded the respect reinspired my faith in the future. You student body. of Notre Dame students for the efforts all have much to be proud of. 
A vote is not limited to its numerical they have made in order to offer you a value. A vote, to begin with, is an choice. We are all privileged to have John Bauters expression. Whether you vote for a this choice today. I have no doubt that junior candidate because they are your best the candidates in this year's election Keenan Hall friend, because you believe in their will all leave Notre Dame and con tin-. February 14, 200 I 
Complaining just for sake of it 
DILBERT 


SCOTT ADAMS 
IN OTHER WORDS, 
YOU TORTURE 
FISH FOP. 'FUN . 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It's all right letting yourselfgo, as long as you can get yourself back." 
Mick Jagger musician 

Another issue of The Observer. another batch of startling philosophical insights into the human psyche. Needless to say, I await each new Viewpoint section of The Observer with breathless anticipation, because, as a typical Notre Dame student, I'm utterly incapable of believing anything that hasn't been handed down to me by the Church or the Administration. 
The Feb. 14 Observer certainly didn't disappoint in this respect. Let's recap, shall we? Don't break parietals, women shouldn't wear revealing clothing. students shouldn't have sex, nobody's signing our damn petition and the Keenan Revue is "harmful." Does that about cover everything? 
And I'm paying how much a year to attend school with you people? Instead, I'd like to propose a few different suggestions for improving life here on campus. I didn't get any of these suggestions from Sunday Mass or a ResLife meeting, but maybe that's why they're so useful. 
Assert your independence. This isn't Bible Camp, this is training and experience for the real world. And if it's not, I'm wasting my time and money here. 
Wear clothing that you like. clothing that makes you feel good about yourself. Don't let anybody tell you differently or project their insecurities onto you -ever. 
Be with the person you love and don't let society or this school dictate the details of your relationship. Make your own decisions because you want to make them, not because du Lac is threatening you with possible expulsion. 
Think for yourself. 
Choose your battles wisely. Not every little thing needs to be offensive. Realize that everybody has different tastes and stop trying to create wars in order to make up for the general air of boredom and apathy on this campus. 
Most of the time, the best course of action is to simply live and let live. Deal with it. 
And finally. there's a big difference between trying to seriously open up important lines of discussion and simply complaining for the sake of complaining. A lot of my new letter-writing buddies in the Viewpoint section need to fig­ure this out. 
And yes, that does make this letter hypocritical. Thanks for asking. 
Jeremy Slater 
senior off-campus February 14, 200 I 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Thursday, February l S, 2001 BSERVER page l l 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Valentine's Day is a good day for the vagina 
I wi_ll n~ver forget ~his time last year ~qually proud of Saint Mary's for bring-to shock the system, shock the school, the first time it came to campus, per­walkmg mto my residence hall and mg such a unique and emotional event and force people out of their comfort haps this letter would not have needed noticing the huge sign on the door to campus. zone. to be written. spelling out the word "vagina" in bright However. l along with many others did On the cover of Marie Claire magazine You cannot shock people into aware­bold letters. Shocked and a little dis-not approve of how the event was publi-this month, the feature story is about ness. Last year. the show should have turbed, as many were, I proceeded to go cized. I was accused of not being com-Ensler's effort. Their shirts said V-Day. been the center of attention, unfortu­to class and passed numerous women fortable with my body and it's terminol-The "V" could stand for Valentine. nately, it was not and now there is a with T-shirts on that said on the front ogy because I disagreed with how Violence, or Vagina. Perhaps these price to pay. "V-A-G-1-N-A," on the back were the advertising was mishandled. I find it words are not so different. This is the words, "It's coming." It was only later offensive that when people disagree, core of what the Vagina Monologues Kimmi Martin that I found out what all of this about. they are accused of being unable to deal represent. Putting an end to violence class of '00 
The Vagina Monologues. The concept with controversial topics. I had the through love. What better day than February 12, 200 l is wonderful, I applaud Eve Ensler for experience of seeing such a wonderful Valentine's Day? Ilad the promoters of creating such a fantastic idea, and I am opportunity evolve into people wanting The Vagina Monologues emphasized this 
Finding the folly in parietals 
On Saturday night. I went to a party with a lady friend of mine. Rather than get sloppy like most of the other partygoers, we left the party and went back to my room to watch some Austin Powers. We got back to my room a little after one in the morning. We started watching the movie, and then all of a sudden. the lights went out; the lights in the hallway that is. Turning off the hallway lights is the inter­campus symbol that boys and girls are no longer allowed to play together. At this point, Dr. Evil had not even expressed the inconsequential details of his lil'e and 1 realized something that a lot ol' students have probably noticed at this same time: Parietals suck. 
Bather than just complain about these rules that we are subject to during our stay on campus, I would like Lo propose a challenge. I want someone to actu­ally explain why we have parietals. I will not take any answer referring to tradition seriously, because as the renovation of the stadium recently showed, traditions can change. I would like to hear all about the benefits of parietals from an objective perspec­tive. I will soon stake my claim as to why I feel we do not need parietals, but l am willing to consider the opinions of others. So. if you are a student, faculty member, member of the administration or have any connection to the Notre Dame family, I propose to you that you use this forum of free press to contra­dict the argument that I will explain. 
Du Lac states that parietals are instituted in order 

to "foster the personal and social development of 
residence hall students and at the same time respond 
to the safety, security, and privacy needs of students 
sharing common living space." This is obviously the 
reasoning that the administration will give for 
enforcing parietals. As for the personal and social 
development section of this reasoning, I feel that 
parietals most likely inhibit the personal and social 
development of Notre Dame students. This is one of 
the largest reasons that this campus suffers from 
strained gender relations. 
Based on this past weekend, I would say that tak• 
ing my friend back to her dorm rather than hanging 
out with her clearly did not foster our relationship. 

Telling someone to go home usually is not the best 
way to strengthen a relationship. Cutting off these 
male-female relations probably also leads to some 
personal development problems. Some guys just do 
not know how to interact with women, due in part to 
the shadow cast on this campus by parietals. Some 
examples could be the freshman down the hall from 
me who scorned his SYR date (before even meeting 
her) in favor of a case of beer, the guys who just look 
to gel as much action as possible before two a.m. 
and Zahm. Obviously, this also works for women who 
arc not good at relationships with men. 
As for the safety, security and privacy of resi­
dence hall students. I also think this is a bogus argu­
ment. First of all, our school is one of the safest in 
the country. Most people feel extremely safe on this 
campus, and it has little to do with parietals. Dorms 
are locked at night, or in some cases, 24 hours a day, 
and we have a great security/police department. I 
will grant the fact that some girls may feel unsafe, 
for whatever reason. knowing that there are guys in 
their dorm overnight. I don't think this should be a 
big worry. because of the ethical standards of our 
university and the idea that someone can do the 
same thing at five at night as they can at five in the 
morning. But I will address this further when I dis­cuss how we can survive without parietals. 

As for privacy. I do not think that there should be a difference if the opposite sex or the same sex sur­rounds someone, because we have little privacy in these close quarters anyway. As for me personally, I don't think guys can clah~ that having girls in their dorm would restrict them from walking around naked. basically because they shouldn't be walking around the dorm naked any­way. Seriously. I don't want to see that. Besides, we have cleaning ladies walking around the dorm well before parietals are over. There seems to be no problem of lost privacy or safety in this case. 
One of the more popular reasons that most students feel we have pari• etals is to pre­vent us from having sex. As we all know, having sex is reason enough to kick us out of the University. because of Catholic stan­dards (which, by the way, I feel is unfair to non• , 
1

Catholics who have different beliefs). First of all, as I said before. people can do the same thing at live at night as they can at five in the morning. 
Secondly, many Notre Dame students do not feel casual sex is acceptable. 
Finally, if the good Catholic students are being good Catholic boys and girls, then they will not even think of having sex. 
My argument is not based on sex though. I just feel that we would be better off having the opportunity to extend relations with the opposite sex for as far into the night as we see fit, without leaving the comfort of our own room. If my roommates and I want to finish watching the second tape or Braveheart with some of our female friends, we should be able to. If my roommate wants to sleep beside his girlfriend, then he should be allowed to experience that great feeling, as a consenting adult. If I want to have my sister come visit me without get­ting her a hotel room, I should be able to. 
Some clear objections come ·10 mind immediately. so I will try to tackle them and save some people the effort of writing their opinions to The Observer. First of all, some may argue that they would. in fact, lose their privacy if parietals didn't exist. For example, one might say, "How would you feel if your room­mate kicked you out so his girlfriend can sleep over?" I think this is a case where roommates can install their own sets of parietals. That is, they should have the say over who sleeps in their room, 
not the administration. Other objections would be based around life without parietals. If the administration feels they are such a necessity, then maybe they could still keep some rules. For example, if they feel that girls' dorms will be drastically more dangerous for its resi­dents, then maybe they could have parietals in girls' dorms still. I would be greatly against this also. but limited freedom is better than lack of freedom. Maybe the 
most plausible way would be having sign-ins on the weekends, as most 
women's dorms do. The only difference is that you would not have to 
worry about getting kicked out of school if you don't sign out until the next morning. 
I realize that some people do like having parietals. In a poll taken last year. the same number of peo­ple wanted to keep 
parietals as those who wanted to merely extend them. But. I am afraid that not enough people are truly thinking about this situation. Too many stu­dents are just accepting 
that parietals are here whether we like it or not. Some abide by them, some 
break them. l just think we shouldn't have them. We 

shouldn't have to live in !'ear of getting kicked out of school just for hanging out with a friend of the oppo­
site sex. I realize it is going to be extremely hard to get changes made, but 
as I stated earlier, my goal for now is to just raise awareness. I want to have an open, intellectual conversation on this topic (that means not calling me names because you disagree with me, or criticizing my grammar). If I just get people to think about pari­etals and question the need for them, then I will be satisfied. for now. So, to all those in the Notre Dame family, take serious consideration on this topic, and then tell me, what are parietals good for? I say absolutely nothing. 
Thomas Pariso 
junior off-campus February 14, 200 I 
M 
cene E 
page 12 

Thursday, February 15, 2001 
'Gladiator,' 'Tiger' lead Oscar nominations 
Associated Press 
The Academy Award nominations were announced Tuesday morning, and the sword and sandals epic "Gladiator" led the pack with a total of 12 nods. Here's a rundown of the major categories: 
Best Picture 
"Chocolat" "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" "Erin Brockovich" "Gladiator" "Traffic" 
Best Actor 
Javier Bardem, "Before Night Falls" Russell Crowe, "Gladiator" Tom Hanks. "Cast Away" Ed Harris, "Pollock" Geoffrey Rush, "Quills" 
Best Actress 
Joan Allen, "The Contender" Juliette Binoche, "Chocolat" Ellen Burstyn, "Requiem For a Dream" Laura Linney, "You Can Count On Me" Julia Roberts, "Erin Brockovich" 
Best Supporting Actor 
Jeff Bridges, "The Contender" Willem Dafoe, "Shadow of the Vampire" Benicia Del Toro, "Traffic" Albert Finney, "Erin Brockovich" Joaquin Phoenix, "Gladiator" 
Best Supporting Actress 
Judi Dench, "Chocolat" Marcia Gay Harden, "Pollock" Kate Hudson, "Almost Famous" Frances McDormand, "Almost Famous" Julie Walters, "Billy Elliot" 

Best Director 
Stephen Daldry, "Billy Elliot" . Ang Lee, "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" Ridley Scott, "Gladiator" Steven Soderbergh, "'Erin Brockovich" Steven Soderhergh, "Traffic" 
Best Adapted Screenplay 
"Chocolat," Robert Nelson Jacobs "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," Wang Hui Ling, James Schamus, Tsai Kuo Jung "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" Joel Coen, Ethan 
Coen "Traffic," Steven Gaghan "Wonder Boys," Steven Kloves 
Best Original Screenplay 
"Almost Famous," Cameron Crowe "Billv Elliot," Lee Hall "Erin Brockovich." Susanna Grant "Gladiator," David Pranzone, John Logan, William 
Nicholson "You Can Count On Me," Kenneth Lonergan 
Best Cinematography 
"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" "Gladiator" "Malena" "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" "The Patriot" 
Best Foreign Language Film 
"Amores Perros," Mexico "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," Taiwan "Divided We Fall," Czech Republic "Everybody Famous!" Belgium "The Taste of Others," France 
The winners will be announced on Sunday, March 25, during the annual Oscar telecast. 

MOVIE REVIEW 

Hopkins is on the loose in 'Hannibal' 
ByV. VAN BUREN GILES Scene Movie Critic 
"Hello, Oariiice." Yep, he's back again and this time he's not just a bit player. The new Ridley Scott film "Hannibal," based on Thomas Harris's novel of the same name, was the big winner at the box office this weekend as people flocked to the theater to get a taste, so to speak, of the chilling can­nibalistic psychiatrist that terrified audi­ences in 1991's "The Silence of the Lambs." 

Anthony Hopkins returns to the role that made him a household name, playing the disturbed, but extremely learned psy­chopath, Hannibal Lecter. 
Commonly misunderstood as a sequel, "Hannibal" is actually the third installment in the psychological drama series that has turned the highly intelligent, but mon­strously dangerous doctor into a cultural icon. Director Michael Mann's "Manhunter" was based on Harris' first Hannibal novel, "Red Dragon." In that film, Brian Cox portrayed Hannibal as we see him in "Silence:" imprisoned and playing 

mind games with federal agents hot on the open for Moore. Gary Oldman ("J.F.K.," trail of serial killer. 'The Professional") is uncredited as the 
The premise of "Hannibal," however, is repulsive Mason Verger and Ray Liotta that Lecter has been on the loose for quite ("Goodfellas") is Starling's superior at the some time and has fallen out of public F.B.I. view, and off the F.B.I.'s Audiences should know Ten Most Wanted List. But "Hannibal" that the psychotic doctor Clarice Starling remem­does not make his grand 
bers the good doctor all too 
entrance until thirty min­well. Thanks to encounters utes into the film. What's with the doctor at the great about "Hannibal" is 
out offive shamrocks 
Baltimore behavioral insti­that people take pleasure tute, she was able to cap­in rooting for the bad guy. 
Director: Ridley Scott 
ture the notorious serial We get to see him mingle 
killer "Buffalo Bill." Starring: Anthony Hopkins, in society, perfectly at Another person who ease and refined in man­
Julianne Moore, Ray Liotta and 
remembers Hannibal is 
Gary Oldman

one of Dr. Lecter's old patients: Mason Verger, a filthy rich, but emotionally unstable sophis­ticate who was tortured and horribly dis­figured on one of the doctors visits. Verger has the connections and the bankroll to track Hannibal to the corners of the earth in hopes of someday settling the score. 
Since escaping Washington, D.C., Dr. Lecter has made his way to Florence, Italy and has assumed the identity of a museum curator named Dr. Fell. The doctor seems at ease in the artistic and social grandeur that Florence offers. Bnt it is not long before Inspector Pazzi (Giancarlo Gianinni) of the police department figures out the real identity of the deranged doctor. He must now decide if the doctor's apprehen­sion is a federal matter, .or if he should claim the million-dollar reward. 
Julianne Moore ("Boogie Nights") is new to the role of Special Agent Clarice Starling. Jodie Foster won an Academy Award for her performance as Starling but opted out of "Hannibal," leaving the door 
ner. This is the greatest 
effect of Ridley Scott's 
movie as before we only understood the caged animal in "Silence," and now we get to observe the monster running loose around the world. 
As a whole, "Hannibal" L-, not as good as its precursors. Readers of the book should know that the ending is different, which is a real blessing having personally laid out the $27.95 for the hardcover edition. This is one of few recent films that really makes the most out of the 'R' rating. Those who have difficulty sitting through films like "Psycho" or "Rosemary's Baby" will most assuredly loose their lunch. 
It's difficult to name a movie murderer who brings as much style and grace to his gruesome craft as Hannibal Lecter (he quotes Dante and frequents the opera). He even makes the simple feat of licking an envelope into a menacing act. The real scare of Hannibal is not his artistic nature in which he disembowels his victims, but rather his savagery in exploiting human weakness.
Anthony Hopkins returns to the role of Dr. Hannibal Lecter in Ridley Scott's newest film, "Hannibal," also starring Julianne Moore as Clarice Starling. 
M 
c~ne E ­
Thursday, February 15, 2001 page 13 
MOVIE FEATURE 

By MATT NANIA 
ScC'n<' MuviC" Ediror 
The success of Martin Scorsese's stunning Mafia epic "Goodfollas" is twofold. First, he makes a strong argument fur why a gangster's life of crime and violence would be so tantalizing to the film's central character; and secondly, he portrays how that life paid olT for a while, but eventually led to his self destruction and the destruction of all those around him. Indeed. the film's main strength lies in Scorsese's ability to make the Mafia life completely appeal­ing and completely repulsive at the same time. 
"Goodfcllas" tells the true story of Henry Hill (Hay Liotta), a lifetime gangster who is now an anonymous sub­urban r<1sident in the government's witness relocation pro­gram. Ile told his story to journalist Nicholas Pileggi, who worked with Scorsese in adapting the book "Wiseguy: Ufe in a Mafia Family" for the screen. 
An Irish-Italian kid who grew up in the_ streets of New York, llenry watched all the gangsters on his block get everything. In his narration, he describes how they could park in front of fire hydrants and not get tickets, and stay up all night playing cards, and no one ever called and complained. 
Henry quickly found a way to get into the lifestyle: run­ning odd jobs for Paulie (Paul Sorvino). the neighborhood boss. At 14, Henry proved his worth, and soon he was skipping school on a regular basis, and making the Mafia hl'i full-time job. When his father found out he had been skipping school, his Malia buddies took care of the situa­tion by beating the tar out of the mailman who delivered tho school's letter. When Ilenry got pinched selling stolen cigarettes, all the Mafiosos met him outside the courthouse with open arms, proud or him {or "taking it like a man." All these scenes work intricately together to show how the lifestyle was irresistible to a young kid from a blue-collar family. Ile was a part of something important, and he didn't see how it could ever go bad. 
By the time he was 21, Henry was a full-time member, along with his buddy Tommy (Joe Pesci), and the older, sly Jimmy Conway (Hobert De Niro). Everything in life was sweet because he had power and respect, even though he was really just a middleman. According to Henry, "Anything I wanted was a phone call away." This was the life he led. and he admits that he and the rest of the Mafiosos thought that living any other way was "nuts." 
llenry met and married a Jewish girl named Karen (Lorraine Bracco). who was naively enthralled with his power and money. Their marital bliss was short, as Henry tend1id to stay out all night engaging in various criminal and extramarital activities. Karen caught on soon because 

Photo courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures Jimmy (OeNiro, left) and Henry (Liotta) sit down for a talk In Martin Scorsese's "Goodfellas." 
Henry didn't do much to hide his transgressions. She quickly understood that she was left behind with the kids and the cooking while Henry was out taking full advantage of the lifestyle. 
After enticing the audience with everything that Henry and his partners have, it is the wrecking ball Scorsese throws at us that sets this apart from all its rehashes. As we see how quickly things can go wrong, and, in fact, how nothing was ever truly secure in the first place, we begin to see exactly where Martin Scorsese was going with the film. This is not necessarily a propaganda picture for crime, but a condemnation of the things that make it so mesmerizing. The flash of the guns, the unending cash flow. everything is dependent on throwing your life into an oblivion that will, almost certainly, lead to your death. 
In its two and a half hour running time, "Goodfellas" covers a lot of ground. It digs deep into its characters, whether that be Henry's inability to know where to draw the line, the confusion and frustrations of his wife, or the random psychotic impulses of Tommy, who is just as capa­ble of telling a hilarious joke as shooting someone in cold blood for no reason. Every actor in this film is in top form, easily conveying their characters' changing attitudes as situations around them evolve and decline over three decades. 
Scorsese is at his best in the most intense moments. There is no pulpy delusion that any of this is glorified. The violence is raw and sickening, and it doesn't discriminate. These characters lead a violent life, and they receive just as much as they dish out. And anyone can murder anyone else. Loyalty is an illusion, and betrayal is an everyday part of life. 
As a cinematic experience, "Goodfellas" is a feast for the eyes and oars .. Scorsese punctuates the action and period clothing with a searing soundtrack of rock songs. Ever since Robert DeNiro made his entrance in "Mean Streets" to the sound of The Holling Stones' "Jumpin' Jack Flash," Scorsese has been known as a director who makes good use of musical cues. Nostalgia for the good old times is illustrated with easy-listening 1950s pop songs, while depression, paranoia and bad times find their expression in more neurotic rock songs of the late 1960s and 1970s. 
But the soundtrack is most effective when it is used as ironic comment: easy listening tunes make a strong emo­tional contrast to the scenes of violence and bloodshed. With the use of an ironic soundtrack, "Goodfellas," when it first came out in 1990, represented the new standards of black humor that would became very popular a few years later during the Tarantino era. 
Scorsese also uses incredibly deft camerawork. utilizing cranes, dollies, and zooms as welJ as a finely paced editing style that crams in volumes of information without being confusing. One scene in particular follows Henry and Karen from the street as they enter the back of a club, walk through the rear hallways, through the kitchen, and wind their way through the club around waiters and patrons, finally taking a seat and having a conversation. It's an incredible, unbroken steadi-cam shot several min­utes long that rivals the opening of Orson Welle's "Touch ofEvil." 
Logistics aside, "Goodfellas" is an unforgettable movie experience simply because of the pure passion Scorsese embeds in every frame. You can feel the screen pulsating with emotions. whether it'd be anger or greed or joy or paranoia. In the last third of the film, Scorsese alters the plot structure by taking us through a day in the life of Henry Hill when he is at his lowest, attempting to pull off a cocaine deal, trade guns, and cook dinner for his family, all while snilling half his profil5, and sweating in paranoia that a helicopter is following him. Everything about the sequence, from the editing to the acting to the pacing, is an example of filmmaking at its very finest. 

Top Five Memorable Quotes from uGoodfellas" 
1. 
"As far back as I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster." -Henry Hill 

2. 
"But, rmfunny how? Funny like a clown? 


I amuse you? I make you laugh? rm here to f----n' amuse you?" -Tommy 
3. "One day the kids from the neighborhood carried my mothers groceries all the way 
home. You know why? It was outta respect." -Henry, voice-over 
4. "Sure, mom, I settle down with a nice girl 
every night, then rm free the next morning." -Tommy 
5. "Today everything is different ... I have to wait around like everyone else ... rm an 
average nobody. I get to live the rest ofmy life like a schnook." -Henry Hill 
Scorsese manages to create a vision which is effective and complete despite being full of contradictions that would have ripped the film apart in the hands of a less tal­ented filmmaker. The world depicted in "Goodfellas" is both ordinary and fascinating. Scorsese spares no effort in showing us all the violence, hypocrisy and inherent para­noia of organized crime, yet it manages to make it both seductive and funny. After being exposed to two and half hours of the film and three decades of criminal history. the audience understands why the characters chose such dan­gerous life paths, trading tho superficial and short-lasting glamour and prosperity of' a criminal to the dullness and poverty of honest citizens. 
Despite the ambitious narrativ11 and activ<1 pace. Scorsese does not rush the story. I le has never directed with as much assurance, expertly blending narration. period music, and his own dynamic tableaux (quick, jerky zooms into faces signal an almost telepathic communica­tion between characters), to create an energetic. darkly funny, and unforgettable portrait of life among the Mob's bottom feeders. 
Many critics agree that Scorsese's 'Taxi Driver" was the best film of the '70s, and "Raging Bull" the bllst of the '80s. Somehow I have the feeling that several years from now, many will be making strong arguments that "Goodfellas" was one of the best of the '90s, if not the best. It is. in a word, brilliant. 
page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 2001 
-
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame signs four to play for Class of 2005 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer program has signed a diversely-talented group of four high school seniors to national letters of 
intent, as announced today by head coach R a n d y Waldrum. 
T h e signees include mid-

fielder/def-Waldrum ender Mary Boland (Hudson, Ohio), forward Candace Chapman (Ajax, Ontario), defender Gudrun Gunnarsdottir (Seltjarnames, Iceland) and midfielder Reagan Jones (Tampa, Fla.). Boland was named a high school All-American after lead­ing Hudson High School to the Ohio state title (she scored twice 

in the final six minutes of that 2­1 win) and Jones is a leading scorer for one of the nation's top club teams, Blackwatch Stirling (both players attended the Notre Dame Soccer Camp during the summer of 2000). while Chapman has starred for Canada's under-18 national team and Gunnarsdottir is a starter with Iceland's up-and­coming national team. 
Notre Dame is set to return 13 of its top 17 players from the 2000 squad that spent most of the season ranked No. 1, advanced to the NCAA semifinals and finished with a fmal record of 23-1-1. The team's losses include its top two scorers and four total starters. led by mid­fielder and consensus national player ofthe year Anne Makinen (14 goals-15 assists in 2000; Notre Dame's fourth all-time leading scorer with 63G-56A). 
Forward Meotis Erikson (l3G­12A; ND's seventh all-time lead­ing scorer with 58G-41A) like­wise has moved on as a hopeful entry in the fledgling Women's United Soccer Association while two-year team captain Kelly Lindsey and Kerri Bakker are set to graduate after helping anchor the 2000 Irish defense that led the nation with an 0.39 goals-against average. 
"By losing four starters from every position but goalkeeper, we had some clearcut goals in assembling this class and we feel that we met those goals by adding four talented players who will fit well inio our system," said Waldrum, whose squad also anticipates the addition of for­ward Melissa Tancredi-a former member of Canada's under-18 national team who missed all of her freshman season at Notre Dame in 2000 due to an ACL injury. 
"We essentially view Melissa Tancredi as part of this newcom­er group and she will combine with Candace and our returning forwards to provide tremendous quickness and athleticism to our offense. Overall, we have added significantly to our team speed and should provide fans with a very attractive style of soccer . Our basic goal was to match up better athletically with the other top teams while still maintaining the high level of soccer skill that has characterized past Notre Dame teams. 
"fn the midfield, we know that there is no way to replace a player of Anne's ability but at this point we anticipate moving (sophomore-to-be) Randi Scheller into that attacking mid­fielder role. Reagan Jones is the type of player that can provide solid depth for us in the midfield and she has the playmaking and distribution skills that are so important to our system of three central-based midfielders. 
"Mary Boland is a player who could make an impact at any position on the field and we arc excited to see where she can be most effective in the fall. And Gudrun seems to be a natural addition at the central defender position, due to her speed, height (5-9), ability to read the game well and that intangible quality that comes from playing internationally against some of the top forwards in the world." 
Notre Dame returns three players with starting experience at forward Uunior-to-be Ali Lovelace and rising sophomores Amy Warner and Amanda Guertin) while senior-to-be Mia Sarkesian and rising junior Ashley Dryer return to lead the midfield. Battle-tested Monica Gonzalez is expected to return at the left outside back position while senior-to-be Lindsey Jones will be back on the other side, with rising junior Vanessa Pruzinsky likely to return in 2001 at a central defender spot. Goalkeeper Liz Wagner will head into her senior season after leading the nation in 2000 with an 0.39 season GAA. 
MLB 

Sirotka injures throwing shoulder, unsure of future 
passed one. Toronto physical, a two weeks from now or six Andrews suggested to him that "(Compensation) is not some­Associated Press 
second test showed a possible months from now," Ash said. Sirotka will be able to pitch this th ing we will entertain," torn labrum so the Blue Jays "That is not what we thought year, though he'll probably Williams said. "So moving for­
CHICAGO 

sent him to Dr. James Andrews, were getting. start the season two ·weeks late. ward, let's get this to the com­
The team doctors, the special­a specialist, for an independent "The honorable thing would "Boy, I hate this, because I missioner's office as soon asists, the Toronto Blue Jays and 
opinion. be to recognize that and pro­really wanted to be above the possible so we can put this all the Chicago White Sox all agree On a day of dueling news con­vide adequate compensation." he-said, she-said type of thing," behind us. I look forward to it." 
Mike Sirotka has some prob­ferences, the Blue Jays said No way, Williams said. Not said Williams, whose anger was Selig's staff could do several lems in his throwing shoulder. 

Andrews' examination showed when the White Sox are getting evident despite his calm things, including rescinding the Anything beyond that -how Sirotka has a partial tear of the a different story from Andrews. demeanor. "But I've been trade. But that's probably not badly he's hurt, when he'll be rotator cuff and a torn labrum Williams has maintained all reduced to that, and I resent going to happen, said Mets gen­able to pitch again, who owes in his left shoulder. Andrews along that Sirotka's injury is the that. eral manager Steve Phillips. 
what and whether David Wells 

isn't recommending surgery same problem that's caused "I believe we're back to The Mets were interested in 
will be wearing a White Sox now, but the Blue Jays said the him to start slowly the last two where we started from. I do not Wells before the White Sox 

uniform this year -is still 

specialist calls the 29-year-old seasons. And according to team feel as though compensation of stunned everyone with their unknown. 
a "long-term surgical candi­physician Dr. James Boscardin, any sort is entitled," he said. deal. 
Commissioner Bud Selig and date." Andrews' examination supports "According to Dr. Boscardin's "It's caveat emptor," Phillipshis staff probably will be the 

While Sirotka could still pitch that. Boscardin said in a state­conversation with Dr. Andrews, said from the Mets training ones to settle this mess. this season, Toronto general ment that Andrews told him this has played out. I've had camp in Port St. Lucie, Fla. "I 
"This is starting to appear as manager Gord Ash said that Sirotka has normal "wear in enough. This is a dead issue." think that we'll just kind of sit 

if it's some sad soap opera," 

doesn't matter. They didn't get the rotator cuff and possibly the But Ash isn't going to let it go back and watch what happensWhite Sox general manager the pitcher they thought they labrum." That .doesn't neces­that easily. He's giving Williams with that. We like our club and Ken Williams said Wednesday. were getting, and he wants the sarily mean surgery, and until the end of the week to wouldn't suspect there would 
Sirotka was traded to the White Sox to pay up to make it Boscardin said Andrews told reach some sort of agreement, be anything that would happenBlue Jays on Jan. 14 as part of all better. him there's a "70 to 80 percent or he'll ask Selig's office to set­with that situation that would a six-player deal that sent Wells "This is a player that has sig­chance" Sirotka won't need it. tle it. change what we look like for to the White Sox. Though he nificant concerns, whether it's ln fact, Boscardin said Go ahead. Williams said. the season." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edit all classifieds for contenc without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls &  2 Houses, side by side, still avail.  $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$  PHONE CARDS  Hey room 303 alumni • we've had  
TICKETS  Nag Hammadi Codices Research: www.geocities.com:80/Athens/Rho  For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V•  Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­veyl www.money4opinions.com  $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR·  enough of your procrastinating. You have one week to face us in a  
desf7031 /deadsea html  ball. W/0, prime location, 233-9947  CHARGE  game of taboo or else you forfeit,  
Greg  Full time Ph.D. student research fel­ or  which we of course wouldn't blame  
NEED EITHER 1 OR 2 TIX  lowships are available in the Cell  $20  you tor, since you are going to lose  
.  FOR MEN"S BB OR BOSTON COLLEGE  FOR RENT  CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW VISITORS OR OTHER SMC/ND  and Molecular Physiology Graduate Program of Loyola University  362 MIN WITH NO FEES  to the pang quad anyway  
PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 246-9085.  EVENTS: Why not reserve ­ clos- Chicago. Research areas include  634-1146 CLAUDIA  Good luck on the orgo test every•  
THANKS.  3-5 bedroom homes  est to ND -afully furnished condo  ion channel molecular biology, bio•  634-421 0 SARA  one!! especially that studious girl  
close to campus  containing kitchen with refrigerator,  physics and biochemistry, cardiac  Becky Nelson  
WANTED: t GA ticket for men's BC  232-2595  microwave, disposal, dishware,  electrophysiology, calcium dynam­ 
8-ball game. Call Jim 234-7228.  mmmrentals@aol.com  laundry facility and fireplace on the corner of Ivy Rd. & Edison Rd?  ics and excitationcontraction cou­piing; signal transduction, neuro- PERSONAL  I luv you Kristin and Kate and Lauren and I'll miss you bunches  
Two tickets for 6.coVseton mens  "BED AND BREAKFAST" in private  Available for extended stay or for  physiology, and neural and immune  next year  
basketball game. Tel. Gerry  home for JPW & Graduation  weekends. Contact Unicom  components of trauma and injury  My blue coat and I are evidently  
2471051  Weekends; 3 bdrms w/private bath  Management at 219-232-1242 for  biology, Applications are sought  from Bavaria.CU  Hey mark smeraglinolo -hope that  
in lovely neighborhood 1 Omin. from  assistance or leave message on the  from individuals motivated to  "AHer hoehere Humor beginnt  you are feeling better!  
campus. 234-2626.  reservations line 219-273-IVYND  become biomedical research scien­ damit, dass man die eigene Person  
LOST AND FOUND  (4896)  tists. See our web page at www.meddean.luc.edu/lumen/Dept  nicht zu ernst nimmt."  Zack. you are a great older broth· er.and Mary, you are a great older  
NICE HOME NORTH OF ND  Webs/PHYSIO or contact Dr.  sister • but you guys would be even  
GOOD AREA FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  FOR SALE  Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch School of  Hello Katie Metzi, my valentine Happy day after our one year  better if you were to bring me a milkshake  
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED:  2TT-3097  Medicine, Loyola University  anniversary! Without Mario we  
For a lost gold and silver bracelet  BRONCO II  Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue,  would never be as close as we are  chubby rain lives  
with alternating silver and gold  All the good houses are not gone!  5spd  Maywood IL 60153.  now!  
blockS, if found please contact  Available 4 bedroom. Available 2  $1000 obo  look out,  
Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email  bedroom. Dave 291-2209  Telephone (708) 327-2470,  Make sure that you all ask Hoagie  
phillips.75@nd.edu  macos@michiana.org  4-3472  E-mail: sjones@lumc.edu  about her new nickname  the Nigerian nightmare is comingl  

Thursday, February 15, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Girlfight and The 6th Day 2/15 Thursday 2/16 Friday 2/17 Saturday 
The Best of Acousticafe 2/15 Thursday 
Nazz 2001 applications available 2/16 Friday 101 & 155 De Bartolo 101 & 155 DeBartolo 101 & 155 De Bartolo 

LaFortune 
SUB office, LaFortune 
MISCELLANEDU§/CAMPU§-WIDE 
Junior Parents Weekend 2/15-2/18 Thursday-Sunday 
Swedish Radio Orchestra: Verdi's Requiem 
2/15  Thursday  
Blak Koffee House  
2/16  Friday  

Movie: "The Eyes of Tammy Faye Baker" 2/16 Friday 2/17 Saturday 
SMC Presents: "Dancers' Palette" 2/16 Friday 2/17 Saturday 
Notre Dame Jazz Bands 2/17 Saturday 
Men's ND Basketball vs. Seton Hall 2/18 Sunday O'Laughlin Auditorium 

LaFortune Ballroom 
Snite Snite 
Little Theatre Little Theatre 
Washington Hall 
JACC 
Speaker: Charles Ramirez Berg, U. of TX -Austin 

2/19  Monday  McKenna Hall  
Open Swing Dance 2/19  Monday  LaFortune Ballroom  
Freshman & Sophom2/19 2/20  ore Career Night Monday. Tuesday  Zahm Hall Lounge Zahm Hall Lounge  

Sophomore Class Pre-game Dinner for Women's ND Basketball 2/20 Tuesday 
The Actors from the London Stage: "The Winter's Tale" 2/21 Wednesday Washington Hall 2/22 Thursday • Washington Hall 
Bengal Bouts Preliminaries 2/22 Thursday JACC 
CAMPUS DANCE§ AND EVENT§ 
1030PM Tickets: $2 0B00PM & 1030PM 0800PM & 1030PM 

0900PM-1200AM 
for bands and solo performers 
0800PM 
0800-1030PM 
0730PM & 0945PM 0730PM & 0945PM 
0800PM 0800PM 
0230PM 
0200PM 
0400PM 
0700PM 0700PM 
0600-0?00PM 
0730PM 0730PM 
DANCES 
3/03: Stanford, Lewis 3/24: Morrissey 3/31 : Sophomore Class Ball 4/07: Alumni Wake, Lewis Crush 4/20: Sorin 4/21: Walsh Formal 4/06: Alumni's Processional, 4-7PM 

4/07: Lewis Chicken Run, 4-7PM 
4/20: Badin Block Party, 4-7PM 
4/27: Howard Concert, South Quad, 4-7PM 
4/28: Fisher Regatta, 2-5PM, Pangborn/Fisher Dance 
EVENTS 3/30: McGlinn Casino Night 4/01 : St. Ed's Spring Fling 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Dame_ sweeps weekend with wins 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
It was a great weekend for Notre Dame women's tennis as they went 3-0 and will most like­ly move into the top ten this week. The Irish lost only one team point as they defeated Virginia Tech 7-0 on Friday, 8th ranked Wake l<orest 5-0 on Saturday, and North Carolina 6­1. 
The weekend was once again highlighted by the play of Michelle Dasso as she improved her career record to 121-31 on victory shy of a record set just last year by Kelly Zalinski. Dasso lead the way for the Irish in No. 1 doubles and singles and did not lose a match the entire weekend. The third ranked all-American is on a role this spring after impressive performances at each tournament and is very impor­tant to the Irish squad in team competition. 
"She's a huge asset to the team, she really gets us going and I don't think we would be the same without her," said Dasso's doubles partner, Becky Varnum. Varnum, a junior also played well this weekend. She went undefeated in both doubles and singles at the No. 2 spot behind Dasso. 
After beating Virginia Tech on Friday the Irish prepared to take on eighth ranked Wake Forest lead by number one player in the country Bea Bielick. But to their surprise Beilick was out with bronchitis and the Deamon Deacons bad to forfeit matches at No. 3 doubles and No. 6 singles to start off. 
Notre Dame once again rallied around the play of Michelle Dasso as she won the last nine games of the No. 1 singles match and defeated 6th ranked Janet Bergman 6-1, 6-0. Kimberly Guy also continued her solid play as she and Katie Cunha Wl'apped up the doubles point with an 8-5 decision over Wake Forest's Jackie Houston and Aimee Smith and Guy later clinched the match for the Irish after a win at No. 5 singles over Smith. 

"They [Wake FQrest] had to default two matches so we. were up 2-0 right away," said junior Becky Varnum. "Everyone just played awesome and Michelle destroyed Janet Bergman at No. 1 singles." 
"We were ready to play and were really inspired to go against the eighth ranked team in the country." 
The win over the 8th ranked Deamon Deacons marks the highest ranked team the Irish have defeated since 1996 when they beat 5th ranked Texas 5-4. The Irish improve to 3-1 against the Deamon Deacons winning three ofthe last four. 
After their impressive victory on Saturday the Irish then took on a solid North Carolina team lead by No. 11 Marlene Mejia. North Carolina came out tough and surprised the Notre Dame women by winning the doubles point beating Cunha and Guy and Green and Vaughan both 8-6. 
The Irish rallied, however, sweeping the singles matches and winning 6-1. The singles play was highlighted by a 6-0, 6­1 thrashing of Marlene Mejia courtesy of Michelle Dasso and an important victory by Kimberly Guy who improved to 18-3 in sin­gles matches this year. 
"We were a little bit down after we lost the doubles point but we didn't let it ruin the rest; of the match," said Becky Varnum who defeated Kate Pinchbeck 6-2, 3­6, 7 -6 (8-6) in a tough three set tie-breaker. 
"Everyone just fought so hard whether they were winning or losing and we ended up playing really well." 
With the three victories this weekend the Irish have won five in a row and are set to break into the top ten before they travel to Wisconsin for the National Indoor Team Championships next Thursday. 
"I think we will be in the top ten," said Varnum, "but most importantly we will get a good seed next weekend at the National Indoors. our goal is to make it past the second round this year." 
Notre Dame Film. Television, and Theatra presents 
Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $1 4 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look for wins minus Talarico 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer 

The 27th-ranked Irish hit the 
road this week, hoping to fend 
off defeat at Michigan State on 
Thursday and 47th-ranked 
Kentucky on Saturday. 

Notre Dame is on the heels of 
a convincing win over Iowa last 
Sunday after falling to 5th­
ranked Duke the day before. 

The Irish improved to 5-2 
with the weekend split, and 
hope to add two more wins on 
their current road trip. 

Junior Casey Smith will con­
tinue his duties at the top of the 
Notre Dame lineup where he 
owns a 5-1 mark in singles. 
Smith picked up a huge win 
over Iowa's Tyler Cleveland on 
Sunday, and continues to be 
dominant for the Irish. 

One question mark lingering 
for Notre Dame is the status of 
No. 1 doubles player and No. 4 
singles player Aaron Talarico, 
who injured his ankle in a dou­
bles win against Iowa. Talarico 
and doubles teammate Javier 
Taborga continue to rise in the 
national doubles rankings mov­
ing from 38 to 19 this week. 
The Irish should slide by the 
Spartans without Talarico's 
help, but his absence could 
cause a struggle against 
Kentucky. 

"We don't get hurt at the bot­
tom of our lineup when some­
one is out," Notre Dame head 
coach Bob Bayliss said. "But to 
say that we won't feel the loss 
of one of our top three or four 
players, and Aaron is certainly ­
in the category, is silly. I think if 
we play well, we should be able 
to win at Michigan State with­
out him, but it would be diffi­.cult to beat Kentucky without him." Talarico's ankle might limit 
him to just the doubles portion in the respective No. 1 and No. of the matchup against 2 singles positions against Michigan State, while the ideal Western Illinois. recovery would allow him see The Wildcats are eager to get both doubles and singles action back to their home court after against the Wildcats. a challenging week on the road 
'Tm not sure about where they were defeated by Talarico's status," Bayliss said. No. 8 Illinois and upset by 
"I hope he'sok. He's a big part of our team. Onethought is maybe he'll be good enoughto play doubles a g a i n s t  "Ithinkzifweplaywell• we should be able to win at Michigan State with­out him {Talarico], but it would be difficult to beat Kentucky without him."  Harvard,but they recover:d with a shuto~t win againstB O s t o n College to  
Michigan  improve  to  
State, maybe not. And hope- Bob Bayliss  5-2 on year.  the  
fully with two  Men's head tennis coach  " w c ' r e  
more days rest  really excit­ 
he'll be able to  ed to finally  

play against Kentucky." get back home and play for our 
Despite Talarico's question-fans," Kentucky coach Dennis able status, the Irish are boast-Emery said, according to ed by the return of senior Matt Kentucky's sports information. Daly, who was inserted in the 'The support of a home crowd doubles lineup last weekend can be an incredible boost." after a long layoff due to shoul-Kentucky is headed by senior der surgery. Daly teamed up Indonesian native Edo Bawono with James Malhame at No. 3 who looks to pose a strong doubles to pick up a win challenge for Smith at No. 1 against Iowa, while the duo singles. Bawono went on an was defeated by Duke. unprecedented 12-0 run to 
"He had a fairly extensive start the fall season, while his surgery," Bayliss said. "But he string of wins included a 6-1, 6­is playing fine and hitting the 2 defeat over Smith. 
ball great." 

Notre Dame has a history of Both Michigan State and dominance against Michigan Kentucky have proven to be dif­State, having fended off the ficult locations for the Irish to Spartans since 1988. However, succeed, making a healthy Michigan State comes into the Notre Dame lineup critical to face-off against Notre Dame success. "Michigan State's riding a three match winning place is also a tough place to streak with recent victories play, which does concern me," over Western Illinois and Bayliss said. "And Kentucky is Xavier, bringing its record to 5-going to be pretty tough to beat 
1. Freshmen Eric Simonton and there. We've never beaten Chris Mitchell lead the them at Kentucky. They have a Spartans into the end of their difficult place in which to play . seven-match home stand, while We'll have to play our best to they both successfully debuted win." 
csc 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES WITH... 
ACCION 
A MJCROLENDING ORGAN/7.ATJON ASSISTING SMAU BUSINESS OWNERS WlTH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS TO IMPROVE AND BUIW THEIR BUSINESSES 
10-12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: ALBUQUERQUE CHICAGO EL PASO NEW YORK CITY SANANTONIO SAN DIEGO BENEFITS: COMPEnnvECOMPENSAnON 3 COLLEGE CREDITS HOUSING PROVIDED BUSINESS EXPERIENCE  

Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and MCOB Undergraduate Office 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 20, 2001 
INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 21 & 22 AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Thursday, February 15, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's looks to top 2001 MIAA Swimming and Diving 
By JANEL MILLER 
Sports Wrir~r 
They're young, but they're not weak. Individually, they arc a threat. Togother thoy are dan­gorous. The battleground: the 2001 Mlt\A Swimming and Diving Championships. The vic­tims; anyone who stands in their way. 
Saint Mary's swimming and diving tc,ifl will depart tbday for tlrn long awaited conference meel in Ih)p11, Mich. 
"This meet is what we have bmm \IIIOrking towards all season long. fl'his is it," said senior dis­tance swimrnnr and co-captain. Olivia Smith. 
The Bolles arc in very good contention for fourth place, according to Gretchen 1lildcbrandt, head coach. Coming off a tough regular season, the Belles are ready to face the tl1t1.ms which beat them by small margins again. Both t\lma and il\ilbion were vety close meets for the Belles, losing by one point and 12 points, respectively. 
Both swimmers and coach feel 
they can come home lo South 
Bend with a fourth place finish. 
Last year the Belles tied with 
Alma for fifth. As it looks right 
now, Hildebrandt is confident in 
their position. The swimmers are 
as well. 
"Cuach gave us each our psych 
sheets and we arc in good stand­
ings. We've highlighted the 

Alma and Afuion swimmers next fo us and we're focusing on them," said Smith. 
The . weekend kicks off Thursday morning with prelimi­nary swims. 
Smith, Megan Ramsey, and 
Candace Polisky will lead the Belles as the first individual rac­ers in the 500-yard freestyle. Hildebrandt is looking to Lhis group to set the pace. Smith. who has been battling serious shoulder problems this seasun, will enter thLc; race with nothing t1,1 lose and everything to gain. 
"She's been very tough this season. Iler Limes haven't been reflecting her hard work and attitude. This is her chance to finally let everything go and just swim," said Hildebrandt. 
Smith and Polisky will also have a grab at the 1650-yard freestyle on Saturday. Hildebrandt sees both women doing very well. 
"They've dropped times drasti­
cally in practice. I'm really excit­
ed for this event to finally hap­
pen," she said 

Ramsey, the freshman power­
house who has single handedly 
rewritten the record books, will 
focus more on her 200-yard but­
terfly on Friday and 100-yard 
buttert1y on Saturday. Within a 
second of qualifying for NCM 
Nationals in both events, Ramsey 
is staying focused on swimming 
as she's done for many years. 
Friday will also feature the 50­

yard freestyle and the powerful combination of senior co-captain Colleen Sullivan and freshman Maureen Palchak. Both, accord­ing to Hildebrandt have the school record within reach. The record was set by Sullivan at last year's conference meet. They pair will also battle it out in the 200-yard freestyle along with Elizabeth Doro, who hasn't swam the event since high school. 

The breaststrokers and back­strokers have excellent positions. according to Hildebrandt. Both Lauren Smith and Katy Lebiedz are seeded very high in the 100­yard breast. Smith also has great standings in the 200-yard event. All three Belles in the 100-yard backstroke have very high chances at making the top 12 on Saturday. 
Thursday will also highlight the Belles 400-yard free relay 
and 1-meter diving. Diver Hyann Cox is up against tough competi­tion but recent performances show she has done well thus far. 
"The diving in this conference is very high caliber and they are powerful but Hyann performs very well when up against pres­sure," said Hildebrandt. 
Hildebrandt sees everyone swimming well, dropping times, and outswimming Alma and Albion. 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
1801 IRISH WAY  -SOUTH BEND, IN  46637  (219) 272-1441  
JJ~toa  II  
LOOKING FOR A  

NEW "VIEW" NEXT FALL? 
CAMPUS VIEW OFFERS: 
• 
Large, spacious apartments 

• 
Limited Renovated Kitchens 

• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis and Basketball Courts 

• 
LOCATION! A short walk to a Grocery Store, Drug Store, Restaurants, and CAMPUS! 

• 
Affordable Pricing 



r------------------, No Application Fee with this coupon! 
*Not Good for Fall Leases 
L------------------J 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February I5, 200 l 
8-ball 
continued from page 24 
you traitor!" But Murphy ignored them all. "They didn't get to me at all," 
Murphy said, 
"Forget his numbers, he just got the ball to open people all the time. He was so poised, not worrying about getting shots, just kicking it out to open people and getting open looks for his teammates." 
Although Murphy scored 18 points and finished with five rebounds, he did an excellent job in escaping the double team. Every time the Irish passed the ball down to the 6-11 forward. two Rutgers defenders would immediately collapse on him. Murphy worked the ball back out to the perimeter, where guards Martin Ingelsby, Carroll, and David Graves rained down wide open jump shots. 
"Our perimeter was so heady," Brey said. "They really set the tone and know what a good shot is and get the ball in. That really helped us down the stretch." 
"We knew coming in here that the crowd was really going to be after Troy," Ingelsby said. "He really did a great job kicking the ball out to the perimeter and finding the open man." 
The patience of the perimeter offense was a tremendous factor in Notre Dame's victory. With Murphy rendered virtually inef­fective on the offensive end, the Irish tried to run screens on the perimeter to free the guards. 
The plan worked. Notre Dame was 6-of-11 from three-point land, and the Scarlet Knights, intent on shutting down Murphy. virtually ignored Carroll and Ingelsby. 
Notre Dame also turned in a solid defensive performance. The Irish mixed up their man­ta-man defense by playing a 3-2 zone to contain the Scarlet Knights dangerous three point shooters. 
In fact, the Irish held last week's co-Big East Player of the Week Todd Billet to just 12 points. while Jeff Greer, who usually averages close to ten points per game, only managed seven. Overall, the Scarlet Knights were only 2-of-11 from behind the arc. 
"If you told me we were going to hold Billet to 12 points, I wouldn't have believed it," Brey said. "We really wanted to limit their three point shooting because especially in this build­ing, that gets their crowd going, and I thought we did an excel­lent job of that." 
"I don't think we ever had a game where Todd and Jeff were off at the same time. and it hurt us," said Rutgers center Eugene Dabney. 
It appeared that the Irish didn't miss forward Ryan Humphrey. who did not play due to a sprained ankle. For the first time in eight games, Brey started 
David Graves in place of Humphrey. Speculation 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Catcg()rics ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search seivicc -Appraisals larae and sma.11 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

emerged that Humphrey might play when he emerged from the locker room dressed in his uni­form, but Brey said he never intended to use him in the game. 
"Ryan came up to me before the game and said, "Use .me how you want to use me'," Brey said. "I said, 'Tm not going to use you'." 
But Humphrey's presence was filled by the solid bench play of freshman Torian Jones and sophomore Jere Macura. Both players, who came into the game averaging 7.7 and 8.5 minutes a game, respectively, saw extended action. 
Jones and Macura played with such confidence that it seemed like they had been starting with Murphy. Ingelsby, Carroll, and the rest of the Irish regulars for the entire season. 
"It's contagious." Brey said. "They're very confident because of who they've been around." 
"I knew that I would get more playing time when I heard Ryan wasn't going to play," Jones said. "His 15 points and 10 rebounds is a big hole to fill. When my time came, I wanted to be ready." 
In fact, Jones took over the point guard duties for Ingelsby, who had seven assists. at one point in the game. The fresh­man scored four points on a pair of hard, driving layups. 
Meanwhile, Macura turned in 
arguably one of the best perfor­
mances of his career. The 
sophomore forward scored ten 
points, pulled down four 
rebounds, and added a resound­
ing block with 38 seconds left in 
the game. 

"When you get those guys 
some extended minutes, they 
can deliver," Brey said. 

Notre Dame only trailed for 
46 seconds in the game. When 
Graves hit a jumper to put the 
Irish up 2-1, they never looked 
back. Although they had trouble 
getting Murphy in the game 
offensively, Notre Dame kept 
trading points back and forth 
with Rutgers. 

Martin Ingelsby's falling-down 
three-pointer with 9:55 left in 
the first half kicked off a 16-3 
run that lasted 7:55 and left the 
Irish up 36-18. Notre Dame 
took a 43-25 lead into the locker 
room at halftime. 

When the second half started, 
Rutgers gained a little momen­
tum with a pair of quick baskets 
by Rashod Kent, but Notre 
Dame went on an 11-4 run to go 
up 60-34 and never looked 
back. 

After the game, Murphy stood 
outside the Irish locker room 
holding a sign that read 
"Murphy Sucks." 

"This is my thing from 
Rutgers. I have a couple of 
these, I put them outside my 
room," he .said with a smile. 
"They paid.to come in here in 
yell at the Irish, and the Irish 
got a win." 


Colnllln 
continued from page24 
Knights' forward Rashod Kent. 
"I watched it to see how far I've come," Murphy said. "I kind of watched the way I acted, my demeanor on the court, the way l let the fans get to me, the way I let get Rashod Kent's physical play get to me. We have a lot more at stake (this year) than hav­ing me try to look good in front of a bunch of people." 
But the problems did not miraculously disappear when Matt Doherty bolted for North Carolina. As recently as the Kentucky game, the Irish were an inconsistent team with a 9-5 record, a squad on the verge of missing the NCAA's for the twelfth straight year. 
Following the 82-71 loss to 
the Wildcats on Jan. 13, 
Harold Swanagan entered the 
locker room, flipped over a 
table and heaved a Gatorade 
bottle on the floor. 
"Harold came in there and 
kind of questioned everybody 
and said we were a bunch of 
punks," Murphy said. "And we 
were." 

Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "We got thrust into the Top 20 and I don't know how deserving we were of that. You look at all the other pre­season Top 20's, they were regulars to the NCM tourna­
ment. We were a little bit of imposters. It wasn't real. It 
was a circus." 
The inconsistency plagued Notre Dame last February as well. The Irish recorded wins over conference heavyweights Connecticut and Seton Hall but also lost to Big East cellar dwellers Providence and Pittsburgh. Every victory seemed to shock the Irish and caused the them to overreact. 
"We weren't a good team 
last year," Murphy said. "This 
year we're a real good team. 
It's nice to look in the newspa­
per and see Notre Dame in 
first place because I remem­
ber when we got our heads 
handed to us." 
During the second month of 
2001, the Irish have won all 
four games, including the last 
two in hostile road environ­
ments. 
The talent has not changed 
but the attitude has. 
That's not to sav that stu­
dents should book their tick­
ets to the Sweet 16 or the Final Four. Several questions still remain. Last night, Murphy struggled, shot just 3­for-8 from the line and com­mitted four turnovers. And even though Brey referred to Murphy as the definite choice for Big East Player of the Year 
after the game, don't expect the Irish to beat a formidable conference opponent when their star puts up similar numbers. 
The Irish frontcourt also had trouble stopping the Rutgers forwards and centers from getting good looks at the basket. Twelve of the Scarlet Knights' first 15 points were scored from within five feet of the basket. And Martin 
Ingelsby still has difficulty in 
on-ball .defense, guarding 
quick point guards. 

But at least now, a Big East 
win does not cause the Irish 
players to celebrate like they 
just won the NCAA's. 

"With each game we win, 
the bullseye gets bigger," 

Murphy said. "It's a blessing. 
But it's also a scare." 

The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Murphy had alluded to Irish r==============-===~=----==aa;" 
problems after their loss to 
Miami (Ohio) on Dec. 9. He 
mentioned that the Irish did 
not deserve to be ranked in 
the top 10 and questioned 
whether the early season wins 
over Cincinnati and 
Vanderbilt gave his team a 
false sense of confidence. . "We didn't know how to handle all the attention." 

University Laundry and Tanning 
Buy one Tan Package, Get the 2nd FREE 
Offer good for one person only -no splits 

<.. COLLEGE CAMPUS SHOPPES 
US 23 & Vaness 271-7675 
Expires February 281 .2001 

Piaces still available!!! 
Saint Mary's College 28th Annual 
European Study Tour 
Travels in Ireland, Scotland, England, and France May 23 -June 22, 2001 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology 
Information Meeting Tuesday, February 20 6:30 -7:30 P.M. Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 
For questions, contact Prof. Parisi tparisi@saintmarys.edu 
Thursday, February 15, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Iverson scores forty points to lead Philadelphia's win 
Shaquillc O'Neal, who was and coach Phil Jackson started remaining to cut Atlanta's lead with a jumper to trim the deficit 
Associated rres, 
guarded by backups yelling at Bryant during the to 94-92. His two free throws to 84-79. Mohammed, Todd Macculloch ensuing timeout. 1:22 later tied it. But the Knicks went cold, hit­
PH IL.ADELPHIA 

and Jurnaine Jones in the A 3-pointer by Snow and a The Bucks, recovering from a ting only three field goalsAllen Iverson got a standing a~sence of regular Philadelphia dunk by Macculloch gave the 107-104 loss to Philadelphia on through the first 11 minutes ofovation for whaL he did in the center Theo Hatliff (fractured Sixers an 82-70 lead at the end Tuesday night, avoided losing the quarter. By then, the Jazz
All-Star game, then added 
wrist), led Los Angeles with 29 of the third, and they left the three straight for the first time had opened the lead to 97-8 5,mother accolade -an "M-V-P" points. court to another standing ova­since they lost a season-high and never were threatened
chant from the Philadelphia 
Rryant added 18 points, seven tion.· four games Nov. 18·25, again.
fans -to his wonderful week. 
rebounds and seven assists -Iverson's smiling fast-break Milwaukee had won 11 of 13 Always a challenge for anyIverson scored 40 points and along with another stern lee• 90 seconds into the fourth before losing its last two. The defense, Malone has been doingmade Kobe Bryant look silly on ture from his coach when quarter capped a 7-0. run that Bucks got 18 points from Glenn some of his best work latelydefense Wednesday night as the things weren't going well. made it 89-72, and Philadelphia Robinson, including a big 3-without anyone guarding him.
Philadelphia 76ers had their 
Iverson started going at led by double pointer with 33 seconds Over the last six games, the 
way with the Los Angeles 
Bryant right away, and it quick­remaining, and 18 from reserve Mailman is 43-of-46 from theLakers in a 112-97 victory. 
ly became apparent that Bryant Lindsey Hunter. free throw line, dating to a vic­
Iverson, who reached 40 Bucks 102, Hawks 98 
-coming off an overtime victo­tory at Seattle on Jan. 30.
points for the second consecu­Sam Cassell scored 23 points
ry the previous night at New
tive night and the 11th time this and Hay Allen added 19 as the Jau 106, Knlcks 90
Jersey -was a step slow. 
season, basked in the adoration Milwaukee Bucks went on a 16-Karl Malone scored 33 points Suns 104, Tlmberwolves 96
Unlike last season when
of his fans and relished every 0 tear in the final five minutes and John Starks had 16 against Shawn Marion set a career
Bryant came into the First
chance he had to go one-on-one to beat the Atlanta Hawks 102-his former team as the Utah high l'or the second night in a 
Union Center and shut down
with Bryant. 93 Wednesday night. Jazz beat the New York Knicks row with 38 points and Jason
Iverson, Brvant seemed to fall
lie even let a huge smile The Hawks, who lost their 106-90 Wednesday night. Kidd had his sixth triple-double
for every ball fake or head fake.
break across his face as he was seventh in a row, led 94-85 John Stockton added 15 of the season as the Phoenix
Iverson had a 3-pointer over
sp_eeding in for a breakaway after Jason Terry hit a 20-foot points and Danyell Marshall Suns beat the Minnesota 
Bryant that was followed by a
layup early in the fourth quar­jump shot with 5:13 remaining. scored 12 and had 10 rebounds TimbMwolves 104-96 
drive around Bryant as he was But Milwaukee rallied, and as the Jazz beat the Knicks for Wednesday.
ter as the Sixers were opening putting 15 points on the board 
a 17-point lead. Scott Williams' dunk with 1:08 the seventh straight time. · Marion, who had 28 points
in a first quarter which ended
Iverson got his first standing left made it 96-94, giving the Malone hit 14-of-16 from the and 13 rebounds in Phoenix's 
with Philadelphia ahead 29-25. 
Bucks their first lead since the foul line. Glen Rice came off the victory at Golden State onovation when highlights of his 
Isaiah Hider hit a 3-pointer 
second quarter. bench to lead the Knicks with Tuesday. scored 27 in the sec­All-Star MVP performance were early in Lhe second quarter for 24 points, while Latrell ond half Wednesday, 11 in the
The Bucks' big run ended

shown on the scoreboard dur­a 32-31 Lakers' lead, but the with a pair of free throws by Sprewell had 23, Allan Houston last three minutes. He also
ing the game's.first timeout, Sixers responded with a 6-0 
Cassell with 21.6 seconds to go. had 12 and Marcus Camby 10. grabbed 12 rebounds.
and the fans broke into a loud run; ending with a 3-pointer by Terry led the Hawks with 35 New York, saddled with foul Marion was 15•for-22 fromchant of "M-Y-P" as he reached Toni Kukoc off a behind-the­points. Atlanta got 22 points problems, couldn't keep up the field and 8•for-8 at the foul40 points from the free throw back pass from Iverson. 
and 18 rebounds from Dikembe with the Jazz in the fourth line.
line with 1:28 left. lie left to Mohammed, who made his Mutombo. quarter. Kidd had 19 points, 12 assists
another standing ovation 
second start of the season. hit a Lorenzen Wright scored 21 Trailing 81-75 entering the and 10 rebounds. His 10thmoments later. 
jumper over O'Neal with 6:02 
points and had 15 rebounds for fourth period, New York rebound -and 37th career
Nazr Mohammed added a 

left in the third to surpass his the Hawks. who had only nine seemed poised to challenge triple-double -came oncareer-high 12 points starting previous career-high of 11 and players available. after Camby opened the quarter Minnesota's final shot with oneat center, Tyrone Hill also had 
give the 76ers a 69-63 lead, 
Allen hit a 3-pointer with 2:59 with a dunk and Rice followed second to play.
12 and George Lynch 11. 
Thursday, February 15 9pm -midnight Lafortune Huddle Absolutely Free 
i 
::, 
Q.. 
(!) 
Q.. 
C 
l 
-
U'J 
C: 
er 

THE BEST OF 
ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Featuring: 
Phil Wittliff Geoff Rahie Luke Mueller Vince o•conner Dave Hunt Nick Faleris 
aSophomore Literary Festival event 
-
... 
r--------~--~-------------~ 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 2001 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame hopes for upset win in Big East games 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Don't count on Notre Dame winning its first Big East title this weekend. 
Notre Dame enters the three­day meet at the Goodwill Games Swimming Center with a 7-2 dual meet record and a second place fmish at the Notre Dame Invitational in early December. Six men's events will he contest­ed today, including the 200-yard freestyle relay, one-meter diving, 500-yard freestyle, 200-yard individual medley, 50-year freestyle and the 400-yard med­ley relay. 

Senior Dan Szilier is seeded first in the 200-yard breastroke and sixth in the 100 vard breas­troke. He won the 200 Big East title as a sophomore in a school­record time of 2:00.09 and fin­ished second last year. In Saturday's race, Szilier will be challenged by Pittsburgh fresh­man Handy Gertenbach, whose season-best time in the 200 is just .2 seconds slower than Szilier·s. Notre Drune junior Mike Koss, who finished fifth in the 100-yard breastroke last year, is seeded third in the 100 and fifth in the 200 
Whereas Szilier and Koss com­pete v.ith their heads bobbing in and out of the water, junior Jonathan Pierece swims a more conventional stroke. 
Pierce looks to defend his title in the 1,650-yard freestyle on Saturday. 
The distance freestyle special­ist swam a school-record 
15:33.16 at the 2000 Big East Championships. He also set Notre Dame marks in the 500­yard free (4:30.96, good for sec­ond in the conference) and the 1000-yard free (9:20.99) during last year's meet. Pierce won the 1,650 title in 1999, as well, to become the first Irish swimmer to record an individual victory at the Big East championships. 

Co-captain Ryan Verlin posted a second-place (and Notre Dame record) time of 1:48.39 in the 200-yard butterfly last year and enters ·saturday's race ranked third in the conference. 
The senior from Rye, New York is also seeded seventh in the 200-yard individual medley and fourth in the 400-yard indi­vidual medley. 
Coach Tim Welsh's squad will also relv on freshman Matt Obringer· (the sixth seed in the 500-yard freestyle and tenth in the 200-yard freestyle) and junior 
David Horak (the fourth seed in the 100-yard butterfly, fourth in the 100-yard backstroke and fifth in the 200-yard backstroke} in its quest to dethrone Pittsburgh. 
It will be an imposing chal­lenge. Pittsburgh has the num­ber one seed in 17 of the 18 swimming events and junior Michael Wells is one of the favorites in the 1-meter and 3­meter diving events. 
Verlin (200-yard individual medley), Obringer (500-yard freestyle) and diver Herb Huesman (one-meter diving, an event in which he finished fourth last year), arc the most likely Irish swimmers to record high finishes in today's races. 
Swim01ing 
continued from page 24 
formances. Notre Dame has used the past three weeks to taper down their training in order to achieve qualifying times for the NCAA Championships next month. So far, only Hecking and freshman Marie Labosky have achieved provisional qualifying times. 
Weathers hopes senior co­captain Kristen Van Saun will be one of those athletes who makes the NCAA cut. The only returning Big East individual champion, aside from Becking, Van Saun is seeded sixth in the 500-yard freestyle with a sea­son-best time of 4:58.42. The senior will also compete in the 1,650-yard freestyle. 

But Van Sau.n, along with many of the other upperclass­men, has been outshined by Notre Dame's talented freshman class this season. In particular, Labosky, arguably one of Notre Dame's most versatile swim­mers, has been a major factor in Notre Dame's success this sea­son. Labosky is seeded first in three events, two of which she will compete in side by side with Van Saun and sophomore Lindsay Moorhead, and second in another. However, two of the events, the 500 freestyle and the 200 individual medley, that Labosky is seeded first in are swum back-to-back, and it was unclear if Weathers was plan­ning on swimming the freshman in both events. 
One of the most consistent performers this year for the Irish has been Heather Mattingly. The junior diver, who holds all four Notre Dame diving records, has won her last six consecutive diving competi­tions. But Mattingly will face a difficult opponent in Miami's Jenny Keim. The senior won last year's Big East title and took eighth at the Sydney Olympics. 

Hulick has picked up some of the slack left by Carrie Nixon, and may even contend for a Big East title in the shorter freestyle events. The freshman is seeded fifth in both the 50 and the 100­yard freestyle events. In addi­tion, Hulick will most likely swim on most of Notre Dame's relay teams. 
The Irish also have incredible depth in the individual medley events. 
Labosky, senior Tiffany O'Brien, Deger and Garcia sit in the top ten of the 200-yard indi­vidual medley. In the 400-yard individual medley, although Labosky is seeded second, her fastest time this season is still seven seconds behind Villanova's Maddy Crippen, who took sixth in this event at the Sydney Olympics. Still, the Irish have four swimmers ranked in the top eight. 
The Irish butterfly specialists, mostly freshmen, are also seed­ed very high. Sophomore Amy Deger and freshmen Lisa Garcia, Lisa D'Olicr and Sarah Bowman are ranked among the top eight in the 100 yard butter­fly and sit in the top five of the 200 yard butterfly. 
Junior Allison Lloyd and freshman Laurie Musgrave are only eight hundredths of a sec­ond apart in the 100-yard breaststroke and have three tenths of a second between them in the 200-yard breast­stroke. Both are seeded among the top six in each event. 
The Big East championships begin in Long Island today and extend until Saturday. Preliminary competition begins at 10:30 a.m.. and the finals begin at 6:30 p.m. 


. . 

Thursday, February 15, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish jump back into the game following a week's rest 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assisran1 Sporn Editor 
Following a week-long layoff tho Notre Dame women's bas­kctl.mll team began a stretch of lhrnc games in seven days with a 75-61 victory u.t Syracuse Wednesday night. 
The Irish used a balanced attnck. with four of five starters scoring in double figures, led by center Huth Hilcy's 24 points. Riley added 11 rebounds and three blocked shots. 
"That's what we've been miss­ing lately and I'm glad to see that back again," said Irish head conch Muffet McGraw. "We can't rely on Ruth for all the scoring. so it's good for every­body to chip in a little bit." 
Despite lliley's game-high total. the All-American struggled from the field, connecting on only eight of 18 attempts. Hiley also turned the ball over two times. A tough Syracuse post defense can be credited for lim­iting Hiley. 
"Basically. we did an overall good job," Syracuse forward Beth Hecord told the Associated Press following the game. "I think we made her [Riley] flus­tered a little bit. We played tough on her." 
With the Orangewomen play­ing tough defense on Hiley as well as guards Alicia Hatay and Nicle Ivey, forward Ericka Hanny was left open. Haney took advantage of the opportunity, scoring 16 points -including a perfect six-for-six from the free­throw line. 
Haney's frontcourt mate Kelley Siemon chipped in 12 
points of her own, her first game in double figures since Jan. 15. 
"I thought Ericka Haney had a great game," McGraw said. "Kelley shot really well. Those two really had a good game." 
Siemon was less than thrilled with her play following the game. The senior forward pulled down only 4 rebounds in 30 minutes while still playing with an injured hand. 
"I don't have a lot of grip on my left hand," Siemon said. "I have to go up a little bit holding my right hand, which can get kind of frustrating. That's some­thing that bothers me because I'm used to getting some boards and now I'm not getting so many." 
Ratay spent most of Tuesday in the infirmary suffering from food poisoning, but still man­aged to score 10 points and pull down 5 rebounds. 
"She had to be a little bit weak and I probably played her too long," McGraw said. "I think she looked pretty good out there." 
Point guard Niele Ivey chipped in nine points and three steals, but still does not consider ] her play to have returned to its early-season level. 
"Personally I feel like I'm still waiting for it to click like it did at the beginning of the year," Ivey said. 
Each of the starters played at least 30 minutes, with only freshmen guards Jeneka Joyce and Le'Tania Severe playing sig­nificant minutes oIT the bench. 
"My concern right now is that the starters get back to the level they were playing at for the Connecticut game," McGraw said. "I need to play them together a lot for that to hap­pen." 
The Irish jumped out to a 37­27 lead at halftime, led by Riley's 11 first-half points. Syracuse -playing without injured seniors Leigh Aziz and Jakia Ervin -hit five three­pointers in the opening 20 min­utes. 
The Orangewomen never let the Irish break away. Record led the way, scoring 18 second-half points to finish with a game-high 25 for the night. Record also pulled down a team-high seven rebounds. 
The downfall for Syracuse was its defense. The Orangewomen sent the Irish to the line 15 times in the final 20 minutes. The Irish converted 12 of those free-throw attempts. 
"We played two halves," Syracuse coach Marianna Freeman told the Associated Press. "Had it not been for the free-throw line. it could have been a much different story. We didn't win the ballgame, but we played very, very hard." 
The Irish return to Notre Dame today before departing to New Jersey Friday night to take on Rutgers on Saturday. McGraw feels that the short gap between games will prove to be an advantage. 
~ At the beginning of the year we were playing three games a week and we were playing real­ly well," McGraw said. "I think that this team likes to play and I think that we're a better team when we play a lot of games. I think we'll play a lot better against Rutgers." 


GLORIA BARAY/The Daily Orange lrlsh center Ruth RIiey boxes out against Syracuse center Paula Moore during Wednesday's 75-61 lrlsh victory. 
-Commerce and Bevond 

February 2 
February 9 
February 16 February 23 March 2 March 23 March 30 Aprll6 April 20 

Co-sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business & the PncewaterhouseCoopers Foundation 
All Lectures held from l 0:35om-l 2:05pm Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business 

Unt\/f:rsllyof Noire Dame
All Notre Dome faculty, staff and students 

Mendoza College of Business 
are welcome to attend 
lecture Series 

http://www.nd.edu/%7Ekmatta/mgt648/speakers him 
Khalil Matta (Director. MIS Program, University of Notre Dame) "OVervtew of the Lecture Serles" 
Allen Hammond (CIO and Senior Scientist, World Resources Institute) "Impact of Globallzatlon" 
Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. tor Strategic Technology) "Awareness and Collaboratlon In the Workplace of the Future" 
Mike Mazorr (President, Henry L. Stimson Center) "Sociology and Psychology of People In the Electronic Workplace" 
Greg Hedges (Partner, eBusiness Risk Consulting, Arthur Andersen) "Privacy Concerns In the Electronic Age" 
Bob Reilly (President, OHR International) "New Age Leadership Skllls" 
Gary Reiner (Senior VP and CIO, General Electric) "Technology and E-Commerce Organizations: Future Directions" 
Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President, Buckman Labs) "Knowledge Management In the New MIiiennium" 
Don Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO, Terabeam Networks) "W'lreless and Optical Technologies and their lmpllcatlons" 

Paragon Services is seeking full & part-time merchandisers for the South Bend area. Flexible scheduling. Must be willing to travel to South Bend area grocery stores. 1QOO/hr to start. Paid drive time and mileage. No experience necessary. Will train. Work Sunday thru Thursday 8pm-4am. Work 4 hrs or 8 hrs, 1 day or all 5 days. We can schedule 
around your school schedule. 
1-800-968-7685 ext.BOO 

-
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 2001 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Doherty's push for team bonding leads to winning streak 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL. N.C. 
The Tar Heels needed more than extra practice when Matt Doherty got into town. 
The new coach inherited a strong team. but something wasn't right. The players didn't like each other much. 
"We had too many attitudes and egos," senior center Brendan Haywood said. 
Doherty, a starter on North Carolina's 1982 NCM national title team, wouldn't stand for it. 
The Tar Heels, with virtually the same players that lost in the Final Four last season, had to get along or else. So Doherty helped the players bond, forcing them to go to football games and 
· out to dinner together. 
It worked. With a new attitude -and some better basketball, of course -the Tar Heels are the nation's No. 1 team seven months after Doherty took over for the retired Bill Guthridge. 
"Our chemistry just wasn't there last year until the very end," junior forward Jason Capel said. "But this year you could see in the preseason we were going to be a close team. We did a lot with each other and just the whole coaching change made us a lot closer as a team." 
The Tar Heels came into the season with many questions. Their 14 losses last season were the most since 1951-52, but they also had a surprising run that ended with a national semifinal loss to Florida. 
Guthridge's sudden retirement jolted the program, which took another blow when Roy Williams -Dean Smith's hand­picked successor as head coach -decided to stay at Kansas. 
Some fans, boosters and alum­ni cringed when the Tar Heels insisted on hiring one of their own. When he arrived, the 38­year-old Doherty had just one year of head-coaching experi­ence, at Notre Dame. 
No one's complaining now. 
The Tar Heels {21-2) have an 18-game winning streak -their longest in 15 years _ heading into Sunday's game at Clemson. The most recent Associated Press ranking was the school's 500th in the top 10. 
"I came here to put a banner up," Capel said. "We came close last year, but under different circumstances. I like the way this year is going a lot better." 
Capel and his teammates said last year's squad was fragment­ed and waited until the postsea­son to start playing unselfish ball. 
The only major loss from that team was point guard Ed Cota, who led the Atlantic Coast Conference in assists for four seasons but was quick to criti­cize the play of teammates. 
"It's almost the same person­nel. but last year we weren't a close-knit unit," Haywood said. "We were a bunch ofindividuals who played basketball togeth­er." 
While the Tar Heels look as if they've got a good chance to return to the Final Four in Minneapolis, the season didn't start the way they wanted. 
After mediocre performances to open the year against Winthop and Tulsa, the Tar

-
Heels dropped consecutive games to No. 5 Michigan State and No. 22 Kentucky. 

The 23-point home loss to the Wildcats on Dec. 2 left the Tar Heels at 3-2 and showed that freshmen point guards Adam Boone and Brian Morrison need­ed more seasoning. 
Help came days later from quarterback Ronald Curry. the nation's top high school player in both sports four years ago. He missed last basketball season with a ruptured Achilles' ten­don. 
Doherty handed the ball to Curry against Miami and the Tar Heels haven't lost since. 
But the coach insists the key to the season came three weeks later when North Carolina beat No. 24 UCLA 80-70 on the road. Julius Peppers, Curry's football teammate who led the nation in sacks, also joined the basketball squad. 
"From that point on they real­ly responded and they listened and applied what we're trying to. teach them,." Doherty said. "You can't ask for anything more. They work hard, they listen and they try to apply what you say on and otfthe floor." 
Since that win over UCLA, the Tar Heels have beaten No. 17 Maryland, No. 3 Duke and No. 23 Wake Forest away from the Smith Center. They are 11-0 in the ACC. 
North Carolina's star is sopho­
more Joseph Forte, second in 
the ACC in scoring at more than 
21 points a game. Doherty has 
no problem comparing the 6­
foot-4 guard to Michael Jordan, 
whom the coach played with at 
North Carolina for three sea­
sons. 

"They both hit big shots. There 
are similarities in that they both 
feel comfortable when the game 
is one the line with the ball in 
their hands," Doherty said. 
The Tar Heels also have a 
powerful inside game with the 
7 -foot Haywood and 6-11 Lang. 
The 6-6, 270-pound Peppers is a 
force coming off the bench. 
"You may drive by them on 
the outside, but then you're 
faced with Jericho's Wall," 
Wake Forest coach Dave Odom 
said. 

While Guthridge was reluctant to develop much of a bench in his three successful years after replacing Smith, Doherty has shown confidence in his younger players and even seldom-used veterans like Max Owens. 

Owens doesn't get much time as Forte's backup, but made three straight 3-pointers in 11 minutes Saturday in a 96-82 vic­tory over Maryland. 
"You are looking at a guy who was a McDonald's All-American who averaged just about five shots a game here," Doherty said of his own college career. You realize when you come here that not every high school All­American is going to be a col­1e ge All-American, there are going to be other good players. 
"You come here to be a part of a special program and win national championships and ACC championships." 

ATTENTION STUDENTS! 
There will be an important meeting for all those interested in running for positions of cl~ officers, 
Off-Campus Co-Presidents and Off-Campus Senator, 
on Monday February 19th at 7:45pm in 203 Lafortune. 
Blak Koffee House 
Friday, February 16, 2001 8 -10pm, LaFortune Ballroom $3 students I $5 general admission 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Booth 
Brought to you by the Black Cultural Arts Council 


r----------------------­
Thursday, February 15, 200 l 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 27 Small bone 64 Squander 
TIIURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): THIS DAY: John Barrymore, You will find it difficult to feel 
1 One of the 32 Bump 65 Fighting _ 
Three Bears 
35 Gift 66 Certificate 

Susan B. Anthony, JaneSeymour, sympathetic toward those who 
5 Shouts with 
37 Unpleasant 67 What tags may Oaire Bloom, Graham Hill, Matt really haven't done their share of both hands guest produce Groening, Melissa Manchester the work. Anger has been brew­raised, maybe Happy Birthday: You will ing, and you must be cautiou,~
38 See 1 7-Across 68 Methods: Abbr. 

intuitively know how to make how you nandle the situation. 00 informally 42 British royal 69 Baseball's your life better this year. You will LIBRA (Sept. 23-0d. 22): Slaughter be sensitive toward others and You're in an energetic mood and 
10 Cowboy, 
43 Akron AA

14 First-rate, will gain popularity. You will can get a lot done if you put your
baseball learn 

slangily have some great ideas, but mind to It. You have originalDOWN shouldn't pusn them too quickly. ideas for ways to make extra
15 Like an old 44 Durocher, 
astrologically(I) You may be a little ahead of your money. Get together with close
apartment 1 Noodles, maybe 
time. Go slowly and do it right. friends and share your thoughts.16 Ties with bows 45 Ailing 2 Serve in the Your numbers: 9, 14, 18, 22, 34, 48 0000 17 With 38-Across, 48 Local political capacity of ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Your artistic talent will come in Don't let your friends convince
poem by div. 3 Hardly bigwigs 
handy while doing renovations you that you should be donating 
24-0own 49 Home to 33 mil. 4 It may have a 
or redecorating. Property invest• heavily to something you're not 20 Rossini opera 51 Shampoo pet project ments will pay off. Finish off old sure you believe in. You should projects before you begin new put your money away in a safe,
21 U.S.-Mexico instruction 5 Racer Luyendyk 
ones.00000 \llltouchable place. 000
border city 
56 A Virgin Island 6 Poem by TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGrITARIUS (NCN 22,.0ec. 21):22 Very, musically 60 Not so good, as 24-Down Complete essential jobs that Your philosophical nature will be 23 "The Woman a photo 7_Marbles, 
don't require input from others. somewhat confusing to your It would be best to do your own mate. Don't apologi:ze; you're
_• (1984 film) British Museum 
62 Poem by 

thin~ today. Try to spend the both entitled to your beliefs. Fol­
magnet

25 Tanner 24-0own evening with loved ones. Look low your heart, but don't push 8 Colo. neighbor after problems with elders. your opinions. 000 000 CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19):
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Does salon 
GEMINI (May 2l•June 20): It is best to keep your ideas to
work 

Anger will mount if you've been yourself. Your/artner is already
D O R 10 D Pw:zle by Nancy S. Rou 
evasive with your lover. Chan­having secon thoughts about 11 Kin to a clarinet 32 Rivers of New 52 Silly 58 Bit of banter nel your energy into making your relationship. Back off. Give York necessary changes to your living him or her space. 000
53 Popular camera 59 Malachite and 

12 Noted captain quarters. 00 AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Peb. 18): 13 Petrol seller 33 -Domini 5" Look after others CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will meet some interesting 34 Bombast Your bo51l is likely to dump some people. Get to know them better 
55 Sea birds 81 Olympians:
18 "Fidelio" setting 

extra work on your lap. Be pre­before you decide to let them in
Abbr.

36 "Yes, Scottie"
19 Bankrolls pared to dig in and get it done on your private thoughts. They 
56 1944 battle site 

39 Wrap (up) 63 No lon~er before the weekend begins. Don't will be attracted to your intuitive 
24 Much-quoted 

57 G producing be surprised if he had an ulterior awareness. 0000 
poet 40 "I shall return." 
motive in mind. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 26 Amateur video e.g. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22)1 You'll You will feel a bit threatened if subject, maybe 41 Lively wit Answers to any three clues in this puzzle s.ain popularity by using your you don't have enough work. are available by touch-tone phone: charismatic charm, not by pick­Don't wait; start to look for a new
28 Arab name part 46 She loved 
1-900-420-5656 (95ct per minute). ing up the tab. Your bankbook position. You can make career 
___._....._..,_.'"-' 29 Kind of spring Narcissus will suffer, and your restrictions moves that will be beneficial In ~..,;.+~,::. Annual subscriptions are available for the 
will put a damper on your the long run. 00
47 Oahu verandas
...........,......,.,. 30 Isolated best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 relationship. 00000 
-
.....,....._E_._R_. 31 Therefore 50 Roman fire years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You have so much get-up-and-go. You are Into everything and forever looking for adventure. You are diplomatic, but always walking a fine line, You know how to manipulate a situation and nave no trouble obtaining help. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astro.idvice.co,n, eugenhlast.com, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Cl 2001 Univemal Praa Syndii:ai.. 
--------~---~------------------------------------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WAYS TO TRAV~SE NORTH QVAO 

Fox TROT 
I PUT 

CANDLES ON 
THE 1)1N1NG 
ROOM TA8LE. 
\ 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 

I USED THE  THE CITRolllELLA  otc,6000  
YELLOW ONES  CANDLES? THOSE  HAVE You TAldN  POINT.  
FllOM THE  ARE f'oR R£PELLIIIIG  A WHIFF Of' PETER'S  
GARAGE.  INSECTS, You FooL..  SPAGHETTI SAUCE?  
)  .,  })  I  

TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
1 '11_mL 
,_T_h_~_t_LJG_~-t-he.-~-~-1<St ~ho.+ w!.+ 
test t.ve.r. / 0 1tw1vi-t,pie. rlvlhp\e. cho1c.f! -\e~t5 Gnou.f..-\~~­
; ~~;.·:· / I. \~ 
I~ IS 

Wl'lwq

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q

and mail to: Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip.______ 

.-
Back in the game 
Notre Dame's women's basket­ball returns to action following a week-long rest with a 75-61 win over Syracuse. 
PORTS 
page 21 


£"'\lHE 

page 24 v~SERVER Thursday, February 15, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame takes over Rutgers with 81-59 victory 
• Murphy returns 
home, scores 18 in front of rowdy crowd 

j,.. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sport> Wrirer 
PISCATAWAY. N.J. 
The first thing Troy Murphy heard when he went on the court for warm­ups was a single cry from a member in the raucous Rutgers band. 
"Welcome back to Jersey, Troy!" 
And this was an hour before the game. Imagine the abuse Murphy endured throughout the entire game. 
But the All-American forward calmly handled the verbal onslaught as the Irish won 81-59 over the Scarlet Knights. The win moves the Irish to 17-5 overall and 9-2 in the Big East. Notre Dame has now won eight con­secutive games and four in a row on the road. In addition, Wednesday's vic­tory was the first ever Notre Dame win at Rutgers. 
"Troy Murphy was great," said Irish head coach Mike Brey. "I don't want to hear other players being talked about for Player of the Year in this league. It ain't even close." 
Murphy's demeanor was much dif­ferent this year than last year. When the Irish visited here last year, Murphy was knocked completely out of sync by the crowd. This time around, Murphy was much more relaxed and in con­trol. Every time the Irish forward touched the ball, a chorus of boos broke out among the New Jersey crowd who felt betrayed by his deci­sion to spurn Rutgers in favor of Notre Dame. Many fans shouted, "Murphy, 
see B-BALL/page 18 


• Wednesday's win signals growing maturity among Irish squad 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
About three minutes before the begin­ning of the second half, as the Irish play­ers emerged from their locker room, a trio of Rutgers students greeted New Jersey native Troy 
Murphy. 
"Where's your Valentine, Troy'?," the threesome screamed. 
Murphy ignored the "insult" and an injured Ivan Kartelo glanced straight at 


the student section. Kartelo, dressed in a Tim Casey navy blue Notre Dame warm-up suit, a white T-shirt and Assistant low-top adidas Sports Editor sneakers, smirked, said nothing and casually strolled back to his permanent seat on the Irish bench. 
Those two responses symbolized the growing maturity and increasing Confidence of the Big East West Division's leading team. In the past three months, Notre Dame has gone from a streaky squad to a consistent crew. 
And last night, the Irish surge contin­ued with a convincing win over Rutgers, their eighth straight victory. 
On Tuesday, Murphy viewed the tape of last year's game at Rutgers. fn that contest, he shot just 5-for-16 from the field and fouled out in 31 minutes of playing time. Murphy was also whistled for a technical after shoving Scarlet 
see COLUMN/page 18 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame looks to dominate Big East Championships 
an amazing feat considering that Weathers still expects to win this the conference meet, Hecking's five in all five relays, including a 
By ANDREW SOUKUP the Irish have only been in the weekend. best time is 55.7 seconds. nearly No. 1 seed in both the 400-yard 
Sport> Writer Big East for five years. One of the main reasons two seconds ahead of her near­freestyle relay and the 400-yard 
In fact, when Notre Dame won Weathers is so confident is est challenge, and in the 200-medley relay. Hecking is among 
H's not a question of if the last year with 829.5 points, they because he has a solid group of yard backstroke, her 2:00.32 is those expected to be on a relay women's swim team will win crushed runner-up Rutgers by veterans returning that have three seconds ahead of the sec­team. as is Danielle Hulick, Amy their fifth consecutive Big East 392.5 points. championship meet experience. ond-seeded swimmer. Deger, Brooke Davey, Allison title this weekend. Of course, last year the Irish Five Irish swimmers who won At last year's Big East Lloyd and Brenda Reilly. 
It's how much they will win by. had Carrie Nixon, who won individual events or competed on Championships, Notre Dame With their fifth straight title an 
The No. 15 Notre Dame three individual events and a winning relay will be returning won all five relay events. but this almost certainty, the Irish are women's swim team begins their anchored four relays, along with to the pool this weekend. season, the relays haven't turning their attention toward defense of the Big East winning the title of Big East Kelly Hecking headlines the list received much attention. achieving solid individual perfor­Conference Championship today Swimmer of the Year. But early of returning champions. The Weathers likes to switch his mances. Notre Dame has used in Long Island, N.Y.. and Irish this year, the All-American was junior backstroker has been vir­relay teams around, and at press the past three weeks to taper coaches are expecting yet anoth­knocked out of competition with tually unstoppable in her special­time, he had not yet decided down their training in order to er conference championship. a shoulder injury. ty events so far this season. Jn which swimmers would be on achieve qualifying times for the 
•The women have won the Big However, even without Nixon. the 100 yard backstroke. an which relay. Nevertheless, Irish East title for the last four years, Notre Dame head coach Bailey event she has won since 1999 at relays are seeded among the top 
see SWIMMING/page 20 
at Michigan State at Michigan Thursday, 4 p.m. Friday, 7:35 p.m. 
SPORTS ti) -~ 
vs. Sernn Hall ...... 
ATA Sunday, 2 p.m . 
Swimming at Rutgers at Big East Championships Saturday, 7:30 p.m. Thursday -Saturday
GLANCE • • • 






