
What to wear?
SUNNY 
Monday 

Take a look and what fashion statment students make as scene puts the 
campus dress code under the microscope. 
NOVEMBER 12,
HIGH 53° 
Scene . page 4

LOW28° 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 44 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



ROTC holds 24-hour vigil to honor Veterans 
By ALLY JAY News Writer 
l\1embrrs of ROTC and thP Notre Dame commu­nity honored prisoners of war and military miss­ing in action Friday afternoon in a Veteran's Hrtr0at ceremony at Stonehenge Memorial. 
"Frida.v afte-moon marked the end of a 24 hour vigil that started Thursday," said junior Air Force Cadet Jamie Solis. "For the 24 hours, we had cadets voluntarily sign up for half hour shifts. In the last shift there we had four cadets rcprnsenting tlH• Air Force, Army, Navy and Mari1ws ,vhich was a nice change from last year w1rnn only one cadet stood the last shift," added Solis. 
The ceremony began with the Air Force Choir singing the Star Spangled Banner including a pray<•r by Father Rocca, rector of the Basilica. The ceremony also included an address by keynol!\ speaker, Col. Brian Regan. Regan, a NotrP Dame graduate and current Adjunct Instructor at the Mendoza College of Business, ccHnnwnted on how the military is important in prPserving the values and rights of the American people. 
"Frtwdom does not come with a lifetime guar­an ttw . .lust ask anybody standing to my right," said Regan as he motioned to where veterans were seat<ld in the audience. 
lie also stressed how Notre Dame graduates will tontribute to helping solve military and political conflicts in the future. 
"Our nation needs Note Dame graduates who possess a vision for creating a better world and a value based intellect to make that world better and a firm resolve to keep that world safe and frne today and for generations to come." 
Junior Air Force Cadet Nick Mastronardi found Regan's speech and the ceremony helped him to reflc,ct on the sacrifices of veterans that had come before him. 
"I enjoyed the ceremony because even though all of us there were in ROTC and we're all aware AMANDA HUGHESfThe Observer 
Students of ROTC stand at attention during Friday's vigil to honor men that served in past wars. The vigil celebrates Veterans Day. 
see ROTC/page 4 
Semantics force leaders to call Afghan conflict 'war' 
"r-.laybe the language isn't Although President initially coalition to fight terrorism," said "For one, we're using massive 
By MARIBEL i\10R.EY 
quite right, but soldiers are sought to end terrorism world­Lindley. amounts of force compared to Assisrnm News Fditor deploying and sailors are oper­wide, he has focused on one Thero are three levels of pro­the war on drugs," said Lindley. ating combat missions," he said. region. paganda during a war: white, "Our national security is signifi­
In response to a new type of Daniel Lindley, an assistant "I think the president has gray and black, according to cantly larger. The threats and enemy and a set of circum­government professor, agrees. been very careful at constrain­Johnson. means to defeat and defend stances challenging A.mcrican "I don't think using the words ing [the war on terrorism]." "In the gray world, you say against the threats can be security. the United States has "war on Lindley said. half truths and you leave people defined in much more tradition­declared an attack on terrorism terrorism" "Now, it's fight­guessing. White propaganda is al, national security terms." 
"We're calling it a war

that hardly resembles any previs is simply ing terrorists truth-now what's truth to us The U.S. government also did ous war -a new war that cen­propagan­because we don't know who are going might not be perceived as truth not have the legal jurisdiction to ters on propaganda and an da and against the to them," Johnson said. "Black shoot down possible drug
what else to call it.,,

ambiguous enemy. simply to United States." propaganda is outright lies." planes. There were certain 
"We're calling it a war bring peo­Since the The use of propaganda is an legalities to follow. because we don't know what ple togeth,: Douglass Johnson United States attempt to gain support against "If we decided to go to war on else to call it," said Douglas· e r , professor, U.S. Army War College needs support terrorists -an enemy that drugs and it was decided to give Johnson, research professor at Lindley from other threatens national security, but the drug czar the authority and the Strategic Studies Institute, said. "In nations, propa­is difficult to identify. power that have been given to 
U.S. Army War College. fact, it is a ganda is at the With both wars focusing the U.S. military for this war, 
However, by naming this a war and cc,ntcr of this American attention on a vague you would see something more war. thP federal government has 'war' is the right tPrm to use." war on terrorism. enemy, the war on terrorism like this war [on terrorism]." legal options that are otherwise Granted that the United States "It's a major propaganda war. has certain similarities with the said Johnson. "You wouldn't closed to it under the constitu­is facing a legitimate war in We are trying to win the hearts 20-year-old U.S. war on drugs. have to worry about the nicety tion. Making a war dPclaration /\fghanistan, some critics still and minds. not just of the Arab The main difference is that of rules of evidence-those like this authorizes the question the term "war on ter-and Muslim world, but also of American security is at stake 
see WAR/page 4 

Prr,sidnm to call uµ reservists. rorism. the entire world as we build our with the war on terrorism. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, November 12, 2001 
INSIPE COLUMN 

I svvear I'ni really 2ff 
Tonight I walked into The Observer office wraring a shamrork hat that resemblrs the one the Cat-in-the-Hat wore and two Hawaiian leis. And no. I was not under the inf1uence. 
This past weekend was one of those weekends that makes you wish you hadn't gotten out of bPd on Friday morning. I didn't get one invitation to a danre on Friday night, so I stayed in a read a philosophical argument for the non­existence of the material world. 

Saturday morning my car died while I was on the way to visit my sister in Cincinnati in a tuwn that made Mayberry look like a metropolis. Saturday night, when I should have been hanging out with my sister, I stayed in ~ again. 
Then, to top it all off, the Browns lost to the Steelers in a game I've been looking forward to all season. I live with a Steelers fan. 
Not quite the weekend I'd imagined. 
What, vou mav ask, does this have to do with wearing a crazy hat and Hawaiian leis? Well. it's pretty simple. Sitting here, looking as ridiculous as I do, I sort of feel like a kid again. And that makes me feel a lot better. 
With classes, work, relationship problems and The Observer to worry about, sometimes it's nice to retreat back to that time in life when a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and an episode of the Smurfs was all that I need­ed to make life perfect. A time when naptime was a guarantee and I could still tattle on my sister. Those were the days. 
I've heard a lot of talk about being mature and acting my age. I think that's a lousy way to live. Being responsible is one thing, but I find no need to be an adult. rd rather act like I was five. 
Being an adult brings with it a lot of responsibilities that no one really wants to deal with. I mean, who wants to pay bills. worry about car repairs and work 9 to 5. Not me. 
I know I received a lot of strange looks on the way over to South Dining Hall tonight and I'm sure plenty of people wer.e wondering why any 20-year old college student would choose to dress this way by rhoire. 
When I walked into the office someone actually asked me if I lost a bet. I didn't. I just wanted fo feel a little less responsible. 
As I move closer to my senior year and the "real world," I'm more and more grateful when my crazy roommates take an afternoon off to watch Dexter's Laboratorv or rehash tales about the killer squirrels on campus. The Power Puff Girl folders that litter one of their desks and the neighing horse on a stick labeled "Bad Horse for Life" all make being an adult a little easier to deal with. 
So !'ye taken a new motto in life, one that my roommates understand when they turn on the cartoon network. one that I made use of when I put on my Dr. Seuss hat: You're never too old to be a kid. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen·er. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The prims of the Rembrandt uchings oa display at The Snite Museum tha, appe-dred in rhe Scene secrion oflasr Friday's Observer were printed as negarive images. The real erchings appear as J,1rk prints on a light background. The Observer regrets rhe error. The Observer regards itselfas a profession~! publication and strives for the highest st,rndards of journalism ar all rimes. '\X'e do, however. recognize thar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so ,;,e can correct our error. 
The 01,,e,n r (USPS '599 2--1000) is p11l,lislied M,rn,t1:, rhr"ugl, Fridc1y except <luring cx,1m and v-dcuion periods. The Ohservi:r is ,1 member of rhe Associar-t<l Pr('.~~. All reproJuc(iun rights .ue r<.:suved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "War, Peace  . Free Flu Shots: 9 a.m. to 4  . Free Flu Shots: 9 a.m. to  . Free Flu Shots: 9 a.m. to  
and Imperatives of .Justice:  p.m.. Larortunc  4 p.m., LaFortune  4 p.m.. Lafortune  
An Islamic Prospective,"  . Lecture: "llecognizing and  . Event: "Coffee at the  . Lecture: "Program in  
4 p.m... Hesburgh Center  Preventing Sexual  Co-Mo," 8 p.m.,  Religion, Con11ict and  
. Booksigning: "Royko: A  Harassment,'' 9 a.m.. Lower  Coleman -Morse Center  Pearebuilding," Hakan  
Life in Print," 7 p.m..  Level Room, Grace Hall  . Concert: Notre Dame  Yavuz, 12:30 p.m.,  
Hammes Bookstore  Choral and Chamber  llesburgh Center  
Orchestra, 8 p.m., Basilica  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Oregon officials take blame for budget shortfall 
CORVALLIS newly balanced budget, likely next 
Oregon State University's redesign week. process turned pages on Thursday Faculty worried about only having night, as thn mood shifted from "What we have here is a a week to rnview and discuss a pro­mere criticism to constructive criti­situation where .fiscal mis­posed budget cut that they felt was cism after university officials vague and difficult to understand.
management is rewarded." 
accepted responsibility l'or a pro­"What we have here is a situation jected $19.1 million budget short­where fisr,al mismanagement is fall. James Foster rewarded," said James Foster, chair While provost and executive vice of tho political science department.
Oregon State professor

president Tim Whitr reassertrd that Clara Pratt, cri-rhair of the budget it can be easy to look back and pin­reconciliation committee, said she point failures, he said the adminis­the concession. and conversation understood the faculty's concern, tration was doing what they thought turned toward uniting to find a and that they will have greater say was best for the university at the solution instead of alleging mistrust from now on. However. she said time. of one another. that this year's budget process "We all screwed up. We all share The meeting closed a week in needed to be solved immediately. 
responsibility," said an emotional which the campus community could and larger changes could be made White at a _special session of the give input on the 2002 budget. A in the future. Faculty Senate. reconciliation committee will evalu­"I see this FY02 budget as stop­
Those in attendance appreciated ate the feedback and return with a ping the bleeding," Pratt said. 
WASHINGTON STATE 

FBI joins search for student 
The FBI announced Wednesday that it would join the hunt for Fresrick Russell at the request of the Whitman Coun.ty Prosecutor's office. Russell, a 22 year-old Washington State University criminal justice student, was supposed to stand trial Nov. 5 for three counts of vehicular homicide and three counts of vehicular manslaughter as a result of a car accident last June. He fled the Pullman area two weeks ago and is still at large. "The Whitman County Prosecutor's office requested federal assistance and they agreed," said Mark Moorer, Russell's defense attorney. "They characterized Russell as a fugitive avoiding prosecu­tion, meaning that he fled to avoid trial. They pullrd into the philosophy of the FBI and appealed their underlying principles to get involvement." Ann Shannon. prosecutor for Whitman County, made the initial contact with the FBI. "We wrote them a letter and they had to make their own judgment whether or not to get involved," she said. "You would expect to request federal assistance when you expect possible interstate activity." 
Federal involvement could assist the case, she said. 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Professor awaits extradition verdict 
The U.S State Department still has not approved the extradition of an Ohio University professor. Suzanne Hatty is in U.S. custody after her Oct. 18 h'earing during which a magistrate decided to extra­dite her to Australia. The U.S. Secretary of State must issue a surrender warrant before Hatty can be turned over to Australian officials, said Fred Alverson. spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's office. The depart­ment has 60 days to issue a warrant. II' a warrant is not issued by the Dec. 18 deadline, Hatty will be free. But Australian officials may request to have her re­arrested. The concept of double jeopardy does not apply to treaty cases, as they are not strictly U.S. criminal cases, Alverson said. "She'd be arrested very l'ast," he said. The charges stemmed from Ilatty's pos­sible connectioi'1 to a 1998 robbery of' a credit union in New South Wales, Australia. Ilatty allegedly helped the man convicted of the robbery and aided in the cashing of the stolen money, according to a document from the U.S. District Court in Columbus. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Accu\Veather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via As~wcialed Press 

Atlanta 72 43 Las Vegas 67 51 Portland 58 33 Baltimore 56 33 Memphis 60 44 Sacramento 69 41 Boston 48 29 Milwaukee 59 31 St. Louis 67 42
Q,~,~9.Q.Q i) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flume_s Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 56 42 New York 55 36 Tampa 81 47 V,a Associated Press GraphicsNet Houston 77 68 Philadelphia 63 48 Washington DC 57 31 


Monday, November 12, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC hooks prospectives during Fall Day 
sent year began this summer. Jennifer Sergio, a
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
"Fall Day on Campus is promot­senior from Niles.
News ~'riler 
ed by tho mailing of individual Mich. took advan­invitations to prospective students. tage or the program
Approximately 200 prospective We also send out posters advertis­by attending the
stud011ts ancl thf'ir fomilins attend­
ing the event to 3,000 high schools scheduled events 
cd Saint Mary's Fall Day on 
and pa1ishes throughout the eonn­with her family.
Campus Sunday. to learn about try," said Saint Mary's associate "Meeting some of theopportunities f'rom faculty and director of admission Mona current students and current students, Carrandi de Bow(~. seeing how they livl1for the past 21 years, Fall Day ,\ccor<ling to Saint Mary's (Wcryday helped me 
on Campus has allowed high 
admission counselor and campus Lo see what I want toschool juniors. sn11iors, and Lrans­visit coordinator I-loUy Tobin, tech­do in college," saidfPr studm1ts to explorn the cam­nol06'Y has also been important in Sergio.
pus. Each student attcrndcd a pronrntin,g tlrn evC'nt in recont Many studentsseries of' 1wenl'i including a finan­ynars. who take advantagecial aid prnsontation, student and "Ther(i has been an increased of the program, like parents panels and lunch in the response from individual studen1s Maura House, areDining l lall. Tours W<'n' conducted due to the posling of the event on using .Fall Day on
throughout tlw day Pncouraging 
tho website," Tobin said. Campus as a tool toprospP!'tivP students and their The event has become one or help them narrowfamiliPs to m£int faculty and the best devices utiliznd by admis­their college chokes.
administralio11 al an open house. CHRISTINA RETINO!The Observer 
sion staff to interest students in According to Rouse,
"This i>vf'nl is an PXCPl!ent Prospectives and their families check out what Saint Mary's has to offer
attnnding; Saiut Mary's College. a high school junior 
opµortunily for prospective stu­Sunday during annual Fall Day on campus
Bowe emphasizPd the importance camp to campus withdPnL._ and tliei,· families to bncomr. 
of the event by stating LhaL Lhe her mother to "findacquaintncl with the collrgo," said largest percentages of students out what type of r,ol­ize that l might like to go to a larg­representation from the study.Joyq• L. Briggs Lanlz. associate who actually enroll visit the cam­lcgo would best fit her personality er school," House said. abroad programs. 
dirPrtor ol' admission. · pus previous lo registration. and lifestyle." 
The open house rnndudod the
The admissions o!licc has a !ive­
The perspective students com­"I liked the student panel day. This not only allowed stu­Y•\ar µrogram for thr promotion 
and planning or Fall Day on municated that this was an experi­because it answered general ques­dents to ask qllfistions about acad­Contact Shannon Nelligan at 
!mce that aided greatly in deciding tions about student life and tho nell2040@saintmarys.edu.
emic lifo on campus but it also had 
Campus. Tlw dPtails for the µre­
where they will go to college. tour of campus hdped me to real-
ND responds with week of peace 
"Notre Dame wants to integrate life in the concludes with a panel discussion of what all of us to learn, for example, about Islam By ERJN LaRUFFA 
residence halls more closely with the stu­has been learned. The panel is scheduled and the complex role of the United States in Associate News Editor 
dent-;' intellectual interests," said Appleby. for Friday from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the the world today." "This week is one way of doing that." Hesburgh Center Auditorium. A number of student-;, faculty and rectors 
Special collectiol1s for rt1fugecs at Masses Referred to as "Quad Panel Discussions." In addition to fostering a greater connec­worked together to make these events pos­across campus Sunday marked the begin­these discussions will cover topics ranging tion between dorm life and academics, the sible, according to Appleby, one of several ning of "A Weck of Peace and War from justice in war, the media and the his­week's events are intended to educate coordinators of the week. Various depart­Education," a series of discussion and lee­tory of anti-American sentiments. Faculty members of the Notre Dame community ments on campus also came together to Lures related to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks members will facilitate the discussions. about the aftermath of Sept. 11 in a way sponsor the events, including the Kroc and subsequent events. The main feature of Panels will take place from 7:30 p.m. to 9 · that goes beyond what the mainstream Institute, the Office of Student Affairs, the the week's events ,.,ill be panel discussions, p.m. Monday tbrough Thursday in media presents to the public. Center for Social Concerns, the Office of the which will be held nightly in four dorms Keenan/Stanford, McGlinn, Morrissey and "Our hope is that the week's events will Provost, and Campus Ministry. A complete around campus, according to Scott Appleby, Pasqm~rilla Ea-;t halls. help students as well as faculty to become schedule oflectures and discussions is avail­director of the Kroc Institute for The week also includes lectures, movies responsible interpreters of the array of facts able at www.nd.edu/-gender/9-11.html. IntPrnational Peacn Studies. and an intflrfaith prayer service. The week and opinions presented as evidence sup­
lporting this or that conclu­-· ;ion about the crisis," said Appleby.University of Notre Dame ; I "There is a great deal for Contact Erin LaRuffa at 
I elaruffa@nd.edu.
International Study Program 
1Il 

Students plan lecture 
Dublin 

for week of peace 
been planning the lecture for 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
several weeks as part of the Associate News Editor 
dorm's programming require­
ment. Although it is not related 
In addition to the many to the weeklong series of war events lectures and discussions and peace education sponsored scheduled as part of Peace and by numerous campus organiza­War Education Week, Siegfried tions, Gaffney's lecture does 
Ireland 

Information Meeting 
Hall is also sponsoring an event compliment the week well, in response to America's ongo­according to students in ing military action in Siegfried.
Tuesday, Nov. 13, 2001 
Afghanistan. "It will coincide with Peace Father Patrick Gaffney, an and War Education Week 
anthropology professor and fel­they're having, but that's just a low in tho Kroc Institute for coincidence," said senior Andy International Peace Studies, Larson, who helped plan the 
155 DeBartolo 
5:00-6:00 PM 
will be delivering a lecture event. tonight entitled, "Hate for Larson explained that America: Motives and Gaffney will offer an interesting Alternatives for the War perspective on the war in Effort." Afghanistan because his
with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director 
• 
Students in Siegfried have research focuses on religion and politics in the Middle East
International Study Programs 

•------------and Africa. More specifically,
the lecture will explore reasons 
for the war and whether the
R

Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 
United States should be at war. "If anyone is interested in
for Fall 2002, Spring 2003 
a,e,t. 

this topic,_dwLe'd love to have 
guests, sa1 arson. ~ The lecture will bhegin at 8:30 
All Year 2002-2003 

Applications submitted on-line: 
5n11·nu+"'. ~ p.m. tonight in t e Siegfried 
tt :.aa, chapel lounge.
www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
/tom • CIUTPCIST 

Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu. 


-
------· 

---~-----------------------------­
page 4 The Ob:;erver . NEWS Monday, November 12, 200 I . 
opportunity to do that with the other ROTC students."
ROTC 
continued from page 1 

of our upcoming military duty. we're also college stu­dents and it's sometimes hard because we'rn so busy to find time to sit back and rcfl~ct on the significance of Veteran's Day," said Mastronardi. "The veteran retrnat provided us the 
Junior Navy Midshipman Katie Jeter agrned with Mastronardi. 
"I thought it was a very good way to honor the vet­eran's and those who had served in the past." 
Contact Alley Jay at ajay@nd.edu 
War 
continued from page l 

things tend to slip when you go to war." 
The federal government has taken extraordinary measures to tar­get Osama bin Laden, al Qaeda and the Taliban -specific threats to American security. The United States· target enemy has boen constrained. seemingly focused on the suspects of the attacks of SPpt. l J. In conventional language. this war on terrorism is tackling an organization within a failed state. 
"You can make an analogy [of the Taliban] to a tribe in an unset­tled region," said Johnson. This bmtlefront is far less defined than in a traditional war. "And finding and killing terrorists will require operations that are to some extent different than in conventional wars," said Lindley. "However, keep in mind that special operations, forces were used extensively in the Gulf War as well." 
Contact Maribel Morey at morey.4@nd.edu. 
ALL IN A DAY'S WORK 

AMANDA HUGHES(fhe Observer Students take a break Saturday while volunteering in the "Turning over a new leaf" project which aimed to bring Notre Dame sudents and neighborhood organizations together for a community beautification project. 
French journalist killed in Afghanistan 
Assoc.iaced Press headquarters in Khoja Bahauddin, in the province in PAHIS Takhar, near the Tajikistan 
A French journalist was border. killed Sunday during an RTL said a search for Billaud ambush in northeastern was called off during the night Afghanistan and a second was and was to resume Monday reported. missing after the morning. same incident. according to There were unconfirmed their employers. reports of injuries among those 
Johanne Sutton of Radio travflling in the convoy. France Internationale was French Prime Minister Lionel believed to be the only fo1:eign Jospin in a statement journalist killer! in Afghanistan expressed "very grPat sadness" since the war began last at Suttcm's death. month. Pierre Billaud of RTL "In mv name and in thfl name radio was missing, the French of the government, I offer my station said. deepest sympathies to the fami-
Sutton and Bil!aud were rid­1y of Johanne Sutton and I ing with other foreign journal­share the paiu of her loved ists when their convoy of ones and the mourning of the armed vehicles and trucks was community of war correspon­ambushed after leaving the dents," Jospin said in the state­northern alliance's military ment. 
Best Pizza East of Anywherel 
Monda}I-Tuesday suner Deal! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Order of Breadsticl<s w/ Sause 
7.99! 
(Monday & Tuesday Only) 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood 
pizzadonertght. (Next to Subway) 
PIZZA COMPANY® 
THE ;c. ?-,.Y)EifS CHo1 

... ·v• ~ . r) . 
•~ ~)}:;\::\::=,, ,i::':i:::i~,%(.._.-: v-t:::. 
. .
.

•.. ••.••••••••••••••••• (fl!lll~~lfdillmllll!IDi ···················­
RECOMMENDS 
Mitchell Pacelle takes us behind the scenes in a bizarre drama of greed, rivalry, duplicity, and betrayal surrounding 
America1s premier skyscraper. 
~...,.""'."' ............~ --,;.•""..,,--..,... •~··"
... "·"···~ ~.. ,. , ..., 


•f Mdlll lOW"I
a•• 


"As much a tribute to the power of music as it is a Holocaust memoir. .. a deeply affecting story of a love that survived the terrors of WWII." 


-Publisher's Weekly 
''An engaging biography of a giant in American joun1alism whose name is attached to the most prestigious award in the profession." -Booklist 


HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
Earn Free Books! 
See store for details 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
,hone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.ca111 

ATION 
Monday, November 12,_ 200 l COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Korean reunions possible: North and South Korean negotiators were close to reaching an agreement Sunday on setting a date for more reunions of families separated by the Korean War, South Korean media reports said. But talks stumbled due to North Korea's demand that South Korea lift its anti­terrorism alert status before resuming exchanges. 
Iranian rebels on trial: Thirty-one members of an outlawed reformist group went on trial Sunday in closed-door proceed­ings that could set up another clash between conservatives and moderate President \1ohammad Khatami. Khatami, who has recently challenged the hard-line j utliciary, has called the non-jury trial for the Freedom Movement backers unconstitutional. · 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Benefits of medicine questioned: 
Two-thirds of people taking widely prescribed cholesterol-lowering medicines do not get as much b(\IH'fiL as drug company statements suggest they should. a study found. Although the reasons for this are not entirely clear, researchers suspect a simple answer: Patients do -not take their pills as diligently as they should. 
Phones used to detect Alzheimers: 
Automated touch-tone phone answering sys­tems could help screen older callers for early signs of dementia and Alzheimer's disease, researchers say. In a study of 155 patients, a touch-tone system identified warning signs in 80 percent of patients who had been diag­nosed with mental impairments by their doc­tors. ft also gave passing grades to 80 percent ul' patient:; diagnused as normal. The results appear in Monday's Archives of Internal Medicine. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Anderson native fulfills dream: At 
age 81, Ruth Justice is fultilling a childhood dream. She's learning how to tap dance, and she finds it does wonders in relieving aches and pains. 'Tve always wanted to take tap dancing, and I just decided it was time," said the great-grandmother who is in her second year of classes at the Ann Harmeson School of Dance. "I just love it." As a young girl, Justice watched Fred Astaire on the silver screen, dancing away with graceful charm. "I was al\\'ays Ci11g1•r HogPrs," she said, blushing. "I didn't look like her, but I l?ved to imagine." 
Market Watch November 9 
Dow 9,608.00 +20.48 
]~ Same: 
Composite 
Volume:
~ 251 1.082.555,008 
AMEX; 826.84 +8.43 NASDAQ: 1,828.48 +0.71 NYSE: 570.61 +0.54 S&P 500: 1,120.31 +1.77 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE ENRON CORP (ENE) +2.62 +0.22 8. 63 NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -0.05 -0.02 37.73 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0. 58 +0.11 19.20 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2. 64 -0.35 12.92 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.41 -0.40 27 .88 
AFGHANISTAN 



Associated Press 
AFGHANISTAN 
Opposition forces claimed to have the Taliban on the run across much of northern Afghanistan on Sunday, as the ruling Islamic militia abandoned stronghold after stronghold in a with­drawal south toward the capital, Kabul. 
The foreign minister of the northern alliance, Abdullah, claimed the opposition had seized half the country in the past two days and dealt the Taliban a severe blow as a fighting force. U.S. officials warned that a counterattack was possible. 

As Taliban fighters fled south, President Bush urged the opposition not to take Kabul before a new, broad-based government could be formed. 
However, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld acknowledged Sunday that "we don't have enough forces on the ground to stand in their way" if the northern alliance tried to seize the capital. 
At a press conference here, Abdullah said the opposition had recaptured its former headquarters, Taloqan, and three other northern provincial capi­tals since Mazar-e-Sharif, linchpin of the Taliban defenses in the north, fell to the alliance on Friday. 
In Washington, however, Rumsfeld said that while the opposition had "effec­tive control" of Mazar-e­Sharif, "there are pockets of resistance within the city." 
"There could always be a counterattack,'.' he said. The city's airport had not yet been secured, he added, though he thought it would be soon. 
Taliban officials acknowledged their forces were in a "strategic with­drawal," apparently toward Kabul and the eth­nic Pashtun strongholds to the south. The alliance is dominated by Tajiks and Uzbeks, while Pashtuns ­the nation's largest ethnic group -form the core of Taliban support. 
Abdul Hanan Hemat, chief of the Taliban's Bakhtar news agency, denied claims that Taloqan had fallen. 
The reports could not be independently confirmed. Foreign journalists do not have access to many of the front lines and have been speaking to opposition commanders by satellite phone. 
The opposition's Abdullap,who like many i\fghans USPS only onr name, said .some 200 Taliban fighters were killed in the fighting for Taloqan and other towns. 

Firefighters bicycle to say thanks 
Nine/Ladder Co. 33, who planned to citizens of America for all their sup­
Associated P ccss 

ride their bikes to Washington, D.C. port," said Matt Hornung, who was 
NEW YORK From there, he and four others are to make the cross-country trip with 
A group of New York City firefight­to continue the 2.757-mile, cross­Rowan and firefighters Sal ers set out Sunday on a cross-coun­country trip. Princiotta, Drew Robb and Gerald try bicycle trip to express gratitude The group of eight departed Dolan. for the support they've received Sunday morning from another fire­Their firehouse lost 10 men in the since the World Trade Center house, just a few blocks from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. People attacks. trade center disaster site. from across the country have 
"I'm going to personally say thank The tour, dubbed "Thank You reached out to them over the past you to every person I can.·• said !ire-· America," will take them to Georgia two months, sending children's art­fighter Dan Rowan, the trip's orga­before they turn west. The·y plan to work, food and cash donations. nizer, before mounting his bike to visit 100 firehouses, and aim to Rowan said he was moved to tears begin the first leg of the journey. reach Los Angeles in 33 days -the when a homeless man came to the 
Rowan is one of eight firefighters, number of their ladder company. firehouse to donate what little money all from the East Village's Engine Co. "We're just doing it to thank the he had. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 12, 2001 
SMC sponsors selllinars on teaching 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 

Gary Galluzzo stressed the importance of creating more opportunities for college to produce quality teachers in his seminar. 
The Saint Mary's Education department sponsored the conference by Galluzzo, exec­utive vice president of the National Board of Professional Teachers, for the faculty of the Education department to showcase new ideas on teaching college stu­dents to become good teach­ers. 
"The issue of teacher quali­ty has risen to a level of national concern and we are forced with a variety of defin­itional problems that demand attention, and which appear difficult to address," Galluzzo said. 
Galluzzo spoke about quali­ty of teacher education, attention to the entry and exit criteria for aspiring teachers, more demand for early field experience. By students gain­ing experience early in their college career they are able to find out if they are cut out to be a teacher. 
"The demand for teachers of higher quality turned more recently to examine the role of the continuing professional development of practicing teachers. To change the teaching system we need not only look at the students studying to become teachers but those teachers who already practice everyday," said Galluzzo. 
"Along with t~e challenge that is a new focus on what schools, colleges, and depart­ments of education are doing to make their graduate pro­gr ams more powerful and meaningful to the profession­al lives of teachers," Galluzzo said. 
Galluzzo believes to change the system you must talk to the people closest to the problems -the teachers. 
"Teachers are the closest to the problems of teaching and learning and if we can find a way for them to talk about it and exercise that judgment, they can solve it," Galluzzo said. 
Galluzzo earned a Ph.D from Syracuse u·niversity, where he is a former dean and-a professor on leave. Galluzzo has also taught at the high school level as a social studies teacher. His research interests include investigations into how stu­dents become teachers, cur­riculum reform in teacher education, and program eval­uation in teacher education. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877 @saintmarys.edu. 

ND raises money for refugees 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 

Students continued their campaign to assist in the relief efforts following Sept. 11 Sunday. 
Student government and Campus Ministry sponsored a collection at Basilica and dorm masses to benefit Afghan refugees. The groups donated the money to Catholic Relief Services, an organization working with Gawrych, student govern­ment spiritual commission chairman. 
Seniors Kate Diaz, Anthony Pagliarini and Kelly Rich had the vision for the collection and proposed their idea to student government and Campus Ministry. When their request for a second football game collection was denied, they appealed to the Basilica and the residence halls for their support of a campus­wide collection during Mass. 
"This effort was initiated 
Afghan refugees near the Pakistan border. Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministrv, coniact~d the head of and mo_tivat­e d by how

"More important than the we think 
total money is ... inspir­we're sup­posed to be
ing a feeling ofsolidarity 
acting as
with the refugees. " Christians in helping peo­ple who arc
Drew Gawreych 
suffering
spiritual comission chairman 
more than we can imagine," 
the charity, who assured him that the money would go direr.tty to the refugees. 
"We chose this organization not only because it's Catholic and relates directly to the University, but also because we have their assurance that the money will go where we want it to," said Drew Rich said. 
Previous collections at Notre Dame benefited the vic­tims of the Sept. 11 attacks in New York and Washington, 
D.C. Diaz, Pagliarini and Rich, however, saw the need to also aid those affected else­where. 
"We wanted to make a real statement that we're not only supporting people here but there as well," said Rich. 
Pagliarini said he wanted to respond to a refugee crisis that has been worsened by 
U.S. bombings in Afghanistan. He viewed the collection as a way to "pro­vide humanitarian aid in a public, open way, to draw attention to the situation and to reach out to those in Afghanistan." 
The collection was part of an overall response to the r.vents of Sept: 11, said Gawrych. Included in this ongoing effort were "Pray for Peace" T-shirts, a benefit concert and a candlelight prayer vigil. Students also distributed prayer cards and facts about the Afghan refugees before Mass on Sunday and offered a Rosary servicp, afterwards. 
Gawrych measured the suc­cess of the collection in the awareness it raised about the issue campus-wide. "More important than the total money raised is ... inspiring a foeling of solidarity with the refugees," he said. 
-----------­
Contact Lauren Beck at 
beck. l3@nd.edu. 


EYanAdams Come take a fascinating journey into the customs, culture, and accomplishments ofNative Americans. Evan Adams is an accomplished actor, writer, and dancer. Join us for a personal account of Evan's experiences. When: Nov. J:21\ 2001@ 7:00pm Where: Reckers Hospitality Room  Nanv• 111,ncan EVENTS November I 3th Movie Night r<~) Dillon I !all 24-Ilour space riil 7pm " November 141h Native Art Tour r,b Snitc Museum Call 634-4732 for tktails November I 5111 Native Dancing with the family of Lawrence Santia110, :200~ id\ 8pm *Native American Weck i, w-sponsorcd hy NASAND and MSPS  Jackie Bird Come be a part of a wonderful experience that includes contemporary and traditional music. songs. and dances. Join us as we share this experience with Jackie Bird, a Native American who has mastered the skills necessary to preserve her culture. When: Nov. 16th ' 2001 @ 8:00pm Where: Notre Dame Faculty Dining Room  


Monday, November 12, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
• 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November I2, 2001 
• 

Americans pour millions into war on terrorism 
Associaced Press 

WASHINGTON 
A U.S. helicopter lost in Afghanistan a week ago cost up to twice as much as the government spends yearly on scenic byways. Each cruise missile is worth several American homes. 
The total expense of the Afghan war may be nearly as hard to find as people hiding in Afghan caves. By one esti­mate, the military assault is costing $500 million to $1 billion a month -and above the $1 billion in promised 
U.S. economic assistance to Pakistan, and debt relief for the country.' 
The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a private research group that closely examines the cost of war. offered that monthly fig­ure. Precision is impossible without knowing more about how many bombs are being dropped and what is happen­ing with U.S. forces on the ground, among other vari­ables. 
Still, parts of the war are adding up: the estimated $61 billion. but all but about $5,000 an hour to f1y a Navy $7 billion was reimbursed by FA-18 fighter-bomber, the allies. By some accounting $25,600 cost of one of the methods. the United States frequently used Joint Direct may have even made a profit. Attack Munition bombs, the Munitions at the disposal of top-of-the-line Tomahawk U.S. forces in the Afghan war cruise missiles. · vary wildly in price. 
As for a running total, "It's From the bargain base­very much ballpark," said ment: the 500-pound M-117, Steven M. Kosiak, the cen­dropped from a heavy ter's director of budget stud­bomber. for a men~ $300 
ies. Some other analysts have apiece. projected higher 
"The Department of 
costs. 
Defence will be collecting 
Stretched over a year. those figures but at this the price of 
point ... we don't have 
the war 
them."
could be $12 billion, half of what 
Susan Hansen 
the federal 
spokeswoman
government spends on medlcal research. home. 

At the high e n d Tomahawk cruise mis­siles costing $600,000 to $1 million each, many times more than the $147,100 median price of an American 
Hy comparison, the bomb­U.S. officials said 50 ing campaign against Tomahawks alone were Yugoslavia in 1999 cost the launched in the opening United States about $3 bil­assault, some from British lion. forces, making an expensive Tho 1991 Persian Gulf War debut. Deplmdence on cruise cost America an estimated missiles has lessened since 
U.S. boycotts U.N. nuclear plan 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
A U.N. conference on speed­ing ratification of the compre­hensive nuclear test ban treaty opened Sunday ­without the United States, which reiterated last week that it did not support the pact. 
The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, signed by 161 nations and ratified by 84 of them. cannot take effect until all 44 countries that possess nuclear weapons or have nuclear power programs have signed or ratified the treaty. 
Only 31 such nations, including Britain, France and Russia, have ratified the 1996 accord that bans nuclear tests in any environment. The United States is among 13 non-ratifiers. 
Washington had signed th9 pact five years ago, but the Senate rejected the treaty in 1999. Opponents of the treaty say it is unenforceable. 
The Cnited States forced a vote last week in the U.N. Committee on Disarmament and Securitv to demonstrate its opposition to the test ban accord. 
At that session. the United States was the only nation to vote against the accord, while India and Pakistan -both new nuclear nations that have not yet signed the treaty -joined Hussia, China, Britain and france in voted in its favor. 
The United Statr~s was invit­ed to attend Sunday's confer­ence as an observer but decided not to go, State Department spokeswoman Eliza Koch said. 
"The purpose of the confer­encP is to promote ratifica­
tions of the treaty, and the administration has made 
. clear that it has no plans to ask the Senate to reconsider its 1999 vote on th is issue," she said. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan opened the three-day conference Sunday by urging nations who haven't ratified to approve the pact. In a pointed allusion to the United States, Annan said some nations withholding ratifica­tion "are states which them­selves worked hard to con­clude the treaty." 
"Now it is within their power to bring it into force," Annan said. "I implore them to do so." 
Annan also stressed that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks show more than ever that the treaty is needed. 
"Those events should have made it clear to everyone that we cannot afford further pro­liferation of nuclear weapons," he said. 
Vice-Minister Miguel Marin Bosch of Mexico stressed the need to end th-e "qualitative"arms race. "If you can't test, you can't improve, and if you can't improve, that means you can stop the nuclear arms race,"he said. 
The American boycott revPals "U.S. contempt for its allies just one tluy after PresidRnt Bush said he want­
.ed the world to work together to stop terrorists getting these deadly weapons," Rebecca Johnson of the Institute for Disarmament and Diplomacy said. 
India and Pakistan, which have nuclear weapons, and North Korea, which has an advanced nuclear program, have not signed the treaty, 
either. 

German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer urged all three to sign and ratify it. and called on the United States and China to help move the treaty forward by doing the same. 
Igor Sergeev, assistant to Hussian President Vladimir Putin on strategic stability, called the pact's early entry into force "the imperative of the time." 
He said Russia was pre­pared to suggest to the United States the possibility of devel­oping additional verification 
for nuclear test 
• ! . 

· then. Pentagon spokeswoman Susan Hansen said it takes time to calculate costs above those normally associated with having forces abroad in peacetime. "The Department of Defense will be collecting those figures but at this point, a month into the con­flict, we don't have them," she said. On the home front, a study has taken a stab at the costs of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and all their fallout -an expense likely to dwarf the costs of the Afghan war. Peter Navarro, an econo­mist at the University of California in Irvine, calculat­ed $100 billion in costs so far, nearly half from lost pro­ductivity, sales, advertising dollars and airline revenue in the immediate aftermath. That is apart from stock mar­ket losses. Long-term costs are so speculative and dependent on government policy that Navarro did not add them up. But his calculations do include "terrorist tax" items 
Author John 
Eldredge 
Breakfast speaker "How to Life Your Life From a Christian Worldview" 

costing billions to make fly­ing safer. They include $20 to $40 an hour for the time each person wastes by going to the airport 90 minutes earlier. 
"The stakes here are sim­ply breathtaking." Navarro wrote in the report for the Milken Institute. 
To assess the. cost of the fighting overseas, budget analysts at least have the experience of past wars to draw from. 
Kosiak came to his projec­tion in two ways: one using costs of strike missions over Kosovo and Iraq and apply­ing them to the current con­flict, the other by adding up everything known about the Afghan campaign. 
Altogether, he calculated that the first 25 days cost $400 million to $800 million. 
Munitions used on the Taliban include 15,000­pound BLU-82 "daisy-cut.­ter"bombs, c_osting $27,000 each. The bunker-busting GBU-37 costs $231.000 apiece. according to the Federation of American Scientists. 

EXPLORE YOUR CALL TO COUNSEi 
MASTER OF ARTS IN COUNSELING PREVIEW DAY 
• 
Meet professors & students 

• 
Attend a class 

• 
Learn more about the program 


Thursday, November 15, 2001 
. . 

7.00 a.m. -6.45 p.m. 
Free admission 

For more information and reservations contac Sara Smith at (219) 257-3360 or E-mail: smiths2@bethelcollege.com 


BETHEL COLLEGE 
I 001 West McKinley A venu.e 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
www.bethelcollege.edu 
We're not like every other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
• 
\.J
~., 
U.S. AIR FORCE! 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 12, 2001 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
relaxed. You can be a little bit more aggressive and just not feel like it's back and forth. We did a good job get­ting a big lead early," 
Game three followed in the same spirit as game one, as Seton Hall took the lead 10-9, then 20-19. But Notre Dame fought back. · 
With Seton Hall up 21-20, Notre Dame reeled off seven of the next eight points to build a 26-22 lead. 
Seton Hall pulled to within 27-24, but the Irish closed the Pirates out on a Kreher kill. 
"Games one and three, nei­ther team gol a big jump," Brown said. "In game three they beat us to 10, they beat us to 20 and we finally beat them to 30. We weren't able to score points or get any kind of a lead in games one or three." 
Notre Dame also topped St. John's 30-8, 30-24. 30-22 on Friday evening to earn Big East win number 11 on the season. 
The Irish totaled 19.5 blocks in that match, led by 11 assists by Goralski and seven from Loomis. Loomis led the Irish with 12 kills while Kreher added 10 on a .421 percentage. 
The Irish hit .520 in the first game while limiting the Red Storm to a -.313 mark. 
For the match, the Irish hit .400 while the Red Storm 'Committed 33 hitting errors to only 23 kills for a -.101 cumulative average. 
"We came out in the first game and played really, real­ly strong and I think that St. John's wasn't really sure what hit them," Brown said. "We just played a really solid first game and I think from there it got a little bit shaky 
for them just because  we  
were so strong."  
Notre  Dame  takes  on  

Illinois State Wednesday night in what is likely to be the team's final game this season in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at a.mstadter. l@nd.edu. 

PGA 
Norman joins hall of fame 
Associated Press 
ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla. 

Greg Norman took his place among golfs greatest players Sunday night, paying tribute to Jack Nicklaus for his example that learning to lose gracefully was as impor­tant as win­
"The game ofgolf can Norman
ning. 
the major

Norman give you a lot, but the 
champi­

and the late 
game ofgolf can take a onship that
P a y n e 
Stewart were lot away from you." meant so 
much to

among six 
him.

new members 
Greg Norman 
Norman

inducted into 
professional golfer handled
the World 
Golf Hall of Fame during a 90-minute ceremony at the World Golf Village that show­cased style and success by players, administrators and equipment pioneers. 
The others were two-time 

U.S. Women's Open champion Donna Caponi, Ping Golf founder Karsten Solheim, for­mer U.S. Golf Association presi­dent Judy Bell and AHan Robertson of Scotland, believed to be the first golf professional. 
"The game of golf can give you a lot, but the game of golf can take a lot away from you," Norman said. "Being a great loser is probably the hardest thing to do in life. I learned that from Jack Nicklaus. He's also a great winner." 
Norman was both. 

The man who won the British Open twice as part of his 7 5 victories around the world is known equally for the losses. Some of them were self-inflict­ed, like the final-round 78 at the 1996 Masters. Some of them were flukes, such as Larry Mize chipping in from 140 feet at the '87 Masters, and Bob Tway holing a bunker shot at the '86 PGA Championship. 
Among those in attendance was Nick Faldo, who overcame the six-stroke deficit at Augusta National to d e n y 
the col­

lapse with such dignity that he received an overflow of support, which he has carried with him the rest of his career. 
"He was a great champion that day," Norman said. "I inflicted a lot of punishment on myself. The outcrying of public support changed my approach to people in life. I thank him for that." 
The Hall of Fame now has 90 members. The induction came one day after Stewart and his widow, 

Co,ll 259-1000 for more details 

eMteNNWI 
..,YOUR fl.AMII.Y PUN CENTER" 
-IIN¦ INRI 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 
9PM-11 MIDN.fGffF UNLIMITED BOWLING 
~:5.00 
. $~ PER PERSON 
SHOES INCLUDED Beacon Bowl-4110 Uncolnway W. South Bend 234-4167 
Tracey, would have celebrated their 20th anniversary. 
"What excites me the most is that we are here to recognize Payne's achievements as a golfer and his contributions to the game," Mrs. Stewart said. 
Stewart performed on every continent where golf is played, and his 18 victories around the world included three major championships. The last one was the most memorable, a second U.S. Open with a 15­foot par putt on the 72nd hold. He died four months later. 
"Payne always dreamed of having a Hall of Fame career," Mrs. Stewart said. "He would have cherished the honor of being with you here." 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 

Hoya opportunity in the first half. 
"The first half was superb, we never even gave them a sniff," Clark said. 
J:3y the end of the first half, the Irish maintained a 10-3 shot advantage, as well as a 6­1 corner kick advantage ­including corner kicks on three consecutive plays for t:he Stewart and cleared the ball to prevent the score. 
The Hoyas finished with only five shots for the game. The Irish finished the game with 18 shots, featuring at least one shot from all but one offensive starter -midfielder Kevin Goldthwaite. 
"I think the team as a whole played very good defense, from the forwards to the backs, and that was key. We were able to stay organized and not give [Georgetown] too manr, 
chances. 
s a i d 
Howard.

Irish. "/ think the team as a 
The win
The second 

whole played very good propels the
half featured 

defense. from the for­Irish to the
much the 
Big East

same style of wards to the backs, and 
semifinal
play as the 

that was key. vVe were 
round. to be
first half. A 

able to stay organized held on
solid, patient 
Friday in

Irish defense and not give 
Storrs,
held off· a 

[Georgetown] too many 
Conn. They
p e s k y 

_chances.. " will face off
Georgetown 
against No.
offense. and 
3 St. John's,
the Irish 

Griffin Howard 
a 1-0 win-
offense had 

defender ner 
over
many scoring 'opportunities. O'Hagan's had 

nine saves for the game, six in the second half alone. Headers by Stewart and Detter surfaced as key scoring chances for the Irish, but Stewart's header went just 
wide of the net, and Detter's shot was just barely saved by O'Hagan. 
However, the Irish defense managed to hold off an oppos­ing offense for 90 minutes for the seventh time in the last nine games, and the Hoyas only had two shots in the sec­ond half. 
The most significant threat for the Hoyas came late in the second half, as Georgetown drove deep into Notre Dame territory. But the Irish avoid­ed a possible handball call on 
No. 6 Boston College Sunday afternoon. 
"I don't know what [the remainder of] this season will bring; we're taking it one game at a time," Clark said. "Of course, anything that hap­pens now is gravy, but I can't wait to get back to Connecticut." 
The win also improves the Irish's chances of getting a bid in the 48-team NC:\!\ Championships, which start Nov. 24. 
"This is a good victory to get us towards the NCAA 's as well," Clark said. "It will put us in a very strong situation." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 

European Area Studies Minor 
Widen your horizons beyond the limits of individual disciplines through across-disciplinary perspective.
' r 
Choose aEuropean Area Studies Minor. 
Fonnerly known as the Western European Area Studies Program, this minor now includes the study ofEast-Central Europe as well as Western Europe. All the East-Central European states are now under considerations for inclusion in the European Union . Students will study the politics, history and culture of these areas as well as the language of aparticular country. The European Area Studies Minor is tied closely to the Nanovic Institute for European Studies that provides two summer study grants/internships for East-Central Europe and three summer study grants for Western Europe. This program is recommended for students who wish to study abroad and who wish to pursue acareer in international politics, business or the foreign service. Students completing the Area Studies Minor will receive an European Area Studies certificate at graduation. 
Students participating in the European Area Studies Minor must complete the following requirements: I.· The student must take at least four area studies courses (12 hours) distributed over three different departments. Alist of recommended courses can be obtained in the Nano\iic Institute. These courses will not be counted toward other requirements; 
2. 
The student must take and pass at least two semesters of aEuropean language or demonstrate proficiency in aEuropean language: 

3. 
In the senior year, the student must complete asupervised area studies essay. The research and writing may be extended over atwo semester period. Students will work closely with afaculty member they have chosen to direct the essay. Students must receiv.e the approval of afaculty member to direct the essay. 


For more information contact: The Nanovic Institute for European Studies, 419 Flanner Hall, 631-5253. 
' 
AFC 
Brown's five field goals bring Steelers' win 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Kris Brown didn't leave the field kicking himself this week. 
Brown, who missed four field goals in a loss last week, was wide with a late attempt in reg­ulation before making his fifth field goal with 9:38 left in over­time Sunday to lift the Pittsburgh Steelers to a 15-12 victory over the Cleveland Browns. 
"It's a little better feeling," Brown said. "Last week was probably the longest. hardest week -of my life. I'm just very happy to get the opportunity." 
Brown's game-winning, 32­yard kick was set up by Jerome Bettis, who ran for 163 yards ­48 on Pittsburgh's winning drive in OT -as the Steelers (6-2) stayed alone atop the AFC Central. · 
Moments earlier. Brown missed a 45-yard attempt with 
1:37 left in regulation and the scored tied 12-12. But the Steelers won the OT toss, and behind Bettis, drove the ball to the Browns' 14. 
"Kris told me to give him another chance," Bettis said. "When we won the toss, I went to him and said, Tm going to give you that chance to win it.' And he did." 
On the first play of OT, Bettis swept left and went 37 yards to the Browns' 45, bowling over safety Percy Ellsworth and a few other Browns along the way. 
He carried six more times as the Steelers rode "The Bus" inside the Cleveland 20 to set up Brown. 
"I wanted the football," Bettis said. 'Tm not saying I wanted it 10 times. But the holes were there, and l just ran through them." 
Brown made kicks from 31, 27. 37, 37 and 32 yards. 
"I gave Chris the game ball," Cowher said. "I know how he would have felt if he would have sat with that last miss. I have a lot of confidence in him." 
And in his defense. 
The Steelers' top-ranked unit held the Browns to just 187 yards, including 88 after the first quarter. and sacked quar­terback Tim Couch seven times -all in the second half. 
For the second straight week, the Browns (4-4) were beaten by a player named Brown in overtime. In Chicago last Sunday, Bears safety Mike Brown's interception return for a TD beat Cleveland 27-21. 
"It was another very winnable game," linebacker Jamir Miller said. "We had it in our hands and let it slip away. That's very frustrating." 
Couch finished 18-of-33 for 160 yards, but Cleveland's offense managed only 3 points over the final 57 minutes. 
Pittsburgh'·s Kardell Stewart was 18-of-32 for 188 yards. 
After Brown missed the four kicks in a 13-10 loss against Baltimore last Sunday, Cowher sent him to Heinz Field for a special practice session on Wednesday. The extra work paid off. 
"Words can't describe how happy I am for Kris,'' wide receiver Hines Ward said. "Or how happy he is, either.'' 
Brown's third field goal, a 37­yarder, tied it 9-9 with 10:52 remaining in the third quarter. 
The Browns responded with a 13-play drive and took the lead on Phil Dawson's 40-yard field goal with 4:20 left in the quar­ter. 
The Steelers then appeared to be in business when Amos Zcreouc took a short screen pass from Stewart, made a nice cutback in front of Pittsburgh's bench and went 62 yards to the Browns' 2. 
But on first down, Stewart tried to outrun the Browns to the corner of the end zone and was stripped near the pylon by defensive end Tyrone Rogers. 
Officials ruled it went out at the 1, but the Browns chal­lenged the call. TV replays showed Stewart fumbled the ball into and out of the end zone for a touchback. 
The Browns became the first team to score against the Steelers in the first quarter this season when Orpheus Roye, who played four seasons in Pittsburgh, tackled Bettis one yard deep in the end zone for a safety. 
Cleveland took over at the 49 following the free kick, and Couch made it 9-0 by threading a 12-yard TD pass to tight end 
O.J. Santiago with 6:43 left in the quarter. 
Broncos 26, Chargers 16 
Eyeing a wounded San Diego defense, Brian Griese showed no mercy. 
Griese threw two touchdown passes just 39 seconds apart late in the first half, and Denver overcame moments of generosity in the second half to beat San Diego 26-16 on Sunday. 
Denver (5-4). moving into a second-place tie with San Diego (5-4) in the AFC West, capital­ized on a sprained left knee sustained by San Diego's lead­ing tackler, safety Rodney Harrison, and injuries to line­backer Orlando Ruff (stinger) and cornerback Alex Molden (left ankle). 
The Broncos built a 26-3 lead midway through the third quar­ter. San Diego rallied with a long touchdown pass and a fumble recovery for a touch­down, but Doug Flutie subse­quently threw three intercep­tions. 
Jason Elam kicked four field goals for the Broncos, who took a 20-0 halftime lead on Griese's two TD throws -in the final 
1:07 of the first half. 
Both passes were to tight ends as Denver was short­handed at wide receiver when Eddie Kennison was declared inactive for the game after reportedly telling coach Mike Shanahan he was retiring. Receiver Scottie Montgomery was sidelined with a twisted left knee in the first half. 
LfJ11t11 hats 
11;J·111oves
l",J{!lmrgestse~dion only at 5 i,:&. 
Sminute ~ 
from CIUTPCIST 

Cami1us :7.1ii:
r Cold WNther Expertll 
call z 9-2000 for more details 

San Diego lost Harrison in the first quarter. Kick returner Ronney Jenkins (sprained neck) and backup running ba:ck Terrell Fletcher (left ankle) also went down with injuries. 
The Broncos marched 62 yards on their first possession for Elam's 25-yard field goal. 
Early in the second quarter, Rod Smith turned a short pass into a 32-yard gain, setting up Elam's 29-yarder. 
Moments later, San Diego crossed midfield for the only time in the half. but on third down Flutie was sacked by Trevor Pryce for an 18-yard loss. 
Denver then went 77 yards in nine plays for the game's first touchdown. Griese's 17-yard pass to Smith set up his 18­yarder to tight end Desmond Clark in the corner of the end zone with 1 :07 left in the half. 
Three plays later, linebacker John Mobley intercepted Flutie's underthrown pass and returned it 17 yards to the San Diego 3. 
Griese hit tight end Dwayne Carswell for a score on the next play. 
San Diego's Reggie Jones fumbled a punt at the Chargers 9, setting up a Denver field goal early in the third quarter. Jones atoned himself, returning the ensuing kickoff 7 4 yards to set up San Diego's first score, Wade Richey's 29-yard field goal. 
Chris Cole's 48-yard kickoff return helped set up Elam's 33­yard field goal, putting Denver ahead 26-3. 
The Broncos, however, looked about to give the game away early in the fourth. A blown coverage left Curtis Conway wide open down the middle, and he hauled in Flutie's pass for a 72-yard scoring play. 
Four minutes later, Griese coughed up the ball while being pressured by linebacker Gerald Dixon, and defensive end Raylee Johnson lumbered 45 yards with the fumble recovery for a touchdown. When the 2­point conversion failed, San Diego trailed 26-16 with 10:57 left. 
Dolphins 27, Colts 24 
Indianapolis lost linebacker Mike Peterson with a knee injury and may have lost quar­terback Peyton Manning, too, in Sunday's 27-24 loss to Miami. 
Coach Jim Mora could not say how long Peterson, the Colts leading tackler, might be out. Peterson. who had 75 tackles entering the game, was replaced by Mike Morton. 
"You lose your best defensive player early in the game. by far our best defensive player, but hey, I don't use injuries as an excuse ever," Mora said. "He'll miss some time." 
Manning's injury occurred late in the game. He missed one play, but returned for the next series and played in pain the rest of the game. He said he expected to have X-rays taken to make sure his swollen jaw wasn't broken. 
Miami also suffered one major loss -cornerback Sam Madison, a three-time All-Pro. 
Madison sprained his back midway through the first half. 
Madison was hurt when Colts receiver Marvin Harrison wres­tled him to the ground following an interception near the Dolphins goal line. 
Madison was immediately helped to the locker room and did not return. He was replaced by rookie Jamar Fletcher. The Dolphins said the extent of Madison's injury likely wouldn't be known until Monday. 
The Colts. who already were missing two-time NFL rushing champ Edgerrin James because of a sprained left knee, almost lost James' replacement, Dominic Rhodes, too. 
Rhodes spent some time on the sideline with a partial dislo­cation of his left shoulder after he was hit at the end of an 11­yard run on the third play of the game. 
"As I was going to the ground on th!1t run, somebody hit me on the back of my shoulder. When he hit me, it just kind of came out," the rookie running back said. "I hurt this shoulder in high school, had surgery on it, and it came out last year when I was in college. I came back and played the next week, just like tonight.'' 
Rhodes. starting his second straight game, returned in the second quarter and finished with 42 yards on 14 carries. 
Indianapolis also played much of the game without guard Steve McKinney, who fractured the transverse process, a bone in his lower back. He is expected to miss a "couple of weeks.'' 

ANSWER ~ Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. 2002 Ordination Class
THECALL ~ www.nd.edu/-vocation 
page 16  The Observer . SPORTS  Monday, November 12, 2001  

Monday, November 12, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFC 
Barber leads Giants to win against Cardinals 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
Michael Strahan's 15th sack of the season might have been his biggest. It certainly was his most spectacular. 
Strahan batted thP ball out of' Jake Plummer's hands to stop an Arizona scoring threat, setting off a wild play that led t0 a New York touch­down as thP Giants hPld off the Cardinals 17-10 Sunday. 
"I just got back there and wont to take him down and somehow just punched the ball out." Strahan said. "That was something _that just hap­pened. It"s not like l planned to do it." 
Tiki Barber rushed for 118 yards in 17 
to dwell on the positive. 
"l think we had about 182 yards rushing (actually 186)," fasscl said. "We did some things better. Our covPrage team was better. The most important thing is you come down hen~ and gf'lt ,twin." 
Trailing 7-0 in the second quarter, Arizona drove to New York's 7-vard line. On third-and-goal, Plummer went back to pass and was bit hy Strahan, who knocked the ball loose with his left hand. 
The ball bounded up the field 21 yards before defen­sive end Kenny Holmes scooµed it up. As he was about to be tackled, Holmes tossed the ball back to middle linebacker Mike Barrow, who rambled to thP-Cardinals' 41. 
"! don't 

carries in a 
know who. 

game that fea­"Tiki's running great 
ran those 

tII red missed 
right now. He's really g u y s
scoring oppor­
down,"

.finishing his runs real
tunities by 
Strahan

both toams. well." 
said, "but
"Tiki's run-
it better 

ning great 
Kerry Collins not have
right now, 
been line-

Giants quar­Giants quarterback 
1nen."

terback Kerrv PI um ­Collins sail. 
mer said

"Ile·s really finishing his runs his primary receiver, Thomasreal well. It seems likH guys Jones, "got held real bad" on
ar<' hitting him and have got 
Urn play.

him wrapped up. and he's 
"I was just trying to shuffle

busting out for a few more 
back getting ready to throw ityards. You don't really expect 

out of the end zone and

that from a guy his size." 
Strahan came in and hit it outTTon Dayne added 49 yards 

of my hand," Plummer said.

in 19 attempts, including a 3­
"As a quarterback, you've gotvard touchdown run on New 

to put two hands on lhe ball,\'ork's first possession. 

especially down there."

Af'tcr rallying to bt1at Dallas in overtinH' last week, the Giants got their second close 49ers 28, Saints 27 victory OV<'l' one of the N FC's 
In case any doubters remained, Garrison Hearst

lesser teams. showed that he and the San
Coach Jim Fassel preferred 
Francisco 49ers are back. 

Hearst rushed for 145 yards against one of the NFL's best run defenses, and Jeff' Garcia thrnw four touchdown passes as the 49ers beat the New Orleans Saints for their fifth victory in six games. 
Garcia, who was 21-of-34 for 252 yards, hit Terrnll Owens with eight passes for 100 yards and two touch­dm,vns. Garcia also found Eric Johnson for the go-ahead touchdown with l 1 :06 left. 
The receivers provided the points, but Hearst was the backbone of the 49ers' effort Ile rolled up 119 yards rush­ing after halftime, including two long runs in the final minutes as San Francisco (6­
2) ran out the clock. 

Hearst, who missed the pre­vious two seasons arter breaking his leg in a playoff game in January 1999, had his best game since his improbable return to the 49ers. His teammates crowd­ed around him in celebration after runs of 23 and 17 yards forced New Orleans to c;ll its final timeout, effectively end­ing the game. 
The 49ers punctuated their surprising season with their first victory over a winning team while also snapping a three-game losing streak to the Saints (4-4), whose maligned offense moved the 
· ball impressively but couldn't score when it mattered most. 
Eagles 48, Vikings 17 

Duce Stale:v took a handoff, burst up the· middle, bounced outside and sprinted down the sideline for a 44-yard touch­down. 
Staley is finally back, and so 
is the Philadelphia Eagles' offense. 
Staley had 146 yards rush­ing and one touchdownand Donovan McNabb threw three touchdown passes, and ran for another one to lead the Eagles to a victory over thn Minnesota Vikings. 
Philadelphia (5-:1) scored on six straight possessions, including its last five in the l'irst half. The Vikings (3-5) have lost two straight by a lopsided margin. Tampa Bay beat Minnesota 41-14 on Oct. 28. 
Staley. starting for the first time since injuring his right shoulder in Week 2, had 117 total yards in the first half. 

· His 44-yard touchdown run in the third quarter gave the Eagles a 38-10 lead, and put him over the l 00-yard mark for the first time since he ran for 201 against Dallas on Opening Day of the 2000 sea­son. 
Minnesota didn't score until Daunt,~ Culpepper threw a 3­yard touchdown pass to Cris Carter with 5 seconds left in the first half', cutting the deficit to 31-10. 
A 29-yard touchdown pass from Culpeppnr to Randy Moss capped the scoring with 
5:51 h~l't. 
The Vikings allowed six sacks, com.mitted four turnovers, and had just 117 yards in the first half. 
Philadelphia had struggled on offense in recent weeks, averaging just 13.6 points, 12 first downs and 247.:1 total yards in the last three games. They had 31 points, 19 first downs and 269 yards in the first half. 
McNabb finished 19-of-29 

for 223 yards. and Staley had six catches for 85 yards. 
Culpepper was 21-of-35 for 285 yards, two touchdowns and one interception. Moss had seven catches for 95 yards, but was visibly upset on the sideline during the first half. 
The Eagles took a 7-0 lead less than five minutes into the game when McNabb hit James Thrash on a 14-yard touch­down pass. Staley started the drive with a 21-yard run. 
McNabb made it 14-0 on a 12-yard touchdown run on the first play of the second quarter, capping a 10-play. 91-yard drive. McNabb had 37 yards rushing in the drive, including a 15-yard scramble in which he eludPd two tack­lers and juked Vikings line­backer Kailee Wong. 
Gary Anderson's 43-yard field goal cut it to 14-3 early in the second. The Vikings got the ball at Philadelphia's 24 after Thrash fumbled, but lost two yards and settled for a field goal. 
David Akers made it 17 -3 on a 36-yard field goad midway through the second. 
Hugh Douglas then sacked Culpepper to force a fumble, and McNabb connected with Thrash on a 17-yard touch­down pass for ~ 24-3 with 
4:28 left in the first half'. 
Troy Vincent intercepted Culpepper on Minnesota's next play, and Correll Buckhalter ran in from the 1 to make it 31-3 less than two minutes later. 
Staley had 49 yards rushing in last week's 21-7 victory over Arizona. He got the start this week because Buckhalter had a shoulder sprain. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing rdunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­ . BUYING NAVY TIX SELLING PUR- Spring Break with STS. Americas  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  Mer- 
WANTED  dents. Good area ...ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave  DUE, STANFORD TIX.  #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free  Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  I'll be glad when I get to actually see you when the show is over.  
A.M. 232-2378  trips. Info/Reservations.  Bahamas. Jamaica. or Mazatlan  Miss you all the time!  
340-0106  P.M. 288-2726  1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com  FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­ 
888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun- Oh, and you are not invisible when  
Male roommate needed for upcom- HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9-br  FOR SALE: 4 Purdue tkts. Call  coastvacations.com  you're asleep.  
ing Spring semester. Turtle Creek,  $2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month  Gerry 4-1994.  
2 bedroom apt.. fully furnished.  3) 4-br $1000/month  ...ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE  Holmesin it up: the process of get- The Shamrock hat and the leis are  
$405/mo.  Call Bill at 532-1896.  BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES1  ting that Saturday morning smell  mad cool'  
Contact Cory and Eric at 277-6560.  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­ PERSONAL  SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL- Were you expecting a call from  Chuk - 
PUS. furn. 272-6306  CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS.  Goliath too?  
BABYSITTER for 3 children: One 6­ REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE,  I'll be the big person in this situation  
yr-old, 2-yr-old twins. Flexible  SPRING BREAK Largest selection  EARN$$$. GROUP DISCOUNT  Noreen ­ and wish you many congratulations  
hours: 12-15 per week.  FOR SALE  of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruisest Rep Positions,  FOR 6+. 800-838-8203/ WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  Congrats from all of us here at the  on the Steelers win on Sunday. I still like the Browns better.  
Five minutes from ND Campus.  Free Drinks and Free trips avail- Big O! We're all proud of our  
289-5763.  able. www.EpicuRRean.com  FOR SALE: 2 bdrm limestone  favorite ME. Pay no attention to the  Oh, and that call was a good one!  
FOR SALE 1994 Oldsmobile  ranch, close to campus. 2-car  fact that you're our only ME.  
Female seeking hockey gear - Cutlass Ciera, 86.000mi, fine cond ..  attached garage, hardwood floors,  If I don't get my paper back on  
pads, helmel,right-handed stick.  loaded. $3000 or best offer. Call 1­ 1-800-231-4-FUN  finished basement, C/ A.  Ke'rry- Tuesday I'm going to scream!  
Call 634-2446  5233.  
We would have had a great time  Amy- 
FOR SALE: 87 Honda Civic 4dr  SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica.  Call 219-233-9146.  this weekend except for the fact  Your hat is the best!  
Eac Beot  auto A/C stereo. Runs well. reliable.  S. Padre, & all Florida destinations.  that my car broke down in Lakeville  
$1000 obo. 233-0296.  BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOW­ HOPING TO ADOPT We are a  where the gas station attendant had  Oh, and why didn't hypothermia call  
FOR RENT  EST prices! www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985­ Catholic, fun-loving, well educated and financially secure married cou­ hair that was longer than yours. Yeah, that was really lousy  me?  
TICKETS  6789.  pie in Northern California. We are homestudy approved and excited to  Adrienne- Yanai  
ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your  share our love with a baby' You can  Does that remind you of anyone?  
email:mmmrentals@aol.com  2 Navy GAs for sale  precious baby safe and happy in a  learn more about us al www.parent- Sorry I forgot about Tigger. You  
Call Kim 634-2541  loving family, adored by 2 ND Grad  profiles.com/profiles/db2288.html or  know I love him! I forgot about  Kendall - 
8 & B 3 Miles ND Best Area  parents (a full-time mom and a  call Adoption Connection toll-free at  Nubby too, but don't tell Kendall.  The moon is calling!  
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  lawyer dad) and loving playmates in  1-800-972-9225 and ask about  She might get angry and we know  
a beautiful home. We promise to  Chris and Mary.  what happens then'  Let's go.  
287-4545  232-0964.  give your child the life you dream of  Now  
for them. Medical, legal, counseling,  Lauren·  
Student Wanted' Alum owned 2  WANTED -ND TICKETS  court approved living expenses pd.  HIT AND RUN. ND SWEAT BLAN­ I want to go home  .,  
story. 5 bdr, 2 bth w, new carpet.  Confidential. Please call our attar- KET TAKEN FROM GOLF CART.  Your folders are the coolest and  
appl., sec. roof & furnace. 3 lot yd,  ney at (708) 92-4795.  CASE OF MISTAKEN INTEGRITY.  now they're even cooler because  Almost time  
1 blk N. of Club 23 321-217-8451  289-9280.  they are a part of my inside column.  


The Observer . CAMPUS SCENE Monday, November 12,200 I 
Baltimore Consort finishes Celtic series 
Do it all night long one more 
I 

April 20, 2002 South Bend Marriott
time. 
email obsreunion@hotmail.com for 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Scene W ricer 
They're not an Irish band, but they play Irish music. 
Thr Baltimorr Consort finished otf the Shaherm discov­ery series of Celtic musical artists Saturday. The group is composed of five musicians who play traditional Renaissance instniments. and one singer, who perform 16th to 18th centuries popular music. In 1980, the group formed in Baltimore to perform the music of Shahispeare's time and early Scottish and French music. The latest endeavor by the band is early. traditional Irish music, which they played at O'Laughlin auditorium last Saturday evening. 
Mary Anne Rallard. Mark Cudek, Larry Lipkis. Ronn McFarlenc and. Chris Norman arc the instrumentalists that make up the band. Custer LaRue is the singer but due to an automobile accident. Danielle Svonavrc filled in for the performance. , 
Mary Anne Ballard researches most of the Baltimore Consort's prngrams. She performs on the treble viol and the rebec, a dancing fiddle. Ballard also performs with the Oberlin Consort of Viols, Galileo's Daughters, and Fleur de Lys. 
"The viol and the violin originated at about the same time, in the 1500s, but slowly the viol began to be phased out as performers preferred io play the violin," Ballard said. 
Mark Cudek is a versatile musician who plays many early instruments. At Saturday's <.:oncert Cudck played the cittern, bass. and bass viol. Cudek had laryngitis Saturday evening so Ronn McFarlene explained the history of Cudek's instruments. 
'The cittern was more of a folk and popular music instrument in the 16th century," McFarlene said. 
Cudek also performs with the ensembles Hesperus and Apollo's Fire. He is the founder of the Peabody Renaissance Ensemble at Johns Hopkins University and is also founder of the High School Early Music Program at the Interlochen Arts Camp. 
Ronn McFarlene played the lute and bandora. The lute was a once popular instrument of the Renaissance, quin-tessential to the 15th and 16th centuries, and tlie instru­ment dates back to over 1,000 years ago. 

"The Jute changed ovflr the yflars and had as few as four strings and as many as 28 strings. This made the instru­ments difficult to learn and began to lose favor," McFarlene said. 
McFarlene has released over 20 recordings on the Durian label, including the solo music of John Dowland, lute song recitals and recordings with the Baltimore Consort. In 1996, the Shenandoah University gave him the honorary degree of Doctor of Music for hi<. work in bring­ing the lute and its music to a ~vorldwicle audience. 
Larry Lipkis performed on the bass viol and the recorder at the concert. "The recorder that I play compliments Chris' flute," Lipkis said. 
Lipkis is Composer-in-Residence and Director of Early Music at Moravian College where he also served as Chair of the Department of Music. His cello concerto, Scaramouche, appears on the Koch label. and his bass trombone concerto, Harlequin was premiered in May 1997 by the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra and received rave reviews. 
Chris Norman played the wooden flutes and bagpipes at the concert. Norman is one of the leading flute players of our time. Norman also played the Scottish small bagpipes and the bodhran, an Irish drum. 
"The small pipes arc bellows pipes. You pump the bel­lows with your right arm, squeeze with the left arm and with remaining brain cells play the tune," Norman said. 
"The budhran was originally used for sifting grain, but it also makes a great drum too," Norman said. 
Nonnan also performs as a soloist, and with the Celtic fusion group Skyedance, as well as with the international folk trio, ·Helicon. His solo recordings include an appear­ance on the soundtrack of the Oscar-winning film Titanic. He is also founder and director of the Boxwood School of the Wooden Flute in Lunenburg, Nova Scotia. 
The singer, soprano Danielle Svonavec, is a young artist whose recent debut year included solo performances in Bach's St. Matthew Passion with the Smithsonian Chamber players in Washington and Santa Fe as well as a tour with Baltimore Consort. Svonavec is a 1999 graduate of the University of Notre Dame; she majored in math­ematics and sang lead ro'es in opera and oratorio. Danielle grflw up in western Pennsylvania singing folk songs and country/western music with her guitarist father. 
"We really appreciate Danielle performing tonight, since at the last minute we asked her. She has been great and learned all the Gaelic pronunciations," Norman said. 
The concert entitled "The Mad Buckgoat" featured tra­ditional Irish music from the 17th and 18th centuries. "We are not an Irish band, but we will play music of a different take on Irish traditional music," Norman said. 
Many of the songs performed were taken from the Neal brothflrs, who wern the first publishers of traditional Irish music, in Dublin in 1724. 
"We think that John and William Neal would be proud of what we are doing here today," Norman said. The concert began with "The Mad Buckgoat" from the Pigot collection. The tw1e wa5 light and flowed smoothly. 
The next songs were "Catty Magee" and "Kitty Magee." 
"Many of the songs we play are about hard-headed women," Norman said. 
The Consort played a few songs by Ruairi Dall O'Cathain, a traveling Irish bard. He travelfld throughout Scotland and at his height was very famous and wealthy. He flourished in the 1500s and is known as one of the ear­liest Irish musicians: he died a beggar. 
The tune "Ye Bockagh," which means "The Beggar," by Dall O Cathain is assumed to be written about his fall from fame and lose of fortune. 
The "Wild Geese" is a tune from the Neal collection and was composed in farewell to the Jacobite army leaving Ireland after the capitulatinn 9f Limerick in 1691. 
'The Wild Geese are a group of soldiers from Limerick. They have fought throughout the ages; some soldiers even came and fought in the American Civil War. There is a squadron of soldiers that exits even today," Norman said. 
The Baltimore Consort also interlaced their concert with jigs, reels and hornpipes. The lively dance tunes were reminiscent of the music sessions that were traditionally played in the local tavern. 
Contact Sarah Nestor nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
more information 
OBSERVER. 


CENE 
cam tiS 
....,_

Monday, November 12, 2001 
page 13 



• 


e
1ona 
mpus fashion /rom the traditional to the, well, traditional 

be." 
Besides. South Bend isn't exaclly the cosmopolitan city that fosters the hottest fashion trends. Designer boutiques and cutting-edge fashion houses aren't stores students run into when they shop downtown, and the latest Dolce & Cabana look on "Sex and the City.. isn·t something that will be seen on Colfax Ro;id anytime soon. After all, it was a big deal for the l.Jniversity Park Mall to get a Banana Hepuhlir 
· 1astyear. "The only way to shop in South Bend is Lo shop on tlrn lntPrnrt." Erin Daily, a Saint !\1ary's junior, said. ''That's the only way to get good brands, like Earl jeans. and stylish rluthes." Also. in an environmnnt where dressing f'or warmth often eclipses dressing for style (although students do love their North Face jackets) it is diffi­cult to make lay()ring all that fashiornible, Once the snow storms hit and tlrn gray South Bend skies reflect the even grayer patches of ice on the side­walks, all bets are off. Students break out the hats, thermal gloves and bulky, flannel-lined J.Crnw pants that hardly flatter twen the best bodies on campus. It may not be trendy and it is hardly sr,xy, but wh(rn the lake effect provides the campus with sub­zero temperatures and a wind chill that could pene­trate even the best winter parka, avoiding hypother­mia is the main concern in wardrobe consideration. However. there are certain trrnds at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that have made their way from MTV and designer runways to the various quads across the campuses. These trends are hardly outra­
geous, but they fit thn overall campus style quite well. Th.ey may Pven become a part of' the Notre Dame uni­form. Like a .I. Crew ad, thesP new trends may not be cutting edge, but they certainly are styl­ish. 
Long sweaters 
Chances are, if you are female and a uni­versity student, you own a long, belted sweater. They are all over this campus in every color and length and have become this year's clothing item of choice. Everyone seems to have one, or several. A few peopln had them in their closets last sea­son, but this year it is like a few harmless sweaters spawned an army of woolen clones. They can be dressed up or down and are perfect for class or a party, giv­ing the wearer a streamlined look unat­tainable in a bulky win­ter coat. 
Denim 

Denim has certainly made a comoback in the last few years on campus. It's everywhere from jean jack­ets and skirts to canvas purses. It's dark, sand­blasted. low-rid­ing and probably 
from Express. The recent craze probably has something to do with the western look made popular by Madonna's "Don't Tell Me" video last year or maybe it is a throw back to the denim obsession of the 1980s (although if jeans of the acid-washed variety ever make a comeback, there may ne(1d to be a reevalua­tion of Notre Dame style). However, whether students sport a jean skirt at the Boat Club or a denim jackc-t to class, it is a look that has · everyone in the blue. 
Printed T-shirts 

Britney Spears wears them. So does Jennifer Lopez. Fred Durst even has a few in his closet. The printed T shirt, with phrases and designs including everything from "l love NY" to wPstern skylines, is a versatile piece that can be worn with anything from a dressy skirt and heels Lo jeans and sneakers. They are all over campus and are one of the edgier pieces in students' wardrobes. They are hip (but still on the safe side of vogue) and come in a great variety of designs and styles, so it is easy to find one to suit most anybody. 
Boots 

Students wear them in all lengths (from ankle to knee). all heights (from the chunky 3-in, heel to the milder 1-in. stacked heel) and all colors (although black is still the dominant hue of choice). Allhough boots have always been a fashion staple, this year they have become the footwear of' choice for the long winter months. Knee length boots have been appearing in Nine West out­lets and department stores for a few years now, but this urban look has only recently gained popularity at Notre Dame. Replacing the chunky, wedge Steve Madden loafers that were long the trend around South Bend, boots are likely to be seen on students until the weather permits 11ip-f'lops again. 
Shoulder Bags 

Backpacks are so last year. Shoulder bags are all the rage when it comes to carrying books across campus these days. Rather than carrying a bulky, · double-strapped bag that has been around since the days when their backpacks were filled with Crayola crayons and wide rule notebook paper, students now prefer the sleeker, modern look of a one-strapped bag slung over their hip. Available in all sizes and brands, these bags give students a professional look and less of a chance of running into someone with a cumbersome backpack when turning a corner in DeBartolo Hall. 
Prom Gap khakis to Express sweaters, Notre Dame has a style hinged on brand names and preppy con­formity. It is a certain look that has endured both time and Midwestern winters and can often be seen in the latest J. Crew catalog. Every now and then, a new trend, whether it be Steve Madden knee high boots or Kate Spade book bags, will hit the campus with a vengeance, but, like most things under the Dome, tradition reigns when it comes to style. 
Contact Jacqueline Browder at jbrowder@nd.edu. 

.. 
-

2001 Big East Women's Soccer Championship 
Monday, November 11, 2001 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Irish sophomore forward Melissa Tancredi slide tackles Mountaineer junior Rachel Kruze in Notre Dame's 2-1 win in the Big East championship. 
MAGNIFICENT 7 
Notre Dame used tight defense and an opportunistic offense to 
beat Boston College 3-0 and West Virginia 2-1 to win its seventh­straight Big East Championship. Notre Dame has won the Big East Championship every year it has been a member of thP 
conference. No other school has more than one Big East 
Championship. The victory gave the Irish an automatic bid into the NCAA tournament which begins next weekend. The Irish will learn where they are seeded today at 3 p.m. 
. 
--photos by 
NELLIE WILLIAMS 


Monday, November 11, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Unsung hero middies lead Irish victory 
By JEFF BAL TRUZAK Assistant Sports Ediror 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. They're the classic; middle children. 
For all the accolades that have surrounded Notre Dame's defense, and tlw natural atten­tion that goes to the forwards who sr:ore goals, the Irish mid­field of senior '.Vlia Sarkesian, j_unior Ashley Dryer and sopho­mo rc Randi Scholler became the unsung heroes of the Bjg .,,, East Championships. out-play­ing the mo::;t highly touted mid­field ors in the Big East and prodding a touch of offensive production iu between. 
"All of Ith"' Irish midfieldersl have played good ... in the last month they have come on," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "111 thn beginning ih""Y wrre struggling a bit but now they have really come together." 
Injuries formPd much of thl' midfield's struggle at the beginning of the season. Both Dryer and Scheller missed games due to injury. and that impeded the growth of·the three players as a unit. 
"The biggest thing early on was injuries." said Scheller. "\,Ve didn't get a chance to play together early in the season ... but later in the season we all got healthy and that has made a big difference." 
Life after Makinen 
The midfielders faced their own challenges even before 
the most highly touted mid­Year ... the same with Stoia allowing Barnes and Abbott to second half.
the season. The departure of 
Anne Makinen. Big East fielders in the conference, today." fire off six shots, one a goal. "At halftime we talked about Midfielder of the Year and a Boston College's Sarah H.ahko, In shutting off Stoia, the This prompted Waldrum to stepping a player back to pick Big East Midfielder of the Year Mountaineers were hard­send Sarkesian to watch for them up on the other side of·
rare talent. left a huge hole in and West Virginia's key play­pressed to advance the ball to -Barnes sneaking past the mid­the field or to pass them off to 
the middle of the field, and it maker, Lisa Stoia. their effective forwards Katie field, allowing the back line to a midfield player, in particular
required adjustments from Sarkesian, Scheller and Dryer But upon closer inspection it Barnes and Chrissie Abbott. keep track of Barnes and play Mia," said Waldrum. "Then to make life after Makinen was Dryer who shined, effec­Even Stoia recognized Dryer's tighter defense. they weren't getting those work, tively marking the both out of brilliance this weekend. "Because Barnes was com­balls freely in the second each game and stopping many "She played really well, she ing between the seam between half."
"We didn't really have a go to player like we had before [in of the opposing teams' offen­was always finding her feet," the midficlders and the The Irish midfield has not Makinen]," said Dryer. "So we sive chances even before they said Stoia. defenders, we just made sure received much recognition this all had to pick up our levels of reached the defenders. that Monica and Vanessa were season, with only Sarkesian play. But its been good because "[Dryer] may have been the communicating with me," said recognized by the Big East,
Helping out on defense

unsung hero but that sort of Sarkesian. receiving a second-team bid.
now we are sharing our 
When West Virginia did get
responsibilities." epitomizes Ashley's career," Waldrum didn't want Barnes But like a middle child that
the ball into Abbott and Barnes
said Waldrum. "For some rea­and Abbott to receive the ball does the little, unnoticed 
on Sunday, the results were 
son people don't appreciate directly from the defenders, · things, the Irish midfield
often troublesome for the Irish.
Smothering the stars that she took Rahko out of the bypassing Stoia and her fellow proved to be the grease that
In the first half, the defense
In the Big East champi­game and [Rahko] is supposed midfielders that were being gave Notre Dame a smooth nnships, the Irish faced two of broke down multiple times,
to be Big East Midfielder of the effectively controlled in the ride in the Big East 

semifinal scoring summary & stats 
Goals by Period  1st  2nd  Total  Shots by Period  1st  2nd  Total  
Boston College Notre Dame  0 1  0 2  0 3  Boston College Notre Dame  2 11  3 9  5 20  
Boston College  Notre Dame  
Pos.  Player  Sh.  SOG  G  A  Pos.  Player  Sh.  SO<i  G  A  
G  Meredith  G  Wagner  
F  Vanni  M  Scheller  
F  Marshall  M  Sarkesian  2  1  
D  Brooke  D  Pruzinsky  
F  Moore  1  1  F  Guertin  3  3  1  
M M  Parri Rahko  1  D D  Gonzalez Chapman  2,  1  
M  Danaher  1  1  F  Lovelac6  1  1  
F  Halloran  M  Dryer  2  
M  Fairweather  1  1  F  Warner  5  4  1  
D  Servedio  D  Jones  1  1  
0  Docherty  D Gunnarsdottir  
F  Page  F  Tulisiak  .  
F  Goddard  1  1  F  Tate  1  1  
F  Iacobelli  F  Tancredi  2  2  1  
D  Carter  .  
D  Carpenter  .  

championship scoring summary & stats Goals by Period 1st 2nd Total Shots by Period 1st 2nd West Virginia 1 0 1 West Virginia 8 1 1 1 2 7Notre Dame 3Notre Dame West Virginia Notre Dame Pos. Player Sh. soc (i A Pos. Player Sh. soc G G Haire G Wagner F Barnes 4 2 1 M Scheller 1 1 1 F Abbott 3 1 1 M Sarkesian M Stoia D Pruzinsky 1 D Zanti F Guertin 4 2 1 M Kruze 1 D Gonzalez D Seaman D Chapman a Rodriguez F Lovelace M Smith 1 M Dryer a Lewis F Warner 2 2 M Kane D Jones M Barden F Tate F Tancredi 2 1  Total 9 10 A 1 1 1  ,.  
-..  

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 11, 2001 
report card 

B 
goalkeeper: Wagner was solid against 
the few shots she faced. She did allow 
one goal against West Virginia and had a close call against Boston College. 
B-
defense: Notre Dame completely shut down Boston College in the semifi­nals but Abbott and Barnes made 
Gonzalez and Pruzinsky look bad a 
few times against the Mountaineers. 
A 
midfielders: Waldrum called Sarkesian, Dryer and Scheller the unsung heroes. Dryer shut down two great mid fielders 
while Sarkesian helped out on Abbott and Barnes against V.1VU. Scheller got the game-winner in the final. 
A 
forwards: Warner, Tancredi and Guertin each scored for the Irish this weekend. Tancredi's physical pres­
ence off tho bench was a big plus. 
B+ 
set plays: The Irish got their first goal 
against Boston College off a set play. 
They had a few good chances off 
corners in the final. 
B+ 
coaching: Wald rum's cool. collected coaching style earned the Irish another Big East title. Even when 
West Virginia tied the game, his · team rrnver panicked. 
overall: The Irish didn't blow anyone away but they got the result they wanted -another
3.39 

Big East title. 
adding up the nulllbers 
Irish goals scored in the first 20 minutes this season ­
-9

including two this weekend 
8 
consecutive games that Guertin has scored in -the second 
longest streak in Irish history 
consecutive games without Notre 
7 

Dame allowing a first half goal ­Abbott's goal ended the streak 
1 
career game winning goals by sophomore midfielder Scheller 
years Notre Dame has been a 
o 

member of the Big East Conference and not won the women's soccer title 
6 
Combined saves for Wagner in both games -she allowed just 
one goal 

Big East tournament record for Irish seniors 
12 Q 

-they have allowed just ­four goals in those games 
Guertin earns outstanding player award 
The Big East Conference honored Irish sophomore Amanda Guertin with its outstand­ing player award for her play during the 2001 Big East Conference Championship. 
Guertin scored three goals -one in each of Notre Dame's three games -to leaq the Irish to their seventh-straight women's soccer con­ference championship. 
Guertin has scored in eight straight games for the Irish -second most all-time. She scored 12 goals this season to lead the Irish in goals. 
IRISH INSIGHT 


PISCATAWAY, NJ 
Three of the best defenders in the Big East had their hands full with two talented forwards in the first half of Notre Dame's 2-1 vic­tory against West Virginia. 
First-team All-Big East defenders Candace Chapman, Vanessa Pruzinsky and Monica Gonzalez com­bine with Irish captain Lindsey Jones to form one of the most honored defen­sive units in Notre Dame his­tory. But Sunday, West Virginia forwards Chrissie Abbott and Katie Barnes gave those four all they could handle in the first half. 
"They are a good team," Gonzalez said. "They work well together. Abbott ha~ height and Barnes is very skilled with the ball." 
In the end, however, '.'lotre Dame's great defense had the last laugh as halftime adjusts -and a change in the wind -helped the Irish shut down Abbott and Barnes in the second half. 
In the first half, however, Abbott and Barnes shredded the Irish defense with pinpoint passing and strong runs to the goal. The two forwards combined for six of West Virginia's eight first half shot goals and hooked up to score the only Mountaineer goal in the 16th minute. 
Abbott and Barnes first half offensive prowess was most impressive because not only did 


they get good scoring opportunities 
against the vaunted Irish defense, 
they often made Notre Dame 
defonders look foolish. 
"She's quick," Irish head coach 
Randy Waldrum said about 
Barnes. "Her first steps are so dan­
gerous. You can't allow her to get 
the ball and run at you because 
she is a handful," 
Barnes made several good runs 
around the slower Gonzalez and 
even completely fooled Pruzinsky 
on one 20-yard run. Last year's Big 
East Defensive Player of the Year 
was completely spun around by 
Barnes, a two-time Big East 
Offensive Player of the Year. 
Notre Dame's wariness of 
Barnes' abilities led to West 
Virginia's only goal. When Barnes 
broke free from the midfield with 
the ball, Pruzinsky moved up to 
stop her. Gonzalez also came up to 
double team Barnes on the play, 
leaving Abbott wide open for a 
goal. 
But Notre Dame's defense isn't 
great because of the individual 
play each defender. H is their 
cohesion and ability to adjust and · work closely with the midfield that makes the Irish defense so solid. 
After Notre Dame shut down 
Boston College in the semifinals. 
Eagles head coach Alison Foley 
pointed to way Notre Dame's backs 
complement each other as the rea­
son for their success. 
"They all add something a little 
different," Foley said. "Monica is 
very good in the air. Vanessa has 
good recovery speed behind 
Monica. Chapman adds a lot of the 
attack being able to dribble out of 
the back. rthink they all have a 
strength to bring to the four back 
set." 
With two seniors, a junior and a 
freshman on the back line, tlw Irish have a wealth pf experience. At halftime, this experience helped them recognize that Harnes and Abbott were both effective because they were able to sneak into the midfield, collect the ball and make long runs at the Irish backs. 
"The thing that conr,erned us right from the start was they were both so good at dropping back into their half of the field and getting the ball," Waldrum said. "Most for­wards will stay high and engage your back four. Those two do a good job of coming off your back four and coming into your half to get the ball." 
In the.second half, the Irish adjusted. 
Waldrum shifted midfielder Mia Sarkesian over to shadow Barnes when she snuck back toward her own net. With Pruzinsky and Gonzalez watching Barnes deep and Sarkesian sticking to Barnes in the midfield, the Mountaineer senior could not collect loose balls without an Irish defender right on top of her. 
Now that her team was playing into the wind as well, her defend­ers could not loft balls over the midfielders to her either. 
Between the wind and the Irish defense, Barnes was effectively neutralized. She had only one shot in the second half while Abbott did not get off a single shot. 
In the end, two talented players were no match for the organized Irish defense and that's why Irish fans will be cheering deep into December yet again. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connol­ly.28@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

---------------------·----­
NSIDER 
O
lHf Monday, November l 1, 200 I BSERVER 2001 Big East Women's Soccer Championship 


NELLIE WILLIAMSrThe Observer 

A dejected West Virginia player walks past Irish sophomore midfielder Randi Scheller as she leaps into the arms of Irish sophomore forward Melissa Tancredi to celebrate her game-winning goal against the Mountaineers. The goal won Notre Dame its seventh-straight Big East Championship. 
Irish breeze to 7th title 
With wind at its back, Notre Dame shuts down West Virginia in second half ofBig East Championship game to win 2-1. 
. By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assistant Sports Ediror 
PISCATAWAY. NJ. 
ln a ganw whPrr a ('onstant. gusting wind dictated tlw strategy. thf: Notre Danw women's soccer tram kno('kt~d off West Virginia to win it-; sPve11th conser.u­tivr Big East title. 2-1. 
Playing against thr wind in thP first half. thP ltish had diflirulty running thPir long­ball dominated offfmsr. with long passes hanging up in the air. That limitation. rnmbined with several uncharacteristic ddensive breakdowns. kPpt \Vest Virginia in the game as tlw two tl.;ams played to a 1-1 tie in the first half 
But the Irish seizl'd th!' opportunity tn play with the wind in the Sfccond hall'. The Irish midticld und dPfense snuffed out anv pot(111tial scoring opportunities by Wes·t Virginia·s speedy duo of Katie Barnes and Chrissie Abbotl. and Trish sophomon• mid­lieldcr llamli Scheller found lhe net wiLh 15 minutes left to give thr Irish the 2-1 win. 
"I think [the windl was a big advanta!{e !in tlw serond halll." said junior def'endfcr Vanessa Pruzinsky. who assisted Scheller's goal with senior Mia Sarkesian. "It was hard to get [the ball] out against the wind." 
Irish roach Handy Waldrum was satis­lied with Notre Dame's first half perfor­manre and the tied halftime score, consid­ering the Irish 's normal offensive style was inelfoctivl' in the wind. 
"I rnally felt satisfied with going into the halftime 1wen with the wind," said Waldrum. "Our backs couldn't dear tlrn ball to. our front runners and we ('Ouldn 't gPt a hold ol'the ball offensively." 
It would be the tournament's Most Outstanding Player. Irish forward Amanda Guertin, who would hold the ball just long enough to hand the Irish their firsL lead of Lhe aflernoon. Notre Dame played tho ball up to Sd1cller. who slipped a rolling pass bPtv,een two Mountaine0-r dolirndPrs t.o Guertin. who poked the ball past a r.harging Melissa Ilaire for a 1-0 Irish advantage. 
In lhf' first half, the normally rock-solid Irish defense was split multiple times by Barnes and Abbott. Fifteen minutes into game, Barnes made it through the Notre Dame midfield, and both Pruzinsky nml senior Monica Gonzalez moved forward to challenge lrnr. leaving AbboU opPn for the pass down the center. 

"Vanessa was already heading up towards Barnes, and I trir.d to step up and doublelteam I. thinking I had left Abbott oilsides, but she wasn't," said Gonzalez. 
Abbott then beat Irish goalkeeper Liz Wagner. capping off a live-minute period of tlrn game where the Mountaineers were able lo control t!w ball in the Irish zone. 
Tlrn n'sl of the first half would be even. with scatterPd offensive opportunities for both teams. BuL the Irish ca.me out in the second half with l'rnsh focus and. more importantly, a friendly wind direction. 
"!Coad, Waldrum] just wanted us to possess ltlw ball! more, and stay more organized in the back," said Pruzinsky. "We deltnit,~•ly knew we ner.ded to pick it up a notch. 
Notre Dame began to dominate Urn Mountaineers from the opening seconds of the socond half, with tho ball consistently in the West Virginia zone, and the mid­lieldr.rs Scheller, Sarkesian, anrl Ashley Dryer simultaneously controlling the !low of the gamo and shutting down Mountaineer playmakcr Lisa Stoia. 
"They played a lot harder in the second half," said Stoia. "Thoy most liki>ly made adjustments, packing it in the middle." 
Notre Dame's extended possessions finally paid off on the scoreboard with 15 minutes left in regulation. GuerUn booted a curving corner kirk that de11ected off Haire and up off the crossbar. Pruzinsky 
· and Sarkesian both headed thP deflection until it reached Scheller. whn !ired it up into the top of' the net for her lirst career game-winning goal. In the end. it would br adjusting their game to the wind that would make the dil~ ference for the Irish. "It just took us a while to get adjusted to playing and keeping the ball on the ground," said Sarkesian. "Once we started kicking the ball on the ground we were OK." . 
Notes: 

. 
In the semifinals of the Big East Championships. Notre Dame defeated Boston Collegfl 3-0. on goals from Tancredi, sophomore forward /\my Warner, and Guertin. 

. 
No. 9 Connecticut, who Notre Dame has defeated in the last six Big East Championship games, did not advancr. to tho finals, losing to Wost Virginia in tho semifinals 1-0. · 




player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Randi Scheller  "1heir entire game wasjust to  1 second half shot  
The sophomore midJi.elder played a key role in two ofNotre Dame's goals against Roston College i1z the semifinals before she netted her first career game-winner to beat West Virginia.  counter all a ck ... In the second half. we had the wind so their plan was knocked out... Randi Scheller  After being outshol 8-3 in the first half, Notre Dame's defense clamped down on the West Virginia forwards and held the Mountaineers to one shot in the  
Irish midfielder on West Virginia  second half  

O
THE 
BSERVER 



page 12 Monday, November 12, 2001 
10 centimes of courtesy in a rude world 
While I was traveling in Switzerland last week, I dropped a 10 centime coin on the ground while rummaging through my bag for a map. I didn't ev<'n notice, kept walking down the street: to be honest, I probably wouldn't have picked it up if I had noticed -10 Swiss centimes is worth practically nothing. !low often do we drop pennies and lazily let thPm lie? 
But two minutes later, I felt a tap on my shoulder and turned around to find a smiling woman presenting me with my dirty coin that she'd rescued from the gut­ter. I didn't know what to say, not only because the extent of my German was "guten tag" and "bier." I just couldn't believe that a perfect stranger would make the effort to pick up my pocket change. 
Here in Paris, I sometimes feel like I could keel over in the Metro station and everyone would just trample me to death. rushing to make their connecting train. I've gotten used to being constantly elbowed and jos­tled when walking down the street. People cut me in line for the movies, and I don't argue anymore ­what's the use? And when the waiter serves everyone in the cafe before our table of Americans, we just look at each other and laugh -that's the French for you. 
One night my literature class went to a play in the Latin Qu_arter, and dur­ing a mix-up over the tickets we had bought. the woman behmd the counter screamed at my poor professor that she was as "poorly brought up as her students." Standing there behind her, I couldn't believe that one gro,vn woman would insult another so rudely, especially someone employed in a service industry. But after the fiasco was settled, my prof just turned to us with an embarrassed grin and muttered something about how funny her people arc. 
It's not that the French are exceptionally rude -they just know how they want things done and they don't like to admit they are wrong. In some ways, I've found the Parisians to be incredibly generous. Passers-by are always dropping change in the hat of the homeless man on my corner and the accordion players in the subways are usually rewarded with at least a smile for their performance, if not a few francs as well. And the French insistence on politeness and formality is something you don't find many other places. Back home, I would never think to wish a janitor in a bus station a "pleasant evening, sir." But here, that courtesy is commonplace. 
And yet, the French don't have tho Midwestern hospitality or New England openness that we Americans take for granted so often. We walk into the din­ing hall and smile a hello at the card-swipers, we hold the door for those behind us and we leave a penny in the cup at the gas station for someone else who needs it. And usually, we don't even notice that we're doing it. 
Living abroad has opened my eyes to how much a culture molds its people and their habits. That's why I was so f1oored by how nice the Swiss were. I had unfortunately begun to write off most Europeans as ruder tha1,1 their American counterparts. But after spending a week in a country where strangers smiled at me on the street and offered to give me directions with­out my even asking, I began to see how wrong I was to think the U.S. was the only place I could find down-home charm. 
I don't think any more that these differences are necessarily faults of one country or another. Someone once asked my grammar professor why the French don't have a direct translation for "hug." She struggled for syn­onyms, but evfrntua!ly conceded that you really can't name that action. To me, that summed up the diffPrence between the Americans and the French: they have "bisnus," quick, formal pecks on the cheek, one, two,-threc ­while we have back-slapping bear hugs for embraces. 
It's not a matter of rudrness or politeness: it's just how societies dictate the bounds of propriety. When smashed into the bus at rush hour, it's true that personal space is lacking -no longer the land or standing on opposite sides of the elevator and not speaking to the only other occupant. IIere, I've learned to suck it up and appreciate the cultural differences, whether it's the pleasure of meeting people whose norm is friendliness or the experience of dealing with those who think the opposite. In any case, it's made me appreriatr, the littlr, giestures so much more, And I even try to tip those annoying accordion players once in a while. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The ObsPruPr. 
laura Kelly is a junior French and English major studying abroad in Paris. She can be reached al lkelly@nd.edu to further rave about the Swiss, but since she's also trying to blend in with the French. she might not deign to write you back for a time. French Connection appears Mondays in Scene. 



itio 
Scene looks at trends in c 
By Jj\.CQUELINE BROWDER 
Scene Writer 
Notre Dame students look like they've fallen out of a J. Crew catalog -or so it seems. Whether looking out the window of a dorm room, glancing at the line for stir fry or checking out the back row of an accounting class, even the most casual observer would notice the sea of khakis, sweaters and fitted T-shirts adorning co-eds across the campus. 
Like college students everywhere, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents love their Express jeans, Abercrombie & Fitch sweaters and Steve Madden boots. It is a safe yet trendy look that blurs the line between preppy and laid-back -with a little bit of casual Midwestern atti­tude thrown in. 
Notre Dame is a campus that loves conformity and it does not leave a whole lot of room to take many fash­ion risks. Students remain faithful to wardrobe staples like flarnd jeans a11d three-quarter length shirts as well as the labels they carry like The Gap and Old Navy. It is the "look" of the 46556 area code that is found in the latest J. Crew catalog and is applicable to just about anyone that had to sit through a first year seminar. 
The idea that the undergraduates on campus, especially the women. run. around all day in their plaid pajama pants and sweatshirts is an urban leg­end. There are times when sleeping 
through an alarm clock or 8 a.m. classes publicize this style, but in gen­eral, most students have a look that is straight out of a Gap ad. 
"People do look like they walked out of the Gap or Abercrombie & Fitch," Katey Gilles, a Notre Dame sopho­more from Breen-Phillips llall. said. "lt's an expensive look. People are going to dress accordingly on a prep­sd1oolish campus like ours. l'copll1 dress in what is moderately trendy. It's a look." 
There is no great pressure for stu­dents to leave their dorm rooms each morning with a new and carefully coordinated outfit, but Notre Dame and Saint Mary's do provide the pres­sure to dress correspondingly with their unofficial "dress code." It is almost as if students have spent too many years in Catholic grade school and still adhere to uniform regula­tions. The clean-cut, tucked-in and somewhat athletic look that engulfs this campus. doesn·1 encouragP piPt-c­ing, unusual hair colors (except .dur­ing football S()ason, of course) or any­thing Christina Aguilera would havn in her closet. Anyone who chooses to stray from the e"stablislrnd look gets noticed, quickly. 
llowcver, this unofficial dress code is hardly something to be criticiznd. Students simply dress likfl tlrn upper­middle-class Catholics that they arc.. They dress alik1i lrncausc, in a way, they am alikn. Notrn Dame has long been a homognncous, standardizod environment that resists chang1'. It is 
no dif'l'nrent 
with fashion. 
But, as tradi­
tional and 
homogcnnous 
as tlrn Notre 
Dame uniform 
is. it is 
n o n e tlw Ics s a 
terrific, rncog­
ni zed look. 
Well-cut jnans 
and f'ittnd t­
shirts have 
been in style 
since Elvis was 
dancing to the 
Jail llouse 
Hock and 
James Dcrnn 
was rolling cig­
are tt.es up his 
sleevn. It's a 
look that has 
dof"inod 
tennagers and 
20-somnthings 
sinc11 bPl'ore 
this gcrnera­
tion's parnnts 
canrn of agn. 
Traditional, 
yes, but this 
long-estab­
lished look is 
also stylish. 
cool and, like a 
Visa card, 
accepted 
"everywhere 
you want to 


O
THE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 12, 2001 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Recession is a call for labor rights 
In this time of economic recession, our University should take a prophetic stance in support of the human digni­ty of labur. The economy was in trou­blr bd'orn Sept. 11 but now wc arc in a recession beset with uncertainty due to possible future terrorist attacks. 
TTen,ssions hurt the poor the most. They are the first to experience wage cuts and layoffs, and they depend must upon social programs that could be cut. The poor are more likely in debt. and economic difficul­ties can push them beyond their margin of survival. 
''fotre Dame workers are partially sheltered from the recession, as a downturn will not decrease the demand for higher education as much as it will for manufactured goods or other services. However, unless our University is proactive, this recession will hurt our campus workers. In addition. our University needs to .act to ensure justice in the long run. 
In the next several years, I suspect the University will examine this issue and make policy changes. Here are two places for it to start.· 

Aaron Kreider 
Think, Question, Resist 
f7irst, our University must send a positive signal to workers that it sup­ports tho human dignity of labor. Most workers are scared to speak up for their rights, because they fear employer retaliation. Unfortunately, Notre Dame is no exception. Our University has fought and defeated attempts by campus workers to union­ize. In 1977, the University reacted to the groundskeepers' and cafeteria workers' attempts to organize by con­tracting out their jobs. Thus if the workers chose to unionize, the University could switch contractors and legally fire them. After defeating the organizing drive and getting pun­ished hy the National Labor Relations Board for violating the law, the University stopped contractin.g out ­but it was too late for the workers' campaign. 
Fortunately. our University can change. In the pas( couple years, by joining the Worker Rights Consortium and taking other anti-sweatshop ini­tiatives, our administration has demonstrated its commitment to the rights of workers who -produce our apparel and other university-licensed goods. Now we can bring that com­mitment home to campus. 
Above all, our workers deserve the right to organize· into unions. While they legally have this right, if our University hires a union-bashing law firm. intimidates workers and threat­ens to fire them -the workers will have a low chance of success. It is hard to challenge a billion-dollar uni­versity. That is why none of our cam­pus workers have unions. The solu­tion is for Father Malloy to commit the University to remaining rnrntral in response to union drives. This means that the University would not hire an anti-union law firm, hold captive audience meetings with workers, use contracting-out to reduce wages, fire worker leaders or use any other means of intimidation or harassment. in additicm. the University should agree to recognize a union once the majority of members have signer! union-membership cards, instead of fighting it out with lawyers. Finally, the Universitv should not stall before negotiating the first union contract. 

Second, our University must pay workers a living wage.. In 1999/2000, Fr. Malloy earned $290,000 (plus $19,000 benefits}; while the lowest paid workers only rnako an average of $16,800. Fr. Malloy's $25,000 pay raise surpassed the salary of many workers. The Universitv has commit­ted to increasing campus wages to 110 percent of the Michiana average (a move at least partially intended to discourage the secretaries from unionizing) but this is insufficient. A relative standard does not guarantee workers a living wage since median working wages are lower now, after inflation, than in 1973. If the reces­sion continues, working wages will fall even further. Due to the extraor­dinary growth of our endowment over the past ten years, our University is awash with money. We can afford to pay workers what they deserve. 
The only long-term method to guar­antee justice is for campus workers to organize democratic unions. Only then can they ensure that the University will never renege on its commitments. Unless workers orga­nize, at any time the University can fire them and contract out services to corporations that pay minimum wage. As other universities have shown, food service and custodial workers are especially vulnerable to losing their jobs or having their wages and benefits cut by contracting-out. 
The first step towards justice is for students and faculty to convince the University to take a position of neu­trality in rrgards to unions. This would create an opening for workers who can then freely choose whether to unionizfl. To start this process stu­dent and faculty support is critical. We are insulated from Cniversity intimidation. We can shift the campus power balance in favor of workers and justice. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate stu­dent in the sociology department. He can be contacted at kreider. l@n d. edu. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Sex isn't good 
In his Nov. 8 column concerning the University's position on sexual expres­sion. Joe ~uto asks why prmnarital sex is wrong. Du Lac answurs his question quite succinctly: "Because a genuine and complete expression oflove through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage, the University believes that the sexual union should occur only in marriage." 
:Vtr. Muto further asserts that, "there is no right or \\-Tong to sex." One needs only to consider the miracle of a man and a woman becoming co-creators with God in conceiving a child to realize the gross understatement of Mr. Muto's words. 
Scott Hahn, a prominent Catholic the­ologian, said, "Sex isn't good; Campbell's soup is good. Sex isn't great. Frosted Flakes, they're great." The words good.and great are not of tlrn magnitucln to ad<·quately describe the incredible gift of human sexuality. Sex is sacred and like all sacred things, sex has special rules that ensure this gift is not misused. To treat sex as any­thing less than "an integral part of the love bwrertewertwrtcwtrewterwtrry­cev which a man and a woman commit th~mselves totally to one another until death," (Catechis"rn of the Catholic Church, 2361) would be to treat some­thing holy as if it was merely ordinary. which is the very definition of desecra­tion. 
The University's policy as set forth in du Lac does not reflect "an unnatural fear of sex." Hather, it reflects a true respect for tho arknowfodgmnent of the essence and purp9se of human sexuali­ty. Sex speaks the language of perma­nence; by its very nature, the sexual embrace says "forever." Such a physi­cal expression of "forever" is meant to be the consummation of an interior promise of faithfulness and love that is made explicit by an exchange ofvows. Outside of marriage, this total and unreserved commitment, "ti! death do us part," is missing. 
For this reason premarital sex is akin to telling a lie with one's body. There is a physical expression of giving oneself, but the inviolable fidelity that marks the marriage bond is lacking and the unitive power of sex is frustrated. Aside from the absence of permanent com­mitment, sex outside ofmarriage unjustly deprivus the child who may be conceived of a stable family unit in which to develop. Therefore the Church has always recognized that the two purposes of sex, unity and procreation, are truly. fulfilled only in marriage. 
The most common objection to the Catholic Church's position on premari­tal sex is, "But I love ths person." So marry them! Then you can enjoy sex the way God intended. Think about it. Just you and that sp·ecial soeone that God had planned for you since the dawn of creation, each freely giving the very core of your being to the otlwr. secure within the bonds of a sacre­ment, secure in God's love and secure in God's love and securn in the hope that lie may bless you with living proof of your love the form of children. The University's policy does not diminish the intrinsic goodness of sex; on the contrary, it affirms it. Sex is so sacred and so good that it is worth waiting for. 
Mary Blazewin freshman Welsh Fanuly liall 

Celibacy saves friendships 
llad I been so eloquent 20 years ago, I might have written the exact same column that Joe Muto wrote complaining ofthe lack of sexual interaction on campus. But in retro­spect, the fact that I never had sex at Notre Dame was a good thing -a darn good thing. It's not like I planned it this way. Given the right opportunity, things would havu been much difforent. But my bad luck then is my good fortune today. 
Forget about thu religious reasons, the public health reasons and the psychological reasons for remaining celibate. You're either persuaded by them or not. I know I wasn't (although the public health reasons didn't pack thu mortal punch they do today). No, the reason I'm glad today for my miserable collegiate sex life is purely practical. It's the friends I have. Specifically, the female friends I have from my college days. 
I have hired and worked with a female classmate I once dated. Another, who is high­ly regarded in my line of work, was an important reference for me. Others remain "just" good friends. And it's all possible because there's no "baggage" of past sexual experimentation. Without the "baggage" of a college sex life, my wife and I have regu­larly gone out to dinner with a woman I once dated and her husband. There is no way that could hap.pen today if more had happened then. 
My "luckier" male counterparts are not so lucky today. The most prolific among them cringes in the company of his old flames. One friend is in the uncomfortable position of having an "ex" as his boss. Ouch. Think he gets invited to gatherings at her house? I doubt his wife offers to make dinner for the boss and I know for a fact she doesn't like him working late. Basically, a few nights of passion in college turned out to be a really bad rarecr move. 
Even when the break up is amicable, the friendship is terminal. Let's face it: once a "spodal friend" of yours from college gets married, you're not even on each other's Christmas rnrd lists. At least you better not be. It's like llushing an otherwise perfoctly good friendship down the toilet. 
Look, I'm nnt some pious celibacy advocate. It's just that the timing of Joe Muto's col­umn is uncanny. Earlier this week I had an hour-long conversation with a dassmate I had gonn on a single date with. It was just two friends talking about our liw1s· paths and, yes, Notre Dame. When I hung up the phone Wednesday, I understood how lucky I am today, that-despite myself -1 didn't screw it all up in college. At a time in life when friondships are harder to come by than they were in college, I only just now real­ize that everything that didn't happen back in college was well worth it. It's paid off on the job, many couples· nights out and even that one hour phone call and I wouldn ·t trad<1 away any of' it. 
It's really not about rnmpus sex (or celibacy). Joe. It's more a matter of who you want for your friends for the long haul. Notre Dame's a great place to make lifelong friends and it sounds to me like you'll be as rich in that department as I am. 
Jim Hennigan 
class of '84 Greenville, SC Nov. 8, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, November 12, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 0:';/4 Sou1h [),nin!\ II.II. Sm,e Dame. 1:-,: 46'i,G 
EDIWR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER.  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
As.IT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Perers  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Armcadtcr SCENE. EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv'S EDITOR, Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Kimberly Springer Av 01:SIGN MANAGER, Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEil ADMINISTRATOR, Adam T umer CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX.................................. ...........................631-6927 ADVERTISfNC.......................... : ......... 631-6900/8840 
0bservad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................63I-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obmews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as wel! as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 

movies/musk for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

ro meet the editors and 
Augusr 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

Th,· Oh,crwr ,, d1t· independent. dailv nL'wspapL'r puhli,h,·J 1n pm11 .md ""!inc hr the ,rude,m of the Univermy of Notrc Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collcgc. Fditorial wnrent. including advertisements, is no1 governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor. Assistanl Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present 1he views of the auchors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions reg.irdi11g Ob,erverpolide, should be direct­ed IC Editor in Chief Mike Connally. 
United we sell 
These arc uncertain times. Our country is at war, misinformation is everywhere and Ijust found anthrax in my Grab 'n' Go. In the wake of Sept. 11, our country needs to unite and regain our strength. Terrorists blinded by faith attacked a 
Amy Schill 
nation that symbol­izes freedom and individuality. In response, we must Dazed and become one Amused unthinking mob blinded by our flag and deafened by our incessant chanting. 
Unfortunately, there are some people in this country, dare say even on this campus (I won't call them Americans) who have deviated from the patriotic norm and have even been listening to music with that contain lyrics such as "plane" and "New York" (how disrespect­ful to the victims!). I'm not saying these "people" should be driven out of the country, not yet at least. But they do need to be educated on what it means to be an American citizen. Because if we've learned one thing from recent tragic events, it's that there's one and only one way to be an American. Lucky for you, I know the way. 
First, we must embrace exactly what the terrorists tried to destroy. By attack­ing the World Trade Center, they tried to bring down our capitalist spirit, but their horrendous deeds only created a new commodity for us to mass produce and sell at exorbitant prices: patriotism. Since they attacked not only people but also the nation as a whole, patriotism is a natural response but the question has always been how to be patriotic. 
Should I exercise my patriotism by questioning the decisions of the country I love, by working to protect the freedoms of others who may be discriminated against in the wake of the attacks? Of course not. 

The only acceptable way to show your love of America is to plaster an American flag on every single item you own. I per­sonally have 5,000 flag stickers on my Suzuki. Before this task may have been difficult, but now you can love your coun­try in just five easy installments! Flags, caps, T-shirts, buttons and beanie babies are all available in the name of freedom of democracy. Show all of Macy's that no one hates bin Laden more than you do when you buy your patriotic mock turtle­neck with your American flag edition of the Discover card. Forget pink hues and deep tans; red, white and blue are the in colors for the fall, and if you don't have this look, you might as well be from Kabul. 
That's right, we can't allow terrorists to let us forget our capitalist lifestyle. Ifwe change the way we live, they v.ill have won. However, we must do everything in our power to forget anything remotely related to do with Sept. 11. I advocate eliminating the date altogether. We could go straight to the 12th from the 10th, and then have two 4ths of July. That way, we can deny our pain and only remember the flags. We must remember the flags; the flags in our hearts, homes and hang­ing out of our car windows. 
In addition to ridding ourselves of the actual date, we also have to get rid of anything having to do with that day, that place or buildings in general. Shortly after the attacks, Clear Channel Communications issued a list to all of its radio stations (which would be all sta­tions everywhere) containing songs that the corporation thought should not be played due to lyrics that some might find oITensive in light of the attacks. I applaud this action by Clear Channel. The last thing we need now is a bunch of liberal artists singing about peace, love and what a wonderful world it is (a wondPrf'ul hemisphere maybe ... ). I don't need John Lennon to help me through my grief, thank you very much; I have all the music I need from the new cover of "God Bless America (And Only America)" by Celine Dion and Ja Ruic (now in stores for only $16.99). 
In fact, I don't think Clear Channel's list is expansive enough. I propose we ban every song. because there is a chance that all songs will in someway remind us of someone we lost. We can't let anything make us cry. If we stop to cry, we have less time to bomb. We do need music, but the songs we need are "America the Beautiful," "Star Spangled Banner," and "Killing an Arab" by The Cure. All mem­bers of the band Anthrax must be shot on sight. Some may classify my thinking as hypersensitive and well, insane. These people have very few flags on their cars and frankly, I question their loyalty. 
Though the attacks were the worst thing this nation has ever seen, it made us discover patriotism, the one thing we hadn't figured out how to sell yet. Sure, we may be losing a lot of revenue by shunning every song, TV show or movie that doesn't shield us from reality, but we still have one thing to keep us from remembering all the pain we want to for­get: one giant flag, blinding the eyes of an entire nation. So I have a message for all those who wish to bring down America and to all those who refuse to join the flag-waving: We must stand united, or.at least that's what my new socks say. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. She in no way wishes to make light ofthe tragic events ofSept. 11. only the reac­tion to them. She can be reached at aschill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this colwnn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those a/The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Reducing nuclear stockpiles 
This week, President Bush welcomes President Putin into his home at the Crawford, Texas ranch for three days of dis­cussion and bonding between the newfound partners in the "war" against terrorism. The invitation should include one monumental rr,quest: plnase check your nuclear missiles at the door. 
The U.S. and Russian leaders have abandoned their hostili­ties towards each other at the end of this post-cold war peri­od, but not their weapons. 
Neither country has reduced the stockpiles of nuclear weapons still left on hair-trigger alert, which can be estimat­ed at between 3,500 and 4,000 on each side. Deterioration in Russia's early warning and control systems, which heighten the risk of false alarms, causes these missiles to be even more dangerous now than they were during the cold war era. 
The current high alert status at which both American and Russian leaders maintain the majority of their nuclear weapons allows an insufficient amount of time for either side to confirm an attack and judge appropriate retaliatory actions. This hair-trigger alert status allows leaders on both sides just minutes to decide to order a nucle'ar missile launch after receiving what may or may not be an accurate warning. 
Just one misinterpreted signal, and the world could be engulfed in nuclear war in less than ten minutes. 
De-alerting nuclear weapons -lengthening the time need­ed to launch them -along with deep reductions in nuclear arsnnals are critical stPps l'or thn .'\nwriran and Hussian IPad­ers. /\t the summit in Crawford. TPxas this \\.PPk. l'rPsidPnt Bush and President Putin can set these changns in motion. 
As his Administration continuns to praise the end of' tlw cold war, President Bush must now embrace this opportunity to reduce the nuclear threat, especially during this t_irne of international instability when alliances are crucial. The fact is that even after Sept. 11th. the greatest threat 'facing the United States and the world is still from nuclear weapons. The.two presidents can finally step away from Cold War ideol­ogy, and face a new "war" together, by promising to reduce nuclear weapon arsenals and take their remaining weapons off of hair-trigger alert. 
Lauren Berrigan JUnlOr Washington Program Nov. 9, 2001 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Myra McGriff C. Spencer Beggs Kelly Hager Graphics Kevin Suhanic Katie McKenna 
Sports Production 
, Katie McVoy Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kurt Bogaard Lisa Velte 
POLL QUESTION 

Is the economy causing you to rethink your post-graduation plans? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My father told me all about the birds and the bees. The liar -I went steady with a woodpecker until I was 2 r." 
Bob Hope vocalist 

Monday, November l2, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Fox investigates 
Powell works toward peace 
disappearance 
A,sociaccd Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Mexican President Vicente Pox said he will appoint a spe­cial prosecutor to investigate the cases of hundreds of politi­caI dissidents who disap­peared during the 1970s and 1980s. 
The announcement. made Saturdav in New York, falls short of ·Fox's earlier promise to establish a national truth commission to get to the bot­tom of numerous past govern­ment human rights abuses. 
But it seemed to be a step toward answering criticism that his administration has done far too little to address past abuses and current cases. 
"We are going to have to name a special. autonomous, independent prosecutor to take charge of the investiga­tions" of the disappeared. Fox told a news conference Saturday in New York after 
attending a meeting of the 
U.N. General Assembly. 
A transcript of his remarks 
was issued by the president's 
office in Mexico City on 
Saturday night. 
The prosecutor will review 
individually each one of the 
more than 570 cases, Fox said. 
He said he would appoint 
someone to the position and 
elaborate on the goals of the 
otlice at a later date. 
The archives of the disap­
peared already have been 
reviewed by the country's 
national human rights com­
mission, which is scheduled to 
release a report on the issue 
shortly. 
In a portion of the report 
leaked to the Mexican news 
media, the commission con­
cluded that about half of the 
_570 people who disappeared during a government coun­terinsurgency program against leftist rebels in the 1970s were murdered, their bodies dumped in secret graves. 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said Sunday the Bush administration is sending a "powerful signal"to the world that it seeks a new Middle East w h e r e Israel and t h C Palestinians can live side-by-side in their own states. 
Powell s a i d President Bush's remarks to the United Nations on Saturday in support of Palestinian statehood did not really "break new ground," but that the administration soon will follow up with a more explicit outline of its position on the kind of settlement it seeks. 
Earlier. Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat expressed grati­tude for Bush's remarks. "We have to thank him from our hearts," said Arafat. 
Bush told the U.N. General Assembly that the United States is "working toward the day when two states -Israel and Palestine -live peacefully together within secure and rec­ognized borders as called for by the Security Council resolu­tions." 
Initially, the Bush administra­tion kept its distance from the interrupted peace process, say­ing it was up to the parties to find their way back to negotia­tions. But that has changed, with Powell telling reporters, "We are looking for opportuni­ties to be more actively engaged." 
Arab governments have been urging the administration to be more aggressive, and their appeal has taken on new 

Need alift? Don't miss the bus. 
O'Hare: 8a.m., Noon, 2p.m. Miaway: l O a.m. 

Who: You and all your friends 
Whot: Buses ride directly from !he 
lnile Museum lo Chicogo Airports When: Wedne1day November 2l, 200 I Where: Bus meets al Snile Museum 
l 5 minutes before lime li1ted 
urgency as the Bush adminis­tration seeks to keep Muslim governments engaged in its war against the Taliban in Afghanistan. 
"It's not a matter of placating or pleasing"Arab governments, Powell said. "It is a matter of going forward and getting the violence down." 
Ile said the timing will be up to the parties. "It cannot be forced,"Powell said. "But there is a new urgency." 
Besides Arafat, Powell met separately with Israeli f.oreign Minister Shimon Peres and Syrian Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa. 
Peres, long an advocate of a Palestinian state that would control part of Jerusalem, told 
Israeli reporters  "  the most  
important thing  now  is  to  
decrease  the  
flames" of con­ 
flict  between  


"We are committed to
Israel and the parts were Palestinians. finding a solution to the controlled 
Powell's tragic situation in the by Jordan 
meeting with and Egypt
Middle East." 
al-Sharaa was until they described as were cap­"pretty Colin Powell tured by frank"by a Israel in the
Secretary of State 
senior adminis­tration official. 
There was a lot of discussion about what is "a freedom fighter and what is a terrorist," said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The State Department accus­es Syria of supporting terrorist groups in southern Lebanon, but those groups view them­selves as fighting a guerrilla lib­eration campaign against Israel. 
At a news conference, Powell said Bush would "have an opportunity to meet with Chairman Arafat as we move forward." 
"We are all committed to finding a solution to the tragic situation in the Middle East." Powell said after conferring with foreign ministers from the Arab countries in the Persian Gulf region. 
And after a four-way meeting with U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan, European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana and Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, they all pledged to have their represen­tatives in the Middle East try to resolve the current crisis. 

Until Bush's speech on Saturday, U.S. officials had referred to the possibility of a "Palestinian state,"but had never called it "Palestine." 
Powell said Bush's use of "Palestine" was deliberate. 
"If one is moving forward with a vision of two states side by side,"Powell said on NBC's "Meet the Press," "it's appropri­ate ... to call those two states what they will be, Israel and Palestine. 
"No Republican president has ever made [such] a statement," Powell said. 
No Democrat, either. 

Until now, the State Department has used "Palestine" only to describe the British-controlled territory that existed before Israel's establish­ment in 1948. Israel assumed some of the territory; the other 
1 9 6 7 
Mideast_ 
war. 

Although Israel has accepted the existence of a Palestinian state as an outcome of peace talks, calling it "Palestine" has been a sensitive issue. It has raised concerns that it would imply a Palestinian presump­tion to all pre-1948 territory, including Israel. 
"The only objection we would have to the use of the term 'Palestine' would be where it is meant as an alternative to Israel, in order to undermine the legitimacy of the Jewish state," said Raanan Gissin, an adviser to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. 
Peres told Israeli reporters after his meeting with Powell that he underscored that "everybody is aware Arafat should act to decrease the level of violence, that's the most important thing." 
Sharon has suggested an interim recognition of Palestinian statehood without recognized borders. Israel understands U.N. resolutions as calling for an exchange of terri­tory for peace, but not neces­sarily leading to statehood. 

November 15-17 at 8 pm Sunday. . . 
Mcr"·11·•·0 

November 18 at 2:30 pm ~[#f/'R.,/
Little Theatre FfJR THE Aus 
NOTII.E OAIUI, Ill 

For ticket information · contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4626 

Monday, November 12, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
HOCKEY 
Irish beat, tie Bulldogs 
By MATT ORENCHUK Sports Writer 
After a poor start to the beginning of the season, the Notre Dame hockey team has turned it up a notch. 
The Irish earned a win and a tie this weekend against the Ferris State Bulldogs to improve 
their over-
Poulin all record 
to 2-5-3. The Irish began the season 0­4-2. and they didn't get their 
first win until last weekend. But in the last four games Notre Dame is 2-1-1, and cur­rently sitting in eighth place in the CCHA with six points. 
Notre Dame notched ils sec­ond win of the season Friday night with a 5-2 victory over the Bulldogs. Notre Dame came out on fire in the first period and finally lit the lamp 
11 :32 into the first period when David Inman found Connor Dunlop in front of tr.e Ferris State net. 
"The first five minutes we played as good as we've been all season," said Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin. 
Ferris tied the game in the second when winger Chris Kurnitz fired the puck past Irish goalie Morgan·cey. But just two minutes after the Bulldogs tied it up, Notre Dame took the lead again. Alex 
The Keough Institute For Irish Studies 
presents: 

BENEDICT ANDERSON Author of Imagined Communities ,and Distinguished O'Donnell 1 1Professor in Irish Studies 
Holy Lands and the End of Conquest: The High Price of Nations Today 
Lalonde beat out a Ferris State· defender in the Bulldog zone to get the puck. He found a streaking TJ Mathieson who was able to shoot the puck past the goalie for the Notre Dame lead. 
In the third period the game opened up. At the 4:27 mark. Kyle Dolder put the Irish up 3­1 when his shot found the back of the net. Ferris State made the game close when it scored to make it 3-2. 
A couple of lucky bounces put the game away. Michael Chin was right of the Ferris State net when he shot the puck towards the goal. It bounced off of the back of the Bulldog goalie to make it 4-2. Then, ,vith the Irish up by two, Ferris State hit the goal post twice. but the puck never got in the net. 
In the end, Notre Dame got one more goal from its first line to put the game away. This time Inman scored the goal off of an assist from Dunlop to make the score 5-2. 
"This was a great win for us," Poulin said. "We had guys who made good plays at criti­cal times in the game." 
On Saturday night the Irish jumped out to a 3-1 lead, only to watch Ferris State battle back to force overtime. Neither team could do anything in the extra session, and the game ended in a 3-3 tie. 
Ferris State _scored first, just 
1:32 into the game. The Irish started junior Tony Zasowski in goal instead of freshman Cey. Zasowski misplayed the puck. and Ferris' Kunitz put it away for the 1-0 lead. 
In the second period Notre Dame turned it on, and appeared on their way to an easy victory. Inman scored first to tie the game at 1. Ninety seconds later Brett Lebda made an outstanding individual play to put the Irish 
up. 
Then just two minutes after Notre Dame took the lead, they added to it when Aaron Gill scored on a wraparound. 
But the Irish didn't put the Bulldogs away and Ferris State made them pay. The momen­tum changed when the Irish took two penalties to give Ferris State a 5-on-3 opportu­nity. The Bulldogs scored, and then five minutes into the third Ferris State scored again to even the score at three. 
"We have to have that killer instinct," Poulin said. "We had plenty of chances to put the game a:way when we were up 3-1, but we didn't do it." 
Both teams drew penalties in the final 15 minutes of the game that gave the other team the opportunity to score. But the defenses held, and the game ended as a 3-3 draw. 
Now the Irish have to take to the road. Notre Dame travels to Western Michigan for a weekend series against the Broncos. 
"Three out of four points in a weekend in the CCHA is good," Poulin said. "Especially in this league where you have to bat­tle every weekend." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish return to play for final fall match 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After nearly a month with­out competitive action, the Notre Dame women's golf team will be leaving the frozen fields of Indiana to wrap up the fall season on the Gulf Coast in Corpus Christi, Texas on Monday and Tuesday. 
The Irish will participate in the 15-team Texas A&M­Corpus Christi Islander Invitational at the par-72, 6,100 yard Kings Crossing Golf and Country Club. 
After a fall season that did not reach the team's com­petitive hopes under new coach Debbie King, the Irish are looking to finish strong in Texas before they take the winter off. 
"We expected to do a little better [this season]. but everyone's trying," said sophomore Rebecca Rogers. "I definitely think that every­one's ready to have a good finish. Hopefully our games are a little stronger." 
-Freshman Karen Lotta believes that both the weather and the competition will aid the Irish in their mission to end the fall on a positive note. . 
"I just hope that with the warm weather and the teams in the tournament, we can do pretty well," she said. 
Although Notre Dame has not played in any tourna­ments since its ninth place finish at the Marilynn Smith Sunflower Invitational on Oct. 16. the Irish are confi­dent that they will still be able to turn in a peak per­formance this weekend. 


"Our practice time is very useful," Rogers said. "Just because we've not been 
,playing competitively doesn't mean we've lost the edge.'' 
The Irish spent the begin­ning of last week determin­ing who would represent the team in Texas. Lotta, sopho­more Shannon Byrne. Rogers, junior Terri Taibl, and senior Lauren Fuchs will tee off. Fuchs replaces senior Kristin McMurtrie. 
Byrne, who finished first for the Irish in. their most recent tournament, is Notre Dame's top golfer, with an 
80.57 average. Lotta and Taibl follow her with aver­ages of 80.86 and 82.75, respectively. 
Baylor, Eastern Michigan, Loyola of Chicago and McLennan Community College are all teams that Notre Dame will face. 
The Irish will have their sights set on Wichita State, a team which always finishes close to Notre Dame. The Irish beat the Shockers at last month's Sunflower Invitational, but lost by a small margin in the previous two tournaments. 
"It'd be nice to come close to them," Rogers said. "I want to play as best I can." 
After Tuesday's final round, the Irish will take a break from practices and tournaments as they enter the off-season until February. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
ARE YOUR PARENTS INTERESTED IN STAYING AT 1HE MORRIS INN FOR JPW 20021 
IF SO, HEAD OUT TO TIIE MORRIS INN AND GET YOUR~ELF AFORM FOR 1BE MORRIS INN LOTTERY. 

YOU CAN ENTER YOUR PARENTS TO WIN AROOM AT THE MORRIS INN FOR THE WEEKEND. 
Questions? Contact JPW at j~w@nd.edu.
MCKENNA HALL 
7:00 PM Thursday, November 15, 2001 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 12, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Second place finish assures Irish NCAA bid 
Championships. King was the
By KATIE HUGHES 
only freshman in the top 10. 
Spnrrs \'v'rircr 
"Jen [Fibuchl was up there 
and started to struggle, and 
ln every race this season the Lauren was up there and top five finisl1ers have been dif­stayed comfortable the whole ferent for the Irish. But the race," Connelly said. 
team's goal has never Sophomore Megan Johnson changed: qualifying for the was second for the team, fin­NCAA Championships any way ishing 20th and junior Jen it could. HandleyAfter taking hung in
"Any time you can
second place in to take Saturday's Great accomplish one ofyour 22nd. Lakes Regional 
main goals for the year, Junior 
meet in Terre 
J e n

you have to feel pretty 
Haute. Ind.. the 
Fibuch 

team will auto­good about that. " a n d matically fresh­advance to the 
m a n

Tim Connelly
N C A A Christi
head coach
Championships, 
which will be held Nov. 19 in Greenville, S.C. 
"Any time you can accom­plish one of your main goals for the year. you have to feel pretty good about that," said head coach Tim Connelly. "It's fun. At the beginning of the year, we were barely ranked in the top ten in the region, and now we have the potential to be in the top 15 in the coun­try." 
Freshman Lauren King led the Irish with a spectacular second plac.e finish, just steps behind first place finisher Bethany Brewster of Wisconsin, who was ninth in last year's NCAA Arnerich 
clinched 

Notre Dame's impressive second, fin­ishing 33rd and 47th, respec­tively. 
"Megan [Johnson] has been consistent all year. Jen [Handley] has been fighting a cold, but she stuck with Megan and toughed it out," Connolly said. "Jen Fibuch ran her best race of the year. Christi ran good and solid." 
The No. 19 Irish f_inished with a team score of 124, behind No. 6 Michigan State, and ahead of No. 18 regional rival Marquette by four points. Marquette will likely advance to the NCAA meet with an at­large bid. 
"I think it was a shock to qualify," said Fibuch. "That's nice [to beat Marquette]. They've been ranked ahead of us all year." 
The tlexibility in the top five is often what sets Notre Dame apart and gives the team an advantage as races unfold and it becomes clear that someone is having an "off' day. 
"It's been a funny year, because I don't think we've had a race where we've had everyone on,'" Connelly said. "But there's always someone who steps up, like in the Big East, Lauren [King] struggled but Jen [Handley] came through ... They have enough confidence that thev haven't placed themselves in ·a pecking order." 
Saturday's second place marks the best linish the Irish have earned in the regional meet, equaling the second­place team finish in 1993. 
Although qualifying for the NCM Championships is a big step for the Irish, they aren't going to stop there. 
"We're not happy to just be [at the NCAA Championships]. We're going to accomplish something," said Connelly. "It's realistic to expect that we could be in the top 15 in the country." 
Contact Katie Hughes at 

Freshman runner Christi Arnerich competes earlier this year in 
khughes@nd.edu. 

the Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish placed second Saturday. 



FAITH 
Jesus and Our Hope 

¦ 
WHAT DOES THE CHURCH TEACH? 

¦ 
WHY DOES IT MATTER? 

¦ 
HAVE QUESTIONS AND NEED A PLACE TO ASK THEM? 


Each one credit course in the series "Know Your Catholic Faith" will reflect on a central feature of the Catholic faith, so that students come away with aclear idea of what the Church . holds on these topics as well as a basic theological and personal understanding of them. The courses will be based on the Catechism of the Catholic Church plus other pertinent texts, supplemented by personal reflection and experiential learning where appropriate. These courses should meet the needs of those students who know little or nothing about the faith; asweU as those who are fammar with the faith but do not feel they have aclear grasp of certain. features of Christian doctrine. The courses will be presented in avariety of formats and venues. 
' 
-:_J_· .~.. 
. ?.''/~-:-)
.~. :,.: ;
1.%~~-''.;: -·: 
Theo. 3401. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Brian Daley, SJ Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m., March 19, 21, 26, 28, April 2, 4 O'Neill Hall 

A New Series of One~Credit Courses 
offered by the Department of Theology in cooperation with the Office of Campus Ministry 
Prayer 


Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Feb. 13, 17, 24, March 3, 24 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 
The Christian Way of Life: 
An Introduction to Catholic Moral Theology 
Theo. 340H. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Edward Malloy, CSC Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m. Jan. 28, Feb. 11, March 4, 18, April 4, 15 Coleman-Morse Center, Rm. 330 

Faith & Revelation 
Theo. 340G. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Virgil Elizondo 
Friday Feb. 8: 4:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Saturday, Feb 9: 9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center 
For further information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-6662. Syllabi for the courses can be obtained at the 
Theology Dept. main office.Register through DART or go to the Registrar's office 

C 
•1

j ••. A .a .,. •• !. 1 .... ... _ u ~ •• _il.--~ ___ .. !..!-~ ; ] ~ ~ J ~ ;, 't. "!.. ~ ..£ ~; ;--!!! !l' .. I:! -.. :!t 
Monday, November 12, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish runners advance to NCAA meet with win · 

RICO CASARES/The Observer Seniors Luke Watson (left) and Ryan Shay (right) run in the Notre Dame Invitational earlier this year. The Irish won the Great Lakes Regional Championships Saturday. 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 

What a way to wipe away the what-ifs. 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team took the Great Lakes Regional Championship title on Saturday in Terre Haute, Ind., guaranteeing a trip to the NCAA Championships on Monday, Nov. 19 in Greenville, S.C. 
"We surprised our­selves. We knew we were capable of winning it, but [ thought we would get 
~ second or third. We went in with the mindset of just qualifying [for the NCAA Championships]." said sophomore Todd Mobley. "We didn't want to neces­sarily put all of our emo­tions in [this race]." Going into Saturday's meet, a first or second place finish seemed far from assured without seniors Ryan Shay and Pat Conway, but as the race unfolded, Notre Dame's depth once again emerged. "While I was running, I heard three or four coaches say we could win this thing," Mobley said. Senior All-American Luke Watson took third in the meet in 30:37.3, lead­ing the team without the help of Shay or Conway, who head coach Joe Piane had decided to hold out of the meet. Shay was still recovering from an 
injured achilles tendon, servativc pace of and Conway had been bat­Saturday's race helped tling a chest cold for over the Irish take control from a month. Both will run in front to back of the pack. the NCAA Championships. "The pace was very con­
Mobley, a sophomore, servative, but that cer­finished second for the tainly didn't hurt us,"said Irish, h e a d taking coach
"We surprised ourselves. o
sixth. 20 J e places We knew we were Piane. ahead of T h e
capable of winning it, but
where he t e a m
I thought we would get
finished score of in this second or third." · 71 put race last No. 5 v e a r . N o tr e
Todd Mobley
Senior D a m e M a r c sophomore runner ahead of Striowski Michigan t o o k that fin­10th. ished in second place with "Everyone in our top 82 points. five ran really well, Michigan State was though we kind of ran third with 86, and No. 4 conservatively," Mobley Wisconsin was fourth with said. "Luke might have 97. been able to get second,· "Any time you beat a Big and the same can be said Ten school, it's a good for everyone else on our day," Piane said. "And we team." beat a bunch of Big Ten Senior Sean Zanderson schools." and David Alber ran Shay had run through together to finish 24th his injury, and Conway and 26th respectively, through illness, to help pushing each other and the Irish take the Big East pushing away any doubt title on Oct. 26, when the that the Irish would come No. 5 Irish beat Villanova away from the meet with by only one place. anything other than a Notre Dame's victory at decisive win. Zanderson the Great Lakes Regional finished 91st in the meet marks the fourth regional meet last year. time the Irish have won "Sean went out a little the title since the meet faster than I did, and then began in 1972. ·we grouped back up," 
Alber said. "We ran together from the halfway point on." Contact Katie Hughes at 
The unexpectedly con­
khughes@nd.edu. 

The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies 
-

Special on Color Copies 
in conjunction with Italian Studies 
presents: 


8.5 X 11 regular paper only 
.79
Coll 2sg-1000 for more details 

THE LITERARY TRAI)¾itJ~tiijit:,bt~Il~T" 

CALLING ALL MUSICIANS!!! 
.-, ...-..:-.-·.·. 

lbtt lJ8U-in nud 46onte e,xbta C@f{!
(Queens College, City Unifef~ityef New York) 
2001 ,~tUiam & Katherine Oever~_,Yisit~g,1ttbf.es~r of Dante & Italian Studies 
--=::::::.:,._ ;-:·•••_:-.-::-:•··· 
..{ ) $,?" ./ ,:::_; ·. :;: 

lbtt lJ8U-~tedia plaqimJ. f,<ut tire dituwt OJi 
·-·-..:.;:;/:>"{/,;,;~:)i <i;(\( )·.. :;:-. ' .. }' 

6JUUtd,, at tfw ywt'~ 'j!JW? 
If so, you are in luck! 
The JPW Executive fiommittee is looking for instrumentalists to perform for dinner on Feb. 16 and ,:·:\;__\.· \··/:·{}~f??ft¼ii«: :;,•,·' ::::,:::.:::~:;:;;i?:\f; 
brunch on Feb. 17, 
Free and open to the public; follm~~'dhy;:'tf~tt~ti~l{:;\Q~'hich all arc welcome. Auditions will be held Weflnesday, November 14 at 7:30
This lecture is part of a compact seminar titled "Italian i:ii,Faffofan<l Dialect" (ROIT 427). 
pm in room 323 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
For further information contact the Devers Program in Dantt: Studies at (219) 631-5610 or visit the program's Web site, http://w.vw.d,mtc.nd.edu/. 
Contact Emilie Robb at 4-2513 or at erobb@nd.edu to set up an audition time or if you have any questions. 
.,.. 


l \ 
j 
_j 
Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 12, 200 l 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Taborga, Smith top the best, fall short. 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer 
Beating the top doubles team in the nation is definitely a way to let the competition know that you're no joke. 
The Notre Dame doubles pair­ing of Casey Smith and Javier Taborga did just that at Omni Hotels National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships this weekend by knocking off the No. 1 seed in the tournament before being defeated in the semifinals of the event. 
In the first round of competi­tion 34th-ra.nked Smith and Taborga breezed past Tulsa's 
team of Dane 
from the tournament beating the No. 1 seed, Smith and Taborga were not satisried without the title. 
"We had our chances," Taborga said. "lSMU] is a good team, but I think after beating the number one you kind of expect to win the tournament ... We played well, but we didn't play as high as against UCLA. It's kind of hard to maintain that level every day but we played at a very high level in the semifinal. Still it was good tennis." . 
With the Notre Dame fall schedule complete, Smith and Tahorga stand at 15-4, winning 10 of their last 12 matches. Of the 15 wins. four of them ca.me 
against 

McGregor and t e a m s
"[The Bruins] were
Shri Sudhakar ranked in the 
8-2 to advance undefeated all year. so it top 30 
to second round shows we can beat nationally, action against and include a
anyone."
-the top team in consolation the nation, title at the UCLA's Marcin Javier Taborga Inter-colle­Matkowski and senior giate Tennis 
Jean-Julien Rojer. 
The Irish got off to a speedy start, breaking serve in the first game, and then held their own serve throughout the match to lock up an 8-6 victory, snapping the Bruins 14-match winning streak. 
"UCI.A is I think by far the best team in the nation," Taborga said. "And in order to beat them you just have to play at another level, and Casey and I, we both played unbelievable." 
The Bruins' No. 1 ranking in the nation will change following the loss to the Irish. Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss recog­nizes the significance of the beating the No. 1 seed, a win resulting from endless hours of practice. 
"Any time you beat the num­ber one team in the country, it is exciting," Bayliss said. "This was definitely an indication of all the hard work Casey and Javy have put in. Their ability to break serve bas become a potent 
weapon and it has been gratify­ing to see their improvement over the course of the fall." 
Following the stunning Irish 
victory over the Bruins, Smith 
and Taborga stumbled in the 
semis against Johan Brunstrom 
and Eric Cohn of Southern 
Methodist, falling 9-8 (7-5) in a 
hard-fought tiebreaker. 

Although they came away Association 
All-American Championships in October. Smith and Taborga have every intention of keeping the awards coming. 
"As far as Casey and I go, I think that because we are seniors we are going to maintain this level," Taborga said. "We realize we are right there with everyone. Beating UCLA was great. They were undefeated all year, so it shows us we can beat anyone. Hopefully we'll be able to maintain that level though, that's the main thing." 
Smith and Taborga achieved the best results at the National Indoors for an Irish doubles team since 1992 when Chuck Coleman and David DiLucia reached the final before being defeated. 
Contact Rachd Biber at b.iher. l@nd.edu. 
lblffllfc! 
.1-f.1--r" .ii.! •
ii" 
t,.,f.-t. ~ 
DUTiDD!iiT 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for moretetalls 



"Retiring Or Changing Jobs?"" 
The largest single su,n of money you receive in your Ii fo will 
probably come from your pension, thriji or profit sharing plan 
when you !eave your company or school. 
Salomon Smith Barney invites you to a free seminar to review · your rctire1nent ahernatives. Some points to be discussed are: 
How to take your lump-sum distribution. Your choices and options.
• 

What are the tax implications? What investments can you and should you choose'? Is your current IRA working for you'l 
Free Retiren1enl P/(1nning Sen1itu1r 
~:  Tucsduy. November t3  
TIME:  7:30 pm  
SPEAKER:  Gary Rnkan ­ Oppenheimer Funds  

Summit Ciub, :zs•h floor, City Center Building
PLACE: RSVP: 800-322-2425 or Julie.a.bergman@>rssmb,com 
Seuting is li111iJ,11I, so p/e,.se callfor reservnl/011.~ or htfor111atlf11r. Brill~ ,,frie,ul or co/le(ll(lle. 
SALOMON SMITH BARNEY A member of citig,-oup...,..... 







Latino Studies 
presents 

Leadership from a Latino(a) Perspective: Preliminary Findings of the National Latino Leadership Survey Project 
Reverend Andrew Hernandez St. Mary's University, San Antonio TX 7 PM November 14, 2001 141 Debartolo Hall 
reception to follow 

Monday, November 12, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
I RYAN
FOURTH AND INCHES TOMKEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

TAILGATI~ CITATIONS DRASTIC.-. YI) CREASED t>URING BASK!:TBALL 
SEASON, AS SECVIUTY HAI) LOST THE 8.EMENT OF SURP!USE 
. I jvJ foorcl (V\1 fOJ\~.5 ! ~'( ,,e,8
"ft;•
•... f ··= . 
~:-....,,: . ' 
' ¾l!t'#/""''"'· "'' 

BILLAMEND
FOXTROT SINCE WHEN 1T'S A 
I'M Ol?ESSING VP THIS 
"THE LORO oF THE 

8ESrDES, WHAT WHY Do 
Do 'YOU WEAR COSTUME, 
WEEI< IN ANT1C1PAT10N oF 
1<1NGS" DoESN'T 

ToLk:IEN CHAR• I SoTHER 
GLASSES, CAN'T YOU 

TH£ MoVIE EVER'!' Boole 
OPEN UNTIL NEXT 

ACTER SPORTS WITH 
EILEEN? Till? 

FAN HAS BEEN WAITING 
MollliH, DooFUS. 

TtiAT HARRY POT• THESE 
I 

LlkE cAAZY To SEE!
I 

! TEI? E'l'EWEAR? MVC;,GLES? 
The best way to end an awkward date ever 

~--~-~----------------------------------------~--------------------------­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Popular cracker 61 Student's brand jottings
1 Jet speed unit 34 See 17-Across 62 Waiting room 5 Out of the wind, call39 One of TV'snautically Jetsons 63 liff 9 Widespread 
40 Book that might 64 Went by bus 13 Book of maps have a lock 15 "Venerable" 41 Coach DOWN· English writer Parseghian 
1 Singer Johnny 16 Satanic 42 Affirm under 
2 Goddess of oath
17 With 34-Across, wisdom a proverb 45 Spanish uncle 
3 Golf shoe 20 Intensify features
48 Island across the strait from

21 Hullabaloo 4 Swiftness
Singapore22 Weeping 
5 Civil War prez 50 Climb down 
6 Jacob's first wife i...--1--+­
24 One who is 52 Party attender 
often 22-Across 7 1970's-80's New
54 1930's quintuplet York City mayor28 Carrier to 55 A proverb that 

Stockholm 8 "Winnie-the­
contradicts 
Pooh" donkey

29 Abhors 17-and 9 Post-op time 
34-Across 10" Got a• 
31 Itinerary word 59 Computer image 32 Walk through Secret"mud, say 60 fu 
11 "Jack and the Beanstalk" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE . . exclamation A S T E R 12 Building addition Puzzla by Peter Gordon 
i-,;,4,~::+:mA+.-L-t:E:=1 14 Sudden, fierce 33 Beam of light 46 Poor winds 
34 Expert

V I ED 47 Danish city 
A R 18 Displace 35 Dutch treat?
E 36 Surround
L 
wherefores for one
37 Like traditional 23 Accessory for Disney films 51 Plum, lemon orMiss America peach38 Shoreline25 Budget problemcompetitor 39 Madison or 

__.....,........ 26 Angler's quest Answers to any three dues in this puzzle
Monroe: Abbr. 
are available by touch-tone phone:

iit:'11-:+.Dr:'i 27 Famed Bosox 
42 Phaser setting 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).

--==~~N.;.a outfielder 
43 Destroys Annual subscriptions are available for 1he
...+e::+,,..+,,-,t,.,:,t-::-r.E:1 30 Silents star Bara 
44 Relent best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
C S 32 Place for boars 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

HE A LOSS andsows 45 Take care of 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
53 One of the Sinatras 55 Transgression · 56 Cause of a skid 57 Bagel topper 58 Cpl.'s superior 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday throu-gh Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. · Please complete the accompa­nying f'orm and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home . 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
-...

D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON This is your chance to initiate your THIS DAY: Neil Young, Al ideas. You will get along surpris­Michaels, Sammy Sosa, Nadia ingly well witn employers and Comaneci, Kim Hunter colleagues. Completing difficult 
Happy Birthday: Your ideas projects on time will make you are good, so believe in yourself look good. 000 and put them into action Follow­LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You ing your dreams will be deeply will be anxious to try new things, satisfying. There will be plenty of such as travel, perhaps to an exot­opportunities to choose a path to ic destination. You need to stretch success. Your drive and determi­your mind. Read something inter­nation will not let you down. Your esting or attend a cultural event. numbers: 3, 15, 22,. 35, 37, 39 000 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Try your hardest and xou'll get Remain on neutral ground if an results today. Your thoughts about acquaintance becomes involved in people and projects have been a debate. Being caught in the mid­accurate. Look out for your own dle of someone else's argument interests and protect your rights. will lead to additional problems. You're onto something good. You can't take sides, so don't get 000 involved. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGfITARIUS (N~ 22.-Dec. 21}: Your high energy, discipline and It's time to join forces. Channel dedication enable you to over­your energy into partnerships. come any challenges. Get some­Busmess and personal agreements one else to do less important jobs should be put in writing to avoid and focus on what's important to future misunderstandings. You you.0000 work well with others. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Keep a close eye on your money., You need to chill out. Your poor Don't overspend on yourself or behavior, or your partner's, will anyone else today. Avoid events or lead to sudden changes in the groups that will cost more than relationship. Consider getting pro­your budget can handle. Think fessional help for dealing with before making financial promises. anger management. 00 000 AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER Qune 21-July 22): Be See the world. Trips will be more prepared to deal with the unex­beneficial than you had imagined. pected. VJSitors may drop by at an Opportunities will create the pos­inopportune moment. Don't be sibility of a new job or an exciting surprised ifcomplaints and overly venture. The experience will be opinionated people create anxiety well worth it. 00000 and frustration for you. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Return­Don't be so generous with your ing to hobbies that you enjoy will time or cash, especially with peo­put you at ease, Get together with ple or groups who no longer have friends but try not to overspend the same beliefs as you. Spend on any event 0000 more time at home with loved 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): ones.000 
Birthday Baby: You are so concerned about the well-being of others as a peacemaker and a crusader all wrapped up into one special pack­age. You will always strive to do what's right. You are a compassionate do-gooder. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at.astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 UniversaJ Press Syndicate 

...... .. ..... .... ....'• ... -· ..,. ...... -....·:, ......-"" ......-.;.-.. -..... -..... 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Tennis, p. 22 
. PGA, p. 18 
. 
Men's Cross Country, p. 21 . AFC, p. 16 

. 
Women's Cross Country, p. 20 . NFC, p. 15. 

. 
Hockey, p. 19 



PORTS 
. ND Women's Golf, p. 19 Monday, November 12, 2001 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Defense scores big for Irish 
. Defense keeps Hoyas scoreless, Irish advance to Big East semifinals 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 

It was once said that the best offense for a team is a good defense. 
Apparently. someone on the N·otre Dame men's soccer team was listening. The Irish offense put an early goal on the board. and the defense held off several threats from the Georgetown offense as the second-seeded Irish defeated the seventh-seeded Hoyas 1-0 in a Big East quarterfinal match at Alumni Fie!d Saturday night. 
"We'll take the one goal, but we should have had a lot more," said head coach Bobby Clark. 
On a cold night when a gusty north wind played a factor in the game, the Irish put a goal on the board just under 11 minutes into
-
the first half. Defender Jack Stewart made a run up the left side of the field and shot at Hoyas goalkeeper Brian O'Hagan. The shot sailed past O'Hagan and found Irish mid­fielder Chad Riley on the right side. Riley easily chipped the shot over the head of the charging O'Hagan, and the wind directed the shot right into the center of the net to put the Irish ahead early. 
"It was pretty much a wide open net because the goalie was cheating a little bit," Riley said. "[Justin] Detter took the long ball and poked it out for me." 
The Irish defensive line of Griffin Howard, Andreas Forstner. and Justin Ratcliffe took over from there, eliminating virtually every 
see SOCCER/page 18 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish clinch Big East title with win 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Edicor 
Another season, another title. 
That's been the story for the Irish volleyball team in recent seasons and Sunday afternoon proved 2001 was no exception. The Irish topped Seton Hall 30-26, 30-17, 30-25 to clinch their third consecutive regular season Big East title with a perfect 12-0 mark in the league. 
'Tm definitely proud of the team for going through the season undefeated," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "That was certain­ly one of our goals. The next step is the con­ference tournament (next weekend in Pittsburgh]. which is huge." 
The Pirates hung close in games one and three Saturday, but could muster only a .143 hitting percentage against an increasingly effective Irish attack. Notre Dame hit .321 for the day, led by 11 kills each from senior Kristy Kreher and sophomore Kim Fletcher. Senior Marcie Bomhack added 10 kills on .444 hitting, just behind Fletcher's .500 percentage on the day. 
"We got the ball to [Fletcher] a lot and she made some really good shots," Brown said. "I thought Marcie had a good day too. Both of them offensively were strong for us." 
In game one, the lead bounced back and forth, with an Irish 4-2 lead turning into a 5-4 Pirate advantage. Notre Dame built a 21-17 lead as the game continued, only to see the gap close to 24-23. 
Finally, with the Irish leading just 27-26 and the Pirates serving, freshman Emily Loomis scored a kill to give the Irish 28 points and the serve. Two points later, Seton Hall hit the ball wide to give Notre Dame game one. 
In game two, the Irish didn't let it stay so close. After Seton Hall scored the first point of the game on a net violation, the Irish reeled off 5 points in a row with Kreher serving, gave up two, then reeled off six more in a row to give the Irish an early 11-3 lead. Seton Hall never recovered and Notre Dam~ hit game point on a Kreher block. 
"We got off to a big lead in game two," Brown said. "When that happens it gives you a big cushion. You play a little bit more 
see IRISH/page 18 

SPORTS . Women's Basketball vs. Christian Bros., Wednesday, 7p.m. · 
OBSERVER 
. ND Volleyball vs. Illinois State, Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
onllne 

. Men's Basketball vs. New Hampshire, Friday, 9 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football vs. Navy, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 





