..-----------------------------------------__,..-,--......,.---~-­
• 
'Word' speaks to audience
RAIN 
Thursday 
Movie critic Jude Seymour reviews the latest Michael 

HIGH 64° 
OCTOBER 4,
Douglas thriller, "Don't Say a Word." 

LOW 46° 
Scene . page 10 

2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXV NO. 28 . HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Panel considers next step after attacks 

ByJUSTIN KRMCKAS News Writer 
Five speakers gathered in a DeBartolo lecture hall Thursday to help shed light on the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
The lecture, entitled "After September 11: Law, Rights and Remedies," was the third in a series of discussion seminars on recent evenJs and was spon­sored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
Robert Johansen, professor of government and international studies and senior fell ow in the Kroc and Kellogg Institutes began the discussion by claim­ing the attacks should be labeled as criminal acts and not acts of war and the U.S. should act accordingly. 

"We are more likely to pro­duce justice without instru­ments of war," he said. "It would not be surprising if these terrorists expected U.S. military action when they planned their attack." 
He speculated bin Ladin and those responsible anticipated the U.S. to attack Afghanistan and inadvertently instigate a holy war against Islam, thus igniting further hatred against the U.S. in the Middle East. 
"We must clarify our conduct from that of the terrorist," said Johanson, referring to how to prevent the situation from esca­lating further. 
According to Johanson, ethi­cal means must be employed in order to seek justice. The U.S. and its coalition must be care­ful not to resort to the terror­ists' only weapon: striking fear into the hearts of civilians. 
Johanson said the U.N. should be mobilized to go after the terrorists -the U.S. needs the cooperation of the interna­tional community to prove to these terrorists that crimes against humanity will not be tolerated. 
CCHR director Juan Mendez, spoke to the audience about the 
see ATTACKS/page 6 
STATE OF THE STUDENT UNION ADDRESS 

Norton urges unity, respect 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Drawing on examples of "solidarity and benevo­lence" at Notre Dame following Sept. 11, student body president Brooke Norton challenged students to strengthen themselves for the future and to increase unity on campus. 
"Perhaps now more than ever, the state of our student union is of utmost importance," said Norton. "I say this because our generation has been given a new challenge -because it is the college students of today that will be the leaders of tomorrow." 
Norton presented this chal­lenge in her state of the student union address before the Student Senate Wednesday. She particularly emphasized the importance of students educating themselves on global issues. 
"The talk of 'The Notre Dame Bubble' ended on 
September 11, and it is my hope 
See Also that the 'bubble' has disappeared 
"Group weighs for good," said Norton, calling on 
students to "embody the same 
role in frosh values we hope can and will exist 
orientation" in our nation and our world." 
Inclusiveness and compassion 
page 4 are two of those important val­
ues. according to Norton. 
"Now more than ever before, we as a community are called to be inclusive, to respect one another, to be compassionate. No matter what our gender, race, sexual orientation, religion, ethnicity or parti­sanship, we all have one thing in common and that is this University," Norton said. She added that it is important for the student body to act as an accept­ing family. 
Norton pointed to several example of why she believes Notre Dame already is an accepting place. "There are signs of this family everywhere," 
see ADDRESS/page 4 


LET'S HEAR YOUR SAINT MARY'S PRIDE! 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Saint Mary's students show their school spirit at a pep rally in Angela Athletic Facility Wednesday. The rally was part of Pride Week activities at the College. Events continue through Friday. 

Thursday, October 4, 200I
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN· THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
MOre·NCAA nonsense 
In the eyes ofthe NCAA, college athletes may do the following things: 
1) Rob department stores· 
2) Beat up women ­

3) Violate liquor laws 
4) Flunk every class 
5) Assault police officers 
6) Basically break any law, disregard any university rule or act like a complete jerk, and you can still play. 
But there is one thing the 
NCAA will never tolerate: playing basketball too far from your house. _,_ 
Somehow this organization manages to make college athletics even more ~ompli-­
Mike Connolly 
Editor-in-Chief 
_ cated and corrupt than tliey:already are. Rather than addressing the real problems in college ath­letics -felons on the football field, rapists on the basketball courts and guys who aan't even pass basic arithmetic playing baseball -the NCAA instead focuses its attention on where Ryan Humphrey played summer b.asketball. 
Does it really matter ifhis league was more than 100 miles from his home when most of Cincinnati's basketball players probably can't even spell Cincinnati? 
Instead of dealing with the over-commercializa­tion of college athletics and the win at any cost mentality of many coaches, the NCAA is instead nit-picking about the_ location ofsummer league games. Those problems are complex and would involved a complete overhaul of college athletics as we know it. Finding out where basketball play­ers are playing in the summer time is much easi­er. 
Did Humphrey yiolate a rule? Yes. 
Does a violation of that ruledeserve a punish­
ment? Yes. · But it is still a stupid rule. Instead of la_yihg out some sort of universal code 
of conduct for universities in regards to basic con­duct of athletes, the NCAA instead whips out a measuring tape to see where summer league games are played. • ·­
They leave the real discipline problems up to the individual schools. Considering what huge moRey-makers athletics can be for universities, why should the NCAA trust schools to patrol their own teams? 
Florida: State coach Bobby Bowden is not going to kick Peter Warrick off the team ifhis team is in the run for a national title. So a player who was accused of robbing a.department store·is allowed to play football and the NCAA didn't care. 

But Humphrey played basketball too far from his house so he has io be suspended. Andy Katzam(?yer had no intention of graduat­.. ing ti-om Ohio State but tbe NCAA had no problem with him strapping on his helmetevery week. But Humphrey played basketball too far from his house so he has to be suspended. ­
Notre Dame suspended Troy Murphy one game for violating Indiana state liquor laws and the NCAA didn't say a thing. ..­
But Humphrey played ~asketball too far from his house so he has to be suspended for two games. 
In hindsight, Humphrey never should have played basketball this summer. Why should he even try to play the game he loves? There are too many NCAA rules about when, where and why 1 you can play. · 
He would have been better off robbing an apartment, shooting a policeJlfficer, beating up his girlfriend and flunking all his classes. 
But he didn't do any of those things. -His offense was far worse. He played a game. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the guthor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all cimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us 'at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated ·rrcss. All reproduction rights arc reserved. ­
-. 

· Thursday  Friday  
. Dinner: Founders Day  . Booksigning: "Keeping  
. Dinner, 4:30-7 p.m., Noble  the Faith, Making a  
Family Dining Hall.  Difference," Bill  
. Drive-in Movie: "Save .  Miscamble, C.S.C., 3-5  
the Last Dance," 9 p.m.,  p.m., Hammes Bookstore.  
Saint Mary's Library  . Reception: Exhibition  
Green.  opening, 5 p.m., Moreau  
Center for the Arts, SMC.  

Saturday 
. 
Booksigning: "The Golden Dream," Gerry Faust, 11 a.m., Hammes Bookstore. 

. 
Concert: Marching band concert, 12 p.m., Bond Hall. 


Sunday 

. Exhibition: "Rembrandt Prints: Rembrandt'.s-Personal Vision of the . Bible," ongoing, · 
• 

O'Shaughnessy Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Southern Illi~ois U. grad students charged with murder 
CARBONDALE.Ill. 
Two Southern Illinois University students now face murder charges for their alleged role in the Sept. 8 shoot­ing death of a North Carolina man, Jackson County Sheriff William J. Kilquist said Tuesday. 
Taffia Cunningham, 24, and Jahneria Singletary, 25, are being held legally accountable for the death of Tyree Cunningham. Kilquist said both students have been charged with murder because they were commit­ting a crime when Tyree was killed. 
Kilquist said police have also arrest­ed Donald Druid, 31. and Karen ?mith, 23, who were previously want­ed on $100,000 warrants. Kilquist said police are still searching for two men who had knowledge of the homi­cide, but didn't inform police about it. 

"What he should've done is call 9I I and say 'I have a guy lying on my living room floor. .. 
William Kilquist Jackson County Sheriff 
The four defendants have already been charged with home invasion and armed violence for allegedly attempt­ing to rob Murphysboro resident Prentice Washington with a shotgun at his home. During the robbery, Washington shot and killed Tyree. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Bollinger accepts Columbia post 

University of Michigan President Lee Bollinger has accepted an offer to take over the top post at Columbia University. Columbia's presidential search committee on Monday recommended Bollinger to succeed the universi• ty's 18th president, George Rupp, who is stepping down next summer. University of Michigan Reg~nt Andrea Fisher Newman told the Michigan Daily Tuesday night that Bollinger indicated to the regents that this academic year would be his last in Ann Arbor. Mich. "My under­standing from talking to one of the other regents is that he told us he was going to Columbia," said Newman (R­Ann Arbor). "We knew it was coming for some time," she said. "My colleagues and I have received calls from the members of the Columbia search committee, so I was aware that this was very serious." A member of the Columbia search committee confirmed Tuesday that the committee voted Monday to recommend Bollinger to the university's trustees~ The source said all committee members were instructed to refer questions to commit­tee Chairman Henry King. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Q,~,Q_4.Q Q (f ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Fli:rries S~~ tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Taffia Cunningham, Tyree's. older sis• ter, allegedly dumped her brother's body in the woods near Crab Orchard Lake with Singletary's assistance. 
Kilquist said police have located Washington, who was missing for some time after the homicide, and took his statement whicli was made in the presence of his lawyer. Kilquist said Washington has been charged for his alleged involvement Tyree's death, but he is unsure of what the charges are. 
"What he should've done is call 911 and say 'I have a guy lying qn my liv­ing room floor,"' Kilquist said. 
Cunningham, a graduate stude"nt in sociology, and Singletary, a graduate student in the School of Music, both · appeared Tuesday for their prelimi­nary hearing in Jackson County court. 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Attacks put student aid over budget 
New York University has offered myriad services to University members who have been affected by the World Trade Center disaster, resulting in huge expens­es for the University. Lynne Brown, vice president of Student Affairs, said the costs to NYU ran into millions of dollars, although final figures have not been tallied. Students who were forced to evacuate their dorms on · Sept. 11 received a stipend of $200 to cover clothllig and other expenses. NYU Bookstores donated a second ' set of textbooks so students wouldn't fall behind in their classes; they also were given a free 10-meal_plan while they were removed from their kitchens. Free phone cards worth $10 also were distribµted to dis­placed students, and phone banks were established in the Violet Cafe and Bobst Library. Staples provided free notebooks, pens and calculators to students. Also, Information Technology Services (ITS) has created a "Loaner" program, negotiating with computer compa­nies to loan computers to students until Jan. 21. 
. . 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon.Thursday, Oct. 4. 
Lines separate tligh temperature zones tor the day. 

ee 
~ 
•e •
WARM STATIONARY

0 2001 AccuWeather Inc. COLD 

High Low Showere Rain T-a1orm11 Flurrloa Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  81  59  Las Vegas  95  68  Portland  79  48  
Baltimore  79  55  Memphis  81  65  Sacramento  89  52  
Boston  77  61  Milwaukee  61  44  St. Louis  76  50  
Chicago  64  44  New York  77  58  Tampa  86  69  
Houston  83  68  Philadelphia  79  59  Washington DC 82  60  

A TOAST TO NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 

Former CEO speaks about service career 
Thursday, October 4, 2001 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
www.seic.com/newhire 

'T'fie 'Warren §olf Course 
'Dame 

']-{uBe Pa((sare 


ruy r-o socx, offSefect:ect'1-ten-is Worne1·1,'s 'A_p_pare(, 'Nie1·i's 'A_p_pa1,,.e{, Chi{dren's 'A;p_pare{, C(-u6s 
Lin1,it:edSuyy{y ef-§am.e "Day Uat:s 'A.vai[a6Ce 
Look. 'For 'L.Ls at: O·ur Sat:e(Ut:e Sfio_p at -t:fie :Joyce Ce·n-t:er on 'Foot:6a[( 'Fridays a·n,a §an-ie 'Days 
'The Warren §olfCourse is Locat:edon t:he 'Nort-fieast: Siae efCa-n~us on 'Douglas 'Road (.219) 631-4653 
'BrintJ tliis alto tlie Wl1rren §o!fCollrse Pro Sh1.y or our SatelTite Sh1.~p at the Joyce Center for a11 extn1 10,x, offyour_purcliase. 
By NADIA STEFKO 
News Writer 
When John McDonough, former CEO of the Newell Rubbermaid Corporation was diagnosed with Type I dia­betes at age six. his parents were told he would be lucky to see the age of 20. Now, 59 
years later, he has committed 
his  life  and  
fortune  to  
finding  a  cure  

to the disease, which plagues 16 million Americans, including his oldest daugh­ter Alison. 
And while McDonough 
SEI INVESTMENTS 
SEI is best described by what it is not. It is not slow. It is not boring. It is not typical. SEI is financially strong. It is innovative. It is different. 
If you want to find out how you can be a part of our success ... come talk to us. 


point out that the ongoing 
search for a cure, to which he 
himself has contributed over 
$15 million, will, upon its 
success, free up billions of 
dollars for the research of 
other devastating diseases. 
This race towards a cure, 
he says, is one in which "fail­
ure is not an option." 
In his work with the JDF. 
McDonough's business insight 
led him to spearhead efforts 
to outline and streamline the 
Foundation's objectives. As a 
result, the organization has 
defined developing a cure for 
diabetes as its sole purpose. 
It does this through three 
specific areas of research: 
genetic research, cell trans­
plant research and investiga­
tion of the complications 
associated with the disease 
and its pote.ntial treatments. 
Since its inception in 1970, 
the JDF has been extremely 
successful in its effective use 
of financial resources, so that 
in recent years its credibility 
has enabled the Foundation 
to ally its efforts with even 
larger and more powerful 
forces such as the National 
Institutes of Health. 
McDonough emphasized the 
philosophy that he has devel­
oped since his time at Notre 
Dame in the 1950's, where he 
first came to view service as 
"not a sacrifice, but a privi­
lege." 
He identified success and ·significance as the key to a well-balanced life. 
"Success," said McDonough, 
is "making enough to meet 
your obligations to yourself, 
your family and society." 
He cited his current mission 
as an example of significance. 
McDonough encouraged students to attack any cause they choose to pursue in life with a steadfast passion and commitment. · "I am not afraid of dying," he said. "But I am afraid of not living." 
Contact Nadia Stefko at nstefko@nd.edu 




ANGELA CAMPOS/The Observer At their weekly meeting Wednesday, members of Toastmasters, a campus debate club, argue the merits of the dining hall food versus Grab 'n' Go. The group meets at 7:30 p.m. in Lafortune. 

dollar corporation in favor of chairing-the not-for-profit Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. 
McDonough spoke about his decision Wednesday at a lec­ture as a part of the Careers for Government Majors Series. 
Of the more than 60,000 insulin injections he· has 
"Success [is} making enough to meet your obligations to yourself, yourfamily and_ society. " 
John McDonough chainnan, Juvenile Diabetes Foundation 
taken in his lifetime, McDonough stressed that the hormone is "not a cure, but merely life support." The disease and its com­plications continue to shorten vic­

had undoubtedly risen to the tims' lifespans by 30 percent 
top of the corporate ladder, or more, and absorb 1 out of that committment was what every $4 spent by Medicare in drove him to resign from the America today. head post of the multi-billion McDonough was quick to 

Resume Submission Information Session 
Interviews 
September 22 • October 7 
Thursday, October 4 6:00p.m. Career Resource Centerv 
Room 114 
Flanner Hall 
Friday, November 2nd 



page 4 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 4, 2001 

Address 
continued from page 1 
Norton said, and these 
signs extend beyond efforts 
to aid the victims of the 
World Trade Center attack. 
As an example, Norton described the work of the diversity division within the office of the student body president. In addition to organizing diversity work­shops, the division is also planning a multicultural fair, an event Norton said will "bring [together) all of the cultural organizations on campus." 
In addition, Norton also praised a recent Executive Cabinet discussion, which focused on "the need for our student body to show support for the gay, lesbian and bisexual community." Further, Norton stressed the importance of Notre Dame students "constantly reaching out to those less fortunate and to each other" through the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry. 
At the same time, howev­er, Norton said that the Notre Dame community could be even more inclu­sive. 
She asked sena tors to make a special effort to be inclusive, in'Cluding through improving commu­nication between student government and the rest of the student body. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 
Fresco 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group weighs role in frosh orientation 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate New:s Editor 
The Student Senate needs to consider its role on the freshmen orientation committee it helped create, according to Pangborn senator Mary Mullen at the Senate's meeting Wednesday. 
Mullen said that on Tuesday, she 
attended a meet­
"There are still a lot of
ing of the commit­
gender relations issues 
tee, which con­sists of hall fresh­and a lot ofpeople man orientation 
feeling uncomfortable.·· 
commissioners, campus-wide ori­entation commis­Mary Mullen sioners and rep­Pangborn Hall senator 
resentatives from the student sen­ate. The senate created the com­mittee through a resolution it passed last year. 
..We really need to define what role we want to play in it," Mullen told her fellow senators. She added she envisioned the senate 
\\You think I'm gorgeous...you want to kiss 
me!" 
Happy 21st McMullen! 

$6. 
Love, The Girls 
*

cAnerna 
THURSDAY, . CT 4 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7:00 PM FR EE ADM ISSI D N 
PRESENTCO DY THE DCPARTMCNT OF FILM, TELE:VISION AND THCATRE 
Don? miss them sllldent fitn short before each NDcinema fe.ature! 
senate agreed. 
"There were people who felt the dance was too much of meat market, and that's not the image of Notre Dame we want to por­tray to our freshmen," said Adam Russ, the Hall PrP<:irlt>nt's ent topic. 

In other Senate news: 
. Stanford senator Aldo Tesi said that his meeting last week with dining hall managers went well. Tesi said that the manager of North Dining Hall has already met with staff members to discuss what improvements can be dealt with immediately. 
"They were really receptive to all of our issues," said Tesi. "A lot of their concern was over the price of meal plans if we got everything we wanted." 
. Due to the U2 concert next Wednesday, the senate will move its meeting to Thursday, Oct. 11 at5 p.m. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 
playing a role in addressing gen­der-related problems associated with freshman orientation. 
"There are still a lot of gender relations issues and a lot of peo­ple feeling uncomfortable," said Mullen. "We don't want freshman coming and feeling uncomfort­able the first weekend." 
More specifically, Mullen said Council's liaison to the senate. 
The senate also discussed din­ing hall forums, which senators will begin holding on Oct. 8. Several senators will sit together in each dining hall during dinner so students will have an opportu­nity to share their opinions, according to Carroll senator Jesse Flores. He said he hopes to reach as many students as _possible by being available at the time and place most of them go to eat din­ner anyway. 

"Instead of always asking stu­dents to come to us ... why don't we go to them?" Flores asked. The purpose of talking to stu­dents directly, he added, is to get their feedback on important issues the senate is discussing. Each forum will focus on a differ-that the senate could work with the com­mittee to find a replacement for the Graffiti Dance previ­ously held on the Saturday night of orien­tation. Several other mem­bers of the 




ATI 


Thursday, October 4, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
7 
l 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Macedonia plans to retake Albanian region: Macedonia's government said Wednesday it would launch a major operation to retake control of ethnic Albanian strong­holds, ignoring Western warnings that the move could derail the peace process. Interior minis­ter, Ljube Boskoski, said police units would enter parts of the volatile, primarily Albanian region in the northwest of the country on Thursday "to restore-law and order" after months of ethnic conflict. 
Castro backs anti-terror measures: 
President Fidel Castro pledged Wednesday that Cuba would act in accordance with all interna­tional anti-terror treaties after last month's attacks on the United States. "The government of the Republic of Cuba has made the decision to adhere, as you have requested, to the existing 12 international instruments related to terror­ism," President Fidel Castro wrote. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush creates education panel: 
President Bush on Wednesday announced the creation of a special commission to study special education issues. Lawmakers this month are considering whether to adopt a measure, proposed last spring by Senate Democrats and backed by several Republicans, that would mandate $8.8 billion next year for special education. The House­approved budget includes about $7. 3 billion, about $1 billion more than in 2001. 
Reno can be sued over Elian raid: 
Former Attorney General Janet Reno can be sued by protesters and bystanders injured during the raid to seize Elian Gonzalez from his Miami relatives' home, a federal judge has ruled. U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore ruled Tuesday that Reno's position as attorney general did not give her immunity from being sued for the raid, which she ordered. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Marijuana found in chicken farm: 
Officers acting on a tip seized 361 marijuana plants and nearly $20,000 worth of processed pot in a raid at a chicken farm near Jasper in southern Indiana, the Indiana State Police said. The property owner, Kenneth R. Humbert, 47, was arrested on preliminary charges of dealing in more than 10 pounds of marijuana; cultivat­ing marijuana; possession of marijuana; and maintaining a common nuisance. Humbert was released from jail after posting a $12,500 bond. "Some of the plants were 10 to 12 feet tall," Dubois County sheriff's Sgt. Vince Friedman told The Herald of Jasper. 
l\!larket Watch ()ctober 3 

Dow 9,123.78 +173.19 Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 193 NIA 
AMEX: 821.53 +7:79 NASDAQ: 1,580.81 +88.45 NYSE: 556.15 +7.33 S&P 500: . 7,072.28 +20.95 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

:OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:1sco SYSTEMS (CSCO) +21.52 +2.47 13.95 ~ASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +7. 56 +2 .18 31.00 5UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +12.36 +0.99 9.00 CNTEL CORP (INTC) +8. 65 +l. 69 21. 23 )RACLE CORP (ORCL) +8 .41 +1. 06 13 .66 
GAZA STRIP 


Associated Press 
GAZA STRIP 
A week-old truce was in danger of unraveling as Israeli tanks rolled into Palestinian farmland Wednesday and shelled a string of police posts, killing six Palestinians in retaliation for a lethal raid on a Jewish settlement by Islamic militants. 
Israel also called off meetings with the Palestinians and declared it was not moving ahead with cease-fire commit­ments until Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat arrests militants responsi­ble for attacks on Israelis. 

The Palestinians said the Israeli actions were a grave violation of last week's truce deal, which 
· called for Israel to suspend military strikes and halt incursions into Palestinian territory. But Arafat's Palestinian Authority con­demned the attack on the settlement and said it would bring those respon­sible to Justice. 
Despite considerable U.S. pressure to make this cease-fire stick, violence has increased, the antago­nists exchange harsh recriminations daily and militant Palestinians say they will not honor the truce. 
"Yasser Arafat has made a complete mockery of this cease-fire," said Israeli spokesman Dore Gold. "Until it becomes clear that Mr. Arafat is willing to ful­fill his cease-fire obliga­tions, what point is there in pursuing this discussion?" 
Israeli Defense Minister Binyarnin Ben-Eliezer said Israel would not return to talks "until the Palestinian Authority has taken control and stops terrorism." 
But Palestinians say excessive force by Israeli troops has undermined the cease-fire. Twenty-six Palestinians and two Israelis have been killed since the cease-fire was formally announced Sept. 26. 

The two Israeli victims, a 19-year-old woman and her 20-year-old boyfriend, died Tuesday night when two members of the mili­tant Islamic group Barnas, dressed in combat fatigues, burst into the small Jewish settlement of Elei Sinai on the northern border of the Gaza Strip. 
The attackers fired wild­ly and threw grenades at houses as terrified resi­dents dropped to the ground or huddled in bath­rooms. Fifteen Israelis were wounded, including two toddlers and seven sol­diers. 
House panel OKs nuke security bill 
rorist attacks, the NRC commissioners 20 people at the same time, suicide 
Associated Press 

unanimously agreed to review its attacks and threats from aircraft. 
WASHINGTON "design-threat" security regulations. "We cannot afford to sit until the 
The House advanced legislation These rules set out what kinds of terrorists target one of these facilities directing the Nuclear Regulatory threats a plant operator must be pre­before we take action," said Rep. Ed Commission to establish new security pared to guard aga.inst as part of a Markey, D-Mass., who offered the requirements for power reactors, tak­plant license. amendment changing the NRC securi­ing into account potential suicide Currently, power plant operators ty requirements. attacks and threats from aircraft. are required to prepare for comman­Consideration of a proposal calling 
The bill, passed by a voice vote do-like attacks, internal sabotage or on the president to establish no-fly Wednesday by the Energy and attack by truck or car bombs. zones over nuclear power plants dur­Commerce Committee, also would Under the legislation, which now ing an emergency was postponed. give guards at the nation's 103 goes before the full House, the NRC Rep. Billy Tauzin, R-La. said the nuclear reactors broader authority to would have to issue new rules within actions outlined in the legislation carry weapons, make arrests and use a year to consider a wide range of "represent quick and necessary first deadly force. additional threats -including coordi­steps as we examine and seek ways to 
In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 ter-nated attacks from different groups of address the terrorist threat." 
L __ .. 

page6 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 4, 200 I 
Keating to receive Rosenthal Award today 
Special to The Observer 
Terrence Keating, a 1960 University graduate, will receive the 2001 Richard A. Rosenthal Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association at a lunch recep­tion on campus today. 
Established in 1995, the Rosenthal Award is presented annually to a former alumni board member for distin­guished service to the Alumni Association. 
Keating, who served on the board from 1982 to 1984, was elected president of the Alumni Association in 1985. He also served as a member of the admissions board from 197 5 to 1982 and was influen­tial in increasing minority enrollment and participation in the Alumni Association. 
He served as president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit in 1972, and is cur­rently a member of its board of directors. 
An attorney with the Detroit firm of Berry Moorman P.C., Keating practices in the areas 
world crimes of terror will not be tolerated. 
Attacks 
Panelist Dinah Shelton, pro­fessor of law, focused her lec­
continued from page I 
ture on reparations for those legal and moral implications who lost loved ones from the pertaining to military force. Sept. 11 attacks. 
"Terror can't ever be justi­"The U.S. cannot deny a rem­fied," said Mendez in his open­edy for the right to know the ing remarks. truth, justice, and compensa­
He added that he U.S. must tion," she said. single out the guilty parties Shelton said bin Laden's and, if neces-frozen assets sary,. take mili-would be best tary action "War crimes committed put to the use 
against the by one side does not of compensa­aggressors. tion. Victims
justify war crimes
Yet, the U.S. of the terror­must respect from the opposing ist attacks 
international force. The US. must deserve to be 
law and prevent helped in
remain a country that 
revenge coupled their time of 
with hatred promotes democracy 
turmoil. from overtaking and human rights. •• Assistant 
its ability to professor of make ethical 
law Patricia
Juan Mendez 
decisions. 
Bellia. round­
"War crimes CCHR director ed out the committed by evening of one side does speakers and not justify war crimes from the concentrated on Constitutional opposing force," Mendez said. Rights. She pointed out that "The lJ.S. must remain a coun­many proposals are currently try that promotes democracy circulating on Capitol Hill deal­and human right." ing with new safety measures 
CCHR a:,sociate director that should help avert other Garth Meintjes spoke on the terrorist attacks. importance of an international In light of the recent attacks,
tribunal to bring the terrorists "We should be weighing trade responsible to justice. offs between freedom and secu­
According to Meintjes, a tri­rity," Bellia said. bunal will show unity among nations against the threat of Contact Justin Krivickas at terrorism and display to the krivickas.3@nd.edu 

=--University Resources : : for Gay, Lesbian, & ••• • •••• 
Bisexual Students 
• 
!!!!"TH_E_S_T_AN-0-1N"""G 

• 
COMMITIE£ ON 


• 
.GAY AND LESBIAN 

• 
STUDENT NEEDS


• 
The Standing Committee on Gay and . 
Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent 
members (see web site.for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
("GLB Together"--confidcntial group meetings which 
include prayer and discussion ofspiritual issues; annual 
retreat; library with relevant reading materials) 
Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Stee1e.3 l@nd.edu, or Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center • 
(Individual counseling or a confidential support group) : 
Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu ••• •• 
• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsrr • 

of estate planning, trusts and Jesuit High School Academy County Catholic Charities and nonprofit law. He serves as a and is a member of the board Casa Maria Settlement House. consultant on planned giving of directors for several organi­A resident Bloomfield Hills, for the University of Detroit zations, including Oakland Mich., Keating earned his law 

123 North Michigan Street 
1WO BLOCKS NOR1H OF nm STATE...DOWNTOWN soum BEND HOURS: Wednesday-Saturday 7 P.M. -3 AM. 
Tired of going to the same old place? 
On a tight Budget for Entertainment? Want to really have some Fun?. Why not try the NEW place? 
Wednesday: $1.00 Well Drinks Thursday: $1.00 Beer Night 7 Imports & 12 Domestic Karaoke 10PM-2AM Friday & Saturday: Beer: All you can Drink $5.00 
We Support Responsible Drinking-Soft Drinks are FREE to Designated Drivers 
Must be 21 to Enter with proper I.D. 
connect@screenblast.com 
Spread me. Swap me. Trade me. Share me with anyone you like. With Screenblast;~ you can watch stuff, mess with it, post it on your Showcase page to share your creative vision with the world. Now get out there . 


Thursday, October 4, 2001 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
•
Saint Edward's Hall Sponsors ... 
Founder's Week 5k Benefit Run 
Sunday, October 7th 
4pm 
in front of St. Edward's Hall 

$10 Entrance Donation FREE t-shirts to the first 150 finishers 
Proceeds will benefit the family members of the ·firefighters who perished in the World Trade Center Tragedy 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
CHICAGO: City of HOPE? 
Come and see... 
Social Concerns Seminar Theology 368 
In Chicago, January 8-13,2002 
1( 
ROBINSON 
COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
Organizing For Justice on the Streets of Chicago! 
• Learn how the Church is Responding to Poverty and 
Injustice  
•  Meet the organizers, pastors, lay leaders, Other Advocates of the  
•  Learn about key issues affecting communities: o Vio1ence o Housing o diversity  
•  Explore Summer & Post Graduate Opportunities  

& 
poor 
Applications available at: 
• 
the Center for Social Concerns 

• 
Robinson Community Learning Center 


Application deadline; Monday, October 8, noon 
For more information, please Contact Jay Caponigro at the RCLC 631-9423 

ND names Staples to eating disorders post 
By NATASHA GRANT News Writer 
Notre Dame officials have announced the hiring of Valerie Staples as an eating disorder specialist in the University Counseling 
Center. 
She was hired as an assessment counselor in August. 
Staples, who was trained as a 

5t3P1

c I i n i c a l es 
social 
worker, directed the eating dis­orders program at South Bend's Memorial Hospital for 12 years. 
She said she is qualified to serve as a specialist at Notre Dame because of what she has seen and dealt with in her 14 years of experience in the field. 
"The youngest patient I've had was 11 and the oldest was probably around 60," she said. "I've seen this disorder in so many developmental stages, and through working with them, I've learned about being sensitive to issues that they share." 
Staples said having an eating disorder as a real problem once people have reached college age, but she didn't "see it as any greater of a problem here than on any other college campus." 
"There is a lot about a college 

· environment that invites eating disorders," she said. "Being away from home for the first time and learning to adjust to a different ways· of living could be a factor." 
These problems are more eas­ily prevented at a young age. according to the counselor. 
"I think it's difficult to prevent eating disorders when students get here. They need to work seriously at preventing that problem very early on, around childhood." 
Once students arrive on cam­pus, it is most likely too late to prevent them from developing eating disorders, but there are ways to educate them so that they can develop healthier habits, Staples said. 
And that's where Staples comes in. 
She plans to implement out­reach programs as well as training in residence halls, beginning with rectors and resi­dent assistants before maying on to students. 
"If you label them 'eating dis­orders,' no one will come,'' she said of the programs that she plans to host. "Labeling them 'body image' might yield better results." 
She intends to educate stu­dents not only about eating dis­orders but also about healthy eating and exercising. She said that with the help and support of other counselors, the University can make a big dif­ference in people's lives. 
"Even though I am identified as that specialist because of the experience that I have, the other counselors are trained to handle it as well." 
Contact Natasha Grant at grant.20@nd.edu 


We have lunch buffet seven days a week; $5 for students 
. 

10% discount for all 
students and staff. 
. 

We are at the corner of GrapeRoad & McKinely at K-Mart Plaza. . Phone: 254-9070 . Lunch Buffet Student $5 



THE 
OBSERVER 


page 8 Thursday, October 4, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.............;.....,....................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SvsrEMSIWEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and races ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and August 1999 staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial concenc, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contaet information. 
()_,gstiom regarding Observer policies 1hould be direct­,dto Editor in ChirfMik, Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Jason McFarley  Matt Nania  
Andrew Thagard  Graphics  
Meghanne Downes  Kristine Krouse  
Sports  Production  
Katie McVoy  Lauren Dasso  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Teresa Fralish  Angela Campos  



In a past discussion in my property class, the topic had turned towards the negative effects of suburban sprawl. "Sprawl" consists of the appropriation of acres of wide-
open green space Christine Niles for the erection of "McMansions," strip malls and 
oversized parking As I See It ... lots. 
These areas leapfrog from city centers and arrange themselves-arbi­trarily among cornfields. farmland and otherwise untouched greenspace. \' 
Some students discussed the flight of the wealthy from city to suburb and the injury caused to the remaining poor unable to afford lives surrounded by vast lawns and ungodly amounts of con­crete. 
One student (let's call him Constantius) cautioned that we should be careful about describing the poor as a class locked into a certain status quo. Opportunities abound, he said, for the poor, with clear goals and hard work, to escape their situation and pursue their dream -even if it is a home in the burbs. 
Another student (let's call him Diocletian} shot his hand up in reply. He lectured on Hie lack of opportunities available to the poor, how certain intan­gibles such as lack of education, preju­dice and an antagonistic system keep ­them locked into a vicious cycle of poverty and oppression. 
No doubt Diocletian means well. But there is nothing more frustrating than being lectured to on the lack of oppor­tunities for the poor by one born and raised in the upper-middle class. 
What I found doubly ironic was that Constantius, the one whose views need­ed "correcting," was born to an unwed 
POLL QUESTION 

teenaged mother in the inner city. 
Working his way from the bottom up, Constantius turned down an offer from Harvard to pursue a law degree at Notre Dame. No small feat. 
My own parents left Vietnam after the war, arriving in America with three young children, some bags of clothes and awful English skills. 
Our lives began in the slums. My father had to leave a lucrative civil engineering practice to start over, in his mid-forties in a foreign place, while my mother attended community college to earn a nursing degree. 
Two decades later, they live in a "McMansion" in south Florida, their son is a physician, their younger daughter finishing up at a top veterinarian school and their middle child is happily slaving away at a certain legal institution in northern Indiana. 
The point? Constantius is absolutely correct. My parents never felt entitled to any government help, never felt "the system" owed them something. What they had, rather, was a strong work ethic, commonsense notions of respon­sibility and a bit of faith. Not bad traits to have, especially when you're down and out. 
As ironic as Diocletian's comments were, such perorations abound among the academic elite. Many champion the cause of the poor (perhaps due to a mixture of genuine compassion and upper-middle class guilt) in the same way -by preaching a message of, essentially, despair. 
With so many smart, good-looking, nice-smelling folks telling the unfortu­nate they are stuck and have nowhere to go, it is a wonder any muscle up the chutzpah to make it out. That is not to say that some have it hard, that is, extremely hard. My parents should know. 
Realistically, the poor have tremen­dous obstacles to overcome, and the fact remains that those with money more easily increase it, while those without do not. 
But all the more reason, I say, to encourage the worse off by touting real­life success stories, rather than feeding into an already brooding, sullen class the notion that they have no option but to brood, vent and sulk some more until the world realizes it owes them some­thing. 
If my parents had spent the last two decades with an entitlement attitude, they would never have gotten as far as the front door. Of course, we all have the right to this sort of attitude. But if we've got a race to run, let me be next to the one running to win no matter the odds and not beside the sullen horse in back gloomily plodding along. 
The elite's message of compassion turns out, ironically, to be more patron­izing than anything else. 
With their desire to help, they push farther down those already at bottom by declaring them helpless victims of a cruel, uncaring system. 
Granted "the system" (no one has yet told me exactly what that is) can use some revising -no news there. But show me a perfect system, and I will show you a man without sin. 
All I suggest is that the well-inten­tioned moneyed who are angst-ridden at the world's injustices take care they do not unwittingly add to it. 
Christine Niles is a student at the Notre Dame Law School. Ifer column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Do you think the administration is being unfair to OutReachND by not giving the organization official club status? 
Voice your opinion. Email your answer to viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
"Some men see things as they are and ask, 'Why?,' I dream things that never were and say 'Why not?,.. 
Robert F. Kennedy senator 

. 
r'\LHE 

Thursday,-October 4, 2001 vnSERVER page 9 
When confidentiality competes_ 
I ' 
,: 

with friendship 
A qoctor's highest duty is probably their duty to protect his or her patient's confidentiality. Without this level of trust a patient might be unwilling to fully disclose infor­matwn that the doctor needs~to know. The patient's level of care tould be greatly diJ:ninished if the doctor does not have all the necessary information. To protect.this confidentiality the 
Stephen Carroll 
law has taken the necessary step of creating a doctor-patient privilege which can only be broken in extremely rare circumstances. A Medical 
Sounds simple, right? Just keep Perspectivethings to yourself" and everyone is 
, fine. What I have learned is that it confidentiality can be so hard to follow that it sometimes creates very realpersonal struggles. 
. . I was working at my local Emergency Room one day as the ER tech. When people ask what I do, I tell that I am basically a nurse's aide. Ifsomething needs to get done, I do it. Tpis involves restocking supplies. performing about a dozen of 12 lead EKGs per shift, being an extra set of hands for the nurses and often assisting the doctors and nur~es at the bedside of critical patients in setting up equipment and performing CPR. 
OVer the course af one eight hour shift I probably come into Gon.tact with 50 or so patients, each with their own story. I am bound by the same confidentiality duty as the doctors and nurses. What I never expected was for this duty to be tested in such an extreme way. 
One of the nurses asked me to go pu.11 a chart from an ER patient that had been treated recently. The patient had a positive ctdture result and had to be called back to let her know the result. When I look at the name I imme­diately recogniz~d the name. It was a girl I had met about two years ago and had known very well though my church. UnfQrtunately I had lost contact with her for 
· about six months. It made me nervous to have to look up her chart but I had to, it's my job. I had no clue what awaited me since the culture result I held in my hand could have meant anything. I went back to the medical records department and 
. found her ~hart. I saw two words at the top of the chart­

•lalleged rape." My heart sank and I felt like I was goi;1g to vomit right there. I couldn't believe what I was read­ing. A guy had given her a date rape drug called a Roofies and had raped her. How could this happen to someone I kqow? Why? I immediately took the chart to the nurse, told 
the other ER tech that I was taking my 
lunch break and went outside. I 
started running laps around the parking lot. I was so angry, / upset and full of murderous , / 
rage towards the guy tltat / 
did this t() her that I could/
have probably run a marathon. I imagined doing horrible things to · that guy for doing that / to her. It felt better to I get some of that energy .._...... out but now I was just upset. 1 

It's been more than a year since this happened and, unfortunately, I haven't spoken to her. I could lose my job for breaking confidentiality on. this but its not about losing my job; I would give up my job in a second to help a friend. Its about keeping certain things to yourself, 
even ifyou don't want to.--1 can't eve'! begin to imagine all the pain she went through and I constantly wonder if I could have helped but the situation left me totally pow• 
erless-,.. Keeping confidentiality with your patients may not seem 
like a big deal but it can easi­ly turn irito one. Your duty to confidentiality is especially 
tested when you find out about the condition of someone you know. You might also _end up provid­ing care for someone you 
· know in an emergency, 

So what now? I want . ,,, . · ·· which has also happened my friend to know that I i.~f;'. ' ,.,,.,t,~~.-,?t:, ·.. ·.. """'--" to me. These are very real am there for her but .: .-/'. " . .v''!·"'·/ ·,·:'· problems that doctors and 
how? If I call her out of --~/;;f.{; ,:. • the blue she'll know that I \-.,_·t·;;-~ 0 ·_..-;.~ • 
know about what happened , .·,. · ,,· since we haven't talked in so . 
long. She also might not want anyone else to know at this point. I am bound by my confidentiality to not tell anyone about this who does not 

need to know. How can this be right? I have to stop from helping a friend in a time of need because of this? 
I talk to my boss in private and let her know that this . conflict exists but that I am going to keep confidentiality on this issue. The only way I could help her would be for her to contact me but that's not going to happen since we have11't seen each other for so long and had never really beenlclose enough that we would call each other regular­ly. 
nurses·face every day. 
Hopefully those of you look­

ing into the medical profession 
realize the importance of know­
ing when you have to keep certain 
things to yourself even if it causes 
you problems. 
Stephen Carroll is a sophomore biology major. He is certified as an Emergency Medical Technician and afire­fighter in Pennsylvania. His future plans include going to medical school and being an Emergeny Room doctor or a trauma surgeon. He can be reached at carroll.52@nd.edu. This column is the third in a series of SlX. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

-•'Give team and coaches_ complete support· 
It's about time the students of this University and the fans of our football team rally around our fotball players and coaches. Are we 0-3? Unfortunately, yes. 
Are our offensive statistics pathetic? Considering they rank almost dead last in almost every category, yes. 
But these are facts. We know them, the football players krtow these facts and I'm sure Bob Davie is very aware of them as well. However, he's still our coach and this is still our team. We need to get behind them and support them. 
It is going to take all of their skill and knowledge com­bined with our support and maybe a little bit of the luck of the Irish to turn this football season around, but there is still time to turn it around. 
For a change, let's as students get behind our coach and our team and support them 100 percent no matter how the rest of the season goes. 
Don't they deserve that much? Why don't they?_ Notre Dame students and alumni expect greatness out of our f<fot­ball teams and when it doesn't happen we are far too quick to ask for people's jobs. 
The football team and its coaches will "fight in every game, strong of heart and true to her name" and as fans and members of the Notre Dame community we need to " never forget her and ... cheer her ever" and be loyal to Notre Dame!" 
Let's as a student body emulate Notre Dame, Our Mother and be "tender, strong, and true" fans and supporters of our football players and coaches. 
Go Irish! Beat the Panthers! 
Bill Lafleur 
sophomore O'Neill Hall Oct. 3, 2001 
' 

l have watched with disappointment the past few weeks of Irish football, just as most students and fans have. 
I must admit that there were many times it was simply too painful to even look. The reason I am writing this letter. though, is to encourage everyone to place their complete support behind the team on Saturday and every game after that. 
Don't get me wrong, I'm not implying that the average student wouldn't already do this, but I just wanted to write in and remind everyone how important it is. 
This is no time to be a fair weather fan. In fact, if there was ever a time that this team needs our total support. it's right now. I can't imagine how hard this must be on all the players. especially hearing dozens and duzens of random student opinions about what went wrong or needs to be fixed. 
I, for one, don't really know what exactly needs to be done. nor does it make any difference to me when it comes time to cheer and support the team. 
These players are fellow students and they work extremely hard. I don't care if they've won no games or nine games I am still proud of their effort and dedica­tion. Sure it would be nice to win all the time, but it doesn't happen that way. So no matter what happens on Saturday or in the weeks to come, I will be at every game and every pep rally cheering just as loudly as I always have, and I know the rest of you will too. Go Irish! ­
Jocelyn Bruening 
junior 
Breen-Phillips Hall 
Oct. 3, 2001 

As a Double Domer I suffer with the rest of the ND family through a tough football season. Uke any fam­ily it's okay (and even healthy) to constructively criticize our short­comings. 
But like any family, let's keep that in-house. To the outside world, we truly are "ND." 
When our boys step onto the field, we are united in our purpose and united in our support for them. They are our agents. We are them. 
Sometimes, life puts its foot across our throats and in that adversity, we must find the lessons God places there. It's easy to cheer a winner. It's much harder to support a loser.· 
The world smiles when ND fails and likely snickers as we are tempt­ed to snipe at our own. Let's teach the naysayers a lesson. Stand tall for our boys. Cheer until you can no longer speak. Believe what we pro­fess: What tho' the odds be great or small, old Notre Dame will win over all. Create a memory that will last longer than any won/loss record. Love to you all. 
Dennis T. Kearney 
Class of '76 and '80 

AJ.HE 
vnSERVER 


page 10 Thursday, October 4, 2001 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Word' says -more than your average 
by Patrick Koster (Sean Bean, "Patriot a Sherlock Holmes, but his deductions 
ByJUDE SEYMOUR 

Games"}. about the clues are coming far too Scene Movie Critic 
The patient, Elisabeth (Brittany slow for his 5 p.m. deadline. 
Murphy, "Clueless") is coping with This is the film's first twist from the 
Movies within the kidnapping genre post traumatic stress disorder and is typically hackneyed kidnapping plot.often try to play up tension while their blocking Dr. Conrad's attempts to elic­While "Ransom" tried to focus on the plots meander in predictability and it the information from her memory. psychological strategies of the Gibson their endings gleam with happiness. To make a difficult situation almost character, "Don't Say a Word" pitsThe genre is limited by two of impossible, Conrad has eight hours to Douglas as a willing participant in the Hollywood's oldest conventions: The retrieve the number before the kid­kidnappers' game. But tension exists kidnappers must be nappers kill his daugh­because Dr. Conrad is just no good at brought to justice and ter. playing it.
"Don't Say a

there needs to be a reso­In "Word," Douglas For two hours, "Word's" detective lution. Word" seems to have combined story grips the audience, creating ner­
"Don't Say A Word," 

two of his more recent vous anticipatory moments and sus­
.,,,,,~

the new Michael Douglas roles into one perfor­penseful chase sequences.thriller, recycles the plot out offive shamrocks mance. His tough-edged, However, director Gary Felder is of Mel Gibson's 1996 sometimes maniacal atti­apparently l_lnsatisfied, adding two
Director: Gary Felder
film "Ransom," a movie 

tude from "Traffic" is additional subplots to his sleek visu­
Starring: Michael Douglas,
for which it was easy to blended with the softer als. blame the constraints of Brittany Murphy, Sean Bean, 

sensibilities of his char­These subplots involve Conrad's the genre. However. Jennifer Esposito and Famke acter from "Wonder impaired wife (Famke Janssen, "X­"Word" will impress Jannssen Boys." Men"). who broke her leg in a skiing many audience me~bers This is seen especially accident, and a bright New York City as it reinvigorates the in his playful interaction with his 8-cop (Jennifer Esposito, "Summer of 
tired ransom plot, adding multiple 

ye ar old daughter, Jessie (Skye Sam"), whose excessive search for 
sub-plots and creative situations to, of 

McCole Bartusiak). Douglas' perfor­clues in her own case leads her 
course, bring the kidnappers to jus­

mance is convincing even in these tiny unknowingly into the kidnappers'
tice. 
moments -if only every child could scheme. 
Douglas plays Dr. Nathan Conrad, a 

experience the loving parental nature Both the main plot and these two 
psychiatrist who must pry a specific 

of Nathan Conrad. subplots are fortunately well written. 
location from the memory of a cata­Indeed, Douglas' performance is the The audience never has the chance to of disbelief. The movie ignores practi­tonic patient in his old ward. Dr. catalyst for "Don't Say a Word," which drop out of the action, keeping the cality, instead focusing on producingConrad aims to exchange that infor­plays much like a detective story. pacing of the movie very fluid. greater tension. mation for the retrieval of his young Conrad has been thrust unwillingly "Don't Say a Word," like most If audiences can accept the parame­daughter, who has been kidnapped by into the role of an investigator. He movies in the kidnapping genre, ters of the "rules" established by the 
a group of criminal masterminds lead may have the academic intelligence of requires a fair amount of suspension film, then they will easily find them-

By MARIO BIRD Scene Movie Critic  from mildly abnormal to gravely dis­turbing to straight-jacket lunacy. "Zoolander," which features Stiller  Model of the Year, is dethroned by the free spirited, goldi-locked Hansel (Owen Wilson).  Greg Fokker in "Meet the Parents," Wilson is back as Stiller's yo-yo-wield­ing, scooter-riding hippie nemesis. His  
Ben Stiller has carved out a niche in Hollywood with incredibility. In prior films, audiences watched in disbelief as Stiller's everyman character met with not just hardship, but incredible hardship. A sort of incredibility-meter rises as Stiller's scenarios transform  as both director and star, paints this nonsense large upon the male model­ing industry and the idiosyncrasies therein. The plot, much like the intellectual capacities of the main characters, can be summed up briefly. Derek Zoolander (Stiller), three-time Male  Springing upon the suddenly vulner­overly bland delivery provides some of able Zoolander, renowned fashion the film's drollest moments. designer Mugatu (Will. Will Ferrell. unfortu­Ferrell) brainwashes the "Zoolander" nately, comes off as a model under the pretense square peg in the role of of a contract, inciting him Mugatu. Relegated to a to kill the president of out offive shamrocks largely ceremonious role Malaysia who has freed as the maniacal villain, hundreds of Mugatu Director: Ben Stiller Ferrell resorts to his time- 
sweatshop workers.  Starring: Ben Stiller,  honored tactics of uncom­ 
Thrown into the· mix are the beautiful-yet­u nap pro a ch able reporter Matilda  Owen Wilson, Christine Taylor, Jerry Stiller and Will Ferrell  mon mannerisms and shrillness. He has appar­ently elevated obnoxious effeminacy to comic  
(Christine  Taylor,  genius,  as  "Zoolander"  
Stiller's  real-life  wife)  and  and various "SNL" sketches testify.  
Zoolander's  crusty  mentor,  The rest of the cast is satisfactory in  
Maury Baulstein (Ben's father,  their typecast roles, but there  are  
Jerry Stiller).  plenty of cameos and Hollywood ref­ 
The rub, of course, is the race  erences. including the funniest "2001:  
to save both Zoolander and the  A Space Odyssey" parody of all time.  
Malaysian president from the.  Obviously,  "Zoolander"  is  not  
nefarious clutches of the  mas­ attempting to preach a profound mes­ 
cara-eyed Mugatu.  sage about the "beauty within" or the  
After establishing his camic  lasting values of the modeling indus­ 
persona as  a  lovable loser in  try. Neither does it push the envelope  
"There's Something About Mary"  with revoltingly riveting sight gags,  
and "Meet the Parents," and as a  the sort that tnade Stiller famous in  
one-dimensional  despot  in  "Mary."  
"Happy  Gilmore".  and  Instead, the humor content resides  
"Heavyweights," Stiller provides  almost solely in the realm of cultural  
a new twist in the self-centered  deprecation, mocking American soci­ 
knucklehead Zoolander. Though  ety and the absurdities, human and  
Derek seems a bit over the top  otherwise, it has produced.  
at times, Stiller still delivers.  Whether the joke is Zoolander's  
making up for his character's  insistence that his commercial char­ 
stilted dialect.  acter was not a mermaid but a "Mer­ 
Photo courtesy of Paramount P ictures Wilson, however, steals the  man," or the ludicrous shrinking pat­ 
Ben Stiller directed and stars In "Zoolan der," an off-the-wall comedy In which he  show as Hansel. After providing  tern cell phones have taken, the one­ 
a  hilarious contrast to Stiller's  liners and sight-gags are clever on  a 

plays a male-model-turned-assassin named Derek Zoolander. 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Stiller struts his comedic stuff •
Ill 'Zoe 
/ 
• , I r 
. ' 
' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, October 4, 200I page 11 
thriller 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 

tor and father caught up in a kidnap­co-stars as one of his patients. 
selves caught up in one of the better-written thrillers of the year. 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu 
ilander' 
variety of levels. 
Although the laughs seem somewhat harmless. "Zoolander" treads the line a bit by staging some of the more wanton problems inherent in its subject matter: Models are readily prone to drugs, sex and bouts of debauchery. Stiller nei­ther lauds nor condemns such behavior, in.stead mocking it in the same tone as the rest of the film. This is perhaps an even more subversive result. lumping hair maintenance and drug­induced orgy into the same 
_moral spectrum. There are also some regrettable jests made at the expense of dwarf, para­plegic and homeless persons. 
In his directorial debut, Stiller makes sure to color inside all the lines, never risking anything beyond conventional within this foppish farce, except for a split­screen '70s throwback sequence that raises the incredibility­meter from moderately ridicu­lous to grotesquely absurd. 
However. the overall pattern of the movie flows easily and is coherent, unlike the stultifying dialogue that Stiller bluntly delivers throughout the film. 
Incredible though it may be, "Zoolander" rolls on the laughs throughout its 85 minutes and scores the comedic success many films only approach at a distance. 
Contact Mario Bird at mbird@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 


Photo courtesy of Lions Gate Films 

"Amores Perros," a Mexican film released in theaters earlier this year, documents three interrelated stories set in the best and worst parts of a cosmopolitan city. 
Mexico unleashes 'Perros' 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 
When "Crouching Tiger. Hidden Dragon" won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film last year, it beat, among other contenders, the Mexican film "Amores Perros." But this astounding directorial debut by Alejandro Inarritu hasn't gone uncelebrated. It's carried off a bunch of prizes at film festivals around the world including Cannes, Chicago and Tokyo. as well as topping the Mexican box office last year. And thanks to the efforts of Notre Dame's Film. Television and Theatre Department, "Amores Perros" will be screened tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium as part of NDCinema's Thursday night film series (admission is free). 
"Amores Perros" (meaning "Love's a Bitch" in Spanish) doesn't so much weave its way through its three inter­connected stories as scorch through the projector, burning an 

In the second story, a model (Goya Toledo) recov­ers from the crash in an apartment bought for her by her lover (Alvaro Guerrero), unaware of the dangers that can arise in the confines of one's own home. 
The final story tells of a former political terrorist (Emilio Echevarria, in the film..s most intense and sym­pathetic performance) who witnesses the car crash as he lives the life of a street urchin, collecting stray dogs and regretting the life he left behind many years before. The omnipresence of dogs (and -as a metaphor for the devaluation of human life -dead and bloody fight­ing dogs) is another element that ties these three episodes together. 
Structurally, "Amores Perros" bears 
comparison to "Pulp 

indelible mark onto the Fiction." But that's
"Amores Perros"

retina of anyone who 
where the similarity sees it. Morality play, ends. Tarantino's first indictment of the suffer­features, impressive as 
out offive shamrocks 

ing of the poverty strick­they are, relied heavily 
" 

en, or just riveting cine­Director: Alejandro lnarritu on their smart dialogue, ma, this is a raw, nerve Starring: Emilio Echevarria, clever plotting and jangling ride. Gael Garca Bernal, Goya Toledo impressive ensemble 
The three stories, performances.
and Alvaro Guerrerro
which cut across the socioeconomic spectrum of Mexico City's indigenous population, are linked by one single incident -a 
. car crash -that is repeated from dif­ferent viewpoints throughout the film. 
In the first story, an aimless loser (Gael Garcia Bernal) enters the violent world of dog fighting in hopes that the money he wins will be enough to run away with his brother's wife (Vanessa Bauche). 

Inarritu's film is a lit­
tle different. From the heart-stopping car. chase in the opening scene, through the final moments, the · film's visual style is as arresting as its jigsaw narrative. 
Shot in sharply colorful. gritty digital video and so nimbly edited that even when a character disappears for 30 minutes the audience never loses track of him, the film soaks up the various strata of Mexico's sprawling metropolis. 
Although some might compare the tarnished look of the film with recent Hollywood rep­resentations of M e X i C O ("Traffic" and "The Mexican"), Inarritu and 
writer Guillermo 
Arriaga have a different agen­da. The film never offers up Mexico as a 
murky world of undesirables, 
whose only 
function 


appears to be making the lives of the politicians and citizens hell. 
The picture's look is linked more to the moral fabric of the universe the film creates. From the people who meek out an existence on the stre,ets, to the media celebrities who fill the hours of vacuous television programming. the grainy images tar everyone with the same brush. No one is truly bad or vir­tuous. Instead, each character is seen to cause suffering for, as well as suffer in the hands of, those around them. 
Engaging as the whole film is, the first and third segments remain the most impressive, although some may find the dog-fighting scenes in the first act too much to stomach. While no ani­mals were harmed in the making of the film, the tension created in these sequences, through the editing, snap pans and blurring of images, makes for a series of convincing and horrific spec­tacles, leaving one questioning who the true animals really are. 
For a long time now it's been reason­able to argue that films need not relate to the real world at all, even if they can (which some people dispute). Steven Spielberg and Quentin Tarantino are just two of the many successful film­makers who appear to have grown up in a bubble with nothing but movies for company. But the pendulum is swing­ing. More filmmakers seem willing to get their hands dirty, to play in the dan­gerous sandpit of reality. Like Paul Thomas Anderson's "Magnolia" and even Soderbergh's "Traffic," lnarritu's film looks and feels like the beginning of something new. Riveting, raw and not for the squeamish, ·•Amores Perros" is essential cinema. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 
Photo courtesy of Lions Gate Films Writer and director Alejandro lnarritu stages a series of Impres­sive sequences Involving a single car crash. 

w 
'i 
.·l 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
l 0 
Thursday, October 4, 200 I 

I page 12 The Observer . SPORTS
\ 
~ 
I 
\ NFL
I 
Booker making name for himself 

J 
Associated Press 
IAKE FOREST, Ill 
Chicago Bears receiver Marty Booker sat down in the offsea­son and had a soul-searching conversation With a very impor­tant person. 
Himself. 
"I don't want to sound like I'm crazy, that I talk to myself. But we all 
.sit down and think out loud a little. l said, 'Hey, it's time for me to start trying to make a name for myself and not just be satisfied with being on the team,"' Booker said. Wednesday. 
So far. although the Bears have played just two games in the first month, Booker is mak­ing himself known. 
He's caught nine passes in each game and the 18 recep­tions rank him among the early season league leaders. 
At 5-11 and 215 pounds, he showed his speed and power as a rookie when he turned his first career reception into a 57­yard touchdown on a screen pass against the Vikings. 
He caught 4 7 passes last sea­s on but wasn't satisfied, so spent the offseason at Halas Hall refining his game. 
"That was really a mediocre season last year. I had . a real great opportunity and some injuries happened and I· didn't take full adv.antage of it,'' said 

Booker, who was bothered by a 
sore shoulder. _. 
"I knew that wasn't me. I told 
myself, 'That's not me.· I knew I could do better. It's all about making sacrifices to get-better." . Booker was instructed during the offseason to be ready, that .the ball would be coming his way often once games got 
underway. 
"I was told that I would see a 
lot of balls. They are feeding 
me and I'm not complaining," 
said Booker, who would 
become the Bears' emergency 
third quarterback if Jim Miller 
or Danny Wuerffel are hurt this 
week against the Falcons in 
Atlanta. · 
Shane Matthews is -sidelined 
with a muscle injury near his 
rib cage and is not expected to 
be dressed. 
"Marty's obviously a tremen­
dous athlete but we don't want 
to be in that situation," Bears 
coach Dick Jauron said. 
The Bears would much rather 
have Booker catching footballs 
than throwing or handing them 
off. 
Having a big-play receiver 
like Marcus Robinson on the 
other side should help Booker 
continue to get open. 
"Marty is starting to play up 
to his abilities. He's a strong 
receiver and has tremendous 
hands," Jauron said. "He has a 
lot of talent and we need to see 
it every week. So far we have." -Booker's glad to get his chance, but notjumping up and down about his early success. 
"If it was week 10, I might be 
whispering in somebody's ear," 
he said. "We got a lot of foot­
ball to play. I'll keep my mouth 
shut and keep making plays:•• 

Super Bowl date moved 
. Terrorist attacks force game to Feb. 3 
-
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The Super Bowl will be 
pushed back a week and 
played Feb. 3 in New Orleans, 
a move caused by the terrorist 
attacks. 

The change will allow the 
National Football League to_ 
complete its season without . 
altering its playoff format, but 
puts the big game in the Big 
E'asy dulting the crowded 
opening weekerid of Mardi 
Gras. 

The NFL switched its origi­
nal date of Jan. 27 with the National Automobile Dealers . Assodation and paid the group $7.5 million to cov~r the costs of rescheduling its convention. 
The need to swap dates was 
caused when the NFL post-· 
poned its second week of 
games after the Sept. 11 
as $80 million. 
Another was to condense the playoffs, with teams playing as many as three games in 10 days. 
The third was to switch dates with the auto dealers, an agreement that took ne-arly two weeks of negotiations. The major problem was logistics.­especially switchjng hotel rooms. 
"We deeply appreciate the willingness of Phil Brady and America's new car dealers to work with us," commissioner Paul Tagliabue said. "Thanks to their leadership, our fans and teams can look this community to get it done." 

In addition to the $7.5 mil­lion payment, the NFL agreed to match NADA payments up to $500,000 for Sept. 11 relief efforts. 
One problem yet t~ be· deter­mined is how New Orleans will cope with the later date, which puts the ga:me into the first weekend of Mardi Gras. Sis.teen parades are scheduled 
· to roll through New Orleans streets on Friday; Saturday and Sunday, the two days before the game and the day of the contest. Last year, wheJ;1.. the game was. · in Tampa, that 
forward to city's
"Everyone had to . 
a full com-Gasparilla
cooperate on this in all.
plement of -festival 
playoffs and the littl~ things that were snarled traf­to a great involved.,, fic Saturday Super Bowl ·afternoon weekend in a n d N e w PaulTagliabue evening. 
Orleans. We commissioner Para.de 
trust that· the· NADA will enjoy a 

attacks. -super con­
. The agreement means that the NFL's regular season will end Jan. 5-6 with the games that should have been played in week two, Sept. 16-17. 
The wild-card round will be ,., played Jan. 12-13; the divi­sional playoffs Jan. 19-20, ancr the conference championships ­Jan. 27. 
After it put off the second week of the season, the NFL presented several scenarios for the playoffs. 
One was to condense the field from 12 teams to eight and skip a week of playoff games. But that would have forced the NFL to repay the networks for the games -and the networks wanted as much vention as well." 
Tagliabue also praised Tom Benson, the New Orleans Saints' owner, for his help. 
Benson, a former auto deal­er, said he talked to a lot of friends in the business in recent days and wasn't sure a switch could be made. 
· "Everybody had to cooperate on this in all the little things that were involved," he said. "At first everybody said it couldn't be done." 
Benson called it a good move for the city. , "There. were a lot of prob­~ms. things going on," he said. "And you can see it cost a little money, too, but it was worth it. It was worth it to the team and 
organizers 
met_ with 
members ·or 
,.. the -hotel 

industry, 'City leaders and 
police officials to discuss logis­
tical problems the Super Bowl 
would create. · 
Along with the parades, they 

need to work out arrange­
ments ·for the carnival balls 
that accompany them, and for 
large blocks of'rooms. 
Police Superintendent 

Richard Pennington said his 
biggest concern would be two 
Sunday ~arades-in New 
Orleans, t,nd those can be 
rescheduled. Arthur Hardy, 
publisher of an annual Mardi 
Gras guide and an authority on 
the celebration, said there is 
some discussion. of pushing all 
the parades back to the ·previ­.o:us weekend.. 
The Observer accepts classifieds everx business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.. All class_ifieds must be prepaid" 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including a0 spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing.refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Turtle Creek Apt. Opening BUY-SELL Spring Break with STS,"'America's 1 Br $655 276-4809 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS #1 Student Tour Operator. LOST AND FOUND ,FOR SALE PERSONAL Promote trips on campus earn cash 277-6619 or 273-3911 and free trips. Info/Reservations 
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold 1-800-648-4849 LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 233-way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 batll;"LA, DR ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED SPRING BREAK www.ststravel.com Tuesday. It's blue and white 2104 & kitchen with appliances. 1 car Largest selection of Spring Break Jansport with Leprechaun patch. garage. $69,000. A.M. • 232-2378 Destinations, including Cruises! ***ACT NOW! Guarantee the best Please return to Laura Lacayo 4-Call Doris at 254-1772 P.M. • 288-2726 Rep Positions, Free Drinks and spring break prices! South Padre, 
! 
l 4273 B&B Free trips available. Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES '98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19" www. EpicuRRean.com Acapulco, Florida & Madrigas. 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277-ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 1-800-231-4~UN Reps needed. Travel free, earn 
247-1124 8208 after 3:30 232-0964. $$$. Group djscount for 6+ 800­FOR RENT 838-8203 / www.leisuretours.com 
52055 Old Post Lane WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! 5 Rooms for rent on Football week• Spacious 4 bdrm, 2 story on private WANTED -ND TICKETS Sun Coast Vacations wants to send Can you believe Samir was on The ends. Many happy repeat cus• lane in Farmington Square. 2373 289-9280 you on Spring Break to Cancun, the West Wing?!?!
i 
5 rooms for rent on football week-tamers. 2 miles north of campus SF + professionally finished base-Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan
i ends. Many happy repeat cus-277-8340 ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1-She Ain't go-in' no where. She ain't tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 277-Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. Buying some/ Selling a few extra 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun-goin no where. She can't be 8340 N.D. Football Tickets. coastvacations.com stopped now cause Kendall is a
1 
! 
219-289-8048. bad birthday girl for life... Spring Break Insanity! 
! 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-TICKETS Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or hey, where the party at? PUS WANTED game. Call Noreen at 284-4417. call 1-800-327-6013 
mmmrentals.com Help! Family coming in. Need WV Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti-Hey, baby. Can't wait to see you 
I 
email: mmmrentals@aol.com tickets. Call Kerry at 243-0928 USC: Loyal alum who missed the nations! Fifteen years experience! tonight. Love your shower "friend" STUDENT WORK lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar! Wanted: Representatives and orga­$14.50 Base-appt. nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your bottles and bottles talkin all of that 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE Ask tor Gary at toll free (888) 893-resume Breakfast Inn has space available Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. A.M. -232-2378 6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com Beware of the stuffed animals in 
for tootbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms svclsales positions (5-20hrs) P.M. -288-2726 SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge your bed!! Especially bad horses for with private baths, $80-$115, Flex. around classes. Scholarships. 2 ND-Pitt tickets for sale. Call Ken in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and life... Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Cond. apply Kula@ 415-677-1310. Parties with the Best DJs and Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418-OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Merideth, you carpet sample is 9487 www.workforstudents.com/np call GA'S TO ANY GAME WANTED U2 TICKETS Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to ready to be picked up. It's at 
M-W 12-5pm 282-2357 CALL JACK 67 4-6593 232-0964 StudentCity.corn, call 1-800-293-LEROY. =D HOUSE FOR RENT: 1 )9-br 1443 or email $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix. sales@studentcity.com to find out OMG, so I was writing classifieds 
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at WANTED: Small dorm refrigerator. Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash Need 6 W. Virginia Tickets. Call more. and couldn't think what else to add 532-1896. Call Katie 4-1188 Call Bob at 219-315-8964 Tim 634-1754 and I was like WEEEEEEEEEEEE! 

Thursday, October 4, 200 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 


I Am Resolved 
¦ by Fr. Bill Wack, CSC, Director, Freshman Retreats
Freshman Retreat #37 (November 9-10, 2D01) 
Monday, October 1through 

Monday, November 5 [NOTE: This column was originally written to appear on September 13th. Instead, a column was 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

printed that day responding to the September 11th attacks. It now appears for the first time in its original form.} 
Ah, the beginning of another school year. No matter if this is your first semester here or your R_CIA Study Session 20th, you've got to be excited about the start of a new year. It's like a clean slate, an opportunity to 
6:30 p.m. 

leave behind past mistakes and press on with a renewed spirit. When I was in school I would 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 
always make little promises about studying more, actually reading the assignments, and never getting behind in my work. I usually failed at many of these, but I never failed to do it again the next year.
dav Whenever we start something new -a new month, season, job, or even day, we have it within us to believe that this time things will be different. That's the great thing about beginnings: they 


807 Mass 
can help us to get back on track.

8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center At this new beginning, I invite you to make some resolutions of your own. What do you want to get out of this year academically, socially, spiritually? What can you do to realize these goals? How will this year be different from those in the past? Ar_e you resolved to make some changes in your life in order to grow? 

"I am resolved." Five young men publicly stated these words a week and a half ago in the RCIA Inquiry Session Basilica, just before they promised to God a life of poverty, celibacy, and obedience in the Congre­
10:00 a.m. gation of Holy Cross. "I am resolved," they said: to 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
follow Christ wherever he leads me; to spread the Gospel 



to all nations; to fashion my life around prayer and
''God doesn't 

av 
devotion; to become more perfectly like Christ. "I am resolved." So said a man and a woman this weekend at
call us to be 

their wedding before me and the church, promising to love and 
The Way Bible Study 
successful; honor each other "until death do us part."
8:30 p.m. 
331 Coleman-Morse Center only faithful.'' A tall order to be sure! These people knew full well that there have been -and will be -times of mistakes and failures. They knew that what they were professing would be very difficult to live over time. Yet they did it anyway. And in their resolution and vows they have glorified God and renewed the hope iu each of us.
-Mother Teresa 

You might be saying, "Good for them, but I'm not at ALL ready for that type of commitment." That may be so, but all of us are called to faithfulness to God who is perfectly faithful to us. 
Again and again, it is our duty (and privilege) to ask for forgiveness and renew our vows to the Lord. What better time to do this-than at the outset of a new year? As we read in Scriptures: "This is the acceptable time, now is the day of our salvation." Clearly, the time is now.· 
• Presiders What kind of resolutions can you make to God today? Do you hope to grow in your relationship with 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Christ this year? How will you accomplish that? Maybe you want to promise to be involved in service or at least get to know a more diverse group of people. Or else you will work on the way you treat those who are, 
Sat October 6 Mass 
different or who don't think like you do. 

30 minutes after game 
Do you hope to grow as a person of prayer? How can you do this? How about making a daily visit to 
Rev. Thomas W. Smith, c.s.c. 

the Grotto or a chapel or to a favorite spot on campus where you can be alone with God? 45minutes aftergame (Stepan Center) Is this the year you try to figure out your vocation? What will you do to help this come to fruition? To Rev. David E. Schlaver, c.s.c. whom can you talk about the various options that lie open to you? What's the next step in discernment for you?
Sun. October 7 Mass 
Making vows and promises is what we're all about. God has made an oath that will never be annulled: 
8:00a.m. 
"I will be your God, you will be my people." When we make a vow or resolution we are simply doing what 
Rev. David E. Schlaver, c.s.c. 

God does. And even though we may not be perfect, that doesn't diminish our intention, which is geared 10:00a.m. toward drawing us ever closer to God. Mother Teresa's quote is wonderfully applicable here: "God doesn't Rev. David E. Schlaver, c.s.c. call us to be successful; only faithful." Now this doesn't mean that you have to be ready right now to stand up in front of all the world at the 
11:45a.m 
Basilica or another church to profess vows forever (though some ofyou will do that in the near future); but 
Rev. Thomas W. Smith, c.s.c. 

it does mean that the time is now for a deliberate decision to make this year the best ever as far as your relationship with God goes. What will you do? How will you grow? Are you resolved? 
¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Hb 1:2 -3, 2: 2-4 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

2nd Reading 2Tm 1: 6 -8, 13 -14 
Gospel Lk 17: 5-10 


Thursday, October 4, 2001
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Winless Walsh remains undefeated with tie 


ByJOE HETTLER, MATT 
MOONEY, BRIAN LONG 
Spores Writers 
For the first time in interhall football history, a team may go undefeated during the regular season and still fall short of the playoffs. After tying Cavanaugh 0-0 Tuesday night, Walsh, at 1­0-4, faces this scenario. 
"We're worried about [not making the playoffs], but all we can do is focus on our last game," said defensive back Karina Mayorga. "We definitely want to go to the playoffs, but right now we just want to win that next game." 
Under normal circumstances RecSports determines the playoff teams by looking at winning per­centages. But if there is a situa­tion in which winning percent­ages cannot fairly determine the best teams, another method applies. 
"Sometimes when we're work­ing on standings and there's an inordinate number of ties we apply a point system," said Jeff Walker, assistant director of intramural sports. "This point system essentially awards two points for a win and one point for a tie." . 
If the point system is applied to this year's standings and Walsh ties their last game, the Wild Women could be eliminated with only seven points because Cavanaugh, McGlinn, Howard and Farley will each have more than seven points if they win one or two more games. The top four teams from each division move on to the postseason. 
Because of this circumstance, Walsh needs a win next week to assure a playoff spot. According to Mayorga, the women must improve their red zone offense if they hope to be victorious. 
"When it's crunch time we need to get into the endzone," said Mayorga. "[Our offense] gets down really far and we just don't convert." . 
Cavanaugh, at 2-1-1, also needs a win next week to keep their playoff apirations alive when they face Howard. Co-cap­tain Mandy Reimer hopes that the Chaos offense will be able to rebound after a tough night Tuesday. 
"I don't think we could get a first down running all day," said Reimer. "They held us three straight times so we went to passing in the second half, but their pass defense proved to be just as good as their run defense." 
"The defense has just been doing the same thing all year. We may give up some short ones but when it comes down to crunch time, these girls step up," said Dillenburger. 
The only scoring opportunity for the Chaos offense came in the third quarter when Reimer con­nected on a 35-yard pass that would have put the ball at the 1­yard line. The play was over­turned, though, because of a holding call near the line of scrimmage. Two plays later the Chaos were forced to punt. 
Lewis 14, Howard 7 
In a battle for conference supremacy. both the Howard Ducks and Lewis Chicks took to the air. 
The two quarterbacks, Erin Nasrallah and Julie Veselik, 
combined to throw on 49 of 65 of the offensive plays. When the smoke and feathers cleared, Nasrallah and the Chicks (4-0-1) remain undefeated, winning 14­7 over Veselik's Ducks (2-2). 
As expected, the game. turned out to be a duel between the two quarterbacks. Nasrallah com­pleted 13 of 20 passes for two touchdowns while also tallying six carries. Using a variety of two, three, and four wide receiv­er sets, Nasrallah spread the ball around. completing passes to six different receivers. She said her protection in the pocket made a big difference. 
"I had great protection from the O-line and the receivers made the key catch~s. If we can continue to do that, we're going to be unstoppable." 
Veselik's statistics were equal­ly impressive. She connected on 16 of 29 passing attempts for one touchdown, while also total­ing six carries. However, Veselik also threw two interceptions 
Utilizing screen passes to Kate Dinardo out of the backfield as well as slants over the middle to wide receiver Elizabeth Klimeck, the Ducks were able to move the ball fairly easily. However, once inside Chick territory, the offense stalled. Howard turned the ball over four times in Lewis territo­ry, twice on downs and twice on interceptions near the goal line. 
"We marched down the field and just didn't finish," said Howard captain.Katie Cawley. "We need to have the confidence that we can get the touchdown and finish off the play." 
The Lewis defense played a big part in forcing Howard's turnovers. The Chick defensive line consistently made its way to Veselik forcing her to either scramble out of the pocket and throw on the run or carry it her­self. 
"A rush gave her something to think about to know that she didn't have all day to stand there and look at every option," said Lewis captain Caitlin Murray. "We did our job." 
While Veselik did find receivers, the defensive pressure often had her throwing into heavy coverage. But it finally caught up to her at a most inop­portune time. 
With time winding down and trailing 14-7, Howard was dri­ving. Having started on its own 15, they moved the ball 55 yards to the Lewis 10. On first and goal, Veselik again scrambled out of the pocket looking for a receiver. Her pass was picked off as Lewis cornerback Alicia Bauchman cut in front of the intended receiver. From there, the Chicks ran out the clock. Bauchman said that communica­
tion  played  a  big  part  on  
defense.  
"[Cornerback]  Amber  

[Azevedo] was talking to me [during the play]. That's the only reason I was where I was sup­posed to be." 

Nasrallah agreed with her McGlinn 28, Farley 7 coach. The McGlinn Shamrocks are 
"We were confident in our on a streak. And this time it's a defense so that if we didn't winning streak. After pulling out make the conversion they their first victory in four long would've stopped [Howard]. seasons last week, the They did stop them and it Shamrocks won again Tuesday worked out." night, defeating Farley Hall 28-6 
Howard will continue its in front of a large group of fans. quest for a playoff berth, but at Despite the lopsided score, 2-2, the Ducks know they will Farley players were smiling after 
have  to  be  they scored  
flawless.  their  first  
"[This loss]· definitely makes it tougher to get in the play­offs," said Cawley.  "This loss definitley makes it tougher to get in . the playoffs. We know we're going to have to work that much harder.,.  points of the season. The action started early. as Mcglinn stunned Farley early  
"We're  a  sta­ with precise  
dium team but  Katie Cawley  execution  
we know we're going to  Howard captain  and plays.  sharp The  
have to work  Shamrocks  

that much harder." dominated both sides of the ball 
With one game left against for most of the game as the McGlinn, Lewis looks toward offensive unit put up four scores, the playoffs and maintaining while the defense continually their unbeaten record. forced Farley into third and long 
"It was a huge win [against] situations. one of our toughest opponents," Mcglinn was led by receiver said Nasrallah. "We want to Sarah Vatterott, who was able to keep this momentum going into find the holes in the Farley sec­the playoffs." ondary with great consistency. 
The Farley offensive was unable to get on track all game. Using play-action fakes, double­reverses, and every other kind of trickery, Farley still seemed to face fourth down all night. 
The highlight of the night for Farley came in the second half of play when quarterback Megan Sheehan gave a great play-fake to her running back, and then turned to find a streaking Farley receiver downfield. The 38-yard touchdown pass was the first points put up by Farley this sea­son. 
Despite the Farley score; the game was all Mcglinn. 
"Superior execution and preparation on both sides of the ball ... these girls worked hard and now are reaping the fruits of their labors," said Shamrocks coach Geoff Heiple after the game. 
Mcglinn, now 2-1-1, plays Howard Hall on Sunday, while Farley, 0-3-1. squares off against Howard next Tuesday night. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu, Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu and Brian Long at blong@nd.edu. 
w 
0 
Ill 
e 
n ofNotre Dame 

The Office for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Notre Dame Career Center proudly present another Women ofNotre Dame-Visitor Series. 
T~e W?men of N~tr~ Dame Project is a joint project intended to celebrate 30 years of co­e ucation by providing strong female role models and mentors for our students and women supporters for our campus community. In the Visitor's Series we invite women alums to campus to talk about their careers and particular expertise. ' 
The Honorable Joan Orie Melvin Judge of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania 
Judge Melvin is a 1978 Economics graduate of Notr~ Dame 
"My (Brilliant) Career: Life After Graduation" Thursday, October 4, in 119 O'Shaughnessy, 4:00 p.m. 
"Balancing Car~er and Family" Friday, October 5, 119 O'Shaughnessy, 11 :30 a.m. A light lunch will be served 
The Chicks were fortunate to L!:'::========::::::::;====::::::::;==========================================================dJ
have their defense bail them out. After their first touchdown to cut the Howard lead to 7-6, Lewis opted to go for a two-point con­version instead of one. When the attempt failed, Lewis still trailed. 
"I wanted to go for the jugular early; it was a big game•for us," said Lewis head coach Blake Kirkman. "The way our offense has been playing all year long, I knew we'd figure out a way to get it into the end zone [again]." 


• 
Thursday, October 4, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sosa slams another one 
Associated Press 
Sammy Sosa hit his 61st home 
run, and Jon Lleber became the 
Chicago Cubs' first 20-game win­
ner in nine years as the Cubs 
beat the Cincinnati Reds 13-7 
Wednesday. 
Sosa's three-run shot off Chris Reitsma in the bottom of the sev­enth inning came less than 24 hours after he became the first player in major league history with three 60-homer seasons. 
Sosa also drove in another run for the Cubs. who beat the Reds for the 12th time this season, to reach a league-high 154 RBI. 
Corky Miller homered twice, and Ken Griffey Jr. and Adam Dunn had solo home runs for the Reds. Scott Macrae (0-1) gave up four runs -three earned -and three hits in two innings. 
With the rout already on, fans were chanting "M-V-P! M-V-P!" as Sosa stepped to the plate in the bottom of the seventh. He 
didn't disappoint, launching a 2­
2 pitch into the center-field 
stands for the three-run homer 
that gave the Cubs 13-5 lead. 
The fans continued to yell and 
clap until Sosa popped his head 
out of the dugout for a curtain 
call. Sosa finished 2-for-4 with a 
walk. 
It was a big day all around for the Cubs, as Lieber (20-6) got his 20th win on his first try. The Cubs have had only four 20­game winners since 1972, when Ferguson Jenkins finished his string of six, 20-win seasons. 
And since Greg Maddux did it in 1992, the only other pitcher to come close was Kevin Tapani. who won 19 games in 1998. 
But Lieber, a first-time All-Star this year, has developed into one of the NL's better pitchers. He one-hit the Reds earlier this sea­son, and lost back-to-back deci­sions only once. 
He didn't have his best stuff 

"Let the rhythm take you over" 
DANCE CLUB 
THIRSTY THURSDAY IS STUDENT ID NIGHT LADIES GET IN FREE, GUYS COVER ONLY $1.00 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
HOURS Thurs & Fri 5pm -2:30am Saturday 8pm -2:30am 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE www.clubbailamos.com 
Phone: 25-SWING (257-9464) 
Located in the 100 Center Compl~x 100 Center Street• Mishawaka • Indiana 
against the Reds, allowing five 
runs and eight hits in six innings. 
But he was still sharp enough, 
striking out five and walking 
only one. 
He got into some early trouble, 
thanks to some sloppy fielding. 
Dunn led off the second inning 
with a single down the first-base 
line that took Matt Stairs off the 
bag. 
First base umpire Laz Diaz 
ruled the ball fair, and Stairs 
chased it down. 
He threw to Lieber, who was covering first for what should have been the first out. but the pitcher didn't get to the bag in time. 
Three batters later, Miller put Lieber's 1-0 pitch into the cen­ter-field basket for a three-run homer that gave Cincinnati a 3-0 lead. 
Lieber retired the next eight batters. Cincinnati's next hit was Miller's second homer, a solo shot that went over the left-field fence and bounced down Waveland Avenue. Griffey added an RBI double as the Reds took a 5-3 lead. 
But the Cubs kept giving Lleber run support. They had a four-run inning in the fifth and added five more in the seventh. 
In the fifth, Corey Patterson led off with a single that hit first base and popped up. Robin Jennings got the ball, but Patterson beat him to the bag for a single. 
Molti Bene 
Cata.lino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

Acosta resigns under pressure 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Chicago Cubs pitching coach 
Oscar Acosta, who helped 
turn around one of the NL's 
worst pitching staffs, resigned 
under pressure Wednes~ay 
amid personality conflicts 
with manager Don Baylor. 
Baylor had been expected to 
fire Acosta at the end of the 
season. but he resigned 
instead, effective immediately. 
No replacement was named, 
but whoever it is will be the 
Cubs' fifth pitching coach in 
seven years. 
"It was something I ago­nized over -personality con­flicts last year," Baylor said after the Cubs 13-7 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. "I tried to put the team first. I'm always rational about a l~t of things, and I was determmed not to do it last year if things could change this year, if we could get a little closer in some of our thoughts. 
"I just didn't see going another year." 
Acosta wasn't in the club­house after the game and wasn't available for comment. 
The move came as a sur­p~ise to the pitchers, who were outspoken in their sup­port for Acosta. The Cubs had a 5.25 ERA last year, third~ worst in the NL, and the bullpen converted just 57 per­cent of its saves. 
This year, the Cubs have a 

4.07 ERA, fourth-best in the league going into Wednesday's games. They've set a major-league record with 1,304 strikeouts. 
"You ct1n see the turn­

around in two years, what 
he's done for this club," 
catcher Joe Girardi said. 
"He's done an unbelievable 
job." 
Jon Lieber won his 20th 

game Wednesday, the first 
Cubs pitcher to reach that 
mark since Greg Maddux did 
it in 1992. 
Kerry Wood has regained 

the form that made him the 
NL rookie of the year in 1998, 
and Kyle Farnsworth has 
emerged as one of the 
league's best young relievers. 
Tom Gordon, pitching for 
the first time since undergo­
ing ligament replacement 
surgery in 1998, saved 27 
games. 
"You can say as a manager he has the right to do this," starter Kevin Tapani said. "But I guess we also have the right to disagree with it and look for an upfront and honest answer as to why you would want to take the guy who is ... getting results and having his group of players either meet or exceed the expectations set out before the year." 
But president and general manager Andy MacPhail said Baylor is trying to do what's best for the team. 
I 
l J 
1 
I 
i 
I 
creaJ-e@screenblasJ-.com 


Thursday, October 4, 2001 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE 

1: 
Babes looking to chase Phoxes into their hole 
team leaders. Civil Wqr". Fierce competition is The Purple Weasels have honed ented Badin passer in several
By KEN CHAMPA and PHIL 

The Phoxes are counting on her expected from both sides. their aggressive style. years.
'1 KOESTERER 
. l and on their offense . The Pyros will be seeking to "We're improving with every "In the first game, our offense 
. ) Sports Writers 
"Our passing can win our make up for their past two losses game and learning from our mis• was out of sync," said Pilcher, games for us," Paulson said. this season, to Welsh and Lyons takes," said PW quarterback "but we did really well in the last 
Tonight promises to be a battle Standing in their way is an respectively. Leslie Schmidt. two games. We need to take care between two teams that could use aggressive Breen-Phillips defense "We knew that Welsh Fam was Trying to stop Terifay and the of problems scoring in [the red a win. The Pangborn Phoxes (0-3) that has allowed a mere six a really good team, but losing to PE attack will be a "solid" PW zone.] " and the Babes of Breen Phillips points in the last two games. Lyons was a wake-up call," said defense led by linebacker Kelly It will be up to Welsh's fresh­(1-1-1) will both be looking to bet­"I would put our defense PE team captain Lindsay Terifay. Dries. "Teams find it hard to do man quarterback Lauren Hoeck ter their records and come home against anyone's," said senior "We've been working really hard anything [against our defense]," to bring the offensive firepower . victorious. quarterback and captain Katie in practice, because we know that said Canfield. "We have a lot of she showed in her .team's 18-0 
"We definitely are hoping to McFarland. we need to win to get in [the play• team speed." defeat of Pasquerilla West last win every game left this season," "We definitely rely on our offs]." Sunday. said Pangborn captain Katrina defense to win games. its been PE's offensive attack will be "We've been putting in new
Welsh, Badin
Paulson·. great all year," said fellow cap­hampered by the loss of standout offensive plays, and working on
Defense will dominate tonight
The Phoxes, who haven't had tain Jenny Wahosky. freshman receiver Kristin the timing of the cuts," said
as the Welsh Family Whirlwinds
much success in their play this BP's offense has had to battle Marcuccilli to a bruised rib in the Hoeck. Badin is no slouch defen­
will square off against the Badin
season, are counting on experi­through the loss of standout loss to Lyons. sively, however. 
Bullfrogs at 8 p.m. on West Riehle 
ence to lead them and under­sophomore Kelly Deckelman to Terifay, who is also the team's The Bullfrogs have allowed only 
Field. Most teams have been
classmen for talent. injury, but this doesn't worry the quarterback, will be forced to two touchdowns in three games,
intimidated about facing a Welsh
"There's a lot of great upper­Babes veteran quarterback. look to Judy Moran and the rest to reach a 1-1-1 record.
defense that has allowed only one
classmen on the team, they've "We lost Deckelman who was a of the receiving corps to put "Both of the touchdowns came
touchdown in four games.
made the season a great experi­great weapon, but we have been points on the board. PE defensive on big plays where we made mis­
Leading players Emily Oess and
ence," said freshman quarter­diversifying a lot more," coach Jim Eckert will look to his takes," said Pilcher. "No offense
Katie "Worm" Sprinz, Welsh is 4­
back Charlotte Troupis. McFarland said. team's defense to help jumpstart has moved the ball really well
0, with two games remaining
Troupis, along with sophomore BP will also look to solid senior the offense. against us." 
until the playoffs.
tailback Tia Vonil have been leadership. "We're a defensive-minded That defensive strength is due
"Our defense is holding the 
among the many contributing "We went through a tough team," said Eckert. "We're going in part to seniors Molly Norton, 
team together. If other teams
underclassmen for the Phoxes week, but we are definitely ready to keep them inside their own 20 Beth Rimkus, and Beth Sheehan, 
don't score, they can't win," said
this season. to play," said a confident yard line and make it a short field all three-year starters. 
Welsh captain Vanessa Llchon. 
But the contributions of the McFarland. for the offense." Add to that mix Katie Bears, a
•·we like to keep things simple," 
younger Phox players wouldn't The PE defense will have to heads-up player who knows the
said Welsh defensive coach Derek 
have been possible if it weren't contend with a run-and-shoot defensive scheme inside and out,
Pasquerilla East, Pasquerilla Horner. "Oftentimes teams run
for a great deal of leadership and style offensive assault from PW. and the result is a defense that
predictable offenses, so all the
guidance by Pangborn's senior West "We started the season slowly should prove a worthy opponent
credit goes to the girls. The line iscaptains Nicole Tutin and The Pyros of Pasquerilla East on offense," said PW coach Mike for the Whirlwinds.
good at pressuring the quarter•
Paulson. will battle the Purple Weasels of Canfield, "but because we are ..We're feeling pretty good,"
back and the secondary provides 
"[The seniors) are really great Pasquerilla West for bragging committed to a passing game said Pilcher. "We're not terrified
good coverage." 
role models, the seniors have· rights on the Mod Quad tonight much like that of the Houston ofthem."
Challenging the Whirlwinds'
been really supportive all year," at 8:00 p.m. on West Riehle Field. Oilers teams of the early '90s, 

formidable defense will be
said Troupis who has excelled The teams will vie for a trophy which our offense is modeled 

Bullfrogs quarterback Erin Contact Ken Champa at kcham­
this season thanks to the confi­called the Apple Cup in a game after, we have been able to score 

Zachary, described by her coach pa@nd.edu and Phil Koesterer at
dence she has gotten from the collectively referred to as "The points." 

Anthony Pilcher as the most tal-pkoester@nd.edu 


/ / 


222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
.. 
J, 
.J 

a ..... 
Thursday; October 4, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
loss. 
Despite the uneven score, the Belles were not pleased with their play. 
"Overall this was not a very good game, but after they scored we picked it up a little bit," Muth said. "In the second half. we settled down and played our game." 
The Belles' slow start may have been due, in part, to the fact that Wednesday's match was the first away game the team had played in over a month. 
"It took us awhile to get used to not playing on our field," said head coach Bobby Johnston. 
In the next few weeks, how­ever, the Belles will become accustomed to playing on the road. Five ·of their next seven games will be away from home. 
With their first away MIAA game under their belt. the Belles do not believe that play­ing away should cause any more problems for them and are looking forward to their next few away games. 
"I think playing away made it a little bit harder but it was exciting to have a change of scenery," Taylor said. 
The Belles next change of scenery will come this Saturday against Hope College at noon. 
"We need to work on our intensity and focus and get ready for Hope on Saturday," Taylor said. "That will be a really good game." 
Contact Lindsay Mollan at molll36l@saintmarys.edu. 
Broadway Theatre league Presents the New Musical••• 
Don't stand in line! 6etyour tickets now! 

le this week. "I think we made a decent
Irish 

tackle into a mediocre guard," Rogers said. "We've got him
continued from page 20 

back where he is more com­
drive gets the more starting screwing up [missed assign­ment] wise." 
When one guy misses an assignment. the whole lines looks bad and the entire play breaks down. The line is only as strong as its weakest link. 
"We are just missing one guy," center Jeff Faine said. "If one line in the chain isn't there, you don't have a chain." 
After the Nebraska game, Vollers moved from his natural tackle position to play guard. He played guard in place of Sean Milligan for two games while Brennan Curtin started at tackle. 
That experiment failed so Vollers is moving back to tack-
Vero Italiano 
Catalino'• Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

fortable and got Milligan back where he is more comfort~ able." 
With everyone back at their natural positions, the line hopes to cut down on the missed assignments. Vollers insists that the players know the assignments on paper but aren't executing them in games. 
"It's not like we don't know the defenses," he said. "You could sit us down and quiz us on it and we'd all score 100 percent. But as soon as we get on the field, we aren't per­forming." 
Youth and inexperience are the biggest reasons for the offensive lines struggles, according to Rogers. Vollers is 
NCAA 
continued from page 20 
on." 
Brey said that in situations like Humphrey's, the NCAA typically suspends the player one game for every summer league game played. Since Humphrey playe_~....~.~~Jf:1.'.~~s,
--.-c~~o!"."w,,...,·""'o.,.,.x-..-­
We Deliver 
7 days a week 

make the decision 
the only starting offensive line­man in his last year of eligibili­ty. Three of the other players are either freshman or sopho• more eligibility wise and Jordan Black is a red shirt junior. 
Combine that inexperience with the departure of fifth-year seniors Mike Gandy and Jim Jones to the NFL this year and the Irish have an extremely green offensive line. 
But Rogers said that is no excuse for their ineffective· ness. 
"Any of that is rationalization at this point in time," he said. "You can talk about the seniors we lost and the leadership we lost but that is all part of ratio• nalization of why things aren't going well." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
d.fjT that will make a 
1 1erence 
UNIVERSITY OF ST. THOMAS SCHOOL OF LAW MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA 
The University of St. Thomas School of Law is offering up to 40 full-tuition scholarships to students interested in a faith-based approach to personal and professional ethics, immersion in real world law practice through a unique, three-year mentor program, a rigorous academic challenge, and dedication to public service. 
Phone: (800) 328-6819 (ext. 2-4895) E-mail: lawschool@stthomas.edu Web: www.stthomas.edu/lawschool 
,, ~ UNIVERSITY of ST.THOMAS 
The U11i1,usity ofSt. Thoma, Joa 110/ dircrimin,ztt Olf the ba1i1 of race. color. cr..d, nhgion, national origin, rex, age, marital stafuJ, a/fectioMI p,-t/Menr, Of' dnab,lity in itr p,-ograntJ and act11•ilits. 
Brey said he expected him to sit out the first t_wo games. The Irish didn't have a choice as to which two games Humphrey was suspended, said Brey. 
Brey made it clear that Humphrey would start against International Select and EA Sports All-Stars in Notre Dame's two exhibition games and, after sitting out games against New Hampshire and Cornell, would be back in the starting lineup against Hawaii Pacific. 
'Tm disappointed right now, but I'll still be on the bench supporting my teammates," Humphrey said. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
j 


~-c-, .-~--------------------------------------------------­
Page 18 Thursday, October 4, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Shevik shines in Belles 3-0 loss to Britons 

By KATIE MCVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Freshman Alison Shevik was the bright spot in a Saint Mary's league loss Wednesday night. As the Belles headed into the second half of their season, they were looking for a win, but couldn't quite make the connection. 
The Britons of Albion (13-7, 4-4 MIAA) shut down the Belles (2-12, 1-7 MIAA) in three games, defeating 
digs on the evening. The seven dig per game average crushed her previous average of two digs per game. 
"Alison Shevik did really well all around," Schroeder-Biek said. "She had wonderful defense ... averaging seven [digs] a game which is national cal­iber." 
Shevik also added seven kills, leading the Belles offense. Junior Elizabeth Albert also had seven kills on the evening. 
Communication continued to be a problem for the Belles. After coming off of a win against Rochester on Saturday, Saint Mary's was hoping communica­tion would improve. Several drills dur­ing practice were aimed at improving 
A 
'V 
communication and although it improved, it just wasn't up to par. 
"[Communication] wasn't that bad but it wasn't as good as it needed to be," Schroeder-Biek said. "We made a step up but we need to work harder on it." 
Albion middle-hitter Michelle Hind caused Saint Mary's a lot of trouble. The senior racked up 14 kills and three block assists. Defensively the Belles just couldn't get past her. . 
"They had a real big middle blocker 
and [our] setters need­
ed to make a couple of 


three games, Saint 
Mary's had long scor­ing runs but fell short in the end. 
"We had a couple of really good ral­lies where they sent us scrambling and we managed to pull things together," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Following Wednesday's loss, the Belles will be looking to improve on their offense before they face off against Calvin at home on Friday. 
"[The offense] worked at first," Schroeder-Biek said. " ... We had a cou­ple of times we struggled with passing. Whenever we got a good pass we ran a defense offense." 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
A

MD AFTER FIVE ~ 
them 30-25, 30-20, "We had a couple really better choices on get­30-22. good rallies where they ting around her," 
"There were bright Schroeder-Biek said. 
sent us scrambling and
spots," head coach The quick offense Julie Schroeder-Biek we managed to pull Saint Mary's has been said. "We just didn't things together.,, working on perfecting pull together." tried to work its way to Shevik, however, a lead, but the rallies 
Julie Schoeder-Biek
did pull it together. didn't take the Bel!es Shevik totalled 21 coach quite far enough. In all 



FridaLJ, Oct. 5 

FridaLJ, Oct. 5ThursdaLJ, Oct. 4 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Shrek and Toy Perros, Hesburgh Library Audito-Badminton, Rolfs Sport Rec. Ctr. 
7:00 p.m. ND Cinema, Amores 

7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In 
Story, DeBartolo 101 and 155* rium* 7:00 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Univ. 
11:00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, 
Bingo, :...~Fortune Student Center Aristocracy in America", by Ralph Center Fieldhouse 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Tocqueville on of Tornoto (Exhibition), Joyce Notre Dame Room 
Lerner, DeBartolo 117 7:30 p.m. Movies: Shrek and To 
SaturdaLJ, .Jct 6
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Story, DeBartolo 101 and 155* Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Rec. Ctr. 7:30 p.m. ND Men's Soccer vs. 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Shrek and Toy 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Georgetown, Alumni Field Story, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

Pool Room open, free billiards, 8:00 p.m. 807 1viaS: , Lounge, 

10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m Open 
LaFortune Student Center Coleman Morse Center Karaoke in the Huddle, LaFortune 

9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune 8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Student Center 
Student Center Huddle Pool Room open, free billiards, 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Shrek and Toy 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Shrek and Toy LaFortune Student Center Story, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

Story, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Make 
10:00 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. 80's Dance, 
FridaLJ, Oct. 5 your own Greeting Cards, Dooley LaFortune Student Center Ball­
, c c· t Room, LaFortune Student Center room5 00 ND M 
: p.m. en s ross oun ry H t· t T D L 

I ·t t· 1 t ND G If c 9:00 p.m. ypno 1s om e uca,
nv1 a 1ona a o curse. St c t * 

This ad is published by the Student 
, . ·t t· epan en er
Women s 1nv1 a 1ona1a t 4:15 p. m. H 

, d W , 9. .00 p.m. -1. .00 a.m. uman Activities Office. Programs subject to 
6:30 p.m. ND M en s an omen s . . 

change without notice. 
s · · R I R If A r Board Games (1.e., Twister) and 
0 * All programs are free to ND students 
wimtming e ays, s qua ic regular board games, Fisher Hall 
C

en er unless marked by an *. 
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce Center Arena (doors at 5:30). 

FOR ~ORE IHFOR~ATION, VISIT: w~tw.nd.edu/#Vsao/ 


Thursday, October 4, 2001 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES .TOM KEELEY 
CUNNINGHAM 
.. 
AT THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
IF WE JUST RUN w RUN UP THE MIDDLE! •SQUAWt:.. J.f
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT l:ENTER 
IN ZI&•ZA& 
RUN UP THE MIDDLE! ...SQUAWK-& 
RUN UP THE MID0LEI •SQUAWt:... 0!
_...!~==~~~~~~~-----~~~:=~~ PATTERNS THEY'LL 
~ . . I HASTA LA NEVER CATCH US 
&UESS WHO STil,.L HAS 
•~·. . I VISTA, -DAVIE o• 
0
A YEAR OF 

-

COLLEGE ELI6I8ILITYI • ..
\..:,\o,r__,.; 
&UYS, I THINK WE FOUND OUR NEW OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR! 

FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
I • 


"Your nose is running." 


N. 0 TR E DA M E M E N 'S SO C C E R 


S::-~1DA'I., Oc 10BE~ S-r-1-1-, 1:30 PM NOTRE DAME vs. GEORGETOWN" FIRST 500 FANS RECEIVE ND SOCCER TRADING CARDS! 
-11-Dtre J)mna J-{~ 

NoTRE DAME vs. THE UNIVERSITY OF ToRNoTo -Fridav, Oc+of>er S+h • 7 P"" 
GET A FREE HOCKEY SOCK WHILE SUPPLIES LAST! EAR IT ON YOUR HEAD! 

CROSSWORD­
ACROSS 26 Like some triangles
1 Swelter 29 Lorenzo
6 Andy who sang "Shadow 31 Does a ballonne ~: Dancing" 35 Former New 10 Racer's need York senator 14 At the right tim~ 37 Mouthpiece attachment
15 Yellow stick 39 Air safety grp. 
16 Exposed 40 Exhibits of 17 What a doctor suit parts in uses to keep small glass 
· Fido warm? 
containers? 19 Dressed 
. 43 Form letters? 20 How Phileas 
44 Frigg's husband Fogg traveled 45 Blacks out 

21 Where calves 46 Schlemiel 
are stretched out? 48 It's game 
50 Pretentious

23 AU-Star shortstop 51 Rawlings Vizquel product 
25 Noted 53 Actor Robert of 'restaurant chain "Airplane!" 
ANSWER TO PREVlOUS PUZZLE ., 

Visit The ObserJer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
55 Refrigerator for ivy? 59 Multitude 63 Bridge support 
64 Actress who's the inspiration for this puzzle's theme? 
66 P. Morton (1890's veep) 67 Is not on the street? 68 Peaks 69 Jump on the ice 70 Fair 71 Go blading 
DOWN 
1 Be peripatetic 2 Draftable 3 New Testament 
book 4 Pretax number 5 Business card 
abbr. 6 Lame ducks 7 Actress Chase 
Puzzle by Peter Gordon 
8 Direct routes 30 Field ot conflict 9 Mess up 
32 In progress 33 They can be 
.., 
52 Frat party 58 Cinematograph­outfits, perhaps er's concern 
54 Constellation 60 Columnist near Scorpius Bernbeck 
55 Handyman Bob 61 Help 
56 Wild goat 62 Sit (for) 
57 Basilica part 65 Beetle juice? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute}. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wilford Brimley, Jayne Meado~s, A Martinez, Randy Bachman, Meat Loaf, Shaun Cassidy 
Happy Birthday: A great year lies ahead as long as you don't try to do it all. Hone and test your skills. Those watching your 
' accomplishments will marvel.­You are the master of mediating and pulling everyone together. If 
you let your. lazy side take over, you will have regrets, Your num­bers: 10, 13, 1.7, 23, 29, 41 • 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your ability to visualize will help 
, persuade others o(. the possibili­ties and earn their support. You make wonderful contributions to any organization that you join. 
0000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20):. 
Think twice before telling some­one how to do something. You have your own difficulties finish­ing projects. Focus on your career and let everything else ride. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your need to be in the center of things will bring added populari­ty. Don't sit at home alone ev~ if you do feel down. Be the sooal butterfly. 00000 
GANCER (June 21-July 22): Su.9.den changes in your financial situation should be pleasing. Focus on contracts, agreements and your portfolio. Home-improvement projects will pay off and add comfort to your sur­roundings. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your partner will be unpredictable, but enticing him or her can be enthralling. If you are too dramat­ic ai\d go overboard, though, )'.OU can expect disapproval. It's a fine 
· line you walk today. 00 

Birthday Baby: You are incredibly bright, articulate and ready to try just about anything. You have a gentle side that is sympathetic towaI? others. Yet your ability to keep some distance allows you to offer practi· 
cal advice. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites . .(lt astroadvice.com, 
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
C 2001 Universal PressSyndicate 
-
· 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on work, money and advancement. The best opportu· nities crop up if you keep an open mind and follow through on the good ideas. 000 
LrnRA (Sept. 23-Od. 22): 
Don't sit around. Make plans and enjoy social activities, interesting conversations, interest groups or creative projects. Travel will spark enthusiasm and new ideas. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-'Nov. 21): 
Travel will promote romantic con­nections. You communicate easily and can develop new friendships. Involvement in groups will be beneficial and lead to valuable infonnation. 00 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov; 2:2-Dec. 2.1): 
Focus on finances. You can form 
beneficial business partnerships. 
Talk to those in a position of 
power about your intentions. 
Money .can be .made if y~u 
become uwolved m a worthwhile 
project that offers a-handsome 
payoff. 0000 
CAPRICOR.."1 (Dec. 22-JaQ. 19): 
Your creative talents will surface t!'rough your re;,ponse to situa• 'tions. Use a seI1SJ.tive approach to appeal to colleagues for assis­tance. Business trips will tum out 
favorably. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): i 
Rom~tic opportunities ~y not I I be as they appear. Build _o~ 1 friendships ratlier than on an uu­I tial intimate encounter. Don't I 
i 
reveal information that is person-
l
al or confirlential. 00 
PISCES (~eb. 19-March 2~): l ' Problems wit~ colleagues will cause setbacks if you are too open J about your f~elings. Keep your thoughts private f~r 1:1ow and focus on your romantic life. 000 
l 
l 
11 New York's Carnegie_ 12 Driver's choice 13 Means' justifier 
Artie and Frank 
24 Fast, as a rise 26 Motrin rival 27 City on the Nile 28 Minutemen of 
college sports 
taken en passant 34 Cheeky 36 Roulette bet 38 Venusians, e.g. 41 Film director 
De Sica · 42 Sitcom friend of Barbarino 47 Big name on the Food Network 49_btaster 
-

-~·-----------..T_,,.---,,---··•··--,..--,-------------.------------------------------------------------...... 
Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Volleyball, p. 18 
. Sosa, p. 15 
. 
Blue League, p. 14 . Cubs, p. 15 

. 
Gold League, p. 16 . Bears, p. 12 


. Olympics, p. 12 
Thursday, October 4, 2001 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 

NCAA suspends Hu01phrey 
. Forward will miss two games after violating summer league rules 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame captain Ryan Humphrey was sus­pended for the first two regular season games after violating an NCAA rule prohibiting playing in summer games, Notre Dame basket}?.all offi­cials announced Wednesday. 
Humphrey, who will miss the New Hampshire and Cornell games, received the suspension after Notre Dame reported that he competed in two summer games in a California league sanc­tioned by the NCAA. According to NCAA rules, a player may only compete in one summer league and that league must be within 100 miles of his house or school. 
"It's disappointing," said Humphrey, who lives in Tulsa, Okla. "It was an honest mistake ... but I forgot about the 100 mile radius rule." 
"I think he was looking for competition and he just really misinterpreted the summer league rule." said Notre Dame men's basketball coach Mike Brey. 
Humphrey said he initially didn't think he had made a mistake by playing in Los Angeles. But" when he came back to campus, several of his teammates pointed out the rule. 
"I came back this summer and I was talking to some of my teammates and they mentioned the 100 mile radius," he said. "I checked with coach and checked with the NCAA and found out I made a mistake." 
Brey sa.id the Irish reported the violation in August, but the NCAA's decision was only announced Wednesday. 
The summer leagues are a series of pickup games sanctioned by the NCAA. In order to compete in one, the athlete only needs to be a college player. No sign-up is necessary. 
In Humphrey's case, he was sitting in a gym watching one game when a couple of the play­ers began goading him. 
"One guy said, 'I bet you can't check this guy' and, you know my competitive fires start going, I said 'I'll show you I can check him,' Humphrey said. "I made a mistake, and I want to move 

Senior Ryan Humphrey was suspended for two games for breaking NCAA see NCAA/page 17 rules a~d playing in two summer league games in California. 

FOOTBALL 

Offensive line doesn't get job done 
"We ar.en't getting the pro­ing yards Saturday against but we have to execute better." 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 

duction we expect from anyone A&M. To put all the offense's The execution gets worse as Sports Writer 
right now," Irish offensive problems on the offensive line the drives get longer, according coordinator Kevin Rogers said. is unfair, according to offensive to senior Kurt Vollers. 
Coaches can interchange "There are certain guys on the line coach Dave Borbely. But "We are getting tired during quarterbacks, running backs line that are playing well but there have been numerous the game and not keeping our and wide receivers looking for that is the one group where missed blocks in this early sea­heads up and seeing the some sort of spark, some sort you cannot replace and individ­son. blitzes," Vollers said. "We just of extra advantage. ual. They have to be cohesive. "It's not missed assignments have to get used to playing on 
But on the offensive line, They have to be in sync with as it's been missed blocks and the eighth or ninth play of the cohesion and experience are everyone else." not executing a block," Borbely drive. It seems the later the key. And the Irish are still That lack of cohesion led to said. "We've gotten hats on searching for both this season. six sacks and just 70 net rush-hats and hats on the right hats 
see IRISH/page 17 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles getMIM victory 
ByWRITER 
Byline Tide 
Things just keep getting bet­ter for the Saint Mary's soccer team. Wednesday the Belles claimed a 4-1 victory over the Adrian Bulldogs marking the fourth win 
for  th.e  
Belles  in  
their  last  

five games and their first confer­ence win, raising their overall record to 4-6 and their MIAA record to 1-4. 
Despite the three point mar­gin of victory, the win did not come easily for Belles. Once again the weather made its presence known to a team that has faced cold, wet conditions for a majority of their games. 
In addition, Saint Mary's had to come from behind. 
The game began with an early goal from Adrian's Beth Amman on an assist from Jenny Hornak. Amman was named offensive player of the week for the first week of the season. That goal, however, was the only one the Bulldogs would have for the duration of the game. 
"We just made a mistake and they capitalized on it," said junior Heather Muth, who scored the Belles' first goal of the game at 17:59. 
Muth's goal. which was assisted by freshman Jennifer Concannon, was followed by a goal from freshman Molly McCavitt, leaving the score at 2-1 at halftime. 
The Belles dominated the sec­ond half, scoring two more goals. The third goal for the Belles came at 69:24, and was scored by Concannon, who was named MIAA offensive player of the week this week. Six min­utes later. Belles junior Lynn Taylor scored her first goal of the season off of a corner kick and sealed the Bulldogs fate. 
The dominant Saint Mary's defense held Adrian to only three kicks on goal. making things easy for freshman goalie Maureen MacDonald. Adrian goalie Terry Peach faced a total of 27 shots on goal during the 

see BELLES/page 17 


_, . SMC Volleyball vs. Calvin, Friday, 7 pm. 
OBSERVER
. ND, SMC Swimming, ND Relays, Friday, 6:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classifieds 
. ND Cross Country, ND Invitational, Friday, 4:15 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Soccer vs. Georgetown, Friday, 7:30 p.m. http://v.,•ww.nd.edu/~ohserver 


