
-----------------~·-----­
The struggle continues 
Lawful concern 
Chinese president Jiang Zemin requests an 

Wednesday
A reader responds to the problems facing Notre 
apology from the United States in an effort to 
Dame's law school and its recent drop in the 
end the impasse over the spy plane collision. 
·U.S. News and World Report rankings. 
APRIL 11, 
World & Nation . page 5 
Viewpoint . page 9 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSE . . 

Passing the magic wand 

said Renner. 
. Renner, Nagle 
But since Nagle has takenreflect on new over as student body president, campus roles Renner is now forwarding the 
calls to her former vice presi• 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Assistant News Editor 
One of the things Crissie Renner, former Saint Mary's student body president, misses most about not holding office since her successor Michelle Nagle took over two weeks ago are what she calls the "magic wand" phone calls. 
"I always called those calls the 'magic wand' calls because people seemed to think I could just wave my magic wand and resolve the problem," said Renner 
For Renner, the students. fac­ulty and alumnae who called her about a variety of issues was signs of the trust people have in her and the power that the student body president holds. 
"I never complained about the calls because it is a great feel­ing to know that people feel comfortable just calling me up to ask me questions on issues from algae on Lake Marian to the use of fertilizer on the grass at Saint Mary's to calling me to say that the lights in the LeMans tower are too bright and are shining in her window and keeping her up at night," dent a sign that Nagle, along with her vice president, Kristen Matha have officially taken hold of the reins of student govern• ment. 
After serving as president of her class freshman and sopho· more year and as vice president of the student body for the remainder of her sophomore year and junior year, Nagle is accustomed to being an advo­cate for her constitue~cy. However, neither of her past three roles has been as high profile as the role of student body president that she assumed two weeks ago. 
For Nagle, besides tackling "magic wand" calls, being stu­dent body president also means assuming her new role as her identity. 
"Especially as student body president, you don't have the luxury of giving your personal opinion," said Nagle. "You have to be neutral and especially at Saint Mary's in classes, we're taught to give our opinions. Throughout life you're never taught 'neutral skills.' But now, I have to remember that before I say something I have to think what the student body would say if I make that statement because it isn't coming from me 
ALISON DOHERTY/ The Observer 

Michelle Nagle (left) and Crissie Renner (right) work on an issue as last year's president and vice presicfent of BOG. 
as Michelle Nagle. Saint Mary's also said she is pleased students student but from me as Michelle at Saint Mary's are so outspo­Nagle, student body president ken and not afraid to question of Saint Mary's speaking on their student leaders. behalf of the student body." "As someone in student gov-
While Nagle admits that feel-ernment, you're supposed to be ing like one is being watched all the time can be frustrating, she see BOG/page 4 
Priest urges society to 'reach out' t~ gangs 
ences," he said. 
Boyle told of his encounters with youth of all ages as he helped place them in jobs and avoid crime, using the slogan "Nothing Stops a Bullet like a Job." 
"A job does about 80 percent of what you have to get done," Boyle said. "A kid feels a sense of dignity." 
"We want to empower them not by handing power over . . . I think that the [sense of] hope that we can accomplish ... is to give kids back to themselves and give them the truth," Boyle continued. "The truth is that they are exactly what God had in mind and no bullet can pierce that, death can't even touch it because it's its own reward." 
Boyle told his audience sto­ries about youth he employed in Homeboy Bakery. one of his rehabilitation programs in which youths who formerly 
see GANGS/page 4 


By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Society should recognize the humanity of gang members and invest in their future. said Father Greg Boyle, a Jesuit priest who founded programs aimed at preventing youth vio­lence in East Los Angeles. 
"I think it's important to put a human face on the issue of gangs," Boyle said in his Tuesday lecture, "Mi Barrio." "It's the privilege of my life to work where I do. I'm surround­ed by heroes." 
Boyle, who runs the commu­nity outreach organizations Jobs For A Future and Homeboys, spoke of his experi­ences working with rehabilitat­ed gang members in the Los Angeles projects -an area he described as being "Balkanized" by 60 rival gangs. 
"It's important to share their experiences; I am an expert in no.thing but I have my experi-
Urban poor 
network for 


survival 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
The survival of the urban poor 
is dependent upon the develop­
ment of social networks for the 
exchange of goods and services, 
said Larissa Lomintz, professor of 
anthropology at the Universidad 
Nacional Autonoma in Mexico. 
In a lecture at Saint Mary's 
Tuesday, Lomintz described the 
migration patterns of the urban 
poor in Mexico City from the 
1930s through the 1970s. and the 
effect it had on both the economy 
and the class structure during 
those decades. Lomintz conduct­
ed research on the survival o( the 
urban poor during a year of field 
study in the 1970s, and later 
authored a book, "Networks and 
Marginality: Life in a Mexican 
Shantytown," about her work. 
In field work to determine how 
the urban poor survive, Lomintz 
first studied migration patterns of 
lower and working class citizens. 
While the existence of a lower 
caste dates back to before the 
Mexican Revolution, a post-1910 
population boom exasperated the 
problem. Lomintz said. Due to 
agrarian reform and the growth 
of industrialization, many mem­
bers of the lower and working 
class moved to the cities. where 
the nation's industrial develop­
ment was thriving. · 
The massive migration shift 
caused population unbalance in 
the nation's cities. 
"Before you had a certain equi­librium, but after the 30s, we had exactly the reverse," Lomintz said. "People began to migrate, and they migrated to the cities." 
Migrants moving to the cities were typically able to find employment in the booming industrial sector or low-skilled public sector jobs. 
"Migrants not only lived in the cities. but also were absorbed by the modern economy. The need for workers was so tremendous they could enter the industrial sphere," she said. 
But the increasing population surge put a crunch on housing and job opportunities for many migrants. Because the opportuni­ties in the cities decreased, migrants shifted from migrating into the center of town to the out­skirts. creating shantytowns. 
'The same thing that was hap­pening with housing was happen· ing with the economy. The for­mal, modern type of jobs began to fill up. Suddenly, you had a big population of people that could not be absorbed by the modern economy," Lomintz said. 
see MIGRANTS/page 4 
Wednesday, April 11, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A promise of hope 
Easter has always been one of my favorite holidays. 
As I've grown older, however, I have begun to look at the Easter holiday in a whole new 
light. 
Even though I still enjoy the candy and the break from academics and good ol' South Bend, they pale in comparison to the true message of Easter. 
For one, Easter is the beginning of spring and of warm weather. It marks the start of sunny skies and that distinct, fresh and flowery smell of spring. The drab grayness of winter is transformed into a color scheme of lush green and yellow sunlight. Overnight, it seems, flower buds push 

Nate Phillips 
Copy Editor 
through the dark soil, and the birds are heard in the trees again. 
Easter marks a new beginning. It is vibrant with new life and creates an optimistic hope for the upcoming year. 
A rebirth. A fresh beginning. 

These naturistic signs of Easter only serve to represent the true meaning behind the hol­iday. Two thousand years ago, Christ was crucified only to bring us a new beginning and a promise for the future. 
This spring season serves to highlight the brilliant Easter message -and the miracle of Christ's resurrection. 
In addition to all of our blessings here at Notre Dame, we are infinitely more blessed by the sacrifice of Christ. In His death, we are offered life. 
As in the winter. when everything shrivels up and dies, Christ's death indicated a time of darkness and disillusionment. 
However. in his infinite love, God took Christ's death and designed a "complex good" from the ashes of our failure. 
He used death to create life anew. Every winter, flowers wilt and die, only to remerge in the Spring to offer us beauty. 
In the same way that every year flower buds push towards the sun to hail the begin­ning of spring -Christ suffered and died, only to rise again to offer us hope. 
Our lives are quick and from time to time it can be hard to maintain optimism amidst our trials and tribulations. 
And we live and die. 

But through the pain and despite our doubt, we will always be able to see the hope in the message of Easter. 
We know that winter will always end, and that during the Easter season the plants and flowers will grow. the skies will turn blue and that the birds will sing. 
And we know that in death we will find everlasting life. Happy Easter, Notre Dame, enjoy your break and see you next week. · 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Laura Kelly Nate Phillips 
Graphics 
Amy Greene 

Kary Hall 
Sports 

Production 
Lauren Conti 

Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech Lauren Beck Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday acc:p1 during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member ofthe: Associated Pren. All reproduction rights arc: reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "Overcoming  . Event: Writing  
Twenty Years in Hell,"  Workshop, Center for  
Hesburgh Center.  Continuing Education,  
4:45 p.m.  McKenna Hall, 8 a.m.  
. Event: Interfaith  . Mass: Basilica of the  
Christian Night Prayer,  Sacred Heart, 5 p.m.  
Walsh Hall Chapel.  
10 p.m.  

Friday 

. 
Event: Stations of the Cross, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 7 p.m. 


. 
Mass: Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother, Coleman Center, 8 p.m. 


Saturday 
. 
Event: Easter Egg Hunt. Edwardsburg Conservation Club, 1 p.m. 

. 
Event: Student Art Exhibition, O'Shaughnessy Galleries. all day. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Slavery reparations teach-in scheduled at Duke 
DURHAM, N.C. 

The Duke University history department will sponsor a teach-in about slavery reparations in an attempt to foster dialogue about issues raised in a March 19 adver­tisement opposing reparations. The ad, written by conservative author David Horowitz, has sparked debate about free speech nationwide but has not yet elicited much discussion about reparations, either here at Duke University or in the national media. 
..We feel like a lot of faculty mem­bers here could contribute to moving the debate to another level, not so much being driven by the controver­sy," said Greg Grandin, assistant pro­fessor of history. "[We want] a more substantial debate regarding what 
"[We want] a more substantial debate regarding what slavery means to this country." 
Greg Grandin assistant professor of history 
slavery meant to this country, what it currently means, what the legacy of it means, how it continues to impact the [United States] in various ways." 
The teach-in will feature at least 14 faculty members from several departments, including English, African and African-American Studies and Literature. 
Senior Kelly Black, one of the lead­ers of the protests and president of the Duke chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said she was pleased that faculty members had come together to discuss reparations and other issues. 
"It's definitely good, and it's going to be healthy for the community to have a real discussion about repara­tions," she said. "People are talking about it, but not in a constructive way, so this will be an opportunity for a constructive dialogue." 
The participating professors off er a variety of expertise and will con!,,e­quently provide a number of different viewpoints. 
Student response to the proposed debates have been very positive. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
President discourages Naked Mile 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Wednesday, University of Michigan seniors will open their e-mail boxes to find an annual letter from University President Lee Bollinger discouraging them from running the Naked Mile next Tuesday, the end-of­term tradition begun in 1986 as a prank by the men's lacrosse and rowing teams. Bollinger's e-mail describes the Mile as an "event laden with risk." Vice President for Student Affairs E. Royster Harper and Department of Public Safety Director William Bess also pll_l.n to send an e-mail to the student body Wednesday discussing prob­lems with the run. University Provost Nancy Cantor has also sent a letter to faculty urging them to dissuade their students from running. "Many runners who were moti­vated by the enthusiasm of the moment, further fueled by alcohol, later expressed regret at having participat­ed," Cantor wrote. Although runner participation decreased last year to an estimated 400 students, the size of the crowd watching the event remained consis­tent with previous years, at about 10,000. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high ternperntures 
Thurs 
ay Friday·, Saturd,y Sunda~ 
.t 
Mont~11--;ef 
q_~_~HQ.Q ¾) ~ ~ 

Showers T-storms Rain Fhxdes ~ tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
11141 .4uociJtlMI p,-~I 
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Govern!]lent denies aid for drug users 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

Starting with the 2001-2002 school year, the U.S. Department of Education will no longer permit colleges to provide federal financial aid to students who do not respond to this question on their federal financial aid forms. Although some activists expect the new provision to 
·have wide-reaching effects, several University of Virginia officials do not expect the new requirement to impact stu­dents a great deal. Congress first imposed the drug-con­viction restriction when it renewed the Higher Education Act in 1998. Under this act, eligibility for federal financial aid can be suspended for one year for a first conviction on a drug possession charge, two years for a second convic­tion and indefinitely for a third. Students can regain eligi­bility after they complete a drug-rehabilitation program. Last year, the Department of Education extended aid to applicants who did not respond to the question because there was confusion over the question wording. Over the summer, the department rewrote the question for clarity. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeathe,e forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 11. 
C 2001 AccuWealher, Inc:. COLD WARM STATIONARY
-

®©... DEi. 
High Low Shower• Rein T..tom. Aunieo Snow 1oe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Adanta  74  62  Las Vegas  84  60  Portland  56  40  
Baltimore  74  27  Memphis  80  62  Sacramento  61  48  
Boston  74  27  Milwaukee  so  43  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  68  48  NewYor1o:  70  49  Tal'l'f)8  78  54  
Houston  88  67  Philadelphia  34  56  Washington DC 75  54  

Wednesday, April 11, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Ameritech donates $90,000 to support minority program 
the South Bend area and. now, careers." DeBartolo Hall. Notre Dame's SBC, through foundation and
Special to The Observer 
extending to Indianapolis." APMEP was developed by high-tech learning center. corporate giving, donated "We are pleased to the University's Minority APMEP uses a two-way video­more than $95 million to sup­
Notre Dame has received a 
announce Engineering conferencing system to link port efforts that enrich and$90,000 gift from the our contin-Program and students and teachers at four strengthen diverse communi­
Ameritech Foundation to 
ued support "This program represents has been sites -Notre Dame, ties nationwide.
expand the University's 
of this impor­supported by Washington and Adams The Foundation places pri­
Ameritech Pre-College exactly the kind of
tant pro­t h e Schools in South Bend, and mary emphasis on supportingMinority Engineering Program 
gram," said partnerships we hope to Ameritech Harshman Middle School in programs that help increase
(APMEP). 
G e o r g e grow with corporations Foundation Indianapolis-with faculty access to information tech­
"This program represents 
Fleetwood, since 1995. and minority graduate and nologies; broaden training and
exactly the kind of partner­and the community.·· 
president of The program undergraduate engineering professional skills develop­
ships we hope to grow with 
Ameritech is designed students for a variety of pro­ment; and effectively integratecorporations and the commu­
Indiana. Father Edward Malloy to introduce jects. experiments and discus­new technologies to enhance
nity," said Father Edward 
"Ameritech is minority stu­sions. education and economic devel­
Malloy. Notre Dame's presi­University president
committed to dents in mid-The Ameritech Foundation is opment, especially for under­dent. "The continuation of the helping dle schools a member of the SBC served populations.
relationship between young adults, to engineer­Foundation, the charitable SBC has been named among
Ameritech and the College of from all backgrounds, get the ing and related fields. giving arm of SBC "America's Most GenerousEngineering has made it possi­experience necessary for them Originating from a specially Communications, Inc., and its Companies" for two consecu­
ble to touch so many young 
to be successful in their equipped classroom in family of companies. In 2000, tive years by Worth magazine. 
people and their families in 

Bookanalyzes ethnic trends in China 
. Notre Dame anthropology prof 
discusses modernity 
Special to The Observer 
Susan Blum, associate pro­fessor of anthropology at the University of Notre Dame, is the author of a new book that examines how Han Chinese in the southwest Chinese city of Kunming regard ethnic minorities and themselves. 
In "Portraits of 'Primitives': Ordering Human Kinds in the Chinese Nation," published by Rowman and Littlefield; Blum argues that modernity is of great concern to the people of China. She examines trends involving ethnic minorities in the complex nation state, which imply that the group that ultimately achieves the most power remains the most modern. 
Blum also considers ques­tions of identity in China, employing methods from lin­guistic and psychological anthropology. including inter­views and observation, to 
obtain various forms of cultur­al analysis. 
Blum is an expert on anthro­pological theory, linguistic and cultural anthropology, food and culture, the self and the body, ethnicity and language, and Chinese identity and nationalism. 
A first-year member of the Notre Dame faculty, Blum earned master's degrees in anthropology and Chinese lan­guage and literature, and her doctoral degree in anthropolo­gy from the University of Michigan. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 11, 2001 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
a representative of Saint Mary's and I'm glad that the students are vocal about questioning what we do," said Nagle. 
Nagle believes she is up for the challenge. 
''I've watched three student body presidents before me and seen how they worked up close since I was on the Board for three years and it is a lot of pres­sure to fill the shoes of those women," said Nagle. "Their names are still remembered on this campus. At the same time, it is exciting to create your own shoes, create your own legacy." 
Tear-less turnover 
Las_t year, amidst a swirl of controversy and tears concern­ing the turmoil surrounding the student body president/vice pres­ident elections, Renner and Nagle took office knowing they would have to ,.vin the support of the student body. 
Although Nagle and Matha didn't face a disputed vote as in last year's election, Nagle said she was disappointed that they were the only ticket running for the office. 
"What happened last year and this year [with only one ticket running] was unfortunate," said Nagle. "But last year provided me with an amazing opportunity to stand beside someone [Renner] to open up communica­tion amongst the campus, to open up different types of issues and to bring the campus togeth­er. Synergy was the theme of our administration from the first day we took office." 
Renner was relieved to see the elections go smoothly this year and to see Nagle begin her term as student body president with­out the cloud of controversy looming. 
"There were tears of joy this year," said Renner. "I am very confident in Michelle and I know the majority of the campus believes in her too and her abili­ties as a student leader." 
Renner and Nagle said what helped them bring together the campus and tackle tough issues throughout the year was remem­bering they were representatives of the students and had to do what was in the best interest of the student body. 
"It was a tough situation for everyone last year when we came into office,' said Nagle. "We came in knowing we had a lot to prove." 
Confronting the issues 
After the election controversy, Renner and Nagle said they were sure that anything that came after it would seem less difficult to handle. Two other controversies surfaced during their term including whether the Keenan Revue should be held at Saint Mary's and a vote by the Board of Governance to refuse to confiscate a controversial junior class T-shirt. 
"All three issues definitely made. me a better student leader," said Nagle. "It made me recognize how important it is to be aware of how students feel about issues. Also, we've been through the worst so having that experience can only help student government to grow and to tack-· le other controversies that may come up in the future even bet­ter." 
The "shirt" controversy was an educational tool for student gov­ernment to learn how to better deal with controversial issues and for students to assess what it means to be a Saint Mary's woman, said Renner. 
"Whether people liked the shirt or not, it was a good time for students to consider what it means to be a woman at Saint Mary's," said Renner. 
Nagle said she knows "The Vagina Monologues" will be an issue next year and the Board is already taking steps to gather the opinion of the student body on the issue. 
"It's been very hard already because we have had our credi­bility questioned because we haven't taken a stand on 'The Vagina Monologues' and whether or not it should be held on campus," said Nagle. "It doesn't matter if I personally agree or disagree with the 'Monologues' but what the stu­
·dent body thinks. That's why we decided that Board of Governance will go door-to-door in the fall and administer a sur­vey to see how students feel about the issue. We have to first figure out what the student body feels about the issue before we can decide what further action to take." 
Nagle said this means that if the survey shows students want the play then the Board will do everything they can to push· that forth. 
Vocal without voting 
Describing herself as "a very vocal person," Nagle is learning to remain neutral and hold back from om~ring her opinion as stu­dent body president. While the other three positions she has held on Board of Governance were voting roles, the student body president does not vote, except in situations that require her vote to break a tie. 
"Being in a non-voting role is good because it lets you sit back and see the issue in so many ways," said Nagle. "In a way. it is a freeing of the mind because instead of trying to think about how you are going to vote on the issue you can sit back and see the issue from all angles. I also know that I can raise questions, but have to do it in a manner that is not persuasive. I do believe that in the case where r would have to cast a vote to break a tie, r could do so not from my personal opinion but do so in the best interest of the stu­dent body." 
Nagle knows from watching Benner through the past year while dealing with controversial issues what a struggle it can be to remain neutral on controver­sial issues. 
"I experienced a really trying time during the shirt controver­sy," said Renner. "It was really a personal struggle for me and I knew that Michelle had a voting role so she could have a strong voice but I struggled to remain neutral. It was hard to be in the position of representing the women of this campus and· knowing they all felt differently about the shirt and some would disagree with my personal opin­ion which was against the shirt. I still hope that it wasn't my voice swaying people on BOG to vote against allowing the junior class to see the shirt." 

Gangs 
continued from page 1 
"gang banged" baked bread with members of rival organizations. 
"This was a whole lot more than a job for these kids," Boyle said. "It was a reason to get up in the morning. The bond they had with their former enemies was stronger than with their family or any gang." 
The Jesuit priest spoke of a special case, a youth he called Roman who came to work as a supervisor in the bakery. 
"You did this, you never had a job in your life and now you have one. You used to be the biggest drug dealer in the projects but you did this," Boyle recalls telling his friend. "You're great." 
Roman, however, was ran­domly shot by a gang member after settling into his 'new' life. Boyle said Roman's death forced him to rethink the motives behind his programs, but ulti­mately it made him realize that he was making the right deci­sions. 
"In the last four years of his life Roman decided what God had made him for and he decid­ed to become like that," he said. 
Boyle also described the reha­bilitation of his friend Chico, who he assigned to a job at a home­less shelter computer lab. 
"Far more valuable than the paycheck I dropped off every Friday was the time I spent with [Chico] and I wish I had spent more time with him," he said. 
Chico was fatally paralyzed in a drive-by shooting. 
"A week passed, his heart stopped and I buried him," Boyle said. "Then -and only then ­did this thought occur to me ... this was the eighth kid I had buried that week." 
Today, Boyle has buried 89 rehabilitated gang members. Jn addition, he has often been involved in high-risk situations himself, as he lives and works in the projects. Boyle, however. expressed little fear. 
"They [ex-gang members] would always make sure that they'd take a bullet before I did," he said. 
Despite his dangerous and depressing situation, the priest said his work brings him a lot of joy too. 
Boyle spoke of a former gang member who has gone on to be a husband and father who holds a steady job. 
"I don't eat. I watch them [his wife and children] eat ... I'm so grateful to God that they're in my life," Boyle said, recalling the words of his friend. "Once there's food, only then do I eat. Sometimes there's food, some­times there isn't. You know ... it's a father thing." 
According to Boyle, gangs are a byproduct of deeper social problems like poverty, dysfunc­tional families, despair and bore­dom. The key, he maintained, is to invest in gangs rather than incarcerate them. 
"The more gangs you have the more enemies you have," he said. "Gang violence is not a problem, it's a symptom that tells you what else is wrong." 
Jobs for a Future and Homeboys, organizations Boyle founded, focus on marketing ex­gang members as viable employ­ees often hiring them within their own industries. Boyle wants to make these people real­ize the value of their lives. His centers off er free tattoo removal, counseling and alternative mid­dle and high school classes. 
"These kids check themselves [out] in the mirror and say 'empty,"' he said. "The vision is returning these kids to them­selves, not making them some­thing they're not. It's a mirror, not a portrait." 
Boyle _hoped that attendees would leave the lecture seeing the human side of gang mem­bers. 
"The day won't come when I have more courage, am more noble than the kids I work with everyday," Boyle said. 
Approximately 100 people attended lecture in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The event was co-sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for Latino Studies. 
The Jesuit priest has been working in the Los Angeles pro­jects since 1986. He graduated from Gonzaga University and holds three masters' degrees. Boyle's work has been featured on CNN, "60 Minutes" and People magazine. 
of households participated in a common economy and social support system. 
"In the lower class, the differ­ence between reciprocating or not is the difference between dying or living," she said. 
. However, while the networks were critical to survival, Lomintz observed that participants were much more likely to confess what they had done for others. 
"People remember very well the favors they have done for others," she said. 
Migrants 
continued from page 1 
The migrants who moved to shantytowns began to acquire the name marginaros a Spanish term meaning "marginalized". According to economic analysts in the 1950s, the migrants were forming a new social sector a group with no set income or social securities, Lomintz said. 
In conjunction with a survey Lomintz was completing for her job at a medical clinic, she added a survey of her own to research migration patterns. 
"People survive because they create from traditional institu­tions such as friendship and kin­ship local networks in which there was a reciprocal exchange of goods and services," Lomintz explained. 
Lomintz observed between 40 and 45 shantytowns in Mexico City, and watched as the clusters 


earn  EARN FULL-YEAR CREDIT IN BIOLOGY, CHEMISTRY, PHYSICS AND FOREIGN LANGUAGES  
J1ff>gress  ACCELERATE PROGRESS TOWARDS YOUR DEGREE  
.f~t1 lfi11  FULFILL A DISTRIBUTION OR GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENT  
live  LIVE ON NORTHWESTERN'S LAKESIDE CAMPUS, JUST NORTH OF CHICAGO!  

Call 800-FINDS-NU for a catalog. 

ATI 


Wednesday, April 11, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Amnesty International criticizes Jamaican police: Execution-style slay­ings by the police and the government's unwillingness to stop has created a "human rights emergency" in Jamaica, Amnesty International said Tuesday. The London­based human rights group issued an 89-page report on police violence in the Caribbean country amid growing controversy over a police shooting last month where seven men in a working-class Kingston suburb died under suspicious circumstances. 
Dutch approve euthanasia bill: 
Despite protests outside parliament, the Netherlands legalized mercy killings and assisted suicide Tuesday, becoming the first nation to allow doctors to end the life of patients with unbearable, terminal illness. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ohio shooting protest resumes: 
Police fired bean bags and rubber bullets to quell demonstrators who broke windows in downtown Cinncinatti on Tuesday in a protest over the police shooting of an unarmed black man. It was the second day prote.sters ran through the streets, and police in riot gear formed protective cordons around City Hall and nearby police headquarters. 
Strong storms hit the Midwest: 
Strong thunderstorms pounded parts of the Midwest and Great Lakes Tuesday, but clear skies dominated much of the rest of the coun­try. The storm system stretching from Texas to Virginia brought hail, winds up to 60 mph and tornadoes. In Ohio, a man died after being struck by lightning, and a tornado dam­aged homes and knocked down trees and util­ity poles. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Prisoners cause disturbance: More than 100 prisoners at the Westville Correctional Facility barricaded themselves inside a dayroom for nearly two hours Tuesday, breaking windows and throwing furniture. Two correctional officers received minor injuries during the disturbance, which began about 8:30 a.m.. said Sharon Hawk, a prison spokeswoman. The prison's emergency response team was called in and the distur­bance ended about 10:20 a.m. 
-·---·----­
Market Watch April 10 

Dow 
10,102.74 +257.59 
Jones 

Composite San1e: 
Volume: 200 NIA 
AMEX: 885.59 +14.57 NASDAQ: 1,852.03 +105.32 NYSE: 599.83 +1214 S&P 500: 1,168.38 +30.79 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +9.45 +1.37 15. 86 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +7.42 +2.75 39.80 INTEL CORP (INTC) +6.77 +l.57 24. 77 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +4.43 +2.53 59.68 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +12.35 +l.61 14.65 
URUGUAY 


· Though brief, Jiang's Chinese jet April 1. The responsibility for the colli­
Associated Press 

comments sounded more pilot is missing and feared sion of the U.S. Navy EP­
MONTEVIDEO upbeat about reaching dead. 3E surveillance aircraft 
Chinese President Jiang settlement than comments Jiang's response to a and the Chinese jet. The Zemin said Tuesday that of the past week as question about the stale­U.S. aircraft made an he trusts in the ability of Chinese and American mate was terse. When emergency landing on his country and the officials worked to end asked what was the key to Hainan Island off the United States to end their the standoff. Negotiations finding a way out, he coast of southern China impasse over the spy have stalled over Beijing's alluded to his repeated after the collision. The 24­plane ·collision, but said demand for a full apology demands for a U.S. apolo­member U.S. crew contin­he still wants an apology. for the collision and gy. ues to be held there. 
"Taking into the Washington's refusal to "Our position on this U.S. Secretary of State account the important give it. issue is sufficiently clear," Colin Powell had said the role of the two countries, At only his second news said Jiang, adding that he U.S. government was we have to find a solution. briefing since opening the had already spoken about "sorry" for the Chinese 
I trust in the ability of trip Thursday in Chile, China's demands during fighter pilot still missing. both countries to resolve Jiang said China's posi­his last news conference Bush also offered his per­this issue," Jiang said at a tion was "sufficiently in Santiago, Chile. sonal regrets at the news conference in clear" as he stood by ear­At the time, Jiang apparent loss of life but Uruguay, his third stop on lier demands that the repeated Chinese calls for the U.S. government has 
a six-nation Latin United States apologize the Bush administration stopped short of apologiz­American tour. for the downing of the to apologize and accept ing. 
Ashcroft debates execution's viewing 
said. "He heard a story that's hard to Terre Haute. Ind. Only eight places
Associated Press 
hear. We told a story that's hard to are available for victims' witnesses to 
OKLAHOMA CITY tell. He assured us that within the lim­view the execution at the penitentiary. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft said its of the law, a policy would be devel­"I am going to do my best to respect Tuesday he would decide this week oped that would accommodate for this their needs and their wishes in ways whether to show Timothy McVeigh's unique event." that are consistent with the fulfillment execution on closed-circuit television Ashcroft met with about 100 sur­of responsibilities to carry out justice." to Oklahoma City bombing survivors vivors and relatives after a visit to the Ashcroft said before meeting with the and victims' families. Oklahoma City National Memorial. victims. 
Paul Heath, a retired Veterans About 250 survivors and family mem­After his tour of the memorial Administration psychologist and bers relatives have said they want to Tuesday, Ashcroft spoke near a tree bombing survivor, said Ashcroft made watch the execution of McVeigh, who that was damaged but survived the no promises but said he would try to was convicted of eight federal murder April 19, 1995, bombing of the Alfred grant their request to watch McVeigh charges. P. Murrah Federal Building, which die. McVeigh, 32, is to die by injection on killed 168 people and wounded more 
"He listened with his heart," Heath May 16 at the federal penitentiary in than 500. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 11, 2001 
Bush calls standoff
Motorola reports wider loss 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Motorola Inc. reported a first-quarter loss Tuesday that was wider than analysts' already lowered expectations, citing a billion-dollar slump in sales from a year ago. It was the cellphone and chip maker's first quarterly operat­ing loss in 16 years. 
In the quarter ended March 31, Motorola lost $533 million, or 24 cents per share. com­pared with profits of $448 mil­lion, or 20 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter. 
Excluding one-time items, the company lost $206 million, or 9 cents per share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call expected a loss of 7 cents a share. 
Motorola reported sales of $7 .8 billion in the first quar­ter, a decrease of 11 percent from $8.8 billion a year earli­er. 
The Schaumburg. Ill.-based company reported its results after the close of the markets. Shares of Motorola, which were up $1.50 to $13 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange, fell 95 cents in after-hours trading. 
The stock also still hasn't recovered from its dive last week -when it hit an eight­year low of $10.50 on. Friday -and has lost 75 percent of its value since last May when it reached its 52-week high of $52.64. 
"This quarter was a difficult one. Order growth weakened across all of the company's business segments," said Robert L. Growney. president and chief operating officer. "We believe this change in customer requirements is part of a major global pattern affecting many technology companies." 
Sales of cell phones and pagers were down 29 percent and orders fell 10 percent, the company said. 
"We had a very pessimistic viewpoint ... and they still managed to miss all of my revenue numbers," said Dale Pfau. an analyst with CIBC World Markets Corp. "It's pretty disconcerting." 
Motorola has cut 22,000 jobs since December, bringing its work force down to about 125,000, and Growney said "substantial cost-reduction activities continue... 
Motorola has been hard hit by slowdowns in its core industries but many analysts say its problems are of its own doing. Motorola failed to con­nect with consumers during a recent period of runaway worldwide growth in its pri­mary business, cell phones. 
Now first-time buyers are dwindling and users are putting replacement purchas­es on hold amid a slowing economy. 
And analysts say the compa­ny may have misjudged again with a series of next-genera­tion-technology phones due out over the next few months. 
"The phones that Motorola has kind of hung their hat on are the higher end models," said Todd Bernier of Morningstar Inc. "They're chasing a market that doesn't really exist." 
PPE 
with China 'stalemate'

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Bush called the showdown with China a "stale­mate" for the first time Tuesday, as U.S. diplomats awaited China's reply to a new for­mula for releasing 24 Amer­icans . Offering hope, the Chinese president said he was eager to end the spy plane ordeal. 
"Taking into the account the important role of the two countries, we have to find a solution," Chinese President Jiang Zemin said at a news conference in Uruguay. "I trust in the ability of both countries . to resolve this issue." 
But Jiang, making a six­nation tour of Latin America, also said China's position was "sufficiently clear" as he stood by earlier demands that the United States apologize for the 

SOURCES c~rr:om.l.P'"'~ AP ~//; l.{SN M¢oi!JyCw.trt,J-. CSJ in;.. 
crash of a Chinese jet. The United States has refused to apologize. 
Bush tried to lower expecta­tions for the quick release soon of 24 U.S. servicemen and women, even while his foreign policy team reported modest behind-the-scenes progress and said Beijing was mulling the administration's latest pro­posal to end the standoff. 
"Diplomacy sometimes take a little longer than people would like," Bush said, prepar­ing the public for the prospect of a lengthy standoff. "I urge the Chinese to bring resolution to this issue. It's time for our people to come home." 
In a new formulation, Bush was willing to express regret for the U.S. plane landing on Chinese soil -if the conciliato­ry gesture would free the crew, U.S. officials said. The concession is part of a larger 
U.S. proposal offered to Beijing several days ago, with no immediate response, officials said. 
Amid the flurry of diplomatic activity, the president respond­ed to increasing pressure from critics. including conservative allies, clamoring for action. 
He said Motorola's new phones are like Rolls-Royce automobiles when most people are in the market for more sensible models. 


RecSports has openings for th!~
"It's a cool thing to have but there's really not many people 

summer and the 2001-2002 academic
buying them," Bernier said. 

year in the following ppsitions: 
~ -~,· . 
~tudent f~upervi~or~
.•. . I • •~ 
fropt,~De~~ {'upervi~or~ fitne~~ Room.~~upervi~or~ 
l~~ue' l!oom ·~upervi~or~
,~,--.M.:~---~
THE MINOR IN 
Lifegu(!rd~·
PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND 
WWW ~upporf-,~tudent 
Any one who is interested in applying for these positions 
ECONOMICS 
should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an applica­tion. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. 631-5100. 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics.  THf CHHISTIRH  
If you are looking for (1) an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and (2) an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you!  PLATOHISM of Simone .. w Weil April 1g-22. 2001 at the Uniuersity of Hotre Dame  
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government Department. Roos. I@nd.edu.  
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to either Professor John Roos at Roos. l@nd.edu or Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 12. Late applications will be accepted onlv if openings are still available.  
_____j  

Keynote Address Thursday, April 19 
7:30 p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall 
Louis Dupre
Yale University 
Christian Platonism: Its Past and Future 
Louis Dupre is the T. L Riggs 
Professor in the Philosophy of 
Religion at Yale University. He has 
authored The Other Dimension, Transcendent Selfhood and A 
Dubious Heritage and co-edited 
Light from Light; Anthology of 
Christian Mysticism. His most recent 
books are Passage to Modernity: An Essay in Hermeneutics of Nature and Culture and Religious Mystery and Rational Reflection. 



Congratulations to these men and women who will receive the Sacraments ofInitiation -Baptism, Confirmation, and 
Eucharist-
at the 9:00 p.m. Easter Vigil this Saturday in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. 



• 
¦ 
• 

JAY JOHNSON 
Graduate Student--Government Monteray Park, CA Fischer Graduate Residence 
Godparent: Colleen Dunne 
Law Student Detroit, Ml Fischer Graduate Residence 
Godparent: Mark Coomes 



LISA HUDSON 

Law Student Atlanta, GA Fischer Graduate Residence 
Godparent: Christine Harding 

r'\J_HE 

page 8 \JnSERVER Wednesday, April 11, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
Tl,, 1...,,-'nu, D-,N,.....,S..-...,!wrrO--,/S-.,"-7', 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dam.,. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nocre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINFSS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
~T. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley
' 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadter ScF.NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna • 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0••..••••.••.•.631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4S42 MANAGING EDITOR/~. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........•••••••••.......................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MAR.v's........................................ _ ...631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINJSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site athttp://obstnln'.ru/..edufor daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student revicws 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeithet institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriak represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstiom rrganiing Ob1nvn-policin 1hould bedirtet­td to Editor in ChiefMiltt: Connolly. 

Dear Sir or Madam: 
My name is Scott Blaszak and I am currently a senior at the University of Notre Dame. I am writing in response to your client service associate posi­tion listed on Golrish. Scott Blaszak 
This May I will graduate with a degree in English. The Early which is one of 
Essays

the easiest on campus. My care­ful four-year study of 19th century romantic novels has not prepared me in any way for employment in your client service department. 
Like many of my fellow liberal arts students, I was weeded out of a more demanding college freshman year. but this has allowed me more free time to pursue extracurricular activities, which I haven't done. In my time here I have failed to join any clubs or be elected to any positions or volunteer for any projects or organizations. 
Mostly I just sleep about 14 hours a day and then lie in bed watching day­time television. Sometimes I get up to eat. Lately I've taken to dating a myri­ad of shallow girls as a way of dis­tracting myself from the fact that I have no idea what I want to do with my life. 
I describe my involvement at Notre Dame to give you a clearer picture of the type of individual I am. Hard working, energetic. cooperative ­these are not words I would use to describe myself. I would opt for apa­thetic, passionless and arrogant instead. 
For a more detailed record of my qualifications. I've included with this letter a resume for your considera­tion. It is nothing more than a list of organized lies on a sheet of fancy paper. The truth is I've never even been to Chile, let alone built shanties there. My career counselor told me it would be good to include something that exhibited my selflessness so I concocted this false yarn about help­ing the poor people of Santiago. 
Though I am aware of your compa­ny's distinguished reputation and unrivaled track record, I would be lying if I said that I had any desire to work for you. In fact, I find the whole scope of your company to be boring and inconsequential. 
That aside. with graduation looming I realize that my father will soon cut me off and I need to find a way of get­ting money so that I can continue to do the things I enjoy -things like going to movies, dining at Greek restaurants and buying clothes from Banana Republic. 
Besides that, if I were to work for you I would have an answer for all these nosy people asking me of my plans after graduation. Right now. having few professional opportunities on the horizon, I usually deflect their inquiry with wit by saying that I intend to be a dirt bike racer. Ha ha ha. But while back in February this was considered cute, with May approaching I fear it comes off pathet­ic. 
If you do choose to hire me, I have no doubt in my mind that in no time I would sidestep responsibility. blend into the office framework, take liber­ties with religious holidays. abuse the company slush fund and probably even sexually harass the secretaries. 
I know that you, in return, would grow disappointed with my lack or production and unprofessional atti­tude but would hesitate to fire me for fear that I might file suit against you or perform juvenile pranks on your car. Or both. 
Please contact me via telephone at 
(219) 273-3169 or via email at Blaszak.2@nd.edu. I look forward to a possible interview which will allow me the opportunity to lie to you about the issues that concern me, agree with everything you say and feign excite­ment about joining your company. 
Sincerely, Scott Blaszak 
Scott Blaszak is a senior English major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
D~NG ! T\-\E. 5't5TE.I"'\ 

A0t"\INISTRA.,0R. 15 
l"\A \<..ING ~ f"\OVE. 

ON HER. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"People don't choose their careers; they are engulfed by them ... 
John Dos Passos writer 


O
THE Wednesday, April 11, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
Discerning a call to compassion 
When I think about how I have been called in my life I re_member_my mom calling me away from outside games with my fnends to come in for dinner. I recall how excited I was when friends began to call me on the telephone because nothin_g was more important than relationships. I think back to feelmgs of anticipation, hoping that 
my name would be called to be on Center for Social sports teams. Concerns 
The dynamics of these calls -dis­
placement, passion and anticipation -For a More 
relate to a deeper call as well. How do Just and 
we listen to the stirrings in our souls Humane World 
that call us to move away from the ordi­
nary place? Do we feel passionate about 
an issue that moves us to a particular career or way of life? 
In what ways do we discern with anticipation our unique 
call? 
I believe our calls begin early in our lives. What strikes me 
as I look back at my childhood during the 1960s is not that I 
had an understanding that God was calling me in any direct 
way but that I felt a deep resonance with many of the songs 
of the time, such as, "deep in my soul I do believe we shall 
overcome someday," and "it's a hammer of justice it's a bell 
of freedo~, it's a song about the love between my brothers 
and my sisters all over this land." These words set to music 
spoke to me, striking chords deep within me about what I 
believed to be critical needs in the world. How was I to 
respond? 
C?ming to Notre D~me in the mid-1970s, my career aspi­
rat10ns were a react10n to my high school education. I want­
ed to ~ake education more challenging and more engaging, 
fostermg a love of learning for every student. When meeting 
with my advisor in my sophomore year, she challenged me 
to think _creatively about the many ways I could respond to 
my p_ass10ns _for education and for social justice. So I began 
to thmk outside the box to expand my imagination about 
career,. call or vocation . 
. During that same pivotal sophomore year I had opportuni­
t1_e~ ~o put my faith i_nto action in a more concrete way by 
vis1tm_g two _women m a nursing home and reflecting on the 
expenence m a theology course. This led to participation in 
many programs and courses that deepened my social aware­
ness and desire to work for a more just and humane world. 
. Gradually I dis~erned that my call was to educate for jus­tice and to combme the two passions I felt from childhood into adulthood. This call affects not only my professional life bu~ it also impacts by family life with my husband and three children. As I look at my long-term friends, I can see that I need to surround myself with those who support and chal­lenge me as I attempt to live out this call. 
In my current work with senior transition programs I meet with many seniors who are discerning what they should do after ~raduation. Whether students decide to take a job, commit to a post-graduate service program or go to gradu­ate school, it is important to ask what values and beliefs they carry with them. 
In what ways can all who work at the University continue to invite students to find their response to the call of the University's Mission Statement to develop "a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice?" I believe that solidarity, the common good and all the themes of the Catholic Social Tradition ought to impact decision-making as students look beyond Notre Dame. 
One step in this process is the Discernment Seminar: Call, Compassion and C~mmitment offered for seniors through the Center for Social Concerns. Students in the seminar are invited to reflect on readings from the Catholic Social Tradition as well as other sources and look for ways to inte­grate service and justice with whatever they choose after graduation. The seminar is a time to listen, reflect and con­verse with others in hopes of coming to a deeper under­standing of one's call. 
My hope is that Notre Dame graduates may come to find what Frederick Buechner describes as the place where our heart's deep gladness meets the world's great hunger. We may need to be displaced in the process of finding this but we can anticipate passionately living out our calls. 
/Wore information about the Discernment Seminar is avail­able at the Center for Social Concerns or email shappell.1@nd.edu. The Center for Social Concerns· column appears every other Wednesday. The author. Andrea Smith Shappell. is Director ofSenior Transition Programs at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Prayer a potent weapon 
Law school must focus on improvement, avoid excus~s 
In his letter to the editor yesterday, law student Finally, our location is, of course, awful. While Ben Jilek brought up several good points about students at Northwestern, Chicago, New York the law school's recent fall in the U.S. News & University and Georgetown can take cabs to their World Report rankings. I am writing not to criti­call-back interviews, we have to take a train (and cize him but to add a few points in anticipation of by the way we're counted absent in classes for the excuses that others are undoubtedly prepared doing this -is it any wonder that our employ­to offer. ment rate at graduation is at 78 percent?). 
First. it is true that the U.S.. News rankings do I am not making the argument that the U.S. not take into account several factors that News rankings are a true testament to a might make the system more accurate. But looking at some of the missing factors (i.e. breadth of curriculum, cost, location, commitment to innovative technology, size of first-year classes and racial and gender diversity}, I'm convinced that it's actually a good thing that those factors were not considered. Some of them could drop us out of the top 100 entirely. 
First-year classes will have approximately 90 stu­dents in each section next fall, which effectively destroys any benefit we might enjoy by being a medium-sized law school. Moreover, those 90 students are stuffed into classrooms with barely enough room and with mysterious air conditioning units that provide plenty of heat in the spring and fall and refreshing cold air in the dead of winter. 
While our cost may equal that of some guessing that part of the answer has a dol­other private schools, many students are wonder­lar sign in front of it). And in all honesty it's not a ing why they didn't simply pay in-state tuition at very big problem -yet. But if anyone has any one of the several state schools that is currently ideas, will you please convince the rest of our fac­beating us in the rankings. ulty to stay? And if you could get somebody to fix 
Positive steps have been made to help the cur­the doorknobs in the law building so they stop riculum, but the abolishing of the criminal proce­falling off, that would be great. dure requirement has taken us one step closer to neglecting exactly one-half of the legal system. Andrew Malahowski 
Again, positive steps have been made to law srudenr increase gender diversity, but I'd like to see class of'02 someone make the argument that we are racially April 10, 200 I diverse with a straight face. 
Timothy McVeigh has con­fessed to the bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City which killed 168 children of God and injured many other souls. Mr. McVeigh, an Irish­American Catholic who experi­enced combat action as an enlisted military man during Operation Desert Storm, has described himself as a soldier in the war against moral injus­tices committed by the United States government. 
This \\'.riter. a psychothera­pist, is also an Irish-American Catholic whose ancestors migrated from the north of Ireland, county Armagh. McVeigh reminds me of the zealous young men of Northern Ireland -some of whom may be distant relatives -who are guerrilla soldiers of the Irish Republican Army (IRA). 
These Catholic men whose families were persecuted by the Protestants and their protective sponsors, the English Parliament. perceive the British government as the diabolical enemy -just as McVeigh views the United States govern­ment. Consequently the IRA and McVeigh believe that vio­lence is a morally appropriate option in their quasi military battles against governments which they see as oppressive. 
McVeigh's decision to violent­ly challenge the government was born out of his personal observation of the annihilation of the Branch-Davidian com­pound in Waco, Texas by a small army of United States federal law enforcement agents. The fires which killed the perceived martyrs of the religious sect inflamed McVeigh's sense of justice. The lads of the IRA have had the same reaction to British gov­ernment. 
Violence never brings peace. The Blessed Virgin Mary has counseled in her many appear­ances beginning at Fatima, Portugal in 1917 that the daily meditation of the prayer of the rosary brings peace to the world and causes the salvation of souls. 
While McVeigh's anger with the bureaucratic morons of the federal government is clearly understandable, violence is never acceptable. But he was taught by the Protestantized. rationalistic culture that war and militarized violence are at times morally appropriate. Of course the people making these moral decisions are politicians -hardly a saintly group. 

The rosary is a very potent weapon. I prayed the rosary for peace in Central America, Haiti and Northern Ireland. Relative peace has come to these nations. McVeigh should have been taught the power of the rosary by the Catholic priests of his childhood. Apparently it didn't happen. McVeigh will soon be killed by a secular gov­ernment which prohibits killing. Let us pray for Timothy McVeigh and the victims of the Oklahoma City tragedy. 
Joseph Vallely Washington Green, CT April 3, 2001 

I N 
E T 
page 10 Wednesday, April 11, 2001 
Cable in dorms, tighter security to improve life at ND 
Seeing how Notre Dame is rolling in the dough like some third-world president that just ran off with his country's entire treasury. it's about time we made some technological changes around here and made everybody's life a little easier. 
My first suggestion is CABLE. That's spelled C-A-B-L-E, and a lot of people around the country have it -even in Indiana. 
Basically, it's extra channels that come in clear. If we had cable, we wouldn't have to sit in certain parts of the room to get good reception or hold one hand in the air to watch "The Simpsons." 
My second suggestion? The Notre Dame Security/ Police needs a new weapon against people getting on cam­pus to pick up their friends or drop something off at their dorm. These peo­ple must be stopped! They are destroying the Notre Dame experience for the rest of us. 
I suggest that the NDSP should get DNA samples from everyone that enters the gate, and match them against a database of everyone that goes to Notre Dame. 
Then after a retinal scan and psychological evaluation, a team of 1 O NDSP officers will take a vote on whether to let the person in the gate or not (win by two). And of course, the sus­picious stares and biting questions from .the gate security guards that we all love will continue. 
A fine process, I know. I'm expecting royalties for my idea when the University adopts it. 
Notre Dame has always discouraged off-campus underage drinking. Solution: implant a chip into the brain of every stu­dent under 21 here. Then track them on a radar screen every Thursday night. If lots of blips converge on a particular estab­lishment, then it's time to call SUDS. Take the guesswork out of busting bars. 
Cheating the dining hall has gotten out of hand. Sure, people might be carrying one piece of fruit in their hand, but what about that second piece of fruit in their pocket? That's four cents lost, and if 1,000 people do it everyday, that's $40 per day. Insanity! 
We need to equip our dining hall card swipers with the most advanced in X-ray glasses technology. "I see that second apple, buster. Can you say ResLife?" 
Parietals-breaking is a plague on our fair campus -men and women interacting past 2 a.m. on weekends absolutely guarantees they're having sex. No guy and girl have ever been in the same room at Notre Dame past 2 a.m. without having sex. 
I say that infrared heat-sensing technology should be deployed, and every dorm should be watched every night. The user can see if there are people inside the walls because they show up as bright orange and red blobs. Then hall staff can check rooms for ..un-Catholic" behavior without opening doors and saying "GOTCHA!" 
The groundskeepers work too hard, I think. Picking up every fallen leaf on football game weekends just so drunk Purdue fans can throw their crushed Natty Ice cans on the grass can be disappointing. 
Notre Dame needs to build a giant bubble over the whole campus, and keep the weather nice year round so the trees don't drop their leaves. Dumb idea? Yeah, so was Stepan Center. 
Oh, and don't even get me started on OIT ... 

Jeff Baltruzak is a sophomore business major. "Short Circuits" appears every third Wednesday in Scene. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Hours of fun onlin4 
Longing for 'Pacman'? In the mood to Snooa 
By MERIDETH PIERCE Scene Writer 

Beware: Do not, under any circumstances, read this article if you value your grades. 
Now for all of you who do not care about the negative effect this information will have on your GPA, read on to learn the many time­wasting, mindless and addicting activities the Internet has to offer. 
AOL Instant Messenger 

In case you do not already have AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) on your computer, run -do not walk -to your computer and download it from Aol.com. This free service allows you to spend count­less hours 
talking to playpractically 

a lost 
everyone you 
600 
know via the 
di f ­
Internet. 
fer-

Instant Messenger also gives you the chance to think of witty away messages that are sent to people who instant message you when you are gone. 
Through the newest version, AIM 4.3, you can play many card games with people who are also using AIM. After AIM, you will wonder where those four hours went when you were going to "write a paper." 
Emode.com 

For those of you who would rather not pro­crastinate with help of others in the random bantering conversation of AIM, there are many other options available on the Web. The "all about you" motto of Emode.com might fit your needs better. This site is chock full of tests that analyze you and your personality. 
But simple personality tests are only the beginning. How about testing yourself to see what color you would be if you were a color? Or what breed of dog you would be? Or maybe the ever popular test, "Are you evil?" You will find all these and many more time consuming modes of procrastination on Emode.com. 
TheSpark.com 

Along the same lines as Emode is TheSpark.com. Here you will find many tests as well, although most of them are more humorous then those on Emode.com. One of the more popular tests is "The Purity Test" -as for the others, you will just have to check them out at TheSpark. 
I EatCrayons­
.com 
If the word "test" is not an appealing mode of pro­crastination, then the utter mun­danity of the following sites might be the ones for you. How about virtual cow tipping or midget throwing? 

If Internet mischief-mak­ing sounds up your alley, then IEatCrayons.com is perfect for you. The site claims that after just one visit, "your life will never be the same." And with everything you can do here, that claim just might be true. 
The best feature of IEatCrayons.com is a free downloadable game about Bob the cow. Some of the features of this game include two differ­



I N 
E T 
Wednesday, April 11, 200I page 11 
eat your fingertips 
l? Turn to the Internet for your procrastination 
to find out about the world it lives in. 
Other Amusement 

If sheer amusement is what you are looking for in your procrastination, the Internet has that cov­ered, too. How about reading 388,000 Elizabethan curses at Tower.org­/ i n s ·u l tii n s u I t ­
.html? 
With just one click of your mouse, you can be greet­ed with " T h o u unmuzzled raw-boned haggard!" The insults generated on this site will surely be h e a r d around campus very soon. 
After cursing all day the Eliza­bethan way, you might con­sider the automatic 

virtual con­fession booth 
a t Light­factory.­org/gar­
vey. 

This site is clearly a "see-it­to-believe-it" page, so check it out and do your soul some 
god. If you are still ready for some humor after being cleansed, visit the "I've Lost My Pants" Web site at Sock-monkey­com/pants.html. There you can read hysterical accounts of lost pants, as well as eye witness accounts of the happenings. 
Want to play with words? Then go to Wordsmith.org/anagram/index.html and create your own anagrams. While you are at it, check what crazy combi­nations "I should be working" creates -"double wig honk sir" is only one of the thousands. 
ReflexGame.com 
The last straw before the real kicker of procrastina­tion is found a t Reflex Game­.com. This ridiculous time­wasting site grabs you and won't let go. The way the addictive game works is simple: you press the start button. and as soon as the background color changes you press the stop button. A new window will then pop up to tell you your reflex time. 

'-~°bi"-~ :; ,..;e-..t), 
Photo courtesy of Snood.com 

The computer game "Snood," available for free online in shareware form, is sweeping the nation and addicting college students. 
It doesn't sound so bad, and it wouldn't be, if the creators of the site didn't add snide com­ments to your time: "Keep practicing!" or "Did you fall asleep?" 
Snood 

If messing with anagrams or testing your ret1ex time isn't enough, you've reached the point of no return of procrastination: SNOOD. This is the game that is single handedly failing students out of school across the nation. 
You too can take part in the phenomenon that is Snood by downloading the shareware from Snood.com. The free version you get with the download is completely functional and leaves 
you with the 


option of register­ing the game for $14.95 only to receive a few small new func­

tions. While regis­tration for Snood is optional, playing for endless hours is not. 
This seemingly innocent game starts out with multiple rows of different kinds of happy face icons. You then proceed to shoot out given "snoods" to get three in a row so they will disappear. It sounds harmless, but 
watch out! 
If you don't 
believe the game 
could be so 
addicting, just 
say the word 
"snood" to 
someone 
who has 
already 
played the 
game, and 
t h e n 
watch 
t h e i r 
reaction_ 
The true 
procrasti­
nator 
Just in 
case these 
recommend­
ed places 
aren't enough 
for the expert 
procrastinator, 
try out SoYou­
W an n a.com, 
Amused.com or 
Bored.com. As their 
names reveal, they are all 

excellent resources for time-con­suming activities. And as for the No. 1 expert procrastinator who finds no use for all these Internet procrastinations -why don't you just try doing your work? 
INTERNET NEWS BRIEFS 
Telemar launches Brazilian phone-Web booths: 
Phone carrier Telemar and a partner are installing Internet access terminals in the ear-shaped public phone booths that dot street corners across Brazil. The terminals work off regular phone cards on sale at most newsstands for as little as 2 .10 reals Gust less than a dollar) and are shaded from the hot, trop­ical sun by the blue, plastic "orelhoes" -Portuguese for "big ears." The cheapest card buys 12 minutes of Internet access on the slim but sturdy, brushed steel terminals. In a country where 
· the digital gap is truly gaping, Telemar hopes the booths will encourage more Brazilians to surf the Net, especially poorer people who often cannot even afford a private phone line at home. Brazil, with its 1 70 million people, is Latin America's largest economy. It is also the region's leading Internet user, although its less than 4 million regular Internauts, as Web surfers are called here, reflect Latin America's meager Net pen­etration. "The idea is to make Internet access more accessible," said Flarys Araujo, coordinator of the project, dubbed "Orelhao.net." Telemar, which operates in 16 of Brazil's 27 states, has launched a pilot program of 50 Internet booths in Rio de Janeiro and Salvador, the capital of Bahia. By yearend, 2,800 multimedia terminals combining Net and telephone ser­vices, should be up and running. They will mainly be installed in shopping malls. convenience stores and gas stations, Araujo said. Lizandro Junior, automation manager at Itautec, an infor­mation technology manufacturer that is working with Telemar, said the company planned to produce 4,000 terminals this year, as other carriers follow Telemar's lead. Each terminal costs some 10,000 reals ($4,600). "The innovation here is the mix of computer technology and telecommunications technology," Junior said. "Telemar already had a marketing concept devel­oped and we had already developed the terminals -it was a perfect match." 
Net museum shows off North America: The United States, Canada and Mexico went online Tuesday with a panora­ma of North America for all the world to enjoy. The virtual museum shows off 300 pictures by some of the leading artists in the three countries. The images are accompanied by 30,000 words of text to describe and explain them. The name of the museum -"Panoramas" -was about the only word that did not need translation into French and Spanish: It's the same in all three languages, Unlike museums built of steel and concrete, this one will be open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day, for five years. After that, it will be checked to see whether it should continue or what changes or updates are needed. "You can go in your pajamas in the middle of the night and have a wonder­ful time," said Elizabeth Broun, director of the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, who was responsible for the U.S. portion of the project. The State Department furnished $70,000 for the project. Broun said the total cost to the three countries would be well under $1 million. In Canada, where the project was launched last s.ummer, it was handled by the Canadian Museum of Civilization and in Mexico by the National Institute of Fine Arts. The subtitle of the museum -"The American Landscape in Art" -covers more than pictures of fields and mountains. It includes so-called "mythic landscapes" such as the heroic mural in the U.S. Capitol called "Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way" by Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze. Included in the virtual museum are works by contempo­rary artists; photographs and paintings; individual portraits; and portrayals of modern city life. 
Amazon, Borders reportedly partner: Amazon.com is reportedly going to take over Borders Group Inc.'s online operations as part of a new partnership between the two com­panies. The new alliance would mean that Borders would effec­tively exit the online book-selling business, The Wall Street Journal reported on its Web site, citing people familiar with the deal. It wasn't immediately clear how Amazon would benefit from the operations, though the online retail giant is expected to receive promotion from Borders through its chain of off-line bookstores. Amazon spokesman David Stamper declined to comment, though the company has scheduled a press confer­ence Wednesday morning in Manhattan at which chief execu­tive Jeff Bezos will be attending. Attempts to reach Border ofli­cials for comment after business hours were not immediately successful. The Seattle-based Amazon has reportedly been in talks with various retailers, including Best Buy Inc., the nation's largest electronics retailer, and Wal-Mart Stores. According to analysts, the company is looking to forge an alliance similar to the one it struck with Toys R Us last year, whereby Amazon took over its online operations for the toy retailer while Toys R Us continues to handle the merchandising. The Ann Arbor, Mich.-based Borders, the nation's second largest bookseller, has been struggling with its e-commerce business since it was launched in 1998, three years after Amazon.com and one year after Barnes & Noble.com debuted. 
.. 
' 
Wednesday, April 11, 2001 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Good to the Last Drop upsets No. 25 Rucker Park All-Stars 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Writer 
Good to the Last Drop pulled off one of Bookstore Basketball XXX's first upsets, edging the No. 25 Rucker Park All-Stars 21-19 Tuesday in a game lengthened by fouls and a lack of lights. 
Good to the Last Drop held a slight lead through most of the game and he.Id on down the stretch with Rob Koch scoring five of the last seven points. While the Rucker Park All-Stars were a taller team and featured former Notre Dame basketball walk-on Aaron Bannister. their shots wouldn't fall at key points. 
"I had known that they were good and they were going to come play hard," said Phillip Madonia of the Rucker Park All­Stars. "They played really well together. We missed some open shots." 
After Bannister tied the score at 11 with a jumper, Good to the Last Drop's Pat Adams scored three straight points to put his team up by three. Adams was the go-to guy for Good to the Last Drop, scoring nine of his tea:Q)'s 21 points. 
"That was the best Bookstore game I've ever played in," said Adams. 
The Rucker Park All-Stars ­whose team included Madonia, Bannister, Andre Crompton. Eric Guerrera and Phil Irvine ­scored the next three points to knot the score at 14. 
Koch scored three of the next four points for .Good to the Last Drop as it took an 18-15 lead. After Bannister and Adams trad­ed hoops, the short but scrappy Madonia played bigger than his height by hitting two buckets for the Rucker Park All-Stars to make it a one-point game. 
Koch continued his hot streak, however, nailing a long jumper. Following a string of defensive stops. Irvine made it 20-19 on a reverse lay-up. The Rucker Park All-Stars kept their opponents from scoring and had a chance to tie, but Adams stole the ball and Koch hit a game-winning lay-up on the fast break. 
"They were awesome," Koch said of the Rucker Park All-Stars. "We didn't know how good of a chance we had." 
Joining Koch and Adams on Good to the Last Drop were Brian Hobbins, Matt Alverson and Dan Mazanec. 
In another close contest, Victoria's Secret Weapon outlast­ed the Hill Street Blues 21-18. The game looked like forwards against guards as Victoria's Secret Weapon cornered the size element and the Hill Street Blues took the edge on ball-handling. 
From an 11-11 tie, Victoria's 
. 

Bookstore Basketball Results, April I 0 
Special Uninvited Guests def. Thursday Nights, 21-7 
Duck Butter def. Young Guns 21-15 
Hot Damn def. Phat George & the NC Fan Club 
2 Guys Who'll Fight You ... def. I wish I was a little Bit Taller, 21-7 
Verzatility def. One Dot, No Feathers ... , 21-2 
Old Dawgs New Tricks vs. Slippery When Dwayne, 21-16 
Watch this ... eh? ... def. Team 189, 21-10 
Victoria's Secret Weapon def. Hill St. Blues, 15-11 
Flying Donkeys def. No, But I Wish I Did, 21-·11 
Mike Hawk: Shooting From the Hip def. We Still Hate Them, 21-7 
Team 303 def. Project Chicks from the Lew, 21-12 
Stanimal's Angels def. Remembering Danny Coast to Coast, forfeit 
One Word: Domination def. Team 460, 21-4 
Duany Duany def. Team Viagra Returns, 21-16 
Team 24 def. In the Buff ... , 21-13 
We Be Deadhorsen' def. Hamm's Legends, 21-12 
The Unit def. It Wasn't Me, 18-14 
Jimmy, Rade, Strap, Blue, and Coach Dale def. Team 443, 21-10 
Win def. Cajun Sexy Cookin', 21-9 
Team 61 def. Winthrop Girl 143, 21-1.8 
The Homewreckers def. Campus "Ministry" of Pain, 21-11 
Team Girth def. Team 419, 21-3 
He Hate Me def. One of Us Can Rebound, 21-10 
Secret Weapon went on a five­point run that proved the ditfer­ence in the game. The team of Daniel Sattizahn, Ethan McKinney, Jon Reali, Allen Zuma and Carlos Abeyta made the most of its dominant presence inside during that stretch to keep the Hill Street Blues from scoring. 
"They played tough," said Sattizahn of the Hill Street Blues. "We're a lot bigger than they were. They were hustlers." 
The Hill Street Blues -with Craig Murray, J.J. Frigge, John Harkins. Jeff Dobosh and Jim Ghiglieri on the roster -weren't through yet, as they scored the next two baskets. 
Victoria's Secret Weapon again gritted out a five-point lead at 19­14, but the Hill Street Blues again came back to pull within three. Frigge was the key for the Hill Street Blues as he hit several jumpers for his team. The Hill Street Blues came as close as a 20·18 deficit before Victoria·s Secret Weapon made its final shot. 
"We just weren't shooting very well today," said Frigge. "They killed us on the boards." 
Project Chicks from the Lew came ready for some serious hoops Tuesday in their game against Team 303. . 
Raquel "Bird" Reinbolt, Sara "Dawg" Sweeney, Angie "Shorty" Gubana, Michelle "Hoop" Hooper and Kristen "SheBoyGan" Gehrig all played basketball in high school. and they came not only with game faces but street-ball uniforms. The five girls wore long shorts, one sock tugged up to the knee, bandannas to tie back their hair and cut-off T-shirt sleeves to reveal nicknames written in black ink on their arms. 
"If we're going to play with boys," said Hooper. "We might as well look like them." 
Unfortunately for Project Chicks from the Lew, their uniforms didn't win the game for them. Ben Gilfillan, Blake Burgess, Mike Pykosz, Josh Wimmer and Brian Price of Team 303 brought enough skills to the court to advance through several rounds. 
Team 303. which sported pink shirts with nicknames on the back and white "Shockers" head­bands, only won 21·12, but the final score was arbitrary. Leading 


BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer A player backs his opponent down into the lane during Bookstore Basketball action Tuesday. 
11-4 at the break, Team 303 spent its halftime planning how many points to allow their oppo­nents, deciding it had to give them at least 10. . 
"We figured we'd have a little fun the first couple games," Pykosz said. "We think we have a pretty good team. We want to get to the round of 32 at least." 
While . the guys went for Globetrotter status at times with fancy alley-oops and showy pass­es, a couple missed dunks left them below the legends' lofty standards. Team 303 did hit a number of dunks in the game, with Pykosz and Burgess doing most of the scoring. All five of the members of Team 303 played interhall basketball in Knott, with Price the lone sophomore and the other four being freshmen. 
Hooper. who appeared to be the best player on Project Chicks from the Lew, wound up on the ground as the unintended landing point on a missed alley-oop by Team 303. She didn't mind. 
"That's the best part of the game," Hooper said. "You've got to have wounds to show." 
Project Chicks from the Lew lost out in the co-ed tourney. but height and experience should serve them well in the women's' tournament, which begins after Easter. 
"We're definitely dressing the same," Gehrig said. 
No. 13 seed Strategery cruised past the Squirrel Monkeys 21-3, using some NBA uniforms for inspiration. 
Joe Dursi. Jon Joyce. Gerald Wiltrout, Joey Hickey and John Barnes wore the jerseys of pro players like Dominique Wilkins, Shaquille O'Neal and Tim Hardaway for the day. Whether it was the jerseys or just skill, it worked to Strategery's advan• tage. 
"We had an advantage inside," said Joyce, "so we kept pounding it inside." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
An adorable 1.5 bdrm. House w/ garage by St. Patrick'spark. 
FOR SALE 
702-436-1594. 
Oakhill Condo ­ 4 bdr/3 bath  Rent for fall semester  
1/2 mile from campus  4 bedrooms, 2 full baths,  
fireplace, deck, pool access  washer&dryer, basement w/ hot  
$99,000/best otter  tub, new furnance, security system_  
call Tim @ 612-8Q2-0285  Call 277-0636  

5 miles from Notre Dame SUMMER RENTAL Clot g to everything 821 E. Wash 4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently 5 bed $200/mo remodeled Eric 243-2902 
Main level laundry finished base­
ment New home Fall 2001. This 3+ 
2076 living area bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam-
Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace, fenced back yard, 2-car garage. $995/mo Call 219-232-4527 Or 616-683-5038 ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND Wild Irish Rose Inn 
3mi north of campus 
*brkfst buffet ea AM 
*clean, comfortable & afford• 
able 

(2190 277-4303 or . 
www,wildirishrQs~ com 

Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house available to rent for fall semester. 2 . full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec 
WANTED

room, security system. Call now to 
see 277-0636 
Graduating seniors: 1 br sublet 5/1 5-8/15, Downers Looking to sell your apartment fumi-Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com-lure (beds, desks, couches, etc)? plex, room for 2 people, ND juniors looking to buy. $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 Call Nick at 4-4716 if interested. 
Eating concerns survey 2000; sum­mary results now available on University counseling Center's Web page. http://www.nd.edu:/-ucc/ucc_ed_su rvey_2000.html 
Hey Phil· Can I have a sample? 

LOST: Set of keys with a gold ND keychain and a red swiss army knife. Call Sam at 4-1981 
To my favorite two liner from your favorite one worder. Nothing like two hours of rehearsal. 
Molly-Beware the hammers from on high. They do more damage than some people realize! 
Mom and Dad• WE MISS SANDY!!!! Your long lost children. 
Three and six of six • It is midnight and a Y-town frat party is calling my name! It's time to take over a party and dance like rockstars again. 
But beware of the guys. 
Ken-Doll ­

plenty of storage pus with features like fireplace, I bet you wrinkled your nose at least Call 256-0698 cahedral ceilings, family room, CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR B-One and Special K -once today. Glad to see you're fol-deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage. MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN• I think that Indiana should not adopt lowing in my footsteps! 
PERSONAL

$1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE daylight savings time Add that to 616-683-5038. TO El your debate. That'll make na defi-Lissy·FOR RENT 1 or 2 BEDROOMS Indiana Catholic couple with huge nite winner! You could pass stagecraft without 
Fifth roomate needed for first OWN BATHROOM hearts wishing to adopt a child. We taking it for your fine use of tools! lake living bear Bremen semester. House is close to cam-$780/mo. can provide your baby with lots of To my favorite teddy bear ­most pets okay pus. 1-312-443-6062 JAIME love and a secure, stable life. Beware the ghost in 501. It had bet-Janel, Cass and Kel-· good luck on new 3 bedroom Call Dan at 4-2091. Reasonable expenses will be paid. ter be his fault if your bed is moved the tests today. You'll rock. 
air, garage, disposal, dishwaher 3-6 BDRM HOMES in the morning. $950/month Apt. starting June 1. 2 Bdrm 2 Bath. $180 per person For more into, please call Rebecca Chuk, you are too a flirt. page 219-935-7845 or call 546-W/0 Minutes to campus. Gall 243• Furn. Summer/Fall re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1 ·866· Lauren • we're both gonna have a 4430 0070. 272-6306 30-ADOPT. "good" time tonight. Right?? my cd burner rocks 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
said O'Toole. "You don't want to leave him in a game with Chicago State when we have two Big East series coming up this weekend." 
"We got off to a slow start. and never really got it going," 
said Thaman. "But  we  got  
some  clutch hits when  we  
needed them."  

In the sixth. Troy moved to third for Chicago State and. started a rally with a single, advancing Nick Gaitano to sec­ond. Gaitano would eventually score when Cougar rightfield­er Jarrod Bordi flew out for a sacrifice. 
That would be it for Chicago State, as Naumann buckled down and shut the Cougars down the last three innings. 
Bok was again the catalyst for the Irish offense in the bot­tom of the sixth. 
He tripled to right center, and scored when senior Andrew Bushey doubled down the leftfield line. 
Stanley had an outstanding game on the basepaths, with three stolen bases. The thefts 
Wednesday, April 12, 2001 page 13
The Observer . SPORTS 

NCAA OKs loans for 
student athletes 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The NCAA management 
council voted Tuesday to 
allow student-athletes to 
receive money for private 
lessons and to obtain a one­
time $20,000 bank loan based 
on future earnings. 
"We believe these are steps 
in the right direction to 
changing the environment in 
regard to student-athletes," 
said council chairman Charles 
Harris, commissioner of the 
Mid-Eastern Athletic 
Conference. 
NCAA president Cedric Dempsey said the bank loans would be available to student­athletes who are considered likely first-or second-round draft picks. 
Pay for lessons would be 
available to student-athletes 
who teach sports, such as golf 
or tennis, but that the pay 
would be limited to the going 
rate for such lessons. 
The council also decided to limit college basketball sched­ules to 29 games and to force tournaments, such as the Preseason NIT and Maui Invitational which now count as one game, to count each game against the limit. Postseason conference tour­naments will continue to count as one game. 
If approved by the Board of Directors, which is scheduled to meet April 26, the Preseason NIT could count for as many as four games on a team's schedule. 
"We're not taking away those events," Dempsey said. "The universities will make a moved him into fourth place on the all-time Notre Dame career stolen bases list with 69. 

decision based on what was voted on today." 
The committee also for­warded for additonal com­ments from member schools a proposal that would allow high-school athletes to accept prize money. sign contracts, compete with professionals and earn money and enter the draft while retaining eligibili­ty. 
But that proposal still has a long way to go. 
Dempsey said the Board of Directors, a committee of uni­versity presidents, will address amateurism deregu­lation at its August meeting.· Then it will be sent back to the management council for another vote. 
"Some people have referred to this as a setback and I dis­agree with that,'' Dempsey said. "Had the council taken no action or rejected moving it forward. that would have been a defeat. But this is the normal process we go through." 

Changes in summer basket­ball rules also won initial approval. That would reduce in-season basketball recruit­ing from 50 days to 40 and summer recruiting days from 23 to 20, and would require companies that run summer basketball events, such as Nike and Adidas. to disclose financial information. 
Also receiving approval was a proposal to reduce basket­ball scholarships allowed from 13 to 12 if a school's graduation rate is less than 50 percent. But the council recQmmended deferring the implementation of that until 2003. 
The Irish return to action Wednesday against Detroit at 
5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
It's a simple calculation: TIAA-CREF's low expenses mean more money Callusworking for you. forafryeexpensecalculator The equation is easy. Lower expenses in managing a THE IMPACT OF EXPENSES ON PERFORMANCE fund can equal better performance. $215,000 Low-Cost Account How much? Just take a look at the chart. Then call us. $176,000We'll send you a free, easy-to-use expense calculator so High-Cost Account you can see for yourself that no matter what your investment, you'll benefit from low expenses. And CREF variable annuity expenses range from just 0.28% to0.34%.1 For decades, we've been committed to low expenses, superior customer service and strong performance. EXPENSES 2 Add it all up and you'll find that selecting your Total accumulations a lier 20 years based on initial investment ofS50,000 and hypothetical a,mual returns of8%. Total returnsretirement provider is an easy decision: TIAA-CREF. and principal value ofinvestments will iluctuatc. and yield may vary. The ehan above is presented for illustrative purposes only • and docs not reflect actual pcrfonnancc. or predict future results. ofany TIAA-CREF account, or reflect taxes.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SMii  1. 8 0 0. 8'4 2. 2 7 7 6 www.tiaa-cref.org  
For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest 1. Estimated annual expenses are adjusted quarterly. 2. 1.40% is a very reasonable fee level for a typical fund; 0.40% is near, but not actually at the bottom of, the mutual fund expense ratio spectrum.• TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Se~ices, Inc. and Teachers Personal :nvestors Services. Inc. distribute securities products. • Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust serv1Ces. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. Q 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04  

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
st

The Students' 1 choice in Off-Campus Housing 
DON'T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 



AMERICAN LEAGUE 
I 
~ Nomo dominates, leads Sox to sound defeat of Orioles 
Though it wasn't a sellout -ting a double play with the Coleman said. 'Tm keeping it up a one-out single to Olmedo
l 
Associated Press 
the first time that's happened bases loaded. warm for Bernie until he gets Saenz. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 11, 2001 

since May 31  -the Fenway  Keith  Foulke  pitched the  back. We've got people here to  Reliever Jeff Nelson walked  
Boston  fans cheered loudly and waved  ninth  for  his second  save.  fill in."  Miguel Tejada  to  load  the  
Hideo Nomo had everything working for him again: his split-fingered fastball, his curve -and Brian Daubach.  signs that said "No Mo' Hits" on one side with the Japanese characters for strikeout on the other. Many stood when Nomo  Carlos Lee and Paul Konerko also had solo homers for the White Sox. "That was as ugly as it can  The Yankees, who have beat­en the Royals five straight times this season, erupted against Roberto Hernandez (0­ bases, but struck out Adam Piatt. Arthur Rhodes then walked Terrence Long on a full count  
Matched up with the Orioles again in his first game since no-hitting them last week, Nomo allowed four hits in six  came off the field -for good, it turned out -after working out of a jam with one out and run­ners on first and third in the  get for us," Chicago manager Jerry Manuel said. "It's ugly baseball, but it's a fight and we kind of enjoy that. We seem  1}, who was handed a 5-4 lead starting the ninth. "It's nice to have that kind of depth," New York manager Joe  to force home a run before striking out Eric Chavez to end the threat.  
innings and Daubach hit another two homers to lead the Boston Red Sox past Baltimore, 10-1. Brian Daubach, right, drove in Shea Hillenbrand, left. and Jason Varitek with a three-run homer in the fourth. "I wish he could pitch every day," said Daubach, who also homered twice in last Wednesday's no-hitter. "I've only played two games behind him, and it's worked out good for both of us." Nomo (2-0) received a conso­lation cheer from the crowd when he allowed Baltimore's first hit, a bunt single to Melvin Mora with two outs in the second inning. Johnny Vander Meer remains the only pitcher in major league history to pitch no-hitters in consecu­tive games, doing it for Cincinnati in 1938. "(I) wasn't thinking of a no­hitter tonight," Nomo said through an interpreter. "The only thing he was thinking of was not to let him score after he (Mora) got on base."  sixth. White Sox 8, Indians 7 Playing the 1,000th game of his major league career, Alomar drove in the go-ahead run. And it was against his old team no less, as the Chicago White Sox beat the Cleveland Indians. "I was just trying to do my job. It had nothing to do with who we were playing," said Alomar, who spent 11 years in Cleveland before signing with the \Vhite Sox, the Indians' AL Central nemesis, last winter. "It doesn't give me any spe­cial satisfaction. rm just trying to win ball games. I'm way over that Indians stuff." Alomar and Herbert Perry both had two RBI for the White Sox, who overcame some slop­py pitching to win back-to­back games for the first time this season. Gary Glover (1-0) pitched 3 2/3 scoreless innings for his first major league victory. He · got the White Sox out of a big jam in the fourth inning, get- to rise to that situation." With Chicago trailing 7-6 in the eighth, Lee led off with a single and scored the tying run on Perry's double to deep right field. That brought up Alomar, who lined one just over reliev­er Paul Shuey's head -out of the reach of second baseman and brother Roberto Alomar. Yankees 9, Royals 5 Michael Coleman took over for Bernie Williams and hit just like the absent All-Star. The rookie hit his first major league homer, triggering a five-run rally in the ninth inning that lifted the New York Yankees over the Kansas City Royals. Coleman, subbing for Williams while the center field­er tends to his ailing father in Puerto Rico, had three hits and drove in three runs. In his first game Monday night, Coleman had two hits and drove in one run as the Yankees won 13-4. "This is an opportunity,"  Torre said. "lie can play all three outfield positions. He's impressed me." The Yankees have beaten the Royals 27 times in their last 34 meetings. Mariners 5, Athletics Edgar Martinez homered and John Halama allowed four hits over 6 1-3 innings as the Seattle Mariners defeated the Oakland Athletics. Martinez hit his first homer of the season, a solo shot in the third inning. He improved to 9-of-11 -with eight walks -against the A's this season. Halama (1-1) walked one and struck out three. He retired 10 straight batters at one stretch and allowed only one batter past first base before leaving. Kazuhiro Sasaki got the final four outs for his fourth save. The Mariners' outfield didn't record a putout until the fifth inning, and only one through six innings with Halama pitch­ing. Halama walked Jose Ortiz to lead off the seventh and gave  Rangers 7, Angels 5 Chad Curtis hit a two-run homer and Ruben Mateo dou­bled in three runs as the Texas Rangers beat Anaheim in the Angels' home opener. Darren Oliver (2-0) beat Pat Rapp for the second time in a week despite allowing 12 hits in 5 2-3 innings. Oliver, who lost his final six decisions last season and fin­ished 2-9, gave up four runs on a chilly evening in which the temperature dipped into the 40s. The game drew 42,784, about 1,000 short of capacity. Alex Rodriguez, whose $252 million, 10-year contract is the richest in sports, was booed loudly his first time up, then was cheere.d when he ground­ed out to shortstop. Rodriguez was O-for-4, drop­ping his average to .258 with no homers and three RBIs. Tim Crabtree gave up a run­scoring double to Tim Salmon in the ninth, then finished for his third save in as many chances.  
Notre Dame Finance Club's  
Distinguished Financial Leaders Lecture Series  
Presents:  
JAMES E. ROHR  
President and CEO of PNC Financial Services Group  
& Notre Dame Alum  


When & Where? Wednesday April 18 at 6:00pm Jordan Auditorium (MCOB) *Reception to follow in Atrium 

-Mr. Rohr will speak about the Banking Industry, PNC, and his path to becoming CEO. Following the lecture there will be a recepti<?n! where students may speak with Mr. Rohr 
'l 
about any topic including personal career advice. 
, \ ' 
Wednesday, April I 1, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ND returns home to face Purdue 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
The eighth ranked Notre 
Dame women's tennis team is 
on a roll after winning their 
19th victory of the season by 
defeating Illinois 4-3 last week. 
The Irish are now at 19-4. their 
best start ever under head 
coach Jay_Louderback and 
their best record since 1986. 
"This year our depths are 
very good," Louderback said. 
"We are so deep, all the way 
down the girls compete well. It 
comes down from the top with 
[Michelle] Dasso." 
After two tough matches against the Midwest opponents Indiana and Illinois last week, the Irish will be back at home Wednesday to take on Purdue. The Irish narrowly escaped from Indiana and Illinois with close wins after battling from behind in a number of singles matches. This week they are looking to improve and get th_emselves ready for the Big East tournament. 
"It was good for us to have two really tough matches like those especially on the road, it will really prepare us for when tournament time comes," said Louderback. 
The young Boilermakers. who have faced their share of tough opponents, should be an inter­esting match up for the experi­enced Irish. They are looking to bounce back from a close 4-3 loss to Minnesota last week. 
"Purdue struggled a little this year, they are very young and had a very, very tough sched­ule," Louderback said. "They definitely won't be afraid to play us, they are a pretty ath­letic team but they don't have a lot of experienced veterans." 
The Irish have won four in a row and are hoping to sweep their last two matches before the upcoming Big East and NCAA tournaments. With upperclassmen in five out of six of their singles lineup, their strength this season has been experience. And with Michelle Dasso leading the way they are confident they can do well to end out the season and in the tournament. 

"Experience and competitive­ness are two of our biggest strengths and come tournament time those will be really big," said Louderback. 
SOFTBALL 

Irish face Falcons without Bledsoe 
enter the starting lineup in 
By LIA GARCIA MILHOAN 

Bledsoe's absence. Sharron 
Sports Writer 

said that it will depend a great deal upon who is hitting 
The Irish look to continue the ball well. their winning ways today "To lose our starting third when they face Bowling baseman is unfortunate," Green University in a double­said Sharron. "Hopefully. header at Ivy Field. she'll be back quickly so it 
L a s t Saturday the Irish defeated the University 0 f Connecticut 6-0 in the first game and 1-0 in the second. On Sunday Notre Dame record­ed its seventh straight dou­b le header sweep by defeating w o n • t affect our

"To lose our starting chem ­third baseman is unfortu­is try. 
When•

nate. Hopefully she·u be 
ever you

back quickly so it won't lose a affect our chemistry. starter it 
hurts."

When you lose a starter, 
Bowl­

it hurts.·· ing Green comes into Wed­
Jen Sharron 
nesday's

captain 
contest 
Syracuse 6-0 and 6-0. 
With the wins, Notre Dame pushes its record to 32-3 overall and 8-0 in Big East play. 

Senior captain Jen Sharron says she isn't worried about a let down even though today's game is against a non-confer­ence opponent. 
"The team is going into each game focused," Sharron said. "With Andria Bledsoe out for a while some people are playing out of position so we'll definitely be focused." 
Bledsoe was injured in a game against Syracuse and suffered a Postier Cruciate Ligament tear. 
It is still undecided who will 
17-14 on 

the sea­son after ending a four game losing streak with a double­header sweep of Ohio 3-2 and 3-0. 
Senior Nikki Rouhana leads the Falcons with a .358 bat­ting average with freshman Jenifer Kernahan close behind her with a .333 aver­age. 
Over the weekend, the Notre Dame pitching staff lowered its ERA to . 98 on the season with Jen Sharron owning a 1.17 ERA and fresh­man Kristin Schmidt holding 
a .57 ERA. Against UConn. Melanie Alkire hit her second homerun of the season and the 27th of her career to set a Notre Dame school record. 

Try All The Winning Varieties! 
f.....~ HOT POCKETS• ~~ LEAN POCKm~ artin's, Krog 

other fine stores in your (in the freezer section) 
,~ CROISSANT POCKm~ 
~\ HOT POCKETS•brand PIZZA MINrs· 
LISTENING SESSION 
Location: 119 O'Shaugnessy Hall Date and Time: 7 :00 -9:00 p.m., Tuesday, April 17 
The Sexual Assault Advisory Group was created in the Fall 
2000 Semester by Fr. Mark Poorman, CSC, Vice President 
for Student Affairs, and is composed of Notre Dame and 
St. Mary's students, faculty and staff particularly interested 
and involved in addressing sexual assault issues on the campuses. The group, intended to advise the University, has met several times this year and looks forward to continuing its examination and review of campus concerns. This listening session, open to all students, faculty and staff, is intended to provide an informal opportunity for students and others to share their experiences and opinions with the Advisory Group. 


f
\ 


By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
'In their fourth straight 4-3 tiebreaker match, the No. 16 Irish defeated No. 19 Indiana State Tuesday. 
"Indiana State is for real." said head coach Bob Bayliss. "They have older players. guys who have played on the Satellite Pro Tour. But our guys played with a ton of energy and spirit. The bottom of our lineup really held us there today." 
Juniors Casey Smith and James Malhame. who were doubles partners last season. found their chemistry and rhythm at No. 2 doubles, win­ning 8-1 against Indiana State's Lovre Brajkovic and Verdan Vidovic. 
"We played solid," said Malhame, who is also Smith's roommate. "We didn't miss too many balls and we let them make the mistakes." 
Finally getting the doubles point is a good sign as the Irish head to the Big East Championships in two weeks. 
"[Smith and Malhame'sl match was one of the more dominating doubles matches I've seen all year," said head coach Bob Bayliss. 
At No. 3 doubles. freshman Luis Hadd{)ck-Morales and Matt Daly beat Dalibor Mihajlovic and David O'Connell 


L • 

,, 
, I 
LI 
, ' . 
L 
I I I I 
) 
: I ~ : l ~ 
I ( 
i I I I 
'j 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wedn~sday, April 11, 2001 
MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 16 Irish erase two-match deficit, def eat Sycamores 

Irish take 6th at Jessop-Whittier 
Special to the Observer 
The 14th-ranked varsity eight team of Katherine Burnett, Diane Price, Becky Luckett, Casey Buckstaff, Michelle Olsgard, Ashlee Warren, Ann Marie Dillhoff, Jayme Szef c and Claire Bula placed sixth in the grand final of the Jessop­Whittier Race at San Diego Crew Classic. Notre Dame fin­ished with a time of 7:14.43. Ninth ranked USC won the race in 6:52.51, followed by No. 2 Washington at 6:53.03. Virginia was third in 7:06.73, with sev­enth-ranked California fourth at 7:06.98. Clemson (7:13.84), Notre Dame and Texas 
(7:17.64) rounded out the race. 
After a lengthy delay on Saturday due to inclement weather, the Irish second varsi­ty of eight crew of Leah Ashe, Anne Starks, Maureen Carr, Melissa Alberding. Courtney Mercer, Erica Drennan, Kerri Murphy, Katie Besson and Erin Kiernicki finished fourth in its heat of the the junior varsity race with a time of 7:12.33, sending the Irish to the petite finals on Sunday. 
On Sunday, the Irish took sec• ond in 7:09.74, trailing only petite champion California, who crossed the line in 7:03.11. Texas was third in 7:16.03, fol­lowed by Duke at 7:21.81. Tulsa and Stanford finished fifth and sixth respectively. 
The Irish are next in action 
Saturday, April 13, when they 
travel to Bloomington, Ind.• for 
the Indiana Classic. 
The team finished third in the heat that qualified them for the finals of the Whittier Cup. 

8-6. "No. 3 wasn't pretty, but I'll take it," said Bayliss. 
The Sycamores' took first doubles, defeating juniors Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico 8-5. 
"\Ve didn't play the way we should have," said Taborga. "We dug ourselves in a hole and it was hard to get out." 
The Irish fell to 3-1 after los­ing first, second and third sin­gles. 
Smith, defeated 6-1. 6-3 by Indiana State's Jonas Piibor, struggled with shoulder pain throughout his match. 
"Casey was not 100 percent today," said Bayliss. "He really took one for the team today. That was not the Casey Smith that has been playing for us the rest of the season." 
At second singles, Taborga fell to Indiana State's Stefan Hirn 7-5, 6-2, after winning the first set 5-2. Haddock-Morales was defeated by the Sycamores' Vidovic 7-6, 6-2 at third singles. 
Showing uncommon poise at the bottom of their lineup, the Irish defied the two-point deficit to pull out a win. Senior Matt Daly defeated O'Connell at No. 6 singles 6-3, 6-2. "There was some pressure after the other side lost all three," said Daly. "But I knew ifl kept play­ing I would win." 
Daly was able to feed off of 
The Irish team of Burnett, Price ,Luckett, Buckstaff, Olsgard, Warren, Dillhoff, Szefc and coxswain Bula finished third in heat one with a time of 6:34. 70. Second-ranked Washington won the heat in 6:26.03, followed by seventh­ranked California at 6:34.26. No. 18 Texas was fourth in 6:35.58, while Stanford (6:41.61}, 20th-ranked Oregon State (6:44.39) and Duke 
THE 

CHHISTIAH PLRTOHISM 

of Simone Weil 
April lY-22. 2001 at the Uniuersit~ 
of Hotre Dame 

Keynote Address Friday, April 20 
7:30 p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall 
David Tracy
The Univer!>ity of Chicago 
Simone Weil: Tragedy, Plato, and Christianity 
David Tracy is the Andrew Thomas 
Greeley and Groce McNichols 
Greeley Distinguished Service 
Professor of Catholic Studies at the 
Divinity School of the University of 
Chicago. His publications include The Analo9ical lma9ination: Christian Theology and The Culture of Plural­ism, On Naming the Present: Reflections on God, Hermeneutics and Church, Polarity and Ambiguity. Professor Tracy is presently preparing 
his Gifford Lectures for publication under the title: This Side of God. 
momentum generated by early points on the courts next to him. 
"Daly started off very hot, then scratched and clawed the rest of the way to win," Bayliss said. 
Freshman Brian Farrell defeated Henry Choi 7-5, 7-6 (9-7) at No. 5 singles to tie the match. 
"Farrell has won a lot of big matches for us this year,'' said Bayliss. 
At No. 4 singles, Talarico fought a long battle against Brajkovic, clinching the Irish victory with a 7-6 {8-6), 4-6, 6­4 win. The match went on so long that the last set had to be moved indoors as the sun went down. 
"Moving inside favored Aaron's serve. It won a lot of free points," said Bayliss. "To serve with that much authority speaks volumes for his poise. He's the man." 
Talarico improves his dual match singles record to 13-3. and this marks the fifth time in Notre Dame's 15 victories that his win has decided the match. 
The Irish will now focus on preparing for revenge against Miami in the Big East, confi­dent from this win. Notre Dame improves to 15-5 with the win, while Indiana State falls to 18­4. 
"It was sweet to win one like this," said Bayliss. 
(6:46.51) rounded out heat one. Ninth-ranked USC was the win­ner of heat two in 6:28.50, while No. 12 Virginia was sec­ond at 6:33.80 and Clemson was third at 6:35.91. Washington, California. Notre Dame. USC. Virginia, Clemson and Texas all qualified for Sunday's grand final. 
The second and third varsity eight were cancelld due to weather. 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Javier Taborga makes a return during No. 16 Notre Dame's 4-3 victory against Indiana State Tuesday. 
$;~::::::::::::::::::::: ::::. •••••• :/;::~:mimt~:;:i~:i::t: ··•··••x~~-------------... 
!:;1==:::::m::,:,Y•••':•:' .,.......'"'11,....r""."""'I-....... 
::::;:=:tt:::<:fl\i:ir:1:i::::-:::.··.;-.--·-·.-.·.·.·.-=•:::•=<·=-:-:-:-·-=··-·-·.· 
nd

tilfllJ[lillt~
~;eke 
s• 

l:!!ir!l;11/:l11111/i!~lting available 
WOMEN'S ROWING 


Wednesday, April 11, 200 I page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

.Murphy 
continued from page 20 
dangling his name in the draft pool is the chance to test where he would likely be selected in the draft. 
'Tve discussed my future with some agents," Murphy said, "and although I haven't signed with one, I feel that it is best to take advantage of this oppor­tunity." 

to con­
Pro-jec­"I've discussed my future 
sider.
tions vary 
with some agents and A I s o
widely, 
although I haven't signed impot­
changing 
tan t is
almost with anyone, I feel that it whatdaily as 
is best to take advantage teams
under­
of this opportunity." show
classmen 
inter­
make deci­
e s t ,
sions on Troy Murphy 
since a
whether or 
captain team
not to enter the draft. At this point, ESPN .com has projected Murphy as a middle-to-late first-round pick, while SportingNews.com pegged Murphy as a 10th pick overall in a list that includes only players who have officially declared for the draft. 
Some of the underclass­men who have put their name out there for the draft are: Seton Hall fresh­man power forward Eddie Griffin, high school senior centers Eddy Curry and Tyson Chandler, Arizona forwards Richard Jefferson and Michael Wright and Michigan State center Zach Randolph and guard Jason Richardson. 
"The younger, athletic guys -they're catching the league's eye a little more now," Brey said. "Certainly five lhigh school] guys projected in the top 20, that's a strong trend." 
Brey emphasized that pecking order in the draft isn't the only thing for 
Murphy 
with  a  
lower  
p  i  C  k  
might be  a  better fit for a  
player.  

If Murph-y returns for his senior season, he has a chance to become one of just 10 players who have been three-time -first-team All-Americans. 
One of five finalists for this year's Wooden Award, Murphy could move into the role that Duke senior Shane Battier enjoyed this season as media darling, Naismith Award winner and Wooden Award win­ner. Battier, a likely lottery pick in the upcoming NBA Draft, also won an NCAA 
Championship. 
Murphy's teammates 
didn't seem surprised by 
his non-decision. 
"He has a chance to ful­. fill a dream," said junior 
power forward Ryan 
Humphrey, "and he can 
also come back to college." 
David Graves, a junior 
small forward and one of 
Murphy's closest friends, 
said, "We need to go on 
with or without him, 
preferably with him .... It 
[the decision) will affect 
him more than anyone. It'll 
affect him more than this 
program. It'll affect him 
more than this University." 
Another close friend of 
Murphy's, "junior center 
Harold Swanagan, said, "I 
think it's a' good choice for 
him." 

Should Murphy opt to 
leave Notre Dame, Brey 
will have three scholar­
ships available. The two 
scholarships open are 
those of sophomore center 
Ivan Kartelo, who plans to 
transfer. and recruit 
Jemere Hendrix, who will 
not attend Notre Dame due 
to academic reasons. 
Because the Irish already 
have two spots available, 
Murphy's decision will not 
affect the recruiting 
process. 
"We have some other 
scholarships," Brey said, 
"so it's not like we're in a 
bind and we need that. It's -really no effect on our recruiting at all. If it were to open up, we probably wouldn't fill it." 
THf 
CHIISJIAH PLAJOHISM 

of Simone Weil 
April 1g-22r 2001 
at the Uni uersity of Hotre Oarne 
Web site: 
www.nd.edu/~weilows 
Organized by 
E. Jone Doering, University of Notre Dome 
and 
Eric 0. Springsted, Princeton Theological Seminary 
Questions? 
Coll (219) 631-6691 Fox {219} 631-8083 E-mail: cce.14;nd.edu 
The American Weil Society celebrates 
its 21st year with an international 
conference at the University of Notre 
Dame Center for Continuing-Education, McKenna Hall. Noted keynote speak­ers from France, England, and America will participate thanks to major funding by the Florence Gould Foundation, The Henkels Lecture Series, and the generosity of the following groups at Notre Dame: Core Course, Gender Studies, the Graduate School, the Department of Government, the 
THURSDAY, APRIL 1 9 
7:30 p.m.: 
The Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, Professor Emeritus of the University of Notre Dame, will introduce the first keynote speaker, Louis Dupre, Professor Emeritus of Yale University, who will set the tone for the conference with his presentation: nchristian Platonism: Its Past and Future. • 
Reception in McKenna Hall 
FRIDAY, APRIL 20 
8:30-10 a.m.: 
Session A 

Larry Schmidt and Pat Patterson, University of 
Toronto 

"The Christion Materialism of Simone Weil" 
Robert Chenavier, President of L'Associotion pour l'etude de lo pensee de Simone Weil. 
• Simone Weil. Platonisme ocheve ef moterialisme coherent, n given in French 
1 0:30 a.m.-noon 
Session 8 

Richard Bell, The College of Wooster 
•Justice: Retributive or Restorative? Reflections in the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission with Simone Weil" · 
Christine Evans, Lesley College 
"Completing the Unfinished Story: Analyses of the Debacle 1940-43 by Simone Weil and Some Contemporaries• 
Session C 

Patricio Reynaud, Miami University: 
"Prise de propositions de Simone Weil sur le "monde du melange," given in French 
International Studies Program and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. The presentations will explore how Simone Weil's reading of ancient Platonism and Christianity make her a major figure in the history of Christian Platonism and give that tradition contemporary relevance. 
The conference will begin the evening of Thursday, April 19, with an opening keynote address by Professor Louis Dupre (introduced by Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.). The Schola 
Vance Morgan, Providence College 
"Simone Weil and the Divine Poetry ofMathematics" 
1:30 •2:30 p.m.: 

Keynote Address: Emmanuel Gabellieri, 
l'Universite Catholique de Lyon 
"Reworking Platonism: Simone Weil's Trinitarian 
Metaxology," given in English 
3:00-5:1 5 p.m.: 
Session D 

Cyril O'Regan, University of Notre Dame 
"Counter-Mimesis and Simone Weil's Christian 
Platonic Hint for Overcoming the Glamor of Evil" 
Eric 0. Springsted, Princeton Theological Seminary "I dreamed Isow Saint Augustine ... '' 
7:30-9:00 p.m.: 

Keynote Address: David Tracy, University of 
Chicago 

"Simone Weil: Tragedy, Plato and Christianity" 
9:30 p.m.: 

Concert by the Scola Musicorum 
SATURDAY, APRIL 21 
8:30-10:00 a.m.: Session E 

Florence Oelussy, Bibliotheque Na,ionale, Paris 
n•ro on'. Guelque chose sans nom sur quoi /'esprit bute, • given in French 
lnese Radzins, Vanderbilt University 
'"Model and Monogenes: Simone Weil's Timaeus and Trinitarian Creation" 
10:30 a.m.-noon: Session F 

Mortin Andie, University of Mossochusetts·Boston 
"Freedom in Boethius and Weil" 
Musicorum of Notre Dame's Music Department will give a concert of Gregorian chant on Friday evening after the keynote address by David Tracy. After the banquet, Notre Dame students from the "Simone Weil: Justice, Grace and Creativity" course will give a reading from Stephanie Strickland's "The 
Red Virgin: A Poem of Simone Weil." The conference will end at Sunday noon after a concluding round table discus­sion. 
No charge for Notre Dame faculty or students. 
J.P. Little, St. Patrick's College, Dublin 
"Simone Weil and Tantric Buddhism" 
Session G 

Lissa McCullough, University of Chicago 
"Simone Weil's 'Platonism'? The Argument 
Against" 

Michael Ross, Catholic University: 
"Simone Weil on fhe Good: the Early and Middle 
Years" 

1:30-2:45 p.m.: 
Keynote Address: Michel Narcy, Centre notional 
de research scientifique 
"Limites et signification du plofonisme de Simone 
Weil," given in French 
3:00-4:30 p.m.: 
Session H 

Diogenes Allen, Princeton Theological Seminary 
"The Need for History" 
Miklos Veto, l'Universite de Poitiers 
"Simone Weil: Between Plato and Kant" 
7-10 p.m.: 
Banquet 

Reading of selected poems in Stephanie 
Strickland's "The Red Virgin" by students in the 
Notre Dome course: "Simone Weil: Justice, Grace and Creativity" 
SUNDAY APRIL 22 
10:30 a.m.: 

Concluding Panel Discussion on ;,The Relevance and Future of Weil Studies" in the university course c~rriculum 



I 
I·, 
I I 
I 

page 18 
The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Howard stands alone at tailback 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
Less than eight months ago, Irish tailback Terrence Howard considered leaving Notre Dame because of a lack of playing time. Now, he is the only tail­back left standing. 
Tony Fisher, Howard's room­mate who gained 607 yards last fall, is out following shoulder surgery. Julius Jones -the leading rusher for 2000 with 657 yards on the ground -cannot practice this spring for discipli­nary reasons. 
That leaves Howard taking nearly all the snaps at tailback, with Chris Yura getting a few reps and Mike McNair rotating in on single-back formations. 
"He's getting a thousand reps," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "He's gone from being rota­tioned to being the rotation." 
Howard broke into that rota­tion in Notre Dame's Oct. 21 vic­tory over West Virginia. After rushing for just 56 yards through the first six games, he ran 80 yards for touchdown in second quarter to tie game 14­14, the 15th longest rush by an Irish player in history. 
Howard totaled 424 rushing yards on the season. This spring, Howard's goals are clear. 
"J'm trying to be the No. 1 back," Howard said. "There's no question that Tony wants to be the No. 1 back, Julius wants to be the No. 1 back and I want to be the No. 1 back." 
After two off-seasons in which he worried about playing time as well as his ailing father, who passed away last summer, the rising senior has developed into a leader. 
"I'm trying to go out there and be the best I can," Howard said. "This is my last year. I'm trying to be the leader and step· up for the team." 
Howard has changed his lifestyle to suit his leadership role -and help him in his quest to be the top back. 
"Right now I think I'm doing the right things." Howard said. "I'm staying healthy. I'm going out there and working hard. I'm getting rest, eating right. Every groove I got to be more and more patient." 


Notes: 
. 
In the battle for playing time in the defensive backfield, Davie came away from Tuesday's practice impressed with the play of rising senior Clifford Jefferson and rising sophomore Preston Jackson. 

"Clifford Jefferson's a guy that's working hard," Davie said. "There's no tucking his tail between his legs over what's happened the last year or the misfortunes he's had. Preston Jackson's a competitive, high energy little guy. It's an impor­tant off-season for him." 

. 
Irish offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers remained coy about the competition at quar­terback. 


"They're getting the same amount of snaps per practice amongst themselves," Rogers said. Some guys do things better than others, but they're all get­ting better and I think they're all quality players. The thing that we've got to keep in mind is that two of them haven't played and one of them has a grand total of eight games under his belt." 

time I'm out there I can give 100 percent." 
Howard is working mainly on fundamentals this spring. specif­ically on his ball-handling skills after being labeled as prone to fumbles in the past. 
"If you're a receiver and you only catch two balls in practice, how are you going to catch a ball in a game," Howard said. 'Tve been every rep just concentrat­ing on holding onto the ball and being patient. That's one of my main focuses, just holding onto the ball." 
While he ente·red his last two seasons needing to impress coaches for playing time, he enters this coming summer with a leg up on his absent position­mates. 
"When they come out there in the summertime I'll probably be a step or two ahead," Howard said. 
Still, the Willingboro, N.J. has not forgotten how he got as far as he did last season. 
"I think I improved it by being patient. I think last year, since it was my first year on the field carrying the ball a lot, I was try­ing to rush things and trying to take everything at a fast, fast pace," he said. "As I got into a 
THE FIRST ANNUAL ERSKINE PETERS RESEARCH FORUM 
Topic: . ...A Choir of Descanting Voices-Configuring Afr1~n and Afrodiasporan St:udies for 2001 and Beyond 
A Panel Discussion Featuring t:he 2000-2001 Erskine Peters Dissertation Fellows 
Panelists 

Mr. Oavarian L. Baldwin 
Ph.D. Candldata 

New York University 
Ms. Tiwanna M. Simpson Ph.D. Candidate Ohio State University 
Ms. Michelle L. Taylor 
Ph.D. Candidate 
Rice University 

Ms. Catherine C. Fourshey Ph.D. Candldate University of Califomta, Loll Angeles 
Respondent 

Or. Carol Duncan 
Assistant Professor 
Department of Religion and CUiture WIifrid Laurler Univenwty 
WEDNESDAY 11 APRIL 2001 

7:00 P.M. CC.E/MCKENNA HALL AuDITORtUM 
Reception Following 
Wednesday, April 11, 2001 
Lacrosse joins Saint Mary's athletics 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports editor 

Spring training for the soccer team won't be the only place goals are being scored on the Saint Mary's campus this spring. The athletic department has recently announced the cre­ation of a new intramural lacrosse team that may net some prospective students. 
"We have a lot of prospectives ask about lacrosse and field hockey," Gretchen Hildebrandt, assistant athletic director and head of intramural sports, said. "Those are two typical sports for women coming from Catholic high schools, especially all women's high schools. It just seems right.., 
Hildebrandt, along with athletic director Lynn Kachmarik, created the lacrosse program as part of the work going into expanding the Saint Mary's · athletic department. After several years of the ques­tion 'do you have lacrosse?' crossing the lips of prospec­tive students, Hildebrandt and Kachmarik decided it was time to provide an affirmative answer. 
"Our main draw is to bring in students," Hildebrandt said. "Coming in [prospective students} will see there's more offered to them." 
Although the athletic department is looking at making both lacrosse and field hockey club sports down the road, financial issues have limited the pos­sibilities to intramural lacrosse this year. Women playing lacrosse must pro­.vide their own equipment. offering the athletic depart­ment a cost-free way to increase the number of pro­
grams  offered  at  Saint  
Mary's.  
Over  20  women  have  

already signed up for the club, surprising staff and 
student captains on the team. 
"It's a great turnout," Hildebrandt, said. "(The women] are really excited about coming out and play­ing." 
"I think that everyone was surprised that there has been so much interest in lacrosse," sport co-cap­tain Josie Bilas said. "There were over 20 people that signed up for it, many of which have never played." 
The new members of the intramural squad have teamed up with lacrosse veterans to learn the skills and get prepared to start playing some games. 
"Working with new play­ers is beneficial because we are able to teach them a new game and at the same time strengthen our skills since many of us have not played in a while." Bilas said. "The new players are willing to learn, so that makes teaching a lot easier on all ofus." 
Games will begin next week. For the time being, the women will be dividing themselves up into teams and playing intrasquad games. However, the women have looked to con­tact the Notre Dame women's lacrosse club and dorm teams in the hopes of having some pick-up con­tests on Sunday afternoons. 
In the future, according to Hildebrandt, the athletic department will be looking into making lacrosse a club sport, perhaps even a varsi­ty sport. The department is also looking at adding field hockey when money allows it. 
"We eventually want to take [lacross-e] to club sta­tus, hopefully without expense," Hildebrandt said. "Adding field hockey is still a financial issue." 
Women are still welcome to Jorn the team. Information on joining is available at Angela Athletic Facility. 
African and Rfrican-Rmerican Studies Program 
Lecture 
Thursday, Rpril 12th 
6:00 p.m. 
119 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Speaker 
Dr. Carol B. Duncan Dept. of Theology, Wilfrid Laurier University (Canada) 
'"Many Mansions There': Conceptualizing Community in the Toronto Spiritual Baptist Church." 
Sponsored by: African and Rfrican-Amerlcan Studies Program Dean of College of Arts & Letters 

{ 
'I 

Wednesday, April 11, 2001 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
TYLER 


THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
WHATELY 


Fox TROT 
You iHtNk' "THIS IS FUNNl?!.? Yoo llitNIC TRICICtNG ME tNio 
OS1N6 PERMANENT BLUE INK 
To DRAW A GoATEE oN MY 
FACE ON A SCHOOL 
NIGHT 15 
FUNNY.~~;, 
~' 


BILL AMEND 
jUST WAIT TILL I 
JUDGING BY I'M PETER, 
CoME
YooR FACE, MoV1NG

Go TELL MoM ANO 
iJACk! 
ro SAY OUT. WE WERE
DAD.' WE'LL SEE 
I GIIFFAW1NG,
WHo'S LAUGHING 
THEN, PAL.'
, __....._ 
... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Bowling ball material

1 Unaccompanied 32 Atka dweller5 Bob Seger's 33 Gives the coup -Got Tonite" de grAce 9 Patrick Dennis's 35 Mathematician'saunt "ta-da"13 Pseudo­36 Lamentationaesthetic 37 Authoritative14 Regarding 
text 16 Xerox insert: 38 0.R. doings
Abbr. 
39 Crock 17 With 6-Down, 
40 Harrydoctor's Kemelman's 

observation 
whodunit hero, 20 "Finlandia" e.g. composer 41 Leaf collection? 21 Spring nymph 42 1974 World's 22 Paderewski's Fair site "Minuet 44 Not barren 23 1993 standoff 46 29-or 30-day site month 47 Maria
24 One of his listeners got cut 48 When Revere off made that ride 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Puzzle by Hanry Hook 30 It borders la mer 31 Barely defeated 34 Fall back 37 Sans freshness 
50 Onions' kin 55 See 23-Down 57 Crowning point 58 Ukrainian city 59 Mexican child 60 "Pow!" 61 Quarterback's 
tactic 62 Unduly interested 
DOWN 

1 Word after "he" and "she" 2 ·star Trek: T.N.G." role 3 Swift's "The 
Tale of_" 4 Circular course 5 On the decline 6 See 17-Across 7 11 /11 honorees 
8 Chang's closest relative 9 Parliamentary 
proposal 10 Oratorio portion 11 Attention 
12 Dinosaur's start 
debater's arguments 18 "Four Quartets" 
poet 19 Fiesta fare 23 With 55-Across, 
patient's reply 24 Soloists' 
lead-ins, maybe 25 Knocked for _ 26 "Rad!" 
one 

38 _ juris (legal phrase) 40 They meet in the middle 
41 Reservation 43 First name in · the N.B.A., once 
45 Oater props 48 Coyly roguish 49 Reebok rival 
soap and the pop-top can were invented 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ' 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Joel Grey, Ethel 
Kennedy, Peter Riegert, Michele 
Scarabelli, Ellen Goodman, Jen­
nifer Esposito 
Happy Birthday: It's time to 
make some choices. You are the 
master of your own destiny, so 
take hold of your life and dedde 
what will make you happy. It's 
time to stand your ground and 
follow your heart. Don't let any­
one push you into a direction you 
don't care to pursue. 1his can be 
an eventful year. Your numbers: 
7, 15, 22, 26, 34, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Joint ventures will be more suc­
cessful than you thought possi­
ble. Your employer will be 
pleased with the innovative ideas 
you implement in your work. 
Don't give up on love; be more 
attentive. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Expect a lack of sympathy from 
your partner if you've been stub­
born. Don't limit yourself at work 
or your boss may question how 
important your position really is. 
Mistakes are evident. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You are beginning to make a mark at your place of work. You should be able to make notable contribu­tions, which will help you win points and lead to a raise and additional responsibility. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't believe everything your partner says. Deception and eva­siveness will prevail, causing misunderstandings. Attend new social functions and expand your circle of friends. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your lover will be irate if you've been flirtatious or inattentive to his or her needs. Compromise 
EUGENIA LAST 
to avoid verbal battles and embarrassment. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Entertainment should include 
sports events or physical activi­
ties. Take time to help children· 
with projects that may be too hard 
for them to do alone. You'll be 
rewarded for your patience. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Positive changes can be made in 
your domestic environment. 
Acceptance will be half the battle. 
You'fl be surprised at how well 
things fall into place if you just let 
things happen. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
You will make mistakes if you let 
your emotions take over. Problems 
with electrical gadgets, water or 
other necessary implements will 
cause delays and frustrations. 000 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Z0: You'll have good ideas that could turn into cash. Be secretive, or someone may try to walk away with your plans. Make alterations that will allow you to start a home-based business. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Further your career by talking to superiors. You may find yourself doing more travel related to busi­ness. Don't forget to pay attention to those who love you. All work and no8lay isn't healthy. 000 
AQ ARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

..
Dig deep for the information required to make your personal decisions. You have a lot on your plate. Don't hesitate to call tru.ngs as you see them. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): navel will initiate new friendships. You will have a hankering to find out more about foreign cultures and philosophies. look to friends for SOWld advice. You don't want to make a bad move. 000 
Tweety 
56 Napkin holder 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL
NOTRE DAME 
Wed. vs. BowliQg Green (2) 3:30 pm 
~··

BASEBALL 
Thurs. vs. Loyola (IL) (2) 4 pm

Todayvs.,Chicago S1ate 5pm 
~ /!'Y Field g
-;. 

Wednesday vs. Detroit 5 pm 

Notre Dame Tennis
First 50 Stude11ts -Free Hot Cocoa 
Men -Today vs. mindiana=State 3:30 pm
Thurs. vs. Georgetown (2) 12 pm 
Women -Wed. vs. Purdue 3 pm,. ~ 
Brown Bag It at the Eck!! 
Eck Tennis Pavilion ~ ~ 
Birthday Baby: You are energetic, inquisitive and certainly enter­taining. You have adventure and excitement on your mind and will try anything at least once. You are fun-loving and quick to respond to anything and anyone. 
(Need advice? Oieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2001 Universal Press Syndica~ 
.. 

Watch out Folgers 

Good to the Last Drop upset the No. 25 Rucker Park All-Stars in Bookstore Basketball Tuesday. 
page 12 

page 20 ·QfillRVER Wednesday, April 11, 2001 



MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Murphy declares eligibility for NBA draft 
. Irish star doesn't sign with agent, could return 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Writer 
Two-time Irish All-American Troy Murphy bought himself a little time Tuesday. 
In what was essentially an 'TU decide later" announce­ment, the Notre Dame junior added his name to an ever­growing list of underclass­men entering the NBA Draft, but left open the option of returning for his senior sea­son. Murphy does not plan to hire an agent, and under NCAA regulations. has until June 20 (one week before the draft) to withdraw his name, so long as he does not sign with an agent. 
"This is something that I've thought a great deal 
LISA VEL TE/The Observer 
about since the season 

Irish coach Mike Brey (above) speaks at a press conference
ended," said Murphy in a released statement. "I fe-el announcing Troy Murphy's decision. Murphy did not attend. that I owe it to myself to pursue this option." 
ago is really beneficial to The 6-foot-11, 245-pounder Murphy did not appear at a 
underclassmen like Troy will not attend any of the
press conference where Irish because it gives them more pre-draft camps held by the

head coach Mike Brey 

options and, more important• NBA. Murphy, who averaged
announced Murphy's deci­

ly, time, before corning to a 22 points and nine reboundssion. 
final decision." this year, will go through"Troy is doing the smart While Murphy mulls over workouts with several NBAthing by not hiring an agent his options, he plans to con­teams, but he has not yetso that he can preserve his tinue attending classes and decided which teams. JOSE CUELLAA/rhe Observer
amateur status," Brey said. "The legislation which the participate in workouts with One benefit Murphy gets by Troy Murphy pulls up for a long shot in Notre Dame's second round 
the Irish as he. has over the
NCAA adopted several years loss to Ole Miss in the NCAA Tournament. That game could have 
past three years. see MURPHY/page 17 
been Murphy's last in an Irish uniform. 
' 
\,1 
BASEBALL

!i I 
·/ 
·i 
·; 
. I 

No. 4 Irish claim close victory against Cougars 
or opponent. from centerfielder Steve year for the Irish, with a 3-0 Freshman Steve Sollmann, 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 

"A win's a win, it's fine that Stanley, righfielder Brian record and a 2.36 ERA. the Irish's leading hitter. was Assistant Sports Editor way," said Irish first baseman Stavisky and designated hitter His performance has intentionally walked. Joe Thaman. Matt Bok. brought Notre Dame into a Troy then made the mistake Catcher Paul O'Toole agreed. Senior lefty Mike Naumann, close duel with No. 7 Rice for of walking shortstop Alec
The No. 4 Irish baseball 

"We're not normally a reliever. got his the national lead in team ERA, Porzel to juice the bases for
team continued one of its 

at all disap­first start of the season against with the Owls leading 2.416 to Stavisky, who slapped a two­
finest seasons ever, defeating 

pointed. the Cougars in the familiar 2.423. run single to finish off the
Chicago State at home 

We're used confines of Frank Eck The Irish trailed 1-0 when three-run inning.
Wednesday 5-2 to run their 

to not blow­Stadium, throwing a complete they rose up to score three in John Heintz had to replace
record to 26-5-1. 

; i 
ing people game. the third. Stavisky in the fourth. Stavisky

The loss dropped Chicago 
out, that's "Mike Naumann pitched a Bok reached first and then re-aggravated a hamstring
State to 4-22, with pitcher 

just the way great game -to get a com­continued to second on a injury that had caused him to
Nick Troy losing his fifth deci­

we play." plete game, that's huge," throwing error by Cougar first miss four games earlier this
sion of the year despite only 

It was a O'Toole said. baseman Derrick Bass. season.
allowing one earned run in his Naumann 
business­Only one of the two Chicago Freshman Joe Thaman then "Taking [Stavisky] out of the 
start. 


like outing State runs was earned, and took Troy's first offering to game was just precautionary,"
The Irish were not too con­

for the Irish, who had nine hits Naumann also struck out four. rightfield for a single, scoring 
cerned about the relatively 

with multiple hit performances Naumann has been solid all Bok and tying the game.
close victory against an inferi-see BASEBALUpage 13 
Softball Women's Lacrosse 
vs. Bowling Green vs. Duke (New Haven, Conn.)
SPORTS .,, ., 
Tennis

Today, 3:30 p.m. Friday 4 p.m.
ATA 
at Midwest Invitational 
Baseball 
Saturday 

vs. Detroit vs. Purdue
GLANCE 'i\i:) ~ 
Today, 5:05 .,.;:__ Today, 3 p.m. 







