
Creative works

SUNNY 
Tuesday 

Assistant professor Orlando Menes of the Notre Dame Creative Writing
Program reads his Cuban-American-influenced poetry at Saint Mary's. 
NOVEMBER 6,
HIGH 63° 
News . page 4

LOW34° 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 44 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




DOE team plans campus visit 
By MYRA McGRIFF  dcnce and conduct interviews," said Jane Glickman. DOE  brochure by adding missing sex­ual assault statistics. The  look at the statistics provided and procedure used in relation  the on-campus review will clari­fy all questions to any missing  
· Saint Mary's EJitor  spokesperson.  College has also added proce­ to  campus  security,"  said  statistics and sloppy reporting of  
Although it  dures to  Glickman.  sexual assault cases.  
In an ongoing review of Saint Mary's statistical procedure, the Department of Education con­ is regular pro­cedure for a DOE review  "We want to have a thorough look at the statistics provided  its stu­d e n t hand ­ Saint Mary's has set plans to facilitate the visit in an orga­nized and effective fashion.  "We are pleased they are com• ing and know this is the best way to get to the bottom of any  
firmed Friday that a review team will visit campus in November. The review. sparked  team to make a campus visit during an  and procedure used in relation to campus security. "  book, informing students  "The people involved wiU meet on Nov. 14 and go over all docu­mentation to refresh our memo­ underreporting that is going on." said S. Daniel Carter, Security on Campus spokesper­ 
by a Security on Campus com­ investigation,  a b o u t  ry and see if there is anything  son.  
plaint, will take an in-depth look  this visit par­ Jane Glickman  where to  we missed," said Keith Dennis,  He hopes that all will have a  
at how Saint Mary's carries out their procedure of reporting  ticular differs because Saint  Department of Education spokesperson  go if theyh a v e  director of finance at Saint Mary's. "We will meet with the  better idea of "how the campus responds to and reports campus  
sexual assaults and the require­ Mary's claims  been sex­ team, answer any questions and  sexual assaults."  
ments for carrying out judicial  to  have  already  made  the  ually assaulted. Despite the  put them in touch with anyone  
hearings. "They look at all the files, talk to people, review correspon­ changes that the DOE requested. Saint Mary's has updated its Safety and Security information  changes, the DOE still wants to come to campus. "We want to have a thorough  they need to talk to." Security on Campus, the watch dog organizati_Qn, hopes  Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO 181 @saintmarys.edu.  

CLC 
Group lobbies for seniors 
. Members call for excused absences during job, graduate school interviews 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Campus Life Council mem­bers gave their unanimous approval Monday to a mea­sure that would allot three excused absences to seniors traveling to job or graduate school interviews. 
In a demonstration of effi­ciency and strong support for the proposal, the council at a 30-minute meeting voted 16-0 to pass the Student Senate­drafted resolution. The senate on Oct. 17 unanimously adopted the resolution and forwarded it to the CLC. 
With Monday's passage, the measure now needs approval by the Academic Council. 
"The senate was really hop­ing it would be taken care of this semester [by the Academic Council], so that it could go into effect next semester, or at least part of' next semester," student body president Brooke Norton said following the meeting. "Hopefully, it will be a quick process.» 
In fact, the CLC's action isn't likely to speed up the process. 
That's because when the sen­ate passed the resolution last month, the group directed it to the CLC and Academic Council. Because the Academic Council and CLC were considering the measure at the same time, the CLC didn't have to act on it in rarely overlapped with the Academic Council's, and it's unclear how much weight an endorsement from the CLC would carry in a body that seats University President Father Edward Malloy and Provost Nathan Hatch. 

Norton said she would send letters to Father Mark 
see ABSENCE/page 6 

Panelists show how attacks affect media 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
In late August, Don Wycliff, 
public editor for the Chicago 
Tribune, was at Disney World for 
a National Association of Black 
Journalists convention. 
"I remember the big news 
going around the conference was 
that Connie Chung had an inter­
view with Gary Condit. It seemed 
we were doubly in fantasy land," 
Wycliff joked during a panel dis­
cussion Monday at Notre Dame. 
"Less than a fortnight later, the 
world came crashing in on us." 
And the U.S. news media redi­
rected its focus from the embat­
tled California congressman and 
from sensationalism in general 
to the global issues that arose 
out of the Sept. 11 attacks, said 
Wycliff and other leading 
American journalists on the 
panel. · 
The panel included members of Notre Dame's advisorv com­mittee for the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. Among the panelists were Tom Bettag, executive pro­·ducer for ABC's "Nightline;" Bill Dwyre, Los Angeles Times sports editor; John McMeel, chairman of Andrews McMeel Universal; Jim Naughton, president of the Poynter Institute for Media Studies; Matt Starin, former edi­tor of The Boston Globe; and Kelley Tuthill, reporter for 
WCVB-TV in Boston. 
"American journalism has been at least temporarily trans­formed," said Storin said. "It is clear that we look at the world with much wider eyes. For the forseeable future, we're obvious­ly going to take a closer look at world events and ideologies." 
The terrorist acts two months ago uncovered issues the United States hadn't faced in more than two decades, said Naughton of the Florida-based Poynter In_stitute for professional journal­ists. 
"We really had a blessing of a quarter of a century when we didn't have to deal with these issues," he said. "You have to go back to Vietnam for a period when our nation faced a sus­tained mortal threat." 
But_the attacks brought a wel­come change in working practice among journalists, Naughton said. 
"We've been rescued from ourselves, from our own worst instincts." 
But news organizations took a hard economic blow for round­the-clock coverage of the attacks and the events that ensued, according to panelists. 
Storin expressed concern about the economic conse­quences in store for the industry, especially the cable news sta­tions. 
"Advertising budgets have been blown out. The revenue needed to support the wider news menu is not there," Starin said. "I wouldn't be suprised to see one of the cable networks fold." 
The past two months have given journalists the opportunity to educate the public -and themselves, Wycliff said. 
"There are some really crazy guys out there that diminish their spirit and our lives, and we need to know about them," he said. "We've all got to spend a little more time thinking about the things that nourish us and diminish us." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
order for it to appear on the Academic Council's agenda. The CLC could have opted to table the resolution until after the Academic Council had acted on it. 
What the CLC's passage of the resolution does, in effect, is give the measure the backing of a more authoritative body than the senate. But in recent years, the CLC's work has 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
To Whom It May Concern 
As a proud student of the University of Notre Dame, I am extremely concerned with follow­ing the principles and guidelines of du Lac, our guide to studrnt life. Recent issues have arisen, especially on home football days, which have 
Chris Federico 
drawn my atlfmtion and made me extremely appre­
hensive of how I should govern my behavior in such Production 
instances. Assistant 
I was hoping Mr. Kirk, or perhaps another HesLifc official, could shed some light on my concerns and show me the proper way to act in these cases. 
In particular, I am extremely curious about the guidelines concerning the practice of "tail­gating." For instance, since du Lac states that no student may be involved in a student-spon­sored tailgate party, even if alcohol is not pre­sent, I have become concerned about what actually constitutef "tailgating." If I can be punished for gathering with a group of friends while simply socializing and grilling some burgers or brats, can I also be punished for walking around campus or the neighboring areas with a couple of friends while possibly eating or carrying a soda? 
If I go out to our dorm's concession stand and buy a hamburger, but then walk off and eat it, am I still tailgating? To me, the distinction here is very unclear. 
Also, I am extremely concerned about what constitutes alcohol consumption, because just three weeks ago before the USC game, a class­mate from down the hall was issued a ticket.for minor under the influence. Even though he was not in possession of any alcohol, and had had nothing to drink all day, he still recorded a .01 blood alcohol level when forced to take the test. Luckily, his two companions blew a much lower .00 when given the test as well. 
While these handheld machines that most police officers carry with them are not admissi­ble in court because they have about a .03 vari­ance, this person was still issued the ticket, as well as the notice to appear before ResLife for being at a tailgate party. 
It would be very unfortunate for me if l hap­pened to be away from my dorm room and was also subjected to one of these tests. Sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I like to brush my teeth or even rinse my mouth with mouth­wash -a liquid that contains enough alcohol to render me above the apparently Hlegal .01 limit. I would appreciate a response to these inquiries to calm my concerns. 
If my fears are in fact the truth, I feel it would be best if all of my fellow students, even those who are above the legal drinking age, remain in our dorms/apartments/houses until kickoff time. This way, we may insure compli­ance with the governing rules of du Lac and avoid bringing shame to Our Lady's University. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes, Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep[ during exJ.m and vacatioll periods. The Observer js ;i member uf th<.' Associated Press. All rcproducti?n rights are reserved. 
The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"And I think, you know,  "Last year, I dressed up  
for us. here at Notre  as {Golden State  
Dame ... you haue an  Warriors forward] Chris  
opportunity tojump up  Porter, but now he is in  
and maybe in some  jail on cocaine charges.  
ways be a spoiler.  "  I think I better try  
something different this  
Bob Davie  year.  
head coach on the  
remainder the 2001  Phillip Madonia  
season  senior on his costume  

"Students were 
wrongly confronted and accosted by Stadium ushers regarding the 'Dump Davie' and ·1 am drinking because we suck' shirts." 
Dennis Moore director of public relations and information 
"I don't mind being the featured receiver, I relish that. That's what I came here for. that's what I expect ofmyself, that's what I want to be... 
Javin Hunter senior wide receiver 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Study shows all-nighters might prove beneficial 
LOS ANGELES 

Instead of catching a few more hours of sleep the night before an exam, pulling an all-nighter may prove to be beneficial, according to a new sleep study. 
Rapid Eye Movement sleep, the dreaming period, does not have an important role in memory formation, according to University of California­Los Angeles psychiatry and biobe­havioral science professor Jerome Siegel's study. 
"It is an attractive idea that learn­ing actually occurs in sleep," Siegel said. "However, I have read hun­dreds of studies, and that idea is not well supported by data. There is no correlation between intelligence and REM sleep." 
The more sleep you get, the more often you reach REM. During sleep, people go through several nonREM 




UCLA 
stages before reaching REM sleep, and as the cycle continues, REM sleep becomes more prevalent than deep sleep. 
Studies show that depriving humans and animals of REM sleep by awakening them or by drug treat­ments does not damage their abili­ties to retain information. 
In many cases, humans taking a class of drugs called Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors that eliminate REM sleep for periods of months or even years have unimpaired or, in some cases, improved memory, Also, humans with brain damage that pre­vents REM sleep have normal memo­ry. 
Siegel said this research does not mean it is wise to pull an all-nighter before any big test, and he does not promote that idea. 
"If you are sleepy, you will not be able to concentrate and organize the material," Siegel said. "It just depends on the test itself, and whether you can make it safely to the exam." 
For exams that test broad knowl­edge, like the SAT, Siegel recom­mends that students sleep instead of study. But if students need to learn specific material for a test, staying up to learn the material would not hinder their abilities to retain infor­mation 
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
Dental study aims to predict strokes 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Richard Madden's research might make dentists an important tool in determining whether patients are at risk for strokes. For more than 20 years, medical researchers have tried to determine if dental panoramic X-rays can predict those at risk for a stroke. Researchers from the School of Dentistry at the University of Minnesota and the HealthPartners Research Foundation said they joined the cause to determine how reliable the X-rays can be. The panoramic X-rays, done before many oral surgeries, sometimes show calcification of the carotid arteries, located in the neck. A person's risk for stroke increases when these arteries narrow. The researchers are trying to determine whether calcification of these arteries indi­cate a narrowing as well. "What no one has ever done is determine if that X-ray, the calcification that we're see­ing ... is reliable at predicting narrowing of that vessel, which is a risk factor for a stroke," said Madden, the principal research investigator in the division of oral medicine, diagnosis and radiology. 


LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
, 
'. 
4,~-~9,Q,Q~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoc1at«J Prssa GiaphlcsNet 
Strike planned for after Thanksgiving 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

Some University of Illinois teaching assistants say they will strike temporarily after Thanksgiving break in pursuit of union recognition. A GEO member, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said members approved a work stoppage that will center on introductory humanities and social science classes, which rely heav­ily on teaching assistants for instruction. The stoppage will be a test of public response and the organization's support among teaching assistants in anticipation of a longer strike next semester. A stoppage, unlike a strike, is designated for a specific time period. Administrators are developing tentative plans for han­dling a stoppage, University spokesman Bill Murphy said. GEO officers did not confirm when the stoppage will occur but said the membership approved general plans. Murphy said the administration cannot discuss unionization because this implies recognition. GEO offi­cers mentioned the potential walk-out, but Cantor "didn't seem very concerned," said GEO co-president Kate Bullard. 
NATIONAL WEATHER . 

Viel AssOCiil/Gd Pt699  
Atlanta  67  42  Las Vegas  80  58  Portland  49  41  
Baltimore  58  36  Memphis  70  44  Sacramento  71  42  
Boston  51  40  Milwaukee  63  51  St. Louis  68  46  
Chicago  64  50  New York  54  38  Tampa  77  56  
Houston  79  55  Philadelphia  57  40  Washington DC 58  41  

.... ----­

-------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 
BOG grants funds for math 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Abigail Stahoviak, a member of the Mathematics Honor 
Society,  Pi  Mu  Epsilon,  
requested  funds  from  the  
Board  of  

Governance I a s t evening. T h e s e funds will allow five senior m a t h majors to 

attend the Nagle J o i n t Mathematics Meeting in San Diego, Calif. 
Saint Mary's students have attended the Joint Mathematics Meetings in the past. The purpose of this five­day convention is to promote 
mathematical achievement, ing, under the Academic encourage research and Grant, to cover the convention increase fee, travel 
interest in costs and mathemat­"This might help [students] housing. ical educa­In other
to become interested in 
tion. 
news:

fields within the major. " 
"The stu­
. Elizabeth

d e n t s 
Cusik, technol­

going to 
Abigail Stahoviak 
ogy commis­

the con­
member of Pi Mu Epsilon 
sioner, updat­

vention 
will bring back information they learned 
· in the workshops and share it with other majors. This might help them to become interest­ed in fields within the major," Stahoviak said. 
Michelle Nagle, student body president, suggested that encouraging students to attend such prestigious events will put Saint Mary's on the acade­mic map. 
After some debate, the BOG moved to grant partial fund­ed the Board 
with informa­tion on the mass e-mail prob­lem. It is hoped that list serves will be established by January so students will be able to communicate events and con­cerns to the student body. 
"This proposal will go on to £tudent Affairs for approval," Nagle said. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at ndl2040@saintmarys.edu. 
Law clerk presents essay 
Special to The Observer 
Shefali Milczarek-Desai, a 2001 graduate of the James E. Rogers College of Law at the University of Arizona, will pre­sent her winning entry in the Notre Dame Law School's 2001 Feminist Jurisprudence Writing Competition at 4 p.m. 
Tuesday in the Law School's Barry Moot Courtroom. 
Milczarek-Desai, now a clerk for Judge Ruth V. McGregor of the Arizona Supreme Court, won a $1,000 prize for her paper, which is titled "(Re)Locating Other/Third World Women: An Alternative Approach to Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez's Construction of Gender, Culture and Identity." 
The Feminist Jurisprudence Writing Competition was established in 1993 with a gift from Marilyn Ashbaugh, for­merly a project coordinator in the Office of Information Technology at Notre Dame. 
U.S. penetrates Afghan warfront 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Pentagon's push for access to more military bases in and near Afghanistan reflects a hope that expand­ing support for the northern alliance of Afghan opposition forces will give them the means to topple the Taliban regime, defense officials said Monday. 
It likely will take several more weeks to determine wh.ether the northern alliance is capable of win­ning, one senior official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. If it is not, the United States may have to consider eventually commit­ting large numbers of its own ground forces to defeat the Taliban, the official said. 
In the meantime, the U.S. military is seeking access to more bases on Afghanistan's periphery to accelerate its bombing campaign. expand humanitarian aid missions and speed the delivery of sup­plies to opposition forces. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, in an interview with Egyptian television, said no decision has been made on using U.S. ground forces in combat. 
The troops there are are working with anti-Taliban 
groups to make them more capable. "We think that in the weeks ahead the opposition forces will become more effective with the benefit of 
U.S. support and the support of others," Powell said. 
The United States has used 15,000-pound "daisy cutter" bombs in the Afghanistan campaign, a defense official said on condition of anonymi­ty. The BLU-82 uses a slurry of ammonium nitrate and aluminum powder to ignite a blast .that incinerates nearly everything within 300 yards to 600 yards and can be felt for miles. 
The United States also con­tinued its efforts to demoral­ize the Taliban, dropping leaflets with a picture of its leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar. in a stylized rifle cross-hairs. The leaflet con­tains the warning, "We are watching!" as well as a photo of a vehicle license plate that defense officials say is from a vehicle Omar uses. 
In New Delhi, Defense Secretary Donald J--1. Rumsfeld told a news confer­ence with his Indian counter­part, George Fernandes, that 
U.S. bombing is "improving every day," helped by addi­tional teams of U.S. special forces soldiers who are pro­viding targeting information for strike aircraft. 

International Study Programs On-Line Application Demonstration Instructions & tips for using ISP's new on-line application. Wednesday,Nov.7,2001 101 DeBartolo 5:30PM Angers, Athens, Berlin, Biosphere, Cairo, Dublin, Fremantle, Innsbruck, Monterrey, Nagoya, Paris, Perth, Puebla, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Russia, Santiago, Shanghai, Toledo  

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
Professor shares writings 
By KATIE RAND News Wricer 
Orlando Ricardo Menes, assis­tant professor in the Notre Dame Creative Writing Program. read a selection of eight of his poems Monday night at Saint Mary's. The poems selected by Menes focused on his personal experiences as a Cuban-American and his own interpretations and visions of the saints. 
Menes began the reading with "Dona Flora's Hothouse," a poem inspired by the blending of African Cuban folklore, mythology, language, life and history. Menes is interested in the idea of transformation, so saints are turned into fruit in the poem, among other fantasti­cal events. 
The following poem was "Requiem Shark with Lilies." 
"In this poem, I have saints doing things I can only imagine in a magical world," Menes said. "I don't think our Pope would recognize these saints as such, but I don't think a poet needs to be shackled by tradi­tion." 
Menes continued with "God's Veins," about Saint Peter Claver, a Spanish saint who spent many years of his life cat­echizing slaves new to Columbia from Africa. This poem focuses on the strangeness of saints. 
"The Church tends to normal­ize saints, but saints are weird·. I'm fascinated by the weirdness of saints." Menes said. In this poem, he has Peter Claver telling the slaves of the many uses of the crucifix. such as using it is as bow, anchor, or back scratcher. 
After the three poems about saints set in the Caribbean, Menes moved on to more per­sonal poetry. One was entitled "Hair," about his large mane of wavy hair that his mother want­ed cut off, and another was about the first time he went to Cuba in 1998. 
The next two poems were about the interaction between Jewish and African people in Cuba. They were·entitled "Crib of Reeds" and "Agua de Cocoa." 
'"Agua de Cocoa' is a lighter poem that deals with the min­gling and blending of worlds and cultures. It has a romantic ending which is very unusua,l for me," Menes said. 
Finally, Menes read his poem "Juacinto's Wake," a personal poem set in 1985 at the Last Grove Squatters Camp in Lima, Peru. 
Francisco Aragon, a Notre Dame Masters of Fine Arts stu-

Earn ahighly regarded hliana University Master of Professional Aa:ountancy degree 
Take your next step in becoming aCPA 
• Become one of our high~ sought graduates 
• Prestigious Indiana Universily degree on the IUPUI campus 
• All majors accepted 
•Convenient times; port-time or fulHme; 12-24 month completion 
• Specialize in financial reporting, taxation, auditing, information systems, management consulting 
• Internationally recognized faculty 
for more inlormation contact: 
(317) 278-3885 mpabus@iupui.edu http://bus.iupui.edu 
KEllEY 

wre,11
School of Business 
Indianapolis IUPUI 
dent who introduced Menes, praised Menes and his recent collection of poetry "Rumba Atop the Stones," published in 2001, since the poetry does not shy away from the historical, touching on topics such as African influences on Cuba. 
"He has approached the sub­ject with passion." Aragon said. 
Menes was born in Lima, Peru to Cuban parents, and has lived in the United States since the age of 10. He has been teaching at Notre Dame since 2000, and is also a published translator of Latin American poets such as the Argentine Alfonsina Storni and the Cuban Jose Kozer. 
Menes' collections of poetry can be found at the Notre Dame bookstore. 
The reading, which took place in Haggar Parlor, was co-spon­sored by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and the English Department. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 
Saint Mary's alumna talks of spirituality 
By KATIE VINCER 
News Writer 
The first of two honored Shannon Alumna Executive Scholars spoke Tuesday evening in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. For the past eight years. the Shannon Alumna Executive Scholar Program grants students the opportunity to meet and learn from accomplished Saint Mary's alumnae. 
The award recipient, Amy Hartzell Rockwell, class of 1980. is the Associate General Counsel with Baxter Healthcare Corporation, the principal domestic operating subsidiary of Baxter International, Deerfield, Ill. 
Rockwell, who obtained her bachelor of science degree from Saint Mary's and juris doctorate from John Marshall Law School, discussed "Making it through Law School and Beyond -A Chemist's View." 
During her lecture, Rockwell discussed how her preparation from the College helped her to pave the road to success. She focused on the fact that Saint Mary's is a faith centered lib­eral arts college for women. 
"Faith is very important because you get tested .when you least expect it. You must know what you believe in so that you know what to stand for," said Rockwell. 
She also commented on how her liberal arts education dif­fered from her colleagues. 
'Tm not just a chemist. I came from a liberal arts school and therefore I'm rounded in numerous subjects," she said. 'Tm from a small school. There's a different sense of relationship here." 
Before ending her speech with discussion. Rockwell said, "It's not necessarily good grades, but the effort you put into it that pays off in the long run." 
Contact Katie Vincer at vinc0858@saintmarys.edu. 



ATION 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 COMPILE)} FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Activist dies on hunger strike: An animal rights activist convicted of waging a l'ircbornbing campaign against British busi­nr.ssf's clif'd Monday on a hunger strike. Barry Honw, 4lJ. died of livN failure at Ronkswood llospital in WorrPster. 120 miles west of London. a prison spokcsman said. Horne had bef'n rpfusing food off and on for wPcks bt>forn bPginning his hunger strike in earnest on Orl. 21, the prison spoknsman said. 
Cyanide poisons China river: Tons of dMdly cvanidc leaked into a river in cen­tral China aftr.r a truck overturned. Animals w0rr poisnnf'd and at least one person sick­0ncd by rnntarnination. The truck carrying 11 tons of liquid sodium cyanide overturned Thursday on a ruttt>d road along a tributary of' th<' 1.uoh<' Hiver, about 500 miles southwest of Bnijing. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
CDC workers vaccinated: The Cr.nters for Diseasc Control and PrcvP.ntion has vacci­na lNI sonw of its health vvorkers against smallpox as a precaution in casP they need to inv<\Stigat<' a terrorist aLlark involving the dPadly virus. Whik thP CDC has no evidence that anyonP is readying a Unrorist attack using smallpox. which was Prndicated outsidn laboratoriPs 21 y1,ars ago, officials of the fed­eral ag<•ncy say the virus is so dangerous that it is important they be prepared. 
Scientists study new anthrax test: 
SC'il'ntists have developed a DNA test that may id1\ntiry anthrax sporns in a letter. building or person in just 30 minutes -and this week will begin studying \vhether a "smart bomb" type of rnrdical test can diagnose inhaled anthrax well beforn symptoms appear, H.Psearchers at the Walter Reed Army Medical CentPr are hopeful the test might help people survive inhaled anthrax by identifying such patients before they become seriously ill. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Police save man from burning car: 
Four police officers are credited with pulling a man from his burning car after a crash by using fire extinguishers to hold back the flames. Whitley County deputy Charles Vogley said he and deputy Tony Helfrich worked with Troopers Joel Lemmon and Aaron Cook to save motorist Joe Heidenreich early Sunday about a mile east of Columbia City. Heidenreich was pinned in his car after it left a roadway. smashed through a fence, became airborne and then crashed into a tree. 
Market \Vatch NoYember 5 
Dow 9,441.03 +117.49 

Composite Volume:
/% s:r; 
NIA 
AMEX: 820.33 -3.87 NASDAQ: 1793.65 +47.92 NYSE: 563,79 +6.19 S&P 500: 1,102.84 +15.64 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.71 +0.54 17.9t SUN MICROSYSTEM ( SUNW) +5. 42 +0. 52 12. 01 NASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) +3.26 +1.15 36.71 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2. 51 +0. 55 26. 91 EMC CORP/MASS (EMC) +10. 77 +1.41 14. 51 

CUBA 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Hurricane Michelle whipped through Cuba overnight, killing at least five people. destroying homes in the capital and uprooting crops. authori­ties said Monday. The storm later weakened somewhat before hitting the Bahamas, 
The hurricane, which killed 12 people in Honduras, Nicaragua and Jamaica last week, left Florida virtually untouched, · 
Michelle swept past the Bahamas capital of Nassau on Monday wHh 85 mph winds, flooding houses and cutting power. At 1 p.m. EST, the storm was cen­tered about 45 miles east of Nassau after approach­ing from the southwest. 
When the storm made landfall in Cuba on Sunday, its winds were estimated at 130 mph. 
The storm caused 23 homes to collapsed in Havana, state television reported, saying that more were expected to crumble as they dried out in the sun. By Monday, the streets of Havana's colo­nial district were littered with debris. 
Conditions in the rest of Cuba were unclear 
because communications were nearly completely knocked out. 
Electricity remained shut down across the western half of the island. The 750,000 people who had been evacuated before the storm still had not been allowed to return home by early Monday afternoon. 
Cuba's National Defense confirmed the five deaths during an early afternoon broadcast on state televi­sion. 
Four were killed in building collapses: a 32­year-old woman in the Havana neighborhood of Arroyo Grande; a 39-year­
old man in the provincial capital of Matanzas; and a 33-year-old man and a 98­year-old woman in Jaguey Grande, in central Matanzas province. A 60­year-old man drowned in Playa Larga on the coast of Matanzas, where Michelle made landfall in Cuba on Sunday after­noon. 
Javier Godinez, a bar­tender at the historic Dos Hermanos tavern on Old Havana's waterfront, said he and several other peo­ple braved the storm inside the building, listen­ing as the wind banged against the metal shutters covering the windows. 

Anthrax found at Pentagon 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Two postal box('S at a post office inside the Pentagon have tested pos­itive for anthrax and individuals renting other boxes are being screened at a Pentagon health clin­ic, a Pentagon spokesman said Monday. 
A Na~y sailor who had rented one of the two boxes has been seen at Bethesda Naval Hospital. a Pentagon spokesman said, but no furthP.r information about his identi­ty or condition was available. 
The second box was unassigned, Pentagon officials said Monday. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention took samples from the office on Tuesday, and the test results were returned Saturday. Two of 17 samples taken tested pos­itive, the Pentagon said. 
The office was decontaminated Sunday and "retesting results were all negative," said a Pontagon state­ment. 
Pentagon spokesman Glen Flood said he had no information about the quality of the anthrax founq during the testing. 
There are 214 post boxes at the office, which is located in a con­course inside the Pentagon. 
All those renting the boxes are being contacted and offered the chance to come to the Pentagon's clinic for screening, Flood said. lie said he had no information on the number of renters who might have accepted the offer. 
The post office was closed Monday. Yellow police tape covered the alcoves hoµsing the boxes, which are located outside the post office itself in a far corner of the concourse. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
this semester. demand for productivity from task forces had outlined areas the group. The statements were they plan to research but none 
. Throughout the meeting sev­about an Observer article about appeared close to drafting a final eral members made sarcastic the group's Oct. 15 meeting at report or resolution. comments about the increased which Norton urged members to work their task forces were show results of task force work. Contact Jason McFarley at doing in light of Norton's As of Monday. the CLC's three mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Making summer plans? 
want to tr-y somethina different? 
• 

Have Questions? We've got an Answer: 
§V~~LIJ§CIJ~ICC/JDOJl:CT l,,.TCD,,.§li/lJ§
1..----------------------------~I 
8 weeks $2900+ tuition credit 
(Including Americorps funding) 
3 THEO credits Alumni Contacts 120 Locations 
FUN! 

Learn more at the Center to.-Social Conc:e.-ns: 
Weds. November 7th, 7p.m. 
Weds. November 28th, 7p.m. 
*Sponsored by the CSC and ND Alumni 
Join c.~.'R.:E..for: 
Sexua(~ssau(r 
~wareness Week 
Presented'By tfie Cam_pus ?t.{{iance for 'Ra_pe ~{imination 
'Tuesday. '1-l"ovem6er 6 -9ym Survivors sfiare 'their exyeriences wi'tfi. sexua{ assauft· 
'Doofey 'Room, LaPortune S'tuden't Cen'ter 
Weanesaay, ri-fovem6er 7 -z:3oym Skir: "Wfien a 'Kiss is 'Not Just a 'Kiss" Wafsfi '1-{a{{'Basement 
'Tfiursaay. ri-favem6er 8 -zym Q,&-' ~ witFi ~avisory 'Boara 'Foster 'Room, .£a'Fortune Student Center 
absences currently excusable." "Evidently, there's variation
Absence 
from college to college and from professor to professor about how 
continued from page I 
this is handled," said Marsha Stevenson, the Faculty Senate'sPoorman, vice president for stu­representative to the CLC.
dent affairs, and Arts & Letters Still, a number of points in theDean Mark Roche. chair of the resolution were intentionally left
Academic Council's student vague in order to not restrictaffairs committee, expressing Academic Council member's
the CLC's view. 
consideration of the measure,The change to du Lac that the according to student senatorsresolution recommends likely who serve on the CLC.
wouldn't be a selling point among Academic Council mem­
In other CLC news:
bers. 
. Monday marked the first time
The resolution calls for an 
the council had considered a res­amendment to the section of the olution this year. The CLC hasstudent handbook that stipulates yet to draft a resolution of itswhat qualifies as unexcused own and has only two regularlyabsences. The handbook now scheduled meetings remainingonly excuses from class students 




with personal illness, death in the immediate family and duties performed for the University. 
The proposed amendment would change the language of du Lac to grant seniors three excused absences froni class per academic year to pursue "post­graduate opportunities," namely interviews for graduate school, employment and service ven­tures. 
The resolution, as approved by the CLC. indicates that "absences shall be accounted for and 
e:nort11otis 
FLEECE 
Sele 

5minute fom. DUTPDST 
Campus 

Cold Kwdler Expert. 
recorded in the same manner as CaU 259•soooformore details 
Notre Dame Film. Television, and Theatre presents 

Atlors Fro111 Thr· ljondou Stagl1 
AMidsummer Night's Dream 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, November 8 .................. 7:30 p.m. 
Friday, November 9 ....................... 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, November 1 0 ............... 7:30 p.m. 

Playing at Riley High School • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Shuttle Service Available 
J!JTurningOvtJr ANIJWltJal 
• 
Hein the elderlV residents of Solllh Bend. 

• 
Simple vantworlc acUvttv: Raking leaves 


• Fonn Your Group With Friends NOW!! 
• Sign-up with Your Dorm Sarvtca Commissioner! 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10th 9AM to 12PM Rain or Shine 
BRUKFAST & LIINCH PROVIDED!!I 
Volunteers will meet at the Robinson Community Leaming Resource Center. Rides will be provided from Main Circle if unable to drive to RCLC. 
s.nsored~: 
Robinson Community Leaming Center, Center for Social Concerns, NorthEast Neighborhood Center, Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization, Hall Social Concerns Commissioners, Stanford Hall, & Class of2004 
Tuesday, November 6, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Supreme Court reviews unique death penalty case 
. Accused's lawyer also represented murder victim 
Associated Press 
v\'ASI IINGTON 
As-parl of its broadest review of the death penalty in years. the Supreme Court askPd Monday whf'ther a lawyer once appointed to represent a 1.rou­blt,d 17-year-old boy could give his all in the courtroom for his n11xL client -tlrn boy's accusr.d killf'r. 
Walter ~ickens Jr. did not know about his lawyer's other work,.and no one who did know raised an alarm. Lawyers trying to save Mickens from execution discovered the situa­tion vears later. 
"\.Yalter Mickens has been deprived of his rights to con­
flicl-f'rne  counsel,"  lawynr  
llob11rt  Wagner  argued  
Monday.  

The Constitution's Sixth Amendment guarantees the right to a lawyer. Like many people fat':ing a potential dcalh sentence. the right to a lawyer for Mickens meant he got one appointed by the state for him. 
The lawyu had also been appointed months earlier lo represent the victim, Timothy IIall, in an unrelated case. 
Mickens was convicted and sr-mtencod to death in the 1992 stabbing and sexual assault of . Hall. whose half-nude bodv was found sprawled on a dirty· mat­
tress in a seedy part of · Newport News.. Va. 
Two Supreme Court justices have expressed concern recent­ly about the quality of legal help for people facing trial for a crime that could r.arry the 

International Study Programs University of Notre Dame 

Information Meetings: 
Thursday, October 18 at 5:00 245 DeBartolo 
Wednesday, November 7 at 5:00 231 DeBartolo 
http://www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
dPath penalty. court, I have to acknowledge 
"I have yet to see a death that serious questions arc case among the dozens r.oming being raised about whethAr the to the Supreme Court on eve~ death penalty is being fairly of-execution (reprievel applica­administered in this country," 
tions in whir.h the defen<lan t was well rep­"After 20 years on the rc sen te d at 
high court. I have to 
trial," .Justice 
acknowledge that serious
Huth Badflr Ginsburg said questions are being 
in a speech in raised about whether the April. 
death penalty is being
.Justice 
Sandra Day fairly administered in O'Connor 
this country.'' 
suggested in July that the 
Sandra Day O'Connor
country may need mini­Supreme Court justice mum stan­dards for 
O'Connor said. 
Separately, the court will hear a case later this term that rnvisits thA constitutional question of executing the men Lally retarded. Lawyers for a mentally retarded Virginia have claimed that 
lawyers who represent people doing so is unconstitutionally facing the death penalty. cruel and unusual punishment. "After 20 years on the high The Mir.kens rase is unlikely 
?E!~fCjn{~
~'%~,OS ,, 
at-.~ 
Sminute~ from DU"T'rlDS'T Cam nus =1•Nil~ 
r Cold Weather Expert. 


Catt 259-1000 for more details 
to produce an expansive ruling on IP-gal rights in capital cases, but could set a standard for what judges should do when confronted with a potential cont1ict of interest. 
The justices focused Monday on whether a judge should have called foul, or at least held a hearing to determine if Mickens' lawyer could fully do his job. 
"What should the rule be? What should we do?" Justice Stephen Breyer asked Wagner. 
For Mir.kens, an impartial lawyer could have meant the difference between life in prison and a death sentence. his new lawyers have said. The trial lawyer, Bryan Saunders, did little or nothing to raise questions about Hall's own background, Mickens' new lawyers said. 
Most importantly. Saunders did not tell the jury that Hall may have been a willing sexual partner for Mickens, or even a gay hustler, the new lawyers said. Either way, if sex was consensual, the killing would not carry a death sentence. 
At trial, Mickens claimed he was not the killer. Physical evi­dence, including DNA, linked him to the scene, and the state presented evidence that after Hall's death, Mickens sold the shoes the victim had been wearing. 

....,The .\'1S W at Loyola: • Nationally known 
• Accredited since 1914 
• 
Clinical specializations: adults, children, couples, 1:lderly, families, health, an<l school social work 

• 
Four dual degree programs: MS\V and Child Development (MS); la-iv (,JD); Divinity (;'v\Div); or Child and Family Law (MJ) 


Also available at Loyola: HS\\/ and PhD degree programs • 
Chi01.go~s Jesuit l.'Jliv~rsit}' 
)

LOYOLA 
M.S.W. Admissions: ~..::e UNIVERSITY 
Jude Gonzales 

· ClllCAGO at 312.915.7289
t#.;:"I ,! Graduate Sd1<wl "'4f. ~ ofSocial Work 
il:~i::~;)i 
Mi, Alpha Theta presents... 
Formulas for Primes a talk by Dr. Woody Dudley from DePaul University 
TUESDAY, November 6th, 8 pm @Hayes-Healy 127 
There will befree food for everyone!! 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001

Pag1: 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Mother of gay suicidal teen sues police, town 
Associated Press 
PHIL\DELPI!IA" 
In 1997. an 18-yP.ar-old high school football player in Minersville and a 17-year-old friend were stoppPd by police after lP.aviug a party. 
Police charged the boys with underage drinking and, after finding the younger one with two condoms, took them to the station, whcrP they were lec­tured on the Bible and homo­sexuality. 
The arresting officer. F. Scott Willinsky, allegedly asked if they were "queer" and thrnat­cned to tell their families they were gay. Marcus Wayman, the football player, told his friend he was going to kill him-
Willinsky. the son ol' lhcn­Polico Chief Joseph Willinsky, and Officer Tlrnmas Hoban took them to the station on underage drinking charges. The 1i-ycar-old had been drinking at the party. 
Scott Willinskv later testified that both. boys c~nccded, under questioning, that they had stopped to have sex. The 17­ycar-old disputes making the statement. Willinsky told Wayman that if he didn't tell his grandfather he was gay, Willinsky \.vould do so, accord­ing to the lawsuit 
Later that morning, police dropped Wayman uff aL Lhe home he shared with his grandf'ather. 
"At 'his home, Marcus 
Wayman, 
depressed 
self and discon­
"This is the first case 
A few solate over
that we know ofthat,
hours later, Lhe threats he did just ajier a tragic result like and accusa­that. tions, and
this, a family comes back 
0 n feeling that
and tries to hold a public
Monday, a the dcfcn­lawsuit filed entity accountable for dan·t police b y officers
trying to out them."
Wayman's wou"ld carry mother over through on her son's Eric Ferrero their threats death vvent American Civil Liberties Union and thereby 
to trial in stigmatize
spokesman
federal court in Allentown. The lawsuit, which seeks unspecified damages, charges that the town and three of its police officers violated Wayman's right to privacy. 
"This is the first case that we know of that. after a tragic result like this, a family comes back and tries to hold a public entity accountable for trying to out them." said Eric Ferrero, a spokesman for the Lesbian and Gay Rights project of the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents Wayman's mother. 
In an important pretrial deci­sion, a federal appeals court in Philadelphia ruled last year that a person's constitutional right to privacy includes pro­tection of his or her sexual ori­entation. 
"It is difficult to imagine a 
more private matter than one's 
sexuality and a less likely prob­
ability that the government 
would have a legitimate inter­
est in (its) disclosure," the court 
wrote in its 2-1 ruling. 
The court also said that 
threatening to disclose the 
information was tantamount to 
doing so, "because the security 
of one's privacy has been com­
promised by the threat." 
Police approached Wayman's 
car at about midnight, as the 
teens sat in a lot next to a beer 
distributorship. 
him, ruin 
his reputa­tion. and anger the main authority figure in his family, secured a firearm in the house and. sometime before 6 a.m., committed suicide," the lawsuit states. 
The three officers named in the lawsuit. Joseph Willinsky, Scott Willinskv and Thomas Hoban, do not have listed num­bers and could not be reached for comment before the start of the trial. Their lawyer, Robert Hanna Jr.. did not immediately return a call Monday. 
According to Ferrero, many school officials, social workers and others feel they have a duty to share the information with parents when they learn that a teen-ager may be gay. 
Willinsky made a similar 
argument in court. 
"Willinsky offers that, as a 
small town police officer, his 
role has parental overtones, 
thus, reducing the citizen's 
expectation of privacy. We 
mention this only to note our 
disagreement with the concept 
that the breadth of one's con­
stitutional rights can somehow 
be diminished by demograph­
ics," Circuit Judge Carol Los 
Mansmann wrote in the opin­
ion. 
Minersville, population 4,900, 
is in a rural area about 100 
miles northwest of 
Philadelphia. 
lecture on Bioterrorism 
bDr.Clllllls.... Dll'ICllr IICellll'llrbllrlalDIIIII ScllaClllld TIClllellft 
Tuesday, November 6th, 6:00 pm Galvin Auditorium 
Snacks will be provided Sponsored bv the Notre Dame Biologv Club 

Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2001 5:00 PM 
319 DeBartolo 

Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students Engineering courses available in Monterrey AL and BA Courses also available in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DEC. 1, 2001 FOR F'2002, AY 2002-2003 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 

A Career in Real Estate 
fones Lang LaSalle is the world's leading real estate services and investment management firm, operating in more than 100 markets on live continents. Our more than 7,600 employees provide rnmprchcnsivt',intt·grated expertise-including m,magemcnl, implementation and investment management services-to o_wnc>rs, occupiers and investors of real estate. 
We are now hiring for our Analyst Program in Baltimore, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, 
D.C. All majors arc wqcomc. Successful candidates will have :strong quantitative aptitude and $Om1d wmrmmicalion skills. 
l'lca.~c stop by lO karn more about Jone, Lang LaSalle ilt our lnformation Session on 1'.ovcmbcr 14. We ,ire interviewing on campus on November 15. Addjtional information is nvailabk at the Career Placement Office and on our website at www.,1m.jnnl'1l,mglasa1le.com. 
®)) 
JONES LANG 
LASALLE. 
Do you\like to write? The Observer news.de.partment needs new writers! 

'Ell-t·•.•·l'+-'.S3.2:3 


i%J\:::?i{),f6w° 


Tuesday, November 6, 2001 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 9 
Microsoft's XP gains success 
As•ociated Pl'C$• 
SEATTLE 
Microsoft's new operating system extends the software giant's reach into more tech­nologies than ever before ­and it appears the settlement agreement to end the compa­ny's battle with the Justice Department will do little to change that. 
Microsoft will eventually be forced to make some modifica­tions to Windows XP, the less than two-week-old system that has raised competitor ire for aggressive moves into such area~ as digital photography and rnstant text and video messaging. 
But analysts and industry watchers said Monday that those changes are unlikely to come fast enough or be signifi­cant enough to hinder Windows XP's abilitv to make inroads into areas competitors have until now controlled. 
"I tried hard to find out where this is going to he really damaging for Microsoft. and frankly I have a great deal of difficulty finding things that are truly damaging," said Al Gillen, an analyst with the research firm IDC. "This is supposed to be a legal remedy, and I don't see much of this remedy as being particularly painful for Microsoft." 
Microsoft has said it believes the remedy is fair. Company officials said it was too early to say what impact the agree­ment would. have on Windows XP. 
Under the agreement announced Fridav between Microsoft and the Justice Department to end the federal antitrust case. Microsoft would have to make some changes to Windows XP when it releases the system's first service pack -or within a year of the day the settlement agreement takes effect. A service pack is 
• a software update routinely released to fix bugs. 
The settlement would force Microsoft to add a function giving users the option of deleting certain Microsoft products bundled in its oper­ating system, such as its Internet Explorer browser or Windows Media Player music and video player. 
It also would allow computer makers to replace Microsoft products and services with a competitors' offerings or ship a computer with an alternate, competing operating system. 
An oversight committee will be given access to Microsoft's books and technology to make sure it complies with the agreement. 
The 18 state attorneys gen­eral who also sued Microsoft for federal antitrust violations are currently debating whether to accept the settle­ment agreement. If all or some of them don't agree, Microsoft could face additional legal challenges. 
The months Microsoft has to make these changes give the company enough time to build support for the new features it has adde_d to the operating system, industry watchers said, providing an important initial advantage. 
And while Microsoft will be banned from using strong-arm tactics to pressure computer !flanu~acturers into favoring its software applications over competitor's products. H will still have considerable finan­cial advantage, said analyst Rob Enderle of Giga Information Systems. 
"I just can't picture anybody outbidding Microsoft on any real. estate Microsoft wanted," Enderle said. 
Michael Silver of the research company Gartner Group said the wording of the agreement also could mean that very few Microsoft func­tions will be subjected to addi­ti~ n a I scrutiny, meaning Microsoft could still build a monopoly in some new realms. 
"I think Microsoft will con­tinue to have that ·huge com­petitive edge." Silver said. 
In the long-term, however, analysts said the settlement agreement may give Microsoft's competitors an advantage of their own. 
For example, an agreement to allow another operating system onto a computer may help Microsoft rival Linux in a few years, Gillen said -if Linux is able to build a com­pelling product that can com­pete with Microsoft. 
Interest rates drop, economy.still dismal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The economic landscape has 
turned much darker -con­
sumer confidence is plunging. 
overall output is contracting 
and the number of Americans 
losing their jobs is at a 21-year 
high. 
A 10th interest rate cut this 
year by the Federal Reserve is widely expected Tuesday. But the flood of bad economic data has raised fears the central bank's efforts to jump-start the .economy could be over­whelmed, worsening a reces­sion many analysts believe has 
already begun. 
Adding to the economic 
uncertainty is the threat of 
more terrorist attacks and ris­
ing worries about anthrax cont­
amination in the mail. 
''.The economy could really 
sp1ral downward if terrorism 
gets worse," said Sung Won 
Sohn, chief economist at Wells 
Fargo in Minneapolis. "That is a 
scary prospect because we have 
never faced anything quite like 
this before." 
In normal times, the Fed's 
powerful medicine of lower 
interest rates would lift the 
econo?1y out of a recession by 
boostmg demand in interest­
sensitive sectors such as hous­
ing, autos and big-ticket capital 
goods. 
But all the central bank's 
credit easing could be under­
mined by the current climate. 
The economic fallout from 
Sept. 11 was dramatically 
underscored Friday when the 
government reported that the · 
unemployment rate jumped to 
5.4 percent in October. In the biggest one-month job decline in 21 years, 415,000 Americans lost their jobs. 
The government also reported 
last week that the economy ­which had been growing weakly for more than a year -actually . shrank at a 0.4 percent annual rate, as measured by the gross domestic product, in the July­
September quarter. 
Based on the size of the 
October job l'oss, analysts now 
are looking for the current 
quarter to show an even larger 
contraction. · 
"People don't know what is 
going to happen next," said 
Michael Evans of American 
Economics Group, who predict• 
ed the GDP would drop at a rate 
of 4 percent in the current 
quarter. The traditional defini­
tion of a recession is two con­
secutive quarters of declining 
GDP. 
Adding to the picture of weak­ness, the National Association of Purchasing Management said Monday its index of activity in the service sector, where most Americans work, fell in October by the biggest amount since the index was created in 1997. 
books • videos • music • documents • devotionals scripture study• prayer books• magazines ROOM 304, C-M CENTER 


• Morrissey Chapel 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norr< Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Diuing I !all. Notr~ Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIU' Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob 'Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERA110NS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters ·  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah 1\rnstadter ScrNE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVER·nsING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Rpn 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
0FFJCE MANAGER/GENERAL lNrn..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's,............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ......•...•...... 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sicear http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampllS news, sports, features and opinion colwnns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 
minure forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage
and rates ofprint ads 
about The Observer
archives ro search for 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the ad.ministration of.either insrirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expmsion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged.. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must incbdc contacc information. 
Quertions regarding Obsnverpolicies rbouid be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Crmnolly. 

"The Real Terrorists Are in the White House." This sign, carried by a University of Michigan freshman, captures the spirit of one aspect of the vocal and growing anti-war move­ment. Such protests imply a moral equivalence between American foreign policy and the Sept. 11 attacks. implicitly viewing the latter as retribution for the former. Other anti-war activities, including peace vigils at Notre Dame, focus on prayer and a rejection of all violence. 
"For those ofus," said one Notre Dame participant, "who understand that peace is in no way related to vio­lence ... [y]ou just can't be silent ... not as Christians, not as human beings." 
Last month this column examined the just war concept which recog­nizes a limited right of the state to engage in war for defense of the common good. A separate question, raised by the anti-war protest, is whether a Catholic is obliged in conscience to serve in such a war. Or is a Catholic obliged not to serve? This controversy is like­ly to continue. So let us note four points made by the Catechism: 
First: "As long as the danger of war persists and there is no international authority with the necessary competence and power, governments cannot be denied the right of lawful self­defense, once all peace efforts have failed" (No. 2308). Such defense must be justified by the conditions for a "just war." "The evaluation of these conditions ... belongs to the pruden­tial judgment of those who have responsibility for the com­mon good" (No. 2309). 
Second: Citizens are obliged to support a just war. "Public authorities in this case, have the right and duty to impose on citizens the obligations necessary for national defense" (No. 2310). 
Third: "Public authorities should make equitable provision for those who for reasons of conscience refuse to bear arms; these are ... obliged to serve the ... community in some other way" (No. 2311). 
Fourth : "Those who renounce violence ... and. in order to safeguard human rights, make use of those means of defense available to the weakest, bear witness to evangelical charity, provided they do so without harming the rights and obliga­tions of other men and societies. They bear ... witness to the ... physical and moral risks of recourse to violence" (No. 2306). 
Pacifism is universal or selective. The universal pacifist refuses to take part in any and all wars because he denies that war can ever be justified in defense of the common good. A Catholic is clearly not obliged to be a universal pacifist. Nor is universal pacifism, which denies the right of the state ever to use force in defense, consistent with the teaching of the Church. 


The selective pacifist, on the other hand, refuses to take part, not in any and all wars, but only in a particular war he regards as unjust. The law of the United States allows exemp­tion from military service only for universal pacifists and not for selective pacifists. The Catechism urges, but does not require, exemption for all conscientious objectors (No. 2311). It is difficult, however, to see how an exemption for selective objectors could be administered without inviting fraudulent evasion. 
·11 involves no reflection on the sincerity of universal paci­fists to deny any claim of objective moral superiority for their position. One can well "bear witness to evangelical charity" by renouncing force in defending himself. The universal paci­fist, however, denies that force can ever be used in defense of the common good. He would refuse to defend not only himself but others, and he would deny to his fellow citizens their right to have the state provide what the Catechism calls "legitimate defense by military force" (No. 2309}. This sort of universal pacifism was aptly described by General Douglas MacArthur as "a base creed." 
Selective pacifism, on the other hand, is not only consistent with, but required by, the teaching of the Church. We all should be selective pacifists, insisting, with prudence, that any war -or any other act of the state -is subject to the higher standard of the natural law and the law of God. A strong presumption of validity attaches to the decisions and acts of those entrusted with the care of the common good. But that presumption is not conclusive. 
Patriotism is a virtue. And the present war on terrorism clearly satisfies the conditions of a just war. "Our govern­ment." said Anthony Cardinal Bevila.cqua in his Oct. 16 letter to President Bush, "has the right and the duty to defend its people against this modern plague upon mankind." 
The conduct of that. or any, war, however, is subject to the principles of proportionality and discrimination. The latter forbids intentional attacks on innocent civilians. In this and in other respects the right of the state to wage war is never unlimited. Nevertheless, the exercise of that limited right can be, as in this case, a high duty of the state. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. llis column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at plawecki.l@nd.edu . 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Helena Payne Sam Derheimer Sheila Egts Chris Scott Elizabeth Lee Grap~ics Sports Andy Devoto · Bryan Kronk Production Viewpoint Andrew Soukup Kristin Yemm Lab Tech Peter Richardson 
POLL QUESTION 
Should The Shirt be the same shade of green every year? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is a common observation here that our cause is the cause of all mankind, and that we are fighting for their liberty in defending our own." 
Benjamin Franklin author, statesman 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 page 11 
Personality, not color, distinguishes people 
Jennifer Diane Guintu, Filipino-American, one quarter Italian. minority -these terms are not who l am, they are definitions given to :rrte by society, definitions which fail to describe my personality and what makes me unique. So what then is my identity, I ask myself. To be honest I am in a state of confusion because my concept of identity Jennifer Gunitu changes daily and develops as I explore the world around me. . 
When I studied abroad last year, I What's Your once again questioned my identity. Shade? When asked what I was by Spaniards, I would give my politically correct def­inition given to me my American society: "Filipino­American with Italian blood." By the looks on my Spanish friends' faces, that was the ,veirdcst response they had ever heard. They basically told me that I was American, period. My shade was not brown according to them; rather my shade was red, white and blue. 
The Spaniards were right, though. Never have I felt more American than when I was in a foreign country. Whether I wanted to admit it or not, I as an American am accustomed to a way of life, a way of dressing, a way of eating and a way of thinking that is completely distinct from other countries. Going abroad made my pP.rception of my identity clearer and yet fuzzier. The fact that the Spaniards only saw me as American rejected the impor­tance of the Filipino culture in my life. They saw me as American with Filipino intluences but not as a Filipino. 
So then I asked myself what made me Filipino. According to my cousins who have grown up in the Philippines, I am American because I know very little of what real life in the Philippines is like (what it is like to live there and understand the issues that they face and what it is like to cxpedence Filipino daily life where the Filipino is tho majority rather than the minority). A friend of mine who is Caucasian has lived in the Philippines for a number of years, raised with Filipino inflm'!nces and possibly acculturating some of the Filipino belief system. Does that make her more Filipino than I'? 
I admit that there does exist a Filipino sub-culture here in the United States. Among my parents' Filipino friends who have immigrated here, they try to bring the Filipino culture to their children and American friends. Yet what are their children who are born on American soil? I do not speak my parents' native tongue. Does that make me less a Filipino? Yet I may know more about the political, economic and social situation of the Philippines than those who speak Filipino but pay no attention to what is going on in the "homeland." Does this then make me more of a Filipino? r: 
I then came to the reasoning that I am American, but 
Racism has no place 
at Notre Dame 
Before I begin my article, let me just send out a big "Happy Birthday" to a good friend of mine who turns 22 today. Just like Bobby Brown, as a Notre Dame Observer Viewpoint writer, it's my "preroga­tive" when I Anna Barbour choose to take the reader down twisty written 
Get a Life
pathways of the mind. I extend her this notice to have a happy birthday because even though the birthday week should be one of the better weeks in one's year, I know that hers began rather poorly. 
It began most inconspicuously on Saturday -the day of the Tennessee game. She awoke with a yawn and a stretch to a bright, sunny, cloudless day. She got her game day clothes on and met some friends with whom to begin preparing for the game in the way only people over 21 years really can. Perhaps she prepared too too much, after all, who knew how the game would turn out'? Maybe just the bookies. 
Well, one thing led to another. That afternoon, near the library, she wound up being surrounded by five Notre Dame security officers: two officers in n car, two upon bikes and one on a motorcycle. The story as told by an eye­witness is that she was intoxicated and shouting an obscenity. 
The officer on tho motorcycle pro­ceeded to grab her while still on his motorcycle, causing his motorcycle to tip over. He forced her to the ground, pinning her there as the other four offi­cers rushed to his aid. Her head was scraped and bled due to this rnugh handling. The officers are said to have claimed that she was belligerent and displaying violent tendencies. 
Being an American myself, hearing wild stories about police officers acting brutally or somewhat unlawfully. for example, in Los Angeles or in New York, I believe that my reaction to five cops swarming upon my unsober self would have also caused me a moment or two of panic and defensive action. 
Incidentally, aside from her two fists or fury, she carried nothing but a pack of cigarettes so I am unsure what vio­
lent harm she would have caused to 
five male cops all her size or bigger. 
She was made to cry. She was made to 
believe she was going to jail. She was, 
upon reflection, treated in a manner 
not equal to the situation. Why was she 
forced to the ground? Surely, she was 
not the first intoxicated person the 
Notre Dame Security/Police have ever 
run across. 
I am greatly angered and offended for her, not only because her birthday week will not be the same, but also because this is Notre Dame, not simply a downtown street in some inner city. We are a family. If a member of my family is treated this way, I cannot sit idly by. 
We live in dorms; we eat the same foods; we take the same classes; we go to the same parties; we see the same people. The only difference is that she is black and I am white. I do not know, but I wonder if the only difference between us was also noticed by those five security officers? But perhaps this was just the routine Notre Dame secu­rity treatment. In either case, though, whether racist or overly militant, this is not Notre Dame treatment. 
This event occurred on the Notre 
Dame campus. If it happened once, 
could it not happen again? 
Notre Dame is a big family; there are ·a lot of different people in it but the 
best part about it must remain the fair­
ness with which it treats an its mem­
bers. Notre Dame is the kind of place 
that you can ride a bike down its path­
ways on bright, sunny, cloudless days 
and hum, "My future is so bright, I 
have to wear sunglasses at night." Not 
all the time, but sometimes. I cannot 
believe this incident occurred at Notre 
Dame, but it did. Hopefully it will never 
happen again, and my friend will still 
have a good blrthday today because she 
deserves to. 
Anna Barbour is finally a senior pre­medical and theology student. She can be reached at barbour.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in lhis column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
like every other American, have a different manner of being so. This manner in my situation moans having strong ties to the Filipino culture as I grow and respond to the American culture. 
So for now, when asked my shade, I respond, "red, white and blue." This definition does not deny my par­ents' cultural heritages, which they have passed onto their children, because the colors of the American l.lag are a symbol of the existence of diverse cultures and her­itages existing in a land of tolerance. 
I am still developing my perception of self-identity and will continue to do so as I grow and mature. This Wednesday, Antonio Sacre will be giving a performance entitled, "Brown, Black, White All Over" at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. Hopefully he can give me more insight into the way l define myself. But what I wish most from people while I am on my journey to self-identifica­tion is that that they pay attention to one's personality rather than one's shade because personality 15 what truly distinguishes people. 
'vVhat's Your Shade?" is the Multicultural Students Programs and Services column. Contact MSPS at sacharya@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
There's something about Mary 
Recentl.y I have been asked by a number of students about the Catholic understanding of Mary. Most of us cradle Catholics do not tend to question such things. We are raised with certain beliefs Father J. or practices Steele and we just accept them. We do not usu-On the Way ally look for reasons behind them and may even suspect that there aren't any. 
On the question of Mary it might surprise a lot of folks that there is a long history stretching back to the early thinkers of the Church on the place of Mary in the plan of salvation. St. Justin Martyr (120-165), St. Irenaeus (120-200) and Tertullian (160­
240) all wrote about the place of Mary in her rela­tionship with Eve. 
The argument 1------'""""!r"ll 
goes something 
like this. There 
are some curi­
ous parallels 
between Adam 
and Christ. Both 
said "yes" in a 
garden in ways 
that would alter 
forever the rela­
tionship between · God and humanity. 
Adam's act was dis­
obedience and Christ's 
was obedience. Adam ate 
of the Tree of Knowledge of 
Good and Evil and Christ hung on 
the wood of the cross. the tree on 
which Good would conquer Evil. St. 
Paul in Romans 5 acknowledges this 
parallel and calls Christ the New 
Adam. 

Just as there are curious parallels 
between Adam and Christ, there arc 
some fascinating parallels between 
Eve and Mary. Just as Eve said "yes" 
to the serpent, so Mary did to the 
Angel Gabriel. Just as Eve's consent led to Adam's, so Mary's consent paved the way for Christ's. As Justin, Irenaeus and Tertullian explain it, Eve's encounter with the serpent led to the fall of humanity, and Mary's encounter with the Angel led to the salvation of humanity. 
There is so much more that could be said on this subject -more scripture passages to point to, doc­trines to be explained. But the real question for many of us is: What dif­ference does it make'? 
Mary is the first Christian. She was the first to risk her life and give it over to Christ. As Eve is the mother of all peoples, Mary is the mother of all Christians. Mary is an example of 
surrender to God even when she did not know what that meant. She sorrowed at the foot of the cross, rejoiced at the res­urrection and received the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. We 
see in her a reflection of a faithful Christian life. It is in this spirit that we dare to call her Notre Dame, 
Our Mother. For an excel­lent and brief summary of scripture passages and teachings on Marv, see John Henry.Newman's pam­pl?,let, "Mary, the Second Eve. 

"On the Way" is the Campus Ministry's question and answer col­umn that appears every other Tuesday. Father J. Steele is rector of l\-forrissey Manor and also works in Campus Ministry. Please direct questions to ministry. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
_J 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 
page 12 Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Metalists Mushroomhead take gloom rock too far 
national debut of bands is in the intention and use It is equally puzzling why 
By TOM O'CONNELL 
Mushroomhead, proves this point of the music. Staind intends for the band members are all in 
xx 

Scene Music Critic 
with painful accuracy. their songs to be cathartic, masks and all use pseudo­The premise of Mushroomhead Mushroomhead seem content to nyms. At the risk of sound­
It's not uncommon for music to is as follows: eight guys dressed let their anger grow and fester. ing Freudian, it just seems be about pain and suffering. in black leather masks (think The What results is a jumbled mix of like they are shielding them­Songs about loss, longing, and Gimp from "Pulp. Fiction") complaint that quickly alienates selves from the outside depression have filled albums for scream about how much thcv the listener. world or vice versa. You decades. Blues musicians have hate various things. Some other Slightly imaginative guitar riffs may wonder what they arc crafted an entire style around bands have had recent success clouded by distortion are present hiding, or even more so, such themes. However, a new with their depressed themes. For throughout the album, while the what they are hiding from. and unfortunate trend seems to example, Aaron Lewis of Staind gothic organ music reproduced Unfortunately the music be emerging in rock 'n' roll, and has built a huge following for his on computerized keyboards ends does not give many clues, it has reduced the once complex band by writing songs of emo­up sounding like background and you really don't care if art of lamentation to mere whin­tional turmoil with which listen­music to a video game. The they give you the answer ing. ers seem to identify. heavy and complex drumming of anyway. 
XX, the grossly miscalculated The difference between the two Mushroomhead founder Skinny Based out of Cleveland. is one of the higher Mushroomhead have put points of an other­out four regionally distrib­
Mushroomhead
wise flat album. uted albums, and haev 
Lead singer J toured all over the Midwest Mann provides a bad since 1993. XX is actually Universal Records Marilyn Manson something of a greatest hits impression while the compilation that is to be band's other vocalist, released on a wider scale. RatingJeffrey Nothing, con­Following the success of tributes bellowing Slipknot, another black­rap screams that masked metal band who resonate with angst. graced the last cover of Clever lines like "I "RollingStone" and whose laughed at religion album Iowa recently opened at released locally, the music is long ago" and "If it No. 3 on the Billboard charts, essentially new to the rest of the were up to me I'd Mushroomhead's similar appear­country. Whatever artistic free Charles ance and style seem to have been integrity Mushroomhead may Manson" are the scooped up by a rival record have had has been reduced to kind of lyrical gems label in the hopes of making a that of a quick cash-in spin-off of you really wish they quick profit from the excess a successful first mover. had not thought of. demand of the more popular Simply put, Mushroomhead is Given the state of our band. to hardcore rap/metal as 0-Town country in the last Mushroomhead producers is to boy bands or Temptation month, perhaps this were able to cut costs and pro­Island is to reality TV. 

is just not the right duction time simply by repackag­time for focused pes-ing songs from their old albums, Contact Tom O'Connell at simism. and since they had only been toconnel@nd.edu 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Post-grunge stars fading into rock background 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
Assistant Scene Ediror 
Ever since Bush first stormed their way into the homes and hearts of angry teenagers throughout America in 1994, fortune has never quite smiled the same way upon this grunge band from London. 
Still limping from the critical accusations that tagged them "Nirvavawannabes," Bush -possibly the most pow­erful force in post-grunge -have fought an uphill battle almost since the very beginning. Unfortunately, Golden State, the group's best attempt to return to the explosive power and emotion of their '94 smash Sixteen Stone, doesn't do a whole lot to improve their disposition. 
A lot has happened since 1994 though. This is not the same Bush that seemingly ripped out heavy hitting grunge anthems like "Everything Zen" and "Comedown" without effort. Bush have grown. matured -not to men­tion signed with Atlantic Records. That's right, Bush signed with the big boys. The thing is, Bush's sound hasn't changed ... at all. 
With the exceptions of the catchy, melodic "Superman" and the punk-oriented "My Engine is With You," Golden State is horribly predictable and an overall stale record for Bush. Gone are the subtle electronic tweeks and twinges of 1997's Deconstructed and 1999's The Science of Things, replaced by more of the same pulsing waves of heavy guitar crunch and pessimistic, hollow lyrics, "I could be right/ I could be wrong/ but do you think we'll make it out alive" that Bush has always fallen back on. 
Song after song, the sound of Golden State just becomes repetitive. It's actually hard to make it farther than six or seven tracks into the album, because it just gets sort of ... well, boring. 
The album opens with "Solutions," a song that actually manages to trick its listener into believing Bush has finally acquired some new tricks. A soft, floating melodic guitar opens the album, hinting at a new found sense of melody and an underlying intensity and emotional front that have been noticeably absent in recent releases. Unfortunately, it's all just a tease. The song quickly devolves back to the same lamenting vocals and gigantic guitar so heavily used on every Bush album, .completely abandoning what could have developed into something fresh and actually worth taking notice of . 
The first single off Golden State, "The People That We Love," doesn't fair much better. Hather than a song of its own accord, the track seems almost a mere 
t 

••'. ) 
j .• ' ' 

tribute to the hcavy,-pulsing guitar and start-stop dynam­ics that were made so famous by songs like "Machinehead" and "Everything Zen." 
"Out of This World," is Golden State's version of Sixteen Stone's No. 1 single, "Glycerine." This "atmospheric" peice is slow and emotion heavy, and is almost painful to listen to. Where "Glycerine" moved its audience, "Out of This World" drags its liseners, against their will, down a long and pointless path that doesn't really lead anywhere. 
In a music world overcrowded with imitators, Bush needs to be pressing forward, not simply reflecting their own past. 
Though, in Bush's ·defense, Golden State is not a horri­ble album. It's just not a great album. Songs like "Superman" and "Hurricane" pack a pretty powerful punch, and were mixed well. On "My Engine is With You," Bush does its best imitation of a punk band, and aren't half bad at it. The quick. sharp quitar riffs serve as a much needed break from lead guitarist Nigel Pulsford's clever, but all too familar, huge pulsating guitar sound. Other than these few songs, however, not much really stands out on Golden State. 

Of course, there is nothing wrong with following a suc­cessful formula, as long as you don't get lazy and forget why that forumla worked in the first place. 
"It's a very naked record," vocalist Gavin Rossdale said of Golden State. "Definitely a real rock record. It's such a rock record it even surprised us." 
Rossdale is absolutely right. Golden State is a real rock record. It is honestly a pretty decent rock record. What Rossdale neglects to mention, is that Bush have already released this "real rock record" ...:_ numerous times, under numerous titles. Once it was called Razorblade Suitcase, another time it was called The Science of Things ... well, you get the point. 
Contact Sam Derheimer at sderheim@nd.edu 

,­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
n1usic 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Cranberries' Wake Up not up to expectations 

im, draws on her life experiences and into a single-quality tune. With lyrics grader's first poem than a seasoned wisdom to lend words to every song. evident of 0'Riordan's aged wisdom, musician's best effort, the track should As a result, the album is notably more "Wake Up and Smell tho Coffee" is one have been left off. upbeat and cheerful than their first of the better songs on the album. "I "Do You Know" suffers the same four releases, a characteristic went to hell/ I might as well learn by fate. A foot-tapping tune matched with Overall, any Cranberries fan should 0'Riordan attributes to her belief that my mistakes/ I, at 24, was insecure/ Do some juvenile lyrics can't fulfill the lis­be pleased with Wake Up. O'Riordan's "life is never as 'black and white' as whatever it takes." Her lyrics on this teners expectations. "I will be strong/ voice is as Irish as ever, even if some one may assume it to be ... the lows song are seemingly more reflective will carry on/ and I'll always hold on to of the lyrics leave something to be make the highs far superior.'.' than in albums past. my smile." desired. 
The album opens up on a strong note One of the more disappointing tracks The album's last track "Chocolate with the hymn-quality "Never Grow on the album is "Analyse." Although Brown" is as beautiful as 0'Riordan's Contact Maureen Smithe at Old." Carrying the same thoughtfulness tile song is as catchy as any voice. Her reflective tone perfectly msmithe@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Aphex Twin remains ahead of his time 
lines and awkward sounds.
By DAVE FULTON The double album begins with 
Scene Music Critic 
"Jynweythek Ylow," a peaceful mix of Orient sounding influence With the growing popularity of electronic music, it is and ambience. At first listen. the becoming more and more difficult to be revolutionary in song sounds as strange as the the genre. Artists like Moby, Paul Oakenfold and The title, but once you get beyond the Crystal Method have gained notoriety recently in today's awkward sounding instrumenta­popular music scene opening the floodgates for others. tion, the piano melody is rather 
However, more experimental artists such as The Orb engaging. have remained out of the limelight and instead wrap ··tty A Scullyas Lyf A Dhagrow" themselves in critical praise within the shadows of the shares a very similar sound, but electronic genre. Aphex Twin is no exception to this as his in a much more conventional newest album Drukqs, demonstrates. way. The song seems more orga­
Aphex Twin. aka Richard D. James, has long been a pio­nized and less random than neer in experimental electronic music. He began record­"Jynweythek Ylow" and adds a ing music at the age of 14 in England where he performed very haunting dimension to the DJ sets and later progressed to become one of the most formula. It's as if the two songs higWy praised electronic artists. share the same recipe with sub­
His sound is unique in that it is so diverse. He breaks tle additions and subtractions away from conventionality, instead choosing a path of making the songs unique in everything from brash break beats to delicate piano to themselves. sounds so fragile and void the listener is barely aware of Many of the songs on the them. The results range from beautiful sonic landscapes album share such similar formu­to chaotic cacophony that blurs the line between what can las. Many complaints pop music be considered music and what is plain noise. fans make about electronic music 
Interestingly enough, Drukqs brings a blend of all of is that "all the songs sound the wonderful examples of James' keyboard melodies andthese things together. Where most artists release a great­same." Upon first listen to some songs, this argument 
atmospheric texturing that mirror Radiohead's 
est hits of previously released songs, Drukqs comes across seems true. Only by comparing and contrasting such songs "Everything in its Right Place." 
as a greatest hits of James' techniques and soui1ds. is it possible to see the individuality that the songs possess. 
Some of the best songs on Drukqs are simple pianoUnfortunatelv, most of the intensely warm and soothing "Vordhosbn" maintains a sense of ambience despite the tracks. "Beskhu3cpnm" has a beautiful piano melody thatsoundscapes of his Selected Ambient Works, Vol. 2 album, seemingly random lightning quick beats that are peppered builds up in unison with what sounds like a pencil tapping are nowhere to be found on Drukqs. Instead they are throughout. At first listen the song sounds very similar to a desk. "Nanou 2" is the best and the most conventionalreplaced ·with explosions of drum 'n' bass, mild melody "Cock/Ver 10," however, listening to the two songs back to track on the albwn despite its simplicity. There is nothing 
back, the differences become not only 
complicated about the song, but it has an intensity that 
apparent, but so obvious one wonders how 
even the exploding drum 'n' bass tracks cannot match. 
the two could ever be confused. It's as if 
Drukqs i"i not an easy album. It is dark, mysterious and 
James purposely engineered his songs to
Drukgs 
at times bizarre. It is the antithesis of today's cheese-laden 
give 1hc impression of likeness in order to 
pop songs by people with better looks than talent -an 
challenge the listener find otherwise. 
album designed for listeners who don't mind taking the 
One of the most interesting aspects of
Aphex Twin 
time to work to find the enjoyment in the music. 
Drukqs is its illustration of the influence 
If you are not a fan of experimental or electronic music, 
James has had on other artists. "0mgyiya 
than most likely Drukqs is not an album for you. On theWarp Records Switch 7" features James' trademark spas­other hand. those seeking refuge trom the horrific mess 
tic drum programming along with whip-like 
that today's music scene has become, may find asylum in 
sounds that are so often heard in Nine Inch 
the album's experimentalism. Either way, Richard D. 
Nails songs like "Perfect Drug" and "Mr.
Rating 
James has once again shown why he remains ahead of the 
Self-Destruct." On a softer side, the last two 
pack in the realm of electronic music . 
Radiohead albums have shown a clear influence of James' ambient work.
....... 
"Bbydhyonchord" and "Meltphace 6" are 
Contact Dave Fulton at dfu.lton@nd.edu 
matched the song's content. "But I tired and I sighed/ He didn't listen to me/ I felt that way." The song is a great close to the album. 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Scene Music Critic  and ease as the songs on their 1994 release No Need To Argue, this track glamorizes the simple things in life. "I  Cranberries song, the lyrics cer­ 
have a dream, strange it may seem/ It  tainly  lack  
Like their namesake, the newest  was  my perfect day/ Open my eyes, I  any sense of  
release from The Cranberries is slight­ realize/ It is· my perfecl day." Equally  originality.  
ly sweet, yet slightly tart. Wake Up and  catching is  "Every Morning," the  "Breathe  
Smell the Coffee, the Irish band's first  album's 10th irack. Apparently written  the air out  
release in two  vears,  reflects the  in response to her new duties  as a  there  ...  /  
band's growth as.individuals and as a  mother, 0'Hiordan reflects on her new­ For  you  
band.  found youth. "I don't remember being  opened  my  
Reminiscent  of  their  first  four  young/ Was it so  much fun?/ I don't  eyes to the  
albums,  The  Cranberries  rely  on  remember feeling this free."  The  beauty  I  
Dolores O'Riordan's angelic lullaby  song's cheerfulness introduces the lis­ s  e  e  .  "  
voice and song writing abilities to  tener to 0'Hiordan's absolute delight in  Sounding  
carry Wake Up. 0'Hiordan, who had  motherhood.  ·  more like a  
two children during the two-year inter­ The title track opens slow and eases  second- 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
Football 
continued from page 24 
shoulder injury, and Davie said he 
... thought the safety would be out two weeks. Against the Volunteers, Israel, who has missed three of the last five games, saw limited action and did not record a tackle. Dykes did not play at all Saturday, but Davie is optimistic he will be able to play against Navy. "Dykes could not play if we played this next Saturday," Davie said," But by the following Saturday against Navy, he may be back." For the second straight game, nose guard Andy Wisne did not play. Davie said Wisne, who collid­ed with defensive tackle Darrell Campbell during warm-ups at Boston College and suffered a con­cussion. is out indefinitely. Injuries are also causing prob­lems for the Irish offense, and at least one player said a nagging injury may have caused a turnover. Flanker Arnaz Battle, who missed four games earlier this season with a broken leg and sat out most of last season with a broken wrist, said his wrist makes it difficult for him to carry the football in his left hand. Battle was stripped on the 1­yard line against the Volunteers when he was running a reverse in the second quarter. "The first defender came up-field, and when I tucked it up under him, I had to put the ball in my right arm," Battle said. "With me still having that wrist problem, it's tough for me to change the ball while I'm running. I don't think [the fumble happened] because I was carrying it in my right arm. I was reaching out for the pylon. That's the story right there." "He won't carry that football in the left hand, in the left arm, and that's something right there," Davie said. "Really, that ball should have been switched. He had it on his inside arm and the kid was able to strip him." With the bye week, Irish will only 
CLASSIFIEDS 

practice on Wednesday and Thursday this week, and will take the entire weekend off. They will resume their normal practice schedule next week. 
"We go into the open date, we've got to get rested a little bit," Davie said. "We've got to get healthy." 

Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish earn multiple Big East honors 
Special to The Observer 
Por the first time since the 1996 season, the Notre Dame men's soccer team is ranked in both the National Soccer Coaches Association of America/adidas and Soccer America polls. 
The Irish, who own an 11-5 overall record, are ranked 23rd in the NSCANadidas poll and 19th in the Soccer America ranking. This is Notre Dame's first appearance in the NSCANadidas poll since earlier this when the Irish were ranked 21st in that poll during the week of Sept. 7. 
Notre Dame is third behind Indiana and Wisconsin-Milwaukee in the NSCAA/adidas Great Lakes regional rankings. 
Head Coach Bobby Clark's squad moved up to the 19th position in the Soccer America ranking after occupying the 20th spot in that poll during the past two weeks. 
Also, freshman Kevin Goldthwaite has been named the Big East Rookie of the Week after scoring two goals and dishing off an assist in victories over IUPUI (4-0) and Syracuse (2-1). 
Goldthwaite, who is tied for third in scoring among all Irish players with four goals and five assists (13 points), tallied the game-winning goal in 3:38 into overtime in Notre Dame's come-from-behind victory over Syracuse. He also had a goal and as assist against IUPUI as he scored the Irish's second goal of the game at the 56:14 mark of the contest and then assisted on the third Notre Dame score that came at the 
63:42 mark. 
Goldthwaite has scored three game-winning goals this season and as started seven games. He is one of two freshmen who has played in all 16 contests. 
Notre Dame currently has an overall record of 11-5 and finished the Big East regular season with a 7-3 mark. The seven conference wins represent the most by an Irish team since Notre Dame became a conference member in 1995. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE  
<'...'  SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT  
LOST AND FOUND  NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME  
VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS  
BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER- 
Found knit cap with Barna on it  ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR  
Call 4-1627  MORE INFORMATION PLEASE  
CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243­ 
4244 {X4192)  
FOR RENT  Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad.  
weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219­ 
277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­ 
PUS  HOUSES FOR RENT:  
mmmrentals.com  1) 9-br. $2400/month  
2) 5-br. $1500/month  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  3) 4-br. $1000/month  
Call Bill at 532-1896  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Homes for rent near campus  
for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms  furn.272-6306  
with private baths, $80-$115,  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Northshore Condo,  
Toll Road Exit #107.  1428 Marigold Way  
near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR &  
1-800-418-9487  kitchen w/appliances  
1 car garage. $69,000  
B&B  Call Doris at 254-1772 for more into  
2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES  
2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS  1-bdrm w/ patio, $545/mo. Swm  
247-1124  pool, exercise room, laundry fac.  
3.5 miles from campus. Lease  
Lodging • Bed and Breakfast, 45  expires 5/2002, may be renewed.  
minutes from Notre Dame. T&R  Call Ben Feden  
INN Between the lakes.  {219) 255-2153  
PH (616) 244-9084  
www.innbetweenthelakes.com  WANTED  
;­ FREEDOM! 4 and 5 Bdrm Houses,  
furnished, sec sys!, wash/dry,  Student wantedl Alum owned 2  
PRIME locations, util included. 4 Br  story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ newer carpet.  
has V-ball &B-ball courts.  Appl, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1  
blk N. of Club 23. 1375 inc. utilities  
233-9947  321-217-8451.  

Houses available for 3-6 students. Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340-0106. 
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJ's and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800·293· 1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out 
more. 
TICKETS 

BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 Spring Break with STS, America's HOPING TO ADOPT 
#1 Student Tour Operator. We are a Catholic, fun-loving, well 
Promote trips on campus earn cash educated and financially secure 
and free trips. Info/Reservations married couple in Northern 
1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com California. We are homestudy 
approved and excited to share our **'ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE love with a bay! You can learn BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! more about us at www.parentpro-SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, files.com/profiles/db2288.html or JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL-call Adoption Connection toll-free at CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. 1-800-972-9225 and ask about REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, Chris and Mary. EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT 
COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas­ketball coach: responsible and dependable, student or grad to coach 7 -8th grade reserve basket­ball team, Nov 12-Feb 21; for south side private elementary school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami St. Must be available tor practices Mon-Thurs tram 2:20­
3: 15. Game schedule varies with 9· 10 games beginning after school at 4 or 5 pm. Paid position Call 291­4200 to apply. 
FOR SALE 
Selling Varsity Club time share 1 soph. wk, $9,500 272-1753 
1999 Toyota RAV4 excellent condi­lion• only 10,500 miles, leather, cd changer, manual transmission CALL 243-9937 
Moving out need to sell everything! Great prices! Furniture, kitchen appliances, tv, bed, and many more stuff. CALL 243-9937 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED • ND TICKETS 289-9280 
Buying some/ Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets. 219-289-8048 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
WANTED· SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
FOR 6+. 800-838-8203 www.leisuretours.com 
$300-$800 Scholarships Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule? We have several part-time and full-time day & evening positions paying $7:.,$11/hr. We offer the lollowing: 'Scholarship money 'Flexible Schedules 'Paid vacations/holidays 'Optional Saturdays "Health/Lile/401 (k) 'Incentives/Raises *Supervisory/Mg!. Positions 1-(888) 801-JOBS jobs@americallcorp.com Just minutes north of campus 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your precious baby safe and happy in a loving family, adored by 2 ND grad parents ( a lull-lime mom and lawyer dad) and lov­ing playmates in a beautiful home. We promise to give your child the life you dream of for them. Medical, legal, counseling, court-approved living expenses pd. Conlidential. Please call our attorney at (708) 922-4795 
Es justo y necesario 
PPV, you wish you knew 
Canada beckons 
Ooooooohhhhh Canada 
T-minus four days...and counting 
Remember, the more you want to sin, the more you have to pay 
Let's kick the tires and light some !ires 
Alroman rulesi 
I was tionna go lo class, but then I got elevated 
I was gonna go to court, but then I got elevated 
Mariano Rivera is human, after all I wanna .... ROCK! 
Look at page 18 
If you see Elizabeth Asher today, be sure to wish her a happy birth­day and compiment her duck hat 

Tuesday, November 6, 2001 The Ohserver . SPORTS page 15 
Guertin 
continued from page 24 
The beginning of this season 
was tough for Guertin. She 
worked hard to create offensive 
scoring chances only to come 
up just a little bit short in front 
of the net. Through her first 11 
games of this season, Guertin 
had scored just three goals, but 
Irish head coach Randy 
Waldrum was not overly con­
cerned. 
"When yonr job is to score 
goals. you tend to put a lot of 
undue pressure on yourself," 
said Waldrum. "She is so tal­
ented with the ball that I knew 
it would just be a matter of time 
before she started scoring 
again. Even when she was not 
scoring, she was doing an 
excellent job of creating oppor­
tunities for her teammates. 
Now she's in a groove where 
she knows she will be able to 
create scoring chances for her­
self. It's just a matter of con­
verting those opportunities, and 
she has done a great job of that 
lately." 
Despite her tough luck at the beginning of the year, Guertin refused to give up on herself. .Her scoring streak began on 
Oct. 12 against St. John's. 
She recaptured her scoring 
touch by notching the last of 
seven goals for the Irish in their 
earlier romp over the Red 
Storm. Since that late goal 
against St. John's, Guertin has 
simply been unstoppable. 
"l work hard every day in 
practice on my scoring tech­
nique," she said. "It was diffi­
cult at the beginning of the sea­
son because I was just not fin­ishing scoring chances even though I was trying so hard. The scoring streak has really boosted my confidence and allowed me to relax during the games." 
Guertin's persistence has cer­tainly paid off as she has emerged as Notre Dame's lead­ing scorer with 10 goals on the season. During the streak, Guertin has relished her role as the go--to player on offense for the Irish. 
Even more impressive than her ability to score is Guertin's demeanor and attitude towards the game. 
"I came to Notre Dame to score goals," said Guertin. "I always want the ball because I feel that I can score any time the ball is at my feet. As a for­ward, you need to have· that mindset." 
Guertin is a nightmare for defenders because she is so versatile offensively. She is not only capable of scoring from well beyond the goalie box -as St. John's can attest in their 2-0 loss to the Irish -but she is also just as potent with her footwork and dribbling skills. Many of Guertin's goals are due to her ability to maneuver and juke her way around defenders to create prime scoring oppor­tunities in front of the net. She has been such a dominant pres­ence in the Notre Dame lineup that five of the Irish's last seven goals belong to Guertin._ 
Guertin's importance to the team cannot just be measured by her ability to score goals. She is also the team leader in assists with a total of six on the season. Her deft touch with the ball gives Waldrum the luxury to design a variety of sophisti­cated plays on Irish free kicks. 
No set play was more impor­tant this season than the Irish's game winning-goal in overtime against Big East Rival West Virginia. This victory allowed the Irish to take sole possession of first place in the Mid-Atlantic Division of the Big East ­Conference. 
Guertin elevated the ball to a streaking Mary Boland, who promptly headed the ball to Mia Sarkesian who in turn sent the ball past the West Virginia goalie for the Irish victory. Sarkesian, the senior captain and starting midfielder for the Irish, understands Guertin's importance in the lineup. 
"Amanda has been huge for us lately," said Sarkesian. "She is a midtielder's dream because if you pass the ball to her feet. you know she will do something awesome with it. She is a great team player. She is not just a great scorer. but she is also an excellent passer. I love playing with Amanda." 
What makes Guertin even more valuable to the Irish is her ability to rise to the occa­sion and score when the Irish need it most. Over the past two years, Notre Dame has won six overtime contests with Guertin scoring two golden goals and assisting on two others. Guertin leads the team this season with five game-winning goals, none bigger than her overtime goal at home against Michigan two 

Sundays ago Notre Dame's final regular season contest. offense, and she is that player "[ do not know where we for us. r am not surprised at all 
would be without Amanda," by her recent success. As a said Wal drum. "Our other for­freshman her play might have wards have struggled to find been overshadowed by seniors the net all year. Every team Meotis Erikson and Anna needs a go-to person on Makinen, but we would not have made it to the Final Four without her. I expect Amanda to continue to score goals for us in the post-season." 
Contact Joe Licand.ro at jlican­d.ro@nd.edu 

tffffftH tffffffftttfffflttfft 
ACE is atwo-year, post-graduate service program featuring three pillars: Master degree teacher preparation, community life, and spiritual development. 


and inspire.
eac 
JoinusfACE Information Night 

Thursdat I th 
November 8 
laFortune Ballroo7: QQ 
To find out more about ACE, please stop by 112 Badin Hall or call us at 1-7052. 
\tffffffft tffffffftl tffffffftt 
I 
II , 
I I I 
I 
i 
' 
page 16 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 6, 2001 

Center for Social Concerns 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
WEEK OF PEACE AND WAR EDUCATION: NOVEMBER 11TH-16TH Faculty and Student Panel Discussions in the Quads: Monday, Nov. 12th-Thursday, Nov.15th 7:30PM-9:00PM Hall Locations: McGlinn, Morrissey, P.E., & Keenan/Stanford **Keep your eyes open for more events and details** 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 
,=· Summer Service Project Internships : Summer Service Project Internships are eight-week service-learning experiences sponsored by 
f.1'! 
Notre Dame alumni clubs across the country. Room and board is provided while students work with agencies serving disadvantaged f I populations. Next Information Session: Wednesday, November 7th 6:00 p.m. at the CSC 
~at~IAIII 
t•.7·*··-·_~t~_··.:~_] ACCION Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10-12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are mic"ro­. · _, ~-~=! lending organizations. $2.500.00 Scholarship. Room and board stipend provided. 
With Gratitude ... 
The Center for Social Concerns would like to thank and celebrate the over 240 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who participated in the following fall break service and experiential learning: Appalachia Seminar, Rosebud Community -Global Health Initiative, Washington Seminar, Cultural Diver­sity Seminar and Children and Poverty Seminar. And a special thank you to the 15 graduate and undergraduate students who served as Seminar coordinators and task force members, providing good organization and student leadership for these programs.: Jourdan Sorrell (Cultural Diversity), Christine Scerbo and Dave Bishop (Rosebud Community), Kyle Smith and Brendan Egan (Washington Seminar), Elizabeth Frost and Tom O'Connell (Children and Poverty), Ben Powers, Lauren Zajac, Colleen O'Connor, Derek Vollmer, Maura Cenedella, Jina Jensen, Mary Beth Holzmer and 

Mike Mansour (Appalachia) . 
. . . , -, ·~ · · ,.~. :o-,f,,,; :,W£~.:l'~;J:i;;.F~:;:.-:.,'-'"··"•·',;;,'.J>·.·,,.,,,;«.-,
-.·,~ .'· -: · . _,·::~\~:Facu.Itf?0pportilitities , .·I>o y~~Jiitt,~~bp(i(:~{§~i~f~~fef}~:~_;_: _~ /tt;.: : · ·.•· . . : . . .. 
Over fall ~reak. stude11~s -~v~l:~lP:l\~Rtl!clu~!:l?f.•(N~~,York pty, ~d.el~~-" 
where. for a \V~k ~(~~11en~~}e~ipg ~d.,ser.v1~~i ~-part.of our one-credit 
seminars: We are thinking of offering anew·seminar next fall with the Gullah. 
peopie in -~outh C~qlina, and'~_se¢~ng ~~~uliy memtiers to assist us. If you 
have some relevant e;(pertise and/or interest, please ~ontact Marr,Beckman. 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Tutorinc: 
High School Tutor-Laura Trubac -616-684-6266 She is looking for a Chemistry and Algebra II tutor for her high school daughter. Flexible regarding times, please call for location. 
Senior Transition Program 
UNLOCK YOUR NON-PROFIT CAREER SEARCH Presented by: Anita Rees, Career Center and Andrea Smith Shappell, CSC TODAY, November 6 
5:00 pm -CSC Coffeehouse 
Elementary School Tutor -Kim Black -299-3616 (W-Th) or 289-6893 (leave a message) She would like a tutor for her 7-yr. old daughter who is having trouble in school,student must provide own transportation. 
Other: 
Agency Newsletter -Carol Mayernick -282-2397 Journalism student or writer with an interest in religious matters is needed to work on the upgrade and expansion of TORCH, an interfaith ecumenical newsletter. Flexible hours-T,Th or F with a minimum of 2 hours per week, more hours the week of publication. 
Osceola Orphanage 
This orphanage, run by a woman in her sixties, assists neglected young adults and families. She is in great need of volunteers to help her with work around the house and caring for these individuals and families. Any time an individual or group could donate would be greatly appreciated, please stop in at the CSC for more info and directions (located less than 15 miles from ND). LOGAN Center -Marissa Runkle -289-4831 Looking for a more meaningful way to spend a Friday Night? LOGAN Center, which assists adults with developmental disabilities, is holding a dance for their residents on Friday Nov. 9t1i_ Transportation from campus will be provided. Elderly Assistance -Shelby Huber -634-4316 An elderly woman in Mishawaka is in need of 1-2 volunteers to come in twice a month to help clean her apartment. She has limited mobility and her ability to stay in her current apartment depends on her having someone to come in and help her clean. 
Hospitality Luncheon! Hosted by El Buen Vecino 
This Thursday, November 8th , from 11:00 a.m, to 1:30 p.m. at the CSC. Come enjoy a Mexican meal of tacos, tamales,tostadas, chi le con came, rice, salad, bread and dessert with your friends and colleagues! Cost: $4.00. 
New Course Initiative 
The Department ofTheology and the Center for Social Concerns with support . . . ·. , . ' .
from vanous campus entitles, will offer a three-credit, upper-level course ent.J.tled: .__·.________________ Church and Society in El Salvador: Transforming Realities -Theo 463, cross-listed in various departments, Spring 2002 This course will be interdisciplinary in nature, and will offer/require a trip to-El Salvador during spring break 2002 for experiential learning and research. We will meet on Tuesday evenings (7:00 to 9:30 PM) before and after the immersion to El Salvador. This is a creative opportunity open to students in all disciplines. Basic Spanish language abilities are required. For further information, pick up a learning agreement at the Center for Social Concerns or Department of Theology -Instructors: Matt Ashley (Theology), Jay Brandenberger (Center for Social Concerns), Michael Lee (Theology). INFORMATION MEETING TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M., Nov. 7th™ AT THE CSC! * The application deadline is November 12, 2002. 
' 

http:f/centerforsocialconcel'J,l.S.nd;edg .,_ * , ..· 631-5293 Hours: M-F 8AM-10PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
• •· ') • , ' ,, ' •.• J, .,,.--"'t :. 
---------------......---..--­
Post-GradUate 5·ernce: 
. . . .....: : :)/g61icfossXs;o~iat~i·:--: :_ ·· . . 
',, " · ,,·. ,: >"; l ..,'h· ., , · ., 1' ·., , ,,. · • ; • 
·Holy Cl'oss Associates Satellite Office Hours in the· Colenfan-Morrl~ ·ca:mpus Mini:stry Building;.,Every Wednesdayfrom 12p.m.-2 p.m. Stop by with questions or just to ta!~ with Anne Moriarty or Rebekah Go about the 
HCA post-graduate service program! Additional hours ossible if requested by calling: 1-5521 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Write Sports for The Observer 
Call 1-4543 


Performance Artist and Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
7:00 pm

Bilingual Storyteller 
La Fortune Student Center Ballroom 
Si la gente quiere comer came; Ifthe People Want to Eat Meat, Let them Eat Meat, The Remarkable Story ofmy Brother 
Performance Artist and Bilingual Storyteller 
Thursday, November 8, 2.001 
8:oo pm 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
The performances are cosponsored by: Multicultural 
Student Programs and Services, the Helen Kellogg 
Institute for International Studies, the Creative Writing 
Department, the Film, Television, and Theater 
Department, and La Alianza, all of the University of 
Notre Dame 
.. 
1·NSTITUT.E 


University ofNotre Dame International Study Program in 
PARIS, FRANCE 
Study Political Science, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, and Moden1 History in the Heart of Paris at Science Po, one ofEurope's most Prestigious Institutions 
Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director, Returnees of the Program, and Exchange Students . 
INFORMATION MEETING November 8, 2001 
5:00 PM 231 DeBartolo 
It's not all Davie's fault, but he's responsible 
I feel bad for Bob Davie. Hey, who threw that egg? Before you go calling me any­
tiling from a sap to an idiot, prob­ably neither of which I could deny under oath, I'm not say­ing being criticized doesn't come with coaching. 
He'd be the first one to tell you that what happens on the field, win or lose. including what's out of a coach's control, is his responsibility. Fair or not, that's the reality of the job, espe­cially at Notre Dame. 
"A lot of good things," Davie said, referring to his team's per­formance in a 28-18 loss to Tennessee, "but the productivity, the bottom line is 268 yards and 11 points. You look back on it, and I told our players, don't fall in the trap ofsaying: 'Well, we played as hard as we could, we thought we [in] a lot of ways out­played them at times, and we're jinxed or something's against us."' 
Watching the first halfof this game, which saw the Irish pene­trate Tennessee's red zone four times and produce a field goal, a punt and two fumbles, it might be easy to come to that conclusion. 
However, Davie knows the answer is much simpler than that. 
"You know the reality is ... we dropped the ball on the one-yard line, going in. We fumbled the ball on probably the 20-yard line [of Tennessee] -young freshman tailback, who I think is going to be a heck of a player, fighting for extra yardage-and ifthat's not bad enough, they pick it up and 
• run it about 70 yards for a touch­down." 
Julian Battle's return actually went for 81 yards, but either way, Notre Dame trailed 7-3 at the break after dominating the first half, holding the ball for almost 20 minutes and racking up 198 yards to Tennessee's 97. 
Who would've pegged that lock­er room scenario? Not anyone picking the Irish to get blown out by four touchdowns on their home field, as some people did. 
But for the second week in a row, and this time, against a much better opponent, Notre Dame found itself coming up just short, dropping to 3-5 on the sea­son. 
• 
"[The] Boston College game is one ofthose things," Tennessee head coach Phillip Fulmer said after the game. "They [Notre 
•
• 


Call 259-2000 for more details 
Dame] had the ball, they had the 
yards. they did everything they 
could to win the ball game except 
give up big plays. 
"So I felt fur them and their staff and their players; they fought their guts out, and that's all you can ask as a coach is that you're going out there and playing the very best that you can play on Saturday." 
Davie and his team have been so close, and yet all that matters is those five losses in eight games. No one th.inks it's a lack of effort or talent on the part of the play­-.., ers. 
Some people (OK, a lot of peo­ple) might say it's a lack of effort from the coaches. That doesn't seem to be the case, either. 
Fulmer, who has the highest winning percentage of any active coach, went head-to-head with Davie on Saturday and had noth­ing but praise for his opponent and his staff after the game. 
"They had a heck of a plan. They really did, and they did a good job against us, and they stopped themselves enough to help us ... beat them," Fulmer said. 
That plan took one of the nation's most prolific running backs, Travis Stephens, and made him almost a non-factor, holding him to 63 yards on 24 carries. 
Stephens had amassed 870 yards in just six games before coming to Notre Dame Stadium. 
Nevertheless, the Volunteers were able to weather the Irish storm, make their adjustments at the half, and figure out a way to get quarterback Casey Oausen good looks at all his receivers. 
"It's extremely frustrating," Davie said of the loss, "and that's obvious to all of you." 
He was talking to the media, but he might as well have been addressing Notre Dame faithful. around the world. 
So with only three games left in the season, I think there are now a lot of questions about 2001 Notre Dame football that we can answer. 
Did Bob Davie fumble the balls that ultimately led to the Irish loss this weekend? No. 
Can a coach control everything that goes on out on that field? Of course not. 
ls Davie busting his butt to try and get this team ready for each week?Yes. 
Has Notre Dame gotten better since the beginning ofthe season, so that they can now compete with the national powers? Undoubtedly. 
However, all that leaves one question, probably the most important one of all, unanswered: Why has Notre Dame been scrap­ping just to compete in the first place? 
I don't know. But coaching, like any other job, is judged by one standard: results. 
And no matter what the effort. that's something Davie hasn't got­ten. 
Contact Ted Fox at ifox@nd.edu. The opinions ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Tuesday, November 6, 2001 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
Who will play power forward ing the other defenders," WNBA players Georgia really good shooters, someB-ball and who will play small for­Borton said. Schweitzer and Jannon veterans," Owens said. "It ward is yet to be determined. The Legends are a traveling Roland lead the Legends. should be a good game. continued from page 24 Off the bench, the Irish are team that takes on various Schweitzer scord 16 points They're a really good team." looking for scoring from colleges and universities dur­against Cincinnati, while behind the arc. sophomore guards Jeneka ing the preseason. Cincinnati Roland added 7 points and six 
Contact Noah Amstadter at 
The biggest change for the Joyce and Allison Bustamante, defeated the team 83-56 on assists. 
namstadt@nd.edu.
Irish will be in the frontcourt. while frflshman forward Katie Nov. l. "They're going to have some Junior Amanda Barksdale had Flecky and junior guard been expected to take over at Monique Hernandez should center coming into the season, help with defense and but Barksdale is expected to rebounding. miss tonight's game with sore­The most important focus ness in her legs. for the Irish early on will be 
With Barksdale out, fresh­on defense and rebounding. man Teresa Borton steps in at The coaching staff is looking 
Grand Opening!!
the pivot. The 6-3 forward to the freshmen -particular­from Yakima, Wash., earned ly Borton, Batteast and Flecky second-team Parade All­-for help in that area. America honors last fall when "That's going to be the main 

,.: 
Jackie Batteast has emerged as Notre Dame's leading scor­er in two scrimmages already, and is poised to back up the expectations that earned her Big East Preaseason Rookie of the Year honors. 
"I think she's awesome," Borton said of Batteast. "She's just a dominant player. She has great timing. She comes up with the shot when we need it." 
Batteast is expected to start at one forward position, with Haney starting at the other. 
Maximum Student Resource Center 
-an office ofStudent Government Come c~eck out the resource center for campu~ events 
At\ 

Novermeber 5-November 9 ·, O'Hara lounge (111 laFortune) 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
and returnees of the program 
econd meetin 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
7:15 PM 210 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 Academic Year 2002-2003 Fall 2002-Spring 2003 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 

she averaged 17 .9 points for West Valley High School. The 19-year-old has exhibited quickness and strong post moves in early practices. 
"Practices have been going well," Borton said.· "I think J've improved in some areas but ther-e are many, many more things I need to improve. My teammates are great. Right now I'm just learning how to play with them -their tendencies, what to expect in a given situation." 
One of the teammates Borton is most excited about playing with is also a class­mate. South Bend native 
thing, who's going to step up amongst the freshmen and help us defensively first," Owens said. "Rebounding is the key. I think from one to 13 they all have the potential of scoring, [but] defense is going to tell who's going to get the most playing time." 
Borton, for one, is more than ready for this assign­ment. 
"Defensively I just want to remember exactly where I'm supposed to be for man-to­man and zone and just work my butt off fronting and help-

:.· , ,,(, leqe 8owl .: .IColl~qe aowl 1, • q~JJt~::~:!1:L.,.2le,.t 4. 
';}]]; The quesllons cover 1.11 subjeds b1tnll1r lo]rlrlalPursuit 
i~
~~ first kound,
!~ Tues 6 Thurs nov. 13 ~ 15 6 m--f ~= nohe b1me loom, 2n floorlafortuntf 1: ~E Re~lsh1tlon t>ndllne1 lfttJrsday, november 8, stoc;~ 

I;_{:fM, ( L fb ''II S'hn'jl fb ,..,, fb i;EIIosu I\.L.L.. I , ...L 1\.1,,L.. I\.L .. 
1jPrlzes1 Wranlng Te1111 f.1~me p11d lrlp lo DePquw Unlverslly lo compele 
,,~.·.·.' 1.·....•·• . 1131.lnsl wlnnl·n·.·.9.....·•.•.·.·..·.~.•..s·.....'.r.o.~.o•~~ ln·d··'..'...n•.l alllnolse colleqe, . 
... ·. Winning Tua.:&'l1nnct,Up1'•··· n~es pl.ced on l perm1ne11I ' •• pl1qve d11p)aJtd iabforlune SlvdenlCenler. 
;-.;tf) 
ke(iislrr s&l lfiela.forlune lnlor11ltion l>esk. Mlitt lounqe, Llforlutte. for 1101e del&lls, c1.lr 631-8f28 or em11l1ulcher.4@nd.edu. 
Spa.ce Is llml\ed. so slqn up as soon u posstblel 
' 
I 
I 
I. 
I I 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Whirlwinds blow away Weasels, 24-0 
By KATIE KINNER and MATT DeNICOLA Spom W rirers 
In the opening huddle, junior Whirlwinds' tailback Alex Callan told her team­mates, "In the words of the coach from Remember the Titans, let's 'Go out there and take their heads off and when the game is over, we can give them back."' 
After No. 1 Welsh's 24-0 rout of No. 8 Pasquerilla West in the first round of the play­offs, the Weasels still might not have their heads back. 
Two touchdowns by junior captain Vanessa Lichon blew open the game early for the Whirlwinds, who were 6-0 in the regular season. 
Freshman quarterback Lauren Hoeck was 13-of-20 passing with four touch­downs. 
Scores by Mary Murphy and Jamie McEldowney added to the Whirlwinds' domination. 
Meanwhile, the Welsh defense kept the Weasel's offense from even getting off its feet. Freshman Marv Prendergast kept the pres­sure on PW quarterback Leslie Schmidt, limiting her to six completions and grab­bing an interception. 
Juniors Kathy McGoey and Erin Mackenzie also con­tributed to the Welsh defen­sive stance, with McGoey recording a sack on Schmidt. 
"We are definitely looking forward to the next game," said Lichon, whose team held the Weasels to one first down. 
The scoring began on the second play of Welsh's open­ing drive. Set up with good field position by Lichon's long punt return, Hoeck made a short completion on first down and then connected with Lichon for the touch­down. 
While an interception killed their second drive and penal­ties halted their next scoring attempt, Welsh added to its lead with another Lichon touchdown following the interception by Prendergast. 
PW's attempts to get back in the game were spoiled by the tough Whirlwind defense as they once again went 
£atin elub Dancing 
This excitingnewcla,ss will presenttwo differentlevelsof Latin Club dancing styles, introducing new dancers to Salsa, Mambo, Merengue and Chachacha'. The focus is on learning to hear dance rhythms, leading, following and gaining the confidence to get on the floor as soon as possible. 
'i>i9n-Up& ~egin: ThuNJda.f, November S, S:ooam-~\Z-l. llaMiU ~egin: Tu~, November 13 --N.t. ~-2. ~ 
Intro to Latin Danc.ing da~1> will mut Tue-sda-.jr, from 1-S:oopm in kt.~ of -ihe ~.and fut lntmnediate dw.. will meet from S-toopm. 1nefee. for the seme&ter long da55 i& $10. ~i&ter in advana at (Zu~rt&. 12-tgi&tration begin& immediat\e~ fol\owin9 the dunom,tration. Open to aU ND r,tudentf., fac.u\1-i, f>taff, retirw.. and their f>pouf.u,. '$pale i& limited. ~ir,tration i& limited to 10 &in9le femalu.. 10 sir19\e males and l'7 wup\u. 
three-and-out on the opening drive of the second half. Two more Welsh scores early in the second half finished off the Weasels. 
Lichon and her teammates' cheer at the end of the game sent a message to upcoming opponents: "Bring it!" 
Walsh 6, Breen-Phillips 0 
The playoffs are designed to make the best teams face-off against each other in the quest for a championship. And while every game is played by two solid teams, the No. 4 versus No. 5 seed matchup traditionally makes for the closest games. 
Anyone who saw the game between No. 4 Breen-Phillips and No. 5 Walsh can account for this. 
Two halves, four quarters, and endless possession changes flew by in the course of regulation. However, in the end, the scoreboard didn't change one bit. 
Both defenses put on per­fect shows. BP kept Walsh out of scoring range all game, and the Wild Women contin­ued their season-long domi-
1-800-2COUNCIL 

www.counciltravel.com 
nation of opposing offenses. 
When Walsh took the first possession in overtime, Carrie Campbell took the game into her hands, and rushed three consecutive times for eight yards. With a fourth-and-two looming ahead, Campbell had to leave the game due to a knee to the head. 
When Lauren Walsh threw the touchdown to Jen Lynch for a fourth down score, the odds looked slim for BP. 
Facing the defense that had shut them down all game, BP had one last chance on 4th and goal. 
However, the pass was knocked down to end the game, giving Walsh the 6-0 upset. 
That last stand was charac­teristic of Walsh's defense throughout the entire game. They held BP away from the end zone, not even allowing the ball into a threatening position. 
"That was big," said Walsh captain Alison Troy. "It gave us a spark and we just main­tained that momentum." 
Ideally, Walsh can carry 
Call 24 hrs. (EST) 8am Tues Nov 6 -12am Fri Nov 9 & 10am -7pm Sat. Nov 10 
he fR_c_c_ K:APLAN 12..eview Day 
~ahnday: Nov. Dl:h @O'~~ n,oms 204. 2o6. 207 10:00-"::;;:~ a~ 208 
~JOO-I0:30a m l'Zegistratii?nkJ:30-ll20a m I nt:rmitrli9n to day's events ll30-1220 ChtJr:e of worksrops
Logr (i·.ames (appl.ie5 ro all 3 e;(ams) 12.eading Comprehension (all 3 '°'8ms) 
Dsb~~C~TI­Fundammrbils of Allfummil:5 (Ulti.TI 
1230-llSpm Lurrh ll5-215_pf!! QEA with advisors 220-3::X.Jpm Ch?'i:'e ofworksh?'ps 
that momentum throughout the rest of the playoffs. They will need their defense to play strong every night if they hope to win the champi­onship. 
"We get the job done when we need to," said Troy. "But there are definitely things we need to work on." 
One such thing would be their offense, which looked weak throughout the game. Even if the Wild Women con­tinue their spectacular defense, they need to put points on the board to win. 
"This was not our best game of the year," said Troy. "But this was a good perfor­mance to start the playoffs." 
As the playoffs progress to the next round, Walsh plans on being prepared. 
"We are just going to work hard in practice and fix any problems," said Troy. 
If they can do this, it is going to be awfully difficult to hand the undefeated Wild Women their first loss. 
Contact Katie Kinner at ldcin­ner@nd.edu and Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu. 
~a~hats 
t·--·· 
9.

t'\T oves 
l.,.A~, brgest ~election only~t_.:.. ~ 
5minute~ from 0UTPOIIT 
Campus :°J,1•UI-· 
Cold Weather Expert. 


Call 259-1000 for more details 
I 
I ~ I 
I 
I 
I I I I 
-I 
I I 
page 20 • The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 6, 200 l 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Defending champs knocked out in first round 
By MATT LOZAR and PHIL 
KOESTER.ER 
Sports Writers 
The men's interhall football league will have new champi­ons this season. The No. 3 Fisher Green Wave capitalized off three second-half turnovers to defeat the No. 6 Keenan Knights 26-7 on Sunday. 
;.._ "It was awesome because it was our first big test," said junior Fisher captain Ray Aftandilians. "The guys came up huge." Fisher stopped Keenan on the opening drive of the game. Then, the Green Wa:ve took the early lead on a five-yard touchdown pass from fresh­man quarterback Jimmy Costanzo. Keenan came right back and answered with an 11-play drive that included two third­down pass interference calls. Freshman quarterback Patrick Downey threw a 1O­yard pass to junior Steve Byrnes to tie the game at 7 -7. "I thought we played really good· in the first half." said Keenan junior captain Brent Morlok. "But in the second half, a couple of turnovers killed our drives." Fisher came storming out in the second half and scored on the second play of the half. Costanzo hit junior Dan Donlan on a 60-yard pass across the middle for a 13-7 
lead. lines and offered loud support. 
"Dan has been struggling "I want to thank the crowd this season," said Aftandilians. for coming out for the second "He redeemed himself [with week in a row," he said. "It that catch]." had a big effect on the team." 
Costanzo then led the Green Keenan's ends its season Wave down the field again without fulfilling its goal of after the first Keenan fumble. repeating as champions, and He found freshman Tom winning the title for the fourth Gorman in the corner of the time in five years. end zone to put the Wave up "We had an up-and-down 19-7. season," said Morlok. "We are 
"Jimmy has been awesome disappointed to not win the this year," said champi­Aftandilians. "It onship. We has been great "/ thought we played expected 
to have a frcsh­more than
really good in the first 
m an lead the getting
half But in the second 
team. He has knocked the respect of half, a couple of out in the every guy." f i r s t
turnovers killed us. " 
A second round." 
Keenan fumble Fisher gave Fisher the Brent Morlok advances to ball again. An the semifi­
Keenan captain
eight-play drive n a I s allowed sopho-against more running back Kameron Siegfried. Aftandilians knows Chappell to score and put the that game will be difficult but final nail in the coffin. hopes Fisher's fans will come 
"We realized that if we out again. didn't play better than we did "It is going to be the hardest in the first half, our season game of the season," he said. would be over," said "We seem to be evenly Aftandilians. matched. It is going to come 
Keenan's breakdowns in the down to who wants it more." defensive backfield and turnovers led to their defeat. Siegfried 20, Keough 6 
"Long passes killed us in the The No. 2 Siegfried second half," said Morlok. Ramblers played solid football "Our secondary broke down." on Sunday, and they simply 
Fisher gained some energy played better than the No. 7 for that second half run from Keough Kangaroos in their 20­their fans that lined the side-6 playoff victory. 
Although Keough committed four turnovers, Siegfried con­verted on the most important one, with Travis Smith run­ning the ball in to the end­zone three plays after Siegfried intercepted a pass from Keough quarterback Andy Hess at the six-yard line. 
This important score gave Siegfried a 20-6 lead and a lot of breathing room with about three minutes left to play in the game. 
Refusing to go down without a 'fight, however, Keough mounted a 14-play drive span­ning more than 50 yards before Pete Aguiar intercepted a Hess pass into the end zone. 
Hess showed flashes of bril­liance earlier in the game, most notably when he moved back into shotgun formation on Keough's first-half scoring drive and scrambled for a first down and made four comple­tions, including a touchdown pass to Brian Adams on a bro­ken play. 
If the Keough quarterback was good on their scoring drive, the only thing that kept him from greatness on their final drive was a turnover instead of a touchdown. Unfazed by three Siegfried sacks, Hess went (5 of 8) pass­ing for three first downs to Adams and James Waechter and scrambled to move the chains a fourth time before Aguiar's intercf)ption. 
"[Siegfried] started pass 
rushing really well, and it was hard for me to get out of the pocket," said Hess. "They also had an answer to our running game: it was just frustrating for our .offense." 
"We flushed [Hess] out with pressure from the line, but we didn't get him on the ground enough," said Smith, who is also a co-captain. "He's a good athlete." 
Keough's attempted heroics were simply not enough, how­ever, to beat a consistently good Siegfried offense that outscored opponents 61-7 in the regular season. 
Tho Ramblers had relied on quarterback Rob Plumby and tailback Travis Smith to make big plays, and they did not dis­appoint on Sunday. 
Smith had a long run on the first play of Siegfried's second drive to set up Plumby's first touchdown pass, to Mike Wahl. The Rambler defense shut down the Kangaroos and gave the ball back to Plumby who hit a wide-open Bill Bingle to put the score at 13­0. 
"We got up early, that was pretty crucial," said Smith. "At half time, the guys looked kind of disappointed that we allowed them to score. We picked it up when we had to." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu and Phil Koesterer at pkoester@nd.edu. 


"%u must 6e tlie change you want to see in tlie wor[c[ " .-9rfaliatma qliandi
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Congratulations and thanks to the over 240 participants of the 
Appalachia Seminar Abbey Coons 
Appalachia Seminar * Children &Poverty Seminar * Cultural Diversity
Adam Nicholson Alessandra Zielinski Allan Peetz 
Seminar * Global Health Initiatives Seminar * Washington Seminar
Allison Grobe Amanda Alvarez Amelia Hoffmann 
who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
Amy Eischen Amy Updike 
during Fall Break in service and experiential learning at 20 sites across the nation. 
Andrea Blyth  
Andrea Losch  
Andrew O'Connor  
Andrew Oxenreiter Angela Chiappetta Anne McCarley Anne Voglewede Anthony Floyd Becky Curtin Beth Ferris Bill Bonner Brian H artrnan Brian Lane Brooke M. Scaefer Caela Carter Cara Spicer Carol McCarthy Carrie Pe1ers Catherine Corke Celine McConville Charlotte George Cheryl Turski Christina Belmonte Christina Dehmer Clair Hess Colleen Rivard Courtney Gleason Courtney Schuster Dane Paulsen Daniel Beissel Danielle Kraft Daphne Zeringue  Dominika Szreder Elisabeth Bax Elizabeth Lenn Elizabeth Luther Elizabeth Robert Elizabeth Sain Elizabeth Shaffer Elizabeth Stedman Elizabeth Willkom Elizabeth Zwickert EmilyOess Emmaline Vcnechuk Eric Schearer Erin Dugan Erin LaRuffa Erin Smith Eva Garon Faith Bachner-Reimer Fernanda Payan Francine Kum Barley Gabe Watula Gabriel Brown Gerard Degrcgoris Ill Gregory Adams Hans Beibl Helen Yvert Henry Chan Holden Bonwit  Jenn Siirola Jennifer Craig Jennifer M. Walker Jennifer Wilding Jenny Czwornog Jessica Campbell Jill Boruff Joe Licandro John Thibodeau Joseph P. Blaney Joshua Hunn Julie McGranahan Karen Lysaght Katelyn Shea Ktherine Aragon Kathleen Kochanoqicz Kathryn Beres Kathryn Hoover Kathryn Wolohan Katie Cotter Kalie Culhane Katrine Palomares Ken Allinson Kevin Allen Kevin Hagerty Kevin Haley Kieuhoa Vo Kim Thlianko  Laura Kiszkiel Laura Russ Laruen Rhoads Laruen Wons Lauren Zajac Linda Janke Lindsay Davis Lindsay Sharp Lindsay Zika Lindsey Andcr~on Lisa Demidovich Lucy Patranella Luke Stanton M. Brigid Sweeney Maggie McCourt Margo DeMoya Maria Kochert Marie Fuchs Mary Beth Holzmer Mary Beth Mokris Mary dcla Rosa Mary E, Lundgren Mary Radclct Mary Whi1el10use Matt Heibel Matthew Friedman Marua Massucci Maureen Fitzpatrick  Magen Sprague Megan Thomas Megan Thompson Meghan Barloco Mcghan Kelly Meghan McCabe Mclissa Ferrello Michael Cochran Michael J. Kelly Michael Vitlip Michael Ward Michelle DeLay Mike Mansour MollyW.ilsh Molly Williams Naialie Ladine Nathan Morrell Neil Ruddock Ill Nelson Curnes Nicole Defrank Nicole Gilg Nicole Kenney Pamela Swan Parry Rigney Rebecca Campbell Rcbc~ca Marie Reilly Kcgina M. Mulcahy Regis Rogers  Ross Wilson Sarah Baum Sarah Nedeau Shane Cooper Shane Hudnall Shannon Bradley Sonia Wallace. Stephanie Grannon Stephanie Yahn Tara Dane 'fora Franco Terence Fitzgibbons Teresa Fralish Theresa Ferry Theresa Pagana Thomas J. Laubacher Thomas Zieg Tiffany Festi Trevor J. Smith Trevor Kusiak Veronique Smith Wyatt Maxwell {;hilgren & Poverll'. Seminar Michael Barnes Amy Braun  Elizabeth Frost Glob!!! Hrl!!th Justin Herberle lnitiativ~ Srmini!: J.P. Jarczyk Jacquelenn Aragon Stephen Keppel Colleen O'Connor Cheuk Yan Kwok Matt Reisenauer Kristen Lesesky Cherise Yund Thomas O'Connell Lora Tirri Colleen Ziemba W!)l!hin&t2n Srminar Jonathan Alvarez Lauren Beyer Cultl!ral Divrrsill' Brendan Egan Katherine GarveySmunll!: Rosalind Alexander Brigitte Gyntller Marua Cenedella Anne Hainley Anna Dummer Katie Hainley Danielle Finley Bridgel Horne Deborah Frison Rochard Klee lll Amanda Hughes Matthew Lashlee Matthew Kahley Katerine Lutkus Jacqueline Nguyen Matt Mauntel Francisco Ramirez Timothy Mazzocca Jessica Reddinger Mary Murphy Charity Sadoy Donald Norton Rene Sopiarz Brian Price Jourdan Sorrell Kelly Rich CarolineWalters Erica Ruddy ~loSmifu  
David Lopushansky  Jacqueline Hazen  Kourtney Ku;.:mickas  Megan Basto  Renee McGrail  Katherine Breitebach  
Devon Hegeman Domingo Maynes  Jeff Wiltrout Jeffrey T. Steedle  Kristin Zkgler Kristine Martel  Megan Houston Megan Land  Rob Ludemann Robert Paik  Susan Carpenter Timothy Ducey  

Tuesday, November 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Alumni, Dillon advance to interhall semifinals 
..::.. 

"Sometimes it is the luck of the draw," said Zahm's Gabe Ibanez. "Dillon is a good foot­ball team." 
The win by Dillon sets up a game against Alumni next weekend. 
· "This is going to be the biggest game of the season with them being our rivals," said Dillon defensive lineman Ryan Hernandez. "We really have practiced better this week and picked up the inten­sity. They are one of the more aggressive teams in our league." 
Alumni 13, Sorin 6 
Alumni is a self-proclaimed power running team, and the Dawgs continued that type of game plan on Sunday against Sorin. But the fourth-ranked Dawgs scored both of their touchdowns via the pass, including a key 17-yard touch­down in overtime, giving them a 13-6 victory against the fifth-ranked Otters. 
On the game-winning play, Alumni quarterback Chris Cottingham dropped back, avoided a tackler and fired a strike to Corey Harkins near 
Her love for sharing news began with the phone. 
It's no wonder she's responsible for medical technology that keeps people talking. 
GlohaJ ;'\ndcar Mcclidnc/ :r P.ET b11~iuc~s. Thcv i proclucc tedmolo1,rv tha,1 ff ":: 
. \". :{: 
saYl'S millions oflivc5 · · ·-·: and co11nen~ doctors aJJ over ti1t' wodd. Bctli is par1.of the group ofminority and 
women lt'.adcrs across GE responsible foron:r $30B in annual revenues. By drawing on different perspectiYe~, backgrounds, and cxpc1icncc, GE i~ the plan: where anyone's childhood dreams can come u·uc. 
For more infonnalion abont GE, Yisit LIS al. WW\\".ge.c-om. 
the right side of the end zone. 
Harkins raced in front of three 
Sorin defenders, caught the 
ball and still managed to keep 
his feet in bounds for the 
score. 
"I think it was almost a bust­
ed play," said Harkins. 
"Luckily I just got open and 
kept my feet in bounds." 
Sorin still had a chance to tie 
on its possession in overtime, 
but a Greg Carney pass was 
intercepted by Harkins, ending 
the Otters season. 
"The team played hard and 
hit hard," said Sorin co-cap­
tain Luke Burke. "Alumni's 
defense was pretty tough to 
crack, so we didn't put many 
points on the board." 
The Otters' only score was 
the first of the game and came 
at the end of the first quarter. 
Otter quarterback Greg 
Carney rolled to his left under 
pressure and launched a pass 
across the entire field to Dave 
Knesek, who raced down the 
sideline for a 55-yard touch­
down. 
The Dawgs responded by 
putting together a 16-play 
drive, which ended with 
Cottingham completing a 15­
yard touchdown pass to Nick 
Althoff, tying the game at 6-6. 
Sorin had a chance to end 
the game in regulation, but a 
long Carney pass was picked 
off in the end zone. 
Clearly the Dawgs' defense 
set the tone for the game by 
applying pressure to Carney . all afternoon. 
"Our DBs played perfect the 
entire afternoon," said 
Linstroth. 'Tm extremely 
proud of both our pressure 
and our coverage today." 
With the win, Alumni feels 
confident about its chance to 
reach Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We're battle-tested for the 
playoffs," said Alumni co-cap­
tain Nick Linstroth. "We did 
exactly what I wanted us to do 
today." 
Despite the loss, Burke feels 
the Otters had a successful 
season. 
"I think we had a good sea­
son," said Burke. "It was good 
building for next year because 
we're not losing a lot of our 
players so next year I think 
we'll have a good team." 
Alumni now has a chance at 
revenge. The Dawgs will face 
a Dillon team that handed 
them their only loss of the sea­
son. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at Ronsheim. l@nd.edu and Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
By AARON RONSHEIM and JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writers 
Usually in the playoffs, upperclassmen are the ones that make the big plays that determine the outcome of the game. 
For the No. 1 Big Red, fresh­man Kevin McCarthy scored the winning touchdown on a 32-yard run, and had an inter­ception with two minutes left in the fourth quarter to pre­serve the 16-13 victory against No. 8 Zahm. 
"He is a greai player. We don't consider him a fresh­man," said Dillon quarterback Tayt Odom. "We look at him as a guy who makes big plays for us." 
Zahm. after scoring two sec­ond-half touchdowns, had pulled to within a field goal. Zahm started a drive from its own 42-yard line with four minutes left. 
On a second-and-three play from midfield, Dan Burke's pass was defected and landed in the hands of McCarthy. 
'Thank God someone tipped it up," said McCarthy "It was an act of God that it landed in my hands." 
"It was a bad break. We almost had it." said Burke. 
On their first drive, Dillon marched 45 yards to t'ake an 8-0 lead on an Odom two-yard run. It was made possible by a fourth-down conversion by fullback Jason 
than a minute left in the half to make it 16-6. 
With about 10 minutes left in the fourth quarter and Zahm facing a 3rd-and-15 at its own 49-vard line, Burke scrambled to his left and ihrew back across the field to wide receiv­
er Chris Bystedt for  a  first  
down.  
"I  was  


Visncr. rolling
..Sometimes it is the luck 
Again Dillon left and capitalized on of the draw. Dillon is a all my 
good field position good foptball team. " receivers 
on its second were cov­drive when Dillon ered. I ran a beautiful Gabe Ibanez saw a big counter play to Zahmn captain opening McCarthy, who on the went untouched other side into the end zone from 32 of the field," said Burke. "I yards out. knew Chris was good enough 
"The offensive line just gave that I could toss it up and let me a huge hole," said him go and get it." McCarthy. "They did a great On the next play Schmidt ran job today." 33-yards into the end zone to 
Dillon made the two-point put"! the Rabid Bats within c.onversion for a 16-0 lead. four. With the extra point,· 
With about four minutes left, Dillon held only a 16-13 lead Zahm recovered a DH!on fum­with nine minutes to play. ble around Dillon's 40-yard Once Zahm got the ball back line. After three Burke passes it failed to score. McCarthy moved the ball inside the five, pulled down the tipped ball Jason Schmidt scored with less and sealed the Big Red victory. 

Coll 259-1000 for more details 
Making dreams become reality. 
'I . We bring good things to life.
• 

r 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 

Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Lewis defense picks off McGlinn, 21-12 
Bv DAVE COOK and KEN 
c'HAMPA 
Sports Writers 
Lewis coach Blake Kirkman jokingly told his defensive coordinator at the beginning of the game, "J expect to see three interceptions today." 
Little did he know how seriously his defense would take that comment as the No. 2 Chicks silenced No. 7 McGlinn 21-12 on a cold Sunday night. 
Lewis linebacker Kara Helmig · and cornerback Betsy Fordyce accounted for two key interceptions in the game. The two interceptions led to two touchdowns and a 21-0 lead against McGiinn at the half. 
"We definitely had our A­game tonight. We've been strong all year," said Helmig on the Lewis defense. The Chicks had allowed only two touchdowns during the regu­lar season. 
But it wasn't just the Chicks defense that won the game for them. Their offense was in its usual dominant form. Lewis quarterback Erin Nasrallah was 8-of-11 passing with a touchdown. 
On Lewis's first drive of the game, Nasrall ah marched her Chicks down­field 40 yards on five plays 
and put the first six points Unfortunately for the on the board on a five-yard Shamrocks, the two touch­run. downs were not enough to 
Lewis wasted no time scor­secure a victory. ing another two touchdowns Kirkman, coaching a team as they went up 21-0, a laden with seniors, couldn't deficit McGlinn could never be happier with how the recover from. Chicks played. Said Kirkman, 
"[That first drive] deflated "We had a plan, and we us," said McGlinn captain stuck to it." and free safety Christa Gray. "We were feeling pretty con­
Badin 8, Cavanaugh 6

fident going into the game, 
The Badin Bullfrogs finally
Probably too established 
confident." 
themselves 
T h e "We were feeling pretty 
as a team to 
Shamrocks 
confident going into the beat on 
had trouble 
Sunday, as
game. Probably too
creating 
they defeat­
offense in the ·confident. ,, 
e d 
first half. Julie 
Cavanaugh
Kremer was 6­
8-6. Until
Christa Gray
of-13 on pass­Sunday, the 
ing with the McGlinn quarterback 
Bu 11 frog's
two intercep­had never 
tions. At the 
won a play­end of the half McGlinn had 
off game, but a come from 
only gotten one first down. 
behind win changed all of "We started out cold. Our 
that. 

energy level dropped after 
With only four minutes left,that first half," said Gray. 
trailing 6-2, Bullfrog quar­
Despite a rocky first half, 
terback Erin Zachry found 
McGlinn refused to go quiet­
Stephanie Heath in the end 
ly into the night. Kremer 
zone to take a 8-6 lead that 
connected with tight end 
they would never relinquish.
Sarah Vatterott for a 30­
The Bullfrogs struck firstyard touchdown early in the in the first half on a safetyhalf. Kremer then scored the when sophomore cornerback 
Shamrocks' second touch­
Jen Craig pulled out Megan
down on a quarterback 
Land's flag in the end zone. 
keeper in the waning 
"I was just going for the moments of the game. 
flag, I knew they were going 
to be close to the goal line, but didn't know it was a safety right away," said Craig. 
Badin, entering the game as the underdog No. 6 seed, never doubted its ability to win. 
"We felt we could win and d~d what we had to do to get the job done," said Craig. 
Badin took a 2-0 lead into halftime, but Cavanaugh ­and their quarterback Mandy Reimer -came out firing to start the second half. 
On Cavanaugh's first pos­session Reimer completed five of her six passes as the Chaos steamrolled their way to a touchdown. The drive ended as Reimer found Katie Burdick in the end zone. 
"Our offense had problems at first, but the coaches fired us up at half time and we started to play better," said Burdick. 
Reimer was able to spread the ball around well as she went 8-of-17 and completed passes· to four different receivers. One of her favorite targets was Land, who caught three passes. 
"I don't think we started off that well on offense, but we had a great season, that was the important part," said Land. 
But in the end it was the Bullfrogs who were able to drive down the field in a pressure-packed finale. 
"We took [their sco-re] in stride, we had nothing to lose being the underdog and just went out there and played hard," said receiver Kirsten Klingsick, who caught two passes on the day. 
The key play on the win­ning drive was a fingertip catch on fourth down by Megan Cooney. With that momentum, two plays later the Bullfrogs were able to take the lead and seal the win. 
"We're really excited about the win, but we're going to be focused for our next game," said Klingsick. 
The game was also the last for many Chaos seniors, who held their heads high after the game. 
"We had a really great sea­son, it's just too bad it ended like this," said the senior \ Burdick. 
In the meantime the Bullfrogs are anxiously look­ing ahead to their playoff future. 
"We're taking this one all the way to the Stadium," said Craig. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu and Ken Champa at kchampa@nd.edu. 

Apply Today to be President of THE SHIRT 2002 
This is your opportunity to coordinate the biggest student tradition of the year! 
Applications can be picked up outside the Student Activities Office in Lafortune and must be returned to Student Activities by Nov. 9, 2001. 
For more information contact Scott Palko at spalko@nd.edu 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
RYAN
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 


ONE oF THE THINGS 
WE SPEND THE WHoLE 
MY "suRvr-101( 
WHOA. WHEN 

Fll<ST EPISODE WATCHING
6ETT\NG OLD ASOUT 
YOU SAY

WOULD HAVE FIRE SUCH 
"su1<vNoR" ,s HOW 
Tl-IE TWo TR18ES Tl<Y To 
GATttERING "FREELY

FREELY A'/AIL• AS? 
EACH SEASON 
MAKE F11<E. THAT NEEDS 
ASSESToS. AVA.ILASLE"._

ABLE AND 
G3 
I
STARTS OFF To CHANGE. 
MoYE oN 
THE SAME 
To NEW 
WAY. 
CHALLENGES. 
\ 
1r­
~ 
~ 'l' 
This was yesterday's comic. Did anyone notice that the woman on the right has the fattest, weirdest head ever? And what is the deal with her arms? Who drew this? 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roseanne, Lulu, Larry Holmes, Ken Berry, Charles Bronson, Adam Ant 
Happy Birthday: Expect your creative ideas to dazzle your peers and surprise your competi­tors. It's the year to push your projects and take a leadership position. Let those who believe in you do the tedious jobs. If you plan carefully and refrain from procrastinating, you will reach your highest potential. Your numbers: 7, 13, 18, 23, 36, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You won't be thinking clearly. Don't take anything out of con­text or be undiplomatic when dealing with others. Carelessness could result in minor accidents. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You've got an edge today. Don't overdo it; exhaustion or minor injury will slow you down. 1hink twice before spending on excessive purchases or entertainment. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 

Avoid disputes. Channel your energy wisely, or tempers will soar. Someone you care about may drive you crazy today. Phys­ical activity will li.elp alleviate 
stress.000 CANCER Uune 21-July 22): 
Be honest with yourself and oth­ers. Secret affairs are never a good idea. You can't avoid rumors, and they would affect your reputation professionally and personally. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your high energy and flamboyant nature will attract new friend­ships in group endeavors or clubs. Take the lead and let others 
EUGENIA LAST 

follow you. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't blow situations out of pro­portion. Get all the facts. You could lose a good friend if you are critical and stubborn. Com­promise, or you may end up alone.00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-OcL 22): You can help someone dear to you, but don't lie or become caught up in a private affair. Be careful if traveling; your papers may not be in order. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You must use discrimination. Don't overspend on those unworthy of your generosity. Examine organizations closely before donating to or joining them.000 
SAGITD\RIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 7l): You aren't likely to get along with loved ones today. You may have a fight on your hands if you have refused to recognize that some­thing is bothering a loved one. Compromise is necessary. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): Get busy and accomplish a lot today. You will feel less stressed and more like playing. Other people will appreciate your charisma. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Competitive sports or getting in 
shape should be penciled in 
today. You need an outlet to build 
up your self-esteem. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
misunderstanding may cause 
problems with a business or_ emo­
tional partner. Address the 1Ssues 
directly and sincerely before 
things escalate. The quicker Y?U 
deal with this unfortunate cir­
cumstance the better. 00 
ACROSS 
Legs, slangily 5 Urban renewal targets 10 Chi's follower 
13 Spoon-administered 
14 Digital watch maker 15 Work force 16 Arm bone 17 In other words 18 Medal recipient 19 Have an initial success 22 WSW's opposite 23 Be less than candid 24 On the road 
26 Edited out 
28 Jamaican music 
30 Place for barrels 31 Plating metal 33 Sculptor Jean 35 Prefix with -gon 36 Classic Ernest 
L. Thayer poem 41 Samovar 42 One: Prefix 43 Kind of testing 44 Prefix with -gon 47 Offensive time? 49 Visine units 53 Tell-all type 55 "For the Boys• 
grp. 57 By way of 58 Completely 
off-track 61 Domini 62 Terra 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
C P A S R I S E ANTE  R O A D E L L A MEAT  C H O P S L I B E L ATONE  
0 N A P A N  

63 1960's TV horse 
64 As soon as 65 More suitable 66 Graven image 67 Majors in 
acting? 68 Necessities 
69 What the fourth little piggy had 
DOWN 
1 Overcharged 2 Old "What's My 
Line?" name 3 Trophy shelf 4 Blind piece 
5 L. Ron Hubbard genre 
6 Rest room designation 7 Tech support caller 
8 Bad beginning 
g voce 10 Soviet
committees 
11 Most peaceful 12 Jima 15 One-named 
singer 20 Nostalgia-evoking song 21 Plant sticker 
.,,,+,.+,::+-,+:,+:-:-1 25 Sticky stuff  
S H A L L E G I T  C A  _.....,......,"" 27 Visitors to R A Earth, tor short  
I R E N E  A M  I T  29 Matt's "Today"  
POSER  RA  DE  co-host  


Puzzle by A. J. Santora 
32 Manhattan sch. 34 Acad. honor 36 Drapery fabric 37 Make public 38 Pronghorn 39"_ Days• 
(Schwarzeneg­ger film) 40 Limbo requisite 41 Good times 45 From head 46 MacGraw of "Love Story" 
59 Suffix with novel51 Keep adding 

52 Rider's seat 60 "Sounds good to me" 
54 One conquered by Pizarro 61 Popular I.S.P. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per rriinute).. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Birthday Baby: You are a bright-eyed, curious !1'ventor. Y?u ~e to follow your own path and will always come up W1th interesting ideas. The more leeway you are given, the happier you will be. . 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadVIce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
--,. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Campus Sports 
Campus Sports 
. 
Women's lnterhall Football, p. 22,19 . Column: Fox, p. 17 

. 
Men's lnterhall Football, p. 21, 20 . Men's Soccer, p. 14


PORTS 
... 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
'Guerty' ignites Irish 
. Sophomore forward has scored in last 6 games 
ByJOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team has struggled all season to find an intimidating scoring presence that strikes fear in the hearts of opponents. 
It appears that the Irish have finally found the answer to their problems. and her name is Amanda Guertin. Affectionately called "Guerty" by her teammates, the sopho­more has been on fire of late, notching at least one goal in each of her last six games. 
With her goal on Sunday off a corner kick, Guertin extended her scoring streak and gave the Irish a quick 1-0 lead in their Big East Tournament quarter­final victory against St. John's. 
Guertin's recent success could not have come at a more opportune time for the Irish as they hope to win their seventh straight Big East title and more importantly secure a top-seed in the NCAA tournament. 
"I haven't really changed my approach or done anything dif­ferent over the last six games," Guertin said. "I am just playing with a lot more confidence right now because our team has really come together over the last few games. Hopefully, I can continue to score for us in the post-season." 
Entering her second season as a starter, gig things were expected of Guertin. 
see GUERTIN/page 15 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Defending champs return to court 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
5pom Ediwr 
The defending national champion women's basket­ball team takes the court against an opponent for the first time this season tonight -sort of. 
With a revamped lineup that includes onlv two return­ing starters, Joyce Center fans will get a glimpse of Lhe future when Notre Dame takes on the Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine Legends tonight at 7 p.m in the first of two preseason exhibitions. 
Junior Alicia Rata-y and senior Ericka Haney lead a deep and talented, but young Irish squad. The key changes will be at point guard and center, where the Irish must fill the voids left by All­Americans Ruth Riley and Niele Ivey. 
At the point guard position, sophomore Le'fania Severe takes over the starting duties. In 22 games last season, Severe averaged 1.9 points and totaled 18 assists. But Severe battled lllJ uries throughout the season and the frish look for good things from their point guard this season. 
"LeTania has been doing well," Irish assistant coach Carol Owens said. "She hasn't had a lot of experience because of injuries last year, but she's doing fine. She's been a great leader on the floor." 
Severe will team up in the backcourt with Ratay, a member of the preseason All­Big East first team. Ratay set an NCAA record for field goal percentage last season when she connected on 54. 7 per­cent of her attempts from 
see B-BALL/page 18 
FOOTBALL 
Roberts out for season 
. Injuries continue to plague 3-5 Irish 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Starting defensive end Ryan Roberts is out for the rest of tho season after sustaining a knee injury in Notre Dame's 28-18 loss against Tennessee Saturday. 
With Roberts out, co-captain Grant Irons will most likely start against Navy on Nov. 17. The Irish do not have a game scheduled for this Saturday. 
Roberts replaced Irons in the starting lineup after Irons suffered a shoulder injury against Texas A&M. Roberts has played in all eight of Notre Dame's games this sea­son and has started against Pittsburgh, West Virginia, USC and Tennessee. 
A senior with one year of eligibility remaining, Roberts recorded 20 tackles and three sacks this season, including a nine-tackle effort against USC. 
Irons started against Nebraska, Michigan State and Texas A&M and recorded nine tackles before being replaced by Roberts. He has 13 tackles and one interception this sea­son. 
"Ryan Roberts has really taken advantage of his oppor­tunities," Irish head coach Bob Davie said Sunday. "You know, Ryan Roberts has prob­ably played better than Grant Irons. Grant is back and he's healthy and he deserves an opportunity to play. But going into [the Tennessee] game, you'd have to say Ryan Roberts was ahead of Grant Irons. So both of those guys played, and that's Ryan Roberts last game for this football season, so Grant will get plenty of opportunities from here on out." 
Roberts' injury is the latest in a long line of injuries that have plagued the Irish defense all season and have caused continuity problems. 
The Irish have been particu­larly thin at the safety posi­tion. Glenn Earl, Gerome Sapp, Ron Israel and Donald Dykes have all missed at least one game this season. Earl left Saturday's game with a 
see FOOTBALL/page 14 


. Women's Basketball vs. Ohio Girls' Basketball 
OBSERVER
Magazine Legends, Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 
-s TS 
online du.ssifieds 
. Men's Basketball vs. EA Sports All-Stars, Thursday,AT AGLANCE 7:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 







