Students deserve a maiHn system
THUNDERSTORMS 

Friday 
While this year's lottery system was adequate, The Observer calls for a
HIGH 76° 
AUGUST 31,
mail in system to minimize lines and confusion. 
Lows2° 
Viewpoint . page 12 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXV NO. 4 


Soaking up spirit 
Alumni create bright yellow towels to unify football crowds 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Mike Costin and Jim Humbert aren't interested in beginning a revolution. 
For the University graduates and business partners. shaking things up a bit inside Notre Dame Stadium will do. 
"Sometimes it's tough getting people to rally behind some­thing," Humbert said. "I wouldn't even know how to start a movement." 
But from offices in their Mishawaka advertising special­ty company, Costin and Humbert are quietly, and maybe unknowingly, inspiring change -one 12-by-17-inch piece of fabric at a time. 
In response to the football game last fall that turned Notre Dame stadium -and Irish fans' faces -red, Costin and Humbert have designed a towel that the men say will help the Irish take back their field. The small, gold-colored towel is emblazoned in blue lettering with the simple directive: "Play like a champion today." 
"The idea grew out of the fact that so much attention was given to the game last year. Surely there were more Irish fans there than Nebraska fans, but every third or fourth red shirt seemed to blend togeth­er," Costin said of the so-called "sea of red" phenomenon last year when Notre Dame lost before a home crowd laden with Nebraska fans in red attire. 
The apparent choice of Notre Dame faculty and alumni to sell their tickets to Nebraska fans dealt an embarrassing blow to school spirit. 
see TOWELS/page 4 




Philbin plans to visit campus next week 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Regis Philbin is expected to visit the University next week for a ground-breaking ceremony for a major arts center that the television personality has helped under­write, Notre Dame officials said Thursday. 
University administrators are still negoti­ating with Philbin's spokespeople to deter­mine when he will appear next week and what his role in the ground-breaking ser­vice at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts will be, according to Dennis Brown, Notre Dame's associate 
director of public relations and information. Earlier this year. Philbin. a 1953 Notre 
Dame graduate, made a $2.75-million gift to his alma mater to fund a studio theater in the 
arts center. Philbin is the host of the popular nationally broadcast shows "Live! With Regis and Kelly" and "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" He is the father of 1996 University graduate Jennifer Philbin and third-year Notre Dame law student Joanna 

Philbin. 
The center will cost at least $50· million and is being underwritten in part by a $33­million gift from the late Edward DeBartolo. The building is expected to open in 2003. 
Named in honor of DeBartolo's late wife, the center is currently the last announced addition to the DeBartolo Quad. The arts complex will join DeBartolo Hall, the Mendoza College of Business and the Hcsburgh Center for International Studies on the quad. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
FlipSide sponsors concert 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Two years ago, members of FlipSide decided to plan a con­cert for the first weekend of the 2000-2001 school year. 
However, members of the club, which sponsors alcohol­free events every weekend, real­ized that they could not create the type of event they envi­sioned without some help. After delaying the event for a year, FlipSide members will finally see their vision become a reality tonight in the Joyce Center. The concert features four bands: Right Hand Side, Nine Days, SR­71 and They Might Be Giants. 
"FlipSide began planning this two years ago for a year ago, but it became too daunting a task," said Notre Dame junior Michael Rampolla, co-chair of Flipstock. 
Saint Mary's student Sarah Hoshaw and Holy Cross student Amelia Marcum also co-chaired the event. 
The concert, called Flipstock, is free of charge and open to students with Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross IDs. 
Clubs, dorms and depart­ments from all three schools joined forces with FlipSide to plan Flipstock. 
"We want it to be an event for all three campuses," Rampolla said. "We got student input to find out who would put on a good live show." 
He added that the bands were also selected based on their availability for the concert date and whether concert sponsors could come up with enough funds to pay the bands. Rampolla said he and his fellow FlipSide members hope Flipstock will show students that there are alternatives to drinking on weekends. 
"It's the first weekend night of school," Rampolla said, adding that the concert's date was not picked specifically to draw stu­dents away from drinking events. 
"If that's one of the effects, then I think we've accomplished the goal of showing students there are other things to do,'' Rampolla said. 
"This concert is a big way to do what we normally try to do," said Rampolla. "We want to hit students that first weekend, when freshmen are setting their social patterns. We want to 
see FLIPSTOCK/page 4 
Friday, August 31, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
And then, at hand camp ... 
Despite the horrible reference to American Pie, I happen t.o be one ofthose Bandos, you know, the people who love their school's band -live and breathe it, whether they're in the band or not. I happen to fall in the unfortunate category of"not," and not for a lack oftrying on 
my part. 
I first tried out for band as a sophomore (my parents fell for the great myth that the band leaves no time for study­ing when I was a freshman). I was cut. I came back as a junior and, again, was cut. So I said, I have nothing to lose 

and everything to gain ifI try out one more. one last time. Angela Campos 
Ifyou're superstitious. you hear things like third time's a Lab Tech charm, bad things come in 
threes, and three strikes ­
you're out. I'm not superstitious, but that's how I 
felt. 
I was the only senior trying out for a first shot at the band. I gave the band everything I had this year -I gave my heart and soul, held nothing back. God must have greater plans for me, because for the third time, I was cut. 
I love the Band oft.he Fighting Irish. I always will. Some people dream about coming to Notre Dame to play football. I came with a dream t.o play in the marching band. I guess that not all dreams are meant to come true. 
So what am I going to do now ... ? The question doesn't haunt me the way it would did my sopho­more year. For starters, I bought my student season football tickets. I work at The Obseiver. I'm on the Oub Coordination Council. I fence. I sing at Keough Mass. So I know I'm going to be okay, despite get­ting cut on the highly competitive clarinet. 
What I'd like to know, though, is what other peo­ple thought ofme. Did I help someone try harder? Encourage them to be more enthusiastic? Did they think I was some bando-freak that didn't know when she was over her head? Maybe even nuts? 
I know that I had lots of people rooting for me. They all knew how much I wanted to make it. It feels good to know I had people supporting me, wanting me to be a part ofthe program. I know the competition was stiff, and they take only the best. It won't injure me any to admit I'm not the best. But I'll always wonder "Why not me?" 
I'll always cherish the days I was part of the Notre Dame Band ofthe Fighting Irish-all 12 of them. Each one helped me grow a little, to be a big­ger person, a better person. I t.ook on fear, every time I checked the roster at the end of band camp. I found camaraderie in my audition group. I chal­lenged myself to work harder and be better than I thought I could be and do what I thought I could not. 
There are some things I'll never do. I'll never trot out through the tunnel or hike step across the field, march out on Fridays and game days or play the concert on the steps. 
But I will always have my memories. Thank you for giving me 12 days to be a part ofthe band. For letting me march out with you. For letting me learn your cheers. For making me feel welcome when I was with you. 
So, listen for me in the stands, I'll be the loudest fan there, shouting my heart out, cheering you on ... Because even though I never actually made the band, I'll always be there with all ofmy heart and soul. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
In the Aug. 29 issue. transfer student Chris Pepe's name was spelled incorrectly. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

The Observer aims for accuracy at all times. If you have noticed a mistake, please call us at 631-4541. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi>hed Monday through Friday ocapc during ex.am and v.catioa periods. The O6.crv<I is a member of the Associated Pres,. All reproduction rights :u-e reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
24-hour lounge planned Thursday, August 25, 1988 Student body president Tom Doyle worked with University Food Services to create a 24-hour space in the South Dining Hall's Oak Room. providing food and social space to students around the clock. The 24-hour Oak Room was expected to run on a trial basis beginning September 6, 1988. 

Campus store closes Wednesday. September 3. 1975 After 20 years of business, Gilbert's Men's Clothing Campus Store closed its doors. Store president Robert Hunt cited changes in students' habits of dressing as the main reason for the store's closing. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Parents sue Cal State-Chico frat members 
ual fraternity members for wrongful The parents of an 18-year-old CHICO, Calif. 
death and alleged selected incidents of California State University-Chico stu­
negligence. dent who died of alcohol poisoning 
In a separate legal proceeding on last October are suing the fraternity 
Feb. 5, Bettar. DeLuna and Dobbyn he belonged to for wrongful death. 
were convicted of the misdemeanor of negligence and unfair business prac­
providing alcohol to Heideman, who tices. was a minor. The three members 
First-year student and Pi Kappa Phi were sentenced to serve 30 days in jail fraternity pledge Adrian Heideman and pay a fine of $640 each. died last fall after drinking an entire All of the defendants listed in bottle of blackberry brandy during an Heideman's parents' lawsuit were
The Heidemans claim the national initiation ceremony, according to the sought for comment, but by press
and local fraternal organizations are lawsuit filed in San Francisco Superior time, had either failed to return phone
to blame for wrongful death, hazing, Court. dangerous initiation rituals, endan­calls or could not be reached because Now, almost a year after their son's germent and abandonment. improper they had changed their listed phone death. Michael and Edith Heideman medical care, failure to supervise initi­numbers. are suing the national organization Pi ation events, failure to provide super­On Aug. 20, a judge rejected the Kappa Phi Fraternity, the local chap­vision, negligence and unfair business local chapter of Pi Kappa Phi's claim ter of Pi Kappa Phi, and fraternity practices. that it cannot be held responsible for members Brandon Bettar. Mark The plaintiffs are suing the individ-Heideman's death. 

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 

UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO 
Dining hall donates food
Professor returns from Washington 
ALBUQUERQUE,N.M.
PHIIADELPHIA 

La Posada customers can expect some changes in their 
After seven months as a top presidential advisor, 

dining environment during the next few weeks, accord­
University of Pennsylvania political science professor John 

ing to a cafeteria official. No plans have been made
Diiulio resigned earlier this month from his post at the 

regarding the quality of food at the campus dining hall, 
White House to return to the University. On Aug. 17, 

only the amount of food saved from the garbage. David
Dilulio stepped down as head of the White House Office of 

French. newly appointed general manager of food ser­
Faith-Based and Community Initiatives -a cornerstone 

vices, said he wants to reduce the quantity of wasted
of President Bush's compassionate conservative agenda ­

food and donate more to charity. French said the cafete­
and became the first senior Bush official to resign. Bush 

ria plans to implement programs that will encourage stu­
brought Dilulio to Washington to head up the faith-based 

dents to waste less food. Proportioned meals will be
initiative. which was designed to increase the flow of fed­

served at every food station within the next few weeks,
eral funds to religious-based charities and 

he said.He also wants to use an idea that has succeeded
organizations.But during his seven-month tenure inside 

at schools he worked for on the East Coast. Every week
the Beltway, Dilulio faced criticism from groups and politi­

the amount of disposed food is measured, and the follow­
cians on both sides of the debate over federal funding for 

ing week students are challenged to waste less. If they do
non-profit, religious organizations. Many decried the con­

so, the amount of food they save is donated to the charity
stitutional legitimacy of devoting federal money to any 

of their choice. French said he plans to tell managers and
organizations based in religion, and Diiulio, as the fig­

workers to encourage students to take less food, remind­
urehead of the initiative, found himself caught in a 

ing them that they can always come back for more.
national debate. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon.Friday, Aug. 31. 
600 
Cl 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. 

@'"""co . . D D . B ·' 
High Low Show•r• R¦ ln T-•tomw Flurm• Snow lea S1,.1nny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
\Ila .-.:Rfl0da1od Press 

Manta 79 69 Las Vagas 99 74 Portland 77 56 Baltimore 85 68 Memphis 83 69 Sacramento 90 57 Boston 79 68 Milwaukee 70 56 St. Louis 84 63 Chicago 74 55 New York 84 68 Tampa 89 77 Houston 84 75 Philadelphia 88 71 Washington DC 86 70 


Friday, August 31, 2001 The Ob,erver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
New CIO looks to create strategic vision for OIT 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Wricer 
Gordon Wishon. who was involved in the logistics of infor­mation technology support dur­ing Desert Storm. tackles his new job as Chief Information 
Officer for N o t r e Dame with the same ambitious approach that char­acterized his Air 


F O r c e Wishon career. Wishon assumed the newly created position of CIO. which manages 150 full-time OIT employees and an annual budget of $17 million Aug. 1. He has served as CIO of the Air Force Institute of Technology in Dayton. Ohio and more recently at the Georgia Institute of Technology for seven and a half years. His goal is "to not only pro­vide direction to OIT but to pro­vide strate­gic direction See Also to the 
"Oil service

University for its use of 
similar to other 

technology 
universities" 

and to sup­
pages

port the administra­tive needs of the institution," he said. 
Although he has only been in his office for a week. Wishon is beginning to formulate a new strategic plan for information technology that will guide Notre Dame through the next decade. The plan is tentatively due out in July. 
"We're going to be taking a close look at the organization ... evaluating our ability to meet ever growing demands," he said. 
Wishon is in the process of 
meeting with University vice 
presidents and deans, and he 
intends to discuss issues sur­
rounding information technolo­
gy with students and faculty as 
well. 
Wishon wanL'i to increase the 
University's ability to keep pace 
with advances in technology as 
well as addressing recurring 
problems facing OfT including 
Internet outages and e-mail 
problems. He intends to make 
security and employee recruit­
ment priorities. 
"Recruiting and _retaining 
qualified professionals is one of 
the primary challenges that 
higher education faces,'' he 
added. 
Wishon commended the 
University's ability to recruit 
top ranking students and facul­
ty but believes Notre Dame 
should work equally hard to 
attract the very best staff in 
information technology. 
"A very complex t_echnology 
environment requires a very 
good staff." he said. "Recruiting 
is an essential component of 
the overall strategy." 
In the future, Wishon also 
hopes to secure a faster, more 
reliable Internet connection for 
Notre Dame, but that will be 
difficult because of the infra­.structure in the area. 
"The major fiber pads just 
don't go through South Bend," 
he said. 
Wishon sees many challenges 
facing him. but he is confidant 
that these problems can be 
worked out. 
"Each incoming class has a 
higher expectation of Notre 
Dame when they come. 
Keeping ahead of that demand 
is extremely challenging and 
it's the most exciting part of my 
job," he said. "It's going to be a 
busy few years." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at Thagard. I@nd.edu. 
Printing charge instituted 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Assistam Ncws Editor 
. Printing will cost 10 cents a page after first 1000 sheets 
The University recently ended the period of free and unlimited printing, requiring students who print more than 1,000 sheets of paper a year in University computer clusters to pay 10 cents per sheet. 
All students have begun the 2001-2002 school year with a balance of 1.000 sheets of paper. allocated by the University, which can be printed from a cluster. The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) will deduct the number of pages students print each time they use the clusters· print­ers. When the balance reaches zero, the charges begin. 
· "Obviously somebody has to pay for any service in the community." said Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost of OIT, referring to the University's decision. "You benefit from services ren­dered when you pay tuition." 


The printing fee may alle­viate some of the printing queue back-ups that occur when large documents are printed. Students may be more judicious with their printing choices now that they can incur charges. 
Although he lives off cam­pus, senior Matt Peters fre­quently stops in computer clusters because of the con­venience, but has been annoyed by people who print a large number of pages. 
"A lot of times, you'll go up there and people are print­ing 100 slides," said Peters. "Hopefully, it will alleviate 

KYLIE CARTER/The Obs&1Ver Senior John Nahrgang logs on the Pharos printing system in the Lafortune Cluster In order to send a print job. This year, the Office of Information Technologies is charging students 10 cents a sheet for these print jobs after a student has exceeded 1000 sheets printed during the academic year. 
really long lines." 

According to Rapagnani, University statistics showed that over 80 percent of stu­dents print less than 1,000 sheets of paper in an acade­mic year. He added that the limit could cause people to be more careful about their printing habits in the com­puter clusters. 

-· just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial 
institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, 
competitive products and pricing, and a level of service 
second to none. 
Convenience• With over SOibanking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use one of our other convenient ATMs in the Hesburgh library or at LeMans Hall. 
Internet Banking• With 1st Source Bank's Online banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. For all the details visit us online or drops us an e-mail at bankoncampus@lstsource.com. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 

"Any service that appears 
to be limitless people will 
consume rather readily," 
Rapagnani. 
Some students. like sopho­
more Christina Martini, said 
the 1000-sheet limit appears 
worse than it is. 
"One thousand pages seems like a lot," Martini said. "But I guess it depends on your major." 
Another student, junior Erin Riley, uses the clusters' printers only occasionally, but has already had prob­lems with the new rules. 
"I got charged for printing pieces of paper that didn't coine out properly." Riley said. 
The printing stations cur­rently only record what has been printed, whether or not the pages have anything on them or if they print correct­ly. 
"I think it would be fair to have some kind of compen­sation for any malfunction that takes away from your balance," Riley said. "They're not taking money away from your pockets, but they're trying to take it away from a balance." 
All of the campus comput­er clusters have a detailed description of the new guide­lines. 
According to Rapagnani. the new rule is similar to those of the University's peer institutions. 
Rapagnani will meet with the Graduate Student Union later to discuss their con­cerns on the issue. Rapagnani said the grad stu­dents have expressed greater concerns with the new charges than under­
graduates. 
Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu.. 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 31, 2001 

Flipstock 
continued from page 1 
show [all] students that there are alternatives to drinking." 
Flipstock planners do not anticipate having to deal with intoxicated students trying to attend the concert. 
"As with all FlipSide events, it is our expectation that students will not come to the event intoxi­cated out of respect for the event and other students attending the event," Rampolla said. "Students will be checking IDs at the door because it is a student-run event. However, if there is a problem, stadium ushers will be used." 
The doors of the Joyce Center open at 5:30 p.m. and students should enter through Gate 3. 
"This is the first annual," Rampolla said. "We hope it will continue." 
Jackie Santoro contributed to this story. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laruffa. I@nd.edu. 
Towels 
continued from page I 
school spirit. 
Following the Sept. 9 Irish loss to Nebraska, and again after Oregon State defeated the team at the Fiesta Bowl Jan. 1, Costin and Humbert began formulating a game plan of sorts. 
"We decided to make this kind of a mission. We want­ed to use this as a catalyst, something that would make a big difference in recaptur­
ing our home field," said 1972 graduate Hum-bert, owner and president of AP Image Team, Inc. 
"We start­ed thinking about what we could have to bond every­one togeth­er," added Costin, a 1979 alum­nus, who also serves as company president. 
"/ think that a lot of people around here want to promote the school, and I think {the towels] would be a great way to do it. It would do a great deal to promote school spirit." 
Brian Moscona Student body vice-president 
"This is the most natural thing we can think of." 
The towels easily could appeal to the campus com­munity, said Brian Moscona, student body vice president. 
"I think that a lot of people around here want to pro­mote the school, anlj I think that would be a great way to do it," Moscona said. "It would do a great deal to pro-· mote school spirit." 
Costin and Humbert con­

tacted Moscona this summer about the interest student groups might have in the inspiring merchandise. In the past, Moscona had worked with the company to create T-shirts for Stanford Hall and the 2003 class council. 
In fact, API has found a loyal clientele in University student clubs and athletic squads seeking screen-print­ed and embroidered apparel. This year, the firm fulfilled orders from dorms prepar­ing for Freshman Orientation activities and from the vol­
leyball team. 

The tow­els are apparently already a popular choice am o n g some on campus. 
The cot­ton towels h a v e retailed for $10 in the Varsity Shop in the Joyce Center and t h e 
Warren 
G o I f Course pro s h o p , 
where the items sold out their first week there. One towel is also on display at 
the  La.Fortune  Student  
Center.  
The towels  are  part of a  

"Play Like a Champion" line that also includes key chains, magnets and other merchandise. 
Costin recalled the pride he's seen the towels inspire. "At the Warren course, we've seen a lot of people 
using them as golf towels. I remember talking to a man one day who was telling me about the great new golf towel he had bought," said Costin, who feigned igno­rance of his company's tow­els being sold in the shop. 
"I looked at the guy's bag and told him I didn't see the new towel there. He said, 'I don't use it on the course. I've still got my brown towel to wipe off my clubs," Costin said. 
That speaks to the enthusi­asm about the towels that Costin and Humbert believe will become contagious. 
"It's not only the towel itself that has the potential to unify the crowds but the message on it: 'Play like a champion.' That's what Notre Dame's all about. Win or lose, our fans act like people we want to represent us,'' Costin said. 
The idea for a Notre Dame fa.n towel is a takeoff on the tradition that fans at the University of Tennessee and other colleges practiced for years. When the Irish meet the Volunteers at Notre Dame Stadium Nov. 3, per­haps Costin and Humbert's towels will be the start of an early tradition there. 
"We don't want to stop our worthy competitors from bringing their towels," Costin said, "But we also don't want a repeat of last year." 
"We don't want this to appear that it's not a tough place to play," Humbert said. 
And maybe that starts one champion-themed gold towel at a time. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 

"Our vows bind us together in community. We commit ourselves to share with one another who we are, what we have, and what we do." (Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, V.46) Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their perpetual profession of vows and consecrate themselves to Christ forever. John DeRiso, C.S.C. Mike Floreth, C.S.C. ND'93, '01 ND '95, '01 Saturday, September 1, 2001 Brad Metz, C.S.C. Basilica of the Sacred Heart ND '96, '01 1:30 p.m. www.nd.edu/,._,vocation ANSWER ~ Sam Peters, C.S.C. Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. THECALL '<!:J ND'Ol ND '94, '01  


ATION 
Friday, August 31, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Concorde begins training: An Air France Concorde embarked on a series of flights Thursday to train pilots and staff who have been out of practice since the supersonic jet was grounded after last year's deadly crash. Transportation Minister Jean-Claude Gayssot said that the decision on returning the needle-nosed liner to the sky would be made imminently, but he gave no date. The Concorde fleet was grounded after an Air France plane crashed outside Paris over a year ago. killing 113 people. 
Aaliyah plane overloaded: Bahamian aviation ofiicials released an estimate Thursday of the weight of the plane that crashed in clear skies last week. killing the singer Aaliyah and eight others, and an independent expert said the figures indicate it was overloaded. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex-House chaplain dies: The Rev. James Ford, who served as chaplain of the House of Representatives for two decades, has died, his family said Thursday. He was 
70. Ford, who ministered to House members and their families from 1979 until his retire­ment last year. died Monday. His family did not disclose the cause of death. 
Wildfire nears national park: Crews battling a 17,000-acre wildfire near Glacier National Park braced Thursday for more unfavorable weather and guardedly sized up their progress against the blaze. "We've got a few scratch lines around the tiger, but the tiger's still a tiger," said Bob McKinney, infor­mation officer for the Moose fire. People who fled about a dozen houses Monday under an evacuation order were allowed to return home briefly Thursday for their belongings. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Minister avoids sex charge: A Richmond minister found guilty of having sex with a 15-year-old girl could face up to 50 years in prison, but police have to find him first. The Rev. Larry A. Flake, 55, was found guilty of sexual misconduct with a minor Wednesday in Wayne Circuit Court. The court also ruled him a habitual offender. Flake has two previous felony convictions. Flake did not show up this week for his jury trial on two counts of sexual misconduct and one count of rape. He went missing after being released on bail. 
Market \Vatch August 30 
Dow 9,919.58 -171.32 
]~ Composite Same: Volume:
•

215 NIA
~ 

AMEX: 870.98 -7.'Bi'J NASDAQ: 1,791.68 -51.49 NYSE: . 
586.10 -7.43 
S&P 500: 1,129.03 -1957 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -17.57 -2.36 11.07 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -10.11 -1.35 12.00 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -3.70 -1.39 36.17 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -6.26 -1.07 16.01 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -5.49 -3.31 56.94 
Police capture Sacramento killer 
Associated PreM 
CITRUS HElGHTS, Calif. 
Turned in by his own terrified brother, Nikolay Soltys was captured hiding under a desk in his mother's back yard Thursday after a 10-day nationwide manhunt for the Ukrainian immi­grant accused of butchering six relatives. 
Soltys, 27, had apparently slipped into the yard during the night despite round-the-clock 

Soltys
surveillance of the home by detec­tives. He was carrying a backpack containing a. knife authorities suspect was the weapon used to kill his preg­nant wife, 3-year-old son and four others. 
Soltys was barefoot. unshaven, dirty and "looked like he could have been hiding in a field somewhere," Sacramento County Sheriff Lou Blanas said. 
The sheriff said Soltys was speak­ing freely to prosecutors. though he did not yet have a lawyer. Blanas declined to release details. 
The capture just a few miles from the scenes of the grisly murders ended a manhunt that had reached alJ the way to the East Coast. Authorities said they believe Soltys never left the Sacramento area. with its large Ukrainian and Russian com­munities. 
Deputy Sheriff Bill Samuelson said Stepan Soltys was eating breakfast at around 7 :45 a.m. when he looked through a glass back door and saw his fugitive brother under the desk. 
Nikolay motioned for Stepan to be quiet, but Stepan instead assembled relatives in the garage, where police had installed a panic button. Neither the alarm nor a phone police had given the family worked, so the fami­ly piled into the car and fled, Samuelson said. 
Surprised detectives saw the garage door fly open and the car speed away. 

The family drove several blocks to a framing shop, where employee Jennifer Murphy helped Stepan call police. 
"A man came up to me with his cell phone and he was all shaky. He kept pushing buttons 1-1-9, so I knew he wanted to dial 911," Murphy said. "I brought him into the store and dialed 911 for him." 
Dozens of deputies stormed into the cluttered yard and arrested Soltys without a struggle. He was carrying a metal potato peeler in his pocket and a map of the Sacramento area. 
Authorities said they believe Soltys had been staying in woods behind the house. Blanas said the family didn't know undercover detectives were watching the home, and an officer had checked the yard Wednesday evening. 
"At night there's so many ways to get into that back yard, you can't cover every inch," Blanas said. 
GERMANY 

Central Bank rolls out first euro notes 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT 
Europeans on Friday got 
a first look at their new 
currency -seven state-of­
the-art notes that are said 
to be the most counterfeit­
proof in the world and that 
planners promise will help 
unite the continent like 
never before. 
The European Central 
Bank, which governs mon­
etary policy for the 12 
nations, has kept the euro 
notes under wraps to give 
counterfeiters as little time 
as possible to unravel 
security features. The col­
orful bills start circulating 
Jan. 1. 
Bank President Wim 
Duisenberg was lit up by a 
blaze of flashes from 
jostling photographers as 
AFP Photo
he held up a transparent 

This weekend the distribution of euros to Spanish banks will begin, ready for the
star encasing the new bills 

adoption of the single European currency in January 2002.
in denomination's of 5, 10, 


20, 50, 100, 200 and 500 euros. A euro is currently worth about 91 cents. 
"The euro is much more than a common currency," Duisenberg said. "It is a symbol of European inte­gration." 
Outside the Frankfurt, Germany opera house, where the bills were intro­duced, workers dangling from ropes peeled away large plastic sheets to reveal two story-high copies of the notes hanging from the bank's headquar­ters. 
The introduction of the euro bills as money people can touch and feel will be a historic step in bringing Europeans closer together, Duisenberg said. Starter kits of coins are introduced in most countries in December. 
"In some 100 days' time, the euro will be in our pockets. it will be our money, a tangible reality and not just the virtual market currency which it has thus far been per­ceived to be by many Europeans," Duisenberg said. 
The euro has existed since Jan. 1, 1999 when national currencies were pegged to it, but 300 mil­lion people in the euro bloc have continued to use their old national currencies as cash. After the New Year changeover. national cur­rencies will still be accept­ed as legal tender during transitional periods rang­ing from two to six months. 

The bank's primary job now is creating a sense of confidence in the new cur­rency. After the bank earli­er Thursday helped the euro gain against the dol­lar with an interest rate cut, officials turned the focus on security. 
The new bills incorpo­rate measures tried and tested on outgoing national currencies -such as raised printing so people can identify the real thing from fakes by touch -with fea­tures unique to the new bills. 
Some of those features were purposely kept secret. 
"There are always more security features than you explain to the public," for security reasons, said Regina Schueller, a bank spokeswoman. 
The bills feature water­marks and security threads ~ a dark line that becomes visible when the bill is held up to light. Tilting brings out holo­grams printed on a foil stripe at the edge of the smaller bills. Another stripe near the center can only be seen under very bright light. 
The bigger bills -the 50, 100, 200 and 500 -have a foil patch with a hologram of the bank note and its value. They also have ink on the numerals that changes color as bills are moved in the light. 

page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 31, 2001 
Officials: football ticket distribution a success 



By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
After months of planning, foot­ball ticket distribution for the 2001 season was an overaU suc­cess. according to student lead­ers involved in the process. 
"I thought it was fair. Above all. it accomplished its goal. and that was to get people to sit together with their friends," said Matt Smith, president of the class of 2003. 
This year's process involved students receiving lottery num­bers on enrollment day and then purchasing their tickets by class on assigned days. The system represented one of many changes made in the past few years in student ticket distribu­tion. 
"For the most part, students who saw the process in the past thought that this year was a great improvement," said class of 2004 president Keri Oxley. 
Oxley. Smith and senior class president Peter Rossmann were part of the committee that devel­oped this year's ticket distribu­tion system. Other members of the committee included student body president Brooke Norton and vice president Brian Moscona, along with head stadi­um usher Russell Gagnon and representatives from both the Student Activities and ticket offices. 
"Going in, we knew students wanted it as simple as possible," Norton said. "We really wanted to create something we could do year in and year out." 
The committee will meet again soon to evaluate the process and decide how to proceed in plan­ning next year's ticket distribu­tion, Moscona said. 
"We did get a lot of positive feedback from students, though we did get some complaints," Norton said. One of the major complaints she cited involved students having to stand in line. 
She said the committee will use organizations such as the Student Senate and Hall President's Council to get addi­tional feedback from students. 
Committee members said they believed this year's system was an improvement over the previ­ous one. 
"We think it was so much bet­ter than what happened last year. I've talked to 30 or 40 stu­dents, and they're very happy," Moscona said. 
"I think the process ran smoothly, but we're looking for more ways to improve efficiency for the students," said Oxley. 
Contact Erin La.Ruffa at laruffa. l@nd.edu. · 

TAKING IT EASY 

HeartBeat Records Presents 
I<EGG;A.E SIJF£1S.llll<S 
in concert at The Factory 

Interested in set­
ting up physics ex­
periments about 3 
hours per week? If 
you are, please see 
Mike in 286 NSH 
or phone 1-7057. 
Attention ~tuaents 
~eniors interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, or Mikhell ~cholarship shoula attend ameeting lo learn the process fur applying !hrou~ !he campw committee. 
TuesGay, ~~tem!Jer ~lli 0:ijij pm room IijlLaw ~chool 
Ifyou are unable to attena thls meeting, information may oe ootainea in the Fellow~hip Office in room~~ O'~nauglmessy 
------------------·--­
-"­
-

Friday, August 31, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
5 rectors join Notre Dame staff 



By ELIZABETH LEE 
News Writer 
Five dorms have new leaders this fall as Carroll Hall, Howard Hall, Keough Hall, Lyons Hall and Sorin College all welcome new rectors. 
Carroll Hall is now led by Father Jim Lewis who served as rector for Notre Dame's under­graduate program in London the past two years. 
Prior to his work in London, Lewis did various kinds of social work, serving as a therapist in the psychiatric unit of St. Joseph's Medical Center in South Bend, as well as at Central Professional Group in Joliet, Ill. 
Although he enjoys the foot­ball games and retreats, Lewis was mainly drawn to the com­munity life at Notre Dame. 
"I wanted to contribute to and be a part of such a vibrant com­munal reality," he said. "In my short time on campus, I've been touched by the generous sup­port and welcoming of a great many [people who have been] present to me, informative, and inclusive. These are the gifts that I hope to offer as rector." 
Lewis has been a Carmelite priest for 18 years and enjoys film, the theater, classical music and the Rocky Mountains. 
Kathy Brannock, the new rec­tress in Howard Hall, attended Notre Dame as an undergradu­ate before graduating from Notre Dame Law School last May. 
Brannock Dunn 

She is dedicated to service and took a year off between undergraduate and law school to teach for AmeriCorps. 
During her law school days she served as the assistant rec­tor in McGlinn Hall. As an undergraduate, she spent most of her time in Siegfried Hall ­where she was a resident before it was converted to a men's dorm. 
"Not many people remember that [Siegfried] was a women's residence hall originally," she said. 
Originally from Albany, N.Y.. Brannock had never planned on living in Indiana, but she said something about Notre Dame keeps drawing her back. 
She feels blessed to have had so many opportunities at Notre Dame and is excited about her new position. 
"I have met many incredible and talented women," she said. "So far my experience has been wonderful, and I am looking forward to a great year." 
Father Peter Jarret, a 1986 Notre Dame graduate, is the new rector in Keough Hall. 
He lived in Flanner Hall for four years and was a resident 
Jarret 
assistant his senior year. 
After graduating with a degree in government, he entered Moreau Seminary, where he earned his Masters of Divinity in 1991. 
He was ordained a priest at Sacred Heart in April 1992. For the past six years he was the pastor of St. Pius X parish in Granger. where his term expired in July. Free to take another assignment, Jarret decided to return to Notre Dame. excited to be back in the community. 
"Life in the residence halls is a key part of being at Notre Dame, and I was very excited at the opportunity to live, pray and work with students," he said. 
In addition to his work as rec­tor, Jarret, the youngest of seven children. enjoys reading and NASCAR racing. 
Sister Susan Dunn. a Dominican Sister, has recently become the rector of Lyons Hall, where she is currently enjoying "the wonderful views of Saint Mary's Lake." 
Previous to her arrival at Notre Dame, Dunn spent 12 years at St. Thomas Aquinas College in Sparkill, N.Y., where 


Lewis Peters 

for the past three years she 
worked in the residence life 
area. 

Dunn enjoys walking, biking 
and reading, and is a fan of 
women's basketball. She is also 
attempting golf. 

"Please note that I did not use 
the word 'enjoy' with golf yet," 
she said. 

Sam Peters is the new rector 
in Sorin College and came to 
Notre Dame in 1995 to join the 
Congregation of Holy Cross for­
m a tion program at Moreau 
Seminary. He will profess his 
perpetual vows Saturday. 
Although he will soon formally 
dedicate his life to God, he 
didn't always envision a life in 
the Church. 

Peters said he planned on 
becoming a dentist while study­
ing Biology at Loyola University 
in Chicago, but later heard 
another call. 

"God had other plans for my 
life, and I switched from saving 
teeth to saving souls," he said. 
He also enjoys playing basket­
ball and golf. 
Contact Elizabeth Lee at Lee. l 20@nd.edu. 
Conference highlights manuscripts 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's extensive collection of medieval man­uscripts will be the focus of a two-day seminar Sept. 13-15 that celebrates the appointments of Michael Lapidge and Jill Mann to endowed professorships in the Department of English. 
Titled "Medieval Manuscripts at Notre Dame," the conference will draw an international cadre of medieval literature specialists from as far as Japan for discussions on traditional manuscripts as well as the technological advances that are making manuscripts more accessi­ble. 
Sessions will take place in the Center for Continuing Education in McKenna Hall. 
Mann and Lapidge joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1999 as Notre Dame Professors of English, com­ing from the University of Cambridge. Lapidge is a renowned scholar of Anglo­Saxon literature. Mann is widely regarded as one of the world's foremost schol­ars of Middle English litera­ture, and also writes exten­sively on medieval Latin. 


TUESDAv, SEPTEMBER 4 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM 
JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE (ENTER THROUGH GA TE 9) 
CHECK OUT THE LISTING OF THE 250+ PARTICIPATING CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICE AGENCIES ON-LINE AT: 
http://www.nd.edu/----sao/an/ 
Friday, August 31, 2001

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
OIT service similar to other universities 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Editor 
While similar sized private institutions Notre Dame. Cornell and Stanford compare favorably in terms of technology and avail­ability of computers, Notre Dame's system is much less reli­able and experiences longer and more frequent network outages. 
Notre Dame's two separate daylong Internet outages and e­mail outage last year greatly ones in the residence halls rang­ing from two to 18 computers. Most of them have around five, six or seven computers, but the one in the student center has at least 40 computers," said 
Ri.kleen. 
Although students do not have to leave their dorms to access a cluster, 95 percent of Stanford students choose to bring a com­puter and use the clusters mainly to print, use an application they do not have, or as social space. 
N o t r e 
Dame cur­

exceeded the "Our course registration rently allows number of out­students to
is totally online and we 
ages Cornell print in clus­
don't typically have a
and Stanford ters free of experienced. problem with the number charge for 
T h e ofstudents registering at the first 
University's net­1,000 sheets 
one time."
work was and then severely dis­charges 10 rupted three Ethan Rlkleen cents a page times last year: for printing:
Stanford network and systems
on Sept. 12, students at
administrator
2000 for a full­day of e-mail outage. on Nov. 6-7. 2000 when Internet resources outside of Notre Dame were unavailable for 36 hours and on March 11-12. 2001 when a failure at the University's Internet provider, Genuity, caused outside Internet resources to be unavailable for 18 hours. 
Cornell experienced one Internet outage last year, when the Internet line from their provider in nearby Syracuse. N.Y. was cut, according to Wes Kahle. director of customer services and marketing at Cornell. However, the outage occurred in the morn­ing and was fixed in the after­noon, less than six hours later. 
Stanford University. whose main Internet access is also pro­vided by Genuity, has not experi­enced any problems this year. However, Ethan Rikleen. a net­work and systems administrator at Stanford, said if there was a problem with Genuity's Internet service. students would have sim­ilar problems to those that Notre Dame experienced during its two outages. 
When the computers are work­ing, all three schools have clus­ters readily available for student use as well as in room network connections. 
Cornell's cluster system is simi­lar to Notre Dame's in that clus­ters are located at locations such as the student union and the library and are open very late, or in some cases, 24 hours a day. 
Stanford offers clusters in both these locations, but also has small clusters in each dorm, with one computer for every 20 stu­dents in small dorms and a com­plex formula for larger dorms. 
"There are 7 5 clusters, the 
Happy 
1_9th 
Birthday Katie! 
Cornell and 
Stanford pay 

for printing beginning at the first sheet. 
Cornell charges 10 cents a page to print and Stanford 7 cents a page. Notre Dame students would have to print more than 3,300 sheets during each acade­mic year for Stanford's system to be cheaper. These fees are deducted from students' accounts using a method similar to Domer Dollars. 
Stanford and Cornell have slightly more advanced tools available to them through their universities -especially when registering for classes. 
While Notre Dame only recent­ly introduced a Web registration tool, both Cornell and Stanford students have used the Internet to register for classes and enroll ffor several years. 
In the past. Notre Dame stu­dents used the telephone or, more recently, computer termi­nals at the library or registrar's office. Stanford's system allows students to register anytime dur­ing a specified period and there are no limitations as to when particular grade levels can regis­ter. Even with the new Web reg­istration tool, Notre Dame still requires students to enroll by fill­ing out a form at the Joyce Center at the beginning of each semester. 
"Our course registration is totally online and we don't typi­cally have a problem with the number of students registering at one time, although we have a date they must finish registration by," said Ri.kleen. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at broclfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 

SMC hosts contemporary artists 
By JENNIKA KIRKBRIDE 
News Writer 
Beginning today, Saint Mary's 
and the Moreau Center for the 
Arts will welcome three con­
temporary artists to display 
their work in Moreau's main 
galleries. 
A reception tonight in Moreau 
celebrates the opening of the 
season and introduces the work 
of Barbara Campbel!. Marcella 
Hackbardt and Cassandra 
Hooper. The free reception 
runs from 5-7 p.m. 
Pennsylvania-based painter 
Campbell displays her own 
unique interpretation of every­
day landscapes in the Sister 
Rosaire Extension Gallery. 
Campbell uses vivid color and form to blend reality and her perception of reality into what is sometimes unrecognizable. 
"The physical space encir­cling us invariably works its way into our interiors, affecting us physically," she said. 
The main components of her work include the use of "bril­liant color, formal elaborations. areas of heavy painting and areas of light, untouched can­vas," the artist said. 
A pitiful. shriveled little shrub she encountered one day on her walk home is one of many memories that inspires her art. 
She noticed that someone had taken the time to carefully place a very small and elabo­rate fence around its base in order to guard it. 
"That act, which seemed so ridiculous in so many ways, really struck me," she said. "I was struck by its poignancy and by an impulse which desires 
decoration and beautification 
and a kind of order even in futility. That act right there sums up why I make paint­ings." 
Campbell is a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley's Master of Fine Arts program, and her work has most recently been included in Miami University's "Young American Painters" exhibit. 
The Little Theatre Gallery displays the photographic art of Hackbardt. Her art deals with the conflicting ideas of mother­hood from society and the reali­ty of the role of a mother. 
"Mainstream images of moth­ering evoke a mismatch between what we ought to be feeling and how we feel," Hackbardt said. Her pho­tographs both question and cel­ebrate the paradoxical emo­tions of maternity, "unity and separation, strength and fragili­ty, intimacy and invasion. and pleasure and resentment." 
She sees her work as only one in "a chorus of voices." IIackbardt is currently a pro-


STEPHANIE GRAMMENS/The Observer The contemporary artwoork of Barbara Campbell is currently on display at the Moreau Center. 
fessor at Kenyon College in cen­tral Ohio. She continues to cre­ate and teach art because, "the stakes are high ... art is pivotal in our society." 
The final artist welcomed in this exhibition is the mixed media artist Hooper, whose work can be seen in the Hammes Gallery. 
"Hooper's work begins with photographs, which are then layered with other art forms including lithography, etching, painting. collage and computer generated imaging," said Melanie Engler, director of public relations for Saint Mary's. _ 
She creates surreal environ­ments which expose her audi­ence to spaces of hidden dan­gers and secrets, inviting them into worlds "that have never been experienced, but seem oddly familiar," according to the artist. 
Hooper describes her work as, "Invented places and haWlt­ingly real spaces ... which con­jure feelings of both isolation and involvement." Her latest series, "Tug", will explore "the struggle between identity and personal introspection." 
The exhibit runs through Sept. 28. The gallery hours are Tuesday through Friday, 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturday from 10 a.m. to noon; and Sunday from 1-3 p.m. 
Contact Jennika Kirkbride at kirk I 441@saintmarys.edu. 




-;::::::=============1===========;i
200 Welcome Back Picnic 
featuring music by 
"Son de Aqui" 
Date: Friday, August 31st Time: 4:30 p.m. Place: Fieldhouse Mall 
(Lafortune Ballroom Rainsite) off-campus food from: 
Kenny' sRibs 
W\ng's Ect. 

Mark's 
Sponsored by: MSPS & ISSA 
Attention Fulbright Applicants 
Students applying for the 2002-2003 Fulbright Scholarship competition should attend a meeting to learn the process for applying through the campus committee. 
Thursday, September 6th 
4:00 pm room 1 1 7, Haggar Hall 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, information may he obtained at the Fellowship Office in room 99 O'Shaughnessy __j 
Friday, August 31, 2001 The Observer . NEWS 
Car seat belt use higher than ever 
Associated Press 
More people than ever are wearing seat belts and fewer children are being killed by air bags, the government says in fresh evidence that a decades­1ong focus on auto safety is paying off. 
Automakers are building safer vehicles, but experts say people's behavior is the big reason for reduced highway fatalities. 
"The most crashworthy vehi­cle, the most well-designed car in the world is not going to help you in many situations unless you take the personal responsi­bility to help the vehicle help you." National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator Jeffrey Runge said. 
NHTSA released data Thursday showing 73 percent of people observed in the front seat of vehicles around the country this summer were wearing seat belts -the high­est since the agency began keeping statistics seven years ago, when 58 percent wore seat belts. 
Experts say more seat belt usage. along with tougher laws and improvements in highway and auto safety, are part of a change in the culture of road travel that emphasizes safety and is responsible for a huge drop in the highway death rate. 
Last year, there were 41.800 fatalities, or 1.6 deaths per mil­lion miles traveled. There were 47,878 deaths in 1977, and because vehicle miles traveled each year has increased signifi­cantly since then, the rate was more than double at 3.3 per million. 
The decline has occurred as the federal government has stepped up safety require­ments, such as requiring air 
bags, and  consumers  have  
demanded  more safety fea­ 
tures.  
Former  NHTSA  

Administrator Diane Steed said when she was at the agency in the 1980s. automakers said safety didn't sell. Now they actively promote it through ad campaigns. 
"We did everything we could when I was there to make it clear that you can choose safe­ty options when buying a vehi­cle," Steed said. "And you could actually see a change in the way companies were adver­tising." 
In 1980, consumers ranked safety ninth among 12 features they considered when buying a vehicle, according to Maritz Marketing Research. Now it's ranked sixth out of 26 features. 
NHTSA, insurers and the auto industry spend millions each year on public service campaigns encouraging motorists to buckle up and put young children in car seats ­away from air bags. 
The Air Bag & Seat Belt Safety Campaign celebrated its fifth anniversary Thursday by releasing a report that shows the number of small children killed by air bags has fallen sharply since 1996. 
Government statistics show the number of confirmed child deaths fell from 25 in 1996 to sLx in 2000, while the number of automobiles with air bags rose from 22 million to more than 80 million. 
An air bag comes out of the dashboard at rates of up to 200 miles per hour, faster than the blink of an eye. They were designed to protect adults, and the force can be too strong for small children and can cause head and neck injuries. 
At least 191 people, including 116 children, have been killed by the force of deploying air bags, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Air bags have been credited with saving about 7,224 lives. 
The government began allow­ing switches to deactivate air bags in 1995 and recommends the passenger-side air bag be turned off if a child under 13 is riding in the front seat. By Sept. 1, 2003, all vehicles must have advanced air bags that deploy with less force or not at all when children are in the front seat. 
While air bag deaths decline, NHTSA says seat belt use con­tinues to climb nationwide. though it varies by region and vehicle type. 
Drivers and passengers in cars wore seat belts 76 percent of the time, while those in pick­up trucks did so only 59 per­cent of the time. 
People in the Northeast are least apt to wear seat belts ­62 percent in the most recent survey -while Southern motorists dramatically increased seat belt use from 69 percent to 76 percent since last fall. NHTSA credited the increase to high-profile enforcement campaigns in the region. 
NHTSA uses the statistics to target its safety messages. 
"It's easy to see that in spite of our great gains, there is much more that needs to be done," Runge said. "It is not time to quit and rest on our successes." 

Seat belt usage is on the rise 
A much higher percentage of Americans are wearing their seat belts according to a recent study. Experts credit tougher laws and campaigns encouraging motorists to buckle up. 
~Fall1994 
-June2001 
Total 
......II58% 73% 
Cars 
~63% 76% 
Vans, SUVs, pickup trucks 
11111' ·aso% 
69% 

The South saw a big increase since last fall in seat belt usage, the Northeast still lags behind. Here are figures for June 2001. 
North-Mid­east west South West 

Total 62% 72% 76% 77% 
Cars 67% 74% 79% 81% 

\iii,iis;····,1;'·,-1·-,"•·· ······· · ···...."........···-·· · ····· 
SOURCE: National Center for AP Statistics and Analysis 

Andersen is an organization that embraces change and new ideas. We'd like to thank and welcome back the students of Notre Dame University, who spent their summer gaining and sharing valuable experierces with us 
at Andersen 
Travis Alexander Kate Backes EdwaidGalanog Lindsay Connolly Kristen D'Ncy Matthew Dixon Kevin Jones Elizabeth Kaiser Joseph Lake David Lazar Keira O'Connor Julie Pendergast Charles Prisco Daniel Probst Elizabeth Roggi Catherine Sanders Katherine Utz Benjamin VanCura Maurie Vanta Catherine Bonchonsky Kathleen Corsentino Rebecca Hagelin Kellie Kane Christopher McBride Thomas Perez Timothy Roberts Elizabeth Seibold Stephen Walker Christopher Brewster Aaron Crall Joshua Heck Alice Keating Megan McMunen Jeremy Piste, Meghan Rogers Katelyn Shea Penny Wolf 

MJve favad wtt, LS. If you're nterested na cmg-ct .Ama-sai, OO'ail ~ resure to tre Notre Dame recn.Jiting team at chi-campus_recruiting@us.andersen.com. Or, fax us at 312-462-5722. 
~ 
ANDERSEN www.andersen.com/careers 
©2001 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 

page 10 The Observer . NEWS Friday, August 31, 2001 
2 more claim share of Powerball win 
Associated Press 
DOVER, Del. 

The holders of the fourth and final winning ticket in the $294.8 million Powerball draw­ing -a first-grade teacher and her brother from the Pittsburgh area -stepped forward to claim their share of the jackpot Thursday. 
·•1 guess we'll help the econo­my somewhat," said Kathleen Kearney, who with her brother, Michael Kearney, won $73.7 million. 
Kathleen Kearney said she will keep teaching despite her winnings, although she will buy a new car to replace her 8-year­old Toyota, find a good doctor to treat her arthritis and maybe take some trips. 
She also will spend some money on her students. "Certainly better snacks," she said. 
Michael Kearney, a lawyer with two teen-age daughters, hasn't decided what to do with his share of the lump-sum, pre­tax payment of $41.4 million, which they will split equally. 
"It's kind of shocking to win that kind of money, so I really haven't given it much thought," he said. 
Kat_hleen Kearney said she waited so long to come forward because "I never win anything." They didn't check their ticket against the winning numbers until Wednesday. 
Unable to reach state lottery officials by phone, they decided to drive to the office in Dover, about an hour from Kathleen Kearney's home. 
"We said 'We're here,'" Michael Kearney said. 
The jackpot was the third­richest lottery prize in U.S. his­tory. The holders of the three other winning tickets in last Saturday's drawing stepped for­ward earlier this week: an ex­convict from Kentucky. a med­ical records clerk from Minnesota and a couple from Maine. 
Earlier Thursday, co-workers of Maine winner Pat Wales dropped their claim to a piece of the prize. 
The facts did not support their assertion that the winning ticket had been bought for an office pool, said John McVeigh, a lawyer for the plaintiffs. 
"Once we got the answers, we decided to dismiss," McVeigh said. 
In the lawsuit filed Wednesday, four people who worked with Wales at Lincoln Financial Group in Portland said 19 people had kicked in $10 apiece to share 190 Powerball tickets. 
Terrence Garmey, a lawyer for Wales and her husband Erwin, insisted the winning tick­et belonged to the couple, offer­ing as proof sales records from the store in New Hampshire where it was bought. 
He said Pat Wales bought 190 numbers for her office pool, then a few minutes later bought 20 for herself and her husband. The winning ticket, Garmey said, was among those 20. 
Garmey said Pat Wales was "devastated" when told her co­workers might sue. "She put her head on the table and sobbed," he said. 
INFORMATION MEETING: SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1:OOPM ROCKNE RM. 21 8 
FOR MORE INFO. CALL: BILL ARCHER 1-5 443 RECSPORTS AT 1-61 00 
McCain recovering froill surgery 
Associated Prcss 
PHOENIX 
Sen. John McCain was recov­ering Thursday from surgery for a benign enlargement of his prostate and was expected to make a full and rapid recovery, his spokeswoman said. 
The Arizona Republican experienced no complications during the procedure Wednesday -his 65th birth­day -at the Mayo Clinic Hospital in Phoenix, spokes­woman Nancy Ives said. 
McCain was expected to leave the hospital Friday and plans to return to work when the Senate convenes Tuesday, Ives said. 
"He sounds great and is look­ing forward to coming home, getting back to Washington and getting back to work," she said. 

Because of the surgery, McCain canceled a planned Sept. 4 speech in Minneapolis, but it wasn't known whether he would miss any other public appearances. 
Enlargement of the prostate is common among older men and can lead to urinary diffi­culties. During the procedure, enlarged prostate tissue block­ing the urethra is cut away. 
Doctors also broke up stones that had accumulated in McCain's bladder because the prostate was large enough to prevent the bladder from emp­tying completely, Ives said. 
The stones were too large to remove without an incision, so a laser was used to break them into smaller fragments, she said. McCain was given general anesthesia during the opera­tion, which lasted about 70 minutes. 
McCain had said as he entered the hospital Wednesday that he looked for­ward to having "this minor" problem resolved. 
The former presidential can­didate underwent surgery last August to remove melanoma, the most dangerous form of skin cancer. from his temple and upper arm. McCain's office said checkups since then have found no further signs of can­cer. 
McCain just returned from a five-day congressional delega­tion trip to Estonia, Latvia, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. 
I 

Saturday Night 
Abroad Student Reunion Night 
Get your groups together and enjoy specials on all your favorites from Ireland, Australia, Germany, England, Mexico, and others. 
$10 LIFETIME MEMBERSHIP SPECIAL ALL WEEK! ! Doors open at 9:00 
Check out www.nd.edu/~asc for more info. 
You must be 21 years old with valid ID to enter. 
THE FRESHEST ITALIAN IN TOWN 
~ 

orta I233~10001 
Family Owned Tradition 
Fresh Prepared

Original Family Recipes 
Dinners, Pizza
235 s. Michigan St.
Large Groups 
and fine

South Bend, In 4660I
Welcome 
drink selection.
WWW.catallnos.com 

Dine in/carry-out Reservations recommended 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
Buy one Dinner, get the second for l/2. Not valid on Holidays or Notre Dame event weekends or with other offers. 
Friday, August 31, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

31 2001 

Flipstock 6:00 pm-1 :00 am 
Featuring: Nine Days, SR-71, and They Might Be Giants 
Playing at Riehle Fields (formerly Stepan Fields) Rain location: Joyce Center 
ND Crafting Corner 
9:00 pm to 11:00 pm in the Sorin Room in Lafortune Student Center For more information visit www.nd.edu/"'sao/craft 
Tournament Time 
11:00 pm in ND Express in the basement of Lafortune Student Center For more information visit www.nd.edu/ ~Sao/tournament 
Se tember 1 2001 

Dale K Comedy Hypnosis Show 
Show starts at 9:00 pm in Washington Hall For more information visit www.nd.edu/~sao/ndafter5 
Karaoke and Music 
10:00 pm to 1:00 am in the Huddle in Lafortune Student Center For more information visit www.nd.edu/~sao/music 
I 
1 
Clover .comedy Club 
: Michael Dean Ester, Campus ComedyShow 

12:00 midnight in the Ballroom of Lafortune Student Center Free snacks! For more information visit www.nd.edu/~sao/comedy 
Midnight Breakfast 
12:00 mid to 1:30 am in the North Dining Hall Free cereal, doughnuts and a DJ Sponsored by Student Government and the Student Activities Office 
Se tember 2 2001 

Movie: Chocolat 
8:00pm Montgomery Theatre Lafortune Student Center Come out and sample chocolate and enjoy the movie 
~~­
G LA,Dl~i\:foR
Se tember 3 2001 

Movie: Gladiator 
Montgomery Theatre Lafortune Student Center 
.t6., 

~. Questions?? Contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao for more information. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

page 12 Friday, August 31, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No~ Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANACING EDITOR  BusINFSs MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWl'OINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAlNT MARY°S EDITOR: Myra M~Griff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer An DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOft: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kat.ie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MAN1..G£Q/GENE1W, lNF0 .............. 63l-747l 
FAX. ........................................ ., ............... ...631-6927 ADVERTISING ............. ........................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631--4542 MANAGING Emroit/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS....................................................... .631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCF.NE.... .....................................................631--4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY"'s... ..........................................631--4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
V'JSit our Web site ar http:l/observer.nd edu for daily updates of campus news, spcrts, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
sraff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publisb.ed in print and online by the smdents of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include concacc information. 
Questions regarding Observer polims should be dir.a­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
Begin planning for mail-in system 
This year's student football ticket lottery and distribu­while trying to prepare for the beginning of school. tion went smoothly with little frustration and few prob­A mail-in system would eliminate all these hassles. It lems. The lines moved quickly. The crowds weren't too could be handled in the spring for 75 percent of the stu­large. The combined efforts of Notre Dame's dent body leaving only freshmen, new grad­
OJhe

student government and the ticket office pro­uate students and transfer students to deal
oserver 

duced a system that ran as well as can be with a lottery in the fall. expected. -When Brooke Norton and Brian Moscona 
Nevertheless, the lottery system should still took over student government last April,
Editorial 
be scrapped for a mail-in system. Students want a mail-in system similar lo ones used at other schools. They want the convenience of filling out one form, sending in their checks and waiLiug for their lickets. 
Even the best lottery systems still require at least two trips across campus, possible interference with class schedules and the hassle of coordinating ticket groups 

Seeing through media biases 
With the advent of cable television came the 24-hour news cyde and the need for cable news programs to latch onto sensational stories. Enter and exit the 0. J. Simpson case. Enter and exit President Clinton's impeachment. Enter and exit the 2000 presidential election and post­election selection of a president. Enter Representative Gary Condit's rela­tionship with miss­ing intern Chandra Levy. 
It is now time to exit the Condit aspect of the story and concentrate on Levy's disappear­ance. 
Many cable program hosts, most notably on the Fox Cable Channel, have used this story for political reasons. Of course, politics was forever yhangcdfor the worse when Newt Gingrich adopu~d the scorch-the-earth and hold-no-pris­oners approach to win control ol' the 
U.S. House of Representatives in 1994. Since that time, both Democrats and Republicans use any opportunity to spin a positive light for their causes. 
Coverage of Condit has gone beyond news and information. Everyone knows that he is a hormonal horn-dog. Some suggest that it probably comes from his repressive upbringing within the Baptist Church. But that is not news anymore since we could list repressed Catholics or Methodists or whatever religion who act just as badly with their brand of morality. Until Condit was implicated when Levy disappeared. his affairs had no standing regarding his performance as an elected official. 
This writer supports the true meaning of"fair and balanced," rather than Fox's fair and balanced "according to lhe con­servative way of thinking" approach that reeks throughout that cable network's reporting. Give me Chris Matthews of MSNBC's "Hardball" any day. While the former Democratic press secretary to ultra-liberal Speaker Tip O'Neill infuri­ates many Democra1s with his criticism of Bill Clinton, he consistently holds to a set of principles regardless of party affil­iation. 

During the upcoming school year, this column may support and espouse the Democratic Party's approach to problems while criticizing the opposition. It may call attention to issues that are uncomfort­able for conservatives or Re.publicans. Unfortunately, in the past, regardless of what appeared in this col­umn, those who disagree seem to read only what they want and misrepre­sent what is written in their e-mail responses. Despite those misinter­pretations, this column will be more like MSNBC than Fox. 
With that said, here is one Democrat who sees Condit acting like every other elected ol.llcial, regardless of party, who has been caught having ­how did Condit describe it? Oh, yes, he could not come right out and say that it was romantic or intimate or just an w1controlled urge. For his rigid pride and immediate denial of his relation­ship, he has paid a terrible price at the hands of those self-righteous individuals whom should be called "the sex police." 
Conservative commentator and self­appointed morality police chief William Bennett told CNN's Wolf Blitzer that adultery alone is not a disqualifier to hold public office. Yet in the next breath, Bennett tired to demean Democra1s in general by saying that at least Republican flir1s such as Senator Packwood and Representatives Livingston and Gingrich chose to resign while President Clinton and Hepresentative Condit did not. Nothing like a little conservative spin to support 

they didn't have enough time to organize a mail-in system. The lottery system they created was an effective stop-gap solution but is by no means perfect. 
They have already proven they can create an effective lottery system in just a few weeks. With several months to develop and implement a mail-in system, student football ticket sales can run even more smoothly in the future. 
Republicans and debase Democrats. 
Blitzer countered that House Republicans Henry Hyde and Dan Burton, also participan1s in extra-mari­tal dalliances, did not resign. Bennett said that their trys1s had occurred years ago and chose to turn the discussion back to attack Condit's current situation, calling Condit a "serial adulator." 
If one focuses on the allegations that Condit attempted to obstruct the 
investigation in order to hide his personal life, then his fitness to serve as an 
elected official is correct­
ly questioned. His best approach should have been to say that he 
was romantically involved from the start. He could have blamed it on the pres­sures of office or the long separations with 
his wife. Or he just could have said it was a weakness for which he was ashamed. It does not matter now, for his political life has ended. Should he run and be reelected, he will still be 

rather ineffective and will always be embattled. Those who are using Condit as red meat for their causes should beware. Casting stones at glass houses tend to splinter everyone. 
And all of us, regardless of religion or personal values, have no business cast­ing the first stone. Try conveying that message in an e-mail to a cable news host when precious ratings are on the line. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and public affairs director, His column appears every other Friday. and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
·TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Scott Brodfuehrer Kate Mosesso Sheila Egts 
Sports · 

Noah Amstadter Viewpoint Pat Kelly 
Scene 

Amanda Greco Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Andrew Soukup 
Lab Tech 
Angela Campos 
POLL QUESTION 
The Observer will discontinue either Dilbert or Fox Trot for the 2000-2001 publishing year. To vote for your favorite comic, please call 631-4541 before 5 p.rn. today. 
Current Tally: Dilbert 62%, Foxtrot 38% 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Politicians who complain about the media are like ships' captains who complain about the sea. " 
Enoch Powell politician 
VIEWPOINT 


Friday, August 31, 2001 
GUEST COLUMNS 
LEXINGTON, Ken. 

It is interesting that so many Americans rally behind the U.S. military's efforts to thwart such terrible countries as Iraq from taking over Kuwait in order to gain the 
"black gold, Joshu Goebeler Texas tea," 
extinct 
dinosaur 
Kentucky

remnants 
Kernal

called oil. The 
reason I would say 
that is because the United States 
has this same history of usurpa­tion of other people's land and 
resources. 
Some groups may recognize this policy as "Manifest Destiny." In 1877 the U.S. government claimed ownership of the Black Hills after promising it to the Sioux. In 1868, the United States signed a treaty that set aside the Black Hills "for the absolute and undisturbed use of the Sioux." But it soon came to pass that gold was discovered in the Black Hills. 
Words, when molested by money, can quickly become as malleable as the yellow metal that symbolically birthed this unnatur­al concept. The gold brought in a flood of the gold-seeking explorers who invaded the land just seven years after the Black Hills treaty was signed by President Andrew Johnson. 
After Custer's defeat at Little Big Horn in 1876, Congress told the Sioux that they could either give up the Black Hills or lose earlier pledged federal rations, medicine, blankets and food. Only 10 percent of the adult males signed the treaty to give up the Black Hills, but in 1877 Congress enacted it anyway. 
One federal judge disapproved of the government's deal, saying, "a more ripe and rank case of dis­honorable dealing will never, in all probability, be found in our histo­ry." One could argue that our abil­ity as a nation to follow the edict of the popular vote is somewhat askew even in these modern times. 
In 1980, the Supreme Court awarded eight Sioux tribes $106 million in compensation. The court said that this was retribution for 
"a taking of tribal property." 
The Sioux refused the millions, insisting instead that their land be . returned. The money has been sit­ting in a government account. The 
interest on the account has now 
made the funds grow to as much 
as $570 million. 
The Sioux still refuse to .touch 
the money because they don't see 
the Black Hills as something that 
can be sold. To the Lakota Sioux, 
the Black Hills are sacred. 
The Lakota call the Black Hills 
"Wamaka Og'naka I'cante," mean­
ing: The heart of everything that 
is. Some people may think it fool­
ish for the Lakota to turn down 
this money when they and other 
Native Americans make up the 
most impoverished section of our 
nation's population. 
It may be easier to empathize if 
we consider the following ques­
tion. What dollar amount would 
you put on your family, your 
beliefs, your convictions and 
serenity? 
So, we wave our flags, we rally 
our troops and our population. 
America has been carefully craft­
ed as a benevolent benefactor of 
the bullied peoples of the world. 
That is a wonderful mythology to 
strive toward as a nation. 
But what are we really made of? 
Do we truly practice the values we 
claim to hold? 
The Native Americans of this 
country were attacked and over­
come by our forefathers in much 
the same way that Kuwait was 
invaded and occupied by Iraq. 
I believe that as American citi­
zens we need to stand tall and 
practice the values that we 
espouse. Ifwe are really more 
concerned with helping people be 
free than we are with helping 
economies embrace free-market 
capitalism, then let's see it in some 
action, because it doesn't seem to 
have ever been of much value in 
words. 
This article first appeared in the 
University ofKentucky's newspa­
per, the Kentucky Kernal, on Aug. 
30 and is reprinted here courtesy 
o/U-WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this 
article are those ofthe author and 
not necessarily those ofThe 
Obseruer. 

O
THE BSERVER page 13 
Crossing the line with college rankings 
CHAHLOTTESVILLE, Vir. 
Kudos to the Princeton Review, those infamous test-prep gurus in New York City. They have effectively created a set of rankings that no college actually wants to win. 
This year, the University of Juliana Chan Tennessee was the unhappy recipient of the Review's well­known "best party Cavalier Daily school" national title. Not only is the dis­tinction ridiculous, it is a nightmare for officials who must deal with the deluge of questions and com­plaints from media and prospective stu­dents. 
Admissions officials at the University of Tennessee-Knoxville were rattled, to say the least, when they discovered that their school beat out everybody else for the unfortunate title. Tennessee took top hon­ors for "most beer" in the Review's "Best 331 Colleges" book, making the uni­versity the uncontested leader in the parties category. 
This is the same University of Tennessee that is, accord­ing to its school web site, investing in research cen­ters and academic pro­grams to "provide an outstanding education for undergraduate and graduate students." Vice president and provost Dr. Loren Crabtree said, "stu­dents are our top pri­ority" in his online welcome letter. With information praising Tennessee's commit­ment to students' intel­lectual development and students' accounts of their strictly social development, prospec­tive students understand­ably would be confused. 
Social rankings simply cause prospective students to color any and everything else that admissions officials say with distrust. Tennessee's admissions office might be extolling its worldwide renown in medieval histo­ry research, but that won't prevent the "most beer" distinction from swirling in the backs of prospective students' minds. 
The more studious contingent at Tennessee will not be taken seriously, since the school is more commonly known for having the nation's rowdiest party ani­mals -the students who begin partying on Wednesdays and don't stop until the last drop of liquor is consumed on Sunday night. 
The Princeton Review may have had prospective students in mind, but it cer­tainly ignored the dignity of the faculty at Tennessee, which is affected by the over­all reputation of the school and thus the extent to which students take school seri­ously. Tennessee's faculty members are the unwitting losers in all of this because their hard work and scholarship has been marred by this senseless award. 
Though academic rankings can also hurt a college's reputation, they keep a school's goals in line by making academic excellence the primary mission. Social rankings, on the other hand, do nothing but cripple a school's reputation. 

Administrators waste countless hours answering to the public about its social 
reputation. 
The Princeton Review handles college rankings a little differently than organiza­tions like U.S. News & World Report and Kaplan. Unlike U.S. News, Princeton Review publishes additional rankings based on college students' opinions about the quality of life and campus atmosphere in an attempt to give color commentary to its rather cut-and-dry academic rankings. 
But with such embarrassing titles as "best party school," "professors suck all life from materials" and "students least happy," you can be sure any administra­tors would be more than a tad upset if they heard that their college's name. topped those lists. 
This was unfortunately the case with Tennessee. Crabtree made it clear that academic rankings and the success rates of graduates are the criteria schools ought to be focusing on ("Top Party School" Ranking Rankles Officials at U. of 
E 
Tennessee at Knoxville," The Chronicle of Higher Education, Aug. 21). Yet they are forced to spend 
time excusing their students' _ flamboyant behavior outside of the classroom. This takes time away from administra­tors that could be spent 
looking for high-quality professors, attracting good students and 
improving class curricu­
la. 
If a prospective stu­dent interested in Tennessee's respected chemistry program heard current students saying they "swill warm beer, hang out with 
sorority girls, pass out, 
wake up around noon, 
put on (their) orange 
(clothing) and sneak some 

Jack Daniels into the game," he might assume that was the norm. The Princeton Review should veer away from stu­dent surveys altogether. Granted, its mission is simply to help students choose a good 
school. But when this mission dis­tracts administrators from improving their academics, this is where they ought to draw the line. 
The rankings have lauded the lesser­known efforts of the University of Virginia, which received high marks for its libraries and having an administration that "runs like butter." In the same way, they have questioned the academic rigor of schools like University of Alabama­Tuscaloosa and University of Georgia, whose students apparently "almost never study." 
As the college admissions season revs up again, the Princeton Review should reconsider how far it will play the ratings 
• game. Maybe after checking on the schools they have rated poorly in the past, they will finally see what an injustice stu­dent surveys are. 
This article first appeared in the University of Virginia's newspaper, the Cavalier Daily, on Aug. 30 and is reprint­ed here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Obseruer. 
O
THE BSERVER 


Friday, August 31, 2001 
You don't need no stinkin' books 
You just dropped five Benjamins on books for this semes­ter. They ran out of used books for your classes the first day. They changed editions after one year, making student to student book deals as common around here as changes 
to du Lac. 
All this hassle begs the question: "What if I just didn't buy books this semester?" 
Do you dare? Are you that big of an academic rebel? Can you successfully tell the bookstore to bite you without failing out of school? 
As Tony Robbins would say, "Yes, my friends, YOU CAN." You have five classes. I am hooking you good peo­ple up with five strategies that will help you, the poor college student, to have a Hammes-free experience. 
Strategy #1 
So, inevitably, you will have to read pages 1-50 of Plato before Thursday's 


discussion. So does that cute member of the opposite sex in your class. Think of your lack of books as a social opportu­nity. Get together with that person to "discuss the materi­al." You just might "discuss" your way to a passing grade. 
Things will get crazy if you try to overcome having no books strictly with "discussions." People talk, and you soon might be known as a male book slut, or a nerd ho if you are female. We need another strategy for those classes with ugly people in them. 
Strategy #2 
Visit the library and actually CHECK OUT A BOOK! People actually do this -I checked. That Plato book you need is freely available there for no charge. You may be thinking, "I thought the library was for overworked, underpaid TAs with beards." Not so. They let undergrads in there too. 
Unfortunately, the library will not provide you with any sort of hook up. The library is prude like that. 
Strategy #3 
With two classes taken care of, we move to our third strategy: listen to your professors. Professors are all differ­ent, but have one common thread. They talk about what interests them and what they know the most about, just like regular people. Whenever they go off on a crazy 25­minute tangent. remember what it was about. They'll test you on that. 
Strategy #4 
Every office of every department of every college has a big copy machine. that can copy like 100 pages a minute. Get a job at one of these places, or get your friends to let you in the office. Then copy the books while laughing hys­terically about your victory over the Hammes Bookstore. If anyone asks what you're doing there, rub some toner on your hands and face and then say, "This toner tastes like cocoa powder." 
Strategy #5 
Drop a class. Nothing feels better. But you should have some fun with it. Get up in the middle of the first class and say really loud, "You people are the problem with America," and light your notebook on fire as you leave. 
That takes care of all your classes with passing grades. Celebrate your 2.0 by blowing your extra $500 on a huge party with a bad Vanilla Ice impersonator. 
And laugh a villainous laugh everytime you pass ihe bookstore. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact JeffBaltruzak at Baltruzak.2@nd.edu. 
Jeff Baltruzak 
short circuits 

Sched-ules and 
Buying books is rarely a pleasant process. See, 
By JACQUELINE OSTROWSKI 
Scene Writer 
For Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, 
the semesterly mass exodus to the bookstore 
marks either a fresh start or a biannual has­
sle. The bookstore and the book-buying 
processes vary from the students who buy 
every text (often eager freshmen) and load 
their arms with piles of books, to the students 
who forgo the bookstore in favor of online buy­
ing or patronizing off-campus bookstores. 
High prices seem to be the top concern 
among students who do frequent the campus 
bookstore. 
"Everybody complains about prices," said 
Derek Demske, a local high school student 
who worked at Hammes bookstore during this 
year's hectic buying season. 
Freshman Rebecca Dunn stopped her search 
for textbooks to confirm Demske's testimony. 
"It's going along rather smoothly ... except for 
the financial part," she said. 
Some students are lucky enough to have 
their textbooks make a repeat appearance in 
another class. 
''I'm an English major, so sometimes I 
already have some books [from previous class­
es]" said senior David Gonzalez. "But I usually 
buy all my books at the bookstore." 
Still, although Gonzalez has frequented the 
bookstore each semester, he is far from happy 
with the process. 
"I think it's pretty terrible -the prices and their policy on the buy backs. When you go at the end of the semester to sell, it's ridiculous what they give you back, if they buy them back ·at all," he said. "It seems kind of unfair to me." 
Those students who wish to look for a better 
deal can try dorm book sales. Typically, stu­
dents use posters to advertise books for sale in 
hopes of getting a better return than the book­
store may offer; however, e-mail is a newer 
method that also catches many students' 
attention. 
"I got e-mails from people in my dorm who 

were selling books, but I had already bought all my books," said freshman Tessa Garcia. 
Some students, usually upper­classmen, do seek other alter­natives to book­store shopping or dorm sales. 
"I buy my books at Borders whenever possi­ble," said senior Kyle Demko. "New books are only a couple dollars more than used books at the campus bookstore, and Notre Dame stu­dents get a dis­count on books there [when they show their stu­dent IDs]." 

Demko had considered online purchas­ing, but figured that "with Borders right here, it's just as easy to drive over there." 
Online shop­ping offers stu­dents one way to avoid the bookstore's monopoly on prices. However, the search can be intimidating, especially if a student is unfamiliar with online merchants. 
"I thought about [online purchasing], but I thought it'd cost more after shipping," said Dunn. 
Still, others do utilize the Internet for their book search. It's quick, convenient and some students claim that browsing Web sites instead of bookstore aisles can save a patient consumer money. 
"I go to the Internet first [before going to the campus bookstore]," said senior D.J. Cattin, who has used BarnesandNoble.com to make several online book purchases. "The Internet doesn't have all the books all the time, but sometimes you save money. It depends on how many books you're look­ing for." 
As for those pesky shipping prices, Cattin said they can be avoided with a larger order. "Or. sometimes you can find specials online or use coupons," he added. 
Although other choices clearly exist in local book­stores or on computer screens, the majority of stu­dents still flock to the campus bookstore. Still, that doesn't stop them from staring in dis­belief at the cashier who announces their total. 
Bookstore cashiers see · another side of the book-buy­ing process that few students 



THE 
OBSERVER 


Friday, August 31, 2001 
and where else you can turn. 

Anotlier common lament involves weak arms, since so many classes require multi­ple textbooks. "Core requires a lot of books," said sopho­more Jen Gushurst, eyeing the seemingly endless piles of Core texts. 
Empty shelves and a lack of used books also rank high on the list of student com­plaints. The line at the back of the textbook section was busy for most of the afternoon as students tried to find out when their required texts would arrive. 
"A lot of people have problems finding books. The tags are confusing, and a lot come in late," said Demske. 
Employee Nichole Armstrong. who often helps students with specific textbook con­cerns, is all too famil­iar with these situa­tions. 
"We get a lot of 
TONY FLOYD/fhe Observer 
price complaints,

ajor Kevin Kraft purchases his books at the Hammes Bookstore. 
especially when there 

week to have the opportunity to spend their summer earnings. aren't used books," 
ever witness. 
"Mostly, they're in shock," said cashier Patricia Smith of typical student reactions to high prices. "On the posi­tive side, everyone is so polite. Crazy ones are rare. They're ready to get going. Most of the students are so dedicated and want to get on with their education." Smith added that she'd only dealt with one rude student in the past year of working at the bookstore. 
"We had a crazy one in here the other day," coun­
tered neighboring cashier Katie Bobo, who had a differ­ent experience. "One girl had a copied [student) ID card, and she wanted to use it to ring up her books on her stu­dent account. She made a scene and finally threw her credit card at us ... but it [the credit card] didn't work," said Bobo. 
To cut down on the stress of the book buying process and to make sure you get your
books, director of Hammes Bookstore retail operations Jim O'Connor suggested that "it's always better to shop earlier. It gives you the best 
availability of used books." 
Most students follow this trend, buying books before classes have even met for the first time. 
·More Text Book Web Sites 
. AIIBookstores.com 
Check out this site to get price comparisons for over 30 online stores -all with one 
click 

. 
Textswap.com Afree site for the exchange ot textbooks 

. 
BookRaven.com 

Astudent network where books can be bought and sold 

. 
eCampus.com Sell them your used books and they'll pay 


the postage. 
prices of text­books and we are very sensi­tive to that." 
Interestingly. O'Connor has observed that not all students will choose used textbooks when given the option. "You'll find that students in high­er disciplines will choose the new book," he said, attesting this to the fact that students may want to keep the book for future refer­ence. 

"The weekend before school started, we were real busy," said Demske. 
Although the rows still seemed relatively busy on Tuesday and Wednesday, most underclassmen seemed decidedly optimistic about the intimidating process. 
"I have a sister in college, so I knew how it'd be," said Dunn. 
Freshman Justin Alanis shared this relaxed attitude. 
"I'm kind of nonchalant about it," said Alanis, who paused from looking up his schedule on lrishlink to share his thoughts and acknowledge that "[books] are expensive as hell." 
said Armstrong. "We 
had 700 used books for Chem 113, but once they were gone, people complained." 
However, management at the book­store notes that used books are a more plentiful option than they had been a few years ago. 
"The availability of used books has increased dramatically," said O'Connor. "We are aware of the 
Used or new, online or on campus -the possibilities are endless when it's time to buy books. From jaded upperclassmen who find other ways to purchase to optimistic freshmen, each student can personalize the book buying process to avoid hassles and get results. 
Contact Jacqueline Ostrowski at Jostrows@nd.edu. 

1st Year Math Textbook 

Finite.Math 104 

e d 
new 
S69 used 




new 
Mew II, \IHI! C:O~U<ll. TUTllOOll• 
$61.20 n e w daslook.eOM 


BABIES&IOBI,\'3 _ n e w
S O 
...~W». 

Graphic by Katie McKenna and Amanda Greco 
These graphics reflect the cost of common first-year texts sold at Saint Mary's Haggar College Center (above) and Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore, compared to the prices of top Internet booksellers. Internet prices do not include the cost of shipping, though average shipping charges are $3 per book. 
1st Year ChemistryTextbook 
CHEM 113, 115, 117, 119 

.50 used 
0.50 new 
S79.33 used 



1111111 • U•ID Co~UUI 11"111D410 
$86.62 n e w clossJMi.cotll 


new 
...... 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 31, 2001 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Cubs rally behind homers by McGriff, Mueller 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
Missing since Monday: green back­pack from left side of SDH. Contained birth certificate; back­pack has ribbons pinned to front, camouflage green bandana tied to handle. Reward! Call Katie @ 4­1177 
LOST WHITE GOLD NECKLACE PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL AT SAINT MARY'S. GREAT SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL BE PAID IF NOT SURRENDERED. BUT WE WANT IT BACK, PLEASE CALL 765-659-4928. HANDSOME REWARD. NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
WANTED 
LOVE KIDS? WANT TO EARN GOOD$$ BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS A WEEK? 
Area family needs individual to care tor our two daughters Mon-Fri from 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom attends grad school in Chicago. Gir1s are fun and delightful! Transportation needed. Generous pay! If interested, please call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
WANTED: Assistant to tnal layer with desktop publishing skills for new spacious offices next to Notre Dame campus; part-time or lleidble hours; competi­tive hourly wage. Call 231-1868 and leave message. 

ROOMMATE WANTED! ND students looking for a male or female roomate for house at 822 N. Francis St. Close to campus. Call 288-8249 if interested. 
RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD­CARE NEEDED in my home for 3 year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 2:30 pm -5 pm. 1 Saturday a month. Own transporta­tion required. 5 mins from ND. Major in early childhood develop­ment or child psychology a plus. References required. Call 288· 6795. 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID OPPORTU­
NITIES 
Earn money and build resume experience while interacting with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary6s College is currently accepting applications from college students for part time employment positions at lunch time. The hours avaflable include MWF 11 :25 a.m. -1:15 p.m. If you are interested in applying, please contact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECDC-SMC at 284-4693 tor more information and an application. 
ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL 273-2872. 
WANTED: Highly organized, experienced legal secretary or assistant to Pt trial lawyer for new, spacious offices next to Notre Dame campus; hours flexible; competitive pay and bene­fits. Call 231-1868 and leave mes­
sage. 
ROOMMATE WANTED: 
Campus View Apartments Private bedroom & PRIVATE BATHROOM!II Large kitchen. Free parking. $282.5/month. Contact me at quw@nd.edu. Emergency call: 219-243-2383 
PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 1 Omin from campus, urgently needs FOSTERS and VOLUNTEERS for its cats and dogs. Please e-mail webmaster@petre­ll./.gJLl;Qm, visit www.petreluge.com. or call 256-0886. 
IN-HOME NANNY needed to care for infant. Must have transportation. Experience with infants and refer­ences required. Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 or~ dle@od edu. 
Seeking student for part time repre­sentation on campus tor screen print & embroidery company. Flex hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800­813-2113. 
OFFICIALS NEEDED for baseball, softball. flag lootball and indoor lacrosse. 
Exper1ence preferred for baseball officials. Great opportunity to earn good money. 
Contact RecSports office, Tara Fisher or Jeff Walker at 631-6100 or stop by the office In the Roils Sports Rec Center. You can also email us at~~ 
After school care for two children, 3 pm -5:30 pm. Good pay! Please call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564. 
FOR SALE 
This terrific one bedroom condo in Woodbridge Condominiums is close enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Own this for $62,9001 Cobntact Prudential One Realty or Cherie TeRoller at 284-2600. 
Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254· 
1772 for more info. 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219-862-2082. 
60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk + office chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. 
Gently used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood trim -"Broyhill" $150 674-6150 
Futon w/solid wood frame $500. Krups cappucino & coffee maker $70. Sony cordless phone & answering machine $30. 277-0666. 
FOR RENT 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths. $80·$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­9487. 

ND/Mich St. .....hotel sleeps 4· jacuzzi-refrig-hottub-exercise rm­pool-food-plagrd-shutle-min 2 nites­$175 nite-9/21-27 219-291-5849/255-1020 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS! Mmmrentals.com Email: mmmrentals@aol.com 
TICKETS 

BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 
GA's 4 use, MSU, TN, WVA 271­1654 
WANTED-NO TICKETS 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 
ND tickets for sale. lowest prices. 232-0964 
GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 
Buying some / Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets 219-289· 8048 
Need 3 A$M tix ASAP. Will take 2. Call Pat at 277-2243. 
A businessman needs football sea­son tickets •GAs only* Will buy individual games 277-1659 For Sale Navy, WVA. Pitt, GAs 654­
PERSONAL 
SENIORS: Senior Portraits taken until Sept. 
21. Sign up now@ www.Laurenstudios.com while there is still space available. 
Taking a road trip to the Nebraska game? The Observer wants to know. Please call the Scene desk at 631-4540 if you or someone you know is planning on driving out to Nebraska on Sept. 8 
Oh my gosh it's going to be a late night 
My apologies Kerry for being such a brat this evening 
Can't wait for the weekend! 
Here's to having a loft that we can walk under 
Well it's too late, tonight, to drag the past out Into the night. We're one. but we're not the same. We've got to carry each other. carry each other. One.... 
Freedom rings -they took your life. but they could not take your pride IN THE NAME OF LOVE!!!! 
It's alright, it's alright, it's alright. She moves in mysterious ways 
A mole, digging in a hole, digging up my soul now. going down, exca­vation, higher now, in the sky, you make me feel like I can fly, so high. Elevation. 
Associated P rcss 

CHICAGO If the Chicago Cubs make the playoffs, remember this game. 
Bill Mueller watches his game-winning homer clear the ivy as Sammy Sosa cheers in the background. 
Looking for something to give them a spark since they dropped out of first place, they final­ly got il Thursday-in a big way. . 
Mueller hit a solo homer in the bottom of thP ninth, and Fred McGriff had a three-run shot as the Cubs rallied for a 5-4 victory over the Florida Marlins. 
The Cubs overcame a four-run deficit ­their largest comeback of the year -and remained four games behind Houston in the NL Central. The Astros heat Cincinnati 6-1 on Thursday. 
"lt's a huge game for us," said McGriIT, who became only the second player in major league history to reach 80 RBI in 14 straight seasons. "Hopefully, we can look back and say this was a huge win for the Cubs." 
Mueller's home run was hi,:; first since May 2. He was on the disabled list for three months after breaking his kneecap May 13, and has struggled to find his hitting stroke since he returned Aug. 13. 
"It's defmitely a great feeling," Mueller said. "It's frustrating when these guys are going into their sixth month and I had to start over. Some of that hard work, hopefully this will be the start of it paying off." 
Kyle Farnsworth (4-3) struck out two and gave up a hit in one inning. 
Ricky Bones (3-4) allowed run and a hit in one-third of an inning for Florida, which lost for the 14th thne in 17 games. 
Florida wasted home runs by Preston Wilson and Mike Lowell. as well as one of Jesus Sanchez's better outings of the year. Sanchez, 0-for-4 in his last six starts, allowed only one run and four hits in six innings. 
But McGriff finally got the Cubs going in the sixth, leading off with a triple to the deep cor­ner in right field. Kevin Millar made a nice relay, rifling the ball to second baseman Luis Castillo. 
But Castillo's throw to third was way off, sail­ing several rows up into the stands to score McGriff and cut the Marlins margin to 4-1. 
McGriff came up big again in the seventh. Braden Looper came in for Sanchez, and promptly gave up a single to pinch-hitter Corey Patterson. Two outs later. he walked Sammy Sosa. 
Armando Almanza relieved, and McGriff sent his 2-1 pitch soaring high into the air. It looked like it might drop, but it carried just enough for the three-run homer that tied the game at 4. 
"I was hoping, but I wasn't really sure," McGrifT said. "I saw Millar going back like he had a bead on it. Next thing you know, the wind got ahold of it and carricd it on out." 
The fans gave McGriff a standing ovation. continujng to cheer until he came out of the dugout for a brief curtain call. 
It vvas McGrill"s fourth home run since join­ing the Cubs on July 27. He joins Hank Aaron as the only players with 80 HB(s in 14 or more straight seasons. 
"It was just a high fly ball that kept carrying, carrying, carrying," Millar said. "Mueller's ball was hit better than McGriffs. But McGri.tfs got 440 homers." 
Bones relieved to start tho ninth, and got Eric Young on a flyout to right. Mueller then sent a 2-2 pitch rocketing over the right-field fence, and the Cubs spilled out of the dugout to meet him at home plate. 
It was Chicago's first game-winning home run since June 2, 1999, when Sosa hit one against San Diego. 
"Anybody coming back in this type of race wants to help," Mueller said. "They remember how they were playing 6efore. That's how I remember myself playing. Right now, that's a little ways off. So it's frustrating to be playing and knowing what you can do and not being there yet." 
Mueller's homer also made up for his fielding error in the second, which gave the Marlins their first run. Lowell made it 2-0 in the fourth with a solo homer to left. his 15th of the year. 
The Marlins added two more runs in the fifth inning, thanks to more sloppy fielding. Derrek Lee led off with a single, and Cliff Floyd fol­lowed with a grounder to short that should have been a double play. 
But Ricky Gutierrez bobbled the ball, and could only get Lee. Floyd reached, and Wilson followed with a homer that soared over the left-field fence and out of the park to giv!l 

Cubs first baseman Fred McGriff watches his three-run, eighth blast sail over the right field fence during the Cubs >4 win. 
---·----~­

Friday, August 31, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Alomar's homer keys Indians to 3-1 win overSox 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Just as he's done all season. Hoberto Alomar did it all for the Cleveland Indians on Thursday night. 
Alomar hit a two-run homer and threw out a runner at third. helping Bartolo Colon and the Indians complete a three-game sweep with a 3-1 win over the fading Boston Red Sox. 
Alomar. rarely mentioned as an AL MVP candidate despite having statistics comparable to Seattle's lchiro Suzuki, home­red off Hideo Nomo (11-6). scored twice. walked and made two outstanding defensive plays. 
Alornar, whose .340 average is second in the league behind Suzuki's .351, leads Lhe sensa­tionaJ rookie in several offen­sive categories and has had another Gold Glove season at second base. 
And still. he's somehow being overlooked. 
"I don't know why," acting Indians manager Grady Little said. "He does things day in and day out that help us win games. Whether it's on offense or defense or with something he says to somebody in the club­house. He's a superstar." 
Colon {11-10) pitched six innings and was helped by 
Alomar and Omar Vizquel, who each threw out a runner on consecutive plays in the fourth inning. 
Colon. who won for the first time since July 27, had three losses and two no-decisions in August after going 4-0 the pre­vious month. He said he felt his groin pull slightly while warm­ing up before the game. 
Cleveland used three relievers to get to the ninth, with Bob Wickman getting three outs for his 26th save. 
Once again. Wickman had to pitch out of a jam. He gave up a leadoff single to Mike Lansing and a one-out base hit to pinch­hitter Carl Everett before strik­ing out Chris Stynes. 
Wickman, who had to get out of a bases-loaded threat in the ninth on Wednesday, then got Manny Hamirez to fly to center for the final out. 
The Indians' sweep was their first over Boston since 1996. With their fifth straight loss, the Red Sox headed home for a weekend series against the Yankees six games back of the AL East leaders. 
"We're not down," Red Sox manager Joe Kerrigan said. "We play with a lot of despera­tion, a lot of passion. We're scratching and clawing, knock­ing guys over at home plate. Guys are getting mad in the dugout. You can't ask for much more than that." 
Boston, which hasn't trailed by more in the division this sea­son. went 1-for-23 in the series with runners in scoring posi­tion. 
"We're pressing a bit in those situations," Kerrigan said. "I think we're trying to do too much. We work the count well with nobody on, but with run­
. ners on, we're in too much of a hurry." ··~ 
Indians manager Charlie Manuel remained hospitalized following abdominal surgery on Tuesday and Little ran the club for the third straight game. 
Manuel. who had scar tissue removed from previous surg­eries during the procedure, is expected to be released on Friday and could rejoin the club in Chicago this weekend. 
,i~.Jomar's 16th homer gave the Indians a 3-1 lead in the second. 
After Vizquel singled with one out, Alomar drove Nomo's fast­ball over the wall in center for his third homer in eight career at-bats against the right-han­der. 
"I'm just playing my game," Alomar said. 'Tm just coming to the park every day prepared to play and tonight I was lucky enough to hit the big homer when we needed it." 
Or cut down the runner. 
In the fourth, Shea Hillenbrand tried to stretch a double into a triple and was thrown out by Alomar from short right. 


Scott Hatteberg followed with a single and was nailed at the plate by Vizquel while trying to score on Mike Lansing's double. 
Left fielder Ellis Burks missed Lansing's shot with a dive, but center fielder Kenny Lofton hustled to get the ball and threw to Vizquel, who fired a strike to catcher Eddie Taubensee. 

Hatteberg came in standing up and tried to jar the ball loose from Taubensee, who managed to hang on after: get­ting flattened. 
Jim Thome's RBI single in the first scored Alomar to give the Indians a 1-0 lead. 
Boston tied it in the third on Manny Ramirez's two-out RBI double. 


"NEW" OUTSIDE (ENCLOSED) PATIO GARDEN HELP CELEBRATE CJ's 1 7TH ANNIVERSARY OUT ON THE PATIO 
THURSDAY AUG. 30TH 

WAOR -LIVE REMOTE 9:30PM -1 1 :30PM GAMES -PRIZES -SPECIALS 
FRIDAY AUG. 31ST & SATURDAY SEPT. 1ST 
9PM -1AM LIVE BAND/LIVE MUSIC 
CJ's home of the famous gourmet "super pub burgers" Come in and try the "NEW" super pubs added to the menu. 
MONDAYS OPEN AT 5PM 

KITCHEN HOURS: MONDAY'S 5PM -9PMITUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 11 AM -9PM 
_
... 
---~ --­

page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 31, 2001 

~RIGHT HAND SIDE 
!NINE DAYS 
~SR-71 
!THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS 

AdWorks • AP Image Team• SMC_ Board of Governanc~ • Breen-Phillips Hall • ND Campus Ministry • ND Career Center • Cavanaugh Hall SMC Class of2003 • SMC Class of 2004 • · ND Class of 2004 '• ND Club Coordination Council • ND Counseling Center • Dillon Hall ND Executive Cabinet • FlipSide • SMC First Year of Studies • Leftover Productions • ND Multicultural Affairs • ND Office of Alcohol and Drug Education • SMC Office of the President • ND Office of student Af~airs • ND PILLARS • ND RecSports • SMC Residence Hall Association • Stanford Hall • SMC Student Activities Board • ND Student Activities Office • SMC Student Affairs • ND Student Union Board and all of our Volunteers! 
NO Print Services 631-9Z8l 
., 


Wednesday, August .11, 2001 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Marshall football players suspended 
Associated P re;;s 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

The NCAA has susp(mded 14 Marshall athletes for improper­ly receiving extra work benefits. the school said Thursday night. 
The announcement, which involves 12 football players and two men's basketball players, was made Thursday by the school. two days before the Herd opens the season at No. 1 Florida. 
According to the NCAA, two football players must sit out one game; 10 football players will miss three games; and the bas­ketball players must miss 30 percent of the upcoming sea­son. 
Sports information director Ricky Hazel said some starting players were among those sus­pended, although he wouldn't release anv names. He said quarterback Byron Leftwich ­a 3.000-yard passer last season -wasn't among them. 
The penalties will be served immediately while the universi­ty appeals. 
"This is unfortunate, but I prefer to reserve further com­ment on this situation until we know the result of our appeal,.. Marshall football coach Bob Pruett said. 
Neither the school nor the 
Shop the shops at the East Bank Emporium Bldg. Area's largest selection of 
VERA BRADLEY 
backpacks, luggage & other accessories see the new colors at 
WEAR.ABOUTS 
fl!ibion witb R J/Rir , ;Yew 11rriv11/s tl11il!JI Fall Hours: Mon -Fri. 10 to 6, Sat I 0-5 -(219) 232-8488 Next to 'fil~£ Jffi{ol£ ~{ale, do"111tow11, South Bend 121 S Niles at Jefferson at the river_ S blocks east of Notre Dame Ave. 
-~al0 . 
:t:r:ia li!ia . +2~9 ii:O 
lease fill out this entry f her I.5th, 2001 to enter e haircuts with Atria Sal 
NCAA said what the extra bene­fits were. A statement issued by the school said the benefits were given prior to February 2000. 
Thursday's announcement is unrelated to a current NCAA investigation into study materi­als given to several athletes by an assistant professor two sum­mers ago. 
The Associated Press had reported that Bruce McAllister, an assistant professor of anato­my and physiology. gave a study guide to students in his class and told them to read it over. The study guide ended up being the actual exam. 
McAllister, who also served as a flexibility coach for the foot­ball team, was fired. 
Marshall reported those alle­gations in October 1999. 
Dave Wellman. the universi­ty's director of communications, declined further comment Thursday night. . 
"I can't say anything except what's in the statement," he said. 
Marshall has been hit with NCAA sanctions at least twice previously. 
In 1969, the Mid-American Conference suspended Marshall indefinitely and the NCAA placed it on one year's proba­tion after 144 football recruiting violations were revealed. 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Kicker boots her way into Division I football history 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
Ashley Martin became the first woman to play and score in a Division I football game Thursday night, kicking three extra points in three tries for Jacksonville State against Cumberland. 
A huge cheer went up from the crowd of 11.312 as Martin ran on the field for the first time for Division I-AA. Jacksonville State, her brown pony­tail dangling down her back. 
The standing ovation got louder when she put the ball high through the uprights to give Jacksonville State a 14-0 lead midway through the first quarter. Jacksonville State won 72-10. 
Martin's kick, made easier by an offsides penal­ty against Cumberland. landed just short of an adjacent field house. Earlier, starting kicker Steven Lee put his PAT on the roof to cap the first drive. 
But that didn't matter. Martin punched the air after the kick and ran to the sidelines. where she was greeted by teammates and coaches who pat­ted her on the hehnet. 
She made it 21-3 later in the opening period on a low, knuckleball kick. She got a third PAT in the fourth quarter. 
After the game, teammates chanted "Ashley! Ashley!" as coach Jack Crowe presented her with the game ball. 
"I didn't do a thing. all these guys put all the heart and hard work in it," Martin said. 
The NCAA doesn't keep such records, but Martin by all counts was the first female to play in Division I. 
At least two other women have suited up in 

Memphis coaches indicted 
Division I games without playing. Kathy Klop dressed out for Louisville in 1995 and Katie Hnida for Colorado in 1999, but neither saw action. 
In an interview days before the game, Martin wasn't worried about setting any records. "I've got a job to do, and that's what I'm focusing on," she said. 
Cumberland already was on the short end of another famed record: The Bulldogs lost 222-0 to Georgia Tech on Oct. 7, 1916. in what remains the most lopsided score in college football history. 
Crowe invited Martin to join the team this sea­son after it appeared the Gamecocks needed an extra kicker. She was one of the guys on the side­line -running out with the team and holding up her red helmet with everyone else during the opening kickoff. 
But Martin had an obvious distinction: She was the only Gamecocks player shadowed by network TV crews and news photographers. 
Martin won the chance toldck during fall drills, making 20-of-22 PATs during scrimmages. 
She also kicked in hlgh school, making 2-of-4 field goals and 79-of-92 extra points. She was selected homecoming queen at East Coweta High School, located southwest of Atlanta, and accept­ed the crown in her uniform. 
The only woman to previously score in a college football game was Liz Heaston, who kicked two extra points for then-NAIA Williamette University in 1997. 
The most famous attempt to break the Division I gender barrier came at Duke, where Heather Sue Mercer was cut from the team in 1995 and again in 1996. Mercer won $2 million in a discrimina­tion lawsuit against Duke, whlch is appealing the amount of the judgment but not the verdict. 
seeking to recruit" Means, feder­al prosecutor Terry Harris said. 
Means, a former Parade All­America defensive lineman at Trezevant High, transferred to Memphis in January after play­ing last fall at Alabama. He left the school after hearing allega­tions that Lang and Kirk sold his talents to Alabama for $200.000. 
Kirk testified under oath this week at a Memphis school board hearing that Crimson Tide booster Logan Young paid Lang to get Means to sign with Alabama. 
Write Sports Call 
Noah 
1-4543 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
A federal grand jury on Wednesday indicted two former Memphis high school coaches in a recruiting scandal involving former Alabama lineman Albert Means, who was cleared the same day by the NCAA to play for the University of Memphis. 
Lynn Lang, former head coach at Trezevant High School, and his former assistant, Milton Kirk, were charged with conspiracy, bribery and extortion, and war­rants were issued for their arrests. 

"The indictment alleges that it was a principal object and pur­pose of the conspiracy to wrong­fully obtain money and other things of value from universities, or fans known as boosters asso­ciated with the universities, 
T-ShhU Caps Polo Shirt, Jackets Ad S tlet 
•
ICS 
Design Services Quick Priating Commerc.ial Printina : Embrol,dery Screen Prin 

Recently licensed campus vendor providing: 
Ask about our new DORM STORE/ Call 800-813-2111 
3112 Lelinaton Park. Drive, Elkhart. In 46514 

1--------------------­
! page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 31, 2001 
US OPEN 
Safin survives tiebrakers, defeats [Jubicic 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

When things go wrong, as they often do for Marat Satin. he cocks his head and flails his arms like a conductor try­ing to coax every ounce of drama from a Russian sym­phony. 
There were discordant moments and attacks of angst Thursday at the U.S. Open before despair ull.imately turned to triumph for Safin. He nearly exhausted his allot­ment of tiebreakers bul out­lasted big-serving Croat Ivan Ljubicic in the second round, 7-6 (5). 6-7 (2), 7-6 {5). 7-6 
{5). 
For nearly 3 1/2 hours, Ljubicic had the demonstra­tive defending champion flail­ing. and then some. Saf'in buried his head in his hands, slammed balls into the net and directed at least one obscene gesture toward him­self. 
'Tm like this. I can't change," he said. "It's difficult to play the other way -lo be quiet on the court and nice to everybody. I'm getting angry with me, my coach. my father, everybody." 
He smiled and noted: 'Tm doing better. I didn't break any rackets today." 
Perhaps only because he won. Safin. trying to shake a yearlong slump compounded by injuries, rarely looked like the player who stunned the tennis world by routing Pete Sampras in last year's final. 
But in the tiebreakers Safin was poised, aggressive and a little lucky, and he closed out the win with a 136 mph ace. 
"I was a little bit scared but passed through," he said. "My tennis is coming back. Each time I feel better and better." 
After winning the first-set tiebreak, Safin was up 3-0 in the second when Ljubicic took an injury timeout. ATP trainer Juergen Dess massaged his lowe.r back as the Croatian player lay face down on center court at Arthur Ashe Stadium. 
The treatment worked. Ljubicic recovered and the two men traded serves of over 130 mph. Each player man­aged just one break and their huge serves produced a com­bined 37 aces. 21 for Ljubicic and 16 for Safin. Ljubicic made 65 unforced errors to 38 for Safiu. 
The end came on Safin's 

third match point after he had 
often been frustrated by mis­
takes that left him with his 
head hanging. 
Only 21, Safin fears he has already peaked, and he's dubi­ous about recapturing the form that overwhelmed Sampras a year ago. 
·•1t was too perfect," Safin said. "I cannot play like this all the time. It can happen once in my life -last year." 
As if to prove it, in 2001 Satin hasn't won a tournament and has reached only one final. His best Grand Slam showing came at Wimbledon, where he advanced to the quarterfinals before losing to Ivanisevic. He has been slowed bv back and knee injuries but says he's healthy now. 
Safin went through three coaches in 2000 and this year hired seven-time Grand Slam champion Mats Wilander, who has worked with the Russian on his tactics and temper. 
'Tm not so confident like last year, so I have to start from the beginning, from the basics," Safin said. "Had a bad year -a horrible year, I could say. Better times will come for sure. I want to win a few more Grand Slam tournaments, and it will be perfect. 
"And I will win," he added with a laugh. "Otherwise I shoot myself." 
Despite the marathon, the Open remained largely upset­free. Four-time champion Pete Sampras won the final match of the night, beating qualifier Andre Sa 7-6 (4). 6-4, 6-3. 
"They're all tough." Sampras said. "All these guys are out to knock me out." 
Second seed and double U.S. Open champion Andre Agassi survived a second-round scare when he scored a hard-fought 6-7 (4-7). 6-4, 6-2, 7-6 (7-1) victory over Chilean Nicolas Massu. 
Massu, playing inspired ten­nis, kept Agassi on centre court for three hours and 20 minutes as he came back from a break down in the fourth set and saved triple match point in the 10th game to extend a match in doubt until the fourth-set tie-break. 
ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOURNAMENT THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 6 6:00 -RIEHLE FIEDS 
(FORMALLY STEPAN FIELDS) 

O'Pf,N TO ;\LL NOTRE, D/\Mf.. 'ilfLJDf,N'f'S flt-1.-D I~ l.,O YD. 'c>Y 4o YD. 


'5 DN '5 fLU'Z> l.OALl6­\7--E,&1'$Tf,\Z, /\ TSP--M IN 111£ ~C..;')1'0\Z,T7) Offllf, D£.AoLINf, 1'0 Wf,DNt,'i,D/\Y, ~f,Vff,MB,f,\Z, is 
T0Llf!.NAM6NT l";i L!MtTW TO nl6 flF-'Sf 12. T5AM~ nlAT E,NT512­
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631 '6 Ioo 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 

Agassi finally asserted him-liar odd-year Open jinx, self as he raced in to a 6-0 defeating Fernando Meligeni lead in the tie-break before 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. eventually winning it 7-1. Henman, a semifinalist at 
A recurrent shoulder injury Wimbledon, has lost in the forced American Jan-Michael first or second round of every Gambill to retire trailing Open he's played in an odd­Mikhail Youzhny 6-4, 4-1. numbered year since his debut 
Earlier, ninth-seeded Tim here in 1995. Now he's in the Henman shrugged off a pecu-third round after Thursday's victory. 
He won the first two sets, then drifted through the third before putting Meligeni away. 
Henman shrugged off 38 unforced errors and won 44 of 55 first-serve points. 
In other matches, former No. 1 Marcelo Rios defeated No. 22 Andrei Pavel 7-5. 6-4. 6-0. 

Sugarberry Lane...So Much More Than Cl Gift Shoppe... It's your headquarters for decorating your dorm or apartment. 
Create your own space with the wonderful fragrances of Fall from Yankee Candle. Relax to the gentle sounds of a wind chime. Accent your room with selections from the Mary Engelbriet Collection. Place a special cuddly soft Boyds Bear on your bed. And when you to step out onto campus, step out in style with bags by 
vrndJEMOLEY. 
We're just minutes north of campus! 
52313 St. Rte. 933 North • 2 72•9608 
Mon-Fri 10am to 6pm • Sat 10am to 5pm Sun Noon to 4pm Visit us online at www.sugarberrylane.com 
Friday, August 31, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WNBA 
Charlotte takes first game of WNBA Finals 

KAT Photo 

Charlotte Sting Tonya Edwards dribbles past L.A: Sparks Tamecaa Dixon during Game 1 of the WNB A Finals earlier this week. 
Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist? 
* 
Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? 

* 
Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? 

* 
Do you welcome the challenge to articulate your faith? 

* 
Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? 

* 
Would you like to work towards catechist certification? 


If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, come find out more about being a Religion Teacher in a local parish. 
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, September 5, 5:00-6:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
For more info, call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631•7163 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
With his Los Angeles Sparks trailing Charlotte by double digits, Michael Cooper dido 't bother with any inspirational speeches or waste his time talking about the NBA champi­onships he won. 
Instead, Cooper simply called his team together and asked them if they wanted to win. The answer was a resounding "Yes." 
The Sparks played dominat­ing defense in the second half Thursday night and got 24 points and eight rebounds from Lisa Leslie in a 75-66 victory over the Charlotte Sting in Game 1 of the WNBA Finals. 
"Champions find a way to win. If I had to say anything to them that was it," Cooper said. "I can say all I want, but it's up to them to get it done. At win­ning time, they decided they wanted to get it done." 
The Sparks did it by holding Charlotte scoreless for over seven minutes in the second half, finally allowing a basket with 1:09 to play and the game out of reach. 
"We can't go into droughts against L.A.," Charlotte coach Anne Donovan said. "You can't not score for seven minutes and survive." 
Leslie showed why she was the MVP of both the regular season and the All-Star game with a dominating second-half performance to rally the Sparks from an 11-point deficit. 
''We didn't make good defen­sive decisions until the second half and I think it's fortunate that we won because we waited so late to become aggressive," Leslie said. 
DeLisha Milton added 19 points and Tamecka Dixon scored 12 for the Sparks. 
The Sparks need only to win one game on their home floor -where they are 18-1 this season -to close out the best­of-three series and join their counterpart, the Los Angeles Lakers. as champions this sea­son. 
Game 2 is Saturday. 
But the Sting, who started the season 1-10 before turning things around and winning the Eastern Conference title, are no strangers to adversity. They won their first tw.o playoff series by winning on the oppo­nents' court. 
"We've had our backs against the wall before," said Andrea Stinson, who led Charlotte with 

18 points. "We have to go in 
composed, ready to play and 
ready to do battle. They are 
going to come at us. but we're 
going to go in there and play 
hard." 
At first, the game seemed like 
a showdown between Stinson 
and Leslie and their different 
styles of basketball. 
They closed out the first half 
by exchanging baskets -Stinson making fancy jumpers using tricky dribbling and · behind the back passes, and 
Leslie answering by lowering 
her shoulder and driving the 
ball to the basket on consecu­
tive possessions 
But Stinson got the last word 
of the half. She missed on a 
running jumper in the final sec­
onds of the half, but scrambled 
for her own rebound, caught it 
in the air and heaved it back up 
and in for a 39-35 Charlotte 
lead at the break. 
"Stinson bad a very good 
game, she was just phenomenal 
coming off the picks," Leslie 
said. 
Stinson gave way to Allison 
Feaster at the start of the sec­
ond half, giving the former LA 
reserve ample opportunities to 
run the offense. She did,' scor­
ing on three consecutive 
jumpers to pad Charlotte's lead 
to 48-39. 
Another Stinson layup gave 
the Sting their largest lead of 
the night at 50-39 with 16:16 to 
play. 
After that, the Sparks ­
especially Leslie -seemed to 
wake up. 
Leslie and Dixon started an 
18-8 run with aggressive drives 
to the hoop that resulted in 
numerous trips to the line. 
After cutting the lead to 58-51, 
Leslie converted a pair of 
three-point plays that pulled 
the Sparks within one at 58-57 
with 8:35 to play. 
Dawn Staley answered with a 
3-pointer for Charlotte, but 
L.A. 's stifling defense shut the Sting down over the next six minutes, forcing five turnovers, hurried shots and bad passes. 
As Charlotte was self-destruc­
ting, the Sparks were taking 
off. 
lJkari Figgs scored on two 
running jumpers to give the 
Sparks a 63-61 lead they did 
not relinquish. Milton hit a 3 
only seconds after drawing her 
fifth foul and Leslie pushed it to 
68-61 with a spinning layup. 
"We were just trying to get the score back even and once we did, we were like sharks," Leslie said. "We went after them." 
FITNESS SCHEDULE  ~  FALL 2001  
RSRC d.CTIVTI'Y.BQQM l  
l. 12:1.5-1.2:45  Cardio Sculpt (ends 12/21) M./W/F  $36  
2 4:1.5-5:15  Step II M./W/F  $38  
3 5:30.6:45  Power Step n'Putnp M/W  $33  
4 S:30-9:30pm  Cardio Box MfW  $26  
5 1.2:1.5-1.2:45  Flex n'Tone (ends 1.2/20) T/Th  $23  
6 4:1.5-5:15  Step II T/Th  $26  
7 5:30-6:30  CardioBox T/Th  $26  
8 4:15-5:30  Cardio Sculpt Su  $1.4  
9 5:40-6:00  All Abs Su  $1.0  
B.SRC .d.CTIVITYBQOM2  
1.0 4:1.5-5:1.5  CardioBox M/W  $26  
1.1. 5:25-6:10  Lo Impact M/W  $26  
1.2 7:l.5-8:30ain  Step II n' Sculpt TrTh  $33  
1.3 4:1.5-5:1.5  Cardio Sculpt Trrh  $26  
1.4 5:25-6:10  Flex n'Tone T/Th  $26  
15 4:45-5:15  Annsn'Abs Su  $1.0  
ROCKNE BQQM .:!Ql  
16 5:30-6:30  Cardio Box M/W  $26  
1.7 5:30-6:30  Step I Trrh  $26  
RQLES AQJ.lAllC ~E~R  

1.8 l.2:15-12:45 Aquacise (ends 12121) M/WIF $36 19 7:00-8:00pin. Aquacise TJTh $26 INSTRUCIQR IRAINING 20 6:45-8:l.Spin. Sept. 5 -Nov. 7 w $25 REGISTRATION -Begins Thursday, August 30, 7:30ant in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Classes are open to .all ND st-udents, staff, faculty, :Cetirees and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester.. Scbedu]e is subject to <:hanae, Minin,,un:, of 1.4 class registrants. Classes begin the week of Sept-3 and unless noted, end the week of Dec. 10. Please call 1-6100 with uestions. 
_.. ,,, 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 31, 2001 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
No. 20 Irish ready to play 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Spores Editor 
The excitement of Notre Dame women's volleyball has so far been confined to the practice courts in Rolfs Recreation Center. 
Tonight, they get to come out and play. 
J O y C e Center fans get their first glimpse of the No. 

Brown

20-ranked 2001 squad when the Irish take on the Bobcats of Southwest Texas at 7 p.m. 
"We're excited about the sea­son, we're excited about the team," said Irish head coach 
Debbie Brown. "I think our team will be o n I y 
"Certainly our ranked
perfectly comfortable in 
main efforts as a team in coaching staff are the arena." the pack, getting the team but Brown ready to play." isn't look­
Debbie Brown
Brown also ing past
head coach
hopes for a 
strong fan turnout, both from Notre Dame students and the local community. Members of Notre Dame's sports promo­tions staff have been working overtime promoting this week­end's Shamrock Invitational. 
"I think that it being the first weekend with everybody back on campus, and the fact that there isn't a football weekend, it might be great for students to have something here to do with both soccer and volleyball play­ing," Brown said. 
Besides taking on three quality opponents, the Irish must re­adjust to their home court. After three weeks of workouts in Rolfs, Friday's workout was only the team's 
The Owls of Florida Atlantic bring six new faces -four fresh­man and two transfer students. Brown remembers the Owls suf­fering hard knocks last season, when they finished fourth in the Atlantic Sun con­

sixth practice in "/ think ofit as an ference. their home arena. "Florida
opportunity to play more
"It's a little bit Atlantic
matches earlier in the

different because had a you don't have the season before we get into t o u g h walls behind you, year last
the conference. before we 

so serving and year, but
get into the tougher 

passing and spatial they were orientation is a lit­competition." really hurt tle different," b y Brown said. "I injuries,"
Debbie Brown

think that our team Brown will be perfectly head coach said. "At 
comfortable in the 
arena." The Irish, led by preseason Big 
East Player of the Year Kristy Kreh er, are the 
the com­
petition. 

Southwest Texas returns only two starters from last year's Southland Conference champi­onship squad. Because the Irish take on the Bobcats first, Brown isn't sure what to expect. 
"The two returners that they have coming back are their set­ter and their outside hitter," Brown said. "So we know the core of their leadership, but we don't really know the players on their team very well." 
the begin­
ning of the season, they had four starters that were out with injury." 
The Vandals of Idaho finished sixth last season in the talented Big West conference. 
"Idaho, I think is a pretty strong, competitive program," Brown said. 
The three matches serve as preparation for next weekend's USBank/Arby's Invitational in Lincoln, Neb. next weekend. In Lincoln, the Notre Dame takes on three higher-ranked teams, including defending national champion Nebraska. 
"I think of it as an opportunity to play more matches earlier in the season before we get into conference, before we get into the tougher competition," Brown said. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish set to kick off Big East competition 
Observer Scaff Report 

The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team will kick off its 25th season of varsity competition this Saturday night when it faces off at home against Big East rival Villanova. 
After two exhibition wins last weekend, Saturday's game marks Notre Dame's first season and first Big East game. 
Last year, the Irish topped the Wildcats 2-1 on Oct. 20 at Villanova. Junior Erich Braun scored both Irish goals to give Notre Dame the edge. 
Villanova went scoreless until Joe Noonan scored the Wildcats' only goal with 
11 :20 remaining in the game. 
Saturday also marks the inaugural season for head coach Bobby Clark, who signed on with the Irish in January after turning around the men's soccer program at Stanford University. 
Clark hopes to make simi­lar improvements here in South Bend, where Notre Dame is coming off a disap­pointing 7-8-2 overall record, and a 4-7 record in the Big East. 
The squad failed to qualify for the eight-team Big East conference tournament, fin­ishing ninth. 
This year's squad returns eight starters from last year's team, including cap­tains Griffin Howard, Andreas Forstner and Greg Martin. 
The Irish are entering the regular season after an undefeated weekend exhibi­tion tournament, as the defense held opponents Michigan and host team IPFW scoreless, and Notre Dame cruised to 5-0 and 3-0 victories. 
Clark hopes that the week­end exhibition tournament gave him and his team a good idea of where his team stood in terms of room for improvement. 
"We did some good things this weekend, but we also did some things that we need to work on," Clark said. 
However, he pointed out that, while decisive, the vic­tories of last weekend mean very little heading into the regular season. 
"It was just a preseason tournament," he said. "We know that we will have to step up our play because the talent level will step up." 
The key this season for the Irish will be improving on an offense that scored only 19 goals in 17 games last sea­son, while maintaining a dominant defense -led by Forstner and Howard -that shut out six of its 17 oppo­nents. 
The game kicks off Saturday night at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Sports at observer.sports. l@nd.edu 


Centennial wants to free you from a life of digging in the couch for loose change just to buy a pizza. So for a limited time we've knocked 40 bucks off our Express phone. Now you can talk all you want wherever you want without blowing a lot of dough. Our talk plans start as low as $15. And it's prepaid -no monthly bills. So you don't even have to waste money on a stamp. There's not even a credit check. Because talking more for less is easy with Centennial. Relax.you're withfriends. 
@ 
CENTENNIAL.. 
W R E L E S S 
**~******~•···~•~*~*~*•~~~~•**~**~***~*~*~*~*•*~*~•~·~•·~·~•*•~~~******~**** 
LOCATIONS:  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  PLYMOUTH  NILES, Ml  ROCHESTER  
850 S. Manetta  6341 University Commons  University Park Mall  2522 N. Oak Rd.  2010 S. 11th Ave.  Enyart's True Value  
(219) 298-9100  (219) 298-9150  (219) 27H!999  (219) 935-0033  (616) 684-7000  Hardware  
(219) 292-6672  

www. ce n ten n i alwirel ess. com Offer for S40 off Uniden PCD 2000 Expre11 phone only. (onlenniol Express requires purchose of [xpres, phone plus £xpr111 lolk oirlime card. Yau have up lo 6 monlh1 lo use your airlime 101d. If you run oul of oirlime, your coll will Jerminale. II Express cu1lamer doe< nol r,plm~h pbone •Y adi::•~. 01~ 0 Expni!]olk airllme.md wilh!n 6mo,::t• !:lone service will b,. l•(minaled. ~lrlime charges are Li(led in full unil i1crem~nl!. C~U, m:~;o:,~oa-Cenlennia!l,'.:~s 11~y incur1:~o_disl!nc_, cho_r~: 0!~11~~tplember 9, 2001. 
,-,.is . 

Friday, August 31, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
VOLLEYBALL 
NCAA enacts scoring rule change 
"It's still the same game -In previous seasons, a serve
By KERRY SMITH 
pass. set. hit.," said Irish head that touched the net was not a 
SporlS Writer 
coach Debbie Brown. " ... Our legal serve. Now under the younger players have all new guidelines. a serve that 
The old adage that defense played [with the new rules] in hits the net and lands in wins championships may still club. It's not like its something bounds is allowed. ring true, but now for NCAA we haven't seen before." Brown sees this change as an volleyball teams across the While most players have effort to balance out the scor­country so does this: dofonse experience playing with the ing opportunities. 
scores points. rally method outside of the col­Langois agreed, pointing out 
The beginning of the 2001 legiate sphere. they have also there is no way to alter strate­season brings a host of key gotten a taste of it within the gy to accommodate the rule. rule changes in the collegiate NCAA. In previous years, if a "A let serve is hard to deal 
women's game. match went to the fifth game, with," she said. "H's not some­
Adopting the standard the rally scoring method was thing you can practice, it's international, used. near impossible. You just have club and men's T h e to be ready for that ball to
"fVe certainly will need
collegiate scoring r a l I y drop straight down. It can be rules. the NCAA to cut down on unforced method good for your team at times if made three major may bring your serving, but you have to
errors. Before, an error
rule changes to be more par­realize the same thing could go
might not have hurt us as
implemented this ity to the the other way." 
season. badly. Now there is that game Neither the Irish nor the First. the NCAA much more less room for Errors Belles have significantlyhas exchanged its previously altered their season prepara­
error.

sideout scoring resulting tions in response to the rule method for what in a changes, although both squadsis hoped to be a Debbie Brown change of have simulated the new system 
more fan-friendly service with scrimmages.
Irish head coach
and time-saving will now The rule changes come in the rally scoring sys-a I s o wake of an effort to increase tem. Second, teams will still result in a score change as the fan base for the sport.play a best-of-five-game well. According to Brown, the rally
match, but now the first four 
"As a team, we'll have to scoring system will shorten the games will be played to 30 and play more together," said Saint length of matches from some­the fifth. if necessary. will end Mary's senior defensive spe­times three hours to less than at 15. And lastly, the let serve cialist Denise Langois. two. With a more condensed 
will be ruled legal as long as it "Everybody has to be ready." package, the sport will be 
lands in bounds. 
The equal threat and bonus more marketable for televi­
The change to the rallying of a point scored each time the sion. Fans will appreciate the scoring system will be the most ball hits the floor will keep changes as well. noticeable difference. A team players on their toes. "There is a sentiment that it 
no longer must control the "We certainly will need to makes the game a little more serve to score a point. Anytime cut down on unforced errors," fan friendly," Brown said. the ball hits the floor, a point Brown said. "Before, an error "There's a bigger sense of will be scored. may not have hurt us as badly. urgency with each serve which While these changes alter Now there is that much more makes it easier to get into." the scope of the game, players 
less room for error." and coaches alike aren't The rule change involving let 
Contact Kerry Smith at 

stressing about the implica­serves will also alter the 
Smith.387@nd.edu.

tions. dynamic of the game slightly. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look forward to promising start 

By B.J. STREW SporlS Writer 
The 2001 season is a wel­
come breath of fresh air for the 
St. Mary's volleyball team. 
Bolstered by the return of 
four letterwinners and the loss 
of only one, the Belles are look­
ing to rebound from a frustrat­
ing 7-22 record last season. 
"There will be a lot of great 
competition," said head coach .Julie Schroeder-Biek, who is entering her seventh year at the Belles' helm. "We're really excited to face scholarship teams like St. Ambrose. We have good returners and promising freshmen adding 
depth to the lineup this year." 
For the upcoming season, 
Schroeder-Biek intends to 
quicken the offense and ulti­
mately the team as a whole. 
"We always need to be mak­
ing an attack," Schroeder-Biek 
said. "Our back row must 
always be poised to attack, as 
well." 
The invaluable experience of 
the 2001 squad will no doubt 
start from the top with captain 
Angela Meyers and fellow 
seniors Jaime Dineen, Jolie 
LeBeau and Denise Langlois. 
Langlois, however, will not be joining her teammates for the St. Ambrose tournament due to conflicting plans. 

In addition to the three seniors on the starting lineup, junior Elizabeth Albert, a transfer to St. Mary's and sophomore Alison Shevik will lend their skills to the team. 
Schroeder-Biek said th·at a freshman might get the coveted sixth spot on the squad, but competition for it is neck-and­neck. 
As for the recent change to the rules regarding scoring Coach Schroeder-Biek believes fans and players alike will enjoy a more intense atmos­phere. 
She is excited to see how it will alter the game dynamics, though she does not plan to alter her coaching style, adding, "We just to need to stay up and ready for rallying." 
A hard hitter, Meyers, who ranked 10th in the nation among NCAA Division Ill ath­letes for digs, has experience and leadership qualities that Schroeder-Biek hopes will help the Belles to become one of the top programs in the league. 
Contact B.J. Strew at bstrew@nd.edu 






Cosimo's Hair Salon Welcomes
Maria 
specializing in great haircuts, 
expert color and highlighting. Student discounts now available. (Shampoo, Haircut, & Style) For Men-$20 For Women-$30 Open Mon-Sat 8am-6pm 
··· Tel. 277-1875 
Located near campus at 1707 South Bend Ave (US 23)Call and ask for Maria Walk-ins welcome 
. -:>­

N@w.Mt IIDA.Mra IDit~~ SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 
234·565,0 
.:.,. 

AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, August 31, 200 I A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 24 

around the dial 
Boston College at West Virginia 
II a.m., ABC 
Oklahoma Stale at Southern Mississippi 
11 a.m., ESPN 
Oklahoma at Air Force 
2:30 p.m., ABC 
Illinois at California 
2:30 p.m., FOXSN 
Miami at Penn State 
7:00 p.m., ABC 
UCLA at Alabama 
6:45 p.m., ESPN 
GAME OF THE WEEK 


By GREG IADKY 
Spores Wricer 
The story lines will inevitably overshadow the Miami-Penn State game in Happy Valley Saturday 
night. . 
Joe Paterno is one win from tying Paul Bryant's record of 323 wins as a college head coach. The Nittany Lions will try to match that record in a newly renovated Beaver Stadium. 
The excitement will begin at the game's open­ing. Nearly a year ago, Penn State freshman Adam Taliaferro was par­alyzed against Ohio State. Doctors told him he might never walk again. Taliaferro responded with a promise that he would lead the Nittany Lions out onto the field someday. This Saturday, he will. 
The game itself features the talent loaded No. 2 Hurricanes versus anoth­er sub-par Nittany Lions team. The Hurricanes lost four players to the first round of the NFL draft, but somehow return an even more talented team. The strength starts up front with Bryant Mc Kinnie and Joaquin Gonzalez, who form one of the best tackle combina­tions in recent memory. 

McKinnie could have been the fifth Hurricane first rounder, but decided to stick it out in Miami. They are protecting Heisman candidate Ken Dorsey, as well as a slew of talented running backs. Dorsey threw for 2,727 yards and 25 touchdowns last year. 
On defense, the Hurricanes have one of the best secondaries around, highlighted by strong safety Edward Reed and rising star cor­nerback Phillip Buchanon. 
Penn State returns just nine starters from a team that went 5-6 last year. 
Starting quarterback Matt Seneca was mediocre at best in spot duty last year. but Paterno has promised he is the real deal. Six­foot-3, 330-pound Jimmy Kennedy has all-Big Ten ability and heads a strong defensive front for the Lions. 
If the Hurricanes keep their heads in the game itself early. they may be too talented for the Nittany Lions. The Nittany Lions need to harness the energy that will surround Beaver Stadium and jump ahead of Miami. Even the talented Hurricanes can't afford to fall behind in Beaver Stadium. 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
West Virginia at Boston College 
You can bet Bob Davie will tune in as these 2001 Irish opponents open Big East competition in Chestnut Hill. Both programs are coming off bowl game victories and look to join Miami and Virginia Tech atop the Big East. 
A lot bas changed in West Virginia since their 34­14 home victory over Boston College last year. Rich Rodriguez has taken over for longtime coach Don Nehlen. 
Rodriguez's defense returns nine starters from a unit that couldn't catch Irish running back Terrance Howard last October. The Mountaineers present dou­ble trouble at running back with Avon Colbourne and former Irish player Cooper Rego, first-cousin of cur­rent Irish back Ryan Grant. On the other sideline. Eagles star William Green is the best running back no one talks about. 
West Virginia may struggle for a while with Rodriguez's new offensive and defensive schemes. They need to run the ball well and control the tempo Saturday in order to win. Boston College has good talent at the skill positions and can score points quickly, complicating West Virginia's transition to a new scheme. 

Wisconsin at Oregon 
The Badgers are hoping that last Saturday's game against Virginia prepared them for the storm they will face in Eugene, Oregon. The Badgers are trying to implement a spread attack on offense. 
This plan failed versus Virginia. If not for two long touchdowns by wide receiver Lee Evans and several Cavalier turnovers. the Badgers would be 0-1. Coach Barry Alvarez bagged the spread attack at halftime last week and returned to the smash mouth style that has made Wisconsin the best program in the confer­ence over the last eight years. 
The Ducks are hoping to smell roses this year. Their offense is dynamite, led by Heisman candidate quar­terback Joey Harrington. The defense lost several starters, but All-Pac Ten corner Rashad Bauman claims this defense is the fastest and nastiest Oregon has ever had. 
Expect Oregon defensive coordinator Nick Aliotti to stick Bauman on Lee Evans and pose a riddle to the rest of the Badger offense. The Badgers must play their smash mouth football to have a chance. 
Eugene has emerged as one of the country's toughest stadiums for the visitors to succeed. The Ducks posses the nation's second longest home winning streak with eight in a row. 
Friday, August 31, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
FOOTBALL 
Irish passing game remains untested 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Ediror 
Uncertainty is the word that best describes Notre Dame's passing game. 
Nobody knows how good it will be. Nobody knows how dangerous it could be. But more importantly, with the game on the line, nobody knows how the players will respond. 
"J don't know what we can do this year," said Kevin Rogers, Notre Dame's offensive coordinator. "I know that we can do more, and that has a lot to do with what the quarterback is capable of. I do know that we have three quality receivers." 
Rogers is confident that Notre Dame's top three receivers -David Givens, Javin Hunter and Arnaz Battle -will be potent weapons in Notre Dame's offense. And he's excited to have such a strong group. 
Last year. with Battle stnl a quarterback and Hunter sidelined by injuries, the Irish only had Givens and graduate Joey Getherall. And with untested quarterback Matt Lovecchio at the helm, the Irish didn't throw the ball that much. 
"Joey and David ... did a great job of being selfless guys last year, understand­ing that we didn't have a quarterback," Rogers said. "Last year was a deal where we didn't want to go out there and lose the game on offense. Hopefully we'll take a little different attitude and go out there and win the game this year." 
With Lovecchio, Carlyle Holiday and Jared Clark, the Irish have three quarter­backs who have valuable experience with the Notre Dame offense. 
And as Givens is quick to say, experi­ence is everything. 
"I think Matt, Carlyle and Jared Clark all have experience, and with experience comes maturity," he said. "I think we're all more experienced. I think that's a big part of throwing the ball more." 
Givens admits that he wants to play a more active role in the Irish offense. And while Notre Dame's top receiver would trade touches for wins in a heartbeat, he wants to play a more personal role in putting points on the board. 
The Irish have already worked on pass­ing drills more in practice than they did last year. And although Rogers is satisfied with the progress made by the quarter­backs and receivers, he isn't entirely con­fident yet. 
"We'll be able to know when we run this stuff under game tested situations," he said. 
Rogers isn't concerned about the physi­cal capabilities of the receivers. In Givens, the Irish have a flashy, quick playmaker with great hands. Hunter -if he stays healthy -provides a solid receiver on the other side of the field. And the quarter­back-turned-receiver Battle, who has already proven to extremely dangerous after the catch, could be an attractive man to run the ball on a reverse. 
But nobody knows how effective they can be in a game. And nobody will know until the Sept. 8 season opener against Nebraska. 
"The bottom line to us is to get open against bump and run and to be able to throw the ball accurately," Rogers said. "How well we can do that we'll find out soon." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer Senior Arnaz Battle extends to grab a pass during practice earlier this fall. Battle, David Givens and Javin Hunter are Notre Dame's top receivers. 

NOTRE DAME vs. Villanova 
Saturday, Sept. 1 @ 7pm 
1st 2!50 fans receive a soccer foam hand 


FRI. #25 Harttord vs. #10 uconn 5:00 pm #4 NOTRE DAME vs. #8 Penn State 1:00 pm 
1st 200 students receive a free Wolfie's sub!! 1st 250 fans receive a soccer foam hand 
SUN. #8 Penn State vs. #10 uconn 11:00am 
#4 NOTRE DAME vs. #25 Hartford 1:00pm 
Free Blimpie sandwich coupons for students 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 31, 2001 
Pruzinsky 
continued from page 28 
to keep everyone organized." 
Wald rum described Pruzinsky as a "professional." comparing her to NFL great Jerry Rice in terms of her focus and commitment to excellence. 
"She doesn ·t know anything but all out." said Waldrum. "She gives you the same con­sistency all the time." 
Foundations of the legacy 
The rapid ascension of the Notre Dame women's soccer program to its annual Top 5 position began around the time Sobrero arrived on campus in the fall of 1994. That vear would see the Irish advance to the NCAA championship final. eventually falling to North Carolina 5-0. 
Sobrero would be an All­American her next four years, eventually securing a spot on the U.S. national team that won the World Cup in 1999. She was the youngest starting defender on that squad. 
Four•time All-American Grubb commanded the back line in between Sobrero and Pruzinsky from 1996 to 1999, establishing herself as a hard­nosed defender with a knack for creating offense. Like Pruzinsky, Grubb was a central defender. charged with shut­ting down opposing forwards in the box. 
Grubb is one of only four four-time All-American defend­ers in NCAA soccer history, and has had two stints on the 
U.S. national team. As a senior, she also provided a defensive example for then-freshman Pruzinsky, who had always played forward in high school. 
"I learned a lot from Jen," 
said Pruzinsky. "I wouldn't have been able to make the transition [to defense] as easi­
ly." . Waldrum. who has worked with all three players, described Pruzinsky has having advantages over both Sobrero and Grubb. "The thing Vanessa has over both of them is that she was a forward," Waldrum said, com­menting on Pruzinsky's career as a high-school striker. where she scored 79 goals. "Vanessa is more skillful than Kate was." Pruzinsky recognizes the advantages of her striker expe­rience in terms of ball-han­dling. "I wouldn't have the comfort on the ball if I didn't play for­ward," she said. The coach described Pruzinsky as more of a pure defender as compared to Grubb, who had a tendency to look constantly for the offen­sive spark. "She is so much more of' a physical presence," he said. "Vanessa will defend first. then attack." Pruzinsky describes her play­ing style as "aggressive." 'Tm not a dribbler. you can't be on defense," she said. "I try to tackle hard." That ability for suffocating one-on-one defense, combined with lightning-quick recovery speed has made it difficult to over-emphasize Pruzinsky's worth as the soul of the Irish defense and one of the players leading the charge to the NCM tournament. 
Focus and commitment 
Notre Dame's legacy of domi­nant defenders is in the best of hands with Pruzinsky. 
Nothing is more a testament to her focus and commitment than her 4.0 GPA in one of 



Sophomore forward Amy Warner darts upfield during an exhibi­tion game earlier this fall against Iowa. Warner Is one of sever­al underclassmen coach Randy Waldrum expects to start. 
Notre Dame's most daunting majors -chemical engineer­ing. 
That figure landed her first­team Academic All-American honors, an award unheard of for a player in her sophomore year. She has found a balance between school and soccer that has lead to elite success in both. 
"The soccer gives me a really nice break from school," said Pruzinsky. "It's hard to find time for everything." 
Classic 
continued from page 28 
this year's team and last year's team is the style of play the Irish expect to imple­ment on the field. While last year's team relied heavily upon a possession strategy with the strong play of its experienced midfield, this year's Irish team hopes to capitalize on the blazing speed of its forwards and attack the goal a lot more fre­quently on offense. 
Waldrum is excited about the big play capability of his offense. 
"We have more offensive speed and athleticism up front. Hopefully, Amy Warner will pick up where she left off before her knee injury," Waldrum said. "Watch for Melissa Tancredi. She red­shirted last year with a knee injury, but she has played great in practice." 
While the Irish offense will be looking for some quick strikes against Penn State. the Irish defensfl will be con­cerned with stopping the offensive firepower of Penn State -most notably All­American Christie Welsh. 
The experienced Irish defense, led by junior Vanessa Pruzinsky and seniors Monica Gonzales and Lindsey Jones, should be up to the challenge of shutting down Welsh and her team­mates. 
The Irish midfielders may 

"I want to do everything I can to help the team win the national championship." she said. 
Waldrum knows his junior defender is up to the task. 
"The torch was passed from Kate to Jen, and now Jen to Vanessa," he said. "She knows that expectation, and she's doing a great job with it." 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at Baltruzak.2@nd.edu. 
But grades haven't created the tremendous amount of respect from her fellow players that surrounds Pruzinsky the soccer player. 
"[The other players] look at her in awe," said Waldrum. "She has the utmost respect from everyone, and she gets along with everyone." 
With the Notre Dame defend­er legacy has to come expecta­tions. Pruzinsky, by all accounts, is the most qualified to accept the torch. 
have the most difficult task of all against Penn State. They must prevent offensive oppor­tunities for Penn State while at the same time make some critical passes in an effort to give the Irish forwards chances to score. 
The midfield will feature senior captain Mia Sarkesian along with juniors Ali Lovelace and Ashley Drier. Sophomore Randi Scheller looks poised to replace the All-American Anne Makinen at the other midfield position. 
Highly touted freshman Gunna Gunnarsdottir may also see some time at defense or midfield on Friday, but she is still recovering from a knee injury she suffered over the summer while playing with Iceland's national team. 
Irish goalie Liz Wagner also returns after a spectacular 2000 season. Wagner feels confident about the veteran defense in front of her. 
"Our defense and midfield should be real strong because we have a lot of experience there," Wagner said. "Christie Welsh is a very physical pres­ence so our whole team has to play good team defense in order to keep the ball away from her." 
In their two exhibition wins over the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Iowa, Notre Dame showed flashes of last year's brilliance, but the play­ers know there is still a tremendous amount of work that needs to be done in order for them to return to the College Cup. 
Sophomore forward Amy Warner feels that the team must play with greater inten­sity and execute better offen­sively in order to defeat Penn State. 
"We played decent in the exhibition games, but I know we can play much better." Warner said. "Penn State will be an extremely difficult opening appointment. Our practices have been much better recently so hopefully that intensity will carry over for this weekend. It would be great to start off this season the same way that we started off last season with a big win­ning streak." 
After tonight's clash with the Nittany Lions. the Irish will have little time to recu­perate as they take on No. 25­ranked Hartford on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field on the second day of the Key Bank Classic. 
"This will be a good experi­ence for us to start off against some tough teams in the Key Bank Classic," Waldrum said. "We should immediately fig­ure out what adjustments we need to make as we look to return to last year's form." 
Hartford will play Friday night at 5 p.m. against the University of Connecticut prior to Notre Dame's game against Penn State. Connecticut and Penn State will play Sunday morning at 11 a.m. 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 


Friday, August 31, 200 I The Observer . TODAY page 27 

RYAN
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNN{NGHAM 

t 
11!'.NOW YOVlt COU..E6E STUDENTS 
61.JYSI GET OVER H~B WE 
FOVNt> COTTA6E CHEES8 AN!> 
frlUITl TONS OI' FR\JITI 
BILLAMEND 
' 
l.A.SoN, IT'S A 2ur! MATH 8oolC1 WOO! WHAT AN 

"Yeah, he does that sometimes." 


~ NOTRE DAME VOLLEYBALL (~ 
~ 5~!71.'M'lWC'X 'l'lfvn'91.'T'lO'N'JI.L ~) 
""'= IFr-11.day, August 3~ NOTRIE DAMlE vs. SW T,ex.ai§ St.@7pm--= Satuird«lly, Septiemlbe1r JL NOTRE DAME vs. flloriida Ad.atnltk @ Jl213opm "\S:at1tuird.ny, §,ep1temb1e1r R NOTRE DAMJE vs. lfd,,nho@ 1p1nrn 
~ M ~ 
~ ff ~ 
'°'1Fi.1rst Zoo Notre lDam,e students 1receive ;ai !FRlEE W10Uies-srnlbi and a 
Fox TROT 
I THoVGHT THE 
BOT o"EAALL, MOST oF 
HEY, I 

A.UTtiOll GoT oFF 
THE PolNiS WE.RE <:,ooO, 
READ THIS 

ON ~ME ot>O 
AND IT RA1SEO SoME 
Boo!C! 

TANGENTS FoR A 
tNTERESTING PARALLELS. 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S A D A T  S T  
E L O P E  -L-+-A+-+-,­ 
U T  T  E R  -:e+.,+:~  T  E  

A S 

-:-1-..,.....,......-,+G.,,+E~ 10 Catania threatener A N 11 Muddles, with "up" 12 Choir piece 13 St. John's team ~":":"t.,..+..+,-,+-:+.,,,..t 14 Word in D Parliament A T A H A R D 21 Given {to) -:-+-=-+=p+s-T O N T O 24 Some circus ,.....,........,......__ D Y O D E O N performers 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
53 Frank_, Best Director of 1928-29 
55 Actress Hatcher 57 Upper half? 59 "Pay_ mind" 60 Fujitsu 
competitor 63 Multitude 65 Thimbleweeds 66 Newspaper 
starting in 1912 67 Reef wriggler 68 Most together 
DOWN 1 Symbols of 
victory 2 Dodges 3 Means of 
identification 4 Refuse use 5 Witt rink rival 6 Headway 
7 Famous landing 
site 8 White-collar worker, for short? 9 Tour organizer: Abbr. 
Puzzle by Jim Page 
26 Eastern royal 
27 Gatorade, e.g. 29 Chantilly's 
department 31 Stir 32 Fatty tissue 
compound 37 Craving 38 Extra meaning 39 Sri Lanka export 40 Actor McGregor 41 Tough 47 Teacup handle 
48 Murder mystery 56 Pistol, slangily necessity 
58 Where Davos is 49 High councils 60 Household heads
51 Some senior 
moments? 61 whim 54 Filmdom's Mr. 62 Albanian coin Chips 64 Big time? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888•7•ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Itzhak Perlman, Chris Tucker, Debbie Gibson, Richard Gere, James Coburn 
Happy Birthday: You'll be given the green light this year, so prepare to take advantage of ­your good fortune. Your hard work and dedication will be rec­ognized, and the support that's been lacking in the _past will be present. Don't be shy; take the offered help and prepare to make your mark. You have what it takes to be great, so stop thinking about ideas and start initiating them. Your numbers: 9, 13, 28, 33, 41, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Involvement in organizational functions will lead to potential love connections and individuals who can help you achieve your dreams. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't count on having things drop into your lap. You will have to work hard to receive bonuses. Romance can be yours, but don't jump to conclusions regarding the possibilities. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Find new experiences that will spark enthusiasm. The time is right to learn new skills and make changes that will help you build a brighter future. The choice is yours. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should be concerned about debts. Do whatever is necessary to consolidate. Reduce your over­head and ask family members for assistance if you can't get a loan from the bank 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Emo­tions will run high in your per­sonal life. Put your energy into doing things with your mate, not 

Birthday Baby: You are talented, bright and quick to respond to events around you. You aren't one to back down and will always stand up for yourself and your beliefs. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
e 2001 Universal Press Syrulicate 
-
EUGENIA LAST 

a shouting match. You need to have patience and let things calm down. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your work will suffer if you let someone monopolize your time. Don't become involved in office gossip that will result in disputes and possible job loss. Contribute by focusing on your work. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is not the time to deal with per• sonal issues. Use time wisely by participating in challenging. sports activities. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't count on sympathy from those you live with. Get involved in creative projects that will take your mind off your worries. You'll have trouble relating to non-creative people. 00 
SAGITrARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't discuss your personal life with friends or relatives. Your time will be better SJ)el\t enjoying tight conversations that are stim­ufating and entertaining. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Overspending will be your downfall. Remember" that you can't buy the people you love. Gifts and exotic trips and ~met­ic adjustments will cost more than anticipated. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You won't find it easy to deal with emotional matters and will overreact if your partner is preoc· cupied or inattentive. Don't con• fide in someone who may want to stir up trouble. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Health problems or minor injuries will cause limitations. Take time off to recuperate. A secret affair would undermine your reputation. Think before you get involved. 000 ­
1 Far from ruddy 7 "Though banish'd, yet a Englishman": "Richard II" 
15 Play an ace? 
16 Pull-off 
17 "Woman• writer 18 Classic caller 
19 Early 60's TV 
listing 20 Switch 22 Cockpit data: 
Abbr. 
23 Effects 
25 OT filler 
28 "And bed" 
30 "Go Down, Moses" and others 
Roberts 34 Football Hall-of-
Farner Ford 35 _ the finish 36 Org. that 
provides many 
instructions 37 Globetrotter's . catchphrase 
42 Time before 
43 Bird whose name is the same as its call 
44 Mancinelli opera ·_e Leandro" 45 It's a scream 46 Private cabins 50 Spy's spot 
52 Singer of the multimillion­selling album "Watermark" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 One of two 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Football, p. 25 
. College Football p. 24 
. 
SMC Volleyb~II, p. 23 . U.S. Open, p. 20 

. 
ND Volleyball, p. 22 . WNBA, p. 18 

. 
Men's Soccer, p. 22 . American League p. 17


PORTS 
. National League, p. 16 
Friday, August 31, 2001 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Next in line 

. Vanessa Pruzinky . Irish gear up for steps up ~s the weekend tourney latest great Notre against top teams Dame defender 

By JOE LICANDROBy JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Sports Wrirer Assiscanr Spores Editor 
After a long summer of condi­"Defense wins championships." 

tioning and exhausting prac­
"Defense is more important than tices, the Notre Dame women'sbreathing." 
soccer team is eagerly awaiting
Cliches. maybe. but junior 
the beginning of their 2001 sea­defender and preseason Big East son. On Friday at 7:30 p.m., the
Defensive Player of the Year 
fourth-ranked Irish host the
Vanessa Pruzinsky is the latest in Nittany Lions of Penn State in 
a legacy of Irish backliners, 
the opening round of the Key
including Kate Sobrero and Jen Bank Classic. 
Grubb. proving true every buzz­While many other top-rankedphrase about the importance of 
teams feast upon. lesser oppo­
defense. 

nents during the early stages ofPruzinsky will form the heart of the season, the Irish will imme­the Notre Dame defense in 2001, diately be put to the test againstpatrolling the center of the field. 
the eighth-ranked Nittany Lions. 
Pruzinsky, in fa.ct, is one of the 
Although the Irish lost four

few solidified starters on defense, 
starters from last year's team,
and head coach Randy Waldrum including 2000 national consen­is counting on her leadership and 
sus player of the year Anne
ability to be a steady hand Makinen, head coach Randy
around younger players. 

Waldrum believes his team has
"She's more of a leader by 
the talent and the athleticism toexample," said Waldrum. "She's return to the Final Four. 
not as vocal as other leaders but 
"The biggest differenceshe has come in as a veteran 

between this year and last yearplayer." 
is that we're a little younger,
Pruzinsky recognizes that this 
but that's not always a bad 
year she will have to become a thing," he said. "We'll probablyloud leader as well. 
start five to six freshman and
"Since Jen Grubb was so vocal, sophomores, and I expect them
I never felt like I had to be as 
to bring a lot of energy and
vocal," Pruzinsky said. "This year 
Photo illustration by KEVIN DALUM, JOHN DAILY and KATIE McKENNA/The Observer excitement to the field."
I'm going to communicate more 
Junior defender and preseason Big East Defensive Player of the Year Vanessa Pruzinsky hopes Another difference between to continue the legacy started by Kate Sobrero (bottom left) and Jen Grubb (bottom right).
see PRUZINSKY/page 26 see CIASSIC/page 26 
SMC WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Inexperienced Belles travel to Memphis tourney 
enthusiastic about the style we're play­Klink] but they've been out for about a will have to prove itself but injuries willBy LINDSAY MOLLAN ing." week now and we've been working make it difficult to get a firm grasp on 
Sports Writer 

As of Wednesday afternoon, Johnston around their absences," said co-captain the team's full potential. had not decided on a definite roster for Lynn Taylor. "It's important for everyone to know The Saint Mary's soccer team that the Rhodes Classic at Rhodes College in "[Taylor) will provide a great spark for that this weekend won't make or break
-travels to Memphis this weekend for a Memphis. the team," Johnston said. "We're going our season," Johnston said. pair of games can be described in one "The starting line-up in my mind is to be looking for her to be a leader in The Belles soccer team may be lacking word: young. not made up yet but we will be a very the either the midfield or the back." · in collegiate level experience but there 
More than half of 
young team," he said. The Belles offense will rely primarily is no absence of enthusiasm and opti­the team's players The flexibility in the lineup is due on the underclassmen. Freshman mism. are freshmen and mainly to the injuries which have tem­Maureen MacDonald will start in goal "We've started with a new attitude," only six of the 23 porarily sidelined junior Heather Muth and the forward positions will be held Taylor said. "I think it will be a com­roster spots are and senior Jessica Klink, team co-cap­by sophomore Wendy Irvin and fresh­plete turn around from last year's sea­filled by upper class­tains. as well as a freshman, Jennifer men Victoria Necroto and Molly son."
-men. The inexperi­Concannon. McCavitt. The Belles face off against the host ence of the team, According to Johnston, no lineup can "A lot of our scoring punch is going to Rhodes Lynx at 10 a.m. Saturday before however, does not be permanently set until all of the be coming from Victoria, Molly and facing Millsaps College Sunday at noon. seem to concern new Johnston injuries are cleared. With Muth and Wendy," Johnston said. Last year's MIAA soccer champion, coach Bobby Klink on the injured list. only four The two games will be the first test for Albion. will also be playing in the tour­Johnston. upperclassmen will be eligible to play the Belles. Last week's scrimmages nament, although the Belles will not 
"Things are progressing really well. I this weekend. Like Johnston, however, against Bethel and Indiana Tech proved face the Bulldogs this weekend. have the highest respect for our team the team remains confident in regards satisfying to Johnston. right now," Johnston said. "They really to this weekend's tournament. This weekend will be the first real Contact Lindsay Mollan at 
want to learn. They seem to be very "We'll definitely miss them [Muth and chance the Saint Mary's soccer program molll36l@saintmarys.edu. 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Penn State, Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

OBSERVER 
. ND Volleyball vs. SW Texas State, Friday, 7 p.m.

SPORTS 
online classifieds 
. NO Men's Soccer vs. Michigan, Sunday, 2:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball vs. Bethel, Monday, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 



