
Two Thumbs Up 
Minimal Increase? 
Theater critic Chris Scott has nothing but 
Three alumni question ND's enthusiasm 

Wednesday
praise for "Chance at Love. " a new musical 
about the smallest tuition increase in over 
comedy written by two Notre Dame juniors. 
40 years and propose a tuition freeze. 
MARCH 28, 
Scene . page 11 
Viewpoint . page 9 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV N0.111 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Knight talks on history with ND, .media portrayals 
. Former IU head coach says press created controversy 
By lAURA ROMPF Associa,e News Edirm 
While coaching at Indiana, Bobby Knight loved visiting South Bend to play Notre Dame. The people were nice and the fans were courteous. See Also Except for 
"Former IU coach 
one. 
offers tips for
When the Hoosiers successtul living" played the 

page3
Irish, former athletic director Moose Krause would don a bright red sweater, simi­lar to the infamous sweater 

NAOMI CORDELL/The Observer 
Knight himself wore. "Moose was great," Knight said. "He'd say, 'Now Coach, rm 
Former Indiana University head

wearing this red sweater for you. We're going to beat your basketball coach Bobby Knight ass, but I'm wearing this red visits Notre Dame Tuesday to discuss sweater for you."' 
the unique situations coaches face
Besides Krause, Knight has 

several other close friends con­(above). Knight was fired from Indiana 
nected with the University, following multiple allegations of including former men's basket­
violence and player abuse. Well

ball coach Digger Phelps. While coaching at West Point in the known for his demanding style, 
late 1960s. Knight said he even­Knight expresses his dissatisfaction 
tually wanted to move to Notre 
with former Indiana forward Lynn

Dame and even contacted the athletic director about the head Washington's play during Indiana's March. coaching position. About a 
17, 2000 first round NCAA tournament 
month after Knight accepted the 
loss to Pepperdine University (right). 
see KNIGHT/page 6 




Riccardi receive ND award for Sant' Egidio work 
ByALLYJAY News Writer 
Last night, Andrea Riccardi added his name to the company of Former President Jimmy Carter, Mother Teresa and John Hume. As a recipient of the Notre Dame 
Award, Riccardi was honored in a prayer service and award ceremony in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium Institute for International Peace Studies. The award was created to 


recognize excellence Riccardi and achievement in service, according to University President Father Edward Malloy, who presented the award to Riccardi. 
"Together you and your community have befriended the physic~ and men­tally disabled, foreign immigrants, gypsies, the homeless and people with AIDS." said Malloy. "We thank you for your inspiring vision and the example you and your com­munity have set. We hope this University lets the young dream and gives them skills to be effective." 
Riccardi is internationally known as the founder of the Sant' Egidio ("St. Giles") Community, which was instrumental in mediating a 1995 agreement that brought peace to Mozambique after 16 years of civil war. The community is named for the Carmelite convent in Rome's Trastevere neighborhood where Riccardi first found­ed the community with the help of friends. 
"In 1968, inspired by Pope John XXIII's insistence that the Catholic Church is 'for everyone. especially the poor,' you and your friends ran a soup kitchen and tutored the children of the neighborhood's poor," said Malloy. "Soon you were Joined by some who came to socialize, some to help. The community now overOows the Trastevere neighborhood where you still gather to serve soup." 
Today, the community's members con­tinue to be active in ministry and oppose all forms of violence. Tuey recently gath­ered 2.7 million signatures on a petition to abolish capital punishment, which was presented to Kofi Annan, secretary gener­al ofihe United Nations. 
"Dear friends, it is a great privilege for me to receive this award. You honor not only my personal work but also honor the Sant' Egidio community," said Riccardi. "The prize you award is great encourage­ment of me and the men and women of the Sant' Egidio community. Thank you for your support in our dream." 
In accepting the Notre Dame Awa.rd, Riccardi stressed the importance of dia­logue in bringing pel!ce to war torn areas throughout the world. 
"l can not forget the war in Mozambique which ended with Sant• Egidio's help in 1992. For this we had worked." Riccardi said...This war produced one million deaths. TI.is revealed Cbrlstians can bring peace and that peace is possible." 
Riccardi also discussed how in today's increasingly diverse world. there is more risk in coexistence of different religious and ethnic groups. He affirmed dialogue 
as a mediation tool for peace. 
"This is what we've been doing for years, bringing understanding to people of different religious groups," he said. "Understanding restores sympathy. Dialogue generates sympathy and leads to coexistence." 
Ricarrdi also expressed concern over easy access to arms and how this exacer­bates conflicts between groups with opposing views and backgrounds. 
"War remains as a terrible companion for all people. But if today many can gen­erate conflicts and war, many can also be the ones to make peace," said Riccardi. ..As our world enters a new century the world needs the wisdom of dialogue, friendship and faith. These are not mar­ginal elements but part of reality and needed for peace." 
The community of Sant' Egidio is now a movement of over 30,000 men and women that is present In 60 countries. The movement has expanded through personal contacts and friendship contin­ues to be a uniting bond. 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Inside the mind ofthe enemy 
I'm a guy. I read Cosmopolitan magazine. And I 
have darn good reasons for it. 
First of all. the women in it are more attractive 
than any models you'd find in Maxim or Stuff. Sure, 
the-poses are more t.a.steful. which is a drawback. 
but the ads all have really hot 
women in them, whereas 
Maxim and Stuff ads only 
sometimes have attractive 
women in them. 
Flipping through the maga­
zine, Isaw pictures of such 
pretty, young celebrities as 
Sandra Bullock, Cindy 
Crawford, Pamela Anderson 
and Halle Berry to name just 
a few. 
The letters women right 
into Cosmo are freaking hilar­
ious. The March 2001 issue 
has a quote in the letters sec­
tion that reads, "I crave sex 
more than men do. Am I a nympho?" Obviously, l 
skip over the parts of the magazine about "women's 
troubles," because that's better left to women. 
But the bottom line to why I read Cosmo, a maga­zine not meant for me, is because it's like getting 200 pages of intelligence from behind enemy lines. Cosmo is like talking to 100 girls about life and sex, except that the Cosmo editors boil it down and add all sorts ofraunchy embellishments for everyone's enjoyment. 
Guys spend way too much time wondering what girls are thinking. That time is wasted when Cosmo is available for only $3.50. 
For instance, there is an article in this month's issue called "Mesmerize Him." It has tips about how to make guys really want girls, one ofwhich is "Throw Hirn Off Course." As guys, nothing pisses us off more than finding ourselves stupidly in the mid­dle of a female mind game that we had no idea we were walking into. Tips like this can keep us on "mind game alert" and generally make our lives easier. 
And, more importantly, for those guys who have found themselves in the "Yeeeeeaaaaah, She's Pretty Mad About [Whatever]" zone, Cosmd offers descriptions of what actual good boyfriend$ did to cheer up their girlfriends. It cuts down on thinking time, which directly leads to an increase in beer drinking time. 
What is the biggest problem facing male-dom today? That's right, gift buying. We mindlessly go to the mall and seemingly wait for divine inspiration, like God himself will shine a blinding light on the perfect gift. Cosmo lists what's hot with the ladies as far as clothes and accessories, which can dramati­cally decrease shopping time and stress, as well as directly decrease the time between your mouth and a cold one. 
The tips for women in Cosmo can also work for guys. Like the section on how to give a good mas­sage -that applies to everyone, not just the sassy female readers ofCosmo. 
Sometimes it seems Cosmo's written by guys. Especially when there's a section in "Cosmo Living" called "Be a Bar Maiden." Wow. Like Cosmo read guys' mind. 
So what's stopping you from purchasing Cosmo? You don't want to be seen in public buying it or get a weird look from the clerk when he/she rings it up. My solution is that you don't buy it. Lots of girls get, just steal it from one ofthem. You'd be surprised how easy it is. 
I'm not saying to stop reading Maxim or Stuff. I say just add a third magazine to your bathroom repertoire. I think you'll find insights that would take lifetimes to pry out ofwomen helpfully swnma­rized with lots of pictures of hot models. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 


Jeff Baltruzak 
Assistant Sports Editor 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Laura Kelly  
Nace Phillips  Graphics  
Amy Greene  Kacy Hall  
Sports  Production  
Lauren Conti  Jeff Balcruzak  
Chris Federico  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Peter Richardson  
Pat McElwee  

The Obs,:ivc, (USPS 599 2-4000) is publuhcd Monday through Friday except during =m md nation periods. The Observer ir a member of che A,,ocaated Prcu. All Rprociuction righu arc resavcd. 
I I • 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Event: Dinamation's  . Fundraiser: Respect Life  . Theatre: South Bend  . Fundraiser: Urban  
Dinosaurs Alive!.  Annual Dinner, Century  Civic Theatre presents  League. Century Center,  
Studebaker National  Center, 6 p.m.  WIT, Century Center. 7:30  11:30 a.m.  
Museum, 9 a.m.  . Theatre: "Steel  p.m.  . Concert: South Bend  
. Lecture: "Visual  Magnolias," Beckwith  . Movie: "Requiem For a  Symphony Masterworks  
Thinking and Autism," 101  Theatre, 7:30 p.m.  Dream," Snite Museum of  Concert Series, Morris  
DeBartolo Hall. 7 p.m.  Art, 9:30 p.m.  Performing Arts Center.  
8p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Judge rejects U. Michigan Law ·admissions 
ANN ARBOR. Mich. 
and former Law School Director of 
In a total rejection of the Admissions Dennis Shields were University of Michigan's defense of excused as defendants in the case. its affirmative action policies, U.S. Curt Levey, director of legal and District Judge Bernard Friedman public affairs for the Center for ruled Tuesday morning that the Individual Rights, said the Law School's use of race as a factor Washington D.C.-based law firm in admissions is unconstitutional. that represents plaintiff Barbara Furthermore, Friedman declared Grutter is "deeply gratified by the that diversity is not a compelling decision." state interest, nor can it he used to "It went even 'further than we remedy past discrimination. hoped for by ruling not just that this 
tion of the disputed admissions poli­
While conceding that diversity is a kind of diversity is not a compelling "laudable" goal. Friedman also said cy constitutes an unspoken quota. governmental interest but even if it "a distinction should be drawn "The Law School has made the were, the University's policy would between viewpoint diversity and current admissions policy practical­still be illegal because they haven't racial diversity." Friedman ruled bothered to consider less discrimi­
ly indistinguishable from a quota that the Law School's consistent natory practices," Levey said.
system," he wrote. Friedman also · ruled that
enrollment of 10 percent to 1 7 per­University officials immediately cent under-represented minorities University President Lee Bollinger, gathered Tuesday morning to dis­
in each class since the 1992 adop-cuss the decision.
Law School Dean Jeffrey Lehman 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
Faculty fellow detained in China 
WASHINGTON 
A faculty fellow from American University's School of International Service has been detained in China for over a month since being apprehended at the Beijing airport on Feb. 11 with her family. Chinese authorities detained Gao Zhan with her husband, Xue Donghua, and their 5-year-old son, Andrew, who is an American citizen. The three were returning to Washington after a three-week vacation celebrating the Chinese New Year with family in China. Gao and Xue are permanent residents of the U.S. and are awaiting their citizenship, Xue said. The Foreign Ministry in China has said that Gao was suspected of "engaging in activities damaging state security." Specific details on her offenses, however, have not been released. Xue and Andrew were released by Chinese national security officials on March 8 and left China. Xue initially was silent about the situation because he said Chinese officials told him that public­ity would aversely affect his wife's situation. 
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI 

Curators approve new drug policy 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 

Despite student efforts and the recommendation of the Academic Affairs Committee to vote against the proposal, the University of Missouri system Board of Curators voted narrowly to adopt a parental-notification policy Thursday. The policy passed in a 6-to-3 vote, with cura­tors Hugh Stephenson, Mary James and Paul Combs vot­ing against the policy. Under the policy, parents or legal guardians would receive written notice that their chil­dren had violated campus alcohol and drug policies. Any other information about the offense would have to come from students, unless the parents signed a waiver stating they wished to receive details about the violation. The policy would only allow notification on a second offense or a "severe" first offense. Board President Paul Steele said the policy would increase parent-student communi­cation. "I have been involved with education for most of my life, and one of the keys to student success is parent involvement," Steele said. "To me, this is a very simple way to get parents involved with students." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•torecast for davtime conditions and hil!h lemoeratures 
H L 

Thursday a 43 35
''"'"' 

Friday ~ 49 34 Saturday ~ 50 34 Sunday a 52 35
"' .. '"'' 
,-r"•):. ;)•.,, .. 
. . 
°'Mi:•t ·n:,'::•:­


..,__ D . c::::J w .
High . snow ... pt. Cloudy Cl!oudy
Show•ra Aaln T••tomw Fluniaa Sunny

Monday /'~ ~ 51 32
"'''"'' 


'>,'  
AHanta  57  34  Las Vegas  78  55  Portland  39  25  
q,~-~9,~8~~d ~'3 T-stonns R.a/n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy  Baltimore Boston Chicago  40 41 38  27 30 28  Memphis Milwaukee New York  57 35 40  39 27 31  Sacramento St. Louis Tampa  74 52 66  52 35 59  
Vla-P-~  Houston  62  57  Philadelphia  42  30  Wash DC  43  30  
..  

page 3

Wednesday, March 28, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Former IU coach offers tips for successful living 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
He was on his best behavior. 
Anyone expecting the hot-tem­pered, aggressive tactics Bobby Knight has made famous on the court was instead treated to the fee!-good motivational side of the former Indiana University (IU) head basketball coach Tuesday. 
Knight's sold-out appearance at the University's Stepan Center saw the "General" describe his experiences from the sidelines of the hardwood and gab to a most­ly student audience for 90 min­utes about succeeding in life. 

Knight, who received a stand­ing ovation after being intro­duced, talked to a crowd of around 1,800 about methods for students to become responsible, self-sufficient adults. 
"What I want and what I see as my duty as a coach is to demand things of students, to put them in a better position to demand things of themselves," said Knight, who was hired last week as head coach at Texas Tech University. 
Knight encouraged students to be good communicators and avid readers and to develop discipline in their lives. He said they should 

Eve,y Six Seconds 

take note of their strengths and weaknesses and surround them­selves with people who bring out positive qualities in them. 
"Never turn your back on peo­ple who want you to be the very best you can be. In fact, find peo­ple who want you to be the best you can be," he said. 
In September, IU fired the often controversial coach, and last week Knight was selected to the Texas Tech post. 
Knight's recent prominence in the news was the driving force behind his appearance at the University, according to Steven Christ, a member of the Student Union Board (SUB) committee that organized the coach's visit. 
He said SUB paid Knight a speaker's fee, but Christ declined to comment on the amount given to the coach. 
On Tuesday, Knight -known for his courtside temper and red sweater -sported a blue sweater and yellow collared shirt and expressed a deep regard for Notre Dame. 
''Take a look at how I'm 
dressed. This is as close to blue 
and gold as I could get," he said 
after acknowledging his respect 
for former friends and rivals 
Edward "Moose" Krause and 
Digger Phelps. 
He called the University a "fine 
institution" and remembered 
that Krause used to wear a red 
sweater to Notre Dame-lU bas­
ketball games. His reflection on 
the longtime Notre Dame coach 
and athletic director prompted a 
choked up, if rehearsed, moment 
from Knight, who is associated 
WM Tuesday ti April 3, 2001 ~ 7:30 p.m. ~ little Theatre 
with throwing chairs and man­handling players. 
"I think Moose, if he were down here tonight. he'd have a red sweater on that would have Texas Tech on it," he said. his voice trailing off. 
Knight spoke behind a lectern on a raised platform in a chilly Stepan Tuesday night. His ele­vated view let him look into an enthusiastic audience -dotted with Hoosier red -that cheered both the General's lighthearted­ness and sarcasm directed at his former employer. 
Throughout his speech, Knight made intentionally ironic state­ments about his "extreme patience" and "pat-on-the-back" tactics. In a particularly cynical remark, Knight said, "Some of my mistakes have not bothered me as much as they've bothered the press ... or bothered mem­bers of Indiana University's administration." 
Knight's appearance included 
a brief question-and-answer seg­
ment that yielded diverse ques­
tions from audience members. 
Most questions were concerned 
with his coaching experience 
and thoughts on the game. 
Asked if his motivational tac­
tics would work in the National 
Basketball Association, Knight 
said, ''I'm not really sure that 
what God does would work in 
the NBA." 
Since leaving IU in the fall, 
Knight has made similar appear­
ances at college campuses and 
on national television shows. 
Monday night he appeared on 
"Larry King Live." 
Jo/of Mo,)'> Coll•l•o

IM8ltf~ 
~#Ont•....,. 

For ticket information call tbe Saint Maiys Box Office at 284-4626 
MODERN ENGLISH 
Lile In The Gladhouse: The lest Of Maclern English 





MED1NPLAv· 
Your Entertain111ent Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call-toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Sale ends April 7, 2001, Casffttes available on select titles. 

Join Replay: 

We Buy&
The club that reward$ r.our 



s~,~~!~i~1~l;~~~!f.
love of enterloin men . • 

Sell Used CDs! 
A~ ossoc:iala for delo1ls. 

may vary by store and online, 
Check our -our eat selectton. 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 28, 2001 

Eras01us Institute to establish book award 
Special to The Ob,crvrr 
Notre Dame's Erasmus Institute has established a pub­lishing award to honor books which examine issues in the social sciences, humanities or arts in light of Christian, Judaic or Islamic intellectual traditions. 
The new Erasmus Institute Book Prize will be awarded the author of the best nonfiction book in English published in the United States during the previ­ous calendar year. The $20,000 prize will be awarded each spring beginning in 2002. 
The prize is intended to cele­brate the intellectual resources of these religious traditions and to encourage writers to apply them to issues ordinarily regard­ed as extraneous to religion. The wirining book will be chosen by a three-member jury evaluating works from a wide variety of fields. though explicitly theologi­cal or ethical works will not be considered. 
Jury members for the first Erasmus Institute Book Prize competition are Henry Louis Gates, Jr.. W.E.B. DuBois Professor of the Humanities and director of the DuBois Institute for Afro-American Research at Harvard University; Sabine Maccormack, Walgreen 

Professor of Human Values, pro­
fessor of history and professor of classical studies at the University of Michigan; and Peter Steinfels, "Beliefs" columnist for The New York Times and visiting profes­sor of history at Georgetown University. 
The inaugural winner will be announced Feb. 1, 2002, and the. prize will be awarded at a recep­tion in New York City on April 6, 2002. For the first competition, books published in either 2000 or 2001 may be submitted. Only the book's publisher or a mem­ber of the Erasmus Institute Book Prize selection committee may make nominations. 
Established in 1997 and named in honor of the 16th-cen­tury Catholic scholar and reformer. the Erasmus Institute seeks to reinvigorate the role of Catholic intellectual tradition in contemporary scholarship. Primarily concerned with Catholic intellectual life, the institute also supports research deriving from the intellectual traditions of other Christian churches. Judaism, and Islam. In addition to the Erasmus Institute Book Prize, the Institute spon­sors residential fellowships, summer seminars, and confer­ences in the United States and abroad. 




~ ECDC Registration i 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages three through six and 2001-2002 School Year Registration for children ages two through five. Both part time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For more information, please call one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please call ­

631-3344 
or 

-~ 284-4693 
I 

Please Recycle 
The Observer. 


OLY SSOCIATES 
Placements Meeting Tonight, March 27th A 7pm-8pm .. Center for Social Concerns 
Interested in volunteering after graduation? All are invited to join us and learn about 'Placement Oppor­nmities' with.in Holy Cross Associates. We will be discussing the different types of direct service placements available and the cities where Associates serve? 

Applications are now being accepted, with placement priority given to . those received by April 1st. (Applications available on-line.) 
A' .· 
Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards , . and Loan Deferments. The Education Award is $4,725 towards loans and/or future education. 

://www.nd.edu/,___hcassoc/ 

<iii, 
. 

-~·· 

$ Tickets are $4
• Available in McGlinn Lobby4 From 10-12 pm


'¢ 4 TONIGHT 
•~. « March 28 
f 
I 
< Prizes Include: )·i Gift certificates, signed basketballs, I < ·.DJ12 Player!! ;l,\ 
:j,.\ •~.~ iii~: I~ I.$ l:~~,i·ll&,N.~.~. i:lt,~ffeffe.~ ®'ffe *j,j,4 
\.. ~$ .. uaents from the South •• ·..•.. e~ ..:J~li.. ~tie~ planning to atten~~utiftfl!all'.!1~i[l:::;,;1:tw~~taff~lt•toto~ta€t:t1t(t~ie~t)ll!;il 
:: l:~itsa"S:(ortisherj.1.:z@rf·••·•··•·•t·.····••·•.•··· / 
--:::it/\/:~JP<.::::i\r?(:-t\(/:•::: >: :.··.:::::: 









ATION 
W~dnesday, March 28, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Brazil searches for Amazon tribe: 
Anthropologists and Indians are trekking through the Amazon in search of what is believed to be one of the last uncontacted tribes -but the team will not make contact. The tribe was spotted last year after Federal Indian Bureau officials flying over the region photographed a previously undetected village made up of 16 long houses, officials said Tuesday. 

Panama Canal opens to U.S. ships: 
The World War II battleship USS Iowa -one of the widest vessels to pass through the Panama Canal -moved slowly through the waterway on Tuesday en route to a berth in San Francisco Bay. The 48,000-ton warship, which set out from Newport, R.I., on March 8, is due to be kept in res~rve off Benicia, Calif., until at least 2004. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Hispanic population grows in Arizona: Arizona's Hispanic population grew by 88 percent during the past decade and now accounts for a quarter of the state's 
5.1 million people, according to census fig­ures released Tuesday.Overall, the state's population grew by 40 percent during the 1990s, trailing only Nevada's 66 percent. 
Businessman challenges Bush on cheap drugs: A wealthy Nebraska busi­nessman who has pushed for healthier fast food is taking on the high cost of prescription drugs. Phil Sokolof is asking President Bush to get behind a drug-price plan that languished in the previous White House. He contends Bush promised in last year's presidential con­test to support the new law, which allows pre­scription drugs sold overseas back into this country at similar low cos~. "'American drug prices are outlandish!" declares Sokolofs full­page ad. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Deer debate continues: Beverly Shores may be disarming its sharpshooter, but it's not giving up on thinning the town's deer herd. The Town Council this week approved a resolution that will suspend the town's bid to have a hired sharpshooter kill 7 5 deer by the end of the month. The sharpshooter killed a single deer in two days before the town put the deer cull on hold amid protests. Under the resolution approved on a 4-1 vote, the deer cull will not resume as long as the Citizens Coalition of Beverly Shores and other groups continue efforts to sterilize 75 bucks. 
Market watch March 27 
Dow Jones  9,947.54  +260.01  

 Same: 197  CompositeVolume: N/A  
AMEX:  875.96  +8A9i:  
NASDAQ: NYSE:  1,972.26 599.69  +53. 77 +:1'2,.68,  
S&.P 500:  1,182.17  +29.48  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.37 +0.25 18.12 INTEL CORP (INT() -.3,77 +1.07 29.38 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +3.44 +1.44 43.25 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +0.99 +0, 17 17.41 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +3.90 +2.19 58.25 
JORDAN 


Associated Press 

AMMAN 
Arab leaders at their first regular summit in 10 years pledged strong sup­port Tuesday for the Palestinian uprising against Israel. 
But the leaders from the 22-member Arab League are still trying to forge the 
same unity over Iraq, 
whose 1990 invasion of Kuwait shattered Arab ranks and led to Iraq's international isolation. 
, In speech after speech, the Arab leaders praised the 6-month-old uprising, or intefadeh. And some ­including Syria and Lebanon harshly rebuked Israel. 
Even Presi4ent Bashar Assad of Syria, whose country has had bumpy relations with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, backed the Palestinians. And he criticized Israel for electing Ariel Sharon as prime minister. 
"To know the reality of the coming peace, it is nec­essary to know the reality of the Israeli street," Assad said in impromptu remarks interrupting the official text of his speech. "It is a racist society and more racist than Nazism." 
Assad added: "We stretch our hands to our 

Palestinian brothers and we tell them that we stand by you ... in establishing your Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital and we stand by you in support of the intefadeh." 
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi surprised the gathering by proposing that Israel join the 22­nation Arab League, say­ing that was the only way to contain the Jewish state, according to an Arab diplomat who attended the meeting. At his request, Gadhafi's speech was not broadcast live with those of the other leaders who took the podium Tuesday. 
Gadhafi. who is known for his eccentric remarks, said that before joining the Arab League Israel would have to meet certain con­ditions. including with­drawing from traditionally Arab east Jerusalem and other war-won Arab terri­tory seized in the 1967 Middle East war, the diplo­mat said on condition of anonymity. 
Assad and Arafat met for a half-hour on the side­lines of the Arab summit Tuesday and agreed to coordinate their peace policies, a breakthrough meeting following years of tense relations between the two sides. 
In his speech to the sum-
SOMALIA 

Rebel gunmen attack aid group 
rival militia. As many as 30 people, faction's control. None were 
Associated Press 

mostly militiamen. were wounded. injured, and "we'll release them 
MOGADISHU according to hospital sources. soon," said Abdulkadir Mohamed 
Militiamen ambushed an aid con­Interior Minister Dahir Dayah Mohamud, an aide to Yalahow. voy and attacked the compound of a said several people were injured The nine workers included two French humanitarian group in and the compound was looted. Spanish members and one French Mogadishu on Tuesday, taking Government troops sent to inter­member of the French aid group away nine relief workers, officials vene were engaged in a fierce bat­Medecins Sans Frontieres -known said. tle with militiamen late Tuesday. in English as Doctors Without 
Witnesses said, at least eight A top official in the militia that Borders, or by its French acronym Somalis were killed in the fighting, assaulted the convoy -a faction MSF. The others were U.N. workers which grew out of a feud between a headed by Musa Sude Yalahow --three Britons, an American. a 
group hired to protect the Medecins said the nine relief workers were in Belgian and a sixth who the United Sans Frontieres compound and a three different places under the Nations said was French. 

Wednesday, March 28, 2001 

page 6 The Obseroer . CAMPUS NEWS 

. 
WEEKEND 
RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAMENT 

signed a new contract with Texas Tech. For the first time in decades, Knight isn't an active participant in March Madness, but that doesn't mean he's not paying attention. 
Knight said his former player and assistant coach Mike Krzyzewski, who now coaches Duke University, has a good shot at making it to the NCAA cham­pionship game. However, Knight said Maryland will put up a fight, as shown in the teams' earlier meetings this season. 
"If this season's previous games are a sign of things to come, then this should be a real­ly tight, tough game," Knight said. "! think that Duke's defense is such that if they don't get into a running contest . . . I think they'll heat Maryland." 
Knight said he is impressed with Michigan State's coach, Tom Izzo. who has brought his team back to the Final Four after losing three starters. Knight said Arizona is also peak­ing at this point in the season, so the game should go down to the wire. 
"The interesting part of that game is Arizona is really a team that controls the area around the basket on defense and Michigan State's strongest char­acteristic is their offensive rebounding. So their two strengths go right against each other," he said. 
Although Notre Dame isn't in the running for the national title this year, Knight predicted suc­cess for head coach Mike Brey. 
'The coach that you got now is really going to do a good job," Knight said. "I think Mike did a really good job this year and I think he's going to do a great job for you." 
Fear and respect 
Some assume Knight's coach­ing tactics create fear in his players and thus gain him respect, but Knight said the two concepts are very different. 
"I don't think fear and respect are synonymous." he said. "I think a coach earns the respect of players by how he prepares them and what he teaches them." . 
Whether through fear or not, many of Knight's players left Indiana with a deep respect for their former head coach. While Knight sat at one side of a circu­lar table in McKenna Hall Tuesday for an interview, a for­mer Indiana player and current Notre Dame employee sat at the other. He came simply to see Knight N to visit with his former coach. 
The player smiled gently sev­eral times as Knight shot down question after question from the three student panelists. He watched Knight reprimand the students, trying to teach them something about the man he was rather than the man he is portrayed to be. 
This player knew what hap­pened if you skipped class under Coach Knight. He knew Knight threw the chair. He'd heard about the choking incident and all of the recent controversy that led to Knight's firing. But he seemed to respect the man nonetheless. 
This former player is not alone. Knight said many players realized after they left Bloomington that the Indiana basketball program was unique. 
"Once they get away. maybe they have a chance to play pro­fessional basketball, they see the attitude that other players have towards their schools compared to what our guys have towards their school." Knight said. "They see that the difference is often astronomical." 
Knight 
continued from page 1 
Indiana job, the Notre Dame job opened up and was offered to Phelps. 
"Digger got the job, which I think he would've [even if l had been available]. It worked well for both of us," Knight said. "Indiana was a great place for me to go. and Notre Dame was a great place for Digger to go." 
The two remained friends and coached against each other annually, either in Bloomington or South Bend. During one visit to Notre Dame. Knight brought a priest who was the head of the Newman Foundation at Indiana University. Because of Notre Dame's strong Catholic heritage. Knight said Phelps initially thought he wus making a joke about University traditions. 
"Digger thought I'd dressed a guy up as a priest and brought him to the game. But he was an ordained priest," KnighL said. "He sat right behind me and early in the game, he got on Lhe officials about the second play of the game. I had to turn around, I said 'Father, will you get your ass back down."' 
Controversy 
From throwing a chair to allegedly choking a player, con­troversy seemed to follow Knight while he was at Indiana. But Knight said that is because the news media focused on isolated incidents rather than the whole truth. Knight claims during his tenure at Indiana, the entire team, himself included, commit­ted the fewest technical fouls in the country. The second least penalized team had twice as many. 
"Ifyou sit at a basketball game that I've coached, first of all, the other coach is going to get up far 
more than I do," Knight said. 
"Secondly the other coach is 
going to get on the officials far 
more than I do. When I get up 
once, an issue is made over it, 

then it becomes something that 
happens all the time. That's just 
not the case." 
Knight said he has turned down interviews and refused to answer questions iB the past because journalists are not doing the background work nec­essary to conduct a thoughtful interview. 
"I like people [in the media] that deal with you honestly and work to be accurate and don't base opinions on something they have read or heard," Knight said. "They base it on what they themselves know and encounter. I've had people that have writ­ten articles about me who I wouldn't know if they walked through the door right now." 
Knight said people in the media today are lazy, boring and often repeat quest.ions. 
"They don't pay attention," Knight said. "They've got so many things that they can do, but they take the easy way out so many times." 
Knight refused to comment on the recent controversy sur­rounding his relationship with Indiana. He said the commercial he did for Minute Maid, which features Knight acting excessive­ly gentle towards players, is not taunting the Indiana accusations that he was abusive. 
"I don't think it mocks the LU. situation at all. I don't think I.U. is even involved in that commer­cial," Knight said. "I don't have any relationship with I.U. I didn't have any relationship with anyone but Indiana when I coached there. My relationship is exclusively with Texas Tech." 
Sitting this one out 
After coaching nearly 30 years at Indiana. Knight recently 

Wednesday, March 28, 200 l The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Prof: Society values fem ale sexuality over athleticism 
By CECILIA OLECK 
News Writer 
Women in sports are still val­ued more for their sexuality than their skill according to a lecture at Saint Mary's Tuesday. 
Leslie Heaphy, from Kent State University, presented a lecture Tuesday entitled "Women in Sports: Creating a New Playing Field," which delved into many different sports-related gender issues. 
Heaphy pointed to recent Sports Illustrated cover stories involving women as examples of gender biased sports cover­age. A cover of tennis star Anna Kournikova, known more for activities benefiting from feder­women's programs. al financial assistance. She said Heaphy challenged this by many people believe this ruling saying that at most Division I to apply to sports, but in reality schools, male sport programs the decision was based on other dominate the scholarship field. programs, not sports. Many say that it is because 

One of the downfalls of Title these programs bring the most 


Business Advisor English Teacher Health Educator Agro-Forester 
University of Notre Dame Speak with returned Peace Corps volunteers. Find out how to redefine your world in the Peace Corps! Information Meeting and Video 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001 6:30 -8:00 p.m. 
Welcome to all -especially sophomores and juniors considering the Peace Corps! 
www.peacecorps.gov • (800) 424-8580 
Saturday, March 31 Jordan Auditorium, MCOB First Speaker Begins at Noon 

Come hear 7 brilliant speakers share their views on the international marketplace! 
Speakers Include: 
-A former executive at Gucci, Florence -Experts on E-business -A Colonel from the U.S. Army -An executive from RCA Multimedia -And more... 
t I I -• I' I ce·11tat •• ,. 111111 I IJIRIT 
revenue into the school. In real­ity, she argued, there are very few schools who make money off of these teams. and most actually end up losing capital. Heaphy suggests that by evening out scholarship money between different programs, all sport programs could be fund­ed. 
"In some places the football team stays in a hotel the night before a home game," she said. "This is the kind of thing I mean. Some people have brought up how men's teams will get new uniforms every year, while the women's team is lucky to get them every three years." 
She also cautioned against treating women's sports the same way as men's. 
"They shouldn't look like the exact same structure and often times it does. If you are creat­ing a men's lacrosse team, there doesn't have to be a women's lacrosse team," said Heaphy. "What is important is meeting unmet interest equally to both men and women." 
Overall, Title IX has had a great effect on women's pro­grams. 
"Twenty years ago, you would not have seen women in foot­ball, women in extreme sports and women in basketball," Heaphy said. 
While progress is encourag­ing, Heaphy also warned that these examples show how far women have come and how far they still are capable of going. 

her incredible looks rather than her incredible game and the annual swimsuit issue send mixed messages about ability and sexuality, Heaphy said. 
Heaphy concentrated also on the history of women in sports and on the effect of Title IX on sports. Title IX is the law passed in 1972 to ensure gen­der equity in all programs or IX, Heaphy suggested, is the widely held idea that in order to create more opportunities for one gender. something must be taken away from another. In this case. it has pitted men against women and made them enemies on the issue. Many schools have cut male pro­grams believing that it was the only way to make room for 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Wednesday, March 28, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.0. BOJ< Q. Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, No,re O,unc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHI£F Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Wood.. 
Ass,-, MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith 
NEWS EDITOlll Jason M~Farlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SroRTS EDITOR• Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Myra McGriff PHOTO EoITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Sprini;cr Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: K..tic McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANACERIGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVUTISING ....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIA.ssr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFF!CE.. ...................................... 631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPOJITS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 

SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARv's .. ...........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSIWEB AoMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of~mpus nc:ws, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, revic:ws and breaking nc:ws from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
onlinc ~tures for spe• 
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Obsetvcr 
articles published after 
to meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Uni~crsity ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coll~c. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The ni,ws is «:ported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A<sistanr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lem,rs and columns present the vic:ws of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi~oint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lem:rs is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must he signed and must include conc:u:r information. 
Questions regarding Obrcrvcr pol,:cia ,hould be direct­ed to Editar in ChefMike Omnoliy. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Patriotism important in times 
of national doubt 
As a student who went to Washington 
D.C. for spring break through the Center for Social Concerns, studying international humanitarianism could get discouraging. Issues seemed too vast and complicated to effect any sort of substantial change. 
For example, there are thousands of sweatshop factories that could never be monitored. Plus, our nation has failed time and again to provide effective aid to any of the millions of people oppressed worldwide. 
When crowds of Jews sailed to the United States during the Holocaust, how could we turn our backs and send them back home across the Atlantic? 
These truths can cause the flame of American patriotism to quickly grow bleak. Doubts can overshadow a res· olute, innocent pride in a nation once seeming steadfast in integrity. How can anyone have pride in a nation with such a history? 
When patriotism seems impossible, then is exactly the time for national pride to rally. Patriotism in one's couri­try is much more than a spirit fostered by a nation's demonstrated character traits and pride in what it has accom­plished in the past. . 
Patriotism is belief in the potential goodness of a nation's future and the actions to make that good a reality. It is full confidence in citizens and in the positive force that they can have together. When the flame of national­ism grows dim, it is time to stoke its fires to forge a stronger, sturdier spirit of patriotism that is more resolute in its noble purposes. 
Individuals in D.C. and elsewhere demonstrate this resilient nationalism. One D.C. teacher carries the message of peace to prominent universities and jails ?-like with a textbook of essays on peace that he himself has compiled. A bit of innovation and some action on his part has permanently impacted thou· sands of lives. 
When all of a nation's character seems lost. then is the time to take renewed love in that nation and its peo• pie as this teacher has, for it is exactly this love that restores that nation's goodness. 
Doing this shows what it means to have patriotism. 
Andrew DeBerry 
sophomore Keough Hall March 26, 200 I 


From the crushing of the Paris com­mune in 1871 to the invasion of Russia by the armies of every capital­ist nation after the Bolshevik revolu­tion to the U.S. war against socialism in Indochina to the U.S. interventions in El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua. the prime objective always has been the prevention of socialism succeeding anywhere. 
Now. the U.S. media want me to ignore 130 years of this history and believe that the military aid and U.S. advisors in Colombia have something to do with stopping drugs. Give me a break. 
The American people may have been conditioned by repetition and sound bytes to believe this baloney, but it is a much more destructive and vicious lie than the one told by President Clinton about his sex life. It is similar to the lie told by the media that the bombing of Yugoslavia was due to great compassion by the U.S. 
government for the Albanians in 
Kosovo. It was really to destroy the 
last socialist state in Europe that was 
refusing to yield to the privatization 
and deregulation demands of the 
International Monetary Fund and 
World Bank. 

The U.S. government has actually collaborated with drug traffickers such as the Hmong people in Indochina, the Afghan "freedom fight· ers" and the Contras in Central America to defeat socialist revolu­tions. This makes their claim of fight­ing a drug war even more ridiculous. 
Former DEA agent Michael Levine wrote a book called, "The Big White Lie," in which he documents how the CIA brought a government to power in Bolivia in 1980 that he refers to as the "General Motors of cocaine." Incidentally. this was the coup in which Klaus Barbie and other European fascists participated. 
Horrible things are being done by the paramilitary armies in Colombia that are armed and trained by the United States. Pacifica radio's pro­gram, "Democracy Now," reported that a village of men, women and chil­dren were massacred by paramili­taries using chain saws to slowily dis­member people and kill them. 
This is the doctrine of low-intensity warfare. The most despicable and horrifying thing imaginable is done so that U.S. forces won't need to be deployed. After Vietnam the American people will no longer tolerate signifi· cant American casualties. Also, a frightened, intimidated population is ideal as a labor force for sweatshops because they won't unionize. Call your representatives in Congress and end this evil in Colombia. 
Gary Sudborough 
Bellflower, Ca. March 27, 2001 

DILBERT 
BOB, I'M 5TARTING 
A POWER. UTILITY 
COMPANY. 
E 8 
t: 
~ 

.__________


YOU'LL BE MY DIR.ECTOR OF MARKETING. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

NOP.MALLY I'M AN HERBIVORE, BILLY, 
BUT WHEN THE LIGHTS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Patriotism is the veneration ofreal estate above principles. " 
George Jean Nathan critic 


VIEWPOINT 
r\lHE 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001 Vl)SERVER page 9 
Mission beyond buildings 
I want to respond to two questions which have been asked by students, faculty, staff and alumni in the past few weeks about the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). I briefly will clarify how our mission is beyond buildings and offices. 
Question one: Has the CSC moved? The answer is both "no" and "yes." The "no" answer affirms that the Center for Social Concerns, as a 
csc

building, remains where it was dedicated in the spring semester, 1983. The CSC is the small building (previously WNDU 
For a More 

Studio) between Hesburgh Library and 
Just and

Breen-Phillips near the North and East 
Humane World

Quads. Most of the faculty, staff, student assistants, interns and partners or visi­tors will continue to appreciate this space as our central hub for meetings. 
For example, last Friday afternoon I entered the front door and encountered 30 Notre Dame students in animated con­versations about their upcoming eight-week International Summer Service Learning Projects in 14 different sites in 11 countries. Quickly they left with staff and student interns and went to Camp Friedenswald in Michigan for a 28-hour orientation retreat. 
I had the privilege of celebrating the Eucharist with them Saturday evening after they had spent hours of sharing, learning, enjoying and appreciating the opportunity where they will represent Notre Dame and the CSC in sites beyond our borders and buildings. In other words, they left the front door of the CSC hoping to experience cross-cultural and transformative educational experiences with partners in Michigan and later in other parts of the world. 
Planning and networking in the CSC building facilitated this program and multiple other programs of "experiential and service learning." The "no" answer above affirms the importance of the current CSC building as a central space for networking dedicated to our mission, which can only be lived out in "creative partnerships" with others on and off cam­pus. 
The following "yes" answer affirms that the CSC has moved into a 300 square foot satellite office in the Coleman Family Center for Campus Ministry in the corridor near the south entrance. We are grateful to continue collaboration and share relationships and space with Campus Ministry, First Year of Studies and Academic Services for Student Athletes. 
This space will enable a combination of student assistants and staff to share information, interact with persons in the building and provide social concerns related photos, quotes, resources, et cetera. Since I live in McGlinn Hall, I can appreciate that this closer space for the South and West Quads can lead to more "drop in" conversations and immedi­ate dissemination of information about current and new pro­grams and initiatives. We hope to encourage faculty involve­ment as well. 
Question two: Is the CSC located in other locations or spaces on and off campus? The answer is "yes." I am refer­ring to people and relationships more than physical space. 
For example, on campus there are hall-based social con­cerns commissioners who work closely with us in enhancing the Notre Dame and CSC mission. Off campus in Michiana, we have multiple community-based learning coordinators who work with community groups and share part of their time to assist us in linking Notre Dame learners and resources (students and faculty) with their missions (e.g .• South Bend Center for the Homeless, the Robinson Community Learning Center, et cetera). 
We also have a special grant-par~nership with the South Bend Heritage Foundation, which allows two Notre Dame­CSC related staff to engage the community from the sites. I relish that multiple partners open their doors and hearts to hundreds of CSC-linked students and alumni involved in ser­vice and learning nationally and internationally during all semester and summer breaks. 
I assume there will always be a few students who enter the CSC building asking if this is the Center for Continuing Education (CCE) for a class. I hope the CSC response to the above two questions will be to you an invitation to visit, become engaged and-move with us in our challenging mis­sion to "bring about a more just and humane world." This mission is impossible to achieve without partners and mov­ing beyond the CSC building and other buildings on and off campus. 
"For a More Just and Humane World" is a bi-weekly col­umn in The Observer. The author, Don McNeill, C.S.C., Notre Dame class of '58, is Executive Director ofthe Center for Social Concerns, a priest ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross and a resident in McGlinn Hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stand alone as Catholic university by making education affordable 
We would like to focus on two items from smaller than the rate at which you are Wednesday's Observer article headlined, "ND increasing tuition and fees), I know, but give 2001-2002 tuition hike lowest since 1959." people (future students' parents, some of First, "This year's increase is the lowest since whom, like us, are alumni) a break. 1959, when there was no increase from Does it really have to cost that much? the previous year." Like many alumni, each of us hopes 
Why can't you do better than that a Notre Dame education that? Why are you satisfied will be a possibility for our with "the lowest since children when that time 1959" and not willing to comes. But when policies make it the lowest such as the consistent ever? Why can't you increase in cost (well freeze tuition? ahead of inflation) 
"Officials said are in place, I don't Notre Dame see how that will charges remain be possible with­far below those out being crip­of similar pri­pled by the vate institu­weight of mas­tions." sive loans. 
Why are you Ask yourself proud of this? this -is Notre Why are you Dame's mis­concerned sion to be about "simi­among the lar private best private institutions"? institutions Why can't (which hap­this be anoth­pens to be er area where Catholic), or Notre Dame is is it to be the content to be best Catholic different from institution the rest of the (which hap­pack? pens to be pri­Referring back vate)? Judging to Mike by the Connolly's col­University's mis­umn in the March sion statement, 8 edition of The the latter seems to Observer, if we be true. That means assume that the a Notre Dame educa­endowment only earns tion should be afford­1 percent interest ($35 able to the many million), and that there American Catholic and are 8,014 undergraduates, non-Catholic families, for then you should be able to whom $30,530 is a large sum decrease tuition by at least of money. $4,367. It's simple math. 
Using the same simple math, if the Steve Ponisciak Board of Trustees continues to accept the Durham, N.C. "lowest increase since 1959," 4.9 percent per Dan Cichalski year, the cost of one year of undergraduate Little Silver, N.J. education at Notre Dame in 25 years (by Brad Prendergast which time many recent alumni will have col­Chicago, Ill. lege-age children) will be $100,951.79. I'm class of'98 ignoring inflation (the rate of which is much March 27, 2001 
Guns ease violent act 
With regard to the latest dis­knife. violent action. cussion about school violence A hand gun makes it too How many times have pri­and guns, I think everyone can easy for one individual to vate citizens needed guns to agree that the individual is cause a lot of damage to life in repel an oppressive govern­responsible for his or her a short period of time. The act ment in this country in the last actions. Having said that, I of pulling the trigger is itself 200 years? If it really came to still think that the "tool," in rather clinical and non-vio­that, isn't a rifle good enough? this case hand guns, needs to lent, thus making it easier for It is time to once and for all be eliminated. a user to accomplish violent eliminate hand guns. 
While the gun may be just a acts. Concealable fire arms pose too tool used to carry out the act, Other "tools" of violence great a threat to public safety how many violent school require the user to be up close not to. deaths do we hear about using and personal with the victim other tools? I have heard of no and require an inherently vio­Brian Price instances where several stu­lent physical action like a class of '95 dents are killed and many oth­swing or stab. I believe that Pittsfield, Mass. ers wounded by a student with alone would discourage many March 27, 2001 a baseball bat, an axe or a people from carrying out the page 10 

What are women to do in Notre Dame's "Old Boys' Club"? 
ls Notre Dame still an "Old Boys' Club"? This may· seem like 
an odd question. After all, there are clearly women at Notre 
Dame that are paying tuition and living on this campus. 
However, the other day a certain saucy professor of mine 
pointed out that the only women commemorated on this cam­
pus are a sinner (the women by the well 
in front of O'Shaughnessy) and a virgin 
(Mary on the Dome}. 
1--Ie then alluded to the presumption that 
the women of the Notre Dame communi­
ty, and women in general, fall under one 
of these categories. Now that's certainly 
not something I remember reading in the 
Notre Dame brochure. , 
fn my opinion, there has never been 
such a great time to be a woman. Sinners 
or saints, we certainly have the freedom 
to choose our path. Women can be moth­
ers, doctors or both. 
No longer are women defined by the 
men in their lives. From the PTA to the 
CIA, women are everywhere. However, 
before we raise our fists triumphantly in 
the air and run our proverbial victory lap, we must remember 
that there is still work to be done. 
Notre Dame has been co-ed for thirty years now. It has sur­
vived the feminist movement, the bra burnings and even the 
horrible blue eye shadow of the '80s. The male-female ratio is 
almost equal, and yet, it seems that the campus still caters to 
men. 

Outwardly, the women of the Notre Dame community have broken the mold. We have elected a female student body presi­dent. There is a woman marching with the Irish Guard. Our women's basketball program is phenomenal. Saint Mary's remains one of the best liberal arts scqools in the country. We're a smart. talented bunch of girls./ 
However, we're not there yet. The women of this campus may have proven themselves bright, beautiful and indepen­dent, but we still encounter a social barrier obstructing our road to success. Although we've maintained excellence in many areas. there are still several issues facing the Notre Daine community that must be improved upon. 
To begin, I find it amazing that with all of the emphasis on protecting the female population of Notre Dame, enforcing stricter rules regarding dorm security and avidly promoting women's issues, it took a story in "Cosmopolitan" to generate attention to rape awareness on this campus. 
The details of the incident weren't provided in the article, therefore it is difficult to determine exactly who is to blame for the breakdown in communication. However, in an environ­ment where we are almost encouraged to look the other way, now is the time to realize that rape is an issue that can poten­tially affect everyone on campus. 
There's also the persistent issue of critiquing the way women on this campus dress. Every year, earnest contributors to the Viewpoint section debate both sides of the issue, using fashion as a means for breaching the question of sex at Notre Dame. 
Whether or not you think black pants, tube tops and glittery eye shadow equal sin and debauchery, I've never seen an arti­cle discussing the khakis, baseball caps and Timberlands found on the men of Notre Dame. 
And then there's the argument over the "rivalry" between the women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Why is this even an issue? We're women -not militia from conflicting, war­torn countries. When it comes down to it, the only true differ­ence between us is going to be the signatures on our diplomas. 
Sinners or saints, we are the women of the Notre Dame com­mu·nity. We've made great strides, but we're not there yet. In some ways our school is still an "Old Boys' Club," catering to the men it educates. 
However, all is not lost. When it comes down to it, let's not forget our great University's namesake -after all, it's a woman who stands above the Golden Dome that is Notre Dame. 

Jacqueline Browder 
In Vogue 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001 

nternational business and you: IBC hosts globalization foru01 
yPAULRILEY 
Do you ever wonder how your Gucci loafers 
ade the trip from the factory where they are andsewn, to a port to be shipped across the tlantic, to your local department store and ventually to your feet? 
Do you ever think about how American prod­cts like Coke. Pepsi and Kraft Macaroni and heese end up in supermarkets in Brazil or ow American companies do business in such ountries in the first place? Do you know what xactly e-business is and how it works? Do you 
hink about any of this in the first place? 
To help answer these questions and to pro­"de an informative and entertaining afternoon or interested students, faculty, and the public, otre Dame's Student International Business ouncil will be hosting its Globalization Forum 
his Saturday in the Jordan Auditorium of OBA. The Globalization Forum features seven 
peakers from various fields who have back­rounds in international business in countries rom Italy to Brazil. 
These speakers will be addressing issues in nternational business and globalization to pro­ide students with general information on the opic and their own knowledge and expertise in he field. The breadth of speakers at the forum 
ill provide valuable information for students ho are interested in specific facets of interna­ional trade. 
The forum presents valuable opportunities to he Notre Dame community, according to SIBC resident Dave Wilson: "[The forum] is a way 
o reach out and give back to the students at otre Dame." Students who attend the forum will have "the 
pportunity to learn more about international usiness and they will also have the ability to eet highly regarded business professionals nd make incredible contacts," said Wilson. he forum's wide range of speakers and fairly mall setting will provide students with ample pportunities to learn from the speeches and 
nteract more personally with the speakers. 
Several professors and alumni are among the list of speakers. Professor Lisa, Caponigri. the former general counsel for Gucci based in Florence, Italy, will be speaking on the role of multinationals and global mangers in globaliza­tion. 
A visiting professor from the University of Ulster in Northern Ireland, Professor James Hill will draw from his experiences in the industry, retail and agrifood sectors as he speaks on "Doing International Business: Some Practical Lessons." 
One of the forum's speakers is a former SIBC member. Bryan Jordan will provide an overview of international economic trends and familiarize students with inflation, interest rates and financial markets across the world. 
Business executives make up the rest of the forum's presenters. Frank Pollack, the vice 
president of international marketing for 
Plastipak Packaging, whose consumer base 
includes Coke, Pepsi and Kraft. will discuss 
international marketing. 
The vice president of e-business at Thomson 
Multimedia, a global electronics company ­
Douglas Pileri -will present on technology 
and business. Finally, the "Future of Free 
Trade after Seattle" will be the topic of the 
forum's last speaker, Michael Eads, executive 
at JBC International in Washington D.C. 
The Globalization Forum is just one of the 
many opportunities that the SIBC provides to 
students at Notre Dame. The organization 
boasts the largest membership on campus and 
has a healthy budget, thanks to its benefactor 
and founder Frank Potenziani. 
The SIBC also prides itself on devoted alumni who make up the International Business Council. With these resources, the SIBC is able to work to capture its vision of "peace through commerce" by sending students from Notre Dame all over the world for summer intern­ships and teaching positions. 
This summer the council is sending students everywhere from Ireland to Estonia, providing the students with ample opportunities to get their feet wet in the business and teaching are­nas, while at the same time promoting ethical business, good will and peace. 
When the.group isn't sending members away in the summer, the SIBC keeps busy at weekly division meetings. The club is broken up into divisions of marketing, finance, accounting, global development, human resources and internships. Each of these divisions performs a specific role in the club and has separate goals and projects. 
The marketing division handles advertising on and off campus for SIBC events. Finance has many subcommittees assigned to various pro­jects and simulations, and has ties to the Federal Reserve Board of Chicago, Credit Suisse First Boston and Robert W. Baird. The business consulting division assists companies entering emerging markets while at the same time working with companies such as Mckinsey & Co. and CSFB. 
SlBC's accounting division prepares the group's budget and annual report, while allow­ing its members to gain international exposure to accounting projects. Global development is in charge of acquiring and filling international teaching positions and spearheading other humanitarian efforts. 
The division's most recent project, the Haiti Bednet Project, will help provide much-needed bednets to those in need. The last SIBC division, human resources, works to maintain contact with the IBC and plans events like the Globalization Forum, which Wilson claims is "one of the biggest events of the spring semes­ter." 
"It is our duty to reach out to students and provide experiences and opportunities to enhance their experience at Notre Dame," said Wilson. "We hope that people attend and enjoy [the Globalization Forum)." 


T H 
c~ne E R 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001 page 11 



After two years ofhard work, juniors Tommy Curtin and Ryan Cunningham (right) finally saw their musical take the stage last weekend. Following the antics of three best friends through interactions with incredible characters, love and relationships, audience members experienced musical comedy at its best. 
. 

photos courtesy of 
RYAN CUNNINGHAM 
Student-written "Chance at Love" a huge success 

By CHRISTOPHER SCOTT Scene Theater Critic 
Musical theater is a rarity on Notre Dame's campus. Students are able to experience their share of assorted Fih_n, Television and Theater mainstage performances, but they can only experience one musical per year, as performed by the Pasquerilla East Musical Company each February. 
With the creation of the Farley Hall Players and the performance of "Chance at Love" this Friday and Saturday in the Lafortune Ballroom, the campus was granted another opportunity to indulge in the wonders of musicals and in particular, musical comedy. 
The biggest difference between this musical and oth­ers performed on campus in the last four years is that the script, music and lyrics were written and composed by two Notre Dame juniors: Ryan Cunningham and Tommy Curtin. 
Two years after a fortuitous conversation in the booths of the LaFortune Student Center, the hard work of Cunningham and Curtin have produced a musical comedy which "makes light of dating and its inherent infatuation, domination and desperation," according to the play's program. 
The story of "Chance at Love" takes place in your average suburban city and follows the adventures of three best friends: Tom, Brett and Adam. Tom (played by freshman Ray-Areaux) is the "nicest guy you'll ever meet" and is in love with his girlfriend Cheryl (senior Betsy Kahl) who has used him for the last three years. 
Brett Gunior Alan Maginn} is the socially successful guY. who ends up with a new girl every night (all played by junior Heidi Kellner). Adam (Cunningham) is the dorky friend that the guys say they keep around for comic relief who is "clinically retarded" when it comes to the dating scene. 
The plot begins as Elmer (senior Matt Baggetta), the elderly neighbor of the three friends, is disgusted with Tom for asinine reasons. For this Elmer desires to destroy Tom's life by breaking up him and Cheryl. Elmer gains the assistance of Brett by promising him a date with his granddaughter Mary (senior Tiana Checchia). 
Elmer succeeds in breaking up Tom and Cheryl, but his plan fails as Brett passes off his date with Mary to the newly single Tom in favor of a date with Cheryl. At the same time in the show, the elder Gwen (sophomore Molly McShane) secretly pursues the younger Adam. 
From the beginning until the end of "Chance at Love," the actors never departed from character. 
"Everything from the set changes to the dialogue to the songs were done in a very relaxed manner, as if our characters knew they were putting on a show," said Maginn. 
This was evident even when the characters walked offstage "in the hallway." They reacted to the audi­ence's presence by saying hello or in Elmer's case ask­ing them what they were doing in his hall as he passed the front row. While outlandish at times. each charac­ters' actions were done in way that made the audience believe that they knew what it was like to be the per­son they were playing. 
"One of the greatest things about the show was that we as performers were having so much fun on stage, and the audience could sense that and enjoyed it with us," said Baggetta. "That relationship with the audi­ence -that collective energy -just made the whole show that much better." 
Baggetta's performance was perhaps the most out­standing of the night. His portrayal of Elmer as the evil nemesis was by far the most difficult part in the show. While the other characters basically acted their age, Baggetta transformed himself into a grumpy 80-year old man out to seek revenge on the world. 
~!.-!!.: :;.l.!:~~=•~i~_;.:..... : .. :.. .. ?~ ... , .. ,.:-i~ •. ; , 
Just watching his facial expressions was enough to cause laughter for some audience members. Baggetta was also the only male member of the cast who had to don women's clothing. 
A unique aspect of "Chance at Love" was the straightforward mocking of musical comedy itself. This · added an amusing feel to the show, as the actors acknowledged how ludicrous it was to randomly break into song, or for relationships to go from start to mar­riage in the course ofjust a few scenes. 
For example, in Gwen's song, "Just Boys," she tried to explain to Elmer that the key to happiness is "a har­monious and symphonious singing spree." ln "More Th11,n Stars," Tom and Mary had their first kiss, but then only a scene later Tom asked her to marry him. 
A continuous stream of humor flowed through "Chance at Love." From nipple jokes to hostage crises, not a single scene in the show was devoid of humor. Even when it seemed time for a serious melody, there was something to keep the audience laughing. 
For example. after Mary first met Tom. she sang the beautiful solo "Perhaps I Like Him." However as she sang, a drunk Gwen attempted to revive a heart attack-stricken Elmer using an iron as a heart defibril­lator. · 
Despite this constant humor, the hours of hard work that were put into the show were evident. "Chance at Love" is an extremely well written show. Curtin has composed wonderful melodies that many will hum for days after the show and Cunningham has written a script that will keep future audiences rolling in the aisles. 
A truly amazing experience, "Chance at Love" was performed by a phenomenally talented cast who were friends onstage as well as off. For the 500 people that saw "Chance at Love" this weekend, they had the chanc.e to experience some of the true creative talent Notre Dame has to offer. 
I 
page 12 Wendesday, March 28, 2001 
The fbserver . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
I 
Irish look to bounce ba~k in home game with Toledo 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Spom W ritcr 
After two heart-breaking losses to Virginia Tech over the weekend, the Notre Dame men's baseball team is suffering through its first losing streak of the season. But don't expect the Irish players to lose too much sleep over that fact. 
"We're not concerned about that at all," said coach Paul Mainieri. "I think anyone who follows baseball knows that every game is a new opportunity to prove yourself, and I think we're going to do great against Toledo and Seton Hall this week." 
The team has good reason to be optimistic. Despite the back-to-back losses. the Irish are still ranked 13th in the Collegiate Division I poll and in good position to challenge for a Big East title, More importantly, the team's slumping hitters finally exploded for eight runs in the 9-8 loss to Virginia Tech. 
Notre Dame hopes to carry some of that offensive momentum over to its game today against a streaking Toledo squad. While Toledo (11-9) may not look like much a match for the Trish (16-4-1) on paper, the Rockets have won eight of their last nine games, posting 19 and 11 runs in their last two contests. 
Th~ Irish will be taking the field behind starting pitch­er Peter Ogilvie (1-0, 0.00), who has been almost per­fect in his two appearances this season. Despite his rel­ative inexperience, Ogilvie is not overly concerned about Toledo's offensive firepower. 
'Tm going into this start like all the others and hope­fully we'll come out of this with a win," Ogilvie said. 
However, earning wins as the season progresses will likely be contingent on whether or not the Irish can i-ncrease their run production at the plate. The team's .292 batting average is seven points below last year's average and their home run production is also notably lower. Nonetheless, Mainieri is not overly concerned with such numbers. He likes what he has seen in recent practices and hopes that success at the plate will come soon. 
"Our hitters are definitely ready to break out," said Mainieri. 
Similar sentiments are echoed by the rest of the team. When asked if he felt confident that his teammates could give him enough run support to win the game against Toledo, Ogilvie responded, "Definitely." 
It appears that confidence is high around the Notre Dame squad and any residual disappointment from the weekend losses has been eliminated. 
"As a team, you've got to be able to bounce back from a tough loss. I think we've got the make of a champion and we'll be able to do that," said centerfielder Steve Stanley. 



All-American p tcher Aaron Hellman warms up at a practice earlier this season. Hellman was named as Big East pitch .r-of-the-week last week, after pitching a two-hit shutout over Pittsburgh. 
~ 
I 
Heillllan gets 10th Big East award 
Heilman is the only individual to ters over the mm1mum of 27 in 
Special to the 6bserver 
amass more than four player or the 108-pitch outing while scat­pitcher-of-the-week awards in tering two hits, four walks and Notre Da e senior righthander 
his career -including one in two hit batters over the full nine Aaron Heil an, of Logansport, 1998, three in 1999 and four in innings, with eight strikeouts and Ind. has rec ived his 10th career 
2000. He also was honored by 16 groundball outs, includingBig East C nference baseball 
the Big East three weeks ago, three double-play balls. 
pitcher-o ­
after tossing a similar nine­Tony Railing collected both 
the-week 
inning shutout against Florida Pittsburgh hits, the first coming
award, aft r 
Atlantic. when he led off the bottom of the 
tossing h s Heilman registered his 16th first inning and the second not 
second nin ­career complete game and fifth coming until the eighth inning.
i n n i n lg 
solo shutout -fifth-most in Heilman stranded baserunners 
shutout cj)f 
Notre Dame history and second­in three of the first four inningsthe season in most since 1914 -against the -plus a double play in the third a 3-0 win at 
Panthers, after allowing just a -before striking out the side in Pittsburgh dn 
handful of balls to leave the the fifth. He faced just 16 battersFriday : e man 
infield -two on flyouts, plus a over the final five innings, one 
Since t~e 
bloop single and a single through over the minimum, with double Big East a4ards began in 1985, the infield. He faced just five bat-plays in the eighth and ninth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the ·right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND 
A black carry-on bag at Main Circle on Thursday (3/22) between 8 p.m. and midnight. II found or have any Info on Its whereabouts, please contact Pablo at x1n5 
WANTED 
Fra te rnltie s •Soro ritl as Clubs'Student Groups Earn $1,0i.J0-$2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. No sales required. Fundralsing dates are filling quickly, so call todayl Contact Campusfundraiser.com at 
(888) 923-3238, or visit www.cam­pusfundralser.com 
Earty childhood substitute teachers needed lor area chfldhood centers for a four-week period. lnlormatlonal meeting Wednesday, March 28, 9 a. m. charles martin youth center, lower level, IUSB room,914 Llncolnway West, South 
Bend, IN 
JOB OPPORTUNITY Four ND families looking for cre­ative tutor to instruct grade school childm in home setting. Ed. Degree not raq. Normal school calendar 
Hours 8-12 Mon. -Thurs. 
Call 254-9466 
CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof needs childcare In home T-Th mornings, ideally 9-2 but at least 9­
1. Three great kids, 5,3, 1. Large com­fortable home 1 mile from campus. Own transportation required. 
Please call 631-3654 days, 289­3865 evenings or 
email meissner.1@nd.edu 
Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots of love and a secure, stable life. 
Reasonable expenses will be paid. For more info, please call Rebecca re Larry &Kathy; 
toll-free 1-866-30-ADOPT 

LOSE WEIGHT! EAT ~HAT YOU LIKE! I 
WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAM­PUS SERVICE 
jYour super-convenient ream diet from a name you trust I coming to Notre Darnel No complicated count­ing! Eat pizza, cookies, f st food ­any food you crave and I se weight. Get Info-packed bookie , tons of super-easy recipes, s mples of your great snack bars a d special­ized onllne support fr m trained Weight Watchers staff. Y u pay just $59 for 5 weeks. Sum,rer is just around the corner -reqlster today over the phone: 1·800-j572-5727. Visa. MasterCard, an~ Discover Accepted I 
HOUSES FOR REN~: 1)4-br $700/month 2)3-br. 1 $600/month WeOII m~ke almost any changes to the ho~s. 
I 
cau 0111 at e1s--0ns 
Furnished condos available for blue and gold game. Ivy residential 
(219) 273-4896 
4-BR HOUSEi CENTRAL AIR SEC SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
Bed and Breakfast for ND and SMC graduation 3 miles from ND 2 rooms left 287-4545 
Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview owned by Dome, nice closets, brick 6-flat, Hardwood 
Floors, bright apartment, decorative fireplace, near el, heat included! May 1 1250/mo. 773-472-7775 
3 Houses still available for 2001 ·02. 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime locations, 233-9947 Greg. 
New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdnn, 3 bath home is close to campus with features like fireplace, cathe­dral ceilings, family room, deluze appliances, 
24x30 garage. $1400,'mo. Call 219­232-4527 or 616-683-5038 

Nice 3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace, fenced backyard, 2-car garage. $995/mo. Call-219-232-4527 or 616683-5038 
3-bdrm home 2 blcks from campus Fall 01 273-1566 
FOR SALE 
Full size bed with box spring and frame $150 call 634-4575 
Beautiful brass bad, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still In plastic. $235 
219-862-2082 
Europe $199 one way. Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip + tax. Other worldwide destinations cheap. If you can beat these prices start your own dam airline! Book tickets online www.airtech.com or 
(877) AIRTECH 
Need a dress for upcoming SYR's/Formals?? I'm selling sever­al formal dresses that have only been worn once. Call 284-4446 for info. 
Unique Notre Dama Football College Painting 15 FT. 5 in X 4 FT 7 in. Pictured: The Gipp, Knute Rockne, Ara,. Devine, Holtz, Leahy, 4 horsemen w/names on horseback. Fathers Joyce and Hesburgh, Touchdown Jesus, Golden Dome, Stadium. Holtz coming out of tunnel with team, Dates of all championships, Call 219-784-2104 PICTURED ON WEBMASTER@BLU EAN D­GOLD.COM 
PERSONAL 
Break glass in emergency -eight more weeks and we can break the glass in celebration 
So I say, I'd like to get out of these wet clothes and into a dry martini 
Ihorse walks Into a bar and the bar­tender says 'Why the long face?" 


Wednesday, March 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish take 5th straight with win over Ohio 18-9 
Special co The Qb5erver 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team won its fifth straight on Tuesday to improve to 5-1 with its 18-9 win at Ohio. Junior Natalie Loftus lead the Irish with four goals and two assists, while Tracy Coyne, a 1983 graduate junior Lael O'Shaughnessy of Ohio University. The five­added three goals and an game winning streak matches assist for the Irish, who return the longest the program's to action this weekend with a five-year history, while the 5­pair of games against 1 start equals the 5-1 of the Delaware and at Vanderbilt. first varsity program in 1997. The win marked a successful The Irish got on the board return to Irish head coach first less than a minute into 
Annuondng a ~ew undergrad,.ate minor. 
the contest and never trailed. Notre Dame led 10-3 with less than six minutes to play in the first half, but Ohio countered with a 3-1 run that cut the margin to 11-6 at intermis­sion. Notre Dame tallied seven goals in the second half and held the Bobcats scoreless for the final 13 minutes to pre­serve the victory. 

Sophomore Anne Riley scored three goals, while freshman Meredith Simon had two goals and an assist. Senior Maura Doyle, junior Alissa Moser and sophomore Angela Dixon each scored a goal and added an assist. Sophomores Kelly Mccardell and D_anielle Shearer and freshman Kristen Gaudreau each added a goal, while junior Kate Scarola had an assists. Sophomore goaltender Jen White had four saves, while senior Tara Durkin 

Religion.:.and ·..Llterature 
Beginning next-fall, you c~ bring your intellectual curiosity and_scholarly goals as a 
participant in the new interdisciplinary minor in Religion and literature. 
· Ifyou ~ intc~in _becoming part ·of this new min.or the time to act is now. All · students will be expected to complete a spcci(re "required" counc-onc of which will be offered in the Fall.semester and another in the Spring. Spaces for the Fall course are currently being n::servcd but are limited. To fimf out more, please contact one of the following: 
Collin Meissner: Tel. 631-3654: e-mail Meiuner. l@nd.edu 
Joseph Buttigieg: Tel. 631-7781; e-mail BuUigicg.1@nd.edu · We look forward to seeing you this evening at the Arts and Letters Majors and Programs Fair in the Library Concourse, 5:30 -7:30 
saved a pair of shots. 

Ben Oc,twiler hoped to meke th• world e bfrtter place. That hoPB dii,d when hft was lt'Jlled by • drun~ drivfl. 
What ¦ hould yau do to 1top • friend from dri'ving drunlr.7 Whatever you have to. Friend ¦ don't let frl ¦nd• drive drunk. 

A!! 


25% OFF .All Fleece Sweatshirts 25% OFF _All Long Sleeve T-shirts 25o/o OFF A.11 Caps 25o/o OFF A.11 ~otre Dame Imprinted Gifts (Excluding Waterford, Belleek, Lladro) 50% OFF A.11 Back Packs 50% OFF A.11 Clearance 
Sale ends Afarch 31, 200I 



Wednesday, March 28, 2001 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday, April 1 • 7:30 p.m. 
Please Join us in supPort of the Food Bank of Northem Indiana by bringing a donation of canned food to the performance. There will be collection bmlc:ets at the entrances. 
···•~><•-o


1M8_(ift~ 
~Non•DAIi.. Ill 

For ticket information contact the 2 84 46 2 6 
Saint Mary's Box Office at • 

2001 Ylrts ~ Le-t:-t:ers Career ~air 
Spons,oretf 6y 'I1ie Career Cent:-er 
Wecl.:n.escl.a.y, March 28, 2001 
10:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m.. 
Heritage Hall, Second Floor Con.course (Enter Gates 1 or 2) 

MIDNIGHT MADNESS 
Holy Cross awarded trophy after correction 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spons Editor 
The Saint Mary's athletic department released a correc­tion on Tuesday regarding the winner of the All Sport Championship trophy that was rewarded to LeMans Hall during Midnight Madness on Friday. 
After discounting the points from the basketball champi­onship , the department took the trophy away from LeMans and awarded it to Holy Cross Hall. 
The department awarded points to 
LeMans hall "It was our error and Championship 

winner by a mar­
after "The 
not the students'." 
gin of seven po 
Badazzes" 

Also, in order
competed in 

and won the Lynn Kachmarik to further encourage the
intramural athletic director 
basketball champi­onship. However, upon careful examination, it was found that the team was composed of six 
off-campus  students,  two  
LeMans residents,  and  two  
McCandless Hall residents.  

According to the rules of intramural play. more than 50 percent of a team must be on­campus residents in order to participate. A violation of this rule would disqualify the team. However. the athletic depart­ment has claimed the error as its own, allowing "The Badazzes" to remain the intra­mural basketball champions. 
"Our biggest concern was that it was our error and not the stu­dents'," athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. 

The athletic department felt, however, that the team did not fairly earn points for either McCandless Hall or LeMans Hall, and therefore no points were rewarded to any hall. 
This changed the results of the All Sport Championship. Holy Cross Hall, which held a second-place finish by a margin of one point, is now the intra­
mural All Sport 
participation of 
off-campus stu­dents, the intramural program will have a category for off-cam­pus students to participate in. 
The athletic department is now focused on presenting the All Sport Championship trophy to Holy Cross Hall in an appro­priate manner. 
"We want to present [the tro­phy] to them in a way so they get recognition," Kachmarik said. "We will probably do it at the RA banquet or another affair." 
Football 
continued from page 20 
starters. ' The defensive line, the kicking unit, the tailback situation, the punting duties -the list goes on and on. What it all boils down to is that the team that stepped on the practice field Tuesday evening is completely different than the team that trudged out of Sun Devil Stadium on New Year's Day. 
They've certainly learned a lot from what happened last year, but games aren't won on expe­rience alone. As Davie himself said, "It's all about technique now." 
Davie and the rest of the Irish coaching staff changed some small fundamentals during the off-season, and he appeared happy after the first day of prac­tice. But as he is well aware, things can change pretty fast. and you can never be prepared ,for what happens -just look at what happened at quarterback last year. , Nevertheless, Davie is very optimistic heading into the spring practice season. 
"It's just good to get out here ,and start," he said. "It's encour­aging that we're at a high level to begin with, but we have to coach better fundamentals and 'play better fundamentals." 
And the head coach of the 
Irish feels much more comfort­ab le coming into this season fresh off a BCS berth and a .brand new five-year contract, as . opposed to last year when many wondered if he would even sur­
vive the summer. 
'Tm more comfortable right now than at any time since I've been head coach," Davie said, quickly adding, "That doesn't mean we're necessarily going to have a better record." 
It's a long spring, and there's plenty that the Irish need to improve. They'll do passing drills, blocking drills, kick field goals, and the rest of the annual routine. But the bottom line remains -Davie's 2001 squad is something completely differ­ent. 
By September 8, when Notre Dame steps onto the field against Nebraska, the only things that are certain to stay the same are the gold helmets and Irish tailbacks running up the middle. We'll see different leaders, different stars, and dif­ferent team dynamics. 
"Right now, we're just in the early stages of where we want to be, and we're focusing on taking one day at a time and just playing as a team," Irons said. 
K 
ABC News NlghtU.ne 
Academy oi: Televi.alo:n. Arts 
and Sciences Accenture (~ormerty Andez-ae:n Conault:f.ng) ACCJ:ON USA AFLAC Alliance i:or Cathol.lc Ed-ucation AMATE House Amari.can Red Cro•• AmerlCorpa Arth-ur Andersen. A7&T Aug-ustlnia:n Volunteer Program Beat Buddies J:nternat:lonal Botta Capital Management, LLC Boys & Girls Clu.ba oi: America Boys Hope Girls Hope Brown & Wood, LLP Cabrini M:lsa:lon Corps Carson Pirie Scott & Co. CathoU.c Relie:r Servt.cea Central l:n.t~llige:nre Agency Chieago Pu.bU.r Srhools 
Children's Ca:n1.pu.a 
ChildServ 
City o:t" .Indianapolis 
City Year, .lnc­
Congreaaman T:lm Roemer 

D'Arcy Advertising Drug En:t"orcement Administration E&.:J Gallo Winery The Elkhart Truth Enterprise Rent-A-Car Federal. Bureau of Investigation Ft.rat Source Bank Fund :for Public Interest Research Gang Cr;f.me Prevention Center Group One Trading, LP 
Hershey Foods 
Hol.y Cross Associates Indian.a Department of Transportation J'..nt-•rv.:i~w-.i.ng Co.n!!n:•lt-;1.r11t-.,.. .Tr1c_ .:Jordan. & .:Jordan Kapla%1 Edu.cation.al. Center Kau.f'fman Entreprene'llr 
lntetn Program KJ.rkland & Ellis Legal Services Program of Northern 
Indiana, Inc. Liz Clai~orne, Inc. Madf.so:ri. Center and Hospital Magazine Publl•hers o'f America Marriott Hotel MaasMuJ:ual. Plnan.ci.al Group May De:r;>artment Stores McKinsey & Company Men's Wearhouse 
Mercy Horne for Boys & Girls National City Corporation News America Marketing Ogilvy Public Relations On.site Companies Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceuticals PaineWebber Peace Corps Pro:fu.nd Systems Saa.tchi & Saatchi SAFECO lns'llran.ce Service Employees International Union, 
Local. aao Share Foundation with the 
Handicapped 

Simon & Schuster 
Spear, Leeds and Kellogg 
Starr Commonwealth 
State Parm Insurance 
Summerbridge National 
Teach 1'or America 
Tru.Gree:n. Chemlawn 
United Boa.rd :for Christian Higher 
Education in Aaia/NatJ.onal Council. of' Churches United Sta.tea Air Poree United States Department of' :Justice U:n.it:ed Sta.tea Secret Service 
Bureau o'f: National A1''faira, Inc.  Eckerd Youth Alternatives, J::nc.  Northern Kentucky Chamber  
Burns Sports Celebrity Service, Inc­ ESPN  of Commerce  
CB Richard Ellis  General! Mills  Northwestern Mutual Financial  
CBS News Chicago Asaoeia.tf.on of Neighborhood Development 01L"ganizations Chicago Child,.-..n'a M-useu.m City o:f New York Parka & Recreation Comerica Ea•ter Seals Camp Wawbeek  Grant P<jl.rk Mu.ate Festival 1:nter:natlo:n.al Pou:n.dati.on of Employee Benefit Plana 3CPen.ney Co. .:J. Walter Thompson Madison Square Garden National. .Institute :for Social  Network -The McTigu.e Group Pfizer, Inc. Special Recreation Services oi: Northern Lake County VAi/National Institute :f'or People with Dlaabilfties Young & Laramore  
Science ln:forrn.ation.  

------------------------------' ------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, March 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Attention: New faculty members and staff 

• 
We will be at Senior Week signups in April 

• 
Look for us in MCoB on Tuesdays and 


Unsure about your 

Wednesdays from 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM 
retirement choices? ;he~:e:1:~~=sS~:~::a:i •;:~; ~ ,~N,~-.,-,,~-:· 
are being sold for $45, but with 1 
this coupon, the Senior Thank 
You plaque is only $40. 


For ordering information and order forms go to http://www.nd.edu/~mgtclub (Coupon expires March 31'') 

[i?,STUDENT TICKET Ci?ISIC [i?HOSTEL CARD Ci?BACKPACK [i?PASSPORT Ci? EURA I LPASS 
1ou lRf. so 1\8\01 f01\ f.UI\OPf.. 
rlfflffllll Travel ...,,, 
AMERICA'S LEADER IN STUDENT TRAVEL 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
WWW.COUNCILTRAUEL.COM 

Softball 
continued from page 20 
Schmidt has been dominant so far this year, post­ing a 0.95 ERA and an 8-1 record in which oppo­nents batted an anemic .192. 
''Coming in this year and being put right into the games has been kind of overwhelming, but I have started to settle into things," said Schmidt. "Playing with such a great team around me has made the process much easier." 
The two pitchers never fail to acknowledge the support they get from their teammates. 
"Our defense makes it so much easier for me on the mound," says Sharon. "They are always behind you with a great play if you make a bad pitch. And the way that our offense has been scor­ing so many runs, you don't have to worry if you make a few mistakes." 
As a team, the Irish boast a .298 batting aver­age, and are led by junior Jenny Kriech, hitting a solid .391. Junior Jerrah Myers has also been explosive at the plate, batting .390 and leading the team in RBIs, on-base percentage and slugging percentage. 
Valparaiso has struggled out of the gates this season, starting off to a 2-12 record. While they have posted an impressive team ERA of 3.26, the Warriors have only managed to bat .209 as a team. while allowing their opponents to hit for a powerful .297 average. Thr.y are lead by freshman catcher Monica Rowan, who is batting only .275 on the season.. 
These two games will be the first in a set of four doubleheaders at home for the Irish. 
•

RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS 
XFL 

League will return even without NBC 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The struggling XFL will back next year, with or without NBC, the league's president said Tuesday. 
Visiting the nation's capital to discuss expansion, Basil DeVito also candidly discussed the numer­ous mistakes made by a league whose television ratings have reached historic lows. 
"We're going to be here," DeVito said. "There was a business plan in place prior to NBC coming in to the XFL, and that business plan still exists, still makes sense." 
Over the weekend, NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol said there would have to ·be an increase in ratings for the network to keep the league on the air. 
DeVito said if NBC does pull the plug, the XFL would maintain its broadcast agreements with UPN and cable network TNN, where DeVito said the ratings have "faired very well." Without NBC in the picture, DeVito said the league would consider moving its feature 
DeVito said the
• league has lis­
TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING·; 
tened to fan input. 
A football analyst 
is now in the 
games from Saturday nights to the more traditional football viewing period of Sunday afternoon. 
After a promising debut that won its time period on NBC, the XFL's ratings have plummeted. The Week 7 broadcast was believed to be the lowest-rated prime-time program ever on one of the three major net­works. 
"There are enters -its final
"There was a business 
some things that weeks, DeVito said 
quite frankly we plan in place prior to the teams have 
were unprepared NBC coming in to the evolved to the for," De Vito said. point where they
XFL, and that business
"We didn't do are playing decent ,,­
everything well plan still exists." football. Drew out of the gate." Pearson, general A 50-50 venture manager of the
Basil DeVito

between NBC and New York/New
XFL president

the World Jersey Hitmen, 
Wrestling Federation, the XFL had the bene­fit of two great promotional machines to get off the ground. What got lost, DeVito said, was the actual game of football. 
"We probably didn't give our football operations enough time to create a football product on the 
field,~ DeVito 
said. 
broadcast booth, and the league is trying harder to market recogniz­able "star" players. 
"Please give us one Kurt Warner," said DeVito, a reference to the NFL's 1999 MVP whose Arena Football League background gave the AFL some free, positive publicity. 
As the league 
agreed. 
"Is it what I expected? It's com­ing now to be what I expected," Pearson said. "The emphasis now is on football." 
Despite the new emphasis on the game itself, DeVito said the XFL was not taking the path of other unsuccessful football leagues, such as the WFL and USFL. The key, he · said, was striking a balance. 
"The XFL will always have a dis­tinctly contemporary attitude," DeVito said. "That is what will sep­arate us from anything that is out there." 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 28, 2001 
NFL 
Cowboys sign Banks to I year deal to replace Aik01an 
Associated Press 
IRVING. Texas 

Tho Dallas Cowboys have found Troy Aikman's succes­sor. 
Free agent Tony Banks, who began last 
season as Baltimore's starting quarter­b a c k , agreed to a one-year deal with Dallas, the Cowboys 


announced on their Web site Tuesday night. 
"We think he's going to tit in well in our offensive system," Cowboys vice president Stephen Jones said. "Our coaches are excited about get­ting him in here." · 
Banks will earn a base salary of about $500,000. fitting the Cowboys' needs of a starting quarterback at a low price. The deal also includes incen­tives that can increase its value. 
Jones and Banks' agent, Marvin Demoff, finalized the deal while both were at the NFL owners' meeting in Palm Desert. Calif. 
"They have a lot of history and no one thinks of Dallas as rebuilding," Banks said on the Cowboys' Web site. "More or less reloading. That's part of why it's attractive to me. I don't want to be on a rebuild­ing team. I don't want to have to be the savior again." 
The 27-year-old Banks was Trent Dilfer's backup when the Havens won the Super Bowl in January. 
A year ago, Banks had been considered Baltimore's quar­terback of the future. But he was cut by the Ravens on March 1 because of salary cap concerns. He was due $2.8 million on a four-year, $18.6 million contract he signed in February 2000. 
The Cowboys cut Aikman, a 12-year veteran who won three Super Bowls, this month for salary cap reasons and health concerns. 
Aikman was due a $7 million bonus and an extension through 2007 if he had still be on the Dallas roster March 8. The 34-year-old quarterback played in only eight games last year because of two concus­sions and a chronic back prob-The Cowboys have $23 mil-no longer on the roster. That lem. He had four concussions lion counting against their includes $10 million for in his last 20 starts. salary cap this year for players Aikman. 

N<:11~1 t'.IA"41 iN'Tl.R fl:R The Notre Dame l\",lllfW Center For Pastoral Liturgy announces~: The 3rd Annual Mark Searle Lecture in Liturgy Thursday, March 29, 2001 8:00 pm (est) McKenna Center for Continuing Education Room 112 -114 Rev. John Huels Professor of Canon Law • St. Paul's University "The New 'General Instruction of the Roman Missal': Subsidiarity or U1iformity?" <1 For information contact The Center for Pastoral Liturgy 119-631-5435 I ndcpl.1@nd.edu  
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STY). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hdurs that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you may develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2001 may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment.  

Carmen Slide Show /Lecture Monday, March 26 Lomas §arza 4:00 PM Jordan Auditorium C.&C81M&S /EJsffv E'FJS), 1989, gouBd18, 15 ~ 20 lnch!ll, Collfli;:tlon o( Ghboerio Card&Ms, So..lh Bsf'ld, IN; LJS6d with parlffa&KIA of .wsi Free and open to the public ·~· i',. Papel Picado -~1 .. ·, • Workshop*$'t~! J • *f : ' Tuesday, March 27 l' t• '16t i • ~­4:00 PM t . i) Snite Museum . -­.. Ashbaugh Educational Center ·:, ~}if Open to families with small children, student teachers and art teachers "Business of Art" Student Lecture* *Limited availability; must sign up in advance. Wednesday, March 28 1--0r more information or to sign up, please contact: Diana Leza, Program and Public Relations Coordinator 3:30PM Institute for Latino Studies Phone: 631-3747 E-mail: Leza. l@nd.edu 119 O'Shaughnessy Open to undergraduate and graduate Brought to you by the students interested in pursuing an artistic career Institute for Latino Studies and the Snite Museum of Art  
Looking for an opportunity to ask out your super-secret crush? HPC DATE EVENTS!! ALL ARE INVITED.•• Wednesday, March 28 Learn how to dine with the best! This special presentation by an etiquette expert is open to the first 20 couples to arrive at the Recker' s Hospitality room. Event begins promptly at 5 and lasts until 6: 30. Attend a workshop and brush up on your manners and table lessons, and then use your new knowledge to enjoy the delicious free chicke11 dinner that will follow. (dress should be informal but nice please) Watch for tomorrow's HPC sponsored events!  

Wednesday, March 28, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Mourning returns to Heat after battle with kidney ailment 
off the bench, threw off his game-to-game basis. court I am afraid. I'm human." tests revealed his condition had Associated Press warmup jersey and sprinted to David Falk, his agent, stressed Heat coach Pat Riley said he improved. the scorer's table to replace that Mourning is not cured, but was surprised Tuesday when Mourning's return bolsters the MIAMI Brian Grant, who left with two his dis-told Mourning Heat's playoff chances. The 
All-Star center Alonzo fouls. ease is in could return this team was 42-27 with 13 games Mourning returned Tuesday to The near-sellout crowd gave r e m i s -"The most difficult thing season but always left in the regular season and play with the Miami Heat, corn­Mourning a long standing ova-sion. believed he would tied for second with New York in 
in all ofthis is that the 
ing back from a kidney ailment tion. He responded immediately "I am come back eventu­the Atlantic Division, 6 1/2
doctors can't give me
that had sidelined him this sea­with a defensive stop, forcing pleased ally. games behind Philadelphia. son and once threatened his Antonio Davis to turn the ball finally to assurances about my Riley said Earlier this month, Riley said career. over on the ensuing possession. come to Mourning "has he would put the 6-foot-10
future." 

Mourning was added to the Mourning got the ball on the this day," raised the level of Mourning on the Heat's playoff lineup for the game against the other end but missed his first Mourning his competition" in roster in case he could play. visiting Toronto Raptors and shot, which came on his trade-said at a Alonzo Mourning recent days, but he The 31-year-old Mourning, a hopes to help the Heat as they mark hard drive across the lane. news con-Heat center will not play many six-time All Star, had been side­
head toward the playoffs next Mourning, who started prac-ference at month. ticing with the team several the Heat's 
The two-time defensive player weeks ago, decided to play after arena. "The most difficult thing of the year, Mourning entered doctors told him his condition in all of this is that the doctors the game with 3:43 to play in might not change for a year. He can't give me assurances about the first quarter and the Heat said he will be monitored closely · my future. trailing 17-14. Mourning jumped and his return will be on a "Every time I step out on the 

Best Buddies &Badin Hall present... 
Vv. Tun:pU?/Gr~ 
Designer, Author, Professor with Autism 
Wednesday, March 28th 7p.m. DeBartolo Hall Room 101 Free Admission. 
Disability Discussion 
Thursday, March 29th 7p.m. Center for Social Concerns 

http://www.nd.edu/~bbuddies Email: bbuddies@nd.edu 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-~, 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting appli­cants for the position of Admissions Counselor 
I  As Part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of  
¦  the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants,  
I  their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area.  
¦  
I  Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and  
¦  conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional  
I  responsibilities, including the possibility of diversity recruitment, will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment.  
¦  
I  Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame.  
•  
I  Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including  
¦  many evenings and Saturday mornings.  
I  Preferred start date is July 1, 2001  

-¦-¦-•-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
Apply with resume, cover letter and reference information by Friday, April 5, 2001 to: 
Admissions Counselor Job # 1007-088 Department of Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556

L--•-·-•-·-•-·-•-·-•-·-•-·-•-·-•-·-•~•-•~ 
' 
.... ,.. . 
..... -... -...... .. 
minutes in his first lined since being diagnosed in games. October with focal glomeru­"The journey of 1,000 miles losclerosis, an illness that leads begins with a single step," Riley to kidney failure in about half · said. the cases. If Mourning's kidneys 
Coincident~lly, Hakeem fail, he would need dialysis or a Olajuwon was added to transplant. Houston's lineup for Tuesday Mourning has been taking up night's game against Utah just to 11 pills a day to treat his kid­two weeks after announcing he neys and control his blood pres­would be sidelined for up to six sure and cholesterol. He also is months because of a blood clot following a strict low-sodium in his leg. diet. He last played Oct. 1 in the 
The 38-year-old center was U.S. Olympic team's gold-medal cleared to play after further victory over France. 

DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
-4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS  
-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR  
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS  
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES  
-SECURITY SYSTEM  
-WASHER & DRYER  CONTACT KRAMER  
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT  (219) 298-9673 CELL PHONE  
(219) 234-2436 OFFICE  

(219) 674-2572 VOICE MAIL ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002·2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
ll()f)liS'l1()lll~ ll1lSIil~'l'llill"'I"' 
XXX 

LAST DAYS of SIGN UPS!!!! Wednesday 11-2 & 5-8 P.M. and Thursday 5-7 P .M. ONLY!!! 
Next to elevator in Lafon lobby Cost: $15 
Don't Miss Your Chance to Play in this Great ND Tradition!!! 
Check out our website and sponsors: www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ 
-citl~ftStflOf­


mm@Ai~
UHU ltll! UH HIUTIII 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 28, 2001 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Griffey's spring training ends with pulled hamstring 
Associated Press 
SARASOTA, Fla. 
Ken Griffey Jr. won't play for the rest of spring training and his status for Opening Day is in doubt. 
The Cincinnati Reds won't know for a few more days 
whether Griffey's pulled hamstring amounts to a minor setback or a prob­lem that could linger for a few weeks. 
Griffey pulled his left hamstring while rounding third base Monday and had to be helped off the 

field. The leg was swollen on Tuesday, when he got several hours of treat­ment. 
Dr. Timothy Kremchek said it's the type of injury that is difficult to gauge in the first few days. The Reds expect to have a better idea by the weekend whether Griffey will be available for the season opener Monday. 
"We're not looking at putting him on the disabled list," Kremchek said. "Right now, I truly believe there's a possibility he'll play on Opening Day. We're going to do everything we can to get him in the best shape we possibly can. 
"On the other hand, we're not going to do something that's going to allow him to rehurt himself on Opening Day, just to play that one particular game." 
The major concern now is that the hamstring injury will turn into a linger­ing problem that limits him for much of the season. 
Griffey never had hamstring prob­

lems until last year. The left hamstring to the ground and didn't put any weight Griffey kept playing with the sore 
was sore much of the season, and he on the leg as he was helped off the hamstring last season and eventuallydidn't start again after partially tearing field. tore it. The Reds don't want the latest it Sept. 11. It was sore in the same spot "I think what happened yesterday injury to turn into another long-term when spring training started, but had was a freak injury," Kremchek said. problem. gotten better in the last two weeks. "He went around third base pretty hard "We hope we've nipped this in the 
He strained the lower part of the and he slipped and aggravated the bud and it won't be a lingering thing," hamstring when he slipped Monday in hamstring. It could have been any play­Kremchek said. "But hamstrings are a 3-2 loss to Kansas City. He crumbled er at any time." unpredictable." 
. . 2?001 

Arb and Latters Majors and Program Fair 

VVednesday, March 28 5:30 -7:00 p.m. Library Concourse 


Advisors from every Major, Minor and Area Studies Program will be available to provide information and answer questions for all students. 

were a Notre o·ame professor, what would 

l 
\...: 

~ 
·\·· •
,\, \ 
,, ... -~ 
., ~
',i,i,,.. 
'· 


Departrrz_e~t( Finance 
~ 

.. ,, ~ 
,. 
i 

.~~;n'itour Financial Future So You Can Live Your Dreams" 
~./. 1 
?i:,7· 
• I 
March 28, 7pm Breen-Phillips Hall 
SPONSORED BY YOUR STUDENT UNION AND BREEN-PHILLIPS HALL 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
EXCELLENTI NOW THIS IS WHAT I CALL ';::::==::::::~ A Fl:ATOF A~ONAVTICAL ENGINEERIN61 
BILLAMEND

Fox TROT 
olC, I F1N1SHEO SWE.EPINC:, THIS SWEEP THIS BUT I ALREADY 
HALF? 010 THAT HALF. 


TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
r n tr~m~ to coY'\e. up wdn o n<)l1\& -foc-M~ boo~stO\"e. te.o.1"\. 
Note>. b1~d~o.\ ! Are. you l\1dd11"1~ Me.' Thur, ·~ not liKe. "°'"''"~01 'r:lo.b~­
Th1:, 1:, U'lporton+. ,.i::l ' \ lh1~ l~WMt ~ beo\c.!>'tot"t. • 1fl oll ~bout. 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  26 Schamhorst  62 Deborah of  
1 Stored, as honey 6 Name prefix meaning "son of'  admiral 29 Yokels 31 Decline 34 Big name in philanthropy  "Days of Our Lives" 63 Sign of aging 64 Prepare for reuse, perhaps  
9 Make provision (for) 14 Where drachmas were  37 Bologna's place 39 Question, part 2 41 Pressure, in a way  65 Parable's message_ 66 Old pronoun 67 No longer in  
once spent 15 ·son _ gun!" 16 Sponger 17 Start of an idle question 20 Many namesakes: Abbr. 21 State tree of New Jersey 22 "Psst' Pass _!" 23 Affair  42 Surmounted 43 Person who knows the drill?: Abbr. 44 Slingshot item 46 Much binary code 47 Joint tenant's place? 48 Way to stand 50 Spanish ayes 53 Brings out 56 Cross shape  DOWN 1 Muslim pilgrimage 2 Operatic prince 3 R.S.V.P. part 4 East ender? 5 Holstein's home 6 Anticipation or sadness, e.g. 7 Onetime Michael Jackson do 8 Trans Am rival  
24 Baseball's strikeout king  59 End of the question  9 "Aladdin" prince 10 Red Square  
figure  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  11 Riga resident  
U  ..:.,+-=+-,+.,,,~  M A S S AM AT N I N 0  12 Rios, Jamaica 13 Declaration of Independence starter 18 Shriner topper 19 Go into free-fall 23 Hard-to­combine gas 25 Up and about  PUZ2ie by Robert DIiiman 31 Name in 2000 headlines 32 Ecological community 33 Deadly poisons 35 Irregularly notched 36 Made tame  48 Its tip may be felt 49 Set, as a price 50 Chang and Eng's homeland 51 _-European 52 Mark for life  S4 Jazz home 55 Shrewd 56 Precisely 57 Nave neighbor 58 Played for a sap 60 Net location 61 La-la starter  
26 Bum  38 Cravat's cousin  
27 Skinned  40 •_seen  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
E N T E R S E E Y A  N E Z S E A R E D N A  28 "Aunt_ Cope Book" 29 Massenet's "Le " 30 Deceived  enough!" 45 Guinness adjective 47 Paramecium propellers  are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions -;.rg available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON those you live with are happy. THIS DAY: Catherine O'Hara, Make any necessaxy arrangements Steven Weber, Emilio Estefan, ronceming your personal life. 000 Kay Lenz, Patsy Kensit VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Happy Birthday: You will Become involved in worthwhile have so much on your plate this ventures. Be cautious not to be 
year that you may run yourself too demanding or negative with into the ground if you aren't youngsters. Help with their proj­selective in your choices. Back up ects and praise them for their 
and decide what you really: want efforts. 0000 to achieve and set your game LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): plan in motion. You don't need to Your partner will be less than do it all to be successful. Slow accommodating. Be prepared.to get down, enjoy life and focus on the out and mingle withnew friends. It one thing you feel most comfort­is best to reserve judgment onthose able doing. Your numbers: 16, 27, who are secretive. 00 
31, 39, 44, 47 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to experience new and Emotional frustration will make exciting things. Take trips or sign it difficult for you to concentrate. up for courses that will offer 
Don't try to deal with negative adventure and a host of interest­situations. Let tempers cool down ing alternatives. 00000 and think things over before you SAGITTARIUS (N°"' 22-Dec. 21): speak your mind. 00 You may as well relax and enjoy 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): yoursell. Projects you start today You have to be careful not will lead nowhere. Spend time to offend someone with your with loved ones. 000 strong convictions. Problems with CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): friends or relatives will stem from Your emotions will be unstable. 
discussions concerning beliefs. Be careful not to stretch the truth 
Avoid fanatical individuals. 000 or blame others. If you make GEMINI (May 21-June 20): changes in your home, be sure Don't let your emotions interfere your family approves the plans 
when dealing with personal finan­before you start. 00 
cial matters. You have to learn to AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): say no to those too eager to spend Invite friends over. You should · your hard-earned cash. 000 make changes to your residence or 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): look into property investments. Talk to the one you love. Voice your You can make a clifference ifyou're complaints instead of letting y~ willing to help others. 000 
hostility grow. You can accomp_Iish PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): household projects ifyou're willing Spend some time with children to work together. 00 or close friends. You need some 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work physical activity to release the on home-improvement projects. stress and tension you've been Take the time to make sure that housing. 00000 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and always aware of other people's feelings. You are giving, incredibly creative and willing to try new things. You will stick to what you start ifgiven the proper encouragement 
(Need advice? Qi.eek out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromale.com.) 
() 2001 r foiversal Press Syndicate 
-------------------------------------------------~---------~-------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
; 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name 
Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


Ready to rock the Eck 
PORTS 
page 12 

r\J:HE page 20 vnSERVER Wednesday, March 28, 2001 
FOOTBALL 
Irish look at start of spring practice as new beginning 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Spom Edicor 
... 
· Bob Davie blew his whistle, clapped his hands and made several things disappear. Gone were the heartbreaking, last-second losses to Nebraska and Michigan State. Gone, too, were the exhilarating wins over Purdue and Air Force. 
Gone was the euphoria of earning a first ever BCS bid, and with it, the humilating 41-9 defeat to Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl. 
When Davie blew that whistle to start spring practice, last year's team slipped into the history books and media guides as the 2001 version of Notre Dame football stepped on the field. No one would deny that they gained experience from last year, but every single player inside the Loftus Sports Complex Tuesday knew that this was a whole new vear. 
"H's a totally different team than last year," said fifth-year senior-to-be Grant Irons. 
Davie agreed. "Everyone is 0-0 and nobody is really a starter yet. It's all about taking the first step." 
Nobody brought up last year's team and nobody asked about the Fiesta Bowl, even though the loss was still lingering. Said Irons: "That will never hap­pen again." 
Everyone's eyes were on Matt Lovecchio, Jared Clark and Carlyle Holliday, wondering who would emerge as the starter on Sept. 8. 
Arnaz Battle made some quality catches in his first practice as a wide receiver -Davie said, "He'll be an exciting player to watch," -but he also bob­bled and dropped a few easy passes. Nobody knows if he can make the big play when Notre Dame faces a 3rd-and-10. 
The Irish need two more players to step up and fill the spots vacated by Jim Jones and Mike Gandy. Davie listed Jordan Black, Brennan Curren, Kurt Vollers, John Teasdale and Sean Mahan, to name a few, as players having the potential to start. Now he must winnow a list of eight players down to two 
see FOOTBALL/page 14 



SOFTBALL 
Notre Dante eager to kick off ho01e play against Valpo 
home with a twin bill against team received some well­By CHRIS FEDERICO the Valparaiso Warriors (2-deserved rest before the Sports Writer 12) today at 4 p.m. upcoming home stand. 
"The weather has really "We had a really good 
The Notre Dame women's been rough around here for spring, and the break allowed softball team was welcomed us," said us to take some time off to back to campus after a very 
coach Liz regroup and rest," said senior successful road trip to sunny Miller. captain Jennifer Sharron. "I California over spring break W e don't even think the layoff with a South Bend snowstorm. weren't between games hurt us at all 
Ironically. on the first few even able because we are so excited to days of spring, Jack Frost cov­to prac­be getting back to the games, ered Ivy Field with enough tice on especially since we will finally snow to cancel the team's first dirt for be at home," home game of the year. · the first Notre Dame has gotten off to 
The snowed-out double­Sharron time until an impressive 18-3 start on header against Western l a s t the arms of Sharron, who Michigan, scheduled for Tuesday, but the girls have owns a 10-2 record with a Tuesday, will now be played played very tough and not let 2.08 ERA, and freshman Thursday afternoon. The Irish the weather affect them." pitcher Kristin Schmidt. will kick off their season at After the long road trip, the 
see SOFTBALL/page 15 

Softball 
vs. Illinois vs. VaJparaiso 
Thursday, 4 p.m.
SPORTS • •
today, 4 p.m. 
Men's Lacrosse ATA at Ohio State .... Baseball vs. Iowa Saturday, 1 p.m. Thursday, 4 p.m.
vs. Toledo
GLANCE • 
today, 5:05 p.m. 




