
Morgan thrills again 
You say you want a revolution? 
Thursday
A review ofMorgan Freeman's new movie 
Notre Dame student Anthony Pagliarini urges 
"Along came a spider" finds that the detective 
readers to consider shopping in support ofa 
thriller doesn't disappoint. 
Green revolution and organic capitalism. 
APRIL 12, 2001
Scene . pages 10-11 
Viewpoint . page 9 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV N0.122 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Basilica prepares for tridium celebration 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
When it comes to the Lenten 
season and Notre Dame, the 
past 40 days perhaps have little 
on the next three. 
That's because when Lent, the traditional Catholic season of sacrifice, ends. the production at the University begins. 
"A lot of students have told 
me that one of their goals is to 
spend Holy Week at Notre 
Dame," said Father Richard 
Warner, director of Campus 
Ministry. "l don't think there's 
anyplace in the country that 
celebrates the tridium like the 
Basilica." 
The tridium designates the three-day period from Holy Thursday to Easter Sunday. 
Traditionally. the events that begin on Holy Thursday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the cathedral-style church situated on central campus. have attracted large crowds. Warner said worshippers usually arrive at the chapel an hour before the events are scheduled to begin. Some churchgoers are from the area, but most represent the University community, Warner said. 
"Many graduates come back just to be here, and they do that year after year," said Warner, who will preside at the noon Easter Mass. "It's really unique." 
What makes the Easter Mass and the activities leading up to it at the Basilica special? 
Start with the fact that Catholics view Easter, which celebrates Jesus's resurrection, as the defining holiday of their faith. 
Add to that the return of ornamentation missing from the church during the 40 days of Lent. During the Lenten season, solemnity and starkness permc­a te the majority of Catholic churches, as altars arc stripped of decorations and flowers. 
"On Thursday, the main altar is totally barn. Priday it's aus­tere," Warner said. "Saturday it's magnificent. There are tulips, daffodils, trees E it's absolutely beautiful." 
Music by student choirs is also 
-a selling point for the more than 1,500 people who attend annual tridium activities, Warner said. Of course, weeks of prepara­tion go into pulling off only a handful of liturgical services. Hehearsals for choir perfor­mances and other events began as early as two weeks before their planned dates, according to Father Peter Rocca, the Basilica's rector. He said rehearsals also take place the day of the events. "A lot of planning and prac­tice goes into the celebrations. Everyone works hard to see that it is a special occasion," said Rocca, who will preside over the Easter vigil Saturday night. Tonight a Tenebrae service is scheduled for 11 p.m. at the Basilica. A ceremony that remembers Jesus's burial, Warner said the event usually draws between 1,400 and 1,600 members of the campus com­munity every year. Good Friday ceremonies are highlighted by a celebration of the Lord's Passion at 3 p.m, and the Vigil Mass is at 9 p.m. Saturday. Four Easter Masses will be b.eld Sunday at 8 a.m., 10 a.m., noon and 9 p.m. "This really is a wonderful time of the year. Everything is beautiful and the services are very special," Warner said. 



Notre Dame The Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 14. 9 p.m. -The Pascal Vigil Mass Sunday, April 15 8 a.m. -Easter Sunday Mass 10 a.m. -Easter Sunday Mass Noon -Easter Sunday Mass 9 p.m. -Easter Sunday Mass 
Saint Mary's College 
' Church ofOur Lady ofLoretto Saturday, April 14 8 p.m. -Vigil Mass Sunday, April 15 
9:45 a.m. -Easter Mass 
11:15 a.m. -Easter Mass 

Eldred speaks on faith and prayer 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
Speaking about the role faith and prayer play in her life as president of Saint Mary's, Marilou Eldred delivered the keynote address at the 30th annual Michiana Area Community Prayer Breakfast Wednesday. 
The breakfast, designed to bring community leaders together to reflect on how prayer can be integrated into their daily lives, is mod­cl ed after President Eisenhower's Presidential Prayer Breakfast for 
Congressional leaders, which began in 1952. The Michiana breakfast, which has been an annual event s i n c e 1971, typ­ically 
chooses 
local or national 
leaders to 
deliver the address. 
.. w e 

c h o s e LEldredl because she has made a strong effort to be a part of Lhis community and not just remain on campus," said Mikki Dobski Shidler, chair-

woman of the event. "We chose her because she is a tremendous speaker, and because of the role she plays in the community as the president of a Catholic women's college." 
Eldred, who was a nun for 10 years, said she actively chooses to involve prayer in her everyday duties as pres­ident of Saint Mary's, and this choice assists her in some of the most difficult parts of her job. 
"In this all-consuming job as president of Saint Mary's College, I could either think I have time for a very limit­ed prayer life, or that all my 
see ELDRED/page 6 
Pilon: Vietnam war had 'terrible effects' on Americans 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
University of Northern Arizona professor Charles Pilon, who served as a. consultant for the Vietnamese Ministry of Education, gave the Vietnam war a human face Wednesday during his lecture, "The Vietnam War: What happened and what is Happening." Helaying stories from his book "Bridging the Gap: Twenty years after the War in Vietnam," Pilon spoke of the effect the war in Vietnam had on the American con­scious. 
see VIETNAM/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 12, 200 I 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Ready to go home 
OK. I admit it -I'm homesick. And I can't really figure out why. Maybe it's because I haven't been home since Christmas. and I'm longing for my own bed and some good cooking. Maybe it's because with these first hints of spring, I'm miss• ing the regular family 
Laura Kelly
invasions of fall football 
weekends. Maybe it's the 
realization that since I'm 

Associate
going abroad next fall, 

Scene Editor
time with my family is 
quickly becoming pre­
cious. 

But whatever the reason, I'm so ready for 
Easter break that by the time this paper 
goes lo print, I'll already be home. 

It's funny because I have no memory of 
homesickness during freshman year. l was 
never one to cry myself to sleep in my pi!• 
low or call home every day with another 
mopey complaint. Sure, I sometimes missed 
the familiarities of home. But I was so excit­
ed for college that l never looked back once 
my packed car turned out of the gravel dri­
veway that August. 

And now? As a sophomore, I should be confident in my routines and life at Notre Dame. But now I somehow find myself call­ing home more often, just wanting to talk and share a few laughs. I'm excited each time my mom e-mails, and I pounce on my brothers every time they sign online. Ironically, I find myself missing them all more as I'm supposed to be growing up and growing away. 
I remember what a novelty it was when my older brother and sister would return from college -how we three "littles" used to tear around the house helping my mom get ready and race each other to the door once we heard their voices in the kitchen. Now I've become that novelty, that long-dis­tance sister and daughter returning home, and it feels strange. For as easily as I settle into the rhythms of life back home, the grooves do not fit me as easily as they once did. I have grown and changed so much, that in some ways, sadly. my family might not know me anymore. But that is the won­derful, constant thing about home -the one place I'll always be able to return to and understand completely. 
Back in the summer camp days, my mom used to console my fears with the same words: "We're always here. You know what we'll be doing while you're gone. And now it's your time to go out and explore." I took her words to heart and headed out in the big, scary world. But now I'm itching to get back. 
It's the little things l can't wait for this weekend -laughing with my mom as we run errands, fighting with my brothers over how l always skip out on the dishes, staying up late to talk literature and life with my dad. So maybe my mom's words are the reason I'm craving home as of late. I want to be sure that it's still the same, even if I'm not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Colleen McCarthy Mart Nania Scott Brodfuehrer 
Graphics 
Courtney Boyle Kacie McKcnna 

Sports 

Production 
Katie Hughes 

Jeff Bahruzak 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Par McElwee Peter Richardson 

The Observer (USPS 5?9 2-4000) is publisheJ Monday ,hrough friday ,xcep1 Juring exam and vaai1ion periods. The Observer is a member of ,he Associa1ed l'ms. All reproduction righu are reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT DAVIS 
Recruiters discourage students 
DAVIS, Calif. 

Just as campuses across the University of California system have mailed out acceptance letters, some recruit­ment and retention centers at UC Berkeley have announced that they will actively discourage underrepre­sented students from attending the university until the UC's anti-affirmative action policies are repealed. The Cal groups, including the Bridges Black Student and Raza recruitment and retention centers, announced prior to the UC Board of Regents meeting in March that if Standing Policy 1 was not repealed, the organizations would not participate in calling or hosting admittees. Additionally, the centers announced that they would send out letters discouraging students from attending Cal. The centers said they will instead concentrate more on reten­tion efforts. During last month's UC Board of Regents meeting, Chair Sue Johnson called for an investigation to determine whether or not Cal and UCLA centers have sent letters to underrepresented high school students dis­couraging them from attending their campuses_ 
Thursday 
. 
Lecture: "Toqueville, American Catholics and Democratic Culture," 12:30 p.m., 116 DeBartolo Hall 

. 
Lecture: "Measuring Migratory flows from Mexico," 12:30 p.m., C-103 Hesburgh Center 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Friday 
. 
Good Friday: Morning prayer. 9 a.m.: Passion, 3 p.m.; Stations, 7:15 p.m, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

. 
Way of the Cross: Buses depart from the Library cir­cle at 8 a.m. for Chicago's Pilsen neighborhood 


KENT, Ohio 

Chants of "60,000 thrown away, What about the fourth of May!" and "Racist, Sexist, Anti•gay! Bush and family go away!" were heard outside Kent State University's Memorial Athletic and Convocation Center Tuesday night. 
Approximately 30 people were protesting the Undergraduate Student Senate's decision to give Barbara Bush $60,000 for a speech instead of giving more money to the May 4 Task Force. 
"I felt the May 4 committee was robbed," senior journalism major Todd Fleck said_ 
"They were robbed to suit a right­wing agenda, to help forget about the Tiananmen Square of America and to maximize the profits of corporate 
Saturday 
. 
Morning prayer: 9 a.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

. 
Easter Vigil: 9 p.m.. Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 


Sunday 
. 
Easter Mass: Solemn Mass, 8:00 a.m.; Sunday Mass. 10 a.m., 12 a.m., 9 p.m. 

. 
Easter Brunch: 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. South Dining Hall. Open to the public. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Kent State students protest Bush speech 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~ forecasl for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather4' forecast for noon,Thursday, April 12. 

' i 
Friday Saturd · y Sunda¥ 
FRONTS:

Monday 
q-r ......... -----............ 

COLD WARM STArlONAHY
02001 Accu-ther Inc. 
@""'co ...... 
High Low Shower ¦ R¦ ln T~atorm ¦ Flurrle¦ Snow tee Sunn)' Pl. Cloudy-Cloudy

Tuet~ .~~d 
Atlanta 80 64 Las Vegas 66 46 Portland 38 36 Baltimore 76 62 Memphis 74 58 Sacramento 68 43 Boston 47 44 Milwaukee 60 40 SI. Louis 68 48

Q,Q,~q~Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 62 42 New York 60 56 Tampa 88 70

sno...,,s T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 83 70 Philadelphia 72 61 Washington DC 78 6J

Vi.t Aaociat.d Pn,u Grapl,icsNet 
•
KENTSfATE 
VNIVIRSITV 
America within a non-profit universi­ty." 
The group also sported several signs stating its displeasure with Bush receiving $60,000 for her speech. · 
"It's ridiculous. Obscene amounts of money arc being spent that could be better used for students," junior psy­chology major Laura Haring said. "I doubt an 80·year•old woman can relate to students." 
Junior visual communication design major Betsy Boetto said, "I think it (May 4) is such an important day. It's such a significant thing, I can't believe they (USS) gave $60,000 to a millionaire woman." 
One of the more creative protesters called himself Emili Yonare. He sar­castically pleaded with passers by to give Bush more money while paper $1,000 bills fell out of his pockets. 
"She is not getting paid enough," Emili Yonare said. "It's horrible! She is only getting $60,000 but should not be getting any less then a quarter of' a million." 
Another unique protester wore a George W. Bush mask and was going by the name "W." He also based his protest on sarcasm. 
"I've had a change of heart. I want people to boycott my mom," "W" said. 
There was a mild interest in the protest as a small group of people gathered to watch. 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
Study links stress to smoking 
CHICAGO 
New research published by the University of' Chicago's National Opinion Research Center (NORC) shows that aca­demic rigor and ethnic composition of high schools can affect teenage cigarette smoking. Adolescents attending highly competitive schools are more likely to start smok­ing than adolescents who achieve comparable grades at less competitive schools. Ethnic minority adolescents ­especially African Americans -are also less likely to begin smoking than whites, especially if they attend pre­dominantly minority schools. The study investigates why adolescents begin to smoke and explores the racial dis­parity in adolescent smokers. The researchers used data from the National Education Longitudinal Study, which was conducted in the late 1980s with follow•up surveys through 1994. While cigarette initiation occurs almost exclusively among adolescents, who go on to comprise the vast majority of adult smokers. the initiation rate among whites is more than double the rate among blacks and higher than rates among Asians and Latinos. 

Thursday, April 12, 200 l The Observer . STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
BOT report to look at social space 
Group approves FMB 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
budget for 2001-02 
When the Coleman-Morse 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
The Student Senate unani­mously approved the Financial Management Board's $600,000 budget Wednesday night, a fig­ure $5,000 less than last year's FMB budget. 
FMB is responsible for allocat­ing funds to the Office of' the Student Body President, the Student Union Board (SUB) and the Club Coordination Council, amon~ other student-run departrnents and organizations. 
When some senators ques­tioned why some divisions got significantly less lhan what they requested, the rMB representa­tive who presented the budget to the senate, Jennifer Wolfe, explained that the board was working with limited funds. 
"We can't give everyone every­thing they wanted," said Wolfe. 
"I was most disappointed by the allocation for lthc diversity! department," said student body president Brooke Norton. refer­ring one department within the Office of the President. 
In addition, l\forrissey senator Padraic McDennott asked Wolfe why some SLB divisions, such as campus entertainment. received less than half of the total they requested. . 
Even though many SUB divi­sions received less money than they requested from the FMB, the two SUB representatives at the meeting were positive about the budget. 
"We feel like we can work with it," said Katie Hammond. 
Alumni senator Matt Lafratta questioned the SUB representa­tives regarding why SUB often loses money on concerts it spon­sors. 
They explained that SUB tries to keep the price of tickets down for students and that having to hold concerts in Stepan Center creates a challenge. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
The Senate approved the nom­ination of John McCarthy as Judicial Board vice president in charge of elections. rt also approved the nominations of Nikki DePersis and Susan Wong as Judicial Board vice presidents of peer advocacy. 

. 
Tai Homero was approved as secretary of the Student Union, Danielle Ledesma was approved as parliamentarian and Tim O'Malley was approved as chap­lain of the Senate. 

. 
Senators also approved the nomination of Jonathan Jorissen as chief of staff in the Office of the President Melissa Rauch was approved as academic dele­gate and Audra Hagan was approved as controller. 


Center opened recently, many University students and staff expected the lounge to be used as 
social space. instead, students are using the build­ing as s t u d y space. 


That is 
Norton 

just one observa­tion on social space members of Student Government's 
Board of Trustfrns committee will relay to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees at its next 
meeting on May 3. 
Once a semester, students. through the Office of the Student Body President, have the chance to address the Hoard of Trustees for an hour and a half. With the University in the planning stages of sev­era I building projects, addressing social space issues seemed appropriate, accord­ing to Tyler Jackson, one of the leaders of student govern­ment's Board of Trustees com­mittee. 
"With the building plans the University has, we felt this would be a good time for stu­dents to offer their input," Jackson said. 
To get student input, the committee held a forum for 
.representatives of each dorm Wednesday night to discuss

(J) (J) (I) 
(J) 
L 
(I) 
E E 
:J 
(J) 
social space both in dorms and in other University build­ings. 
Many students who attended the forum expressed discon­tent with space for both study­ing and socializing in their dorms. 
Part of the problem is that students studv in areas intended as social space, according to some forum par­ticipants. 
"For the most part, if you want to socialize there, vou feel really uncomforta.ble because everyone is studying." said Grin Clayton from Breen-Phillips. . 
"The issue is not square footage," said Phil Tribble 
from O'Neill. Instead, he added, the 
"The use of Coleman­
problem is 
Morse [for studying! 
what the space is signals that we need 
used for. more comfortable study
Another 
space.
complaint centered on the fact that Brooke Norton some securi­
student body president 
ty guards often restrict or monitor 24-hour space. 
Hall. 
Two Howard residents also complained that lack of space forced the dorm to hold dances in its chapel. Finnerty added that Lyons does not 
even  have  in-hall  dances  
because  the  dorm  has  no  
place for them.  

Students at the forum also discussed areas for studying and socializing outside of dorms. 
'The use of Coleman-Morse [for studying] signals that we need more comfortable study space." said student body president Brooke Norton. She also suggested adding social space that would be more "interactive/I such as a bowl­
ing ally. 
Students also discussed the difficulty they have in getting off campus with­out a car. and suggested the University allow private businesses. such as restaurants, 
"In the girls dorms, it's not so much lack of space. The space we have is high traffic and monitored," said Kristin Baranack of Lewis Hall. 
However, others at the forum said the amount of space is a problem. 
"We would have a huge turnout for hall council, but we don't have a large multi­purpose room so we have to turn people away," said Meghan Finnerty of Lyons 


-;J/ ,,, '\_ rt 
b' 1 a 
f \ bu~~n:~! chemistry chinese classical languages computer applications economics engineering english 
film 
frencli german government history irish studies italian mathematics music philosophy physics psychology spanish sociology theatre theology 
to develop in an area near the edge of campus. 
Other suggested additions included a sports pub, a Reckers-style restaurant on North Quad and a health food store. 
Information from the forum will go into student govern­ment's report to the Board of Trustees. Other information will come from student sur­veys and an upcoming faculty forum. 

Gniversity 0 f not re dame 
0 ~ ~\(/? ~ ~~ro~1:, 1 ~h~20~~~~::,:,•be~~~1 
• -architecture 
~ ~ 
Monday, June 18 (enrollment), and end on Wednesday, August 1 (final exams). Some courses -primarily in science and languages 
-will begin and end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Bulletin contains complete schedule information. The Bulletin is available at the Summer Session Office (510 Main Bldg.) beginning on Thursday, February 22. Information on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer Session Web site (www.nd.edu/-summsess). 
Notre Dame continuing students -under· graduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2001 who are eligible to return in the fall -must use DART ( 1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 22. The DART PIN (per· sonal identification number) for summer is available on lrishlink for all continu­ing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) are available at 
www.nd.edu/~ndreg/dartbook.html. 
Course call numbers are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session Web site. 
DART will be available for summer regstration from March 21 to June 22, Students rray register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to _the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DARl closes on Friday, June 22, must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
Air-conditioned and 11011-air·conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer sesion of 2001 will be $243 per credit hour plus a $40 general foe. 

-----. ··-·---~ 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April I2, 200 I 
described the 60s as a horri­American service men were POW, and took bricks from his It is this connection and the ble period he was sorry he not respected. The Vietnam former cell. Pilon also told a devastation Pilon saw in the
Vietnain 
had to go through. veteran would not dare wear story about giving money to a veteran that makes him see 


"I would grieve with and cry any military apparel." homeless veteran, missing his war as so horrible and causes
continued from page I 
with them. The 60s were a · He also touched on the more legs. He said that after he put him to question what he calls Pilon began a project to the money "mans inhumanity to man."
terrible time to live," said memorable chronicle the effects the war Pilon. moments of into the vet-"Men die, women always had on individuals when he In addition to the effects the his experi­"Men die, women always eran's tin become widows and children was invited to consult with death of service men had on ence in become widows and ca:n, the vet­
eran saluted become orphans during war,"

the students, Pilon also spoke Hanoi. There,administration and faculty of 
children become orphans said Pilon.

about the rebellion students he visited the him and Pilon
the Ministry of Education in After his stay and research 
Hanoi, Vietnam. Since Pilon displayed against American prison for during war." saluted him 
in return. For at Hanoi, he still has no more

involvement in the war. As a prisoners of
had access to areas most 
Pilon, the insight into the justification of

high school teacher, he saw war (POW)Americans were denied, he was able to see a complete 
students burning flags and were held, Charles Pilon incident con-a war that he described University of Northern Arizona nected him to repeatedly as "terrible."
wearing upside-down nicknamed American flags sown onto the "Hanoi professor that veteran. "Every president, vice presi­
picture of what he calls "the 
terrible effects of war." He 
their clothes. He discussed Hilton." " In that dent, and chancellor asks me,
visited graveyards, mau­soleums and talked to how the veterans of the war There, Pilon moment our 'Why did we fight this war?' were treated differently from saw the cell of Senator John hearts were looking into each and all I can say is I don't
Vietnamese officials, discover­ing the impact the Vietnam 
soldiers returning from World McCain, who was held as a other's heart," said Pilon. know." War still has on the people of 
War II, which he fought in. "It was not a fun time.
Vietnam. 
"Over one million of Vietnam's soldiers were killed and over one million were [missing in action]." said Pilon. 
Pilon also spoke of the effect 
. , the war had on him as a teacher in Arizona. Although he did not fight, he stood by ·. , :-; 
·"',
\: 

those students that grieved over the loss of parents, brothers and classmates. He 
Want to write for The Observer 
\! 1WU~! iro~tD~
News 
vn~F~ t'HAtJCt 'fD )~IAi~E IT ;B£TTEnl,

depanment? 
Call Jason at 
AmeriCorps Information Session 
631-5323. 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 • 6:00 p.m. • Center for Social Concerns For more information, please contact Courtney Nicholas at 312-353-05 7 4 or cnicholas@cns.gov 
In partner~hip
AUTOMATION with the M1ch1gan Economic Development Corporation 
ALL y™ 





I 
I
[THE ALLEY] 
Automation Alley, the nation's newest and fastest growing technology cluster, offers 
you the best of all worlds. A professional environment based on mutual competition and 
collaboration. Access to hundreds of global innovators. Great job opportunities. Advancement 

-
potential within and across industries. High pay and low cost-of-living expenses that really 
stack up when compared to other technology clusters. And, a terrific setting in one of the 
nation's most desirable places to build a career-Oakland County, Michigan. 
Indicator Automation Alley Route 128 Silicon Valley 
(Oakiand County) (Middlesex County) (Santa Clara County) 
Median Housing Price $192,337 $284,609 $463,234 
Professional Salaries Mechanical Engineer $64,227 $61,217 $68,298 Electrical Engineer S 67,410 $64,202 $ 71,550 Computer Programmer $54,184 $51,602 $57,821 Computer Analyst $68,895 $ 65,617 $73,092 
Job Growth Since '97 4.0% 5.5% 3.2% Cost of Living Allowance 114.3 121.9 141.7 Average = 100 
Apply for jobs onllne now @ www.automationalley.com 
Interested in internships? Check out our web site! 


Thursday, April 12, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
11 civilians die in Burndi clash: Fighting between the army and rebels north­west of th~ Burndi capital left at least 11 civil­ians dead and forced thousands to .flee their homes, a local gov·ernmcnt official said Wednesday. The villagers were caught in cross fire Monday night as soldiers fought with ijutu rebels in Rubirizi, seven miles northwest of the lakeside capital Bujumbura, said Philippe Ndikumana, the official. "We have a list of their names. Unfortunately, we have not been able to organize a burial for these people because the area is still insecure,'_' Ndikumana said. 
Israeli, Palestinian chiefs meet: 
Israeli and Palestinian security chiefs met Wednesday in a U.S.-sponsored effort to reduce violence, Palestinian oITicials said, hours after Israeli tanks rumbled into a refugee camp and reduced a neighborhood to rubble -the first such foray into Palestinian territory during seven months of violence. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Officials plan for hurricane season: 
With one leading forecaster predicting 10 tropi­cal storms, including a half-dozen hurricanes, emergency management officials gathered Wednesday to plan for the upcoming hurricane season. "We can change the impact of disas­ters. We, as a nation, can reduce the loss of life -by taking_effective action now," Joe Allb<!ugh, director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, told the opening session of the 2001 National Hurricane Conference. 
Fate of U.S. spy plane uncertain: The gray-and-white U,S. spy plane still sits on the Hainan island tarmac, a long string of Chinese trucks parked at its side. The Bush administra­tion wants the plane returned, even if the Chinese have stripped it of the sensitive eaves­dropping equipment. For now, the EP-3E remains in Chinese hands. but the loss of intelli­gence information may not be as severe as first feared. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Gary airport needs state funding: 
The Gary-Chicago Airport needs money from the state so it can market itself better, Mayor Scott King said. The city of Chicago has con­tributed considerably more funds to the air­port than the state of Indiana even though most of the people who use the airport now are from Indiana, King said. The airport needs to attract more passengers from Chicago, said William Staehle, president of the Gary-Chicago Airport Authority. 
Market Watch April 11 
Dow 
10,013.47 -89.27
Jones 


Composite Same: ~ .·o····w·.n·•··.•·· Volume:
200 l,917 NIA 
{;/:-.'---·:::.:.· 

AMEX: 877.05 -8.54 NASDAQ: 1,898.95 -t-46.92 ­NYSE: 595.00 -4.83 S&P 500: 1,165.89 -2.49 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +9. 71 +1. 54 17 .40 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +3 .02 +1.20 41.00 INTEL CORP {INT() +11.10 +2.75 27.52 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +3.74 +0.56 15.53 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +11.33 +1.66 16.31 
COMPILED FROM THE 013SEH.VEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Rescue workers work around victims of a stampede Wednesday at Ellis Park in Johannesburg. At least 4 7 people 
died due to a crowd trying to enter the overcrowded stadium to attend a soccer game. 
Stampede at soccer game kills 4 7 
shocked and we're sending stadium was full. There was Arican Press Association. 

Associated Pcess 
our condolences to those no place to stand. The peo­Several fans at the stadi­

JOHANNESBURG families." Sport Minister ple were pushing toward um told 702 radio the stadi­
A stampede broke out Ngconde Balfour told The the fence, and the fence col­um appeared to have inade­Wednesday night in a Associated Press. lapsed and the people in the quate security to handle the packed soccer stadium in "Whatever will need to be back stepped on those in crowds. Johannesburg, killing 4 7 done we'll do." front." President Thabo Mbeki's people, the sports minister Balfour said between 47 The South African office promised an urgent said. The mayhem broke and 50 people had been Broadcasting Corp, report­inquiry into the tragedy to out after a goal was scored, killed at the stadium in the ed that too many tickets ensure it was not repeated, witnesses said. "freak accident." had been sold for the according to SAPA. 
The stampede occurred Witnesses said the match match. People outside tried "The president expresses during a soccer match between two of the Premier to push into the stadium his sincere condolences to between the Kaizer Chiefs League's most popular and were trapped against the bereaved on behalf of and Orlando Pirates at Ellis rivals was vastly over­barbed wire. South Africa," his spokes­Park Stadium. At least 27 crowded and erupted into Emergency vehicles out­woman Tasneem Carrim bodies lay strewn on the chaos after a Pirates player side the stadium were said, according to SAPA. field after the match had scored a goal. unable to move amid the Balfour said the Premier been canceled. A stream of "That's when everything soccer traffic. League was responsible for ambulances, private cars happened," Louis Police had earlier fired security at the match, and and a helicopter delivered Shipalana, 42, a security tear gas at people stamped­the chaos should not affect injured fans to the hospital. guard at the stadium told ing outside the stadium, South Africa's bid to host 
"We're stunned, we're The Associated Press. "The according to the South the 2010 World Cup. 
Lawmakers threaten China trade 
keeping sort of a lid on this thing. not the spy plane and a Chinese fighter. 

Associated Press 
letting it get out of hand, not yielding "The real question is what about WASHINGTON to the temptation of escalating it, not other reconnaissance flights" in Even as the Bush administration referring to our crew as hostages -international air space and over exulted at the anticipated return of the all was wise, it showed balance." said international waters, said House 
U.S. spy plane's crew, some members Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware, the Intelligence Committee Chairman of Congress were gearing up for a new Senate Foreign Relations Committee's Porter Goss, R· Fla. "It's critically battle over trade with China. top Democrat. important that we maintain that for 
Lawmakers said the incident has House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R­our own national security." focused attentfon on other difficult lll., said Bush "exhibited mature and China's detention of the 24 U.S.-China matters that must be responsible leadership throughout this Americans for more than a week gave resolved. They also praised President tense situation." new impetus to a bill -introduced Bush for his approach toward ending But lawmakers said the United days after the collision -to overturn the standoff. States and China face hurdles in last year's law paving the way for 
"The way in which the president regaining the relationship that existed China to gain permanent normal trade handled this from the beginning, before the April 1 collision between relations with the United States. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tbursday, April 12, 200 I 
Eldred 
continued from page I 
work life is a prayer," Eldred said. "I believe that the latter is lruc, although there are days and events that make me wonder how they could ever, in one's wildest imagination, be perceived as pray1~r. In those times. especially, l find myself asking God's help to make the righl decision." 
Eldred's faith journey, how­ever, started long before she assumed the presidency at Saint Mary's. Haised in a Catholic family, Eldred said she "was certain" during high school she had a vocation. Iler realization led her to spend 10 years as a member of a religious community. 
It was her experience as a religious sister, ,!Lometimes falling asleep during medita­tion, that taught her prayer was more than formal, tradi­tional prayer. 
"My most vivid memory of the meditation experience is sleeping through much of it, often waking abruptly and sl~wly falling out of the pew, then confidently pulling myself up straight as if it were all part of my intense experience with God," Eldred said. "But that time in my life was very important. because l began to understand that there is much more to prayer 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

8runo 's Piua All-you-can-eat Buffet 
(Includes Drink) 
*Pizza *Pasta 
$5.99 
*Salad 
*0ther It aIian D ishe s. *Parties Welcome 
Every Thursday at 5 
2610 Prairie Avenue 
288-3320 


•Convenient times; !)Ort-time or fulHime; l2·24 month completion 
•Specialize in financial reporting, taxation, auditing, information systems, management consulting 
•International~ recognized faculty  
for  more  information contact:  
KEllEY School of Business Indianapolis  (317) 278-3885 mpabus@iupui.edu http://bus.iupui  m 9 IUPill  

LISTENING SESSION 

Location: 119 O'Shaugnessy Hall Date and Time: 7:00 -9:00 p.m., Tuesday, April 17 
The Sexual Assault Advisory Group was creat~d in the Fall 2000 Semester by Fr. Mark Poorman, CSC, Vice President for Student Affairs, and is composed of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty and staff particularly interested and involved in addressing sexual assault issues on the campuses. The group, intended to advise the University, has met several times this year and looks forward to continuing its examination and review of campus concerns. This listening session, open to all students, faculty and staff, is intended to provide an informal opportunity for students and others to share their experiences and opinions with the Advisory Group. 
than the 'formal' prayer expe­rience." 
Prayer has to be a personal experience rather than simply routine. Eldred explained. 
"It may be possible to pray, in some form. with little or no faith -that is the kind of prayer that may be the rote variety, the non-thinking prayer, the one that has to do with 'getting through' the prayer," she said. "But for prayer to be real, lo me, I need to relate it to my faith 

~~.~~~~¥~~~*~~~*~*~*~*~~~*~*~~~* 
: CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS J 
~ » 
4 $
* l801 IRISH WAY -SOUTH BEND, lN 46637 -(219) 272 -1441 1': 
~ ~ 
it' Walking Distance to Campus! '$< 
C LOOKING FOR A"NEW VIEW" NEXT FALL? ~ ~ ~. 
,It 
-------------~ft,
lit ----------------. * 
4 $ 
! CA~IPUS VltW OFFERS, Jf, 
~ ~ 
11$ -1,mie, 5pacir,m apodmenh 1t 
: -1 imil.J Renovated l'\;lclums ! 
~ -.l~wimminq Pnol, lenni~ and Basketbnll Courts $< 
: .LOCAi ION! A ,liorl walk lo aGrocerq Store, J 
: Dr>11q Store, f.ie~louronl,, and CAMPUS! 'It 
ff ..\ffordoLle Pririnq ~ j;. 1', $> ;¢ . 'Ii If. (.1.,,,;,!,,r, lu win u !rel' fV will, U montl, l.,ase! ~ J,t ~ 
•~ •~ 
4vv••~•v•v•~v••••~•vv•v~v~•~•••••~ 
that there is a loving God who cares for me. for my family, my friends, my work." 
Speakers at the community breakfast are typically lay membe..rs of the community, Shidler said. Eldred joins for­mer speakers Ambassador Andrew Young, President and Mrs. Carter, former Notre Dame fullback Anthony Johnson and former Notre Dame All-American and cur­rent Minnesota state Supreme Court justice /\lan Page. 
Thursday, April 12, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Oufkir speaks of life as princess, imprisonment 
By ALLY JAY 
News Wtirer 
Malika Oufkir described her experience the daughter of a high ranking Moroccan general and the changes in her life after her father's failed coup in a lec­ture Wednesday. 
"My life is an upside down fairy tale," said author Malika Oufkir last night to a packed Hesburgh Center Auditorium. "I had with my family was in the started out as a princess and palace. A few times my mother from age 5 to 17 I lived in a was invited to parties and [I palace. I can say it was an saw] my father when he came exceptional life." to work with the King, For me it 
As a child Oufkir, was a play­was terrible because I looked at mate of the King Hassan H's them like my parents, but I half sister and at the age of 5 couldn't go and have contact was unofficially adopted by with them because living in the Morocco's royal family. palace means that first you have 
In her book "Stolen Lives: to renounce your identity. You Twenty Years in a Desert Jail" can have no past and no she writes, "The only contact I future." 
Despite her surroundings, 
Oufkir felt isolated. "I can say a 
child doesn't need to be in lux­ury [to be happy]. They only need love, protection, and par­
Find 

ents," said Oufkir. 
Feeling the need to reestab­lish her familial connections,
Separp:t{~n 
,-i'r" 
she asked the King to allow her to return home.
Mc,AT I,_ ----__, ------'f! __ -­
"At 17 I decided to change
Li. I If/Jf:il lf:iQI I Ill l!:J 
everything. I told the King I have an identity and a family, and I don't know them," she
7,2'Class hours-
said. "So at 17, I went back and 
Plus 5 full-l(}'hgth, proctored practice exams 
discovered my life. For the first 
two years I was happy. My first
' 

4,000pages ofpractice material-
dream was to be an actress and
1 

I traveled all over the world." 
30 MCATs worth ofpractice passages 
However Oufkir's fairy tale
I 

/ Proven Results-
existence was overturned in 1972 when her biological
/3 point average score improvement 
father, a general in charge of Moroccan King Hassan II's
Risk Free-
security services, led a failed
Try us for a week 
coup against the regime and was subsequently executed. 
Separate from your competition. 
"After the coup my father 
Classes for the Aug. MCAT start in early June! 
Call to sign up today! www.PrincetanReview.com
...,.,,,._;,_,_____.....,.. ,..,,.-,, 

was arrested and my family spent about 20 years in prison.

The 
After 15 years we decided to 
dig a tunnel to allow four of us 
to escape. My mother and sis­
rinceton 
Review 
ter were too sick to escape,"
800.2REVIEW 
she said. "For five days we 
tried to find help. After five days became engaged in a heated we got in touch with the French controversy regarding the role but unfortunately the police Oufkir's biological father played caught up with us again. So we in political executions. After a went back to prison for four and five-minute debate, Perry ended a half more years. I can't tell the controversy and allowed you the whole story, maybe it's Oufkir to continue fielding ques­better you read the book." tions. 
According to Susan When she was asked about Slyomovics, Chair of the conditions she dealt with on Anthropology, who spoke on the a daily basis while in prison she social and politicaL context of said Oufkir's work, books written by "A day is like a year for us in political prisoners such as silence, without light, without a Oufl<ir are necessary to enable book, without anything," she the people of Morocco to "Turn said. "We would spend all the the page definitively on their days dreaming about food past." because we had no food. 
"To describe their past they "So I started telling my family use the terms les annees noir -a story every night. The story 
the black years and les 
."My life is an upside
annes sombres. 
It was a time of down fairytale. " mass political trials and tor­
Malika Oufkir 
ture was applied to elicit author confessions," said Slyomovics lasted for 11 years and through the story was a way to escape from prison." 
W h e n asked how she would 
of Morocco's political past. punish her torturers she said, "I 
Slyomovics stressed writing is don't believe in justice. Nothing a form of deliverance and can can give us back our life. Even help Moroccans deal with their money. Perhaps prison for those pasts. Slyomovics read excerpts who tortured us. I realized all of Moroccan authors and poets this when King Hassan died and whose work focused on people came up and asked if I Morocco's tumultuous past. The was happy. It was true. I wasn't audience also had the opportu­happy. nity to hear Miriam Oufkir, "There is no justice for me. Malika Oufkir's sister, read That's why the only thing I can poetry based on her experiences say is be vigilant for countries in prison. like mine. I don't know if you 
After discussing her experi­realize how lucky you are to live ences, Oufkir took questions in a democracy. People like me from the audience. During the and prisoners like us can maybe question and answer session. help move our country towards three women in the audience democracy." 

Notre Dame Finance Club's Distinguished Financial Leaders Lecture Series· Presents: 
JAMES E. ROHR President and CEO of PNC Financial Services Group & Notre Dame Alum 
When & Where? Wednesday April 18 at 6:00pm Jordan Auditorium (MCOB) *Reception to follow in Atrium 
-Mr. Rohr will speak about the Banking Industry, PNC, and his path to becoming CEO. Following the lecture there will be a receptton, ·w,here sQ.Ide~ts may speak with Mr. Rohr­
-, .. -lt · 
about any topic including personal career advice. 
·.:::..r,-i:,f·t":4u•.. ; ·i~ 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Thursday, April 12, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 014 Sou,h Dining Hall, Notre D~mc. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
~,·, MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith 
N1:.'Ws EDITOR: Jaoon McFarlr:y VU:.WPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwec SroRTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer Scl:NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MAR'i'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR, Pm,r Richardson 
AIJVER·nslNG MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD Di;s1cN MANAGER: Chrili Avi~1 SYSTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR: .Pahvcl Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR• Ad.i.m Turner CoNTROU..ER: Kevin Ry•n GRAl'tllO EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENEIW. INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ALWFRTISING..... ... ..............631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EmTOR IN CHIH..... . .....................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/MST. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53! 3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnr:ws. l@nd.edu VlfWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.sccne. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR'i's .............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site a1 http:llobserver.11d.~du for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from 1he Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-1he 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly srudenr reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives ro seorch for 
about The Observer 

anicles publisncd after 
to meel tne editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNoire Dame du L,c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeirher insrirution. The Observer reserves rhe right 10 refuse .1dvertisemcnrs b.sed on content. 
The news is reporred as accurarely and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned cdirorials represent rhe opinion of the mijoriry of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistanl Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily rhose of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be: signed and must include contact information. 
Questions r~gardi11g Ob,m,..,-poJi,,irs should b, dim·1­,J to Edi1or i11 Chu-[Mike Connolly. 
The gun control debate: Somebody shoot me 
Nietzsche, everybody's favorite 
atheist anti-philosopher philosopher, 
wrote that every society feels a debt 
to its founders. Feeling forever unabl1/ 
to pay back the debt, the society ele­
vates its founders 
to the level of Amy Schill 
gods. 
This apotheosis has undoubtedly Dazed and happened in Amused America. We have chiseled the faces of our founding fathers into the gigan­tic Mount Hushmore, learned mvthical stories about George Washingto"n as children and with every cash pur­chase we are reminded who is responsible for our freedom. God maybe in whom we trust. but it's still all about the Benjamins, baby. 
These revolutionaries. who were destined to become deities, built this nation on the Constitution, which included the Ten Amendments. Mistaking these men for gods, subse­quent generations have regarded the Bill or Rights as the Ten Commandments. However, just as those commandments about lying and adultery have been reinterpreted by Billy Bob Clinton (what is "is" any­way?). the first and second amend­ments can be interpreted in different ways, depending on your particular end of the political rainbow (liberal), er ... spectrum (conservative). 
The First Amendment, the most highly debated one throughout the years, grants freedom of religion and speech, but has also been used to jus­tify pornography, the exclusion of gays from the Boy Scouts and the career of Britney Spears. 
Most say our founding fathers made the amendment purposely vague; these wise men knew the best founda­tion for a country would be one that would be debated in the Supreme Court in countless cases, using tax payer money, forever. Great job, guys! 
But of course, I am anything but anti-First Amendment. Because of it I 
can say what I think, you can say 
what you think, and if I don't like 
what you say, I can bust a cap in yo' 
face. 
Oops, I see I've jumped the gun (I'm 
very sorry) to the Second Amendment: 
the right to bear arms. Less debated 
than the First Amendment over time, 
but more debated in recent times. 
Ah, can't you sec the gods/forefa­thers drafting the Ten Commandments/Amendments now? They envisioned a country where a man could protect his family, a teen could protect his country and an eight year-old could shoot his brother for his sneakers. Certainly not, but because times are not the same as when the Bill of High ts was drafted, we need a new Moses to interpret our Torah. Who is this new Moses'7 Who else? Charlton Heston. 
Heston and his new Israel, the NRA, think they have the Second Amendment and the nation's rising youth violence problem figured out. Clearly, there are not enough guns out there. The solution is to put a gun into the hands of every man. woman, child and fetus in this great nation, and let's open up a theme restaurant · while we're at it. 
If anyone maliciously uses his man­dated deadly weapon, then rest assured the armed good guys will be there to shoot the bad guy (and what­ever pregnant woman or third grade class that might be in the line of fire) dead. Our new Moses likes his guns and he'll make sure no tree-hugging liberal will pry our guns from our cold, dead (or unborn) hands. 
Alas, however, Moses has a formida­ble opponent this time -not the Pharaoh of Egypt, but the Pharaohess of Talk -Rosie O'Donnell. Nearly a year ago, Rosie led thousands of mothers in th'e Million Mom March for a day of encouraging mothers to vote for pro-gun control politicians, unifi­cation as a political movement and discussion of the latest Oprah Book 
Club selection. Ironically. all thie 
moms shot themselves in the head 
when Hosie broke out into r· 
"Everything's Coming Up Roses." 
Rosie and the liberals support gun 
control because they think when the 
forefathers gave us the right to boar 
arms they didn't mean the right to 
shoot up your high school with a 
semi-automatic weapon. 
Heston and the right argue the more 
guns the better; if a teacher had had a 
gun at Columbine. the tragedy might 
have been averted. 
Neither view is absolutely correct. Destroying all weapons, holding hands and singing show tunes is no more a solution than creating an all-inclusive standing militia. There are too many factors in today's society, including the media and the state of the family. for the solution to be so simple. 
However, in order to distance them­selves from each other, the two sides have become so extreme that their platforms are about as nuanced as bumper sticker slogans. Here's a hypothetical debate between Heston and Hosie: 
Heston: Guns don't kill people; peo­ple kill people. 
Rosie: It's the guns, stupid1 
Heston: Let my people go ... let their kids have guns. Rosie: Kids are punny. American public: Oh. let's kill them 
both and go watch "Survivor." 
So whom can we blame for our vio­lence problem? Could it be that our forefathers were wrong to begin with, that they were less than perfect? 
Hubris. Blame Canada. 
Amy Schill is a sophomore arts and letters major. Jfer column runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

McVeigh brought fate on himself 
I would like to make two comments regarding Mr. Vallely's letter yesterday about Timothy McVeigh. First, since I am from Oklahoma, I appreciate his prayers, both for Mr. McVeigh and for the families of those he killed. 
Second, as a Protestant, I question his claim that,McVeigh "was taught by the Protestantized, rationalistic culture that war and militarized violence are at times morally accept­able." 
For the record, the idea that violence is an acceptable option is not limited to any specific culture, religious denom­ination or historical period. The Crusades, the Spanish Inquisition and the persecution of French Protestants in the 16th century indicate that Protestants were not the only group to embrace the use of violence at will. 
What Timothy McVeigh did cannot be justified by past per­secution, psychological trauma. contemporary culture or anything else. He chose to kill innocent people, including my friend's aunt. He now insists on an early execution and the government is going to grant him his wish. Pray for Timothy McVeigh if you want, but please make no excuses for his actions. He brought his fate upon himself. 
Stacy Davis graduare srudcnt South B~nd, Ind. April ,1 I, 200 l 

DILBERT 
','OU'P-E RUINING THE PRISTINE BEAUTY Of EL BONIA! 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When you have no basis for an argument, abuse the plaintiff" 
Marcus Tullius Cicero Roman orator 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, April 12, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Shopping in support of a green revolution 
Looking for that organic futon? I know I am. And after all. what could be more inviting than curling up underneath a homespun wool blanket in hemp paja­mas, sipping on a cup of anti-embargo Cuban coffee and resting assured that neither man nor sheep nor tree was harmed by our (excessive) consumerism? Perhaps, even, we could all gather 'round the solar lamp with our Ben and Jerry's and pick through the pages of Peter Singer like the Dead Poets' Society. (AARP need not apply.) 
Ahhh, the ecstasy of organic capitalism. What's that? The thought of cloth diapers and chamomile lip gloss doesn't fill your restless heart? Not even the soft welcome of recycled shoes? Well then. perhaps I am speaking to the wrong crowd. I thought. however, I heard a rain stick in the background; an Enya CD perhaps? 
OK, OK. if that's not your cup of fair labor tea. So let's get down to business. good business. I think that this'll get your attention: I'll show you where you can find clothing that's made without the cru­elties ofsweatshop labor. (No. silly, not the bookstore.) 
I'll also take you to stores whose shelves or internet sites overflow with natural bath products. organic cloths, charity-friendly art. electronics-. chemi­cal-and pesticide-free produce and a whole host ofother "Mmm-Mmm" gra­nola good products! Books to beer, juice to java, it's all there. 
What is it? The "National Green Pages -a directory of products and services for people and the planet." Yes, throw out the yellow pages (saving of course the Papa Johns' number, as if you didn't know it by heart) and send out for your copy of the Green. 
In an effort that exceeds some 200 pages of bite-size listings, Co-op America, a group based out of the belly of the beast, Washington, D.C., has made an impressive effort to raise consumer con­sciousness, praise smart businesses and espouse what they dream of as a healthi· er, more intelligent capitalism. 
One can find everything from financial services and landscapers to plastic lum­ber yards. Odds are, if you need it, there's somebody. somewhere, most Hke­ly in California, who can help you do it without having to deny your creed, kill the earth or hire an abused Vietnamese teenager. 
No, they aren't chicken crusaders or 
Argument irresponsible 
ln Monday's issue ofThe Observer, dad told me ofan episode of an old tele­Anna Barbour wrote a column calling vision show called "All in the Family." gun control a wasted argument. 1start­The main character was named Archie ed reading with an open mind, thinking Bunker and he was probably television's there might be a well-reasoned argu­first Homer Simpson. Archie said that a ment somewhere but what I found was way to prevent airplane hijackings senseless dribble from a gun nut. would be to give everyone a gun as they 
The article ended with Barbour say­boarded the plane. This way, anyone ing, "Once everyone has a PFA [gun]. thinking of hijacking the plane would walking around with it slung over his or think twice because they knew that her shoulder, life will be so much more everyone had a gun. Of course he was pleasant." joking. I saw no hint of humor in 
All through the articJe·I was looking Barbour's column. for some redeeming value to it but I This article was so irresponsible in its found nothing. Iwas expecting the end viewpoint that I also question·the editor­to say something like: 'This is what I ial decision to run the article. Ifthe point would expect someone against gun con­ofit was to start a conversation over trol to say and they are all blabbering gun control then it has accomplished its morons." Unfortunately, I found no such purpose but there are other less thing. I have never heard of someone extreme and more responsible ways to taking such an extreme view toward start conversations. anti-gun legislation. No one denies that. as the author says, 
So my mom and dad should send me "it's a jungle out there" and crime does to school packing an uzi just to protect happen. Gun control as it exists today is me from my fellow classmates? Heck. far from perfect, but the solution is not lets give guns to five-year-olds who to give guns to everyone. You might con­don't know better. Ifthey shoot them­demn me for pretty much slandering the selves its sad, but hey. at least they are author. The author might also consider protected from everyone else who this letter offensive. My response to that packs. is that her viewpoint article was equally 
Lets make guns available to the men­as offensive for displaying such a reek~ tally ill, criminals and kids who want to less disregard for human life by advo­shoot up schools. Who cares ifthere is cating the "let's give guns to all" view. another Columbine? I don't mind seeing Gun control definitely has a place in 15 ofmy classmates die while pleading this society because it prevents needless for my own life. deaths from too many firearms being 
In case you didn't notice. that last available to the wrong people. paragraph was full of obvious sarcasm Advocating more guns is not the toward Barbour's viewpoint. This is answer, preventing them from getting exactly the sort ofworld she advocated into the wrong hands is the answer. You when she wrote I.his piece because she might debate about which way to go advocated guns be available to anyone about gun control but don't say that gun and everyone. control is pointless. Try telling that to 
You might wonder where my statistics the parents ofthe students killed at are to back up my claims that having Columbine. Ifthe author really believes more availability to guns will be a threat her own press then she would be able to to society. I think l really don't need any do one thing: Look them in the eye. tell statistics since that last paragraph obvi­them that gun control is a "wasted argu­ously sums up a Jot of the problems with ment," and see how far she would get. allowing anyone and everyone to have a gun. Stephen Carroll 
This idea of giving guns to everyone so freshman you can feel safe just because you know Knon Hall everyone packs is not exactly new. My April 9. 200 I tree buggers, if that sort of thing turns you off There is no one certain philoso­phy or motivation behind their effort, save, of course, that of adjusting our buy­ing habits and keeping their non-profit afloat in the process. 
If nothing else, they deserve a looking over. Aristotle said, "I love to walk through the marketplace and see all of the things that I can do without." If. how­ever. you're really hankering for that cer­tain something, go visit them at www.coopamerica.org and check out their different links. 
It'll help you to be better informed about the many issues that surround their effort. One can, for example, at www.responsibleshopper.org, enter the name of any company and see what exactly they have been praised and criti­cized for. The listings are still a little young. but one can no doubt investigate some Notre Dame staples: JCrew. Nike. Gap. et cetera. 
Go see for yourself. When you're all done you can even order yourself a copy of the Green Pages to share with your friends. In the meantime, however, watch for my D.C. Seminar friends and me in our new threads from "Knowsweat" and "Sew Natural." (Word even has it that coordinator Olejnik's briefs are animal­friendly.) 
Purging into the depths of the human soul, St. Augustine once wrote that "our heart is restless until it rests in you (Lord]." But, hey, just so long as that Starbucks double latte keeps you "awake," you ought not participate too much in evil. 
Who knows, it may change some day, but so long as we bear the weight of western capitalism we should be more conscious and supportive of those certain few whose motives are more socially and environmentally sound. We are after all, "keepers" and "stewards," even when buying toilet paper. 
No doubt. it is difficult. Hemp chocolate bars are not exactly a dime a doit!rr.---..._____ Even the most dogged can reach their ~­ends, rope sandals or not. Rest in know-'­ing, however, that when you are weary you may find repose on the magical com­fort of my organic futon. 
Anthony Pagliarini 
JUntor Dillon Hall April 3, 200I 
Plan goes beyond protest 
I am very glad to see that Adam encourage Taco Bell to be responsible Turner is concerned about the situa­consumers so that we too can be tion of migrant farmworkers, as he responsible when we eat there. In expressed in his Inside Column on order to do this we can write letters to Tuesday, and agree with him that our Taco Bell, and we can also withhold protest last Sunday afternoon isn't our purchases. because that is what going to change the entire world. companies feel. However, I would like to address some Taco Bell is part of the world's of the issues that he raised, so that he largest restaurant chain and hopefully and others on this campus can better we can convince them to be a leader understand what we are trying to do. and model for other companies in 
The problem of exploiting workers to terms of being responsible for what produce cheap products for consumers they purchase. is a complex issue that is ingrained in However we cannot convince Taco our society, and of course we realize Bell of this alone, so we need to raise that Taco Bell is just one of many com­the awareness of other people. We are panies that do this. doing this in several ways, just one of 
Something needs to change. If you which was holding a protest on know a good idea about how to end all Sunday. Rallies get the attention of repressive labor practices once and for people, including those at Taco Bell. all in one easy step, please share it Maybe, just maybe that manager will with us. mention to the higher-ups that he is 
Otherwise. we have to tackle this concerned, which might contribute to a problem step by step; which unfortu­decision at the top. We handed out nately might mean company by compa­many fliers giving details on the situa­ny. Taco Bell was chosen to be boy­tion to many people who drove by. but cotted by the Coalition of lmmokalee did not force them upon people. 
Workers for several reasons. We did not mean to be annoying. In 
There are several companies that pay fact, I thought the bagpipes sounded pickers in southwest Florida, and the pleasant. We were yelling so that peo­wages had not been raised in years. ple could hear us, but not disturbing Through negotiations, hunger strikes the peace. The police came and left and other tactics, several growers because we were not doing anything raised the wages paid to workers from wrong. 40 to 45 cents per bucket -not a huge Adam, you are very right in saying increase, but it is something. that "bringing about a change for 
However, Six L's refuses to raise the [migrant farm workers] is going to take wages. Taco Bell is one of the major a little more than spending one Sunday buyers of tomatoes from Six L's. The afternoon," which is why this is only Coalition tried to convince Taco Bell to one step and we will not stop here. I pressure Six L's to meet with them, but hope you join us in our further efforts Taco Bell did not want to get involved. against the exploitation of workers. 
Another step was needed, and a and look forward to hearing your nationwide boycott was set to start ideas. April 1 unless progress was made This is our society and the food we before then. It wasn't. eat. Together we can achieve change. 
As consumers we have power because companies depend on us to buy their products. Taco Bell specifi­Brigitte Gynther cally markets to 18-24 year-olds, so freshman they care what we, as consumers, are Pasquerilla West interested in. April I0, 200 I 
We all need to stand in solidarity to 

....---------------------..---------------------~-~­
M 
cene E 
Thursday, April 12, 2001 

page 10 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Spider' satisfies its detective story formula 
By CHRIS BANNISTER s,.,n, Movie Critic 
There is, inherently, a puzzle to be solved in every detective film. llaving a puzzle gives the genre an advantage over other movies because as long as the puzzle is there to be examined. people will watch the film. no matter how poor the acting. writing or theme. Even mvvies that can be unequivocally clas­sified as bad will still leave a viewer with some sense of satisfaction because the audi­
Freeman does his job well but never throws any real ingenuity into the character. 
To be fair, Cross, while probably much more developed in the novel. is written as a tired arche­type, which is unremarkable on the screen. 
As "Spider's" story progresses. Cross is joined by a secret service agent (Monica Potter). who leads the ineffective protection team for the kidnapped girl. Together. they set off tracking down the culprit. 
It appears Potter may have to write this particular film off as a learning experience. She doesn't seem to have taken any tips from Mr. 
ence is allowed to engage in solving 
Freeman at all, and she therefore the crime. "Along Came delivers a performance that lacks the 
In that regard. "Along Came a 
subtlety to reveal any depth.
Spider" never had far to go to become a Spider" As the two characters continue to an enjoyable movie; however, 

invesligate. the kidnapping plot getsalthough the film is thoroughly enjoy­more and more complicated, leadingable. it attempts no demonstration of all the way up to the rather surprising any cinematic skill. 
climax.
out offive shamrocks 
Based on the best-selling novel. 
Of course, as mentioned before, this 
"Spider" is a prequel to the earlier lit­Director: Lee Tamahori mystery and its unraveling are the erary adaptation. "Kiss the Girls," Starring: Morgan Freeman film's strengths. The mystery is inter­
which starred Freeman and Ashley 
esting enough that it carries a lot of 
Judd. "Girls" was not a very remark-and Monica Potter 
the film's weight. Thus. the film's 


able film; thus. most had little hope for the success of its prequel. 
Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) is a star profiler for the Washington, D.C. police when a sting operation goes bad. At the outset of the film. Alex is still trying to recover from the trauma of the death of his part­ner, who was killed in the debunked sting operation. However, plans are rapidly changed when a sena­tor's daughter is kidnapped and the perpetrator wants to pull Alex into the web of the case. 
Morgan Freeman chose to return to the role of Cross because he feels that the character allows for a great deal of dramatic exploration. 
Freeman craftily explores Cross and puts in a good performance. However, Cross just isn't all that dif­ferent from the characters Freeman has played in the past. such as his aging detective in "Seven." 
MOVIE REVIEW 
mild success at being entertaining lies in the plot that was created in the novel. 
However, the filmmakers did not pay much atten­tion to the cinematic aspects• of the book adaptation process. For example, none of the cinematography is anything above standard Hollywood sludge. While one would think that a film called "Along Came a Spider" would be a perfect chance to utilize some beautifully dark shot composition, the screen is splashed with light as much as anything else on the typical Hollywood menu. 
Finally, it is the close alignment with the status quo that makes it impossible for "Along Came a Spider" to bring anything but brief amusement. However, the film works because it uses to the fullest the inherently intriguing structure of all detective films. 
_Cinema bottoms out in 'Just Visiting' 
By MARIO BIRD Scene Movie Critic 
Ask any slack-jawed yokel's opinion of a particular movie, and he'll most likely tell you it was one of two things: good or bad. Movies that are universal­ly acclaimed as "good," such as "Toy 
Story" or "Schindler's List," usually generate copious revenue and popular appeal for the stars and director. 
Surprisingly, the same is true for universally "bad" movies. as any fan of the "Evil Dead" series would proudly testify. Though "good" and "bad" are undoubtedly subjective, occasionally a film will transcend that subjectivity 

Photo courtesy of Buena Vista Pictures Christian Clavier (left) and Jean Reno star in the fish-out-of-water comedy "Just Visiting." 
Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
In "Along Came a Spider," detective Alex Cross {Morgan Freeman) must stop a methodical killer. 
In an age when so many films are neither above average nor entertaining. "Along Came a Spider" provides a kind of guilty pleasure. Of course, most of the film's elements could be torn apart by a discern­ing eye, but they ultimately defy criticism because the inherent puzzle entertains the audience until the very end. 
and become entrenched in the public American actors trying very hard to consciousness as an objective exem­Americanize a movie that never should plar of achievement (or delinquency). have crossed the Atlantic. 
"Just Visiting" transcends bad, good "Just Visiting" is hard to describe in and everything in between, coming to a cinematic context. due in most part rest as the archetype of 21st century to its forgettable-ness. film· mediocrity. a title Though the opening that thousands of sub­scenes reek of "Monty sequent movies will "Just Visiting" Python and the Holy undoubtedly strive to Grail." complete with wrest away from this narrator. slapstick half-baked spectacle. humor and obtuse 
Appropriately, the bloodshed, it quickly
out offive shamrocks 
television preview abandons this humor 
encapsulates the plot in Director: Jean-Marie Poire genre for the typical 30 seconds: a 12th-cen­modern fare: bodily
Starring: Jean Reno,
tury knight and his excrement. sustained jester-slave are mistak-Christina Applegate, Christian yelling and brazen stu­pidity.
enly sent into the Clavier and Tara Reid 
future, where they shock, stupefy and inevitably enamour two beautiful. young, blond women. 
Adding to hackneyed atmosphere is the womanizing, money-grubbing fiance who projects a clean-cut image in order to fleece his innocent wife's bank account. 
The film is a Hollywood Pictures/Gaumont remake of the origi­nal 1993 rrench release, and reprises Jean Reno ("Mission: Impossible") and Christian Clavier (various French films) as the Count Thibault and idiot Andre. Christina Applegate (TV's "Married: With Children") stars opposite Beno as Thibault's direct descendant. Julia, and 12th-century bride, Lady Rosaline. 
Hounding out the cast is Tara Heid ("American Pie") and Matthew Hoss ("Carnal Crimes"), a couple of very At times there is a buf­
foonish brotherhood between the Frenchmen Reno and Clavier as they play a medieval Abbott and Costello, but these vaguely enter­taining segments are eclipsed by gar­ish Disneyisms -the pretty, made-up Applegate getting sprayed with slime. the villainous Hoss unknowingly eating a toilet freshener-disc. ad infinitum. 
One would be lying to say that there wasn't humor in the film. especially during scenes when Clavier is amicably vying for tablescraps amidst the dogs and other lesser creatures. But one would also be forced to admit that a certain type or melancholy guilt accompanied the aftermath of each chortle. 
The length of "Just Visiting's" stay in theatres can. fittingly, be found in the title. 

-

Thursday, April 12, 200 l page 11 
MOVIE FEATURE 

By LIAM DACEY 
Scene Movie Criric 
Anyone who has tried to recommend "The Virgin Suicides" to a friend has come across the difficult task of finding the words to describe it. It most cases, the friend will take a look at the cover and put it back on the shelf. After all, many moviegoers find it risky to watch an independent fllm that separates itself from classical Hollywood conventions. This is understandable, that's the way the system is meant to work. 
Sometimes a few excellent films get lost in the shuffle, however. These indepen­dent films challenge the norm and leave the viewer actually thinking about what they saw after the film ends. Sofia Coppola's "The Virgin Suicides" is a superb example of this type of film. 
In her directing debut, Coppola tells the story of the Lisbon girls, who grow up in a stereotypical suburban neighborhood (Gross Point, Michigan) in the 1970s (the story is adapted from Jeffrey Eugenider's novel}. The five girls, Cec.ilia (Hanna Hall), Lux (Kirsten Dunst), Bonnie lChelse Swain). Mary (AJ Cook) and Therese (Leslie Hayman), ranging between ages 13 and 17, are characterized through the eyes of the teenage boys of the neighbor­hood. 
The boys are captivated by the mysteri­ous girls and begin to worship their mys­terious nature. As is common in adoles­cence, the girls seem to be alien to the fascinated boys, who try to do everything in their power throughout the film to understand them. 
Mrs. Lisbon (Kathleen Turner) is an overbearing Catholic mother who tries to protect her daughters from the tempta­tions of the flesh. In doing so, she strips the girls of any social interaction and holds strict guidelines for them to follow. Mr. Lisbon (James Woods) plays a more submissive role and is slightly more favorable to his daughters' relations with the opposite sex. 
This dysfunctional and restrictive atmosphere adds to the longings of the girls, who are unable to experience any of their deep passions and wishes. 
After Cecilia tries to slit her wrist, the Lisbon parents decide to have all of the neighborhood boys over for a birthday party. Cecilia takes this opportunity to jump out of her window, and plummets to her death. This is the last straw for Mrs. Lisbon, who responds by keeping the girls from socializing with anyone. The girls begin to gain a legendary status among the neighborhood boys, who are only more intrigued with their being. 
Finally, the school jock, Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett), convinces Mr. Lisbon, apparently somewhat amused with the teenager's fascination with his daughters, to allow the girls to go to the prom with him and the neighborhood boys on a quadruple date. 

The girls are just as thrilled as the boys are, and the ensuing prom scene gives a vivid portrayal of both the awkwardness and pleasures of youth. Ultimately, how­ever. the prom turns to disaster for Lux and only strengthens the girls' repres­sions. Mrs. Lisbon decides to pull her daughters out of school and lock them up in the house. · 
The boys sec all of this from the out­side. and because the story is told from their perspective, the viewer is just as puzzled as the boys are about the girls' behavior. The boys begin to communicate with the Lisbon daughters on the phone and look at them through their binocu­lars. Their detached communication with them is symbolic of the detachedness that the girls experience with society. 
The performances by Woods and Turner are first-rate as the Lisbon par• ents. Woods' restraint only augments the deep pain which he experiences, while Turner's overhearing protection is only a shield for her to hide under in order to avoid her own pain. 
Dunst makes a noteworthy perfor­mance as Lux, encompassing innocence 


-
rest of the cast compliments the film ~onderfully and are especially praise­worthy due to the complexity of their roles. 
The soundtrack is also a fantastic sup­plement to the film. The songs help to move the film through critical scenes, and show how significant the music of any era becomes to someone when they're 15. 
In the end, the viewer is left with a haunting party scene in which a thick fog of green algae surrounds the area. Through the fog we see the adults laugh in their phony manner, apparently forget­ting about the Lisbon girls. The boys, however, look on in distress through the fog of adolescence. They are not able to forget; they are not able to be phony. Their outer arrogance was shredded when they experienced the Lisbon girls, and now they are forced to unmask their insecurities that were hidden under­neath. 

Adolescence is captured best in "The Virgin Suicides" due to its complex and mysterious charactflrS who depict the tor­­ments of youth. And perhaps that's how one should describe it to a friend: tell him tu think of the awkwardness of his or her youth. For. ultimately, this eerie littlfl story is meant for us to reflect on our 
Photo courtesy of Paramrunl Classics 
and intelligence with naivete and pain to own adolescence. our own mysterious

"The Virgin Suicides" co-stars Josh Hartnett, who plays school jock Trip Fontaine. selves.
create a realistic teenage character. The 

Trip manages to get Mrs. Ubson to allow her daughters to attend the prom. 
Thursday, April 12, 200 I 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
innings to see what he could do for us." 
After Porzel's blast expanded the lead, Mainieri had removed all but one of hi'i starters to give the younger guys some playing time. This was when Detroit made their move. 
Having already shown some control problems in the sixth and seventh innings, Kaplan gave up four hits in the eighth and also had an error on a ball hit back to him. Another freshman, Nick Colagiovanni, came in on relief and walked in one run before getting three straight ground balls to end the inning. 

"Brian had some trouble throwing strikes," said Mainieri. "He fell behind some of the bat­ters and gave up a few walks. He was able to get out of a couple of jams, but it caught up to him in the eighth. But you can only find out about guys by putting them in the games, and I wanted to see Brian pitch." 
Notre Dame took a 9-6 lead into the final inning but again ran into some trouble with one out and runners on second and third. Mainieri brought in Matt Laird, his closer, to end the game. but he gave up a two-run single after going to a full count on the hitter. 
Two wild pitches from Laird then moved he tying run all the way to third base, but he would advance no further as Laird knuckled down and got Detroit pinch hitter Tim Andrzejak to ground out to short. 
Just as in the 11-inning win at Rutgers, Laird found himself in a tough situation with the game on the line, but he battled through the pressure. 
Stavisky 
continued from page 20 
hard as anyone." 
The Player 

Stavisky the baseball player is imposing at the plate. With 220 pounds spread over a 6'3" frame, there's no missing the sophomore from Port Allegany, Pa. As a freshman, Stavisky had a mon­ster campaign, hitting .298 while slugging 14 home runs with 45 RBIs, a season so impressive it landed him a spot on the 2001 Preseason All-American Team. 
But don't peg him as some Mark McGwire home­runs-only hitter. "I definitely say I'm more of a power hitter," said Stavisky. "But this year I've be able to be a finesse hitter too, sacrificing power for hits." 
Stavisky's transition to an all-around hitter shows in his 2001 stats. He has 
raised his average 60 points to .358, while hitting 3 home runs and knocking in 29 runs through the first 31 games. Big East pitchers are on notice that Stavisky is a human ERA killer, and he has seen fewer fastballs this season. 
Stavisky is an especially difficult out because his aggressiveness at the plate. Rather than taking the first pitch of an at bat. common in baseball, 
Stavisky says he "goes aggressive at the first pitch. Some pitchers will throw a fastball the first pitch to try to get a first .!jtrike, and I'll hit that pitch." 
In right field, Stavisky has been solid this year. He has only made one error in 27 games, having missed four games earlier this season with a ham­string injury. Surprisingly enough, Stavisky also has eight stolen bases in nine attempts this year, an anomaly for a cleanup hitter. 
Still, Stavisky seeks to improve his game. He points to defense and throwing as areas he wishes to polish. In addition, he has been working on strengthening his arm. and his hitting of course. 
Mainieri knows the source ofStavisky's success at the plate."He has a major league swing," said Mainieri. "His wrists move lightning fast through the hitting zone." 
Still, there are areas Mainieri believes his star 
right fielder can improve. 
"He needs to develop more consistency, and the ability to hit all kinds of pitchers. He's made big improvements in those areas from his freshman to sophomore seasons," said Mainieri. 
The Teammate 
Stavisky is rare in that he dedicates himself to his team. He has set no personal goals for the season, no amount of home runs he want'i to hit or RBIs he wants rack up. 
He just loves his school and Irish baseball. 
"He's just one of those guys that loves ND," said Mainieri. "He cares so much about our program and the success.of the team." 
Stavisky enjoys playing with his teammates as much as he enjoys belting baseballs, citing fellow outfielder Steve Stanley and designated hitter Ken Meyer as his two closest friends on the team. 
"I get along real well with everybody," he said. With his teammates, Stavisky has created lasting memories in his first two years at Notre Dame. 
"My best memory from baseball here was going back to Mississippi State early this season and beat­ing them twice. It was a great start to the season," he said, referring to the Bulldog team that knocked the Irish out of the Starkville Regionals in last year's postseason. 
The Potential Major Leaguer 
Because he will be 21 years old before July 15, Stavisky is eligible for this year's Major League Draft. But don't expect this selfless player to take off for the minor leagues just yet. 
"I've thought about it, and I'm really happy here," said Stavisky. "Just being at Notre Dame, you can't duplicate it." 
For now, the plan is for Stavisky to sign after his junior year, and then return the next two falls to fin­ish his degree. 
''I'm pretty set on signing after next year," he said. ''Then I will have three years of school done, and I'll be able to finish in basically four and a half years." 
Fortunately, Irish baseball fans will be able to enjoy the sight of Stavisky giving opposing pitcher fits the next season and a half. 
Irish look to carry momentum into Big East doubleheaders 
By COLIN BOYi.AN 
Sports Writer 
A pair of doubleheaders this weekend against Big East 
rivals Georgetown and West Virginia look to test the 
Notre Dame Men's Baseball Team's tenacity. 
Although neither opponent has been particularly 
impressive in regular season play this 
year, both the 9-26 Hoyas and the 18­
15 Mountaineers have shown the ability 
to score runs in a hurry. 
At 27-5-1, with a conference leading 
8-2 Big East mark, the Irish certainly 
aren't overlooking their competition. 
"I think we're going to bear down and concentrate this weekend." said Irish second baseman Steve Sollman. "You can't overlook any teams in the Big East because each game is so impor­tant." 
At a point in the season when victories are at a premi­um, Notre Dame seems to have peaked at the right time. Their hitting has been outstanding in recent games, even bailing the outstanding pitching staff out at times. 
Most notably, the hitters came up big in the late innings of 5-4 win at Rutgers, and provided just a large enough margin in a 9-8 victory against Detroit Mercy last night. 
Leading the charge is the freshman Sollman, who added three hits last night to his team leading .430 aver­age. 
"Coach Mainieri just told me to concentrate on hitting the ball up the middle and I've been doing that pretty well," Sollman said. 
The first doubleheader begins today at Frank Eck Stadium against Georgetown. 
Notre Dame will be starting J.P. Gagne in the first game and Drew Duff will take the mound for the second contest. 
Gagne has rebounded nicely from a tough first half to pick up key wins in his last two starts, but much of the scrutiny will focus on Duff, who is making his first start for the Irish all season. 
"It's a completely different feeling when you're starting as opposed to 
relieving," said Duff. "There's a lot less pressure because you know that you'll be pitching. You can pre­pare a lot differently." 
Saturday, the team will take the field again at Eck Stadium for a pair of games against the Mountaineers. Staff aces Aaron Heilman and Danny Tamayo will be pitching in the first and second games respectively. 
Barring any major lapses of concentration. the Irish look to solidify their position in the Big East standings with victories this weekend. But of course, they are not taking anything for granted. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 

-
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

An adorable 1.5 bdrm. House w/ Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND Eating concerns survey 2000; sum• Cassie and Nell, have a safe trip to garage by St. Patrick's park. 702· available to rent tor fall semester. 2 Wild Irish Rose Inn mary results now available on KY. See you Monday. 436-i 594. full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec 3mi north of campus University counseling CenterCs 
FOR SALE 

room, security system. Call now to 'brkfst buffet ea AM Web page. ,2 More, O-Staff 
Rent for fall semester see 2n-0636 'clean, comfortable & afford-http://www.nd.edu:/-ucc/ucc_ed_su Oakhill Condo N4 bdr/3 bath 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, able rvey_2000.html We must construct that people-can­1/2 mile from campus washer&dryer, basement w/ hot 1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers (2190 277-4303 or tered society of freedom in such a fireplace, deck, pool access tub, new fumance, security system. Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com-'fil:J'fJ. lllildidSIJCQS!:l CQffi LADIES: Take a study break and manner that it guarantees that polit­$99,000/best offer Call 277-0636 plex, meet guys, make fun of them, or ical liberties and human rights of all 
room for 2 people, $890/mo+util both with the new ThalGuy! Game. our citizens call Tim @ 612·802-0285 SUMMER RENTAL Rachel 312-498-6579 As seen in In Style, Glamour & -Nelson Mandela 
.. 
821 E. Wash 5 bed $200/mo WANTED Entertainment Weekly. Endless 5 miles from Notre Dame Eric 243-2902 CHICAGO APT. Fun! $9.99 at Give me one last chance Close to everything Graduating seniors: 'li.'Ni:L lbi.11.';JUl,'Qi.l[l]fl CQ[l] And I'm gonna make you sing 4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently New home Fall 2001. This 3+ AVAILABLE FOR MAY THROUGH Looking to sell your apartment fumi-Give me half a chance remodeled bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam-AUGUST IN LINCOLN PARK lure (beds, desks, couches, etc)? My keys are cooler than your keys To ride on the waves that you bring Main level laundry finished base-pus with features like fireplace. LOCATION. CLOSE TO EL ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick 
ment cahedral ceilings, family room, 1 or 2 BEDROOMS at 4-4716 if interested. Have a safe drive today-and have You're honey child to a swarm of 
deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage. fun rockin' out to Independent bees 2076 living area $1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or OWN BATHROOM Women (and the rest of the girlie Gonna blow right through you like a plenty of storage 616-683-5038. $780/mo. cd). With that tail, maybe you can breeie
PERSONAL

Call 256-0698 1-312-443·6062 JAIME wrap ycurself around Bianca. Give me one last dance 
Fifth roomate needed for first  We'll slide down the surface of  
- FOR RENT  semester. House is close to cam­pus. Call Dan at 4-2091. Apt. starting June 1. 2 Bdrm 2 Bath.  Studio apt. in quiet neighborhood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/rno.  Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots  HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHUK AND FRASSO! Look out, Backer days are here!  things You·re the real thing Yeah the real thing  
lake living bear Bremen  W/0 Minutes to campus. Call 243­ Plus electric. Available June. Tel:  ot love and a secure, stable life.  Chuk, NG and I are depending on  You're the real thing  
most pets okay  0070  616-687-8924  you to be our guardians at  Even better than the real thing  
new 3 bedroom  Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath  3--6 BDRM HOMES  Reasonable expenses will be paid.  Heartland. We have decided after encountering numerous shady  hello  
air. garage. disposal. dishwaher  Tri-level, family room, lireplace,  $180 per person  For more info, please call Rebecca  characters last week that we deli- goodbye  
...  $950/rnonth page 219-935-7845 or  fenced back yard, 2-<;ar garage. $995/mo  Furn. Summer/Fall  re Larry and Cathy: toll-free  nitely need a chaperone ­or at least someone who can REGU- i need a nap  
call 546-4430  Call 219-232-4527Or 616-683-5038  272-6306  1-866-30-ADOPT.  LATE!  a nap with the best  


And then there was 256 
With the field narrowed after the first round. Bookstore gets serious with 3 I out of32 seeded teams still remaining. 
page 18

PORTS 


O
THE page 20 BSERVER Thursday, April 12, 2001 
BASEBALL 

Stavisky has rare dedication to teammates, program 
too good for the fans, and are bined with a God-given talent to 14.2 boards for Port Allegany 1998. "Growing up I alwaysBy JEFF BALTRUZAK interested only in personal glory hit baseballs, makes the right High School. looked up to him, when we were 
Assistant Sports Editor 

and moncv. fielder a truly unique athlete and \Vhy baseball? at our grandparents' houstl. I got "He's not astandout player on a standout ''I've played baseball the to see what Notre Dame baseball 
Irish rightfielder and cleanup 
the typical Irish squad. longest. I got into baseball all­was all about," said Stavisky. hitter Brian Stavisky is a super­superstar," stars before junior year and I llut recruiting Stavisky was no star, but in many ways. he's the commented knew baseball was the future, slam-dunk for Mainieri.
Coming to Notre Dame 
anti-superstar. Irish head and then all the recruiting stuff," "He could have gone to any
Stavisky is an athlete in every
Stavisky-is a superstar in the coach Paul said Stavisky. "I still like to shoot baseball powerhouse or signed
sense of the word. He lettered
classic sense. being an outc;tand­Mainieri. some hoops or play a round of professionally," said the Irish
and excelled in football, basket­
ing athlete, mentally tough and "He's always golf.'' coach. "But he was a perfect lit
ball and golf, in addition to base­
confident in competition. putting the When Notre Dame was recruit­for Notre Dame. He's an out­
Stavisky ball while in high school. 
But Stavisky is the anti-super­team before ing Stavisky, it helped that his standing student and works as
His senior year he put up 23.5
star in the modern sense, when himself." cousin Dan Stavisky was a former
points per game \Vhile grabbing
superstars flash their jewelry, act Stavisky's team mindset, com-Irish pitcher that graduated in see BASEBALL/page 13 
Irish escape with 9~8 win, Porzel reaches 30 /30 plateau 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 

For a day that was supposed to be a routine mid­week game to prepare for the two upcoming Big East series games, the baseball team experienced a great deal of drama Wednesday afternoon in a 9-8 victory over the Detroit Titans. 
The Irish surged to an early 9-1 lead, and then held off a late fight from the Titans in the eighth and ninth innings to escape with the victory. 
Earlier in the game, the sparse crowd of 125 enthusi­astic fans was treated to a bit of history as senior short­stop and co-captain Alec Porzel became the first Notre Dame player ever to hit 30 home runs and steal 30 bases in a career. The feat earned him the rare title of a "30/30 man." 
The senior leader remained modest about his accom­plishment after the game. 
"I think the most important thing was getting the vic­tory and allowing the guys that don't play that much to get some experience," said Porzel. "These are guys we're going to count on down the road and in the post­season. The 30/30 distinction really didn't mean that much to me-it just shows I've been around a while." 
The Irish got on the board in their first at-bat when Steve Sollmann, 3-4 on the day at the plate, singled up the middle. Porzel then advanced Sollmann to third with a single of his own, taking second on the throw to third. 
Matt Bok, playing right field so sophomore Brian Stavisky could rest a sore hamstring for the Big East series, brought Sollmann in with a sacrifice fly to cen­ter. Kris Biilmaier then improved on his .316 average with runners in scoring position by knocking in Porzel with a single. 
Notre Dame added four more runs in the fourth, starting with Billmaier's leadoff walk. After junior Andrew Bushey singled, first baseman Mike Holba hit a single that brought in Billmaier. Center fielder Steve Stanley and the freshman Sollmann would then both add RBI singles to open the Irish lead to 6-1. 
Porzcl's record-setting homer, his first of the season, came in the seventh inning and followed a leadoff dou­ble from Stanley and another single from Sollmann. The two-run shot moved the lead to 9-1. 
Starting pitcher Ryan Kalita had a strong perfor­mance, giving five solid innings allowing only one run on three hits. He gave way to freshman Brian Kaplan in the sixth inning, exiting with a 6-1 leap.. 
"J thought Ryan threw pretty well for us today," said coach Paul Mainieri. 'The plan was for him to go out and give five good innings like he did. I just wanted to give Kaplan some 
see BASEBALL/page 12 
Women's Lacrosse 

Softball vs. Ball State vs. Duke (New Haven, Conn.) 
SPORTS te·
vs. Loyola ,___) Monday, I p.m. Friday 4 p.m. 
Today, 4 p.m. 
ATA 

Baseball Tennis
1~ • • vs. Georgetown vs. Wisconsin at Midwest Invitational GLANCE l!3 'fi-•Jf)
' Today, 12:05 p.rn. Monday, 3:30 p.m. 
Saturday 


... -,... 

Thursday, April 12, 2001 
The Ohseroer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 

No CoMMENTS. lvST Do 1T. 
NoW, ll-!EN~ 
DRACVLA ~R \ 
fRAN~Nm,w~ 

~ ,,--=.' A 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
Graduating can be a bit ofa shock. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Prathet Thai, previously 5 Painfully aware people? 15 Number for one 16 Works with curvilinear motifs 17 Authority figure 18 Dojo conferrals 19 One may be on the line 
20 State capital with just 13,000 people 
21 Match maker? 22 Prepare tor 
surgery 24 Pickle 26 Runner 
Sebastian 27 Performs 
halfheartedly, 
slangily 
54 Kennel collection 56 10001 initials 57 Grow up, so to speak 59 The Who's • O'Riley" ­60 Bernard Malamud novel 61 Not name 62 Means of knowing 
63 Lt. Mitchell (Tom Cruise's "Top Gun· role) 
DOWN 
1 Pitching pro 2 Symbol ot bondage 3 Hangs on the 
line 4 Ticked 5 Star trekkers? 6 Taken in 7 Sex hormone, 
e.g. 8 Close, as a lead in baseball 9 Traffic directors? 
10 Turning point 11 "Concord Sonata· composer 
29 Dry out 31 ·_4 and up• 32 Lettuce 
arrangement 33 Garage stain 34 Physically close 36 Saw 40 It catches some 
waves: Abbr. 41 Gym unit 42 Name in an old 
oath 43 Gold Coast port 46 Prevailed upon 48 Granting that, 
briefly 49 Camillo 
Borghese, familiarly 51 Sci-fi novelist 
_S. Tepper 52 One filling the bill? 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S T A R 
43 Flies may result 50 Looks out for, from them maybe 
44 Affected 53 Stop order? 45 Memory site 
55 Take-out order? 46 Dog 
58 •1 don't think so"

47 Enterprise loader? 59 Conk 
Answers to any th~ee clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
-+_ __,""' 12 Prime ,-;,+-'-+-,,.,+.,,+,,,-f 13 Body image? 14 Cattle or chicken breed --+_..,-....,._+-...,,,.. 20 N. E.A. grantee .,.,+-,+A,.+,T,-t 23 Winter coat A C •::+::-+.:~ I N A 25 Be a People 0 S Y person? 
30 Black Muslim leader Muhammad 33 Error message? 35 Kind of second 36 Respiration retarder 37 A spy may use one 38 Entirely 39 Commit 41 Brush up on 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2001 
CELEBRinES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Letterman, Shannen Doherty, David Cassidy, Vince Gill, Montserrat Caballe, Andy Garcia, Oaire Danes 
Happy Birthday: You will not be satisfied with sitting on the sidelines this year. You will do whatever is necessary to partici­pate in the action. Your expecta­tions and determination are high. You will strive to complete everything you start and will have the courage to take on com­petition or opposition. Your numbers: 9, 12, 16, 22, 27, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Find ways to improve yourself and your image. Social events will lead to a romantic adventure. Make sure that the person you're attracted to can keep up with your fast pace. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't go crazy buying luxury items for your home. You need to bank your money for the time being. Unexpected bills will be a cause for alann if you spend all your cash on unneces.5al}' items. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional partner may no longer be providing you with the mental stimulation you need. Talk to him or her. If you work together, you can regain the magic. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be able to make career moves that will lead to profes• sional advancement and more money. Travel will probably be necessary, but the package will be too good to tum down. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22)~ You'll be in an energetic mood and need to find an outlet. Consider joining your local theater group. You need a place to role-play and dramatize. 00000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
When you least expect it, the perfect mate will come waltzing into your life. Past romantic partners will try to find a war back into your heart as we! . Remember the reasons why you broke up before. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
You're. gifted when it comes to seeing both sides of an issue. Friends will lean on you for advice. Don't let them take advantage of your good nature. You'll get run-down if you take on too much. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be the center of attention at social events. Your competitive nature and refusal to admit defeat will lead you to the win­ners' circle. New relationships will be tempting. 000 · 
SAGITfARIUS (NO\t 22-Dec. 21): Evading issues will backfire on you. If you cfon't wish to be confronted, I suggest you retreat for the time being. You'll be misinterpreted and misunderstood ifyou don't 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): Opportunities to make some extra cash will surface. Keep your eyes peeled for unique ways to invest your money. You'll be riding high if you make the right choices. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Surround yourself with individu­als who can offer you intellectual stimulation. You can meet poten­tial new mates, but make sure that they aren't already commit­ted elsewhere. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't confront your boss. It would be wise to make sure that you have a new job lined up first. You're not likely to get much sympathy from loved ones if you quit. 00 
Birthday Baby: You are an entrepreneur. You have wonderful ide~ and will capture the attention of anyone talk to. You are giving, caring and charismatic. Nothing will ever be too much trouble for you. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) Q 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 12, 2001 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Field narrowed to 256, 31 seeds advance to second round 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spons Edi tor 
They started with 580 teams. 
Now they're down to 256. 
Wednesday night marked the end of the final first round games of the Bookstore Basketball XXX tournament. Second round competition begins Wednesday. 
According to several Bookstore Basketball commis­sioners. the tournament is running pretty smoothly. 
"'We're very pleased with how things are going," said executive commissioner Dan Reidy. "We've had some real competitive games so far." 
Unlike last year, where com­missioners had to suspend some players for fighting in the first round. no fighting has been reported this year, some• thing Reidy attributed to the changed rules. 
Reidy said the Bookstore committee is pretty happy with the seeding. So far, the only seeded team to lose in the tourney was No. 25 Rucker Park All-Stars, who fell Tuesday night to Good to the Last drop. Every other seeded team blew out their first round opponent. 
"To the best of our knowl­edge, we did the best job seed· ing possible," he said. "The top eight are really solid, and I think the.y showed that in the first round." 
Aside from the occasional intoxicated team, Reidy said the funniest thing he has seen· during the first round was Kelly Siemon's team. 
"They had choreographed dances moves and everything," Reidy said. 

Although Siemon's team lost, they still have a chance at win­ning the women's bracket. Tournament play for women's teams -where all five players must be women -begins after Easter break. 
With most of the serious teams advancing to the second round, Reidy said the competi­tion should get more and more intense. 
"A lot of the mid-tier teams are really competitive," he said. "And most of the teams who moved on are pretty seri­ous." 
Most of the ranked teams that were supposed to play today rescheduled their games. Among the teams that were supposed to make their 2001 Bookstore debut included No. 19 !f We Only Had Warren, of which former Irish point guard Martin Ingelsby is a member, as well as the team former basketball player Hans Rasmussen plays for, No. 1 7 Check Your Head. 
No. 16 Raw Dog powered past Les Incompetents 21-3. Mike Harper led Raw Dog by scoring nine points and grab­bing four rebounds. Chris Golden added six points and five rebounds. 
Irish football players led No. 18 Nerd Bashers to a 21-8 win over Team 513. Michael Goolsby led all scorers with six points, while teammate Al Ranando pulled down a team­high seven rebounds. 
The second round of Bookstore Basketball begins Wednesday after Easter break. 
"As we start getting further and further in the tournament, we start getting more and more competitive -and fun," Reidy said. 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer Bookstore XXX continues at the Stepan courts on Wednesday. 256 teams have advanced to the second round, with 31 seeded squads among them. 
Bookstore Basketball Results, April 11 

Nerd Bashers def. Team 513, 21-8 Team 569 def. Team 308, Forfeit Team 462 def. Irish Infringers, 21-14 Team 236 def. Superstars Violating Reslife, 21-15 Team 430 def. Team 267, Forfeit Team 514 def. Team 313, 21-11 Team 277 def. Darcy's Digital Playground, Forfeit Handsome Boy Modeling School def. Bellybutton Lintel, 21-9 Team 440 def. Aussie Power, 21-17 Team Boat Club def. <yousuck.h>, 21-7 
Team 32 def. Bud Bowl, 21-8 Colonel Lingus' Army def. Off in the Shower, 21-18 McGee's Minstrals def. Pedro's First Swim, 21-17 MBA Extreme def. Schmoglie, Forfeit Team 212 def. Mahatma's Hotties, 21-4 Team 514 def. We're Five Undersized College Teammates, 21-12 The Torch def. Team 377, Forfeit Raw Dog def. Team 118, 21-3 Funky Bunch def. Five Chicks Looking for Some Action;21-9 
Reminder: All teams must play rescheduled games by Wednesday, April 18 


CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents The Seventeenth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 
Speaking With Authority: Catherine ofSiena and The Voices of Women Today 
by Mary Catherine Hilkert, 0 .P. 
Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 19, 2001, 7:30 p.m. (EST) Moreau Center Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC INFORMATION: (219) 284-4636 
• 
E-MAIL: mlukasze@saintmarys.edu 

.. 
Saint M$-s Colleg~ 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
Thursday, April 12, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 7 Irish dominate Purdue 6-1, Dasso sets record for wins 
Special to Tlic Observer 
The seventh-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis swept the doubles and won four singles matches in straight sets to beat 
Purdue 6-1 
and record its fourth straight 20­win season and fifth in the last six years. 
Senior /\ll­A me ric an Michelle Dasso won· her 102nd career doubles match to break the 15-year old Irish school record in her final regu­lar-season home match. Notre Dame improved io 20-4 with the win -its 12th straight over Purdue -and continues its best start under 14th-year head coach Jay Louderback. The Irish close out their regular season with a 3:30 p.m. match at Wisconsin on Monday. 


The Irish took a 1-0 lead into the singles competition after winning all three doubles match­es. Juniors Lindsey Green and Nina Vaughan won 8-1 at No. 3 doubles before the fifth-ranked team of Dasso and junior Becky Varnum won 8-4 at No. 1 dou­bles tu clinch the point. 
The first-time team of fresh­man Alicia Salas and Kimberly Guy completed the doubles sweep with an 8-3 win at No. 2. 
After finishing last in doubles, Guy was ihe first off in singles with her 6-1, 6-4 victory over Lynsey Fick at No. 6 singles. Dasso made it 3-0 when she beat Melissa Iqbal 6-4, 6-2 at No. 1 singles. 
Freshman Caylan Leslie then clinched the win with a 6-4, 6-2 victory over Missy Wright at No. 4 singles. Varnum held off Melissa Woods 6-1, 4-6, 6-3 at No. 2 singles for a 5-0 lead, before Green defeated Lisa Walgenbach 7-6, 7-5 at No. 5 singles for a 6-0 Irish advantage. 
Dasso passed former Irish great Susie Panther for the most career doubles victories. Panther won 101 doubles matches during her career from 1982-86. Dasso also owns school records for sin­gles victories (133) and com­bined singles and doubles wins (234). 


SOFTBALL 
Notre_ Dame returns to Ivy Field to take on Loyola 
ing in seven doubleheader sweeps Liz Miller enjoyed a victory in her rattling off seven-straight double­
Associated Press 
since the team returned from a Spring 500th game as Notre Dame's head header sweeps. Notre Dame finished Break trip to California. Notre Dame coach on April 1 against Seton Hall. third in the prestigious Kia Klassic,
The No. 11 Notre Dame softball 
also is 8-0 in Big East competition, The Irish defeated the Pirates 8-0 in knocking off No. 7 Fresno State and 
team (32-3) returns to the friendly 
good enough for first place in the five innings to earn Miller her 349th No. 10 Arizona State during the com­confines of Ivy Field to face Loyola­
league. victory under the Golden Dome. She is petition.
Chicago after posting six road victo­
The team's 14-game win streak is now just four wins away from 900 Notre Dame entered the seasonries last week. sweeping doublehead­
currently the second best in the career victories (896-294). ranked 19th in the preseason poll and 
ers over Purdue, Connecticut and 
nation behind DePaul's 18-straight Notre Dame has remained at its moved to 14th in the Feb. 21 poll. The Syracuse. 
victories The Irish and the Blue highest-ever ranking (No. 11) for Irish then dropped a spot to No. 15 in 
Thu Irish are riding a 14-game win­Demons will meet on April 19 at three weeks after an impressive run the Feb. 28 poll, but moved back up to '\ ning streak, all ol' those victories com-DePaul. to third place in the Kia Klassic and 14th for two weeks (Mar. 7 and 14). 

5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
5:00 p.m. Women's Softball vs. Loyola, double header, Ivy Field (games begins at 4:00 p.m.) 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
11:00 p.m. Tenebrae, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Friday, April 13 

7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 14 
9:00 p.m. RCIA Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Programs are subject to change without notice. 
Lafortune Student Center Building Hours 

Thursday, April 12 
7:00 a.m. -Midnight 
Friday, April 13 
7:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Saturday, April 14 
10:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
Sunday, April 15 
Closed 
Monday, April 16 
7:00 a.m. -2:00 a.m. 
The 24-hour lounge will cease operation on Thursday, April 12 and resume on Tuesday night, April 17. 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune Student Center. 

I 
I 



The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 12, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Notre Daille to play Maryland in 2002 Kickoff Classic 
INTERESTED IN LATIN AMERICA? 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame football team will open the 2002 season against Maryland on Sunday, August 25, in Kickoff Classic XX at Giants Stadium. 
"We're thrilled to he coming to the Meadowlands once again in 2002," Notre Dame Athletics Director Kevin White said. 
"Notre Dame has had a long history of playing at Giants Stadium, including the Kickoff Classic in 1989. It's a great opportunity for us to play in front of many fans and alumni on the East Coast -and it is a strong matchup against a team in Maryland." 
"Maryland is honored to be selected for this premier collegiate football event," Maryland Athletic Director Deborah Yow said. 
"To face Notre Dame for the first time in our university's history only adds to what should be a landmark event for our program. With a sizable 
ST. ' 
.,: "'· 
. j 
. . 
. 
. 
:, 
. , ~· 


'J:'h~ Language of Brazil 
alumni base within a three-hour radius of the Meadowlands, the Terps will be supported by thousands of fans. And, the national television exposure will be a plus to our recruiting efforts." 
This will mark the second appearance for Notre Dame in the Kickoff Classic and the first for Maryland. Notre Dame defeated Virginia, 36­13, in the 1989 game. Notre Dame has a 9-0 record at Giants Stadium, most recently a 28-27 win over Army on October 14, 1995. Maryland will be facing Notre Dame in football for the first time in the 2002 Kickoff Classic. 
"The 2002 Kickoff Classic captures the essen­tial character of our college football tradition with a match-up of the country's leading inter­collegiate athletic programs," NJSEA President and CEO James A. DiEleuterio, Jr. said. "We look forward to hosting the student-athletes. coaches, families and fans of these two great schools." 
Two teams that played in the Kickoff Classic have gone on to win the national championship -Florida State in 1993 and Nebraska in 1994. 
,

r-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-
¦-¦-¦ 
I I I I 
Self Lock Storage I J-4 New Facility I • Located on 8th & Smith in Mishawaka!!! 1/.f?.Sl.JJ?i,,t • 
I 255-LQCK l(e.rp•<l lllA.IVc-1; I 
( 5 6 2 5 ) tlcce

• :s-s • 
L 
¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦-¦ 


I 
I 
I 
f . 
Thursday, April 12, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
====-=-=-=---=---=---=-=-==-~=-=~================================================================================================================== 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Saint Mary's travels to prestigious Midwest Invitational 
ranking in the Midwest. Saint its starters are present and By KATIE McVOY Mary's will join 11 other top have picked up impressive Associate Spnm Ediror tennis teams in a four round wins against Div. 1 Valparaiso, 
tournament. the University of Chicago and 
The Saint Mary's tennis team Saint Mary's will face Luther Albion. has taken anuther step down a College (9-6) at 8 a.m. on Along with Knish. Natalie path that rnns through a fairy Friday. The Belles did not Cook. Jeannie Knish, Kaitlin Lale season. receive a lirst round bye. Cutler, Kris Spriggle, Elisa 
t\fter defeating hope College While the Belles would like to Hyan and Trisha Jones, head to take the top spot in the walk away with the trophy, coach Dee Stevenson will take MIAA. the Belles their main goal ls to gain valu­Angie Sandner as an alternate. earned an invi-able expe­The tournament will be the tation to the rience for first match for the Belles since
"We're going in with a 
prestigious future Sunday. Tuesday's match
positive attitude and
Midwest league against Calvin because of Jnvitulional in we're going to try to play. weather. Madison, Wis. "We're "We've been 'playing a lot of
better our games." 
Saint Mary's is going in points and scrimmages," Knish the only MIA!\· with a posi­said. "We've been focusing on invited to the Annie Knish tive atti­strategy and working on fine uve11t. Team captain tude and tuning our weaknesses." 
"Wc'ro very we're going · However, competition honored and to lry to promises to be difficult. very excited to b,i going," team better our games and play to "It's going to be a tough tour­
captain Annie Knish said. "At the best of our ability," Knish nament," Knish said. "We're 
this point in tlw s<iason, which said. "From my experience, the just excited to go." has been a cl ream season, better the competition, the bet­The Belles were invited to we're going out there with a ter you play and you will raise the Midwest Invitational in positive attitude." yourself to the next level." 1999, but did not receive an 
After earning a 12th place Saint Mary's is 10-0 when all invitation last year. 
RETIREMENT IN 5 UR AN t E·: ;MUTUAL FUND 5 TRUST SERVI CE 5 TU IT ID N FIN AN CI NG 
It's a simple calculation: 
TIAA-CREF's low expenses mean more money 
Call us 
fora free

working for you. 
expense
calculator 

The equation is e_asy. Lower expenses 1n managing a THE IMPACT OF EXPENSES ON PERFORMANCE fund can equal better performance. 
$2!5,000 
Low-Cost Account 
How much? Just take a look at the chart. Then call us. 
::t;·~"<'b
$176,000
We'll send you a free, easy-to-use expense calculator so "­
I_ ' 
ltigh-Cost Account 
you can see for yourself that no matter what your investment, you'll benefit from low expenses. And CREF variable annuity expenses range from Just 0.28% to 0.34%.1 
For decades, we've been committed to low expenses, superior customer service and strong performance. 

EXPE.'lSES 2 
Add it all up and you'll find that selecting your 
Total accumulations at'icr 20 years based on initial investment of$50,000 and hypothetical aanual returns of8%. Total returns
retirement provider 1s an easy decision: TIAA-CREF 
and principal value ofinvastmcnts will 11uctuatc. and yield may vary. The chart above is presented for illuslrativc purposes only and docs not reflect 3clual performance. or predict future results, ofany TIAA-CRF.F account, or reflect taxes. 

Ensuring the future . 
1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape it."' 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
~or more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842 .2733, ext. 5509. for prospectuse<.. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. btimated annual e~pen,es are adjusted quarterly. 2. 1 .40 % is a very reasonable fee level for a typical fund; 0.40% is near. bu! not ac!Ually at the bottom of, the mutual fund expense ratio spectrum. • TIM-CRH Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. d1s1ribute securities products. • Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA). New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue msurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provide<. trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.@ 2001 Teachers insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04 

ALLISON DOUGHERTY /The Observer A Saint Mary's tennis player hits a backhand during a recent match. The Belles will be in action against Luther College this Friday at 8 a.m. 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
st
The Students' 1 choice in Off-Campus Housing 
DON'T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
L ______________,
P: 272-8124 
~•~lllf!;~"'~! 
.•.·•·· i >FORiNOTRE·OAME.STUDENTS 
:Iti::i:::rsx10·:.. -s13o.+oeP 
}9X1{?----$1804-f)EP 
,~11:oslJll~~!~~~~\~RP0~
::::i:=::;;:i:xt-~:;::::::~:;:;.-:::~::::::::·: :•: .:•:•:::::,:.:-:-:•·•:•:• 

Can this former Caldor's model possibly be found behind a computer in the foreign language lab? Parlez­vous francais?!? 
Love, Mom, Dad, & Jake 

--------------'----'-------~---. 
I 
-I 
, I 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 12, 200 I 
SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary's to face Alma College 
. Belles in for tough weekend of conference games 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Senior Staff Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team faces a tough weekend of league match-ups, and are in serious need of MIAA wins. 
Saint Mary's will face Alma College on Saturday afternoon and will play the rescheduled game against Calvin College on Monday. The Belles hope wins against these two league oppo­nents can turn around their 1-5 league record. 
"Conference games are really key for us," said John Kovach, the Belles head coach. 
Alma, now ranked eighth nationally, will be a tough con­test for the Belles. Last 

season, Alma "Conference games 
They seem to
took both 

are really key for us." always keep
games they 

the ball
played against 

around the
the Belles, 12-John Kovach 
plate."
2 and 12-3. 

softball coach The key for
Kovach is 

the Belles,
looking for his 

according to
experienced starters, senior co­

Kovach, will be to put several 
captain Anne Senger, and 

hits together and score some
junior Kristin ·Martin to keep 

runs. The Belles' hitting has
the team in the game. 

been streaky this season, and
"If our pitching is like it has 

the team has to play close to
been most of the season, they'll 

perfect to upset Alma. 
keep us in the game," Kovach 

"We have to go into a game
said. "It'll be up to us to put 

like this with good hitting, good 
something together offensively. 

Anne and Kristin will be start­ing because we want to· throw the experience against them." 
Senger and Martin have ERAs of 2.80 and 4.30 respectively. They will start the doublehead­er with freshman Libby Wilhelmy (1.00 ERA in seven 
innings 
pitched) in 
the bullpen "We have to go into a Calvin winning if necessary. the first contest
game like this with good 
They face 5-4 and Saint 
an Alma hitting, good pitching, Mary's taking team that and no mistakes." the second 7-4. has an ERA Kovach expects of 2.70, a 7-an even match­
John Kovach
1 league up on Monday. record and softball coach "We stack up 
a 23-8 
record over­all. 
" [Alma's] pitching is pretty strong," Kovach said. "Their pitchers don't have tremendous strike out totals, but they also don't give up a lot of walks. 
pitching and no mistakes on the field," Kovach said. 
The Belles will then take on Calvin at home on Monday. Calvin is currently 2-4 in MIAA and ranked two places ahead of the seventh place Belles. Last season, Saint Mary's and Calvin split the double­he ader with 
very well 

against Calvin," he said. "Between Calvin and Alma, we'll probably hit a little more strongly against Calvin. We'll put a few runs on the board against them." 
Calvin's pitching has posted a team ERA of 5.66 this season, and a record of 7-10 overall. They are batting .282 in com­parison with Saint Mary's aver­age of .272 at the plate. 
The starters for the Calvin game are undecided as of yet. The decision will depend on the number of innings Senger and Martin pitch against Alma and how well those innings go. 
"The starters will depend a lot on how pitching fairs on Saturday," Kovach said. "I'd like to pitch Libby in one game, but I really want to see who throws what." 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Seniors guide Irish to date with ArIDy 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
The 11 seniors on the men's lacrosse team have played the largest role in Notre Dame's success this season. 
With an impressive 8-1 record and top 10 ranking, the Irish seniors look to go out in style as they enter the home stretch of the season, returning to action this Saturday against Army at 1 p.m. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan directly attributes the Irish's success to the hard work and dedication of the seniors. 
"We're eight and one right now. You don't get to that spot without senior leadership," he said. "These guys lead in the locker room and on the field. They set an example for the younger guys." 
Seniors Todd Ulrich, Jon Harvey and goalie Kirk Howell were the stars of the last game as Notre Dame had little trouble defeating Air Force. Both Ulrich and Harvey had three goals apiece while Air Force was unable to get a shot past the strong goaltending of Howell. 
While Howell has been stellar in net all season, he is quick to give credit to the defense. 
"The defense in front of me has made my job easier," said Howell. "These next two home games against Army and Butler are going to be tough. Hopefully, we can keep playing well." 
The seventh-ranked Irish are halfway through a four game homestand. After dominating against Denver and Air Force the Irish believe the next tw~ games will be more difficult. Playing at home. however, makes the task a little easier. 
No player has enjoyed playing at home more than Todd Ulrich who has been on a scoring tea; of late with seven goals in the last two home games. 
"It's nice to play at home," said Ulrich. "You don't have to worry about traveling or staying at hotels. You can just concen­trate on playing the game." 
With a hard-nosed style of play and a record of 5-3, Army will certainly be no pushover on Saturday. With the seniors lead­ing the way, the Irish will need to rely once more on a bal­anced, patient offensive attack to compliment strong, cohesive team defense. 
Corrigan expects the Irish to be tested once again. 
"I have really been pleased with our play over the last two games -especially our team defense and balanced offense " said Corrigan. "Kirk Howell h~s been fantastic in net. We need to continue these things against Army." 


COVt;~
llu~!; i •I@l!J¾!J NO FOi<, LA0\~9
fi:ih!J~lcJ~....-....... 
BPI/VB u~ow4~ 
>> gou-r" B{;.ND19 B\GG{;.ST PAl<JaY<< 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
,t I ' ' 
get your 

-et. 
Steaks your consuming passion? Then fill up on these sizzlers: Londonbroil (13.99), t-bone (17991 or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York strip (14.99). Lighter options, too! 
NOW OPEN ioR LATE Nl611T DINING iRIDAY fr SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 
219-_234-5200 
Prime banquet space for your private party. 10-1,000 guests 




------------,--------------------------------------------­
Thursday, April 12, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 13 . 
i:lil
J~~~~:m1m1~ ~[f@@~ir@~v
B8t:w~~ . 


I 
! 
I 
""' ' 
WOMEN'S 

Wednesday, April 18 Debartolo 126 
Sponsored by Adidas and The Hammes Notre Dame Boosktore 
his career has been a series of 
trips to the disabled list. mostly 
with elbow problems. 
After starting last season 10-2. 
Eldred missed most of the sec­
ond half. In September. he had 
the screw surgically implanted 
in his elbow to keep a stress 
fracture from recurring. 
''I have no regrets about any­
thing I have done," Eldred said. 
"It hurls in a sense that a guy went through the upmost mea­sures to get back. Not many people would accept putting a screw in their arm to go back out there," Chicago manager Jerry Manuel said. "We thought it was behind us, but obviously it crept up once again." 
Jose Valentin and Tony Graffanino homered to get the White Sox out to a 7-1 lead Wednesday before Cleveland rallied. 
Juan Gonzalez hit a long two­run homer in the eighth off Antonio Osuna to make it 7-5. And after a double by Ellis Burks, reliever Kelly Wunsch gave up an RBI single to pinch­hitter Marty Cordova. 
Einar Diaz then grounded to Jose Valentin, who'd just been switched from center field to third, and his throw to second· 
Cleveland Indians. Eldred expe­can. I think at this point. it's not went into right field for an error. Rafael Furcal's HBI double in rienced pain he described as why. It's what do I have to do Cordova raced to third and the third gave Maddux and the 
"intolerable." next." 
Cal Eldred folt a pain in his Now his season -and per­Eldred lasted just two inningsright elbow that was all too haps his career -is in jeopardy and gave up three hits and a familiar. again. lle'll have a bone scan run. His start Wednesday had 
lie thought a 5-inch screw Thursday to determine the been moved back two daysimplanted in his arm last fall extent of his latest injury. because of a sore neck. was the answer after a career­"What you hope right now is "On the second to last pitch he full of injuries, surgeries and tomorrow it's not lit up that looked my way and grimaced. stress fractures. And during much and maybe it's just a He was in a lot of pain," first spring training, he felt fine. bump in the road and we can baseman Paul Koncrko said. "I 
But in just his second start of get over it," Eldred said after the was just hoping it was his neck." the season, in just the second White Sox completed a three­Eldred underwent elbow liga­inning of Chicago's 7-6 win game sweep. ment replacement surgery in Wednesday against the "I want to pitch and I believe 1 1995 while with Milwaukee and 
Love Kids? Th·ed of"D1·op-l11" Tt1toring? 
lluihl a lasting relationship witl1 a clilld thro11gh reading and/or athletics with: 
TIIMWOIIC rc,1 TOMORROW 
OrNOTl!DIM! 
'1-.eamwork for Tomorrow is a community outreach organization committed to brightening the fbtures of children through alternative educational 1>rogramming in the area~ ofliteracy, atltletics ancl mentoring. 
Informational Meetings: W cclnesday April IS an<l ThursdayApril 19 Spin Basement ofFarley Hall 
Pick up an application at the meeting or contact: lloccltio.4@nd.edu or Foy.4@ncl.ec111 
Diaz to second. But Jolbert 
Cabrera popped out and Omar 
Vizquel hit back to Wunsch to 
end the threat. Keith Foulke 
pitched the ninth for his third 
save. 
"They've beaten us four out of five games so far," said Indians manager Charlie Manuel, who was ejected with two outs in the ninth for arguing with umpire Bruce Froemming after Roberto Alomar was called out on a foul­tipped third stri.ke. 
"We're just not playing good heads-up baseball right now," he said. "We're in one of those deals where we can't do much right. We have to play through it." 
Royce Clayton hit an HBI sin­gle in the second and Graffanino's suicide squeeze bunt scored Carlos Lee from third to give the White Sox a 2-1 lead off Dave Burba {0-1). 
After Valentin homered, Chicago loaded the bases on two walks and a single by Koncrko. Herbert Perry had an RBI field­er's choice and Clayton a sacri­fice fly. 
· Valentin and Konerko doubled in the fourth for a 6-1 lead. fin­ishing Burba, who gave up seven hits and six runs in 3 2/3 innings. Graffanino homered in the fifth off Jake Westbrook. 
The Indians got a pair of runs in the seventh off Bobby Howry on Cabrera's RBI double and Vizquel's run-scoring grounder. Scan Lowe {1-0), who threw 12 straight balls without retiring a hitter Tuesday, had his control this time. He allowed just one hit in three innings with a lone walk. 
Braves 2, Mets 0 
Greg Maddux was nearly per­fect for seven innings, combin­ing with a pair of relievers on a one-hitter to pitch the Atlanta Braves past the New York Mets Wednesday night. 
The Mets wound up with only one runner against Maddux, Mike Remlinger and John Rocker. Todd Zeile lined a sin­gle barely beyond the reach of second baseman Quilvio Veras with one out in the second inning. 
Braves all the offense they need­
ed. Chipper Jones' 21st career 
homer against the Mets provid­
ed an insurance run in the sev­
enth. 
Rick Recd O•l), who won with 
a three-hitter at Atlanta last 
week, pitched a four-hitter and 
took the hard-luck loss. The 
Braves beat the rival Mets for 
the second time in five tries this 
month. 
On a cool. rainy night. Maddux 
(2-0) gave a command perfor­
mance in extending his scoreless 
streak to 12 innings this season. 
I le is the only Atlanta starter to 
win this year -the others have 
a combined 6.57 EHA. 
Maddux struck out six, walked 
none and allowed only two Oy 
balls to the outfield. He clearly 
was in control -the only time 
he was far off the plate, it was a 
purpose pitch that made Mike 
Piazza spin away and lose his 
batting helmet. 
Maddux earned his 241st vic­
tory and needed only 74 pitches 
to do it. He was pulled two 
innings shy of what would have 
been his 100th career complete 
game. 
Rocker was booed, as usual, 
when he ran in from the lef't­
field bullpen at Shea Stadium. 
Still despised for his disparag­ing remarks about New Yorkers after the 1999 season. Hocker seemed unaffected by the recep­tion and worked a perfect ninth inning for his second save. He set down three pinch-hitters, finishing off a game that took only 2 hours, 4 minutes. 
Reed quickly retired the first seven batters and had no trou­ble, either, with No. 8 hitter Paul Bako. But Bako got a break when he swung at a curve that bounced in front of the plate for strike three -the ball skittered to the backstop for a wild pitch that let Bako reach first base. 
Maddux followed with a per­fect sacrifice bunt and Furcal made it pay off with two outs, looping an opposite-field double in front of diving Darryl Hamilton in left. It was Furcal's first hit in 13 career at-bats against Reed. 
Jones, a main Mets' nemesis, led off the seventh with his sec­ond home run of the season. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Eldred's career in jeopardy after 7-6 White Sox win 



