-~­

All that NAZZ 
Boxers battle on 
The battle Qfthe bands takes place tonight at 
The women's boxing team captains respond to 
Friday
Senior Bar. Read more about what the 
allegations ofjudging biases during this year's 
performers have to offer inside. 
Bengal Bouts. 
MARCH 23, 
Scene . page 14 -16 
Viewpoint . page 13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 108 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

Mass, tree-planting ceremony honor Murphy's memory 

By JASON McFARI"EY 
NL-ws Editor 

Conor Murphy would have turned 21 on Tuesday. A small plaque in front of a freshly planted tree ou North Quad relates that fact. 
In neat block let­tering, it reads sim­ply: "In memory of C o n o r Murphy. March 20, Murphy 

1980 to January 31, 2001." 

The Notre Dame community honored Murphy, a University junior who died of complica­tions of leukemia, with an inti­mate tree-planting ceremony Thursday, just minutes before a larger turnout remembered him at a memorial mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Mass brought together Murphy's family, friends and other well-wishers who gath­ered to celebrate the former Zahm Hall resident's life and contributions. 
"It's hard to know what to say when a good person dies young," University President Father Edward Malloy said to a crowd of several hundred that included Murphy's par­ents and two sisters and filled nearly all of the church's pews. "And yet we are sure that Conor has been welcomed into the loving, consoling arms of God." 
SMC hires non-unionized workers 
. South Bend business reps rallied at new maintenance building's ground breaking 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saine Mary·s Ediror 
/\s ground breaking began on Saint Mary's new maintenance building, South Bend business repre­sentatives rallied against Saint Mary's decision to contract with non-unionized workers. The College's Board of Trustees signed a contract with the non-union company Majority Builders Incorporated Frb. 16, a decision that came after months of deliberation. 
Bidding to find a conlractor started last semester and included offers from four unionized compa­nies that Saint Mary's had worked with in the past. Even thQugh Saint Mary's had used these union­ized companies in the past, none of their initial proposals were accepted. 
"four contractors presented proposals that were much higher than the product budget," said Saint Marv's financial director Koith Dennie;. 
When the four unacceptably-high bids were returned, the Board restructured the parameters of the proposal and opened up bidding again. The new proposal not only entertained the bid of non­unionized companies but also did not make it mandatory that all the company's workers had a specified benefit package. or pre-qualification. Under the parameters of this new proposal, Saint Mary's signed with the contractor Majority Builders Incorporated, a non-unionized firm based in South Bend. 
As a non-unionized company, Majority's benefit package operates on a merit system rather than a flat rate. Those who have worked the company the longest earn the highest salary. This merit system does not branch out to subcontractors who do electrical and plumbing work. Majority has the choice to subcontract with union or non-union companies. 
"Four out of the eight subcontract()rs Majority has chosen for the job are unionized," said Dennis. 
Dennis believes that having unionized sub-con­tractors on the job, the size of the construction job and the stability or Majority builders legitimizes the decision of Board of Trustees to use a non-union­ized contractor. 
"We do have pre-qualification, we work with senior contractors and we only invite people that we have some knowledge about," said Dennis, 
see WORKERS/page 4 
Murphy, of Lakewood, Ohio, was diagnosed with leukemia last March. He underwent a bone marrow transplant in the summer but didn't return to campus in August. By late­January, Murphy had devel­oped pneumonia, to which he eventually succumbed. 
At Tuesday's Mass, Father Jim Lies, Murphy's former rec­tu r, praised Murphy as a model of courage and faith. 
"Conor showed tremendous bravery and trust in God dur­ing his battle with leukemia, and that touched something in all of us," said Lies, who remained in close contact with Murphy's family throughout Murphy's _final days. "In some sense, we gathered here to thank Conor for that, to thank God for the gift that Conor was to us." 
Never was Murphy's faith and strength of character more evident than when he was diagnosed with the dis­ease, Lies said. 
He said after learning of his illness, Murphy first's step was to see a priest in confession. Murphy then contacted Lies and asked him to light a can­dle for him in the Grotto. 
Lies said Murphy also showed a profound maturity when he was concerned about breaking the news to his friends. 
"It amazed me how much courage he showed and how much he thought about others first," Lies said. 
In light of Murphy's 21st birthday and the season of Lent, Lies said it was fitting 
that the community remember Murphy now, He called Murphy's death "a defining moment in the lives of many,'' and called on gatherers to rec­ognize the need for each other and God. 
"Recall how greatly blessed you were to have known him. Let his life charge you to live yours with courage and faith," Lies said. 
The Mass followed the brief tree dedication Tuesday. 
Against the backdrop of stu­dents reading or playing fris­bee on North Quad on the warm afternoon, about 60 people attended the ceremony on the Zahm Hall lawn. 
Community members sang and prayed in honor of Murphy and then lined up to sprinkle holy water on the leafless tree. 

The services for Murphy on Tuesday didn't represent the first time the community has showed its support for him. 
Following word of his· declin­ing health, on Jan. 30 several hundred students attended a Mass in the Zahm Hall chapel. 
After his death, the University provided trans­portation for students to his funeral in Ohio. · 
At Murphy's urging, last March more than 600 people joined the National Marrow Donor Program at a drive held on campus. 
Murphy was the second member of the Class of 2002 to die of complications from cancer this year. Brionne Clary, also a leukemia victim. died Sept. 21. 

Cardenas named among influential hispanics 
By ALISON HEINZ 
News Writer 
Sociology professor Gilberto Cardenas leads a busy life. In addition to teaching and serving as the director for the Institute for Latino Studies, Cardenas was recently named one of the 100 most influ­ential Hispanics by Hispanic Business magazine for the third time. 
"It's nice to be recognized. I'm pleased to be in the company of some of the people on the list, but it's not something I go seeking," said Cardenas. 

Cardenas was honored with this distinction because of his endless pursuit for scholarship money and improvement or edu­cational opportunities for minori­ty students. 
"There's some ma! big gaps," said Cardenas in reference Lo minority representation at sci­ence, technology, and computer institutions. "A lot of students that get accepted to top institu­tions opt not to attend because they cannot afford it." 
Cardenas was recruited by Notre Dame to head the Institute for Latino Studies in 1 ')99, which got off the ground quickly. Cardenas was a graduate student at Notre Dame from 1969--1975 and it was this personal experi­ence that convinced him to leave a similar position at the 
see CARDENAS/page 4 
Friday, March 23, 200 I 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Violence hurts 
When high school kids get angry these days, 
they no longer vent to their friends or even 
arrange an afterschool tight at the flagpole. 
They bring a gun to school and shoot other 
kids. 
Last year, my main concern every time I 
stepped into my public high school was 
whether I would make it to first period on time. 
I didn't worry about my 
personal safety, didn't con• Scott 
sider what an upset student Brodfuehrer 
might do. 
Students are losing this peace of mind about their Copy Editor security with each person who brings a gun to school. Their learning is threatened by disgruntled students. They not only have to worry about their safety, but are also required to act as detectives. 
Many schools' main protection against school shootings is their expectation that students will report their friends if they make threats or seem unbalanced. The students safety is their own responsibility. They have to make deci­sions knowing that if they don't rat on someone and are wrong, people could die. If they do rat out someone and turn out to be wrong, the stu­dent's life at school could be ruined as a result of the accusation. 
Schools need to take a proactive stance against school violence. Students shouldn't be the only line of defense against school violence. Schools plans should not count on their stu­dents, and students should not be held respon­sible by administrators or the news media when shootings occur. 
These shootings continue to be especially dis­turbing because they do not occur in a vio­lence-ridden area. They happen in the suburbs, schools that were expected to be safe. They happen in the type ofschools that the majority of Notre Dame students attended. They aren't isolated to public schools; one of this year's shootings was at a small Catholic high school. The kids are coming from stable family struc­tures in which they weren't abused or neglect­ed. Something just went horribly wrong and they decided to shoot their classmates. 
As school shootings continue to get closer to home, all people should become involved in trying to end school violence. This issue needs lo come to the national arena, and studies need to be done. Changes need to be made so that never again will students' days be shattered by the sounds of guns and never again will a school oflicial have to call a parent to inform lhcm that their child has been seriously injured or killed while sitting in class. backpack at their feet, daydreaming like all high schoolers do. 
Arter each school shooting, pictures of dis­traught parents and teens are run by the media. School officials vow a full investigation, ,md psychologists try to determine why the stu­dent would do that. Other schools become extremely security-concious for a few months, taking seriously all threats or intended threats. Eventually the memory of tragedies fades away 
and schools return to normality. Then another school shooting happens and the cycle begins again. 
Where will this cycle end? It won't unless people take action, permanent action that out­lasts the memory of a tragedy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Kate Nagengast Scene Jas<)n McFarlcy Amanda Greco Scot! Brodfuehrer 
Li.ura Kelly 
Andrew Thagard 

Graphics 
Sports 

Kacy Hall 
Andrew Soukup 

Lab Tech 
Viewpoint 

Angela Campos 
Par Kelly 

The Ob,crvcr (USl'S 599 l-4000) u puhlishcJ Mond..y ,hrough Friday except ,huing r:x:;irn and vacation perioru. The Observer is a m~mbcr of th~ Associu1.J l'roso. All r<produ<tion rights arc rcocrvcJ. 
I 
l----------­
THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Monday, March 17, 1980 Security accused of harrassment 
A sophomore accused Nore Dame security officials of verbal abuse and harrassment following an altercation at the Main Gate. When the student attempted to retrieve his ID card, one of the guards flared up, throw­ing off his badge and swearing at the student. Another guard indirectly threatened the student. saying "I've decked other people for doing less than you." 
Friday, March 25, 1988 Students oppose honor code 
Student support was the biggest problem facing the insti­tution of an honor code in 1988. "I think mo::;t of the stu­dent body here is not for an honor code at all, and many teachers seems scornful about it," said a student who attended a three day conference on honor codes at Princeton University. Professors opposed an honor code because it could have included non-proctored exams. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Harvard discrimination decision overturned 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Middlesex County Judge Diane Kottermeyer overturned a jury's deci­sion Wednesday that would have found Harvard University guilty of both gender discrimination and later retali­ation against a lecturer in biomath­ematics at the Harvard School of Public Health (IISPH). 
The judge ruled ihat the defendant, Tamara Awcrbuch-Friedlander, pro­vided insufficient evidence of gender discrimination or of University retalia­tion after the complaint was made. The judge also ruled that the gender discrimination claim was filed too late to be heard according to the statute of limitations. 
But although Wednesday's decision represents a legal victory for the University, Awerbuch-Friedlander said 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
Death investigation continues 
The investigation into the death of University of Pittsburgh student Jamie Penich continued yesterday in Seoul, South Korea, where police are busy interviewing friends with whom the 21-year-old traveled to Seoul on a weekend sightseeing trip. New information obtained by the Associated Press indicates that one of Penich's friends heard "angry shouts in a male voice" the night before Penich was found dead in her motel room. The investigation is concentrating on the Yi Tae Won district of the city, where Penich and five friends had rented rooms in a motet. According to police reports, Penich and a fellow female student named Kenzie were dancing at a club on the night Penich died. Korean police officials have enlisted the help of U.S. Army personnel, after reports that Penich and Kenzie may have been dancing with American servicemen in civilian clothes. According to Marc Raimondi, the director of public affairs for the 
U.S. Army Crime Investigation Command, the Army has been asked to support the Korean National Police in their investigation. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWealher" forecast for da lime conditions and hi h tern ratures 


"We will file an appeal in the next few days" she said. "I plan on lighting it, if needed, up to the Supreme Court." 
Despite the judge's ultimate verdict, Awerbuch-Friedlander said she thought the jury's decision in favor of her suit was a positive sign for the future. 
"We feel this is a grnat moral victory. I have great hopes that the appeals court will rule in my favor," Awerbuch-Friedlander said. 
The lawsuit against HSPH which ended yesterday implicated University Provost Harvey V. Fineberg '67 who was dean of the school when the alleged discrimination took place. Awerbuch-Friedlander is seeking damages of $1 million in lost wages and benefits, as well as promotion al 
CALIFORNIA STATE AT LONG BEACH 
Bomb threat pretrial set 
A California State University at Long Beach student arrested in suspicion of making a bomb threat at the University Library is scheduled for a pre-trial hearing Monday. Hasan Hasan, a mathematics graduate stu-· dent, was taken into University Police custody last Wednesday after an investigation that led police to believe he was responsible for the bomb threat and other threats toward a faculty member. said Capt. Stan Skipworth of University Police. "We have a positive identification by the victim," he said. "We have positive identification by another witness, and we have an interview with Mr. Hasan that indicates !him] very strongly, in our opinion." University Police received a call two weeks ago from a male stating he had planted a bomb on the third floor of the Library. Officials then announced a volunteer evacuation of the premises as police and Library employees searched for anything suspicious. Hasan was arraigned in fronl of the Long Beach Municipal Court the Friday following his arrest and was released on his own recognizance. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWealher'" forecast for noon, Friday, March 23. 
50s Lines separate high 1empera1ure zones for the day 

Friday, March 23, 200I . The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Real World star to talk about faith 
New policy changes 
By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 
Looking for love? Matt Smith from New Orleans' Real World will speak as a part of No Greater Love, Campus Ministry's half-day retreat, tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
"Matt's the unofficial kickoff of No Greater Love," said Frank Santoni, Coordinator of Special Events for Campus Ministry. Smith was a cast member on MTV's reality show, The Real World, and is Smith now the spokesperson for Life Teen, a nation­al Catholic youth organization. 

"Matt's a remarkable guy who's Lough to put in any category. His exposure on the show let us know his name, but it's his approach to life and faith that lets him cross a lot of boundaries. On the show he stuck with what he belicv(1d and he was not considered weird. He was considered likeable and approachable and those are the characteristics he brings to Notre Dame," said Santoni. 
Smith will be discussing his faith prior to The Real World, how his faith was impacted by the show and his faith now that the show is over. 
SMC dance transport
After the talk, he will take questions from the audience in a conversational style. Before Smith's talk, Gary Daigle and Danielle 
By MYRA McGRIFF Skorich will perform. Daigle is a music produc­

Saine Mary's Editor 

er and composer of Catholic music and folk music. Skorich is a junior at Notre Dame and will be playing songs from the CD she recently 
Saint Mary's students trav­recorded. 
eling to the all school formal "Music is an integral part of this weekend and 
this Saturday will have to do it'll be a treat to hear Danielle. She's heartfelt 
so by campus-sponsored about what she believes and puts that into her 
transportation, according to music." 
a new policy drafted by A New Orleans-style reception will follow 
Saint Mary's administrators. Smith's talk. 
The policy, which states The main events of No Greater Love will be on 
that students must ride on Saturday. Workshops will be held throughout 
campus transportation to the day at South Dining Hall and the new 
and from off-campus dances, Coleman-Morse Center and Father Mike Baxter 
was first enacted last spring will deliver a keynote address. 
for the senior formal. In fall "This will be a great opportunity to recharge 
2000, the policy was applied our faith. As spring is bringing new life, this is a 
to any campus group spon­chance to breathe new life into our faith life," 
soring a dance -including said Father Bill Wack, who will lead the kick off 
Saint Mary's Residence Hall prayer service. 
Association, which hosts the No Greater Love is open to all, registration is 
all school formal. The dance, not required and students may come and go as 
which has traditionally had they please. 
attendance of 1,000 stu­A schedule of events is available at 
dents, fell under the policy. 
http://www.nd.edu/-nglove. 

You're reading the 2001 Associated Collegiate Press National Newspaper of the Year. 
The Observer 
e 
February2 February 9 February 16 
February 23 
March 2 March 23 

-Commerce and Bevond lecture Series 
http//www nd edu/%7Ekmatta/mgt648/speakers.l 
Khalil Matta (Director, MIS Program, University of Notre Dame) ·0verview of the Lecture Series· 
Allen Hammond (CIO and Senior Scientist, World Resources Institute) ·impact of Globalization· 
Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) •Awareness and Collaboration in the Workplace of the Future· 
Mike Mazarr (President Henry L Stimson Center) ·Sociology and Psychology of People In the Electronic Workplace· 
Greg Hedges (Partner. eBusiness Risk Consulting, Arthur Andersen 
•Privacy concerns in the Electronic Age· 
Bob Reilly (President, OHR International) 
·New Age Leadership Skills. 
co-sponsored by •Leadership for Competitive Advantage and 
Personal Success• lecture series 
Gary Reiner (Senior VP and CIO, General Electric) ·rechnology and E-commerce Organizations: Future Directions· 
Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President Buckman 
Labs) ·Knowledge Management in the New Millennium· 
Dan Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO, Terabeom Networks) 
-Wireless and Optical Technologies and their Implications· 
This weekend will be the first time the event is held under the umbrella of the policy. 
Organizers said this week that ticket sales fell as a result. 
"Ticket sales definitely fell in the junior and senior classes," said co-chair­woman Janel Miller. "It is disappointing that we couldn't sell more tickets." 
The policy, drafted by administrators in an effort to control drunk driving dur­ing off campus, college spon­sored events has made plan­ning a dance quite a chal­lenge for the Formal Committee. Considering that last year's formal tickets sold out, this year's dance committee wanted to accom­modate at least 2,000 stu­dents. Finding out in early fall that all students would have to take a bus to and from the dance caused a major problem for organiz­ers. 
As of Thursday night, the committee reported sales of 
m 
only 750 tickets -1,250 shy of selling out. 
"It has been a challenge. We booked a room for 2,000 people but it's difficult to fig­ure out how to get people there," said Mindy Rennaker: president of Residence Hall Association. 
Students attending the for­mal this weekend signed up for a specific bus as they bought their ticket. Buses will be leaving from each residence halls at staggered times. Holy Cross, McCandless and Regina have buses leaving each half­hour, while LeMans buses will leave every 15 minutes. 
Although the committee was able to sell 750 tickets in spite of the new policy challenge, they did say they thought more tickets could have been sold. The bus pol­icy certainly played a factor in low ticket sales, said all­sch o o l formal committee members. 
Furthermore, minimal cooperation from adminis­trators made the planning process for the buses diffi­cult to enact. 
The official policy was not received from vice president for student affairs Linda Timm until the Friday before Spring Break, organizers said. The policy was left for students -not administra­tors -to figure out, said Rennaker. 
"The policy isn't clearly defined," she said. 
Some members of the 
organization feel that the 
policy is worth the effort 
because it will insure safety 
while still having an event 
off campus. 
"It's definitely a good idea that people who may have been drinking will not be driving to the dance. It may not be the most convenient, but it is practical and a safer way for people to get there," said sophomore RHA mem­ber Adrienne Dorbish. 
Amy Green contributed to this report. 



All Notre Dome faculty, staff andstudents Unm:nltyofNoo-..Dame 
MendozaCollege o{Business 
are welcome to attend 
Friday, March 23, 200l

page 4 The Observer-. CAMPUS NEWS 
MCAT practice tests move to Web 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Associate Nc,ws E<liror 
Tiffney Colon knows her stuff-almost. 
After months of attending Kaplan sessions and taking daylong practice exams to prepare for the MCAT. the Notre Dame junior knows what to expect when April 21 rolls around. 
"I took Kaplan because I knew it would be hard for me to prepare for the MCAT on my own." Colon said. "I needed the motivation." 
However, a new Web site may offer students like Colon an alternative to the $1000 Kaplan fees. For $60, pre-med students can take the MCAT practice test on line at www.aamc.org/mcat. 
With the added convenience of immediate, automated scoring and diagnostic feedback, the new site strives to appeal to the more than 55,000 people who will take the medical school entrance exam this year. 
"We thought students would find it useful. It will not replicate the real test, but there is more flexibility in building your own test on the fly," said Ellen Julian, director of the MCATs. 
In addition to providing practice tests, the site also offers on-line registration. Since the introduction of the site on Feb. 12, more than 15,000 people have registered on-line for April's test. 
Students can also purchase official MCAT publications at the site, including the paper version of the on-line test. 
Due to the immediate success of the site, Julian said there are plans for additions. "We're hoping to add other practice tests to the site," she said. 
Despite the added convenience of taking the test in the comfort of a dorm room or comput­er cluster, Colon said she prefers the options offered by Kaplan. 
"I like what we do for Kaplan because it is more like what the actual test is going to be like, " she said. "I can go there to study and learn, but I can certainly see the appeal of a Web site." 
Cardenas 
continued from page l 
University of' Texas at Austin where he had been for 23 years. While ai Notre Dame. he noticed how few professors had signifi­cant experience with. both American and Latino culture, something he describes as U.S/Latino. 
"When I was here as a student there was only one U.S./1...atino faculty member," said Cardenas. There has been progress, but Cardenas estimates that there are still "fewer than 10 faculty members who have had a signif­icanl U.SA.atino experience." 
The Institute for Latino Studies is working to change this statistic by giving the University incentive to continue hiring peo­ple with an interest in that area. Cardenas said the Institute cur­rently offers several classes but will eventually expand into an undergraduate concentration or second major. 
Another reason the Hispanic Business magazine recognized Cardenas is his involvement with the Gates Foundation. Bill Gates and his wife Melinda have donated $1 billion for scholar­ships and Cardenas is a one of six members of an advisory committee that distributes $50 million ofscholarships a year. 
"It's a great commitment by Bill and Melinda Gates," said Cardenas. "They did a lot of research determining where their money would [be best used, andJ they chose this." 
A self-described troublemaker in high school, it wasn't until Cardenas became an educator himself that he focused on help­ing students pay for an educa­tion. Although well recognized, he is humble about his accom­plishments. 
'Tm just thrilled to work with these people." said Cardenas of his fellow committee members and the Institute for Latino Studies 
Workers 
continued from page 1 

Although the college feels secure in their decision to use a non-union firm. South Bend's union representatives are con­cerned that such a move will be detrimental to the established goals of the union council. In a letter sent to the Board of Trustees on the day the contract was signed, Erin Brown, presi­dent of St. Joseph Valley Building a n d Construction 
"Saint Mary's represents a main moral l'orce and they are well respected. They ~arry a lot of clout and when they do some­thing like this it influences others to follow," said Mike Kruk, busi­ness representative for the car­penter union. 
The risk of other companies fol­lowing in the footsteps rests in the concept Kruk calls low bid· ding. Once it is established that people looking for contractors are more concerned with cost, non­unionized contractors have the ability to lower their workers' wages to fit the bid of the busi­

Trades "{Saint Mary's carries] a ness. 
Council, out­"People
lot ofclout and when
lined those want to have goals. they do something like the edge so it "Our con­becomes a
this it influences others 
tractors pro­race for the
to follow. " 
vide a living bottom," said wage and in Kruk addition, Mike Kruk K r u k health insur­believes that in
carpenter union 
ance and pen­this race for
business representative
sion benefits. the bottom the 
Our members live in this community and its environs and make a significant economic contribution to the entire community," said Brown. 
Business representatives see the community that union work­ers function in as part of the world that Saint Mary's exist within. As Saint Mary's is a Catholic institution, union repre­sentatives see the college as a pil­lar in the South Bend community. If colleges like Saint Mary's hire non-unionized contractors, they say other South Bend business will follow. Union representatives are concerned that the workers rights will be jeopardized if hiring non-unionized workers becomes a trend. 
workers of both non-union and union outfits suffer. Ho explained that not only will the union workers not have work but also the non-union workers will be losing wages along with benefits. 
In the case of Saint Mary's, con­cerned faculty and staff also want to insure the worker's fair wage. Although the Board does have consultants they confer with, the college has no formal proposition. Currently, Saint Mary's does not have a committee or written poli­cy to insure the fair wage and rights of the workers they hire. 
"We are not pursuing any pre­vailing wage agreement. We want to keep our options open," said Dennis. 

Class of 2002 JUNIORS­
YOU'VE GOT THAT GREAT SPRING BREAK TAN-­SMILE AND >-',HOW IT OFF! 
Sign up now for your Class of2002 Dome yearbook portrait. It's not too early. In tact, no\v is the best time to get your Senior po1trait taken. Portrait sittings taken in the Spring are discounted by $5.00. Plus, in the unlikely event you are unhapppy with your proofs, only students who get photographed in the Spring will have an opportunity to have their photo­graph retaken. Retake sessions will be in Septe1nber. 
VISIT 
WWW.LAURENSTUDIOS.COM 
TO SIGN UP FOR YOUR PORTRAIT SESS1()N. 
DO IT NOW!!!!!! 
--------------------------------------------------·---------------­

ATION 
Friday, March 23, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rwanda denies allegations of forced labor: Rwanda strongl.y denied allegations that it was using prisoners as forred labor for mining activities in neigh­boring Congo. Interior Minister Jean de Dieu Ntiruhungwa said the charges were "com­pletely untrue," adding that the government never sent prisoners out of the central African country. He also said the govern­ment had no mining interests abroad. 
Peru candidate says he was drugged: Peru's leading presidential candidate called a report that he tested pos­itive for drugs in 1998 a smear campaign, saying he had been kidnapped and drugged by ag1~nts of disgraced former intelligence chief Vladimiro Montesinos. Alejandro Toledo was responding to a report Thursday in C:aretas, a widely-respected weekly maga­zine. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Group says Bush won Florida: 
President Bush would have won Florida last fall even if a statewide recount had been allowed, a conservative legal group said Thursday after reviewing disputed ballots in eight of the state's 67 counties. Judicial Walch President Thomas Fitton said the study of' ballots picked large counties that accounted for 70 percent of the undercount­eel ballots where no vote was recorded by machines. He said it showed Bush would have picked up at least 107 votes more than Gore in six counties. 
Theme park wary of foot-and­mouth disease: A theme park is asking tourists who recently visited countries affected by foot-and-mouth disease not to visit the park's petting zoo. When Busch Gardens opens for the season Saturday, signs will ask visitors who have been in cer­tain European countries or South America within the last five days to avoid the zoo. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Officer killed in crash may not 
have been wearing seat belt: An Elkhart policeman was not wearing a seat belt when he was fatally injured in a crash between his cruiser and another police car, a preliminary investigation shows. Patrolman Doug Adams, 31, was thrown from the vehicle in the crash Tuesday night at a downtown intersection. Indiana has had a law requiring seat belt use since 1987. Police and other emergency personnel are not exempted from the law at any time. State police aren't expected to release a final crash report until next week. 
Market Watch 3/22 

Dow 
9,389.48 -97.52 

Jones 
Composite 
Volume: 9 187 
Same:

~ 
N/A 


I AME'x: 861.11 -i5.1i NASDAQ: 11897.70 +67.47 
I ~YSE: 566.35 -8.79 
S&P 500: 1117.58 -4.56 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  +6.07  +2.45  42.80  
ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +2.27  +0.44  19.75  
INTEL CORP (INTC} UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)  +12.23 +2.75  +3.13 +0.51  28.69 18.88  
RACLE CORP (ORCL)  +5.08  +0.75  15.50  

Latest school shooting wounds 5 
Ass~iated Press 
EL CAJON, Calif. 
An 18-year-old student opened fire at his high school Thursday, wound­ing three classmates and two teach­ers before he was shot by a police officer who engaged him in a running gun battle, authorities said. 
There was no immediate indication what triggered the violence at Granite Hills High School, which came less than three weeks after two students were killed at a nearby school in Santee. 
The suspect, identified by authori­ties as Jason Hoffman, was shot in the jaw and buttocks, the most seri­ous injuries stemming from the vio­lence. 
Shotgun pellet wounds suffered by the students and teacher were not life-threatening, hospital and police officials said. Five other students and adults were treated for various other injuries, none of them serious. 

Junior Roger Pollock, 16, was in math class taking a test when he heard a rapid succession of about six shots. 
"I heard my teacher say, 'Is that a skateboard?' I said 'Nope, that's not a skateboard. That's for real.'" he said. 
He said he looked outside the win­dow and saw a young man with blood on his face. Everyone in the class then ducked. The students stayed in the room for 20 minutes, until police escorted them out. 
Police Capt. Bill McClurg said Officer Richard Agundez was sta­tioned at the school, heard the gun­fire and reported it by radio. He then found the suspect. 
''They had a slight running gun bat­tle at the school," McClurg said. 
The midday shooting sparked a confusing scene, with officers scram­bling across the campus as many of the 2,900 students fled to a nearby park: 
It also sent a new jolt of fear through communities still shaken by a March 5 rampage seven miles away at Santana High School, where a 15­year-old student allegedly killed two classmates and injured 13 others. Both schools are in the same district east of San Diego. 
"This is a nightmare," said Glorianne Pollock, Roger Pollock's mother. "As a parent, I'm worried to send my kids to school. I just want to lock him in a room and keep him there. This wasn't as bad as Santana. but it could have been." 

Fox praises California field workers 
Associated Press  Mexico's Congress to allow people to vote from outside  long hours and difficult jobs in the United States.  United States and said he would devote more money  
FRESNO, Calif.  the country, to work with  Fox  campaigned  in  to rural Mexico so people  
Often scorned at home  U.S. officials on a solution  California last May and  might not have to leave.  
and ignored in the United  to long-standing disputes  views  expatriates  as  a  After Thursday's rally  
States, migrant laborers  over immigration and to  source  of financial and  with agriculture workers.  
found themselves celebrat­ make it easier for expatri­ moral support for his r1ght­ Fox planned to visit an ele­ 
ed as heroes Thursday by  ates to return to Mexico.  of-center National Action  mentary  school  in  San  
Mexican President Vicente  "You  are  important.  Party and its legislative  Fernando with first lady  
Fox.  believe me, very impor­ agenda.  Laura Bush and attend a  
Nearly  3,000  people  . tant," Fox said, as cheers  "You  are  permanent  town hall meeting in Los  
crowded into a convention  • drowned out his words.  ambassadors of Mexican  Angeles with Gov. Gray  
hall  to  hear  Fox,  who  Such talk is a change for  culture," he told the crowd.  Davis.  
praised field workers and  Mexican leaders. Money  "You have become a link  About two dozen anti­ 
promised to work on issues  sent home by expatriates is  between the United States  immigration  protesters  
that matter most in their  one  of Mexico's largest  and Mexico."  lined the street outside the  
lives. About 2,000 more lis­ sources of income. But past  Fox pledged Mexican con­ Century  Plaza  Hotel  in  
tened outside through loud­ leaders did little to court  sulates would do more to  Century City where Fox was  
speakers. Fox pledged  to  push  the men and women who fled their homes to work  investigate civil rights abus­es against Mexicans in the  due for a town hall meet­ing.  

, (\ ':' f ~ ·' j ~ -, ." ) ,, • '

·r,17;,.,./ TI 'I'.-, ·,rr ," "/r;-1' 1 '/1 .,. .....· ,· · . ..1·, 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 23, 200 I 
Sophomores plan dance, spirit \Veek 
Thursday is Costume Day.
Hy JASON McFARLEY A movie night, with a show­

New, Ediror 

ing of "Remember the Titans," is the day's featured Faced with the challenge 
activity. and the first 100 of replacing a scrapped class 
students to the DcBartolo 
tradition. Notre Dame's 

screening receive free Class of 2003 will see a year­admission. long project culminate next Hawaii Day is Friday's 
class dance, are excited 

week with Spirit Week activititis and the Sophomore Class Ball It's part of the Sophomore  Sophomore Signature Event  theme. free sign­ups for the day's photo scavenger hunt run through Thursday in the Class of 2003 office  
Signature Event.  a  on the second floor  
first-year initiative  . Monday:  of the LaFortune  
that began after last year's cancella­tion of Sophomore Siblings Weekend. The weekend was a longstanding part  Pajama Day . Tuesday: Decade Day . Wednesday:  Student Center. Winning teams in the scavenger hunt receive gift certifi­cates to the Hammes Notre  
of sophomorn pro- Blue & Gold Day  Dame Bookstore.  
gram ming before being nixed due to safety concerns for students· visiting  . Thursday: Costume Day . Friday:  On Saturday, buses begin trans­porting students to the class ball  
brothers and sis­tnrs.  Hawaii Day  around 6:30 p.m. Students will not  
Organizers of the  . Saturday:  be admitted to the  
project. which includes a week of dress-up days, sophomore-only activities and a  Class Ball at Century Center  dance after 7:15 p.m., and dinner is served at 7:30 p.m. "We're really encouraging peo­ 

to ple to come and support [the sec the preparations end Sophomore Signature
and the fun begin Monday. Event)." Lysaght said. "It's "All the planning is set, the first year, and hopefullyand we're hoping for a lot of 
it will take off and become participation from our class­
an annual event." 
mates," said Karen Lysaght, who chaired the committee 
NEED CASH? 


NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION TH·15 AD FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $1 45.00 a 
month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 5·15 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
that oversaw arrangements for the dance. 
The dance will be held Saturday, March 31 at the Century Center in down­

,. town South Bend. Dance tickets are $20 per person or $40 per couple, and the cost includes a formal din­ner. Sophomores can purchase tickets at the LaFortune box office, and sales last through 8 p.m. Monday. "We're encouraging peo­ple to come with dates or wilh a group of friends," Lysaght said. "The dance is unique; it's different from the average hall dance." The ball wraps up a week of events aimed at boosting class spirit. Beginning Monday, each weekday will be assigned a dress-up theme and a spe­cial activity, according to 
Geoff Polk, chair of the class council's Spirit Week committee. 
Monday is Pajama Day, and the committee is orga­nizing a Grab 'n Give ser­vice project l'rom 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. in both dining halls. Proceeds from the food­drive-type endeavor will benefit South Bend's Center for the Homeless. 
Tuesday is Decade Day. when members of the cam­pus community can dress in clothes from their favorite past decade. The Class of 2003 will also sponsor a class breakfast from 8:30 to 
9:30 a.m. in front of DeBartolo llall. 
People can sport their l'avorite Notre Dame appar­el on Wednesday, which is pegged as Blue and Gold Day. A karaoke contest from 9 p.m. to midnight at Heckers is planned. Campus athletes and other person­ali tics will serve as judges for the event. 


LIFE lNTHE REALWORLD 
6etthe imide itory on 
life, Faith, & Relatiomhipi 
from i''Iilttufi''I l l/'~ 
, 

ilew Urle~m 
with opening concert by DANIELLE ~KORICH &6ARY DAl6LE new orleani ttyle reception to follow 
Friday, March 23, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
IRELAND 
Irish begin slaughter to curb foot-and-mouth disease 
Associated Press 
BALLYMASCANLON, Ireland 

Officials slaughtered the first 
of thousands of doomed livestock 
Friday, a day after the Republic 
of Ireland confirmed its first 
cases of foot-and-mouth disease, 
which is ravaging neighboring 
Britain. 
Confirmation of the first cases 
in a rural peninsula on Thursday 
sent shock waves though the 
country, and stocks slumped 
more than 5 percent on the 
Dublin exchange. 
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern 
called the outbreak "a national 
challenge for our country." 
British Prime Minister Tony 
Blair telephoned Ahern late 
Thursday to express his "sup­
port and solidarity," Blair's 
Downing Street office said. 
For three weeks, Ireland's 3.7 
million citizens had restricted their travel and canceled other _a,ctivities -even their St. Patrick's Day parades -in hopns of deterring the livestock 
dL'iease, which is already hurting the country's vaunted Celtic Tiger economy. 
"After all these nervous weeks, we were just starting to believe we'd be.it it," said John Elmore, a cattle farmer about 10 miles from Thursday's confirmed out­break on a sheep farm next door to Northern Ireland. 
The entire Cooley peninsula, about 50 miles north of Dublin, had been subject to special restrictions and monitoring since foot-and-mouth was confirmed March 1 in a sheep herd near Meigh on the northern side of the border. That triggered fears the microbe would spread to the republic and it.'i $6 billion-a-year livestock industry. 
Officials said Thursday they feared the disease had crossed the border with a third group of infected sheep. 
Authorities moved quickly to try to restrict the disease to the Cooley area of County Louth. They announced that 3,000 sheep and 1,000 cattle within a 
CHEERLEADER & LEPRECHAUN Tryout Information Meeting 
Serious candidates should pick up forms to be completed (prior to this meeting) at the reception desk in the Joyce Center above Gate 3. 
5:30 pm March 26, 2001 in Gym 2 of the Joyce Center 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
-4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS 
-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR 
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES -SECURITY SYSTEM -WASHER &DRYER 
CONTACT KRAMER 
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT 

(219) 
298-9673 CELL PHONE (219) 234-2436 OFFICE 

(219) 
674-2572 VOICE MAIL 


ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
half-mile of the infected farm would be slain first, and that about 40,000 livestock on the whole peninsula would be destroyed within the next few days. 
At the infected farm, 130 sheep were piled up after being killed Wednesday night. Department of 
dairy goods. 
Walsh said he hoped the European Union would reward his country's exceptional efforts to prevent the disease's spread by confining any ban on Irish meat and dairy products to those from around County Louth. 
"We then have the difficulty, of 
course, in con­

Agriculture workers in  «we then have the  vincing the markets that  
white coveralls  difficulty ... in convincing  the  produce  
monitored the  the markets that the  from Ireland is  
scene as con­struction workers cut a  produce from Ireland is safe."  safe," he said. It's a major problem for  
dirt road into  Ireland, which  
the field. Journalists weren't· per­ Joe Walsh agriculture minister  exports 90 percent of its farm produc­ 
mitted to leave  tion.  

their cars for fear of spreading Agriculture accounts for 12.7 the disease. percent of the gross domestic 
In Dublin, Agriculture Minister product and tourism, which has Joe Walsh announced that also been hurt by foot-and­Ireland would maintain its ban mouth restrictions. accounts for on exporting live cows and nearly 5 percent. sheep and impose a temporary Don Walshe, economist at ban on exports of all meat and Goodbody Stockbrokers, estimat­ed the disease would knock 1.4 points off the firm's current fore• cast of 8.1 percent growth in Ireland's economy this year. 
The government ordered more soldiers to enforce sanitary mea­sures at Irish ports and border checkpoints with Northern Ireland. Since March 1, soldiers have been backing up police on many of the more than 100 bor­der roads connecting the two parts of Ireland. 
Police established more check­points Thursday, including on both sides of Dundalk. the largest town near the Cooley Peninsula. Long lines of traffic waited to drive over mats soaked with disinfectant, and police checked trucks to make sure they carried no livestock. 
In the Netherlands, the second country in continental Europe to confirm cases of the disease, farmers appealed for vaccina­tions to save their herds. People cleared supermarket shelves of milk and meat, anticipating a prolonged ban on food from 
farm areas as the country struggles to contain the dis­ease in two areas in the east and south. A 72-hour ban on transporting dairy and meat products was immediately declared after the government confirmed the outbreak on Wednesday. 
In Britain, where the out­breaks began, a leading epi­demiologist warned that the epidemic would not be over for at least five months 
Foot-and-mouth will not be eliminated before August. with new outbreaks unlikely' to start falling until May, Roy Anderson, a University of London epfdemiologist, told the BBC late Wednesday. 
page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

A ROCK ODYSSEY 
Friday, March 23 
Alumni Senior Club 

B:DDpm -1:00am Tickets $2 an sale at the 
LaFun Bax office 
$4 at the daar 
BANDS: 

The Bush League Pratfall Johnny Girth Housebound The Inch Thieves Qantas never Crashed Right-Hand Side 
Oiseaux 

The Skammunists Red Dragon Tattoo Seven Pounds of Groove Presto Pine Lester 
• 
SOLO: 
Vinita Ollapally Luke Mueller Sha~n T. Storer Joel Ebner 
. 
Phil Whittliff Danielle Rose Skorich Patrick McKeever 
Friday, March 23. 2001 
• 

Friday, March 23, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Hearing ·held about Clinton's alleged abuse of authority 
signed legislation repealing of the former president's other
Associated Press 
Clinton-em workplace safety actions, including his attempt WASHINGTON rules, lawmakP-rs on Thursday to fence off millions of acres of 
A. day after President Bush discussed ways to negate some land. 





M:ISlf.AW-AK.A 
4810 Grape Road 
219 .271.1330 
'"Offer valid every Monday: 11 a.m-dose. 
f~~fjfit 
lNTERNATlONAL VlLLAGE 
A 2-day Interactive Cultural Display 
of clothing, jewelry, books, music, posters, and arts and crafts from many countries. 
learn about other cultures and countries!! Travel the world without leaving Notre Dame!! 
Everything FREE! Everyone is invited! 
WHEN? Friday, March 23rd at 9am -5pm and Saturday, March 24th at 9am -3pm 
WHERE? LaFortune Student Center -1st and 2nd Floors 
uO~i,
~'V 

""" ~-1J$ Testyour knowlege ofworld trivia!
~e' ~,, 


S'l>-~~~o<~ '(,,~£,  Guess "what:in the world isthis??" Experience the arto-fHenna handpainting!  
Getyour name written in Chinese calligraphy!  
Getyour picture taken in exotic clothing!  

INTERNATIONAL WEEK 2001 -The World Converges at Notre Dame! 
Sponsored by International Student Services & Activities ap<l'ND International Clubs 

A House Judiciary subcom­
mittee, led by Rep. Bob Barr, 
R-Ga.. opened a hearing into 
presidential executive orders and began questioning whether Clinton legally used his power to create 18 national monuments during his term. 
"Former President Clinton's designation of mil­lions of acres as so-called national monuments under tho purported authority of the Antiquities Act raises a host of legal questions Congress has a responsibility to address," Barr said. 
The GOP-controlled Congress and White House have moved quickly to negate several other Clinton actions, 
levels in drinking water, pro­tections for hard-rock miners in the West and a ban on roads in one-Lhird of the national forestland. 
Legal experts were split on Clinton's use of the power. 
"History will show that President Clinton abused his authority in a variety of ways and that his disrespect for the rule of law was unprecedent­ed," said Todd Gaziano. direc­tor at the Center for Legal and Judicial Studies the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank. "Given this pat­tern, no one should be sur­prised that President Clinton sometimes abused his execu­tive order authority as well." 
Gaziano said he thought 
many of 

including Clinton's ergonomic  "History will show that President Clinton abused  Clinton's monument declarations  
regulations  his authority in a variety  could be ille­ 
and placing abortion  ,f' ,,OJ ways ...  gal and that Bush proba­ 
restrictions  bly  could  
on  U.S.  Todd Gaziano  overturn  
overseas  director at conservative think tank  th em  w ith  

aid funding internation­al,family planning. 
Barr questioned why Bush had not moved to challenge even more of Clinton's exec­utive orders. 
"This administration has not acted as promptly as some people would have expected because they may well see there will be a time when they will use all of this centralized power in their own ways," said R_ep, Melvin Watt, D-N,C. "That's just an observation." 
"l think it's an accurate one," Barr said. 
Also Thursday, Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., said he had written the heads ·of the Environmental Protection Agency. the Interior Department and the Agriculture Department seeking information about their decisions to set aside Clinton administration regu­lations. 
Lieberman, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, said he was beginning an investigation into "the method behind this mad­ness, that is the decision­making process leading to these damaging actions." 
He cited actions by the Bush administration on Clinton administration's steps dealing with arsenic 
another exec­
utive order. 
Kenneth Mayer, a University of Wisconsin-Madison political science professor. said Clinton broke no new ground with his executive orders, 
"ln my view. the previous administration's use of execu­tive orders and proclamations was not exceptional," he said. "Although many of President Clinton's orders were contro­versial ... his administration was actually continuing a longstanding practice among presidents, both Republican and Democratic, who have used executive orders to assert control over adminis­tration and policy." 
Western lawmakers have been complaining for years about Clinton's use of his executive authority to expand federal monuments. 
"I can't find one member who had a hand in the monu­ments," said Rep, James Hansen, R-Utah, chairman of the House Resources Committee. 
Meantime, a House Resources subcommittee took the first step to curb one of Clinton's monument designa­tions, approving a bill to change part of Idaho's Craters of the Moon National Monument into a national pre­serve so hunters could contin­ue using the land. 

Scaffolding at Oscar venue collapses 
they enter the auditorium for 
Associated Press 
the awards ceremony, · Inspectors were trying toLOS ANGELES determine how the scaffolding
Scaffolding along the red gave way, said Fire carpet for Sunday's Academy Department spokesman BobAwards ceremony collapsed Collis.
Thursday, injuring five people, ·The injured were taken to 
The scaffolding at the Shrine two hospitals, One person was 
Auditorium was the type com­critically injured and another 
monly used to hold spotlights. 
was seriously injured. A third 
The mangled structure. which 

victim had minor to serious had stood 20 feet high. fell 
injuries and the remainingjust behind bleachers set up two had minor injuries, Collis for fans and media to watch said. celebrities arrive at Sunday's After the accident, workers 
<:eremony. resumed moving equipment 
A portion also tumbled onto into the Shrine and stringing a tent over the red carpet that cable ·from the building will be used by celebrities as toward the red carpet. 

page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 23, 200 I 
U.S. ousts 50 Russian diplomats suspected of spying 
Associared Press 
WASHINGTON Presidenl Bush sought to keep 
U.S. relations with Hussia on an even kr.cl Thursday, but a furious Krnmlin was threatening to match the ouster of more than 50 Hussian diplomats suspectAd of undercover intelligence activitiAs. 
Thr. warning was conveyed pri­vately as well as publicly by Hussian authorities. "Naturally, we will easily find" U.S. diplo­mats to b(i expelled "in a morfl painful form to the U.S. than it was iu our r.ase," Sergei Ivanov, chief of Russia's influential Security Council, said on Polish state tclcwision during a visit to Warsaw. 
The Bush administration coun­tered that there was no compa­rable C()ntingent of U.S. under­cover agents in Hussia and no American there had infiltrated Bussia's counterintelligence operation as FBI agent Hobert I lunsstm stands accused of doing, a senior U.S. official said. 
At day's ond. it was not clear how Hussia would rctaliato, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
In Moscow. Russia's foreign minister said the expulsions. tho most since the Cold War, were political. But Bush said he was simply dealing with facts, and the two nations could maintain a good relationship. 
"I made the decision. It was the right thing to do." Bush said. 
Six Russians assigned to Moscow's embassy in Washington were linked by U.S. 

otlicials to the case of Hanssen, a longtime FBI agent arrested a month ago on charges of selling secrets to Russia. Two of the six have left the United States; the four others must depart within 10 days. 
At the same time, Bush ordered the Hussian diplomatic contingent sharply reduced, offi­cials said. A total of 46 Russians, at the embassy 
addressing the National Newspaper Association. "We've got some areas where we can work together." 
Along the same lines, Condoleezza Rice, his assistant for national security, called the expulsions an isolated incident. 
"We see Russia as a potential partner in many parts of the world and we look forward to 
getting on with 
and at con­a positive sulates across 'Tm confident we can agenda," Rice said.
the country, have a good relationship
have until July Reducing the
with the Russians.,, 

I to leave, they number of dis­said. guised intelli­"I don't think George W, Bush gence agents any U.N. "has been an
U.S. President

employees are issue that has involved been on the among the 50," agenda for 
U.N. Secretary-some time \-\ith General Kofi Annan said the Russian government," Rice Thursday night. said. 
A top foreign affairs aide to Asked if the Kremlin might President Vladimir Putin retaliate, the White House official expressed regret replied: "I certainly hope not. 
"Any campaign of spy mania This should go to the end ofit." and searching for enemies brings In Moscow, Foreign Minister deep regret. and this is a fullback Igor Ivanov left no doubt it was to thfl Cold War epoch," Sergei not the end of the matter. Prikhodko said, according to the "Naturally, as it has before, !TAR-Tass news agency. Russia will firmly and steadfastly 
It's a long-standing practice for defend its national interests and 
U.S. and Russian intelligence offi­will adequately respond to this cers to be posted in overseas unfriendly step by the United embassies as diplomats. But after States," Ivanov said in Moscow as a reduction in the Russian con­he somberly read a statement on tingent, a buildup began in 1997, government-controlled ORT tele­and the Bush administration vision. decided to reverse it, inspired by "At the same time, the Russian the Hanssen case, leadership assumes that in 
'Tm confident we can have a Washington, the policy and logic good relationship with the of those who try to push mankind Russians," Bush said after and the United States (back) into 
the epo.ch ol' the Cold War and 
confrontation won't prevail," he 
said. 

Complaining about the public 
way the Bush administration 
went at the situation, Ivanov said, 
''This could easily have been set­
tled along ... special channels and 
by special contacts." 

Sen. Bob Graham, R-Fla., vice 
chairman of the Senate 
Intelligence Committee, said he 
assumed Russia would make a 
request "for some of our most 
experienced to leave." 

"That is Lhe expected way in which these counterintelligence incidents work when they go sour," he said. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell called in Russian Ambassador Ury M. Ushakov on Wednesday to inform him of the expulsions and then talked by telephone to Ivanov. John Beyrle, who heads the State Department office that deals with Russia and other for­1ner Soviet republics, had a fol­low-up meeting with the ambas­sador Thursday. 
"We consider this matter closed. We have important inter­ests in maintaining cooperative and productive relations with Russia, and we intend to contin­ue working to advance those interests," Powell said. 
And while Powell and other top officials publicly indicated they considered the dispute to be over, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said: "The department made clear to the Russian side that any other Russian officials who may be subsequently implicated in the Hanssen case will not be we!­
Many diplomats 
FIi~ Aul!.!mr'I dip{Ofr!4U, O!re 
~-ou~i'4 ,,Oil', lh1t 1.h:t•a Sii!t% O'~r ~€1Jl't9 ,11v.AJ1 ,i,;, ntaT1ber attd l<t•••t!I cl· il'llillh~c­~1cers 11>,at fl•Js~lQ tv.11 iri lh1: <:ulllll,Y -~"l'.W.rdng to n, Wt~ht Hooa. "~;.el"llvt Rl;ll):,.i11 f'la8 tho ~()!)cl ltM<Ql>!l1 4ipnl'..."rtie Pl~i90C8 il'l W3.i....n,,f,if1, 0 C: 
Cht11:1 
qt.ir.!li."in I i I¦I ,,.lewari 111 111 lid G•ffl"lnn~• Id LL JJ CMall!! 84 
{\r,:1.m'.1 10 Mll'UOO 1J 
i::r:u,[:O t)"'l 
tno~ 
$(.1\,.,li:l'' 111\11~ t!/Jfil, •'Jtl•~m,;t, I ..1 
v. ~ £14-.i~,:.,.-,1, !i/;',m· 
come in the United States." 
The chairmen of the I louse and Senate intelligence committees agreed that spying remains a problem, and the hunt for American spies within the U.S. government must continue. 
"l don't think we've ever solved the mole problem," Rep. Porter Goss, R-Fla., a former CIA agent, told reporters. The Senate chair­man, Sen. Richard Shelby, B­Aia., said he thinks more than one spy still is at work in sensi­tive government posts. "The Russians and other nations don't generally operate with just one agent," Shelby said. "It's not pru­dent." 



hiday, !v1arch 23. 200 l The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
RUSSIA 
Space station stabilized for final descent into South Pacific 


.:Joyce Center Heritage Hall, Second Floor Concourse (Enter Gates 1 or 2) FULL TI.ME :INTERNSH:IPS SER.VJ:CE 
Associated Press 
KOHOLYOV, Russia 

After 15 years in the heavens, Mir start­ed its return home on Thursday, its cargo-ship engines putting the aging space station on course for a fiery plunge into the South Pacific. 
Engines of the attached cargo ship Progress began a 21-minute burst as Mir circled the globe just below the Equator, over the Indian Ocean. This burn -and a second scheduled 90 minutes later ­were meant to slow Mir and put it in an elliptical orbit. 
A l'inal 23-minute blast, scheduled around 8 a.m. Moscow time and midnight Eastern time. was to hurl the station into th(: waters between Australia and Chile. 
tr all went well, Mir would fall harm­lessly into the sea. If not, the conse­quencHs of 27 1/2 tons of blazing debris tumbling from the sky were frightening. 
ll was the first time that Progress engines had been fired for such a long period and tension was palpable as the dcorbit entered its critical phase. But the chief of Mission Control, Vladimir Solovyov. put the chances "that every­thing will be all right at 98-99 percent." 
The death of Mir marked the end of a proud chapter in the Russian space pro­gram; it proved that long duration space l1ight was possible. Its passing came with much wistfulness. and some protest. About 15 demonstrators briefly rallied Thursday outside Mission Control, hold• ing up a portrail of Yuri Gagarin, the Russian who was the first man in space. 
"Don't Give Up the-Russian Space Industry," the sign read. But Mir was doomed. The impoverished Russian gov­ernment could not afford to keep it in 
2001 SCIENCE 
CAREER FAIR 
Sponsored by The Career Cent:er and t:he College of Science 
T-u.esday, March 2 7, 2001 
12:00 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 
orbit -and in good repair -while fulfill­ing its obligations to the construction of the international space station. 
Inside Mission Control near Moscow, the mood was strictly professional. Controllers boltled up regrets over Mir's demise as they pored over chart5 and fig­ures in preparation for crucial commands that would power the final descent early Friday. 
"All the emotions we feel. we will only be able to express them tomorrow after the sinking of the station," said Andrei Borisenko, the shift director at Mission Control. "Today we are working without emotion and doing our jobs." 
On its last day, the aging space station soaked up the sun's energy to power its fickle batteries and stabilize its align­ment. 
Its target area was 120 miles wide by 3,600 miles long, and centered roughly at 44 degrees south latitude and 150 degrees west longitude. Most of the 143­ton craft would burn up during re-entry -temperatures were expected to reach more than 5,400 degrees Fahrenheit. 
But the remaining chunks, the equiva­lent of 20 Volkswagen Beetles, were expected to reach the Earth's surface, scattered over a long swath. Some 1,500 fragments of 40 pounds or more were expected to fall over the zone. 
Space officials said debris would be traveling so fast that it could smash through a block of concrete six-feet thick. 
Vsevolod Latyshev, a spokesman at Mission Control, said Russia would make no effort to recover the debris. "What for?" he asked quizzically. 
Space officials voiced confidence that they could carry out a safe descent, point­ing to their experience in dumping dozens of Progress ships and other spacecraft 
AAR 
Accen.tu.re (forxnerly· Andersen Consulting) 
Albany Molecular Research, Inc. Al.lstate Insu.ran.ce Coxnpan.y 
Argonne Nation.al Laboratory 
Central InteU.igence Age:n.cy Chicago Pu.blic Schools Clarke E:n.viro:n.men.tal Mosqu.ito 
Ma:n.agexnent, Inc. Cole-Parmer Instrume:n.t Coxnpany COMPENDIT, Inc. Eli Lilly and Company (Biological. Sciences) 
Eli Lil.1.y and Company (Chemistry) General Electric -Medical Systems Golden Apple Fou.:n.datio:n. Goldman. Sachs Group, Inc. Hershey Foods Corporation. IBM Corporation. Indian.a Department of Transportation 
Chiron Corporation. Easter Seals Wisconsin Farmers In.su.ra:n.ce Group Intern.ati.onal. Fou.ndation o-f E-,;npl.oyee 
Benefit Pl.ans 

.Janssen -Pharxn.aceutica Lockheed Martin 
.:J.P. New & Associates 
.:Johnson & .:John.son Lab Su.ppQ,,_rt, a division of On Assignment MediChexn Research, Inc. NOAA (Nation.al Oceanic & Atmospheric 
Administration) Northwestern Memorial. Hospital Peace Corps Pfizer -Global Research & Devel.opment Grou.p Pharmacia Corporation Sigma-Aldrich, Inc. Spear, Leeds and Kellogg 
Stepan Su.mmerbridge National. Teach For America The Augustinian Volunteer PrograUL -Order 
of St. Augustine 
U.S. Air Force 
U .s. Environmental Protection Agency 
WILL BE FORWARDED TO EMPLOYERS 
Me:rn.orial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Pfizer -Pharmaceuticals Group Purdue Pharma L.P. The Chil.dren's Mu.seum of Indianapol.is The Rocke£e1.1.er University WYETH 
into the same area ofthe Pacific. 
But Mir was by far the heaviest space­craft ever dumped, and its size and shape made it difficult to exactly predict the re­entry. 
A fleet of fishing boats in the zone insisted on staying put because the tuna were biting, said Wayne Heikkila, general manager of the Western Fishboat Owners Association. 
Thirty-five space buffs and scientists were in the South Pacific to chase the plunging station; participants were opti­mistic that they would catch sight of Mir in a 200-second window of opportunity. 
And Taco Bell set up a 40-by-40 foot vinyl target -emblazoned with the com­pany's logo and the words "Free Taco Here!" -10 miles off Australia. In the extremely unlikely event that Mir hit the target, the company promised free tacos to all 281 million Americans. 
But to Russians, Mir's demise was no joke. Mir came to symbolize the Soviet Union's fading technological prowess. It was launched in 1986 -just five weeks before former Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev embarked upon perestroika, the reforms that doomed the Communist empire, and just two months before the Chernobyl atomic reactor exploded in the world's worst nuclear accident. 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Friday, March 23, 200 I 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smich 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VJEwr<>INT EDITOR: Pac McElwcc Sl'OIITS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: Amand:1 Greco SAINT MA11¥'s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOII: Perer Richardson 
AnVF.RTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer All DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTiiMS ADMINISlRATOR: Pavel Blagnov Wrn ADMINISTRATOII: Ad'lm Turner CONTll.OLLER, Kevin Ryan GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

Off!CE MANACF.R/Gi'.NtRAL INF0..............631-7471 
FAX.  . ........................ 631-6927  
ADV£RTISING. .....  ..........................631-6900/8840  
observad@nd.edu  

EDITOR IN CHIEf........................................631-4542 MANAGING Enn·oRfA5sT. ME .................... 631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
·observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoin 1. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.sccne. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
obscrver.smc. J@nd.edu PHOTO ............. . . ............................ 631-8767 SYS'ff:MSIWEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site athttp://ob,erver.ruf.edu for daily updates ofcampus ne1,11S, sports, feacures and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online bturcs for spe­
and rar.,, of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 

about The Observer 
arncles pub!,shed afrcr 

10 meet the edicors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper P"blishcd in print and online by che students ofthe Universiry of Notre Dam., du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lecrers ts encouraged. Lectcrs 10 the Ediror rnusr be signed and muse include contact informiltion 
Q,ust101u •~ardi11g Obmv,rpolide, ,hould ht diro:t­rd to F.J11or i11 Chit[Mik~ Connolly. 
Today is the 50th birthday of one of an elite group known as the "Black Leprechauns." The Black Leprechauns were an ad hoc group of Notre Dame students residing on cam­pus during the 1970s. It was a secret group who carried out their missions in the black of night long after sundown. Their mission -ter­ror and mischief. 
For fear that today's University officials might ban this birthday boy's children from future admittance, I shall call him "Mike." 

He and a half dozen others were students at a time when the military draft and a tour of Vietnam awaited them after gradua­tion. They were not the type who would burn Notre Dame buildin·gs in protest of the war, but they, like every student during that time, needed to release their frustrations and fears. 
lt began one early spring evening when the ducks on the lake were more chatty than usual. Boredom had overtaken the dorm section before someone discovered several M-80s from the previous summer. The first act of terrorism was a simple delayed firecracker explosion in the stairwell. Attach a lit cigarette to the fuse. place under an old steam heater and sit with your friends when the charge ignited several minutes later. Plenty of witnesses for an alibi and none for a conviction. 
Following several dorm bombings, boredom set in again. It was time to recruit commandos for campus-wide missions. One evening at dinner, someone complained that the Saint Mary's shuttle bus was never on time, nor did the women on it ever seem friendly. The first external target had been identified. 
That evening a team ascertained 


that the tunnel between the Rockne putting green and the golf course was the perfect strike area with several escape options. Vehicles were timed as they passed the target area. The operational profile evaluated wick burning ratios to the tossing distance of firecrackers to maximize simulta­neous explosions. Tactical intelligence demanded that participants wear black to hinder detection. The team assembled about 10 p.m. looking like the Mission Impossible cast. 
At 10:20, with Leprechauns in place, the bus passed the target area. The team practiced a mock run of the operation and worked out the minor bugs of the plan. At 10:50, the opera­tion went live without a hitch as the riders screamed and ducked behind their seats. The adrenaline rush fueled another planned mission. 
That weekend, the Leprechauns again targeted the bus, but in more dramatic fashion. Moving to the road to Saint Mary's near the Notre Dame cemetery, the operational profile required a wooden sawhorse and road flare block the road at a point where bushes hid the Leprechauns on both sides. Someone joked that when the bus stopped maybe they could hijack it and take the women to Mishawaka. 
When the driver slowed for the roadblock, the Leprechauns launched their fiercest barrage of firecrackers to date. Again, riders ducked and screamed as packs of Chinese fire­crackers exploded at a furious rate around the bus. 
Bang,bang,bang,bang,bang! One firecracker pack exploded on the roof as the driver floored his pedal and crashed through the barricade into the darkness and safety. Boy had the Black Leprechauns exacted revenge against SMC chicks! 
Terrorists soon discover that sup­plies are the lifeline of success. Alas, the Leprechauns had exhausted their means of terror. However, one of the Leprechauns worked in the dining hall and recalled the grosses of eggs stored in the basement. Appropriate eggs and the Leprechauns would fight 
the snobbishness of their sister school 
another day. 
After dinner the following week, a Black Leprechaun turned the latch of a South Dining Hall window so that later that night it could be opened from the outside. At 2 a.m. a com­mando team entered the building, found a gross of eggs and exited with­out detection. The new supply demanded a new operational profile. 
That Friday evening, the Leprechauns shimmied up the 11ag­pole of what is now the Notre Dame Security Building and laid in wait behind the bright t1oodlights on the roof. Eggs showered the shuttle bus during several runs by the location. 
Eventually Notre Dame police arrived, but to the Leprechauns' delight, the police could neither see the roof nor could they figure the physics of the trajectory. Since the egg splatter appeared across the street from the building, they searched the trees and Lyons Hall. It took everything the Leprechauns had to muffle their laughter from the police. 
In the 1970s President Nixon's cam­paign treasurer walked the streets of Washington with a million dollars cash in a briefcase. It was a time when the war raged in Vietnam. Fellow students had been killed at Kent State, and life was unlike any­thing before or since. At Notre Dame, a group known as the Black Leprechauns coped with life and their possible deaths following graduation. 
So to my good friend, "Mike," happy 50th birthday from one of your fellow Leprechauns ... er, I mean Domers. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton's adminis­tration and denies ever having to resort to firecrackers in his role as a congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
SO, WHAT DO YOU DO FOR 
A LIVING? 


I $LAVI$1-\LY OBEY 
THE 1N5ANE COMMAN05 OF 
A POINTY-HAIRED 


_ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What would life be like ;Jwe had no courage to attempt anything?" 
Vincent Van Gogh artist 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, March 23, 200 l BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fundraising allows 
Notre Dame to lead in tuition freeze 
One billion dollars! more a day. At the end of the day 
No, that isn't a line from an Austin though, I know that I've helped a lot of Powers movie. Notre Dame has raised people and that I've earned every cent over $1 billion through the Generations of my paycheck. f'undraising campaign. The tuition increase stands at $1,430. 
So why is tuition increasing at all? To make enough money to cover that Before spring break the University increase, I have to work approximately announced that tuition was going to 140 hours. This translates into three increase by a record low 4.9 percent. and a half weeks of working full time, Tllis translates into another $1.430 per betore taxes. When you consider the student. The cost of going to Notre taxes taken out, it translates to over a Dame now stands al $30,530. My ques­month of work. Isn't it depressing to tion is why consider that Notre Dame is downplay­
Notre Dame is blessed with an ing this "smallest tuition in decades" incredibly large endowment and I'm while I would have to work a whole not here to criticize that. What I am month to cover this "record low here to criticize is the fact that tuition increase?" Does anyone else see how is increasing. Notre Dame stands to much of an effect this tuition increase gain approximately $13 million from could have on families and students? this increase. according to an In Focus Here's an idea. Cover the $13 million article by editor-in-chief Mike gained by this increase with a measly Connolly. This is just over 1 percent of 1. 3 percent of the Generations cam­the amount of money raised by the paign. It's also comforting to know Generations campaign. It's really com­that, compared to last year, we are forting to know that the University is saving $10 compared to last year's not l1inching to increase its financial increase, according to Mike Connolly's burden on our parents so it can pad its article. rguess the $75,000 or so the bottom line by 1 percent. University is losing by this decrease is 
Let's put this increase into the per­a big deal. spective of a college student. I work at No one is denying that higher educa­an emergency room back home in tion is expensive. Let's use the money Pennsylvania. It is an awesome job and we are given in the best way possible. I love it. It pays very well but it can be Let's be a leader and go against the tough. I've seen some of the most trend of increasing college costs. Use awful things imaginable. I've been the Generations money to freeze yelled at, spit on, bled on, and at any tuition. single moment l have about 27 things to do at once. It is so stressful that I Stephen Carroll have. more than once, considered freshman walking out to save my sanity. I am on Knott Hall my feet hustling for eight hours or March 22, 200 I 

I have read many times this year in the Wall Street Journal that The about The Observer's function as an Observer was one of many college independent newspaper and about how newspapers to refuse to run a paid that function allows a forum for free advertisement by David Horowitz, a speech on Notre Dame and Saint prominent conservative. Mary's campuses. It is a pity that The Observer fails to 
I have also read several editorials see the contradiction between expect­and letters to the editor in Tho ing freedom from University-enforced Observer relating to free speech issues, speech codes and censoring unpopular even in the case of controversial mate­views like those of Mr. Horowitz. rial. 
All this I applaud, since I feel it is Jack Watkins important that students and faculty at freshman a university be free to exchange ideas. Keenan Hall 
I was therefore disappointed to read M,uch 18, 200 I 
Women's Boxing Club responds to allegations 
As captains of the Women·s Boxing able with the fact that he out-scored Club and judges at this year's Bengal his opponent. Bouts, we would like to respond to Mr. Bravo "saw the student judges Mr. Bravo's Jetter to the editor on screaming in support for one of the Tuesday. While Mr. Bravo and Brian fighters during a fight, a time when Hobbins collaborated to write a they should have been judging." We retraction, many students have would like to correct this misunder­expressed disappointment with 
standing. the decisions made in the During the fights in which a finals of this year's Bengal student is serving as an Bouts. Therefore, we feel it official judge, that student is necessary to clarify the has no conversation with judging process. anyone. Nor does she 
Five judges officiate scream or cheer. All of each fight. At any one the student judges time, no more than two take their responsibil­of those judges are ities very seriously, women's boxing cap­and they would not tains. The other jeopardize the three judges, some of integrity of the whom are alumni of tournament by the boxing program, behaving inappro­are brought in from 
1 priately. Students off campus. All 
\\ who were seen judges sit ringside 
screaming were for a reason. 
not judging at the From such a 
time. short distance, we 
Every year the are able to see and 
· tournament is count each boxer's 
criticized for its scoring blows. The 
"bias" towards most equitable 
the men's cap­way to judge any 
tains and the boxing match is to 
returning cham­count the number 
pions. None of the of punches that 
captains are each boxer legally 
1

I. 
guaranteed cham­lands on his oppo­
pionships, and a nent. This elimi­few went without nates any personal them this year. biases that a judge ' Past captains have may have before or graduated without during a bout. For ever winning a these reasons, we championship. score each bout based Several of the return­on the rules set forth by ing champs-from prior the U.S. Amateur Boxing years did not make it Association. The rules to the finals this year. and scoring system are These facts suggest clearly explained to all of that captains and return­the boxers at practice just ing champs are not unfairly before the tournament. favored in the tournament ­
While it is possible that a they actually have to win their judge could "miss a few punches bouts on merit, just as every other here and there," the team ofjudges boxer must do. is strategically placed around the It is unfortunate that Mr. Bravo entire ring so that the bo.ut can be believes that the only way a boxer judged from every angle. If one could win a bout "was to knock out judge's view is momentarily blocked, their opponent." In reality. the only the other four judges are still able to way to win a bout is to box -to accurately score the blows landed. move around the ring, to successful­
"The majority of the spectators" in ly throw and land combinations and attendance cannot see everything to defend against the punches that happens in the ring. What the thrown by an opponent. crowd perceives as "one fighter In the spirit of the Bengal Bouts, dominat[ing] the other" is often one no boxer's goal should be to inten­boxer throwing sloppy punches. tionally hurt another boxer. That 
Boxers often throw a flurry of would not be a sign of generosity or punches in which only one or a few charity. ft wouldn't even be a sign of may legally land on his opponent. good sportsmanship. Each boxer Spectators in the bleachers cannot who has the courage to endure a always distinguish between a legally season of demanding practices and landed punch and a skillfully to step into the ring to help raise blocked one. Again. this is why money for the people of Bangladesh judges have the seats that they do. is a winner. No judge's decisio·n can 
Ideally, every bout would result in change that. a unanimous decision. However, as we have mentioned, judges are Brittany Crawford human and their view may be graduace srudenr obstructed at times. Any decision off-campus that is unanimous can hardly be Kari Jerge questioned, especially by a spectator junior seated up high in the stands of the Badin Hall JACC. Such a decision demonstrates Jessica Stimac that every single ringside judge was senior in agreement regarding the outcome Welsh Family Hall of a match. Any boxer who wins by a Women's Boxing Club una_nimous decision can be comfort-March 20, 200 I 
C 
s
en@ 
page 14 Friday, March 23, 2001 
A little rock, a littl 
irleen bands and seven solo artists will take to the stages at Senior Bar as NAZZ kicks offits 13th campuswide battle ofthe bands. The show. 
text and design by

pcm to all ages. will begin at 8 p.m. The evening's entertainment will be guided by comedic emcees including Ryan Cunningham. Joe Howarth and Ted Fox. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. NAZZ "showcases bands with different tastes and influences that touch all aspects ofthe AMANDA GRECO mw;ical spectrum. " according to Emmett Malloy, head ofSUB campus entertainment. Interested contestants submitted applications and demo tapes 
&

sevPral weeks ago. "Bands werP selected on professionalism and their ability to thrill the crowd." Malloy said. "Seniority and the general uibe their performance gave were also taken into consideration. " While there were no restrictions on the number ofcovers that a band had, selectors were llWre 
LA.URA KELLY

interested in original material. 
Hight judges. representing WVH, WSND. Scholastic a:nd The Observer will determine the winners. Gift certificates to Mediaplay will be awarded to . lhe first three finishers in each ofthe two categories. 
photos courtesy of

SrJR would like to point out that "although this is a competition, the purpose ofNAZZ is to educate the campus about the Notre Dame music scene ... Tick.els are $2 at the la.Fortune Box Office, $4 at the door. performers 

The Bush League: a punk-rock band of architecture majors. Since Sept. 2000, fifth­
years Scott Rcinthalcr, Terry Welsh and Ara Arnn, and sophomores Mike Meszaros and 
Steve.Martin have been playing in The Bush League. 
"We settled on 'Bush League' for several reasons," says the band. "The baseball rrfor­
ence (which is essential), Jesus Quintana says it in "The Big Lcbowski," and our lirst gig 
was at an inauguration day party for George W. Bush. The name works on many levels." 
The Bush League counts old proto-punk bands as their inspiration. "Our typical set 
mixes older punk-rock tunes with newer bands such as Dropkick Murphy's, Rocket from 
the Crypt, Smile, Bouncing Souls -stuff that's a little bit poppy but good fur dancing." 
Although three members arc graduating this year, Meszaros and Martin plan on having 
a band when they return from Rome as fourth years. For now. the group continues to 
rock on, with a can of Pabst Blue Hibbon as their icon -"a part of our daily lives." 
In the great tradition of picking a band name. Pratfall's members just opened the dic­
tionary, saw the word "pratfall" and were inspired by its definition: "to fall on one's butt 
for comic effect." Despite a comic name, Pratfall has serious talent. The band is one of 
several in this year's NAZZ line-up that boasts previous winners: Bassist Luis Moctezuma 
and drummer Tom Dolphin placed third in last year's NAZZ competition, as part of the 
group Lazy Blue Method. The current lineup of Pratfall has been together for about three 
months, and the members span a range of ages. Dolphin is a senior, lead singer Brian 
Carrigan is a junior, Moctezuma a sophomore and guitarist Hob Gutierrez a freshman. 
Describing their musical style, the band says "we play funk to heavy rock. We're basi­
cally a kick-arse rock band that feeds off the crowd's energy." For future plans. Pratfall 
says they may just retire after NAZZ. "Or we'll just play a lot, many gigs, parties and the 
like," the band says. 
When asked if there is any significance behind the name of their band, members 
of Johnny Girth reply, "Yes, definitely.n They also picked an Etch-A-Sketch to repre­
sent their group. so it's clear Johnny-Girth is simple and honest. This "avant-garde" 
rock band has been playing together for one year and is made up of five seniors: 
Mickey McGarry, Brian Galla, Jon Adler, Gusto Camara and Jesse Dang. 
Johnny Girth considers their style to be most reflective of "loud noises" and 
admires guitarist Galla as their inspiration. 
Adler and McGarry have performed at NAZZ before. with American Standard and 
Sexual Chocolate, respectively, but this marks the first year that Johnny Girth has 
played with their current lineup. After their Friday night performance. the band has 
high hopes for their future: a European tour. a sitcom. action figures and then a 
special on MTV's "Cribs." 
The band Housebound has never played at NAZZ before, unless it was "in a past life that we don't remember." says bassist Jeff McDonnell. Housebound has been playing together since Oct. 2000 and considers their music to be '1am-out funk rock." 
Five freshmen make up Housebound: McDonnell. Lawrence Santiago, Peter Miller, David Miller and Mike Malmore. Their influences include "anything from Bob Marley to Dave Matthews, Phish and Umphreys McGee. to the Allman Brothers. Hed Hot Chili Peppers, Counting Crows, OAR and so many more," according to McDonnell. 
When asked about plans for the future of Housebound, McDonnell says the band hopes "to play a lot of cool music, maybe tour the world. Also. we want to eat some chicken sometime." 
The clever subject line of an e-mail about people stealing rulers provided The Inch Thieves with their name. Despite the creativity, band member Josh Hich says the name has no real significance. "Our real name (No Hedeeming Qualities] has a meaning, but we feel bad using it without our full lineup -our singer is in London," says Rich. 
The Inch Thieves considers their style to be most reflective of punk. classical and experimental rock. "We are inspired by divine muses," claims Rich. 
Another band boasting previous NAZZ experience, The Inch Thieves is made up of juniors Rich, .Nick Wymbs and Jeremny Henteria. The band has been together for about two years and says they have their sights set on Carnegie Hall for their future plans. With Chester Cheetah as their chosen band icon, The Inch Thieves are sure to go far with their creativity. 
Formerly a line from Dustin Hoffman's character in "Hain Man," "Qantas never crashed" is now the name of one of Notre Dame's up and coming bands. Qantas Never Crashed has been playing with its current lineup for three months, though some mem­bers have been playing together in different bands since arriving at Notre Dame. 
Its five members are all seniors -Jason Llnster, Geoff l{ahie. Tim Bodony. Chris Fazio and Jon Adler -and three have already performed at past NAZZs. 
Qantas Never Crashed considers its style "suburban funk.'' "Musically we enjoy Phish, Radiohead, Praxis, thick funk and rock music with seductive chord changes," says the band."But on a deeper level, we draw our motivation from women, money and the thrill of standing before booming amplifiers." 
After NAZZ, the band plans Lo "claim our own pieces of the spectacle that is rock music before the real world swallows us up." 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 23, 200 I 
::::::::_=--:::-=:=============================-==-=--=-:.:_::_~:_::_=-=--~=-=----_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_ 
Utah provides defensive test for Notre Dame 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Spons Edi cor 
The Irish hope not to hit a bump in th(l Hocky Mountains in thnir road to tlrn Final Four. 
The womtrn's baskeLball tnam travllls to Denver this weokcnd to comp«itc in the third and fourth rounds of the NCAA Women's basketball tournanwnl. 
Two wins will s,1nd the Irish to thnir first Final Four iljJfWltrancn siuce !1)97. 
In fact. Mdiraw spN·ulatf"d Wecl,wsday on her current tnam's nhilit.i,1s compatHd to that ·1 1)97 squad. A visit from 1997 star l'orward B,ith Morgan promptf'd thf' dPbate. 
"I think this l11am would win,·· McC;raw said with a laugh. "Wo were talking about that the otlrnr day. You look at 
tlw  ba.lancn  we  havt"  with  
Alicia and Huth,  as good  as  
B•1th  and  

Katrina battle.
"/ think we 're going 
(Gait.her I "That's 
to have lo be focused
werp then, I going to be a think the on what we challenge for other playnrs our offense,"
want to do. ,.
am better. I McGraw said. thi11k Ni(ihi is "We do like to a hcttnr play­Ruth Riley score. Our er. I would defense is as
Irish center 
giwi the tidgn lo this team." 
Tho first obstacle on tlrn road to SL Louis is tlrn Utah Utes 128-3). Elainfl Elliott's team is coming off an 78-69 upset win over Iowa in the second round of the tournanrnnt and compet­ing in its first ever Sweet 16. McGraw compares Utah to her l 997 squad, th1~ first Notre Dame wonrnn's team to rnach Urn Final Four. 
"I think they'll be loose," McGraw said. "You know, I think they're a Cinderella team and they havn a chance to do something they haven't donn in the program yet. I think this is a grnat opportuni­ty for them to show everybody bccaus(l they're probably very similar to us when we went to the Final Four." 
Utah is lead by senior for­ward Amy Ewert. who earned 
good. I'm 
more of a 

coach that likes to see an offensive game, but I think this one is going to turn out to be a big defensive battle." 
All-American senior center Huth Riley realizes that the game is going to be a battle, but says that the team is approaching the game as it would any other. 
"I think we're going to have to be focused on what we want to do," Riley said. "We're 
Point guard Niele Ivey drives over a Georgetown defender in a game earlier this season. Ivey
going to have to play the same 
was recently named the nation's top player at height 5 feet, 7 Inches or smaller.
game we've played all year. I co-Mountain West. Conference player of the year honors ear­lier this season. Ewert scored 13 points in the win over Iowa. 
Ewert averages 9.6 points and 3.5 assists per contest. Lauren Beckman averages 
12.5 points per contest for the Utns and Kristina Anderson puts in 10.2 per game. McGraw was imprnssed with Lhe ol'fensive balance Utah has. a characteristic she com­pares to her own team. 
"They're very much a bal­1tnced team," McGraw said. "They have a couple of players that they like to go to, but overall I think their strnngth is similar to ours in that t.lwy have great balancP." 
Utah's strength is their defense. Notre Dame battled Utah all season long for the nation's top spot in terms of least points allowed per game. McGraw expects the game to 
be a defonsive 


don't think we're going to 
change that going in there." Vanderbilt coach Jim Foster Should the Irish advance to during her early years as a the Elite Eight, they will take coach at St. Joseph's 
on the winner of a game University in Pennsylvania. between Vanderbilt and Iowa "He's my mentor. He's been St. McGraw has connections so influential in everything with both teams. 
I've done," McGraw said. "I The Irish coach worked with 
don't think that I would be as successful if not for all of his help." 
Iowa State coach Bill Fennelly worked as an assis­tant under McGraw in the late 1980's. McGraw is happy she only has to take on one of her close friends. 
''I'm glad we only have to play one of them if we win," McGraw said. "I think to have to get by both of them would be really, really hard for me." 
Saturday's game will be tele­vised on ESPN. Tip-off is at 8 p.m. 

Sizing up the competition 



The Cyclones advanced to the Sweet Sixteen for the third straight season with a 85-70 win over Florida on Monday night. Their second seed this year is the highest in school histo­ry. In last season's NCM tournament. Iowa State was seeded third and lost in the Sweet Sixteen. A year earlier, the Cyclones upset Connecticut before losing in the Elite Eight. Center Angie Welle and guards Lindsey Wilson. Megan Taylor, and Tracy Gahan all average over 12 points per game. Welle leads the team in scoring (18.3 points per game). rebounding (10.1 per game) and ranks second in the nation with a 66.2 percent field goal percentage. She was recently named a third-team Associated Press All-American. Iowa State won all 16 games on its home court this year but lost to Duke. Baylor, Colorado, Kansas and Texas Tech. 
The Commodores entered the NCAA tournament on a I.ear. They beat top-five Southeastern Conference rivals Georgia (71-65 on Feb. 25) and Tennessee (77-7 4 on March 3) before winning their first two NCAA contests. Two of the nation's top centers race off in Saturday's second contest. Vanderbilt's Chantelle Anderson (21.0 points and 6.2 rebounds per game) will match up against Iowa State's Angie Welle. But the Commodores arc much more than a one-woman team. Junior forward Zuzi Klimesova averaged 16.0 points, 7.9 rebounds and 3.35 assists per game in 2000-2001 and was named to the Coaches All-SEC first team. If the Commodores beat the Cyclones, it will be a reunion for the coaches. Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw served as an assistant under current Vanderbilt coach Jim Foster when Foster was the head coach at St. Joseph's (Pa.) in the early 1980's. 


The Mountain West conference school is known for its stifling defense. Opponents have aver­aged just 50.5 points p<ir ga1ne and have shot only 33. 7 p!ffC(lnt, on average, from the field. The Utcs arc making their first-ever appearance in the Sweet Sixteen. In the first two rounds, Utah beat Fairfield 79-57 then defeated No. 4 seed Iowa 78-69. Lauren Beckman's 12.5 points per game and Kristina Andersen's 10.2 points per game are tops on the team. Utah has won 17 of its last 18 games, with the lone loss com­ing against BYU on March 9. 
Friday, March 23, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Superstar Riley remains humble on, off court 
By TIM CASEY Assist3nt Sports Editor 
The best women's college basketball playiw in the nation was tardy. 
Outside Gampel Pavilion, snow fell faster than the NASDAQ. Inside the University of Connecticut's on campus arena. scribes listened while Kelley Siemon. Amanda Barksrlafe and Muffet McGraw spoke. It was March 5 and Notre Dame had just defeated Virginia Tech to advance to the Rig East tourna­mcnl championship game. 
Then Huth Hiley arrived. 
Duo to the snowstorm, the Irish were to receive a police escort back 1.0 their hotel immediately following the press conference. So Riley decided to take a quitk shower before answering ques­tions. 
"I want to apologize for being late," Hiley said when she reached the podium. "I'm sorry about that" 
Think any other elite athlete would apologize to the dreaded media without first being prompted by his or her con­sultants'1 
"With her stature," assistant coach Carol Owens said, "she's got to be the most humble person I've ever been around.'' 
Unassuming Star 
She recently won the Naismith Award as the country's best player, is the reign­ing Big East Player of the Year, is a two time first-team All-American and Academic All American. is a three-time Big East Defensive Player of the Year, is a certain top pick in April's WNBA draft and has been compared to Bill Walton. 
This is what Riley thinks of her achievements. 
"It's kind of expected out of post play­ers," Riley said. "To lead your team in rebounding and stuff like that. I think my teammates have always done a great job of getting me the ball, which speaks a lot about them. Obviously, I'm not the one bringing the ball up the court or shooting threes." 
Another typical Riley story -Before this season, she had a history of getting into foul trouble. During her first three years, Riley fouled out of 15 games. In last season's 77-59 loss at Connecticut, Hiley attempted four shots, grabbed five rebounds and scored four points in 22 foul-plagued minutes. 
Four weeks later, in a season-ending 69-65 Sweet Sixteen loss to Texas Tech, Riley scored 19 points, had 7 rebounds and blocked four shots but once again fouled out and played only 27 minutes. 
"We're two different teams with and without Ruth," McGraw said at the time. 
So before the 2000-2001 campaign, McGraw and Owens warned their star. When Riley committed her first foul, the coaches would replace her with a substi­tute. Thus far, Riley has only fouled out of two games. 
"You see in the paper where some people are like, 'Oh we did a good job scoring on Ruth Riley," Owens said. "No. Huth Riley let you score on her because she wants to stay in the game." 
Notre Dame's 30-2 record this year includes a loss to Rutgers, a rare game in which Riley played only 25 minutes before fouling out. How does Riley feel the decrease in fouls has affected the squad? 
"So much of the attention we got (before the season) was if I got into foul trouble, possibly our team isn't as good," Biley said. "That's not really true." 
Riley's Roots 
Her hometown (Macy, Indiana) could be mistaken for Milan, the setting from "lloosiNs." Her senior class at North Miami Iligh School consisted of 83 stu­dents. Her mother, Sharon, describes the surrounding arPas as "small, kind of hick towns. No gas stations, no banks, just a small, rural community.". 
Maybe those are some reasons why Riley does not act like your typical superstar. 
Here's another -Riley's relationship with her mother. 
"To see how much she's gone through and b_e a~le tu sun-Jve}?-d !rnep ~oing is amazing, Ruth said. Shes so mfluen­tial." 
Rili:,y's father left home when Huth was 3, so Sharon raised her three children alone. They moved from Kansas (Ruth's b.irthplacf') to Indiana, where Sharon introduced her oldest daughter Hachel, Huth and youngest child Jacob to a vari­ety of activities. They played the piano, sang gospel music and learned how to cook, a hobby that Huth still enjoys. 
"There wasn't a lot of extras," Sharon said. "Hut when we had extras we had it together. I never put my kids on the back burner. I had kids because I wanted them. Just because I had to raise them alone for a while did not change my per­spective in how I valued them." 
By seventh grade, Ruth was a self­described "tall, gangly, uncoordinated" 6-foot-1 girl who had been playi.ng bas­ketball for a few years. But sports held little importance in the Hiley home. 
"My mom always pounded it into our heads that if you study hard, you can get a scholarship," said Rachel, who was the salutatorian of her senior class at North Miami. "She would say how it was very difficult to make it through life without a degree." 
In May, both Rachel and Ruth will graduate from Notre Dame. Rachel, a math major. is married and has a 3-year old daughter. She plans on working in the South Bend area while her husband, a junior at Notre Dame, completes his course work. Ruth, who has a 3.6 grade point average as a psychology and soci­ology major, will play in the WNBA start­ing in early May but will be able to return for exams and graduation. She will either attend law school or psycholo­gy graduate school during the WNBA's off-season. 
"It was my responsibility to bring them up so when they did leave home at 18, that they were able to hold their own," Sharon said. "That's what I strove for. I think I did OK." 
Strength, Smarts and Skills 
Owens remembers watching Riley in the summer of 1996, before her senior year of high school, at the prestigious Nike camp. She knew the young center was unique. 
"When the other kids were sitting down and watching the games," Owens said, "Ruth was over shooting free throws or working on hook shots." 
When Riley arrived the next fall, she did not start for the first few games. She had some trouble adjusting to the college game but the work ethic never wavered. Before and after every practice, Riley and Owens worked out together. 
"Even on days that we would techni­cally have off, she would be in here shooting," Owens said. "Sometimes we would have to tell her to stop shooting." 
Riley also worked on her body. She lifts or runs a minimum of three times per weeks under the guidance of assis­tant strength coach Tony Rolinski. The skinny freshman has transformed into a sculpted senior. 
"Have you seen her arms now? She's got pipes," Raebel Riley said. "I can tor­ture her and bring in pictures (from high school). But I won't." 
Besides improving her strength and skills, Riley has also become a more con­fident, poised player. In years past, she struggled at times in important games, most notably in last year's Connecticut game. 

"When she gets a foul in an away game, everybody is cheering," Owens said. "Everybody wants her out of the game. If she puts her head down, she's giving 10,000 fans the satisfaction of seeing her unhappy." 
She may be humble, unassuming, a bit shy, competitive, dedicated and deter­mined. But Rolinski offers maybe the most logical reason for Riley's emer­gence. 
"Let's be honest, just because Ruth is strong doesn't mean she's a good bas­ketball player," Rolinski said. "She's so talented it's amazing." 
Local Hero 
For nearly an hour after l\'otre Dame's win over Michigan on Monday night, Riley sat on a stool in front of the Irish locker room. 
She had yet to change out of her gold uniform, a bag of ice was wrapped around each of her ankles and a mob of local residents gathered in front of Riley, asking for autographs. 
She signed every tee shirt, long­sleeve shirt, headband, wristband, pho­tograph, poster, hat and sneaker. 
"I can breathP," said Meghan Phillips, a 14-year old from Bremen, after emerg­ing from the crowd around Riley. "l can breathe." 
That's the normal post-game scene. Riley bas become arguably the most popular athlete on campus, especially for the under-14 local children. 
"I think I should get in line and get her autograph," teammate Niele Ivey said. "People admire her. And they should." 
The admiration is mutual. 
"It's not like I just came here for school and basketball," Riley said; "It's an additional third dimension that makes the Notre Dame experience more complete. Little kids are so cute and so innocent. It's funny to hear what they have to say sometimes." 
After escaping with her hero's signa­ture emblazoned across a pair of sneak­ers, Phillips commented on Riley, the person and Riley, the celebrity. 
"She's just a really sweet person to talk to and get to know," Phillips said. "If I was her, I wouldn't be able to be around so many people, you know? I'd be like 'Get away."' 
A Typical Walk 
Riley walked from Debartolo Hall to the women's basketball locker room early Tuesday afternoon. During the short stroll, she noticed a fellow class­mate whose family attended a recent practice. Because all sessions are closed to the public, the family was asked to leave. 
"l felt really bad for them," Riley said. 
She then crossed Juniper Road and was greeted by Kevin Rogers, the foot­ball team's offonsive coordinator. 
"Hey Ruthie," Hogers said. "Nice ,r game last night." 
Seconds later, Riley opened the Gate 2 Joyce Center doors and peeked into the football office. She waved to strength coach Mickey Marotti. 
"You're on the cover of Real Sports Magazine," Marotti said. "It's in my office.'.' .... 
Rilfiy just shrugged. 
It was no big deal. 
birthdate:Aug. 28, 1979 Nobody knows how much I: want among the elite academically. 
up close & 
hometown: Macy, In. to be better. The best thing about playing bas­
major: psychology and The best advice I've ever been ketball at Notre Dame is: my 
sociology given is: ne1Jer give up crazy teammates. 
personal 
Riley's favorite sports I chose to attend Notre Dame Since I've been at Notre Dame, teams: Pacers, Colts and because: the program was on I've learned: that guys are NOT
WITH RUTH RILEY 
Flyers a rise and Notre Dame is taller in college. 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 23, 2001 
Irish face Mile High test on postseason road to Final Four 
As a season of incredible highs moves closer to its end, the Irish reach their highest point so far this weekend ­the Milo High City. 
And 
when the 
team's 
piano 
lands in 
Denver 
Thursday, 
the Milo 
High 
hopns of 
the Coach 
McC;raw's 
squad rest 
on being 
able to top 
two quali­
ty oppo­
nents in a 
less than ideal environment. 
Mission: possiblu, but not to bP 
taken for granted. 
The Sweet 16 tasted simply sour for thn Irish the last year. Y2K saw the Irish IJlow a 17-0 lead and fall to Texas Tech. Huth Biley got in foul trouble, and so did the Irish lead. 
A year later the team from the American's Heartland trav­ds to a Midwest Rt•gfonal about 500 miles west of any­where normally considered the Midwest. 
Denv11r's atmosphere has about as much wholesome Midwestern goodness as Britney Spears on the MTV awards. 
The air out there is thinner 
than Hiley before she discov­
ered weights. Fatigu11 will be a 
factor, a serious one for a team 
that has all five starters aver­
aging well ovrr 30 minutes per 
contest. 
But not a factor the Irish cannot overcome. Playing at a high elevation is an old hat to Notre Damn's three key play­ers. Riley, Kelley Siemon and Niele Ivey have all competnd and trained in Colorado for ext11ndnd periods during their careers. 
Even if the starters get hit by the effects of light air. there is more to this Irish squad than just lv11y, Riley, Siemon, Alicia Hatay and Ericka Haney. 
"I think we're really going to be able to use more people than we have been earlier in 1he year in those tough games," Siemon said. 


That bench -a group of six women whose main purpose early this year was keeping the sideline seats warm -has come on in force. 
Jeneka Joyce lit up the Wolverines from behind the three-point line during Notre Dame's second round win Monday. In that same game, backup center Amanda Barksdale recorded her first career double-double.It was the first time since high school Barksdale reached double lig­ures in the scoring column. 
Even Karen Swanson, the sophomore walk-on who never sees time on the court unless the fans scream her name, has provided power for the Irish. 
Against Alcorn State. Swanson scored a career-high five points, including a behind the basket prayer that looked more like a Michael Jordan move than something Pat Garrity does in his few NBA minutes. 
The may be at the Pepsi Center, but Riley and Co. don't need any artificial stimulants to get ready to play. 
Friday's opponent is Utah ­a team as accustomed to play­ing in thin air as Riley is to blowing past opponents in the paint. The Utes held a talented Iowa squad to 30 percent shooting on Monday to earn their trip to Denver. 
Furthermore, the Utcs have nothing to lose. Unlike Rick Majerus' talented men's squads over the years, the Utah women are playing in their first ever Sweet 16. There are no ghosts of blown 17 ­point leads giving Lites' coach Elaine Elliot nightmares. 
"They don't feel like they get a lot of respect," McGraw said. "They're playing out west, don't get on TV a lot. I think this is a great chance for them to make some strides for their program." 
If the Utes are stride past the region's top team, it will be because of their aggressive defense. Elliott's team battled Notre Dame all season for the No. 1 spot in the nation in terms of limiting opponents scoring. 
The aggressive defense poses a threat to an Irish transition game that moves faster than the Irish move through the Big East. 

At the same time, forcing the Irish to play in the half-court slows the game down. keeping any atmosphere-enduced fatigue to a minimum. And no defensive scheme changes the fact that Utah's center is three inches shorter than Riley. 
If the Irish can withstand Utah, the road to the Final Four should pit the Irish against their biggest test since losing to Connecticut in the Big East Championship game. 
Both Iowa State and Vanderbilt boast premier cen­ters. Vanderbilt has upset both Georgia and Tennessee in recent weeks, and Commodores coach Jim Foster should be just foaming at the mouth at the chance to upset a No. 1. 
Still, the Irish aren't looking past Saturday's game. 
"We're not overlooking any­one," Riley said. I think when that match-up comes, we'll probably think about it a little more." 
One game at a time. Four more and the goal of a national title is in hand. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Sweet Sixteen Elite Eight 
2001 NCAr~ 
(1) 
Notre Dame 

(5) 
Utah 

8:07 PM ET 
10:37 PM ET 


(3) 
Vanderbilt 

(2) 
Iowa State 



C 
s
en@ 
Friday, March 23, 2001 page 15 
roll, a lot of NAZZ 

Most bands define themselves as a mixture of different styles, but Right Hand Side plays "blues, just blues." Sophomore members Patrick Mechem, Daly Barnes, John Ratte and Luke Burke and junior Neil Carmichael have been playing together since fall break. They name as their inspirations great blues legends like Jimi Hendrix, Stevie Ray Vaughn, Freddie and BB King, Albert Collins, the Allman Brothers and "anyone else who has felt the blues." 
Right Hand Side.is an experienced band -three members played NAZZ last year and the other two have played numerous gigs. This experien<;e may be the reason behind the group's choice of a representative object: "a rock that has been polished by the ocean until it is hard and smooth." "Mostly we just want to play music for people and use the band as an excuse not to get our homework done," says guitarist Cannichael. 
"A nice blend of indie rock and power pop," is how Oiseaux describes its music. Sophomores Tim Bradley and Bill Taylor performed at last year's NAZZ in the now defunct band Moonshine, and the two joined with freshman Matt Dowling about six months ago to form Oiseaux's current line-up. 

All three members have distinctive taste in music. Bradley counts Wcezer, the Pixies, Sloan and the Alkaline Trio as big influences. Taylor likes Reel Big Fish and Dowling gets inspiration from the Red Hot Chili Peppers. 
The name "Oiseaux"? "It looks cool and sounds sophisticated," says Bradley. When asked for the group's post-NAZZ plans, Bradley says Oiseaux would like to play a few shows and possibly do some recording before the end of the semester. For a group that identifies with "Michael J. Fox in a white leisure suit doing the Teenwolf dance," its independence should lead it far. 
The Skainmunists want it known there is no significance behind their name. "We're not even communists -we just like the sound of 'skammunists."' The band seems to have an inclusive philosophy nonetheless, as they boast 10 members: senior Sean Markey, sophomores Chris Giese and Dan Crowley, and freshmen Ben Slease, Pete Balogh, Sean Brooks, Pat Bayliss, Adriana Trunzo, Mike Zodda and Omar Arizpe. 
The large ska/punk band formed about seven months ago, and hopes "to keep play­ing and see what happens, above all to have a good time." Skammunist influences include Catch 22, Mustard Plug, Boys Sets Fire, Bouncing Souls and Less than Jake. 
little known facts about the band? The Skammunists went through six drummers over five months before finding their current drummer Bayliss two days before their fist show. And guitarist Balogh sports a magic hat that the band agrees is the object that best represents their style. 
If you need a reason to see Red Dragon Tattoo this Friday, consider the intriguing significance behind their name: "Ask any one of us and we'll show you." 
The three founding members of the band -sophomores Ryan McLaughlin, Joe Andrukaitis and Josh Rynne -began playing together over a year ago, recently adding sophomore Carl Sergio and freshman Dave Lodewyck to the lineup. All members are self-proclaimed NAZZ virgins. 
Red Dragon Tattoo names Foundations of Wayne, the Beatles and Britney Spears as its influences. The band's style is 1960s British pop music, but when asked about its goals for the band, the members say they can't decide whether they want to be the next Beatles or the next Spinal Tap. One thing is for sure -Red Dragon Tattoo proudly declares an inflatable Oscar Mayer wiener as the object that best defines what their band is all about. 
Unlike many NAZZ bands, 7 Pounds of Groove says they are quite serious about play­ing post-college. The band, which has been together for a year and a half, is made up of junior Alan Maginn and seniors Kevin Bruce, Chris Corr and Mark Miller. "Everyone's listening background is quite different as well," says the band, "which melds numerous different styles together, giving us a really unique sound. 
7 Pounds of Groove likes to consider themselves a jamband, but "like all jambands, we have our own unique mix of classic rock, fusion and other multiple styles." The newest addition to their stage is an object they feel represents their band well -a stuffed Canadian goose named Beau Goose that was found in Bruce's trunk. As for its unusual name, the band is satisfied to keep its significance to themselves. "Everyone usually comes up with their own idea, and it's hilarious. We've probably heard upwards of 20 things our name means to people." 
Presto Pine's name comes from the ancient tradition of tree erection. "That and it was the label of a box in the Keenan music room where we first started practicing," says senior vocalist Jeff Russ. Joining Russ are senior bassist Nate Blazei, senior lead guitarist Brian SzakaJy and junior Steve Sanchez on drums. The band came together last semes­ter, and the upperclassmen have "risen out of the ranks of the obsolete just in time to bid our farewell to the giant bubble known as Notre Dame," according to Russ. 
This resilient group feels that a 1985 He-Man figurine of Moss Man best represents their band. "Our style is a mix of Jay-Z meets Garth Brooks," says Russ. " No not really, we play pure rock and roll, ofcourse." Presto Pine's main influences are Brandon Boyd of Incubus, Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin and Animal of the Muppets. Future plans include playing at bar mitzvahs, weddings and for audiences of 10 or fewer. 
Their goal is to become Notre Dame's ,oudest band. Their inspirations include Weezer, Spinal Tap and Slayer. When asked to pick an object to embody their band, the members ·" 
of the group chose "a small. angry little man with bad teeth and big hair." And their name? "Who wouldn't like a guy named Lester?" is their only response. 
tester is composed of senior Ryan Murray on vocals, philosophy grad student Pat Emmons on bass and juniors Joe Madia on guitar, Jon Alvarez on drums and Tim Ferrell on guitar, who is now abroad in France and missed by his bandmates . 
.Even without Ferrell, Lester continues to rock out in its signature style, "a more melod­ic, upbeat rock, with elements of pop-punk, emo and a teensy-weensy bit of metal thrown in for good measure." Though Lester has only been together for six months, the members say they always knew they would find each other and hope to have the same luck at NAZZ that group members have enjoyed in past years . 


NAZZ performers flying solo 
.

One night, one vozce: 7 brave soul-oists will perform at Senior Bar 
8:10p.m. 
"I think my style is a reflection of a blend of Ani Difranco, Joan Osborn and something else that I can't quite put my finger on," says Vinita Ollapally. 
A self-described "ener­getic singer/songwriter." Ollapally's style is folk music with a kick. She con­side rs DiPranco to be a strong influence in her work and performance, although she feels that she has a different influence for every song she writes. 
The senior performed at NAZZ last year. as well as at parties and events around campus like AcousticCafe and Amnesty events. 


of live, Phil Wittliff has recognized
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 10:40p.m.
his love of music. " I don't know how good I was, but I have Shawn Storer's greatest inspiration is God's always considered myself a guitar player," says 

grace. which he experiences through the people 
Joe/Ebner 
Wittliff. The sophomore from Fisher Hall and the world he encounters each day. Storer 


has been singing since he was a child, playing varied instruments for almost nine years and 'I gravitate toward [music] writing songs intensely for the past few at is introspective and bit­years. The senior theology major credits 
many varied influences, from the Psalms and Francis of Assisi to Bruce Springsteen and the Beatles. 
Storer describes his style as "folk rawk" music (because it doesn't just "rock" it "rawks"). Now Storer says he relies on his own brew of folk, blues, gospel and "insurgent country music" to move his audience. 
A previous NAZZ performer (in last year's second place band The Mad River Bluegrass Society). Storer prefers to go by the title "Plain Dealer." He prides his music on its simplicity, and says that an old flannel shirt best describes his sound and himself. 
rsweet. but still has a tchy silver lining," 
ys Joel Ebner, a junior from Keough Hall. 
The ALPP/ Graphic Design major has been performing and singing in 
rious rock 
nds for out seven .ars. but has 
•en playing the -string acoustic itar almost exclusive­
for a year. ... bner considers his 
• le "singer/song­·ter/pop music," 
says he tends lay songs 


11:20p.m. 

"There is nothing that brings me more joy than to play mellow folk songs with my acoustic guitar in order to share a piece of God's love with this world," says Danielle Rose Skorich. 
Since Skorich began playing the guitar seven years ago, the focus of her music has been on her faith. "J really love life, God and writ­ing music about it," says Skorich. "Heck, if the angels sing for joy unceas­ingly, why can't we give it a shot? Yippee!" 
Skorich describes her style as "folk pop acoustic music about my faith." She has played at various sites around campus, and this Friday night will bring a double dose of her music. 
Skorich will be playing a concert for the Campus Ministry's kickoff of "No Greater Love," and then will bring her acoustic sound to NAZZ later that night. 

8:50p.m. 
Luke Mueller says his music is inspired by "living and dying and everything in between." 
The junior from Knott Hall has been playing the guitar for a little more than two years, but this marks his first appearance at N/\ZZ. Mueller will also be playing in a rock band for the first time this summer. 
Mueller counts his influences of several artists, most notably Pearl Jam and Ben Harper. · "I would say my music attempts to capture 1tHrnning in the way that Pearl Jam. Ben Harper, Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen and various other artists have done, but with a unique sound and style," says Mueller. 


Since he began playing at the age 
compares his music to Neil Young and Willie Nelson, but has developed his own unique style.
sometimes forgotten or 
unnoticed. " I'm really into experimental rock and underground music," says Ebner. "but I prefer to play pop-oriented music because pop music tends to work with themes to which most people can relate -love. friendship, happiness. 
career in
youth and rocking music. butout." Ebner may start this is a lot

a band with his twin 
easier saidbrother after gradua­

than done."

tion, but he says he 
says Wittliff. "If I

"will most likely 
ever have theonly dream of opportunity to playrock star-

music for a living. it will be a dream come true. 
12 a.m. 


Pat McKeever has never considered himsell' a solo artist. "I've always writ­ten songs for 'my band' regardless of whether of not I had a band at that par­ticular time," says the jW1ior from Morrissey Hall. But McKeever says he is coming to realize that he doesn't nec­essarily need a band to play some of his songs. 
A first-time NAZZ performer. McKeever names as his strongest influences indie rock artists like Sehadoh and Seam and "folkier" artists like Ida and Jen Wood. In the future he says he would like to sing and play for "a really mellow band. with a lot of delicate instrumenta­tion." 
McKeever has been playing the gui­tar for over five years and prides himself on being self-taught. "I like the fact that sometimes I don't know why certain chords or notes sound good in certain places," says McKeever. " It keeps a sense of mystery about piaying music. keeps it from becoming too scientific." 

"I consider my music to be 'just plain 
music,"' says Wittliff. "It's not pop. it's not blues and it's not country, but it has a tint of all of these." 
Friday marks Wittliff's first NAZZ performance, but he has played at Acou-S t i C ­Cafe a n d 
M a ­
cios. 
. "I w o u Id love to 
pursue a 

Friday, March 23, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
USC upsets Kentucky 80-76, will play Duke in regional final 
. Stanford, Maryland advance to West regional 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

With the game on the line, Southern California made sure David Bluthenthal would go to the line. 
Bluthenthal. an 80-percent free-throw shooter, hit five straight foul shots in the final half-minute Thursday night as USC hung on for an 80-76 vic­tory over Kentucky in the NCAA Tournament. 
The sixth-seeded Trojans (24-9), seeking their first Final Four berth since 1954, spoiled Kentucky's bid for a rematch of its dramatic 1992 regional final overtime loss to Duke in Philadelphia. The top-seeded Blue Devils beat UCLA 76-63 in the second semifinal. 
USC used some sizzling first­half shooting and took advan­tage of a jittery, young Kentucky team in building a 21-point lead. Then, the proud Wildcats staged a furious sec­ond -half comeback, twice shaving the lead down to one point. 
It was 75-74 with 32 seconds to play when Bluthenthal, who led all scorers with 2 7 points and had six 3-pointers, took over. Every time USC put the ball inbounds, B!uthenthal took the pass. And every time he took the pass, he was fouled. 
That was fine with USC. 
"We have total confidence in David," coach 1-lenry Bibby said. "That's the guy we want­ed to get fouled. He's an 80­percen t shooter. I think it went the way we wanted." 
Bluthenthal was happy to carrv the burden at the end. "I knew if I was going to the line, I was going to make those 
CLASSIFIEDS 
shots," he said. "It wasn't really hard to knock those free throws down." 
At the start of the game, USC seemed to be making every shot. The Trojans hit 12 of their first 17 shots and built a 31-10 lead in the first 10 min­utes. Meanwhile, second-seed­ed Kentucky (24-10) was stag­gering, sinking in a sea of air halls, missed shots and turnovers. 
With coach Tubby Smith stamping his foot on the side­lines, the Wildcats seemed lost, unable to make shots or hang on to the ball. Kentucky managed j.ust four baskets in the first eight minutes and one of them by Marvin Stone bare­ly beat the 35-second clock. 
"Wo folt we wore getting open looks, but we were not hitting," said point guard Saul Smith, who finished with five 3-pointers. "We· dug ourselves a big hole by not doing enough on the defensive end when we needed to." 
Duke 76, UCLA 63 
Jason Williams took over in the second half, scoring 19 straight points to help top­ranked Duke reach the region­al finals for the 10th time in 16 years. 
The sophomore guard, one of the Blue Devils' two All­Americans, matched his career high with 34 points as Duke beat fourth-seeded UCLA. 
The Blue Devils (32-4) will play sixth-seeded Southern California, which beat second­seeded Kentucky 80-76, on Saturday with a berth in the Final Four at stake. 
Williams started his personal run with a 3-pointer -one of six he had in the game -and added in some slicing drives, a converted lob pass and two more 3s. He had 26 points in the second half. · 
Every time the Bruins (23-9) seemed to get any kind of Cardinal controlled the boards thing you -think about later on. momentum as they tried to 36-25 and forced. Cincinnati We've got one day to get ready wipe out a 33-26 halftime into 39 percent field-goal for a very good team. You deficit, Williams found a way shooting. don't want to be satisfied." to score. His one-man run Kenny Satterfield led the Lonny Baxter had 26 points started with 14:29 to play and Bearcats (25-10) with 27 and 15 rebounds, and Juan restored Duke's lead to six points and his backcourt mate Dixon added 13 points for th~ points after Earl Watson's 3 Steve Logan added 11 points. Terrapins (24-10). who will brought the Bruins within Using its quickness, face the winner of Thursday threo at 40-37. Cincinnati fearlessly drove night's second game between 
It ended with a drive that inside for baskets against top-seeded Stanford and No. 5 put the Blue Devils up 59-51 Stanford's big men to take a Cincinnati in Saturday's West with 8:40 to play. 38-34 halftime lead. Regional final. 
UCLA was never abfo to get The Cardinal committed 12 The winner of that gamecloser than that the rest of the of their 1 7 turnovers in the 
advances to the Final Four. way as Duke closed the game first half and saw Cincinnati "We really struggled early,"by going 8-for-8 from the free­dose the half with a 21-10 run Williams said after Maryland's
throw line over the final I :29. after trailing 24-17. ninth win in the last 10 games.
The game marked the return Ryan Mendez, who added 16 "As we settled down, we were of Duke center Carlos Boozer. points. hit a 3-pointer to start able to execute more and who had missed the last six the second half for Stanford_. 
make passes. We led the ACC games after breaking a bone Jacobsen and the Collins twins in assists, so when we pass the in his foot. He finished with combined for Stanford's next ball, we're a very good team. 

two points and six rebounds in 10 points and a 47-42 lead, 
"Our defense was really

22 minutes. but the Cardinal were not yet good in terms of making them The game was a matchup of in control. 
take tough shots. The second the two winningest teams in Mendez became the 31st half, obviously Lonny had a 

NCAA tournament play as Stanford player to go over 
great game. We were able to 

Duke entered 69-22 (75.8 per­1,000 career points. finishing get the ball to Lonny."
cent) and UCLA was 78-28 the night with 1,014. 
Baxter said every time he
(73.4 percent). 

caught the ball, he tried to Maryland 76, Georgetown 66 attack the basket, even though Stanford 78, Cincinnati 65 Finally, in his 23rd year of he was going up against taller 
Just as Cincinnati feared, coaching top-level college bas­players. Stanford was too big and too ketball. Gary Williams has "I play against big guys in strong. guided a team to an NCAA our league, I always play 
The top-seeded Cardinal Tournament regional final. against bigger people," said flexed their muscle inside to Lonny Baxter had a huge the 6-foot-8, 260-pounder. pull away in the second half game for Maryland with 26 After a basket by Lee and beat the Bearcats. points and 14 rebounds. Scruggs drew Georgetown 
Setting a school record with He's not ready to celebrate within three points, a layup by its 31st victory against two just yet. Tahj Holden and two free losses, Stanford advanced to "We win one more game this throws by Baxter put the Saturday's regional final year and all of a sudden, I'm a Terps ahead 63-56 with 5:10 against third-seeded lot smarter," Williams said remaining. Maryland, a 76-66 winner after third-seeded Maryland A 3-pointer by Kevin over 10th-seeded Georgetown. beat No. 10 Georgetown. Braswell drew the Hoyas with­
Casey Jacobsen, playing "That's the way it is in college in four points before a basket down the freeway from his basketball. by Baxter and a fast-break hometown of Glendora, scored "I've had a lot-of good play­layup by Danny Miller made it 
a career-high 27 points and ers on teams who have 67-59. Georgetown wasn't hit two 3-pointers to tie the reached the Sweet 16." closer than five points after single-season Stanford record In his 12th year as coach of that. of 82. the Terrapins, Williams later Two free throws by Holden, 
Jason Collins had 15 points admitted the accomplishment who scored 10 points, and and eight rebounds, and 7-foot did mean a lot. another pair by Dixon in the twin Jarron added 14 points 'Tm not trying to low-key final 28 seconds completed the and seven rebounds. The it," he said. "But that's some-scoring. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. · The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edic all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Bay, Ml. Positions available for Need babysitter, pref. Early eel 2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN-Beatiful brass bed, queen size with "Chance at Love" Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors major, own trans. 2-yr.-old by GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291-orthopedic mattress set and deluxe A hilarious new musicalWANTED for Nature/Arts & Martins 272-1205 2209 frame. All new, never used, still in This Friday & Saturday in the 
Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing.  plastic. $235  LaFun ballroom  
F raternilies•sororit1es  Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT.  219-862-2082  Dinner at 7 p.m., show starts at  
Clubs·student Groups  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE  7:30p.m.  
Earn $1 ,000-$2.000 this semester with the easy  responsible, and love children. June 17 through August 12. Salary,  FOR RENT  BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298-3800.  Spring Break Appetizer Mexican Blankets from $12.95 +  Call Tiana for !ix ($8) 634-4248  
Campusfundraiser.com three hour  Room & Board, and experience of a  S&H  Need a dress for upcoming  
tundraising event. No sales  lifetime provided. Call dr write for  Nice 3 bdrm, 1-1/2 bath  3 Houses still available for 2001-02.  Mexiconnection. com  SYRs/Formals? I'm selling several  
required. Fundraising dates are fill·  application and information. Bay  Tri-level, family room, fireplace,  5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime  formal dresses that have only been  
ing quickly, so call today! Contact  Cliff Health Camp, 310 W.  fenced backyard, 2-car garage.  locations, 233-9947 Greg.  Europe $199 one way.  worn once. Call 284-4446 for info,  
Campusfundraiser.com at (888)  Washington, Suite 300, Marquette,  $995/mo.  Mexian/Caribbean or Central  And will greet you with a reception.  
923·3238, or visit www.campus·  Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail  Call 219-232-4527 or 616-683-5038  New home Fall 2001. This 3+  America $250 round trip + tax.  
fLJnQrais,1r.QQm  BayCliffHC@aol.com  bdrm, 3 bath home is close to cam- Other worldwide destinations  Hey did you get tickets to the  
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near  pus with features like fireplace,  cheap. If you can beat these prices,  show?  
LOSE WEIGHT' EAT WHAT YOU  Wanted: Experienced nanny/care­ campus 2001 /02&summer 272­ cathedral ceilings, family room,  stan your own darn airline! Book  
LIKE!  giver for 1 infant, 30-40 hours/week,  6306  deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage.  tickets online www.airtech.com or  NO.  
WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAM­PUS SERVICE  need own car, light housekeeping, must have references, no smokers,  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)4-br  $1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or 616-683-5038.  (877) AIRTECH  I'm thinking it's going to be another  ,,  
everything negotiable! Ca!l 675­ $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month  late night.  
Your super-convenient dream diet  9759  wean make almost any changes to  
from a name you trust is coming to Notre Dame! No complicated count- CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof  the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  Adventures at the Greyhound bus station -starring Tommy and Dawn  
ing! Eat pizza, cookies, fast food ­ needs childcare in home T-Th  4-BR HOUSE! CENTRAL AIR SEC  Unique College Football Painting  
any food you crave and lose weight  mornings, ideally 9-2 but at least 9­ SYS ETC. $600/MONTH, 291-2209  15-ft Sin. x 4 ft 7 in.pictured: The  Hey, guys, wanna go see the  
Get info-packed booklets, tons of  1. Three great kids, 5,3, 1. Large  MacQs~mi.:IJiaua.Qr!;I  SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN  Gipp, Knute Rockne, Ara, Devine,  Playstation 2s this weekend?  
super-easy recipes, samples of  comtonab/e home 1 mile from cam- CHICAGO!  Holtz, Leahy, 4 Horsemen w/  
your great snack bars and special- pus. Own transportation required.  Bed and Breakfast for ND and SMC  $22-25/night-Hostelling lntOI $2  names on horseback, fathers Joyce  Then we can catch the Sega  
i:zed online support from trained  Please call 631-3654 days, 289­ graduation  OFF WITH AD  and Hesburgh, Touchdown Jesus,  Genesis and the Ataris after that  
Weight Watchers staff. You pay just  3865 evenings or email meiss­ 3 miles from ND  312/360-0300 or  Golden dome, stadium, Holtz com·  
$59 for 5 weeks Summer is just  ner 1@nd edu  2 rooms left  www.hichicaoo Qrg  Ing out of tunnel with team. Dates of  He's coming  
around the corner ­register today  287-4545  all the championships. Call 219­ 
over the phone: 1-B00-572-5727.  Indiana Catholic couple with huge  PHONE CARDS  784-2104.  Good thing I only have 1 class tom- 
Visa, MasterCard. and Discover  hearts wishing to adopt a child. We  3-5 bedroom homes  $20:2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT  Pictured on webmaster@blueand­ morrow.  
Accepted  can provide your baby with lots of  close to campus  SURCHARGE  gold.com  
love and a secure, stable life.  232-2595  $20  Pop Tarts rule  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  Reasonable expenses will be paid.  mmmrentals@aol.com  362 MIN WITH NO FEES  Congratulations Irish Softball on  
Make a difference in the life of a  For more info, please call Rebecca  your #12 ranking and 18-3 record!/  Math majors -what can I say  
child! Summer therapy camp for  re Larry &Kathy: toll-tree 1-866-30­ 3 bdrm home 2 blocks from cam­ 634-1146 CLAUDIA  The softball home opener is Tues  
children with disabilities. Located on  ADOPT  pus. Fall ot 273-1566  634-4210 SARA  3/27, 4 p.m. Be there!  Quite about about one of them  

shore of Lake Superior near Big 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 23, 2001 

page 18 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Smoltz may be out for season opener 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 

Atlanta Braves pitcher John Smoltz, trying to come back aftt!r missing last year becausi> of surgery on his right elbow, will "probably" open the season on the disabled list with ten­dinitis in the elbow, he said Thursday. 
Smoltz was passed over f'or his scheduled start on Wednesday. He had asked team physician Dr. Joe Chandler to check out his elbow Monday after feeling some soreness fol­lowing his previous start against tho New York Yankees. 
"Ile told me it was tendinitis. There's a little inflammation there," Smoltz said. MI've just got to let it settle down." 
' 
' I Smoltz has not pitched more 
I 
than three innings in any start 1, this spring. 
I I 
"My goal was to pitch five, six innings and that's not going to happen," he said. 
Asked if that meant he would likely open the season on the disabled list, Smoltz replied: "Probably. But that's their [the club's) decision." 
Manager Bobby Cox said a decision would not be made until the end of spring training, but tried to remain optimistic. 
"I think he'll be fine. I'm not thinking about it right now," he said. 
Smoltz, who is coming back from "Tommy John" surgery exactly one year ago on Friday, said he had some pain after each of his three spring starts, but it lasted longer each time. 
"The surgery took. The elbow is great," he said. "But there's going to be other issues and I just have to learn to deal with them." 
He said he would take it slow. 
Give Margie a kiss on her 21st birthdayl 
HappY. Birthday
HonJ 

Congratulations on being the first legalfriend! 
Love, 
us 

11111 Dt arhntnf ,··· -·· 
' 
·, . 
:·,. 
....• 
r,n
': >~i".<J 
'11'ursday, March 22, 2001:­

Free and opt~ h the "~tfo.· ,•.~-·. ·Tl•.. 
.lafortune ftt1wor• 6.J¥~f.u11i1if l~ ·•. 

ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now 
accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages 
three through six and 2001-2002 School Year 
Registration for children ages two through five. Both part 
time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For 
more information, please call one of the numbers below. 
• 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please call · 
631-3344 
or 

,;; -~_::~--~ 284-4693 
The San Patricios Mexico's Fighting Irish 

ETS Theater, McKenna Hall Basement Thursday, March 22 
4:00 PM 
Presented by: 

Institute for Latino Studies Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Personalized Graduation Announcements 


•Personalized •Professional •Convenient •Easy 
•fast (2-week turnaround) 
NOW AVAILABLE ONLINE! 

.. \ \ \ \ \ .'-11 ( ,I I, . ,i{ ,! ' : i· ·, • ( ( I • ! 
--· .., . ---. -"--·-.... -----·. ----···­
~ 
Visit our website to order your 
personalized graduation 
announcements today or call 
1-800-353-5299 
VlSA ~C DISCOVER 

ORDER DURING THESE 2 DAYS! 
Date: March 27-28 (Tues., Wed.) 
Time: 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Place: LaFortune Student Center, Sorin Room 

Friday, March 23, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
page 19 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Ankiel gets off to wild start 
Associated Press 
JUPITER. Fla. 

Hick Ankiel, who threw nine wild pitches in four anguishing postseason innings last fall, walked his first three batters Thursday before giving up a grand slam to Montreal's Vladimir Guerrero. 
'Tm just trying to get it right," Ankiel said. 
Ankiel. the St. Louis Cardinals' 21-year-old left­handed phenom, walked eight in his previous spring start against Florida. 
"I had a little more feel for my fastball but my curve wasn't working like it was the last time." Ankiel said. "I felt like I battled after a tough nrst inning. I was able 
to  come  back and throw  
strikes."  
Ankiel  threw only  one  

strike to the first three bat­ters, walking Peter Bergeron, Milton Bradley and Fernando Tatis on 13 pitches to open the game. 
After taking a called strike, Guerrero hit the next pitch over the right-field wall. 
Ankiel appeared to recov­er his control after that, get­ting Lee Stevens on a called third strike, Geoff Blum on a popup, and Orlando Cabrera on a groundout. Ankiel 
threw 25 pitches eight 
strikes -in the inning. 
With most of the capacity . 
crowd backing Ankiel, he 
retired the side in order in 
the second inning on 1 O 
pitches, seven strikes. 
"I was impressed with the way he bore down after Vlady hit that homer," catcher Mike Matheny said. "He really showed me some­thing the way he got out of the inning. Let's face it, that's a really good hitter hitting the ball good. And he was the only one who hit the ball hard. 
"But every day, Rick has to get a feel for his pitches, a feel for the mound, a feel for his legs. He was in a fastball mode today and executed all his pitches well." 
The left-hander threw nine of 14 pitches for strikes in the third inning. but also allowed a walk and back-to­back run-scoring doubles to Guerrero and Stevens. 
Ankiel allowed six runs, three hits and four walks in three innings. He struck out two. He threw 29 of 55 pitches for strikes. 
"He said he felt good when he came out of the game," pitching coach Dave Duncan said. "He is going to have some adversity when he pitches and he has to learn how to work out of it. He 
-
started to after the home 
run today. Compared to the 
last game, his demeanor on 
the mound today was out­
standing." 
It was Ankiel's third start 
this spring. He pitched two 
shutout innings against the 
Mets on March 13, before 
struggling to find the strike 
zone against the Marlins in 
his last start on Sunday. 
It was Ankiel's third start 
this spring. He has a 1-2 
record with 13 walks and 
seven strikeouts in 6 1/3 
innings. He's allowed 12 
earned runs. 
Ankiel has been getting help from baseball psycholo­gist Harvey Dorfman. 
In the playoff opener last October against Atlanta, Ankiel became the first major league pitcher in 110 years to throw five wild pitches in one inning. On Sept. 15, 1890, Bert Cunningham did it for Buffalo of the Players League. 
After a wild outing in practice early during spring training, Ankiel (11-7 with a team-leading 3.50 ERA last year) spent the next few weeks pitching on one of the back fields at the team's spring training complex. The sessions were in the early morning, out of the media glare and without crowds. 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 7 Irish face hard road trip this weekend 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the women's ten-· 
nis team will have its work cut out 
for it as the Notre Dame takes on 
Kentucky and Tennessee, two solid 
teams who will be looking to knock 
off the No. 7 Irish. 
"Kentucky and Tennessee are 
always a tough road trip," said 
head coach Jay Louderback. "Both 
are very good teams who play well 
at home." 
Junior Nina Vaughan knows the weekend trip to Appalachia pro­vides a challenge. 
"We have to respect that they are two very tough teams but we are confident in our abilities." said Vaughan. "We go into every match thinking that we can win." 
It will be a difficult road trip for the Irish as they are traveling for the third week in a row. The team is on' a four-game winning streak will have to deal with hostile crowds and long bus trips this weekend but are confident that they can pull together and play well. 
"Tennessee is a very tough place to play," said Vaughan, "the crowd is always rowdy and obnoxious but expecting that makes us all the more ready for it also makes us want to win more." 
With eight games remaining before the Big East Tournament the 
Irish lopk to win out and go into the 
post season on a high note. 
"Our goal as a team is to win the 
rest of our matches, it is very feasi­
ble to go the rest ofthe season 
undefeated," said Vaughan. 
The team is on a roll after anoth­
er undefeated weekend with wins 
against Miami and West Virginia 
down in Florida. The Irish improve 
their record to 14-3 with the 
impressive wins, losing only one 
singles match. 
"I thought we did very well. it was a big adjustment to playing inside and outside but we did a good job," said junior Nina Vaughan after another great week­end. 
Head coach Jay Louderback sees last weekend's performance as a positive step as the season winds down. 
"The best match we played was Miami it was our first outdoor match and we played really well," said coach Louderback. "Evervone played well, Becky [Varnum] has been playing better and better as the spring has gone along, she has really stepped it up at number two and Nina Vaughan at three has played well for us." 
The win against Miami is a big one for the Irish who split matches with the Hurricanes last year. The win puts them at the top of the Big East and in control as they get ready for the Big East Tournament in April. 

The Irish Clover and Frank O'Malley Awards. 
The Irish Clover Award recognizes a faculty/staff person for outstanding service to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
The Frank O'Malley Award is presented to a faculty member for their outstanding contribution to the Notre Dame Student Body. 

Help Recognize Outstanding Service to the Notre Dame Student Body. Pick-up a nomination form. 


Nominations are due March 23 by 3pm in the Student Government Office. 203 LaFortune. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 23, 2001 
PGA TouR 
Azinger takes lead; Woods misses par 


PONTE VEDHA BEACII, Fla. 
Paul Azingcr finally found 

The Players Championship to 
his liking Thursday, thanks to a 
rPlativPly soft Stadium course, 
a ono-stroke lead and his best 
score at Sawgrass in 49 rounds. 
Paul Azingcr's best finish at 

The Players Championship was 
a tie for third in 1991. 
Azinger started with three 

consecutive birdies. had a simi­
lar stretch in the middle of his 
round, and kept it straight and 
simple down the stretch for a 
6-under 66 and the lead over 
Vijay Singh, Scott !loch and 
.Jonathan Kaye. · "Wlrnn tho grnens hold. H's a 
manageable golf course," 
t\zinger said. 
Not cvoryone felt that way. 
Tiger Woods said he hit only 

a couple of bad shots but 
signed for a 72. the 10th time 
in 17 earner rounds in the tour­
nament that he has failed to 
break par. One of those shots 
was his 3-wood on No. 18 that 
started left and into the water 
and led to a double-bogey. 
"I didn't get a whole lot out of 

the round," Woods said. "I only 
hit two or three bad shots all 
day. which in these conditions 
is pretty good. The golf course 
is going to keep playing harder 
and harder as the week goes 
on." 
Even with greens that 

allowed cm·tain pins to be 
attacked, the Stadium course is 
no pushover. The average score 
was 73.37, the highest first­
round scoring on the PGA Tour 
this year. 
"If we had to play a golf course this difficult every week. there would be a lot of guys retiring of heart failure at age 40," said Hilly Mayfair, who was at 68 along with Hobert t\llenby and Skip Kendall. 
Three of the top four players, including Azingcr, started in the afternoon. a rarity in golf because the course tends to get dry and crusty as the day goes on. Thursday was an exception because of rain that soaked the Stadium Course earlier in the 
week, and wind that only gust­
ed hard in the morning. 
Azinger noticed the differ­
ence right away, especially 
when he kept bending over to 
replace pitch marks. In years 
past, when the rough was ankle 
deep and the greens were like 
cement. he figured he had no 
chance because he hits the ball 
low and hard. 
"When the ball hit the green, 
you could hear it from 150 
yards out," he said. "That 
favored a certain type of play­
er, and that wasn't me. It just 
didn't fit my style." 
Singh broke 70 for the first time in 15 rounds on the Stadium course. and the 67 was his best score ever in 33 rounds of official competition. There hasn't been many casual rounds, even though Singh lives about flve miles away. 
"I don't go out on the golf course as much as I should," Singh said. ffRut when I'm home, I'm here almost every day. I use the range a lot." 
Big surprise there. Singh is one of the most tireless work­ers in golf, and it has begun to pay off. lie is the only player who has not had a round over par on the PGA Tour this year. 
"If you drive the fairways here, you've got a lot of chances to make good approaches to the green," Singh said. "From tee to green, I was really solid. And when you do that, you're supposed to play a good round." 
So how to explain Hoch'? 
He likes The Players Championship now because the rough is like a jungle and keep­ing the ball in play is a priority. On Thursday, Hoch missed six fairways and six greens, and had a 67 for his best score of the year. 
"I was very fortunate," he said. "When I do play well, I keep the ball in play. And I did not do that today. But I made a whole lot." 
When asked whether the Stadium course was there for the taking, Hoch scoffed. 

For more infonnation about beginning a new life as a  
Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.5.C.  
\ Ct\ornERS OF HOLY CROSS  P.O. Box 460, Notre Dame, IN 46556  
·-.c.:::-'  e-mail: dgibbs@hcc-nd.edu  
(219)-251-2222  

~ 
,,· 
.··l
1,· 
'"' 

25% OFF All Fleece Sweatshirts 25% OFF All Long Sleeve T-shirts 25% OFF All Caps 25% OFF All Notre Dame Imprinted Gifts (Excluding Waterford, Belleek, Lladro) 50% OFF All Back Packs 50% OFF All Clearance 
Sale ends March 31, 2001 
Friday, March 23, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Bryant reluctant to play triangle 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Phil Jackson likes to hand out books Lo his players for inspiration. Apparently. he's still trying to find the righl one for Kobe Bryant. 
It has been well docu­mented that the ·Lakers coach and his All-Star guard don't share the same philosophies of offense. Specifically, Bryant is unhappy with his role in .Jackon's vaunted triangle offense. 
Bryant's season-long feud with Shaquillc O'Neal about who should be the focus of the Lakers' offense has been the biggest problem .Jackson has had to deal with this season. 
In an interview with Chicago Sun-Times colum­nist Rick Telander pub­lished Wednesday, Jackson rliscussed Bryant's reluc­tance to accept the purpose of the triangle offense ­which is to distribute the ball among teammates. 
"The other day I said to Kobe, 'What's the prob­lem?"' Jackson said. "He said, 'The game's too bor­ing for me. The offense is so simple. It doesn't display my talent.' I said. 'l realize that. But we're trying to win games with the least amount of things going wrong, the fewest injuries. the least fatigue.' Ile said, 'But it doesn't give me what 1 have to have for my game."' 
Jackson had given Bryant a copy of Corelli's Mandolin, a 1994 novel by Louis De Bernieres. The book is the story of a tiny Greek island occupied by the Italian army during World War IL It touches on the adaptiveness of a tight­knit community. 
"Kobe's a real Mediterranean kid," Jackson was quoted as say­ing. "I thought the hook would be a good look at the culture he's attached to. It's a beautiful book. Tragic. But he didn't like it. Last year I gave him a book by Paul Beatty, White Boy Shuffle. about a black youth who grows up in a ~hite cop1muniLy. But Kobe had no affinity for it. He's not willing to let someone else's ideas penetrate his mind. 
"The point of the book was that you can't always dictate the terms of what your life is going to be," Jackson said. "Those Greeks are going to be overrun and organized by the Italians. So they learn how to win by losing, in a way. 'We are going to be occupied, now how do we 
get along?"' The point apparently is lost on Bryant, Jackson said. · 
"Kobe's having a hard time with the triangle offense this year. Not last year. Last year he could hardly wait to get to the spot on the floor where Michael Jordan had been. He wanted to be Michael. But it's a different team this year. We don't have a Scottie Pippen for him, tho guy who allowed Ivlichael to be Michael. That's the cross Kobe has to bear." 
Jackson then added: "Someone told me that in high school, Kobe used to sabotage his own games. So the game could be close. So he could dominate at the end. To sabotage the team process, to be so self-cen­tered in your own process ... it's almost stupefying." 
Jackson said that recent on-court disturbances with Bryant might not reflect their total relationship. however. 
"It's not butting heads at all," Jackson said. "We had one interchange on Monday night. He was upset at his teammates. I told him he had no right to be upset with his teammates. He made the pass from up in the air. That wasn't even contentious." 
"\roo\\ \\\l and first ( lass Bteppers 
... 

Martin breaks leg in 113-98 loss to Celtics 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. 

Kenyon Martin, the No. 1 pick in last year's NBA Draft, fractured his right leg in the New Jersey Nets' loss to Boston on Thursday night. 
The right leg is the same one Martin broke around this time last year while playing for the University of Cincinnati. 
"Kenyon has a non-displaced fracture of the right fibula," Nets spokesman Aaron Harris said about an hour after the Nets 113­98 loss. "It's a completely different injury than last year." 
The bone is the same, but the location of this injury is different, Harris said. The break Martin sus­tained in last year's Conference USA tournament was near his knee 
Thls injury is in a different loca­tion and will not require surgery, Harris said, noting it was the same type of break that Nets forward· Keith Van Horn suffered in training camp, forcing him to miss 32 games. 
Martin's injury happened when Boston guard Milt Palacio collided with the back of his leg midway through the third quarter. ­
Martin didn't want to leave the court but was eventually taken to the locker room by trainer Tim Walsh. 
''I've never seen anything like this," Nets All-Star guard Stephan Marbury said. "It's amazing. It. really is." 
Martin had 22 points on 10-of-16 shooting in 28 minutes. 
One of the leading contenders for the Rookie of the Year award, Martin is second in scoring and rebounds among rookies and first in blocks. 
Paul Pierce scored a career-high 44 points and the Boston Celtics hit a season-high 14 3-pointers in defeating the New Jersey Nets 113­98 on Thursday night. 
Antoine Walker added 29 points as the Celtics (30-38) won their third straight road game and moved within a half-game of idle Indiana (30-37) in the race for the eighth and final playoff berth in the Eastern Conference. 
Keith Van Horn added 19 and Stephon Marbury had 17 points and 11 assists in returning from a hip injury that forced him to miss two games. 
The Celtics broke the game open in a 35-point third quarter, during which they hit five 3-pointers. 
Pierce, who has six 40-point games this season including three in his last five games, then ignited a quarter-closing 33-10 spurt with a 3-pointer. He had 14 points in the quarter, which was capped with Walker hitting a pair of showboat­ing 3-pointers. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS . Friday, March 23, 2001 
BASEBALL 
Irish set to take on Big East rivals 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
As•iscanr Spons Editor 
The lasL time the Notre Dame baseball team started their sea­son this well. Roosevelt was pres­ident -Teddy Roosevelt. 
The Irish, at 14-2-1, are expe­riencing thnir best start since l 1J08. when the baseball team opened at 16-1. Behind outstand­ing pitching and a lineup that can manufacture runs el'fectively. Notre Dame will surge into Big East competition this weekend with a Friday doubleheader at Pittsburgh and a Saturday twin bill with the Hokies of Virginia Tech at Blacksburg, Va. 
The lrish are fresh off a 3-0 shutout of Cleveland State in their home opener Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium, a game that saw sophomore starter Peter Ogilive scatter three hits in seven innings of work, with follow sophomore Matt Laird securing his third save of the season. 
Leftfielder Kris Billmaier provided Ogilive with plenty of run support, smacking two hits for 2 HB!s and adding a stolen base. 
The Cleveland State win came on the heels of a suc­cessful California road swing over spring break, where the Irish went 7-0-1 en route to winning the Pepsi/Johnny Quik Classic in Fresno. · 
Through their first 17 games 
of the season, the Irish have 

shown to have a deadly strategy -pitching and fielding that sim­ply do not allow runs combined with an offense that can rally from any point in the batting order. 
As for pitching, the Irish staff is the proud owner of a 2.66 overall ERA, spearheaded by senior 
starters  Aaron  Heilman  and  
Danny Tamayo.  
"I  always knew Aaron  and  

Danny would be our No. 1 and 2 starters, we just had to wait lo their senior season to do it," said Mainieri with a laugh, refering to Tamayo's absence from the mound due to injury the past two seasons. 
At the plate, Notre Dame has shown that it will walk, single, steal bases, get hit by pitches, execute hit and runs -anything to advance runners and score runs. 
The order lacks holes, with freshman Steve Sollmann leading the team in batting average from 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-tJsed Book, bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 1-!ardbaclc. and Paperback books in stock 0 Out-of-Print search St:rvice -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 
~ 
5• 


SIGNUPS 
Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 28 Cost: $15 
WHEN and WHERE: 11:00-2:00 pm and 5:00--8:00 pm 1sT FLOOR LAFUN BY ELEVATOR 
Check out our website and sponsors: 
www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ 
the ninth spot, and leftfielder Kris Billmaier is tied with Brian Stavisky for the team lead in RBIs while hitting sixth. 
Meanwhile, the trio of Sollmann, Stavisky, and junior leadoff hitter Steve Stanley has declared war on the competition, terrorizing opposing pitchers with a combined .394 batting average. 
Pittsburgh is coming off a split with Ohio, a series that ran their record to 9-5, 2-1 in Big East play. The Panthers are a power team, with 15 home runs as com­pared to Notre Dame's eight, but Pittsburgh's pitchers have a staff ERA of 5.54 through the first 14 games of the season. 
Virginia Tech completed a three game sweep with Boston College on Monday, improving their record to a 10-8 mark. The Hokies are led offensively by John West's .418 average, with three home runs and 12 runs batted in. 
CLARIFICATION 
On page 32 of back from Tommy John Thursday's The Observer surgery. the headline on the lead Furthermore, Tamayo story incorrectly read did not pitch in "Tamayo overcomes diver­Wednesday's game sity to throw for victory." against Cleveland State. 
The word "diversity" Tamayo is scheduled to was used instead of the start against either word "adversity" to Pittsburgh or Virginia describe Tamayo's battle Tech. 

a t to work 
n t!ie Sports :r,~'()artment? Call 1-4543 
Be our g,ursl for th, pr,mi,re medical elhie, lecture ofthe year. A time to shareyo"r questions and aspirations with alumni pf?ysidons. 
The Philip & Doris Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 
"Organizational Ethics: A New Frontierfor Bioethics and Medicine" 
In the last thirty five years bioethics has developed as an interdisciplinary field focusing on ethical 
controversies in clinical medicine. medical research, and the allocation of resources in healthcare. However, in 
rec~nt years there has been a call by a number of people working in bioethics for greater attention to organizational 
e'.h1cs ~s part of the field. Organizational ethics reflects a growing sense among many professionals working in 
b10eth1cs that the way healthcare is organized and structured raises another type of ethical question that influences 
many ~f the other areas of bioethics. Most notably the questions of healthcare organization have a direct impact on 
the delivery ofcare in the clil'lic. · One can also argue that the impact of organizational issues goes beyond rhe clinic and patient care. For 
exa_mple, the recent changes in managed care represent important shifts in the fundamental paradigm of healthcare 
delivery. One can argue that many of the ethical issues raised by managed care arc present in other models of 
healthcare finance and that other structures also influence clinical practice. This shift challenges some of our most 
basic assumptions about medicine and healthcare. 
The lecture will undertake a thorough ongoing examination of the relationship of organizational ethics and bioethics. The lecture ;viii argue that the problems and issues are far more significant than many of the proponents of organizational ethics seem to realize. 
Rev. Kevin William Wildes, S.J., Ph.D. 
Senior Scholar of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics Associate Professor of Philosophy 
March 23, 2001 
4:00 p.m. 

Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Reception following the lecture 

Sponsored by: 

Notre Dame Alumni Association 
~ 
www.nd. 
edu/-sub 

to apply -for a Student Union Board position. be a programmer and bririg concerts, annual festivals,lecturers, comedians, 
movies and more to campus. want to be in charge of the money? apply to be a controller and help finance all7.the events. you even get to run the whole office as ar. 
operator. or be a graphic designer and use Y""Ur creativity --r-0 advertise u-application~ available now outside 
~ ~ the SUB office, 2nd floor Lafortune 

Friday, March 23, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINAN UNG 
Attention: New faculty members and staff Unsure about your retirement choices·? h Call fary~ur)D•1scover t e ..:-~1::,nH~  
TIAA-CREF Advantage.  
If you're a new faculty member or staff employee and not sure about your retirement plan choices. just contact TIAA-CREF THE TIAA-CREF We're the financial organization that's been dedicated for over 80 years to helping people in ADVANTAGE education and research reach their financial goals. Find out for yourself how TIAA-CREF provides: Investment Expertise • Easy diversification among a range of expertly Low Expenses managed funds Customized• A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service Payment Options • A strong commitment to low expenses • Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income Expert Guidance options So call us for a free information paci<age or Just talk to one of your colleagues. You'll find that choosing your retirement plan provider is simple when you go with the leader TIAA-CREF.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'M  1.800.842.2776 www.tiaa-cref.org  
· For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and lnstitutisinal Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. • Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA). New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co.• New York, NY issue insurance and annuities • TIAA-CREF Trust Company. FSB provides trust services.• Investment products are not FDIC insured. may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04  

MICHAEL BRENNAN 
Goldyne and Irwin Hearsh Professor of Banking and Finance University of California at Los Angeles 
''Lifetime Asset Allocation'' 
Monday, March 26, 2001 1:30-3:00pm Auditorium Hesbutgh Center for International Studies Univesity of Notte Dame 
THE PUBLIC IS WELCOME TO ~TIEND foR INFORMATION: 631.3277 
after the first day poses a threat to Notre Dame's vic­
Fencing 
tory plan. With a men's team that is much stronger
continued from page 24 
than the women's team, the "Our first matrh was Irish hoped to build a big against them and I wasn't lead after the first two days really ready." of competition and protect 
A chipped bone in his foot the lead on the last two is also bothering Debic. He days. Now they that are injured it trailing a week after the
"/ think tomorrow we are 
ago and first dav,
going to show them up. I
t h o the Irish recovery know Keeth is undefeated must re­has been evaluate
but hopefuly after he 
slow. their strat­
meets us he won't be. "· 
"lt is egy but getting still think better they can
Andre Crompton 

bul I am overtake
sabreist

definitely the Red not fenc-Storm. ing the way I would usual­"I wouldn't say we are ly." l>cbic said. "I um much going to catch them [Friday] more static." but we are definitely going 
Despite his painful foot, to close the gap," Viviani Dcbic still picked up a few said. "They had a lot going impressive victories includ­for them today and we had ing a dominating 5-1 defeat a lot go against us today but or Columbia's Jed Dupree. hopefully that will change The loss to Debic was [Friday]." Dupree's only defeat in the The Irish will benefit from first four rounds. an easier schedule in some 
St. John's 12-point lead weapons. Epee has already fenced St. John's and Penn State. Foil has already faced Stanford and Columbia and will get a chance to face St. John's head to head today. St. John's has a much tougher schedule. today. 
Sabre has the toughest schedule today with match­es against St. John's and Wayne State but Notre Dame's best fencers are looking forward to the greater challenge and the chance to deal Smart his first loss. 
''Me and Andrzej have been fencing really hard and r think tomorrow we are going to show them up," Crompton said. "I know Keeth is undefeated but hopefully after he meets us he won't be." 
The large• deficit and strong performance by St. John's on the opening day, however, has led some Irish fencers to re-evaluate their chances for a team title. 
"Anything is possible but when you get to the logistics of it, it is pretty much a fight for second," Bednarski said. 
RNESTO e bserver 

Men's foilist Ozren Debic, left, scores a point during Thursday's NCAA competition . Debic is In sixth place after one day of competition. 
Friday, March 23, 2001

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
that year because they should NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame year. Now in his third year as a thing." have learned something. It's a wouldn't get that bid. We had starter, the fifth-year senior has The Notre Dame coaching
Lacrosse 
fine line. You gotta take care of lost a bunch of close games and learned to play more relaxed. staff stressed the opportunity to your business every day if you that game pretty much deter­"When things aren't going create a new tradition through­
continued from page 23 
want to be successful. Some of mined our fate." well, my first year I might have out the recruiting process. 
rankings, what comes with it is the success we arc having this a target for everyone and that year is a result of those guys starts this weekend." having that experience. You 
As the Irish defend their rank­can't take anything for grant­ing Saturday against Hofstra, ed." they will learn for the first time The losing was especially dif­what it is like to play as the fic u It for twin brothers Todd favorit(~. and David Ulrich and Tom 
"I kinda get Glatzel. The worried about us three Irish getting over con­"Going from being ranked s t a r s fident and lazy No. 1 to being on a team enrolled at 
but I think the Notre Dame
with a losing record, it
seniors on this after play­team will keep was really a shock. ing for one us in line," of the best senior midfielder high school
Todd Ulrich
Todd Ulrich lacrosse said. 
senior teams ever. The seniors Boys Latin take extra pre-in Baltimore cautions to be sure the team finished the 1997 season stays focused because they have ranked No. 1 in the country. traveled the longest road to the Going from the best team in the No. 2 ranking. The class of 2001 country to a 5-6 team was frus­remembers the trying 1998 sea-trating. son. "Going from being ranked No. 1 to being on a team with a los­ing record it was really a
Growing Pains 
shock," Todd Ulrich said. "WeCorrigan said his 1998 team almost forgot what it was like tohad the same talent and poten­
be on a team wiih a losingtial as this year's squad. But 
record."
while the 200 I team rose to the 
The 6-5 loss to Butler still
challenge to post an undefeated 
leaves a bitter taste in the
record. Urn 1998 version stum­mouth of David Ulrich. 
bled to a losing record. For the "The loss to Butler has got to
first time since 1989, Notre 
be the absolute low point of my
Damn did not make the NCAA 
college career. That was justTournament. 
the nail in the coffin," he said.
"We thought the team we had "It meant that for the first timewhen they were freshmen was 
since our conference started an excellent team." Corrigan 
getting an automatic bid to the
said. "I hope they remember 
"It's unique to be the start of a tradition. It's something I never had been a part of before -the chance to build a pro­gram and see it grow," Todd Ulrich said. "We came here and we could step in and play every day. Notre Dame is Notre Dame. It's awesome. We didn't care what other people said." 
Now those same programs that used to look down on Notre Dame and Western lacrosse find themselves looking up in the polls at the Irish. It's a new feel­ing for Notre Dame but one the team is thoroughly enjoying. 
"It's nice to go into a game and you're not scared of the team you are playing," David Ulrich said. "You expect to win. It's definitely not something I was used to the first couple of years. But this year it seems like everyone expects to win. That's the biggest difference between this year and other years." 
Rut the now-Goliath squad isn't looking past any lower­ranked teams. They too easily remember how easily a David can slay the giant. 
"If we overlook anyone on your schedule, we arc making a mistake," Corrigan said. "There might not be anyone on our schedule with the name of a Virginia or a Loyola but there are plenty of teams on our schedule that can beat us. It would be arrogant for us to think that any school on our schedule can't beat us." 

Driving from Baltimore to 
Notre Dame the next August, 
Todd and David vowed that they 
would never again miss the 
playoffs. 

"On the way back to school 
sophomore year. my brother 
and I talked about it and we 
decided we wanted to make a 
name for ourselves and prove 
that we weren't an average 
team," Todd Ulrich said. 
The following year, Notre 
Dame returned to the 
Tournament with a 7-5 record, 
but lost in the first round. As 
the sophomores on the field 
gained another year of experi­
ence, Corrigan moved another 
piece of the puzzle into position. 
After redshirting a year and .watch from the bench for another, 
been more discouraged and start looking for answers," he said. "Now I just kind of sit back and keep trying to play my game, eventually it comes to me." 
Building something of their own 
The Tennessee-native Howell, unlike most of the players on this year's team, does not come from a state known for lacrosse. The sport is played most by the private schools in the East, especially in Baltimore and New York. When the Ulrichs and Glatzel decided to come to Notre Dame rather than a tradi­tional power like Syracuse. Princeton or John Hopkins, it surprised many peo­

''This year it seems like
goalie Kirk Howell ple in the got his first chance everyone expects to win. East. to start between " T h e
That's the biggest differ­
the pipes for the people
ence between this year
Irish. that ask 
Although shaky and other years. you [about in his first season, choosing Howell has devel• N o t r e
David Ulrich

oped in to one of the best keepers in the country. He has complemented Notre Dame's dazzling attack and sti­fling defense with spectacular saves. 
Howell made 15 saves in the Tournament upset of Loyola in 2000 and made more than 30 combined saves in the wins against Virginia and Loyola this Darnel are 
senior 
m o r e 
caught up in the lacrosse aspect of things," David Ulrich said. "They miss the total college experience that we were looking for. They had a great lacrosse program but it is also a great school. All three of us had always been big fans of Notre Dame and it was just an opportunity to build some­

2001 _5ZL_r-t:s ~ Lerrers Career ~air 
Sponsored' by '71ie Career Cent·er 
Wedra.esday,. March 28,. 2001 
10:00 a.m.. 4:00 p.m.. 
.:Joyce Center Heritage Hall, Second Floor Con.course (Enter Gates 1 or 2) 
FULL TIME INTER.NSHIPS 
-,:Ep:a:pJ.cty~~. ~-r;~:t:t;:,e:n.4Jx,:gft,.t 
•-., . ~,:·J·_-;_,_, ..:;;_::_:.i:,.:..:,,:':.... 9-1~~~y:~:t~~.::iB1
.,, ' .._.,,;,.•. 
D'Arcy Advertising 

ABC News Nightli:n.e Drug Enforcement Administration. Academy of Television Arts E&.;J Gallo Winery and Sciences 
The Elkhart Truth 

Accenture (::formerly Andersen Consulting) 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car 

ACCION USA Federal Bureau o~ Investigation. AFLAC 
First Source Bank Alliance :fo:o: Catholic Education. 
Fund for P-ublic Interest Research AMATE House Gang Crime Prevention Center American. Red Cross 
Group One Trading, LP Arn.eriCorps 
Hershey Foods 
Arth-ur Andersen 
Hol.y Cross Associates 
AT&T 

Indiana Department of Transportation. 
Augustinian Volunteer Program I:nt-e.T""View_fT'".lg Coras:nl-t-a-n't's_ T..,r... Best Buddies Intern.at:lo:n.al 
.;Jordan. & .;Jordan 

Botta Capital Ma:n.agern.en.t, LLC 
Kaplan Edu.cation.al Center Boys & Girla Clubs of America. Ka.uf.fman. Entrepreneur Boys Hope Girls Hope Inter::n Program Brown & Wood, LLP Kirkl.and & Ell.is Cabrini Mission Corps Legal Services Pr.ogram of Northern 
Carson Pirie Scott & Co­Indiana, Inc. Catholic Relief Services Liz Cl.aiborn.e, I:n.c-Central Inte.Uigence Agency Mad:lson Center and Hospital 
Chicago Pu.blic School.a Magazine Publ.ishers of America 
Chil.dre:n•s Carn.pu.a Marriott Hotel Chi\d.Serv 
MassMu.tual Financial. Group 
May Department Store,;
City of Indianapolis 

McKi:n.sey & Corn.pan.y Congressrn.a:n Tim Roemer Men's Wearhouse City Year, .lnc­
Bureau o:f National A:ffairs, Inc. Eckerd Youth Alternatives, Inc. Burns Sports Celebrity Service, Inc. ESPN CB Richard EUia General Mills Cl3S News Grant Park Mu.sic Festival 
.... 
Chicago A.aaociation of Neighborhood International Foundation o:f EJtnployee Developrn.e:n.t Organization.a Ben.efit Plans Chicago Children's Muaeusn .:JCPenney Co. City of New York Parka & Recreation .;J. Walter Thompson. Comerica Madison Square Garden Easter Seals Cantp Wawbeek National Institute :for Social Science Information 
National City Corporation. 
News America Marketing Ogilvy Public Relations On.site Companies Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceuticals PaineWebber Peace Co:o:ps Profund Systems Saatchi & Saatchi SAFECO Insurance Service Empl.oyees In.ter:n.atlonal Union, 
Local BBO Share Foundation. with the 
Handicapped Simon & Schuster Spear, Leeds and Kellogg Starr Commonwealth 
State Fa.rm Insurance 
S-untmerbridge Nation.al Teach for Anterica Tru.Green Chern.lawn United Board :fot-Christian Higher 
Educati,:,n in Asia/National Council of Church.es United States Air Poree United States Department of .;Justice United States Secret Service 
Northern Kentucky Chamber of Co:nu:nerce Northwestern Mutual Financial Network -The McTigu.e Group Pfizer, Inc. Special Recreation Services of Northern, Lake County YAI/National Institute for People with Diaa.hiUties 
Young & Lara.znore 

Friday, March 23, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NHL 
Penguin superstars 
Avalance win, but lose Forsberg 
to play on new lines 
Associated Press 
CANONSBURG, Pa. Mario Lemieux and Jaromir Jagr are splitting up. 
The Pittsburgh Penguins stars agreed before practice Thursday to try playing on dif­ferent lines for at least three or four games. 
Lemieux, the team's owner and a Hall of 
Farner who 
"That's the idea, to have a
ended a 3 
1/2-year team that's going into the 
retirement in playoffs playing well and December. 
having three lines who can
will play with Kevin Stevens score." and Wayne Primeau, 
Mario Lemieux 

while .lagr 
Penguins' forward
will skate 
with Jan Hrclina and Aleksey Morozov against Carolina on Friday. 
Stevens, Jagr and Lemieux had played together on the top line. 
The strategy behind the plan is to balance the offense, spread out playing time and keep opponents from always using their best checkers against Lemieux and Jagr. 
"Having three lines that can go out and score goals, I think our team will be much better off," Lemieux said. "That's the idea, to have a team that's going into the playoffs playing well and having three lines who· can score." 
Lemieux and other players spoke with coach Ivan Hlinka earlier this week about the switch. 
"It makes sense," Jagr said. "It's going to be tough for other teams to match the lines. 
I don't t h i n k they're going to know who to match. If we don't like the matchup, we can always change one guy 

and adjust to it easily .." 
Martin Straka, Robert Lang and Alexei Kovalev will stay together on one line. 
"In this position, I don't like to say who is the first, second, third line," Hlinka said. "I don't think it's good for the guys. We tried to get a good three lines and that's it. I don't know who's the first right· now." 
Jagr and Lemieux will play together on power plays. 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS 
Another injured star did­n't slow down the Colorado Avalanche. 
Joe Sakic had a goal and two assists, and Peter · Forsberg had two first-peri­od assists before injuring his right arm in the Colorado Avalanche's 3-1 victory Thursday night over the St. Louis Blues. 
The Avalanche. who lead the NHL with 109 points, have won four in a row and have lost only once (12-1-1­
2) in 16 games. They began the game without goalie Patrick Roy, who is day to day with knee tendinitis, and defenseman Rob Blake, who has a sprained knee. 
It was unclear when Forsberg, who assisted on both of the Avalanche's first­period goals, was hurt. He was not on the bench in the second period. 
Colorado leaned heavily on rookie backup goalie David Aebischer the last. two peri­ods. The Blues had a 10-4 shot advantage in the second period and 15-4 the third, but got only a third-period power-play goal from Jochen Hecht. 
Ville Nieminen wrapped it up for Colorado, beating rookie Brent Johnson on a power play with 1:28 to go. Sakic, who has a goal each of the last five games, assist­ed on the play. 
The victory set a franchise record for points for Colorado, which had 107 in 1996-97. 
The Blues have the NHL's 
best home record at 25-5-4­
3, but have lost twice at the 
Savvis Center this month to 
the Avalanche. Colorado also 
won 5-2 on March 8. 
St. Louis also lost 4-3 in 
overtime at home on 
Tuesday to the New York 
Islanders, who are last over­
all in the NHL. The Blues, 
who were first overall in the 
league in the· middle of 
February, have won only 
once (1-6-3-1) in 11 games. 
Colorado dominated the 
first period, outshooting the 
Blues 9-0 before Keith 
Tkachuk nearly scored on a 
deflection at about the 11­
minute mark, and 14-3 over­
all. Both early goals came on 
the power play. 
Sakic got his 45th on a 2­
on-1 with Forsberg at 6:24. 
Milan Hejduk got his 41st at 
9:04 with a quick shot off a setup from behind the net by Forsberg, with Sakic also assisting. 
Hecht deflected a slap shot from Al Macinnis for his 19th goal at 2:11 of the third. 
Red Wings 4, Wild 2 
Kris Draper scored two 
goals to lead the Detroit Red 
Wings to a 4-2 victory 
Thursday night over the 
expansion Minnesota Wild. 
The Red Wings extended 
their home unbeaten streak 
from their last home loss to 
the Wild on Dec. 27. 
Vyacheslav Kozlov got . Detroit on the board, beating 

a sprawling Derek Gustafson in the first period. 
Detroit's Vyacheslav Kozlov scored the game's first goal at 14:28. Sergei Fedorov gave him a pass in the right circle and Kozlov carried it to the net, beating goalie Derek Gustafson stick-side. 
The assist was the 800th point of Fedorov's career. 
Minnesota tied it at 1 when defenseman Lubomir Sekeras backhanded a bouncing puck past Detroit goalie Manny Legace at 
16:45 of the first. 
The normally low-scoring Wild took a 2-1 lead at 4:21 of the 'second period when Darby Hendrickson collected a rebound and put it past Legace. 
Draper beat Gustafson from the left circle at 6:56 of the second, tying it 2-2. 
With Pat Verbeck off for interference, Martin Lapointe found Draper, who beat Gustafson on a short­handed breakaway at 6:16 of the third period, giving Detroit a 3-2 lead. 
It was Draper's first two­goal game since March 18, 1998, at Toronto. 
Lapointe sealed the win when he scored a power-play goal at 13:05 of the third. Brendan Shanahan hit the right post, and the puck bounced back behind Gustafson into the crease from where Lapointe banged it in. 
Lapointe has two goals and two assists in three games. 
The  victory  evened  
Detroit's  record  against  
Minnesota to 2-2.  

to 15 games and rebounded 

Personalized Notre Dame ·Graduation Universi-tyAnnouncements of Notre Dame urDe Phone, mail or fax orders: Jostens 1401 Union Street Shelbyville, TN 37160 1-800-353-5299 fax: 1-931-685-6473 Place orders in person on: Tuesday and Wednesday, March 27 and 28 LaFort11ne Stu.dent Center Sorin R(>Om 9:00 a.m. -4:3() p.m.  





page 26 The Obseroer . SPORTS Friday, March 23, 200 I 
===:::==_:::-----=-=-====-======================================================================================================= 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame confident heading into home opener 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associa1c Spam Editor 
Ask the Big East player of the week how the women's lacrosse team matches up with its weekend opponent, Denver, and she just laughs. 
"We're heads above them," said Laci ()'Shaughnessy, 
That's not to say that the Irish are looking past Denver. They've just been preparing for their inaugural season compet­ing in the Big East conference. 
"We're not going to try to run them up, and we're certainly not going to underestimate them," O'Shaughnessy said. "We're just going to 

..We have more ofa point
work on later. she some things to our season. [Playing helped the Irish for our edge Boston
in the Big East] makes it
upcoming College 8-7 by 
games." seem more official. " scoring one Already goal and assist­the women's ing on two
Lae!O'Shaughnessy
lacrosse more.
senior
team is off to a red-hot start. After a season-opening loss to No. 8 James Madison, the Irish have won their last thre.e games, including a pair of wins over Big East foes Virginia Tech and Boston College. 
"We're very confident at this point in the season," O'Shaughncssy said. 
The women's lacrosse team has a difforent attitude this season. Joining the Big East conference has given the lrish a new focus. Before this year, the Irish played whatever team would schedule them and didn't have a clearly defined 



coachbobknight 
0\\ 
night only 


tuesdaymarch27
7:00pmsfepancenter
$2students$4nublic 
ticketsonsalelafortuneboxoffice 

presentedexclusivelyby
studentun1onboari1 
www.nd.edu/-sub 
Notre Dame's 
Sunday after­

noon match against Denver is their first home contest of the season. O'Shaughnessy said the women's team is happy to finally be competing at home this weekend, and they're hop­ing for some support from the students. 
"We get a little tired of being on the road,tt she said. "Hopefully we can get a little people out." 
Notre Dame's match against Denver will take place Sunday afternoon at Moose Krause Stadium. The match is slated to begin at 1 p.m. 
team goal. Now, they have plenty of opponents and a brand new purpose -winning in the Big Ea.st. 
"We have more of a point to our season," said O'Shaughnessy. "We have other, new goals, like winning the Big East tournament. It makes it seem more official." 
Already, O'Shaughnessy and her teammates are excited to have earned Big East recogni­tion. The senior was named the Big East player of the week following her sensational spring break performance. Against Virginia Tech. O'Shaughnessy scored one goal and five assists in Notre Dame's 19-8 win. Four days 
JRIE o 
. 

"''JR.TM 



;irr ;;,:;i::;~'i:!tge 2-Bedroom floorpfan 
·_····:·.·';2:":"..: 

/_ Student Leases Available 
:rt:.:=:·= -­

(4>§Jpcks From Campus 
.•.·-·-· .•.· •.•:•:·:•:•:­

;f'lQ~fl!:gi:I FE.W LEFT. SECURE 

.-· ·'=:-:.:?'-· ...,:-..-:--·-·--:·.· 

Mt.!-'1~ BesJ:Valu~Jn Off Campus Living" 
fi!Jl~~o~:!f~~:!:2~td~Jrp. 
J~;;~:;~:t:;!j:~;;;J1l:~1:ll;;ll::.::-> 234~9923 
TONIGHT! 
. MORRISSEY 
UNPLUGGED 

.· 

"'<3f?IJ)} 
Come see the men of the Manor perform on their own front steps. 
7:00 -8:30 In front of Morrissey 
Food & Beverages will be served 

Friday, March 23, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
..,.+...+.,;+,,-1 18 _ Bator ~..+..+,..4 19 Source of a download 23 Super's entrustment 24 Cause of getting
stuck 25 Ship to Colchis 26 Cowpoke's 
buddy 27 Jumbled 28 Nev. neighbor 
~ R O 1-i:-+*.ri-:::--1 29 Spill hot coffee 
on T A R ..,.+;,,+....,;~ 0 L 30 They hang A S I .;.,;i,;:;i;;,J,;.;:.i..;;. N T together 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
59 Baal, e.g. 60 E-mail option 61 Singing family 
name 62 Pigeonhole's place 63 Reo rival 
DOWN 
1 Pair of oxen 2 Game you can't play left-handed 
3Chow 4 Heart problem? 5 Sweater letter 6Black_ 
( cattle breed) 7 "High Hopes" 
lyricist & lime for Nick? 9 Dubya, as a 
collegian 10 Exact satisfaction for 11 Kwanzaa principle 12 Goodwill, e.g. 13 On tap 
TOM KEELEY 
HEY, MAN. NEEi> TO 
GET HIGH'? MY TI-8Zr GET 9 DIGITS OF PRECISION! 
BILLA.MEND 
JASON, THE I GAMESTATION•2's CAN'T GrRAPHICS LOOI<: WATCH A LOT BETTER IF '(OU 
YOU1l EY£S BEAT ME 
ARE OPE.Ill. AGAIN. 
\ (ft 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE B R 
Puzzl9 by MlchNI S. lllllu19r and Bonnie Ply•tawalcy 

32 Hospital fluids 45 Preamble 52 Some read 33 Uneducated 46 Accustom: Var. 
them 
guess 47 Make watertight 53 Hill's opposite 34 17112 million 49 Give up 
54 Cameo stone
square miles 
50 Where kip are 

35 Oz visitor 56 Action on eBay
spent Dorothy 

51 Court coups 57 Hot temper
37 Makes bales for the barn 38 •-Gotta Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Crow" are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
42 Roasters' spots 43 Em, to Dorothy Annual subscriptions are available for the 44 1965 King arrest best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
site years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joan Crawford, Chaka Khan, Moses Malone, Ric Ocasek, Amanda Plummer, Keri Russell 
Happy Birthday: You need to 
concentrate this year. Learn to say no to those who lean on you too much. You can make head­way if you are strong and adamant. You have a soft heart and often miss out because you are so busy helping others. Orga­nize your priorities and don't let anyone lead you astray. It's time to call in some favors from those you've helped in the past. Your numbers: 5, 19, 23, 27, 33, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Lady Lucic is in your comer. Get involved in investments that you know will pay off. Real estate will be profitable. Involvements with institutions will turn out as planned. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
What a great day to get out, join groups or attend seminars. You will make new friends and expand your knowledge, but don't let anyone talk you into a joint financial venture. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Your family will put demands on you that will be difficult to han­dle. Be reasonable but let them know just how much you can and can't do. Don't be gullible; ask questions ifyou have doubts. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Get creative. You will be happi­est while working with your hands or dealing with children. If you don't already have a hobby, today is an excellent day to start one. 00000 
LEO (July23-Aug. 22): It's time to revamp your financial plans. You will have to do some fancy 
EUGENIA LAST 
footwork if you want to continue to live the lifestyle you've become accustomed to living. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep children busy with creative endeavors. Your night should be geared toward the one you love. Let your feelings be known. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use your creativity to help you do your job uniquely. Don't let colleagues drag you into the office politics. Stay on the fringes and do the best job possible. Your professionalism won't go unnoticed. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Pleasurable activities should be 
on your dance card. A trip or a 
gathering of close friends will 
start the weekend off right. You 
need to learn how to enjoy 
yourself. 00000 
SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Past partners may get in touch 
with you just to see how you are 
and what you're up to. Don't be 
fooled by their warmth and gen­
erosity. Reservations will be 
warranted. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Aggressive communication will 
get you what you want. Your 
partner will back down and lis­
ten to your concerns. Clear the 
air and you'll feel much better 
about yourself. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Don't be too quid to follow the 
crowd. It's better to sit back and 
observe. Losses are likely if you 
get involved in business ven­
tures. 000 ­
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Your emotional sensitivity may get you into trouble. Don't put the blame on others. It's time to do a little soul-searching. Don't let rel­atives or friends become involved in your private affairs. 00 

ACROSS 
1 Prop in "Siegfried" 6 High school breakout 10 From where some worship? 14 Fish illegally 15 Execute perfectly 16 Bud holder 17 Beginning of a quip 20 Plane part 21 Crescent 22 Tried pot luck? 23 Bell and Barker 24 Like the Mississippi 25 Rome's Way 29 lingle area? 31 Visits from Vikings 
32 Draft avoider's need? 33 Mattress problem 36 Middle of the quip 39 Roulette bet 40 Viscount's superiors 41 Be of use to 42 Woods nymph -43 Unicellular life 44 Has words? 
47 "Good morrow, cousin; for Romeo 
48 "Sesame Streer regular 49 The McCoys, for one 51 Ray of Hollywood 55 End of the quip 58 "A_formality" 
Wo.:, ac.noo \ -th1:. ~Q.c-d ~efurt. b rea~ ? 
/ .,z_ J 

f> <i l: "lt\O<IC;\ht -l-\.\1) W t.t.'( 
wov\d f\f.VU etd. 
\ 

\ ~,) 
..J, ''\ 
0 

CROSSWORD 




Tough to beat 
Fresh offits California road trip, the red-hot baseball team is offlo their best start since 1908 
page 22

PORTS 

O
THE 
FENCING 

Irish sit in second place after first day of nationals 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Corrigan: Big wins equal big pressure for No. 2 Irish 
• Irish are entering matches in an unfamilar  their David role to perfection. The 12th-seeded Irish shocked the fifth-seeded Loyola Greyhounds, 15-13, in the first  workouts and into the 2001 sea­son. The season began in the usual fashion -three solid wins  break when the Irish would take on powerhouses Virginia and Loyola. No one, except the Irish.  Virginia followed by a 10-7 vic­tory over Loyola, when Notre Dame led for most of the ganw, almost everyone started to  
role as favorites  round of the NCAA Tournament. The upset was just  against strong but not spectacu­lar pro­ "When we finished last year, we won a few  believe in the Irish. Notre Dame rocketed to No. 2 in the  
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer  the second time in NCAA Tournament history that a No.12 seed beat a five seed.  grams from the East. The  "It's something I never had a chance to be a part  games in a row and then won a big game in the  USJLNSTX poll. Suddenly, the Irish were no longer David. slaying the giants  
The first time  was in 1995  I  r  i  s  h  ofbefore ­ the chance to  Tournament so we  of the East.  
From the start of the pro­gram, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse tcarn has played the role of David. The non-scholarship, little­respected school from the West would roll into the East every few years and knock off a Goliath, but no onti really feared Note Dame. Last spring. the Irish played  when Notre Dame beat Duke in the first round. The Irish ended their season with a loss to John Hopkins in the quarterfinals and many experts dismissed the win against Loyola as just another fluke win by the pesky Irish. But for the Notre Dame players. that win was the boost of confidence they needed to propel them through olT-season  were 3-0 knew we had a tal­build a program and seebut hard­ented team," senior ly taken it grow." defender Mike seriously. Adams said. "We M o s t worked hard allTodd Ulrich p o I I s season and evenseniorranked though some people them just didn't know how outside the top 10 and no one good we were, we believed in expected their little winning ourselves." streak to continue past spring After a 11-8 win against  Now the Irish were one of the giants and every team remain­ing on their schedule is gunning for them. "We've put a big target on our chest for the rest of the year with these wins," head coach Kevin Corrigan said. "I am sure our guys understand that. When you get some wins and tlw  
- see LACROSSE/pagc24  

_,.. By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
KENOSHA, Wisc. 

St. John's played a game of "any­thing you can do, we can do better" with Notre Dame on the first day uf the NCAA Fencing Championships at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside. 
The Red Storm ended the opening day of competition in first place with 65 points compared to the Irish sec­ond place total of 53. Penn State, Stanford and Princeton rounded out the top five with 48. 43 and 41 points respectively. 
Everything Notre Dame did well on Thursday, St. John's did a little bit better. 
The Irish placed Andrzcj Bednarski and Andre Crompton third and fourth in sabre with a combined 21 wins but Keeth Smart and Ivan Lee of St. John's held the top two spots with 26 combined wins. 
In foil, All-American Ozren Debic ended the day in sixth place with a 10-4 record but still trailed St. John's Joseph Fisher who led all foilists with a 13-1 record. 
Jan Viviani finished the day strong for the Irish winning seven of his last eight bouts to place fifth at the end of four rounds but St. John's Alex Royblat held the fourth position. 
"That's part of competition," head coach Yves Auriol said. "It could be better but it could be worse. We had a slow start in epec today, particularly with (junior Brian) Casas but he came back nicely." 
At the end of four rounds, Casas stands in 17th place with a 6-8 record 

AMANDA GRECOfThe Observer Junior sabrelst Andre Crompton scores a touch during a bout Thursday. Crompton is currently ranked fourth place In the NCAA Championships. 
but showed signs of' improvcnwnt in round four. After beginning thr day 3­8, Casas won all thrcn bouts in round four. The highlight of the round was his 5-4 win against Princeton·s Soren Thompson who lost only twice Thursday and held first place in epee. 
Throughout the day. Casas per­formed better against tougher oppo­nents. lie beat top fencers like Thompson, Viviani and Adam Wiercioch of Penn State who finished the day in third place with a 11-3 record but lost to many nwdiocrr opponents. Casas' struggles with lP.ss­er fencers spread throughout the team, according to Auriol. 
"Today we did better against better fencers," he said. "When we fonccd fencers from the top teams, we fencPd bcttrr. We cannot drop bouts against so-so schools. which is what we did today. We lost bouts we 1rnver should have lost." 
Foilist Forrest Walton also struggled for the Irish Thursday. The sopho­more won only six bouts and finished the day in 17th place. 
Walton and Dcbic faced some of their toughest competition Thursday. They opened the day against Stanford and its set of brother foilists -Felix and Florian Heichling. Both fencers have experience with the German national team and Felix is the reign­ing NCAA foil champion. 
While Debic managed to win the bout against Florian, Felix swept the Irish and thoroughly dominated Debic in a rematch of the 2000 foil finals, 5­1. 
"That was tough luck," he said. 
see FENCING/page 23 

• 
Fencing at Kentucky 
Women's Lacrosse 

NCAA Tournamenc Saturday, noon 
vs. Denver

SPORTS ® 
Softball
Today -Sunday 
Saturday, I p.m. 
vs. Western Michigan 

---ATA 
Tuesday, 4 p.m. 

Softball Men's Lacrosse 
vs. Utah 
•

vs. Wescern Michigan at. Hofstra 
Saturday, 8 p.m. 
GLANCE 

Tuesday, 4 p.m. Saturday, I p.m. 




