
An institution 1or international peace
SHOWERS 
Tuesday 

The Joan B. Kroc Institute for Institutional Peace Studies has been a popu­
HIGH 57° 
OCTOBER 30,

lar source of information since the rising awareness of terrorism in the U.S. 
LOW39° 
news . page 8 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 40 · •· HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Close calls during fall break 
Anthrax scare, tornado threaten students on campus 
. Employees find white powder in envelope 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Questionable substances inside pack­ages last week at Notre Dame and Saint M"ary's raised concerns that proved false alarms, officials at both schools said. 
Test results from an Indianapolis lab Monday revealed no traces of anthrax in a package that a LeMans Hall staff mem­ber handled Oct. 23, said Keith Dennis, Saint Mary's vice president for finance and administration. The news followed fear at the College that the residence hall worker was exhibiting the charac­teristic flu-like symptoms associated with anthrax. 
"It turned out to be an unfortunate coincidence," Dennis said Monday. "She just happened to have handled the loose packing materials inside the box at the same time that she came down with strep throat." 
An e-mail Thursday alerted students that the LeMans staffer reported to Saint Mary's Security Wednesday that she had opened a package containing suspicious material. Officials isolated the package and then had it removed by a St. Joseph County Sheriff's hazardous materials team that shipped it to Indianapolis for testing, Linda Timm, vice president for student affairs, wrote in the page-long e­mail. 
"Precautions were taken immediately," Timm wrote. "The staff member is receiving appropriate medical atten­tion." 
However, the woman's physician didn't connect her illness with exposure to anthrax and treated her for strep throat only, Dennis acknowledged. 
He said the incident was the first anthrax-scare case at Saint Mary's since the outbreak of nationwide fear of the bacterial disease began this month. 
Notre Dame officials, however, have responded to several reports of suspi­cious packages in the last two weeks alone, said Mike McCauslin, the University's assistant director of risk 
see ANTHRAX/page 4 
. Tornado hits ground close to South Bend 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 

Notre Dame's campus in northern St. Joseph County was untouched Wednesday by tornadoes that pro­duced widespread property damage and power outages in western and· outlying parts of the county. 
"There were some limbs down," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security/Police, "but we didn't sustain any damage to the principal campus." 
The National Weather Service confirmed this week that six torna­does touched down in the region of northern Indiana and southwestern Michigan known as Michiana. It was the area's worst tornado outbreak since the same date in October 1967. 
"Eight tornadoes spun across the Northern Indiana National Weather Service office's area of responsibili­ty [which also includes counties in Ohio!. ranging in strength from FO to F3 on the Fujita Scale," accord­ing to the office's Web site. 
The storms caused one death ·in LaPorte Countv, the first tornado­related death on record in October, the Web site indicates. LaPorte County borders St. Joseph County on the east. 
The tornado outbreak was the fourth largest on record in the area. High winds and fierce thunder­storms accompanied the twisters. 
Throughout Michiana, the weath­er left more than 41,000 households without power Wednesday, said Tom Kratt, corporate communica­tions consultant at American Electric Power. By Sunday after­noon. the number had fallen to about 3,000. 
On Monday, several hundred cus­tomers were still waiting for offi­cials to restore electricity. 
see STORY/page 6 



Harvard prof reveals how to balance college life 

By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 
Harvard University professor Richard Light highlighted Monday his educational findings based on the 1600 interviews about college life he and his associates conducted over a 10­year period. 
The majority of the attendees at Light's DeBartolo Hall lecture were first-year students who had just finished the midterm session. 
Jn a move designed to address such stressful times as well as the problems of balancing acad­emic work with extracurricular and social activities and becom­ing familiar with college class­es, the University Provosts office brought Light, a professor of education, to give students and faculty a lesson from his book, "Making the Most of College: Students Speak their Minds." 
"It's written for students and faculty who are from over 25 universities," said Light. 
In the interviews, students were asked such questions as what they found to be their most helpful advising experi­ence and their most useless experience. 
Light became involved in research of how to better the academic experience of college students after Harvard's presi­dent called him one afternoon and questioned him about research into the effectiveness of teaching methods. 
"Well, about 15 years ago, I was a professor sitting in my office, just an average professor and I get this call from the pres­ident. I'm going to tell you the conversation. He said, 'Dick Light, you teach stats and research for education, and while I'm very proud of what we're doing. can you tell me exactly who is systematically looking at the effectiveness of what we're doing?' I'm sitting there thinking, 'Oh no,' why me? But of course I say, 'What an interesting question."' recalled Light, whose comments and stories of personally con­ducted interviews were often met by amused laughter from the audience. 
With the encouragement of the Harvard president, Light began meeting with 30 fellow Harvard colleagues to research how to improve teaching, advis­ing and the quality of student life at Harvard. 
"We decided to meet one 
see COLLEGE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, October 30, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
"It is the actors who are the go-between for Shakespeare's characters and that other charac­ter, the audience." -Edward Petherbridge 
In 1975 Professor Homer Swander of the University of California-Santa Barbara started a program which has toured 
around the country, teaching theatre to college students and performing the works of William Shakespeare. Actors From The London Stage, a company which chose Notre Dame as its base of opera­tions in America in 2000, has a unique way of present­

ing the Bard's works. At each stop on its college tour, Angela Campos 
the company of five actors 
performs a play of 
Shakespeare, using only a lab Tech 
few costumes, a few props and a 20-by-20 foot square. The actors also teach classes when they are at each college, giving an up-close and personal experience to each of the students. 
Without large sets and elaborate costumes, an Actors From The London Stage production relies on the spoken words to carry the play and to entice-our imaginations and senses -you must "eke out our performance with your mind." 
The program is unique. No other program has managed to combine teaching and world-class theatrical expertise into such ready packages. The simple yet basic insight that the program conveys is that words on a page do not equal "a play." In that simplicity lies the magic and the heart of Shakespeare's gift to everyone. 
The five actors from Actors From The London Stage, Sean Gilder, Alexandra Lilley, Suzanne Packer, Paul Panting and Matthew Radford, have extensive theatre and television backgrounds. They all work together on the performance, as there is no director. 
A Midsummer Night's Dream is a story of true love and how confusing it can be. The scenes of day and night pair with the city and forest to determine the play's mood. The char­acters, their stories intertwining, add both sad­ness and humor as this comedy unfolds. 
Because of the terrorism of Sept. 11, the Actors From The London Stage were not able to come when they were scheduled. They have been rescheduled to perform the end of next week, Nov. 8, 9 and 10. They will not be perfor-ming in Washington Hall, but at Riley High School. To make it easier for people to go to the play, there will be a bus leaving Main Circle between 7 pm and 7:15pm. It should arrive at 7:20, the play starts at 7:30 pm each night. If you would rather drive, here are directions from Notre Dame to Riley High School: 
From Angela Boulevard turn left onto 933/31/Michigan traveling south. Go south on 933 through downtown (on Main Street) for 3.1 miles. Turn left on Ewing Street traveling east. The second stop light is Fellows Street. Turn left on Fellows. Riley is at the corner of Ewing and Fellows. You will want to park in the parking lot at the south end of the school. The south entrance of the school is the theatre entrance. The trip is 3.5 miles from campus. 
Please help us support this wonderful company of actors and teachers. "Lord. what fools these mortals be! 
Information for this column was received from the Film.Television & Theatre department. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. lfwe nave made a mistake, p(c,,dse contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Obmver (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday duough Friday except during exam and vacition periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"We have always enforced "It was kind ofcrazy alcohol issues on game seeing all that snow and days, but we decided we seeing how horriable it 
need more was at teh same time enforcement ... this is part knowing you couldn't pass ofa whole new initiative up teh opportunity I had 
to get a handle on to come here. " alcohol." 
Rex Rakow 
Tyreo Harrison senior director of Notre Dame linebacker on coming to Securtty/Pollce on Notre Dame tailgating 
"ft doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize that if only one person is pleasured, the sexual relationship will not be successful . .. 
Patricia Beattle Jung asso­ciate professor of theology at Loyola University on good sex from a feminist perspective 
"It was a little difficult to get in the right frame of mind because the first 3 6 holes were rained out ... 
Terri Taibl junior on marilynn Smith/Sunflower Invitational women's golf tournament 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 
University maintains funding from bin Laden family 

AUSTIN, Texas 

University of Texas Investment Management Company board mem­bers said at its directors meeting Friday they have no intention of withdrawing its investments with the Carlyle Group, despite its ties with the bin Laden family. 
UTIMCO is a private corporation that manages the UT System's $15 billion endowment, including the Permanent University Fund, a state endowment that provides financial support to schools in the UT and Texas A&M systems. 
"UTIMCO's investment was made long before the notorious member of the family was getting publicity," UTIMCO Chairman Robert H. Allen said. 
UTIMCO first invested in the 
Carlyle Partners II fund in 1995 and invested in the Carlyle Partners III fund in 2000. Also in 1995, the bin Laden family began investing in Carlyle Partners II. Though the fami­ly said it has disowned wanted ter­rorist Osama bin Laden, the FBI is 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Student suffers bathroom assult 
Two New York University staff members stopped a man attempting to sexually assault a female student in the first-floor bathroom of the Hayden residence hall Thursday afternoon after hearing the victim's muffled screams, administrators said. The victim, a Hayden resident and an undergraduate student, was attacked in the bathroom at about 3:30 p.m. on Thursday by a man who managed to walk past the Protection Services officer posted in the lobby of the building, despite the fact that he did not display an NYU ID card, University Spokesman John Beckman said. "The University takes the matter very seriously, partially because of the fact that the assailant, who is not an NYU student, was able to get past the security barrier in the dormitory," Beckman said, Acting Vice President of Student Affairs Lynne Brown said that based on preliminary information, the assailant did not walk past the guard unnoticed to access the bath­room. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"'forecast for da time conditions and high tern ratures 


Q,~,~4.QQ ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Rurries Snow lea Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Asaocialod p,.... G,¥11icsNel 
investigating the family's financial dealings, according to an Oct. 23 London Times article. 
"We thought then and think now it's stilf a good investment," Allen said. . The company will not withdraw its $15.6 million investment in funds managed by the Washington, D.C. ­based private investment firm, said Kathy Iberg, UTIMCO president and CEO, 
"It would be difficult to dissolve the limited partnership between UTIMCO and the Carlyle Group because it's on a contractual basis," Iberg said. 
Llmited partnerships are long-term investment relationships in which the general partner manages the portfo­lio. They are difficult to dissolve because no public market exists in which to sell them. 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA -BERKELEY 
Mayor asks for future reimbursements 
Two months after an on-campus dance spilled over to Berkeley, Calif., streets, costing thousands of dollars in damage, Mayor Shirley Dean is asking University of California-Berkeley to reimburse the city if events with similar results occur in the future. The proposal, which the Berkeley City Council is expected to approve Tuesday, is in response to the Aug. 25 fraternity-spon­sored dance at the Pauley Ballroom that drew uninvit­ed guests, who looted Southside businesses and sur­rounding residences. "If the university is going to regu­late the event, I believe they have to be responsible for not only what happens at the event, but also how (peo­ple) get there and how (they) leave," Dean said. Berkeley police Lt. Cynthia Harris said UC police noti­fied her department 10 days prior to the dance that 500 people would attend. But almost three times as many people showed up, catching the city off guard and lacking sufficient police officers to enforce the law, Harris said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathert> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 30. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
.......,,.. .......... ....-,...


COI.D WARM STATIONARY Pn1C1ura: ,... k 
C 2001 Accuweathel' Inc. 

® © . CJ[::;J . CZJ . ,,.., ;,·. 
High Low Show.rs Rain T-¦torma Flurrle¦ Snow toe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via MsociaffKI Press 

Atlanta 68 39 Las Vegas 73 61 Portland 57 46 
Boston 52 39 Milwaukee 48 39 St. Louis 68 45 
Chicago 54 39 New York 55 46 Tampa 81 59 
Houston 73 45 Philadelphia 61 39 Washington DC 63 41 
Tuesday, October 30, 200 I 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
1 
i 
Study abroad programs remain 
• Attacks will not affect study abroad programs during 2001 spring semester 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
As,i,1.mt t'-icw, Fdiw, 
While t1:rrorist attacks and pro-1:1:c•ding !'ears or anthrax have virtu­ally haltnd the country for weeks. many sludHnls are wondering 
wlwth1'r thev will still be uoinu  
abroad  in tl;c  O  0  
spring.  

"We're not 'The world situation t h e 
Univt>rsitv
planning to has stabilized somewhat ­
will need t~cnneel anything 
things have relatively stabilized reach that
f'or next semes­ter," said so it's helped people see point. 
"Another

Claudia they can go on as they_ were. " 
option is
Kselman. asso­1 o c a 1riat«' dirf'clor of 
Scott Kachmarik hotels, but
international 
I don't sec
study pro-associate director of 
that hap­
~rams "Th\' Residence Life and Housing 
pening," he
only program 
th;it is canr.PlPd 
is Jprusalem." 
Norwthfiless, the Universitv has taklm sti>ps in caso th<' campus is rtooded with extra students who w1:re planning on going abroad in the spring. 
"It'll probably be mid-November that w1: will form some contingency plans 111 place, but because the unknowns are so great right now ­depending on the number Jof stu­dents returning or staying on cam­pus!. determines the dirnction we'll go," said Scott Kachmarik. associate 
director of Residtrnce Life and !lousing. 
Students returning from their fall semesters abroad might face over­erowded residence halls if studrmts stay at Notre Dame instead of going abroad in the spring. 
"We would be opening up some lounges, some vacancies scattered heri> and there -and if tlrn num­bers are really great -other build­ings on campus that have living space or oven off-campus." 
Some of these on campus locations could include Saint JosPph Hall. tho Morris Inn and the Fatima retreat center. Kachmarik. how1wcr, does 
not believe 
said. "I see 
maybe 15 to 20 people we didn't count on and those [people] can be easily accom­modated in lounges." Kachmarik adds that the University could absorb up to 120 people ii1 the lounges if it needed to. 
Students already on campus would remain in their rooms while students arriving from abroad would be placed around campus. 
"Most likely people who are here and changing their minds and not going -we'd probably leave in 
place. Those coming, we'd have to 
rind op~nings to put them in." he 
said. 

lie added that people might not be able_ t~ got in the room they want, but 1t 1s more likely that they could get into the building they want. However, since there will be a few more people on campus, the hous­ing process next semester will just be more difficult. 
"!This will call for] flexibility both on our p~rt -[to] make sure people can get in rooming situations that peopi<' desire, but also know that it'll ~ake time for everything to work out. he said. 
Now a month and a half after the attacks, the University is not too wary of the possibility of an _extremely c;rowded campus. 
"The world situation has stabi­lized somewhat -things have rela­tively stabilized so it's helped people see they r,an go on as they were," Kachmarik said. "In the last month, only a few students -'-less than 1 O -have been making inquiries of 'what if I don't go'?' Less than 10 phone calls makes me think people are more confident about their situ­ation." 
Not only are people more confi­dent about their experience abroad, but to a certain extent people are realizing that safety is guaranteed outside the U.S, he said. "The sense of what is happening, the enormity of it all, is probably not as great out­side the U.S." 
Contact Maribel Morey at morey.4@nd.edu. 
Manly donates $350,000 for engineering 
Special lo The Observer 
Notn;. l~ame has received a $350,000 gift from V\ 1lham D., Manly, a consultant for the Department of Energy's Oak Ridge National Laboratory. to establish materials researr,h endo.~rne1_1ts in the College of Engineering. Manly s gift creates two distinctive endow­mcmts_ for stud:'nts a~1d faculty pursuing excel­lence m materials science and engineering. 
The first endowment of $100,000 is for the William D. Manly Award for Excellence in Materials Research. which \vill recognize one undergraduate and one graudatc student annually for the quality and significance of their work in the field. The first awards will be distributed next spring. 
Selection of' both undergraduate and gradu­ate students is in keeping with the college's plan f~r a new multidisciplinary engineering rducat10n and research building, which will promote collaborative, interdisciplinary learn­mg and research at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. 
Jhe seco1;1d and larger portion.of Manly's gift, apprmumately $250,000, will be used for the William D. Manly Endowment for Excelence in Material Research and targeted for recurring equipment costs in the materials ~hara~te~ization facility of the new engineer­mg bmldmg. The facility will feature a suite of diagnostic equipment -including optical, electron and atomic force microscopes -with which to assess chemical and structural varia­tions down to the nanoscale. Funds from the Manly endowment will be used to partially support hardware, software and personnel needs of the facility. 

page 4 · The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuessday, Occober 30, 2001 

Anthrax 
continued from page 1 
management and safety. All have been false alarms. The latest 
Inside. officials found laundry detergent and other items, an apparent care package shipped from home for a Chinese stu­dent. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's administrators continue to urge 
c a m e 
"Precautions were 
Wednesday 
taken immediatef.lJ. " 
when Notre D a m e Security/Police Linda Timm 
akrtcd risk Saint Mary's vice president
management 
for student affairs 
personnel that a package, dou­ble-wrapped in clear plastic the campus com­munities to report to authorities any suspect mail or packages. Both schools have out­
lined mail-han­dling procedures
that instruct stu­dents to be aware of strange odors, illegible handwrit­
was leaking a white granulated ing and bulky contents, among substance. othPr warning signs. 
"We removed it [from the Notre Dame post office I and opened it under appropriate Contact Jason McFarley at conditions," McCauslin said. mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
Scully gets appointed to Wilson Council 
Special to Tne Observer 
Executive vi~e president of the University of Notre Dame, Father Timothy Scully, has been appointed to the Wilson Council, a group of private citi­zens who advise the trustees and staff of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. 
Created by Congress in 1968 as the nation's living memorial to President Wilson, the center serves as Washington's non­partisan meeting ground between the world of ideas and the world of public affairs. The center is the capital's only independent institute for advanced study where funda­mental current and historical issues are investigated through research and dialogue with key people from all over the world. 
Currently in his second year as executive vice president, Scully administers an annual operating budget of almost $600 million and an endow­ment of$2.9 billion -the 18th largest among all U.S. colleges and universities. He also over­sees human resources activi­ties for a work force of 3900 employees and directs the University's construction pro­gram. projected to total approximately $385 million over the next five years. 
Scully as been a Notre Dame faculty member since 1989 in Lhe Department of Government and International Studies . 
Where do you think you're going? 
Think different. Get credit. Go far. Listen to summer 2001 interns tell you how to do all that in 2002. In less time than it takes for you to eat lots of free food. 
Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies Tuesday, Oct 30, 6:30-Bpm Hesburgh Center for International Studies C-103 Visit www.nd.edu/~kellogg 
. : :::;:::·-::::~-:;:::::.:::::,::~::;:}}::;:::~;:;=::,::::~:::;{ ·:··:. ...·-:-...·:-:-·-· ;::·
lf-#11

::,:,,:: ·Hemangioma •an s.pqur .. ,,.,__. ,,...,
-· ·,¦ ··§Riwa• @namae,m ~~, , \~ Sit~ btJ. ~r~to'w.s Feet :FtdWn¾!.bff!a :··: ., ···: "" ·:::. 
:::·····~Mict.odwmfflmtiiOn"·•·•···•··············•·······•·· .··•·•·•··········•·•·····••'·,··•·· ,. ~ 

BJliliiil&• 
MUSIC FROM A PAINTED 
CAVE 
ANATIVE-AMERICAN MUSICAL EXPERIENCE FEATURING ROBERT MIRABAL 
TUESDAY, OCT. 30TH, 7:30 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
/"iljjr,~
~HOTIIEDAME, IH 

Sponsored by The Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership 
RMATION CALL THE SAIITTMARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 
284-4626 

You Survive and Will Continue To ... But Returning After October Break Mat Be Hard 
ND Students From NYC & Vicinity: Support Each Other And Share Your Reactions 
Wednesday October 31st 4:00 -5: 15 Foster Room Lafortune 
Sponsored by UCC & Student Government Info: Call Len Hickman or Wendy Settle at 631-7336 UCC web page: http://www.nd.edu/~ucc 

ATION 
Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Floods kill 2 in Honduras: Floods wrr1aked luwoc: along Honduras· Caribbean roast on Monday. killing two people and forc­ing about 600 others to take refuge from ris­ing watrrs on rooftops and in trees. Officials rstimatf:d thnt about 15.000 people hart been l'orce<l from their homes by recent lloo<ling in thP northf'rn provincPs of CortPs. Atlantica. Colon and Grarias a Dios. 
Taiwan eases restrictions on China: 
Taiwan relaxPd restrirtions on visits by mer­t'hctnts and business professionals from rival China on ~londay, a move the island hopes will help make it a hub for commerce in Asia. Taiwan has long been leery about mainland Chinos1! visiting thB island. Globalization and rapidly expanding trading ties with China have fnrcf'd thP Taiwanese to ease rnstrie­lions. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Teen shooter hangs himself in cell: 
An l 8-ycar-old student who wounded five p<\Ople in a shooting rampage at his high school c'arlif'r this year hangr,d himsdf with a bPdshni•t in bis jail cdl Monday. authorities said. Jason Iloffman. who had a history of mPntal illness. was found dead at San Diego's CPntral Jail. v1, hPrr. he had bt1en in a cell by himsrlf' m, ld't behind writings that indicated hP w,Ls displeased with the world. 
Bush to attend U.N. General Assembly: 
Pn'sidPnt Bush ,,ill at.tr>nd tlw LinitPd Nations c;1'twral Asscm1bly in Nevv York on Nov. 10-11. and will nwct while there \Yith Pakistani PrPsidPnt Pcrwz Musharraf. a key U.S. ally in the anti-terrorism effort. Bush will attend the General Assembly's debate. deliver a speer,h, attend a lunrh hosted by Serretary-Gemwal Koli Annan and mPct sPparatcly with several world leaders. 
INDIANA News BRIEFS 
Truck driver pleads guilty: A trac­tor-trailPr driver from California who con­fessed to striking and killing an Indiana state trooper on the Indiana Toll Road more than three years ago was sentenced to two years in jail Monday. Gene Lambson, 72, of Galt, Calif.. pleaded guilty to one count of reckless homi­cide in the July 1998 death of Master Trooper David Dmiter. Lambson will be on probation for four years following his release and must pay $1,275 in court and probation costs. He was also sentenced to 75 hours of community service to be carried out following his release. 
Market Watch October 29 
Dow 9,269.50 -275.67 Jones 
Composite~ Same: 
Volume: ~ 205 
NIA 

AMEX: 837.21 0.00 NASDAQ: l.699.52 -69.44 NYSE: . 
555.85 -10.73 S&P 500: 1,077.48 -27. 13 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) -5.47 -1.97 34.0L CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5.03 -0.87 16.4, 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) -5.19 -0.54 9.8E 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -6.50 -1.68 24.lE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1. 33 -0 .18 13 .4E 
COMPILED i;R0J\1 THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
RUSSIA 

Associated Press 
'.\10SCOW 

Russia hinted again on Monday it might be ready to discuss changes in the key Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty which bans the Bush administration's plans to build a defense shield against incoming missiles. 
Two davs before he leaves for \vashington to meet with Secretary of State Colin Powell, Russia's foreign minister said Moscow was ready to talk about "new parame­ters" on strategic ques­tions. 
"The situation in the 
world is changing, and our relations with the United States are changing. In the framework of these changes we are ready to discuss new parameters of strategic cooperation," Russian news agencies quoted Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov as saying late Monday night. 
Ivanov is scheduled to leave Wednesday for Washington to meet with Powell as part of a series of consultations with U.S. officials on strategic issues including nuclear weapons cuts and the 1972 Anti­Ballistic Missile Treatv. 
Ivanov said that the· 197·2 Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty "remains a key element of preserving strategic stabil­ity in the world" and emphasized that it should remain in full force while Russia's consultations with the United States continue. 
"While this discussion is happening, we believe that the ABM treaty should continue fulfilling the important mission that it has been fulfilling until now," the ITAR-Tass and lnterfax agencies quoted him as saying after a meet­ing with Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique. 
His comments appeared to indicate Russia could be more flexible in the future on the ABM treaty. a key thorn in relations with the United States in recent years. 
Ivanov's remarks came after U.S. defense officials said Thursday they were delaying three missile tracking tests that might have been interpreted as violating the treaty, the first time Washington has allowed concerns about the accord to slow its mis­sile defense project. 
The move was seen as a gesture to the Russians that would give President Bush room to maneuver during meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Washington and Texas Nov. 12-15. 

U.S. considers base in Afghanistan 
tia that rules most of Afghanistan role. In the only acknowledged mis­
A•sodared Press 
and harbors Osama bin Laden. sion by special operations forces so WASHINGTON More than three weeks of aerial far, more than 100 Army Rangers The United States is considering bombardment by Navy fighter­parachuted onto an airfield in south­SPtting up a hase inside Afghanistan bombers flying from aircraft carriers ern Afghanistan from an MC-130 air­from which commandos. and possi-in the Arabian Sea and by Air Force craft on Oct. 20 and left after several 
. bly conventional ground troops, bombers and fighters based hun­hours. would launch missions against dreds of miles from Afghanistan have Troops on the ground will likely be Taliban and terrorist targets, neutralized the Taliban's air defens­needed to capture or kill bin Laden defense officials said Monday. es but have not yet rooted out the and other leaders of his al-Qaida net­This option, which Defense terrorists. work, but past wars in Afghanistan SPcretary Donald H. Rumsfcld hinted Humsfeld said when the bombing -notably tho former Soviet Union's at in a Pentagon news conference, began Oct. 7 that air power alone failure after 10 years of' fighting ­could indicate the U.S. military is would not be enough to win the bat­have shown the high cost of a con­planning more aggrPssive mo.ves tle in Afghanistan and that special ventional large-scale ground inva­against the Taliban. the Islamic mili-operations forces would play a key sion. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
SEAC requests program funding 
By MYRA McGRIFF Sainr Mary's Editor 
After drafting a proposal for a campus wide system for recycling of glass, plastic and aluminum last year, the Student Environmental Action Coalition (SEAC) has only com­pleted the fist step to seeing progress in the fruition of the program. 
Meeting with vice president of finance Keith Dennis before fall break, SEAC was informed that all of its work might have been in vein if it cannot find the fund­ing. In 
"We shouldn't have to 
their pro­thin. There p o s a 1 be competing for funding would also drafted need to be
from other departments. " 
and pre­one to sented to three new both the Teresa Lorenz collection Board of sites. We
member of Governess Student Environmental Action Coalition are looking
{BOG) and t h e Academic Council last year the club detailed steps to instituting a campus wide recycling program. This program includes four main points divided into the cate­gories of support, student edu­cation, contracting with a city recycling company and clearly labeled bins. 
SEAC's proposal received the go ahead from both boards. 
But SEAC is in limbo as to what they should go ahead and do. Considering that it is three months into the school year and the recycling pro­gram has yet to receive strong finical b-acking, the club is concerned. Club member Teresa Lorenz wants to make sure the issue of recycling doesn't take a back seat, which she feels is possible if they do not get funding soon. 
"The point is we are not get­ting the financial support needed and was understood fo he committee to the project from the president on December 5, 2000. We shouldn't have to be compet­ing for funding from other departments," Lorenz said. 
Even though SEAC has offered start up money, enlist­ed the help of area organiza­tions, as well as research and 
Ha1ride 
November 1, '3-!0 pm $5.00 per pe-rDon ~endii Wood5 'Par)( \Z-efresnme-nt5 f:.-Transportation wi\\ be provided 

\Z-e.gir,ter b-f Oct. '30 at the F'.-~\2£. $p.ac.e is limited 
Quu,tionn: l.ontad /\nnie 1-35'31 
k?-~ Cf:~~5)@ 
present to Dennis other state grant options like the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), it has yet to see any money -money that Dennis doesn't know is available, because the pro­gram is expensive. The pro­gram alone would involve new containers, a continuous sup­ply of liners, ready hands to collect the recyclables and a contractor -all of which Dennis is unsure can be fund­ed. 
"Building services would need a permanent staff to col­1ect the bins and we are already spread 
at $1500 
dollars a 
month, not 
including staff," Dennis said. 
However, Dennis said John Delee, director of Facilities, is drafting a budget proposal for campus-wide recycling. The proposal should include a con­tractor, the cost and request for funds. The proposal will be included for consideration by the annual Campus Budget Committee. However, it will compete against the budget proposals of other depart­ments on campus. 
"Hundreds of people are asking for additional funding and there is no way of know­ing if the recycling budget will be approved. We won't even know the competition until the end of November," Dennis said. 
In the mean time SEAC con­tinues to recycle plastic, glass and aluminum on a club level. With help from building ser­vice director Marilyn Rajski, the club has been able to do some recycling every other Friday. 
"Mrs. Rajski has provided liners for the recyclables, let us use the college truck and has paid for gas," Lorenz said. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgr0l8l@saintmarys.edu. 
College 
continued from page I 

time a month for dinner. Also, instead of being arrogant and only having insights from people fom Harvard. I thought we should have other people come, so I called pro­fessors at [Boston College]. Amherst, William and Mary, Duke, Georgetown and so on. When all is said and done, we had representatives from 25 universities," said Light. 
Instead of speculating on what students thought about 
near campus," Johnson said. "We've been very fortunate
Tornado 

that tornadoes seem to go north and south of campus." 
continued .from page 1 

"But -it certainly has touched the lives of those in "The storms clearly hit in the Notre Dame family," northern St. Joe County, very Johnson said of faculty and 
The 2002 Japan Exchange and Teaching Program 
Teach English in junior and senior high schools in Japan Learn about Japanese culture and people ~: Gain international experience ~ ·· 
Requirements 

• Have an excellent command of the English language 
:.-'

• 
Obtain abachelor's degree by June 30, 2002 .l 

• 
Be aU.S. citizen 


• 
Be willing to relocate to Japan for one year 


Applications are now available. The deadline for applying is December 5, 2001. For more tnlormation and an application contact the Consulate General ot Japan in Chicago at Olympia Center.Suite 1000, 737 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill 60611. Call (312) 280-0428 or 1-800-INFO-JET or email: JICKono@aol.com or JICDoug@aol.com. 

advising policies and student life, Light and his colleagues decided to have students interview other students about their feelings on these issues. According to Light, students who conducted the interviews were rigourously trained prior to conducting the one-on-one interviews. 
During the course of the lecture, Light highlighed some of the findings from his research which he cautioned may or may not apply to life at Notre Dame. Specifically, he was unsure of how his findings, which supported the use of study groups to com­plete homework assignments, would be met by Notre Dame faculty. Light found that over­all students who meet in study groups to do homework problems tend to be more engaged in learning for their science classes. 
"At Harvard, for reasons I don't understand. men are more comfortable studying in groups, so as a result men are more likely to stay with the sciences than women. which you might have guessed without those find­ings," said Light. 
Contact Ally Jay at jay.5@nd.edu. 
staff who were affected by the storms. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

L_ 
' 
· fucsday, Ocroher 30, 200 J 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

In this time of terrible loss and momentous decisions, the Center for Social Concerns offers resources through this website to assist individuals develop informed views, seek spiritual sustenance, and find just, wise, and effective ways to respond. 
please visit: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/septll 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/lSSLPs 
R 
Summer Service Project Internships: Summer Service Project Internships are eight-week service-learning experiences sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs across the country. Room and board is provided while students work with agencies servi11g disadvantaged populations. 
Next Information Session: Wednesday, November 7th 6:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Conerns 
\.IJIMDl!l'JOJIIIOWONU 

A CCI ON Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10-12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are micro-lending
ACCl•N 

organizations. $2,500.00 Scholarship. Room and board stipend provided. 
International Summer Service Learning Program Final Information Night 
7:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns• TODAY (Tuesday, October 30th) Applications now available at CSC and Satellite Office * Applications due THIS Thursday: November 151 
*** Urban Plunge Application Deadline has been extended to Thursday, November 1st! *** Applications for this seminar, a two-day introduction to life in the inner city, can be found at the CSC. Approximately 300 participants travel to more than 50 cities to work with individuals, agencies and parispes involved in social and structural change. 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Conversation Exchange Partners -Connie Peterson-Miller -cpeters4@nd.edu CEP is a chance to meet individually with an international student, scholar, or spouse to practice a language you are learning or to help them master Enghsh through conversation while you share insights about each other's culture and interests. Meetings are arranged according to your own schedule. Please fill out an applicatlon at this website: www.nd.edu/~issa/ Elderly Assistance -Shelby Huber -634-4316 An elderly woman in Mishawaka is in need of 1-2 volunteers to come in twice a month to help clean her apartment. She has limited mobility and her ability to stay in her current apartment depends on her having someone to come in and help her clean. Juvenile Justice Center -Barbara Burkett -235-5457 or 651-1255 (pager) Looking for students to help with their Art & Music program or serve as tutors during the residents' study hall from 5:30-6:30 Monday-Friday. Marquette Elementary -Margaret Lapay -283-8370 
Peace and ,Justice Opportunity 
Roy Bourgeois, Maryknoll priest and founder ofSchool ofthe Americas Watch, is coming to St. Mary's and Notre Dame on Friday, November 2. All are invited to hear Father Roy speak about his experiences working with the poor in Latin America; the connection between US foreign policy and political repression abroad; and his efforts to close down the School of the Americas (SOA), now called the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation (WHISC). 
The schedule for Friday, November 2, is: Noon: Luncheon with Father Roy at St. Mary's 
4:00 p.m.: Father Roy speaks at Hesburgh Library Auditorium* 
6:00 p.m.: Potluck dinner with Father Roy at CSC Coffeehouse 
For nwre information, contactJohn Simonian, simonian.l@nd.edu, 234-6894 Or Nate Farley,farley.9@nd.edu, 631-738~ 
*Sign-ups for the ND-SMC trip to the 12th annual School of the Americas Vigil in Fort Benning, Georgia, will follow Father Roy's talk. Leave after classes on Friday, November 16, and return on the morning of Monday, November 19. 
Starting an after school program on Oct 15th which will run for approx. 6 weeks, and looking for 5-6 students to come M & W from 2:30-3:45 to 
assist the program and help the students with their homework. 
Personal Tutors -Felicia McAllister -283-8926 or 288-0167 
She is looking for general tutors for her 7t1i and 9t1i grade sons. A meeting place on campus can be arranged. 
High School Tutor -Laura Trubac -616-684-6266 
She is looking for a Chemistry and Algebra II tutor for her high school daughter. Flexible regarding times, please call for location. 
New Course Initiative 
The Department of Theology and the Center for Social Concerns, with support from various campus entities, will offer a three-credit, upper-level course entitled: 
Church and Society in El Salvador: Transfonning Realities 
Theo 463, cross-listed in various departments, Spring 2002 
This course will be interdisciplinary in nature, and will offer/require a trip to El Salvador during spring break 2002 for experiential learning and research. 
We will meet on Tuesday evenings (7:00 to 9:30 PM) before and after the immersion to El Salvador. 
This is a creative opportunity open to students in all disciplines. Basic Spanish language abilities are required. For further information, pick up a learning agreement at the Center for Social Concerns or Department of Theology -Instructors: Matt Ashley (Theology), Jay Brandenberger (Center for Social Concerns), Michael Lee (Theology). 
INFORJ.\ilATION MEETING TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M., OCT. 3orn AT THE CSC! * The application deadline is November 12, 2002. 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
Institute gains prominence in wake of attacks 
Without funding the insti­specific," Culbertson said. students. Culbertson said. "It will By ANDREW THAGARD tute remained little more The Kroc Institute is also "This program has bflen the include short articles by a l\cws Writer than wishful thinking. The able to offer a degree in heart of our educational variety of faculty members." 
facultv's idea, however, peace studies. Forty Notre efforts," Culbnr1son said. Since the attacks, the 
They have published edito­bec a nic a r e a I it y in 1C) 8 6 Dame faculty members from The minor in peace studies Institute has organized three rials, interviewed for radio with a grant from Joan Kroc, dilTe'rnnt departments along is available to undergraduate panel discussions dealing and Lelevision programs and window of the founder of with 11 Hockefeller Visiting students who take 15 credit with religious and ethical sponsored three panel dis­McDonald's. Kroc attended a Fnllows from throughout the hours, and the institutfl concerns, legal dimensions cussions on the events of lecture by Father Theodore world; including Ireland, hopes to offer a second major and human rights issues. Sept. 11 and the subsequent Hesburgh on morality issues Hussia and Germany, teach in peace studies in the Over fall brnak, the Institute war in Afghanistan. But surrounding the nuclear courses future. added a link to tlrnir web site these Notre Dame foreign buildup between the US and toward In addi­to include faculty publica­
"The public has largely
policy r,xperts and the pur­the Soviet Union and was a minor tion to tions a11d information pieces posr; or the Kroc Institute movNI lo make, a donation. in IWac11 neglected international affairs graduate found in journals. which they represent are "She was very opposed to stud ins and suddenly we've and undnr­Culbnrtson anticipates that oftPn unclear to thP gr.neral tho nuclear arms race -and and a g rad u at n the continund conflict in
been forced to think about 
studPnt population. wanted to help him gradu­education, Afghanistan will keep tlrn 
international relations 
According to its web site, fllesburgh] promotP peace," a t fl t h e Institutfl busy. the mission of the .Joan B. said Ila! Culbertson, associ­degnw. in a more important way lnstitute's "In some ways we're more Kroc Institute for ate director of the Institute. Each f' a c u I t y posed to respond to militciry
than we have before."
Intr.rnational Peace Studies The Institute was originally y e a r , members events," he said. "We're is t 0 housed in over 20 are active offering commentaries on the prevent offices students Hal Culbertson in publish­situation."
"In some ways we're more posed
war and located in f' r o m ing reports Next month, tlw Institute
associate director of the Kroc Institute 
V i O -to respond to military events ... the Law through­on current plans to conlinlw to promote lence. a We're offering commentaries School. In out the events. campus awarfl1111ss of current policy 1990. the world arn invited to the Last ynar, David Cortright PVents with a discussion 
on the situation." 
t h·e v group Institute to work toward an and G<rnrg11 Lopez published series that will coincide with c a 1 ·1 moved to M.A. in Peace Studies. Wlrnn an ass,1ssment of' the sanc­the two-month annivnrsary nega­Hal Culbertson l h n lilf' program first began, tions against Iraq at the UN's or the tnrrorist attacks. t i V e lleshurgh most of the studl'nts came request, and Cynthia "Pnopl!i are looking for
associate director of the Kroc Institute 
peace," Cente·r, from the nuclear powers, tlrn Mahmood, an Associate some kind of guidance from and to which it Soviet Union, Britain, France Professor of Anthropology, the institute," Culhcrtson promote positive relations now shares with the Kellogg and the· Lnited States. has just completed an artirlfl said. "The public has largely between different people or Institute. Aftor the Cold War muled, on the situation in Kashmir. neglected int<1rnational "positive peace." Although both organiza­however, the Institute broad­The InstitutB has lrnen par­affairs and suddPnly we've 
A committee of Notre Dame tions support human rights ened their focus. Today, they ticularly busy since last been forced lo think about faculty first proposed the and peace, the Kflllogg genorally choosP 4-5 stu­month's terrorist attacks. intflrnational relations in a idea for a peace institute. Institute focuses on economic dents from each continent, The organization has worknd morn important way than we The group had read "The issues and democratization according to Cullrnrtson. to promote campus discus­have lwforn." Challenge of Peace," a pas­with an emphasis on Latin This year's class includes sion through lecturPs and toral letter published by the America. The Kroc Institute 22 students from Columbia, panel discussions, and has National Catholic Bishops in advocates international India, Bulgaria, Iran, Kenya, pul~lished articles. 1983 and wanted to help peace building. Croatia. Pakistan, Ukraine, "We hope to put out a pub­advance peace on a global "They're more region spe­Indonesia, Vi11tnam and lication focusing on the Contact Andrew Thagard at level. cific while we're more iss1rn-Turkny, along with J\nrnrican nv1•nts of Sept. 11," thagard. l@nd.edu. 

rgh 
t r u it ri 


Teresa Ghilarducci 
Dept. of Economics Eduardo Zambrano 
Mendoza Coll. of Business 
Dept. of Economics *Finance and Business Economics * Higgins Center *Kroc Institute 
Hes 

Tuesday, October 30, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
London uneasy about strikes· 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Public support for U.S.-led military action against Afghanistan has fallen, accord­ing to a poll published Monday. 
The ICM poll for The Guardian newspaper found that support for the campaign had slipped by 12 percent over the past two weeks, from 74 percent to 62 percent. 
Despite the fall, nearly two­thirds of those surveyed still back military action, and 57 percent support the deploy­ment of British troops on the ground in Afghanistan. 
Last week, Britain commit­Afghanistan and the reports of ted 200 Marines to the U.S.-led civilian casualties. The bomb­coalition for special opera-. ings of a warehouse of the 
tions, plus 400 in reserve in the United Kingdom. 
President Bush launched the airstrikes on Oct. 7 after the ruling Taliban refused to hand over Osama Bin Laden, the prime suspect in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. 
Some British lawmakers have expressed unease as the military campaign in Afghanistan grinds on, with voices of dissent even in Prime Minister Tony Blair's govern­ing Labor Party. 
Worries center on the humanitarian crisis in 
International Committee of the Red Cross in Kabul also prompted sharp criticism of the air campaign. 
The poll found that 54 per­cent of those questioned would back a pause in the bombing campaign to allow aid convoys 
. to reach the needy in Afghanistan. Only 29 percent said they would disagree with a pause. For the poll, ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,000 adults from across the country by telephone, between Oct. 26 and 28. A margin of error for the poll was not released. 
N., S. Korea agree to meet 
Assodated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 

Hoping to end a standstill in reconciliation efforts. South Korea on Tuesday accepted North Korea's proposal to hold talks at its east coast mountain resort. 
South Korea had been insisting that the Cabinet­level talks, scheduled for this past weekend, be held in Pyongyang, the capital. or nearby. 
But the South yielded after the talks failed to open Sunday, casting a chill over official contacts that had resumed only last month after a six-month lull caused by U.S.-North Korean tension. 
"Frankly, there was no other solution to this dis­
pute," said Kim Jung-ro, a spokesman at South Korea's Unification Ministry, which directs North Korea policy. 
The South is reluctant to hold too many contacts at the Diamond Mountain resort on the east coast, fearing the communist North is trying to dictate terms of their diplo­matic engagement. 
It is believed the North favors Diamond Mountain because it is secluded and reduces contact between the South Korean visitors and North Korean citizens. The government in the north fears influence from the south. 
The South plans to propose a new date for the Cabinet talks this week. 
South Korea hopes to dis­cuss rescheduling other 
exchanges that were sus­pended this month because of similar disputes over the venue. 
Earlier this month, North Korea put off a reunion of separated family members and insisted on hosting tourism and economic talks at Diamond Mountain. Those talks were canceled. 
The North said its delega­tions could not travel safely in South Korea, which put its military on alert after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. The South said the increased state of alert had nothing to do with North Korea. 
The Korean peninsula was divided at the end of World War II. The 1950-1953 Korean War ended without a peace treaty. 
Health officials: most mail is safe 
treated than the pulmonary
Associated Press 
version. which has killed three people and sent others to hos­WASHINGTON pitals.
Average Americans have lit­Meehan said health officialstle or nothing to fear from their have been watching closely formail. health officials said 
any new anthrax cases and
Monday. 
none have shown up involvingMore incidents of mailroom people who did not work withcontamination were reported at large amounts of mail. 
the State Department and a CDC anthrax specialist Dr.
building that houses offices of Bradley Perkins pointed outthe Food and Drug that anthrax occurs naturally
Administration and Voice of 
in the soil in some parts of the America. 
country but does not pose aBut while the sites where 
serious risk to people there. 
anthrax has been found handle That indicates that there is alarge amounts of mail, postal level of contamination that isand health officials said there is safe for humans. he said. 
no significant danger from mail 
That contamination is out­
people receive at home. 
doors. What is not known is
"We believe very strongly 
whether
that people 
there is also
who received 

"There have been no a safe level
mail in the 

Washington, documented cases at all in buildings, 
he said.

O.C., area, are of an individual getting 
But heat extremely ­

a letter personally from said the CDC
are at essen­

tially at no -[ a contaminated] facility does not think the
risk of inhala­and winding up 
very low lev­
tion anthrax," 

getting disease. " els of conta­
Dr. Patrick 
mination
Meehan of the 
thought to

Centers for Dr. Anthony Fauc 
be possible
Disease 

National Institutes of Health 
Control and Prevention said Monday. 
"There have been no docu­mented cases at all of an indi­vidual getting a letter personal­ly from {a contaminated] facili­ty and winding up getting dis­ease," added Dr. Anthony Fauci of the National Institutes of Health. 
Individuals at home are not in a situation where thev would be shaking or agitating the materials so anthrax spores could be lifted into the air and inhaled, Meehan explained. 
There may be a remote possi­bility that a letter has a few spores on it because it passed through a contaminated mail facility, he said. 
In that case, he said, the indi­vidual "may have a very, very small risk of cutaneous-type anthrax." 
The skin version of the dis­ease is milder and more easily 
in mail tu 
individual homes represent a risk of get­ting the disease. 
The postal service has been advising Americans tu be cau­tious about any mail that seems unusual and has sent millions of post cards with advice on how to handle such items. 
Deborah Willhite, a senior vice president of the agency, continued to urge common sense, suggesting that if people have any concerns they should wash their hands after han­dling mail. 
If anyone finds a suspicious item, she said, they should place it in a plastic bag, wash their hands, and call postal inspectors or local police. 
Concern remained that not all letters containing anthrax have been found and postal officials reiterated that they are contin­uing to search for any such let­ters. 


~aint Willibrord 
,1/ii,shop of l!Jtrecht 
& 
~11 ~aint's 119ay 

l}rofessor m'.homas §!oble \lChursday, jrl~vember 1, 2001 131 110ej'jartolo 7-S pm 
Sponwrcd by tl1e Medieval Club of Notre Dame. Saint Mary's & Holy Cross 




The Power of One Decision 
1r·::~~l 1::;:)((~l--.~~~ ((:~l-1 ((:.li·~o•1~:~ \~/ &SJ Iii~'. lf,' lt~-, i~, r1;n1)J-ir·,t_·-.,,:,· -~-~,,,
I_.

.f li~,.. I .. -~ 1111•,, ,~ .. 'I\., •f•
. .,.. ' . . . . . 
I~ ·O ·•·• • .r 00) ~(I ,.,, ·1]limE 'mfil) 1Jn'..I ., 
••1 ~ '• •. 4 i 
'1illl!llE l~ruf@ (l@(I
''·U,j: ;,:_·_-,:',i-'t·1,-;1_-::;,_.··_,_;,·,.. ~-. _·,._:.,i.,:,, :.,.,:,: ',, ·,: \t"•,\·' ... . , 
.·.'·.'· /J\','y "',··H .. 

'.'I' 'i. 

One of· ·th't~ top modvadonal speakers in America, Bobby Petrocelli, uses his riveting personal story -of how one decision can change your Hfe forever -to inspire and modvate audiences. Bobby has used his story of how one can triumph over .tragedy to encourage and empower over I million students in 
,,, .
., 

·,-.;·..... over l,000 colleges and high scho~_ls. ,.;.i-.-,.,:.. _:'.,<':·' i,·;_.\\':·.. r·\,_'.•, . 
. ·, ' 'i' ' ,; ;',, ":'!(i :.': :' ,: ;: ,\ :CF';; :.·~--·'··.,_·_· ;__·,·, __' ,:_'.,·.,·· --,'-·...,·.·. ,-_-,:i:___:_-,•·,.,·,·,._·_,:·_ -·1_ .,/.~:_,:'i,,\_i I:.. -~-·\. _,:\; ': ,/ ·/ •_i.l _; '1 {' '. : 11 • ,•,. ·, 'i il L;·..:-'.· ·:1.:.: _:-,_i_ .. ·, ~~ '_.·,· ;_··... ·,·,_._'.:·,/:,\_\,i·-',:_,,/\;, '•-~:-•.:••.,:-··1_'.'· 1'; ·: ,·1:···,·,,i'.i:·. 1.·· 
••.'. _._;. ,:•:~_•:~~]. • ,•, .,·••.•. '.' • I I
I . .I • •1 ./"" ; I ; • ; I 
·. ·•-'!'!•ii'.'!•,;_ 1 '·• · Sponsored By· · · '· ·'.• ·1 .,, .:; '·->'., ;' <·/.!' :: '.;' i',. ~. Office of Alcohol & Drug 0Education Bl \; ·•,:: i, ' ... •·i( 
Alcohol & Addictions Resource Center 

I ---~------~--'---~-~ 
Friday, October 19, 2001 The Ob.erver . BUSINESS NEWS page 11 
Delta tightens air security 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

As part of its efforts to make flying safer and more secure, Delta Air Llnes displayed securi­ty modifications Monday it's testing on a medium-range jet, featuring a closed-circuit cam­era system in the passenger cabin and a transponder pilots will activate if there is a hijack­ing. 
The airline, which expects to test the modified MD-88 for three months, has not decided 
.. ~,
--~c~~J ·.
Ht~ ·. 
~ ...>j;,>(_-:,·. 
·.:v-(j c__~.f

~ 
...~ ... 

~ ~ 
whether to equip its entire fleet with the cameras and transpon­ders. Company officials declined to say where or how many cam­eras were on the plane. 
Delta also said it finished rein­forcing the cockpit doors on its 575 airplanes Sunday. 
Since terrorists hijacked and crashed four planes Sept. 11, · airlines are struggling to per­suade many Americans that fly­ing remains a safe proposition. The sharp plunge in traffic has led to enormous financial losses in the industry and a $15 billion government bailout package. 
Pilots will use the cameras to see who is outside the cockpit door and can monitor any sec­tion of the cabin whenever they choose to turn the system on, said Jamie McElvaney, Delta's director of aircraft engineering. 
A small monitor fits...on the control panels of the first offi­cer's seat on the narrow-body jet. The installation takes about three days, depending on the size of the airplane, and costs $8,000 to $15,000, said Kent Horton, a Delta engineer. 
'. 

Science 
and ! 
Engineering 
~ 

Majors 
and 1st Year Prospective Majors Study Abroad Information Mtg. 
129 Dei3artolo Tuesday, October 30, 2001 7:00-9:00 PM 
Study in Perth, Australia London, England Dublin, Ireland Monterrey and Puebla, Mexico 
Applications on-line at: www.nd.edu/~intlstud Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 for Academic Year 2002-03 
-

dozQhs of 




after 

Court declines junk e-mail case 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear a case Monday involving Washington state's tough law against deceptive junk e-mail, or spam. 
The decision clears the way for trial to begin in King County Superior Court in Seattle on a lawsuit against Jason Heckel over millions of pieces of unsolicited e-mail sent by Heckel and his compa­ny, Natural Instincts. 
The high court turned away the case without comment. But by not accepting the case, the justices effectively agreed with a Washington state Supreme Court's decision to overturn lower court's dis­missal of the lawsuit. 
A Washington state law pro­hibits commercial e-mail with misleading information in the subject line, an invalid reply address or a disguised path of 
transmission  across  the  
Internet.  
In  October  1998,  state  

Attorney General Christine Gregoire filed suit against Heckel of Salem. Ore., after her office's Consumer Protection Division received complaints about Natural Instincts' messages, advertis­ing a $39.95 package called "How to Profit From the Internet." 
Among the allegations, Heckel was accused of using a misleading subject line -"Did I get the right e-mail address?" -which state lawyers considered a trick to deceive recipients into think­ing the message came from an acquaintance. 

EBay Inc. stock falls, but execs confident 
today! 4-7pm fieldhouse mall (lafun ballroom 
if it rains) 
Associated Press 

SANTA CIARA, Calif. 
Shares of eBay Inc. fell on Wall Street even though the trading Web site's executives affirmed their aggressive long­term growth targets at their annual meeting with financial analysts. 
Chief executive Meg Whitman told the analysts Monday that she was even more confident than she was last year that eBay's revenue can reach $3 billion by 2005. One reason is that the company's 24 interna­tional sites are not yet as prof­itable as eBay expects they will be in coming years. 
"We are really proud of the foundation we have built," Whitman said. "It was in 2001 that eBay really hit its stride." 

The chief financial officer, Rajiv Dutta, said he expects rev­enue to grow about 50 percent next year, to between $1.05 bil­lion and $1.10 billion, with earnings per share o.f 70 cents to 73 cents. 
The average estimate on Wall Street was for earnings of 73 cents per share next year, excluding charges, on $1.03 bil­lion in revenue, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. 
EBay shares fell $4.48, nearly 8 percent, to $52.52 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares were down to $52.26 in the after-hours session. 
Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget wrote in a research report that he expected the stock to move lower because the company's earnings estimates fell short of the Wall Street con­sensus. But he pointed out that 
eBay historically has exceeded 
its goals, and he said he was 
maintaining his 2002 estimate 
of 85 cents per share. 
Executives said they will 
push to make eBay a more 
mainstream shopping option, 
encouraging people to make 
the site their first choice for 
Web commerce rather than a 
place to turn mainly for hard­
to-find items. 
They said they would con­
centrate on increasing auctions 
and fixed-price sales in key 
categories such as automo­
biles, computers and real 
estate. 
In hopes of becoming a 
"major player" with a "well-lit 
showroom" for online auto 
sales. eBay will soon add a 
short-term warranty to cars 
bought on the site and make it 
easier for buyers to have rov­
ing mechanics certify cars, said 
Simon Rothman, head of eBay 
Motors. 
San Jose-based eBay already 
had said it would combine its 
separate Half.com site into 
eBay.com in the coming 
months to increase its listings 
of items at set prices. 
Executives said Monday that 
Half.com will be renamed eBay 
Express Buys. 

-------------------------------------------------------. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
f'.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EnJTOR  BUSINESS MANAGl'R  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob \X'oods  
AsST. MAl'iAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS l\iANAGER  
Kenv Smich  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason Mcfarley VIEWT0INT EmTOR: Lauren Beck SroR:rS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao OF.SIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTHAT0R: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 63 1-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ...................................... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ AssT, ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. .....................................631-5313 Nt:WS......................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. 1@nd.edu VIEWI'OINT.................................................63 l-5303 observer.viewpoim. J@nd.edu SroRTS....................... .................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.. ...........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO....................................... .................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobserver. nd.edu for daily updat~ of campus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, re\·iews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/ music for
weather for up-to-the 

weekly smdent reviews
rninu(e forecascs 

online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rates ofprint ads 

about The Observer
archives to search for 

to meet the editors and
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe F.diror in Chief, Managing Editor. Assisram Managing Editor and department editors. Commeniaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Helena Payne Sam Derheimer Courtney Boyle Chris Scott Elizabeth Lee Graphics Sports Andy Devoto Bryan Kronk Production Viewpoint Noah Amstadter Kristin Yemm Lab Tech Angela Campos 
Water humbles and teaches 
Not knowing how to get the most basic eleme11l of sur­vival is an incredibly humbling W(perience. For the first few days at my site my host sisters went to the well ancl filled up my clay pot, in which I keep all my wat(;r, on a daily basis. Every time I saw them doing this a pang of' guilt set in because not only were these 15-and 1 G-ycar-ulds running Maite Uranga the house, they were also making sure I hacl enough water. However. tlrn rear of public humiliation far out­weighed this guilt. Life in Africa 
Women of every age US(' a perfoct posture, a slight twist of thll shoulders and a sway of the hips that makes this chore exquisitely beautiful as they glide through tlw sand. I could not even imagino my body capable of' such a thing. Instead, I pictured the amount of onlook!irs that the white woman getting water would attract and my full wash tub plummet­ing from my'head in an embarrassed mess. And I knew full well if some­thing like this happened it would be continuallv recounted for the next two yeais in my village. 
So I sat back for a few days and let water appear in my clay pot while I carefully orchestrated my plan of 
attack and weighed different strategies. I could go really early wlwn most people were still sleeping. Potentially pay some girl to go to the well for me at about 10 cents a day. Use a 
small bucket. Give up the use of water entirely (for a few minutes I actually con­templated this). Figure out how to pump water out of the well and across the three hun­dred yards to my house. Use vast amounts of bottled water over the next two years. Call Mulligan and ask if they delivered to Mauritania. 
One day I simply swallowed a lot of pride and picked up my small bucket and through a series of French, hand gestures and Pulaar communicated that I needed help going to the well. We started off as two, but anywhere I go children follow. So when they saw a white woman walking to the well they knew something exciting was in process. 
My sister and I arrived at the well with my bucket, her tub and my entourage. It was busy. The women in an attempt to be polite greeted me like they would anyone else. Behind the formalities I saw the amusement in their eyes. We sat in the sand waiting our turri as I surveyed tlrn scene. Somehow the crowd discovered that I had never · used a well. Tho polite women broke out into peals of laughter and the children stared in disbelief'. I then explained to them the water infrastructurn of thP United States using 1ilcmcntary language and acting skills. I received looks of' amuznment. They knew tlwt people in American citiPs usnd running water, but tlwy assumed rural America used the traditional rope and bucket. 
I stepped on to the stage at the edge of tlw well and looked down. \rly sistnr pulled up the first buckPt with lluid motion. I dropp(~d the rubbnr bucket down and started pulling up and the ease at which it rose surprised me. Then people started laughing. The bucket was not even half-way full. I slartnd again, this time making sun• that the bucket overflowed with water. I admit that I am not in 
amazing shape. I do exercise rngularly, but my back, arms, IPgs and every other major musclP group are defi11itdy not in good shape. Lifting sever­al liters of water up multiple meters is a workout that no American gym has yet designed a machine to simulate. Three buckets later J was exhausted and still had to carrv mv water the 300 yards uphill th~ough sand to my clay pot. My sister tried to help put it on my head. I refused saying 
"tomber" which means fall in French and rain in Pulaar. Again more laught(1r. I could not bring myself to try as I imagined my spine compressing and neck snap­ping under the weight of the water. From the lime they can walk Mauritanians put anything 
and everything on their heads. My pampered American body could not possibly have the strength or bal­
ance. Moreover, I just would not look 
as beautif'ul as they do. So I picked up my bucket with my hand and set off. Carrying water is Vfiry difficult. [t 
sloshes around and once start(~d rarely stops. My water started sloshing on about my third step and I knew it was going to be a long 300 yards. Six stops, wet feet, several goats, laughter, pain and 20 minutes later I col­lapsed onto my mat after successfully filling my clay pot for the first time. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. lier column appPars every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl'er. 
USC fan appreciates hospitality 
I was one of the thousands of fans from the University of Southern California who attendfld last week's ganrn. Congratulations on your victory. 
I felt I had to write a letter because I was so impressed at the way the opposing !'ans were treated. 
When we drove up for our tailgate party, surrounded by Notre Dame fans, many different friendly people wdeomed us. Some offered us chairs, plastic cups and assistance in other ways. 
I've been a fan for many years and have attended thn games in South Bend many times. This was the best treatment l'vn ever received at an away game. 
While I've attended other away games, I have bnen cussed at and had things thrown at me. 
Of course fans of both teams like to win. But even with the loss, I left your campus and stadium feeling the presence of thP 
Man who looks down on your field. Thank you for your hospitality from an avid USC fan. 
POLL QUESTION 
Is excessive tailgating a problem at Notre Dame? Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Carl Drizler University ofSouthern California graduate Ocr. 22, 2001 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nobody can be in good health ifhe does not have all the time fresh air, sunshine and good water." 
Flying Hawk Oglala Sioux Chief 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 30, 2001 page 13 
Responsible abortion? 
Every year at some point some controversy brings up lhc debate over abortion. and this vear is no different. Although every year the arguments seem to be the samP. and though mauy people have stoppP.d listening altogether. I think I'll revisit the topic once more for my own entertainment. So, before you stop rnading, I'd like to say why I 
John Litle

don't lihi abortion, and why my reason is different from any other reason l 've ever read in Tho 
Frankly

o·bserver. 
Obnoxious

Most people on campus are pro­lif'e. I accept that this makes it sort of a pain to be pro-choice and il makes reading "typical conservative articles" somewhat less than interesting. For that I apologize. I think the most common argument I hear against abortion is that abortion is the taking of a human Hfe. I agree that a fetus is u genetically unique human being und thut per­haps ii should OP. given the rights of a human being, but I rrject tlH' argument that that is enough reason to ban abortion. Evfiry day children around the world starve to death. we execute peoplE' in the United States on a reg­ular basis. and I don ·t typically see the standard Notre Oame pro-lifor doing anything about that. No, it seems to me that in a world where so little care is given to the already born, it is somewhat hypocritical to be so worked up over the unborn. 
I, on the otlrnr hand. find abortion reprehensible because it is a lack of responsibility. It's a cop-out. The way I see it, if you have sex, one of thr. results is preg­nancy; and when you choose to have sex, you choosfl to take that into account. !\hortion is not a solution to that problem. because that "problem" is the direct result of your choice to have sex. I think the whole issue stems from the fact that in the United States today no one is rnsponsible for anything. Take the school shootings that seem so frightfully common nowadays. Was it the per­petrator's fault'! Or did you blame the guns'? The bul­lies'? The parents? The school's administration? Society as a whole'? Video games? Music9 Movies? If you ask me·it was the peq,etrator's fault. Putting the blame elsewhere is an emotional attempt to explain the unex­plainable -same thing with abortion. Believe it or not you am responsible for you or your partner's pregnan­cy. You and your partner alone. Accept it. 
I suppose I could explain it differently. If you are a woman. and vou havt'! sex and become pregnant, IPgally in the United°States you have the option of having an abortion or having a child. If you are a man and your partner becomes pregnant, legally in the United States you have no options. Now I'm not one for getting into the whole sexism fight, but doesn't that seem a little inequitablfl? The thing is,'if a woman can have the choice to end her resprmsibility for her pregnancy, the man ought to have the same choice to end his rcsponsi­bilily for the child. After all, in countries with legal abortions it seems a child is the result of choosing not to have an abortion, not the result of sex, and therefore the man is not responsible for the child at all. 
I can sec the viewpoints now ... I am not saying I would not take responsibility for my child: if I did have a child I would do everything it took to care for him or her. I am just saying you can't give a woman a post conception "option" and not give the same to a man. 
So, for everyone who wishes to argue that abortion is an issue of women's rights, to you I say "hogwash." If you want to say this is a fight over saving the lives of innocent fetuses, I say 'Tm not buying it." This is no fight over such highbrow issues. This, plain and simple, is Americans fighting for their easy way out. It is a fight to preserve the lack of responsibility ensconced in our nation and our culture. Giving the fight any higher goals is lending credence to an argument that is com­pletely unworthy. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major who wants to add to his preuious column that there is a Rape and Domestic Violence counseling center in South Bend called SOS. Its phone number is 289-HELP, and there is a volunteer on call 24 hours a day to listen, answer questions, go to the hospital or help in any way. His column appears every other Tuesday. Hate mail can be directed to john­litle@hotmail.com, other correspondence, to jlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Respect ROTC students as members of the military 
The issue of University policy regarding the cam­ouflage and training around campus has been talked about in recent weeks, but I feel that there is one point that still needs to be made. From what I gath­er, the policy was made because members of the campus community were feeling anxious because of Army Cadets in uniform marching with fake, rubber M-16 rifles as part of a training exercise. 
Fair enough, but over break I observed an interest­ing double standard. I departed out of O'Hare and arrived _into Los Angeles. When I went through secu­rity in Chicago, there were members of the U.S. Army standing there in full camouflage, with real, loaded 9 mm Beretta pistols hanging by their sides. In Los Angeles there were members of the U.S. Air Force, in l'ull rnmouflage, with real, loaded M-16 rifles slung on their shoulders. Seeing the soldiers in O'Hare, I realized that not only were most people walking by probably not afraid of the soldiers stand­ing there with loaded weapons, but most probably felt safer seeing them there. 
Therefore ,,,hat! implore people in the Notre Dame community to realize is that those soldiers standing guard make us feel safer, and the ROTC Cadets and Midshipmen on this campus are one in the same. Why do people fear Army Cadets with rub­ber rifles, but feel safe when they sec guards with real rifles, though the Cadets will someday be those guardians? 
The answer might come in part from something that a wise pPrson once told me. It is easy to sit in the ivory tower of academia and denounce what is going on in the real world, because the academic environment can be very disconnected from reality. When we sit here in the pristine world of our Notre Dame bubble, it's easy to not see tne purpose of the military or to be afraid of it, because the worst "crime" around here is rambunctious tailgatcrs. 
Go to O'Hare though, and you won't be afraid of the military or question the job they're doing. It's 
. easy to sit here in a place terrorists would never care to hit and say "love your enemies." but in the Sears Tower or the Capitol you'll find people there who hope that that terrorists are brought to justice quick­ly so that they can go to work without fear. It's easy to sit here in a place where everyone is safe, not oppressed, and say that attacks on the Taliban arc wrong. 
Read some articles, however, like the one I read, which said that there is a high possibility the Taliban is poisoning food that the United States is dropping for humanitarian aid in an attempt to sway the peo­ple's opinion against us. Then you will begin to understand the true nature of what they (not we) are doing to innocent Afghan people. 
The point is simple. To those out them who are unsure about how they feel about the military in gen­eral I ask this. 
Separate yourself from this place, think about the world outside the dome, and search yourself. Think about the men and women of the military who stand in O'Harfl, in Los Angeles and in every other airport in this country making sure that it is safe for us to fly, protecting us when we cannot do it alone. 
I think you 'II find simply this: Even if you don't like the military actions going on right now or flat out don't like the military at all, it always still feels good to know that your soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines are there keeping you safe. It feels good to know that they are standing vigilant in all our air­ports, as well as thousands of other places in the world. 
Keith Anderson senior 
Sranford Jiall Oct. 29, 200 I 

Football fun gone this year 
From the time I took my first steps [ have been attending Notre Dame home football games. I can remem­ber halftimes, watching as the senior student section would turn into a snow storm during their marshmal­low fight. The only thing I loved more than the marshmallow fight was tailgating. I loved being in the p~rk­ing lot mingling and eating while watching students have what seemed to be a great time. 1couldn't wait until I was old enough to partake in the fun. 
Now, in my fourth year here at Notre Dame, not only do I find that the things I grew up loving at football games are gone, but what has replaced them borders on tyranny. Last week at the USC game I witnessed several acts that not only made me feel powerless, but deeply upset at the University. 
The first incident was when an underage friend of' mine was issued a citation for minor consumption of alcohol. The Excise police officer ordered her to take a breathalyzer which put her alcohol content well under the legal .08. The officer then proceeded to get in the girl's face while verbally abusing her to the point of tears, He used the harshest of expletives, called her names and told her to stop crying or he would take her to jail immediately. All the girl could do was hold her breath to avoid making any sound while tears streamed down her face. 
What strikes me as odd is the fact that the University will allow students. even underage students, to drink in their dorm rooms but will not lot them drink less than 100 yards away. Instead, they bring pathetically ignorant little Napoleons in blue uniforms to the campus to treat students, who pay $30,000 a year to go here, abysmally. 
The second incident I witnessed was when a friend of mine was removed from his seat in the stadium for eating a marshmallow that landed in his lap. The usher told my friend "You're out of here," and then pro­ceeded to take him by the arm and walk him out. Last time I checked there was nothing in du Lac about eat­ing marshmallows. Maybe I'll have to check again to make sure. The usher then absurdly accused my friend of trying to "rile up the crowd." For one, the crowd was silent until the banana clad man decided to flaunt his power and remove my friend, and secondly, aren't crowds supposed to be riled up at a football game? My mistake, let's all sit with our hands in our laps and a muzzle over our mouths. 
Finally, the two brain cells in the usher's head stopped fighting long enough for him to realize how pathet­ic he was acting and allowed my friend back into the game, but that is not the point. The games have changed. The student section is surrounded by ushers blocking our lines of sight (for which we pay). and giv­ing the impression we are prisoners and not the "leaders of tomorrow," which we are so often said to be. 
The Notre Dame football game experience has changed, and I'm afraid for the worse. The fun and frivolity I witnessed as a small boy are gone and replaced by ignorance and power trips. 
David Fulton 
senior 
oH:campus Oct. 28, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 
page 14 Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Alt-country star Adams releases sensational Gold 
By SEAN T. McLAUGHLIN Scene Mmic Criric 
Heleasrd within the barren landscape or TRl.-manufae­tured pop rp]cbrity. Hyan Adams' sPcond solo album. Gold. stands as a much w1:l­comrd breath of credible fresh air. 
Just 2(,-ye a rs• o Id . Ad ams embodies the term "prolific artist." Adams released thrct' albums with alt•countrv icon. Whiskevtown, and last i'all. hP made 0his solo dPbut with llcartbreaker. In addition. Adams possesses over six albums ,-vorth of old material that still await the light of day. Nonetheless. Adams has little time to worrv over his unre­leased bark c~talogue. lie has just finished recording an album with his side project, The Pink lleans, that is due out in rarlv 2002. lie has also completed the follow-up lo Gold. t1:ntativr1lv cntitlr.d 48 Hours. Oh vea·h, he's also working a novel and a play. 

In stark contrast lo his f'irst album's dark minimalism. Gold finds Adams reaching for rod 'n' roll glory. Fill('d with tales of love lost and roads less-traveled. Gold raptures one of Anrnric.a's most effort· lessly gilled songwritnrs pay• ing homagA to th(' musiral past. In the process. he has prcsPnted an album or an unqualiffod vitality and rnle­
vancc. 

"New York. New York" recalls Blood On lhe Tracks • era Dylan and given the recent events of Sept. 11, stands as a touching tribute to the city that never sleeps. 
"The Rescue Blues" and 
"Tina Toledo's Stroel Walkin' Blues" could rontend with anything the Sto1rns rnleascd during the latn '60s and narly '70s. "Nobody Girl" and "Enemy Firn" ;-nck-out with the reckless abandon of an cdectrificd Neil Young. "Sonrnhow, Sonrnday," "Answering BPI!." and "Wildflowers" comp!Ho with the best of Tom Petty and Van Morrison. Taking a nod from th(' Lennon and McCartney, "Sylvia Plath" providr1s a vivid soundtrack f'or anyonP con­templating Beat inspired advnnture. 
In sum, Gold contains I (1 songs and ils initial prnssing includes a terrific fiH, song bonus EP of trarks that did not make the final cut. While somn may find Gold's length cum­bersome. the sheer number of great songs should outweigh 

Gold Ryan Adams 
Lost Highway Records 
Rating 

.......... 
any c.oncorns. Moroovnr. in an ora whern most artists writ<~ on two year cnrporat11 market­ing cycles. Adams' crnative explosion should come as a relief to those who enjoy music, for music's sakn. 
On "Firncrack1n," Adams declares that "everybody 
v,ants to go forPver. I just want to burn up hard and bright." Let's hop<' lH' dm~sn't. II' Gold is any indirntion. Byan Ad a rn s' b I's t ,,. n r k is yet to comI'. 
Contact Sean McLaughlin at mdaughlin.36@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Artistic album of covers won't get much airplay 
By MIKE SCHMUHL 
Scene Music Criric 

Tori Amos has always been known for her revolu• tionary approach to music. Her fans have grown to love the way her soothing voice flutters above the intricate melody of her piano. Yet. for her latest effort. Strange Little Girls. Amos strays from her tra­ditional musical arrangements. instead taking on the difficult task of covering 12 extraordinarily diverse songs. EvPn more surprising than that. what truly makes Strange Little Girls a remarkably unique album for Amos, is that almost each song on the album has one thing in common: a man wrote it about a woman. 
Changing gender roles and sampling music from the Beatles to Eminem. Amos strives for artistic achievement on Strange Little Girls. rather than radio airplay. 
The album starts with a hypnotic version of the Velvet Underground's "New Age." With a pulsing beat, shrieking guitar chorus riff, and Amos' breathy vocals, the song's progression is impressive. Altering the original lyrics. Amos sings repeatedly, "Over the bridge we go," directly addressing the social equality of men and women over the years. 
The following song, "97 Bonnie and Clyde" turns the song -originally written by Eminem -into a disturbing vocalization with an eerie string instru• ment and piano. 
Changing the tone of the album entirely. Amos pre­sents her rrndition of the Strangler's "Strange Littlr Girl." A springy conga beat and confident vocals fall into an explosive chorw,. Scratchy guitar and a sim­plo piano support tho c:w·hy tune. 
Once again transforming the album's flow. Amos 

reduces the music to her voic1:1 and a piano for Depeche Mode's "Enjoy the Silence." The calmness of her version clashes with the idea that the subject is mur,h more serious. Phrases likn "Words like violPnce/ Break the silencn/ Come crashing in/ Into mv little world." Amos' carefree p~esentation is fascinat­ing in comparison to the original disparity of the song. 
In similar fashion, Amos corn• pletely dismembers and recon­strur,ts a number of other classic songs. 
The popish trance of 'Tm Not ln Love" is oddly transformed into a dark and industrial beat. "Rattlesnakes" by Lloyd Cole keeps its popish country feel and acoustic chorus. but is slowed down to a much more personal level. The folksy classic "Heart of Gold" by Neil Young is magnified into a loud and shrill mixture of soaring guitar and screeching vocals. 
"I Don't Like Mondays," original• ly by the Boomtown Hats, is stripped from its frightening and alarming original meaning to another straightforward soliloquy from Amos. 

Photo courtesy of Atlantic Records 

With the Slayer song so delicate· 
Covering such male-written pop-rock classics as the Beatles' "Happiness
ly named "Baining Blood," Amos 
is a Warm Gun," and Depche Mode's "Enjoy the Silence," Tori Amos'
composes a song of' gurgling hor• 
Strange Llttle Girls succeeds as it forges the bounds of pop music.
ror and d1:pression. Iler voice 
comes across gloomy 

and deep, but returns to clear high­points throughout the song. With heav­
r--·r·,o;i .. _-i
Strange Little 

ing exhalos and a shadowy piano, her
HJrti\rncJ:s
Girls 

adaptation of the song is somehow even morn frightening than the original. 

The short jingle "Happiness ls a Warm Gun," by the Beatles is extended into a lengthy 10 minuto jam with 
Tori Amos 
Atlantic Records 

sound byt1~s of I.onnon's death and the political issue of' gun control. For a while, the beat and guitar stay con• stanl. but with the chorus, Amos brnaks the music -and her vocals -wilh 
tricky delays and stops. 
Rating 
......~,+­

Tho album finally comes to an end with the Joe Jackson song "Hoa! Men." 
Amos returns to her roots with hor usual vocals and grac1iful piano. Confronting homosexuality and tlw sternotypns of society with a touch of sarcasm, Amos handles the subject well and leaves her audiencP to find "Who the real men arc." 
Strange Little Girls will probably not sec much air· play, and only a few songs stand out in thr. scope or the whole album. A listcnor certainly wouldn't listPn to the album for fun or at a party. As an artistic attempt, howcv11r. the album succeeds on many f'ronts. Through analyzing the songs of various nwn, 
Amos is able  to create  a  solid album. Oncn again.  
Tori Amos has forged  new  ground  on  the music  
scene.  

Contact Mike Schmuhl at schmuhl.5@nd.edu 
------·-. 
NSIDER 
~HE 

Tuesday, October 30, 2001 vnSERVER Boston College 21, Notre Dame 17 

Opportunity crushed 
Irish dominqte possession battle, but fail to capitalize 
on scoring opportunities 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Ediror 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. 

The Irish thought it was over. Then ihey had one more chance to bring home the win. After that, it really was over. 
In their 21-17 loss to Boston College, it wasn't opportunity that the Irish lacked. They just couldn't capitalize. 
In the course of the game, the Irish had four missed scoring opportunities. Three of those opportunities -opportunities that ended in a fumble, a failed fourth down conversion attempt and a sack -came in the final 15 minutes of the game and sent the Irish home 3-4. 
"We gave ourselves a chance to win at the end of the game," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "... Then at the end we kind of couldn't get it done. We couldn't get it done." 
Facing a fourth-and-two situa­tion from the Boston College 17 ­yard line with 3:13 left in the game, Notre Dame quarterback Carlyle Holiday threw an incom ­plete pass to tight end Gary Godsey in the end zone and the Irish turned the ball over on downs. 
"Hindsight is 20/20, I should have asked Bob for a timeout, regrouped, and got a better call in," said Irish offensive coordi­nator Kevin Rogers. "We should have kicked a field goal and won the game -shoulda, coulda, woulda." 
Boston College took possession with just over three minutes left and it looked like it was over for the Irish. 
But it wasn't. 
With a little over two minutes remaining in the game, Eagle tailback William Green, who dominated play with 27 2 total offensive yards, was hit by Irish linebacker Tyreo Harrison and fumbled the ball on the Boston College 43. Harrison recovered the fumble and returned the ball to the 35-yard line, giving the Irish one final scoring opportu­nity. 
But once again, they couldn't capitalize. After Holiday, who rushed for 109 yards on 22 car­ries, left the game with a bruised right knee sustained on the first play of the drive, back­up Matt LoVecchlo stepped in at quarterback. 
The Irish converted once on fourth down when Lovecchio completed a pass to wide ·receiv­er Arnaz Battle. But two short gains and an incomplete pass later, it was fourth down again and the Irish needed a touch­down. As LoVecchio rolled out to pass, Boston College's Sean Guthrie sacked LoVccchio for a loss of nine yards and Notre Dame's fate was sealed. 
"Once [the fumbleJ happens you think you have the chance to win, God gave you the oppor­tunity ... you think hey, you're gonna take it this far as its gonna be if its meant to be," Harrison said. ''I guess it just wasn't meant to be." 
The Irish just couldn't capital­ize despite dominating the time of possession battle. Notre Dame controlled the ball for 40:15, compared to only 19:45 for Boston College and recorded 23 first downs; the Eagles only had 
14. But time of possession didn't write the story. Capitalizing on opportunities did. Notre Dame didn't capitalize, Boston College did. 
"We didn't win and that's the whole focus. We just want to go out there and play well enough just to win," Irons said. "And the opportunities, some of them we didn't capitalize on and Boston College did and all credit goes to them. They did a good job capi­talizing." 
Green made the opportunities for the Eagles. The junior run­ning back scored two of the Eagles' three touchdowns and became the first player in Boston College history to rush for 1,000 yards or more in two seasons. 
"He's a difference maker," said Boston College head coach Tom O'Brien. "He told me tonight that he was going to have the best game of his life, and I said, 'Calm down a little bit."' 
Green grabbed the Eagles' first touchdown with 1:47 left in the first quarter on a 71-yard run and tied the score at 14 with a 70-yard touchdown reception from quarterback Brian St. Pierre early in the third quarter. 
"You can't give a guy 70-yard runs and 70-yard passes and expect to shut the guy down," said Irish defensive coordinator Greg Mattison. "You got to give him credit, he's a great back. He's fast and he's explosive. He did a great job." 
Both Irish touchdowns came 

PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer Notre Dame quarterback Carlyle Holiday is swarmed by a pair of Boston College defenders dur­ing Notre Dame's 21-17 loss Saturday. Holiday led the Irish with 109 rushing yards. 
off of interceptions. After Irish the first half to give the Irish a ing for 155 yards, to wide defensive end Grant Irons 14-7 lead. receiver Jamal Burke. recorded his first career inter-Kicker Nicholas Setta made a On their first possession of the ception, Holiday completed a 21-42-yard field goal in the third game, the Irish drove down the yard pass to tailback Julius quarter to put the Irish on top field to the 22-yard line, but Jones in the end zone for his 17-14. Setta missed the 32-yard field first career touchdown pass. The Eagles got their final goal attempt -the first field 
A Vontez Duff interception touchdown on their first posses-goal he has missed all season. allowed tight end John Owens to sion of the fourth quarter on 20­catch Holiday's 6-yard pass with yard pass from St. Pierre, who Contact Katie McVoy at less than a minute remaining in fmished the game 7-of~16 pass-mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


player of the game  quote of the game  slat of the game  
William Green Boston College'sjunior tailback rushed/or I95 yards -averaging seven yards a carry ­including a 7I~  "!Green isl a difference maker. He told me tonight he was going to have the best game ofhis life and I said,  141 yards Combined total yards on both of Green's touchdowns -the  
yard touchdown run. He also caught the 70-yard touchdown pass when he came out ofthe backfield  'Calm down a bit.,,, Tom O'Brien  longest two touchdowns of his career.  
It's surprising he's not in the Heisman hunt.  Boston College head coach  

Tuesday, October 30, 2001

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
quarterbacks: Once again, H.oliday led B+the Irish in total rushing yards. He didn't look as good throwing the ball, 
often underthrowing his receivers. 
B-
running backs: While Jones led all run­ning backs with 87 yards, his fumble in the fourth quarter killed the Irish 
scoring drive. Howard should have 
had more carries. 

receivers: Generally, the receivers made8 the catches to convert third downs. However, when Hunter bobbled a pass, it resulted in an interception. 
B-
offensive line: They only gave up two sacks, but one of them was the sack of Lovecchio that ended the game. Holiday 
was under pre.ssure all night. 
D+ 
defensive line: Green simply ran right through an Irish front four that was pushed around all night long and 
didn't even record a sack. Irons' 
interception saves this grade. 
B+ 
linebackers: The linebackers com­bined to make 15 tackles. Harrison's. forced fumble was by far the defen­
sive highlight of the night. 
C 
secondary: Dykes played a key role in Green's touchdowns by being out of 
position both times. Duff made a nice interception, but the Irish simply didn't cover receivers in the second half. 
special teams: Setta's first missed field 
C+ 
goal came at the wrong time, and it came back to haunt the Irish. Hildbold 
B 
didn't do anything special punting, and the return game was a non-factor. coaching: Despite Rogers' question­able fourth-and-two call, it wasn't the coaches' fault the Irish lost. They 
had a good game plan in place -the players screwed up. 
2.67 
overall: The coaches had a good game plan, but this loss was the players' fault. · 
adding up the numbers 
number of Notre Dame player who suffered concussions during pre­
1 

game warmups -starting nose guard Andy Wisne 
4 
Noire Dame players who threw pass­es in Saturday's game -Holiday, 
Givens, Jones, and Lovecchio 
difference in time 

2o30 
possession, with the : Irish having the edge 
9 
consecutive field goals Setta made before shanking a 32-yard kick in 
the first quarter 

consecutive night games the Irish 
8 
have lost under Davie's tenure 

16 
consecutive games in October Davie had won before losing 
Saturday 

times that the raucous home crowd 
1 

was standing during the game -and it wasn't during halftime for the band 
7 
floors in the football parking garage located 100 yards from Alumni field -all filled with happy tailgaters 
IRISH INSIGHT 

CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. Two teams. Two sty !es of play. Two results. 
One team called conservative running plays and looked sloppy throwing the 
ball. They fum­bled the football with the game on the line and their offense spent more time in the locker room at half­time than they 


did with the ball Andrew Soukup during the game. That 
Associate 

team won. 
Sports Editor 

The other team called cre­ative plays and dominated the stat sheets. That team lost. 
"It's just agiazing right now." Notre Dame tight end Gary Godsey said. "We played well. our defense played hard, it's amazing that we lost." 
One team wanted to throw early, but they couldn't. Instead, Boston College gave the ball to their star tailback, who single-handedly accounted for 262 of his team's 354 yards. It was obvious and it was predictable. But they scored 21 points. 
The other team established and carried an effective game plan. Notre Dame wanted to control the clock, and they did. For the first time all season, they utilized play­action plays that completely fooled the defense. And they only scored 17 points. 
Statistically. there's no way the lrish should have lost. They con­trolled the ball 20 minutes longer than the Eagles, picked up nine more first downs and ran nearly twice as many plays. 
But as Notre Dame offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said, "Statistics are for losers." 
And after Saturday's game, all the Irish are left with are a bunch of statistics and another loss. 
It's easy to explain why Boston College won. An underrated tail­back named William Green dragged Irish defenders all over the field the entire night. On his first touchdown, he burst through a hole big enough for Bob Davie's moving truck. On his second touch­down -a play where he came out of the backfield and still caught the ball 20 yards downfield -he sim­ply outsprinted Donald Dykes and Courtney Watson, leaving them staring at the No. 1 on Green's back as they lay on the Astroturf. 
It's also easy to explain why the Irish lost. Despite a dominant sta­tistical advantage in several offen­sive categories, the Irish lost because they simply missed their opportunities to win. And they had plenty. 
Early in the fourth quarter. David Givens took a handoff, ran to the right side of the field, and heaved the ball downfield to a wide-open Javin Hunter, a brilliant call that fooled Boston College's defense. But Givens waited too long to throw, giving defenders a chance to catch Hunter. Instead of a touch­down, Hunter was tackled. Three plays later, Julius Jones fumbled. 
Then, with 3:15 left in the game and the Irish facing fourth-and-two on the Boston College 17, Rogers called for a play that gave Holiday an option of passing to the tight end or running for a first down ­the same play Owens scored on earlier in the game. But this time, when Holiday rolled out, three Eagle defenders were in his way. He threw a pass into double-cover­age to Godsey, who hadn't caught a pass since high school. The pass was batted down in the end zone ­15 yards more than the Irish need­ed. Even Holiday didn't know why the Irish threw the ball instead of running. 
"Hindsight is 20/20," Rogers said. "I should have asked Bob for a timeout, regrouped, and got a bet­ter call in." 
Then, after Green's fumble sent him off the field in tears, the Irish had one last chance. But when Holiday hobbled off the field with an injury, Notre Dame's chances went with him. 
"We had an opportunity to win the game," said Shane Walton. "We had a chance to win it the whole game. It hurts." 
When the Irish lost to Nebraska, they were angry. When the Irish lost to Michigan State, they were frustrated. When the Irish lost to Texas A&M, they were crushed. 
But when the Irish lost to Boston College, they were befuddled. 
Godsey looked shell-shocked. Holiday was frustrated. Grant Irons didn't have an explanation. 
"Nobody is going to feel sorry for us," Davie said. 
The statistics were in their favor. They did what they wanted to do. Their game plan worked. They just didn't win. 
Two teams. One celebrating. One scratching its head. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. The opinions of this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Tuesday, October 30, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Defensive stand keeps Green from being goat 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports W ricer 
CHESTNUT HILL. Mass. 

Had William Green's fourth quarter fumble Saturday turned into an Irish game-win­ning score, the irony would have left a bitter taste for the junior running back. 
After accounting for 195 of 199 Boston College rushing yards, scoring two touchdowns and breaking the 1,000-yard rushing barrier for the season, ·.• the muddled hand-off from t Brian St. Pierre could have been disastrous. 
And Green placed all the blame on himself. 
"The hand-off isn't an excuse. It was my fault. I fum­bled," he said. 
In an instant, the momentum swung to Notre Dame's favor. .... With the Irish trailing by four, Green's fumble handed Notre Dame a gift: the ball deep in Eagle territory with the clock ticking away and the winning touchdown just 35 yards away. 
And as the Irish pushed the ball lo the 20-yard line in five plays, the scene was too much for Green to bear -so much that he couldn't even watch. 
"I was on the verge of tears," Green said. "Brian [St. Pierre] told me to turn around and we took a walk up to the other end zone." 
But lucky for Green, he wasn't the victim of bitter irony. 
"Then I heard the crowd," Green said. 
A sold-out Alumni Stadium crowd of 44,500 exploded after Eagle defensive end Sean Guthrie sacked Irish backup quarterback Matt Lovecchio on fourth-and-seven to secure Alumni Stadium was reminis­"It's every defense's dream the game," Guthrie said. "It third time since the 1998 sea­the 21-17 Eagle win. cent of a scene three years to win a game on a fourth­has been on our minds. It pro­son, while Notre Dame, with 
But after shouldering the before. The same teams suited down stop with no time on the pelled us through that next three of its last four gamesburden of creating most of the up, there were similar circum­clock," Guthrie said. season." against ranked opponents, is Eagle's offense, Green's one stances near the end of the What was Notre Dame's The 1998 Irish win put in danger of finishing the sea­misstep could have cost his game, but the outcome was dream in 1998 became its another nail into Boston son under .500. And it's a bit­team the game and he knew it. the opposite. nightmare in 2001. College's coffin, as the Eagles ter taste for the Irish. 
"I can't say enough about Just the Irish defense put on And while Guthrie was too record plummeted to a dismal "It's tough and that's what I the defense." Green said. a stellar show by making a · busy sacking Lovecchio to 3-6. while the Irish improved talked to our players about," "They kept me out of the crazy goal-line stand three years ago realize the similarities of the to 7-1 and eventually ended up Irish head coach Bob Davie house." to stop the Eagles from scoring situation to his freshman year, in the Gator Bowl. said. "Nobody's going to feel 
Instead, Green handed the the game-winning touchdown the 1998 game was on his But this year, the tables sorry for us." Notre Dame coaching staff and with just seconds on the clock, mind before the game even were turned. This time the Irish seniors the burden of it was Boston College's turn started. around, it was Boston Collegeanother missed opportunity. for a defensive show of its "That fourth-and-one play which improved to 6-2 and Contact Kerry Smith at 
The scene Saturday at own. ran through my mind before became bowl-eligible for the Smith.387@nd.edu. 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

Boston College tailback William Green explodes through the line of scrimmage during one of his 28 carries. Green scored two touch­downs and averaged seven·yards a carry, but his fumble at the end of the game gave Notre Dame one last scoring opportunity. 
AP poll scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
scoring team record points 1 Miami (55) 6-0 1,783 Notre Dame 7 7 3 0 17 
summary 1 Miami (46) 6-0 1,486 2 Nebraska (17) 9-0 1,745 7 0 7 7 21 
2 Nebraska (14) 9·0 1,454
1st
Boston College 

3 Florida 6·1 1,3083 Oklahoma 7-1 1,596 
ND -Z:56 4 Florida 6-1 1,587 
Jones 21-yd. pass lrom 4 Oklahoma 7-1 1,263
team statistics ND BC 
Holiday 

5 Texas 7-1 1,2595 Texas 7-1 1,522 
Setla kick. 7-0

6 Michigan 6-1 1,374 first downs 23 14 
6 Michigan 6·1 1,186
BC -1:24 

7 Tennessee 5-1 1,323 rushes-yards 59-233 31-199 
Graen 71-yd. run 7 Tennessee 5-1 1,112 McMylar kick, 7-7 
8 BYU 8-0 999 9 UCla 6-1 1,214 comp-att-int 12-24·1 7-16·2 
8 Oregon 7-1 1,218 passing yards 116 155 
9 Oregon 7-1 963 
2nd

10 Stanford 5-1 1,074 10 Washington 6•1 953
total return yards 6-69 5-74 
ND -0:09

11 Washington 6·1 1,012 
11 UCLA 6·1 936
punts-yards 4·155 4·173 
Owem, 5-yd. pass from

12 Virginia Tech 6·1 981 12 Virginia Tech 6-1 925
Holiday

fumbles-lost 4-1 1-1
13 BYU 8-0 972 
Setla kl~k. 14-7 13 Stanford 5-1 719
penalties-yards 5-38 6-51
14 Florida State 5·2 822 
14 Florida State 5·2 704 15 Maryland 7-1 659 time of possession 40:15 19:45 
15 Purdue 5·1 541 16 Washington Stale 7-1 605 
16 Maryland 7-1 510 17 South Carolina 6·2 598 individual statistics 
17 Texas A&M 7-1 411
3rd 

18 Georgia 5-2 462 
18 Illlnols 6·1 402
BC -11:35 -~
passing

19 Syracuse 7-2 459 Graen 70-yd. pass from 19 Washington State 7-1 386 ND -Holiday 8-17·1, Lovecchio 3-5-0, Givens 1-1-0, Jones 0-1-0 
St. Pierre 20 South Carolina 6-2 36020 Purdue 5-1 428 
BC -SI. Pierre 7·16·2 
McMyler kick, 14·14

21 lllinols 6-1 406 
21 Georgia Tech 5-2 330
ND -1:30

22 North Carolina 5·3 319 rushing 
Seltil 42-yd. FG, 17-14 22 Syracuse 7-2 286 23 Georgia Tech 5-2 316 ND -Holiday 22-109, Jones 23-87, Howard 9-35, Loplenskl 2-7 

23 Georgia 5-2 239 24 Texas A&M 71 279 BC -Green 28-195, SI. Pierre 3-4 
24 Clemson 5-2 160 25 Colorado 6·2 218 receiving 
4th 

25 Colorado 6-2 145 BC -12:32
ND -Hunter 3-46, Jones 3-27, Givens 3-21, Battle 2-17, Owens 1-5 
Bur1ca 20-yd. pass fromother leading vote getters: Mississippi 200, BC -Burke 3·45, Green 2-67, Dewalt 1-30, Ryan 1-13 
St. Plarra other leading vote getters: Mississippi 103, Auburn 110, Clemson 32, Michigan State 21, 
McMyler kick, 17-21 North Carolina 103, Aubum 81, Louisville 68,
tackles 

Louisville 19, Fresno State 17, NOTRE DAME O Marshall 46, Boston College 28, NOTRE DAME 0ND -Harrison 6, Dykes 6, Bolman 5, Watson 4, 3 others with 3 BC -Ott 10, Garay 9, Bradley 7, Bessette 6, Parent 5, Walls 5 
£"\IHE 

Boston College 21, Notre Dame 17 VtiSERVER Tuesday, October 30, 200 l 
-
,,. 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 
Notre Dame defensive end Grant Irons intercepts a pass from 
Boston College quarterback Brian St. Pierre during the first quarter, 
setting up Carlyle Holiday's 21-yard touchdown pass to Julius Jones. 
PETER RICHARDSONfThe Observer 

Notre Dame tailback Terrance Howard is wrapped up as he carries the ball during Saturday's loss. Howard finished the game with nine carries for 35 yards. 
MISSING OUT 
It's not as if they didn't have the chance to win the game. But Jones 
fumbled a pitch, Holiday's fourth-and-two pass to Godsey was broken 
up and LoVecchio's last-ditch drive ended in a sack, and the Eagles 
handed the Irish a 21-17 loss, their fourth of the season. Green's two 
long touchdowns more than made up for Notre Dame's significant 
time of possession advantage. 


O
THE BSERVER 


Tuesday, October 30, 2001 page 15 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Jane's Addiction fuse rock and sexuality 
no-holds-barred showman. His By DAVE FULTON 
outfits were outlandish -he Scene Music Crirk 
wore everything from i.l.n enor­mous dress to a tight red leisure 
In tlw lat(' 1960s, Jim Morrison radiat(1d suit to a coonskin rap to nothing a rnmbination of sf\xuality an<l ambiguity al. all bu!. his brief.s. during Tlw Doors' .live iwrformances. Farrell takes what hP does Now. :rn yP,lrS sinct• tht, death of tlw seriously. but not so seriously Lizard King. snxuality and rock ·n· roll still that he becomes a caricature. go togt>tlwr lik11 pt>anut buttPr anrl jelly. During tho pPrformanr:P, Farrdl l'nrry Farrnll and Jam''s Addiction µroved pranced, strutted and posed on 
. ..,,
that onrP again Sunday night at thP. the stage in absolutf' ambiguity. :\llstatf' Arena in Chirago. Onr minute he seemed as mas­
On th11ir sPcond rnunion tour in f'ive ,uline as John Wavne. and then, years. the band olfored a sPxual spertad<J almost instantanP<;usly, hf' oozed as wr,ll as a rehashing of old warhorses feminine chararteristics tlrnt and weaker nPw solo material. lluring the would mHkP evrn Audrry lat(' 1980s and f:arlv 1990s, J ai1r's Hepburn seem savage. He was Addirtion was on<' of tl;n most innovative both yin and yang, good and evil .tnd original bands who also playBd a large transforming into a sexual part in digging tlw gn1vP;, u!' numr.rous Christ-like figurn preaching "Sex ·sos hair nwta! acts. Thev created the is violent" to thousands disciples I.Dll;lpalooza l'Pstival as a i·arewcll tour. in "Ted ... Just Admit It." which ope1rnd tlrn door for other such fes­Jane's Addiction filled the tivals as Lilith Fair, Ozzfest, 11.0.H.D.E. show with classics from 1988's and handfuls or others. Their sound was Nothings Shocking and 1990's an intf:resting blend of Led Zeppelin sized Hitual de lo Habitual adding sub­riffs. aggression that rivaled the Sex tie nuances to each song in 
Proving they haven't lost a single step over the past few decades, the spectacle of a Jane's
Pistols. thr. funkiness of James Brown and order to keep them fresh while 
Addiction show remains one of the most sensual and exciting shows in rock 'n' roll. 
an atmosphere that mirrored The Doors.  maintaining the essence that  
They sounded no different on Sunday  made the songs great. A super- 
night. Opr.ning the show with "Kettle v\'histle," a song from 1997's album of the same name. Farrell gave hints of what was to rome. EmPrging bare-chested in a flowing, parachute-sized dress containing five writhing dancers underneath, Farrell  charged "Stop" was a blitzkrieg on the senses leaving the audience feeling as if a speeding train had just blasted it. "Three Days" was played as an epic journey through delicate psychedelia and chest-pounding distortion back to the 1960s as Farrell led the five dancers in a  pany played an acoustic set on a scaled down stage at the back of the floor area. "Classic Girl" and "Jane Savs" sent the almost capacity crowd into·a frenzy as Farrell encouraged the audience to join in singing. He toasted the crowd and sipped on what appeared to be a glass of the  a brilliant lighting set up gave a sensual, warm red glow to the stage. Laser lights darted spastically throughout the crowd as Farrell and one of the dancers swung in a merry-go-round-like swing flying faster and faster and higher and higher before Farrell's body turned limp and collapsed  
wasn't trying to be a rork God. he was the  snake-like coil slithering around the stage.  highly potent green liquor. Absinthe. The  at the song's climactic closing.  
rock God. With a sly smile on his face. he extnndPd his arms up to thP sky gazing out  vVhile Jane's Addiction have not released a  Guitarist Dave 1',;avarro -tattooed, shirtless and nipple-pierced ­brought the song to its dramatic  band, however, lost much of the momen­tum the first set had built when Farrell and Navarro each played a song from their recent solo albums. The songs were  While Jane's Addiction have not released a collective effort of all new mate­rial in 11 years, the band remains as fresh and exhilarating as ever. For some critics,  
into tlw crowd likn a  collective effort ofall  conclusion with a furious  unnecessary and weak, especially in the  the band has turned into a washed up  
shaman in a peyotr, tntn<'f: ThP fivP dann•rs rr.n\'lt'd out  new material in 11 years, the band  roller-coaster ride solo. lie was in perfert form, playing with the passion  context of classic Jane's Addiction num­bers. The band did manage to regain momen­ tribute act to their former selves only per­forming for the money. But to call them a nostalgia act would be a great misnomer  
l'rom llw silky matf•rial  remains as fresh and  of an old bluesman, exe­ tum when retaking the main stage with  and undercut everything they have given  
in nothing mon' than f'ishnPl stockings. nip­ exhilarating as ever.  ruting speed and preri­sion as his guitar cried  "Mountain Song" and "Ted It."  ...  Just Admit  to the music world. New material or not, the spectacle of  
plP  tassPls.  thong  and squealed. Stephen  "Ted," the highlight of the evening. was  their live performances of rlassics is  
undi!nv1:ar and high  Perkins' hammered out  transformed into  a  12 minute  opus  enough to carry the band. Considering the  
h(wls. Th<; dancers proceeded to crawl  blasts of drums that kept the song chug­ describing the desensitization of modern  downward spiral popular music has taken  
around. grab and worship Farrell as his lwlium-lih voicP -probably one of the  ging forward while bassist Martyn LeNoble (a substitute for original bassist  society. The highly chaotic song spewed sexuality as the scantily clad dancers  since the death of the Lizard King; espe­cially the recent boy band craze, the very  
most u niq uc voices in rock  -pierred  Eric Averv. who chose not to tour) main­ writhed and groped in whaCappeared to  fact that Jane's Addiction are still per­ 
through thP arena with amazing clarity.  tained the song's groove with a slinky bass  be a mock orgy, an ironic twist to the con­ forming and performing well is a breath of  
Farrell is without a  doubt one of the  line.  tent of the song. Perkins' thunderous  fresh air.  
most <1xfiting frontmen in rnusir today.  In a move beroming more and more  drumbeats enhanced the feeling of barely  
Onstage. lw was an intense free spirit, a  common for bands to do, Farrell and com- controlled chaos the song emanated while  Contact Dave Fulton at dfulton@nd.edu  



.··•· 

•··. ,.,,. ~····.
•,of81aes
···,..>· ., 

·.· e-iofi11111e$ 
,, ,, ..... •••·· . e, 
llov•.6 
IIDY. 1•8 Noy. ti Dec. aa 
Nov. 10 Now. 12 Nov. 18 
Nov. •• 
Nov.13. 

.. page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
NFL 
Patriots' Cox vows revenge 
Aosociatcd Press 
FOXBORO, Mas.s. 

Even as he was sitting on the Denver turf. felled with a broken leg, New England Patriots line­backer Bryan Cox was looking around for the culprit who put him there. 
As he was walking off the field. Cox found Broncos lineman Dan Neil. 
"I was too far away to hear, but knowing Bryan, I know what he would say," New England line­backer Tedy Bruschi said Monday, a day after Cox was injured in the Patriots' 31-20 loss to Denver. "Any player would be angry." 
In the third quarter of Sunday's game, Cox came across the field in motion, and Neil followed soon after. As Cox went after the ball­carrier, Neil dove, apparently landing on Cox's left foot and pulling his body down with his right leg at an awkward angle. 
While trainers attended to him, Cox was looking around the field for Neil. As he walked off the field, Cox was screaming. 
On Sunday, Cox vowed to take out his revenge on Neil if they ever played again, saying, "If I ever play football again and I play against that guy, he's going to have a blown-out knee .... He had the audacity to ask me if I am OK. I am not OK." 
On Monday. Cox arrived in the Patriots locker room on crutches, with his right leg in a cast and his temper no less inflamed. 
"I had a couple of experiences with that guy before," Cox said. 'Tm going to get him. I don't care how long it takes. I'm going to get him." 
No penalty was called on the play. 

"It was a clip. There's no doubt about it," said Patriots coach Bill Belichick, who said he wanted the league to review the tape for a possible fine against Neil. "I have a lot of respect for Mike Shanahan. He's one of the best coaches in the game. I can't imag­ine that's what he was looking for." -
Shanahan defended Neil after watching the play dozens of times Monday. 
"I'm not even sure if he hits him," Shanahan said. "He jumps over Dan, and he breaks his leg on the playing field. It wasn't the cut. It was him jumping over Dan Neil to avoid the cut block. So I think when he takes a look at that film, I'm not even sure if there's con­tact." 
Last week, Broncos offensive tackle Matt Lepsis was fined $15,000 for a low block that broke the left ankle of San Diego defen­sive lineman Maa Tanuvasa. 
Shanahan said he would be sur­prised if Neil is fined. Cox wasn't optimistic that Neil would be penalized because, he said, the NFL doesn't care about protecting him. 
"The league's always talking about protecting people in a defenseless position," Cox said. "If that wasn't defenseless, I don't know what is." 
Cox said doctors told him the injury was not going to end his season, a special concern for the 33-year-old veteran of 11 NFL seasons. Belichick said he won't know how long Cox will be out until he sees what happens over the next two weeks; putting Cox on injured reserve would end his season. 
WORLD SERIES 

Clemens to start tonight 
Associated Press 

Squirming in a World Series corner after two losses in Arizona, the New York Yankees turn to a 39-year-old pitcher with a cranky ham­string who hasn't won in 41 days. 
This, though, isn't any old pitcher. This is Roger Clemens, equipped with a 20­3 regular-season record that almost certainly will translate into a sixth Cy Young Award. 
The problem is Clemens enters Tuesday night's game winless in six starts since Sept. 19 with three losses and three no-decisions over the last six weeks. 
He had two 
3. 

"As far as the physical stuff, you never are really going to know until he goes out there," Torre said. "However, we feel good enough about him to have pitched him in Game 3, because if we felt that he was not able to pitch a Game 7. we would have pitched him in Game 4." 
The road to a Game 7 has to start in Game 3 for a Yankees team caught in an 0­2 hole and knowing that no team has ever come back from 0-3 to win a World Series. 
Clemens relishes the assignment. 
"Physically, I feel great," he 
said. ''I'll 
know how 
losses and a "Physically, I feel great. it goes no-decision in e a c h
I'll know how it goes each 
the final weeks inning I 
of the season, inning I pitch. I plan on pitch. I 
then lost Game going as hard and as plan on 1 of the going as
long as I can and
American hard and 
League division hopefully longer" as long as series against I can and Oakland, corn­hopefully
Roger Clemens 
ing out in the longer.
Yankees pitcher

fifth inning The stami­
when his right hamstring began hurting. He worked into the fifth of the decisive Game 5 of that series and got no decision. 
Against Seattle in the American League champi­onship series, he came out after five innings of Game 4, again with no decision. That extended his career postsea­son record to 5-6 with a 3.57 earned run average in 19 starts, rather ordinary for a pitcher whose dossier includes 280 victories. 
Still, manager Joe Torre is entirely comfortable handing the ball to Clemens for Game na and my 
strength have felt great. My pitches and my stuff was plenty good enough to go deep into the (last) game." 
Overwhelmed in the first two games by Curt Schilling artd Randy Johnson, the Yankees must find some offense against left-hander Brian Anderson, who will be making his first World Series start. Anderson was 4-9 in the regular season and his record pales alongside Clemens accomplishments. 
Clemens sees the Yankees situation as a challenge, to him as well as the team. 
"I hope it's a challenge we all look forward to," he said. "We knew what we were fac­ing out there and those guys threw the ball exceptionally well. I think all the guys look forward to being back at home and look forward to the challenge of trying to make this somewhat of a series." 
Clemens' postseason career has been a series of up and downs. He pitched the Yankees' clincher in the 1999 sweep against Atlanta and had a one-hitter in the ALCS against Seattle last year, his only complete game in 19 postseason starts. He also was the loser in a 13-1 rout against Boston in the 1999 ALCS and got hammered in a 11-1 loss against Oakland in last year's division series. 
Then there was Game 2 of the World Series against the New York Mets last year when he threw a splintered bat at Mike Piazza, an episode that resulted in a $50,000 fine. 
Still, the Yankees expressed a sense of confidence about having him on the mound. 
"He's been our horse," catcher Jorge Posada said. "To have Rocket going is a good feeling. The days off have helped him. I know he's looking forward to getting on the mound." 
And Clemens liked the idea of being the main man in this crisis. 
"I enjoy the opportunity just to pitch," he said. "I mean whether I'm ailing or not feel­ing great, I still enjoy the challenges. I enjoy the oppor­tunity everytime to go out there because I know guys are counting on me and it goes back to the work you do and your focus and all those things that we talk about." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South ~ining Hall. Deadline for nexe-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge 1s 3 cenes per character per day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves the eight co edit all classifieds for content withoue issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
$300-$800 Scholarships  HOPING TO ADOPT  
FOR RENT  WANTED  TICKETS  PERSONAL  Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you  We are a fun-loving, well educated and financially secure married cou•  
work around your school schedule?  pie in Northern California. We are  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM•  Student wanted! Alum owned 2  Student needs 2 tickets for  SPRING BREAK  We have several part-time and full­ homestudy approved and excited to  
PUS  story, 5 bdr, 2 bth wt newer carpet.  Tennessee game.  time day & evening positions paying  share our love with a bay!  You can  
mmmrentals.com  Appl, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1  Call Matt at  Largest selection of Spring Break  $7-$11/hr.  learn more about us at www.parent•  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  blkN.ofClub23. 321-217-8451.  634-1854.  Destinations, including Cruises!  We offer the following:  profiles.corn/proliles/db2288.html or  
Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  'Scholarship money  call Adoption Connection toll-free at  
-:...  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Houses available for 3-6 students.  Need 2 tickets for Tennessee.  Call  Free trips available.  'Flexible Schedules  1-800-972-9225 and ask about  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air.  Janel at 284-4438  www. EpicuRRean.com  'Paid vacations/holidays  Chris an.d Mary.  
for footbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms  Dave  1-800-231-4-FUN  'Optional Saturdays  
with private baths, $80-$115,  340-0106.  BUY-SELL  'Health/Life/401 (k)  Hey Geoff, I'll do whatever you do.  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  ND FOOTBALL  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  'Incentives/Raises  
Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418·  Black female seeking same for  TICKETS  Sun Coast Vacations wants to send  •supervisory/Mg!. Positions  Princess Pooper has been rescued.  
9487  roommate Castle Point. $350 +  277-6619  you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  Thank goodness! What a disaster!  
Deposit.  or 273-3911  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  1-(888) 801-JOBS  
B&B  FOR FREE!  jobs@americallcorp.com  OHNO!  
2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES  Responsible person who enjoys  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX  To find out how, call 1-888-777­ Just minutes north of campus  
2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124  kids needed for after school.  FOR SALE  4642  2 Worst jokes go to Mark, with a  
Monday through Friday 4-7 PM.  or email:  "*ACT NOWl Guarentee the best  last-second effort on the ride back  
Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45  Need own car. Call 272-6145.  A.M. 232-2378  sales@suncoastvacations.com  spring break pricesl South Padre,  to ND.  
minutes from Notre Dame. T&R  P M. 288-2726  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Mardi  
INN Between the lakes  Fun promotional jobs  Spring Break with STS, America's  Gras, Acapulco, Florda & Madrigas.  The rest of the bad joke awards are  
PH (616) 244-9084  $10/hr to give away coot new prod- ND FOOTBALL  #1 Student Tour Operator.  Reps needed.  handed lo Laura  
www.innbetweenthelakes.com  ucts  TIX WANTED  Promote trips on campus earn cash  Travel free, earn$$$. Group dis­ 
promogirt.com  and free trips. Info/Reservations  count for 6+, 800-838-8203  Who is otherwise known as  
Nice homes next school year north  A.M. -232-2378  1-800-648-4849  www,leisuretours.com  Princess Poker  
of ND.  Great area.  277-3097  P M -288-2726  
FOR SALE  www.ststravel.com  ADOPTION IS LOVE  And violater, and Miss  
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE  ND tickets  Inappropriate and ...  
SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT  Northsore condo, 1428 Marigold  for sale.  Fraternities'Sororities·c1ubs'Stude  Imagine your precious baby safe  
NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME  way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR  Lowest prices.  nt Groups  and happy in a loving family,  I miss our fat l~tle sausage.  
VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS  & kitchen with i:lPPliances. 1 car  232-0964.  Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester  adored by 2 ND grad parents (a lull- 
BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER- garage. $69,000.  with the easy  time mom and lawyer dad) and lov- And I rock at HORSE and MOOSE  
ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR  WANTED -ND TICKETS  campusfundraiser.com three hour  ing playmates in a beautiful home.  and BEATBC and BABY ... gotta  
MORE INFORMATION PLEASE  Call Doris at  289-9280  lundraising event. Does not involve  We promise to give your child the  love the deck shock  
CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243­ 254-1772  credit card applications.  life you dream of for them. Medical,  
4244 (X4192)  Buying some/  Fundraising dates are filling quickly,  legal, counseling, court.-approved  But Mark lost to make me feel  
Selling Varsity Club time share 1  Selling a few extra  so call todayl  living expenses pd. Confidential.  good.  I know.  
Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad.  soph. wk. $9,500  N.D. Football Tickets.  Contact campusfundraiser.com at  Please call our attorney at  
weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn.. 219­ 888 923-3238, or visit www.cam- I love my twin. Especially when she  
277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com  272-1753  219-289-8048.  pusfundraiser.com  {708) 922-4795  sings Shania.  

Tuesday, October 30, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Nebraska takes BCS lead 
Associated Prc.ss 
Even with a loss, Oklahoma is still the choice over Miami in the Bowl Championship Series com-. puter -but just barely. 
Nebraska (9-0) replaced Oklahoma in first place in the Bowl Championship Series stand­ings Monday after its 20-10 victory over the Sooners. Despite Saturday's loss, Oklahoma (7-1) was second, .12 ahead of Miami (6-0). 
The Hurricanes, ranked No. 1 in the AP media and USA Today/ESPN coaches' poll, moved from fourth to third after a 45-3 win over West Virginia on Thursday night. The Huskers and Sooners are ranked 2-3 in the AP media and coaches' polls. 
The BCS standings determine which teams play in the BCS' national championship game in the Rose Bowl on Jan. 3. The rankings are based on a formula that incorporates the AP media and coaches' polls, eight comput­ers, strength of schedule, won-lost record and bonus points for big wins. 
"Our players deserve to be rated very high and a lot of people feel we deserve to be No. 1 in the BCS poll," Nebraska coach Frank 

Best Pizza East of Anywhere! 
Large one Topping Pina
' see 

Get a2nd Large tor 
eoo 


PIZZA COMPANY® pizzadonerlght 
Solich said. "They earned it. We've played nine games and they have responded and won them all." 
In addition to Oklahoma, five other teams in last week's 15­team BCS standings lost over the weekend -UCI.A, Virginia Tech, Maryland, Washington State and South Carolina. 
Michigan (6-1) moved from sev­
271-1277 
enth to fourth place this week, 
with Texas (7-1) fifth and Stanford 
(5-1) up eight spots to sixth after 
its 38-28 upset ofUCI.A. 
Nebraska had 2.02 points in the 

BCS standings -2 for poll aver­
age, 1 for computer-rank average, 
0.32 for strength-of-schedule, zero for losses and a 1.3-point bonus deduction for beating Oklahoma. 
The bonus award -new this 

season -is based on a sliding 
scale from 1.5 points for beating a 
first-place team down to .1 for a 
win over the 15th-place team. The 
bonus is awarded after the first 
four elements are added. 
Without the bonus-point ele­

ment, Miami would have been sec­
ond and Oklahoma third -7.71 
points to OU's 8.69 points. 
Ironically, the bonus-point system 
was devised in the aftermath of 
Miami being left out of last year's 
title game in favor of Florida State, 
a team the Hurricanes beat during 
the season. 
Oklahoma had 7.59 points ­

3.5 for poll average, 3.83 for com­puter rank, .036 for strength of schedule, 1 for losses and a 1.1­point deduction for beating Texas earlier this season. 
Miami had 7.71 points -1 for poll average, 3.67 for computer rank, 3.04 for strength of sched­ule, zero for losses and zero bonus point deductions. 
SPRING BREAK 2002 

OLYMPICS 

Organizers add 
more security 
Associated Press 
Organizers once saw the 2002 Winter Olympics as a time of celebration, with ath­letes soaring and skating, peo­ple partying in the streets and no M-16-toting guards any­where in sight. 
Then came Sept. 11, and the Salt Lake Games would never be the same. 
With the games scheduled to start 100 days from Wednesday, Olympic organiz­ers who overcame scandal and financial problems now have just one overriding mission ­protecting 2,500 athletes and the fans who come to watch them. 
Unlike the bloody history of the Summer Games, the Winter Olympics have never been disrupted by terrorist attacks. If they are in Salt Lake City, those who are running them know well that both the city and the games may be for­ever scarred. 
"If you don't have a safe games, there's nothing you can do to redeem yourself," said Mitt Romney, who heads the Salt Lake Organizing Committee. 
About the only thing that will still be the same for 17 days in February is that the world's best skiers, skaters and jumpers will be competing for Olympic gold. 
But getting in to see them will now take more patience, and new security measures will mute some of the festivities that normally surround an Olympics. 
Some residents who were once proud their city landed the games are now fearful that they will become a target. 
"There are an awful lot of people that, if they can find a way to get out of town for three weeks, are out of here," attor­ney Bruce Baird said. "I think it is just dawning on people what it might be like." 
Indeed, the enduring image of the Feb. 8-24 games for those attending may be one of tall fences topped with razor wire and standing in long lines to empty pockets and purses into large plastic tubs for secu­rity checks. 
At the downtown high-rise ·where Baird has his office, workers were evacuated last week in a pre-Olympic drill. 
"The attacks have changed people's psyche. Nobody before thought it was possible," said Robert Flowers, who heads the Utah Olympic Public Safety Command, the security umbrella for the games. "We weren't talking about anthrax in Olympic-venues before. Now we are. It caused us to take some things more seriously." 
Before last month's terrorist attacks, Olympic security offi­cials thought they had built a strong, multifaceted plan at a cost of some $265 million. 
Now the tab is over $300 mil­
lion, thanks to the addition of 
2,000 National Guardsmen to 
help guard venues and materi­
als and the need to buy more 
metal detectors, security fences 
and surveillance equipment. 
Some 10,000 security per­sonnel will be on guard, out­numbering athletes 4-1. Another 5,000 SLOC workers will help guide ticket holders through metal detectors and other detection equipment and make sure they aren't carrying backpacks or other items that might conceal a weapon. 
In the sky, U.S. Customs heli­copters and radar planes will patrol, along with F-16s from nearby Hill Air Force Base. Extraordinary air security measures will likely include the closure of Salt Lake International Airport to air traffic during the opening and closing ceremonies and air­s pace restrictions at other times. 
On the streets, health offi­cials will have stocked up on antibiotics, and portable decontamination units will be ready to speed to venues should suspicious substances be found. 


NOW LEASING FOR THE 2002.-2.003 SCHOOL YEAR 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 
-2., 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, & 10 
BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS -WELL MAINTAINED HOMES -MANITENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674-2471 
... 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irlsh finish regular season 13-2-1 


low sophomore forward AmyByJOE UCANDRO Warner and the physical play 
Sports Writer 

of the other starting sopho­more forward Melissa 
Fall break handed the Irish Tancredi to accompany women's soccer teams some Guertin's adept touch in ups and downs as they fin­front of the net, the Irish ished their regular season have now established the play with a potent offense that coach 13-2-1 Randy Waldrum had been record. looking for all season. 
The week These three sophomore for­did not wards combined with the begin as stellar play and leadership of the Irish sophomore midfielder Randi would have Scheller, who scored the hoped, as Irish ·s first goal against they lost 3-Michigan Sunday, will 1 on the undoubtedly determine the r o a d offensive success of the Irish against their primary Big in the post season. East rival, No. 15 "Amanda deserves a
-. 
Connecticut Oct. 21. tremendous amount of credit 
However, the resilient Irish for her play over the last five would rebound in their last games," said Waldrum. "She two contests with a 2-0 road is starting to score the way win over Yale and a 2-1 she did last year for us. Now overtime home victory over that we have established No. 24 Michigan Sunday. Amy Warner and Melissa 
The Irish will now set their Tancredi as the starting for­sights on winning the Big ward tandem to work along-E a s t side Amanda, Tournament, Amanda has
"Amanda [Guertin] 
and in the been able to 
process, gar­deserves a tremendous really flour­
nering a top ish. Our
amount of credit for her 
seed in the offense is
play over the last five 
NCAA tour­doing well nament. games. now because With a full our forwards week of prac­have learned
Randy Waldrum
tice until to play
head coach
their opening together." 
round match against St. John's, the Irish should be able to fully recu­perate from the harsh rigors of the regular season and be poised to make another run at the Big East title. The Irish's 7-0 victory earlier this season against St. John's was their largest margin of victo­ry over an opponent, but Coach Randy Waldrum and the Irish know full well that they cannot underestimate any opponents in the post­season. 
"Even though we lost to Connecticut, I am extremely proud of the way this team has played over the last five games. Even in our loss, we clearly outplayed Connecticut. I think we have really turned things around in the last five games. We're all very upbeat about the post-season. I think we're ready." 
While the loss against Connecticut continued a dis­turbing trend for the Irish where they have outshot their opponents but failed to capitalize on their scoring opportunities, the Irish can take comfort that a star emerged on offense. 
Forward Amanda Guertin, a member of Notre Dame's rising sophomore class, has been on an impressive scor­ing streak notching a goal in each of her last five games. Over the last week, Guertin scored the lone goal for the Irish against Connecticut, both Irish goals against Yale, and the game winning over• time goal against Michigan. 
Guertin's emergence could not have come at a better time for the Irish because the Irish struggled all season to find a consistent and reliable scoring presence up front. With the blazing speed of fel-
The Irish 2­1 overtime victory against Michigan was in all-too familiar scene for the Irish, as they struggled on offense in the first half, only to score an early goal in the second half. Once again, the Irish would be unable to maintain their momentum and would relinquish their lead within the final twenty minutes of the game after giving up a goal to Michigan forward Abby Crumpton. 
While winning in overtime is not always the ideal way to win a soccer game, the Irish once again rose to the occa­sion in the extended time and refused to buckle under the pressure. Thanks to Guertin's quick reaction to an attempted Michigan clear off a crossing pass from Melissa Tancredi, the Irish would defeat Michigan in the 11th minute of overtime when Guertin's shot from six feet inside the goalie box found the back of the net. 
The Irish should be confi­dent in their abilities and proud of their accomplish­ments during the regular season as they look to make another run towards the Big East Championship. 
The Irish home victory against Michigan was a par­ticularly special game for the Irish as senior defenders Lindsey Jones and Monica Gonzales, midfielder Mia Sarkesian, forward Kelly Tulisiak and goalie Liz Wagner suited up for the final regular season game of their careers. 
This senior class has com­piled a record of 77-10-4 over the last four years, while also being a part of 4 regular season Big East Titles, 3 Big East tournament titles, 2 NCAA Final Fours, and one NCAA runner-up fin­ish. 
"These five seniors have meant so much to me person­ally because they really made it easy for me to come in as the coach three years ago," said Waldrum. "They were receptive towards me and my family right from the start. It has been a joy to watch all of the five seniors improve each year. They have been consummate team players and have been great role models for our younger play­
ers. Their legacy on this program will not be forgot­ten." 
Notes: 

. The Irish will host the St. John's Red Storm on Sunday at 1 p.m. The winner of that game will advance to the semifinals to be played at 5 
p.m. on Nov. 9 at Rutgers' Yurcak Field. 
. The Irish are currently ranked No. 8 in the country. But with a slew of upsets all over the country this past weekend, the Irish should move up in the polls and be in prime position to earn a top seed in the NCAA tourna­ment if they win the Big East Tournament. 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu. 

APARTMENTS 
Clevelund and lronll'ood Rum/sl/80/ I Clevelund Rund/ Su111!, (]end, Indiana -166371 (2 /9Jl72-8/ /0 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Se1nester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club 


SENIORS --This Halloween you'll want to be at the ... 
Alumni-Senior Club Halloween Party 
Costume Contest ~ Door Prizes -Giveaways 
Our Biggest Party ofthe Year!!! 
The fun begins at 9. 
Check out www.nd.edu/-asc for more info. As always, you must be 21 years old with a valid ID to enter . 
... 
Tuesday, October 30, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Vaughn may still stay with Angels 
· ter about the situation following
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Perhaps Mo Vaughn would feel OK about playing for the Anaheim Angels after all. 
Vaughn said in a recent radio interview he wanted to return to Boston, where he thrived with the Red Sox for eight seasons before signing a six-year, $80 million contract with the Angels in November 1999. 
Jeff Moorad, Vaughn's new agent, met with Angels execu­tives Monday. and said among other things he did not demand a trade for his client. 
"The purpose of our meeting was to discuss Mo's relationship with the Angels going forward," Moorad said. "We had a positive discussion, and we are going to talk again later in the week. 
"At this point, Mo understands he is under contract with the Angels and certainly plans to honor his contract. Mo spoke candidly on the radio interview in Boston a couple weeks ago. At this point, we're going to focus our attention on the Angels' rela­tionship." 
Moorad recently replaced Tom Reich as Vaughn's agent. 
"As to Mo's situation, he clearly wants to return to Boston," Reich said. "While we were on the same page as to the objective, we did not agree on how to go about it, on the strategy. 
"Mo Vaughn is a true gladiator and will always be one of my favorite players, and I'm sure he'll have many more great years." 
Angels general manager Bill Stoneman said he felt much bet-the meeting Monday. 
"For now, he's going to be back here, that's pretty much it," Stoneman said. "Mo stated quite clearly he'd like to be playing for Boston. What we are hearing now is he does understand he's got an obligation to the Angels. He plans to honor that commit­ment." 
About the meeting, Stoneman said: "Obviously the details of pri­vate conversations remain pri­vate. We do report a good meet­ing. We just plan to move for­ward. When those comments first came out, it was very upset­ting to us. It's a step in the right direction, let's put it that way." 
When asked if there were talks with other teams involving Vaughn, Stoneman replied: "We don't make public comment on any of that." 
Vaughn, who turns 34 next month, didn't play this season following surgery to repair a rup­tured biceps tendon in his left arm last February. 
The Angels owe Vaughn $50 million over the final three years of his contract. The slugging first baseman hit .272 with 36 homers and 117 RBI in the 2000 season Nhis second with Anaheim. 
He hit .281 with 33 homers and 108 RBI in 1999 despite missing 23 games and being slowed by a sprained ankle all season. 
Vaughn won the American League's Most Valuable Player award in 1995 with the Red Sox, hitting .300 with 39 homers and 126 RBI. He has a lifetime aver­age of .298 with 299 homers and 977 RBI. 

********************************** I* 11A-FRIEND'' I * 
* * 
; DRIVER TUTORING t ; MISHAWAKA, INDIANA ! * CALL (219) 255-0360 * 
* Instructor with JO+ Years Experience * 
; GENE A. ECKERLEY !
* geneinc@juno.com * 
*· * 
* ~ *
"* ~ * 
* * 
; Helping you develop driving skllls from no dmlng, to passing ;* the state driving test, and being a safe comfortable driver. * 
* * 
* * 
~ SPECIAL INTEREST AND EXPERIENCE WITH: t * • New and Challenged Dmers Who are ApprehensNe &Nervous * * • People needing extra help with driving skllls for all Conditions * * • lntematfonal People Leaming to Drive In America (lfllltell &-,is11 OK] * 
* * 
* REQUIREMENTS: * 
* An Indiana Learners Permit from Tile Indiana Ucense Bureau, * 
* or a Drivers License from any Country * 
* * 
* FREE ORIENTATION FOR NEW RESIDENTS * 
* [Howto begin and complete the processofgtlltlnga Indiana License] * 
* * 
* Lessons are scheduled at your convenience. I pick you up * ! at home or work, in my car, for each one hour lesson. ! 
** To Learn To Drive Call "A-FRIEND" * 
; ,1to1EIIIO#At--,UfflfAL--PfllO#At,...P,Tllll1 t * ==,,,== The Fi~t Le55on 15 Free with Thi5 Ad===·== * 
* * 
********************************** 
Selig talks elimination 
Assoda.ted Press 

PHOENIX 
Bud Selig says it's possible two major-league teams be eliminated by the start of next season. 
"Can it be worked out for 2002? Time will tell. But I wouldn't rule it out," the base­ball commissioner said Sunday before Arizona beat the New York Yankees 4-0 to take a 2-0 lead in the World Series. 
Some owners want to elimi­nate teams that are losing money and receiving a large part of the $160 million in the revenue-sharing fund this year. If owners approve, they would eliminate the Montreal Expos plus one other team, with the Florida Marlins and Minnesota Twins among the candidates mentioned most often. 
All three teams have sought government assistance in con­structing new ballparks. 
"As the [economic] problems have exacerbated," Selig said, "it has become clearer to me that everything should be on the table, including contrac­tion." 
Owners plan to meet in Chicago the week following the World Series, and Selig said he wasn't sure if any decisions on shrinking the league would be made then. 
The players' association said its approval is needed to elimi­nate teams because of the impact on player contracts and work rules, so any decision likely is subject to collective bargaining. 
In addition, baseball's labor contract expires at the end of the World Series, and talks have not yet begun on a new agreement. The union says it is ready to start bargaining and is waiting for management. 
All 30 of the current teams are on next season's schedule, and some franchises already have released their schedules. Some owners, including propo­nents of contraction, say that with each passing day, it becomes harder to eliminate teams for 2002. 
Selig responded with exam­ples of past franchise moves, such as his purchase of the Seattle Pilots on April 1, 1970, and the team's immediate move to Milwaukee, where it became the Brewers. 
However, the examples he cited came before the players' association's approval was necessary for many decisions. 
"We have worked on a lot of different types of schedules," Selig said. "We have not spent the last four or five months standing by." 
NBA 

Green's games streak may end 
Associated Press 

A.C. Green's record streak of 1,192 consecutive games was in jeopardy of ending as he remained unsigned Monday on the eve of NBA regular season. 
"He would like to keep the streak intact, but he wouldn't sign anywhere just to keep it intact," agent Mark Fleisher said. 
Fleisher said the Miami Heat, Green's team last season, had been wavering on whether they would offer a contract. He said his calls to the New York Knicks had not been returned, and his talks with the New Jersey Nets had broken down. 
''I'd think he would be a perfect fit for the Knicks, but I assume since they haven't called that they're going a different way," Fleisher said. 
Of the 29 NBA teams, 24 will play their openers Tuesday night. The other five -Memphis, Chicago, Golden State, Charlotte and Miami -begin their seasons Wednesday night. 
Green, a 16-year veteran, has played in each of his team's games since Nov. 16, 1986 -his second season in the league. 
He has played for the Lakers, Suns, Mavericks and Heat, aver­aging 9.6 points and 7.4 rebounds. 
Fleisher said Green was in Los Angeles awaiting word on whether any team would offer him a contract. Last year, he signed with Miami on the morn­ing oftheir season opener. 
"Ifhe doesn't sign by [Tuesday] morning, the streak is in jeop­ardy," Fleisher said. 

International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 
INNSBRUCK 
2002-03 Academic Year 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Gurtler, Director of the Innsbruck Program 

Wednesday, October 31, 2001 119 DEBARTOLO 7:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud Questions? -Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: December 1 
.:. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2001 
ND MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish win 2, move up to third in Big East 
By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer 
The true test of a good team often anives when no one is pay­ing attention. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team competed in three key Big East matches over fall break, including two -No. 21 Boston College and No. 10 Connecticut ­against ranked opponents. 
While not completely successful, the Irish return to Alumni Field having taken two of three games over the break, clinching a spot in the postseason conference tourna­ment for the Irish. 
Sometimes a team can dominate the scoreboard in most statistics, but fall short where it counts most. 
.. And that is precisely what hap­pened to the Irish in its matchup with UConn on Saturday. On a brisk and chilly evening in the hills of Connecticut, the Irish outshot the Huskies, 13-5, but still fell short, as the defending nation­al champions·ofUConn beat Notre Dame, 1-0, before a crowd of sev­eral thousand. The only goal of the game came off an unassisted goal off the foot of Huskies forward Damani Ralph just over 15 minutes into the first half. 
...... 
pleased that our players were not intimidated by the atmosphere." 
Clark sees the potential for a rematch in the very near future, with both teams having already , qualified for the Big East tourna­ment. 
"We're hoping to have the opportunity to come back here and play in the league champi­onship," Oark said. 
Soccer is a game ofinches. At their match on Wednesday, Oct. 24. tbe Irish proved just that. 
Playing on a rough field, where a few inches made the difference between the ball going into the net and going into a Nissan, the Irish defeated the Friars of Providence College, 2-0. 
A sparse crowd of fewer than 100 fans flocked to the bleacher­less complex to watch the winless Friars take on the Irish on a sunny, hot and humid afternoon, with temperatures soaring into the 80s in Providence. 
Further illustrating the differ­ence an inch can make, a shot by Providence forward Jeff Smith clanged off the right goalpost 12 minutes into the game, providing the first major threat for the Friars. 
The Irish, still adjusting to the unusually bad field conditions, did not garner enough offense to put the ball past the goal line in the 
The Irish stood at 9-4 on the sea­
son, and 6-2 in the Big East with 
two conference games remaining. 
Wednesday's game also marked 
the first time since the beginning 
of the 1999 season that the Irish 
played a game as a nationally­
ranked team. enjoying a No. 21 
ranking in the Oct. 21 Soccer 
America poll, and a No. 20 rank­
ing in the Soccer Times poll of the 
same date. 

The Irish began their three­
game fall break series with a 
match against No. 21 Boston 
College on Saturday, Oct. 20, as 
the lingering odors of tailgating 
hung over Alumni Field after the 
Notre Dame-USC football game 
earlier that afternoon. 

When the dust had settled, the 
Irish emerged victorious in its first 
of three fall break matches, beat­
ing BC 2-0. 

"It was a good solid effort, and a good team performance," coach Bobby Oark said. "The freshman goalkeeper [Chris Sawyer] per­formed very solidly. This win put · us in a good position [in the Big 
East standings l." 

Notre Dame came out of the gate slowly in the first match, playing into the Eagles' strategy of slow passing and sudden strikes. However, the Eagles managed only two shots in the first half, and Notre Dame was poised to strike throughout the first half, but was unable to convert in the first 45 minutes. 
A lot of the credit for the lack of ollense in the first half of this one can be chalked up to the slippery playing conditions at Alumni Field, as many players slipped or lost their footing throughout the slop­py match, which featured dozens of foul calls -and three yellow cards -between the two teams. 
However, the Irish quickly broke the game wide open just as the 1,411 fans in attendance were taking their seats for the second half. Just over two minutes into the second frame, Irish midfielder Chad Riley launched a soaring cross pass from the right side of midfield to a wide-open Goldthwaite on the left wing. Goldthwaite then booted a beauti­ful pass that curved directly to Irish forward Devon Prescod, who was waiting just in front of the goal line. Prescod dove for the ball and headed it past Eagle goalie Danny Caruso to give the Irish a well-earned 1-0 lead. 
Notre Dame expanded on its lead six minutes later, as Riley launched a booming corner kick right in front of the net, where Prescod managed to get a foot on the ball, but only tipped the ball. However, Braun, who was waiting just a few feet behind Prescod. drove the ball into the open net for his 10th goal of the season, giving the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
The remainder of the second half was a defensive battle for the Irish. as they managed to hold off a pesky Boston College offense for the final 35 minutes of the game to preserve the victory for the Irish, who after this game had won five consecutive matches ­including four straight via the shutout -for the first time since 1993. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 

Notre Dame threatened just first half. minutes later, as Irish forward However, the many Irish fans in Erich Braun blasted a free kick at attendance at Glay Field were not UConn goalie Bryheem Hancock, disappointed, as Kevin but the shot was deflected, and Goldthwaite put the Irish on the the Irish failed to convert on a key board early in the second half. opportunity. Midfielder Justin Ratcliffe dropped 
The Notre Dame defense once a lead pass to a charging Kevin again held strong, giving up only Richards, who dashed up the right the single goal, but the story of the sideline and booted a crossing game was Hancock for pass from near the right corner Connecticut, who defended the net flag. The pass landed just in front superbly. saving six Irish shots on of Goldthwaite -who was wait­net. ing just outside the penalty area 
Among the impressive streaks on the left side -and launched a amassed by the Irish that ended bullet that found its way past Friar with the final whistle on Saturday goalie Danny Glynn to give the included a span of over 500 min­Irish a one-goal lead. utes for Irish goalie Chris Sawyer The second goal developed without allowing a goal. This somewhat predictably for Irish streak was only surpassed once -fans, as once again, Justin Detter by Irish goalie Mark Steran.ka in cleared the Providence defense 1983. and grounded a nice pass to for­
Also stopped was Notre Dame's ward Erich Braun, who provided longest winning streak since 1991 the second goal for the Irish -his (six games), and Braun's streak of 11th of the season -to once consecutive games in which he again close out the scoring for the 
oyce Center--Gate 1 O 
scored (also six games). The loss Irish. was Notre Dame's first in the Coach Clark, after the game, month of October this season. spoke of his satisfaction with the dropping their record to 9-5 over­team after the game. all and 6-3 in the conference. "It was a good win for us today," 
Despite the loss, Clark was Oark said, "because we endured pleased with the team's play some rough conditions." 
Home Opener-This Thursdav-1:30pm
against a tough team to play on Clark, however. refused to spec­the road. ulate to Notre Dame's upcoming "We're obviously disappointed match with Big East frontrunner 
in the final result, but I think our Connecticut. 
NOTRE DAME vs. International All Stars players went out and competed "We'll let [the UConn game] take very well." Clark said after the -care of itself," Clark said. game. "It was an entertaining Big The game also marked the first 
(gate 11 opens at 6:15pm]
East soccer game and one that time that the Irish have won six was great for the fans to see. I was consecutive games since _1991. 
CONSIDERING A MAJOR IN ENGLISH? 
(BlilnB
SUBS & SALADS

Visit the English Department, 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall, 
BUY1,GET1FREEcoupon
October 29-November 12 
Buy a 611 Blimpie Sub, 
Or Call 1.6618 for an Appointment 
Get a 611 Blimpie Sub FREE. 
Please present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered or duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per customer per day. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
http://www.nd.ed u/ ~eng I ish/ 
Not good in combination with any other offer. Cash value of 1/100 of 1¢. Offer expires 11/5/01. undergrad.html 
Martin's Ironwood Plaza North at Ironwood and State Road 23 

Tuesday, October 30, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Smith, Taborga fall in Omni semifinals 

RICO CASARES/The Observer Irish senior Casey Smith returns a serve in a match earlier this season. Smith and doubles part­ner Javier Taborga reached the semifinals at the Omni Hotels Region IV Championships. 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
presents a lecture by 
Antanas Saulaitis, SJ 
"From Repression to Social Engagement: The Lithuanian Church in the Aftermath of the Communist Dictatorship" 
October 30 4:30pm 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Special to Th~ Observer 
The doubles team of seniors Casey Smith and Javier Taborga reached the semifi­nals before bowing to the top­seeded team in a highly com­petitive match Sunday in the Omni Hotels Region IV Championships at the Michigan State Indoor Tennis Facility. 
Taborga was also eliminat­ed in the singles quarterfinals Sunday. 
The Irish pair, ranked 34th and seeded third, fell 8-6 to Illinois' team of Mike Calkins and Amer Delic, ranked 14th nationally, in a semifinal mat­fch that was a showcase of collegiate doubles at its high­est level. The Illinois pair broke serve early and took a 5-2 lead, but the Irish would r!l,IIY, putting the match back on serve. 
With the Illini leading 7 -6 and Taborga serving, Illinois put together a brilliant return game that proved to be the difference. On the third Illinois match point, it was Delic who came up with an outstanding return crosscourt that Taborga could barely get a racket on, giving the Illini the win and a trip to the final. 
Sunday marked the second time these doubles teams had matched up this season. Smith and Taborga were vic­torious 9-7 in the consolation semifinals of the ITA All­American Championships ear­lier this month. In that match, Calkins and Delic led 7-4 and had a pair of match points before the Irish won five con­secutive games to clinch vic­tory. 
Earlier in the day. Smith and Taborga defeated the ninth-seeded pair of Laith Al­Agba and Carl Mccafferty from Purdue 9-7 in quarterfi­nal action. It was also the sec­ond time this season that these two doubles teams had met with the Irish pair notch­ing an 8-2 win at the Tom Fallon Invitational last month. The team of Al-Agba and Mccafferty had experienced previous success against the Irish, defeating Smith and Luis Haddock-Morales twice last season, including elimi­nating the Notre Dame team from the Region IV Championships with an 8-3 victory in the second round. 
Smith and Taborga became the first lrish doubles team to reach the semifinals at the Region IV Championships since Brian Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski won the title in 1997. 
In singles action on Sunday, ?6th-ranked and 13th-seeded Taborga fell 6-0, 6-1 in quar­terfinal action to the third seed, Harsh Mankad of Minnesota. 
Taborga reached the quar­terfinals for the second time in three years at this tourna­ment. 
In 1999, he advanced to the quarters before losing to his top-seeded teammate Ryan Sachire. Last season, Taborga lost in the round of 16. 
Six Irish players competed in singles at the Region IV Championships. Haddock.­Morales, the 19th seed, reached the round of 16 before falling to top-seeded Delic 7-5, 7-6 (7-3). Haddock­Morales knocked off the 14th seed, 84th-ranked Jackie Jenkins of Northwestern, 7-6 (7-4), 6-1 in the third round. 
Matthew Scott lost in the third round to the 20th seed, Brandon Currie, one day after upsetting the highest-ranked player in the tournament. In Friday's second round, Scott beat second-seeded and 12th­ranked Phil Metz of Ohio State 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. Also advancing to the third round was Aaron Talarico, the 18th seed. He then fell to the fourth seed, 27th-ranked Phil Stolt of Illinois. 
Brian Farrell won his first match before losing to the eighth seed, Milan Rakvica of Indiana, in the second round ~ and Smith, ranked 38th nationally and seeded fifth in the tournament, also fell in the second round. 
The tournament was the final full-team event on the Irish fall schedule. Notre Dame could have some play­ers participating· in the Omni Hotels National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships from Nov. 8-11 in Dallas, Texas. The field will be announced later this week. 
Other than that possibility, the Irish are off until they begin dual-match play Jan. 19, 2002 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Notre Dame will take on Cal-Irvine at· 9 a.m. and Furman at 4 p.m. 


SAFETY & SELF-DEFENSE 
Strategies for Avoiding Dangerous Situations 
Basic Self-Defense Techniques ~ Physical Dimensions of Combat ~ 
DYNAMICS OF" HAND TO HAND COMBAT 
CLASSES BEGIN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5 10 SESSIONS ON MONDAYS & WEDNESDAYS 6:30-7:45 PM 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL RM 219 

> 

OPEN TO ALL FEMALE ND STUDENTS, FAC!STAFF & SPOUSES $12.00 REGISTRATION FEE IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
CLASS SIZE IS UMITED 


The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Ocrnber 50, 200 I 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin 
Distinguished 
Lecture Series 
''Justice and Reas-onable Care in 
I . N.egligence Law" 

Upcoming Lectures 
Jame_s Gordley April 11 
Richard W. Wright 
Professor of Law Chicago-Kent College of Law 
Tuesday. October 30. 2001 
4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 

Friday, October 19, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY
SMC SOCCER 
Belles finish in 
Belles end season seventh 
By KATRINA KALASKY 
Sports Writer 
To end their season, the Belles could only muster a single victory, defeating Adrian College. 
The Belles' final rank in the MIAA conference was seventh, with a final conference record of6-12. 
The final week of the season left the Belles with a bitter taste in their mouths. 
"We were a little disappoint­ed with the results in the last week of the season, but we are proud of how we played. The ranking doesn't reflect how well we played all sea• son," said junior captain Heather Muth. 
But the Belles ended their 
We're not like every other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
\.J
•:.• 

U.S. AIR FORCE 
'~ .'~:~,"!'_. r;, '\ '-t. ' ~~~~-~t~:?: 
~ 
.. .......... -;... ,....:.,.,;, 

The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
season on a positive note. of 4-1. The Britons ended Saint Mary's defeated Adrian their season still in the num­College, 6-4. Concannon ber one position, and in doing 
No. 7 spot
added two more goals to her so become the only team in 
record. She was the lead scor­MIAA history to go through a er for the season. Molly season completely undefeated. McCavitt, Wendy Irvin, The lone goal for the Belles 
By KATIE McVOY Shannon Artnak and Emily was scored by freshman 
Associate Sports Editor Wagoner also scored goals for Shannon Artnak. the Belles. The first game was against 
Conditions were less than The third game of the week Alma College. The Belles had 
ideal for the Saint Mary's cross­was against Saint Mary's arch defeated Alma earlier in the 
country team as it ran in the rivals, the Olivet Comets. This season. 
MIAA Championships on game had been rescheduled The Scots scored two goals 
Saturday. Course conditions from a postponement earlier early in the game, but they 
were cold, wet and muddy and in the season. Coming off of a held up against the Belles. 
three of the Belles top seven crushing defeat at the hands The only Saint Mary's goal 
runners were unable to com­of the Comets, the Belles expe­was by freshman Jen 
pete. rienced deja vu in the 3-2 loss. Concannon. Even though the 
A repeat of the MIAA The second game was a Belles outshot the Scots, they 
Jamboree seventh place finish 

tough match up against num­were defeated, 3-1. ber one Albion College. Saint Mary's was again Contact Katrina Kalasky at defeated. this time by a score kala5482@saintmarys.edu. 
was a far cry from victory, but the team was pleased with its efforts to overcome the obsta­cles and finish the race. 
"Considering we were miss­ing three of our top seven [run­ners]. l think we did really well," head coach David Barstis said. "I think we could have beat [sixth place finisher Adrian and fourth place finish­er Alma] had it been a good day weather-wise and if we had our top seven. We were prepared." 
Junior Jennie Buehler, sophomore Caitlin Gillen and freshman Kristen Zaininger were all unable to compete in the meet. Zaininger, who is normally the Belles second fin­isher, was being tested for mononucleosis, while Buehler, normally the Belles number six runner, was stuck in Kansas and unable to find a flight to return in time for the meet. 
Gillen began the race, but was unable to firush due to the temperature shift between the sunny state of Texas, where she spent part of the week, and the cold conditions at Calvin College. 
"(Gillen] came up from Texas and it was the temperature change that affected her," Barstis said. "She went from 80 degrees to 40 degrees and that kills just about everybody." 
The weather on Saturday affected more runners than Gillen. The 40-degree tempera­ture and muddy conditions slowed down the whole Belles' team. 
"Had this been a dry course, I 
G 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You con bank on us to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
219/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.mlfcu.org. 
G)
lffF.:iffll [QUI[ MOUSING 
~LENDER 
Independent of the University 
think everyone would have been about thirty seconds faster," Barstis said. 
Although sophomore Jackie Bauters led the team again with another personal best, it was the fourth, fifth and sixth place finishers that really stepped up in the race. Freshman Elizabeth Commers, junior Whitney Ross and sopho­more Erin Thayer, who have not been consistent scorers for the Belles, finished in fourth, fifth and sixth place respective­ly. 
"I wasn't expecting [placing]." Ross said. "I was just planning on running my best race." 
Commers finished the race in 22:58, followed closely by Ross, who crossed the finish line 34 seconds later with a time of 23:32. grabbing 85th and 94th place respectively. 
"I was just rwming to get a good time and get a good place for my last meet," Ross said. "For some reason during the race I was just feeling good, so I just kind of made my way up to where I'm not usually at, which is closer to the front for Saint Mary's." 
Ross, who will be graduating early, believes Saturday's meet may be her last. 
Bauters finished in 28th place with a personal best time of 20:23, which was good enough to land her on second team All­MIAA. 
Freshman Amy Blue finished in second with a time of 21 :18. 
The Belles will have two weeks off to prepare for Regionals on Nov. 10 at Kalamazoo. Although final MIAA standings have already been decided, Barstis is looking for a complete, healthy team to 

find some satisfaction in defeat­ 
ing conference rivals who will  
also be running in the meet.  
The Belles finished only 29  
points behind Adrian, points  
Barstis would like to make up  
with improved times.  
Contact Katie McVoy at  
mcvo569S@saintmarys.edu.  •i  
l  
j  

page 24 . The Observer-. SPORTS Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
WoIDen 
continued from page 28 
those kids away and she's doing more work. It cost her todav but she'll be fine." 
Right behind King was freshman Christi Arnerich, placing 25th in 21:53. The final Irish scorer, Jennifer Fibuch, helped close the gap on Villanova, placing 37th in a time of 22:28. Fibuch's fin­ish was a pleasant surprise to Connelly, as the junior had been nursing an injury. 
"Jen Fibuch had a good, solid race," Connelly said. "She's been a little bit hurt, she's had a sore Achilles. She missed about a full week of real training. She's been running the past four or five days but its been just jog­ging, basically." 
The Irish now focus on the NCAA regional on Nov. 10 and the national week a week later. But even if the Irish fail to reach their expectations this year, hopes are high as every runner that competed Friday returns next fall. 
"Every one of those kids is back," Connelly said. "Potentially we could add some recruits down the line so I think the future for us looks great." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
This Weel< in 

ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Handley grows to head of pack 

By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 

Jen Handley's last race says a lot about who she has become as a competitor. 
She went out with the leaders and hung on, and on, and on, displaying a confidence that only experience can bring. 
Handley led the team to a fourth place finish Friday in the Big East Championships. 
"l always go out really hard with the leaders, and then I just hang on as Jong as I can," said the junior. 
Handley's 5-foot-3 frame stands out among the tall, lanky runners who domi­nate the front of the pack. Her build demands a faster turnover, but she's found her rhythm and uses her build to generate a deceptively powerful running style from fighting the herd of runners at the start, to attacking mid-race hills, to opening it up in the home stretch. 
"I love having hills and different ter­rains," said Handley, who had been a better mile runner than cross country runner for the first half of her college career. "Cross country is for real runners." 
"She's go a heart and lungs that are just world class," said Irish head coach Tim Connelly. 
A native of Barrie, Ontario, Handley was a member of the Canadian junior cross country team in high school. running at the world junior championships three times. She placed 75th in 1999, 36th in 1997 and 32nd in 1996 at the world meet. Adjusting to running in collegiate races and getting to the elite level she had been at in high school proved to be a challenge for Handley. 
"Jen was one of those kids that when she was really, really young, was a great cross country runner," said Connelly. "Then she 
Campus Ministrv 
¦!--d-av________ 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Confirmation-Session #4 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Conversation on Vocations for Women 
7:30 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 

ACoffee & Donuts Study Break 

8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 

went through a spell where her body matured in high school, and that continued into college. She struggled with confidence more than anything. She was one of those kids who always trained well, but when she would line up, she wouldn't be super confi­dent." 
She had decided on Notre Dame with the help of men's cross country team member Marc Striowski, whom she trained with in high school, and current teammate Hilary Burn. 
"I heard a lot about how great Notre Dame was from [Hilary and Marc]. and I really wanted to be part of it, too," said Handley. 
As a freshman, she was the second Notre Dame runner to cross the finish line at the NCAA championships, finishing 134th with a time of 18:13.20. She was 12th in the Big East as a freshman, but then fell to 30th in last year's Big East championships. 
"I've become a lot more confident with my running and with myself. though I know I struggled a bit my freshman and sopho­more year," said Handley. 
Handley's break out race came in last spring's Big East Championships for track, finishing second in the 5000 meters. . 
"She's got great leg speed,"said Connelly. "Obviously, if she's running a 4:27, she's pretty good." 
She started this season by winning the National Catholic Invitational. held at the Notre Dame golf course, in 17:31. She fin­ished second for the team at the Notre Dame Invitational, running the same course in 17:28. Handley's seventh place finish in Friday's race is a good mark of where how she has evolved as part of a team that has been ranked as high as 24 this season. 
"I just love everyone on my team. It's such a positive atmosphere on the team right now and everyone's starting to run really well," said Handley, a science busi-
PETER RJCHARDSONfThe Observer 
lrlsh Junior Jennifer Handley competes at the Big East Championships. Handley finished seventh. 
ness major. 
"She trains hard. She works like crazy. She's got talent. She's got everything she needs. She just needed some confidence, and I think she's getting it now. She has the potential to be among the top 30 kids nationally," said Connelly. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 
-dav 
All Saints Day 
Vigil Mass 5:15 pm All Saints Day Mass 11 :30 am Solemn Mass 5:15 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

dav 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Bu,dav 
Folk Choir Concert for Missions 
8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Dia de los Muertos Closing Event 
1:00 p.m.-Meet at Lafortune Spanish Mass at Zahm Hall Chapel Reception to follow 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p..m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Rejoice! African American Catholic Mass 
10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Our Mother Chapel Coleman-Morse Center Celebrant: Rev. J. Steele, csc 

The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA Study Session 
6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Retreats 
sign , 
Freshman Retreat #37 (November 9-10) 
Applications accepted through 
Monday, November 5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter #68 (November 30-December 2) 
Applications accepted 
Monday, October 29 through Friday, November 2) 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Tuesday, October 30, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
FOOTBALL 
Holiday, Irish recover in second half 


By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
With Carlyle Holiday sur­rounded by trainers on the side­lines and the Irish trailing by 10 points, it appeared as if USC would win its third game of the season, not Notre Dame. 
But after a pair of momentum­shifting defensive stands and another solid performance from Holiday, Notre Dame rallied to defeat use. 27-16. 
"I thought our effort and tenacity were outstanding, stay­ing in the game when you're down 10 and your quarterback looks like he's hurt," Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie said. "I am really proud of the way our guys came back to win this one." 
The Irish rally started with five minutes left in the first half when the Trojans, facing fourth­and-four, attempted a fake punt from their own 28-yard line. USC punter Mike MacGillivra.y tried to run around the left end, but Notre Dame's Shane Walton tackled MacGillivray before he could reach the first down marker. 
Four plays later, Irish tailback Terrance Howard scored his first touchdown of the season on a four-yard run to bring the Irish within three points. 
"Shane came up big on the fake punt," Davie said. "I really didn't expect that play. It sur­prised me. I think it shocked everyone in that stadium." 
"We have a play where the punter runs around the end and if it's open, can run with the ball," USC head coach Pete Carroll said. "But there was a defender there. He was sup­posed to punt the ball." 
Notre Dame's defense also came up big on a goal-line stand early in the second half. With the ball on the Notre Dame 1­yard line, the Irish defense stopped three consecutive rush­ing attempts, forcing the Trojans to settle for a field goal. 
It would be the last time dur­ing the game that USC would have the ball in Notre Dame ter­ritory. 
"[The goal-line stand] to hold them out of the end zone was a big momentum swing for us," said Davie. "That may have been the biggest series of the game right there." 
"That was huge," Notre Dame defensive end Anthony Weaver said. "We kept it within one score. If they make it two scores, that could have been the game." 
After the game, Carroll defended his decision to kick a field goal instead of trying for the touchdown. 
"We certainly did not feel that would be our last time down there or that would be the last time we would score," he said. "At the time, with the way the game was going, we felt we needed to make sure v..-e put some points on the board." 
On Notre Dame's next series, Holiday, who carried 18 times for 98 yards and finished 9-for­12 passing for 133 yards. scam­pered 35 yards into the end zone to put the Irish up for good. 
The Irish put themselves in an early hole by making a pair of costly defensive errors that led to the only two USC touchdmvns of the day. 
Midway through the first quarter, USC quarterback Carson Palmer, who finished the game 19-for-30 for 230 yards with a pair of interceptions, nar­rowly escaped being sacked by Irish linebacker Tyreo Harrison and launched the ball downfield. Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff mistimed his jump, and the ball sailed over him and into the hands of Trojan wide receiver Chad Pierson to give the Trojans a 7-3 lead. 
In the second quarter, after the Trojans recovered the first of Holiday's three fumbles on the Irish 20-yard line, the Trojans snapped the ball while the Irish were still in their defensive huddle. As Davie stood on the sideline trying to signal in the defense, Palmer threw a quick pass to Keary Colbert, putting use up 13-3. 
"That was my fault," Davie said. "We spent too much time trying to call the perfect play rather than just call a play." 
But the Irish defense shut down Palmer and the rest of the USC offense in the second half, limiting it to just 98 yards and three points. 
"Defensively, we played really well today," Weaver said. "Honestly, every time they scored, it was basically on us ­we did it to ourselves." 
While the Irish defense was shutting down the Trojans, Holiday shook off a bruised right knee that sidelined him for one series and led the Irish to 345 yards of total offense -the third consecutive game they have gained more than 300 yards on offense. While coaches agree the sophomore still has a lot to learn, players on both teams were impressed with Holiday. 
"I thought Carlyle did a great job scrambling and finding the open guy," said Notre Dame split end Javin Hunter, who hauled in Holiday's -and Notre Dame's -longest pass of the year, a 42-yard completion. "He has grown 100 percent since the first game he started. He's more vocal and he's much more confi­dent. He's there to make a play." 
"They should probably put him at tailback," USC safety Troy Polamalu said. "He's a great runner and hard to bring down." 
The Irish scored their final touchdown of the game after Notre Dame safety Abe Elam forced Palmer to fumble and Irish safety Donald Dykes fell on the loose ball with 1:52 left in the game. 
Six plays later, Julius Jones, who finished with 95 yards on 16 carries, scored from five yards away to seal the Irish vic­tory. 
Notre Dame kicker Nicholas Setta added field goals of 29 and 38 yards. 
Harrison led the Irish with 11 tackles. Defensive end Ryan Roberts had nine tackles and three of Notre Dame's five sacks. Elam and Duff both recorded interceptions. 
"This is a big win for this foot­ball team," Davie said. "I think they were extended emotionally and physically. We're glad to be through midterms. If we can eliminate the turnovers, stop doing some silly things on defense, I think we have a chance to be a very good foot­ball team." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

page 26 

ND MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Striowski, Mobley prove key to win 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
NEW YORK 
The highlights of Friday afternoon's first place finish by the Notre Dame men's cross country team mostly included the team's two highest-profile members: L u k e Watson, who fin­ished sec­ond in the race by a matter of feet and Ryan Shay. the All­Ameri can w h o pushed through an Achilles Tendon injury to give the Irish an important 11th-place finish. 
But Notre Dame couldn't have won without the two run­ners who crossed the line between Watson and Shay. 
Sophomore Todd Mobley, who stepped up to emerge as the team's No. 3 runner this year, crossed the line in eighth place. just inches in front of teammate Marc Striowski, who finished No. 9. 
Without the 


two All-Big East in his
"I didn't think they'd have 
performances, summer 
Villanova would four runners in front of 
training in have walked me ... I tried to catch them hopes of a 
home with the contribut­

at the end and I kind of
conference title. ing to an 
Striowski, fell short but luckily we 
N C A A who finished still came away with the contender 42nd at last 
victory.,, in the fall. 
year's NCAA "0 v er Championships, 
the sum­
actually led the Todd Mobley mer I just race heading 
Irish sophomore dedicated 
into the first backstretch. 
~It went out pretty slow for the first half-mile," he said. "I was getting pushed around in the pack so I just decided to go to the front and speed it up a bit. I wasn't planning on like leading the whole race. I just pushed the first mile and in the hills I let the other guys take over and just kind of tried to run with them." 
At that point, Mobley, who handles hills better with his smaller legs, pushed to the front of the pack while Striowski stayed near the front and Shay began to drop back. As the race progressed, it became obvious that Shay, who won the meet in 1999, could not be counted on for the same performance. 
"Those guys definitely know how to step it up and Marc, a senior, he was fired up for this," Shay said. "Those guys aren't going to let anything deter them from winning." 
So while the injured Shay pushed through, Mobley and Striowski battled to break up packs of Villanova and Providence runners. They suc­ceeded against the Friars, fin­ishing just ahead of No. 10 Dermot Galvin and No. 12 and 13 Dermot Moulton and Dylan Wykes. 
But they couldn't push in front of the Wildcats, who placed runners in spots four through seven. 

"I think that he and I could have done a better job of breaking up Villanova's first four," Striowski said. "That should be our goal for the next couple of races." 
"I didn't think they'd have four runners in front of me," Mobley added. "When the race was going on I realized that running No. 2 right now I had to try to go for these people. I tried to catch themat the end and I kind of fell short but luckily we still came away with the victory." 
Stepping to the forefront in big races is nothing new for Striowski. The Canadian senior placed ninth at last fall's Big East Championships in Boston, one place behind Watson as a younger team running without Shay took fourth. 
The senior competed in the NCAA Championships both as a sophomore and junior and has been Notre Dame's No. 2, 3 or 4 runner in each race in which he has competed this season. 
Mobley was a solid contribu­tor as a freshman, taking 26th at the Big East meet and 24th at the NCAA District IV Championships. But he stepped it up a notch 
myself to 
training more than I have before," Mobley said. "I increased my mileage and I was much better at running every day. When it's the middle of July it's hot out and you have to work and do other things. I did much better at staying focused and staying with coach's plan." 
It paid off in the season's first meet. With Watson and Shay resting, Mobley stepped to the forefront, taking the gold medal at the Valparaiso Invitational in a time of 25: 17. 
But for the Michigan native, running near the front of the pack was a preview of what Irish cross country fans should see for the next two autumns. 
Of the five Notre Dame run­ners who scored, only Mobley returns next fall. And he's ready to take over at the head of the pack. 
'Tm not to worried because we're a very deep team and the seniors have shown us what we have to do in order to win," Mobley said. "David Alber, Brian Kerwin and those guys are going to be there next year and they understand that. I don't think leading the team is going to be that difficult as far as the leadership role." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
Tuesday, October 30, 200 I
The Observer . SPORTS 
Men 

continued from page 28 
them from winning." 

Sean Zanderson finished 19th in 25:30 to defend the last scor­ing position, running almost two minutes faster than he did in the Big East Championships two 
years ago. 

David Alber worked his way up to finish 20th, right on Zanderson's heels, in 25:32. 
"David Alber made a tremen­dous step forward today, plac­ing in the top 20. Last year at 
this meet he was nowhere to be found. and he's just made tremendous strides forward,'' said Watson. 
Mario Bird edged out another Villanova runner to finish 32nd, and Pat Conway, still struggling with the same illness that took him out of the Prcnational meet mid-race, was 38th. Notre Dame beat Villanova at Prenationals. and neither Shay nor Conway finished the race. 
"We get [Conway and Shay! healthy, and we're a very good team,'' said Piane. "We're an awfully good one with them the way they are riow, but we'll be a very good team when they're healthy." 
"Things are going to come together well by nationals," said Shay. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 




STUDENT RICK 
MED16PLAY. 
Your Enterta.inment Superstore 
For the store nearest .you, call toll-free 1·888-60-MEDIA. 
Sala end• N-mber 3, 2001,Cauelte• available on ,elect titles. 
··················•·-.•··································· ......... ·-.
r,o;ixio:00o D.fs Can't B~·w/o;;· ( 

'  . : ·-:-:-; :~·-~-:-:.:-:-·_:--.:-:,:~:-· ..,.. ,.,:,.--,,:--?., •,:,.... ..  : ·------....  
e,foirlion(.,·/&ii,~. ... boy lot!\ •  
i.mical  .  
heis. Bl  

so.,~00,000 DI'S CAN'T BE WRONG 
Various Artists (2-Di•" Ser) 
www.mediaplay.com 
Selection, pricing ond $pecial offers may vary by .tore and online. 

"'"" '"'__ 
Tuesday, October 30, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 



BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 He wouldn't 63 To-do 1 Bookie's figures grow up 64 Word that can 5 Ingrid, in 36 Stressed type: follow the end "Casablanca• Abbr. of 16-, 22-, 31-, 37 Tries for the 40-, 45-or
9 Doesn't merely hole 56-Across
pass 39 Green land 
13 Switch's partner 40 Aloof sort DOWN14 Lanai neighbor 42 Snacks in shells 1 Follow orders 15 Unalaska 43 _-Tea (first 2 Stupefyresident 
instant iced tea) 

3 Gossipmonger's18 "Cantos" poet 44 Group stuff18 Perry's 
regulations 

4 Amtrak stop: secretary 
45 Yachting prize 

Abbr.
19 "Is it soup_?" 
50 Take turns 5 Post-accident20 1 4-Across 

51 Charlemagne's 

reassuranceinstrument 
realm: Abbr. 

6 Newsman Matt21 Astronomer 52 H.S. math 7 Great ball o' Johannes 
55 1 or 66, notably 

fire?
22 ·s.N.L." star of 
56 1960 #1 hit 8 Lend a hand to1984-85 

59 Llamas' locale 

9 First Hebrew 25 Hardly chic 
60 Have the nerve 

letter 29 Overlook 61 Highlands 
10 Yo-Yo Ma's 30 Day of "Pillow hillside 
instrument Talk" 62 Employs 
11 Swiss mathematician ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Maze word 
15 ·_Fideles" M A .,,...,.,.....,....,.... 17 Gasoline A T ~~~;;;.., I L dispensers 
34 Get one's ducks in
T H 21 Cardigans, e,g. 
H E 23 Storyteller's 
35 1987 Costner role
challenge 24 •-a man with 
37 Jigsaw element • 
38 Stamp-of­25 Bank savings approval letters 
protection. org. 41 Side order at a 26 _-Rooter French 27 Russia's _ McDonald's 
Mountains 42 Aggressive, as 28 Spring weather a personality forecast 
44 Bunsen's creation N E --..-....... E 33 About 1/s inch 45 Pianist Claudio 
46 Many_(a 53 Unofficial news long time) source 47 Chopin 54 Jollity composition 
56 N.F.L. stats 48 Is worthy of 
57 Polish off 49 French dear 

58 "The West 52 Taj Mahal site Wing" network 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
I-IQROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Grace Slick, Henry 
Winkler, Charles Martin Smith, 
Kevin Pollak, HarryHamlin 
Happy Birthday: Your quick 
response and eagerness to join in 
new ventures will-surprise and 
impress others. Praise and 
advancement should be yours. 
These opportunities could lead to 
long-lasting changes to your life if 
you take tlie initiative. Your num­
bers: 5, 12, 18, 23, 29, 31 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't be too quick to do what others want. Give time and effort, not cash, to friends or relatives, and avoid purchasing large items for the house. Don't expect to get along with family or your boss. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be careful expressing your thoughts, or you may be taken the wrong way or out of context. Offi­cials in government agencies or in large institutions will be difficult to deal with. Keep your head and be precise and to-the-point. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Don't make a commitment before knowing.what it involves and how much it will cost. Look into inexpensive and rewarding activi­ties, especially those with chil­dren. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Travel, perhaps on a pleasure cruise, can provide adventure, excitement and knowledge. A cul­tural event would also bring you into contact with unusual people. 
00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stop trying so hard to impress others, or you'll put yourself in a precari­ous position. Spare yourself the grief of making promises that must be kept. 000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be 
careful where you put your 
money. A financial deal you've 
been considering will not go as 
planned. Put your cash in a safe 
place and don't let anyone talk 
you into a foolish risk. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If 
you're in a relationship, your 
partner will be exciting, but 
unpredictable. If you' re not, stay 
back and watch. You're likely to 
meet an entertaining and inform­
ative individual. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Channel all your energy into making moves and money. You need to concentrate on profes­sional advancement. You'll attract potential partners by voicing your opinions.000 
SAGilTARIUS (Nmc 22e1Jec. 21): Stop wasting time. At group func­tions, your charm will win you popularity and your willingness to work hard will bring you respect and appreciation. 
00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let friends or relatives lay a guilt trip on you. You may be a lit­tle stressed-out and upset, but that's no reason to let anyone treat you unfairly by turning things around and blaming you. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take time out to think about what will make you happy, instead of trying to please those around you. You don't owe anyone an expla­nation, so stop fretting and start looking out for yourself. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 

You may have a lot on your mind today, so organize and get busy. Problems wiih older family mem­bers must be taken care of. Travel­ing will be favorable. 000 -... 
Birthday Baby: You are a fighter and a peacemaker in one unique package. You will not back down and will find ways to make things right. You are bright, articulate and extremely giving. . 
(Need advice? Oleck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialas!.com, astromate.com.) 
<Cl 2001 Universal Pn,ss Syndicate 


Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Cross Country, p. 23 
. Men's Soccer, p. 20 
. 
SMC Soccer, p. 23 . ND Women's Soccer, p. 18 

. 
Football, p. 25 . ND Men's Tennis, p. 21


PORTS 
Tuesday, October 30, 2001 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish return to No. I 
... 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Wricer 
NEWYORK 

There is an Irish pub across from Van Cortlandt Park with a familiar name -the Southbend. 
It wasn't the only thing in the Bronx that was familiar to the Notre Dame men's cross country team, as they reclaimed the Big East title for the third time in seven years on Friday. 
The fifth-ranked Irish narrowly edged out No. 14 Villanova, 52-49 to take the title. Luke Watson finished second overall in 24:22, battling at the finish with Connecticut's Dan See Also 
Wilson. "Striowski, Mobley"I was battling four 
prove key to win"
Villanova guys, a UConn guy, and a Providence page26guy," said Watson. "And among them there were four sub four minute mil~ ers, so I knew I had to break away early, because I'm only a 4:05 miler. Given that, I probably don't have as great of a finish as the other guys, so I knew I had to get some early separation." 
Watson was followed by Providence's Namish Thorpe, and by four reasons the Irish shouldn't have taken the title -a pack of Villanova runners who took "places four, five, six, and seven. 
"Frankly, I was shocked that we won," said head coach Joe Piane, who, along with assis­tant coach Tim Connelly, was awarded the men's cross country staff of the year award. "Villanova goes four, five, six, and seven. They had four in before our second, so clearly we had a lot ofwork to do." 
It was senior Marc Striowski who pushed the 
pace early, going out in burst of speed and establishing the authority of the Irish pack. "[Striowski] gets a little antsy at the begin­nings ofraces," said senior Sean Zanderson. 
"That helped everyone out because fewer mistakes are made at the front, and everyone's more excited to run at the front," said Watson. 
Sophomore Todd Mobley, who was 26th in last year's Big East Championships, finished eighth for the Irish with a time of 24:47, fol­lowed closely by Striowski in ninth with a time of 24:48. 
"Last season [Todd Mobley) was our fourth man, and he was good for a freshman, but he's just come so much further his sophomore year," said Watson. 
Villanova's fifth runner finished 30th overall, leaving room for another demonstration of the depth that has been a threat to every ranked team the Irish have faced all season. 
"The race started out a little slow at first, heading into the wind," said Watson. "Then all of a sudden l look up and I'm just surrounded by Irish jerseys, and it was awesome to see them all there." 
Senior Ryan Shay, recovering from illness but struggling with Achilles tendonitis, took a crucial 11th place for Notre Dame. Shay fin­ished first the last time the Big East meet was held at Van Cortlandt Park, leading the team to their last team title in 1999. His time was 24:22, the same time Watson ran this year. 
When he found out that seventh-place Providence was holding out two of their run­ners because of injuries, Shay had considered not running because he didn't know if the race would worsen his injury. 
"[The rest of the team] knew going in that I might not be in the front with them, but those guys definitely know how to step it up. Marc, he's a senior, and he was fired up for this, and those guys weren't going to let anything deter 
see MEN/page 26 


ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish reach goals, Handley takes 7th 
i ~ 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Edicor 

NEW YORK 
The Irish women's cross country team went into last Friday's Big East Cross Country Championships with two goals: place in the top four and beat Villanova, ranked No. 16 in the latest national MONDO poll. 
They accom­plished both. 

Led by junior Jen Handley's seventh­place overall finish, Notre Dame totaled 107 points and gar­nered a fourth-place finish behind conference cham­pion Georgetown (36 points). second-

place Boston College {53 points) and third-place Providence (73 points). The Irish just edged out the Wildcats of Villanova, who ended the day with 112 points. 
"We wanted to be in the top four," head coach Tim Connelly said. "We needed to beat Villanova because they'll be an automatic qualifier out 
of their region so we're looking at 
at-large points. We think that will 
help us." 

Handley, who finished 31st in the meet as a sophomore in 2000, stayed with the front pack the entire race, finishing in 20:45, to earn a place on the All-Big East team for the first time. Connelly was less than shocked by the performance from the steady Handley, who has been Notre Dame's No. 1 runner all season long. 
"Jen Handley ran about what I thought she was capable of," 
Connelly said. "I thought she'd be in the top 10." 
Handley added that she approached Friday's race like she approaches any other. 
"I usually try to be with the leaders and then I just hang on as long as I can,"See Also she said. "I was in "Handley grows the top five right off the start and then I 
to head of pack'' 
just hang on to stay 

page24 in the top 10 and fin­
ished with everything 
I had left." 

The second Irish runner across the line was sophomore Megan Johnson, who finished 12th in a time of 21:09. Johnson finished 39th a year ago but has stepped up as one of the top three Irish runners this fall. 
Notre Dame's third finisher was freshman Lauren King. 
King, who did not begin training until mid-season yet won the Notre Dame Invitational in her collegiate debut, ran with Handley through the first turn of the race, but fell behind after the race turned to a hilly back­stretch. 
The Ontario, Canada native fin­ished 24th overall in a time of 21:50. 
"She just didn't run very well," Connelly said. "Everyone has a bad race once in a while and this was hers." 
But Connelly blamed some of that struggle to the fact that King had been training harder than her team• mates in preparation for the Nov. 19 NCAA Championships. 
"She's not quite as rested as some of the other kids because they were working two months before her," Connelly said. "So now we're backing 
see WOMEN/page24 

. Tennis vs. USC, Friday, 3 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Football vs. USC, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classifieds 
. Men's Soccer vs. Boston College, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer at Connecticut, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
-







