m presents Antigone
RAIN 
Wednesday 
Sophocles' 2,500 year old tragedy will· be presented 

NOVEMBER 28, 
in Washington Hall today through Sunday. 

HIGH 43° 
Scene . page 10-11

LOW39° 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
VOL XXXV NO. 57 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Fighting for freedom 
• Notre Dame grad returns home after assisting in Operation Enduring Freedom 
Through fluttering red. white and blue American flags, Lieutenant Commander Dan Walsh returned home after six months abroad. 
As the USS Enterprise aircraft car­rier made its way down 




the St. James River, Six-year-old Matthew putting the 
Mitchell, 4-year-old Jacob
Norfolk, Va. naval base in Mitchell and their mother eyesight, the Notre Dame alumnus 
Dana Mitchell, right,
was greeted by waving flags and nearly 10,000 people welcoming wave American flags as him home. 
they wait to welcome
"It was a kind of patriotic site," Walsh said. "To see 10,000 wav• home members of the ing American flags ... it's pretty 
USS Enterprise, above. 
heart-wrenching." 
It was an extraordinary corning home for a crew that left with no celebration six months earlier. 
.

The ship set sail from Norfolk last April. The crew of the USS Enterprise was only expected to complete a standard deployment Story by to emphasize a U.S. presence at 
NOREEN

U.N. and NATO ports overseas. 
But after Sept. 11, what was GILLESPIE supposed to be a standard opera­tion turned into a high-security mission. The closest military outfit to return from Operation waving flags ... is quite a feeling." Portugal, Rhodes, Jebel Ali, the Town, South Africa before steam­to Afghanistan. Walsh and the Enduring Freedom, they realized United Arab Emirates and Souda ing home to base in Norfolk. But USS Enterprise crew became a they had become heroes. Change of Plans Bay, Greece, the crew was con­when the crew turned on a news­key component in the early stages "We left with no fanfare on a It had been a long five months gratulating themselves on a job cast the morning of Sept. 11, going of Operation Enduring Freedom, dreary day," Walsh said. "We left for Walsh, after he and the USS well done. home was no longer an option. the first U.S. assault against ter­with no armed guard and came Enterprise crew had made a 'There was a feeling of comple­Watching a CNN report on rorism. back to a fully armed coast guard series of overseas port calls and tion and jubilation that we're board, Walsh saw the two planes 
When Walsh and the USS contingent and some airborne were ready to come home. Having done," Walsh said. "It was time to crash into the World Trade Enterprise crew came home to the assets. The tensions were a little stopped at Palma de Majorca, go see the family." Center. Shortly after, the carrier's celebration in Norfolk on Nov. 10 bit high because of the situation. Cannes, France, Naples, Italy, The aircraft carrier was getting 
see WALSH/page 4 

as the first U.S. military members But to see from a distance a sea of Portsmouth, England, Lisbon, ready to make a final stop in Cape 
Researchers find platinum in South Bend 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
N-,ws Writer 
Researchers from the Center for Environmental Science and Technology have discovered platinum in a location few would expect -South Bend roadsides. 
The research team, led by Notre Dame professors Clive Neal and Charles Kulpa, found that catalytic converters on automobiles emit platinum group elements, known as PGEs, in microscopic amounts that build up on the banks of road­sides. 
The group analyzed soil sam­ples from South Bend roads and on sites along Interstate 80. They found that the platinum deposits had a concentration of .1 parts per million, compared to 1-2 ppm for mines. The results, according to the team, suggest that road banks have deposits of platinum eight to ten times higher than what occurs in nature, excluding mines. 
"We know that platinum is basically being deposited in the environment by automobiles," Neal said. 
The discovery of the platinum has the potential to generate revenues if it can be efficiently retrieved but also poses health risks. 
Dust containing the metal aggravates allergies and is known to cause asthma and sen­sitive skin. The group discovered abnormal platinum levels as far as 55 meters from roadsides. 
Although the team's research indicates the presence of plat· inum. Kulpa, Neal, and assistant professional specialist Jinesh Jain said that more analysis is needed to determine the threats the metal's presence introduces. 
"I don't know that this is dan­gerous but there is a breakdown from the catalytic converters," Kulpa said. "We don't know what the threshold is." 
In addition to health risks posed by the airborne dust, there is also concern that the platinum-rich dirt may affect roadside agriculture and find its way into the food chain, accord­ing to the research team. Kulpa, Neal and Jain also pointed to the federal government's passage of the 1990 Clean Air Act that requires the installment of cat­alytic converters on small gas engines like lawn mowers as a cause for concern in light of their research. 

The solution to the deposits on roadsides may involve harvest­ing the platinum for commercial uses, according to the group. 
Although further studies are necessary. mining road banks for platinum may prove econom­ically feasible, as the metal there is easier to access than mines. The team is investigating how the platinum can be collected 
see PIATINUM/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, November 28, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Thanksgiving, South Bend Style 
This Thanksgiving I didn'L have to wait for my layover or worry about making thP. bus to get home. I never have to make flight arrangements or pay for a taxicab. Nope, if need be, I can make ft homf' in fiw minutes flat and that's if I'm riding my pink Len-speed 
Colleen
Schwinn. On clear fall 
Barrett

Saturdays. standing out in our back yard. we can hear the marching band playing the Notre Dame Fighl Song from Adl'ertising the stadium and listen to the Account crowd cheering its approval. or Executive lack thereof. 
So. yeah. I admit it I'm a townie. l3ut that's not all bad, right'! I n1Pan. I know all of the r.utc little !or.al places to eat (ok. well, not really ... my family pretty much stuck to Fridays and Hocco·s, b11cause we were always a little leery about the local places I. I know how to get everywhere l'rom anywhere (all right, actually. rm astonishingly terrible with directions--! still haven't figured out the whole Angela/Edison/Juniper/Eddy thing,. I havP my parents close by for emotional support (although sometimes during a parlicularly wild night at TC. I find myself realizing the definite possibility that they arc c:ruising down 31 at that very instanU. I have a younger sister down the street that is dying for me to bring her to a party on campus, which I would consider because she's pretty awesome as far as sisters go (don't you dare tell her I said that). I also know all the hot, happenin' spots around South Bend (oh. wait ... there aren't any). 
I do find myself wishing I had travele.d further than a mile and a half away from the house in which I grew up. I don't know what it's like to efficiently pack everything I own into one car because [ can easily make multiple trips ... and then swing by home anytime to pick up the cute blue sweater I left in the closet. I sometimes won­der if I sacrificed independence for convenience. 
But then I think about how I can drive home to help Oad put up Christmas lights, or decorate the Christmas tree, or make it to dinner to celebrate Mary's seventeenth birthday, or how I will be able to help my family move out of our beautiful, well-loved house this January. Yes, we're mov­ing. But fear not. I will still be a townie, we're not moving far ... just farther. I'll still make it home for birthdays. for Thanksgiving, to confiscate the pair of boots I left under the bed, and I still won't need to park things in any organized fashion, because second or third or fourth trips aren't out of the question. 
There are manv times that I curse mvself for staying in South Bend. and these times· are usual­ly the ones ,vhen I trudge through snow, sleet. or freezing rain on my way to DeBartolo. But I never have to wait for a Greyhound. I never have to pay for plane tkkets, and if all else fails. l can hop on the Schwinn and pedal home. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of tfw author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Colleen !Jarrelt at cbar, rett.42@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
In the Nov. 27 edition of The Ob~erver, the story "f,Ktdry fonm grnup 10 deal with scxualiry i.1.rn.:s• sJ.i<l rhar nuny srudcnr opin­ion groups were crn~dd lase spring. While artcnda111.:c was low, only one session w,1s c-a.nc..-dcd. l~he Observer rcgrcrs rhc error, 
The Ob,erwr (l'SPS 5')') 2-4000) is p!!b.lislteJ Mo11d,1y rhrouµh Frid,,y exi..·epr durini;, ex.1m ,11H.f v,1C;Hio11 periods. The Observer is .i 1111._·mher nf' rhe M5oi.:i,11rd Pres:.. All rt'prodw.:1ion ri~lu:.Jo .ire re5.i.:rved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Wednesday . Concert: Notre Dame  Thursday . Movie: "Into the Arms  Friday . Concert: 29th Annual  Saturday . Recital: Student cham­ 
Band fall concert Band building, 8 p.m.  of Strangers: Stories ol' the Kindertransport," Hr,sburgh Library Auditorium, 7 p.m.  Madrigal Dinners. North lounge of Hegina hall, 7p.m.  ber music. Annenburg Auditorium. 2 p.rn.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

U. of Pennsylvania worries about cheating 
PHIi ADBLPIHA 
rism" trnnd at universities nationwido. 
\<\'ri.ting a term paper usually According to a 1999 survey conduct­involves jamming a sfmiester's worth ed by Donald McCabe, a Rutgers of research into one week. writing 15 University professor and the founder pages in a night and emerging from a of the Center for Academic Integrity at computer lab with bloodshot eyes and Duke University, more than 75 percent a stack of' empty coffee cups. But for a of college students admit to some form few students, tlrn task is hardly this of cheating. About one third of the draining. ,\ll it takes is a click ol' the 2,100 participating students admittnd mouse. to serious test clrnating. and half 
Downloading papers from the admitted to one or more instances of Internet, combined with the upsurge of serious cheating on written assign­other incidents or cheating, has been a ment,;. growing concern for the futurn of aca­The pattern for high school stud<mL,;. demic integrity in higher education. the next generation of college-goers. is 
"It's easy, and it's quick, and it's bet­disturbingly similar. ter than spending six hours writing a remain anonvmous. Eighty-four pnrcent of the students paper for some general requirement These students aren't the only ones surveyed last year by Who's Who class that I didn't care about to begin who have opted out of conventional Among American High School with," said one University of research and turned to online paper Students said that cheating was com­Pennsylvania senior who asked to banks. amid the "cut and pastn plagia-mon among thnir high-achieving 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
I

Drinking accepted in college 'I Manhunt for professor continues
i 
I 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

The investigation into the disappearance of Harvard 
Any student passing through four years of college 

University biophysics Professor Don C. Wiley r.ontinued to
inevitably will be faced with social settings centered 

baffle investigators Monday, as authorities as well as
around alcohol. For many. drinking beer and downing 

Wiley's colleagues failed to provide any concretP leads.
shots can become as much a part of their college expr,ri­

One colleague who saw Wilr,y right before his disapp<mr­
ern:e as writing papers and taking exams. Most students 

ance said he was acting "absolutely normal. Stephen
see alcohol as an inherent part ol' college life, no matter 

Sa!lan, chief of' staff at the Dana-Farb,\r Cann~r CentPr.
how much they chose to drink. "I don't think it's a mat­

said he talked to Wiley at 11 :30 p.m. on Nov. 15.. follow­
ter of choice," said engineering senior Matt Biersack. 

ing the annual mer,ting of the Scientific Advisory Board of'
"You'll be surrounded by it rr,gardless of whether you 

the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis.
drink or not." "There is talk almost every weekend about 

Sallan said that he and Wiley discussed personal mattPrs.
wha-t party everyone is going to. and how wasted some­

and that Wiley did not sham his plans for the rest of tlw 
one is going to get," said LSA junior Amy Ament. Out of 

night. Investigators believe Wiley disappeared sonrntimn
all University of '.'Vtichigan undergraduate students, 45 

between midnight -whr,n he lnf't the nrneting's banquet
percent rn1gage in binge drinking, according to an 

-and 4 a.m., when they discovernd his abandonr,d
Internet-based Student Life Survey administernd by the 

rental car on a bridge ovPr the Mississippi HivPr. Craig
University's Substance Abuse l~esearch Center in 1999. 

Thompson, professor of hematology and oncology at the
Binge .drinking is defined as four or more drinks for 

University of' Pennsylvania's Medical School, spent Nov.
females and five or more for males in one sitting. 
15 with Wiley. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWca1hcr--..forecas1 for daytime t:onditlons and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday. Nov. 28. 
Lines separafe high lemperalure zones for lhe day. 
r·· -. ....,~ 
I 
i 
Thursday 
¥39 
~" 
Friday I Q, ,52J ::38 Saturday 1b \itl~ ~st,,
.::-··;..;/; }J'.2-,>· ,,., __ , 
Sunday ~r;,53., 36 
Pressure:

w w . 

® © D D D D D D 
High low Showen Hl\ln T-atorme Flurries Snow lee sunnv Pl. Cloudy Cloudy
Mon9ay . 55''39 
Vm Aos°'",at...-f ,..,0ss
~"-··'':
~(j'·-'\X .-......._.,/'~-'•;,r 

Atlanta 77 62 Las Vegas 53 36 Portlanr1 48 44 Baltimore 67 52 Memphis 52 51 Sacramento 55 46 Boston 53 36 Milwaukee 41 36 St. Louis 35 32
Q,Q,Q,4.~Q o ~ u 

Chicago 43 36 New York 62 44 Tampa 83 63
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow fee Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloud& 

Houston 60 42 Philadelphia 66 52 Washington DC 69 55
Via AssocuNerl Prsss Grapt11csNer 


Wednesday, November 28, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Tenn. storm kills 1, hits 25 homes 
Associated Press 
PARIS, Tenn. 

1-iireflghter Barry Farmer was watching Monday Night Football when a tornado warning scrawled across the screen and he went outside to check the weather. 
"It got real quiet," he said. "You could have heard a pin drop and the sky was as green as the grass." 
Farmer and his wife scurried their two young children to the basement just in time. The force­ful winds ripped the second story off their house in rural western Tennessee and carried it away. 
When they emerged from the basement, the Farmers found their neighbor Elizabeth Valentine Goforth, 32, dead in their backyard and her children and husband injured. 
"I've never seen anything like it and I hope to God I never do again," Farmer said. 
About 25 homes were dam­aged or destroyed in the com­munity of Oakland, just south of Paris near the Kentucky line. Four other people were injured. 
Christmas decorations, bed­ding and insulation fluttered in the trees. Splintered roofs and support beams littered fields where survivors combed the debris looking for photos and toys. 
A car was turned upside down in a ditch. the doors and trunk ripped ofT. 
"There's no way a picture in the newspaper or on television can bring this home," said Gov. Don Sundquist, who surveyed the damage Tuesday. "Until you walk out here and step on glass and clothes and see possessions of a lifetime spread all over the place, you can't know what it's like." 
The tornado hit Oakland, about 80 miles west of Nashville, just before 11 :30 p.m., with wind gusts reaching 160 mph, National Weather Service mete­orologist Mark Frazier said. 
The damage path was estimat­ed at about five miles long and about 200 yards wide. 
"It wasn't down for a real long time, but it was intense," Frazier said. 
The tornado sucked Jerome Goforth, 37, his wife and their 3­year-old son, out of their home and tossed them into Farmer's back yard. Their 10-year-old son was found lying next to the trail­er. 
The boys were hospitalized Tuesday in critical condition; the father in serious condition, a hospital spokesman said. 
A 27-year-old woman and her 7-year-old daughter were in serious condition at the same Nashville hospital. 
SMC creates internet survey 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
New, Writer 
The department of Residence Life and Housing is currently conducting an online survey to see how satisfied students are with life on campus. 
The community evaluation has been distributed through­
out cam­pus for as long as any­one can remem­ber, how­ever, this year the survey has a n e w online appeal to it. 
" T h e idea to put it [the sur­vey] on the inter-net was a 
"The idea to put it [the survey] on the internet was a realization that we can animate this thing. It has tons ofadvantages, it saves paper, everyone can use it and reporting the result will be more accurate since there is no hand tallying." 
Jerry Madsen assistant director of Residence Life 
realization that we can animate this thing. It has tons of advan­tages, it saves paper, everyone can use it and reporting the result will be more accurate since there is no hand tallying," said Jerry Madsen, assistant director of Residence Life said. 
Madsen has been encourag­ing students for the past week to log on to PRISM, a division of the Banner computer system, mation gathered from this evalu­ation will be in quantitative for­mat, Madsen hopes to be able to show how his department is meeting stu­dents' needs. 
"The advan­tages arc that we can do statis­tical analysis, I realize that sounds sterile, but it does have practical uses ­we can do corre­lations," said Madsen. "College costs a 
lot, we have to look at con­sumer satisfaction, because stu­dents pay a lot for housing ... are their expectations too high or are the services to low? We have a responsibility to stu­dents." 
First-year student April Thomas agreed with Madsen that the survey will help deter­mine student satisfaction. 
"I think it'll be helpful 

because it helps get the stu­dents input and we do pay a lot to live on campus," Thomas said. 
Residence Life is looking to take the statistics they compile from the survey and turn it into histograms and correlations that compare residence halls to one another. 
"It is easy to follow because there wasn't any analyzing or thinking on your own -it is straight forward; it is true or it is not," said sophomore Catherine Artz. 
While the survey focuses on the individual hall sections and resident advisors' performance, Madsen assures students that the evaluation remains com­pletely anonymous, even though they are logged on to the system under their individ­ual identification number. 
"We went to great lengths to make sure it is anonymous ­we get purely demographic information," said Madsen. 
Because students remain anonymous, those taking the evaluation are asked questions on privacy in their rooms, how they get along with their room­mates, how they get along with their RA, their hall director, the cleanliness of their section. if they feel like they are at home and if living in the residence halls has helped them to under­stand people who are different from them. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at boyl5460@saintmarys.edu. 
and participate in an evaluation regarding life in the residence halls, hall directors, building services, roommate issues and their overall opinion of Residence Life. 
"We want to know how are we as a department doing. What are the [student's] expec­tations of us," Madsen said. 
While 90 percent of the infor­


Wednesday, November 28, 2001

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Platinulll 
continued from page 1 
and the rate at which it is deposited. 
"Part of the continuing project is to expand our survey," Kulpa said. 
The research project, the first of its kind in the U.S. and the most advanced on roadside con­tamination by catalytic convert­ers anywhere, was organized by the Center for Environmental Science and Technology. The organization's mission is to use seed money to promote novel technologies, according to 
"As You Wish" 1..@.t,,,, 
Kulpa. 
Kulpa, director of the Center and a professor of biological sci­ences, and Neal, director of the ICP-MS facility and associate professor of geological sciences, headed the project. Jain, an assistant professional specialist and Mark Schneegurt, now an assistant professor at Wichita State University, were also involved. Postdoctoral student James Ely and undergraduate James Seidler participated in the research as well. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard. I@nd.edu. 
IMPOR. TS ­ _, LOADSOFSILVER&BEADEDJEWELRY  
.,,,,.  ..._  SllVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS  
\.  TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS  
AND MUCH MUCH MORE ...  

PURSES, WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES, INCENSE SARONGS 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Thailand• Mexico • India 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry gaurantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. 
LaFortune Room 108 (Near Telephones) Nov. 26 -Dec. 1 (Sat, 10 to 5 m 
Thu•~daqs oPe students nigf..t. 5tudenfs •eceive 25% off meal ?Fke with IJOUP 5fudent I.D. 
U£1 

Mtchian<1's most unique dininq ~"'J)41"'i•nce Lo<:oteel l.1 fl.e bH-W•r-o, c,t ibe Hisfon<: 100 Cent•• in Misl.awalco (2.19) 257-179.2 www.lOOcenfer.com 
Walsh 
continued from page l 
homecoming was canceled. 
"We knew this was tl1e end of our little cruise," he said. "We knew something would be hap­pening to jeopardize our return home. But before we had the chance to think about it, we were turned around and sent back to the Arabian Sea -at flank speed." 
The carrier sat in the Arabian Sea until Oct. 7, when the crew would begin training for the first stage of Operation Enduring freedom. But while they waited, Wal5h had to find a way to let his family know he was safe. 
With communications shut down for security reasons, it wasn't easy. \'Vhile ho was able to receive incoming e-mail from his wife, Meghan, and his two sons, he couldn't send anything 
back. 
Finally, he was able to route a message through a neighbor to get the message home. 
"I could read what Meghan was saying and what her feelings were, but I couldn't get anythlng back to her," Walsh said. "I final­ly was able to tell her I was in a good spot and we were safe ... I probably felt safer at sea than anywhere near a port at that point." 
But even though Walsh had been eager to return home, after watching the towers crash, he felt confident with his place on the USS Enterprise. 
"Having been in the military for 17 years, this was my chance to get in the game. You don't train this long not to have a chance to be put into the real game, to be on the first string. I felt fortunate to be in a position to do something." 
Ready to Strike 
The crew of the USS Enterprise spent the weeks leading up to the launch of Operation Enduring Freedom completing training exercises. But halfway through the exercises, the operation took on a personal meaning for Walsh. 
He had received word from home that a fellow navy officer, former squadron mate and friend, Bill Donovan, had been killed in the Pentagon crash. 
The news, Walsh said, was devastating. 
"I folll1d out several days after­wards," said Walsh, who was communicating with friends by e-mail. "It affected me a lot per­sonally." 

As the onset of Operation Enduring Freedom neared and the crew prepared to launch the aircraft that would deliver the first airstrikes, Walsh thought of ways he could pay tlibute to his friend. 
Before the aircraft left the car­rier, he wrote Bill's name on a weapon to be carried into the conflict. 
On Oct. 7, the aircraft launched from the USS Enterprise deliv­ered the first strikes on the Taliban and Al Queda forces in Afghanistan, officially beginning the war on terrorism. When pilots came back, they didn't have the weapons anymore ­including the one with Bill's name on it. 
"It wasn't necessarily retalia­tion," Walsh said about how the crew felt being involved in the operation. "We were trying to right the wrongs that were per­fonned against us." 
Homecoming 
After the initial launch, the USS Enterprise was cleared to return to the United States -even though those on board couldn't tell anyone about it. 
For security reasons, Walsh couldn't tell his family he'd be coming home in early November 
until they were safely back in the Mediterranean Sea. When he could talk to Meghan. he telt only relief. 
"It was relief ... we were out of direct hann's way at that point,'' Walsh said. "And we were happy we would be together again." 
In the mob of 10,000 people, Meghan and the couple's two sons, Connor, 9 and Ryan, 5, stood hidden in the crowd, clam­oring to see him. Rut as he stepped off the carrier. finding his family wouldn't be any easy task. 
Finally, through a fence, he saw them. 
"When I did find them I was able to reach over the fence and give my wife a hug," Walsh said. "Then I reached up and picked up both children." 
Returning home to his home in Brunswick. Maine, Walsh was treated to another homecoming as family and friends greeted him in his driveway, cheering his accomplishments. 
"I couldn't bring myself to get out of the car at first." he said. "They just stood there clapping." 
Welcoming the chance to be home for the holidays. Walsh has spent the last few weeks at home, coaching his son's local hockey team. And while he missed his son's and wife's birth­days while overseas, he did see his son's best game Saturday ­a three-goal, two-assist effort. 
He returns to the USS Enterprise today before the holi­days, when he'll come back to Maine for some "quality family time," he said. 
But even after his patriotic homecoming, Walsh still won't let himself breathe easy. 
"A part of me can't celebrate because we have people in harm's way," he said. "I just hap­pened to be in a good place at a good time. We cannot rest until terrorism is fully put away." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 
Educating Lawyers for 
Law 
The stedy of law at 

Ave .,,Jlt1 7/ • 
Maria provides rewards on{J ··•• . 
;:;:.ssio~:;e::;,,,,~'g::;uf?tt"+ fr .. ·· 1f e 
comprehensive curriculum, 
enhanced by the Catholic intellectual tradition, prepare 
graduates to practice law at the highest level. Whether 
a student aspires to private practice, public service, or 
service as in-house counsel, the Ave Maria faculty inspires 
students to see law as both a profession and a vocation. In 
the past two years, we have received applications from 47 
states and several countries. Our students compare with 
those at several of the nation's leading law schools-25% 
of this year's entering class scored in the top 10% on the 
LSAT. Quality students. Committed faculty. Professional 
atmosphere. Ave Maria provides a rewarding education for 
law and life. 



Date:  Wc<lnesday. November 28. 2001  
Time:  Y p.m.  
Place:  Notre Di,me Room. Secom] Floor of  
Lafortune Student Center  
Topic:  Applying To and Succeeding in Law School  
Presenter:  Michael Kenney, Dean r!fAdmissicms  

Piua :uul soda .sponsored by Ave Maria Schnol of L1w 
Office ofAdmissions 

3475 Plymouth Road • Ann Arbor, Michigan • 48105-2550 • 734.827.8063 info@avcmarialaw.edu • www.avemarialaw.edu 




RLD NATION 
Wednesdc1y, November 28, 200 l COMPILED FH0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq rejects return of inspections: 
Iraq rnjected Tuesday a call by President Bush to Int ll.N. wr~apons inspectors back into the country Ln determine whether it is building weapons of mass dPstrnction. U.N. weapons insµPrtors left Iraq in December 1998 when tlw United States and Britain launched four­day extm1sive air and missile bombings against Iraq f'or failing lo r.oopPrate wilh thorn. 
Newborns may receive AIDS drugs: 
A team of lawyers wnnt to court today to try to forn• tlw South Afriran government to widely clistributt\ a drug that significantly rr~dur.Ps a prngnant woman's risk or transmit­ting ttw i\Jl)S virus lo her newborn. Thn gov­Prnnwnt rutT('ntly offers the drug, nPvirapirn~, !o pn'gnunt wnmPn inl'Prtcd with the AIDS \irus aL 18 pilot sites around tlw rountry. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Police charge girl in bomb plot: A 
17-yPar-old girl who authorities say agreed to takP part in a ColumbinP-stylP massacrP at hPr sd10oi but spillPd Llw sPnet by warning her fovoritP tPadwr that Hw woman was in dangPr was diargPd Tut>sday with rnnspirary to com­mit murc!Pr..\my l.('f' Bowman. who plt>adPd innon'nt. is tlH· fourth tPl'n-ag<'r rharged in what authoritiPs say was a plan to smugglfi guns undt•r black tn•rwhcoats into tlw school and ('Ill<'!"!-;(' from a bathroom shooting to kill. 
Harvard professor vanishes: The dis­
appeara ,H'P of a prominPnt Harvard bio­dwmist in :\fomphis ParliPr this month has baf­llPd his family. friPnds and policn. Hut bm:ause tlw professor. Don C. WilPy, is a IPading expert on dangProus virusPs likP Ebola. tlw mystpry ol' his disappParance has provoked wider att,'n­tion as \WI!. l'rofossor 'vViley has bnen missing sim'.t' early !\ov. 16. wlwn the police found his rPntal rnr abando1wd on a bridge over the \lississippi HivPr oulsidt' \1Pmphis. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
City zoo raises entrance fees: The 
Indianapolis Zoo plans to incrmtse its admis­sion and nwmbership foes in March and even­tually ask city of'lirials lo pitch in tax money to support its activities. Tirket prices will incrcasP between 75 rents and $1. raising admission Ln £10.75 for adults, $7.75 for sPniors and $6.75 for children agps 2-12. Zoo President Jt-lTrny Bonner cited a 27 percent inr·rnast' in PmployPt' health insurance and rising utility bills -just under $1 million this year -as som1' of the reasons for higher prices. tlw lirst incrPasP since l <J98. 
Market Watch November 27 
-110.15 
Composite 
Volume: 1304.878.720 
+4.18 -5.27 -3.65 
-7.92 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
AMEX: NASDAQ: NYSE: S&P 500: 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0,12 -0.05 40.20 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.38 +0.44 32.31 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.15 -0. 23 19. 70 ENRON CORP (ENE) +2.49 +0.10 4.11 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +1. 28 +0.17 13.47 

AFGHANISTAN 
Associated Press 
ALA JANGI 
The Northern Alliance said today that it had crushed a three-day uprising by captured Taliban fighters as its sol­diers, with. the help of British and American spe­cial forces, took control of the fortress here where the prisoners were held. 
All of the prisoners were thought to be dead, the alliance soldiers said. 
But Gen. Tommy Franks. who as head of the Central Command is in charge ol' the day-to-day cone! uct of the war, said he bnlieved that the battle 
A~sociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Astronomers have made the first mPasuremirnt or a chemical in the atmosphere of a planet orbiting a dis­tant star, using a. technique that could help them find Earth-like bodies around other suns. 
Using the Hubble Space Telescope. astronomers analyzed light shining through a planet's atmosphere as it orbited a star 150 light-years away. Tlw changes in the color of the light provml tlrn pla,wt's atmosphern con­tained sodium. 
was not completely over at the prison. He said 30 to 40 hard-core Taliban holdouts continued to fight. 
According to alliance soldiers, the battle between the two sides raged throughout the day at the prison several miles west of Mazar-i­Sharif. with heavy artillery being exchanged from both sides. Two or three Taliban prisoners, the last of up to 400 who staged a revolt on Sunday, held out for hours today in one build­ing of the fortress, the soldiers said. 
The turning point of the 
"'This is the first measurement ever of any atom in the atmosphere of an extrasolar planet," said Timothy Brown. a scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research and a co-author of the stutly. "This proves it is possible to do a detailed analysis of an atmosphere so far away.'.' 
Brown's co-author. David Charbonneau of the California Institute of Technology. said the achi(wement illustrates how far astronomers have advanced in the search for other worlds that might hold lifo. 
"Ten years ago it was considered 

fight occurred at about 
3:30 p.m. local time, when Northern Alliance troops moved a T-55 Russian-made tank into the area where the last known Taliban prisoners were holding out. Once in position, the tank fired on the building at point­blank range. No one returned fire, the alliance soldiers said. 
This evening, Northern Alliance soldiers contin­ued to fire on the prison just in case there were any survivors. But an alliance commander said his forces had found no survivors. Local comman­ders estimate that 300 to 
crazy to talk about planets about other stars," Charbonneau said Tuesday at a news conference. Since then, astronomers have found 76 planets orbiting stars outside of the solar system, he said. 
Alan P. Boss, an astronomer at the Carnegie Institution of Washington and an expert on planetary formation, called the Charbonneau-Brown dis­covery "a milestone" that pushes astronomy "into a new phase of extrasolar plamitary exploration.·• 
Boss said the finding means "there are indeed other solar systems out there waiting for us to discover." 
400 prisoners werP killPd. They said the fort was lit­tered with the bodies of the Taliban prisoners. most of them Pakistanis. Chechens and Arabs. 
"They are all dead; it's over," sa_id Kalaji. a Northern Alliance com­mander. "The tank shell destroyed everything." 
Northern Alliance sol­diers also estimated that 100 of their fighters were injured in the battle. At least 50 others diPd. the soldiers said. The alliance said it would return to the prison on Wednesday during day­light and begin counting and retrieving the bodies. 

Scientists make extrasolar discovery 
page 6 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 28, 2001 
White House: no more terror spending I 
Associated Pres, 

WASHINGTON 
White House officials and 
Republican leaders renewed 
their opposition Tuesday to a 
Democratic drive to boost anti­
terrorism spending on the eve 
of a House showdown the GOP 
seemed likely to win. 

Led by Rep. David Obey, D­
Wis., Democrats were hoping to 
add $7.2 billion to a bipartisan 
package providing $20 billion 
for the Pentagon and a host of 
domestic security efforts, 
including hiring sky marshals 
and beefing up border security. 
Republicans who control the House were expected to deny an Obey request for a vote on his proposal on Wednesday, as well as other Democratic-led attempts to boost funds for New York City and defense. That would force Democrats to resort to procedural votes, which seemed unlikely to suc­ceed but might let them score political points. 
"We have a war on two fronts," Obey told members of the GOP-dominated House Rules Committee, which sets the rules under which legisla­tion is debated. "This is a grave national security issue. I am asking you to give us an oppor­tunity to at least have it voted on the House floor." 
President Bush has threat­ened to veto any legislation that would spend more than the $40 billion in emergency anti-ter­rorism spending he and law­makers agreed to on Sept. 14. That was three days after the attacks that leveled the World Trade Center towers and dam­
aged the Pentagon, killing more 
than 3,000 people. 
Bush controls half that 
money. The other $20 billion, 
which needs congressional 
approval, is part of a $318 bil­
lion defense bill for this year 
the House will debate on 
Wednesday. 
"Congress made an agree­
mcnt, and the president thinks 
it's important that when an 
agreement is made, the agree­
ment should be kept," said 
White House spokesman Ari 
Fleischer. 
Fleischer also repeated 
administration arguments that 
the initial $40 billion is enough 
until next year. when White 
House officials have said a 

request for additional spending 
may be made. 
In the Senate, majority Democrats are trying to add $15 billion for domestic securi­ty programs and have a better chance of prevailing. 
House Democrats were hop­ing that during Congress' week-long Thanksgiving break, Hepublicans from New York or other border or port states would feel pressure to support the proposed additional spend­ing. Groups representing mail-order companies, ports, air­ports and the travel industry have tried to round up support for the Democratic plan, but apparently without sufficient success. 
But as lawmakers returned in force to the Capitol on Tuesday. Republicans said they were unaware of any GOP lawmak­ers -other than Rep. John Sweeney of New York -who might support the Democratic drive. 



Call 259-1000 far mare details Call 259-1000 for more details 

The University of Nolte Dame Oepartmenl of Music Series presents 
~benb~MUSIQVE 
Concert XVI: Gregorian Chant &Primitive Polyphany from Dutch Sources 
~110 $,tbola :.Mu11trorum 
Alexander Blachly, director 


Wed., Nov 28, 2001 
9:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public 

for more mformation, lea~e call (219) 6Jl~b201 or visit htt :/ /www.nd.ed.u/ ~con oers 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies 
presents: 


''Dante's Ghost and t!J~rLa~g.µage of Florentine Bf"JIIties at the Turn of the Sixt~e:nth Centter'' 
SHERRYllOUSH Pennsy/>=i}i~;;,~tq, University 

:iia~dq,r, N:v~f]1ber ;9 ~ 4:45 p.m. 
Department of Special Collections Hesburgh I ,ibrary 

The lecture is free and open tu the public. For further information contact the D.:vers Program in Dante Studies at (219) 631-5610. 
-~ ----­
Wednesday, November 28, 2001 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

.~ 1:tpt::~~ brllfJo~ ~a.7 ilt'~'"tlis!:e!e-ti. ,:,J bt;f;JC.~ iof-rrm1.~k;n L~iD!i'ii'eJ~!tt~tr11 1~,~~i:~j fil [i:~,o:m (\r~k~~g;, (?[B~i!:!.~!fG ~t:d v..rith 1':~ihJy ~::r~r~•11ri-ioc~J ~br-1.u7a±ion pir.-r.~t~~~~)fi~~i, 
ru~~I'.;'. fbitn. -5,._~ -~-;ma!BJ--. ~':t~;;~;~!~~ie&--ili'=l:J!i*zj ~io-tL~!Siif~ .b.:CHJ:.Ot'itl ~ -ii~ (~T~'Tl:1. P-~1-i5li1;-L,~S c~~ii!r.:f.:r a H~sbii.~ L:t~r., 1r~e.filld.iif\f. ~)1ilJ}ru hu~li7.m55 anj rr8i~ t.lt~5~ 
l)"u,trn-3lJ tillilli.rl~ ~DiU.Th.~::g ~,r~d€:!:t:i!e !!f.1 },f~) ;S~ Ud(.tt!!:S. :fftJ.1t11~~r:uti:1r" n:si:Yt nit~f'illii!i:.:i;!e .r1 n ~~1· f'1tf t~r:rr.~.Jd!;., ~2rnf:lillg~ bi.!Sh--~:rw :lli![~·rrtatitJl\ ~-j~~~1'.t~~l-~ ~m:td ~:rFt~ ir.ifi l:u~IT."ii_g: 
'~:~?'' 

~-~~ ~~w. )~:!11@:rk Oii;itt!i 
ttrnur..;@i _ifiljEt .. !ffi~~~f~lii"T.!l ~fl!ruli~m: 


Vj,~it t1ie J1t~:l-?:1di1 ~iir:m~~Jt B..u~iitii~is l~]if(~ ~(Ti'.~m !il=:ioJr.t ,~~ erant:e.ri 11 ~~ horne p-age for all your business ne.~'?Sl needs. 

Lool~ing for a Summer Internship? 
How about one that offers ... 
o 
A choice of 1.20 locations nationwide 

o 
Hands-on experiential learning 

o 
Invaluable ND alumni contact opportunities 

o 
Leadership experience 

o 
$2900+ tax-free tuition credit (Including Americorps funding) 


All rolled into one amazing service opportunity... 
The Summer Service Project INTERNSHIP 
Find out more at the Center for Social Concerns LAST SESSION OF THE SEMESTER! 

MAl<E A DIFFERENCE. 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns 
ISRAEL 

Palestinian attack kills 2 
Associated Press 
AFULA 
Two Palestinians sprayed a bus station and open-air market with gunfire Tuesday, killing two Israelis and wounding 14 others before being shot to death. Two 
U.S. envoys witnessed the imme­diate aftermath of the attack from the air, flying over Afula in a helicopter tour narrated by Israel's prime minister. 
Later, a Palestinian attacker in Gaza fired at a car and killed an Israeli woman, the military said. Three other Israelis, including a baby, were wounded. Israeli sol­diers shot and killed the gun­man, Palestinan security and Israeli military sources said. 
An Israeli army spokesman said the attacker fired at the convoy and threw grenades. In a faxed message to The Associated Press, the militant Hamas orga­nization took responsibility. 
One of the American media­tors, retired Marine Corps Gen. Anthony Zinni, said the blood­shed underscored the need for a truce after 14 months of fight­ing. "A cease-fire is what we need to get to something more comprehensive and lasting," he said. 
Two Palestinian groups ­Islamic Jihad and the Al Aqsa Brigades linked to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement -claimed responsi­bility for what they said was a joint attack to avenge the target­ed killings of Palestinians. 
The Palestinian Cabinet issued a statement condemning the two attacks "and all operations tar­geting Israeli civilians." 
The gunmen were from the Jenin refugee camp in the West Bank, about 10 miles south of Afula. They slipped into Israel. reportedly in a stolen car with Israeli plates, despite a strict security closure of the West Bank and of Jenin in particular. Only a few hours earlier, Israeli troops had withdrawn from 
Pata~onia
i ;) 
.rlll:\''!," ' "' "
'1:~~rcl&Jke rvelyc1l -.~ 
Sminute~
6nm DUTPDS'T' 
Campus --1•Nif 
Cold Weather Experts 

Coll 259-1000 for mare details 


SOURCES: Associaled Press; CIA A.P 

areas in Jenin, the last of six West Bank towns Israel partly occupied for several weeks. 
At about 11:30 a.m., the gun­men opened fire near the cen­tral bus station in Afula. Uri Kalman, a shopowner, said the assailants fired methodically at a traffic light. 
"They were firing at the cars, one car, then another car, then another, time after time. There were five cars, all facing differ­ent ways. They had nowhere to turn," Kalman told Israel TV's Channel Two. 
The assailants then ran to the nearby open-air market. 
"They shot the first person (they encountered) in the head," witness Mordechai Cohen told Israel Radio. 
One woman approached a gunman from behind and tried to attack him, but he turned around and shot her, said anoth­er woman who gave her name as Iris. "It was shocking. It's a mess," she said. 
After several minutes, the assailants were cornered by security forces and killed in a firefight, said police spokesman Gil Kleiman. A reserve soldier, Menashe Mekonnen, said he shot one of the gunmen in the head. "He shot again, and then he fell," Mckonnen said. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
I' 0. Box Q, Nacre Dame. rN 46556 

02.4 Sourh Dinm;; Hall, Notre Dom<. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
'.'-forcen Gillespie  flob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OrERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerrv Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason Mcfarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: :'-loah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: \1ym McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: l'ecer Richard~on 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Palwci Chin Wr:B ADMINISTRATOR: Ad.nu Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERA! INFO...........631-7471 
FAx............................................................ 631-6927 
ADVERTISING ....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFACE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS..... ....................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edL1 SCENL .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO...................................... ..................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ... .............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at lmp:llobsen,er.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for minure forecms 

weekly swdenr reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meer the editors and ALigust 1999 
sraff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the 
I 
i. University ofNoue Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advenisemems, is not governed by policies of rhe adminisrrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr ro refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as acrnrately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encomaged. Letters ro the F.ditor musr be signed and must include .comact information. 
Questiom reiardmg Observer poliaes should be direct­ed to Editnr i11 ChiefMike Comm/{;•. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Scott Brodfuehrer Gordon Snickland 
Van Giles Graphics 
Justin Krivickas Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Matt Lazar Jeff Baltruzak 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Lori Lewalski Nellie Williams 

Winter is nearly upon us in the greater Michiana area, and that means the ground will soon be enshrouded with pristine white. Temperatures will fall from their current balmy altitudes, and the wind will cut through that 
Eric Long
J.Crew suede coat you received last Christmas. 
Fitter.
As many of you 
Happier
remember from 4th grade science class, 70 percent of the body's heat flees by way of the head. Such as it is, I've steadfastly cultivated my hair since before last spring break. Considering the outrageous, inflation­addled cost of winter hats, I calculated that hair growth is the best way to stay warm and accumulate a little extra coin for holiday shopping. 
In the past several months, a mass of hair the size of a stocky porcupine has grown up on top of my head. I frighten small children and the elderly with my massive coiffure, and my parents seem to think that I no longer look "respectable." 
This leads me to a frivolous topic, but one that nevertheless proves worthy of inquiry. Since when does respectability vary inversely with hair length? Is this not America, the freest country in the universe? Worst of all, friends: my practical and stylish hair might adversely affect my post-graduation plans. I hope you have some spare time, for you are about lo encounter a tale of woe and whimsy, a yarn that will elicit hilarious cackling and hot, desperate tears: the story of a young man and his 'fro. 
It begins in my elementary school years. Many of my classmates found a stable identity with a trademark hair­cut. Some of the girls wore perms or crimped hair, and many buys sportPd the crew cut and bowl haircut. The 
POLL QUESTION 
most stylish of all boy cuts, the tight­rolled jean of haircuts, was the spike. 
The coolest of my classmates strutted through the halls with hair gelled into sharp points. A few of my more adven­turous comrades married the spike with the mullet. If there is a time in life when that indulgent haircut is permissi­ble, elementary school is the time. 
Unfortunately, my hair grew in a meandering follicle pattern. My earth­bound hair would not rise in a gravity­defying spike, except for an obnoxious cowlick in the back that mysteriously sprouted annually on picture day. I set­tled for a boring right-side part. My playground stock plummeted as a result, and I spnnt many a recess lamenting the cursed genes that ruined my chance at popularity. 
In junior high I hit ruck bottom. l mowed off my hair, shaving down to a thin coat of fuzz. 
But defying reason, like Phoenix ris­ing from ash, my hair grew back curly. Looking back through time's cloudy lens, I believe that my hair always pos­sessed a slight wave that I would comb out before school. Finally, I had acquired the self-confidence to unleash the fury. I grew my hair with abandon the first two years of high school, cut it and then finished boldly with curly wings emerging from the sides of my graduation mortarboard. 
Today my hair is longer than it's been since senior year of high school. Sadly, the pressure to chop it oITis mounting. Oh, I've dealt with my share of taunt­ing. I've been called Richard Simmons, Sideshow Bob, Mr. Kotter (my personal favorite) and others. I've been accused of perming, and more than one person has tugged on my hair as if it were a wig. And only yesterday the woman at Dunkin' Donuts skeptically regarded my hair as "interesting." But tlrnse traumas are only minor incidents in the grand scheme of things. 

Wednesday, November 27, 2001 
Or so I thought. The day approaches when I must get a haircut and get a real job. Many friends and well-wishers assure me that I'll be able to keep my hair long and still find gainful employ­ment. 1don't believe them. No, the world frowns on the longhaired, unless one aspires to be a disc jockey or comic book shop proprietor. And today's recessing economy, combined with my arts and letters major, could add up to my struggling to find a comfortable hair net. 
The world is not fair. A person's merit should rest on a far morn stable surface than the thin web of protein outcrop­pings atop the skull. But humanity in mass is quick to judge, to search for an identifying characteristic and to form categories accordingly. This is a self­defense mechanism. It is much easier for my interviewer to dismiss me as a longhaired hippy than to consider me an upstanding, determined gentleman. 
Does it look easy to grow one's hair to this length? On the contrary. it is a challenge I stand up to everyday. 
By now you might be asking, what is the point of this column? Wetl, I haven't given up on changing the world just yet. Perhaps some of you fellows out there have long hair. Perhaps some of you ladies have been clowning longhaircd guys, or perhaps you have been pres­suring your boyfriend or brother to get a haircut. I propose a thrne-week mora­torium on haircuts. Let it fly until Christmas break, and il' you have any money left over buy your haircut and hat. 
Eric Long is a senior Pl.S major. lie can be reached at Long.3l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Given Bob Davie's statement that he will 

"U. you do not tell the truth about yourself, 
resign "under zero circumstances," do you 

you cannol tell it about other people." 
think we will have a new coach next year? 

Virginia Woolf author
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m, 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 27, 2001 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Legalizing drugs would cause more problems 
I am wriling in rt1sponse to John Lille's column about lngalizing all drugs. Bol'orn ranting on about how it would be better neonomir.ally if' drugs were legaliz<'d. per­lrnp.s tho author should have done a liltle rnsnarrh first. I completely agree that if a drug addict wants to go overdose on hero­in. that's his own fault. But the reasoning lwhind legalizing drugs is ignorant at best. Let's look at th1\ numbers. Firsl of all. the govPrnmPnt's drug budget is $18.2 billion a year. The overall federal budget is ov1ir $2 trillion. So that's less than one prrc<'nt. You want to eliminate the DEA? Well, they only get $1 billion of that. So what do you want, a cookie? Because that's what the average tax payer would got back -about a dollar if the agency was eliminated. 
Secondly, the argument about intoxicat­ed crime was that it'd be punished harsh­ly. His masoning is like saying that it's okay to have a nuclear missile in your basemPnt as long as you don't actually use it, which would, of course, infringe on Llwir rights by blowing them up. /\nd plus, wlwrc do you think the money to combat this new influx of intoxicated crime will come from? Taxpayers. I agree with tough crime laws, but l think it'd be much better if we could prevent the crime from hap­pening in the first place. 
Lastly, I am dl-lfinitcly for Jess govern­ment involvement in our everyday lives. But there's a point where we have to draw the line. The most important role of gov­ernment is to protect the lives of its citi­zens. This is not just fultilled by protecting our borders against foreign powers and terrorism. Thousands of times the number of people who were killed on Sept. l 1 die because of murder or drugs. Outwardly, we are a strong nation, but inwardly, we have room for improvement. I don't know about Mr. Litle, but personally, I think $20 bucks of my taxes is worth the knowledge I won't have a drug dealer across the street trying to push them on my children. 
Bryce Cooper Freshman Zahm Hall Nov. 26, 2001 

Respect shows true Notre Dame spirit 
l was visiting your campus thP. weekend of the Notre Dame ­Navy game. My niece, who is interested in attf'nding ~otrc name, and I trav­elled from Louisiana to be on campus with my nephew for his last senior year Notre Dame home game. We were so impressed with the respect shown 



proud Notre Dame studenls are to be attending and/or graduating from Notre Dame, and about 
how proud alumni return with the same devotion unscathed by the out­
side world. If only thP. heart and soul of 
those present and former students could be bottled 
and sold to other universities. 
Congratulations on developing young men and women who will make Notre Dame 

CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
Now that Northern Alliance has routed the Taliban from murh of Afghanistan, the need to form a new govcrnmnnt in the war-ravaged country has become urgent. EVt~ry day that the current power vacuum con­tinues, regional warlords work to consolidatn their power further 
Editorial Staff
and rPduce tlrn chances of a truly representative government taking the Taliban's place. Although America's armed forces continue 
Harvard 
to search for mi>mbers of the al Crimson Qaeda network, we cannot wait until the military operations are over to begin working in the political sphere to estab­lish a stable interim government to protect the Afghan p<'ople. 
The entry of the Northern Alliance into Kabul makes il imperative that the United States and the United Nations expedite the work of forming a coalition gov­ernment. In a sign of progress, a U.N. envoy said Ttwsrlay that several Afghan groups (including the North1m1 Alliance) had agreed to meet in Berlin this weekend to bPgin talks. and had signed on to the Unitfld Nation's vision of broad-based, multiethnic rulo. The Northern Alliance has agreed to cede control in Kabul to such an interim government, but it must also allow a multinational peacekeeping force totem­porarily take over in Kabul while the U.N. talks are ongoing. 
To take on a broader role in Afghanistan, the United Nations needs the strong supportof America and the world. The United States has traditionally been reluc­tant to stand behind the United Nations, preferring to focus on its failures. The need for an impartial interna­tional institution to manage this crisis is paramount. The road ahead for Afghanistan is rocky, filled with too many pitfalls for any one nation to traverse alone. The United States and the United Nations must effectively build a nation from scratch. as Afghanistan's infra­structure and institutions have been decimated over its many decades of war. 
The next government will have the opportunity to lift Afghanistan out of the strife and hopelessness that have been the defining features of its recent history. But for the United States, the stakes are also high. Allowing Afghanistan to collapse once again raises the risk that dangerous movements and terrorist groups will again find a safe haven there. 
Furthermore, the way America treats Afghanistan will be taken as an indication of the way we will treat other failed states in the future. If we abandon the country after locating Osama bin Laden and other leaders ot' al Qaeda, tho world will assume that we have no other goal than our immediate self-interest. The United States must show that it is genuinely con­cerned about the fate of the Afghan people, and the only way to do that is to strongly support, in both word and deed, the United Nations' efforts to rebuild Afghanistan. 

To this end, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell recent­ly suggested that peacekeepers in Afghanistan should come from majority-Muslim countries, to demonstrate that this is not a religious war and that America has no interest in colonizing the area. If nations like Bangladesh, Turkey and Indonesia would be willing to send significant peacekeeping contingents to Afghanistan. such an arrangement would be far preferable to a long-term American-only occupation. 
America and the world face a challenge in Afghanistan. The United Nations' attempts to establish a provisional government are essential, but they are only the first steps. If we leave without considering the future of the Afghan people, the tragedy that they have lived over the last several decades -and the tragedy that we have suffered in the last few months -will almost certainly be repeated. 
This article first appeared in Harvard University's newspaper, the Harvard Crimson, on Nov. 21 and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRH. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

1. ,,:, ,,4_·
' . 
~/ $,_..' 

page 10 Wedmesday, November 28, 2001 

• 
earc 
Ill 


llellas as and outcast and prophet tie, leaving the throne once again to
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
with Antigone by his side, Oedipus Crnon. Once coronated. Crnon com­
Scene Editor 
arrives at Athens. his foretold place of mands that Polynices should remain death. Oedipus· burial site was to bP a unburied, a great dishonor in Greek

Tragedy is timeless. This week 
holy place for th11 city that possessod society, for bringing a foreign urmy

Notre Dame ·s Department of Film 
it. against Thebes.

Television and Theatre will bring 
Upon hearing tlw news of Oedipus' Antigone, who has been betrothed

Sophocles' 2.500 year old tragedy, 
impending death. both Creon. who to Creon's son llacmon, defies

"Antigone." to Washington II all to 
had helped Oedipus· youngest son Creon's command. buries her brother 
prove it. 
Eteocles usurp the throne, and and performs the funeral rit<~s. fulf'ill­

''Antigone" is the third installment 
Polvnices, Oedipus' eldest son, ing her promise. When Antigone is
of Sophocles' tragic 
· attempt to get caught in the act, the furious Crt>on
trilogy of the house 
Oedipus to die in brings her to trial and must decideof Laius, the leg­

"Sophocles has won­their land, hoping her fate in this tale of justice, family
endarv king of 

derful things to say... that it will aid thorn and accountability.
Thebe·s. The play 
in their struggle !'or Director Mark Pilkinton auditioned

details the dramatic We have fought for the 
pow<'r. After thwart­and cast tlrn show the first week of
death of Antigone, 

pastJew months ing an attempted school. The original concept l'or the
the daughter and sis-• 

against melodrama to kidnapping by Creon show had b!len decided last April;
ter of cursed and dismissing however. when the S1~pt. 11 attacks

Oedipus. make it as real life and 
Polynices with a occurred, Pilkinton and the cast

In the first play of down tu Earth as you curse and the decided to change the design of' th1~the series, "Oedipus 
can possibly make it." prophecy that ho show.
Rex.'' Antigone and 
and his brother will "We felt that we had to do some­
her siblings are left kill each other in thing to recognize Sept. 11." Kate

in th<' custody of Maura Malloy 
battle, Oedipus Dolack, a sophomorn who plays aOedipus' brother-in­
actor 
meets a mysterious chorus member and Eurydice, said.
law. Creon, al'ter 
end. Antigone, who The cast has set the show at a can­
Oedipus abdicates 
swore to bury her brother if Oedipus· celled perform ancc of "Antigone" on

the throne upon the revelation of his 
prophecy came true, returns to Sept. 11. As cast members, they dis­

murdering his father and marrying 
Thebes. cuss the events of the day and decide
his mother. 
At the beginning of "Antigone," to put the show on anyway with

The second play, "Oedipus at 
Polyniccs and Eteocles have, as whatever props and costumes they

Colonus." sets the stage for 
prophesized, killed each other in bat-can scrounge up.

"Antigone." After years of wandering 
Pilkinton and tlrn cast wrote the framing play together from improvisnd scenes and things tho cast found them­sr•lvPs saying on Sept. 11. Pilkinton wanted tlrn fram­ing piece to evolve naturally. 
"The whole show has been very organic and vory collaborativ11 
we'vr1 all pooled id11as and pooled our con­r.nrns," Pilkington said. 
After the actors decide to do the 

Mike Crowley, who plays Creon, gazes he, 
show, tlwy search the stage /'or props and costume 

not be portrayed to the audience
pieces and slowly 

directly; dead bodies were oftenbegin the show. 
brought into a scone by uso of an
Most of tho acces­ekkykloma.

sories como on and 13Pcause the show is done in this

off the stage by "found-object" style. it is almost way of a metal 

entirely devoid of' the lavish produc­
dolly which sen-f)S 

tion value characteristic of last year'sas an ekkyklnma. 
"01edipus Rex." In fact, onp of theAn ekkyklema, lit­
most striking aspt~cts of the produc­
erally translating 

tion is the utter silence in the theater. 
as "whcrnlod-out The sparse set and neutral earth­thing," is a tradi­

toned costumes give the show a
tional Grnok the­

waslrnd-out look. Combined with theatrical device usod 
predominate harsh, white lightingto reveal action 
scheme, the actors app11ar ghostly atfrom off st.ago or in lime, especially wlwn llwy woar tlwanother sccnn. For chorus wears their masks. Pilkinton 
e x a m p Ie • t h!) 

wanted to create a dustnd-over look.
Grnek playwrights 

"The dust is so symbolic of the dust
had a convention we've seen coming off the World

that violent action 



L_ 
OTHE BSERVER 


Wednesday, November 28, 2001 page 11 


' 
• 
• 
ice'

1na 
!es' tragic trilogy, ''Antigone," this week 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/ The Observer 
1rd during a monologue. 
Trade CPnter,"Dolark said. 
Unlike "Oedipus Rex," which was charg1•d with frantir energy, !1ashy pro­durtion effects und eluborntcly chorno­graphPd modern dance, "Antigonn" takns a. much more rnservcd tone. which allows it to focus 011 Lim interper­sonal r1dationships or its characters. 
Su<'h interplay is cs1wcially evident bf'lWl'Cll Sf)nior Maura Malloy. who plays Antigone, and senior i\1ike Crowlny, who plays Creon. At the same timn. ttw actors trv to stav awav from boing simply nwlod~·amaii/ " 
.. Sophnrlf's has wonderful things to say ... WP have fought for thn past fow months against nwlodrama to make it as rPal life and down to Farth as vou can possibly makn it." Malloy said. " 
l\lalloy. an FTT vPtPran. thinks that Lhc sh'ow details a r,onl'licl betWf\f)Jl 
structured religion or law and spirituality. 

-
"One of Lhe biggest themes (of th1~ show) for me was spirituality, which I didn't really expect. ll just came about as a result of reading the play. Tim more I read it the more I was impressed by how spiritual Antigone is," Mallov said. 

Se11ior Beth Hoffmann, who plays Ismene, agrees and thinks that students will be able· to draw parallels with their own lives. ­
"Theatre is a dynamic plare where we can explore our own personal lives and our own personal feelings ... we'rn offering something special," Hoffmann said. 
The cast works well as an ensemble and the amount of effort they put in to being in the moment shows through. Because "Antigone" is pre­sented with a traditional chorus structure all the actors play two or three parts and each does a good job of differentiating between their characters. 
Although the show is solid overall. the Sept. 11 tie-in is unnecessary. The parallels, while done with good inten­tions, revel themselves inad­equately and partially dis­tract the audience from the play overall. The abrupt and disconnected nature of the dialogue al the beginning of the show flirts with melodra­ma. 
"Antigone" has persevered as an essential dramatic work for two millennia; it does not need added agony to make it a strong show. The show doesn't need to be modernized because it already is modern. Audiences have found rele­
vance in the tragedy's time­
lessness; Sophocles doesn't 
need to be second-guessed. 
Despite its conceptual 
blemishes, audiences should 
enjoy an otherwise well con­structed show. 
Perf'ormanres of "Antigone" will run from today through Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 PM. Tichts arP $IO for gen­f)ral admission, $1J for senior citizens and $7 for students $7. Reserved seats and are available at the door or in advanre at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. To order tickf\ts rail 631­8128. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu, 



page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 28, 200 I 
NBA 
Jordan just ordinary in loss 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
It had been an awful long time since Michael Jordan looked quite so ordinary against the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
Jordan. who used to destroy the Cavaliers nearly every time he played them, scored 18 points in his first game back with Washington in Clewland's 94­75 win over the Wizards. 
Ricky Davis scornd 14 of his 18 points in the fourth quarter. and Lamond Murray had 14 points and 10 rebounds for the Cavs, who won their third straight at home. 
A sellout crowd of 20,562 came to Gund Arena to see Jordan, who gave the fans a few thrills but had another poor shooting night. 
Jordan came in shooting just 40.4 per­cent -a career-low -and went only 9­
-of-24 from the floor and didn't attempt a free throw in 31 minutes. He added four rebounds and five assists, but sat out the final 4:33 with the Wizards down by 20. He certainly wasn't the old Jordan, who averaged 31.6 points in his first 80 games against the Cavaliers and elimi­nated them four times in the playoffs. It was against Cleveland in 1989 that he made "The Shot" over Craig F.hlo in the decisive Game 5 to advance the Chicago Bulls. He also scored 69 points -his career­high -on March 28, 1990, against Cleveland. But also had just 8 points in a loss on March 12. 1986, the last time he scored in single digits. Jordan isn't making as many shots these day, and his supporting cast isn't offering much help. Richard Hamilton shot 3-of-13 and had 13 points and Christian Laettner 10 for the Wizards, 
..... who shot just 34 percent from the field and dropped to 3-10. Jumaine Jones added 15 points, Andre Miller 14 and Chris Mihm had 13 points and 10 rebounds for Cleveland. Cavs coach John Lucas was as nervous as his players, some of whom had posters of Jordan on their bedroom walls. "My only concern is that he loves Cleveland," Lucas said before the game. "Even though he's old and all. An old dog wakes up in familiar places." It took the old dog a while to warm up. Jordan missed four of his first five shots, including a short jumper and 
layup off an alley-oop in a five-second span. However, he helped bring the Wizards back from a 20-point deficit. 
Jordan drilled a 16-footcr, banked in a 10-footer and hit twu short turnarounds as Washington closed tho half with an 18-6 run to pull to 48-40 at halftime. 
Thi' Wizards got within two in the third, but the Cavs took an eight-point lead and quickly built it to 20 as Davis scored eight straight points and Rimbo Coles chipped in with two straight bas­kets. 
Celtics 84, Heat 83 
Paul Pierce scored 33 points, including a driving layup as time expired, to lift the Roston (('!tics to a victory ovPr thH Miami Heat. 
Pierce's shot snapped Boston's four­game losing streak and ran '.Vtiami's slide to nine straight losses. 
After Miami went ahead 83-82 on a pair of free throws by Eddie House, Koston called time out with :t5 seconds remaining in regulation. 
Taking an inbounds pass from Eric Williams at the top of the foul circle, Pierce drove left past Eddie Jones and sank a left-handed layup before Alonzo Mourning could provide help. 
Antoine Walker added 28 points for the Celtics, who scored just 13 points in the fourth quarter. 
Jones led Miami with 27 points. Chris Gatling added 13 points and LaPhonso Ellis had 11. 
Miami is in the midst of its longest los­ing streak since dropping 10 straight in the 1990-91 season. Since Pat Riley became Heat coach, his previous longest drought was live games in the 1995-96 season. 
The lead changed six times in the final quarter and the game was tied once, at 
81. Pierce had seven points in the fourth. 
In the first half, Boston trailed by nine points early before going on a 15-0 run. Walker had 17 points and Pierce 1.5 at the break. 
The Celtics shot 43 percent from the field and 44 percent from 3-point range. Pierce was 13-for-23 from the field, and Walker had six 3-point baskets in 11 attempts. 
Nets 100, Bulls 68 
Todd Macculloch had 18 points and 13 rebounds and the New Jersey Nets tied a team-record by holding Chicago to six 
third-quartPr points in defeating the Bulls. 
Keith Van I lorn added 19 points and 10 rebounds as the Nets handed the wocl'ul Bulls (1-12) their 10th straight loss. Chicago is winless in nine road games. 
The 68 points was a season low for Chicago, which got 1 J points apiece from Marcus Fizer and Brad Miller. 
Tim vir,tory gave tho NP ts a I 0-5 record, their best start since 1978-79, and was witnt>ssed by a crowd of 5.234 -the Nets' smallest of the year. Last season, New Jersey didn't win its 10th game until Jan. 2. 
The six points tied the Nets' record for fewest points allowed in a quarter. set against Boston on Jan. 9, 19Y0. It also tied the Hulls' record for fewest points scored, set on Nov. 6, 1993 against Miami. 
That was in the season after Michael Jordan retired for lhe first time. Those Bulls had Scottie Pippen, Toni Kukoc and some other good players. This Chicago team has almost no talent, and the Nets toyed with it despite just returning from a five-game Wesl Coast trip. 
Kerry Kittles had 10 of his 14 points in the big third quarter and Jason Kidd had 12 points and eight assists in 11 game that New Jersey led t'or all but the open­ing seconds. 
With Kidd shooting 5-of-7 and scoring all his points, the Nets took a 28-21 lead after the first quarter. The margin grew to 10 at halftime, and tlrnn New Jersey put the game away in the third quarter, outscoring Chicago 24-6. 
Chicago hit two baskets in the opening 
1:49 and then made only one more shot the rest of the way in being outscored 21-2. The Bulls shot 3-of-18, or 16. 7 per­cent. 
Kittles started a 17-0 run with 9:49 to go, hitting a jumper. Greg Anthony final­ly ended the run with a driving layup with 2:37 to go to make the score 72-48. 
Kings 89, Rockets 84 
Peja Stojakovic scored 24 points, including four free throws the final minute, as the Sacramento Kings held off the undermanned Houston Rockets. 
The Rockets were without their start­ing backcourt of Steve Francis, sidelined 4-6 weeks with a foot injury, and Cuttino Mobley, who is day-to-day with sprained ankle. 

Sacramento led by as many as 15 in the third. but Moochie Norris scored 12 points in a 21-6 run that knotted the score at 64-64 with 2:10 to play in the quarter. 
Stojakovic hit two free throws with 36 seconds to play for an 85-80 lead, then hit two more with seven seconds to play. 
Mike Bibby added 18 points while Bobby Jackson had l 4, including eight in the fourth quarter, as the Kings beat the Hockets for the sixth straight time. Doug Christie had J4, including two free throws with 19 seconds to play. 
llouston got a career-high 20 points from Oscar Torros, whose previous best was eight. 
Kenny Thomas had 18 points and a season-high 19 rebounds and Norris added 19 points as the Rockets lost tlrnir third straight. They fell below the .500 mark for the first time this y1iar at 7-8. 
A 7-0 run at the start ol' the second period helped the Kings open a 10-point lead as Stojakovic had 11 at that point. With the help of 14 from Bibby, they stretched it to as many as 12 before set­tling for a 52-41 halftime lead. 
Mavericks 116, Warriors 106 
Michael Finley matched his career­high with :-19 points and Dirk Nowitzki added 33 as the Dallas Mavericks came back from a 21-point deficit to stretch their winning streak to four games with a victory over the Golden Stata Warriors. 
Dallas used a 33-17 third-quarter charge, including eight points by Finley during an 11-2 run over the final 3:45 of the third quarter, to go in front for good. 
Tim Hardaway's 3-pointer with 36.5 seconds left in the third quarter broke a 79-all tie and gave the Mavericks their first lead since midway through the opening quarter. 
The Mavericks went ahead by as many as 12 points in the fourth quarter, with the Warriors only able to get as close as 112-106 with 31.9 seconds left on Larry Hughes' two free throws. 
Steve Nash and Adrian Griffin had 12 points each to help tlrn Mavericks to their 10th consecutive win over the Warriors. 
Antawn Jamison had 23 of his season­high 32 points in the first quarter as the Warriors jumped out to a 39-23 lead. Jamison's first-quarter total was the most by a Mavericks opponent in any quarter in team history. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to .3 \,.m. at the Notre Dame ofttce, I 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
l 
I The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
I CLASSIFIEDS 
1990 black Honda Accord. Good FOR SALE: 2 bdrm limestone Chicago Apartment in Wrigleyville You can reach condition, 127,000 mi. $2500 obo. ranch, close lo campus. 2-car Owned by ND prof Avail. lmmed. ...ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE But you can't grab it NOTICES Call 631-7862. attached garage, hardwood floors, Large 2 bdrm 1 bath, restored BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! You can hold it, control it 
finished basement, CIA. Call 219-woodwork, bookcases. dining rm, SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, No, you can't bag it SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ 233-9146. hardwood floor, new kitchen, dish• JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL-You can push LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. washer, microwave. Mini blinds, CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. But you can't direct it 
WANTED
WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO 1994 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, central heat/AC, ceiling fans, pri-REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, Circulate, regulate, oh no M 86,000mi, fine cond., loaded. $2800 vate balcony, laundry, off-street EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT You cannot connect it WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! or best offer. Call 1-5233. parking incl. $1575 plus 1.5 months FOR 6+. 800-838-8203/ You know you're chewing bub-SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, Sun Coast Vacations wants to send security deposit. Owner occupied. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM blegum 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. you on Spring Break to Cancun, the 1996 Toyota Camry XLE 75k mi Call 773-348-5832 or e-mail You know what that is BEST Hotels, FREE parties. LOW­Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan Loaded Excellent Condition bower 1@nd edu EARN HOLIDAY CASH 257-8129 But you still want some EST prices! FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1-$10,99S 257-3429 You just can't get enough www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985· 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun• Goldfish baked snack crackers Of that lovie dovie stuff 
--· 
6789. coaslllacations.com TICKETS Anytime You get confused Anywhere But you know it 
FOR RENT

ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge Need Purdue tix? Call Erin @ 276-7076 One snack its ok to get hooked on Yeah, you hurt for It, work for it. precious baby safe and happy in a in FREE Travel. Drinks. Food and love loving family, adored by 2 ND Grad Parties with the Best DJs and HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM· Jenga You don't always show it parents (a full-time mom and a celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm-PERSONAL party lime You're looking for the one lawyer dad) and loving playmates in Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. Go to rentals@aol.com But you know you're somewhere a beautiful home. We promise to StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293-SPRING BREAK Largest selection best of the week else instead give your child the life you dream of 1443 or email sales@studentcity.com Houses available for 3 to 6 stu• of Spring Break Destinations, are you the best of the week? You want to be the song for them. Medical, legal, counseling, to find out more. dents. Good area...ADT, washer-including Cruises! Rep Positions, Be the song that you hear in your court approved living expenses pd. dryer-air. Free Drinks and Free trips avail· kool kats head Confidential. Dave 340-0106 able. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800-It's not a trick Please call our attorney at (708) 231-4-FUN The Observer: We know all 'Cause you can't learn it 
FOR SALE
922-4795 Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 ok, we know some stuff, but not It's the way you don't pay, that's 
story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/new carpet Spring Break with STS, Americas everything I guess okay VW 97 Jetta GL, 5spd, redldrkgry. 2000 Toyota Echo 4dr, red, auto, appl, sec.roof & furnace. 3 lot yd, 1 #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote -U2 1997 sunroof, CD, pwrlocks, AC, immac­cd/cass 19,000ml, like new, blk.N of Club 23. trips on campus, earn cash and free but we know where you live ulate, 29K, $12,000/best, Kimberly must sell trips. Info/Reservations. 1 ·800·648-There's no reason no to go out to or Rich at 631-5368 10,500 obo 631·5144/234-7741 1-800-731-0043 4849 www.ststravel.com and now, discotheque eat twice this week 
Wednesday, November 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NHL 
Lang, Moran star in Penguins win .\ 

goals in just over three minutes midway with 2:39 left to give the Capitals a brief an assist as the Columbus Blue Jackets As<ociated Press 
through the second period. 5-4 lead. beat the Phoenix Coyotes. With the Penguins up 2-0, Brodeur left .Jonsson scored to tie it at 4 at 1:16 of Chris Nielsen also scored, and Ray
PITTSBURGH 
the net to play a puck between the left the third when he chipped the puck high Whitney had two assists for Columbus,Robert Lang scored a goal and set up circle and the blue line, but Lang stoic it over Billington's head. which is 4-0-1-1 in its last six home thrrn~ others, one when New Jersey goalie off his stick as the Penguins rushed back The Capitals pulled ahead 4-3 on Peter games. Since opening the season 1-8-4-0,Martin Brodeur wandered nearly 50 feet into the New .Jersey zone. Bondra's goal at 18:43 of the second the Blue Jackets are 6-4-1-1 at 
f'rom tlrn net, and the Pittsburgh 
Lang then slid the puck to rookie Toby when goalie Chris Osgood couldn't Nationwide Arena. 
Pl=mguins agai11 dum­

Petersen: who had to beat only defense­pounce on a rebound of Andrei Tugnutt won his second in a row. and inat,xl the llcvils 6-0. 
man Scott Niedermayer for his first goal Nikolishin's shot. Bondra back-handed in recorded the Blue Jackets' first shutout of 
Ian Moran and 
since a three-goal game on Mario the rebound for his 14th goal. the season. Tugnutt ended and eight­
Alexei Kovalev 
Lemieux's line Oct. 16 against Ottawa. He Gonchar opened the scoring at 7:13 of game losing streak after making 29 saves scored on two of the got a secoud goal late in the game, 24 the first. in the Blue Jackets' 4-3 win over CalgaryPrmguins' {irst three 
seronds after Milan Kraft scornd. Oates scored a power-play goal at on Sunday.
shots -Kovalev has Lang scored at 14:58 of the second with 10:38 of the first and scored again 2:10 The Coyotes. who have lost three 
four goals in two 
a hard wristcr from the left circle, and later at even strength by chipping in the straight, took five shots at the goaltender 
games against New 
Robinson sent backup goalie Jean­puck as he slid across the crease with the first four minutes of the second peri­
Jersey -as they 
Francois Damphousse onto the ice almost two defenders hanging on him to give the od, including a sprawling pad save on
again confoundnd Lang 
before the red light went off. Caps a 3-0 lead. Ulf' Dahlen assisted on Ladislav Nagy alone in front. 
Brod,"ur, who has 
all three scores. Phoenix, like they had done in the pre­less success against them than any other 
But Czcrkawski brought the Islanders vious two games of a three-game road leam. Islanders 5, Capitals 5 
all the way back at 10:11 of the second trip, fell behind in the first period and Johan Iledberg turned aside a flurry ol' Mariusz Czerkawski scored his third when he fired the puck a.cross the goal­never recovered. 
early shnts while making 39 saves fo(' his goal of the game with 46.3 seconds left to 
mouth from the boards and it ricocheted Columbus scored twice in a span of 53 third shutout ol' the season as the lift the New York Islanders to a tic with 
in off a defender to make it 3-3. seconds w'ith goals from Chris Nielsen Penguins scored one morn goal than they the Washington Capitals. 
Czerkawski's first goal brought New and Sillinger to make it 2-0 after the first had in tlrnir previous four games. Czerkawski had possession behind the York within 3-2 at 18:16 of the first on a period.
Even as New Jersey took 20 or the first goal and angled the puck toward net. It power play. Brad Isbister missed a shot Coyote goaltender Sean Burke returned 
2h shots, the game was as one-sided as defenscman from a
appeared to bounce off a the left side, but hit his own after being sidelined three games with the Penguins' 5-1 victory at New Jersey and then the glove of goalie Craig 
rebound back toward the crease from groin strain. He looked rusty early on. on Nov. 1:1, when Kovalcv returned from Billington before going in. behind goal. The puck trickled between He was penalized for delay of gameknee surgery to score threP. goals. Alexei Yashin had a goal and an assist Billington's leg and the left post and out after sending the puck over the glass just
Brodeur, who must be glad he didn't and Kenny Jonsson also scored for New into the crease where Czerkawski ripped two minutes into the game, and the Blue 
play this poorly against Pittsburgh in the York, which remained in first place in the it into net. Jackets' first period goals came on suc­Eastern Conference linals last spring, left Eastern Conference but had its winless 
Yashin started the comeback with his cessive shots. al'tt>r allowing four goals on eight shots. streak against Washington extended to 14th goal at 15:47 of the first, also on a Knutsen threaded a back-hand pass
Ile canw into the season without a losing 20 games at 0-17-3. 
power play. from the left corner to Nielson for the rncord against any NHL team. but foll to Adam Oates had two goals and an 
easy tap-in and his first of the season at 12-13A against Pittsburgh. assist for Washington, which has the 13:00 to open the scoring.Devils coach Larry Robinson, whose longest current unbeaten streak against Blue Jackets 3, Coyotes 0 
Sillinger, who has scored in three 
defnnding conference champions are 1-5-one team. Sergei Gonchar and Peter Ron Tugnutt made 26 saves for his 
straight, sent a wrist shot through a 
2-1 in their last nine games, lifted Bondra also scored. 20th career shutout, and Mike Sillinger 
screen and past Burke-at 13:53 to make Brodeur after Lang accounted for two Washington's Dainius Zubrus scored and Espen Knutsen each had a goal and it 2-0. 
, 

HAPPENING~ nov 28 dee 4 I 

8:00am-3:00pm NDSGBlood Drive ND Room Lafortune 
i

7:30pm Antigone Washington Hall tickets at LaFun Box Office 7:30pm SUB Student Coffee House Lafun Ballroom free 
I
8:00pm ND Concert Band Fall Concert Band Building free 8:00-9:00pm Coffee at the Co-Mo 
I

9:30pm ND Schola Musicorum Basilica free 10:30pm Sophomore Class Mass Morrissey Chapel 11 :30pm-l 2:00am Eucharistic Adoration & Confession Morrissey Chapel I 
Ii@•:@ 7:00pm ND Cinema "Into the Anns of Strangers: Stories of the Kindertransport'' I 
Hesburgh Library Aud. 7:00-9:00pm Cfass of 2003 Dinner BW-3's I 7:30pm Antigone Washington Hall tickets at LaFun Box Office 9:00pm SUB AcoustiCafe Huddle Lafortune free I 9:00pm-l :00am Club ND Alumni-Senior Club $ l with student ID 10:00pm "Legally Blonde" & "Clueless" 101 /155 De Bartolo $3/$2 I 
7:30pm & 10:00pm "Legally Blonde" & "Clueless" 1 0 l /155 DeBartolo ~~ · · $3/$2

llill I
7:30pm Antigone Washington Hall tickets at LaFun Box Office 9:00-1 l :O0pm Crafting Comer: Bead Jewelry Dooley Room Lafortune 
I
11 :00pm-1 :30am Tournament Time: Chess ND Room Lafortune 
I 
2:00pm Student Chamber Music Recital Annenberg Aud. free 7:05pm Hockey vs. Lake Superior State JACC 

-I
7:30pm Antigone Washington Hall tickets at LaFun Box Office 7:30pm & 10:00pm "Legally Blonde" & "Clueless" 10 l /155 DeBartolo $3/$2 
I
1O:OOpm-l :00am Class of 2005 Dance Alumni-Senior Club l 0:00-11 :30pm Open Karaoke Lafortune Huddle 
I

@!Qr~ 2:30pm Antigone . Washington Hall . tickets at LaFun Box Office 5:05pm ND Hockey vs. Lake Superior State JACC I 
1;1.RJ •Pl'fer-6~30pm 
I 
Diversity Dis.cussion & Dinner "Putting A Face on HIV/AIDS"I Walsh Basement 7:00&9:00pm lnt'I Film Series "Comfort and Joy'' (Scotland) Mont. Theatre LaFun 
sponsored by I Student Union Executive Cabinet 
have an event coming up? e-mail us at eventmax@nd.edu

I 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 28, 2001 
NFL 
Browns' fullback Sellers released 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
Fullback Mike Sellers, arrested last week and charged with felony drug abuse, was released Tuesday by the Cleveland Browns "for a combination of reasons." 
Sellers was expected to be reinstated by Browns coach Rutch Davis, hut the team instead decided to cut its ties with the free agent who signed a three-year, $2.4 million contract in February with the 
Browns. "We have released Mike Sel!Prs for a combination of rea­

sons relating to his performance and con­duct," Browns presi­dent Carmen Policy said in a slatcment. "We decided it is in the best interests of the Cleveland Browns organization, the 
Sellers  team  and  Mike  
Sellr-rs  that  this  
action be taken.  


OLYMPICS 
Bush denies IOC request for truce 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush on Tuesday turned aside an IOC request for a military truce during the Salt Lake City Olympics and will propose a U.N. resolution calling for athletes to travel safely to and from the games. 
After a meeting, International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge said Bush assured him he would submit the resolution -a tradition for Olympic 
nation barred from participat­ing in the Winter Games. The country was suspended two years ago after the ruling Taliban would not allow female athletes to compete. 
"We would love to see an Afghan team at the next Olympic Games, but that will only be possible when there is a stable government in place, and when all the conditions that are put by the (IOC) are fulfilled," Rogge said. 
Bush also met Tuesday with 
U.S. Olympic Committee presi­dent Sandy 
Baldwin, CEO

"We would love to see an
host nations 
Lloyd Ward, 

to the Afghan team at the next 
Salt Lake 

United 
Olympic Games." Olympics chief 
Nations on Mitt Romney
Dec. 11. It 
and a few 

will advocate Jacques Rogge 
Olympic ath­safe passage IOC president letes to dis­
of Olympic athletes and urge nations to compete peacefully, Rogge said. 
"We did not go into specific issues. He just assured me of the support of the government for the resolution," Rogge said. 
An administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the resolution would not contain the word "truce," or address a cease­fire. Earlier this month, Secretary of State Colin Powell said the U.S. military cam­paign in Afghanistan would continue. 
The U.N. General Assemblv approved a resolution calling for a global cease-fire during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. Earlier this month, Rogge asked the Bush admin­istration for a truce -which he defined as a cease-fire ­during tlrn FA!J. 8-24 Salt Lake City Games. 
On Tuesday, Hogge said the idea of a truce was not tied to the situation in Afghanistan. or any other region or country. "It's a world concept," he said. 
Afghanistan is the only 
Mll(A


A JA? A11 E: ~.C R(I'! 11 U 2 A f1 T Larry Out and Dini': In 
Cleveland 
,;; 
402 US 31 North
* South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-2535 
~ 
cuss security 
for the games: 

Ward said Bush did not go into specifics about security. The federal government will contribute $240 million of the more than $300 million for security. 
"The.re's no question after (Sept. 11 ), our view of security in the United States and, I would suggest, in the world is different," Ward said. "We have taken every effort to pro­vi de a secure, competitive environment for all partici­pants and spectators and sponsors, and we feel we have a very solid plan." 
enomzoils 
FLEECE 
Selection 
Sminutes ...
/iom OUTPOST· 
Campus :f.Z.Jif 
Cold Weather Experts 


cau 259-iooo for more details 
Great Japanese food at great prtces. 
Comejoin us for our lunch specials! 
Early Bird Dinner S1.50 off for Students 
"As part of his release, the Browns have offered to help provide Mike with any guidance, counseling or similar type assis­tance hA might request relatiw~ to his per­sonal issues." 
Sellers, 26, was arrested late last Monday night along with cornerback Lamar Chapman after being stopped by Cleveland police. 
Sellers was suspended for Sunday's game against the Cincinnati Bengals along with defensive tackle Gerard Warren and Chapman by Davis, who said :vtonday he would put Sellers back on the team providing the !\'FL didn't plan any 

further penalties against SA!lers or Chapman. 
Warren was arrested ·outside a Pittsburgh nightclub on charges of carry­ing a concealed weapon just hours after the arrests of Sellers and Chapman. Warrnn has a court hearing Friday in Pittsburgh. 
Sellers has not spoken with reporters since his arrest, and declined comment Monday when approached in tho locker room at the Browns' training facility. 
Kenneth Austin, his ag<mt, was stunned to learn Sellers was released. 'Tm shocked," Austin said. "I don't 

WED. Nov. 28 7:30 PM ~[) vs. Ar-m-Y 
u Pvo.stC{te C,C{ V\.,eev Awe{ vel/l,ess" c;C{ Vvle s:potAs.orev! brj Mfi1iAfi1geVvtetAt C-L£ils.s. 231­
WDI Reu11d trip airfflle Uckeb -~ 
't'~'.­

cotd a:didas a:ppa:re.l ,-.:; ;jY 
..~~ •= US AIRWAYS 
ad1dos =Anth01!vliave/ ..( 
I 

Students, come to the game and get your GREEN ND Basketball T-Shirt! 

THERE Is A WAY. 

Tom Eckert, C.S.C. 2003 Ordination Class
ANSWER ~ THECALL ~ 

www.nd.edu/ ~vocation 


Wednesday, November 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
-
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bond's 73rd homer ball locked up pending trial 
Associated Prc<s 
SA!\ FRANCISCO The baseball Barry Bonds swatt0d for his record 73rd horn<' run is headed to trial. 
A judge ruled it's undear who should kGcp the million-dollar mernento ~ the man who first gloved it. or the man who took it home after a tussle among fans. 
Superior Court Judge David (~arria ruled the hall should rema.in locked uµ until a triul answers whether it belongs to Alex Popov, who snatched it and says Im was robbed in the ensuing strugghi. or Patrick 11ayashi, who Sµys he found it loose amid the skirmish. 
Garcia did not set a date. but lhe trial likely won't start until next basPball season. lawyers for both rnf'n said 
The 1'.ustody disput<~ is believed io be the nation's lirst trial over ran ownership of a ball hit into thi, stands at a major lfiague stadi­um. 
Popov st11-1d Hayashi days after the San Francisco Giants slugger hit tho honw nm Ort. 7 at Pacific Bell Park. The ball could he worth lllore 1lrn.11 $1 million. according to the mun who brokered thP SJ millicm sal11 of '.\!lark i\1cCwire's Hrnn-romrd 70th home run ball in I<J98.2 
But that valun will dip if, next spring, someone begins to launch lwnw runs at a pace projm:ted to surpass Bonds' single-season rcrord. 
To prnti>c·t against poh'ntial loss of value, the judge ordered l'oµov to post a $ I00.000 bond within three days. Garcia also agrPed to l'opov's rnquest that lawyers from both sides go to verify that tlw ball sitting in a safo deposit box is indeed No. 73 and not a fakP. 
I k said lw 'd prefor to seltle the issuP over a beer. but failing that, must press forward. 
"Tim mob muggpd me," Popov said. "I want my ball back." 
llavashi shi<:d away from court. but in a written statement said lw w~ts compellpd to defend his reputation. 

Yankee Brosius retires 
As~ociate<l Press 
McMINNVILLE. Ore. 
Having accomplished more in baseball than he ever imag­ined, New York Yankees third baseman Scott Brosius retired 
Tuesday. overjoyed to be with his family a n d alreadv reflecting on his brief but glori­

ous career Brosius in pin­stripes. 'Tm just ready to be homo." Brosius said at Linfield College, his old school. "I can look back with no regrPts and know that everything I wanted to do as a baseball player, every dream I had. has boen fulfilled, and there's nothing else for me to rhase as u ballplayer." Brosius, ;.,s, became a free agent aftn the Yanko"s' loss to Arizona in Game 7 of the World Series, and returned home to Oregon immediately. "I was surprised about Scott," Yankees owner George 
Steinbrnnner said in Rosemont, Ill. "But he wanted ·to retire a Yankee. He's a great warrior. I hate to lose 
him." 
The Yankees did not plan to 
re-sign the former World 
Series MVP. Although he could 
have tried to play elsewhere. 
he felt the toll on his wife and 
three children would be too 
high. 
"I still feel like I could play, 
but I never wanted the game to feel like work," he said. "I never wanted to play the game when my heart was in two dif­ferent places, and I was get­ting to that point where a huge side of me just wanted to be home, and· I still had a job to do out in New York." 
Brosius guessed that he had missed about orn~-third of his 10-year-old daughter Allyson's life while on the road. 
"I just never wanted to get. to the point where I looked back 10 years or 20 years from now and my daughter asks me, '\\by weren't you there when I needed you?' And l would say. 'Well, because I wanted to play one more vear.' I couldn·t answer that question that wav." 
Hrosius, who came to the Yankees from Oakland as a player to be named in a deal for Kenny Rogers, madn a name for himself in New York. He reached the World Series in all four seasons ho spent in the Bronx, winning three times. 
Steady in the field anrl a clutch hitter in big spots, Brosius was a key contributor in the Yankees' recent run of championships. 
He was the MVP of the 1998 World Series, hitting .471 with two home runs and six RBIs in a four-game sweep of San Diego. 
Brosius' greatest moment came in Game 5 of this year's Se.ries against the Diamondbacks. In his final at­bat in Yankee Stadium, he hit a tying, two-run homer off closer Byung-Hyun Kim with two outs in the bottom of the ninth. Alfonso Soriano's single in tho 12th won it. 

"That's a pretty good memo­ry to end on,"· Brosius said of his fist-pumping trip around the bases. 
Brosius said he plans to help out with the Linfield baseball team, for which he played from 1985-87. But first he plans to get \lis degree in busi­ness. Ile was drafted after his junior year by Oakland, and wanted to show his children tlw value of finishing what he started. 
After completing correspon­

. dence cmirs0s he began in the summer of 2000, he'll attend rommencement ceremonies on Dec. 16. "In about a month I'll be an unemployed college grad," he joked. "Jt probably should have happened when I was 21, but now that l'm 35 it's come back to get mo." Acquired from Oakland aftPr slumping to .203 in 1997 with Oakland, Brosius was an All­Star in his first season in New York. He batted .300 with 98 RBIs N marks he did not reach in his final three seasons with the Yankees. He hit .247 in 1999, .230 in 2000 and .287 in 200! with 13 homers and 49 RBIs. Brosius, who played seven seasons for Oakland, was a .257 career hitter with 141 homers and 53.J. RBIs. He won a Gold Glove in '99. "I guess by Hall of Fame standards it wasn't a great career, but I bad some great moments in it," he said. "How many people have the opportu­nity tn really live the dream of a 5-year-old out in the back­yards playing games?" 
oovou LIKE••• kids? sports? reading? 
• 

Then be a TUTOR for 
TEAMWORK FOR TOMORROW! 
Apply Online· 
Deadline: Nov. 28 


The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 28, 2001 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Duke drops No. 7 Iowa 80-62 
games when both teams are in the top

Associated Press 
10. 
It may only be Decembrr, but this 

CIIICAGO had all the makings of a late-season 
facing its first top 10 opponent of the matchup. 130th teams played with the season. DukB made easv wurk nf No. 7 energy and intensity of a tournamf'nt Iowa on Tuesday nigl;t, beating the ganrn, and whim Williams appeared to Hawkeyes 80-62 in the first night of thl' get knocked over early in the second 
ACC/13ig Ten Challenge. half, things got a little testy. Both 
Thr Blue DPvils (:'i-Ol got contribu­coaches protested to referees. an·ct tions from just about everyone, and there were some hard fouls on each served notke they can be as dominant side the rest or the game. as last season's 'JCAA championship But it takes morr than a physical squad -even without Shane Battier. game to derail Duke. 
Jason Williams scored 25 points and The Hawkeyes won four ganws in as had five assists, and Carlos Boozer had many days at tht' l 1nit11d Center last his thirrl straight dot1bl0-double, scor­March to raptun· the Big Ten ing 22 points and grabbing 14 Tournament title. and the pro-Iowa rebounds. Chris Duhon had 11 assists cro,vd sensed another big victory as to go with bis nine points -inrluding a Duk<' got off to a sluggish start. nice alley-uop feed to Williams. In the first eight minutes. tlrn Blue 
Mike Dunleavy had 18 points. going Devils turned the ball over five times 3-of-7 from 3-poinl rangP. and were outrehoundrd a whopping 
Iowa (4-21 cut the lead to 73-61 on 15-5. And when Chicaijo native Hyan Luke Reeker's layup with 4:21 to play. Hogan hit a 15-foot jumper to spark a but the llawkeyes just didn't havn the 7-0 run that gavo Iowa a 17-14 lead firepower to keep up. Rerker led Io.va with I0:35 left in the first half, the 
with 15 points, and Chauncey Leslie crowd was on its feet and roaring. had 11 points. But Reggie Evans, who But in a two-minutr1 span. Duke took came into the game averaging 21.6 control of the game. Afler Ryan llogan points and 11.4 rebounds, was held to connected on a short jumper, Duhon hit eight points and nine rebounds. a 3-pointer from the lel't corner. Hecker 
It was Iowa's second loss to a top 5 responded with a pull-up jumper. but team in thi:' past week. The 1-Iawkeyes Duhon came right back with anollrnr :-L lost to then.No. 5 Missouri last Tlwn Williams picked off a bad pass 
Wednesday. by Pierre Pierce and racr.d downcourt The Blue Devils improved their for the easy dunk. Just like that, Dukn record against ranked teams to 34-13 had a 30-23 lead with 4:45 to play in 
Terps build 20 point lead, hold off Illini 
possession for an 11-point cushion. 
Associated Press 

At that point. the Col11 Firld House crowd began chanting, "ACC! ACC!" COLLEGE P1\Hh. Md. "The hardest thing to do in basket­
The Streak remains intact, while ball is play with the lead," Maryland the loss to Arizona is quickly becom­coach Gary Williams said. "But I ing a clistanl memory. thought we did a good job of that in 
Juan Dixon scored 2:i points and tlrn late part of the game. You lry 
Maryland (No. 4 ESPN/USA Today, and stay aggressive. and you try to No. 5 AP) built a 20-point lead and run some clock." held off No. 2 Illinois 76-63 in the Wilcox scored 19 points and six ACC/Big Ten Challenge. rrbounds off thl' bench for 
It was the 80th consecutive non­\1aryland, which beat a Top 5 team 
con forencu home victory ror for the first time since 1998. Maryland, thr longrst such run in "Wilcox just ow,rnd us insidP," the nation. It was also the Terrapins' Illinois coach Bill Self said. fuurLh straight win overall after a Blandon FBrguson had 11 points spason-oponing d(•feat against l'or Illinois, which three clays carlinr Arizona. won thP Las Vegas Invitational and 
"This is good f'or us to get this big was off to its blist start in six ynars. game early in the year. It let people But (lll this night, the Illini looked know that wP're ror re,d." Dixon rathn ordinary. said. "I guess a lot of poople counted "We'rn not vory good yet," Self us out after we lost Lo ,\rizona. but said. "Wn were exposed. We don't we did well today." trust ea.ch othPr much. flut givP 
After tho Terrapins (4-1) went up Marvland credit -that was a ·1 :1­by 12 at halftime, Dixon scored poin·l game that felt likn it could bn seven points in a 10-2 r1111 at Urn out­2S." sc1t of tlrn second half to make it :i 1-The Illini shot :n pnrrnnt and com­:n. mitted seven turnov,,rs in tlw deci­
Despite playing its fifth game in sive! first half. nine days, Illinois (:i-1) fought back Four different players scored in a -even arter !Pading rebounder 9-2 run that put Illinois up 17-HJ. Brian Cook fouled out with 5:11 left. but Wilcox had four points and Steve 
Tlw comeback was aided by poor BlakP and Byron Mouton hit 3-point­f'rne throw shooting by Maryland, e rs during a 12-0 spurt that put which finislrnd 12-for-24 at tlw line. Maryland ahead for good. The Fighting Illini closed to 6(1-58 After Ferguson made a fnw throw with 2:56 left, but C:hris Wilcox !'or the Illini. Wilcox sank a hook scored in the lal1f', tlrnn macl,i 01111 or shot and scored on an allPy-oop pass two free throws on Maryland's next l"rom Blake for a 26-18 !Pad. 

•~no,[~\iVi~~l,~Fait~l\wi!l[~flect.
•Jo1a-cenfi'iif0tea :of'·the.Catholic .
,fl:so.~~is.t _ 
ofueawa;with a'dearid~~Wbat,ihe.Church holds.. 
. --~-~_:.·-,.,>/··;_',.'.<'.-'.-l·'J_~·---;_.·. ---_-.. : -~ 
iQrn,,tn.e5-e,tQpjC~:~~~,well ·as.a basic' 
; -':-••,,,)~::">•i:f;._._:~\!•~.-j,,_• _•_ .:·._•_:_//>:-"_ • >: c ._-__ ·• ·:,," ' •-:-' }); ¾, 
theotog;lcak>"':6 \an-ck· "'··personaF
.-.~~~\¥/\~•:-;:·· ~i~:r'I, .. ~----~~--:~::::.:-::}'~.::~~;1~_•-;~~t}t::;._/< /.;··/::K _;/<'1(7. 
undyrst9painQ'efJnerptJhe·cours~s~ twiltbtfbasea'on'the'Catechisrrf offht· 

Feb. 13, 17, 24, March 3, 24 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 
~ ~y 
Faith & Revelation 
. 
Theo. 340G. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Virgil Elizondo 
Friday Feb. 8: 4:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Saturday, Feb 9: 9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center 

Jesus and Our Hope 
Theo. 3401. 1 credit. S/U ln_structor: Rev. Brian Daley, SJ Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m., March 19, 21, 26, 28, April 2, 4 O'Neill Hall 
The Christian Way of Life: 
An Introduction to Catholic Moral Theology 
Theo. 340H. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Edward Malloy, CSC Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m. Jan. 28, Feb. 11, March 4, 18, April 4, 15 Coleman-Morse Center, Rm. 330 
For further information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-6662. Syllabi far the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept. main office.Register through DART or go to the Registrar's office 

Wednesday, November 28, 200 I The Obserz,er . SPORTS page 17 
Basketball 
continued from page 20 
going to bl' scared coming in here. Th(•y'rp men. You have lo respect that und I respect that." 
Anny, which plays in llrn Patriot Lcagu(', will bring a tough cl(~f'onsive and outside-shooting corps to thf' court. 
But Bn~y is confid!'nL his team is ready f'or anothBr non-cnnforcncr oppo1H•11t bd'ore the tough games hit later in tlw season. 
"I think our frame of' mind and our confidence is high," Brny said, Army plans to test that confidence 
Lonight. 
SPriior captain Chris Spatola has h•d tlrn Black Knights so far this sea­son. lie scored 20 points in the tciam's last outing and is currently rankPd 16th on Army's earner scor­ing list 
But llurnphrey, eager to get back to thP Jt1vce Center isn't worried about tonight's test. 
"\V1• pn•pare and W!' know what WP haV!\ tn dn," Humphrey said. "If WP knep playing how WP are, we'll b<\ a good team." 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 


ball team," Davie said. "I think there is a big pic­
Davie 

ture." continued from page 20 Davie said that for all 
of those reasons, the big picture of a program University gave him a that a couple of years ago contract extension last was put on probation and year, In his mind, he still there was so many things meets the expectations of swirling around, I think if a Notre Dame football you look at the conduct coach. of our football team, I "I have not changed think if [since the you look contract at the "I think ifyou look at the exten­
reten­sion l . " 
retention ofour student
tion of D a v i e 
our stu­athletes, ifyou look s a i d . d e n t at the grade point "Obviously 
athletes, a lot of
average ... they are the
if you evaluation 
look at highest in the history of went into t h e the program. " me last 
gr ad e D e c ­p o i n t ember,
Bob Davie
average unless I've of the football coach changed. last two which I semes-d o n ' t ters of think I've the f'all and the spring, changed, then I would
LISA VELTE/The Observer 

Bob Davie looks on as the Irish lose to Stanford Saturday. Davie said Tuesday that he still felt he they are the highest in think those good reasons the history of this foot-are still there. J' m proba­
meets the expectations of a Notre Dame football coach, despite the Irish 's 4-6 record this season. 
bly not the one to answer that question. You know, someone else should answer that." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
Columbia 
Sporu,~ear 
.o :·,:,;ic· i.'P/ ::..1rr'Q~1 fl[.
·. LLJ ,:. l,.. ,..n ..) I,,, • I,,, -" ~ I I • l,,,c 
-~· 1 
Sminute~_A. 
{r:om CIUTPCIIIT' 

Campus -·1•Z.1i£: 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
CaU 259-1000 for more details 
-
page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 23, 2001 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 

him, l,,think he's a very good coach. 
During Thanksgiving week­end, the Irish fell to No. 9 Florida on Saturday in four games after sweeping LSU thti day before. 
Against LSU, Notre Dame's strength was its balance and blocking. Five players scored over six kills, led by Emily Loomis and Malinda Goralski with nine each. Kristy Kreher and Kim Fletcher had eight, while .Jessica Kinder came off the bench to add seven kills. 
.Jessica Kinder played a large role in all three games. enter­ing late in game one. 
"Jess went in and gave us a pretty big boost immediately and ended up playing part of game one and all or games two and three," Brown said. "I think that experience for her at this time of the year is really valuable and really helps add to the depth and confidence level of the team." 
Once again, a strength for the Irish was their blocking. Although the official scorer credited the team with only six blocks in the three games, Brown thought there were more. 
"We actually think we had a few more blocks than what they gave us," Brown said. "We have been real pleased with blocks not just this weekend but throughout the last half or the season it seems to be com­ing together very well for us." 
Against Florida, the Irish foll 30-24, 30-26, 30-32, 30-24 in a 

..... 

hard-fought match. KrPher lfid 
Notre Dame with 15 kills while 
Goralski added 12. 
After hitting .195 and .189 in 
the first two games or the 
match, the Irish reversed their 
fortunes in game 3, finishing 
with a .371 team mark as 
Goralski and Kreher each had 
four kills and J0ssica Kinder 
served an ace to give Notrn 
Dame the match point. 
. But the Irish couldn't keep 
up that momentum in gan111 
four, as eventual tournament 
MVP Nicole McCray scored six 
kills in leading the Gators to 
the match victory. 
Despite the loss, Brown was proud of how her team per­formed against a ranked oppo­nent. 
"I think that probably the biggest thing is just the level or confidence the team has in being able to play agains,t a top ten team and being very com­petitivP in each game." Brown said. "Also, seeing the areas where we fnll a little bit short and knowing those are areas wh~.re we can definitely do bet0 ter. 
With the Thanksgiving tour­nament coming one week after the Irish won the Big East Tournament, Brown is confi­dent in her team's abilities heading into the NCM's. 
"J think wo'vo played at a higher level going into the championships and this past weeknnd," Brown said. "I think it was real good and something the team needed at this time of the year going into the NCAA Championships with a high confidence level." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 


T11e SIBCse11ds Notre 
Dallle students all over 
the world eve.1J7 sullllller... you could be next! 
Internship and Teaching positions available in the following locations: 
Dublin, Ireland Benin, Africa Hong Kong; China Vilnius, Lithuania London, England Tallinn, Estonia and.lllore... 
Looking for a summer internship? 
-w-hynotgo International! 
Internship InforinatIOn Sess10n TONIGHT 7pin Jordan Aud1toriuin~ MCOB 
Student International Business Council 
-
Wednesday, November 28, 200 I The Observer . TODAY page 19 
RYAN
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 

BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 

'!'OU WANT ME To WHAT?? \  l-loLD THE BALL WHILE I KICK IT.  WHAT'S YOUR ARE. YOU PRoS\.EM? INSANE?! IT'S THE \ EASIEST THIN(;,Jc;-sm~  THIS GAME 1<; INSANE, THEN. _)  I MEANT HoLD IT LOOSELY. I  


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Moses' older 1 NaCl brother 5 "Waiting for 38 Looped handle Lefty" playwright 39 Bochco TV 10 Adventure tlero drama Swift 
42 Vamp Theda 13 Jai 
43 Nobelist Bohr 14 Detective's skill 
45 C.S.A. state 

15 Lie in the sun 
46 Rebounds per

16 Like some 
game, e.g.

mirrors 
47 WKRP, e.g.

18 interview 
51 MS. markers

19 Rage, e.g., 
52 Pisa dough 

onstage 53 Hot pot or
20 Ratfinks 
pepper pot 

22 It's a long story 
55 Do Zen

25 Veg out 
59 "Out!"

26 Splatter protector 63 Tennis great Lendl
29 Louisiana senator, 1948-87 64 Depictions of 34 Veg out fruits, say 
36 Something to 67 Bog gloss over? 68 The Jetson boy 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.,,...,......s....,E-1 23 Web-footed flier 24 Nepal's locale 26 "That's all, 

folks!" voice 27 Ancient Aegean Sea region 28 City on the Rhine 30 Water balloon sound 
a U 31 Emulate 
U N Demosthenes 
0 N .,..+,.......,........,. J O Y 32 Org. that 
R O __....;...i...;;...&,.;... A P S "tracks" Santa 
69 Theater schlepper 70 Animal with horns 71 Witherspoon of "Legally Blonde" 72 Devout 
DOWN 1 Call at home? 2 Dubya, to Yale 3 Composer 
Schifrin 4 Flipper freezers 5 Grand _ Opry 6 Slip into 7 Omelet base 8 Pro tootbaU's 
Bald Eagle 9 Group of fish 10 Curbside call 11 Tom Joad, tor 
one 12 "Miracle" team of 1969 15 Transistor 
developers 17 King of tragedy 21 Earthen pot 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Derek Jacobi, Jeff Goldblum, Catherine Deneuve, Doris Lessing, Christopher Lloyd, Annette Funicello 
Happy Birthday: You'll want to be where the action is, but think beforehand. If you refrain from taking on too many respon­sibilities, trus can be a good year. Concentrate on the most impor­tant issues. You can make a big difference to others by being open and honest about your con­cerns. Your numbers: 8, 12, 27, 29, 33,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You'll have an unrealistic view of your position. Deception will occur regarding personal rela­tionships. Don't make changes at home. You won't be happy with your choices. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's a good time to interact with groups or organizations, especial­ly those that are geared toward all ages. You will gain knowledge and be able to help children. 
00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Uncertainties regarding your financial situation wiir put a damper on your day. Make calls 
33 Airborne pests 56 Wickedness 61 Bridal 
to sort out the problems. H some­one owes you money, ask for it. 
accessory
35 Highland/ 57 Like some 
000
lowland turkey meat 
62 Catch sight of 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
separator 
Talk to your partner to avoid the 
40 Schooner fillers 58 ~~~t Molly 65_Alamos, 
relationship melodramas. Face 
up to the problems, and take part
N.M.
41 Witch's blemish 60 Woodstock 
of the blame if you're at fault. 
44 Gill opening hairdo 66 NaOH or KOH 
000 48 Pencil's end 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes will be beneficial. Send
49 Act the snitch Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
out your resume or go after that 
newly created position in another
50 Auction oft are available by touch-tone phone: 
54 Raise, as an 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST 
department. Don't let others hold 
you back. 000 ­
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Do some early shopping before 
the stores start getting busy. Chil­
dren will need some special 
attention. Be aware of your fami­
ly's needs. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
You'11 find it hard to balance your 
emotions today. Stand up for 
your rights, and don't let a loved 
one burden you with his or her 
responsibilities. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Expend your energy on raising 
your earning capacity. Travel is 
necessary if you wish to accom­
plish anything. Ask those in a 
higher position for help if you 
needit.0000 
SAGITTARIUS {NO\! 22-Dec 21): Don't expect anything and you won't be disappointed. Talk is cheap, and someone's been giv­ing you a song and dance. Be sure to get promises in writing. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your lack of interest in your part­ner is a problem. Spend some time alone to decide exactly how you feel. Your emotions are up and down, causing confusion. 
00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful of one-sided love inter­ests. You could hurt7our profes­sional reputation i you aren't careful. Don't read too much into the kindness someone extends to you.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need to expand your hori­zons and circle of friends to spark new ideas and enthusiasm. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You are a leader, not a follower, determined to do
anchor Annual subscriptions are available for the 

what you want. Inventive, innovative and intelligent, you have a cre­
55 Charades, best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 

ative imagination and will strive to come up with new ways to do
essentially years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
things. 

(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) © 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
RTTN:  RLL LADIES OF ·NOTRE ORME You are invitet:fto attend... HOCKEY IOI *learn the basics of ice hockey. Ask players and coaches about the game. Participate in mock gameshows to win prizes_ • Notre Dame Head Coach Dave Poulin and his team will be present for this exciting and informative night all about hockey. *Wednesday, November 28th@ 9:00pm farle Hall Basement  

O
THF

National Sports National Sports
BSERVER 

. NCAA Men's Basketball, p. 16 
. MLB, p. 15 
. 
Olympics, p. 18 . NHL, p. 13 


. Sellers, p. 21 . NBA, p. 12
PORTS 
Wednesday, November 28, 2001 

FOOTBALL 
Davie: Keep Ille or fire me 
. Coach says he will 'never resign,' would rather be publicly fired 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores Writer 
If Notrn Damn doesn't want Hob Davie, the University will have to publicly f'irn him, tlw !wad coach said at his Tursday prrss con­f'nrence. 
Despitr his team's 4-6 record and post­s ea son ineligibili­

-
ty, Davie reiterated Tuesday that he would "nevtir" resign as head coach undnr any cir­cumstances. Wlrnn askcid if hn would resign if the University gave him thr option of resigning or being fired publicly. Davir said he would choos<! the latter. 
After addressing questions concerning his possible dis­missal. the Irish coar.h said he didn't feel he should havr to defend himself. Notre 




Dame gave him a fivP-yPar contract in Dercmber and Davie plans on honoring that contrart. 
"There's a reason that tlw University of Notrn Dame in Uecembtir came to me and gavr mr. a nl'w five-year con­tract," Davie said. "I did not go to tlw University of Notrn Dame and ask for a new con­tract. So I don't think I am tlrn Sh OU Id haVP tO cl C f11 11 d why tl~.at rontrud was given to me. 
Athlntic dirPdor Knvin 'vVhite will not issun any statement in rnsponsP to Davie's commPnts, director of Sports Informal ion .John Heisl11r said. Whitn's only statrmcnt concPrning Davie's 
future  at  NotrP  Dam<'  was  
released in Octolwr.  In  that  
statement  White said  that  

the football program would be e v a I u atPd a I t lw f\ n d or llu~ season to dPt<'rminP if any changes llPPdPd to bt' made. Whitn has not publicly waverPd from that stanctL 
Davie pointPd to his clean program. high graduation rate and the acadPmic achievemnnts of his tPam as reasons for NotrP Dame to keep him as !wad coach. 
"If you stop and look at the 
see DAVlE/page 17 

ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish draw No. 20 MSUinNCAAs 
afternoon. "They're definitely
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
playing good volleyball right Sports Editor 
now but I think that's okay. We 
do have tape on them and we 
After splitting two matches in have a few days to study the a tournament at Disney World tape and prepare." last weekend to finish the reg­Brown's counterpart on the ular season with a 22-6 record. Spartan bench will be Chuck the No. 25 !\otre Dame volley­Erbe, Brown's head r.oach at ball team drew '\Jo. 20 USC in the early 1980s. Brown Michigan State as its first thinks the common bond helps round opponent when the her know what to expect, but NCAA Championships begin doesn't really see it as an this weekend. advantage. 
The Irish travel to Madison, "I think I was in college just a Wisc., to take on the Spartans few years ago and the game at 5 p.rn. Should Notre Dame has changed a little bit since win. the team plays the winner then," Brown joked. "I think I of 1-riday·s match between have a pretty good feel for the sixth-ranked Wisconsin and way he coaches and kind of Wisconsin-Milwaukee at 7 p.m. know what to expect out of his Saturday. teams. I don't know that it's 
"Michigan State typically is a any advantage or disadvan­
team that we can be very com­tage. I have a ton of respect for petitive with," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said \>Ionday see VOLLEYBALL/page 18 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Humphrey returns in MVP fashion 
tri-captain nasily led the guys again and bn onr unit,"
. Forward also 

Irish to the tournament title. Ilumplm•y said.named Big East And the Big East confor­Humphrey will make his co-player of the ence noticed. first regular-season appnar­
Not only was Humphrey ance back at the Joyce
week in return 

named the tournament's Center with his team tonight
from suspension Most Valuable Player, but the when the Irish take on the Big East named him co-play­Black Knights of Army. er of the week for his effort. With an unblemished 5-0 
By KERRY SMITH 

"It was great." [rish head record coming into the con­Sports Wrirer 
coach Mike Brey said. "lie test, the lrisli are ready to certainlv raisnd his hand and take on an Army team which 
Irish l'orward Rvan said ''!'~1 back" in game one is at is most competitiv11 lev­Humphrey sent a dominating in the first half. I was wor­els in years. message when he returned to ried he'd Im so excitPd he'd The Black Knights own a 3­the court last weekend in the foul out." 0 record, marking thnir best Hawaii 
B LI start since 1980. The team Pacifir. instead. also poskd its largest margin Thanks­Humphrey of victory Saturday with a giving d<~livered 43-point win against New Classic what he York Maritime. All 13 Army after sit­hopes is players who suited up for the ting out a the first game scored. two-game series of a "Army is an older t<Htm," NCAA sus-S(-HlSOn of T3rrv said. "Whal scarps mn pension. Humphrey sucr.cssful abo-ut loams is wlrnn t.hey 
Shooting outings. havP juniors and seniors 74 percent "It was com in g back . T lw y' r n no l from the field and averaging just fun lo get out there and 24 points a game. the senior finally get to play with the see BASKETBALL/page 17 



. Men's Basketball vs. Army, Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. SMC Basketball vs. Marian College, Friday, 8p.m.
SPO 
o n Iin e edition 

. Volleyball vs. Michigan State, Friday, 5p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football at Purdue, Saturday, 4:30 p.m. http://-..yww.nd.edu/~observer 


