-·­
Pearl Jam Bootlegs 
Time to Celebrate 
In an effert to beat illegal bootlegers at their 
For the first time in r o years, citizens ofKuwait 

Tuesday
own game, Pearl Jam has released a live 
celebrated the anniversary ofIraq's withdraw[ 

double disc set for every date on its U.S. tour. 
from the country. 

FEBRUARY 27, 
Scene . page 13 
World & Nation . page 5 

2001 
-·---··------· -. -----­




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLXXXIV NO. 96 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Saint Mary's students elect new class officers 
Maria Conticelli and Julie
By AMY GREENE 
Richardson are the newly elect­
News Writer 

ed junior class Secretary and Treasurer. The Saint Mary's class elec­
No ticket received more than 

tions yielded one new class 50 percent of the vote in the board and narrowed the field sophomore or seniors class in the two other classes for a elections and will require a run-off on Wednesday. 
run-off election. Alison Joseph and Stephanie There were four tickets run­Pace won 82.8 percent of the ning for the sophomore class vote as they ran unopposed in board. the Class of 2003 election. The Brettnacher/Hall ticket "We're reallv enthusiastic received the most support with 
about getting th"e ideas that we 
31.2 percent of their votingdid on our platform and are classmates supporting them. 
excited to start everything in 
"We're really excited that we 

April," said Pace, the newly 
had such strong support from 

elected junior class vice presi­dent. see ELECTIONS/page 6 



Continental pulls out of South Bend airport 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
Associate News Edi tor 
Continental Express, a regional subsidiary of Continental Airlines, plans to discontinue service to South Bend on Sept. 5. 
"They have been in the process of pulling out of smaller airports in the Midwest since late last year," said John Schalliol, execu­tive director of South Bend Regional Airport. Continental Airlines, which has served South Bend since 1996, had the best on-time performance of any major U.S. carrier last year, according to figures f'rom the 
U.S. Department of Transportation. 
Continental cited constrained airspace at their Cleveland hub -Hopkins Airport -,-as the rea­son for withdrawing from South Bend. 
"They have only one runway. That's causing congestion, oper­ational issues and delays," said Julie Gardner, spokesperson for Continental Express. 
South Benu airport authorities disagree, citing financial issues rather than congestion as the major factor. 
"It really goes back to the same reasons that American Eagle pulled out," said Schalliol. 
Continental is slowly acquiring regional jets, according to Schalliol. As they shift focus, Continental will retire more and more of the smaller turbo-prop aircraft that they are currently operating. He noted that the regional jets are more efficient to 
operate, therefore,  more  prof­ 
itable for the airline.  
Gardner  confirmed  that  

Continental plans to move to an all-jet fleet by 2004, however, she denied this had an effect on 


Photo courtesy of Continental Airlines Citing constrained airspace, Continental Airlines will discont­nue service to South Bend Sept. 5. 
South Bend service. 
"People are concerned, they see two airlines in the last few months pull out," said Schalliol. 
He said, however, that these aren't the only changes to the airport. American Trans Air Chicago Express has begun to fly into South Bend. 
"The numbers have been a pleasant surprise to Chicago Express," said Schalliol. Early in March they will increase service from four flights per day to six per day. 
. Other airlines are also consid­ering coming to South Bend. 
"We are talking with two carri­ers right now," said Schalliol. Ile declined to name the two air­lines, but said they could be fly­ing into South Bend before the end of the year. 
Both the Gardner and Schalliol remain hopeful that Continental will someday return to South Bend. Possibilities include ser­vice to Continental hubs in Newark and Houston. 
"I don't even have a guess as to how long that will be in the future." said Schalliol. 

Class of 2004 Class of 2003 
100%
35% 30% 

80%L
60% 25% 40% 20% 20% 
15% Joseph/ Abstained Pace 17.2%
10% 
82.8%

5% Class of 2002 40% 
31.2% Janke 21.8% 15.8% 
30% 
29.7% 
20% 
10% 

KATIE McKENNA/The Observer 



Senate sponsors parietals survey 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Students interested in voic­ing their opinions about University parietal hours may have an extra incentive to vote in c l a s s council cle ctions Wed-nes­day, when a survey asking for student views on parietals w i I l appear on ballots. 
The student government officials are optimistic the ballot issue is a move that will spur unprecedented change to parietals. the guidelines which regulate visiting hours by members of the opposite sex in Notre Dame residence halls. But 
University administrators 
said Monday that the survey . alone likely will not drive changes to the long-standing hours. 
The survey is part of a Student Senate referendum that will ask students if they are in favor of extending parietals to 1 a.m. on week­nigh ts and ending them before 10 a.m. each day. The referendum would extend parietal hours to 1 a.m. through the week and end them at 9 a.m. every day. 
"Through talks with stu­dents, it has become evident that we need to do a survey to decide what the next step should be on the issue," said Brooke Norton, student body vice president and student body president-elect. 
Norton said referendum results do not require 

University officials take action but will provide the Student Senate and the Office of the Student Body President with data to ana­lyze and eventually form a proposal. 
Depending on survey 
results, the senate may vote 
this semester to pass a reso­
1u tion, Norton said. The 
measure would then need 
approval by the Campus Life 
Council and senior adminis­
trators in the Office of 
Student Affairs. 
"This [referendum] is a way to allow students to take an active role in Notre Dame affairs. I'm hoping to see a strong, unified student voice on Wednesday," Norton said. 
While Norton acknowl­edged that informal talks with University officials indi­cate that the administration is willing to cooperate with student government on the issue, Bill Kirk, assistant vice president to Residence Life said a proposal based on ref­erendum results alone prob­ably will not spur changes to the parietals policy. 
"We would need to talk to more students, rectors and administrators before a deci­sion like that is made," Kirk said. "These survey results alone wouldn't dictate poli­cy." 
Kirk said many students favor current parietals hours because, the regulations allow for quiet, uneventful times in residence halls. 
But most students said they are in favor of extending parietals. 
Robyn Harridge, who lived in a co-ed residence while in London, said the aim of pari­etals is misguided. 
"I can appreciate the view­point that parietals give peo­ple time to shower, study or 

Ballot Questions 
. 
I am in favor of extending pari­etals past 12 a.m. on weeknights. 

. 
I am in favor of ending parietals before 10 a.m. every morning. 


Students must respond with a 
'yes,' 'no' or 'no opinion' to the 
above statements. 
sleep without the opposite sex around," I-larridge, a junior, said. "However, pari­etals do not prohibit visitors of the same sex in rooms, who can be equal distrac­tions from work or sleep." 
Harridge said extending parietals earlier in the morn­ing and later at night would help foster the positive gen­der relations she experienced while living in England. 
Joe Lordi agrees. 
He said there is some merit to parietals curbing premari­tal sex and cutting down late-night distractions, but the rules make relationships between males and females awkward. 
'Tm tired of the weird rela­tions between sexes, and I'm tired of hearing everyone complain about it. It can be fixed. It should be fixed," the sophomore said. 
Both Harridge and Lordi believe having the parietals issue on class election ballots will yield high voter turnout Wednesday. Lordi said he might not have voted had the referendum not been on the ballot. 
"I can't speak for the rest of the student body, but any­one that is unhappy with gender relations here should turn out and would be doing a disservice if they didn't," 
see SURVEY/page 6 

page2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Just Run Away 
"So, what are your plans for next year?" 
Yes, seniors, we hate this question. 

At least those of us whose answer is always a sort of sad, semi-embarrassed, low, resentful "I don't know." 
The one thing we DO know is that we can't stand that question. 
The phenomenon start.5 very early on. sometimes in the summer before senior year even begins. It's like a wave, a current of perpetual 


interest that breezes through every level and circle of pco-Christine Kraly pie you know. "What are you doing next year? Do you 
Associate

have a job?" It flows and 
News Editor 

whispers throughout conver­
sations like the wind. And 
your eldest relatives are 
always the first to blow the current your way. 
September interrogations from Grandma and Uncle Jim aren't so bad. "They're just curious what I'd ideally like to do. where I might want to live. Just humor them and tell them you're weighing the options (which are usually none at this point) and that you'll decide later in the year." 
Soon Mom and Dad make one oftheir weekend calls: Oh, so-and-so down the street was asking about you. I told her you were good, that Notre Dame is treating you well. Oh. she was so proud. She asked if you had a job yet. Do you? Have you heard? Oh by the way, ARE you living at home next year? 
"Tell Mrs. So-and-so nope, no clue. I just want to be on some payroll somewhere sometime next year." 
By Halloween we're already nervous. Asked so many times. it seems we should have our entire lives figured out. "Oh God, you're right, I DON'T have a job. What will I tell my family?" 
It gets so we fear the holidays. Thanksgiving rolls around and cousins no longer ask but advisc.·"Maybe you should think of grad school or something." Christmas is no longer the season orjoy but a day-long career counseling session. We count down the days to breaks, but cower at being prodded by aunts and investigated by uncles. 
Our relatives make us prisoners in our own uncertainty. 
Only after essentially every "adult" you know has posed the question do you feel like your fel­low students catch the question bug. 
There are two reasons why a student would ask another student about post-graduation plans: 
1) H&She has a job. (Usually THE job; will either reside in New York or Chicago) or 
2) H&She is desperate to know someone else is as clueless about the future. 
But this question is not going to go away. It's unavoidable. We should simply escape the inqui­sition the easiest way possible: run. Just run away. 
Imagine the confusion, imagine the sight: hun­dreds of men and women. dashing to and fro out on the quads. Dropping books, papers, every­thing to flee from the one question that haunts them day and night. 
As soon as the words pass the questioner's lips, they scurry. And the questioner is left standing confused. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maureen Smithe  Sam Derheimer  
Kiflin Turner  Chris Scoct  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Sports  Karie Mc:Kenna  
Lauren Conti  Production  
Viewpoint  MollyMcVoy  
Kure Bogaard  Lab Tech  
Liz Lang  


The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monchy 1hrough Friday cxc:cp, during exam and vacalion periods. The Ol>Servcr is a member of1hc A.ssoci:ued Pr~ss. All rtproduccion righu ut reserved. 
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY 
Castro offers degrees to Americans 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 
Cuban President Fidel Castro will pay for 500 American high school seniors to get a medical degree and invited university President James Walker to return to Cuba in two weeks to help them make the adjustment to life on the island nation. "He has asked that I will return within the next few weeks to provide assistance to him in terms of the way they are going to acclimate some American students into that American school," Walker said. Cuba recently opened a Latin American Medical School and Castro has extended 500 scholar­ships for U.S. students who want to pursue a medical degree. The scholarships, which will provide full expens­es for six years, were given to 250 black students, Walker said. The other 250 were awarded to other minority students. including Hispanics and Native Americans. "And this is not just 500 students one year, this is 500 students every year," Walker said. Walker said even more important is ensuring that at the end of their six-year medical training, the students will be able 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"I think 18-year olds  "Being a racial  "It's difficult to win  "God gave you every  
should be allowed to  minority is the only  games on the road  advantage, and we  
drink. You could get  way a social  when one player  have so much. We  
drafted and go lose  disadvantage can be  shoots more free  have to give ourselves  
your life, but you  translated into an  throws than our  up to give help to  
can't drink a beer?"  advantage to a top  entire team."  others."  
college or university. "  
Steve Mitchell  Mike Brey  Brian Hobbins  
Benchwarmer's owner on  Mitchell Stevens  ND men's basketball  Senior co-captain of  
the underage drinking  professor of Hamilton  coach on forward Troy  Bengal Bouts on  
College on admissions  Murphy  supporting the benefit  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Students protest liberation of Kuwait, unjust 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. said. , At 10:27 a.m.. Nathaniel Howell, 
Protesters wanted to include conference coordinator and former speakers to address humanitarian 
U.S. Ambassador to Kuwait, sum­issues resulting from the complete moned police to the university after economic sanctions. But those protesters stepped onto the stage, speakers were not allowed in, said refused to leave and interrupted Pardew, one of the seven arrested. the conference, University of Protesters walked silently into the Virginia Police Department Lt. Mike auditorium carrying signs with Gibson said. photographs of dead Iraqi children The Institute for Global Policy on them. They assembled on stage Research of the university spon­behind Howell and waited quietly sored the conference, held last for a minute or two, she said. weekend over two and a half days. Protesters hegan singing "Wake 
Conference organizers aimed to Iraqi citizens, namely children, are up; the children are crying, chil­discuss the liberation of Kuwait and dying because of sanctions, said dren of Iraq. Wake up; the children the aftermath of crises in the Gulf Nicholas Graber-Grace, protester are dying. children of Iraq," she region, Howell said. and member of the Charlottesville added. 
The conference focused only on Coalition to Lift Sanctions. After refusing to leave, protesters the liberation of Kuwait, but did not "The conference was not telling were arrested for trespassing and address the concern that many the entire story," Graber-Grace dragged off stage by polico. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWea!her l!m:ast for daytime conditions and high remperJIIRS 

The AccuWeathere> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 27. 
...........
........... ----­

O 2001 AccuWNthw, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vl ¦ AoocMr.dP-r.. 

Atlanta 68 54 Las Vegas 57 46 Portland 51 31 Baltimore 49 33 Memphis 63 44 Sacramento 65 36
q_~_~q~Q ~ ~ u 
Boston 41 21 MIiwaukee 27 9 St. Louis 37 22 
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 
Nader rejects WTO, globalization 
BALTIMOHE 
Consumer advocate and former Green Party presiden­tial candidate Halph Nader spoke on "The Problems and Consequences of Globalization" as part of the Symposium of Foreign Affairs Wednesday night at Johns Hopkins University. The lecture concentrated on the ills of corpo­rate globalization and explored the ramifications of recent international trade agreements, including the World Trade Organization [WTO). Nader also talked about globalization's effects on Third World human rights. "l think LglobalizationJ has been subjected to more misinformation, more hype and more knee-jerking than any other issue," Nader said. 'The descriptions (of the WTO) in the papers ... [show that] this is a battle between the 139 member nations to reach mutually agreeable sanctions." Nader disagreed with this view, saying that WTO courts dictate trade relations between nations based upon the least restrictive medium, which results in the lowering of environmental. consumer and worker right.5 standards in more developed nations. 

Showers T-storms Rain F/cJrries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloody Cloudy 
Chicago 29 12 New York 46 29 Tampa 80 65
llla_,od __, 
Houston 77 67 Philadelphia 50 30 Wash DC 50 36 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members discuss interaction with Board of Trustees 
campus, Nagle said. efforts are being made to bring Eldred refused to clarify her e­planning only 'Major or the 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
"I told the Trustees that while the cost down to $15 million. mail for Hcnncr. Week' activities and really have Associate News Editor 
student leaders do sit on these said Allison Web, student activi­"When we brought up 'The the SAC representatives connect 
committees, the average student ties board coordinator who also Vagina Monologues,· Dr. Eldred with students in their major to 
Student Body President-Elect wants to be heard too. whether sits on the committee dealing said she had no comment and find out what their concerns are Michelle Nagle and Vice the Board can actually do some­with the Masterplan and the new that the issue had passed and it so they can be addressed," said President-Elect Kristin Matha thing about that students con­student center. Web said the was over and she had nothing Nagle. made headway toward their goal cerns or not," said Nagle. "All College has raised $12 million further to say," said Renner. Another change to SAC will of increas­the Board members at these and predicted the College will "I also asked her if there modifying the notification ing the lines 
meetings agreed that this was a break ground on the new center would be any repercussions for process involving individuals of commu­very important concern." in the summer of 2002. students who had participated in receiving the most nominations nication Efforts will also be made to try "Right now, the student center the reading of the 'Monologues' for a position. In the past, nomi­between to acquaint Trustees with other is the first priority under the last week and she said she had nated individuals would be sent S a i n t members of the student body Masterplan," Web said. no comment." a letter informing them that they Mary's stu­and not just student leaders by Student Representative to the Rennor advised members of were now part of S/\C. The indi­dents and bringing Trustees into the daily Board of Trustees Molly Kahn the Board seeking clarification of vidual was never asked whether Lhe Board of activities of students. Nagle said added that each stage of the Eldred's e-mail or if they had they wanted the position or not. Trustees she hoped this would be accom­building of the new student cen­further questions to ask Eldred. This year, the individual who this week-Nagle plished by bringing the Trustees ter would take 15 months. begin­. Nagle, who also currently receives the most nominations to end. Nagle into the Dining Hall or residence ning with the overhaul of the serves as coordinator of the be a representative for their reported to the Board of halls. Dining I !all. Student Academic Council major will be asked whether Governance Monday. Another concern for the newly It was also announced at the announced with Matha -who they want the position. 
Nagle said students had previ­elected student body president Board of Trustees meeting that will take over as SAC coordina­"We want to ask them whether ously approached her with con­and vice president is where the instead of renovating Madeleva tor -that letters for SAC nomi­they want the position because cerns that groups such as the Trustees are getting their infor­Hall. which would have cost nations will be sent out on Feb. we are trying to encourage the Board of Trustees were not lis­mation regarding issues and more than $9 million, a new 28. In the past, only students SAC representatives to takfl own­tening to student opinion when it events on campus. building would be built to were allowed to nominate fellow ership of their position and to made its decisions. "A lot of the Trustees said that replace Madeleva. students to be representatives make them ~ant to be a part of 
She raised those concerns dur­their main source of information from their major on SAC. the committee they are sitting
In other news: 
ing the meeting of the Student is coming from The Observer," However, professors have been on," said Matha. 
. Student Body President Crissie 
Life Committee with the Board of said Nagle. "One of our concerns invited to nominate students this . "Choosing a Major" night will
Renner and o·ther members of 
Trustees. is how to get the lines of commu­year. be held on Thursday in the
the executive board met with
"Just by mentioning these con­nication open between the "We want to make sure the Dining Hall from 5 to 6:30 p.m.
College president Marilou Eldred 
cerns, the Board members want­Trustees and what is going on students nominated will work Students will be able to meet
to discuss concerns regarding
ed to know what they could do campus other than having them with the professors too and this with student representatives
"The Vagina Monologues." 
right away," said Nagle. "The read it in The Observer when way it isn't a popularity contest," from each major and ask ques­
"I wanted to meet with her in 
result was a meeting between they receive the paper several said Matha. tions.
order to be able to clarify some
six of the Trustees and about 20 days after things have occurred." The increased cooperation and . Applications for positions on
of what she said in her e-mail
students in Annunciata that Also discussed at the Board of inclusion of professors may also the 2001-2001 BOG are due
she sent to the student body
night. They listened to every Trustees meeting were the serve as a valuable link as SAC March 2 in Haggar by noon. SAB
because I have received a flood
question that was asked." Masterplan and the construction attempts to return to its roots as applications are due March 1. 
of e-mails and phone calls from
The Trustees agreed to make of the new student center. a policy board rather than a pro­. Changeover for the BOG will
students asking me to clarify 
an effort to meet with more stu­Currently, the cost of the stu­gramming board. take place at the March 26 meet­
certain things she said in her e­
dents the next time they met on dent center is $18 million but "We want to move beyond ing of the Board. 
mail," said Renner. 
BENGAL BOUTS: SEE THE ACTION AND SAVE LIVES MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28 FRIDAY, MARCH 2 Bengal ______________ Bo u ts Since 1931  

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Notre Drune opens Lafortune colllputer cluster 24 hours 
Dame, Saint Mary's, or  Holy  The code can  also be given  year.  "It's going well and being 
By ALLY JAY  Cross ID and to show it to  a  out by the LaFortune business  "The  main  problem  was  used a lot at night. The num­ 
News Writer  student  manager or  securing  the  equipment,"  bers arc high. We really have  
In a move that should allevi­ consul­tant. The  "The numbers are high. We  by workers a t  explained Edgington. "This summer they embarked on  had no problems and people have been using the comput­ 
ate long, late night lines at  student  really have had no problems·  NDExpress.  attempts to secure the equip­ ers  responsibly,"  said  
1-Jesburgh and Debartolo com­ consul­ and people have been using  According  ment, but this past fall with  Edgington.  
puter clusters, the LaFortune Computer Cluster has been  tants look  can up  the computers responsibly."  to Mary Edgington.  the reorganization of OIT, it fell through the cracks."  Student response has also been positive, according to  
made available 24 hours dur­ the  code  acting direc­ Over  Christmas  break  freshman Daniese Allen.  
ing the academic year.  and  tell  Mary Edington  tor  of stu­ Edgington again began work­ "Before break. I had to wait  
In order to have access to the computer cluster after  the stu­dent," said  director of student activities  dent activi­ties, the  ing with OIT to coordinate the opening or a 24-hour cluster  quite awhile for the comput­ers to print something out.  
hours. students need only a  Pamela  plans  for  at LaFortune. Since the sec­ Now that I know LaFortune is  
code.  Lay, man- having  the  ond week of the spring semes­ open later, I'll go later instead  
"All students need to get the  ager of residential and  cam­ Lafortune computer cluster  ter the computer was official­ of waiting to get in before it  
code is to have a valid Notre  pus cluster staffing.  open  24  hours  began  last  ly available 24 hours a day.  closes."  

Lecturer suggests self-evaluation 
By KIMBERLY SPRINGER 
News Writer 
Developing the spirit is first and foremost the most impor­tant process in a person's life when striving to expand and enrich the relationship with God as well as with others according to Sister Barbara Fiand in her lecture entitled "Spirituality: Our Quest for God." 
"Spirituality precedes reli­gion and theology. It's the root of our quest for meaning when religion runs dry... and theolo­gy gets boring. Spirituality always remains because our inner hunger [for God] never goes away," said Fiand. research professor of spiritu­ality at the Institute of Pastoral Studies Loyola University . 
According to Fiand, "Spirituality encompasses our relationship to everything... lit) permeates our life, even unconsciously." In addition, "we all live our personal story that is part of a wider familial, cultural, and sexual myth. which when made conscious, we can either accept or reject them... we can critique them," said Fiand. 
0 pen criticism and open dia­logue is necessary for a deep and functional spirituality. Because of the level of educa­tion that Notre Dame students have been afforded since Vatican II, the level of thinking and scholarship enables stu­dents to explore personal spir­ituality inquisitively. 
"Critique is the way in which we challenge each other to grow ... [and] we live in an age where critique is not only pos­sible but mandatory for the intellectual spiritual life," Fiand said. 
Due to the mandatory need for critique, the necessity to understand our spirituality follows. Fiand outlined two paradigms used to explain four questions either directly or indirectly related to spiritu­ality. First, who is my God, the source of my existence? Second, who am I? Next, how am I related to God, what is the source or evil and sin, and how am I to understand virtue? And last, how can I be liberated from evil and sin and escape from this alienation? 
The first paradigm and most accepted, is based on Neo­Platonic Augustinianism and is a model of military obedience. 
"The language of redemp­

tion is that of paying the price 
for our sins, restoring us to 
grace," said fland of this first 
model. 
The second paradigm focus­
es on God as love in which 
Fiand said this love comes 
from a deliberate effort of the 
individual to examine his or 
her own life and to then com­
pare it to the life of Christ. 
"God breaks out in diversity 
and creation and the human 
being is the image and beloved 
of God," she said. 
To reach redemption 
through this model of thought, 
one must walk the road Jesus 
walked. 
The key according to Fiand 
is to bring the two paradigms 
together to reap the benefits 
of a healthy spirit in contem­
porary society. 
"We often live in one para­
digm but desire the other. We 
need to align the two ... [and] _claim out spirituality for the 
21st century," said Fiand. 

::

:~._...
, 

;:;::;. __ _._::::·:::::~-::::.·,·=<::::::::::::: .. /:_::....... ::::;:;:::;:;: t)i~ii .... 
:ial1i1D¦'lll llltllf.8ll!l~11s: 
; :'°,;',~,,.,.,1~1?:~~~,~~,.,,,
·.· · · parietals referencflim! ..-/··'······:.•· 

1lJFlJ1l ~00 
~­

and nolN' for so.nething co.npletely 
DIFFERENT... 
Milkolovv 
03.01 .o,

9.30-11 .30pm Alumni Senior Bar ALL AGES SHOrn!-. 
an up and coming bana out o Htc;ago who m,x reggae, tech no, rock, unk, eastern, and anything else you can think of into a loud drivi11g rock that will knock you to the floor in AVV t 
Tickets on Sale NOW! LaFortune Box Office & at the door. 
ND/SMC  $3  
Gen Adm.  $5  
@i)  not your typical nd band  
www.nd.edu/~sub  ...'linallyl  


ATION 
Tuesday, February 27, 2001 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
KUWAIT 

Moldovans vote for Communism: 
Cornmunislo;; held a strong lead Monday in par­liamentary elections that looked likely to bring the poor former Soviet republic .closer into Hussia's orbit. The Communist Party and oth­ers that favor closer ties with Moscow were forecast to do best in the vote, which was pre­cipitated by a deadlock on choosing a new president. 
World's tallest Buddha to be razed: 
Afghanistan's hardline Taliban rulers ordered the destruction Monday of all statues, includ­ing a giant 5th century Buddha that is said to be the world's tallest of its kind. The order came from the Taliban's supreme leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, who issued an edict declaring statue.:i, including the ancient Buddhas, as insulting to Islam. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Man shoots ex-wife in Guam clinic: 
/1. gunman fatally shot his estranged wife and another woman at a medical clinic before being mortally wounded by police. Four others were wounded. Peter Aguon Maguadog was armed with two handguns '.\1onday as hr, made his way through the Seventh Day Adventist Clinic, where his wife worked and where he was once employed, police spokesman Officer 
A.J. Balajadia said. The couple had been going through divorce proceedings, Balajadia said. 
Florida boat collision kills one: A ferry in heavy fog collided early Monday with a smaller boat about 15 miles from Marco Island, killing one person and injuring two others aboard the smaller craft, authorities said. The Atlantis, a 116-foot ferry, was mak­ing its regular run from Fort Myers Beach to KPy West when it collided with the 22-foot pleasure craft in the waters off southwestern Florida. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Search over for drowned man: 
Police suspended a search Saturday for a man who apparently drowned after his pickup truck ended up in the St. Joseph River. An off­duty South Bend police officer told investiga­tors she heard a man yelling for help about 
9:30 a.m. and saw him hanging onto the rear of the truck as it began to submerge. Cpl. 13ritton Shupert, who lives near the scene, said she followed the man along the river until he was swepl away. "The current was taking him so fast," she said. "It would have Laken me, too, or anyone else who -.vent in." 
Market Watch 2/2 6 

Dow 
10,642.53 +200.63

]ONES 

CompositeUp: Same: Volume:

2,196 191 
NIA 

AMEX: Nasdaq: 2,308.50 +45.99 
NYSE: 634;49 tf·l:~;;~ 
S&P 500: 1267.65 +21.79 
TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANYISECURHY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCOJ -3.48 -0.94 26.()(, NASDAQ too SHAR (QQQ) , 1.90 +0.97 52. I 5 INEL CORP (INTC) -1.45 -0.44 29 50 WOIU.DCOM INC. (WCOM) +7.21 d.l'J 17.69 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +5.41 ,1.19 23.19 
AFP Photo Children dressed as Allied soldiers help celebrate the ten year anniversary of Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait. Kuwait had refrained from celebrating earlier anniversaries out of respect for missing soldiers. 
Kuwait celebrates liberation day 
Associated Press 

KUWAIT 
To the beats of military bands and folk songs, Kuwaitis paraded on foot and on floats along the seaside corniche, remem­bering the day 10 years ago when the Persian Gulf War ended a seven-month Iraqi occupation. 
Ten thousand people participated in the first such large-scale celebra­tion organized by the gov­ernment since the war's end. They lined the two­mile stretch of road between al-Seef palace, the seat of government, and Flag Square, where festivities began Sunday in the presence of former President Bush Kuwait's hero for assem­bling the Gulf War coali­tion. 
"This is the day our nightmare ended," said Maryam Ibrahim, 37. Iler three boys were in fatigues and her daughter wore a tutu in black. white, green and red -the colors of Kuwait's flag. 
"They were all born after the war, and I want­ed them to experience what we felt on liberation day," Ibrahim said. 
On one float, a girl dressed like a bride, signi­fying a free Kuwait, sat in a miniature al-Seef palace. Another showed a closed fist, a sign of resolve against Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's contin­ued threats. 
Kuwait has resisted gala anniversaries for a decade out of respect for its war missing. Kuwait accuses Baghdad of still holding about 600 people. Iraq insists it has released all war prisoners. The Kuwaiti government decid­ed to part with tradition · this year because the 10th liberation anniversary falls just one day after another big anniversary -40 years of Kuwaiti indepen­dence from Britain. 
"Without the POWs, all of this doesn't mean any­thing to me," said Wa.lid al-Shuaibi, a 22-ycar-old college student watching the parade. "I came here just to sec the yellow flag of the missing waving among the other flags.'' 
Al-Shuaibi said his brother died in Iraqi cus­tody and his cousin was among the missing. 
Fireworks lit the night sky over Kuwait City as Kuwaitis drove along the corniche tooting, waving Kuwaiti and American flags and occasionally stopping in the middle of the road to get out and dance. 

Media tours Greeneville sister sub 
media a tour of the USS Columbia, the Columbia's sonar room -essential­
Associated Press 

Greeneville's sister Los Angeles-class ly a hallway with four work stations ­submarine. usually holds two trained sonarman
PEARL HARBOR 
Lt. Cmdr. John Mosier, one of two and a supervisor. The Grceneville'sIt's not hard to see how 16 civilian 
visitors crowded into the cramped escort officers leading seven journal­sonar room was staffed with a trainee, control room of the nuclear subma­ists on the tour, ended up crawling a trained sonarman and a supervisor rine USS Greeneville could have con­across the three helm position seats to when it performed an emergency sur• fused, if not disrupted, critical _opera­lead the group into the adjacent sonar facing drill as a demonstration for VIP 
room. guests Feb. 9, the National Safety and 
tions. What happened Feb. 9 will come Although the control room is about Transportation Board said. 
The 6,900 ton submarine surfacedunder close scrutiny when a rare 15-by-12 feet, much of that space is under the 500-ton Ehime Maru, rip­Navy court of inquiry begins next occupied by side-by-side periscopes. 
ping the fishing vessel's hull open and week into the Greenevilie's sinking of two navigation tables, a three-seat sinking it within minutes. 
a Japanese fishing vessel off Honolulu helm position, a chief of the watch Twenty-six people were rescued,during an emergency surfacing drill. position, a four-seat fire control sta­but nine. including four high schoolAs a prelude to the March 5 hear­tion and an officer-of-the-deck posi­boys, are presumed dead. 
ings, Navy officers on Sunday gave the tion. 

Tuesday, February 27, 2001 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
The Brettnacher/Hall ticket nearly half of the freshman increase voter awareness and the election goes it will hr~ a and the class par-participation." great senior year," said
Election 
J a b I o n s k i -ticipated in Of the three tickets running Houser. Diehl/Janke "Fifty-sixpercentofthe the elec-for the senior class, the Taking the remainder of the
continued from page 1 
ticket will face junior class voted which tion. Meyer/Houser ticket received votes was the Kuhen/James our class," said presidential off in a run-off . d'bl " F o rt y -the most support with 37 .6 ticket with 17 .5 percent. 
n zs incre i e. It's great to nine per­
0 percent of the votes. Facing There was the most interest
candidate Mandy Brettnacher. 
Wednesdav. see such enthusiasm and cent of the them in a run-off on and response in the senior
"We worked really hard on 
our campaign and tried to "It will be a participation in the up-freshmen Wednesday will be the class election. tough run-off," . l , v o t e d , Weldon/Crawford ticket, "Fifty-six percent of the
meet and speak with as many 
s a i d commg senior c ass.' which is an which had 34.4 percent of the junior class voted which is
students we could." 
Brettnacher, awesome vote. incredible," said Prezioso.
Receiving 29. 7 percent of "but we are Nickey Prezioso voter turn "We're very enthusiastic and "It's great to see such enthusi­the votes was the Jablonski­ready to cam-elections commissioner out," said surprised at the results," said asm and participation in lheDiehl/J anke ticket. The 

paign and are N i c k e y senior vcc presidential candi­up-coming senior class."
Mahoney/McGraw ticket 
excited about Prezioso. date Michelle Houser. Run-o!'f elections will be
received 21.8 percent of the 
the whole elections "We are going to try our Wednesday for the freshmen 
votes with the 
process." comm1ssrnner. "The candi-best to continue campaigning, and seniors and all class offi­
Harrison/McLaughlin ticket 
The turnout among fresh-dates did a great job cam­but both tickets for the run-off cers will begin their terms 
receiving 15.8 percent. 
men was exceptionally high as paigning and really helped to are great tickets. Either way April 1. 
,-------------------------------------i 
Survey 
continued (rom page 1 
he said. 
Father Mark Poorman is interested in receiving student feedback on parietals. said Kevin Berchou, chair of the Senate Hesidence Life Committee that drafted the ballot issue. Berchou said although senate initiatives do not need administrative back­ing, Poorman, Notre Dame's vice president for student affairs. recently approved the referendum. 
The judicial council will oversee counting of referen­dum votes Wednesday. but Berchou said he is not sure if the body will release results that night. 


ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, February 27th 
6:00 p,m, 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, asheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 

Rue LaFortune 
UNBEATABLE PRICES! 
PACKAGES INCLUDE: 
• 
Student roundtrip airfare 

• 
Accommodations 

• 
Airport transfers and Travel Card• 

• 
Camera, document organizer, discounts, guidebooks, maps and more 


'Select crties only.

ti,nnf4ilrrave/ ____. _ 
Americd's Ledder in Student Trdvel 
1-800-2Council counciltravel.com 

Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 

Call today and 11 am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 
Tuesday, February 27, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Bush faces first lllajor test in office 
Court upholds state abortion regulations 
"Our position is that this case
Associated Press 

has gone on for some time" already.
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court's actionThe Supreme Court. allow­is not a ruling on the meritsing new state restrictions on 

of the doctors' claims. and
abortion on Monday, let 

the justices could consider
stand a 27-page book of reg-. 

similar challenges to healthulations for South Carolina regulations on abortions inabortion clinics that doctors 
17 states.
there characterized as an 

A narrow majority of theattempt to undermine abor­
conservative-led court favorstion rights. 
a woman's basic right to end
Lawyers for four doctors 

her pregnancy, but thewho perform most of the 
Supreme Court has allowed
state's abortions immediately some restrictions. on access toasked a lower federal court 

the procedure, such as 24­to temporarily prevent the 
hour waiting periods.
rules from taking effect. 

In its last major abortion
Otherwise, the doctors will 

ruling, the court voted 5-4be unable to perform abor­
last year to limit dramatically 
tions until they meet the 

licensing requirements, states' powers to ban a type which could take months, 
of late-term procedure that said Margie Kelly, spokes­
opponents call the "partial­birth" abortion.
woman for the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy, 

The South Carolina rulfls, which represented the doc-which govern elements as tors. · basic as the training of clinic "It is a much more subtle workers and as minute as the form of discrimination width of office doors, are against abortion but as sig­medically pointless and treat nificant as any anti-abortion early-term abortions differ­
tactic that has come down ently from other similarly the pike in the last decade," low-risk medical procedures, Kelly said. the doctors argued. 
"These are new burdens Abortion-rights activists just based on the fact that the said they especially object to state opposes abortion. These the blanket nature of the reg­are political motivations, not ulations, which apply equally 
health motivations." to doctors performing surgi­
South Carolina.Attorney cal abortions and those dis­General Charles Condon pensing the newly approved praised the Supreme Court drug RU-486. for applying common sense To comply, doctors said and called the court's action they would have to make a victory for state's rights. expensive changes to their 
"These reasonable health offices and procedures that and safety regulations will would raise the cost of abor­continue to stand. South tions significantly. Carolina should be run by South Carolina authorities South Carolinians, not federal responded that the regula­bureaucrats or federal tions are similar to national courts," Condon said in a standards for abortion prac­statement issued by his tices, and one of the clinics office. that fought the rules has 
Condon's spokesman, Robb already complied with most McBurney, said the state will of them. try to put the regulations in "This regulation does not force quickly. He would not look to strike at a woman's speculate on whether the right to choose whether to doctors might get a grace have an abortion," lawyers period to comply with the for the state said in their rules. legal papers. "Rather. these 
"That's something that will regulations look to protect have to be addressed when it the health of women who comes up," McBurney said. seek abortions." 
Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 
EARLY SIGNUPS Monday, March 5-Friday, March 9 Cost: $12 
REGULAR SIGNUPS Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 2ti Cost: $15 · 
WHEN and WHERE: 11 :00-2:00 pm and 5:00-8:00 pm 1st FLOOR LAFUN BY ELEVATOR 
www.nd edu/-bkstr/ . 

-t.t1lUl1nor­
~rnm lIDfillolrn 
11.111s,,,u,111EIHISTHI

Check out our sponsors! 
I 1 I I I 
j 
___J 

dling marks for his public

Associated Press 
speaking, has yet to build enough support in Congress
WASIIINGTON and has had to make his argu­

President Bush goes before 
ments heard in the midst of the the nation Tuesday night with din over the Clinton pardons, ahis first major challenge: sell a 

spy scandal, a White House program of tax cuts that shooting and an airstrikc

Americans are lukewarm about against Iraq.
and spending cuts that many "Ilopefully, all the focus on 
won't like. 
the past is over with," the pres­

It would be a tough assign­ident said at a Cabinet meeting
ment for any president, but this Mondav. "It's time to move for­
new leader has hurdles all his 
ward ~nd (Tuesday) night's 

own. Elected without a clear speech is part of moving for­
mandate, Bush gets only mid-ward." 
The cornerstone of the joint address to Congress, which aides said would last about 45 minutes, will be Bush's pitch for a $1.6 trillion tax cut over 10 years. He is buffeted on all sides -from Democratic parti­sans who say it's too big, GOP activists who say it's too small and voters who put a higher priority on debt reduction and certain spending programs. 
A poll released by the Pew Research Center last week indi­cated that·voters narrowly sup­port Bush's tax plan -43 per­cent in favor, 34 percent opposed -with voters in favor of shoring up Social Security or paying fot domestic programs rather than tax cuts. 
Bush must convince voters they can have it all: lower taxes, lower public debt and bigger budgets for education, environment and other popular programs. 
"With a $5.6 trillion surplus, we do have room for a lot of options," White House press secretarv Ari Fleischer said Monday.· 
Bush rarely stressed debt reduction on the campaign trail. in part because his mas­sive tax-cut package didn't leave room for reducing red ink under economic conditions at the time. 
But surplus projections have ballooned. And the Congressional Budget Office estimates that up to $800 bil­lion of the $3.4 trillion in pub­licly held debt cannot be retired in the next decade because it is in savings bonds or treasury bills that do not come due soon or are held by foreign govern­ments. 
Bush will be able to promise the fastest. largest debt reduc­tion in history: $2 trillion over 10 years, aides said Monday. 
.~--------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday February 27, 200 I 
This Week in Campus Ministry 

Beginning Monday, February 26 through March 26 
Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #35 (March 30-31, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at www.nd.edu/ ..-ministry/freshmanfonn.htm 
Monday-Tuesday, February 26-27, 11 :30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, February 27, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, February 28 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Ash Wednesday Liturgies 11 :30 a.m. and 5: 15 p.m. 
Wednesday. February 28, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday, March 2, 8:00 p.m. . ~ Morrissey Chapel ~~ 
807-A new Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday-Sunday, March 2-3 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Senior Retreat #5 
Sunday. March 4, 10:00 a.m. 
First Sunday of Lent 
Sunday, March 4, 10:00 a.m. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
RCIA Class Mass at 11:45 a.m. 
Sunday, March 4, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. Thomas V. Bednar, c.s.c. 
Beginning Monday, March 5 through March 30 
Sign-up for Senior Retreat #6 (April 6-7, 2001) Pick up applications at l 03 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at www.nd.edu/,., ministry/ seniorform.html 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Opening March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 
112 Sadin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 

This question is rooted in the ancient debates of the early Protestant reformers who thought 
Faith FAQs
Catholicism required good work in or­der to earn our way into heaven. The Lutheran understanding is chat only 
?Catholic facn
through faith in Christ are we saved. Catholics agree, but with one important difference. True faith is always expressed in action. 
~t~:~r:}r1;~te;;t1~) is dead." Today we tend to speak more of service chan works. To be a follower 
ofJesus means to seek to serve those who are most in need. Notre Dame has been at the heart of an explosion of Catholic service projects, from the Holy Cross Associates and the Jesuit Volunteer Corps ro ACE. Volunceerism is a common American theme as well. In these same thirty years in which Catholic service projects have grown, so have other non-religious projects such as Americorps, the Peace Corps and Habitat for Humanity. Volunteering and doing good to others is very much a part of the American way of life. However, there is a very important difference between civic volunteerism and Chris­tian service. As Christians there is a reflective and spiri­
Three thingi can happen when we get too comfortable. tual dimension to service. 
Through the eyes of faith,
We can loo~e a~eme of our need for God. It becomei Christians see Christ in thosea 
whom we seek to serve.
ea~ier to forget thatthe va~t majority ofthe world'ipeople "When I was hungry , you 
gave me co eat.....what you do 
live in ievere poverty. And the punuit of ~till more can 
to the least ofmy brothers and 
preoccupy our endeavon. sisters, you do to me" (Mat­
thew 25) In serving others we serve the Lord. Christian reflection also leads us co seek a more just economic and social order so chat poverty will be less common. Finally, as Christians at the service ofothers we do not focus on pride in our accomplishments or on what we get out of che experi­ence but on the changes that Christ works in us through our attempts ro serve. We often leave an experience ofservice humbled and with a greater awareness of God's plan to use each of us for the good of all of us. This is the heart of the Gospel: That we imitate Christ. His Kingdom is made real through the love and sacrifice we do for one another just as he has done for us. 
Ever wonder why we ai Catholin do what we do or believe what we believe, Pleaie iend u1 your queitiom, commen~ and ~uggeitiom to miniitry.1@nd.edu. 
F,Jif1 
Refle.ctions on Lent 
~ 
Reflections on Lent: 
A Collection of Homilies given 
at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart during Lent 
is now On Sale 
at the Hammes Bookstore and 
Campus Ministry (Badin Hall) for only $2 

Friday Night Mass 
807 

A new Mass on Friday Nights 
Fridays@ 8:00 pm Morrissey Chapel ... a great new way to kickoff the weekend. 
(Who are we kidding? It'll really start around 8:07 ... hence the name) 


Tuesday, February 27, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Report shows Gore 
Mormons release freed slave records 
When the bank closed, about 
gained only 49 votes 
61,000 account holders were 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

The Mormon Church pub­lished records Monday from the post-Civil War Freedman's Bank for newly freed slaves, making ancestral records available for as many as 12 million black Americans. 
The records have been avail­able for years through the National Archives but not in organized form. The church, formally the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. spent 11 years. with help from volunteer Utah state inmates, extracting and 
documents into one database. 
Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, a Texas Democrat, said, "For too long, African-American history was embodied in untruth. We were not given an opportunity for truth." 
The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company was estab­lished through a congressional charter in 1865 -the same year the Civil War ended -to help former slaves with their new financial responsibilities. With 37 branch offices in 17 states, the bank had deposits totaling more than $57 million before it collapsed in 1874 because of mismanagement 
and fraud. 

linking the 480,000  "These records can  What sur­vived, how­ 
names con­tained in the records. The result is  provide clues for an estimated 8 to 10 million African American  ever, were meticulous bank docu­m e n t s  
a searchable  descendants living today  recording 
database on compact disk w h i c h  who wnat to research their family histories."  the names and family relation­ 
includes infor­ ships  of  
mation such as family names, birth  Lionel Kendrick church official  account holders. One appli­ 
locations and  cation for  a  
names of for- former  

mer slave owners. slave lists the name of his for­
"These records can provide mer plantation, age, complex• clues for an estimated 8 to 10 ion, children, place of birth and million African American occupation. It also lists the descendants living today who names of siblings who were might want to research their sold away during slavery. family histories," said Elder "The records created by the Lionel Kendrick, a church offi­bank are a rich source of docu­cial, mentation," said Reginald 
The church began the project Washington, an archivist with when an employee discovered the National Archives and the existence of the original Records Administration. microfilm records. At that time. Still, the discovery of the doc­no one had undertaken the uments poses prickly questions long process of extracting the for the nation. 
eligible to receive money. Less than 30,000 former slaves ever recovered their money and even then, most received just over half of what they were actually owed, Washington said. 
Jackson Lee said it was pre­mature to say whether there would be legislation to com­pensate the former account holders. Instead, she said she hoped to first have a review of the bank's records and opera­tions. 
Jewish descendants of the Holocaust have sued several European countries in recent years over decades-old bank accounts and other property confiscated by Adolf Hitler's Germany and European collab­orators. 
The Freedman's Bank had branches in Huntsville and Mobile, Ala.; Little Rock, Ark.; Washington, D.C.; Tallahassee, Fla.; Atlanta, Augusta and Savannah, Ga.; Lexington and Louisville, Ky.; New Orleans and Shreveport. La.; Baitimore. Columbus. Natchez and Vicksburg, Miss.; St. Louis; New York; New Bern, Raleigh and Wilmington, N.C.; Philadelphia; Beaufort and Charleston, S.C.; Memphis and Nashville, Tenn.; Lynchburg, Norfolk and Richmond, Va. 
The Mormon church has maintained a massive genealogical database since 1894, originally to assist church members in tracing their family histories. The col­lection today is the largest of its kind. The church also plans to release a searchable data­base of the 1880 Census. 


"We've never thought it's been in doubt," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. "The overwhelming majority 

CORRECTION 
. The things to do this week in Monday's Scene incorrectly stated that the University Symphony Orchestra's Winter Concert would be performed Wednesday. The concert is scheduled for Thursday at 8 p.m. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

of the American people have 
moved on. This election has 
been resolved a long Lime 
ago." 
State Democratic Party 
spokesman Tony Welch dis­
counted the Miami-Dade 
review. 
"The problem is putting any 
significanl;e on anything other 
than the full count," he said. 
"I feel like I'm in the same 
position as election night. 
when the networks took a lit­
tle bit of information and tried 
to extrapolate when it's 
impossible to do so." 
The Herald, which initially 
reviewed only uncounted bal­
lots, is now looking at ballots 
in which a voter indicated a 
preference for more than one . candidate, the overvote. 
Separately, a research firm 
hired by several news organi­
zations, including The 
Associated Press, The 
Washington Post and The New 
York Times. is reviewing 
180.000 Florida ballots that did not register a vote for president during machine counts. Those results are pending. 
The critical decision to reject late-arriving recounts was made by Secretary of State Katherine Harris, co­chair of the Bush campaign in Florida. She said she would not accept recount results after a Nov. 14 deadline set by state law. 
Only Volusia County com­pleted its recount by the dead­line, resulting in 98 net votes for Gore. When Harris announced those totals. Bush led by 300 votes, and on Nov. 
17. after overseas ballots were counted, she certified Bush's victory margin as 930 votes. 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

A media-sponsored review of 10,644 uncounted ballots in Miami-Dade County gave Al Gore just 49 additional votes. but Demo­crats chal­lenged the suggestion that the numbers showed he W OU ) d have lost Florida and the presiden­cy had the votes been tallied. 
The results published Monday were the first in a statewide ballot review car­ried out by an accounting firm hired by The Miami Herald. USA Today and Herald owner Knight Ridder. 

The firm reviewed ballots that were not counted by machines in the initial statewide count -the so­called undervote -and used the most lenient method of interpreting voter intent on the punchcard ballots. 
The review suggests that Gore would not have gained enough votes in Miami-Dade to overtake George W. Bush's statewide lead of 930 votes certified on Nov. 17 -even combined with votes the for­mer vice president gained during hand recounts in Broward, Palm Beach and Volusia counties. Gore had request manual recounts in all four counties. 





page IO 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining H.11, No<rc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MAN.tGING EUITOR BUSINESS MAN.tGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NlWS EDITOR: Anne Mari.-Mattingly VICWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS Ellrt'OR: Kerry Smith ScENE EmToR, Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Eliz.1beth L-ing 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer All DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINl~1RATOR: Mike Gunvillc Wt:R AoMINISTll.41'01l: Adam Turner CoNTROLI.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS ED110R: J()j;e Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFF!Cl' MANAGER/GENERAi. iNFO.............631-7471 FAx............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/!!840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 8USINF.SS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SrORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu 

SCENE........................................................631-4540 
obscrver.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARv's........ ....................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 

PHOl'0........................................................631-6767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINIHRATORS................6 31-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http:llobrervtr.nd.~du for daily upda1c:s of campus news, sporu, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forccasc.s 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policic:s 
online features for spe­
and ra1es of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search fur 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
Thi, Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of th., administration ofeither institution. The Observer resetvc:s the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Thi, news is reporred as accurately and objectively as pos.,ible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of tht' majoriry of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and noi necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all read<:rs. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leuers ro rhe Ediror must be signed and must include ('OntJct information. 
QUL11iotu r,gardwg Obrnv.:r policin 1hould be dJrccl­td to Editor in Chief Mi/et Connolly. 
DILBERT 
______________ 8
MANAGEMENT TRAINING 
e g 
1 @) l
WHAT WOULD 'r'OU DO IF 'r'OU MADE A HUGE I INCREDIBLy STUPID MI$Tf\KE7 

IEWPOINT 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Tuesday, February 27, 200 I 
Reconciling science and religion 
One issue that never goes away is the not immediately," wrote John Paul II. effect of another cause, and so on. But alleged conflict between science and reli­Can we really know from reason that this, too, cannot go on to infinity. There gion. Back in 1997 it even drew the there must always have been in existence must be a first cause that is not caused attention of Homer and Llsa Simpson in a an eternal being, who always was and by anything else and that contains in 
satire featuring the voice and character who had no beginning? Yes. The alterna­itself the sutTicient reason for its exis­
of' scientist Stephen 
tive is that there was a time when there tence. That first, uncaused cause is God. Jay Gould. was nothing in existence. But if them Apart from the Intelligent Design con­
The controversy 

was ever a lime when there was nothing, troversy. would you b,ilicvc it if' I told youcontinues, with its there could never be anything. This we that I got my watch by buying all the focus on "Intelligent 
know from the self-evident principle of watch parts, putting them in a bag, shak­Design" scicnlists, sufficient reason that whatever exists ing the bag and then reaching into the such as William must have a sufficient reason for its exis­bag and pulling out the watch? On the Dembski of Baylor tence. 
contrary, the watch was obviouslyand Jonathan Wells As Thomas Aquinas put it. "That which designed by an intelligent designer. llow of' the Discovery does not exist only begins to exist much more so with the human body, the Institute, who through something already existing. world and the universe. 
Charles Rice
claim, in Dembski's Therefore, if at one time nothing was in Through our reason, therefore, we can words. "that intelli-existence, it would have been irnpossible know with certainty that there always gent causes are for anything to have begun to exist. and was -and is -God. We can go on to
Right or

necessary to thus even now nothing would be in exis­know through reason that God is one,
Wrong?

explain the com­tence which is absurd." spiritual. personal. all-perfoct, etc. It is 
plex, information­Think about this as you walk across the unreasonable not to believe in God. One 
rich structures of campus, drive your car or whatever. It who denies the existence or God must be 
biology, and that these causes are empir­can change your life. The film version of prepared to say that an m1dless chain of ically detectable .... Intelligent Design is The Sound of Music had it right: "Nothing movers is possible without a prime
theologically minimalist. It detects intelli­comes from nothing, nothing ever could.'' mover, that an infinite chain of causes is 
gence without speculating about the There must have always existed, from all conceivable without an uncaused first 
nature of the intelligence." eternity, without any beginning, a neces­cause, that something can come from 
As Wells put it, "people make scientific sary being -God -from whom beings nothing and that the workings of the design inferences ... whenever ... we infer that began to be received their existence. human brain can occur without an intel­that words in the sand at the beach were Similarly, if you stopped at a train ligent designer. produced by design rather than by acci­crossing as the lights flashed and the 'The marvellous 'book of nature,"' said dental movements of the waves." gates came down and the only thing that John Paul II in Faith & Reason. "when According to Wells, "Darwinists insist went by was an empty freight car, you read with the proper tools of human rea­
that design is unscientific [because] would wonder what was making it move. son, can lead to knowledge of the 
design in living things would have to be As Aquinas said, "whatever is in motion Creator." In abandoning the "basic rules" the work of God, and God is beyond the must be put in motion by another [which] of reason, "the human being ... ends up reach of natural science." also must needs be put in motion by in the condition of 'the fool.' ... When he 
"Science must recognize," said John another, and that by another again. But claims that 'God does not exist' ... he Paul II, "its inability to reach the exis­this cannot go on to infinity." At the head shows ... how deficient his knowledge is tence of God: it can neither affirm nor of the series of movers there must be a and just how far he is from the full truth, deny His existence.... However, we must being that is itself unmoved and that is of things. their origin and their destiny." not [conclude] that scientists ... are the source of all movement. This prime unable to find valid reasons for admitting mover is God. Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. the existence of God.... The scientist ... Reason can also tell us that there His column appears every other can discover in the world reasons for always was, and is, an uncaused first Tuesday. affirming a Being which surpasses it." cause of everything that is caused. It is The views expressed in this column are 
"Man is capable of knowing God by rea­self-evident that every effect must have a those ofthe author and not necessarily son alone ... even though indirectly and cause. But that cause in turn must be the those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Political correctness taken too far 
1t has become obvious to me that political correctness is run­as such, not be suhject to arbitrary censorship for !'ear that they ning rampant and out of control in the Notre Dame and Saint might, in theory, offend someone. Anyone not mature enough Mary's community. The "Vagina Monologues" controversy was to recognize the light-heartedness with which the T-shirt was just the tip of the iceberg. Here's the event that drove intended probably is not mature enough to attend this home the point for me: O'Neill had its annual OW. Vt, school. And ifwe as students accept and allow cen-Mardi Gras celebration. This celebration is //)'(\ / bV/) sorship of even the most trivial materials, we run revered by residents of my dorm as a chance to ...~ "\. the risk of complacency when materials of a cut loose -and as a weekend where political I t • more serious nature are censored. The Saint correctness has no place. Mary's administration has already done so with 
Four days before the big event, we were ~ a valid and important piece of th1\atrc and we can-shocked to find out that the T-shirts that had been not afford to sit by and let it happen to anything else. made especially for the event had been confiscated by our And what happened to the $1,700 worth of undistributed, rector. The T-shirts in question had the slogan "Show Us "inappropriate" T-shirts? They were given to charity. It's good Something!" on the back, with a picture of a large beaver wear­to know that those less fortunate than us arc impervious to ing a Mardi Gras hat and beads. being offended. 
Subtle? No. Classy? Hardly. But the design had been approved by the notoriously hard to please Student Activities Joe Muto Office and given to the T-shirt maker. freshman 
I submit that political correctness has gone way too far at this O'Neill Hall school. Things that are meant to be humorous should be taken February 26, 200 I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I WOULD 

'The aim ofa joke is not to degrade the 
DID YOU LEARN 
TR'r' TO 

ANYTHING FROM 
human being but to remind him that he is 
LEARN 
YOUR ANSWER? 

already degraded. " 
FROM IT. 0 
. 

George Orwell author 
VIEWPOINT 
r¼HE 
Tuesday, February 27, 2001 vnSERVER 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The only choice is life 
This letter is in response to the Feb. 22 letter, "Remove the 'Trojan horse."' 
A wise man was once asked, "Ifyou could have one wish, what would it be?" The man replied, "I would restore words to their original meanings." 
We live in a world where there is currently an explosion of misnomers. In light of this, we must replace the misnomers with words that actually present what they represent. It is time for our nation and our world to look beyond the self-serv­ing linguistic formulae of the "pro-choicers," whose first misnomer is the collective name with which they refer to themselves. 
"Pro-choice" -ignorance abounds in that ter­minology; morally, there can be no "choice" in deciding whether to have an abortion. We cannot choose a course of action which is morally unac­ceptable. That is not a theological dictate, it is a premise of philosophy. "We must do good and avoid evil." There is only one course of action that is congruous with gospel values, and this is to choose life! 
Furthermore, the tireless use of euphemisms by the "pro-choicers" is so worthless that it arouses moral indignation among the rest ofus -that is, those who are engaged in a search for truth in our own moral journeys. Their name itself is a euphemism. What they advocate is abortion, not choice. And to abort is to impinge upon God's omnipotence as author of life. 
The letter that appeared last week in The Observer was no different. Bashing the Knights of Columbus for their memorial to unborn children outside of the Basilica, this letter was full of mis­nomers and euphemisms. However, the author's primary offenses against truth were the numer­ous, sweeping and libelous accusations against pro-lifers and "specifically the Knights of Columbus." 
We fail to see how our memorial to the innocent victims of abortion was insensitive, deliberately manipulative or contributive to the current back­lash against women. Frankly, we aren't even aware of any specific backlash against women. The ambiguity and generalizing in the accusation -of tho existence of and our contribution to this backlash -serves suitably to demonstrate the libel contained in all of the accusations in the aforementioned letter. 
Ifour monument is manipulative, we hope that it manipulates in a manner which causes women and men to recognize that abortion is an abom­inable crime against the sanctity of life. You also accused the Knights of Columbus (and therefore all who embrace the culture of life) of abusing women, forcing them into a mold of baby-killers and close-mindedness (sic). 
Let all people of good will hear us: We denounce these charges, and wish to tell you just what we are about. The Knights of Columbus is an organization dedicated to charity, fraternity, unity and patriotism. We are a family-oriented organization, coming to the aid of widows and orphans is our primary task. With Mother Theresa of Calcutta as our model and The Blessed Virgin Mary as our patroness, we say this: If you don't want your baby, give it to us. We will find it a home. The Knights of Columbus is a service organization, a brotherhood of Catholic gentle­men at the service of the Church and who are loyal to the Holy Father -the vicar of Christ. 
The letter pleads for someone to teach "ratio­nality, sensitivity and analysis." We, as Knights of Columbus, do this by serving the gospel. The let­ter claims that these things are forsaken, "for some absolute moralistic right." Rationality, sen­sitivity and analysis do not controvert moral absolutes; rather, they lead us to them. Rational thought is the only vehicle to the truth, which is a synthesis of every moral absolute we can define -through our rational thought, sensitivity and analysis. We wish all people would look at both sides of the matter, as you accuse us of the omis­sion of such careful investigation. Then you would see the truth. 
Our monument to the innocent victims of abor­tion was carefully selected and designed to bring a level of decorum to the matter of memorializing the innocent victims of abortion -the holy inno­cents, if you will. The Knights of Columbus have hatred and disgust for no human person. Knights vow to serve God with charity, to live out our fun­damental human vocation to love all people. We have not in any way attempted to victimize the women who have already been victimized by a society which permits and commercializes abor­tion. 
We know that abortion is a business. Abortion counselors are trained to work on a woman's weakness from the moment she enters the clinic door. The counselors find out what is driving the woman to abort and they magnify it, telling the woman how much trouble it is to have a baby. 
Our hope is that the image of the Mother and Child erected outside the Basilica will serve as a beacon of hope for the women who regret forsak­ing their baby. We want to show them that one day, they may be reunited with that child, and that "With [the Lord] is found forgiveness: For this we revere [Him] ... because with the Lord there is mercy and fullness of redemption ... " (Psalm 130). We want to spread a message of love. 
We must be mindful of what Jesus tells us, "Be on your guard! If another disciple sins, you must rebuke the offender, and if there is repentance, you must forgive." (Luke 17 :3). 
Thus, we embrace all of our brothers and sis­ters who have suffered as a result of abortion. We pray for them daily, and we ask God that our prayers might also serve as a vehicle to convert hearts and end abortion forever. Lastly, we wish to end with a suggestion for the "pro-life" contin­gent here on campus and throughout the world. Pray the pious invocation of the apostles which followed Jesus admonition to forgive, "The apos• ties said to the Lord, Increase our faith!" (Luke 17:5). Pray it over and over, until your hearts are converted. 
Scott John Hardy junior Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Council #1477 February 26, 200 I 
Response to rhetoric 
This letter is in response to two letters from yesterday's edition of The Observer. 
Recently, I was having a discussion with a friend of mine who enjoys inventing adjectives. His most recent creation was extremely dirty, and I jokingly told him that I would probably want to slap any­one who could be described by that word. It's a strong reaction, but that's the power of language. 
I put the incident out ofmy mind, until I read Nathaniel Hannan's response to the letter regarding the statue donated by the Knights of Columbus. I was reminded of the earlier incident because, as I read the letter, I became increasingly shocked by its vehement and self­righteous tone, and ihis reminded me once again of the power lan­guage has over all of us. 
In what I consider to be a theologically questionable and rhetorical­ly blatant statement, Hannan asserts, "If abortion is a justifiable choice, then [women who had abortions] should not be concerned ,vith our reminding them that God thinks otherwise. If, however, their alarm at our memorial comes from the deep sense that they have done something horrible, then our memorial has served its purpose." 
First, on the theological note, I am always interested to know what sort of personal divine experience a person who asserts, "God thinks ... " has had. A more accurate statement would be, for instance, "Based on Scripture passage x, Church teaching y, and logical reason z, the Catholic Church teaches ... " I don't think this revision is too much to ask. 
But this theological misstep was not as serious or as grievous to me as the rhetorical dimension of Hannan's letter. Its purpose was not to persuade people to accept the Knights' reasons for donating the stat­ue or even to explain it in any kind of coherent fashion. Its purpose was to offend those who do not agree with him. 
Such passages as the one cited above and the one about, "the excommunication that they inflicted upon themselves by having an abortion" belies an intention to alienate, not to accept back into the Church, those who have made the decision to have an abortion. After such statements·. the statement, "We welcome them with open arms" rings quite hollow. I would like to think that Hannan just feels strong­ly about the issue and that somehow he was typing faster than he was thinking but a harsh and unforgiving intention seems to lie behind his words. 
He (and all of us) need to conscious of the powerful tool (or weapon) we wield in the form oflanguage. It has the power to alienate as well as to embrace and consequently there are responsible and irresponsi­ble uses ofit. Whether he wanted to or not, Hannan's letter reflected on both the Knights and the Catholic Church (who to be sure never authorized such an utterance) and made them look unforgiving and hostile, which the Church patently is not. · 
So where am I going with this? Yesterday's Gospel reading was the one about complaining about the speck in your neighbor's eye but not noticing the log in your own. Abortion is certainly a serious issue, but the Church's and society's attitudes toward it and utterances regard­ing it arc no less so. IfHannan and the Knights are truly concerned about reconciling women who have had abortions back to the Church (a supposition I regard as dubious at best, but with which l am willing to indulge them), they need to be conscious of the attitude they pro­ject and the language they use when speaking about a_b_or~ion. . 
Are they giving lip service to forgiveness and reconc1hat10n, while sending a rhetorical message of condemnation? In Harman's letter, yes. But I hope to see him and those like him embrace an attitude more like that of Bill Fusz, whose thoughtful letter on the same sub­ject I found very encouraging. For a dialogue of forgiveness and rec­onciliation to occur, all involved need to remove the tone of blame and moral condemnation from out language, and to realize that we could be similarly condemned for any one of our faults. 
Sarah Haight 
senior 
Badin Hall February 26, 2001 

j 

C<tnec 
page 12 Tuesday, February 27, 200 I 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Minus RHCP help, Frusciante's solo attack fails 
By GEOFFREY RAHIE 
Scene: Music Critic 
John Frusciante is certainly a man with some notable musical and lifo cxpl\riences. As a bud­cling guitarist with the Heel llot Chili Peppers he playrd on one of the most important rock albums of the "90s, Blood Sugar Sex Magik. 
Then Prusciantc started to dabble in hardcore drugs. He quit the Peppers. and put out some weird solo albums. Fast­forward to 1999: Frusciante gets his act together, records a huge album with the Peppers in Californication, and officially announces to the music world that he is back. 

Sober and back on his feet, John Frusciante's latest solo album unfortunately does not reflect the growth he has attained in life. 
To Record Only Water for Ten Days is 1-<rusciante's latest solo effort, covering 15 songs in a lit­tle over 40 minutes. 
One would think that Frusciante's latest success and sobriety would produce a thoughtful, exciting release. Instead, the guitarist offers a self-indulgent, pretentious record. 
The most surprising aspect of this disc is that rrusciante's gui­tar playing is anything but remarkable. This might not come as much of a surprise to some fans after hearing his progres­sion from Blood Sugar Sex Magik to Californication. On that album his arsenal of effects seemed to mysteriously vanish as his for­mer funk-filled solos became watered-down attempts at dirty modern rock. 
The work on To Record falls even below the level of Californication. Simplistic guitar figures make the songs impossi­ble to decipher one from another and the melodies are all easily forgettable. 
However, the musical accom­paniment is not the worst part of the record. That distinction is reserved for the annoying lyrics that litter the album. 
Coupled with Frusciante's ter­ribly weak voice, the lyrical sub-
ALBUM REVIEW 
Former Pavement lead hies to make name for himself 


The album's true shining moment comes on "Jenny & The Ess-Dog," the love story of a couple of hippies ­with a dog named Trey -whose age difference even­tually tears them apart ("she's 18,. he's 31/ she's a rich girl. he's the son/ of a Coca-Cola middleman"). The song combines catchiness with a lyrical cleverness that finally gives the album a song that livns up to Malkmus's reputation. 
Though some Pavement fans may be turned away, there's noth_ing too alienating here. On the other hand, with the exception of "Ess-Dog," there's nothing here to expand a fan base on. either. This is the sound of a lost indie rock savior still trying to find his solo voice. 
By CHRISTOPHER McGOVERN 
Scene Music Critic 
As the leader of the seminal-rock group Pavement for the past decade, Stephen Malkmus fought the good indie rock light against all the Britneys and Christinas, the Matchbox Twenties and Third Eye Blinds, the Limp Bizkits and Cookie Monsters of the music world. 
Now that Pavement has officially left the building and Malkmus has put together a solo project, many wonder what will become of the band's laconic-voiced leader. 
Would he forsake his hipster fans and head over to the dark side -a:ctually selling records and being able to afford three squares a day? The cover photo of a shadowed Malkmus striking a dreamy pinup boy pose seems to say yes. 
Don't worry too much, though. Malkmus hasn't com­pletely surrendered yet. Yes, gone is the defiant lo-fi in favor of a more polished pop sound. And yes, the obscure tongue-in-cheek is toned down for more straightforward lyricism. But the bemused monotone dolivery and cleverness remain. 
Malkmus eases Pavement fans into his new record with "Black Book," a dark, droning number that sounds like a Terror Twilight I3-side. The move makes sense, considering many people in Pavement's inner circle hinted that Twilight was basically Malkmus' solo debut anyway. 
But then the album switches gears, and Malkmus serves up the poppy Ween-like "Phantasies," a story about a bored couple trying not to go nuts out in Alaska. The track is not exactly his strongest moment. 
"Jo Jo's Jacket," however, ropes the album's momentum back in. Written from the view­point of "The King and I" star Yul Brynner, Malkmus goes out of his way to be ultra-silly on this track and pulls it off as only Pavement could have. 
Then comes "Church On White," a waltz-tempoed eulogy for the late writer Robert Bingham, and a kind of univer­sally poignant tune about feel­ings of failure as a friend. This is one of the album's finest tracks. 
With some hurts-so-good gui­tars, "The Hook" tells the story of Chris Elliott's nancy-boy char­acter in Cabin Boy and his rise from swabbing the decks to run­ning the ship. "Troubbble" 
leaves listeners 
craving more as it 

Stephen Malkmus 
clocks in at a mere minute and a half. The ancient Greece-themed "Trojan Curfew" reminds one of Built to Spill with
Stephen Malkmus 
its slide guitar driven melody. All are basically middle-of-the-road Pavement tunes.
Matador Records 

Perhaps fittingly, as Pavement was oft compared to drone-rock gods The Velvet Underground, Malkmus's first single off the album, "Discretion Grove," sounds oh­
Rating 

so-Lou Reed. High praise for Malkmus to be sure, but old Lou comes off a loser in
.......... this case. as the song certainly isn't wor­thy of even Reed's worst material. 

stance is simply terrible. Frusciante must be trying to be an artsy coffee shop fellow with all of his cute little phrases. 'Tm crowded when I'm gone," "Let the pretend take over" and "Soon the hills will swallow us up" arc just some of the juicy nuggets that lead to the conclusion that Frusciante wrote these lyrics while being abducted by aliens. rrusciante tries too hard not to be cheesy and just ends up mak­ing non-sensical trash. 
Frusciante should be com­mended for his ambition, and he does show off an ability to layer various keyboards on top of his guitars. 
However, his aptitude with the other instruments is masked by weak song structures and bacJ instrument placnnwnt. ;\ poorly inserted instrument track can kill a song, no matter how strong tlw actual composition is. The only song that really leaps off the disr as a success is the instrumental "Murderers," whose tracks blend into a harmonious mix which allows the ear to actually conrn free. 
At least there arc some pop/rock artists trying something new. Frusciante coinpletcly sepa­rates himsell' from the funk genre, but he just can't !ind suc­cess. The guitars arc disappoint­ing, the lyrical content is weak, and the song structures arc dis­jointed. John Frusciante shouldn't quit his day job just yet. 

cctne C 
Tuesday, February 27, 2001 
page 13 

Music FEATURE 
Pearl Jam releases American tour bootlegs 
music. However, many

By EMMETT MALLOY 
concert recordings,

Scene Music Critic 
some of which were marred by poor soundBootlegs are as old as rock music itself. quality, were still pop­
Whether in the form of an audience ping up in stores and on concert recording or a leaked studio tape, Internet sites for ridicu­these unauthorized and not-quite-legal lous sums of money. recordings have been and continue to be A band known for tak­an indispensable force in the music indus­ing a stand -the try. Buried in the vaults for over 30 years, Ticketmaster boycott, its rock's greatest and most important live refusal to make videos recording existed only as a bootleg: Bob -Pearl Jam decided to Dylan's 1966 performance at the Royal take the matter into its Albert Hall. The bootleg not only docu­own hands and beat mented Dylan's momentous yet controver­bootleggers at their own sial transition from folk to rock -the audi­game. ence can clearly be heard expressing their In a move never before disgust -but it also propelled Dylan to his attempted, the band prominent place in history. decided to release every 
Recognizing bootlegs as a means for fans show in its entirety from to capture the experience of its shows. the the 2000 European and Grateful Dead set a precedent by allowing American tour. a grand fans to tape and even trade Dead concert total of 72 different live recordings. Although such a move might albums. Mastered by the have cut into the group's album sales, it band's sound-crew, each built an amazingly close relationship performance comes as a between the group and its followers. double disc set, and the Spanning over generations of fans, album case comes with extremely minimal the first band to debut five albums simulta­es Vedder's poignant vocals "ith extended Deadheads spread the message and the artwork -the venue, the date and the set­neously on the Billboard Top 200, even solos that are equally as passionate. 

music of the band through thousands upon thousands of concert tapes, and even after the band·s breakup in 1995, Dead tapes con­tinue to be trad­ed at a fervent rate. 
Following in the footsteps of the Dead, Pearl Jam, the only band still stand­ing intact from the Seattle "grunge" explo­sion, has encour­aged the taping and distribution of its concerts, as long as a profit was not being made. Avid col­lectors of bootlegs them­selves, the band members hoped that the move would make its 

~-(~ Las Vegas, Oct. 22, 2000 In an emotionally charged performance, the band celebrates the tenth anniversary of its first show ­
-.iSeattle, Nov. 6, 2000 Vegas style. In the final show of the tour, Pearl Jam saves the best for last, treating the hometown crowd to almost three hours of continuous music. Highlights include the first and only performance of 'Alive· since the tragic Roskilde incident. 
• Chicago, Oct. 9, 2000 Returning to his Midwestern roots, Vedder treats the Windy City to an intense yet intimate performance. The setlist is well balanced, but it is Vedder's rant about the upcoming election that has the crowd roaring. 
~ Memphis, Aug. 15, 2000 
· ~ In honor of the King, the band surprises the crowd with a punk version of Elvis Presley's •can't Help Falling In Love." An energetic perfoITT1ance featuring both the standards and some rarities ("Footsteps"). 
t't Boston, Aug. 29, 2000 
Always a favorite city of theirs to play, the band members offer a set weighing heavily towards Binaural. Highlights include Vedder's solo performance of Stevie Van Zandt's "Patriot" 
~ Noteworthy 
-Philadelphia, Sept 1, 2000 -Pittsburgh, Sept 5, 2000 -Milwaukee, Oct. 8, 2000 -San Francisco, Oct. 31, 2000 
-Emmett Malloy 

list are the only  more astonishing considering the little  Newer material from the band's latest  
things printed on  amount of promotion for the European  album. Binaural, also reveals how con­ 
the sleeve.  bootlegs. Due to the public's positive  strictive the confines of the studio are on  
However, the  response and its insatiated demand for  the band. Only in a live environment can  
band's attempt  more, the band went ahead with releasing  such songs like the poetic "Thin Air" and  
at reducing costs  both legs of the summer-fall American  the chilling "Nothing As It Seems" be allot­ 
allows it to offer  tour. Whether the band worked out some  ted the necessary room to develop and  
the "official  of its quirks while in Europe or because  grow.  
bootlegs," com­ they were glad to be back in the good old  After listening to the bootlegs, one ha.s to  
pletely unedited,  US of A. there is not a single bad show  wonder whether Pearl Jam should test  
at a bargain  among the American bootleg set.  new material live before recording an  
price of around  Where 1998's Live On Two Legs fell  album. Every live performance of a song  
$12.  apart (which was more of a greatest hits  blows its studio counterpart away. Though  
While even the  album than a live album). the American  the band's recent work reflects a more  
most avid Pearl  bootlegs comes in, demonsi.rating that the  pensive and earnest side, Pearl Jam has  
Jam fan may be  band's unbridled· energy stems from its live  not lost its ferocious edge. With former  
a bit over­ shows, not its studio work. Although the  Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron in  
whelmed by the  days of Eddie Vedder climbing stage tow­ the seat, Pearl Jam can still tackle the  
immense bulk of  ers and plunging into the crowd are long  striking dynamics and the fearless force of  
material, no  gone. the band now focuses on giving its  its catalogue. From Vs.'s propulsive "Go"  
show is alike.  music the space to breathe and expand,  to Yield's egoistic "Do The Evolution" to  
Nevertheless,  which allows even its most well-known  the ever-present and explosive "Corduroy"  
every perfor­ material to explore new territory.  from Vitalogy, the band steps up the pace  
mance is marked  Despite lacking some of the angst and  and refuses to look back. Even on such  
by the sheer live  vigor associated with the band's earlier  covers as Neil Young's "Rocldn' in the Free  
energy and pas- days, Pearl Jam's mature approach to stal­ World" and The Who's "Baba O'Riley,"  
sion that is  wart classics like "Jeremy" and "Evenflow"  Pearl Jam delivers rock standards in such  
responsible for  continues to reach new levels of passion  a manner that honor the originals while  
Pearl Jam being  and intensity. On the bittersweet "Black," a  adding its own unique twist.  
one of the best  frequent closer of the first set, Vedder  As easily as Pearl Jam can push itself to  
live acts to  stands back and lets his band-mates. par­ the breaking points of musical chaos, it can  
emerge from the  ticularly lead guitarist Mike McCready.  also surround itself in the quieter moments  
past decade.  draw upon the emotion he stirs up in the  of ballads like "Wishlist'' and the crowd  

concert recordings easily accessible to any­ Released last September, the European  song's dramatic conclusion. McCready,  favorite, "Elderly Woman  Behind A  
one. Plus it would deter professional boot­leggers from making money off their  bootlegs proved to be a major success among fans and critics. Pearl Jam became  who often challenges Vedder for the spot­light with his amazing guitar work, match- Counter In A Small Town." The bootleg performances of such mellow pieces high­ 
light the close relationship between the  
Photo courtesy ol JOE MILFORD Proving once again that it will go to the limits for its fans, Pearl Jam, seen here at a perfonnance in Indianapolis on Aug. 18,  quality live recordings. Hopefully, other bands will follow this model and realize  
2000, is now taking on illegal bootlegers by beating them at their own game and releasing its own bootleg albums.  that fans come first. not profit.  


CLUB SPORTS 
Irish gy01nasts bring victory fro01 Big Red Invitational 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame gymnastics club returned victorious from the Big Red Invitational at Indiana this past weekend. In an unusual scoring system, in which men's and women's scores are totaled to crown one champion. the Irish dominated. as the men's score of 136.8 and the women's 126.05 combined for a first place total of 262.85, 30 points better than their nearest competitor. The field included Indiana. Purdue, Ohio State, IHinois, Miami, Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois. 
Top performers for the women included Erin Henry, who placed third on the vault 
(9.1 ), eighth on the uneven bars (8.15), second on the floor 
(8. 7) and third all-around (32.85.) The standout perfor­mance for the meet belonged to Emily Smith, who captured first on the floor (9.3). third on the uneven bars (8.35). fourth on 
ThoIDpson 
continued from page 24 
exception of Pete Ryan. the other three of us -myself, Dennis Abdelnour, and Brian Hobbins ­have yet to win a championship," he said. "So there's pressure on the junior cap­tains to be second the balance beam (8.6) and claimed first all-around (35.45). Smith also placed fourth on the high bar, as men and women were allowed to compete in each other's events. 
The men were again paced by Micky McGarry, who placed second in the all-around (4 7. 7), with a first on the floor (9.1), fourth on the pommel horse (7.7). fifth on the rings (7.0). 2nd on the Vault (9.2) 5th on the Parallel Bars (8.0), and 5th on the High Bar (6.7). Captain Jason Miller continues to rebound from surgery. as he claimed fifth on the Qoor (8.5), third on the vault (9.0), eighth on the parallel bars (7.8) sec­ond on the high bar (7.8) and eighth all-around (38.9). 
The Irish will next compete in their own invitational. the Clover Classic, March 24 at Gymnastics Michiana. 
Ultimate 
The Ultimate club's annual trek to the Mardi Gras Invitational was a coming out for the women's squad and some valuable game experi­ence for the men. 

Behind the exceptional layout defense of Mia Stephen and Rachel Kelly. some very strong catches by Julie Schutte and Vinita Ollopally and Allison Hodrick's knack for making timely big plays on offense, the club opened with wins against Washington, 13-0; Texas, 13-4; and Georgia Tech, 13-5, before dropping a tough game to club power, Sneetch. 4-2. 
This propelled the club into Sunday's showdown with Iowa, where a strong comeback fell short as the Irish closed the tournament with a 6-5 loss. 
The inexperience of the men's squad was too much to overcome against this calibre of competition, as the club lost to Georgia, Ohio State, Delaware. Colorado and Emory. The Irish rallied to win their closing match against 
time champions. "If I don't get througha takes nothing pressure on Pete nd win the championship away from my 
Ryan to for his experience. It's so
this year. that takes 

fourth champi­fulfilling to know 
onship, and pres­nothing away from my what you are sure on the other experience. ,. doing, and to help senior captains others," Thompson because they've said. "You just get
Josh Thompson

never won this feeling inside 
Thompson said. 

Certainly a Bengal Bouts title would he the icing on the cake for a fighter who has contributed so much to the boxing tourney in his four years at Notre Dame. Yet, at the same time. Thompson under­stands the greater cause for which he and his teammates train and fight with such devotion. 
"If I don't get through and win 
the championship 
this year, that 
before." 
Perhaps this pressure is no more evident than in Thompson's nickname, "ReDemon" which serves as an extra reminder. 
"I think that's a little motivation for myself. just wanting some redemption from the past three years, not being able to make it to the end of the line. It's a little extra kick for myself to get in there and fight as hard a I can," 
like 'Wow, this is 
amazing' -the sacrifices we're going through in practice aren't. that bad, you're with a team, you're enjoying your­self, are saving people's lives and making other people's lives better. If you're able to do school, and you're able to do the Bouts and you're able to pull through on top of everything else, you can do almost anything, and you're on a path to be real successful." 
Minnesota. 
The club will next compete over Spring Break at the Stanford Invitational. 
Men's Volleyball 

Playing before a spillover raucous crowd in the Pit last Thursday, the men's volleyball club dropped a thrilling five game match to Western Michigan. Momentum swung first to the Broncos, as they captured the first game. However, buoyed by a boister­ous crowd, the Irish stormed hack to take the next two games, behind the play of Jon Skokes. with several saves from the back row and outside hitter Brian Price. Western Michigan fought back to claim the fourth game. setting the stage for the decisive fifth game. 
In a see-saw battle. the Irish fell short, 15-13. The team record now stands at 15 -12. and the club will next take the courts at the MIVA champi­onships March 31. 

Women's Water Polo 
The women's water polo club .dropped three of five matches this weekend at Purdue. 
In opening matches, the club lost for the first time this sea­son to Purdue. 11-7. and Illinois, 10-8. two teams that the Irish had defeated twice each earlier in the season. 
The club refused to let this disappointment deter them as the Irish then throttled Northwestern 10-4 and played very well in a bitter loss to Miami. 9-7. In the finale, the Irish pinned Ohio State with its only loss of the weekend. 9 -8. 
The Irish will next compete over Spring Break in a marathon 10 match trip to Palo Alto to face traditional West coast powers. The opponents will include Pacific, a nationally ranked varsity program, as well as Cal-Davis, San Jose State, Cal-Poly and St. Mary's among others. 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame defeats Penn State in season opener 
Special tot he Observer 

The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team opened its season today with a 10-8 vic­tory over the Penn State Nittany Lions. Heading into the season, Notre Dame was ranked 11th, while Penn State held the 18th spot. 
Senior attack Tom Glatzel scored the last five Irish goals after adding an assist in the first period. He had a hat trick in the third quarter. Eric Wood led Penn State with five goals. 
At the end of the first quarter, the score was tied 3-3. Penn State's Wood scored first with 10:01 remaining and then twice more before the quarter was finished. 
John Flandina opened the scoring for the Irish with 7:35 remaining in the half. Senior midfielder Todd Ulrich's man-up goal brought the Irish within one at 3-2 before David Ulrich scored the last goal of the quarter. 
Sixteen seconds into the second period, senior middie Chris Young started the scoring for the Irish on another man-up goal. Jon Harvey scored again for Notre Dame, before Wood answered for the Lions, bringing the score to 5-4 at the half. 
Both teams emerged from halftime on a mission. Penn State opened the half with three consecutive goals, putting the Irish down 7-5. The Irish responded with three Glatzel goals in less than 3:30. Flandina added an assist on Glatzel's second score. 
After allowing another Penn State goal to tie the game at 8-8, the Irish reassert­ed their dominance. David Ulrich assisted on the fourth Glatzel goal of the after­noon with 9:53 left in the game, putting the Irish up for good. 
Glatzel brought the score to 10-8 with 
3:57 remaining, sealing the victory for the Irish 
The win brings Notre Dame's season record to 1-0 and drops Penn State to 0­
1. The Irish resume action at 1 p.m. in Columbus against Ohio State. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER HELP NEEDED ­ Reward Available ­ PHONE CARDS  Graduate Fellowships in Cell and  
TEACHER ASSISTANTS  Lost Class Ring :  2 Houses, side by side, still avail.  $20:  Molecular Physiology  
TICKETS  The Early Childhood Development Center at the University of Notre  Blue Stone with Small ND; dark finish with '01 inside;  For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V­ 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE  Full time Ph.D. student research tel­lowships are available in the Cell  
Need 1 ticket to Men's b-ball game on Mar. 4 for dad. Call carolyn 4­2346  Dame is looking for college stu­dents who enjoy young children.  Cali Todd at 246-9085 SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED:  ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947 Greg  or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES  and Molecular Physiology Graduate Program of Loyola University Chicago. Reasearch areas include  
-.~­ Wanted 2 Tix lor Georgetown game on Sunday 3/4. Call Kim @ 631 • 5878 WANTED Reliable, quality childcare needed in my home for 2-year-old and infant. Part-time hours are 2·3 hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1 Saturday a month. Majoring in early childhood development or child• hood education with own trans­portation a plus but not necessary. References required . Phone -288-6795  If you would be interested in spend­ing the summer. June 7-August 3 ­40 hours per week, assisting the children and teachers on field trips, reading children's books, building with blocks, singing songs, playing games and assisting with lunch, please call 631-3344 lo receive an application and more information. FUN IN THE SUNII Ex ND staffer and spouse want to rent your apt. for summer. Non­smokers no pets. Have rented from students for past 12 summers. Write 135 Lakeview Dr. Mulberry FL  For a lost gold and silver bracelet with alternating silver and gold blocks. il found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email phillips 75@nd.,ed.u FOR RENT 3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001/02&summer 272­6306. All the good homes are not ognel Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291 ·2209 Ma!:QS ~ rnii:b ia.oaJ2IQ  FOR SALE $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$ Earn $15·$125 and more per sur· veyl 'fill.'!/. !lJQll!l)'.4Qi;li0iQD~ QQ[D 2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298-3800. New Townhouse in OThe Forest6 2 story 2.5 bath Study Hardwood floors Skylights Deck French doors Alarm  634-1146 CLAUDIA 634•4210 SARA Wooded 1 /2 acre lots 20 minutes to Noire Dame Football. Minutes to US Goll Acadei:ny. Contract avail­able. $20,000 Phone (219)473• 0191 PERSONAL Good luck on your comp Amy! Megan -guess what -we are done!II Piglet, Eeyore, and Tigger -hope  ion channel molecular biology; bio· physics and biochemistry, cardiac electrophysiology, calcium dynam­ics and excitationcontraction cou­piing, signal transduction, neuro­physiology, and neral and immune components of trauma and injury biology. Applications are sought from individuals motivated to become biomedical research scien­lists See our web page at mY'.!Yllli:l.1d.ean...iw1...e.ci.uLi.um.en/Pe.'1.t lei!l.b.s/.s;l.WS.lQ or contact Dr Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood IL 60153 Telephone (708) 327-2470, e-mail  
Make $5500 In summer &/or start now. Set own hours ­need hard work & good social skills. Call 4­2765,  33860 863-425-4402 LOST AND FOUND  3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com  $179,000 243-2939 Microwave stand w/ storage $175 Gall Kim 631-5878  your Tuesday is wonderful. The two most beautiful girls at SMC should have a great day  ljj~.Loyola University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.  

·-·----i 
.., 
FENCING 

Irish -win combined Conference title 
The men swept all three indi­
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
vidual titles on Sunday after-
Sports Writer 
noon but the absence of 2000 NCAA sabre champion Gabor 

The Notre Dame fencing Szelle missed Sunday's compe­teams captured the combined tition with a thumb injury. His Midwest Conference Fencing status for the NCM Regionals Championship this weekend. in two weeks or the NCAA easily defeating their closest championships in a month. competitor, Northwestern, 870-"He said that he got hurt," 
755. Crompton said. "There is some­
The men's team captured all thing wrong with his thumb. I three squad titles to win the don't know if he is going to be team title Saturday as well as OK. He said after the meet that sweeping the individual match­he didn't know if he was going es on Sunday. The women fin­to be OK [for the Regionals]." ished second overall to Even without Szelle the Irish Northwestern and failed to win still took the top two spots in an individual title. sabre. Crompton defeated top­
"On the men's side, L think ranked Jakub Krochmalski of 
we definitely  w·ayne State  
fenced up to  "Taking first and second  in the semifi­ 
our poten­tial." sabre­man Andre  in every weapon was definitely a plus. That  nals before upsetting his second­ 
Crompton  was what we deserved. "  ranked team­ 
said. "Taking  mate Andrezj  
first and sec­ Bednarski in  
ond in every  Andre Crompton  the finals.  
weapon was  sabreman  Crompton  
definitely  a  has  never  
plus.  That  qualified for  

was what we deserved. On the NCAAs before but with his per­women's side, I don't know if formance this weekend and the women are fencing up to Szelle's injury, he could win the their potential." Region in two weeks and quali­
The epee squad was the only fy for the Championships. women's squad to win a team "I think it definitely gives me title. The Irish avenged their a lot more confidence than last third place finish last year by year," Crompton said about his defeating Wayne State in the victory. finals. Wayne State knocked Brian Casas also pulled off an Notre Dame out in the semifi­unlikely win in epee. The junior nals last year. has struggled since the 2000 
The women's sabre squad NCAA Championships but nearly won the Midwest Sabre fenced strong this weekend and title but Northwestern rallied defeated top-ranked teammate from a 4-3 deficit to win 5-4. Jan Viviani in the finals. 15-14. 
Northwestern also won the "I think we are definitely foil title to edge the Irish 425-fencing our best," Crompton 420 for the women's title. said. "Brian Casas had a rough 
"We know we are good year but he stepped it up and fencers and we know we are won the Midwest capable of winning. We just Championship." have to go out and do it," Ozren Debic repeated as epeeist Meagan Call said. "We Midwest Conference foil cham­were a little disappointed but I pion with a 15-8 win against think we can fence better than teammate Forest Walton. we did fence and I think we Walton finished second to will in the future." Debic last year as well. 
THE DISPROPORTIONATE APPLICATION OF THE 
DEATH PENALTY ON AFRICAN AMERICANS 
A Panel Discussion 
Are African-Americans more Iilcely to receive the Death Penalty? 
12% of the total United States population is African-AlncricAn, bu.L,. 
• 
43% of Death Row UUilb.tc:5 ar:::: A,.'rican--Amer!!'..an :, 36% of execut:-d iruna.tes in the US have been African-American 

• 
83% of capital crimes Case$ Ulvolve white victims (even though 50% of all muTders victims in the US are white) 


Why? How? What can be done to cure the problem? 
Tuesday, February 27, 2001 at7pm. in the Law School Courtroom 
Panelists Speedy Rice -Gonzaga University Richard Kammen -Indiana Capital Litigator Richard Garnett -Notre Dame Law School Joseph Bauer -Notre Dame Law School (tentative) Representative -St. Joseph Prosecutor's Office 
Sponsomd by 
Black Law Sludmt• Asso<iahon; Notrl! Dame -ACLU The Notr, Dnm, CD41iHon to Abolish th, Denth Penalty -A B/.Qck Hi5to,y Month Evenr•• 
JUGGLING ,A_ AFAMILY AND MEDICNE T FROM A FEMALE PERSPECTIVE 
COME LISTEN TO FIVE FEMALE DOCTORS TALK ABOUT THEIR PATH TO SUCCESS AND HOW THEY MADE TIME FOR BOTH FAMILY AND MEDICINE 
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27 AT7:00PM IN THE CSC -ROOM 124 

FEATURING: DR. ETTA NEV AL (OB/GYN) DR. HOLLY HARRIS (DERMATOLOGIST) DR. MADELINE LEWIS (FAMILY PRACTICE) DR. REBECCA NOSKIVINSKI (ND HEATLH) DR. ELLYN STECKER (FAMILY PRACTICE) 
SPONSORED BY TIIE OFFICE OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES ALPP AND TIIE MEDICAL EXPLORERS CLUB , 
FREE ONLINE CLASSIFIEDS! 
OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



IllEISTTIIR•EII 
Student booklets on sale 
Feb. 27 & 28 

Gate l (2nd Floor) Joyce Center 9am -5pm $40/booklet (Only 100 bookiets avaiiabiej 
Must show ID -6 ID's per student 
Pick up booklets at Madison Square Garden Refunds will be given if ND doesn't advance 
,..... 

Freshman upsets defending 135-pound champion 
Steinbach survives bloody fight to move to semifinals in 130 -lbs. 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spom Wrirer 
Though he looked very much the worse for wear, senior boxer Tom "Gun" Steinbach was as pleased as can be Munday night after his quarterfinal bout with Brian "The Boxer Hcbellion" Kenney. 
Badly bloodied by a bar­rage of' Kenney connec­tions, Steinbach was forced to retreat no less than three times to his cor­ner for treatment. That, however did not prevent the southpaw from mount­ing a third round charge. 
Battling Kenny's superi­or reach. Steinbach took his wares inside in a fero­cious third round duel that proved the difference in what would be a split deci­sion. 
"I'd sparred him before," Steinbach said. "I just tried to lead with my right and follow up with my left." 
I. 
The second bout of the I evening proved equally
I dramatic. Derrick Bravo, who was not even sup­posed to light due to a foot injury, defeated Coleman Lechner in a fight that was ended by the referee just 29 seconds into the second round. 
"I didn't think I was going to go,"Bravo said. "But my roommate was like 'You've worked this whole time. You have to go."' 
Bravo said he tried to ignore his foot injury. 
"I tried to stay off it at first,"Bravo said. "But I really didn't think about it too much." 
135 pounds 
Tony Hollowell believed he had a shot all along and it turns out he was right. 
In the night's biggest upset, Hollowell, a fresh­man. stunned defending champion senior Matt Fumagalli. 
"He was the favorite," 1-!ollowell said. "But I never go into a light think­ing I'm going to lose. I busted my butt and gained confidence early." 
He cails himself "The Quiet Man" but Ryan Duffey was anything but, scoring a technical knock­out loud and clear a mere 25 seconds into the second round of his bout with Guillermo Tijerina. 
A patient Duffey let his opponent come to him before striking. 
"I felt good in there," said the Sorin College sophomore of his first ever bout. "I figured I'd let him come to me and get tired. Then I'd attack and get in a lot of shots." 
Early on, Duffey blasted Tijerina with a shot to the chin that drew blood prompting the official to end the fight. 
Sophomo·re Joshua Coleman followed up Duffcy's impressive show­ing with a big win over Justin Pendarvis. The speedy Coleman landed a barrage of f1urries, notch­ing a unanimous decision victory. 
Jason McMahon. a junior from Morrissey Manor. rounded out the weight class' action with a hard­fought victory over Christopher Cardillo. 
145 pounds 
Michael "Mad Man" Waldo performed brilliant­ly, serving notice that he is indeed a force to be reck­oned with, as he scored a unanimous decision over Daniel Gonzalez. 
Meanwhile, in perhaps the night's most entertain­ing duel. Andrew "The Golden Arms'" Harms nar­rowly outlasted a very game Anthony D'Agostino. 
After scoring a first round knockdown, Harms thought the fight was in hand. but D'Agostino ral­lied in the third with a last gasp flurry that brought the house to its feet. 
"He fought hard.'' Harms said. "You have to give him a ton of credit. I thought it was the best fight of the Bouts so far." 
D'Agostino concurred. 
"He's a tough kid," the 
loser of the split-decision 
said. "It was a great fight." 
The fight was so great, 
perhaps because both 
brawlers knew precisely 
how to counteract each 
other's style. 
"lie came at me on the 
outside," Harms said. "I 
just tried to get him on the 
inside. It was a good tacti­
cal fight." · 
Jeman "Swiff-T" Tisby 
provided a worthy encore 
in winning another tacti­
cally superior bout over 
Eric Eddy. 
"It was a good, clean 
light.'' Tisby said. "I think 
my technique was a little 
better, but both of us were 
able to get in and get out. 
There were some good 
exchanges." 
Tisby's tactical abilities 
help set up his devastating 
overhand right, an unex­
pected blow. 
"That's not one of the 
punches we work on in 
practice," said Tisby. "It's 
definitely a surprise." 
Upstart first-year boxer 
Jason Voss continued his 
rise through the ranks as 
he scored a relatively easy 
decision over Anton "Ton 
of Bricks Poundin' Down 
on Yo Face" Kemps. 


Freshman Tony Hollwell (right) upset senior defending champion Matt Fumagalli (left) In the 135 lb. division Monday night. 
Nowak knocks out "Polish tank" in round two of 155 pound quarterfinals 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Spores Writer 
The first fight of the weight class would prove to be one­sided. as Chris "Shezzy" Matassa pounded Julian "Bel Biv" Devoe until referee Tom Suddes stopped the fight at the one minute mark in the third. 
In the first round, it was all Matassa as the junior utilized his superior reach and previous experience to confidently land punches. 
"My reach was definitely an advantage for my jab," said Matassa. "Throwing combina­
tions  was  important for  me,  
especially  landing  the  last  
punch."  

The fight had to be stopped twice in the second round to control Devoe's bleeding. and though he pleaded to Suddes to continue the fight in the third, Matassa was awarded victory. 
"If they stop a fight they prob­ably had a good reason," Matassa said. "They're good about that." 
A furious combination thrown by Tucker "The Wicked Bad Bostonian" McGree might have won his bout against Luke "Desperado" Busam. The split decision awarded to McGree reflected a tight contest that saw neither fighter gaining the upper hand. 
Busam's larger reach keep McGree away in the first round. but McGree was able to get inside to land quality blows in the second. 
The third round saw even exchanges until the final 10 sec­onds to the bell. where McGree delivered a head-snapping com­bination to Busam and may have swayed this judges his way. 
155 pounds 
A couple of future lawyers duked it out in the first match of the 160s when Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak battled Joe "The Polish Tank" Czerniawski. The first round looked more like the WWF than Bengal Bouts as Czneriawski was warned for shoving and much extraneous body contact occurred. 
The second round was equally violent as Nowak floored Czneriawski in spectacular fash­ion, with Czneriawski almost horizontal before he hit the mat. 
That knockdown caused the referee to end the bout 22 sec­onds into the second round. 
Czneriawski 
clearly disagreed 
"My reach was de.finitely 
Gennaro sion, pointing out an advantage for my jab. attacked, and 
landed several with the deci­

he did not Throwing combinations 
receive a stand­stunning com­
was important to me.
ing eight count binations that 
prior to the fight especially landing the could be heard in the
stoppage. last punch." 
"It's disap-cheap seats. pointing to end Mostly.
Chris Matassa
my career like Abdelnour that, but the 150 lb. winner was effective 
Bengal Bouts have done so much for me and I really enjoyed the program," said Czut:1 ia.w:ski. 
Stephen "The Natural Lightweight" Keppel and Tom "Frenchman" Pierce stepped into the ring in an Alumni Hall civil war. The two fought evenly throughout the fight. both land­ing solid punches and withstand­ing attacks from each other. In the end, Pierce escaped with a split-decision win. 
160 pounds 
Boxing captain Dennis "Thursday Night" Abdelnour made his 2001 Bengal Bouts debut in dramatic fashion, 
thrashing Vince "The Italian Meatball" Gennaro in a unani­mous decision. 
Abdelnour might have been too fired up for his match, as he slipped and fell 10 seconds into the first round. The referee began to count, but quickly stopped when Abdelnour pointed out he had slipped. 
"I was mad that I went right out there and fell right on my ass," said Abdelnour. 
H_e quickly recovered. Abdelnour delivered blow after blow to Gennaro's head and body, securing two standing eight counts on Gennaro in the final round. He effectively counter• punched when 
in sending a 
message that 

he is the man to beat in the 160 pound divi­sion. 
"I wanted to take it to him," said Abdelnour. "I wanted to land four combinations. and I think I moved my head really well and saw everything." 
The second seed in the division behind Abdelnour, Travis "Posse" Alexander, faced a more difficult foe in Jeff "He Re" Ream. Alexander out boxed Ream consistently, but never could land any debilitating blows to Ream. 
In the final round Alexander pounded Ream's body on his way to a unanimous decision. 
Tuesday, February 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Fighters complete quarterfinals, look to semifinals 
. Myers, Kitalong, Macias win in 165-pound class 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Justin Myers had a memorable Thursday night. 
Virst, the freshman from Morrissey defeated Tim McCurdy in the preliminaries of the 165­pound weight class. Then, follow­ing Lhe fight, former champion • and fellow Manorite Edward Hernandez offered to be in Myers's corner for his quarterfi­nal round bout. 
Last night, the expertise helped, as Myers beat Brian Berg by a split decision and advanced to Wednesday's semifinals. 
"Edward's a professional." Mvers said of Ilernandez, who. won the title in 1999 but was told last year that he could not fight again in the Bengal Bouts. "He comes in and calms you down. He told me a lot of strategy. He was telling me to go in there and throw a combo and then if I wasn't going to throw a punch, (Hernandez told me) not even to get near him. He knows his stuff." 
Myers deserves most of the credit, however, for his victory. Myers began the fight with an aggressive flurry of punches and backed Berg in the corner on sev­eral occasions in the first two rounds. Berg came back in the third but Myers continued to move around and dictate the tempo. 
"He got a lot of nice, straight shots to my face," Myers said. "He was throwing well. But when I charged him, he really couldn't do anything. I was landing five or six punches (at a time). Ihad a lot of strategy but it didn't end up mattering because he didn't move around a lot. It was more like 1 could overpower him." 
On Wednesday night, Myers will face ofT against senior captain Brian Hobbins. Hobbins, the only fighter in his weight class to receive a bye, opened up his final Bengal Bouts with a unanimous decision win over freshman Patrick Dillon. 
It was a long time coming. Hobbins spent the weekend alone in his apartment, as three of his roommates went to Mardi Gras and the fourth went home to Chicago. 
"It was kind of rough because they're usually around to shoot the bull with," Hobbins said. "It was like a true fighter's camp this weekend." 
Maybe the time alone actually helped the senior, as Hobbins dominated the bout from the beginning. Dillon hung in but could not mount much offense. 
"I felt real good," Hobbins said. "The main part was just getting the jitters out." 
Junior Christopher Kitalong and 32-year old MBA student Thomas Macias also won their bouts last night, both by unani­mous decision. Kitalong knocked down his opponent, Billy McMurtrie, in the third round. When the fight msumed, Kitalong continued to be the aggressor and landed a few punches in the cor­ner moments before the final bell was rung. 
Macias flustered sophomore Clay Cosse with several combina­tions. Midway through the first round, Cosse lost his contact then his mouthpiece flew onto the can­vas. ln the third round, Cosse's mouthpiece fell out again and Macias continued his dominance. 
The action resumes on Wednesday with Hobbins and Myers squaring off in the first of the two semifinal fights. 
"Justin likes to get wild, likes to get in nice and close," Hobbins said. "He's looking good. He's real active but real wild. It'll be a mat­ter ofsticking and moving." 
Myers first Bengal Bouts may come to an end tomorrow. But the memories will last. 
"I was pretty surprised when I won the first time," Myers said. "I didn't really think I knew any­thing. So I'm just really excited I got hero. It's a huge thrill." 
175 pounds 
In the weeks prior to the Bengal Bouts, due to a limited number of participants, the cap­tains decided to merge the 170, 175 and 180 weight-classes. Thus. all the fighters from 170 to 182 pounds are competing in the 175-pound division. 
"I'll probably catch slack for this but it's the strongest weight class in the whole tournament," junior captain Mark Criniti said. "I think any of the captains would tell you that." 
Many of the fans at last night's fights would also agree. Criniti and the three other victors all turned in dominating perfor­mances. Criniti, a lefthander and the defending champion in the 180-pound class, advanced to the semifinals with a victory over Brian Colville. The referee stopped the fight 58 seconds into the second round after Colville had two standing eight-counts. 
"I had a lot of good movement tonight, low to high," Criniti said. "I was working on the body, working on the head. It's hard to defend when you're changing planes so well and you're moving well. I feel like I'm fighting the best I've fought in the three years I've been here." 
Sophomore John Lynk, who recorded a unanimous decision victory over Dan Schaeffer, will face Criniti on Wednesday night. Lynk controlled last night's fight and Schaeffer received a standing eight-count right before the end of the match. 
"John's in incredible shape," Criniti said. "The kid's a brick. He's the type of guy that could hit you twice and you could open your eyes ten seconds later and you're out of the ring." 
The other semifinal will pit Rob Joyce against Keith Arnold. Joyce, the defending champion in the 185-pound division, won by a unanimous decision over Matt Padilla while Arnold beat Nathan Scheid. 
From the opening bell, Arnold landed several punches and may have recorded the most dominat­ing performance ofall the boxers in his weight class. With 28 sec­onds remaining in the first round, the referee stopped the contest after Scheid received his third standing eight-count. 
"That's how we planned it out -Rob, myself, John and Keith," Criniti said. "Just four tough guys that like to get in the ring. We want to give the people a good show. And I think our weight class is definitely holding our part ofthe bargain in showing the fans some good fights." 

round, and though Pearsall had upper cuts. Blue got some hard
. Thompson 
a few dead-on jabs, Goulet won triple jabs in the second round,dominates in 185 -in a split decision. but it was Deda's aggressive 'Tm really looking forward to endurance that put Kennedy
pound division 
fighting Josh [Thompson] next away in the third. time," Goulet said. Mike "Haging Bull"
By KATIE HUGHES 
In another unanimous deci­Vanderpoel also won in a unan­
Spom Writer 
sion, Scott "The Dark Horse" imous decision over Stefan Duba won over John "You Want Borovina. Vanderpoel's second
Co-captain Josh "The 
Some" Moore. Both boxers went round right hooks forced
ReDemon" Thompson set the 
back and forth with one-two Borovina all over the ring.
tone for the 185-pmmd division, 
jabs in the second round, fol­Vanderpoel finished the job
bringing a combination of expe­
lowed by Duba's reaching with some dead-on one-two jabs
rienced control and aggression 
hooks. Duba still had a lot left in the third round. 
to the ring in a unanimous vic­
for the third round, sending off
tory. 
a set of jabs

Thompson's Heavyweight
that Moore

decisive hooks 'Tm really looking One strong left and 21 sec­
couldn't

put John "The forward to fighting Josh onds of the first round was all it 
answer.

Caveman" took for Steven "Lefty Guns"
[Thompson] next time." Stephen
Caver in a Pratico to defeat Andrew
"The Angry

defensive posi* "McGoo" McGuire. 
Pirate"

tion right Eric Goulet "I guess I would have liked to
Pfeiffer won

a w a y . have had to work for a bit,"
185-pound winner over Chris
Thompson's ·Pratico said. "But there are 
Donovan in

left hook was some other hard hitters in the
the 185 pound division's third
solid through three rounds, heavyweight class. There will be 
unanimous decision. 
though Caver was able to some excellent fights on 
Pfeiffer found his rhythm in 

answer until the end with his Wednesday."
the second round with a few
O½njab combinations. Carlos "The Master" Abeyta
well executed right hooks.
Eric "Superfreak" Goulet won finished off the night with a split
Donovan was able to answer 
a fast paced fight over Chris decision win over Andrew "The 
with some uppercuts, but in the
"The Sweet Scientist" Pearsall, Irish Hammer" Dempsey.
third round Pfeiffer regained
forcing him from corner to cor­Dempsey's upper cuts and 
control. · 
hooks were evenly matched
ner. "I wasn't making a Jot of
"I would say my fighting style against Abeyta's wide hooks in 
three-fours, but my jabs kept
is 'Brawl,"' said Goulet. "Chris is the second round, but Abeyta's 
me in there. He stuck me a few 
a great puncher. We were just three jab combinations in the 
times," Pfeiffer said. 
exchanging throws the whole third dominated Dempsey's time." one-two jabs. Though both boxers fought light Heavyweight "Dempsey charged a lot. I felt for control early in the first Benjamin "No, You're like I had control in the last 
round, the second round was Schmoopie," Deda defeated Bob round, though he had control in 
defined by Pearsall's big hooks "Kennedy Kennedy" Kennedy in the first two," said Abeyta. "I 
and Goulet's wild jabs. Goulet a unanimous decision. The first think my style is more technical. 
forced Pearsall into the corner round was a battle of Deda's I'm not a charger, and I don't 
of the ring twice in the third wild hooks and Kennedy's like to throw blows." 

ENGAL BOUTS RESULTS 
for fights on Feb. 26 
130 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 135 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Tom Steinbach def. Brian Kenney Tony Hollowell def. Matt Fumagalli 
Derrick Bravo def. Coleman Lechner Ryan Duffey def. Guillermo Tijerina Joshua Coleman def. Russell Giancola Jason McMahon def. Christopher Cardillo 
145 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 150 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Michael Waldo def. Daniel Gonzalez Chris Matassa def. Julian DeVoe Andrew Harms def. Anthony D'Agostino Tom Owens def. John Nowak Jeman Tisby def. Eric Eddy Tucker McEree def. Luke Busam Jason Voss def. Anton Kemps Brock Heckmann def. Matt McDonald 
155 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 160 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS 
Sean Nowak def. Joseph Czerniowski Dennis Abdelnour def. Vince DeGennaro Tom Pierce def. Stephen Keppel Mike Melby def.Chris Pettit Paul Mehan def. Daniel McCoy Joe Smith def. Patrick Hobbins Jeff Dobosh def. Robert McColgan Travis Alexander def. Jeff Ream 
165 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS 175 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Rob Joyce def. Matt Padilla 
Brian Hobbins def. Patrick Dillon Keith Arnold def. Nathan Scheid 
Justin Myers def. Brian Berg Christopher Kitalong def. Billy McMurtrie John Lynk def. Dan Schaeffer Thomas Macias def. Clay Gosse Mark Criniti def. Brian Colville 
185 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS LIGHT HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS 
Ben Deda def. Bob Kennedy
Josh Thompson def. John Carver Eric Goulet def. Chris Pearsall Mike Vanderpoel def. Stefan Borovina Scott Duba def.John Moore Stephen Pfeiffer def. Chris Donovan 
HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS 

Steven Pratico def. Andrew McGuire Carlos Abeyta def. Andrew Dempsey 
"' 


LIZ LANG/The Observer 

Martin lnglesby, shown against Seton Hall, had eight points In the lrlsh loss to the Huskies, 75-59. 
Despite one sfress fradure, one torn bicep and typhoid fever, Perrone still busfs a move on his 21st. 
-3B 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 27, 2001 

double digits. Butler led his cent from the !fold -was its NCAA hopeful squad with 14, dominance on the glass, where
Bball 
Brown put up 11, Albert Mouring it outrcbounded the Irish 44­had 10. Selvio scorod 12 and 29. The edge on the boards
continued from page 24 
Wane managed a season-high helped the Huskies get some 13, mostly in the first half. fast break scoring, a problemshots. Notre Dame failed to score Murphy and Humphroy, who as the Irish !'ailed to get back 
the next time down the court, scored 15, had little help on the to guard.
and UConn took advantage with scoring end. The Huskies held "We've got to get better on a fast break. Suddenly a 64-53 Carroll to five points on 2-of'-9 transition defense," Brey said. UConn hold on the Irish turned shooting and Graves to eight "That was tho one thing I was 
into a 73-53 domination, denying while making 3-of-9. lngelsby displeased with. We did not Notre Dame a sixth straight road also scored eight. get back consistently on win. But beyond UConn's shooting def'cnsc."Thc Irish shot just :19 Five Huskies players linished in edge -the Huskies shot 49 per• percent from the field. 
Sugx)rt e.xistinJ prog.rarrs 
Cultivate srergrrg icrns 
Otnteffill7 initiative:>... 
¦ .wMI.......... ¦
:in tu:tor,ng amnsntor,ng 
::::--
Furxling Avai Jable 
Come to 1010 Flanner Hall on March 1 at 7:00 p.m. 

l 
I 
·-• II I I 
For more information please call 1-4447 or visit: http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/ 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Dasso becomes all-time winningest player in Irish win 

By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 

Another weekend gone by, another record for senior tennis all-American Michelle Dasso. 
The women ·s tennis team traveled to Kansas this weekend to take on Kansas State. BYU and Kansas. The sixth ranked women won all three contests and improved their record to 10-2. Along the way Dasso set another Notre Dame women's tennis record, becoming the all-time win­ningest player in both dou­bles and singles with a combined record of 214-72. The 10-2 team record for the Irish marks the best start since the 1995-96 sea­son when they went 17-2. 
"The biggest thing this season is the depth and experience we have," said coach Jay Louderback. "We have experience in the line­up from top to bottom." 
The Irish opened up with Kansas State on Friday and after winning the doubles point scraped by to defeat the 46th-ranked Wildcats 4­3. 
The Irish split the singles matches, with Dasso and Kimberly Guy losing in straight sets. 
"It was a very tough place to play," said Louderback. "We didn't get a chance to practice on their courts and the footing was awful and we didn't adjust too well. We did a good job winning the doubles, and still get­ting the win was big." 
The victory was clinched for the Irish by wins from the middle of the lineup as Becky Varn um, Nina Vaughan and Caylan Leslie all won in straight sets. 
On Saturday, the Irish took on 44th-ranked BYU and seemed to bounce back from the previous day's hard fought match as they went on to win the doubles point and sweep the singles matches winning 7-0. Varnum, who is 7-1 in her last eight singles matches, had the critical victory against Dominique . Reynolds 6-1, 6-4 at No. 2 singles. The Irish looked unstoppable, not dropping a set the entire match. 
"We had played so well the week before and after the tough Kansas State win we realized that every match we have to play real­ly hard, and that's what we did," said Louderback. 
Looking to end the week-. end undefeated the Irish went up against a tough Kansas team on their home court on Sunday. Keeping on track with their solid play. the Irish won 7-0 for the second day in a row without dropping u single set. The trail was blazed for the Irish after a third con­secutive doubles poinl was clinched with wins from No. 5 Dasso/Varnum, Cun~~Guy and Leslie/Vaughan, who all won 8-6. 
The key to tho Irish suc­cess has been their experi­ence and depth. Dasso loads the team in almost every category but there are some other very impor­tant players who have greatly contributnd to their 10-2 record. Orw of thosp players is Varnum who is 7­2 this season in dual match­es. 
"Becky Varnum started off slow this fall but has really come on thjs spring playing at the No. 2 spot for us," said Louderback. "Nina Vaughan has also stepped up to play at three. but Varnum's play at two has been tlw biggest di!Tnrnncp for us." 
The 10-2 Irish aro 011 a roll but will have their work cut out for them next Thursday as they take on 11th-ranked Northwcstorn. 
"It's going to be a grnat match," said coach Louderback, "They arc very strong at the top of their lineup but also vory deep." 

Ifyou were a Notre 
Dame professor, what would 

Speaker: Dr. Susan Ohmer 
Departtn.ent~f American Studies 
" ,, l 
:"G~:J,ng Ahead While Having a Life" 
11;~ 
f 
February 28, 7 pm .. , McGlinn 24-hour Lounge 
SPONSORED BY YOUR STUDENT UNION, MCGLINN HALL, & ALUMNI HALL Tuesday February 27, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
.... 

...,. 
FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 

COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 
Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. 
I 
ey.com/us/careers iJ./ ERNST& YOUNG -l 
1 
I 
j
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
©2001 faNol & YOUNG LLP 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish can clinch Big East with lVin against Pittsburgh 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assisrant Sporrs EJi tor 
Tonight, tlrn Irish can make history. 
A win in tho regular season linale at Pittsburgh tonight tics the Irish with Connecticut for the Big East regular season title -the first ever such title since Notre Dame joined the confer­ence. 
"f think we're really excited," said Irish center Huth Riley. "lt'!I be the first time for our program to win the Big Easi. !L's exciting for 
game. lier backcourt mate. Brooke Stewart, added 13. 
Following the Feb. 7 game, Irish coach Muffct McGraw was upset with her team's effort. 
"We just made so many mistakes, we played like freshmen out there," McGraw said after the game. 
The one bright spot in that game wac:; the play of Riley, who led all scorers with 29 points to go along with 12 rebounds in 33 minutes. Riley led a late offensive surge despite playing with 
three fouls. 


"I wasn't going to
the guys' and the "It'll be the first time fur 
take her out. She was
girls' programs." our program to win the 
really the only one
But despite 
Big East. It's exciting for playing well at that
Pittsburgh's rncord 
time offensively,"
(8-18, 3-12 in the Big the guys· and girls' 
McGraw said that
East), the Panthers 
programs" 

night. "She was our
should prove to be 
offense. She was the
more than a pushover 
only one that shot the
for the Irish. Ruth Riley 
ball well." 

The Panthers will center 
be celebrating Senior Night tonight. honoring their two grad­uating starters. forward Celeste Barkley and guard Monique Toney. 
The young team is also in a must-win situation as their hopes of making the Big East Tournament rely on winning tonight. 
The last Lime the Panther women met the Irish, the Panthers came in to the Joyce Center and stayed with the Irish for the first 30 minutes of the game. Before the Irish pulled away Lo win the game 72-58, the Panthers closed to within five points in the second half. 
"They're a good team," Hiley said. "They played pretty well here." Sophomore guard Laine Selwyn led the Panthers with 23 points in that 
Tho Irish shot 47.2 
percent for that game, while the Panthers shot only 32.2 per­cent. Playing on their home court, the Panthers can be expected to improve on that statistic. 
"They're going to shoot even better at home," Riley said. 
Uespite the fact that the first round of the Big East Tournament is Saturday, the lrish are focused on beating Pittsburgh, not worrying about the postseason. 
"This is an important game for us and we realize that," Riley said. "We haven't even talked about [the confer­ence tournament]. I don't even know who we'd match-up against in the first round." 


FAT TUESDAY PARTY 
5-7pm Sorin Room 

COLLEGIATE JAZZ FEST 
Tickets available at LaFortune box office 
MILKPLQW. 

a rock band Alumni Senoir Club, Thursday, 10:30pm 
ACOUSTICAFE' 
Toe Huddle, Thursday, 9pm 

MOVIES @DEBARTOLO
Unbreakable Debartolo 101, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, 8 & 10:30pm The Sixth Sense Debartolo 155, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, 8 & 10:30pm 



Tuesday, February 27, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON doing.000
ACROSS 24 Top-notch 55 City whose 
THIS DAY: Elizabeth Taylor, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
language uses

1 _ d'Or (award 25 Haleakala Joanne Woodward, Ralph Nader, Get together with friends you
only the 12

at Cannes) National Park Adam Baldwin,. Chelsea Ointon don't see that often. Don't hesi­site letters found in Happy Birthday: You know tate to sign up for courses that
6Mimic 
this puzzle how to please a crowd and will will bring you additional work
27 Jima

9 To _ (without 59 Hawkeye's home ,..,..-+-~!---+----t-have absolutely no problem skills.000 
exception) 29 Cart part 60 • ... hear attracting attention. You will cap­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): tivate others with your ideas and New romantic relationships will
13 Eero Saarinen's 32 Lennon's widow drop" 
can make gains that seemed develop through group activities. ­
architect father 33 Hull projection 61 Lousy car 
impossible in the past. The catch Don't expect everyone you work 14 Actor Jannings 37 Nightgown 62 Shade of blue will be to not waste your energy with to be on your side. Talk is wearer of rhyme 63 Brother on those who can't help you. You cheap, and someone may try to
15 1953 Leslie 
64 Syrup flavor need to focus on those positioned lead you astray. 00
Caron film 41 In good health 65 Carol 
in high places first. Your num­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
16 God, to a 42 Part of many 
bers: 2, 14, 18, 23, 27, 29 Partners will be full of enthusi­
66 Compass dir. 

Muslim e-mail ARIES (March 21-April 19): asm, but they will also be overly
67 "Gil Blas" 

addresses It's back to the drawing board to emotional. Try to balance the situ­
17 Wine valley in 
novelist Lesage make changes to that important ation carefully to avoid confusion 
California 43 Nancy Drew 
proposal you have been working and uncertainty. Give your mate
author Carolyn 

18 Skin lotion DOWN on. You may run into past space.000 ingredient 44 Comic Philips acguaintances through work­SAGrITARIUS CNm.t 22-Dec. 21):
1 Artist 

45 "Boy, am I tired!" related functions. Be polite. 00 You can make career changes that 
19 "The little Rembrandt 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): will help turn your financial
Foxes" 47 "Murphy Brown" 2 Kate's lV 
Negotiations with clients will lead situation around. Believe in your­
playwright bar owner roommate 
to new and interesting develop­self and so will all those you 22 Shoebox 50 Cabbage's 3 Northern French ments. You can pick up valuable encounter. You should start your marking cousin city information if you listen to what own part-time business. 00000 others say. Read between the lines CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):
4 Ground-up com

23 Sign on a door 52 Buddy 
and put yourself in their shoes What a great time to make those 
5 Designed for all 

before you make a decision. 000 changes you've been thinking
grades 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): about. You need an updated
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 • and the Hidden assets are likely to be image that will help you presentNight Visitors" Puale by Pei.t Gardon cashed in Take care of legal mat­yourself and your goals with 7 Oil conduit ters that have been holding you more confidence. 000
29 http:// follower 

back. Tie up those loose ends so AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
8 Israeli airline 

a snicker mayonnaise
30 TV's ·_Haw" thatyou get back on track. 0000 You will experience difficulties 
9 San Antonio 

31 Snaky fish 47 Receiver button 54 Sheets and stuff CANCER (June 21-July 22): with people you have to worklandmark 
32 Deep-frying need 48 Actor Mandel 56 Crippled Don't be drawn into uncomfort­with. Try to understand, but 1111"=:t--:-t-:-:-t 10 La Scala's city able situations. Someone from don't do the work for them.
33 Sensed 49 Fully 57 Soprano Gluck 
.....-B~ 11 Unaccompanied your past is likely to come back Don't let others' complaints get 12 Never, in 51 Dress cut 58 Prosperity into your life. Don't be afraid to youdown.00
34 Barely make, .,..,,+...+,::+---1 Numberg with "out" openthat door again. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
52 Argentine plain 59 Actor Ziering 
-,,,+,,,,+..+::+-,,.( 14 Boredom 35 German article LEO Quly 2.3-Aug. 22): Expect Pleasure trips will turn out bet­36 "Crooklyn" 
opposition &om family as well as ter than you anticipated. You
20 Kwik-E-Mart 

your colleagues. Keep your ideas need to relax and let your imagi­
owner on "The director Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
to yourself. Keep your own work nation treat you to a medley of 
Simpsons" 38 Hasty escape are available by touch-tone phone: 
up to date, and don't worry too fantasies. 000 -,.+,.,.....,_..t 21 _-tzu 39 Regard 1-900-420-5656 (95\1: per minute). much about what others are -,-+..+:T:+.-0.t 25 Whimper 40 50's prez Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: If you set your mind on something, nothing will
-,-+--,-+,E=+--N..t 26 The Greatest 44 "Xanadu" grp. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
stand in your way. You're a leader in the making and are determined 
.......-.C...._E_. 28 "Holy cow!" 45 Coin sound years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
to go to the necessary lengths to do, say and attain what you want. {Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaat.com, astromate.com.} 
0 2001 Univeisal Pn,ss Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------------------------------------------~-------------------------~-­
46 When repeated, 53 Garlicky 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
COOL. IT'S DAD'S  
\.001< WHAT  OLD COLLEGE  
I FOUND IN  01PLOMA.  
THE ATTIC.  \  

DOESN'T HAVE IT OUT THAN W£ 

NAME "oRGER." 
WHERE EVERYoNE THOUGHT. 
\
CAN SEE IT. \.__
\r;::;~ 

le;-~
~ 't­
rrt.l 

TOM KEELEY 
THINC
THAT'S TH 

OV6HT
LAST 

BOXI~ 
WAS COOL 
BILL AMEND 
IT'S So FOllMAL ANO  MAYSE oL'  
IMPRESSIVE AND  RoGEfl Fol<  AND I WONDER  MAY8E THAT'S  
ACAOEMIC·LOOICIMG.  IS MORi  WHY HE USED  LATIN.  
I WONDER WHY HE  HUMSLE  To SPELL HIS  

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

Unfortunately, Bill's "smelled it dealt it" strategy backfired once again. 


.... 
:.,. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 


.....
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

Going down in history 
With a win tonight against Pittsburgh, the women's basket­ball team can claim a tie with Conneticut for the Big East title for the first time since joining. 
PORTS 
p.22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 


BENGAL BOUTS 
Short road to the ring, long road to the top 
By BRIAN BURKE Sporrs Wricer 
Josh Thompson's first experi­

ence with Bengal Bouts was 
not when he laced up the 
gloves as a first year fighter in 
1998. Living just down the 
road in Granger. Thompson 
would come to the Bouts with 
friends as a spectator, but 
never thought he would step 
into the ring. 
"I was actually forced into doing the Bengal Bouts by my friends," Thompson said. "They said if I ever went to Notre Dame I would have to do the Bouts, and I was like, 'No way, I've never gotten in a light in my life.' So I came here and they actually forced me to do it. Frnshman and sopho­more year I got beat up pretty bad, I was close to stopping a few times, but I stuck with it. and things started going more smoothly." 
It probably is not particularly shocking to anyone that Thompson worked through his early struggles and has since emerged as the favorite to take the 185 pound title this year. What is, however, ironic, is that the 17-year old from Granger who had no intention ol' even participating in the Uouts. now helps coordinate the whole show as a captain and co-president. 
"Our secretary wasn't feeling well this year at all so we didn't have anybody full time doing administrative things, so (co-president) Brian (Hobbins), and I together had to deal with phone calls. raising money, that kind of stuff," Thompson said. "Our regular practice time. that two hour period a lot of the time for us wasn't dedi­cated to working out like it was for everybody else, we had to come in early at three and leave maybe as late as seven sometimes to get our workout in. Then in practice between four and six we were answer­ing phone calls. answertng questions, teaching guys. stuff like that. The working out part of it was one of the lesser aspects of Bengal Bouts that we had to deal with this year." 
Tackling the full time job of making one of Notre Dame's greatest annual events possible would have been accom­plishment enough, but Thompson has come too far since freshman year to not leave it all in the ring as a senior. 
Last year as a junior he battled to a split decision victory in the 175-lb divi­sion semifinals over this year's No. 2 seed in the 185-Ib division, Steve Pfeiffer. before losing in the finals. As a senior. Thompson now sees the definite advantages of his experience. 

"l think I've worked even more so this year at getting in shape, I feel more comfortable in the ring, and I just feel more confident," said Thompson. "There's a lot of guys, when they get in the ring, I call them brawlers, they go after you non-stop the entire three rounds. I seem to be more of a guy who's going to wait and look for opening and be real patient. But if a brawler comes at me, my whole strategy has to change. You sort of need to brawl back with him, there's not much you can do. if you don't brawl back you're just gonna get beat 
• 
on." 

The other side of the coin, of course, is that this is Thompson's last chance to be a champion. While senior captain Pete Ryan is chasing his fourth Bengal Bouts title, the other six captains are in rather unique situations. 
"One of the funny things is this year. all three of the junior captains. Matt Fumagalli, Mark Criniti, and Rob Joyce have won a championship before. 
"The four senior captains, with the 
see THOMPSON/page 14 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Huskies topple Irish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish slid off their blister­ing late-season pace Monday as the Connecticut IIuskies handed them a sound 75-59 defeat. 
The Irish (19-7, 11-3 Big East) tried to pull of their usual feat of' dropping behind early but soar· ing back to victory. but it didn't work against the Huskies {19-9. 8-7). UConn never trailed in the game, and when Notre Dame went for its late-game comeback. the homecourt Huskies were too hot to handle. 
"They soundly beat us," said Irish coach Mike Brey. 
Midway through the second half, Notre Dame closed to with­in four points on two occasions -one following a David Graves 3-pointer and the other after two free throws by Martin lngelsby. Both times. Johnnie Selvie, who was second-half salvation for the Huskies with 12 points. answered with a basket. 
The second time around. UConn kept thn scoring going with a Tony Robertson pull-up shot on the drive, a Selvie hook 
shot.  a  free  throw  by  
Souleymane  Wane  and  a  
rebound slam by Sclvie.  

"A couple big transition buck­ets really broke it on us," Brey said, "and we were never able to get back in it."A jumper by Selvie. who scored 10 of his 12 points during a 3 1/2 minut!' stretch in the second half, ended the 11-2 UConn spurt which gave the Huskies a 64-51 lead, their largest ol' the game. The only Irish points during that stretch came on free tl11:ows by All-American Troy Murphy. who led Notre Dame with 17. 
Robertson traveled. though. on the next possession, and Notre Dame's Matt Carroll hit a long 2­pointer. Instead of allowing an Irish comeback. however. the Huskies only built on their 11­point lead. 
Graves fouled UConn's Caron Butler, who mad<-1 both free throws. and Notre Dame's Hyan Humphrey was called for a charge. Irish reserve Torrian Jones tapped the ball from UConn to force a turnover and get the ball back. but Humphrey missed an up-close field goal attempt. 
Ingelsby was next to foul. and freshman point guard Taliek Brown knocked in both foul 
see BBALL/page I 8 
• 
at Pittsburgh 

Baseball at Western Michigan 
... Today, 7 p.m. 
at Florida Atlantic ~ Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Friday, I p.m. 
ATA 
Men's Lacrosse 

at Northwestern Softball
@ at Ohio State
Thursday, 3 p.m. at Jacksonville State 
Sunday, I p.m. 

GLANCE 
Friday, 2 p.m. 




