
Catching a flick over winter .break?
PARTLY 
Thursday
CLOUDY 
Observer movie critics review some of this holiday season's most anticipated films. Check out what's hot this fall and winter. 
DECEMBER 6, 
Scene . pages 12-13
HIGH 47° 
2001 
LOW36° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 63 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Accused sex offender sues University 
campus next week. upheld the decision on appeal Office of Residence Life denied concentrates on whether a fair
. Student appeals 
A St. Joseph County judge is in November, according to Hoadley an impartial hearing hearing had been conductedto court to lift two­expected to rule this week court records. but University and therefore breached its and whether presiders at the year suspension whetlwr to grant a prelimi­President Father Edward contract with him. hearing were impartial. 
nary injunction that would Malloy n~duced the punish­"Nowhere in du Lac [student "I don't think it's appropri­
temporarily lift the ment to a two-year suspension handbook] does it say that dis..: ate for the same individual to By JASON McFARLEY University's two-year suspen­without promise of readmis­ciplinary conferences must be be leveling charges and acting ~cws Editor sion of junior Hyan Hoadley. sion. fair and impartial," said his as judge and jury," Devetski 
lloadley, an off-campus stu­Iloadlcy's suit, filed Nov. 28 attorney, Hobert Devetski. of s a-i d of Sh.o u p' s r o Ic in th e 
/\ suit l'i!Pd last month dent fromWexford, Pa., was in Superior Court, seeks a South Bend. "But rdirector of hearings. against tlw University could expelled and permanently temporary restraining order to Residence Life anrl Housing The sexual misconduct claim allow a Notre Danrn student banned from campus following bar the University from Jeff Shoup] admitted that was against Hoadley stems from a s us p!rn cl" d this f'a 11 for an an Octobnr disciplinary con­1rnforcing the suspension. The a goal. Case law provides that fomale Notre Dame student a 11 P g e d s(\ x u a I assa u It o f f'erencn for "sexual miscon­suit alleges that the discipli­that must be a goal before a another student to r,Hurn to duct. " Not n~ Dam f~ offi cia Is nary conference through the hearing is conducted. The suit see SUIT/page 6 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group weighs safety, curriculum issues 
By ERIN LaRUFFA Associarr St·ws Editor 
Working to finish sevPral pieces of' busi­

rwss lrnf'orn wintl'I' break. the Student 
SPmttP dealt \vith num<•rous issues at its 
last mnPting -of' the semostnr on 
Wednesday night. 
Tim snnate unanimously passed a reso­

1uti on calling for Notre Dame 
Sncurity/Polict\ to add additional lighting 
and call boxes around both lakes on the 
Notre Damn campus, the walk from 
Turtlli Creek Apartments to Notre Danw 
and the path between Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's. 
"I think this is a rnally grnat idea," said Erin CasPy, Saint Mary's rnpresentative to the senate. Slw added that she hopes lighting will begin to addrnss concern among studnnts at the College about the saldy of tlw path between Notre Danw and Saint !'vtary's. 
Following passage of tlw resolution, snnators \viii continue \Vorking with administrators, including some from University Sncurity, in hopes of imple­nwnting the senate's request, according to Walsh senator Jeanine Valles. 
Tlw senatP also unanimously approved a letter, addressed to vicP president and assorial<' provost Father John Jenkins, conc1\rning curriculum review. Sorin sen­ator Pat Ilallahan. chair of the senate's academic affairs committen, said that there is currently a University committee to nwiew tlrn curriculum. and the letter is inwnded to prnsent student ideas to its members. Information in the letter comes from focus groups and student surveys, IIallahan explained. 
"\Vith the Dean's List, they did kind of. forgM about students," he said, adding however that the curriculum committm~ requnstPd student input, and this prompt­ed tho lotter. 
The letter is also intended to indicate the senate's willingness to work with the curriculum committee, according to Pangborn · senator Mary Mullen. Specifically. the lettt•r states that the sen­ate plans to research live areas: experien­tial learning, courst~ variety. first year registration, class schedule and integrat­ing dilforPnt academic depart1rnmts. 
"\Vp are going to continue looking into tlwsP fivP issues. gathering togf~tlwr stu­dt>nt thoughts into tlw foi'm of a proposal for your conunittee," according to the let­ter, which Hallahan signed. "\Ve are will­ing to shift the focus of our research as new issues come up. Above all. we want to guarantee that studenlc; have a voice in the process." 

At the conclusion of the meeting, four snnators announcPd their ·n,signations from the scnatt' due to the fact that they will be studying abroad next semester. Alumni senator Matt LaFratta, donning an orange sports coat, thanked his fello\v senators and committee members for their hard work. LaFratta will be replaced by sophomorn Nick Gaekn. 
"It is with mixPd feelings that I rnsign," 
see SENATE/page 4 

Talk praises women's rights in Islam text 
By HELENE YVERT 
News Wricer 
Amina Assilmi, director of the International Union for Muslim Wom c n . s pok c \\'e dn cs day about women's rights in Islam. 
\Vearing the traditional Muslim veil, the American citizen spoke about her experience reading the Koran and her uncommon conversion. Assilmi was raised in a white American fami­
was not satis­
ly of Southern  
Baptists. Now older than 50, she becanH~  "The scarfis a badge of  
an  American  honor. It tells  
Muslim choice  by 25  the viewer  
years  ago  that she is a  
because  she  l\;/uslim woman."  

fied with her 
Amina Assilmi

own beliefs. 
As a IUMW director Christian, Assilmi decid­ed to study the Koran to gain insight into Islam for the purposes of con­verting Muslims to Christianity. 
" I_t wa s a hu g fi s u r p r is e fo r me,"Assilmi said, referring to her experience with the Koran. lier mis­sion to convert others led to her own conversion. 
"The more you look at it [Islam), the more beauty you discover,"she said. 
Assilmi, who was involved in the women's liberation movement, dis­cove red a religion respectful of women's rights. All her suspicions were slowlv destroved, stw said. 
According to Aisilmi. the id,rn of origina I sin , prese n t in tlw Bi bIP. which she claims has oppr<>ssPd 
see ISLAM/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, December 6, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Notre Dame football lives on 

As the grnat r,oaching search ,~nters its fourth day, sports columnists and ignorant fans of other schools across the country are having a grand time dancing on the supposed grave of 
Notre Dame football. Notre Dame's admissions standards, are too high. Notre Dame's schedule is too tough. Notre Dame can't recruit the great athletes. 
From the Atlantic to the Pacific, every mor<m with a keyboard and an internet connection has spouted off a ton of reasons why Notre Dame can't compete with the top schools; why Notre Dame \Vil! never win anoth­er national title; why Notre Dame has become irrele­vant in the college football world. 
0 ,.. . 


Mike Connolly 
Editor in Chief 

If Notre Dame is so pathetic and so meaning­less in college football, then why are these peo­ple bothering to kick them when they are down? 
Did anyone really care whon Kansas tired head coach Terry Allen? Not really. 
Was there a national media frenzy following around the Jayhawk athletic director to find out who was going to be the next head coach?No. 
Did a "no comment" from a coaching prospect become one or the top stories on SportsCenter? or course not. . 
Only a school with a football program that was apotential national title contender could draw that kind of following. 
But the criticism of Notre Dame for being behind the times and unimportant continues. 
"Irish fans need to pull their heads out of their, er, golden domes and realize that they're often lucky to play with Air Force and Rutgers," Ryan Finley wrote in a brilliant, thoroughly researched column about the firing of Bob Davie in the Arizona Daily Wildcat on Dec. 3. Thanks for enlightening us with your opinion Hyan. 
So why do sports writers and fans across the country keep trying to say that Notre Dame football is dead? Because they wish it were true. 
Notre Dame has stood at the top of the col­lege football world for so long that everyone is hoping that its fall in recent years will be per­manent. The king seems to have abdicated his throne so everyone is scrambling to steal his seat while he is away. 
But fear not. Notre Dame football will return to its former glory. Bob Davie vvas one of the most honest, moral men I have ever met. But that didn't make him a great football coach. Kevin White now has the daunting task of choosing another man who will maintain Notre Dame's high standards for student-athletes whil(~ at the same time winning more football games. 
I think it can be done. Most of the rest of the college football world hopes it can't. 
So celebrate now. Kick Notre Dame while its down. But the king will soon return and he will have his revenge. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strive~ for the highest standards of journalism ac all times, We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes.ffwe have made a 
mistake, plea·se contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. · 

The Ob,tcrver (USl'S 599 2-4000) is puhliihed Monday through Friday cxcc:-pt during c:-xam and vacation period,. The Ob,erver i, a member of the A"ociated Pres., All reproduction right, arc rc,ervcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Film: "Hisky Business,"  . Play: "Othello,"  
Carey Auditorium.  Not-So-Hoyal Shak~speare  
llesburgh Library, 7 p.m.  Company, Carey  
. Concert: Saint Mary's  Auditorium, Hesburgh  
Wind Ensemble and  Library, 7:30 p.m.  
Moreau Chamber  . Arts and Crafts:  
Ensemble. Moreau Center  Christmas Foam Project,  
7:30 p.m.  Dooley Hoom, 9 p.m.  

Saturday 
. 
Concert: "Blosscd by Birth," Voices of Faith Concert, Stepan Center, 6 and 8:30 p.m. 

. 
Karaoke: LaFortunc Student Center, 10 p.m. 


Sunday 
. 
Concert: "Dimnnsions in Jazz," Notre Dame .Jazz Bands, Band Building, 3 p.m. 

. 
Concert: Carolyn Plummer and Scott Holshouser, Snitc Museum, 2 p.m. 


Compiled from UWire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 

Two Pakistani U. Oklahoma students released 
NORMAN, Okla. 

The FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization Service have detained at least seven Muslim men. including one American citizen, since Sept. 11. On Monday, two of those mPn -both Pakistani University of Oklahoma stu­dents were released from Oklahoma County Detention Center after their families posted $15,000 bond. 
Nabeel Khalid and Mohammad lmran Shaikh were bailed out of Oklahoma County Detention Center, but their roommate, Mohammad Yaseen Ilaijer. president of the Pakistan Student Association, remains in custody on immigration charges. A judge did not allow him to post bond. 
Khalid and Shaikh may be told to sign releases saying they will leave the United States within two weeks of their release date, according to a source who wished not to be identified. They could then apply for new visas back in Pakistan, though they would be unlike­ly to get them. The two have an immi­gration hearing Dec. 13 in Oklahoma City. A man who answered the phone at their apartment declined to com­ment. 

The INS arrested the three students Nov. 8 and charged them with violat­ing immigration violations. The INS has refused to comment on the nature of the immigration charges, but the source said it was because the three had previously been employed off campus, a minor visa violation that is common among international stu­dents. 
The first Norman arrests came just hours after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Hussein Al-Attas, an OU stu­dent, and Mukkaram Ali were room­mates in OU's Kraettli Apartments south of Timberdell Hoad. The apart­ment's lease was in another OU stu­dent's name. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
Faculty passes athletics reform bill 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Indiana University's faculty unanimously approved a plan Tuesday which puts an emphasis on acade­mics, not athletics. The vote, supported by Athletics Director Michael McNeely and basketball coach Mike Davis, is the first step in a process of overhauling collegiate athletics across the country. The Bloomington Faculty Council passed the intercolle­giate athletics resolution after much deliberation· and separately added three addendums to the pro­posal with almost full support from the council. Although BFC president Robert Eno anticipated the resolution to pass, he said he was surprised the addendums were accepted with relative ease. "I really did not expect the entire addendum package to be passed by the BFC," Eno said. The council's passage of the proposal will have no immediate effect on IU, Eno said. The major changt~s that will be visible will not occur unless there is more support from other conferences and university presidents. 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 
Fraternity fire may be racially tied 
. GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

A possibly racially motivated fin~ at the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity house is under invcstigation by the University of Florida, an assistant dean said Tuesday. • Cyrus Williams, assistant dean for Student Judicial Affairs, said if the racial allegations are true. then his office will address those issues. Alpha Epsilon Pi mem­ber Matthew Keil told police he went outside after·he heard· yelling in front of the chapter's ho·use early Thursday morning, according to a University Police report. Keil, who lives at the fraternity house, told police a door lying in the sand was set on lire in front of the house's volleyball court, according to the UPD report. As Keil and other fraternity members threw sand on it to put out the fire, a group of people stand­ing on the front lawn of Bnta Theta Pi's fraternity house yelled "Jewish Bastard" and "Jew Bag," the UPD report stated. Keil and fellow fraternity members then picked up the door and put it on the front lawn or the Beta Theta Pi houso, the report stated. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Wednesday, Dec. 5.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime rnn<litions and high tcmpcratun:s 




rv/ -------'Tl . 


! 
Friday Saturd$y Sunday 
I 
Monday 
® © D D D D D D 
High Low 

Showers Rain T·stor'ms Fturries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via As.soc,sttKJ Press

Tue~ef~y ,-J'---d 56 
,\)""'"V '··V .._~ \ 
Atlanta 68 54 Las Vegas 61 40 Portland 49 44 Baltimore 71 47 Memphis 66 43 Sacramento 60 41 Boston 65 40 Milwaukee 45 32 St Louis 58 43
4,~,~9.Q.Q ~ ~ L1 
Chicago 48 37 New York 68 46 Tampa 84 64 
Showers T-storms Rain . Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 74 58 Philadelphia 70 50 Washington DC 69 47 
via Assoc.area Press Grap1>,csNer 



G :~~36J.
·;· ~1· :' ::..:.,.,.,, ,·) __ ,'.;:;;;:·'.··•-•:$
~«<•,' . ····· . 
~ t53 38: 
[A;f;i:s\@''t 
,........

0 2001 AccuWeather. Inc. 
•-•

~ :.56·. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PrH,IJrf.'
(tt(>·tY:­

Thursday, December 6, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecture series explores pregnancy issues 

By JILL MAXBAURER 
News Writer 
The planning team on the fourth lecture of · the Understanding and Embracing Our Sexuality series at Saint Mary's discussed issues sur­rounding those affocted by decisions on a pregnancy, Thursday. 
Students emphasized that many different people are affected by prP.,.gnancy through a skit at the beginning-of the event. 
A f t e r 
watching a "The departments... are charge of the 
skit depicting here to support the gynecology a dating cou-clinic in
women -physically,
p le that Health 
learns the emotionally, spiritually. " Services. "I woman has wouldn't say 
Participants in a group activity discuss decision-making processes during pregnancy in the we are seeing
become preg­Anselma Ashleyfourth lecture of the Understanding and Embracing Our Sexuality series. nant, audi­more preg­

Campus Ministry
ence mem­
bers given 
sheets of 
paper with different charac­
ters names on them and asked 
how the situation affected 
each character. Characters 
included parents, siblings. 
teachers and God. 
"Every person in this situa­tion is affected on many dif­ferent levels" student planner Margaret Zeh said. 
The participants were asked to form two groups and list the characters in order of importance by who has the most influence on the decision the couple makes and who will be most influenced by the decision. 
"\Ve wanted to raise the question on sexual relation­ships and whether or not a pregnancy is a private issue with the couple or who else should be involved," said Anselma Ashley from Campus Ministry. 
When they were finished, both groups admitted to hav­ing a hard time distinguishing 
between who should have morn rights, the fetus or the father. 
When th,~ topics for the series came out, the topic was very broad, dealing with preg­nancy, abortion, adoption and marriage. 
"We d(~cidod to approach simply the topic of pregnancy, to havo students consider thn issues if they wore to become prngnant or their friends. We wanted them to consider what they would havP to face," said Cyndie Horton-Cavanaugh, a registeff~d nurse in 
nancies this 
year in 
health ser­
vices but we do have pregnant 
students every year, and some 
we never see since tlrny don't 
come to us." 
The lecture informed stu­
dents that the campus has 

many support options for 
them and they should not 
have to make dc~cisions sur­
rounding pregnancy on their 
own. 
"/\II of the departments at Saint Mary's are here to sup­port the women here -physi­cally, emotionally, spiritually ... so if a woman finds herself in that situation. she will not feel alone," Ashley said. 
Zeh said that this point real­ly needs to be shared with the women of' the College. 
"I think it is a misconception of our campus, a lot of women feel they are alonn and have no support. But on an all woman's campus. I \Yant them to know they can find support here with other women who may have experiencPd this." she said. 
The next lecture. "Contraception: A Safe Choice?" will lrn held on Jan. 23 in Stapleton Lounge at 7 p.m. 
Contact Jill Maxbauer at maxh3126@saintmarys.edu 
RECYCLE THE OBSERVER. 

Jiff,~L11l>e Signatufe Service 
Corne into uur se-vico centc-r near c11mpus and givr J!tt'y Lube ::5!yr !t;itUrt:.: Sur V!Ge ~ try, Vve lutJk rorv;1,:1(d K servin~ you in the ,ear bture 
Receive $4 Off with a valid Notre Dame University or St. Mary's ID everyday. 
'+,ti N. Utx1e way 1245 E.. lre1ano Rd. 104 E. McKinley_ Av 

271-7767 299-8666 258-5675 

.-...··;-..... ,
~'1!~ Guest Services 

800-JIFWBE 
WWW jif ube Cvff! 
~_, ._~;; :a.>. ~·" ;41 :-..":-:·:-.:,·1:1:"'.f.•: :~;1:-:;;_-t1-:-~-"-'6·~ -.,,.....:!"¥>~".' r-~-::··. •.;.•&i;,J -l~·-;;1·, ti!'"-. __ ,:·:" • . ·:l.,'._:r, ~ .-~~A><_.-·.-· ~:....-~ i-<1:!-~.;' ~-::-:·,•,. ~: -'..~,){t;: :.•\'.,/ <1! ;."n;1:"'~,.,,~;.)dJ:1r;;_J 1:1".l.::V'--,.i .)'!!; i.:;.~.... ._,:.,;-f;'(i .. ~:, i ,,1:·;~<.it~.­
f .;,m:;. 1 /23/02' '.'.,xk \;,.c" ,. 
_. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 6, 2001 

ANGELA CAMPOS/The Observer Keough Hall senator John Cannon was one of four senators to resign at the Senate's last meeting of the semester Wednesday. The outgoing members will be studying abroad next semester. 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
said Valles, who is being suc­ceeded by junior Ann Madigan. Valles added that she has appre­ciated the opportunity to meet and work with the other sena­tors. 
With the support of several dorm mates in costumes, resign­ing Zahm Hall senator Mark Boland said his most notable accomplishments in the senate have come through his work with the University affairs com­mittee. Roland was co-chair of the committee along with Carroll senator Jesse Flores. Sophomore Colin Harding will replace Roland as Zahm's senator. 
Also resigning was Keough Hall senator John Cannon, who will be replaced by sophomore Luke Slonkosky. 
"It has been a real privilege for me to \vork with the people I've gotten to know on senate," Cannon said. 
Student body vice president Brian Moscona praised all four r•~signing senators for their lead­ership, and added that the sen­ate will miss them. 

In other Senate news: 
. Virginia Kt~lly, from Students for Environmental Action (SEA). came to the meeting to ask sena­tors for support in several SEA initiatives. In particular. Kelly said SEA is working to increase student awareness about recy­cling. 
"Most students here don't recy­cle and many recycling bins arnn't utilized," said Kelly. "We're working now to raise awarmtess." 
Cannon has been working with Kelly to, coordinate efforts between the SEA and senate, he said. 
"But the truth is that the majority of students don't recy­cle, at least as much as they should," he added. 
The SEA is also looking into distributing reusable Grab and Go bags to all students, accord­ing to Kelly. She added that the group is also currently working to raise awareness about the company that supplies Notre Dame's paper, Boise Cascade, which logs old-growth forests. 
. 
The senate unanimously approved Freshman Orientation as the topic for the next Board of Trustees report by oflice of the student body president. Although the president's office planned to cover the Office of Information Technologies in its winter report, chief of staff Jonathan Jorisscn explained that OIT is already looking into many of the sugges­tions his oflice planned to include in its report. 

. 
The senate unanimously con­firmed Courtney Schuster has the 2002 coordinator of The Shirt project. 

. 
John McCarthy, Judicial Board vice president of elections, told senators that plans are proceed­ing for the student body elections next semester. Student<, interest­ed in running for student body president and vice president can begin getting signatures on their petitions on Jan. 15, and the pri­mary election will be held on Feb. 11, according to McCarthy. 


Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 

:••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••c••••••••• 

: University Resources : 
•
•

• • for Gay, Lesbian, & • • • 
•
• Bisexual Students • •• • 
•
• l_l!IITH""£~S-T'A"";,;""",~""'1N.J,G •
•

• COll,.MITTEE ,ON 
•

• GAY AHD LESBIAN 
• • 

• STUDENT NEEDS 
• 
•

• 
• The Standing Committee on Gay and •
•• •

• Lesbian Student Needs 
•

•,. • • (Confidential information, education, and resourc~s) •••
Contact: Sr. !vf.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent 
•• 

•

• members (see web site for student contact info.) 
•

• 
••

• Office of Campus Ministry :
•
•
• ("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which !
• 
include prayer and discussion ofspiritual issues; annual •

•
• retreat; library with relevant reading materials, :•
•
• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 J@';nd.edu, or ,.
• 
Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu •

• •
•
• University Counseling Center 
•
• (Individual counseling or a confidential support group) 
•
• Contact Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or 1\4aureen
• 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu

•
•
•
• for more information . .:heck out our web site: http://www.nrl.edu/-scglsn'
•
•
.. . .... . . . ... . .................., .... . . . . . . . ..~ ~ 
Islam 
continued from page 1 

women for centuries, is absent from the Koran. Also, w om c n h ave n o t on ly th,e right, but also the obligation to be cducatcd, she said. 
"We should not forget that on the contrary, women entered v~~ry lately colleges in tlrn U.S.,"Assilmi said, 
The Koran stipulates that women have the right to have their voice heard, sh<' said, adding that many men studied under women in the earlv Islamic history, and that the prophet Omar nominated a women as one of his minis­ters. 
Assilmi also emphasized that Islam dictates that men are financially responsible for women, and women have the right to control their own wealth. Th is m cans th at women have the means to decide to devote their lives to charity if they wish since their , maintenance is ensured by men. 
These points led Assilmi 's sons to conclude that Islam was not fair to men, accord­ing to the lecturer. 
I s Iam ic Iaws • howeve ,~. allow limited violence, according to Assilmi. TlH~ Koran allows men to hit their wives under certain very restricted circumstances. However this force must not leave physical marks a11d should never occur on the face, Assilmi said. She said th at t h is Iim its wIwn a n d where men may strike women, adding that women have no limitation on where and how they can strike their husbands. 
Ass il mi \Vas in iti a IIy appalled at the requirement that Muslim women cover their body and their faces. She said that she was proud of her body and that the scarf seemed oppressive to her. Eventually Assilmi understood that women wore this scarf as a means to mark their identi­ty. 
"The scarf is a badge of honor,"she said. "It tells the viewer that she is a Muslim woman." 
Assilmi also spoke of her 
• 
work as director of the International Union of Muslim Women. 
"I want to educatt\ women about the truth or their reli­gion because many wonwn in Muslim countries don't havP the rights that they were given by God. The biggest cnemios to Islam arc the Muslims and their, igno­rancc,"she said, adding that this is a problem of all rnli­gions. 
Assilmi criticized sonw of the Islamic govnrnmmlts for their policiPs as well. 
"Until the Muslims am truly kn owIedg e a b I e ab o u t th t\ Koran, we will never have a country ruled by the Islamic law,"slrn said. 
Assilmi added that she want to act as a peace-maker. She intonds to build bridges between peoph~ and religions in order to make tlwm accept their differences, she said. 
Approx im ateIy 2 0 p eop I1~ attended tlrn \Vednesday night lecture at the llesburgh Center. 
Contact Helene Yvert at yvert. l@nd.edu 











RLD 
ATI 


Thursday, December 6, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Post-Taliban government created: 
With a war still being fought in their home­land, Afghan factions signed a pact to create a tnmporary post-Taliban administration, putting aside dif'fon1nces over power-sharing to tak11 the first step toward rwacP. Envoys agreed to a U.N.-brokPred plan that allows for the dPploymPnt of forPign troops lo secure the transition, stress()S the inclusion women and strives for a demo(;racy. It olfors Afghanistan its bnst chance in dflcades to escape a cycle of ,var. 

Russia pledges cut in oil exports: 
Hussia plPdged to reduc(' oil exports by 150,000 barn-ls a day -onough to appease tlw international 1wtroleum industry but. ana­lysts say, unlikPly to threaten recent economic grmvth in Hussia driven mostly by oil. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Movies, videos decrease violence: 
The tilm and vidPo gamo industries have nutd,1 progress limiting the marketing of' violent and sexually PXplkit t~ntPrtainmcnt to children but tlrn music industry lags bPhind, a federal study finds. Tlw latPst rnport cited "comnwndablP progn•ss" by the movie and electronic game industriPs in limiting their advertising to chil­drnn of H-rated moviPs and games rated f'or maturo audiPnces. 
House GOP embrace aid package: 
IlousP HPpublicans embracml a $20 billion dol­lar package of aid for victims of the rncession as thny manouvcred for votes on legislation giv­ing Presid(mt Bush a freer hand in negotiating worldwidP tradP deals. Bush lobbied lawmak­ers ahead of Thursday's showdown vote. The hill's supporters worked to mtS(~ the concerns among llouso nrnmbers representing textile, steel and Florida citrus interests, as well as those concerned about ceding U.S. sovereignty to international organizations. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 



Marion officials head to Mexico: 
More than 20 f\1arion officials. including Mayor Bart Peterson, plan to travel to Mexico and imnwrsn Llwmsdves in th(' Spanish limguage in an pffort to lwttl'r rommm1icatn with tlw city's growing Hispanic population. Peterson and 22 l\1arion County police ollicers and fire­rightPrs are schedulPd to live from Feb. 28 through Marrh 10 in Calnali, l\foxico. They'll join medical persomwl in thn small, impover­islwd community.As much as they can, group nwmlwrs will dispensn with English. 
Market Watch December 5 , 
Dow 

10,114.29 +220.45 

Jones 


CompositeSame: 

Volume:
182 

1.738.29 l .968 
AMEX: 829.59 +5.37 NASDAQ: 2,046.84 +83.74 NYSE: 591.35 +10.16 S&P 500: 1170.35 +25.55 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ENRON CORP (ENE) +16.09 +0.14 1.01 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.37 +1.02 21. 54 NASDAQ-100 INDX (QQQ) +4.95 +2.02 42.85 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +11.38 +1. 57 15. 37 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +6.04 +0.83 14.57 

ing in airstrikes on nearby All casualties were evac­had no information on the 
Associated Press 

enemy positions. uated from the scene, first seriousness of the injuries WASHINGTON 'This is one of the poten­to a U.S. Marine base south or how many were Army or 
Three American soldiers tially most hazardous type of Kandahar and then out Air Force. were killed and 19 wound­of missions that we use as a of Afghanistan. All 22 were described as ed in Afghanistan military tactic," said Rear Hamid Karzai, the south­special operations forces, Wednesday when a U.S. Adm. John Stufflebeem, ern Pashtun leader and but of'licials would not say bomb missed its Taliban deputy director of opera­designated h1md of the pro­whether they were Green target. The bomb, carrying tions for the Joint Chief's of vision al government in Berets, Rangers, or other 2,000 pounds of explosives, Staff. Afghanistan, was in the kinds of special operations landed about 100 yards Five Afghan fighters also area where the bomb land­troops. It appeared likely from the soldiers' position were killed in Wednesday's ed but was not seriously most were Green Berets. north of Kandahar, where incident and an undeter­wounded, Pentagon offi­Stufllebeem said Marines the Taliban is making its mined number were cials said. based south of Kandahar last stand against Afghan wounded. "I, along with the rest of rushed to the scene and opposition forces. Daniel Pctithory, 32, a American, grieve for the evacuated the casualties. 
Pentagon officials said native of Cheshire, Mass., loss of life in Afghanistan," Some casualties were they could not immediately and an Army communica­President Bush said during flown by C-130 transport to explain what went wrong tions specialist stationrd at an Oval Office appearance. undisclosed, medical facili­in the deadliest "friendly Fort Campbell, Ky., \Vas "I want the families to ty while others went direct­fire" accident of the war. one of the Americans know that they died for a ly to the _facility, said Capt. 
· Whatever the cause, it killed, said his brother, noble and just cause." Stewart Upton, a public illustrated the danger Michael. The Pentagon initially affairs officer at the base. inherent in the kind of sup­The Pentagon withheld reported two were killed. A About 20 Afghan troops port U.S. forces an' provid­identifications until rela­third died en route to a were treated at the ing to Afghan fighters: call-tives were notified. hospital. Otlicials said they Marines' base, ho said. 
Counselor stabbed to death in Mass. 
but later died at a hospital, Bennett Harnos was being held without 
Associated Press 

said. He was stabbed five to six bail pending arraignment 
SPRINGFIELD. Mass. times in the stomach and chest. Thursday. 
A 17-ycar-old sophomore at an Bennett declined to say what the Eight or nine other students and altPrnative high school stabbed a two argued about, but said "it was a teacher were in the classroom at counsPlor to death Wednesday dur­not a planned attack." the time but none was injured, ing an argument in front of other Vaoeria Andrews, a 14-year-old School Superintendent JosPph youths and a teacher, authorities ninth grader, said she looked out Burke said. said. the door of her nearby classroom "I think he's a young man who 
Corey Hamos ran from Springfield and "all I saw was blood in the lost it completely," Burke said. "He Iligh after the attack and was hallwav." was rather withdrawn. He was not arrested by police about a half-mile She said there was no sense of' doing well academically." away, Hampden County prosecutor panic as students were kept in their Brown was a Pcntacostal minister William Bennett said. The knife classrooms. She said she was a "lit­who had been working in the was found behind the school. tle nervous," but has few worries school system since 1996. He was 
The Hev. Theodore Brown, 51, about her safety at the 300-student married and had one child, police walked to the school nurse's office school. said. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 6, 2001 



Suit 
continued from page l 
who accused him of touching her in an inappropriate man­ner at Hoadley's Turtle Creek apartment following a night of drinking. 
Hoadley, the female student and her roommate were cele­brating the alleged victim's 20th birthday Sept. 14 at Boat Club, according to court records. 
The alleged victim and her roommate kissed each other and other patrons in exchange for drinks and 
money, 

"The suit concentrates 
according to exams. He was witnesses. on whether a fair accepted into 
Hoadley and hearing had been the London 
the women Program and
conducted and whether
returned to intended to 
his apartment presiders at the hearing study abroad and lay down were impartial. I don ,t next semester. on a bed Hoadley's
think it's appropriate 
pulled out suit joins from a couch, for the same individual another legal court records to be leveling charges action this indicated. semester by a
and acting as judge 
Hoadley lay Notre Dame
andjury. ,,
between the student to women. have a The alleged University
Robert Devetski
victim decisionover­
attorney for Ryan Hoadley
removed her turned. In 
shirt and bra and began kissing Hoadley. the suit claims. It also states that earlier in the evening, the alleged victim removed her pants and walked around Hoadley's apartment in her see-through "birthday thong." 
In a written statement to Residence Life, the alleged victim said she awoke during the night, groggy and con­fused, to find Hoadley naked and moving on top of her. She wrote that during a 30-minute assault, Hoadley kissed, fon­dled and performed oral sex on her against her will and forced her to touch his penis. She said she was unable to scream during the alleged attack and fell asleep after it. 
The other female student, in a written statement, said she woke up after hearing and feeling movement in the bed but did not turn toward Hoadley and the alleged vic­tim. She rolled over when the motion and noise stopped and saw Hoadley lying naked on the other side of the· alleged victim. 
Following the incident, the 
alleged victim filed a report
with the South Bend Police Department, who based on Hoadley's and the women's fuzzy accounts of the incident, found no probable cause to pursue criminal charges . 
She  filed  a  claim  with  
Residence  Life  in  late  
September.  

Hoadley's suit claims that University officials made a 
.. 
,~u1!li~ 

Now SHE HAS AN EXCUSE FOR THIS LOOK 
HAPPY 21 ST MB! 

"unilateral determination" that he violated Notre Dame's sexual misconduct policy and didn't afford him the same opportunities as his accusers. The alleged victim was allowed to have others pre­sent with her during the hear­ing, but Hoadley was told to have a professor write a letter on his behalf, according to the suit. 
"He didn't have the same opportunity to have witnesses present," Devetski said. 
Should a judge approve an injunction, Hoadley could return to campus next week in time for the last class days of the semester and final 
October, a judge issued a preliminary injunction that lifted Monica Gonzalez's suspension from the women's soccer team. 
Bill Hoye, from the Office of General Counsel, deferred comment about the· Hoadley suit to University spokesman Dennis Moore Wednesday. 
Moore declined to speak about the impact the lawsuit might have on the University's ability to punish students. 
"It's still under considera­tion by a judge. so I'm hesis­tant to say much at this point," Moore said, "but it is a very important question for us to look at in the future." 
Moore said that during his 14-year tenure here, the University has faced a number of suits by students who want­ed disciplinary conference decisions overturned. Several of those suits involved cases of alleged sexual assault, Moore 
said. · 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 
.. ~...--------•.111 e1/1ormoi1s
FLEECE 
Selection. 
5 minutes:::::::....iiil~ fron1 DUTPDS'T Carnpus lllllllrT!Eifll 
Cold Weather Experts 

Coll 259-1000 for more details 
DeBartolo Hall Open Study Hours 
December 11 6:30 am to 3:00 am December 12 6:30 am to 3:00 am December 13 6:30 am to 3:00 am December 14 6:30 am to 3:00 am 
36 Rooms Available 

108,113,143,149,201,202,203,204,205,206,223,224,225, 301,302,303,304,305,306,307,308,326,327,328,329, 330,332,333,334,335,336,343,344,346,347,349 
FREE Midnight Snacks!!! 
Children's Chris 
mas Party 
~VE RUDOLF 
Dec 7th, 7 • 8 pm 
All University Families are invited to 101n 
Dave Rudolf 
in a traditional 
Christmas Party 
that includes: 
• Santa Claus 
• Door prizes • Refresh1ne11ts 

Brought to you by Student Activities Office a~nd Graduate Student Union 


December 16 10:00 am to 3:00 am December 17 6:30 am to 3:00 am December 18 6:30 am to 3:00 am December 19 6:30 am to 4:15 pm 


Thursday, December 6, 2001 

The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 7 


2002-2003 
Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

University Residence Halls are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main. Building 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 or go to www.nd.edu/---stdntaff/AsstRector.html for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed Applications must be submitted by February 8, 2002 

6:00PM-8:30PM 
FINAL 4 STUDENT ROUND ROBIN 
The top four student teams compete in a round robin competition to determine who will represent the University of Notre Dame at the Regional Competition. 
8:30PM-9:30PM 
RECTOR MINI-TOURNAMENT 
Two teams of Residence Hall Rectors and University Administrators will square off. 
9:30PM-10:00PM 
STUDENTS vs. RECTORS 
The winning Student Team will compete against the winning Rector Team. 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 
Wanna work for a carv.t,ui 1>uf>(ication with cha((enging dead(inei? Co~e viii+The Ot>ierver. 
ABC, NBC lead NAACP nominations 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Two television networks criti­
dzed by the NAACP only four 
months ago for lacking diversi­
ty in coverage led the civil 
rights group's prestigious 
1mage Avvards on \Vednesday 
with 13 nominations each. 
It's a dramatic shift from an 
August when the NAACP 
reported that ABC had an 
"untenable" lack of commit­
ment to diversity efforts while 
NBC had an 11 percent drop in 
the number of black actors over 
the past year. 
Both networks denied those .charges. 
"When people were voting 
they were looking at the quality 
and content and not necessarily 
looking at any other issues sur­
rounding the nominations and 
submissions," said Ernestine 
Peters, executive director of the 
Image Awards. 
However, organizers received 
1,500 submissions to the nomi­
nation process this year, nearly 
340 more than last year. Peters 
acknowledged that does indi­
cate improved diversity in 
entertainment. 
Kweisi Mfume, president of 
the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored 
People, had threatened a televi­
sion boycott in August over the 
group's lingering diversity com­
plaints. Ile did not return calls 
seeking comment Wednesday. 
The nominations are deter­
mined by 300 show-business 
professionals and NAACP offi­
cials who selm:t five nominees 
for Pach or the 41 categoritJs. 
"These nominations ~tre a wonderful n~cognition ol' the great talent at ABC in 1wws, prime-time and daytime pro­gramming," network spokes­woman Julie lloover said. "They also reflect this net­work's ongoing commitment to 
diversity." 

ABC's sitcom "My \,Vifo and Kids" had three nominations for best comedy series. best comedic actor for star Damon 
Wayans  and  best  comedic  
actress  for  co-star  Tisha  
Campbell.  

The network's news pro­grams "Nightline," "20/20" and "VVorld News Tonight" also received nominations. 
NBC had three supporting dramatic actor nods for "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit" co­stars CCII Pounder, Khandi Alexander and lce-T. "ER" had nods for best dramatic series, and star Eric La Salle was named in the best dramatic actor category. 
Dule Hill had a supporting dramatic actor nomination for his role in "The West Wing." 
"This is a testament not only to the diversity we are very proud of at NBC. but to the excellence both in front of and behind the cameras," said Scott Sassa, chief of NBC's West Coast operations. 
The Muhammad Ali drama "Ali" and the sitcom "The Steve Harvey Show" led individual nominees. 
The funeral comedy "Kingdom Come" had four nominations in the film catego­ry. 
UPN's "The Steve Harvey Show" led the television catego­ry with six nominations, includ­ing best comedy series, best comedic actor for star Steve Harvey, and best comedic sup­porting actor for co-star Cedric The Entertainer. 
SingPr and pianist Alida Keys had seven nominations. includ­ing best new artist. Michael Jackson had six nominations. including outstanding male artist. 
The 33rd annual awards shO\v will be held Feb. 23. Fox will broadcast a tape of the program on March 1 . 
CBS anchor Rather heads back to U.S. 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
After anchoring the "CHS Evening News" for three nights from Afghanistan. Dah Rather is headed back to New York. 
The veteran nevv"sman will anchor Thursday's program from CBS' New York studio. While in Afghanistan, he filed re ports for his show. "The Early Show" and "60 Minutes 11." 
Appearing on CNN's "Larry King Live" Monday night, Rather had said he planned to 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service 
•Appraisals large and small . · · 
• ,"·.. ,·Open noon to six · 
• Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

be in Afghanistan awhile. lie 
said it was important to be a 
reporter and that technology 
made it easier for anchors to 
be mobile. 
But CBS spokeswoman 
Sandra Genelius said 
\Vcdncsday that the nehvork 
always planned that the dura­
tion of his trip would be day-to­
day depending on the news. 
"lie was the only anchor who 
was there," she said. "He did 
what he set out to do. He want­
ed to see the story ffrsthand 
and report the story firsthand, 
and that's what he did." 
While CBS said the long trip served its purpose, some com­petitors saw Rather's return Wednesday as a retreat. 
"Putting your anchor on the ground doesn't necessarily buy you anything~" said Steve Capus, executive producer of NBC's "Nightly News." "In this day and age, in the age of MSNBC and 24-hour news, there better be a good reason to commit the time and resources. \Ve're going to think long and hard beforn we send Tom (Brokaw) anywhere." 

.... 
Thursday, December 6, 200 I

page 8 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS 
UNITED KINGDOM 

OPEC poised to reduce oil output 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
OPEC was expected to trigger a 6 percent cut in its official crude oil output after Russia, relenting to intense pressure, agreed to reduce its production by 150,000 barrels a day to help prop up sagging oil prices. 
Russia's decision Wednesday ended a showdown with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries that threat­ened to unleash a potentially devastating price war for crude. One energy analyst forecast that the overall decrease in oil out­put would nudge gasoline prices higher but said he expected the rise would be modest. 
"It's a very positive move in the right direction," said Kuwaiti Oil Minister Adel al­Sabeeh. 
Oil futures surged almost $1 higher on the news, then fell back as skepticism grew about Hussia's resolve to honor its commitment. 
OPEC was preparing to issue a communique Thursday announcing it would pruceed with cuts of 1.5 million barrels a day in its own production, said an OPEC official, speaking on condition.of anonymity from the group's headquarters in Vienna, Austria. The group's secretary­general, Ali Rodriguez, was con­ferring with OPEC oil ministers to agree on the document's wording. the oflicial said. 
After the decision in Russia, attention shifted to Norway. the world's third-largest exporter of oil behind Saudi Arabia and Hussia. OPEC has asked Norway for similar cuts. 

A firm commitment from Norway, together with the pledge from Russia. would come very close to satisfying OPEC's demand that oil-producing countries outside the group cooperate with its plan to reduce its own production by 
1.5 million barrels a day, or 6 percent. OPEC supplies about a third of' the world's oil. 
"I think it makes triggering the OPEC cuts a near certainty," said George Beranek of The Petroleum Finance Co., a Washington consultancy. 
"That'~ going to mean, over time, higher crude prices, which will be reflected in higher refined product prices," he said. 
However, energy analysts noted that U.S. inventories of gasoline and other refined prod­ucts are plentiful. "I really don't think we have to worry about a return to last spring's very high gasoline prices," Beranek said. 
In an unusual act of diplomat­ic brinksmanship, OPEC insisted last month that non-OPEC pro­ducers promise to trim their output by a total of 500,000 bar­rels a day before it would put its own cuts into effect Jan. 1. Russia's turnaround appeared to vindicate OPEC's tough stance. 
Hussia, the world's No. 3 oil producer, had said for weeks it would cut output by just 50,000 barrels a day. By agreeing Wednesday to triple the size of that cut, Russian oil companies appeared to acknowledge that 
OPEC members were probably 
better equipped 'than they to 
weather a collapse in prices 
caused by a potential glut in 
crude supplies. 
Peter Gignoux, head of the 
petroleum desk at Salomon 
Smith Barney in London, sug­
gested that Russia might simply 
be making a virtue out of neces­
sity. 
"Russian exports always 
decrease at this time of year, as 
seasonal demand increases for 
their internal market," he said. 
The OPEC official in Vienna 
welcomed Hussia's announce­
ment and said it would go a long 
way toward meeting the cartel's 
insistence that independent pro­
ducers make sizable production 
cuts. 
"Of course, we have to wait to 
see the final decision of the 
Norwegian government," the 
oflicial said. 
OPEC wants Norway to pare 
at least 150,000 barrels from its 
daily production, the official 
said. Norway has so far offered 
broadly to cut output by 
100,000-200,000 barrels a day. 
Mexico, another leading non­
0 PEC supplier, has already · pledged to pump 100,000 fewer barrels a day, while Oman promises to cut output by 
40,000 barrels. 
OPEC is hoping for an addi­
tional cut of 40,000 barrels from 
Angola, enough to take the total 
cut in non-OPEC production to 
480,000 barrels a day. The 
Angolan oil minister said 
Tuesday that his country would 
cooperate with OPEC but did not 
specify the size of reductions. 
IMF board denies Argentina loan plea 

• Financial crisis may lead officials to devaule currency 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The International Monetary Fund said \,Vednesday it could not now recommend approval of a $1.3 billion loan for Argentina. The country sought the money to weather a finan­cial crisis. 
The international lending agency said its 24-member executive board had met infor­m ally to hear a report from the head of an IMF team that had been sent to Argentina two weeks ago to review the progress of economic reforms. 
"Based on the findings of the mission that has been in Buenos Aires, fund manage­ment is unable at this stage to recommend completion of the· review" needed to release the next loan to Argentina, the IMF said in a statement. 
The IMF refusal to extend a fresh loan as part of its $22 billion support program for Argentina nation comes as officials in that country have struggled to avoid a default on $132 billion in foreign debt. Argentina has South America's second-largest economy after Brazil. 
Thomas Reichman, head of the IMF team in Argentina, returned to Washington late Monday to update top IMF om­cials on the team's findings. 
The government of President Fernando De la Rua imposed controls on withdrawals on bank deposits over the week­end to stop a run on the coun­try's banks, which had accel­erated last week amid rumors the country was about to freeze deposits and devalue the currency. 
Argentina's government had been urging the IMF to speed up release of the next $1.3 bil­lion IMF loan installment, which it hopnd to use to ser­vice its debt burden. 
Many private economists believe the current financial crisis will force Argentina either to devalue its currency, which has be~n pegged to the 
U.S. dollar. or formally adopt the dollar as the country's ol'fi­cial currency. 
Many economists believe such a move would help restore investor confidence in Argentina's economy, which is mired in a thren-year-long recession. 
However, Argentina's gov­ernment rejected both options on Wednesday with presiden­tial spokesman Juan Pablo Baylac insisting that the gov­ernment wanted to rescue the economy without abandoning its currency regime. 
Dollars and Arg1rntine pesos have circulated side bv side in the country since Argentina pegged the value of the pt~so at $1 in 1991 in an pffnrt to quell tripl1•-digit inflation. 

Benefit CD for sale. •Come see campus artists perform @ Acoustic Cafe this week. CDs on sale at the MAXX 9-12pm Thurs. Any leftovers will be on sale at LaFortune Information Desk All profits go to Feed the Children Disaster ounRelief Fund, New York. The ··~ WSND 88. 9 FM Produced by 88.9 WSND FM The Sound  

-
Thursday. December 6, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Ministrv 

dav 
Ramadan lhar 
5:00 p.m. Hospitality Room, South Dining Hall 
San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 
dav 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. • 4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #38 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Marriage Preparation 
Fatima Retreat Center 

Feast of the Immaculate Conception 

Spanish Mass 
1:30 p•.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p..m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p..m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
7:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rejoice! African American Mass 
10:00 p.m. Our lady of Notre Dame Chapel Coleman-Morse Center 

The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Ministry 
11 :00 p.m. • 11 :00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

Campus Bible StudylCBS 
Fr. ~I D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation-Session #7 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 

Watch Your Mouth 
¦ By Fr. Bill Wack, CSC, Director, Freshman Retreat Program 
Campus Ministry offers this "Considerations" column each week to help us all to reflect on our 
lives and see ifwe can improve in our efforts to live together in community. This week I thought I 
would write about something that I perceive is rampant and detrimental to our lives as Christians ­
offensive and obscene speech. 
Why this topic? I have noticed that the use ofobscene speech has increased a tremendous amount 
over the last decade or so (since I was here as an undergraduate), and many others have agreed with 
me. Not only is its use acceptable (and fashionable) in movies, advertisement, and in public places in 
general, it seems to be the norm for many people here on our campuses. 
I'm not talking about a slip of the tongue or a story told among dose friends in a private setting; 
I'm referring to people yelling horrible things out on the quads, down the hallways in dorms, or 
openly where people gather. (Also included would be T-shirts with highly offensive depictions or 
words on them worn proudly in public. I've even seen some of these worn in church or at Mass). 
There doesn't seem to be much of an attempt to curb the tongue these days. On the contrary, every 
attempt seems to be made to use offensive speech. 
Most disturbing is hearing these things spoken in front of visitors and the general public. Quite 
often this occurs when I am having a visitor over in my room or am counseling someone or celebrat­
ing Mass or Reconciliation in a room or chapel on campus. Many times I have heard foul things 
spoken or yelled loudly which easily spill into my room or the chapel. I usually apologize to my 
guests or try to talk louder over the disturbance, but the damage is already done. 
A lot oftimes, if I hear something really bad and blatant, I will say, "Excuse me?", and the offend­
ing person immediately says, "I'm sorry, Father, I didn't know you were here." But that shouldn't 
matter. We really should strive to use acceptable language at all times in public. 
Something that seems to be happening more frequently this year is late-night carousing on the quad. Several times this semester I have been kept awake at all hours while people have inconve­nienced anyone with a window on the quad side by saying offensive, bigoted, or off-color things. I have spent several hours trying to drown out the noise by putting a pillow over my head and thinking about the day when I will live in a rectory 'Somewhere or in a house off campus. 
Am I overreacting? I don't think so. I confess that I have it within me to use inappropriate words at times when I am with my brothers playing cards or am with some friends from high school in a private setting. But I would find it extremely embarrassing and shameful to use those words in public -especially using them indiscriminately in a loud voice. I believe that we all have to work on our internal "editor". Every moral person tries to have a well-developed editor (conscience, voice) that tells them when it is appropriate (and when it isn't) to say or do something. Employing this is a matter of being Christ-like. 
There are two reasons why I think we all need to clean up our language in public: 
1) We're basically educated people, and we have a lot of words at our disposal. Surely there are more descriptive words in the English language we could use than the four or five we hear constantly. 
2) Our faith tells us so. St Paul states that because we are God's people, "no foul language should come out ofyour mouths" and "no obscenity or silly or suggestive talk," for the immoral and impure will lose "their inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God" (Eph 4:29; 5:4-5; Col 3:8). 
Some would say (indeed, have said), "Get over it." or "If that's the way you feel, maybe you shouldn't live with students". I absolutely love living on campus and hope to do that for as long as rm here at the University, but I hope that it can be a place where others are respected and they don't have to worry about being offended constantly in public by other people's tongues. 
Thank God for the gift of communication that has been given to all of us (in one form or an­other). Let us all try to honor that gift and use it for the greater glory ofGod. May the Word ofGod, Jesus Christ, bless us all during this holy season ofAdvent! 

Advent Lessons 
¦ Presiders 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
& Carols 
Saturday, December 8 Mass 
5:00p.m. 
Sunday, December 9th

Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c 
at 7: 15 p.111. in the 
Sunday, December 9 Mass 
Basilica
10:00a.m. 

Rev. Robert A. powd, c.s.c. 11:45a.m. • 
Tl1e Notre J)ame Liturgical Clioir, Notre

Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
Daine Women's Liturgical Cboir, Basilica 
¦ Sunday's 
Scliola, Notre Dan1e Handbell Cl1oir antl
Scripture Readings 
Notre Dame Foll< Clioir will participate in 

1st Reading Is 11: 1-10 
2nd Reading Rom 15: 4.9 tliis service of advent n1usic ancl scriptures.Gospel Mt 3: 1-12 
j 
THE 
OBSERVER 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall; Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROU.ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING................................... ..631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OffJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 · observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VtEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO...................................................... ..631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd..edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policm 1hould be direct­ed to Ediwr in Chief Mike Connolly. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Jason McFarley Matt Nania Andrew Thagard Graphics 

Meghanne Kristin Krouse Downes Production Sports Joe Hettler 
Andrew Soukup Chris Federico Viewpoint Lab Tech Teresa Fralish Ernesto Lacayo 
The firing of football head coach Bob 
· Davie and the search for a replacement has received national attention. Two quotes from athletic director Kevin White that appeared in the New York Times caught my attention. 
The first referred to tough admission stan­dards at Notre Dame as a myth. 

_ ~•1 don't think that it's nearly as diffi­cult for us to have young people admitted to the University of Notre Dame as a lot of people believe." The sec­ond quote stated, "I think the whole Notre Dame community lives and dies with this football program. It's the heart and soul of the University." 
These statements were puzzling, even disconcerting, so I ran down the full transcript of the press conference. Throughout are references to the importance of both academics and ath­letics. All "our coaches in all sports" are expected to bring in and develop "good students and good people." 
It is clear that the desire is for strong academics and athletics. The question that arises is whether there is a priori­tization of one over the other such that when they conflict or at least are not in full harmony, one gains ascendency. 
Here the statements quoted in the New York Times raise some issues. The reference to high academic admission standards being a myth seemed to indi­cate that with a good enough athlete, academic achievement is not of impor­tance. 
However, here is where the full text of the press conference is helpful. Immediately after the myth statement, he goes on to say, "I think the great · news about the young people we are able to attract is that they graduate. They walk away from Notre Dame with a Notre Dame degree. You look at the kinds of things we have created, the accommodations for young people, but at end, they get the degree." 

The statistics recently released back him up: 85 percent of all athletes and 7 4 percent of football players graduate. There is an argument nested in these statistics that former Georgetown University basketball coach John Thompson has made most eloquently: athletic accommodations allow the opportunity for a high-caliber education for poor youth, most of them black, an education that otherwise society has unfairly made unavailable. 
For the particular persons he was coaching, Thompson was largely cor­rect. The two questions that arise for Notre Dame are: 1. To what degree does the argument concerning under­privilege apply to its athletes? and 2. If underprivilege is the concern, then why not extend it to the full population in the same way that it is extended to ath­letes? 
There are other, nonathletic gifts, that poor persons -black, white or other -have that are not reflected in high school transcripts and SAT scores. It is noteworthy that White refers three times to "young people," but the refer­ence is to young athletes exclusively. 
There is a strong argument to be made -and professor Stephen Pope of Boston College made a brief statement of it in Commonweal a while back ­that if Catholic universities are to be true to their core identity, then they , should exercise an "option for the poor" on behalf of the common good in struc­turing admissions, financial aid and academic support to allow more eco­nomically impoverished and academ­ically thwarted students to attend and flourish. 
Thursday, December 6, 200 I 
The statistics indicate, however, that the major Catholic universities across the nation are an increasingly difficult prospect for those whose families lack significant financial resources. 
This issue of the core identity of the University brings us back to White's second quote. I like Notre Dame foot­ball. I like fanfare and competition. I was glad to take my nephews to Notre Dame's upset victory against Michigan a couple years ago. 

I quite literally married into a Notre_ Dame family. and on many football weekends our home has functioned as a bed and breakfast. But I do not "live and die" with the football program. 
Is the statement intended to be an empirical observation? I have had some occasions where the in-class perfor­mance of non-player students has dipped significantly following an upset loss, think Boston College and the dying quail field goal. 
This distortion of students' lives is disconcerting and it is backed and encouraged by claims that the football program is "the heart and soul of the University." It is why some of my col­leagues hope that the team loses early and frequently enough in the season to release students from national football title expectations. 

The metaphors we draw upon, espe­cially those as dramatic as "heart and soul," starkly state our worldview and shape how we live. We need to be care­ful how we use them. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor oftheology and the director of the program in Catholic social tradi­tion. He can be reached at whit-more. l@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this article represent those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
POLL QUESTION 

Who do you want to be the new head football coach? 
Vote at NDToday.com by 5 p.m today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To be great is to be misunderstood.,, 
Ralph Waldo Emerson essayist 



O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, December 6, 2001 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Stamp machines: trials and tribulations 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Integrity sacrificed to money 
Well, it happened. Given the obviously orchestrated press leaks, I am not really surprised. However, I am extremely disappointed. My beloved alma mater, which preaches a value system that goes beyond the material and economic, has succumbed to the base pressures of win-loss records. 
It has sacrificed a good man to the heartless gods of television ratings, bowl games and national champi­onships, which impact revenue and alumni contribu­tions. It has fired Bob Davie, who had four years left on his contract. The first time ever that a Notre Dame football coach has been dismissed while his contract was in force. Shame, shame! 
That Bob Davie is a good man cannot be disputed. Even Tim Prister, editor of Blue & Gold Illustrated, one of Davie's most harshest critics, has acknowl­edged that Davie never reacted to those harsh, some­times personal, criticisms. · 
In a recent edition of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Pristcr said that Davie always treated him profession­ally. Bob Davie's class was evident in Sunday's press conference, where he refused to utter a negative word. This is amazing to me. Such behavior is more Christ-like than I would expect of most people. Too bad being a good man is not enough. 
That Bob Davie had the respect of his players is obvious. No one has ever suggested that Davie "lost 
• his team". that the players gave up and did not play their hardest despite the relative lack of success on the field. Rather, it was always obvious that the team came to play -to the last down. Players who do not respect themselves or their coaches go through the motions. Davie's team never went through the motions. He must have been doing something right. Too bad it did not count. No one can argue that Bob Davie ran an exemplary program. His players did quite well in the classroom. Graduation rates met or exceeded expected levels. Over the past two years, team GPAs were at the high­est in recent history. As a result the team is online to receive national academic recognition. Davie met this duty. Too bad something else was more important. 
Moreover, players stayed in school. which was an announced important University goal. And there were no significant off-can1pus issues with Davie 
recruits. This, too, was an important criterion. Too 
bad these factors were not important enough. Too 
bad meeting expectations is insufficient. · 
No one can argue that Bob Davie was into self­aggrandizement like so many of his peers. No, this was never the Bob Davie Show. This was never about personal benefit. There was no "I" here. Davie was interested only in the University, its football team and his players. This used to count for something. Remember. it was Rockne who said, "No man is big­ger than the institution that he represents." Too bad, it no longer does. 
How then, you ask, could Bob Davie be fired? Simply, it is economics -the almighty dollar. Kevin White can deny it all he wants, but the truth is that the impact of the win·loss record is paramount, regardless of other factors. White is quoted in a Nov. 29 article in the Chicago Tribune written by Avani Patel saying, "Football is the financial engine." That says it all. Whose credibility is lost? 
When I was a student at the Notre Dame Law School, we were imbued with the principle that there were more important things than money. We were taught that we should use our profession for some­thing more than as a source of economic benefit. We were told that how you processed your case was as important, if not more important, than if you won your case. 
Professionalism and integrity were espoused as the ultimate principles. It seems to me that Bob Davie embodies these principles. Too bad that such beliefs are good enough for lawyers, but not football coach• es. 
Thanks, Coach Davie, for all your efforts. You deserve better: I hope that my University can repair the only image that really matters -that it is an institution that practices what it preaches -that it respects character and integrity more than wins and losses. 
Michael L Palumbo 
class of'81, JD Dec. 5, 2001 
Keeping America safe and free 
It is because I love my country and because I have faith that I will continue to be safe in this nation that I pay tribute to the students who dedicate their time to the future. The ROTC students are committed to preparing themselves to be the future warrior leaders that protect our nation. 
It is not easy to go through ROTC. Getting up for 6 a.m. physical training sessions, attending ROTC classes, going through practical exercises and giving up many additional hours for other ROTC events is not a piece of cake to pull off while maintaining a normal college schedule. In addition to that ROTC participants must keep a certain GPA and main­tain a certain level of physical fitness. 
I pay tribute more to the ROTC participants than I do to athletes even though the reverse seems to be more common. The students in ROTC are not looking to the next big game as their goal, Instead they desire to preserve what we have in this country so that the athletes are able to play. and yet the ROTC students do not complain about getting nearly as much prestige or recognition as the athletes. 
I am proud that the students in Notre Dame ROTC contin­ue to train even though restictions were put on their prepa­ration to become warrior leaders. I am proud because they strive toward their goal and overcome obstacles to do it. However, I am upset that anyone would put restictions on the people who will someday be protecting them. What is amazing is that these same people probably would never dream of resticting how the athletes could train. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the future of our nation. I believe that the United States is worth preserving, It is here where I have freedom and hope. And despite what happened on September 11, I still feel safe and secure here. 
I believe that the fundamental values our forefathers fought or are still alive. And I have faith that we, their chil­dren, have been given a beautiful gift thai we should cling to with a:ll that is within us. Thank you, ROTC, for the future. 
Yvonne Benson 
freshman McCandless Hall Dec. 5, 2001 

Today, I am going to speak about a matter of grave national security, a mat­ter often overlooked, but deserving atten­tion nonetheless: the security of stamp machines. Stamp machines are an incred­ible convenience. They allow us to Marlayna buy stamps at 
Soenneker 
places other than the post office. 
They allow us to Here We Go avoid nasty inter­Again personal contact and deal only with machines, as our postmodern culture trains us to do. Further, stamps are an incredibly valuable commodity. They allow you to send things, such as post­cards, letters and birthday cards. 

If you buy enough stamps, you can even send larger things, like tapes, CDs or iguanas. The postal system is a powerful means of communication, and stamps are the fuel that make that system run. The world would be in sore shape if any old Dick, Tom or Hobob could just run up to a stamp machine, kick, and run off with several dollars worth of valuable stamps. I mean, these babies are worth 34 cents a piece. 
Thankfully our friends at the Post Office have not overlooked stamp machine secu­rity. They have taken it into account and realized the grave national security issue surrounding the impregnibility of stamp machines. I learned this one day early this semester. 
This semester, I took up writing letters to the two people I care about who lack e­people, because at least other people mail. On this day I had written two letters would realize that these dollar bills were on paper and sealed them in paper legitimate. envelopes. But then I remembered that My friend Bianca came downstairs at the postal system, unlike the e-mail sys­just that moment and said hi to me. I tem, isn't free. I needed stamps. returned her salutation and explained the 
I was going to dinner at South situation to her. As I explained that the Dining Hall anyway, so I headed 
over and enjoyed a tasty meal. Then, after dinner, I traipsed down into the basement, where there is a stamp machine, right across from the Grab 'n'Go. I saw this as an excellent oppor­tunity to avoid human contact and get the stamps I needed. 
With me I had brought every bill I had, which consisted of seven $1 bills and one $5 bill. I needed $6.80 to purchase a book of stamps. So I fed the machine a $5 bill. No go. It didn't like my bill. I tried again. Nope. All right, it looked like my seven $1 bills were it. I tried one. Not happening. I tried another. No. And another. No. 
Finally I got the machine to accept $3, but I still had another $3 .80 to go. I was finding this whole experience just a little bit frustrating, as the bills I was attempt­ing to feed the machine looked perfectly fine to me. I was even beginning to think it would have been better for me to go to the actual post office and deal with actual children and eat cats" sort of kick. 
So it did the only reasonable thing that a stamp machine could do in this situa­tion. It set off its alarm. Now, prior to this moment in time, I had never considered whether stamp machines had alarms. Now I and all of you know that they do indeed have alarms and that they are not very fond of friendly kicks. 
I attempted to reason with the machine at this point, explaining that I wasn't a 
. 
large, threatening person but rather a 
small, unintimidating girl. The stamp 
machine was having none of this. It con­
tinued its impressively loud scream. 
So, sheepishly, and with several Grab 'n'Go customers looking on, I headed upstairs to find an authority figure who could help me out. Unfortunately, the powers-that-be at the South Dining Hall had bad news for me: there was nothing they could do. 

I went back downstairs to see if the machine had calmed down yet and merci­fully the alarm had stopped. However, it now appeared to have no memory of our earlier encounter or the money that I had deposited in it. 
Many people would have just chalked up the $3 loss to experience and called it even. Not I. I marched over to the post office the next day and demanded my money back, which they were good enough to refund to me. I didn't exactly tell them the whole truth about what had happened, reserving that story for my col­umn now. I hope in this way to save you·, my readers, from learning such a difficult lesson in such a terrible way. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a junior psy­chology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, December 6, 2001 

ill winter showers 
Scene S movie critics take a look at whats in stc 
Scene Staff Report 

Along with jingle bells, fruitcake and more in-your-face commercialization than anyone can handle, the holiday season brings a sleigh-full of films meant to give the box office a last-minute boost and audiences a heaping portion of entertainment overload. 
The truth is, the holiday movie season already started with the release of last month's "Monsters, Inc." and "Harry Potter," the opening salvos in the battle to dominate Ye Olde Holiday Box Office. . 
But movie distributors are feeling the Christmas rush, not to fill stockings, but to get their films in theaters in time to qualify for Academy Award contention. So in addition to the big-budget blockbusters, we're treated to multiplexes full of serious films. 
As usual, we can expect a lot of Oscar contenders to arrive smack in the middle of Christmas week. Heavies such as Kevin Spacey, RusseU Crowe and quite possibly a new acting heavyweight in the form of Will Smith (playing Muhammad Ali} all have movies coming out on Dec. 25. Hotshot directors including Steven Soderbergh, Cameron Crowe, Frank Darabont, Lasse Hallstrom, Ron Howard and Wes Anderson have movies opening in December, as well. 
There are also a number of films slated to open in New York and L.A. that the rest of the country won't see until at least January. These include the intriguing Australian thriller "Lantana" and "Last Orders," an adaptation of Graham Swift's prize-winning novel. We'll also have to wait for "I Am Sam," in which Sean Penn plays a mentally chal­lenged man trying to maintain cqstody of his bright young daughter; and "Iris," the adap­tation of John Bayley's memoir about his wife, novelist Iris Murdoch, and her struggle with Alzheimer's. Kate Winslet plays Murdoch at a younger age, and Judi Dench ("Chocolat") plays her later in life -no wontler Miramax is slipping it into the running for Oscar time. 
Some movies set to open at Christmas have been bumped, mainly because there simply aren't enough screens to accommodate all of them. Other projects are fleeing because the competition is too stiff, or because audience response in early screenings indicates the film isn't living up to the Oscar potential it was supposed to have. \Vho knows which cate­gory applies to "Gangs of New York," the latest from Martin Scorsese, starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Cameron Diaz. It's been postponed, with no set release date. Ditto for "Bad Company," with Anthony Hopkins and Chris Rock, and "The Salton Sea," with Val Kilmer. We'll probably see H.G. Wells' "The Time Machine," with Guy Pearce, some time in February. Or March. Or whenever. 
Here's what we do know (or think we know) about 10 of 2001 's most anticipated holi­day movie events: 
"Ocean's Eleven" (Dec. 7) 

. 
Director: Steven Soderbergh 


. 
Starring: George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Andy Garcia and Julia Robert 

. 
Buzz: Soderbergh's follow-up to last year's Oscar-nominated "Traffic" is an ensemble caper comedy starring more than its fair share of Hollywood mega-stars. So the hype sur• rounding this one is justifiably astronomical (being heavily promoted on numerous talk shows and 1V spots helps a little, too). Many filmgoers may be too young to remember the original film, which was a showcase for the Rat Pack (Frank Sinatra. Sammy Davis, Jr., Dean Martin, Peter Lawford and Joey Bishop}. Back then, they played war veterans who try and pull off one big robbery; in this new version, a gangster by the name of Danny Ocean (Clooney) rounds up a group of associates to stage heists of three-major Las Vegas casinos during a popular boxing event. As impressive as the cast is, reportedly it could have been stronger. Rumored to have been offered roles were Bruce Willis, Mark Wahlberg, Ewan McGregor and Owen and Luke Wilson. In the original script, the boxing match would have featured Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield, but that has since been changed to Lennox Lewis and Vladimir Klitschko. But don't feel too bad for "Eleven." With hot-property Soderbergh at the helm and a supposedly spirited script and produc­tion, the film will most likely succeed on multiple levels. What's that smell in the air? Money. Lots of it. This might end up being one of the biggest movies of the holiday season. 


Matt Nania 


"Vanilla Sky" (Dec. 14) 
. 
Director: Cameron Crowe 

. 
Starring: Tom Cruise, Penelope Cruz, Cameron Diaz and Jason Lee 

. 
Buzz: Crowe and Cruise team up again for a December release (their last collaboration was '96's "Jerry Maguire"), but this time it's unlikely anyone will be showing anyone else "the money." Instead, Crowe is remaking the 1997 Spanish smash hit, "Abre los Ojos" ("Open Your Eyes"). Crowe, whose films are usually quirky love stories with amazing soundtracks, is looking to build on his already solid rep_utation of audience hits like "Say Anything," "Maguire" and "Almost Famous." This time, howev­er, he is twisting the conventional love story, adding a thrilling chapter to his series of romances. IB "Sky," Cruise plays a womanizer whose relationship with a psychologically unstable woman (Cameron Diaz) comes back to hurt him. Strange things start happening as his life takes a turn for the surreal. Crowe, who also wrote the screenplay, has a strong secondary character in Lee ("Mallrats") and has recast Cruz as the lovely "Sofia" (she was in the original Spanish film). Crowe has also pieced togeth­er the best soundtrack since Elliott Smith's contribu­tions to "Good Will Hunting." The 17-track opus mixes legends such as Paul McCartney and Bob Dylan with young talents such as Radiohead, Jeff Buckley and Sigur Ros, creating its own buzz. While the production of "Vanilla Sky" was quickly over­shadowed by the Cruise-Cruz love fling, come Dec. 14, most everyone should be talking about another solid Cameron Crowe movie and soundtrack. 


Jude Seymour 

"The Royal Tenenbaums" (Dec. 14, limited) 
. 
Director: Wes Anderson 

. 
Starring: Gene Hackman, Ben Stiller, Gwyneth Paltrow, Anjelica Houston and Luke Wilson 

. 
Buzz: Fans of Anderson's "Rushmore" will be looking forward to this one, the latest from the nerdy-but-hip young writer-director. Meet the Tenenbaums: Royal (Gene Hackman). the irrespon­sible father; Etheline (Angelica Houston), the arche­ologist mother; and their three overachieving chi!­dren: Chas (Ben Stiller), a financial wizard by age 9; Margot (Gwyneth Paltrow), an award-winning play-



Perhaps the most anticipated film of of the Ring" opens nationwide on De< 
wright in the 9th grade; and Richie (Luke Wilson), a nationally ranked tennis player since the 3rd grade. In "The Royal Tenenbaums," the family reunites after 20 years of separa• tion at the request of Royal, who learns he is dying and wants to make amends with his ex-wife and children. Joining them are Chas' two sons, who are identical to their father in almost every way (they even wear the same red Adidas warm-up suits). Simply put, "Tenenbaums" has to be incredibly funny. With the screenwriting talent of Anderson and Owen Wilson, the impressive cast and what's sure to be great music, "Tenenbaums" is your best bet for holiday laughs. 
Meg Ryan 
"The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" (Dec. 19) 
. 
Director: Peter Jackson 

. 
Starring: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler and Cate Blanchett 

. 
Buzz: Fantasy movies are enjoying a renaissance. With "Harry Potter," "A.I.," "Final Fantasy" and even the DVD release of "Star Wars: The Phantom Menace" captivating the imagination of movie buffs everywhere, the time has never been riper for Jackson's adap-


Photo courtesy ol Buena Vista Pictures 
Wes Anderson's "The Royal Tenenbaums" is a family comedy starring (from left) Luke Wilson, Gwyneth Paltrow, Gene Hackman, Ben Stiller and Anjelica Houston. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, December 6, 2001 page 13 
bring Oscar flowers? 
>re for the moviegoing public this holiday season 


tation of the granddaddy of fantasy literature: J.R.R. Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings." The first in a tril­ogy, "The Fellowship of the Ring" debuts this season amidst buzz that rivals "Star Wars," though it is perhaps a more concentrated, mature hype. Not only will the film have to withstand the faultfinding of fans and critics. but it must also score big at the box office. Originally planned as two installments rather than three, New Line Cinema bought the rights from Miramax, garnered widespread endorsement deals and granted Jackson a ridicu­lous budget in order to score big with the trilogy. The studio execs shouldn't have much to fear. Jackson. who transformed his native New Zealand into the mythical Middle Earth of Tolkien, is an experienced director whose credits include "The . Frighteners" and the critically acclaimed "Heavenly Creatures." Backed by an all-star cast and Tolkien's enduring epic, "Fellowship" should pack a wallop of Christmas cheer. 
Mario Bird 
. Buzz: Carrey getting serious can be a very good thing ("Truman Show," "Man on the Moon"), so it's easy to be somewhat excited about this Capra-esque drama directed by the fellow who gave us "The Shawshank Redemption" and "The Green Mile." The story tells of a blacklisted 1950s screenwriter who leaves Hollywood and, after losing his mem­ory in a car accident, relocates to a small town. There he finds a new life when he assumes the role of a former World War II soldier, the son of the local movie theater owner. Carrey has long expressed his desire to emulate the career of Academy favorite Tom Hanks, so the roles the comic chooses for himself come off as easy Oscar bait. No matter, a good performance is a good performance and Darabont himself has stated that Carrey does the best work of his career. Plus, he's anchored by a strong supporting cast including Martin Landau, Hal Holbrook, Bob Balaban, Amanda Detmer and Ron Rifkin. Darabont's films tend to be overlong and laborious, but Carrey's inclusion, the Capra sen­sibility and the story's interesting premii,e should entice audiences looking for sentimen­tal holiday fare. 
Matt Nania 
"Kate & Leopold" (Dec. 21) 

. 
Director: James Mangold 

. 
Starring: Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman 


. 
Buzz: This might be the only flat-out romance of the season. Ryan stars as Kate, a dri­ven corporate executive (movie stars never play losers who don't get promoted) who is unlucky in love. Then her scientific-genius ex-boyfriend opens a time portal into the 19th century and accidentally transports his great-great-grandfather (Hugh Jackman, "X­Men"), a duke, into modern-day New York. Hyan and Jackman fall in love, etc. etc. Sounds like a tired premise, but .audiences should like the idea of a romantic pairing between these two. 


Matt Nania 
"Ali" (Dec. 25) 

. 
Director: Michael Mann 


. 
Starring: Will Smith, Jamie Foxx and Jon Voight 

. 
Buzz: Audiences may not find it waiting under their trees, but "Ali" hits theaters across the country on Christmas Day. This bio-pic, directed by "Heat" and "The Insider" director Mann and starring Smith as the loose-lipped boxer, has promised to show audiences a side of Muhammad Ali they might not know. The plot seems to focus more on the fighl'i outside the ring than within it, including Ali's now-famous arrest for dodging the draft and declaring his allegiance to the Muslim faith. The film will have two major hurdles to overcome: convincing its audience that Smith is Ali and telling a better story than the leg-




endary HBO boxing epic, "When We Were Kings." Considering Ali is not only still alive, but still in the spot­light from time to time, Smith's hurdle is cumber­some. Moviegoers young and old will be using the real Ali to scrutinize ~mith's ~very mannerism and speech pattern. In addition to those challenges, older audiences will be interested to see if Smith can duplicate the boxer's flagrant manner in the ring as well as throw authentic Ali punches. Mann and Smith appear ready for the challenge, and come Christmastime, audiences will be checking to see if this "Ali" is naughty or nice. 
Jude Seymour 

"A Beautiful Mind" (Dec. 25, limited) 
. 
Director: Ron Howard 

. 
Starring: Russell Crowe and Jennifer Connelly 

. 
Buzz: Howard ("The Grinch," "Apollo 13") has created a psychological.thriller based on the true story of Nobel Prize winning mathematician John Forbes Nash, Jr. Crowe stars as Nash, whose principles in 1950 established the economic "Game Theory." But Nash was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia at age 30 and soon thereafter was arrested for indecent exposure. Based on Sylvia Nasar's biography, the film focuses on Nash's relationship with his wife. played by Jennifer Connelly ("Requiem for a Dream"), and his path from success to mental illness to recovery. While Crowe hopes to secure another Oscar, Howard is looking for his first directing nomination. Th~ picture ma~ fulfill both of those aspirations, as the Academy seems to love films concermng mental dISorders. Plus, Howard is due for a nomination after being shut out for "Apollo 13." 


Liam Dacey 

"The Shipping News'' (Dec. 25, limited) 
. 
Director: Lasse Hallstrom 

. 
Starring: Kevin Spacey, Julianne Moore, Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett 

. 
Buzz: After bouncing around for years with various actors attached at one time or another, E. Annie Proulx's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel finally comes to the screen, star­ring the ubiquitous Spacey, "Hannibal's" Moore and the ever-hard-working Blanchett 0ast seen in "Bandits"}. Spacey plays Quoyle, a sad-sack newspaperman who moves to Newfoundland with his children after his wife (Blanchett) dies. He then confronts his pri­vate demons as he struggles to make a happy family life. Dench plays Quoyle's aunt and Moore his love interest. With "The Cider House Rules" and "Chocolat" already under his belt, director Hallstrom comes up to the award plate once again with a talented, refined cast and a character-driven story. But it'll be up to the studio whether or not "News" gets the notorious Miramax Oscar push. 


Matt Nania 

"Black Hawk Down" (Dec. 28, limited) 
. 
Director: Ridley Scott 

. 
Starring: Josh Hartnett, Ewan McGregor and Sam Shepard 

. 
Buzz: Scott ("Gladiator," "Hannibal") and an impressive lineup tell the true story of the 1993 American mission in Somalia that went terribly wrong. Based on Mark Bowden's critically acclaimed book, the Battle of Mogadishu. the longest sustained ground battle involving Americans since the Vietnam War, is vividly recounted. The U.S. ~ent 120 sol­diers into the ravished country in the middle of a civil war to abduct two lieutenants of warlord Mohammed Farrah Abid. However, the mission turned into a disaster after two helicopters were shot down and 18 American soldiers were killed. Hartnett, McGregor and Shepard make up only a part of the large cast that traveled to Morocco to shoot the film. Originally set to open on March 1. the nationwide release date was pushed up !o Jan. 18. After speculation that this occurred due to anticipated developments m Afghanistan. studio executives said that the move was made after impressive screenings that encouraged them to go for an Academy-qualifying run in New York and L.A. in late December. 


Liam Dacey 

Contact Scene's movie critics at mnania@nd.edu1 seymour.7@nd.edu, mryan4@nd.edu, mbird@nd.edu and wdacey@nd.edu. · 
page 14
Thursday, December 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
coaches pulled their names from consideration.
Football 

Jacksonville Jaguars head coach Tom Coughlin also grew
continued from page 24 

irate when asked if he had Willingham complied a 44-3S-been contacted by the Irish. 'Tm very happy in the job I
1 record. 

Notre Dame's sports infor­have," he yelled at reporters mation department declined to during a press conference 
comment on whether or not Tuesday. White had interviewed Coughlin, who coached at Willingham today. On Sunday, Boston College in 1993 when 
White said he the Eagles upset the top­·would not ranked Irish at Notre
release infor­'lVhat Notre Darne has 
mation about D a m e
done, and I'm very
the search for Stadium. said a nevi' coach. .flattered they've done he had not "I appreci­bepn contar,t­
this, is they've contacted 
ate the ed by Irish 
our athletic department 
appetite for officials 
news about a about speaking with me about the coaching
search of this ~Vhether they will or not 
kind, but you vacancy.
is up to thern."
don't hire Although the good people Jaguars are 3-8, Coughlin
by negotiating Tyrone Willingham through the said he is
Stanford head coach 

media," he said Sunday afternoon...... Let me just state one caution about the rumors and 'informed sources' that are bound to surface in the days ahead: As soon as there's something to report, you'll hear it from me, but until you hear it from me, anything you might hear will be nothing more than speculation." · 
vVhile ESPN.com reported that Notre Dame had asked for permission to speak with Arkansas head coach Ilouston Nutt. both Nutt and Arkansas athletir director Frank Broyles denied that report. 
"I have not been contacted by Notre Dame regarding its head coaching position," Nutt told ESPN on Wednesday. "I feel we have an outstanding program here at Arkansas. Along with my staff and play­ers, I am concentrating on getting our team n~ady for a bowl game." 
Nutt was named the 2001 SEC coach of the year after leading the Hazorbacks to a 7-. 4 record and a likely berth in the Liberty Bowl. Before com­ing to Arkansas. Nutt coached at Boise State in 1997 and at Murray State from 1993 to 1996. 
As more details were discov­ered about White's nationwide search for a new head coach. the list of candidates contin­ued to dwindle as more head 
content to 
stay in 

Jacksonville despite the lure of coaching at Notre Dame. But he did not directly say that he was not interested in th,, vacancy. 
"Is it flattering to hear that name? Yeah, sure it is, if that's what you want to hear me say," Coughlin said. "But the fact of the matter is, I have a job, it's a good job, I love the job. I came here for one purposP. I have not heard one word from Notre Dame, and I'm not going to talk about rumors. What more do you want me to say? What blar,kboard do you want me to write it on?" 
Also, Oregon head coach Mike Bellotti told The Oregonian he had no interest in coaching Notre Dame. lie did not say whether or not he had been contacted. 
And on Monday, Oakland Haiders head coach Jon Gruden said that he had not been approached by Notre Dame about the coaching vacancy. He also said he did not want to get involved in speculation. 
Information from Associated Press and ESPN.com news ser­vices were used in compiling this report. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
start to finish, but Saint Mary's kept it close at times during the first half. After a 14-1 run turned a 9-8 Goshen lead into a 23-9 advantage, Saint Mary's fought back to close the gap to 31-23 at the half. 
A series of questionable fouls called on Saint Mary's was the difference in the first 20 minutes. The Maple Leafs went to the line 13 times and hit 10 of those shots. while freshman Katie Boyce made one of two in the only first­half free-throw attempts for the BeJles. 
"Those are things that 
you've got to look at. .. ," Smith said. "but there's absolutely nothing we can do a.bout it so we need to control the other things that we can control." 
For the game, Saint Mary's converted seven of 14 attempts from the line, while Goshen hit 18 of 23, a 78.3 percentage. 
"We hit 50 percent of them," Smith said. "It makes a differ­ence when you knock every single one of those down." 
. After Saint Mary's held Goshen to only seven points in the first three minutes of the second half. the Maple Leafs went on a 12-4 run to break the game open and build a 50­32 lead. 
"You had some people work­

• 
think Goshen picked it up. vVe surprised them a little bit with our pressure on the point guard and I think they made an adjustment and got a little tougher." m 
The Belles never pulled within less than 14 the rest of the way. Senior center Margene Murdent led the Maple Leafs with 22 points and 11 rebounds. 
Eleven players logged time for the Belles. led by freshman point guard Katie Boyce, who came off the bench and played a team-high 32 minutes. Boyce scored eight points, dished off three assists and turned the ball <>Ver only two times. 
ing their butts off at the start 
Contact Noah Amstadter at 
of that half," Smith said. "I 
Amstadter. l@nd.edu. 

The Ohserver accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all .classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
. 
NOTICES 
SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO M 
SPRING BREAK Cancun. Jamaica, 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. 
BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOWEST prices! www.breaker­stravel.com (800) 985-6789. 
GET ORGANIZED, NEW PALM M105, $140, 246-9549 
...ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE 
BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! 
SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS. ACAPUL­CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. 
REPS. NEEDED...TRAVEL FREE, 
EARN$$$. GROUP DISCOUNT . 
FOR 6+. 800-838· 
8203N./WW.LEISURETOURS.CO 
M 

LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Kitten outside of Graduate residences. Call 298-1533. 
Lost Silver Heart Charm with, "November 24th, 2000" inscribed on 1t. If found, please call Morgan at 634-2449. 
WANTED 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! 
Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas. Jamaica, or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1· 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
Calling Elvis ... looking for students to work as impersonators at JPW for the 1950s booth. Desperately 
seeking James Dean, Marilyn 
Monroe and the KING! Call Jocie 
Antonelli at 631-0106. 
Good$ over X-Mas • Computer help. Layout/design work and change website. Access & FP2000 a must. Work at home.. 273-8857 
FOR SALE 
95 Mazda 626 LX. loaded, leather & power sunroof, 69,000 miles. $5,500. Days: 231-3930 Eves: 616-445­0922 
Moving off campus? Bed,desk,chairs,shelves for sale-Call Jen 277-9661 
82 Cadillac Eldorado coupe. Very good condition. Going to Rome pro­gram. $2,800. Call 631-5663. Ask for Goncalo or email gcor­neli@nd.edu 
Lou Holtz Autographed 1988 National Championship Poster. A must for any N.D. fan. 
Only $125. (219) 289-8048 Lou Holtz autographed 1988 National Championship poster. $100. 219-289-8040. 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM· PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­rentals@aol.com 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­dents. Good area... ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340·0106 
Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/new carpet. appl, sec.roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk.N of Club 23. 1-800-731-0043 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips avail­able. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800­231-4-FUN Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations. 
1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
EARN HOLIDAY CASH 257-8129 
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! 
WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN· TEED LOWEST PRICES! CAN· CUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND 
BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! FIF­TEEN YEARS EXPERIENCE! 
FREE TRIPS FOR CAMPUS 
REPS! 
Sell your stuff here for just pennies 
a day. 
Observer classifieds 
Send letters to the editor to 
viewpoint.1@nd.edu. 
Classifieds deadline is 3 p.m. the day before the add is scheduled to run. 
This space could be yours ...Use Observer Classifieds 
Leist and found classifieds are free. If you found somebody's stuff, help them out and put in a classified 

The last publishing date tor The Observer this semester will be Dec. 
11. The Observer will not return until Jan. 16. 
The Observer is always looking for enthusiastic writers. Contact Jason for News at 631-5323 or Noah for sports at 631-4542 

The Observer: 2001 Associated College Press National Newspaper of the Year. 
/ 
Thursday, December 6, 200 I 

The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
were now open as he signed seven high 
school seniors as Notre Dame's first 
scholarship class in lacrosse on Nov. 15. 
"We felt like then\ wc>re kids we could 
g<'t involvnd with that we never though 
we could in tlw past," Corrigan said. "In 
the past ,ve always had to sort out two 
things real (\arly -thf'ir grades and 
their financial situation. This year we 
only had to worry about grades. A kid 
who might hav<' somn rwed actuallv in 
sonw ways \'\'(\ b<'cam(i morn attractiv'e to 
him." 
Tlw srholarsh ip money gave N otn~ Danw more than just the ability to lessen th11 cost of a Notre Dame education -it also was a clear sign that Notni Dame was <·01111nitted to winning a champi­onship. \!though Corrigan entered every season with tlrn goal of' winning the drnmpionships, rncruits didn't believe his rhetoric without thP financial com­mitmPnt to back it up. 
"We would say that \.VC wanted to win a championship and that was our goal but some> kids would look at it and sav tlwrP is not a real commitment bv th~ school to winning the champior1ship because they don't haVf~ the scholarship money," Corrigan said. "Now that isn't something we have to convince people of. That rommitmcnt of dollars says to people that they want to win a champi­onship and compete at the highest level." 
The money for srholarships was actu­ally first available la.st year but Corrigan did not use it to recruit the current fresh­man class. The money was available too late in tlrn recruiting process for it to make a difference. Corrigan had six scholarships available for the Class of 2006 but chosp to use only three of tlrnm among sevPn recruits. 11(• will have thrPf' morn available for thf\ Class of 2007 and will havP the full l 2.6 when he recruits the Class of 2008. 
"We art' mon' conscious of not giving 

out too much right now and leaving our­
selves in three years where we have to 
bring in 10-12 guys on one sr.holarship," 
Corrigan said. 

Unlike baskf~tball or football, almost 
nobody receives a. full ride in lacrosse. 
Corrigan broke up the three scholarships 
to aide the seven signed players in 
attending Notre Dame. 

The seven players signed by Corrigan -tlrn first class to receive granLi.;-in-aid from Notre Dame to play men's lacrosse -arc Brian llubschmann. Matt Karweck. Steve Panos. Drew Peters, Matt Hyan. Brandon Schulteis and Pat Walsh. All seven recruits play either attack or midfield but Corrigan said he is not ignoring tlw defense and goalie. Two defons1:men and a goalie have r.ommit­ted to Notre Dame but will not receive scholarship money. They will enroll with the academic class of 2006. NCAA rules prohibit Notre Dame from releasing their names until they are accepted. 
Walsh and Peters are the two players that Corrigan anticipates will make an immediate impact in 2003. Walsh. an All-American, and Pf'ters are both tremendous athletes. In addition to their lacrosse skills. they are finalists for the Thorpe Award which is given to the top football player on Long Island. Despite their skills in two sports, Corrigan docsn't expect either of them to follow Chad DeBolt's lead and walk on the foot­ball team. 
"I sure hope they aren't thinking about that." he said. 
Even though he now has scholarships to give out and the legitimar.y that comes with a Final Four appearance, Corrigan says he isn't changing his approach or his goals. He still wanli.; to be the best. 
"The resources and support of a school may change how much success you have but it doesn't change your goal," he said. "I just want us to be as good as we can possibly be." 
Contact Mike Connolly Connolly.28@nd.edu. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Three Irish honored 


Special to The Observer 
TIH' American 
Volleyball Coaches 
Association has 
announced its 2001 all­
regional squads, and the 
Notn~ Dame volleyball 
team is well-represented 
on the first team. Senior 
middle blocker Malinda 
Goralski, senior opposite 
Kristy Kreher and sopho­
more setter Kristen 
Kinder were named to 
the All-Northeast Hegion 
first team on Dec. 5. 
Goralski. the 2001 Big East Player of the Year and conferenr.e champi­onship Most Outstanding Player, finished the sea­son with a .379 hitting perr,entage while racking up 322 kills. Goralski also posted a 1.66 block per game average during the saeson. · 
Some of Goralski's more notable perfor­mances during the 2001 season included her 18­kill, 10-block effort at Kentucky and scoring 15 kills on .714 hitting against Valparaiso. This is the first all-regional self~ction of Goralski 's career. 
Kreher wrapped up an outstanding Irish volley­ball career by earning her third all-regional selec-
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Senior Malinda Goralski blocks a Georgetown player during the Big East Championships. 
tion. The left-handed opposite compiled 18 double-digit kill matches in 2001, earned all-Big East first team honors and was named the con­ference player of the week three different times. She led the team in kills with 331 (3.31 per game) and also had 223 digs and 101 blocks. 
Kinder joins Goralski in earning thf~ first all-regional honor of her career. The 2001 BIG EAST Setter of the Year, Kinder helped the team post a .256 team hitting perr.entage with l 215 assists (ninth on the all­time single season list) and led the .team in aces with 38 (also ninth on the all-time single season list). 
Notre Dame completed its 2001 season with a 22­7 overall record, perfect 12-0 mark in the Big East and a conference regular­season and tournament championship. 


j 
-r*--~-­
, \ -----------~---,----~-----------------------------­
\ 
' \
' ~ 
I \ 
\ 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursdav December 6, 2001 
' 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Indiana cans coach Cameron 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Even a strong finish could­n't save Cam Cameron's job. 
Cameron, who was 18-37 in his five years at Indiana, was fired Wednesday as football coach even though the Hoosiers won four of their last five games. 
"Five years is an important time to demonstrate success on the field and in the class­room," athletic director Michael McNeely said. "We expect to be successful on the field and in the class­room. 
"There is not compelling evidence that the current direction of the football pro­gram will yield a higher level of competitive success" with Cameron, McNeely said. 
Cameron, who has three years left on his contract, did not attend the news confer­ence. He will be paid about $150,000 a year in base salary for the next three years. His total compensa­tion package, including retirement benefits and additional payments, will total about $183,000 for each of the next three years. 
A handful of players attended the news confer­ence but stood in the back of 

the room with sullen expres­sions and did not talk about the decision. • 
McNeely said he made his decision Tuesday night, slept on it, then made his recom­mcndati on to IU President Myles Brand. 
"I accept our athletic director's assessment that the team's on-field perfor­mance has been disappoint­ing during Cam's tenure," Brand said in a statement. 
Cameron's best season was his last, when he went 5-6. 
McNeely will head the search committee for a new coach. He said finding the right candidate could take up to one month. 
He said he did not have any candidates on a "short list." but he did outline some of the qualifications he would seek: Division I-A leadership experience, demonstrated proficiency in all facets of the game, integrity for compliance with NCAA rules and proven abili­ty to win. 
"I have not contacted any­one, but I am, obviously, aware of people in general in the profession," McNeely said. "The most important thing is getting the appropri­ate leader for our program." 
Peppers wins Lombardi award 


II
,· 
~ ~ 
? ~ / 
< 
,' ? ?. 
( 
) ( (
·, 
{ 
~ 
( (
'; 
~ 
; 
, 
' >( , 
< 
( >t 
~ 
( 
i' 
i 
I 
j 
i 
( 
t 
i 
( ( 
) 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Julius Peppers, the North Carolina defensive end who gave up basketball to concentrate on football, \Von the Vince Lombardi Award on Wednesday night as the top collegf) lineman. 
"He was a target of all the teams we played this year," Tar Heel academic adviser Carl Carey said. 
"Teams went into games to stop him, so the fact he still leads our team in interceptions, in sacks, regardless to what 
other teams have done to stop him, is a credit to him." Peppers, a junior, has 30 112 career sacks. 
He beat out linebacker Hocky Calmus of Oklahoma and defen­sive ends Alex Brown of Florida and Dwight Freeney of Syracuse for the award 
Peppers was the sixth man on the Tar Heels basketball team. but he decided to put all of his efforts into football this season. 
"He certainly loves basketball, but football was where he could find excellence," Carey said. "It was a business decision." 

Peppers could pass up his senior year and enter thn NFL draft. He is ready for the chal­lenge. 
"People have been telling nw all my life I couldn't do things", Peppers said. "I wanted to play basketball and people said I wasn't good enough. You've got to prove yourself and that's what I did." 
Peppers had a season-high 10 tackles, including four for losses and intercepted a pass in a 41-7 victory over Florida State that helped the Tar Huels toward their 7-5 season. 

Your choice/ ather·te tanning bad sessionS forjust~ GR an entire Month of bed ~gfor only $40. 
AND when you bring in this coupon get2&'9 off our wide selection of tanning lotiClnsl 
I 
272-7853 NEW University Locatfon State Road 29 & fronwc,od 
I 
256-9656 cor:n--ofGf:ape and Md<jnley. 291-2000 Southland PluaJr-eland~ Ironwood J. 
---,--·---------llll;IMI'---------.---~----­
BRING YOUR COLLEGE ID -Ml/ST BE 21 222 S. MICHIGAN :: SOUTH BEND :: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
Thursday, December 6, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Buffalos rooting for Tigers 
. Tenn. loss could vault Colo. into Rose Bowl 
Associated Press 
BOULDER, Colo. 

Confident the pollsters would nnvard his team if LSU wins Saturday, Colorado coach Gary Barn<~tt will settif~ in front of a television, grab some pizza and 
root for the Tigors to  upset  
Temwss(~c.  
"We'r•~ all LSU  rans  now,"  

Barnett said Tuesday. Hef'erring to Tigers coach Nick Saban, Barnett added, "Go Nick." 
An LSU win would improv(l Colorado's chances of playi_ng for the national championship. Of course, it might benefit Colorado's hat<~d rival, Nebraska, even more. 
Barnett is willing to take that chance. Colorado is on a roll, having knock<'d off then-No. 2 
Nebraska <>2-3(, and tlwn-No. 3 Texas 39-37 in successive we1lks. 
The victory over Texas in the Big l 2 championship ganw on Saturday vaultf~d the Buffaloes from No. 9 in the Associated Press poll to No. 4, one spot alwad of Nebraska. 
But in the USA Today-ESPN poll, Nebraska is No. 4 and Colorado is No. 5. And in the Bmvl Championship Series rat­in gs released on Monday, ·Nebraska is third and Colorado fourth. Miami is No. 1 and 
Tennessee No. 2. 
Miami (1 l-0) has a spot locked up in the national cham­pionship game, the Hose Bowl on Jan. 3. If Tennessee (10-1) beats LSU, the Voluntf:~ers will Jorn the Hurricanes in Pasadena. Colorado (10-2} then would likely face Oregon (10-1), third in both polls, butfifth in the BCS ratings, in the Fiesta Bowl. 
If Tennessee loses. however, the BCS -a complicated for­mula which combines the poll average, various computer rankings, strength of schedule and other factors -will be enveloped in controversy again. 
A Tennessee loss means Nebraska (ll-1), whose hopes for a sixth national title appeared dead after the lop­sided loss to Colorado, would re-enter the picture and likely meet Miami in the champi­onship game. 
Colorado fans are calling that potential scenario an injustice. 
Barnett won't go that far, but admitted he's not above cam­paigning among his fellow coaches who vote in thl~ USA Today-ESPN poll. 
And he's clear about his favorite in the LSU-Tenncssee game. 
Askl~d Tuesday if he'll be rooting loudly for LSU. Barnett said, ''Yes. I will." 
Even though an LSU win could benefit Nebraska'? 
"Even though. I just trust that whoever votes and is making these decisions will do the right thing." 
Although the Buffs will have 15 recruits on campus this weekend, Barnett said he might watch the LSU-Tennessee game with his players. whom he was sure would join him in cheering for LSU. 
"I understand we've messed the BCS up more than anybody has since it's been in exis­tence," Barnett said. "I apolo­gize for all that, but we had to do it. I endorse the BS -er, BCS system. I think that getting it down to the top two teams in the country based on whatever poll system we have -comput­ers, etc. -is the right way to go." · On the other hand, Barnett questioned Nebraska's right to play for the national champi­onship. 
"I really don't want to spend time beating this drum, because ·I'm just going to come across as whining," he said. "But I think it would be very difficult to take Nebraska because it would be a slap in the face to -in my opinion ­the ACC's No. l team, the Big 1O's No. l team, the Pac-1 O's No. 1 team and the Big 12's No. l team. 
"I don't know how they could take a team that didn't go to the league championship and was third in its conference over four or fiw first-place teams in their conferences." 
Whatever the outcome, Barnett promised his. team won't be deterred. 
Oregon QB upset about BCS snub 
Associated Press 
EUGENE, Ore. 
So Joey, tell us what you really think of the Bowl Championship Series. 

Oregon's Joey Harrington livened up a pre-awards con­ference call Tuesday by criti­cizing the BCS system, which left the Ducks sitting at No. 5 for the third straight week despite four huge upsets over a nine-day span, all involving teams ranked ahead of Oregon. 
"I don't understand it," he said during the call with fel­low Heisman candidates Eric Crouch of Nebraska and Rex Grossman of Florida. 
Harrington, who also is a finalist for the Davey O'Brien Award that goes to the nation's best quarterback, said the Ducks (1 O·1. 7-l Pac­
10) should have a chance to play for the national title. Instead, Oregon almost cer­tainly will play in the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Day .. 
Undefeated Miami is No. 1 in the BCS rankings, followed by Tennessee (10-1). Nebraska (11-1) and Colorado (10-2). If Tennessee beats Louisiana State in the SEC title game on Saturday, the Vols will. play Miami in the Rose Bowl for the national title. An 
LSU victory likely would send 
Nebraska to Pasadena, even 
though the Cornhuskers were 
routed 62-36 by Colorado on 
Nov. 23. 
Oregon fans say their team, whose only loss was to Stanford {No. 9 BCS). should have risen to third following its 1 7-14 win over Oregon State last weekend. That would have put the Ducks in position to grab the No. 2 spot with a loss by Tennessee. 
Harrington might have inad­vertently fired the first salvo in a likely Colorado-Oregon Fiesta Bowl matchup by sug­gesting the Buffs don't belong at No. 4. 
"I don't know why Colorado is above us. They have two losses," Harrington said. "All the things that seem impor­tant in years past, I guess. are thrown out with the comput­ers." 
Asked whether the system works, Harrington replied, 
"No." 
"I don't know what the per­fect system is, but obviously when you have teams with two losses involved in the mix, it's not a perfect system," he said. "Colorado may be the best team in football at this point, but they weren't all year long. I think there are a lot of people who agree with me." 


an evening with 

Nancy Cartwri 
the voice of bart simpson 
Friday · Decernber 7. 200l,, Jordon ,~\.uditoriurn1 
Ticket pre-sale (student only}: l l /28 -­Sn..1dents $5, Public $8 at the door 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 6, 200 I 
.\ 
NBA 

Jordan's status still unknown for tonight 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Michael Jordan fans still weren't sure Wednesday if they'd get their money's worth. 
Jordan and the Washington Wizards visit the Houston Rockets Thursday night with Jordan still nursing a sore right knee and possibly a non­participant. 
Wizards coach Doug Collins said it would be a game-time decision whether Jordan plays. 
"There will be nights he feels good and other nights he has to sit it out," Collins said. "That's why we have to get our young guys better." 
Jordan, who didn't visit with the media on Wednesday, sat out Tuesday night's loss to the San Antonio Spurs. The Spurs, with the NBA's most spacious arena, had opened up an extra 2,000 seats for Jordan's appearance. 
The Rockets were expecting their second sellout of the season for Jordan's only appearance in Houston this season. 
Jordan hadn't missed an NBA game because of injury since March 5, 1993, also against the Spurs. 
''I'd like to get his minutes to 32, eight minutes per quar­ter," Collins said. "I probably overplayed him in the early part of the season. He'd play 37 to 40 minutes." 

Jordan is averaging 24.8 points, sixth best in the NBA. He's led the \.Yizards in 13 of the first 16 games in scoring. 
Collins has had to prepare his young team for Jordan's absences. 
"If he's not playing what we have to do is go through more of our offense with second and third options," Collins said. "\.Ye've spent a lot of time learning our plays all the way through." 
Jordan went through a light workout with the Wizards Wednesday. 
"These guys are aware of what we're trying to accom­plish," Collins said. "He's (Jordan) very aware, he's gone through all of our defenses. When he does play he changes our team, no question, but we're 25 games into the season so the guys are accustomed to it." 
Jordan had fluid drained from his right knee for the second time this season on Monday. An MRI showed no serious damage. He hyperex­tended the knee during pre­season and it has been consis­tently sore and swollen. 

BOXING 

Lewis sues Tyson to avoid fight 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Lennox Lewis is suing Mike Tyson to prevent him from fight­ing on Jan. 19 or to have the WBC remove Tyson from the mandatory challenger's position if he does fight. 
The suit, which also names the WBC as a defendant, was filed in_ 
U.S. District Court in Manhattan on Tuesday. 
It contends that such a fight for Tyson could hurt Lewis financially. Tyson and Lewis are expected to fight next spring. 

Lewis regained the WBC-IBF heavyweight titles by knocking 
' out Hasim Rahman on Nov. 17. 
/ 
Tyson is scheduled to fight Mercer next month, probably at 

r;' Atlantic City, N.J. He then is sup­posed to challenge Lewis in April, although that fight is not yet signed. In a statement, Tyson said Wednesday that he was "out­raged by Lennox's attempt to interfere with my career." "I stepped aside as the WBC challenger in November to allow the rematch with Rahman," Tyson said. "Lennox makes his own rules only when they suit 

h.
lffi. " 
The WBC mandatory defense was scheduled for November. A federal judge, however, ruled that Rahman, who knocked out Lewis on April 22, must fight Lewis again before he fought anyone else. 
The suit contends that the 

WBC entered into an agreement 
with Tyson that allows Tyson to 
engage in a Jan. 19 bout against 
an opponent other that Lewis, 
but bars Lewis from fighting 
anybody before he fights Tyson. 
"IfTyson fights on Jan. 19 and 

is permitted to remain the 
mandatory challenger, it will be 
impossible successfully to pro­
mote a timely championship 
bout that will maximize rev­
enues -especially if Tyson is 
injured in the Jan. 19 bout," the , suit states. 
"Lennox, if you want me, we 

can fight on Jan. 19," Tyson said 
in the statement. 'Tm sure Hay 
Mercer would much rather fight 
me for the heavyweight crown 
after I finished you off." 
A Lewis-Tyson fight should be 

worth at least $ 20 million to 
each fighter unless ·the fight 
went to purse bids. 
Generally, the rule in a purse 

bid is 75 percent to the champi­
on and 25 percent to the chal­
lernzer. 

Cold Weather Experts 
5 minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 

t' -~·.', 
THERE REALLYI'S;:MORE TO LIFE THAN JUST BEING A · 
. . 

' ' ~ 
SURVIVOR 

Thursday, December 6, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 


The Department of Management & The Alumni Association invite everyone to attend the 
presentation by... 
Jimmy Dunne 
Senior Managing Principal of Sandler O'Neill & Partners 
''Managing in the Aftermath of9/11'' 
Friday, December 7 12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 

Celebrate the last day of classes! 
Tuesday, Dec. 11th 
9:00pm-12:00am 
LaFortune Ballroom 

Got an interesting sports story to tell the world? Call The Observer at 1-4543 
Irish in 13th place of Sears Cup 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame stands 13th in the first set of fall sports standings released in the 2001-02 Sears Directors' Cup all-sports competition. 
Athletic Director Kevin White has said it is his goal for Notre Dame to finish in the top five. 
Fall NCAA competition so far has earned the Irish 101 points based on their sixth­place finish in men's cross country (68) and their 19th­place finish in women's cross country (33 points). 
Yet to come are fall points for Notre Dame's 2001 NCAA involvement in volleyball (the Irish lost in the first round). women's soccer (the Irish advanced to the second round) and men's soccer (the Irish fell in the first round). 
The next set of fall standings will be released Dec. 13, a third fall set Dec. 27 and the final fall standings will be available Jan. 8. 
Colorado (162 points) leads the competition thanks to its 
Co1Uffl6ia· Sportswear
I ' 

(' !"(Jpc::r , o ! tJ('T1 o-n o [.
~ l. I ..i:. ,_ ,.) i, '"''I,,...,. i....,,.,,. ... l,. I I l t.,j. 
~_minute~ 
,,om CUTPC.S I 
CampLls ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
NCAA championship in men's cross country and its eighth­place finish in women's cross country. Second is Stanford, followed by Michigan (01 NCM field hockey champion). BYU (the 01 NCAA women's cross country c:hampion) and North Carolina State. 
The current standings include results from NCAA fall competition in field hockey, and men's and women's cross country. 
In previous years in which the Sears Directors' Cup com­petition has been held, Notre Dame has finished 11th in 1993-94, 30th in 1994-95, 11th in 1995-96, 14th in 1996­97, tied for 31st in 1997-98, 25th in 1998-99, 21st in 1999­2000 and 11th again in 2000­01. 
The current top 15 schools are Colorado, Stanford, Michigan, BYU, North Carolina State. Michigan State, Northern Arizona, Georgetown, Arkansas, Providence, \-Yake Forest, Arizona, Notre Dame, Virginia and Maryland. 
NDcinerna 
TH:URS DAY·~ DEC 6 

f~~ ES SURG H LIBRA.RY A. UD !TO RiUM 7·: . 0 P f\tl 
FREE ADMISSION 

P~P.:f.:::t:::.-,iTf:.O t;l'<' TH,~ Dtt:PAtHMENT OF F-'1LM, ·r·t:::u.:.:VlSi!ON AND Tl··3ti::.,(~_ ...n~~ 
Dt'-ffrm:fs.s !f'tf: HlS!~diMt Wm $.l!()tf beforo e.~~h NDcit~Yna f?.atlJref 

-



f< 
~i 
}' 
(I 
~ 
page 20 Thursday, December 6, 200 l
h r· ' ' The Observer . SPORTS 
\,
\ 
>t 
., HOCKEY 
t 
~· ~\ )'
± ), ~ Globke, Lebda selected for U.S. junior team ~ 
i 
~ \
1/,. 
Special to The Observer

i
-~ 
\\ ' Two Notre Dame hockey
'" ~ 
-~ 
players have bnen selected ~ by USA Hockey to play ont the United States National
~\ '. 
~~ Junior 
\1, • 
\~ Hockey IJ. 
t C a Ill 

r \\ ( 
that will 

~ 
C O ll1 ­

' 
\ I pete in t h e Inter­
' national I c e 
l ~ 


~ Hockey Lebda Feder­ation (IIHF) World Junior Championship. The tour­nament, featuring the 
~~ world's top players under 20 years of age, will be~\ held Dec. 25 through Jan. 
4. 2002 in Pardubice and' ~ Hradec Kralove, Czech ) . Republic. This marks the 
• ) 
sixth consecutive season )· that Notre Dame players > have been chosen to the ) prestigious 22-p Iayer 
team. Notre Dame's invitees

ii I 
include sophomore center

f~ Hob Globkc and sophomore defenseman Brett Lebda. This will be Globke's sec­
¼~l 
n 
ond appearance on the team that is comprised off the top players in the \ \ United States. Both players have come through the 
USA National Under-18

: ! 
ii 
~'./;
r· 
I 
\' 
' 
\ 


2  6  
points.  
\V i t  h  
the U.S.  
team in  
Moscm,:  
I  a  s  t  
ye a r,  
Glob kc  
scoredGlobke  
t  \\/  0  
goals to  
help the U.S.  to  a  5-2-0  
record and  a  fifth-place  
finish.  

Developmental Program. 
Globkc is tied for fourth in scoring for the Irish with 5-4-9 in l 3 games. Last season, he tied for third on the N otrc Dame scoring sheet with a team-bl~st l 7 goals and nine assists for 
"It's a great honor to be selected for the National Junior team," said Globke. 'Tm glad that I'll be going with a player like Brett Lebda. J learned a lot last season and that will help me a great deal, especially off the ice. I think that I'm a better player than I was last year, skill-wise.'' 
Lebda, a CCIIA all*rookie team selection a year ago as a freshman, lf~ads all Notre Dame defensemen this season with three goals on the year and five points (3-2-5) in 14 games. In his rookie season at Notre Dame, Lebda led all CCHA freshmen defense­men with seven goals and 19 assists for 26 points. That tied him for third in scoring for the Irish. 
"It feels great to be named to this team. It's been a long time in coming and to finally be named feels great," said Lebda. "It's an honor to be playing for your country and there is no better feeling than putting on that USA jer­
. sey." Notre Dame will play f'our regular s{mson games and one exhibition game without the services of Globke and Lebda. The exhibition game comes on Dec. 21 at the Joyce Center vs. the USA Under-18 Developmental Team. On Dec. 28-29, the Irish travel to Princeton for a pair of non-league games. They then return to CCI IA action at home on Jan. 4-5 versus the University of Michigan. The vVolverines will have three players playing in the \Vorld Junior tourna­ment, two for the U.S. team -Mike Komisarek and Dwight Helminen ­and Mike Cammalleri for the Canadian team. In naming the team, head coach Keith Allain said, "This team will pos­sess skill. intelligence and grit. Our success will be 
determined on how quickly we can bring all of these 
qualities together to become a tearn... 

Thursdal.J, Dec. 6 
5:00 
p.m. -8:00 p.m. Institute for Latino Studies Christmas Reception, East Lounge, McKenna Hall 

5:00 
p.m. -6:00 p.m. Ramadan lftar, South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 


6:00 p.m. Men's Swimming ND Invitational, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
6:30 p.m. Women's Swimming ND Invitational, · Rolfs Aquatic Center 
6:00 p.m. College Bowl Finals, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
7:00 
p.m. Film, Risky Business, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library* 

7:00 
p.m. Lecture by David Lloyd, "Representation's Coup: The Violence in Subalternity, DeBartolo 134 


7:30 p.m. Play: The Tragedy of Othello, Hesburgh Institute for International Studies* 
8:00 p.m. Handel's Messiah, Washington Hall* 
8:30 
p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Lacrosse, Rolfs 

8:30 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 


8:45 p.m. College Bowl Match, Rectors vs. Administrators, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
9:30 p.m. College Bowl Match: Winner of Student Round Robin vs. Winner of Rectors vs. Administrators, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
10:00 p.m. Movies: 0 and 10 Things I Hate About You, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
11 :00 p.m. Movie: National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center* 
MD AFTER FIVE 

,..___________________________________J 
RICO CASARES/The Observer 
Center Rob Globke guards the puck during a recent game. Globke, along with teammate Brett Lebda was selected to the national junior hockey team. 


Fridal.J, Dec. 7 
5:15 p.m. Vigil Mass: Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

:00 p.m. Men's Swimming ND Invitational, Rolfs Aquatic Center :30 p.m. Women's Swimming ND Invitational, 
Rolfs Aquatic Center :00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Badminton, Rolfs :00 p.m. Carroll ChristmasTree Lighting with 
refreshments and Glee Club, Carroll Hall 
:00 p.m. Lecture by Nancy Cartwright, Jordan Auditorium* (Tickets required for this event) 
:00 p.m -8:00 p.m. Children's Christmas Show, Dave Rudolf, Stepan Center 
:30 p.m. Movies: 0 and 1 O Things I Hate About You, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
:30 p.m. Play: The Tragedy of Othello, Hesburgh Institute for International Studies* 
:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman Morse 
Center :00 p.m. Handel's Messiah, Washington Hall* :30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room 
open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Snowflake Picture Frames, Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Movie: National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center* 
10:00 
p.m. Loft Show, Cast Iron Filter, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: 0 and 10 Things I Hate About You, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


11 :00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, Bingo, LaFortune Student Center 
12:00 a.m. Late Night Grill, Fieldhouse Mall 
Saturda11, Dec. 8 
6:00 
p.m. Glee Club Christmas Concert, Stepan Center* 

6:00 
p.m. Men's Swimming ND Invitational, Rolfs Aquatic Center 



6:30 p.m. Women's Swimming ND Invitational, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
7:00 
p.m. Movie: How The Grinch Stole Christmas, and Board games afterwards, Carroll Auditorium (Madeleva Hall) and Dalloway's Cafe, Saint Mary's College 

7:00 
p.m. Gospel Concert: Blessed by The Birth, Washington Hall* .. 



7:30 
p.m. Play: The Tragedy of Othello, Hesburgh Institute for International Studies* 


7:30 
p.m. Comedy: A Ha! Jolly Christmas, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m. Women's Ice Hockey vs. Bowling Green, Joyce Center 



7:30 p.m. Movies: O and 10 Things I Hate About You, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
8:00 
p.m. Slam Poet: Beau Sia, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 

8:00 
p.m. -12:30 a.m. Concert: B.A.R.R. Rock, Alumni Senior Club* 


8:30 
p.m. Glee Club Christmas Concert, Stepan Center* 

8:30 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 



9:00 p.m. Movie: National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center* 
10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m Open Karaoke in the Huddle,. LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 p.m. Movies: 0 and 10 Things I Hate About You, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. All programs 
.----~• .-.......-...... . 

FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOM, VISIT: w~tw.nd.edu/,..sao/ 
I ' 
<' 
Thursday, December 6, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND SWIMMl'NG 

Irish wrap up fall season at Notre Dame Invite 

BY NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
The final exam for Notre Dame's swimming and diving teams will come this weekend at the Notre Dame Invitational, where both teams will compete for the final time this semester. 
The meet, a three-day trials 
"[The meet] is a chance

and fmals champi­women's onship-style com­for us to evaluate the coach Baile·y petition, will begin progress ofthe team Weathers. this morning at "We just
and get people qualified 

Rolfs Aquatic want to give Center and will be for Big East ... the kids the last time both some more teams compete in s w i m s
Mike Koss 

a championship­before
Irish co-captain 

race format before Christmas." 
defending champions at the Invite, will use the weekend as a chance to start finalizing what events individual swimmers will compete in during the champi­onship season. 
"The kids can swim as many events as they want, so we can really start to pick out what their best events are for the champi­onship," said I r i s h 

Big East 
Championships in 
February. 
"We like to say we take our 

final exam in swimming first," 
said Irish men's coach Tim 
Welsh earlier this season. 
The meet will serve as a "mea­

suring stick" for the fall semes­
ter's progress in the pool for the 
men's team, said senior co-cap­
tain Mike Koss. 
"It's our pool, so we know the 

walls and we know the blocks," 
Koss said. "It's a chance for us to 
evaluate the progress of the team 
and get people qualified for Big 
East." 
The men's team, coming off a dual meet cycle in early November that produced a win over Connecticut and losses to Rutgers and Texas Christian, looks repeat as Invite champions. They will also use the meet as a chance to compare times with Big East foes Virginia Tech and Pittsburgh, who have also swam .in championship format recently. 
The women's team, also 
T h e 
women's team enters the meet with an undefeated record so far this season, with a notable victory over Purdue in November. Purdue was the only team to beat the Irish in the 2000-2001 season. In the Big East, the women currently The women's team is also currently ranked No. 13 nationally for dual meet rank­ings, and No. 15 overall. 
Both teams will compete against teams from Bowling Green University, Oakland University, Northern Michigan University, University of Connecticut, Hillsdale College and St. Louis University. 
The meet, which kicks off this morning, begins with trials at 
10:30 a.m. and continues with finals at 6:30 p.m. The meet will last from today until Saturday night. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10R43@saintmarys.edu 


The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 


Wednesday. Thursday &  Tickets S3-6  
Friday, December 5·7. 200 l  LaFortune Box Office:  
8:00 PM Washington Hall  (2 I 9) 63 l ·8 I 28  



.·:•:-~ ._, 
:_,,-. < .. ->. : 
·.. ,.. '·.-,-.,.'>~. ·._ :: .. . ·"' . 
··iYnrt 

----­ r~-:?:·-·:--<-·>­ -·.·.  --=--._:  
>.  ·;,  _·}'  .  ·:·::  
'  ...  ··  1,19".'.~  .  

t(~it):~w';)tl·,· 
h).; ~:.i!f;,:C,:\·•,;;;, i· .i.,/;;:, ••''·"-· b,io;;:,~~t?' 
PatqJ;_onia
exclUSively
at . • 
Sminute~~ 
from .CIUTPCIIIT' Campus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259•2000for more details 

-





t / 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursqay, December 6, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish, Boilerm'akers face off in rematch 

. Irish beat Purdue in championship game last year 
BY KA TIE McVOY 
Associate Spom Ediror 
\Vhen tlw women's basket­ball team arrivns at Purdue. .the campus \Viii look like it is getting primed for a huge event. An athletic-department tailgate is offering Boilermaker students free food prior to tip-off and notices are posted on the school's web site detailing when and \Vhcre the game will be tehwised. 
Tonight, as Notre Dame heads to Purdue to face off at Mackey Arena spectators are looking for a rematch of last year's national championship game. Eight months ago the Boilermakers were cut short of the national title when the Irish defeated them in the final seconds 68-66. 
But tonight's match-up won't be anything similar to last year's game. It will be differ­ent. 
"These teams are coming at us \.Vith their A game and mak­ing' it like the national champi­onship all over again and the freshmen are kind of back on their heels going what's going on." Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "So we keep talking about how we're not really the defending national champions." 
In the rankings, the Irish are far from being national cham­pions, unranked for the first time since the end of tlrn 1997­1998 season. Purdue, on the otlwr hand, is heading towards the top. 
The Boilermakers are ranked eight in tlw ESPN/USA Today coaches poll and sev­enth in the AP poll. They head into tonight's game with a 5-1 record, their only loss coming to No. 4 Oklahoma in their season opener. 
"They're better than we are," Mdiraw said. 
After the opening season loss 
to ~Oklahoma, PurduP has gone 
on a live-ganrn winning streak. 
most recently defeating No. 18 
Louisiana State on Sunday. 
Leading the Boilermakers all 
season has been sophomore 
forward Shereka vVright. ·who 
the Irish will have trouble con­
t a inin g. Wright. who was 
named Big East co-player of 
the week this week, is averag­
ing 17. 7 points a game and 
shooting 49 percent from the 
floor. 
"We don't have an answer 
for her," McGraw said. "We've 
got mismatches all around. So 
we're going to have trouble 
defensively." 
Joining the 5-10 sophomore 
post player are seniors Kelly 
Komara and Laura Meadows, 
both of whom are averaging in 
the double figures. Under 
IL-y .,_,l 
-------_._ 0 
5minute~~ 
f,-om CIU.,...CIST 
Campus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259--1.000 for more details 
third-y('ar lwad coach Kristen Curry, who is ;,9-16 in her thrP<> years at Purdun, the Irish will have tlrnir hands full. Purdue is outrebou nding its opponents 21-14 and outscor­ing their opponents by an average of 23 points a game. The Boilermakers are turning tho ball over less frequently than their opponents and forc­ing more turnovers. They haven't lost a game at home this season. 
After suffering a staggering loss to the Wolverines on Sunday, the Irish will have some adjustments to make to keep a handle on Purdue's strong offensive attack. 
"Our 2-3 defense has been the most effective the past few years," McGraw said. "Especially against Shere ka Wright." . 
Tip-off is at 7 p.m. in vVest LaFavctte, Ind. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695 saintmarys.edu. 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Faculty Artist Serles Presents 
\·:,: ::~. ~::::.. :~ t:!::.::; :}//{.·.... 
....·..·:::::::::::?:'.::i:iiiii;~;:t~:~;~~:i.ji~:~:~}~;~;~f 
;~fr~;;:·.i.;:o·o··=·p:ffi~: A·n.ri=iri:tiii.j:=:Jil:dItO rIU m.;}S.·BilitM:i:i.jU~::·jf.{A:it~~'.:'.~.~~i'.i;~;~;;~;~;::~~!~:~;'.;~~;~;~;'.;~:~;:;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~~;~~~;~::?: .. 


.··•:•:•:•:•:•:•·•.•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•·•:-:-:•:•:•:•.•J•:•:•:•:•:·:-:•:•,•. Tlck t ·.·.$·3 1o··•·. :,... ;11~·,. ··.•,r•:•:•:-:1:··:·:· B 
:•:•····or;1r•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•1···i21"9163;1• .. ·a:1':llt":•:-:•:•:•:•.-:•:•:•.•.....:•:•:·: :•. :•':•:•:•:•:.:.:.:•:•· 
CAlt··r2?r1J·:•:&3:1-~2::0f\iift:=:=;~A,,i,l (;,0... <tC4<f@~i}lilfttr·=it-Jttixrrr;e··i~:;{;i·£~.... 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Freshman Kelsy Wicks attempts to make a pass in a recent game. Notre Dame will face Purdue tonight in a match-up of last year's national championship game that the Irish won, 68-66. 
Interested in running for 

2002-2003 Student Bodv President or Vice-President? 
You rmrst c·onit· to one of tlw i11fi1rmatio11al mt>t'linµ:s lwld 
Mondav, December 10 
or 
Tuesday, December 11 
1p111 i11 H111 :rn:l llaggur 
For questions <'onlad 



Thursday, December 6, 2001 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
t\-e.~e. ~•t. '1°°_< TC£s 
.so )"'-' Ct.,\ ~e,e..t-e 
fw\e G,, c..,kll~ i«fj 
\.o leo-:,~ YOJ s~li11J 

FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
zzzz... zzzz... tF YOU ASIC ME, THEY 

~,.. 


CROSSWORD 

ACROSS  33 Wing it,  60 Niagara River  
1 Does origami 6 Antenna type 10 LP flaw 14 Give or take  musically 36 Tabloid fliers 37 Maps out 39 Miss Home 40 Norm: Abbr.  source 61 "I dropped it!" 62 Classic toothpaste brand 63 Word that can  
15 Bat's navigation aid 16 Sonata finale 17 New Boy Scout 19 Assayers' samples 20 54-Across logo 21 Brownie_ (things to earn) 22 Afternoon socials 23 Pedestal topper 24 Protect, in a way 26 Lakefront home  41 Julia's Oscar-winning role 42 Add a lane to, say 43 1969 Shirley MacLaine musical 46 Hidden away 49 Mother of Helen of Troy 50 Pulitzer winner James 51 Give confidence to 54 Letterman's  follow the ends of 17-, 26·, 43· and 58-Across 64 Like Santa's cheeks 65 Off-the-wall DOWN 1 Lot in life 2 O!d wedding vows word 3 Like a recluse 4 Fizzier 5 Blended family member  
feature  network  6 Desecrate  
31 Bummed around 32 _-Rooter  57 Wrestling hold 58 Torturer's tool  7 PC pictograph 8 Totally gone  
9 Stressful spots  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  1oRob Roy need  
11 "M*A*S*H"  Puz:zle by Mark P. Sherwood  
setting 12 Think tank  33 _ Knight 34 Work without  46 Biblical spy 47 Ancient  54 Pluto or auto ending  
nuggets 13 No longer in vogue 18 Dig (for) 23 Curri~r·s partner 25 Sgt., for one  _ (take risks) 35 A zillion 37 Shark or T. rex 38 Tell a whopper 39 Milano moolah 41 Merino mother  marketplace 48 Beany's TV friend 52 "Get lost!" 53 Has a late meal  55 Needing straightening 56 Swing in the breeze 59 PC "brain"  
"  42 Gets wet up to  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
27 Flat fI oater  the ankles  are available by touch-tone phone:  
28 Shirt with a  43 Israeli money  1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute).  
reptilian logo  44 All thumbs  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
29 Type of goose 30 Countless years  45 Tarragon or chervil  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): THIS DAY: Billy Graham, Joan Take bett~r care of yourself to Sutherland, Joni Mitchell, Johnny avoid allergies, headaches and 
Rivers, King Kong Bundy minor mishaps. Don't take on 
Happy Birthday: You'll be a more than you can handle or you powerhouse this year. Your abili­may end up being careless. 000 ty to take charge will benefit you LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): in group encounters. Your relent­Your peers will aepreciate you less nature will be feared by today. Making worlliwhile contri­opponents and praised by your butions to fund-raising groups is followers. The greater your fine, but don't go over your vision, the more you'll achieve. budget to impress others. This is Your numbers: 1, 3, 5, 28, 33, 49 a crucial time financially. 0000 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Slow down to smell the flowers. Today requires give and take. You Your biggest problem is that no may be cfetermined to have your one can keep up with your fast way. Don't be surprised if your pace. Creative hobbies or physi­partner is just as intent. Try to cal activities will help you relax. compromise. 00 00000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
TAURUS {April 20-May 20): You'll be daydreaming about dis­Don't take everything you hear to tant places and lively adventures heart today. Tactless people may today. You will do best if you are upset you, but don't bother to traveling for business or pleasure. retaliate. It's best to keep a low Communications with authority profile. 00 figures may not go as well as y9u 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): had hoped. 00000 Friends or relatives may try to CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19): interfere in your personal life. Today is not about you. You need You are in a far better position to to make time for a parent or help yourself. Spend ti.me with a grandparent who may require special someone. 0000 help sorting out financial papers 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): and legal documents. Your Follow your intuition in setting patience will be rewarded. 000 priorities. Someone may make AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
unwarranted demands. Calm Be prepared to listen to all sides of him or her down by offering a story before making any judg­legitimate suggestions, but don't ments. Your insight will be greatly console someone who isn't will­appreciated by those caught up in ing to make changes. 000 the melodrama. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): emotional whims may be hard to You may feel that an authoritative take. If you neglect your share of figure is treating you poorly, but be chores at home or at work, prob­aware that insecurity may be the lems will erupt. Just do the work problem. To ease the situation, go and move on. 000 about your own business. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are entertaining and quick to take action, which will always draw a response. Your demonstrative manner will separate you from the crowd. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) <O 2001 Universal P~Syndicate 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $9 5 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name _______________________ Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-

O
THE ~ampus Sports
National Sports BSERVER 

. ND W Basketball, p. 22
. Sears Cup, p.19 
. ND Swimming, p. 21
. NBA, p. 18 
. Hockey, p. 20
. Boxing, p. 18 
. ND Volleyball, p. 15
. NCAA Football, p. 17 

Thursday, December 6, 200 I 
FOOTBALL 

The List Narrows 

Stanford head coach Tyrone Willingham urges on his players during a game. Notre Dame has received permission from Stanford 
to talk with Willingham about filling it's vacant football head coaching position. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports E<liror 
San Francisco 49ers head coach Steve Mariucci said he· is not considering -and vvill not consider -the Notre Dame coaching vacancy if he is approached. 
"I am not a candidate for any job -and that includes Notre Dame." he said on his radio show \Vednesday morn­ing. "I am happy in the Bay Area with the Nirnws." 
Mariucci is the second high-profile coach in two days to pull his name out of con­tention for the coaching vacancy created by Bob Davie's firing on Sunday. On Tuesday. Oklahoma head coach Bob Stoops said he had no interest in leaving Oklahoma for any coaching position. 
The only known coach that Notre· Dame has received per­mission to talk to about the coaching vacancy is Stanford's Tyrone \Villingham. Early Tuesday evening, several South Bend television .stations 

reported that \,Yhite had alreadv interviewed \Villingham. But in an inter­view with WSCR Hadio in Chicago, Willingham said that wasn't true. 
"The direction of our conver­sation may lead some people to assume something has taken place that is far from th e tr u th . " h e s a id . "\V hat Notre Dame has done, and I'm very flattered they've done this, is they've contacted our athletic department about speaking with me. Whether they will or will not is up to 
them." 
"He's doing a great job for 
us and I think he'll stay," said 
Stanford athletic director Ted 
Leland. "But I am not going to 
stand in his way [if he wants 
to leave.]" 
\Villingham led thf~ Cardinal to a Hose Bowl berth in 1999. He just wrapped up his best coaching season with Stanford af'ter the Cardinal finished 9-2 and earned a Seattle Bowl . b(~rth. In his seven years as a head coach at Stanford. 
see FOOTBALL/page 14 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Fouls, turnovers frustrate Belles 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
GOSHEN 
i.:or Saint Mary's this season, two k<~ys to victory are keeping forwards Kristen Matha and Anne Blair on the court and avoiding turnovers. The Belles didn't achieve either of those goals Wednesday night. falling to the Maple Leafs of Goshen College 73-54. 
Matha and Blair, Saint Mary's starting forwards and 
players who each have earned MIAA Player of the \Veek hon­ors in their careers, played onlv 26 and 22 minutes. respectively. Blair picked up three first-half fouls. \Vhile Matha picked up her fourth foul with 12:38 remaining in the gamf\. 
"At the point when they both had four fouls and went to the bench, we were young inside," head r:oach Suzanne Smith said. "\Ve lose both of them and all we have lel't is youth. It makes it hard." 

In their limited time on the court, Blair scored l O points and grabbed nine rebounds while Matha scored 12 and grabbed a game-high 14 rebounds. 
Freshman Emily Creachbaum led the Belles with 13 points in 26 minutes off the bench, 11 in th0. second half. 
Saint Mary's also turned the ball over 27 times \Vednesday night. 16 times during the sec­ond half. Every Belles player who logged more than six min­utes was credited with at least 
on<} turnover. 
Against Dominican University on Saturday, Saint Mary's turned th<} ball ov<~r 29 times. a statistic Smith secs as unac­ceptable. 
"You're not going to win ball­games that way," Smith said. "It's being strong with the ball and taking each position and giving it some value and look­ing to g1~t something on each possession." 
The Maple Leafs led from 
see BELLES/page 14 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Money opens doors 
• Corrigan signs first scholarship class 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Wrirn 

vVhcn men·s lacrosse coal'h Kevin Corrigan started at Notre Dame 13 years ago. h<• \V c n t in to r v <' ry r c c r u its · house dragging two huge stones behind him. IIP was Ii mi u~ d in who h e co u Id rncruit by two things -h1: didn't have any scholarship aid to offer and Notre Danw wasn't an established lacrosse pow(~r with a rhanrP to succeed in the NCAA tour­nanwnt. 
"\Ve evaluated right from the b1~ginning and said that if mo1wy is going to be a hugP issLw for a kid. ,vc c;an 't gd involved because we will just be wasting out tim<'." C<lrrigan said about n~cruit­ing without scholarships. "\Ve knew at the end -<JI' tlw day he would choose some­where else no matter how much he loved Notre Darm~." 
Nine NCAA tournament appearances in his first 1l seasons established Notrf' Damn as an f'Stablished win­ner in lacrosse and lightcnPd the load of' Olli' stone. /\ Final Four appearance in his 13th season complct<'iy rt'movnd the first ston<'. 
"We've been kind of' pro­gressing in the area of kids we could recruit," Corrigan said. "As we've gotten into the tournament consistently, then into the top 15, th<>n thP top 10 and getting some wins in the tournanwnt and th1•n getting to tl1<1 Final Four. then~ really is no kid out tlrnr" \vho drn!sn 't giv<' us a thought in Wrms of 'that's a place \vhcrn I can gPt a gr«>at_ education and competo for a championship.... 
Th c n ath I et ic di r f\ ctor Kevin White announced that men·s lacrosse would recPiVP about thrne scholarships per year for four yPars un ti! it had the NCAA maximum 
12.6 scholarships. 

Suddenly Corrigan had accflss to any lacrosse play('r who could qualify academ­ically. Doors that \V(ffl! barred to his recruiting pitch 
see lACROSSE/page 15 
. ND Women's Basketball at Purdue, Today, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. ND Swimming, Notre Dame Invitational , Today
SPORTS 
online 

. Hockey at Bowling Green, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Basketball at Miami (OH), Friday, 3 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
' /. 




