
Hot end to cool movie season 
Talking about diversity
Scene movie critics review several films that 
Notre Dame continued its celebration ofMartin 
Thursday
ended an otherwise drab 2000 year in movies 
Luther King, Jr., sponsoring a student panel 
on a high note. 
Wednesday night. 
JANUARY 25,
Scene . pages 12 &13 
News . page 3 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 73 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Benchwarmer's raid nets 50+ student busts 
In a previous bar bust at Finnigan's day but I don't care." officers outside the bathrooms andBy MIKE CONNOLLY Irish Pub on. Oct. 12. police shut down According to student reports, three carded every person who went in or 
News Writer 
the bar and carded everyone. At police officers arrived at midnight and out. 
Benchwarmer's, however, the music stood in the middle of the bar. Other This is the second time this school 
Seven South Bend Police Department played and the lights flashed as police officers were stationed near the door. year that numerous underage students cars surrounded Benchwarmer's Sports moved through the dance floor carding "At first there were just three and have been cited. The Oct. 12 bust at Lounge at 1 a.m. Thursday as officers patrons. they were just standing around and it Finnigan's yielded 147 Minor in a cited an estimated 50-60 Notre Dame "I was just getting my groove on and looked like they were going to let peo­Tavern citations -including one for and Saint Mary's students on minor in a they hit me on the dance floor," one ple walk about right then," another All-American basketball player Troy tavern charges. cited student who declined to give his cited student said. Murphy. Students did not know if any 
Students outside the bar said police name said. "I told the guy, 'I turn 21 on As the evening progressed, the offi­athletes were caught at Benchwarmer's arrived around midnight and began Feb. 5.' And he said "oh wow, I got cers began stopping patrons and asking but did express shock that two bars carding students inside the bar. busted seven days before my 21st birth-for identification. They also stationed were raided in the same school year. 

Identity beyond stereotypes 
African-American students search to find a niche 
beyond the confines ofracial myths 
Movin~ 
To'\"¼ar 


Part 3: The Delusion of Inclusion 

Editor's note: In honor of Martin Luther King. Jr. celebrations on cam­p us. The Observer explores diversity issues in a four-part series. Part three examines the issues African Americans face as minorities at Notre Dame. 
Patrick Parks was a little surprised when one of his dormmates thought he played football. 
That's because he's short. 
But Parks, a senior African-American student at Notre Dame, frequently gets mistaken for an ath­lete because of his skin color. Parks' dark skin is frequently a signal to other students that he's an ath­lete -but he's not. 
"[My dormmate] just assumed that because I was black, I played foot­ball," Parks said, adding that his size should have been a consideration, but was overshadowed by his skin color. 
Racial profiling of minori­ty students is a disturbing everyday occurrence where minority students are cate­gorized as being athletes or intellectually inferior. 
"Sometimes there's a lot of talk that only people who are black are characterized as automatically stu­dent athletes and that's not neces­sarily true," said Susan Creary, a sophomore African-American stu­dent. 
Racial profiling of African­American students as athletes is a major misconception that is an obstacle for minority students' acceptance in the Notre Dame com­munity. 
"There's definitely room for improvement, there's always that stereotype of all African-Americans 

Story by 

KIFLIN TURNER 
At Notre Dame, incidents of racial isolation can be seen in the dining halls (above). Students such as senior Patrick Parks (right) may even feel isolated in 

their residence halls. 
on campus being athletes. and unfortunately a lot of the times it holds true because a lot of them are athletes," said Thomas Gilbert, a biracial walk-on member of the track and field team. 
Mistaken Identity 
Gilbert's experience is familiar to other minority students. Sophomore Justin Ruiz is no stranger to racial discrimination in his dorm and in the classroom. 
Ruiz recalled one incident where a resident in his dorm repeatedly hesi­tates to speak with him, regardless of Ruiz's efforts to initiate friendly conversation. 
'TU say hi to him and he won't say anything back-and I don't know if he's intimidated or I don't know if he's [not] used to people of color," said Ruiz. 
The same situation also occurs elsewhere on campus, Ruiz said. 
"For the most part, people say hello back, but sometimes they just kind of shrug their shoulders and keep on walking," Ruiz said. 
In the classroom setting, many African-American students are sin­gled out because of their race, and 
see RACE/page 9 
Canceled 'Monologues' spurs forum 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 
Students, faculty and staff expressed discontent regarding the administration's decision to prevent "The Vagina Monologues" from being performed on Saint Mary's campus Wednesday in a speak-out facilitated by student organizers. 
After receiv­ing letters 
"{Eldred's]

from alumnae, College position has President 
been that this 

Marilou 
is one way

Eldred told student orga• dialogue has nizers this begun to be week 'The 
opened but 

Vagina Monologues' there must be 
would not be 
more 

performed on 
inclusive 

campus this 
y e a r . ways to open Alumnae, the the dialogue Board of 
than through 

Trustees and 
members of the play . ., 
the Parents C O u n c i 1 Linda Timm e x Pr e s s e d vice president for 
concerns 
about per-student affairs forming the play at Saint Mary's after seeing a letter from a former professor, E. Michael Jones, detailing certain aspects of the play that he said went against Church teaching. The discussion gave mem­bers of the Saint Mary's community the opportunity to react to the deci­sion and voice their opinions about 
the play. 
One of the discussion's facilitators, Saint Mary's student Julie Frischkorn, expressed concern that the administration had only heard mostly negative feedback. Other stu­dents questioned whether students behind the effort to have the 'Monologues' on campus had a chance to refute what they saw as false claims about the play that were 
see MONOLOGUES/page 4 

•
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, January 25, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Applications 
101 
What are you doing after graduation? 
Where are you going to graduate school? Medical school? Law school? Do you have a job? Where are you living? 
As part of the curriculum, I think Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's should teach us how to answer those questions. 
Applying for (fill in your future) 101. 
As ridiculous as that sounds, I did not realize the huge production involved in getting a job or getting into graduate school, and how completely unprepared I was for that process. 
Silly me, I thought that if I succeeded in undergradu­ate, applying for what I wanted to do when I gradu­ated would simply be the next step. 


Molly McVoy 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Little did I know that applying to medical school would not involve an· the knowledge I have learned at Saint Mary's but on my ability to write a "personal statement" 27 different times. 
I needed a class on how to tell complete strangers who you are in 500 words or less; and a class on how to miss 50 percent of your fall classes going to interviews without failing out of college and another class on how to get to any medical school in the United States from the South Bend airport without draining your savings. 
. Applying for post-graduate programs is really not a matter of showing off your many talents and strengths, but, instead, a matter of wait­ing, waiting, and more waiting. 
I think the application process for post-grad­uate programs is really a test of how badly you want to get in. They design these processes thinking, "If she'll jump through all these hoops, she must really want to come here." 
Of course, once you get in, there is another, completely non-academic obstacle course awaiting you. 
Financial aid. 

This would involve a "paperwork 101" class. ~ Thank goodness for the federal government's willingness to help with the house payment size tuition that I'll have to pay for medical school, but, could there be a few more forms? 
The schools I have visited have spent an entire afternoon on how much debt they will put me in and, really how, there's not much I can do about it but fill out some more forms. 
Surviving after graduation is a matter of fig• 
uring out what forms you have to fill out when 
and getting them in on time. 

On the other hand, looking back, the applica­
tion process for getting into college was rela­
tively long and somewhat stressful. The result 
was four years I will never forget and a great 
background for my future plans. It was worth 
any complaining I did during my senior year of 
high school. The application process for med­
ical school has been even more stressful and 
much more time consuming, but, hopefully, the 
rewards will make it all worth it too. Spending 
time in the hospitals I have visited has shown 
me that, maybe, I shouldn't spend my time 
complaining that I have to jump through all 
these hoops to become a doctor. Instead, 
maybe, I should say thanks that I can jump 
through the hoops and I will become a doctor. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Jason McFarley Mart Narnia Kelly Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production Tim Casey Molly McVoy Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Par Odewski Tony Floyd 
The ObseIYcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObseJYer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc rcscJYcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: "The  . Film Festival: "Annual  
Nationalization of Party  Student Film Festival,"  
Systems in the Americas,"  7 :30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m.,  
Scott Mainwaring,  Annenburg Auditorium  
4:15 p.m., Hesburgh Center  . Late Night Olympics:  
.Acoustic Cafe: 9 p.m.,  7 p.m. to 4 a.m., JACC.  
LaFortune  

Saturday 
. Film Festival: "Annual Student Film Festival," 
7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m., Annenburg Auditorium 
. Billiard Tournament: 
sign up at 7:15 p.m., play begins at 8 p.m., LaFortune 
Sunday 
. 
Lecture: "How to listen to a Back Fugue," Ethan Haimo, 2 p.m.• Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 

. 
French Film: "Rosetta," with English subtitles, 2 to 4 p.m., Annenburg Auditorium 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
NE\i\'YORK 

Despite the Food and Drug Administration's {FDA) September approval of RU-486 for use in the United States, ·columbia University lfealth and Related Services (HRS) and Barnard Health Services will not be offering the medication on University premises any time soon. 
RU-486, also known as Mifepristone and the birth abortion pill induces a spontaneous abortion by blocking hor• mones necessary to maintain preg­nancy. 
Dr. Jane Bedel. director of HRS, said the pill won't be offered because the University would not be able to com­ply with the FDA's recommendation that providers of the drug should also have the ability to perform a full sur­gical abortion if necessary. 
· "The recommendations of the FDA were very specific," Bedel explained. "We would need to have facilities close by to do a full surgical abortion should there be any complications as a result of the medication." 
A first-year student at Barnard College, who had visited Health Services in regards to a pregnancy and wished to remain anonymous, 
Compiled from U-Wire reporls 
disagreed with the decision. 

"I definitely do feel that the pill or even abortions should be available on campus, because even though people do stupid things, it would be even more stupid for someone to have a baby when they don't have the means." 
She did not, however, want the medication to be treated as just anoth­er form of contraception. 
"By making it more accessible, peo· pie may take advantage of it," she added. 
Though Beder would not disclose the approximate number of pregnancies Health Services deals with in a year, she did say that helping people deter• mine if they are pregnant and coun­seling women about their options was common at the Health Center. 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Study shows importance of a smile 
If you're wondering if your girlfriend will bring you a satisfying marriage, dig up an old yearbook and check out her yearbook photo. In a study of facial expressions and personality, University of California-Berkeley Psychology Professor Dacher Keltner has found that women who smile strongly in their yearbook pho• tographs often end up with better marriages and fewer psychological difficulties and problems in the future. The findings, detailed this week in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, report that women who tend to facially express positive emotions are known to more often exhibit a positive sense of well-being and feel more satisfied with their lives. "Positive emotional expression helps people reduce daily distress and anxiety, increase closeness with others, and form and maintain healthy intimate relationships," Keltner said. In the study, scien• tists coded the intensity of smiling in yearbook photos and related the intensity to self.report measures of per­sonality, personal well-being and marital satisfaction gathered at varying ages. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast AcruWeattrr ftreca.st fadaytirre conditions and high temperatures 
q_~,Q__q Q Q ~ ~ ~ 

Showers T-s1orms Ram ~tries S~ Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via ,u,,ocu,i.d Pren Gn,phi(:::s/lMI 
OLD DOMINION UNIVERSITY 
Frat suspended after pledge's death 
The Old Dominion University chapter of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity closed Friday, one and a half months after the alcohol-related death of a freshman pledge. Terry Stirling, 19, died the morning of Dec. 1 after a night of drinking. Stirling began drinking at a bar with friends at 9:30 p.m.. then went to his off-campus fra­ternity house and continued to drink until about mid­night. Friends discovered Stirling dead the next morn­ing. No students have been charged legally or repri­manded by the school, but future disciplinary action against students is possible, said Dana Burnett, the vice president for student services at Old Dominion. The national office of Alpha Tau Omega withdrew recognition of the fraternity following Stirling's death. The school then closed the chapter. "We do not recog­nize fraternities that are not nationally affiliated," Burnett said. ATO nationals refused to comment. Stirling's death certainly caused his friends to be more careful with alcohol, but "for those who didn't know him, alcohol abuse goes on," Burnett said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

e e

sos . . 
•e •
WARM STATIONARY
O 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD 

High Low Shower• Rain T-atonna Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl Cloudy Clou 
AUanta  43  25  Las Vegas  67  47  Portland  45  33  
Baltimore  37  22  Memphis  44  29  Sacramento  49  42  
Boston  35  22  Milwaukee  31  24  St. Louis  45  38  
Chicago  31  23  New York  32  22  Tampa  62  48  
Houston  60  50  Philadelphia  38  23  Washington DC 37  33  

--·-----------------~ 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Panelists give personal accounts of diversity at ND 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Writer 
Wednesday's panel discus­sion, "Colors of the World" provided students the forum to discuss diversity issues that face Notre Dame's campus. Through personal accounts of the impact Martin Luther King, Jr.'s words had ·on their lives, students were able to communicate their stand for diversity. 
"It was a call to be honest with yourself and realize that all people are created equal and then make yourself avail­able to others." said Dave Wyncott, senior member of Outreach ND. 
To make oneself available to others becomes an anthem for minorities reaching out to diversify not only themselves, but also the rest of the student body. 
By using organized multicul­tural groups like La Alianza. FASO, and Black Cultural Arts Council, students see doors opening into cross-cultural exchange. 
"I remember during fresh­man orientation making a sign for La Alianza saying that we are for everyone," said Vanessa Assad. sophomore member of La Alianza. 
In these groups students can enter into different environ­ments and cultivate an appre­ciation for another person's culture. 
"People should go to one of the events sponsored by one of these clubs, like the dances that FASO puts on. Or learn how to meringue," said Brian Moscona, sophomore. 
One of the main issues fac­ing Notre Dame's efforts to diversify lies in getting stu­dents to enter· the door to cross-cultural exchange. 
Although there are ethnic groups on campus giving an open invitation to all cultures, some find it hard to break the comfort of their individual lives and join. 
"Notre Dame is a place of niches but that can be danger­ous and that niche can turn into a click. So some may say, 'Well, I am not African­American, so I can't go to those events,'" said Kelly Cooney. a senior. 
Getting people to step out­side their own life experience is an individual effort but, in the opinion of the students, one that must happen for true diversity Notre Dame's cam­pus. 
"It is everybody's responsi­bility, not just the responsibili­ty of the minorities of the cam­pus," said Cooney. 
Students feel that seeing diversity as an "everybody" issue will enable people to move past their own life expe­rience and into a different way of thinking. · 
"We will be able to under­stand others and see people through different eyes," said Joyce De Leon. 
· Although Notre Dame processes the tools to turn the campus into a ~ross-culturally interactive University, work still needs to be accomplished. 
"We have a long way to go but with serious discussions and open dialogue, Notre Dame can spread," said Abdul Rashied Omar. graduate stu­dent. 




SOCIAL CONCERNS FESTIVAL ! ! 
Where: Center for Social Concerns When: Thursday, January 25, 2001 Time: 7 p.m. -9 p.m.. 
Learn about the many ways to get involved in the local community through social service agencies and campus clubs. 
Kl AIKIDO 
MONDAYf • 7:30-9:30PM BEGINNING FEBRUARY 12 
: Ki-Aikido is a Japanese Martial Art : • which applies. mind and body coordination • : to self-defense techniques : 
,,0, ~·, 

("-{. \.---.. , 
·. (\ \""'n F .) 
Demonstration -January 29 • 7:30 pm Rockne 219 
REGIJTER IN ADVANCE AT RECfPORTf CLAff FEE If $19 FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL ~~ AT 1-6100 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Molly Kahn, student representative to the does go against Catholic social teaching, people can go and potentially benefit from Board of Trustees said although she saw Poynter said there are many other non­it?"


Monologues 
the play last year and it was a positive Catholic activities that take place on cam­For senior Cassie Carrigan, the benefits 
continued from page 1  experience, she said there is a need to take into account what those outside the imme­ pus. "Why are 'The Vagina Monologues' out  of the play outweigh the negatives. "This play is a great way to talk about  
presented in Jones' letter that ran in The  diate student body who are part of the  of all the other non-Catholic things on cam­ sexuality and to raise money for Sex  
South Bend Tribune.  Saint Mary's community think.  pus being cracked down on?" said Poynter.  Offense Services and the Campus Rape  
"There was a letter written by the  "There are people including parents,  "Why not ROTC, which is definitely against  Alliance," said Carrigan.  
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination to  supporters of the College, and former stu­ Catholic social teaching. We need to ask  "The play is a better way to get people's  
the Alumnae Board, Parents Council, and  dents in that outer Saint Mary's community  ourselves what is the agenda of those who  attention because most are more likely to  
the Board of Trustees and we sent it to the  and many question how we can continue to  are saying 'no' to this play."  go to a play rather than a speaker or sym­ 
President's Office to get approval to send  engage in a dialogue about sexuality and  Other objections were raised over the  posium on sexuality or rape awareness. No  
the letter to these individuals describing  rape awareness. But is the only way to do  presentation of the play.  one is required to go and see 'The Vagina  
the play and why we felt it was valid and  that through 'The Vagina Monologues'?"  For Mary Dugan, a Saint Mary's sopho•  Monologues· and if anyone has problems  
necessary to present on campus," said  said Kahn. "The administration is open to  more who saw the play last year, it was not  with it, they don't have to attend."  
Frischkorn. "However. the letter was never  talking about sexuality and there are many  a positive experience.  Several in attendance raised the issue  
sent because the administration was not  ways we can do that."  "I went to see it and I didn't enjoy it."  that  by  not  allowing  'The  Vagina  
willing to have it sent. I received a phone  Senior Katie Poynter questioned how  said Dugan. "As far as it being a statement  Monologues' to be presented was an act of  
message from Dr. Eldred saying that  much influence those outside of the student  for women, focusing on the vagina is not  censorship by the administration.  
approval for the letter was denied."  body should have.  the right way to go about doing that. There  "I've been a member of the faculty at  
Although Eldred  "The decision mak­ are other ways to talk about sexuality. If  Saint Mary's for 20 years and I'm also a  
was unable to attend the forum  "There are people. including  ing process is being made by people not  we are focusing on rape, as some parts of the play does, why focus on the vagina that  board member of the Indiana American Civil Liberties Union." said faculty member  
due to prior commit• ments, Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs was in attendance. She emphasized that her role at the discus• sion was not to pro• vide answers to spe• cific questions. The administra•  parents, supporters ofthe College. and former students in that outer Saint Mary's community and many question how we can continue to engage in a dialogue about sexuality and rape awareness."  going to this school who are not in school here right now and who are giving money," said Poynter. "We need to ask our­selves that if these peo­ple are not thinking as we are, do we want this to be the overrid­ing influence on deci­ is the source of the violation? There were too many vulgar parts for me." A Saint Mary's staff member questioned if the ·audience for the play was too nar• row. "There are women on this campus who saw the ads for the play last year and were offended and wouldn't go because they thought it would be an in•your.face femi­nism approach to these issues," the staff member said. "I think the shock value  Bob Hall. "This issue regarding the content of the play is the most blatant example of outright censorship I have seen in a long time. This is pure and simple an issue of being denied the freedom of expression. I ask the members of the administration in attendance to ask the President to rescind their denial of allowing the play to be per­formed in order to avoid the possibility of denying our students to be free-thinking leaders."  
tion received a nurn•  sions  made  on  this  alone attracted like-minded people and  English professor Rosalind Clark also  
ber of letters and  Molly Kahn  campus."  those who knew about the issues already.  raised concerns over issues of censorship  
phone calls regard• ing the play after it was performed last  student representative to the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees  Others raised ques• tions about having the 'Monologues' on cam- But people with conservative attitudes who could have spoken to the issues in another way chose not to be a part of the play. I'd  and the message this sends to those outside of Saint Mary's. "I want to point out that we are in the  
spring and Eldred  pus because they con­ ask you to continue to try to broaden the  process of hiring a women's studies pro­ 
responded to each, said Timm.  tain material some see as contrary to  approach so as to include these other peo­ gram coordinator and I've been informed  
Timm said Eldred told her that she  Catholic teaching such as issues of mastur•  ple in this dialogue."  that one of the questions potential candi­ 
believes there are other ways dialogue can  bation, premarital sex both by heterosexu- Emily Koelsch, one of the facilitators of  dates have been asking is whether there is  
be continued to raise awareness about  als and lesbians.  ~  the forwn, responded to their concerns.  censorship of women's studies at Saint  
rape and address issues of sexuality.  "Education is supposed to be wholesome  "I respect your opinions and that you  Mary's," said Clark.  
"Her [Eldred's] position has been that this is one way dialogue has begun to be opened but there must be more inclusive ways to open the dialogue other than  so if you are going to put on 'The Vagina Monologues' there needs to be something else performed too," said junior Akmaral Omarova.  {Dugan] attended the play and made a decision about what it was about for you," said Koels~h. "But is it fair not to have it at all because it was not a positive experience  "What will we tell them about censorship at Saint Mary's? Especially since a letter to the Parents Council, alumnae, and Board of Trustees from students was censored  
through the play," said Timm.  If assuming 'The Vagina Monologues'  for you?  Is it better to have the play so  and not allowed to be sent?" she asked.  

-,,-, <e our CPlle8QtJ'S il'IJrna$inil"I~ \Ajhat we might do at / tre.Dame in tile classroom.and beyond." · 
., 
r''e·•··• .. Ine><a·(··•·.·••··•···•·.·•·•·>< •'·•··•· <. <>•····• 
:{. ... 1... · · · ..... ".>·.···1 ·11···.·. 11.·.·••.:·•· <
•••..... ~­

....· .... ·.·· •: · 


. ,', . 


Its Promises, Problems and 
. _ .._. ... . 
PedagogiCBI Ch8I18nges for the Humanities'' 
and Faculty<lnvited to Attend 

Participants: 

Julian Dibble, Contributing editor for Eeed online magazine and author of My Tiny Life: Crime and Passion in the Virtual World  Steve Tomasula, Assistant Professional Specialist, Department of English  
John F. Sherman, Associate Professional / :·· .••·· Specialist, Art and Design  Rev. Joseph Weiss, S.J., Administrative Director, Institute for Church Life  
F. Clark Power, Department Chair, Program of  
Liberal Studies  











RL 
ATION 
Thursday, January 25, 200 l COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq claims U.S. involved in raid: 
Iraq claimed W~dnesday that its air defense units hit an allied aircraft during a U.S.-British raid on the northern part of the country -a claim the United States denied. In a statement carried by the official Iraqi News Agency, the Iraqi military said allied aircraft attacked civil­ian targets in three northern provinces. The statement did not say whether there were any casualties in the attack. "Our heroic anti-air­craft missile units and gunners hit one of their warplanes," said the statement. 

German court keeps camera ban: 
Germany's highest court said Wednesday it is maintaining a ban on TV cameras in court­rooms, a decision praised by politicians of all parties as one that keeps the door shut on pos­sible O.J. Simpson-like spectacles. Ironically, the reading of the Federal Constitutional Court's decision was televised live. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Cops plead guilty of plotting crimes: 
A former New York policeman pleaded guilty Wednesday to charges accusing him of conspir­ing to rob businesses and drug dealers and plotting to kill a detective who once testified against him. Anthony Trotman, 35, faces at least 25 years in prison. but could receive a • more lenient sentence if he testifies against for­mer partner Jamil Jordon and other defen­dants. Trotman said the 1998 murder plot tar­geted Detective Michael Paul. who testified dur­ing a federal trial that he had directed the part­ners to a bodega to arrest a suspect. 
Rats dream about mazes: Rats appar­ently can't escape the rat race, even when they're sound asleep. Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology say they have entered the dreams of rats and found them busily working their way through the same lab mazes they negotiate during the day. It is evidence not just that animals dream -but that they have complex dreams, replaying events much the way humans do. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Curfew propsals include excep­tions: Lawmakers are fine-tuning a proposal that would replace Indiana's curfew law with a measure that includes exceptions for youths engaged in activities protected by the Constitution. The bill is designed as a stopgap measure to give police an enforceable curfew while federal courts continue to analyze the existing law. which was struck down last sum­mer because it did not afford minors enough rights. The revised legislation would permit exceptions for youths who are engaged in reli­gious or free speech or parential approval. 
Market Watch 1/24 

Dow 
10,646.97 -2.84 

]ONES 
Composite


Same: rl'lt: 
Volume:
'ii~',, ~ 
469 
NIA 


Nasdaq: ,,__,...,,.,2859.15 +18.76 

-~~•NYs~a;~;Ji~~~,§,.:;?:= +TJ54~ 
S&P 500: 1364.30 +3.90 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURllY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +2.47  +0.87  36.25  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -.15  -0.07  42.56  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -4.52  -1.42  30.06  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  d.'13  +2.38  62.'14  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  -.95  -0.64  67.12  

GALAPAGOS ISLANDS 

ordered confined to a mili­investigation. after a signal buoy was 
Associated Press 
tary base on San Cristobal The arrests come eight mistaken for a lighthouse, island pending formal days after the Jessica ran said Capt. Ramiro Morejon, PUERTO BAQUERIZO charges, Merchant aground off San Cristobal chief of control and marine 
As rangers worked Marines Vice Ad·m. Island, one of the monitoring for Galapagos Wednesday to net wildlife Gonzalo Vega said Galapagos chain. Over the National Park. He blamed stained and dazed by an Wednesday. days that followed, the human error. 
Only one pelican and twooil spill, authorities arrest­The captain and the ship leaked at least 

185,000 gallons of diesel seagulls are known to have
ed the captain of the leak­tanker's owners could face ing tanker and pledged two to four years in prison fuel into this fragile died. But dozens of other stronger protections .for if convicted of negligence ecosystem. one populated birds and marine animals 
-sea lions, seagulls, blue­

these islands renowned or crimes against the envi­by species found nowhere for their unique animals ronment. Ecuadorean else in the world and an footed boobies and alba­
and birds. Environment Minister inspiration for Charles trosses -also have been Rodolfo Rendon said he Darwin's theory of evolu­affected, officials at the
Capt. Tarquino Arevalo 
Galapagos' sprawling

and 13 crewmen from the was pushing to have them tion. tanker Jessica were all jailed pending the The ship ran aground wildlife park said. 
Indiana, Wisconsin receive disaster funds 
emergency protective measures to local and state agencies for 7 5 
Associated Press 
undertaken during and after the percent of the total eligible costs of equipment. contracts and personnel
WASHINGTON storms. More than two dozen counties in This includes state and local gov­overtime related to emergency ser­
vices in dealing with the snow for a
Wisconsin and Indiana that racked up ernment operations needed to pro­48-hour period.
big emergency response bills because tect public health and safety and to of blizzards last month, will receive prevent damage to public or private Related emergency protective 
measures such as sanding and salt­
federal disaster funds for a partial property. 
reimbursement, federal emergency In Wisconsin, the eligible counties ing, search and rescue, shelter operations, and police and fire
otlicials announced Wednesday. include; Dane, Door. Green, 
department response will also be
John Magaw, acting director of the Kenosha, Kewaunee, Manitowoc, eligible for reimbursement.
Federal Emergency Management Milwaukee, Racine, Rock, 
And while scientists here say the
Agency, said President 'Bush made an Sheboygan and Walworth. emergency declaration and authorized In Indiana, the eligible counties spill could have been much worse, 
the long-term environmental dam­
the assistance following a review of include; Allen, Carroll, Cass, Elkhart, Fulton, Howard, age to the islands 600 miles off thethe states' plight. 
mainland remains unclear.
The declaration covers areas blan­Huntington, Jasper, Kosciusko. 
"We are trying at all costs to pre­
keted with record and near-record LaGrange, Lake. Miami. Noble, Pulaski, Saint Joseph, Steuben, vent the fuel from reaching land,"snowfall December 11 -31. 
said biologist Harry Heyes, who
Immediately after the declaration, White and Whitley. 
Under the emergency declaration, helped set up a perimeter of buoysMagaw ordered the counties receiving around the spill. 
the funds to pay part of the cost for FEMA will provide reimbursement 

page 6 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 25, 2001 
student union 
HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD · 
Movie: Meet the Parents (in 101) and Yellow Submarine, The Wall, and Tommy 1/25 Thursday 101 & 155 DeBartolo 1030PM Tickets: $2 1/26 Friday 101 & 155 DeBartolo 0S00PM & 1030PM 1/27 Saturday 101 & 155 DeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM Acousticafe 1/25 Thursday LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM 
, MISCELLANEOUS/CAMPUS-WIDE . _,-_ .-.. ---: . ,_ .:· -­
Pop Farley 1/21-27 Pop FarleyDance on Saturday 1/27 Men's tennis vs. Indiana 1/25 Thursday 0400PM Mustard Seed Faith (an interactive forum) 1/25 Thursday Keenan-Stanford chapel 0700PM Track and Field vs. Michigan State 1/26 Friday 0600PM Late Night Olympics 1/26 Friday Jacc arena 0700PM-0400AM Student Film Festival 1/26-27' Friday, Saturday Snite Auditorium 0730PM & 0945PM 9 Ball Billiard Tournament 1/27 Saturday ND Express 0800PM-11 00PM (sign up 0715PM-0745PM) Cavanaugh Snowball 1/27 Saturday LaFortune Ballroom Spanish Mass 1/28 Sunday Stanford/Keenan Chapel 0130PM Rosetta French Film (French & English subtitle) 1/28 Sunday Snite Auditorium 0200PM 

, 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 page 7
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
STUDENT SENATE 
SMC event·to focus on 
Members tak~ care of budget 
women, leadership 

By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Katie Heicher. student union treasurer, presented budget changes to the Student Senate Wednesday night. Funds were taken from the Financial Management Board and the Office of the President and reallocated to the Class of 2003 and the off-campus student union. 
Reicher said the treasurer's office and Financial Management Board was able to save money by using electronic rather than paper bookkeep­ing. She said because the office had only spent a small amount of their allocated funds, $2,000 could be subtracted and given to an organization that needed the money more. 
Similarly, $2,000 dollars was taken from the Office of the money and we thought the · President. event could become tradition. 
Originally $4,000 was allo­We wanted to help it move for­cated for the SafeHide pro­ward from this point," Reicher gram, but because it was not said. "The entire Board felt active for the first semester, strongly about this." Reicher said the Board took Of the reallocated funds, away half the money. SafeRide $ 500 will also be given to the is currently waiting for admin­off-campus student union for istrative approval. and Reicher an off-campus formal. said if it is not up and running · "They seem really excited soon, $2,000 more could be about the formal," Reicher taken away from the Office of said. "They have gotten things the President. Of the $4,000. organized, and with out the half will be reallocated to the reallocated funds, it could not Class of 2003 for a new signa­have happened." ture event, a gala that will be Heicher said the left over held at the Century Center $1,500 will go into the Student later this semester. Union's contingency fund 
"The class of 2003 requested which will carry forward, if left By KATIE MILLER 

News Writer 

"Women Driving Change" will be the theme for the 10th annual "Play of the Mind" con­ference at Saint Mary's this weekend. Ten colleges from across the nation will be send­ing representatives to campus for conference, which cele­brates women's leadership. 
Each school will send a team made up of a faculty member, an administrator, and two stu­dents. During the conference, Saint Mary's will provide host teams to lead discussions and team members to interact with the host and visiting teams. 
"The opportunity to interact with women from small liberal arts schools is unique espe­cially because it includes fac­ulty, students, and administra­
over at the end of the year, to tors," said Georgeanna
pay off the Student Union's 
Rosenbush, student activitiesdebt. 
director. "It is a very interest­
The senate unanimously 
ing experience for everyoneapproved the budget changes. 
involved." The conference begins
In other senate news: 
Thursday with an opening cel­
. John Osborn presented the ebration and keynote presen­
Board of Trustees Report to the tation that includes all partici­
senate Wednesday night. 
pants. The presentation thisOsborn will travel with two 
year is entitled "The Burden of other students to Washington Leadership: Driving Change in D.C. next Thursday to give stu­Changing Times." . ·
dent opinion on the topic 
Friday's scheduled activities
"Students' ability to under­
include more discussions that
stand and articulate their 
will enable students to talkCatholic faith." An in-depth 
within their groups on many
article describing the report 
different issues. 

will appear in Monday's Additional functions will
Observer. 

escape the 
separate students from faculty and administrators to discuss themes surrounding "the two cultures and the task of lead­ership development." 
All participants will com­plete Friday's activities with a discussion called "Sharing the Vision: Naming the Issues." 
"This is a great opportunity to look at the women who 
-came before us, women in the present. and what the future hoids for women," said Rosenbush. Saturday's first event is a discussion entitled "In Dreams begin responsibilities: Ideas into action." During the after­noon, teams will celebrate the women who came before them in "Postcard From the Edge: Ordinary Women. Extraordinary Legacies," a display that features women driving change. Next, teams will draw up plans to put their new found knowledge to work in their own communities in ·"Driving the Change: Plans for Moving Ahead." This will be followed by a discussion titled, "Changing our Colleges. Changing Ourselves." Following Saturday's closing dinner celebration, there will be an open microphone at Dalloway's clubhouse. On Sunday, all participants are invited to celebrate Mass. "Students will walk away with a better feeling about themselves," said Rosenbush. "Students gain confidence from this experience." 

Give a cold shoulder to your "usual11 night out & warm-up 
your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet 113 99), 
t-bone (17.99) or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York 
strip (14.951. Lighter options, tool 
NOW OPEN RR 1A'IE NKHr JJ1N]N; ERllA Y & fA'TIJRI1\Y 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 

219-234·5200
51 COVER {WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. 
CAll THE HEARTlAND CONCERT & EVENT UN£ 219.251.2568•MORE PICTURES @WWW.HEARTlANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Calendar of Events 

Dr. Martin L King, Jr. Holiday Celebration 
Thursday. January 25, 7:00 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Prayer Service "Mustard Seed Faith" Reflections by Fr. Edward Malloy, c.s.c. and Rene Mulligan, 'OI 
Tuesday Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study will resume February 6, 2001 
Friday-Saturday, January 26~27 Oakwood Inn 

El Encuentro con Nuestra Fe Retreat 
Friday-Saturday. January 26-27 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Freshman Retreat #33 
Sunday, January 28, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Preside,: Fr. Tom Bednar, c.s.c. 
Sunday, January 28, 7:30 p.m. Montgomery Theater 

Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
Monday. January 29, 4:00 p.m. or Tuesday. January 30. 7:oo p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
JPW Reader Auditions 

Monday-Friday. January 29-February 2 112 Badin Hall and 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up Emmaus New groups or individuals interested in a small faith sharing group. 
Beginning Monday, January 29 through February 19 103 Hesborgh Library · 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #34 (February 23-24, 2001) 

Monday-Tuesday. January 29-30. 11 :30 pm-1 0:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 

Wednesday. January 31, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel · 
lnterfa!th Christian Night Prayer 
.,Fourth· Sunday 
in Ordinary Time 

Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, January 27 Mass 

5:00p. m. Rev. David S. Scheidler, c.s.c. 
Sunday, January 28 Mass 

10:00 a.m. Rev. Patrick H. Maloney, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. John A .. Herman, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 

1st Reading  Jer 1: 4-5, 17-19  
2nd Reading  lCor 12: 31-13: 13  
Gospel  Lk 4: 21-30  

Plant the Future 
Celebrating Dr. King'\le91fCy 
by Chandra Johnson · . . . t~ 
Today we will dose our 2001 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday eelratioJ\:~akes a Village to Plant the Future" with a prayer service in Keenan-Stanford Chapel at 7:00 p.m. As a University community, we will gather to reflect on our individual gifts and the best use of these gifts at Notre Dame and in our surrounding neighborhoods. For the past two . days, we have thought about this in several ways. We invited Dr. Cornel West of Harvard University, to share his insight and wisdom on the relationship between institutions of higher learning and their surrounding communities. Yesterday we asked student leaders to share the rich and multifaceted stories of their Notre Dame experience. We are at a time in our human history when cultural distinction and a heterogeneous world view are quickly becoming a major force in our American social definition and character. This week, we have once again deferred to the philosophical and theological perspectives of Dr. Marrin Luther King Jr. to embrace this celebrated reality, and to recognize that within our 
village lies the very grace and leadership needed to nurture and
This week, we have once again . . 
sustam our present generanon, deferred to the philosophical and ensure the success of genera­tions to come.
and theological perspectives of 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.... to "Mustard Seed Faith" is the theme for tonight's Prayer Service. 
recognize that within our village Our President, Fr. Edward "Monk" 
lies the very grace and 
lv1alloy, will share his thoughts on leadership needed to nurture our role as a University to extend the boundaries of campus to
and sustain our present 
include those who share in our generation, and ensure the future, and live as a community working together for the common 
success of generations to come. 
good. Senior Rene Mulligan will 
reflect on her undergraduate career as a Domer who has consistently complemented her academic pursuits with com­munity service both locally and abroad. Voices of Faith Gospel Choir and the Notre Dame Celebration Choir will sing as one, giving praise and harmony to the gloiy of God. Together, their voices will challenge us to use our God-given gifts, however minuscule or slight we might perceive them, to make a difference in the world. 
Let us join tonight to celebrate our uniqueness and con-secrate our oneness. Our common quest for unity and solidarity is best said by Sophomore Ken Seifert, Co-Chair for our Dr. King Holiday Celebration: "It is time to celebrate. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 's birthday, a symbolic representation of the civil rights movement, celebrate a hallmark achievement in U.S. society. Yet beyond these historical successes, there was ingrained in the fight for justice and equality a far greater mission. The Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee has worked diligently to carry on this mission -a mission which celebrates the beauty of diversity and ignites the power of the human spirit." It does, indeed, take a village to plant the future. Bring your gifts -your mustard seed faith -and come and pray with us . 

-
0MPU5 
MINISTRY 

---------------------------------------------------------r---------------.. 
Thursday> Janua_ry 25> 2001 The Observer . CAMPlJS NEWS page 9 
Race 
continued from page I 
expected to be "the voice" for the community. This often puts many students in an uncomfortable learning environment where their individual experiences are often misunderstood as the majority opinion. 
This can cause many minority students to feel self-conscious in the classroom and prevent them from actively participating in classroom discussions. Some stu­dents even feel singled out because of their race, and labeled as intellectually inferior. While some of the stereotyping comes from professors, in actuality, most of it comes from his fellow class­mates. 
"I do feel uncomfortable in cer­tain classes where I'm the only minority and everybody looks at me. When I speak everyone lis­tens -It's like 'Oh the minority is speaking, everybody listen,'" said Ruiz. 
One of the obstacles to combat­ing these incidents is they fre­quently go unreported and unno­ticed by the majority of students at Notre Dame. 
"There are daily occurrences that happen many of which we don't hear about in the dorm [and) in the classroom that still makes it very clear to me that we have a lot of work to do," said Iris Outlaw Director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS). "Students who are histor­ical minorities continue to strug­gle with being in predominately majority communities," said Outlaw. 
While Outlaw said most minori­ties are strong enough to survive and to break through the barriers of daily prejudices, some students are not. Negative experiences that penetrate the African-American community are not only harmful to currently enrolled minority stu­dents, but may deter potential prospects from attending the University. Ifcurrent minority stu­dents are not happy with their experience, they are likely to communicate those negative experiences to prospective stu­dents. 
"The tenor is changing," said Chandra Johnson, co-chair of the University recruitment and reten­tion committee. "But the reason that it is so difficult at this point in time is because sometimes [African-Americans] expect the University to do our recruiting ­how students come is by word of mouth from those who have gone here. 
"Those of us who are African Americans who are alumni here are not recruiting. There are some who are and who work very hard at it, but there is a lot more that needs to be done. And until the experience is enhanced, then it's difficult to even invite people to want to follow after us," said Johnson. 
Struggling to Stay 
The University may find it diffi­cult to recruit when many African-American students are leaving the University after enrolling freshman year. 
The number of African­American students who leave after sophomore year is alarming to some University officials who say that financial strain and acad­emics may be key proponents in low student return rates rather than social maladjustment prob­lems. In a given year, up to 16 percent of African-American stu­dents leave the University before the start of the junior year, while up to 4 percent of majority stu­dents leave the University. 
"Sometimes students come to Notre Dame and their financial aid packages change and some of them get overwhelmed with a cost that they just can't pay," said Outlaw. 
Another reason that may con­tribute to students not returning is the breadth of academic progress. 
"For some students of color their first year is really their roughest year and it's not a reflection of their intelligence," Outlaw said. "When they come here they may not have a strong enough background for some of the courses that all first year [stu­dents] have to take." 
While Outlaw cited financial and academic difficulties as the major reasons that lead up to a student's discontinuation of their education at Notre Dame, Outlaw said the feeling of isolation is another factor. 
"Sometimes students in histori­cal minorities are caught between which group to be a part of," Outlaw said. "What happens is when they don't form a communi­ty around themselves, the isola­tion factor is so deep and so incul­cated that it affects everything ­
G.P.A.. one's ability to concen­trate, one's ability to be sociable, one's ability to just exist," said Outlaw. 
Making the Experience Worthwhile 

While some experiences demonstrate racial discrimination is apparent on campus, other African-American students feel the climate at Notre Dame is accepting. Sophomore Nikki McCord, a member of the University committee for reten­tion and recruitment, said her experiences were generally posi­tive. 
"I like the climate here on cam­pus, and the main reason is because I have been able to get involved in different types of activ­ities," said McCord. 
By initiating contact with all students, regardless of race, McCord said that the Notre Dame experience is dependent on the actions a student takes to build their own personal experiences. 
"One thing that separates Notre Dame from any other school is the people that we accept -and we accept very educated, broad• minded people," McCord said. "Because of that, I think that helps people to be accepting of different cultures and different ethnicities." 
Finding visible African­American role models on campus can be problematic for students seeking to identify with others in their racial group. A recent trend of minority leadership on Notre Dame's campus is beginning to provide more role models for African-American students. 
Because African•American stu­dents in the community have other prominent figures who they can relate to like leprechaun Michael Brown. Steven Smith, president of the glee club, and Tambre Paster, a drum major in the Notre Dame marching band, Johnson thinks that more African­American students will consider applying to Notre Dame because of this leadership trend. 
"We've had some wonderful icons at the University and prospects are going to go up," said Johnson. 
The overall percentage of African-Americans remains at a low 3.2 percent, and minority stu• dents struggle to find others who share similar interests and expe­riences. 
"I wish [there] were more African-American people here, but I don't know if it's just not a lot of African-Americans applying here to get in, or if the University is not accepting them because their credentials aren't good enough," said Charles Thomas, an African-American player on the men's basketball team. "I think [there] could be more here, but I don't know what they could do to increase it." 
Recent efforts have been made to create a more open environ­ment for African-Americans on campus. These efforts will hope­fully take steps to improve minori­ty visibility and to make the cam­pus climate more accepting. 
In the last three years the 
University has made an institu­tional mandate to establish pro­grams to facilitate the develop­ment of African-American cultur­al identity and increase the num­ber of role models and icons. The development of various programs shows that the University is taking measures to expand the minority community at Notre Dame. 
"Within the last three years the University has grown in leaps and · bounds to make it an institutional mandate in perceptions," said Johnson. 
Another change is the institu­tion of a mandatory diversity edu­cation program. The program, offered by the office of student affairs to freshmen is a peer coor­dinated program that promotes discussion on the cultural diverse aspects of the University. 
Programs such as these gener­ate an open dialogue between not only minority students, but also all students on campus. The first two years of this program have been successful, Outlaw said. 
"I think right now for the fact that for two years now we've had a mandatory diversity workshop that all first year students have to attend is another step forward in trying to provide a welcoming environment for not only under­represented groups, and students of color, but essentially for those students who possibly may be gay or lesbian," said Outlaw. 
For students like Parks, the experience of racial tension on campus is an opportunity to bring about discussion and change. As a result of an anthropology grant, Parks is studying minority educa­tional inequality in predominantly white post-secondary institutions like Notre Dame. 
"When I got to the heart of things, it was basically about my experience at Notre Dame," said Parks. "I can say I have had an equal amount of both positive and negative [experiences). but the intensity that I have experienced the negative propelled me to help others." 


Wanna help reduce uiolence in community schools? Interested in working with local youth? Get involved in... University ofNotre Dame Community Learning Center Take Ten's message is clear: the instinct to respond to conflict violently is learned and can be unlearned in a safe environment. Take Ten is structured to be a framework of ten principles for violence prevention that is youth­driven, adult-supported, and inclusive of effective efforts already underway. To find out how YOU can participate: Check out the Take Ten table at the Social Concerns Festival Center for Social Concerns Thursday, January 25, 2001 7PM-9PM Or call the Take Ten HQ at 631-9424 for more information  ~  

The University of Notre Dame Depa111nen1 of l\1usic pn:scnts 
"How to Listen to a Bach Fugue" 


A Lecture/Recital by 
Ethan Haimo Professor of Music University of Notre Dame 
2:00 pm, Sunday, January 28, 2001 Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 
Free and open to the public. For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-congoers. 
!JJeguure,t~ 

pressionistic, ener n10111e11tu1n, spac otion and creativ 
Classes meet: Thursdays • 6:30 -7:45pm Saturdays • 12:00 -1:30pm RSRC-Activity Rm. 2 
lriformation Afeeting Sunday, January 28 • 1:30pm Rolfs Sjwrts Recreation Center • Activity Rm. 2 
Register in advance at RecSports • $3 9 fie Sign,Ups begin Monday, January 29 • 8:00am Classes begin Thursday, February 8 No Experience Necessary. 
~~ 

O
THE page 10 BSERVER Thursday, January 25, 200 l 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR.V's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLLEll: Bob Woods 
GRAJ'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ... ; ....................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VJEWPO(NT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMJNISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obst'nlrr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weather for up-to-the ·weekly student reviews 

online features for spe­and rates of print ads 
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer archives to search for 

to meet the editors and August 1999 arricles published after 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Norr~ Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letcers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Oburvt'7' polida should be direct­ed to Editor. in Chief Mike Connolly. 
Jumpin', jumpin' 
One of humankind's most ridiculous conventions, besides the tiring but neces­sary "Hey, how was your break? .. . Good, how was yours? ... Good ... Okay ... Bye" exchange, is the nightclub. In primitive times, the term 'clubbing' 
Amy Schill

referred to the courting process where the male 
Dazed and

clobbered the female on the head, Amused dragged her by the hair into the cave and did the wild wooly mammoth dance. Though this mating process still r.emains for most Jerry Springer guests, evolution has caused most of us to establish more humane social interactions, step out of the cave into the night and shake what our mommas gave us. 
Clubbing now refers not to slaying future mates with wooden bats, but to slaying future mates with bad pick-up lines and tight pants. 
But the club is not only a place to meet people whom you'll never call, it also provides a sort of escape from reality, where the real world is exchanged for this dark, smoky alternate universe with vomit on the floor. At a club, college stu­dents, young professionals and creepy guys named Ray alike can forget their books, meetings and PlayStations to get their hooch or grooves on. The outside world is all about commitments and responsibilities and there is much less dancing. But in the club your only boss or professor is DJ Quad City-Scribble-A-Lot and the only decision is whether you would rather dance with a human being or a pole, on a floor or in a cage. So let's go. 
But this magic doesn't come for free, sexy. Your shirt may be shiny, your hair may be gelled and your boots maybe ho­licious, but without the cover charge, your attire goes from skank chic to pros­titute faster than a George W. Bush inau­guration speech. Most South Bend clubs are 21 and over only, but luckily the only real requirement for admission is a pulse. However, when home over breaks and such you may encounter the 18 and over clubs and thus the dreaded cover charge differential. 
Over 21? Well then, you're in luck my friend, because the cover for you is at most three bucks. But if you're under 21 like me, club admission is of course 120 dollars plus your first born. 
Minors not only must apply for finan­cial aid just to grind, but are also stamped, banded, poked, prodded and branded with a scarlet "M" to ensure the age-deficient may not partake in any of the inebriated amusements. Because of the club's prodigious efforts to keep their liquor license, club-goers are easily cate­gorized into two distinct groups: the drunken and drugged adults on the dance floor and the leper colony of marked minors in the corner reading Chaucer. 
But I kid -playas and hooches know no age in the quest to play or be played. Now the true purpose of clubbing comes out. You are not at that club to drink or dance; you are at a meat market greater than the Graffiti Dance could ever hope to be. Guys are standing around checking out girls; girls are shaking everything available for the stationary guys to see; and that creepy guy Ray is making every­one uncomfortable. 
In the dark, dank, mind-altering illu­sion of the club, the executive can hook­up with the student, the gorgeous with the gargoyle, the girl with the monkey. The monkey was hot, all right? But any fleeting romance will all be forgotten the next day, when, awakening in the ditch by the turnpike, you wonder whether to regret the whole night or go back and try to relive it (except for the monkey part). 
So maybe today's clubbing isn't as effi­cient a courting process as its primitive predecessor, but it's a lot sexier and inflicts slightly fewer headaches. So, put on your animal prints, douse yourself in cologne and dive into the matrix of lasers and meaningless encounters. And if you meet a monkey named Jasper, tell him to stop calling me. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Amy Schill is a sophomore English major. Her column appears every other Thursday in Viewpoint. 
Vagina appreciation is important for women's issues 
This letter is in response to the recent controversy regarding The Vagina Monologues, most notably Nate Phillips' comments in Wednesday's Inside Column. 
As a Saint Mary's student, I was for­tunate enough to see the mono­logues per­formed on campus last year. I, and many others, entered Carroll Auditorium not quite knowing what to expect. We left engaged in thoughtful dialogue provoked by this bold and daring work. I am truly saddened that it will not be presented on-campus this year, especially since it empowers women 
-a task to which Saint Mary's has dedicated itself. Although I believe Mr. Phillips has good intentions, I feel compelled to respond to a few of his remarks. As he says, the core purpose of feminism is to prevent discrim­ination based 
on sexuality. However, instead of 
"tarnishing the gleam of the feminist spirit," 
issues con­cerning a woman's vagi­na are central to securing any 
semblance of equality and basic human rights. This is the 

central theme of many of the issues presented in "The Monologues" and of many of the issues surrounding women's rights in today's world. 
Take, for example, the practice of female genital mutilation, which hap­pens to millions of young girls. Today. In 2001. Not only does this act destroy a woman's body; it robs her of her spirit as well. 
For these women and countless other silenced victims of rape, vio­lence and abuse, I will celebrate the vagina. And frankly, Mr. Phillips, you should too. I mean, considering that you are here because of one. By dis­couraging women from celebrating their vaginas, you foster the idea that it is something to be ashamed of, or embarrassed about. 
I am proud of my vagina. It gives · forth life, the most precious gift one can give. As a woman, I am not defined by it, but rather, I embrace it as another fabulous part of my multi­faceted womanhood. 
Beth Gervain 
junior Regina North Hall January 24, 200 l 
DILBERT 
SO, I'M THIN"lNG: 
WHA.T IF E.VE.R'{ PHOTON 
15 J''UST f;l... OEN5EL'I' PACKED UN'tVE.RSE, AND TO THEM, OUR UNIVE.RSE 
LOOK$ LtKE .....,.._......, 
A PHOTON? 

:E 
0 0 
.., 
0 
<I: 
@I 
Ill 
:E 
C 
0 
... ~ 
0 
0 
Ill 
•
E 
w 
j 
IF I'M RIG\-rr, r 
MIGHT BE THE. 
Ff.R5T RA.T TO WIN 
A NOBEL PR.l1E. 
• 
SCOTT ADAMS 
.. 
C 

STRti..NG,ER
.. 
.; 
u 
THINGS 
,:, C >, 
"' 
~ 
::, 
... 1ii• .., 
~ 
C 
:::, 
.... 
"' 
-
"' i 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" ... you don't get to choose how you 're going to die. or when. You can only decide how you 're going to live. Now!" 
Joan Baez singer




O
THE Thursday, January 25, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
Jackson's legacy tainted by mistakes 
"It wasn't him." That's what I thought when I first heard the news. 
Jesse Jackson. Illegitimate child. Surely there must be some kind of mistake here. America's pre-eminent civil rights leader and religious role model was involved in an affair? 
Turns out it was true. 
Last week Jackson admitted James Boyd fathering a child out of wedlock. And according to reports, all of this happened while he was spiri­Indiana Daily tually advising former President Student Bill Clinton on his affair with Monica Lewinsky. Now there's no better person to guide you to spiritual reconciliation about cheating on your wife than a guy who's cheat­ing on his own wife. It's like asking Ted Kennedy for advice on your drinking problem. Some things just don't make sense. . 
It's not like Jackson is the only man on the face of the planet to father children out of wedlock (what number is Gary Payton up to?), but it is a stunning blow to those who look to him for advice and guid­ance. 
The problem is, our society has come to expect such behavior. In a nation where our former presiden.t had at least one affair with an intern, where marriages fail at the same rate they succeed, where the No. 2 song on the Billboard charts {Shaggy's "It Wasn't Me") examines the joys of not getting caught in brief affairs, it comes as no surprise that such a prestigious figure would slip up. ~ 
We all make mistakes, but Jackson is in one of those positions that makes his hypocrisy all the worse. Here's a man who is constantly chastising people for injustice and always calling for equality and fairness. 
And yet, he can't even be fair to his own wife. What kind of institution is marriage if the words and rings are meaningless? 
I'm not saying Jackson should never show his face in public again, but much like the legacy of Clinton, the way the public perceives him and his work will be for­ever changed. How much trust did the American peo­ple have in their president after he went on national television and admitted that he lied to us? What weight will Jackson's words carry now? 
Jackson has done good things for the country. His efforts to unite America are certainly welcome. The problem I have with him is that the values and morals he stands for are ones that he has willingly broken. 
How, with a clear conscience, can you be an advo­cate for the word of God when you're not coming home to your wife on Friday night? This nation is headed down a weary road. Relationships and promises mean little today. 
Unfortunately for Jackson, he did get caught and now must endure the strongest test of faith he has encountered yet -rebuilding a marriage. 
We are constantly surrounded by voices telling us to stray from commitment. When a society puts four couples on an island with 26 "sexy singles" with the pure intent of breaking up their relationships, you know we're in trouble. 
So now Jackson becomes a has•been, just another joke on "The Tonight Show." He deserves some of the criticism he's getting, but he also needs the time and space to heal the wounds he's opened. For a man so devoted to uniting the country, it will be interesting to see if he can bring together his own family. 
If Clinton can do it, I'm sure Jackson will be able to pull it off. But for the hundreds of thousands of peo• pie who look to him for spiritual leadership, I can only hope they realize that every now and then, even reverends don't practice what they preach. 
This column first appeared in the Indiana University newspaper. the Indiana Daily Student. on Jan. 24. 2001 and is reprinted here courtesy of U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Surprised by censorship 
Censorship is an ugly word. are more worried about appeas­real tragedy is that aspects of Vagina, apparently, is an even ing a prattling but vocal minori­their sexuality still disgust many uglier one. Saint Mary's has ty than maintaining any sem­people on our campus. The decided to ban this year's per­blance of authority. vagina should be no less natural formance of "The Vagina The surprising thing is that to a woman than her hand, or Monologues." Such a clear act the College would even consider foot, or arm, or face, or any of censorship should by no banning such a significant piece other part belonging to her. If means be surprising, but it of writing. The play is not soft. this play convinces even one should also not go unques­porn, but rather a frank series woman to change her outlook tioned. of monologues about various on her sexuality, it is extraordi­
The decision to ban by itself aspects of female sexuality. narily beneficial. would not be wholly shocking. Last year's presentation gen­I hope some sort of agreement After all, we are talking about a erated an immense amount of can be reached by discussing Catholic campus. The problem discussion about sex on both this and I hope people partic­here lies in the fact that the play campuses. Notre Dame's cam­ipate in this discussion. Nothing was performed last year on the pus has been labeled "rape­sends a more powerful message same campus. prone" by more than one lectur­about us than apathy, after all. 
Banning the play based on a er. and one of the main factors handful of worried parents and in that label is the repression of Jeff Eyerman an angry letter in the South any open talk about sexuality. O'Neill Hall Bend Tribune is an open admis­There are many girls who January 24, 2001 sion to the students and the actually blush when the word community that College officials "vagina" is even mentioned. The 

Last year on Dec. 9, while most people were diligently studying for finals or getting ready for the upcoming Christmas holiday, a group of men and women from Fisher Hall and Saint Mary's College were hoping to shed a little holiday light on a group of kids. For many of those kids there would be no Christmas holiday. 
Donating both time and money, these tremen­dous people provided 19 kids from Professor Jim Langford's group, "There Are Children Here," an afternoon of fun, excitement and hopefully a bit of love. 
For all of these kids, it was a unique experience. The afternoon began with seats at the men's bas­ketball game, provided generously by the basket• ball team. The rest of the afternoon was spent at Fisher playing fooseball, making Christmas cards and listening to Christmas carols played by some of our very own University of Notre Dame band members. Dinner was at the Dining Hall and was concluded by opening up some Christmas pre­sents. 
The smiles on the kids' faces were enough to create a warm feeling inside all of us. Whether we were playing fooseball or opening up Christmas presents, it was difficult to tell who was more excited by it all, us or the kids. 
In appreciation of that afternoon, I'd like to take the time, albeit a little bit later than intended, to 
thank those who made that wonderful afternoon possible. 
To the men of Fisher Hall and the women of Saint Mary's, thanks for your sense of generosity and compassion. This event would not have been nearly successful as it was if not for you. 
To Dave Prentkowski and the staff at SDH, my thanks for graciously providing dinner for the kids and my apologies for showing you that 10 and 11-year•olds have better manners and eating habits than some of the students here. 
To the band members who performed that afternoon, it was an honor and a thrill for not only the kids, but for us as well. Thanks for taking the time out of your busy schedules to help bring a smile to the kids' faces. 
To Fr. Warner and Campus Ministry, thank you for you very generous donation. It went to a very worthy cause. 
And finally, a very heart felt thanks to Jim Langford and his kids. It was truly one of the greatest experience many of us have had while at Notre Dame. I hope an afternoon of entertainment for your kids is a fair trade for a moment that will remain with us for a lifetime. 
Nick Lagoni 
R.A. Fisher Hall January 23, 200 l 
... -.. .. • .. • .. .. .. .. .t­

f 
M 
cene E 
page 12 Thursday, January 25, 2001 
Dynamic holiday film season e1 
Movie Scene comments on several noteworthy film releases, chief among the, 
Scene Staff Report 

For all the flack Hollywood has received in the past year from elitist film critics {Roger Ebert declared 2000 as "not a great year for movies,") if the holiday season was any indication, audiences enjoyed 
' more than their share of decent movies. While some were remarkably forgettable {"Vertical Limit," "Dude, Where's My Car?"), others turned out to be among the best films of the year ("Traffic," "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon"). Here, then, is a sampling of holiday film reviews, courtesy of Scene's movie critics. 
"Traffic" 

ilh\'7•~'* (out of five shamrocks) 
The tagline for Steven Soderbergh's new film"Traffic," reads: "No one gets away clean." That is the most accurate descrip-· tion of an engaging and disturbing film that blows holes through the drug war as we see it on television. Soderbergh explores this contemporary subject with courage, showing the reality of America's drug problem as an issue that touches all. 
Following disparate stories occurring simultaneously in Tijuana, San Diego, Oncinnati and Washington D.C., "Traffic" provides insight into what our leaders try to hide from us every day. 
The vital character in the film is Robert Wakefield (Michael Douglas), an Ohio State Supreme Court judge who has been cho­sen as the new federal drug czar. While his official role links him directly to the war on drugs, it is his personal dilemma, as the father of a drug-addicted teenage daughter, that makes his story complete. 
Soderbergh enhances Douglas' role with a wonderful ensemble cast. Catherine Zeta-Jones is the wife of a drug importer who ruthlessly frees her husband from a trial that would have certainly put him away. Benicia Del Toro, in the film's best performance, plays a bilingual police offi­cer from Baja California caught between a two-timing Mexican drug official and the lure of helping American D.E.A. agents in San Diego. Soderbergh effectively moves between cities and strong, important char­acters without ever confusing or cheating the audience. 
At one point in the film. Douglas' char­acter has an awakening as to the nature of his job and his government's role in fight­ing drugs. After seeing his daughter fall victim to drug addiction and his plan to destroy a cartel in Mexico fail under cor­ruption, Douglas sees that the "war on drugs" has become a war on each other and, in his case. a war on family. Soderbergh shows us that the "war on drugs" isn't simply that; it's a war on 
. everything and everyone associated with drugs -and no one gets away clean. 
Matt Caccamo 

"Proof of Life" 
•~1dF1~ 
If you ever wanted to know how to suc­cessfully rescue a kidnapped person in the jungle, "Proof of Life" is the movie for you. 
Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe) is brought in to rescue Alice Bowman's (Meg Ryan) husband Peter (David Morse) from Guerrilla terrorists located in the fictional country of Tecala, South America. Crowe negotiates Peter's ransom price and then performs a daring jungle rescue that is full of explosions and death. 
What makes this movie especially inter­esting are the characters. Crowe is excep­tionally good as a man who has to wrestle with his job and his growing interest in Ryan's character. Morse does a great job as the defiant victim struggling to maintain hope of seeing his wife again. Finally, Ryan is very convincing as the wife who is torn between her husband and her attraction to the man that will bring him back. While many would have liked to see Crowe and Ryan's attraction go further than just flirt­ing and a kiss, the romantic tension only helps the film. Overall, this is a movie worth the cost of going to the theater. 
Eric Hedin 

"Cast Away"
~,t~ ·t@. ,... 
~ .;fJ¾,. 1$/1 
When Tom Hanks is involved in a film. audiences expect amazing things. For many actors, this may seem like a difficult standard to live up to, but not for Hanks. In his newest film "Cast Away," Hanks once again delivers the goods. He plays Chuck Noland, a FedEx efficiency expert. On one of his many business trips, Chuck's plane crashes. He ends up stranded on a deserted island, living there for four years. How does a man whose life thrives on time and schedules live a life where time does not exist? What happens when he returns home? The world and all the people he loves have gone on without him and he no longer seems to fit. 
Hanks does a wonderful job with an amazingly difficult role. For a better part of the film, Chuck is stuck on the island alone, with only a volleyball that washed ashore from the crash. Although there are long stretches of silence in the film, it is never boring. Hanks keeps the audience in the palm of his hand the whole time. After winning the Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Drama, he will surely receive an Academy Award nomination. 

Casey K. McCluskey 

"The Family Man" 
~)~ 
"The Family Man" tries to add some­thing to an already hashed out formula: a person makes a crucial decision that affects the rest of their life and they are given the chance to "redo" that decision to see how life would have been different. 
The movie contains little originality. Jack Campbell (Nicolas Cage) is the president of a billion dollar firm. However, Cash (Don Cheadle), an angel, tests Jack's declaration that he is "happy with [his] life" by chang­ing that life the next morning. 
The change stems from a decision made 13 years earlier when Jack chose a career over seeing his girlfriend, Kate (Tea Leoni). 
"Family Man" tries to equate trading money with family, and when the two come in conflict, Jack is always asked to sacrifice the opportunity. What makes the story more unbelievable is that, after 13 years of feeling successful, pleasured and rich, Jack falls in love with this family instead. "Family Man" rushes that mes­sage. 
The ending does nothing to convince us of the fact that he is worse off by being rich and without family. In the end, Jack Campbell gets exactly what he wants: wealth and a chance at the family of his dreams. 
Jude Seymour 

"What Women Want" 
,··,;, '"'• ,!?,
~1~1~ 
Picture Mel Gibson in control-top panty 
hose and nail polish, learning how to wax 
his legs. "What Women Want" is for those 
who can't get enough of Gibson's good 
looks or just want to see him act like a 
complete idiot. Mel slips into the role of 
Nick Marshall, a rich advertisement execu­
tive in New York and a complete chauvin­
ist. After a freak accident in the bathroom, 
he can suddenly hear women's thoughts. · 
Although this new ability seems at first 
like a big problem, he ends up using it to 
his advantage. He sabotages his new boss 
Darcy Maguire (Helen Hunt), gains insight 
into his pathetic relationship with his 15­
year-old daughter (Ashley Johnson) and 
woos a waitress (Marisa Tomei) at a coffee 
shop. With this new "talent," he ends up 
"relating" to women and falling for his 
boss. 
"What Women Want" tries to juggle too 
many subplots and still stay on track while 
over-stuffing it with good actors and 
actresses. Director Nancy Meyers plays on 
the stereotypes of women and their unpre­
dictable thoughts, which falters in some 
spots. The movie ends up being a bit too 
cliched and predictable, with a few good 
lines every now and then. The only thing 
that saves the movie from falling flat is 
Gibson's performance, which !1ever seems 
to disappoint. 
Beth Goodhue 

"O Brother, Where Art Thou?" 
Wt11 €f-,I '€fdf;11 
The Coen brothers (Joel and Ethan) blend many styles and genres in their new film "O Brother, \Vhere Art Thou?" Best described as a prison escape/comedy/musical, it's loosely based on "The Odyssey" and set in Depression­era Mississippi. The title comes from the 1941 film "Sullivan's Travels," directed by Preston Sturges. The Coen brothers mix elements of Homer's epic poem {the 

"Traffic," starring Michael Douglas as a ne many fine films released over winter break. 
Sirens, the Cyclops, Ulysses and Penelope) and historical figures (robber Babyface Nelson and governor Pappy O'Daniel), giv­ing them all a deep-fried southern treat­ment. For instance, John Goodman plays a one-eyed, fast-talking Bible salesman, and Sirens entice travelers with music and jug whiskey. 
The plot is quirky, episodic and witty. Essentially, Ulysses Everett McGill (George Clooney). Delmar O'Donnel (Tim Blake Nelson} and Pete Hogwallop (John Turturro) escape from a chain gang. 

M 

cene E 
~hursday, January 25, 2001 page 13 
ids lackluster year -with a bang 
m being "Traffic" and the martial arts epic "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon " 

_ 
Pholo courtesy of USA Films 

1wly appointed drug czar, was one of the 
Ulysses is the verbose yet shortsighted leader, Delmar is the good-natured dimwit and Pete could be Darwin's "missing link." The men set out to help Ulysses find his hidden treasure while fleeing the police and making quick money singing "old timey" music. The three actors play their characters excellently, creating a buddy­comedy sensibility set against the back­drop of an outstanding and unique story­line. 
Chris Sikorski 


"Quills" 
For much of ..Quills," the Marquis de 
Sade (Geoffrey Rush) remains a mysteri­
ous off-screen presence. Entombed in an 
insane asylum, he never leaves the cell in 
which he scribbles his manuscripts. 
"Quills" isn't really about him anyway; it's 
about his effect on others. His absence is a 
deliberate choice and a miscalculated one: 
it leaves the movie anchorless. 
Despite that flaw (and many others), 
"Quills" is still kind of fun to watch. It's a 
well-crafted production. energized by 
director Philip Kaufman's visual stylistics. 
Unfortunately, what follows is a messy and 
uninspired look at what should be a fasci­
nating character. 
The confused structure of the script is 
reflected in the actors' uneven perfor­
mances. Rush initially plays de Sade as 
comical, spitting out insults as though 
doing a stand-up routine; then he turns 
dramatic as de Sade grows more frantic in 
his stubborn resistance against those who 
try to tame him. The performance is cer­
tainly attention-getting, but, as with· his 
star-making turn in "Shine," it seems 
merely a surface triumph. 
Michael Caine, as a "torture doctor," has 
great fun with his role, but he crosses into 
caricature quite often. And Joaquin 
Phoenix, as the asylum's resident priest, 
tries so hard to appear spiritual and 
restrained that he practically disappears 
into his uniform. 
"Quills" is visually quite remarkable, has 
impressive sets, contains carefully­
designed costumes and many individually 
elegant, beautifully-composed shots. 
Unfortunately, however stylish and intelli­
gently-crafted it might be, "Quills" is too 
blunt an instrument to be either very 
entertaining or particularly enlightening. 
lvfatt Nania 

"Chocolat"
·~1·~• 
"Chocolat" is a fairy-tale's fairy tale: sweet and wondrous with a message worth the price of admission. 
The story is set in a 1950s French coun­tryside town. This is one of those towns from the "old days" where everyone knows everyone else. It's also a town founded on its "traditions," and God forbid anyone try to upset them. While most of the residents play out their lives according to a pre­scribed morality and religious adherence, it is the town's mayor, Reynaud (Alfred Molina), who keeps them in line. The rest go through the motions, waiting for some­thing to knock them off the traditional route. 
That something comes along in the arrival of Vianne (Juliette Binoche) and her daughter Anouk. They are wanderers and, by family tradition, roam from town to town, healing people with their many chocolate treats. This French town they've stumbled upon is both the best and worst place for them: it's a town in need of some healing, but, at the same time, a town resilient to change and strangers. 
The relationship between these newcom­ers and the traditional French town is as sweet as the chocolate Vianne sells. Everyone is nice in this film, even the sup­posed •:bad guy" mayor. But that's okay; it 1s a fa1ry tale after all. It picks up more steam with the arrival of an Irish "river rat" (Johnny Depp) who forms a friendship and love interest with Vianne. . 
Director Lasse Hallstrom, who has a wonderful ability to portray small-town life, brings us a film that encourages open­ing up to life's passions without condemn­ing those who haven't. That is the beauty and simplicity of "Chocolat." Just like its digestible title, it is delicious. 
Matt Caccamo 

"All the Pretty Horses" White House . 
¼'ti ,~. ,@.

~1~1~ Bringing clout to a smart, largely name­less cast is perennial star Kevin Costner.
Best friends John Grady Cole (Matt 
who relishes his role as Ken O'Donnell,
Damon) and Lacey Rawlins (Henry special assistant to President John F.
Thomas) leave their homes in Texas for Kennedy. Although Donaldson's aim wasthe ranches of Mexico in "All the Pretty to depict O'Donnell's "bird's-eye view" ofHorses." Directed by Billy Bob Thorton and the Crisis, Costner often seems to outrankadapted from Cormac McCarthy's novel, an unsettled, pill-popping JFK, played by the movie follows the two friends as they Bruce Greenwood ("Double Jeopardy"). 
journey to Mexico, find jobs at a ranch and Rounding out the Bostonian Irish-Catholiclive the lives they had been dreaming of in triumvirate is fiery Attorney General Bobby Texas. 
Kennedy, passionately rendered by StevenGrady and Rawlins travel with youngster Culp (known mainly for his recurring role Jimmy Blevins (Lucas Black) who brings 
as Clayton Webb on the CBS drama
them nothing but trouble. After finding · "JAG"). O'Donnell and the Kennedy broth­jobs as ranch hands, John Grady Cole falls ers have the final word on just about
in love with the owner's daughter 
everything ·"ExComm," the Washington
(Penelope Cruz) and, of course, problems brain trust including cabinet members and ensue -one of them being Mexican prison high-ranking brass, encounters in regards(not an entertaining part of the movie). 
to the Russian missiles. 
The strong point of "All the Pretty 
Although the three principal actors turnHorses" is the cinematography. The scenes in polished performances. the supportingwhich show Cole and Rawlins travelling actors are responsible for making "13 across the plains are beautiful, and many Days" the best and, surprisingly, the mostshots focus on the eyes of the characters. 
accurate historical drama released in theThe rest of the film leaves something to be past few years. 
desired. Characters are not developed fully 
Mario Bird 

enough for viewers to connect with them. The relationship between Damon and Cruz forms so quickly that the audience isn't "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" fighting for them to stay together ...All the ",ft,¾"11 .. Pretty Horses" is somewhat entertaining 
"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" isbut, overall, uninspiring. 
simply one of the best films ever made. If it 
Meg Ryan 

were not for the fact that director Ang Lee 
chose to have the actors speak a 1500­"13 Days" year-old Mandarin dialect rather than ~)~it,$ English, the movie would have been a 
shoe-in for practically every Oscar. A richly As the United States enters the 21st cen­woven tapestry of story and action. the filmtury, it is difficult for the last few genera­succeeds in bringing out a level of emotion­
tions of Americans to comprehend the 
al depth hardly ever dreamed of in
extreme terror and anxiety once coupled American action and martial arts films. 
with the phrase "nuclear missiles." 
The story opens as Li Mu Bai (Chow Yun However. most of today's Gen-Xers have Fat), a legendary warrior of the Wudanparents or grandparents who remember school, decides that he is tired of bloodshed all too well the Cuban Missile Crisis and the and will give up his mystical sword, the
world war narrowly averted by a deft 
Green Destiny. He entrusts it to the womanKennedy administration. The tension of he loves, Shu Lien (Michelle Yeoh), to takeOctober 1962 is one of the many admirable to Beijing. The sword is stolen in transit,
facets expressed in director. Roger 
forcing the two to try to hunt down theDonaldson's ..13 Days." 
mysterious thief. 
Donaldson understands the need to place Widely acclaimed for having some of the 
the viewer in a sort of 2-hour time 
best action scenes in film history, themachine that will convey the emotions of a movie also succeeds on an emotional level, relatively recent historical event. To this 
showcasing Ang Lee's ("Sense and
end, the opening credits of "13 Days" are Sensibility") directorial talent at bringingset against a background of ballistic mis­
out romantic tension in the least likely
siles being tested and detonated, a truly places. Described by Lee as '"Sense andspectacular if frightening panorama on Sensibility' with swords," it is a film not towidescreen. With this sobering reality held be missed. 
over the head of each audience member, 
Bill Fusz

Donaldson launches into the Kennedy 

Photo courtesy ol Sony Pictures Classic 

Considered one of the best films of the year, "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" stars Chow Yun Fat as a noble warrior struggling to obtain a mythical sword. 

page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 2001 
NBA 


Philadelphia outlasts Houston in overtime victory 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Even when he's not shooting his best, it's hard to beat Allen Iverson. 


Hakeem Olajuwon had two points and seven rebounds in his return for the Rockets. Iverson overcame a cold-shooting first half and scored 32 points as the Philadelphia 76ers rallied for a 85-84 overtime victory over the Houston Rockets on Wednesday night for their franchise-record 12th straight road win. 
Iversonshot only 3-for-13 from the field in the first half and had only a 32 percent shooting per­centage for the game, but he had nine big points in the third quar­ter to keep the Rockets from get­ting too far ahead. He also hit 12 of his 15 free throws. 
"Yeah, it was an ugly win, but it was a win," Iverson said. 'TH take a win any way we can get it." 


George Lynch's basket gave the 76ers a 72-70 lead to start the overtime and they never trailed, improving their league­best road record to 19-4. 
Steve Francis led the Rockets with 24 points and Cuttino Mobley had 22, including a 3­point basket at the final buzzer. 
"You're going to have games like that," Aaron McKie said. "When you shoot the ball like that, you've still got to find a way 

' 
to win. I thought we got some

I key stops in the second half that allowed us to win the game." 
Cavaliers 94, Bulls 86 

I 
Chris Gatling didn't mean to be disrespectful. He thinks the Chicago Bulls are talented, play
, 
hard and can win on any given

i night. Just not this night. Lamond Murray scored 26 
points and Jim Jackson made a crucial 3-pointer in the fourth quarter as Cleveland handed Chicago its 10th straight loss. 
"In the fourth quarter it did get 

• I 
a little scary," Gatling said. "But I never thought we were going to 

lose. I never have that attitude." 
Gatling added 16 points -1O in the fourth quarter -and Andre Miller had 13 points, nine assists and seven rebounds for the Cavs, who blew an 18-point lead in the second half but hung on. 
The Cavs, coming off a stun­ning lopsided win over Portland, appeared to be on their way to an easy win before the Bulls stormed back behind rookie point guard Khalid El-Amin. 
El-Amin scored all 17 of his points in the final 16:02 as the Bulls finally got hot from the floor in the fourth. Chicago took an 82-81 lead with 4:53 left but couldn't make the plays down the stretch. 
Suns 106, Pistons 73 
Cliff Robinson had 27 points and Shawn Marion added 18 points and 16 rebounds to help Phoenix snap a three-game los­ing streak with a rout of strug­gling Detroit. 
Phoenix led by as many as 34 points to win for the first time since Jason Kidd left the team after being arrested last week. The 33-point margin was the biggest ever for the Suns against Detroit. 
The loss was Detroit's seventh in a row at home, three short of the team record set in 1979-80 and 1993-94. 
The Pistons, 2-12 in their last 14 games, set season-lows in points, shooting percentage 
(29.8) and margin of defeat. 
Heat 103, Raptors 83 
Anthony Mason scored 21 points to lead a balanced attack as Miami won its ninth straight home game, beating Toronto. 
The Heat, playing for the first time following Sunday's road win against the Lakers, put the game away with a 17-3 run to open the fourth quarter. 
Vince Carter, showing the effects of Tuesday's double-over­time game at Orlando, scored 21 points for the Raptors. After playing a career-high 55 minutes the night before, Carter played 31 minutes _ only two in the fourth quarter. 
Hornets 81, Knicks 67 
J a m a I Mashburn had 31 points and 13 rebounds as Charlotte snapped its five-game los­ing streak with a victory over New York. 
The Knicks have lost three straight for the first time since early last sea­son. 
New York, which had its NBA-record 33-game streak of hold­ing opponents under 100 points snapped in Tuesday night's 105-91 loss at Milwaukee, was better on defense against Charlotte. 
But its offense was awful, especial­ly in the second half. The Knicks scored only 31 points after halftime 


Allen Iverson of the Philadelphia 76ers goes up for a jumpshot in Wednesday's game against the Houston Rockets. The 76ers claimed an 85­
84 overtime vicotry. 
on 9-for-36 shooting. They shot in an 81-67 victory on Nov. 11. 33 percent for the game, were 3-Latrell Sprewell led New York for-17 from 3-point range and with 22 points. Allan Houston committed 16 turnovers. added 18. 
It looked a little like payback The Hornets took a 64-52 lead from the teams' first meeting this into the fourth quarter, and built season, when the Knicks held the on it while New York self­Hornets to 19 second-half points destructed on offense. ·The Knicks missed their first six shots of the quarter, but Charlotte converted on its end to stretch its lead to 70-52 with 
9:32 to play. . 

New York never got closer than nine points the rest of the way. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Watch at DeBartolo Hall. Must identify to claim. 
FOUND: Glasses at DeBartolo Hall. Must identify to claim. 
All that you can't leave behind! Selling 2 U2 tickets for cost. Chicago, May 15 Leave message for Patrick 243-7753 
FOR RENT 
3-5 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 
1) 5-br $900/month. 
2) 4-br $1000/month. 
3) 3-br $600/month. 
We'll make almost any changes to the 
houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 BEDRM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS. 773­
486-8822 

House for rent near ND. 2 bedrooms. No pets. $525 plus deposit. 219-654-8157. 
Nice and large 2 bedroom apartment for rent. Close to campus in a quiet and safe area. Small pets ok. 313 North Frances. Not a driveby. Rent is $425 a month. Excludes utilities. Call 232-1242. Ask tor John. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 277-3097. 
IDEAL 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 BLOCKS EAST OF ND 277-3097 
All the good homes are not gone! We have 2, 4&5 bedroom houses five minutes from campus! Dave 291-2209 Macos@michiana.ora 

FOR SALE 
PHONE CARDS $20 -2601 min with .49 cent surcharge or $20 -362 min with no surcharge 634-4210-SARA or 634-1146 CLAUDIA 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with ortho­pedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219­
862-208. 
Moving Sale: Recliner -$25, table & chairs • $200, bkshelf -$25, computer desk • $65, entertainm't stand -$25, phone stand -$10, On size mattress set w/frame • $200, armoire-$100, dresser -$150, night stand • $50. Call 243-5781. Will deliver. 
WANTED 

Parents who are ND grads seek older female babysitter to care for two girts ages 7 & 9, one or two weekend evenings & occationally weekends or evenings in our home. Must have own car. Call Judith and leave message: 287-0260. 
Great job opportunity: Care for adorable children 1 morning a week. 
254-9466 

Rock/Funk Band looking for Bassplayer. Interested? Call Jason at 4-1639. 
PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 10 min. from campus, needs volunteers and fosters. Please call 256-0886 or visit www.petre­fuge.com and email us. 
Advertising sales Are you a self starter eager to work tor the most respected advertising company? Are you interested in a long lasting and reward­ing career selling to business owners? You can easily start earning $40k/year + bonus­es and perks and head up our new South Bend territory. Please fax your resume and Summer Jobs with gifted kids Northwestern University's Center tor Talent Development is hiring residential coun­selors/Tas. Experience w/kids pref. Room/board provided for counselors. Comp. Salary, great work experience 6/24­8/12 +training.To apply, call (847)-467­7884 and send a brief letter telling us why you're the one. 888-206-4054 
PERSONAL 

WE MISS YOU, PATRICK __________JUNIOR 
PARENT WEEKEND 

Have your parents stay in real "Irish Comfort• at more affordable prices than area hotels. Gourmet breakfast brunch included. Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at 277-4303 or visit our site: www.irishrose.com 
The SMC dining hall • what exactly was that??? 
Come relive the magic of the 1985-86 Bears at the 15th anniversary of Super Bowl XX. Call Eric at 4-4859 for more infor­mation. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 

The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for vol· unteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call Kari Alford at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Debbie Hart at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND). Please join our fun-tilled days. 
Mary Shanley -can we do that again later?? 

Andrea Louise -what should the next head­line be about one of the two coolest (and prettiest) girls on campus?? 
Eeyore, Piglet and Tigger -get ready for Heartland tonight. 

Noreen and Colleen -do you thinkwe'll be lucky enough to have Big Daddy Mac speak with us at our outing this evening?? I sure hope so. "A short, short man...• 
Chembelles • Friday afternoon iscoming ­good luck with the comps!! 
·-·­
Thursday, January 25, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

First meeting of the semester! Thursday, January 25th 7:00 PM 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Student International Business I Council
I ., 
*Summer internships and teaching positions abroad *Opportunities to go abroad over break for Council delegations. 
*Design Jllarketing strategies and advertising campaigns *Visit and establish contacts with major international companies 
*Play stock market game for prize 
· money! *Design/Create anew Council web page 
All Majors are Welcome! 
Gain valuable, real-Iifejob experience and have the edge when inte,view time comes ­around! 
Join...The Council 
Get applications for internships and teaching positions online at ww.nd.edu/.--sibc 
-
-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
SUPERBOWL XXXV 

Raven's Sharpe defends Lewis 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
The interviews ~ere going just the way Ray Lewis likes them Wednesday -all football, all the time -when an unexpected source threw him a curve. 
As the Baltimore Ravens line­backer sat at the podium, team­mate Shannon Sharpe came up behind him, wrapped his a,rms around Lewis' shoulders and gave an unsolicited, impassioned speech in defense of the embat­tled star linebacker. 
"I wish you all could know this guy personally and look at him in a different light than the media has exploited him to be," Sharpe said. "He admitted he made a mistake. He was in the wrong place at the wrong time. I said this before and I'll say it 1,000 times. If he had not been Ray Lewis, if he had not been an All­Pro player. Ray Lewis would have never, ever been implicat­
d .. 
e . Sharpe was just getting going. His speech took almost two 
uninterrupted, frenetic minutes. Lewis sat placidly the entire time. The Ravens linebacker was 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock .Qut-of-Print search service -Appraisals larae and small 
Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

present during the double mur­
der outside an Atlanta night club 
after the Super Bowl last year. 
He was charged with murder, 
but ended up pleading guilty to 
obstruction of justice. 
Sharpe wishes Lewis got as 
much attention for being the 
NFL's defensive player of the 
year as he does for the night in 
Atlanta. 
"That's all he asks," Sharpe 
said. "Give him a fair statement. 
But we can't_get any of that. 
They ran it over and over and 
over and over again about the 
orange coveralls on TV. The man 
couldn't comb his hair in shack­
les and leg irons." · The tight end asked reporters 
to "imagine ifsomeone was going 
to take your life away from you." 
Sharpe claimed police were too quick to charge Lewis. 
"Ted Bundy killed something like 30 people and it took them a long time to charge him," Sharpe said. "Ray Lewis wasn't even involved with this and he was charged in 24 hours. Whether or not they felt he did it, they had Ray Lewis. They thought to themselves; if we don't have any­body else, we have Ray Lewis." 
When Sharpe stepped off the podium, he immediately began yet another round of interviews. 
Lewis appeared taken aback when the monologue ended. 
"That's kind of special," Lewis said. "Regardless of what you can say about Shannon Sharpe, he's going to speak from the heart. To have a guy like that around your back, it's great. There's no feeling like that." 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 
INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY -•=.":~«¼:>.:;~.,;,:;::s::;:--:,-;t 
l~~ ~ '; : :rir-c:&='ltt411!1\U -
~ 

RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 2001 
at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
Please recycle . The Observer 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL 
C_ONCERNS 
NOTICE; cs;; VEHICLE DRIVERS 
ALL CURRENT VEHICLE REQUESTS TERMINATE AT THE END OF FALL 2000 . SEMESTER! .ALL GROUPS MUST REAPPLY AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SPRING SEMESTER'! 
Comments or questions cscvans@nd.edu 
see the better we look. 
Got your eyes peeled for a great career opportunity? It'll be right under your nose soon. KPMG will be nearby looking for new talent. If you want to work with global clients, on innovative professional serv­ices projects, in a culture that rewards individuality, then make sure we see you while we're in the neighborhood. It'll open your eyes to a whole new future. 
We are an Equal Opportunity Efll)loyer, m/1/d/v. ClOOO KPMG LLP, lhe U.S member firm ol KPMG lnternabonal 
Thursday, January 25, 200 I page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
Browns lose Mornhinweg to Lions for coaching job 
Associated Press 
One of the offensive gurus the Cleveland Browns had sched­uled to interview for their head coaching vacancy ran a reverse on them. 
Marty Mornhinweg, San Francisco's former offensive coordinator who had been rumored to be headed to Cleveland for months and was supposed to talk with the Browns on Wednesday, instead was hired as coach of the Detroit Lions. 
Mornhinweg's decision to bypass the Browns without meeting with them was a bit 
surprising. 
He had previously worked with Cleveland president Carmen Policy and director of football operations Dwight Clark with the 49ers and had been rumored to be Chris Palmer's successor as far back as· November. 
Palmer was fired on Jan. 11 after going 5-27 in just two sea­sons, a move that perhaps scared away Mornhinweg. 
The Browns maintained their media blackout during the head coaching search. 
However, media relations director Todd Stewart did say that Policy was still planning to interview defensive coordinator Romeo Crennel this week and the club was still attempting to set up a meeting with Minnesota offensive line coach Mike Tice. 
Tice, though, was promoted to assistant head coach with the Vikings on Wednesday. and may now be off the Browns' inter­view list. 
Earlier this week, the Browns interviewed New Orleans offen­sive coordinator Mike McCarthy and Tennessee defensive coordi­nator Gregg Williams. Both said their visits went well and were hoping to hear back from the Browns. 
Following the Super Bowl. the Browns will meet with New York Giants defensive coordina-
The tasty Rodeo Cheeseburger-for 99(. 
(Cowboy hat, boots and lasso sold separately.) 
Cot the urge?"' 

The delicious, flame-broiled Rodeo Cheeseburger. 
Just ride in, saddle up to the counter and try a tasty, flame-broiled burger topped with melted cheese, crispy onion rings and tangy BULL:S-EYE8 BBQ sauce for only 99¢. Hey, at that price you can afford to feed your whole posse on 'em. 
tor John Fox and Baltimore defensive coordinator Marvin Lewis. 
Both coaches are also consid­ered the top candidates to coach the Buffalo Bills. Each has previ­ously worked with new Bills president Tom Donahoe. 
The Bills have also received permission from the Titans to talk to Williams. 
On Tuesday, the Browns said they had narrowed their coach­ing search to just NFL coaches, ending speculation the club was secretly courting Butch Davis of Miami, Bob Stoops of Oklahoma or Rick Neuheisel of Washington. 
The 53-year•old Crennel, who is very popular with Browns players, is considered by some to be the frontrunner for the position. 

In his first season with Cleveland, Crennel improved the Browns' defense in nearly every statistical category. 
Bolstered by the addition of rookie end Courtney Brown and free agents Orpheus Roye and Keith McKenzie, the Browns recorded 42 sacks after getting a league low 25 in 1999. 
Crennel has 20 years of NFL coaching experience. 
He has been on three Super Bowl coaching staffs, twice with the New York Giants and once with the New England Patriots. 
SUNDAY FEBRUARY 11TH 
7:30 PM 

Morris Performing Arts Center Box Office, or charge by phone 
00-537-641 
online@ www.MorrisCenfer.org 
. ! 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 200 I 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Hope defeats Saint Mary's swimmers 
Belles were not able to main­tain their advantage. 
Freshman powerhouse Meghan Ramsey pulled out a first in the 500-yard freestyle and later in the 200 butterfly in which she re-set her school record with a time of 2 minutes 
14.58 seconds. 
Saint Mary's dominated the freestyle events with Maureen Palchak's performance in the 50 freestyle. Co-Captain Colleen Sullivan dominated both the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events. Lauren Smith and Katie Liebeck went one­two in the 200-breaststroke. 
Sullivan attributed the loss not to the swimmer's mental or physical inadequacies but to just being out swam in key events. 
"We swam really well indi­vidually but we have also begun to swim well as a team since our training trip," Sullivan said. "This shows in our attitudes -especially when faced with these close meets. We're a team." 
Part of the explanation for the Belles sub-.500 season reGord lies in the diving squad. With only one diver, Saint Mary's is usually the underdog to the larger teams that have three or four divers. According to Hildebrandt, those are the points that can make a big dif­ference. 

ByJANEL MILLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles swimming and diving team fell to Hope College Tuesday night, giving Hope College their 48th con­secutive dual meet win in the MIAA. 
Hope College, currently ranked first in the MIAA, swam swiftly to victory, notching the score to 102-62 by the half to swim the rest of the meet exhi­bition. Hope ran away with the meet, winning 102-96. For the Belles, the meet was an oppor­

\' 
tunity to swim off events and 

II': ,,: have a little fun. Armed with I an unusual roster, head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt wanted the Hope match to be a no­pressure situation for the Belles. "I wanted to change some things up for them for fun and for resting purposes," Hildebrandt said. "They really need this change because they swam this past Saturday and 
l 
,l will swim again this coming Saturday." The Belles entered Tuesday's 
meet after coming off a close
I;\ 
I' meet Saturday versus Albion College. After losing to Alma by one point, the Belles realized that being close is not always going to be enough. The Belles were once again reminded on 




,. 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Christiansen said. "We had paint. spurts on and off but we just Senior forward MaryJane
SMC 
couldn't pull it out." 
Valade dominated inside the 
continued from page 24 Coming out strong, key with 23 points and seven Kalamazoo's defense forced rebounds. Saint Mary's into 15 second­
Teammate Amanda 
ahead by seven. 
half turnovers, while its Weishuhn nipped at her heels,"We played tough, but they offense muscled its way into tallying 18 points and leading were a good team, the lane and controlled the the team with 11 boards. 

THE SEMINAR 

• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, March 10-17, 2001 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 

• 
Past participants ofAppalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as Site Coordinators 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural poverty, the environment, women, children, and housing. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experi­ence the cultural richness ofthe area and begin to understand.and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, January 31, 2001 $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) OR apply on-line! visit http:l/129.74.134.217/AP/default.htm 
FURTHER INFORMATION 

Steve Recupero, Student Task Force Chairperson, 634-1217 
WVFI 
MANDATORY MEETING 
*showplcks for spring '01 semester will take place *new dj's are welcome 
,4creturniog dj's must ~JJbmit email ·V:J/ experience and show description prior to meeting· 
1)0NIGHT ! l ! 7 P, ~1, Thur·sda~y.
January 25th ~1ontgomcry Theatre Lafortune (1st floor} 
"They just went on a run [in Dineen, Leigh Ann Matesich the second half]," Christiansen and Katie Miller added six said. "And that's really hard to apiece.stop." Home court advantage has 
Unlike meant little to Kalamazoo, the two teams
"We played tough. but
Saint Mary's in recent could not rely they were a good team. meetings. on a lopsided 
We had spurts on and oft Splitting two 
scoring effort games last
but we just couldn't pull 
since the loss season, each of its leading it out.,, squad earned scorer, a win on the Kristen Matha road.
Katie Christiansen 
to a strained The Belles
guard
hip flexor. can only hope 
Instead, the that trend Belles looked continues for a more balanced attack. when they get another shot at Christiansen led the.team with the Hornets on the court at 
10 points, while Jaime Kalamazoo on Feb. 17. 


Check Friday's Observer for the Schedule of all LNO First Round Games/Matches I 
WANT TO MAKE A -DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF ACHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK·AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES. INTERVIEWS THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, JANUARY 25TH AND 26TH FROM 9:00 AM TO 5:00 PM IN FLANNER HALL. 
Camp Sweeny is an equal opportunity employer. 

JUNIORS!!! 
It's not too late to register for 
Junior Parents Weekend!!! 
If you didn't receive an application or still need to register, go to the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune 
or email JPW@nd.edu with Questions or Comments. 
'r 
page 20 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Swimmers face tough upcoming schedule 
As they have all season, the
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

. Irish will expect big perfor­
Sports Writer 
If Bob Davie thought he had a tough schedule in the fall, he shouldn't go looking for sympa­thy from women's swimming coach Bailey Weathers. After all, Davie's team never had to face two nationally ranked opponents 24 hours apart. 
Notre Dame's women's swim­ming and diving team has the unenviable task of facing two nationally ranked opponents back-to-back. Today, the No. 18 Irish travel to Evanston, Ill. to swim against the No. 23 Wildcats. Friday, the Irish will be back in the water at Rolfs Aquatic Center swimming against the No. 14 Wolverines. 
"We basical­

I the second I day rather than the first day." The Irish have already seen the Wolverines in action this season. Notre Dame swimmers competed side by side against Michigan swimmers at the Wolverine Invitational, although Notre Dame was only scored against Illinois. Although Notre Dame was not scored against Michigan, Irish coaches estimat­ed that the Wolverines would have beaten the Irish. The Irish, who are 8-1 in dual meets this year, would like to repeat the dual meet magic they worked at the end of last season. Last year, the Irish jumped out to an early lead as they upset the then No. 11 Wildcats 158-141. A week later, Notre Dame knocked off then-No. 8 Michigan to finish the dual meet season undefeat­ed. 

mances from junior Kelly Hecking and freshman Marie Labosky. · 
Hecking is nearly unbeatable in the backstroke. Of the 14 times that Hecking has swum in a backstroke final, she has won 11 times. The other three times. Hecking took second place. 
Hecking swam a personal-best 
55.7 seconds in the 100 back­stroke at the Notre Dame Invitational, the 15th fastest time in the nation, according to Swimming World. Hecking also holds the 16th fastest spot nationally in the 200 backstroke. 
At the Wolverine Invitational, Hecking won the 100 backstroke and finished second in the 200 backstroke and the 50 freestyle. 
"Kelly's faster 
ly feel that our "Kelly [Hecking]'s faster at this point in the 
best plan is to season than she's

at this point in the sea­
swim our best 

ever been," 
on Thursday son than she's ever been. 
Weathers said. and hope that She's pretty amazing in "She's pretty
carries over 

amazing in terms
terms ofher competitive 
into Friday," of her competitive 

Weathers instincts ... 
instincts." 
said. "I think Labosky is hav­

it's an advan­ing a remarkable

Bailey Weathers 
tage for us to 

year in her first
head coach
swim at home 


season of colle­
giate competition. 'fhe freshman, who specializes in the individual medleys and in distance events, has won 13 individual events so far this sea­son. Two weeks ago, Labosky won the 200 and 400 individual medleys and placed second in the 1,650 freestyle. 
Junior diver Heather Mattingly will also play an important role today and tomorrow. Mattingly, who will compete in the one­meter and three-meter spring­board, won the same two events at the Wolverine Invitational. 
Friday's meet against Michigan, which begins at 4:00 in the Rolfs Aquatic Center, is the final dual meet of the season for the Irish. Notre Dame will then have three weeks off to pre­pare for the Big East champi­onship meet. 
A itt ~·ffrt~ (OJ [n} Sit~ccl~~it$ 



iiI 
~ ntcerce$tceccl

I, 
rr ' 
ij ll11 


' 
',' 
'--..., 
H~UsaGsaSsa 

~ 

I 
-Meeting Thurs. @ 5:00 at the Center for Social Concerns 
.ti 
I.'. 
l.'i 
"· 
-We will sign up for 

rl;..
,, 
·1 
time slots for spring 

~!
:, 
semester and elect 

:·t 
I 
new officers 

·1 
'1 

~ 
-TB test info. will also be available 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 2001 

New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ THECALL ~ 

www.nd.edu/,...,vocation 
... 
csc 

CENTER FOR 
SOC IA.L CONCE..RNS 
.. :__ ·::~ }F.~ ~ 

·"· .~ 
VEHICLE TRAINING DATES FOR· SPRING 2001 
Th~ following dates are the ONLY dates vehtcl~ tr~ining will be offered. No exceptions will be made. If yoti'were trained Fall 2000 you do not need to be retrained.... ., Sunday .J~11uary 28 · Sunday February_4 .. ,T~1Jf$day F,ebruary 8 . Wednesday February 14 

.-.'.: .·~ ' · ··sunday !'1arcµ 4 .

~7 .... 
t. ·:·.• . 
.. . ..•. 
. ' ·, ...... 
~. ·~ : 

All sessions will be at 6:00 p~rh. in Rporri 174 at the csc ·._.:~·(: ::\\ ~ 
. • • l•• • 
...-·.t ... , 

REMINDERS:.. ,· -;. 
..·, ;i' ' : . • ,{f . 

..

All groups must ~ubmit NEW request forms for second .. . 
. . • • I 
. . .-: · _., -semester.scheduling~··· . . ·,. Requests must have accurate times and name(s) 
of driver(~) to b~~'3ccepted_.-(group lead¢r 
:J _,. .,,... ~ I . • I ' -• 
naine in~ufficierit,'if not actiul,~Y drivi~g) :? '·Direct Questions'to:. cssvans@n'd.edu · . 
'l!'. ,,,._• • :_ . .,, ' • -• . • ., 
· •-·'.\_-..~. 
• -• 

• 

Thursday, January 25, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

"They might not all have been on at the same time
Bball 
like they were against Connecticut, but they did

continued from page 24 
what they had to do and that's the mark of a champion."
half. 
Point guard Niele Ivey

The Irish, however, scored 10 points and
were far from perfect on 
added nine assists but
offense. 
also had six turnovers in

The nation's top team 
29 minutes.

committed 15 turnovers, 
5-foot 7 guard Daryawhich led to 20 Kudryavtseva led West

Mountaineer points. West Virginia with 21 pointsVirginia's 64 points were and eight
the fourth-
assists.
high est 

"When you ·re No. I. 
B a c k
t o t a I 

you do what you have C O U r t
allowed to an Irish to do to win a game m a t e 
K a t e
opponent 

even in you ·re not 
Bulger
this season. 

on ... They did what added 18
While the Irish may they had to do and points 
and five
have shown 

that's the mark ofa 
rebounds,
fatigue, it 
champion.,. despite
was evident 
shooting
to West only one

Virginia Alexis Basil 
of six
c o a c h 

West Virginia head coach 
f r o mAlexis Basil 
behind
why tlie 
the three-
Irish are 
point arc.
undefeated. 
The Irish now have a

"When you're No. 1, 
week of rest before host­you do what you have to 

ing Providence in the

do to win a game, even if 
Joyce Center on Wed.,

you're not on," Basil told 
Jan. 31.

the Associated Press. 
Advanced Jazz Dance
ATTENTION 

No ID? No Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for you! 
In order to better serve all of our users, beginning Monday, January 29 No ID, No entry. 
Information ~1eeting 
Sunday, January 28• 1:30pm 
RSRC Activity Rm. 
Classes will meet: Thursdays • 7:45 -9:00pm Saturdays • 1:30 -3:00pm Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Act. Rm 2 

Register in advance at RecSports, Class fee is $39.00 Sign ups begin Monday, January 29•8:00am Classes begin Thursday, February 8 Space is limited 


the department of film, television, and theatre 
presents 
notre 
ame 
~ 



festival 2001 
advanced tickets on sale at Lafortune .(c.,7life tne, last . 
friday • saturday • monday 
sn1te museum of art $4.00 admission 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 2001 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish hope to cruise past Hoosiers in Indiana rivalry 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spons Writer 
Looking to avenge last year's loss against Indiana, the 33rd-ranked Irish men's tennis team takes on the 27th-ranked Hoosiers today 
at the Eck Tennis Pavilion.

I 
I 
After cruising past 18th­

I. I' 
l 
ranked Minnesota and unranked Wisconsin in their first two matches of the sea­son, Notre Dame seeks to keep its 2001 dual-match record spotless. "I don't think there is any ·r I chance of a letdown," head 
'-I( 
coach Bob Bayliss said. "I expect everyone to come out firing on all cylinders. We lost to Indiana 4-3 last year, it 
was a disappointing loss, and I think everyone remembers that." 
The Irish will be put to the test against the Hoosiers, a team that returns all but one starter. One weapon· included in the Indiana lineup is Milan Rakvica. a native from the Czech Republic, who stands at No. 13 in the Midwest region rankings, right behind Irish junior Javier Taborga who is listed at No. 11. 
While the Hoosiers only suf­fered the loss of one starter, the Irish are in a similar situ­ation, only having to fill two spots left by departing seniors Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller. With comparable squads from the 2000 season set to face off, the match-up between the Irish and the Hoosiers is sure to be a bat­tle. 

"I think the relative strengths of the two teams are somewhat similar to what they were last year. so we 'II be expecting a very tough match," Bayliss said. "It's cer­tainly winnable, but we'll have our hands full." 
Although the Irish have experienced striking success in their first two matches. Bayliss is still trying to find the best fit for the lineup. With seven qualified starters, the team is not short of options. Ninety-fifth ranked Casey Smith has filled the top spot for the Irish in their first two wins, followed by Taborga in the second. singles position. Rounding out the Notre Dame singles lineup has been Luis Haddock­Morales, Aaron Talarico. Brian Farrell, and Matt Scott. 
"We still have at this point 
seven players that I consider 
all starters," Bayliss said. 
"Andrew Laflin, Farrell, and 
Matt Scott are all capable of 
winning at the last two [sin­
gles} positions. But obviously, 
six of those seven people will 
play." 

The Irish doubles pairings that will be set to take on the Hoosiers is less of an uncer­tainty. Bayliss will send the 38th-ranked duo of Taborga and Talarico to fill the top spot. 
Smith and Haddock-Morales will take on the duties in the No. 2 doubles match. while the Irish representatives in the third doubles match will be the duo of James Malhame and Scott or Andrew Laflin and Farrell. 
The Hoosiers open up their spring campaign against Notre Dame for the second consecutive year, and look to record the same results. However, if history remains on the side of the Irish, who hold a 35-19 series lead over Indiana, the outcome looks to favor the home team. 
Notre Dame starts a crucial two-match stretch against the Hoosiers, and hopes to record a win before heading to face a tough Ohio State team over the weekend. 
"We got a real tough week 
right here," head coach Bob 
Bayliss said. "And then we 
have to turn around and leave 
the very next day right after 
class to go to Columbus, Ohio, 
to play an Ohio State team 
that has a chance to win the 
Big Ten." 

Thursday. January 25 
7:00 p.m. Martin L. King Jr. Holiday Celebration Prayer Service, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Social Concerns Festival, Center for Social Concerns 
8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Stu­dent Center 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 
10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Movie, ''Meet the Parents" DeBartolo 101*and "Yellow Subma­rine': DeBartololSS* 
Friday. January 26 
5:00 p.m. Women's Swimming ­Michigan, Rolf's Aquatic Center 
5:00 p.m. Men's Swimming ­Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Rolf's Aquatic Center 
6:00 p.m. Track &Field -Michigan State, Loftus Center 
6:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
7:00 p.m. -4:00 a.m. Late Night Olympics XV -RecSports, Joyce Center 
7:00. p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''ND Student Rim Festival 2001 '; Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, ''Meet the Par­ents': DeBartolo 101* & "The Wall': DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''ND Student Rim Festival 2001 ': Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, ''Meet the Par­ents': DeBartolo 101* & "The Wall': DeBartolo 155* 

Saturday. January c!7 
5:00 p.m.-Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
5:30 p.m. Flipside Snow Tubing. Meet at Library Circle* 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''ND Student Rim Festival 2001 ': Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. 9 Ball Billiards Tourna­ment, ND Express -Lafortune Student Center 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "Meet the Parents': DeBartolo 101* and "Tommy", DeBartolo 155* 
A 

9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''ND 
V

Student Rim Festival 2001 ': Snite Museum* 
10:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. Class of 2003 and 2004 dance, Alumni Senior Club 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Meet the Parents», DeBartolo 101 * and "Tommy", De Bartolo 155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/ SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune Student Center. 


Thursday, January 25, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
· FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 

Fox TROT  BILL AMEND  
TIMES ROMAN.  WHAT'S  I WANT To USE  
COURIER. HMM.  HELVETICA.  EEk'. WAY Too  THE  A FoNT THAT  
THAT DoESN'i  NO. Too  FORMAL.  6  PRo8­ FITS MY WRITING  
FEEL RIGHT.  PLAIN.  I  j  LEM?  STYLE.  
~-­ I  I  ~  I  If I '(1'1qy  
off~r d  
Sl.1999S­ 
tion...  
""  

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Lower 57 Rebuffs 1 Building 29 Vietnam was 59 Roulette bet supports part of it 60 Troubles 6 "I see," 32 Actress Thurman 61 Hubert facetiously 34 Travel widely Humphrey's 10 Not latched 35 Raises running mate, 
1968
14 Zero Mastel role 36 Arctic native of 1964 37 Fallacious 64 1982 title role 15 Color of some reasoner for Meryl Streep 4 wine grapes 40The Who's 65 Nettle 16 Cracked "Tommy" and 66 Judge, at times 17 lnsomniac's others 67 Geologists' need 41 China aster, e.g. divisions 19 Crack, in a way 42 Scot's wear 68 Proof word 69 Dental stuff 
20 Otologist's study 43 Taken in. 
21 Company 44 Naples's home: founded by Abbr. DOWN Steve Case 45 Carte start 1 What "ipso" 
22 Newspaper 46 Soapmaking means read at Notre substance 2 Fancy part of Dame 51 Modem data Los Angeles holder 3 Loath
24 Oliver's wife on "Green Acres" 53 Moreover 4 Some whiskey 26 Common 54 1970 Kinks hit 5 Print tint Market: Abbr. 55 Sorrowful cry 6 Caught some rays, perhaps 7 Kachina doll 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
maker 8 Framework Puzzle by .,.,Gordon piece 
33 N.L. East team 47 Car hood, in 55 Sage
9 Capital of Loiret 
Britain

36 Counting 56 Rearrange, say
1 O Major can maker 
everything 48 Consult 
58 Kids'TV
11 Chief of staff 
37 Cousin of reggae
under George 49 Enduring hits character 38 Art shop buy 
Bush 50 Duck hunter's 62 Uncooperative 12 Dean's concern 39 Eagles' home boots one 13 Skip it 40 Delay 52 Angry reactions 63 Noted 62-Down 18 Very much 41 Prince Valiant' s 23 Exec's degree wife ....+.,..._-,1 25 Apprehensive 43 Sewing machine Answers to any three clues in this puzzle feeling attachments are available by touch-tone phone: .,........+--+,......... 27 Overthrow 44 Kind of 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). ~.................. 30 Big name in the insurance Annual subscriptions are available for the ad biz 46 Writer Marilyn best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 __._.........__, 31 Poker supplies _Savant years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer Make checks payable to: 

P.O. Box Q
and mail to: 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON quite well. 000 
THIS DAY: Dean Jones, Jacque­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): line DuPre, Corazon Aquino, Learn from past mistakes. You Eduard Shevardnadze, Dinah have lost in the past due to your Manoff, China Slick, Richard inability to take good advice. You Finch must be willing to listen to others 
Happy Birthday: You can't go and compromise if you wish to wrong this year if you push your make your relationship work. ideas. Follow your desires and 000 dreams. Don't let your stubborn LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use nature be the one thing that holds your willpower to make yourself you back. Rise above the "who's the best you can be. Quit bad 
right, who's wrong" syndrome habits and get yourself into a and get down to business. The routine that will help you feel more willing you are to work healthier. A little shopping will alongside others, the further lift your spirits. 00000 you'll get. Your numbers: 21, 25, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 32, .36, 39, 48 You can expect opposition from 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): those less eager to follow your You can make money, but your beliefs. Criticism will be hard for inability to hang onto it will be you to take. You must be careful devastating. Entertainment will how you retaliate. You can make provide you with stimulating more progress if you're calm. 00 ideas. New lovers will be eager to SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. move closer. 0000 21): Keep your ears open. You can 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): pick up valuable information that Keep an open mind when other will aid you in your business people voice their opinions. Your deals. Don't worry about friends stubborn nature may cause you who like to interfere in your per­to lose friendships that you ca.re sonal life. Ignore them. 0000 about. Your strong, stable nature CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. will entice new lovers. 000 19): You can make financial gains 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): through property o.r smali busi­Present your ideas to superiors. ness ventures. Take care of any Your intellectual versatility will paperwork that has piled up. 
win you points and bring you Minor health problems will be support. New career opportuni­due to fatigue. 000 
,,

ties will fall into place. Be careful AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): signing contracts. 00000 You need to be entertained. Your 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): spirits have been down. Pleasure Get involved in business that trips and social activity may be entails mail order or telephone the ~-You will have a strong soliciting. You need a change to need to have a greater involve­feel stimulated again. Don't be ment with children. 000 afraid to let go of the past. Move PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): on to new territory. 000 Limitations due to co-workers 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be upsetting. Try to get on will feel resentment if your part­with your own work and refuse ner steals your thunder. Criticism to take part in the dilemmas that 
could lead to major arguments. other people are creating. Don't Concentrate on financial invest­overspend on entertainment. ments that appear to be doing 000 
Birthday Baby: You are always searching for something new and exciting. You thrive on t.l.ie unknown. You are a trendsetter and an inventor. You contribute to whatever you feel is a worthy cause. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web .sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 



.' 
r 

Holding on 

The Philadelphia 76ers held out for an overtime victory against the Houston Rockets 85-84 Wednesday night. 
page 14 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 
The story of Saint Mary's 64-48 loss to Kalamazoo read like a book on the Belles' faces Wednesday night at Angela Athletic Facility. 
After hanging tough with the Hornets through the first half, the Belles jogged back to the locker room with determined stares, confident they could over­come a seven-point deficit to earn a much-needed con­ference win. 
"In the locker room we talked about how we were doing well playing with them," Belle guard Katie 

Christiansen "This was the best Saint there. said. "We They're on
Mary's team I've played 
knew we their way."
since I've been at
had to keep With 12 our heads in Kalamazoo. They're first-half the game turnovers,
getting there. ,,
and that Kalamazoo they were had trouble beatable." Michelle Fortier putting a 
At 11-5, Kalamazoo head coach rhythm to 
Hornets sting Belles 
on to the ball on offense, turning the ball over 24 times. 
"We played really well defensively," Hornet head coach Michelle Fortier said. "It's always hard to play here. I'm satisfied with the way our team handled the situation." 
But the win was anything but easy early on for the Hornets. 
Unable to put significant distance on the scoreboard, the Hornets traded baskets with the Belles for most of the first half. 
"This was the best Saint Mary's team I've played since I've been at Kalamazoo," Fortier said. "They're getting 

the Hornets are beat­able, but they weren't Wednesday. 
When the final buzzer sounded, a different Saint Mary's team walked off the floor, deflated by their sixth-straight loss. 
Tough Hornet defense stung the Belles, as Saint Mary's had trouble holding its offensive 

strategy. 
"Turnovers were a big issue for us tonight," Fortier said. "We've strug­gled with that all season." 
Seventeen minutes ticked off the clock before the Hornets could organize a run on the basket, pulling 
SMC/page19 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish overcome delays, easily defeat Mountaineers 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

At least something worked in Morgantown Wednesday night. After mechanical problems with the scoreboard caused two separate delays 
in the first half, the Irish pulled away for an 87-64 victory over the West 
.. V ·i r g i n i a Mountaineers in front of a season­low crowd of 364. The No. 1 Irish, 


who remain the McGraw only undefeated 
teams in Division I NCAA women's bas­ketball, improve to 19-0 on the season and 8-0 in the Big East. 
Conference foe West Virginia drops to 4-13 overall and 2-4 in the conference. 
Despite the lopsided final score, the Irish were slow to establish their domi­nance. 
After five minutes of play, the score was knotted at 6-6. 
Then the offense woke up. Over the next seven minutes, the Irish outscored the Mountaineers by 23 to six to take a commanding 29-12 lead. 
West Virginia would never pull closer than within 13 points. 
Senior All-American center Ruth Riley led the way for the Irish. Riley, who finished with a game-high 28 points, scored 18 in the opening half, overpowering a Mountaineer offense that double-teamed her the entire game. 
Sharp-shooter Alicia Ratay returned to her early-season form for Notre Dame. 
Ratay, whose scoring has been down as of late, scored 24 points on 8-13 shooting and added a team-high nine rebounds. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw was more concerned with her opponent's offensive output than her stars' produc­tion. · 
'Tm very disappointed in our d,Jfen­sive effort," McGraw told the Associated Press. "Basically. the team on the floor decided that we would 
outscore (them) today. It certainly wasn't my plan." 
The Irish were playing their second road game in four days, flying to Morgantown Tuesday night less than 48 hours after returning from Sunday's game against Seton Hall in New Jersey. 
"Our goal is to play whoever we are playing with the same intensity," McGraw said. "We're just didn't do that tonight." 
Although the defense may have lacked intensity, it did not lack in effec­tiveness. 
A shorthanded West Virginia team that dressed only nine players shot just 29 percent from the field in the first 
see BBALL/page 21 



Women's Swimming 
Swimming 

at Northwestern 
at Kalamazoo 
vs. Ohio State
SPORTS 

Today, 5 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Today and Saturday 

vs. Indiana
ATA 
.. 
7:05 p.m.
Today, 4 p.m. 
at. Georgetown 
vs. Albion 

Saturday, 12 p.m. 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE • 





