
Jump Little Children Releases Mellow Music
RAINY 
Tuesday 
Brit-pop band Jump Little Children releases their third mellow studio 
OCTOBER 16,
HIGH 48° 
album, "Vertigo." 

LOW 41° 
Scene . page 10 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 36 

Matthews reviews hot topics 
By JASON McFARLEY 
New~ Fdiror 
U.S h·ackrs should continue tlw war on t<'rrorism but Im cautious that llw American campaign d1H'sn't spur a holy war with Islamic Middle~ t:astPrn nations, Chris Matth!'ws. host of thn rnhle nnws political talk show "llardball." said Monday at Notn' Danw.. 
Amnrican responsP to the Sept. 1 l tPrrorist attacks thrPatens a war with not only with ,\l"ghanistan. whPre Osama bin LadPn is suspPrtPd to lw hiding. but also with otlwr Islamic countrins likP Pakistan and Iraq. ~lattlwws said. 
/\nd that plays into bin Ladl'n·s gam1•, according to \1atllwws. 
"Bin LadPn is an Pvil gPnius." t!w politiral author and nationallv svndicatPd rnlumnist said to a;1 audiPrn'P of t11(ll"P than 350 that li!IPd a campus auditorium to ovPr­rlowing. "With I(i guys who vverP willing to gi;t on planes and takP tlwm over with box­cu tlPrs. lw killed fi.000 MSNBC news talk show host Matthews calls Bin Laden an "evil genius" and addresses Anrnricans. !IP knPw that other political issues during his lecture Monday night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. W('d rnspond with guns blaz­ing." MSNBC talk slrnw. The politi­Hodham Clinton to downplay­to for an episode of 
"II<' wants a blood war cally conservative host was ing concerns about anthrax "Hardball" that he filmed ear­lwt,VPPll the East and the frank but humorous in his cri­and bin-terrorism. lier Monday at local NBC affil­WPst. but I don't want that tique of the U.S. government's In fact, Matthews arrived 15 iate WNDU. war. No 0111• in this room will handling of the terrorist minutes late for the lecture "I'm not spooked about liw\ to sci' tlw end of that war. attacks. following a reported case of anthrax, but a lot of people But that's his strategy. That's And during the talk, anthrax in New York Monday are. I can't understand why Uw scPnario that he wants," "Washington Today: The night. Matthews walked into they are," Matthews said on a Matthews said. Inside View," Matthews the Carey Auditorium to a day that witnessed Senate 
MatthPws' hour-long skipped from discussing for­thoughtful applause just min­Majority Leader Tom appearance Monday at times mer President Clinton and utes after taping last-minute resembled his CNBC and New York Sen. Hillary coverage of the anthrax case see HARD BALL/ page 4 

Students don pink for breast cancer 
ribbon pins. On Sunday, giving out stickers to put in helps fund mammograms for By KATIE RAND Student Activities Board and our planners to remind stu­homeless, battered and News Wrirtr Health & Wellness co-spon­dents to do a monthly self working poor women. Links 
sored a viewing of exam," said T_aylor. are also provided for various 
As part of National Breast "Stepmom," featuring Julia Breast cancer self-test other sites such as J.Crew. Cancer Awareness Month. Roberts and Susan Sa,randon. instruction hangers have also Chadwick's of Boston and Saint Marv's Residence Life In the movie, Sarandon por­been placPd in the showers Bare Necessities. By shop­Assodatio~ is doing its part trays a mother dying of around campus. The week ping at these sites through to educate students about the breast cancer. The film will culminate this Thursday the links. more money will be disease by sponsoring Breast shows every aspect of the wilh another "Wear Pink <lonated to fund mammo­Cancer Awareness Week discasr., from the numerous Day" and a few night events. grams. from Oct. 11 to 18. doctor's appointments and At 9 p.m. on Thursday there An estimated 41,000 
"We had Breast Cancer consultations to the reaction will be a candlelight walk American women will <lie Awareness Week last year. so of her two young children down The Avenue starting at from breast cancer this year it. was just assumed that we when she tells them she is ill. the Holy Cross Hall llagpole, alone, and approximately would do it again this year," "Health Services has been followed by a prayer service 192,200 new cases will be said Amber Taylor, health really helpful with all of this. at Holy Cross Chapel at 9:30 discovered. according to awareness chairperson for Thev have been at all of our p.m.. www.thebreastcancersite.com. the Residunc!' Life evc~ts helping inform stu­Residence Hall Association Association. dents, giving out fact sheet is also helping tu fund free 
Breast cancer awareness with statistics on how it mammograms by advertising week kicked off with "wear [breast cancer! affects people for www.thebreastcancer­Contact Katie Rand at Pink Day" and by selling pink our age. They also have been site.com. Clicking on the site rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Anthrax touches 
media 
• Doctors diagnose ABC producer's child with bacteria 
Associated Press 
The ?-month-old son of an ABC News producer has devel­oped the skin form of anthrax after recently spending time in the newsroom, authorities and network officials said Monday. 
The boy, the youngest of the four Americans diagnosed with the disease this month. is responding to antibiotics and is expected to recover, ABC News President David Westin said. 
"The prognosis is excellent." he said. 
/\BC is the second major news organization in New York to report an anthrax case in the past three days. Authorities are also investigating a letter that apparently infected an NBC employee with the same form of anthrax last week. Like the boy, she is also expected to recover. 
Authorities did not discuss the source of the germ involv­ing the child. Westin said the network is operating under the assumption that the exposure happened at its offices on West 66th Street. 
The child vis'1ted the ABC newsroom in the last few weeks, probably on Sept. 28. Westin said. He developed a rash, and was hospitalized with an unknown ailment soon after the visit. 
The boy was believed to have been on two floors of the ABC building for a couple of hours, 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said. Westin said the child is the son of a female producer, but did not release names. 
Giuliani said investigators would be interviewing ABC employees to recreate the cir­cumstances in which the child may have been exposed. 
The child has skin-contract­ed anthrax -not the more lethal inhaled form that infect­ed two Florida men, killing one. 
Westin said officials learned of the diagnosis Monday evening through blood tests and a biopsy. 
"There are no other instances that we are aware of," he said. "We will continue to report the news." 
Dr. Steve Berman, president 
see ANTHRAX/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, Occober I 6, 200 I

INSIDE COLUMN 
Singing in the rain 
Lately. I have the feeling I am being watched. and not just by all of the attractive single men on campus. No, this time it is something much big­ger. 
I am convinced of this br.ruuse every Lime it has rained in the past three weeks, the downpour begins when I step out the door. rains in buckets while I am exposed. and suddenly stops the moment I find shelter. Coincidoncc? I think not. 
My only explanation for 

this disturbing eVfmt is that  Shelia Egts  
perhaps someone or some­ 
thing higher up is suggesting  
that I try showering more than twice ,t week.  Copy Editor  
Unfortunatelv, the chance  
of this happening is about as  
){Ood as the chance that the  

Irish will bl'coml-' national champions. (For the one or two readers who don't follow l'\olrc Dame football. stop rra.ding now because you can't understand what it is means to really get rained un anyway.l 
To be honest. I think the drearv rain dav in and day out in the I3end is starting to· take a t~ll on my life. When I am inside and dry, life is good. 
I3ut when I get rained on for extended periods of time while watching a football game that I don't even understand, things go downhill. 
When I try to open an umbrella and the guy behind me yells. "I can't see!" as if I actually care, I get a little cranky. 
When my toes and fingers resemble raisins and I am wet in places that I didn't even know existed, my spirits hit rock bottom. 
Believe it or not. the mass amounts of home­work that my professors have so generously assigned for this final week before break are not even enough to brighten my days. 
Instead of being a productive student and con­tributing member to society, I sadly find myself wandering around 4 South McCandless Hall pcm­dering the same three options each day: pop zits. put ramen noodles into my face until they lose their flavor or dream about how much better my room would smell if my roommate worn dean underwear. 
Ok. I will admit. I do notice a problem with this depressing outlook. That is why my roommate. Nicole. and I. tried to do something fun for a change last Tuesday. Despite the rain. my room­mate and I were singing because we competed in Say What Karaoke, Saint Mary's style. Except for my bicycle helmet and Nicole's see-through black body suit, I'd say we could have passed for twins of Madonna, cone breasts and all, as we "sang" a shortened rendition of "Vogue." But alas, the judges did not appreciate our talent and we were rejected out of the place. They insulted our pride with a score of 8 for style. which is pretty much the equivalent of 0. After dancing in clothes that clung tighter to our thigh:s than a fat man on a peanut, we left with an ovenvhelming feeling that our chins were taking over our faces. 
My only consolation was that the grand champi­ons were actually talented and deserving of the $250 prize. They even donated half of the money to American Red Cross and the other half to Saint Mary's Right to Life. 
Thinking of that act of unselfish kindness is enough to cheer me up. Itis enough to remind me that I am fortunate to be attending this exr,ellent college in South Bend, even though the weather is less than ideal at times. 
Contact Shelia Egts at Egts0236@saintmarys.edu 
The 1•ieu•s expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional puhlicarion ~nd strives for die highesr smnd.uJs of journalism ac all times. We do, however, rewi;nize that we wtll make mistakes. Ifwe have nude a mis[;lke, please conracc us at 631-454 I so we c~n i.:orrect our c:rror. 
The Ol11<rver (l::,p:, 59~ 2-4000) is publisheJ Mo11d,1y 1hnH1gh friday excepf durin~ ex:,1111 ;111d v;1c,1tio11 periods. The 06s.erver is :.1 memher of the A,sochu,d Press. All reproduction right, M• reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"After about three and a "We wanted to celebrate ha{fmiles, I just started that with something specialfor the students.
to hyperuentilate. " 
So many things ha11e changed at Notre Dame 
Ryan Shay cross 
but we're still a.family ­

country runner 
that ·s what Founder's Day 

on Pre-Nationals 
is meant to celebrate. ,, 
Brooke Norton student body president on Founder's Day 
"We want to get a .first-round bye in the Big East Tournament and we want to host a game in the NCAA Tournament," 
Muffet McGraw women's head basketball coach on goals for the season 
"This threat contradicts the basic tenets offairness as well as the understanding that I had with Notre Dame consistently from January 1998 until /Wednesday/ 
morning. 
Cooper Rego West Virginia running back on University not allowing him on campus 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



BEYOND CAMPUS 
Illegal immigrants may pay in-state tuition 
BEllKELEY, Calif. 

G()V. Gray Davis signed a bill Thursday allowing undocumented immigrants who are California resi­dents to pay in-state tuition at California state universities and com­munity colleges. 
The new law would allow the University of California system to adopt a similar policy, although thfl bill does not rnquirc the UC system to offer in-state tuition to undocumentPd immigrants. Such a change in UC poli­cy would require the approval of' the UC Board or Regents. 
Immigrant students must meet four criteria if they wish to qualify for in­state tuition under the bill, authored by Assembly member Marco Firebaugh, D-East Los Angeles. 
Students must be enrolled in a 

California high school for at least three years, graduate and then be admitted into a California college and sign an affidavit pledging they will start the process of normalizing their immigrant status as soon fL'i possible. 
Hoger Salazar, spokesman for Davis. 
said the bill. which will go into effect January 2002. would affect 500 to 1,000 immigrant students planning to enroll in California community and state colleges. 
"The governor feels that any child who is raised and educated here in C:alifornia should have a shot at going lo college and be able to afford it," Salazar said. 
Richard Black, UC-Berkeley assis­tant vice chancellor for admissions and enrollment, said the new law might allow the university to "provide assistance to students that we have not been able to help in some years." 
But the regents have not reached a decision yet on whether to offer in­state tuition to undornnwntcd immi­grants who meet the new law's requirements. 

DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 
Bin Laden family funds professor 
Dartmouth College anthropology professor Dale Eickelman's studies on the issue of Islamic religious and political leadership has drawn the attention of the national press. Eir.kelman is the bin Laden Visiting Fellow for Islamic Studies at Oxford University. The fellowship, initiated by a half-brother of' Osama bin Laden. honors the memory of Muhammad bin Laden. the family's patriarch. The grant sponsors a visiting professor's stay at Oxford to research some aspect of Islamic studies. "Certain British papers have been call­ing Oxford to sec if Osama bin Laden has been giving to Oxford," said Eickelman. whose long-term academic studies will not be affer.ted by the Sept. 11 attacks. "But I can assure you his philanthropy is directed somewhere else." Even if Osama bin Laden had partic­ipated in the endowment, Oxford's strict regulations­prevent any donor from influencing how the money is used. "A donor can specify general parameters of what a grant is for," Eickelman said. "There is no say in where the money gets placed afterwards." 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Ac:cuWea1her{"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Wedne~day 
; 

Thursd~y Friday,: 
! 

Saturday Sunday .\ 
?..5•-.1\.r-~~----,/'~'\':.J > 

q,~,~q~Q (f 

Showers Tstorms Rain Ffurries Snow Ice Sunny \/ia As~oCtSfud Press GraphicsNel 
~ u 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
BROWN UNIVERSITY 
University inaugurates new president 
Brown University welcomed Ruth Simmons in a for­mal ceremony filled with pagoantry and praiso dedicat­ed to its 18th pn~sident Sunday afternoon. Morn than 5,000 peoplr, packnd the Main Greon undor a light drizzle to hear a parade of admirers r,ongratulate Simmons. When it was 11nally her turn, Simmirns spoke with passion about the University's mission and urged the audience to value the importance of teaching and education. "A teachr,r is the lifeline for individuals. for communities, for nations and for the world," Simmons said. "It is to the teachers that we owe the liveliness and the way of life." Growing up in the impoverished 
Fifth Ward of llouston, Simmons had never seen a book until her kindergarten teacher showed her one. And when Simmons left Texas for Dillard University in New Orleans, her high school teacher provided ·her with clothes because she didn't have enough of her own. "I came to education because it came to mi~ as a young person," she said in her address. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


e 2001 AccuWeather 1nc.,,,..,u,.:  COLO  WARM  STATIONARY  
®©  ... DD .  
Htgh  Low  Showera  Rain  T•atorma  Flurrlea  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Vm A11soc1at•d Press  
Atlanta  66  36  Las Vegas  86  61  Porlland  58  45  
Baltimore  67  44  Memphis  58  36  Sac,amento  78  51  
Boston  60  51  Milwaukee  50  36  St. Louis  56  35  
Chicago  51  36  New York  66  49  Tampa  84  63  
Houston  69  47  Philadelphia  70  50  Washington DC 70  47  

Tuesday, October 16, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ALTAR FOR Los MUERTOS 


Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Wednesday, October 17 
7:00 pm 116 DeBartolo 

sponsored by the Center for Environmental Science & Technology 
'" 
(.I.Nl'l'.Hl'(>U,::;:: 
Environmental 
.a~Science & 'f'fr"IF-f.r:S.lru Technology 
,itii U;w,mi.ty ajNatn D11,,11t 

Debate team wins NPDA tournament 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Assistant News Editor 
Recently, the Notre Oame debate team topped 57 teams of collegiate debaters in the National Parliame11tarv Debate Association's national tournament placing first and sending three teams to the. eliminating rounds. 
Notre Dame sent a total of five lea.ms to the national tournament, which took place Sept. 28 and 29 at Truman State University in Oregon. 
Beating Central i\lissouri State University in the final round on a 5-0 decision to become tournament champi­ons was the team of senior Rachel Smith and sophomore M a r y Kompenla. 

"That was "/ didn't really think think things 
the tourna­things were going that were going ment that that well
well, and I looked up and
Notre Dame and I looked 
saw we had thre& teams
has done the up and saw best at ever," in the sweet I6, and I was we had s a i d three teams
like, 'Well, maybe
Komperda. in the sweet
it'll be our lucky day
The tourna­16. and I m e n t , after all.' " was like, according to ' W e 1 1 , team mem­maybe it'll
Will McDonald
bers was a be our lucky succession of senior on debate team day after 
unexpected events. The winning pair of Smith and Komperda had never debated together before, but the two pooled together their research to debate on the topic of faith­based prisons. 
In addition, Smith, a sea­soned debater entering her fourth vear at Notre Dame, had debated against the team from Central Missouri State twice before and lost both times. 
"It was probably the most tense round I've ever done," Smith said. 
In addition to being fairly new partners, Smith and Komperda were thrust into their final round debate, which began two hours earlier than it was scheduled. 


Dr. Ronald E. McNair 
CANDAX-ME is A Federally Funded TRIO Program 
THE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 2001 -2002 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2001 
7:00 -8:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
IN ROOM 117 HAYES-HEALY (DEAQJ_JNE FOR APfllCATION:_l'{Q_y~) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds arc eligible) 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native A1nericans 
( visit the ro ram at htt ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/) 
The winning team argued for faith-based prisons saying that they would be beneficial because of their l'ocus on n1habilitation as opposed to the poor living conditions of public prisons. 
"It really was a team effort. We were really surprised, obviously, that we did so well, but our styles ended up work­ing very well together," said Kompcrda. 
Arter six preliminary rounds, three of the Notre Dame teams advanced to the "sweet 16" rounds. 
One of the teams consisted of seniors Will McDonald and Mark Styczynski who made it to the semifinal round. 
"It felt very strange," said McDonald of Notre Dame's 
success. "I 
didn't really 
all."' 
Other hon­

ors went to Styczynski and Gallo who both won top-10 speaker awards out of 114 debaters. Smith, McDonald, Victoria Fetterman and Michelle Petersen also finished in the top 25. 
"The main reason why any­body did good is because we work together," said McDonald. "Everyone one was very pleasantly surprised by Rachel (Smith) and Mary (Komperda) winning the tour­nament because they had never been partners before." 
According to McDonald, the team's work occurs not as much in the tournament as before it when the team mem­bers have practice rounds and research potential debate top­ics. Four of the team members also went to a debate camp in Oregon. 
"We try to figure out who our top competitors will be and figure out ways to beat them," said McDonald. "It's usually pretty easy because we're smarter than them, but we're smarter because we work together." 
The team's coach is law stu­dent Kate Huetteman who she is oftfm assisted by graduate student Joe Foy. 
The debate team's next tournament is Oct. 26 at Colorado College. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
got news? 1-5323 . 


-----------------------,--. 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, October l6, 2001 

Anthrax 
continued from page l 

of the American Academy of Pediatrics, said parents should­n't overreact because of the case. 
"'I think the first thing to do is 
Hardball 
continued from page 1 

Daschle's Washington ol'fice rece.ived a !Ptter containing the bacteria. 
Amid scares about the dis­ease and impending war. however. Americans have been resilient and united. 
"Bcsiliencc is one of the great strnngth of this coun­try," Matthews said, noting that Sunday was the first time he had flown since the Sept. 11 strikes. 
"We've never been as unit­ed before as WP are now ... there's eye contact in New York." he said in a tongue­in-cheek remark that drew laughs from the audience. 
Matthews madt~ a distinc­tion between American patriotism and the religious zealotry that followers exhibit in bin Laden's ter­rorist net­work. He 
"We'll have to think and
likened complaints t h e i r act tough to get our goals about U.S. Islamic policy,
accomplished ... You 
fundamen­Matthews
can't just will a better
t a I i s t said. beliefs to world, you have to F o r martyr­America, the
work for it." 
dom, call­problem is ing it not just over­"pretty Chris Matthews turning radi­cal govern­
s c a r y Host of MSNBC's "Hardball" 
stuff." 

U.S. val­ues are dif­ferent in that they're based on freedom and democracy, the political journalist said, and Americans should make reasonable efforts to spread those values. 
"A lot of people look up to us as a truly free country," he said. "I think this is a country full of opportunities where you can do what you want. There's nowhere else in the world that you can say that about." 
"But I think a lot of these fslamic people prefer to live in a society that's more regi­mented and where you don't have all these freedoms. It's about opportunities for these people. These are not all bad people. American leaders have to thread the needle when it comes to foreign policy. You can't just go to war with all these coun­tries," Matthews said. 
to stav calm," he said in an intflr­vicw ;vilh AP Radio. 
''There is no benefit to going out and taking antibiotics. I think that isjusi not going to help." 
In the past three days. the nation's news organizations have tightened security, particularly in mailrooms. The Associated Press, across the street from 
Matthews, a booming­voiced speaker parodied fre­quently in "Saturday Night Live" skits lhat portray his no-nonsense approach to journalism, said C.S. strate­gy against bin Laden and the Taliban rogime supporting hin'I should be tough and economical. 
While bin Laden's plan is to have U.S. forces slaughter thousands of Islamic people, the America should be eco­nomical in terms of its own casualties and the enemy's casualtics. 
"We'll have to think and act tough to gel our goals accomplished," he said. "You can't just will a better world, you have to work !'or it." 
But that poses a dilemma for both the Middle East and lhe United States. Matthews acknowledged. 
Even though their govern­ments support terrorist activity, sorrie Islamic coun­tries have legitimate 
ments over­
seas but 
doing so 
without appearing tyrannical, according to Matthews. 
"The issue is to kill the bad guys and the networks that support them, all the while figuring out ways to deal with an Arab world which is stagnant and trying," he said. "I fear that we're set­ting up this Biblical blood war where we're going to look like the bad guys." 
"Think about it. If you're a 15-year-old living in Cairo [Egypt] in a cardboard box, who are you going to root for? bin Laden. We have to hope not to get into a blood war with Islam." Matthews said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at m cfarley. l@nd.edu. 

NBC, temporarily closed its mail­room Friday, as did CBS. 
ABC stopped internal mail delivery in New York and Washington to allow a security evaluation. while CNN closed mailrooms in New York, Washington and Atlanta. 
New York Police Commfssiorn.>r 
lJNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERN;\TIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 Hurley Building Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5882 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Bridget Green, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 Available on-line: www.nd-edu/~intlstud 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
At the Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
7:00 PM 

• Bring your gear ready to practice 
• Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
• Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
Bernard Kerik said police will go to media outlets in the city to make sure they are free of anthrax. Giuliani said there would be an environmental review "to make sum the promises and the area aro safe." 
At the AP Monday night, eight officers from the Police 

Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
5:00 PM 138 DeBartolo 
Department's Emergency Service Unit -one wearing a protective biohazard suit com­plete with rPspirators -took spot swipos from the countertops and othM surfaces in the mail­room looking for any anthrax residue. The swipes will be test­ed al a health department lab. 

r 

ATION 
'luesday, October I 6, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Floods kill 81 in North Korea: 
Floods caused by heavy rains last week have killr.d at lr.ast 81 people and injured 82 in North Koma. a l/.N. report said Monday. The report. jointly prepared by the U.N. Office for tlrn Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and North Korea's Flood Damage Hchabilitation CommitteP. said torrential rains also damaged vast amounts of cropland just ahead of the fall harvrst. 
Argentina vows better economy: 
Pn:isident Fernando De la Hua, under pressure to reviw ·Argrmtina's slumping economy, hint­ed M(mday lhal new economic recovery efforts arr in the works. Ile promised to heed the call of thf' votl'rs. who rcspon<lnd to his adminis­tration's sp<'nding cuts and tax hikes by giving th<1 opposition l'Pronists victories in key Ilouse and Srnak rar('S Sunday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Anthrax letter reaches Congress: A 
piPCP ol' mail srnt lo SPnaw :V1ajority LPade:r Tom Dasd1IP tt'SlPd positivP l'or anthrax on Monday as thr bioll'rrorism scan~ that has raisPd anxil'ty ,u-ross tlw country reat·hrd 11w halls of Congr<'SS. Thn Idler. which contain11d ,l powd<·ry substirn<·P. was clispalr.hed lo an .c\rmy nwdirnl n·sParrh /'arility at Fort DPtrirk. \Id .. l'or J'urthn Pxaminalion after a pair of prl'liminary tPsts in Dasd1le's o!Tice came back posiliw. said Capitol Polin' Lt. Dan Nichols. 
Texas jailbreak standoff ends: The last of fivP ,~srapl'd Texas inmates we:rn cap­tured Monday after 01w of tht"m shot the other in a standoff at a 1·ouplp's farmhouse.The nwn·s capturP rndPd a four-day reign ofter­ror. Bob Ilarold Learh. mw of tlw last two men on the run. rnwd thP farm couple they were hnlding hostagt'. Tht>11 hP shot his fellow fugi­tiv1:. Gerald Lynn Gantt. in the abdomen. and gave up. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
College c'reates master's program: 
Hoping to awaken the tea!'.her within. Earlham Collegr. has rreated a Master of Arts in Teaching program that will begin in June 2002. Tlw I I -month. full-time program is gPared toward liberal arts and science gradu­ates who want Lo receive their teacher certifi­cation whilP simultarrnously earning a mas­ter's degrr.e. The pro~ram is starting at a time whrn 40 p1ffcent of th0. nation's tear.hers will be 1:ligible for retirement within the next frw years. 
Market \Vatch October 15 
Dow 
9,347.62 +3.46 
Jones 

Composite 
D·..o•··•·v.·.····.n

Same: ~.•.•··· Volume:
234 1~3 NIA 
·'-:_, ,'::·. 

AMEX:  823.60  -3.73  
NASDAQ:  1,696.31  -7.09  
NYSE:  561.82  -0.16  
S&P 500:  l ,089.98  -l.67  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +0.43 -0.15 34.4€ CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.37 -0.74 16.21 
GLOBAL CROSSING (GX) +39.02 +0. 32 1. lt:1 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -3. 35 -0. 50 14.4t:1 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.56 -0.64 24.3E 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
AFGHANISTAN 

Associated Press 

KUTALE ANJUMAN 
Opposition forces daimeaMonday they were advancing toward the Taliban-controlled city of Mazar-e-Sharif, a major prize that controls routes to the capital and is the site of northern Afghanistan's largest air­port. 
Mohammed Ashraf Nadeem, an opposition spokesman. said northern alliance fighters were three miles from Mazar-e­Sharif's airport, the only one in the area capable of handling large or midsized planes. The report came 
amid claims that up to 
4,000 Taliban troops had 
surrendered to the opposi­
tion, a claim denied by the 
ruling Taliban. 

No immediate comment on the opposition's claimed advance on Mazar-e-Sharif was avail­able from the Taliban, who control most of Afghanistan and are the target of U.S.-led airstrikes for refm,ing to hand over Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the Sept. . 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. The opposi­tion report could not be 
independently confirmed. 
In Washington, Defense 
Secretary Donald 
Rumsfeld suggested the front lines between north­ern alliance fighters and the Taliban might soon be targeted by U.S. airstrikes. 
Asked about reports that Taliban fighters have felt safe from U.S. strikes on the front lines with anti­Taliban forces, Rumsfeld said, "I suspect that in the period ahead that's not 
going to  be  a  very safe  
place to be."  
Control  of  Mazar-e­ 

Sharif has a deeply sym­bolic meaning for both sides. 
Dominated by ethnic Uzbeks, it was captured by the Taliban, who are Sunni Muslims and mostly 

Pashtun, in 1998. They have since ruled it with an iron hand. 
The Taliban first entered the city in May 1997 at the invitation of a local war­lord who betraved his for­mer anti-Taliban allies. The warlord turned again and the Taliban suffered heavy casualties while being driven out. 
The opposition. led by ousted President Burhanuddin Rabbani and the recently assassinated military leader Ahmed Shah Massood, were blamed for the summarv execution of as many as 
2.000 Taliban in Mazar-e­Sharif. 
~. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Do genes determine your brain's 
abilities. or can you retrain the 
brain to overcome inherited prob­
lems. such as helping a learning­
impaired child to read'? 
Neuroscientist Michael Merzenich 
has proved that special training, tar­
geting specific brain regions, can 
help sonrn children with dyslexia 
and othPr languagc-rPlated disabili­
tif!s tu learn. Sophisticated neural 
imaging shows the retraining. using 
computerized educational games, 
Mental training helps children 
leads to physical changes in the brain. 
If it works for dvslexia. Merzenich reasons, why not for more profound neurological disorders like autism or srhizophrcnia? His theory: Such dis­orders aren't simply inherited ill­nesses. Instead, they're inherited brain weaknesses that turn inlo full­blown disorders only when the ever­changing brain essentially gets stuck in the wrong gear -and that might be possible to reverse. ­
"There's a real prospect of under­standing those conditions through understanding the brain as an oper­
ational machine that in a sense cre­ates its own capacities," explains Merzenich, of the University of California, San Francisco. 
It sounds provocative. But as Mcrzenich discussed the latest research at a National Institutes of Health meeting last week, neurosci­entists said recent years hav1: brought widespread agreement that the brain's "plasticity" -continual changes that let us learn new things every day -sometimes veers out of control, causing developmental dis­orders once attributed solely to bad genes. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, October 16, 2001 

Norton demands CLC productivity 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 

Student body president Brooke Norton delivered Monday a swift, frank message to Campus Life Council members: Get to work. And soon. 
In a 20­minute CLC meeting that seem­ingly was h r i e f because the council had little to do, Norton u r g e d members to begin showing results of their task force work. 
"I just want everyone to start thinking about moving the busi­ness along in task forces," said 

be working toward drafting a report or resolution, Norton said. 
Norton, who acknowledged that she was anxious for the body to create new task forces. said she envisioned the some of the current task forces dissolv­ing following the CLC's Dec. :~ meeting. 
"It will depend a lot on what their research brings them to in November," Norton said follow­ing Monday's meeting. 
Norton said the social space task force would likely disband in Oecernber after presenting a resolution to the council or writ­ing a report highlighting campus activities that could take place at the Alumni-Senior Club. 
The off-campus living task force would probably take up public service work, planning pr~jectc; to increase cornmunica­tion with off-campus students 
Norton, the council's chair­person. ''I'd like to see us begin developing plans that will lead to the task forces' eventual out­comes." 
The CLC has task forces that deal with three 
'Td like to see as begin developing plans that will lead to the task.forces eventual outcomes ... 
Brooke Norton 
student body president 
and keeping an eye on issues that affect them, Norton said. 
She said the alcohol use task force would likely con­tinue its w o r k 
issues of student life: off-campus living, alcohol use and campus social space. 
1\Jorton set a Nov. 5 deadline for task forces to have outlined particular areas they plan to research. how they will go about their business and goals they hope to accomplish. 
By Nov. 19, task forces should have final plans developed and 
through April. 

Monday marked the halfway point for CLC meetings this semester. The council has yet to consider or draft a resolution this academic year. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 

LARGEST SELECTION OF COSTUMES IN THE AREA 
DISCOUNTS 10% -25% 
BURNS COSTUME RENTAL 
Halloween Hours 332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mon & Tues 9:00-6:00 Mishawaka, IN 46545 Wed, Thurs, Friday 9:00-9:00 (219) 259-4807 Phone Saturday 9:00-5:00 E-Mail Address Bumsrent@aol.com 
rUNivERS1TYLAIJNiiRY-&7 
: TANNING I 
I 1813 South Bend Ave. I 
lcAMrus SHOPS. TANNING srEClALI I 10 VISITS FOR $20 WITH COUPON I I DROP-OFF LAUNDRY I $.65/LB. WITH COUPON I I ($6 MINIMUM) I
L_-~i~ !!!'~b!!_1~0,!! __ _J 
BOG focuses on social work 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Wrirer 

In an effort to promote statewide recognition of the Saint Mary's Sot:ial Work department, Alison Ashley and Sunny O'Brien requested funds for the registration fee of eight students planning to attenrl a Sot:ial Work Conferenrn in Indianapolis. 
The conference is sched­uled for Oct. 3-Nov. 2. During this time many pro­fessionals in the specialized social work field will be in attendance. 
"This will help Ithe stu­dents I learn about various upcoming topit:s in Lhe social work profession and interact at the same level as· profes­sionals," O'Brien said. 
Student body president Mic·helle Nagle encouraged the students to sponsor a panel for the benefit of the student body upon their return. 
In other BOG news: 
. The extra study day pro­posal sel to begin before the Spring 2002 final exams was presented to the administra­tion and was received with­out resolution. The proposal will now go to the student body for review. 
. 
Today the First Year Student's Board will be vot­ing on a Treasurer and pick­ing their commissioner lead­ers. 

. 
The Student Diversity Board will be hosting a Fall lfreak dinner for all students remaining on campus. 


Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@sain tmarys. edu. 

Mail receives extra attention 
ages. And private delivery
Associated Press 
companies are scrutinizing their own procedures.

NEWYOHK At NBC, where one employeeMailrooms and delivery ser­
contracted the skin form of
vices across the country are an.thrax and another hasputting new handling proce­shown symptoms, the networkdures in place, as letters cont­has stopped accepting mailaminated with anthrax have from the Postal Service. 
shown up in offices in New 
"Our entire mail system is

York, Nevada and the nation's being looked at by profossion­capital. 
a ls," spokeswoman Kassie Mailroom employees are 

Canter said. 

being warned to check pack­"Our interim procedure for ages for misspellings in com­
the near-term future is that 

mon names and words, to look 
we're accepting UPS and 

for powdery substances and 
FedEx, and they're beingexcessive or inadequate 

screened. Employees have the 

postage, and to contact 
option not to accept anything." 

authorities about any suspi­
On Monday night, ABC News cious mail. 
President David Westin said 

The Postal Service an employee's child tested announced the creation of a 
positive for the skin form of 

task force to examine mail 
anthrax. The child. who is 

security and hazardous-mate­expected to recover, had visit­rial safeguards. The Centers ed the ABC newsroom in New 
for Disease Control and 
York in the last few weeks. · Prevention issued guidelines 
New York Mayor Rudolphfor handling letters and pack-Giuliani said city officials 
received 82 calls by midday Monday and that 24 packages had been recovered for further investigation. 
"So far none of them appear to be anything dangerous. Some of them have the scent of baby powder," Giuliani said. 
In California, Gov. Gray Davis ordered state employees to stop handling letters and packages until they complete training sessions given by the California Highway Patrol. 
"People are lining up around the block to take them," said Anne DaVigo, a Highway Patrol spokeswoman. "We're doing it just as fast as we can." 
At a meeting of the National Postal Forum in Denver, Postmaster General Jack E. Potter told participants that the U.S. mail is safe. 
"We cannot afford for that confidence to erode," Potter told representatives of corpo­rate and government mail­rooms. 

THERE REALLY IS MORE TO LIFE THAN JUST BEING A 
SURVIVOR 

Tuesday, October 16, 2001 The Ob,erver . NEWS page 7 
Bush begins to pay $1.67 billion debt to U.N. 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

Tht) Bush administration has moved quickly sinrn SP.pt 11 to pay off two-thirds of the U.S. debt to the United Nations and to promote th<' U.N.'s k<'Y role in lighting turrorism and build­ing a future government in Af'ghanistan. 
ArtPr paying scant attention to the United Nations since he took 
o f"fi c: t\ in .Janu a r v, Presid P n t Bush is now payi~g $ I. 6 7 bil­lion by thP end of the year and pushing for tlw world body to take OVPI' ''nntion-huilding" once the U.S.-led military cam­paign against A!'gha.nisLat; is Jin­
ishnd. Ser.retary or State Colin Powt11l last wnek praised the 
U.N.'s "invaluable contribution tu the global campaign against terrorism" and the Security Council's "trailblazing resolu­tion" adopted Sept. 28 which requin.\S all 189 U.N. member statf's to dimy financing, sup­port and sanctuary to terrorists. 
It's a far cry from the state of U.S.-U.N. rnlations on Sept. 10 when U.N. supporters warned that Bush would have a tough time at his first scheduled appearance before the United 1'\iations in latP September if Congress didn't approve a new 
U.N. ambassador and pay its debt. 
Former U.S. Sen. Timothy Wirth, president of the United Nations Foundation which dis­perses media mogul Ted Turner's $1 billion gift to U.N. causes. said a rail ure to pay would lead U.S. allies to view Washington with increasing skepticism. lie said it would strengthen the percPption that the United States was "an arro­gant solo player who doesn't cam about the rest of the world." 
At the time, the Bush admin­istration was already working to get $582 million of the U.S. debt paid, and to win Senate confirmation for U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte whose nomination had been held up for six months. But the campaign took on greater urgency after Sept. 11 with the growing realization in Washington that the United States couldn't win its war against terrorism without sus­tained international support ­and the United Nations was the best place to build a global coalition. 
Negropontc was unanimously confirmed by the Senate three days after the attacks. And Congress quickly "unhooked" money owed to the United Nations from other legislation. which meant "there weren·1 as many hurdles to get it through," the U.N.'s chief financial officer. Joseph Connor, said Monday. 
As a result, tlrn United Nations expects to receive a total of $1.67 billion from the United States by Dec. 31, which represents about two-thirds of its debt and is more than U.N. oflicials had been expecting, he said. Ry Monday, it had received $833 million. 
Rut the United States will still be the biggest U .N. debtor ­owing about $600 million. which Washington contests, Connor said. · 
Nonetheless, thanks to the expected U.S. payment, the United Nations -fresh off a Nobel Peace Prize win Friday ­will be in its best l"inancial shape in many years at the end of 2001. 
Nev. 'anthrax' tests negative 
U2 crew plays 
Associated Press 
RENO, Ntw. 

All six ptwple who had con­tact with a suspir.ious letter sent from Malaysia to a Microsoft office have tested nPgative for the inhaled form or anthrax. Nevada health om~ cials said Monday. 
Ilealth officials said they ,viii now monitor the six -five \1icrosort employees and a family member -for the less dangerous form of anthrax, which is contracted through tho skin but is treatablr with antibiotics. No one has become ill. 
"The negative nasal swab tl~sts. combined with the physi­cal condition and location of the letter. indicate that this is a very. very low risk situation.'' to the :vticrosoft Licensing Inc. said Barbara Hunt, Washoe office. 
key role for tour
County's district health officer. Guinn said Microsoft had 
Sta.to officials were waiting sent a check in the letter to a for the CPnters for Disease vendor in Malaysia. Thr letter Control was returned By TREICH WHEAT
a n d with the check,
"... This is a very, very 
News Writer 

Prevention along with porno­
low risk situation. ,,
in Atlanta to com­plete tests 
Barbara Hunt 
on the let­
Washoe County district
ter's con­tents to 
health officer 
confirm whether it was conta­
minated with anthrax. Results  health officials said. The subse­ "Beautiful Day."  
were expected Tuesday, Gov. Kenny Guinn said. Microsoft officials contacted health officials last w1\nk about the letter, which had been snnt  quent test was more specific to anthrax, but came back nega­tive. A third test on the pic­tures tested positive for anthrax, Guinn said.  While it seemed like magic, each part of the band's per­formance was carefully engi­neered, the result of three days of setup before U2 's  
Notre Dame debut.  
"The excitement starts to  
build when the band gets  

graphic material. The vendor 

U2 walked onstage with the wasn't identified. 
house lights still up, the early An initial test 
chords of Beautiful Day teas­on the letter's 
ing everyone's ears. Midpoint contents pro­
through the song, the house duced results 
lights came down and the "consistent with it 
stage lights arrived as U2 being anthrax," 
played the rest of the 
here," said Bruce Ramus, head lightning technician,
YO'll ''J)E S'E'E'J{ 
Monday afternoon before the concert. "It's always exciting to do this kind of job, at the same time there are a lot or mundane issues that we have 

'TJi'E (j0£JD'E'J{ rnOAf 'E... 
to deal with. So there are some exciting parts and some sort of relatively mundane." 
All of the details -exciting and mundane -played a part in putting last Wednesday's U2 concert together. Lights, sound, stage, catering, band management, tour management, truck and bus drivers, private band rooms setup, promotion and 

?.[OU' COAf'E S'E'E 'T1{'£ 1(0~O'J{'E! 

security were all parts of making the Elevation show come off as it did Oct. 10. 
U2's regular crew played an important role in behind­the-scenes effects. Stefa.an Desmedt, known as "Smasher" on the crew, was responsible for pressing the button for women to dance on screens during "Mysterious Ways." Monitor engineers mixed band sounds and man­aged the tracks and crowd noise for the musicians. And others directed the constella­tion projections around the JACC during "Walk On.'' 
Throughout each song, stage manager Rocko Reedy directed crew efforts behind the scenes to keep each of the details running like clock­work. Managing local union workers hired to work the show, Reedy, who acts as a liason for the local workers, kept everything on track. 
"Bands at this level ... mega-acts, if you will, tend to hire older guys like us just because they know that in the long run, we'll get their show off and that's the ultimate goal," Reedy said. 
Contact Treich Wheat at wh~a3 l OS@saintmarys.edu. 

~'s 
t,a,.,e,I serYJC:6,. ,nc. llnc• ~n,r 
Your Student Travel Service 

ROME PROGRAM 
Design Your Own Vacation ... 

oStudent Airfare ointernational Student Identity Card
INFORMATION MEETING 
oRailpasses oHostelling International 
...or Join A Group!
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2001 
o Spring Break in Cancun or Puerto Vallarta! 
bClub Med 
5:00 PM 

b Contiki Vacations for 18-35 year olds 
b Much, much more!
138 DEBARTOLO 
1-800-643-4604 www.edgertonstravel.com 
International Study Programs: http://ww,v.nd.edu/~intlstucl Rome On-line Application Deadline: December 1, 2001 (for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, October 1G, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norrc Dame. IN 46556 024 S<1mh Dinrng Hall. Nom D.me. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIH J\,1ike Connollv 
MANAGli'iG EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kn ry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIF\\'l'OINT EDITOR: L.1uren Beck SroRTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: ~!vra J\!cGriff PHOTO EDITOR: l'eter Richardson 
ADVER°llSINC MANAGrn: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMI'IISTRATOR: AJam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANALERIGENLIW.1NF0..............6Jl-7171 FAX. . ............ 63 l-6'l27 
ADVERTISING....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE .......................................631-5313 NEWS.. . ...........631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT....................................•...••..•...631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.... ............. 631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .... .............................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.cdu SAINT MARY'S.... .......................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO............. ................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMl'.'IISTRAT0RS ................631-88.~9 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visir our Wcb sire ar hap:llobserver. nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports. learures and opinion columns. as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weathe, for up-to-the 

movies/music tOr 
minute !Orecasrs 

weekly scudent reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors .mJ 
August 1999 

scaff 
POLICIES 

The Ohserver is the independent. doily newspaper puhlished in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofe,d1cr instimrion. The Obserwr reserves the right to refuse advenl-sernenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor. Assistam Managing Editor and depanment editors. Commenraries, letters and columns presenr rhc views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.errcrs ro the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Qllrstions reg!lrding Obsaverpolicirs should bt• dirtc"t~ ed to Eduor 111 ChiefMikt Co11110/ly. 
Counter evil with good 
What can we do in response to the t('r­rorist attacks'? I.el me tell vou about a constructive thing wn can do right here at :-/otte Dame. First, llowevcr, we should ronsider the natur" ol' the evil perpetrat­
ed on Sept. 11. Barbara Olson died wlwn American Airlines Flight 77 hit the Pentagon. At her memorial service, Father Franklyn McAfi.\C said: "With amazing speed, we have 

identili<·d the ter­rorists who took  Charles Rice  
over the planes,  
and we probably know who mas­ Right or  
terminded it. But  Wrong?  
who is rnally  
behind it all? We  

arr spraking of an enormity of hate and c'vil hen', for tlrnse wern evil acts. But nvil is not something. Evil is someone. Satan." 
"Love, however, is stronger than hate," said Bishop John M. D'Arcy of Fort Wayne-South Bend. "Truth is more pow­erful than lies. God is stronger than Satan. Jjfo is stronger than death ... Evil will not have the last word.·• 
We at Notre Dame have a spncial way to counter this evil with good. It is tlrn weeklv adoration of the Blessed Sacra1nrnt. h1itiatPd by students and approvr,d by Campus Ministry, Eucharistic Adoration takes place in Fisher II all chapPl from 11 :30 p.m. Monday unt.il Benediction at 9:45 p.m. Tuesday. It also occurs in the Lady Chapd of the Basilica on Friday from noon lo 5 p.m. 
"In times of great crisis and suffering," wrotfi Bishop Haymond L Burke of La 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Administration favors WV over ROTC 
Reading Geoff Ileiple's Viewpoint lntter on Friday, I was 
both saddmrnd and frustrated by tlw University's decision 
banning cadenc<'s, camollaugn on campus and tlrn 
use .ol' rubber weapons in training nxf1rcisns. 
At a tinrn when tlrn rnst of our nation is 
uniting b1'11ind our leadcrs and military 
personnel -those who are sPrving and 
protecting us in this time of tragPdy 
and unrest -thfl administration al 
:-,,;otre Dame has done llie exact 
oppositn. We should be showing our support and gratitude to the students who are sacrificing and prnparing to serve and protect our country in the Notre Dame ROTC program. Instead, the University has only shown these men and _ 
women disrespect by placing unfair resLric-"'-.. --f'Af\£'1J!'o' Malia Lam tions upon them, hiding behind the ridiculous ~-----=--------senior excuse that HOTC is "scaring" the studnnt body. Lyons I!all Please. Oct.11.2001 
Crosse, "Catholics rightly turn Lo prayer hnforn the Most Blessed Sacramnnt exposnd in tho monstrance. Thn conse­cral<)d !lost is the elTicacious sign ofGod the Father's infinitf' love and mercy toward us. In prayer before the Blessed Sacrament, we place into the Ileart of the Incarnate Redeenwr all our earns and tri­als." 
"In tho must blessed sacrament ol'lhe Eucharist, the hody and blood, togntlwr with the soul and divinity, of' our Lord Jesus Chris! and, tlwrefore, the whole Christ is truly, rpally and substantially contained. This presnncr, is callnd rcal, by which is not intnndnd to exclude the other types of prnscncc as if they could not he real, too, but because it is presence in the fullPsl sense ... it is substantial presence hy which Christ. God and man, makes himscll' wholly and entirely pres<mt" (Catnchism, no. 1374). 
John Paul II has called for "the spread of Perpetual Adoration, with pnrmarrnnt cxposition of tho BlossPd Sacranw11t ... in all parishes and Christian mmrnunitirs throughout the world." When Im institut­ed such adoration at St. Peter's Bm;ilica in 1981, Im said, 'The best, the surnst and tlrn most effectivP way of establishing tw!irlasting peacP on the face of the narth is through the great power of l'nrpetual Adoration of tlw BIPssed Sacrament." 
What do you do in your half-hour or 15 minutes ofAdoration? Them is 1111 SPl for­mat. You can stand, sit. knrel, whatnvnr you think appropriate. You can niad and mrditat!i on Lim books provided them. You can pray the Hosary or otlrnr pray1irs. Or you can just r<'main in thP presence of' Christ, communicating with him. It would be good to pray for the United States, for peac.e. lbr the victims oJ'terrorists, f'or the mmnbers of the arnwd forcns, many of college age and younger, who am putting 
On Saturday, only a day after learning about tlw rww (and absurd) HOTC policy, I lwcanw ewn mor<' f'rustratPd whil,, in tlrn stands at llw West Virginia ganrn. J\f'tpr <'VPry touchdown, 1'.A.T. and fiPlcl goal, tlw \VPst Virginia 1\fountaineer mascot fin,cf his riflP into llrn air in ccdebra.tion. ApparPntly wlwn foot­ball is involvPd, th<! Uniwrsity ran I)(' as hypocritical as it wants. It ii acn'pLablP for 
Lim Weist Virginia Mountainner to firn mul­tipln shots in tlw midst of' 80,112 rlwPring fans, but unacceptable f'or our HOTC cadets to wear ramoflauge, sing c:adenrPs and train with rubber weapons. I guPss in 
tlw University's ey11s, the opposing team dnserves morn rnspnct than those students who will soon servn and protect our nation. 
their lives on the line in defense of the common good. And pray for the hijackers and other terrorists; they, too, have 
immortal souls. 
In the w.ords of Archbishop hilton .J. Sheen, "The holy hour is not a devotion; it is a sharing in the work of redemption. Ile I.Jesus] asked for an hour of rPparation to combat the hour of evil; an hour ofvicti­rnal union with the cross to ov1wrome tlw anti-lowi of sin." 
Personal bnneliL'i, too. flow from Eucharistic Adoration. List!'n to Bishop D'Arcy: "It must lw said ... with joy and thanksgiving that thn periodic practice of exposition of' the BlessPd Sacrament is ... rooted in faith, blnssed by the church, linked to the Mass and a hnlp in strnngth­r,ning our faith in ... the lkal Prnsnncu.... IPlrayer in the prnsence of' the exposed Eucharist has also bcen a groat inlhttmcP in my own spiritual lifo." 
Now morn than 11vnr, we should ronsirl­11r this opportunity. As tlw Catnchism states, "ThP Chur<"h and thP world haw a grnat 1wed for Eucharistic worship..fosus awaits us in this sacrament of' love. Let us not refuse the time to go to nwet him in adoration, in rnntPmplation full of faith, and open to making amPnds for the SPri­ous offonscs and crimes of' tlw world. IYt our adoration never cnasP." 
You c-an sign up for a pnriod of' /\doration by rnlling Jason Braun (4­3259), Mary Tarsha (4-2588) or Lisa lkmidovich (4-2(i39). Or just show up. Walk-ins an' wdrnnw and Pn<·ouragncl. 
J>rrfessor /;'merit us /lice is on the Lau· School Faculty. I/is ml11m11 appears e1wry olher Tuesday. I le can be; rontacled al plawecki.J@nd.edu. 
11w uiews expressed in this rnlumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those 4The Ohserl'er. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Helena Payne Courtney Boyle Elizabeth Lee Sports Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm 

Scene Sam Derheimer Orris Scott 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto Production Jeff Baltruzak 
Lab Tech 
Amanda Greco 
POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Are you worried about the prospect of 
"Re not overcome of evil,
biochemical warfare in light of 
but overcome evil with good. " 
the recent anthrax cases? Please e-mail viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
Romans 12:21 
by Friday to report your answer. 

--~----------~------------­
O
fHE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 16, 200 I page 9 
The problem with the problem of evil 
Tlw word '\,vii" bas re-entered our national vocabulary. The trrm which had been rdativ!'!,v absent Crom tho public square now imposes itself on a nation previously sus­pif'ious or moral catq~ories. 
As Chrislianr,; \Ve may ask what the tradition has lo say about cwil. The problem of ('Vil in its classical form asks questions about its origin and nature. What is evil') I low ran evil (';-;isl in a world created by a Cod who is all-good and 
Father J.
al!-mon'.iful'! Thr classical response is that God crnatod us free 
Steele
lo rhoosn h<'lWPen good and evil, and humanity tr. nds to choose PVil btir;wsn WP am I'alifm. The problem with the classical for­mulation ol" th<! problem of evil thal i>very undergrad Pncoun­trrs in lirst Y('ar philosophy is that it leaves us cold. The old for­On the Way mula answrrs a qut'stion that no one is asking. A nation turned lo prayPr in gn•at numbrr is not now worrird about the nat(m! of evil mid even l<:ss concerned about ho½ God might have per­mittf'd it Hatlwr. thr question that is beginning to r,hurn within us is what. to do about it. 
/\gain thP tradition gives us some resoun'.t~s. Tho Christian presumption against vio­l<'nrf' and tlw Just War tradition which seeks to limit grnatly the paramPters of' military a.ggrt'ssion undt'r certah1 limilf:d rirnunstanct!S atternpl'i a balance br,tween the pref­l'r<'nrP for pcac·eful solutions and lhP. need to di>fend th1' innoccmt and ensure their safPtv. Yet. Pven this answer leaves us cold. We havP witnessnd roal evil. Militarv solu­tions.solv1• miliwry prnbkms. They do not solw the problem of evil and what to ·do about il. 
Th(' pn•scnt and d('rnal problf:m of nil is how to nicognizc c;vil for what it is without 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Right to Life defends its beliefs 
I am writing this rnspunsr: to a letter printed Monday entitled "Right to Life not about abortion." While it is always difficult to listr,n to the rhetoric of those who disagrPr with 1hr: pro-life cause, I ff'el it necessary to respond to some of the complaints givl'l1 by the author. 
YPs. last wtwk was Respect Life Week. It was a nationally rerognized week in Ortob!'r that is sf't asidr each year to rommemorate the nearly 4,000 unborn childn1n who aw killed each day by abortion. We in the Notre Dame Right to Lil'c rlub feel it is our duty to speak out against this evil which so deeply effects our nation. ThP Cemetery for the Innocents is just one response to our belief that lifo should bP valurd as sacred at i>very stage. I3ut the efforts of the Right lo Lifo advocates do not stop there. 
Ms. I lock wrotr of our duty to support those women who have chosen life and nc'<'d our timP, h{\lp and money. You are precisely rorrect. Of course they do. and that is why onP of the three pillars of the Right to Life club is service. During Hesped Life week members of our group collected donations and gifts for a tlwnage moth1'r at Hannah's House, a home in South Bond for young unwl'd mothrrs. Tlwy held a baby shower for the young mother. r.omplete with rplnbratory rake and bags of gifts. This is a rerurring event which Right to Life drn's 1:arh semester and is just one of the ways we show our support for those wonwn who have rhosen life for their children. Members of our group are also artivr in the Womrn's Care Center. which provides counseling servicos and matPrial aid to women considering abortion. Project MOM is a: recently enacted ewnt sponsored by our f'lub in which boxes are plared in each of the residence halls on campus. giving every studi>nt the opportunity to donate dothes. toi­letriPs and baby goods to the Women's Care Center. While we as a dub are not allowf'd to donate any of our allotted funds directly to r.harity, we have our own f'und-raisPrs. including the selling of "precious feet" pins and our yearly con­cnssion stand which generates funds to help our !oral r.risis pregnancy centers. I hopn that this is a sufficient response for those who were not aware of our l'lub's sP.rvirn actions. 
Thr: next issue I would like to address is Ms. Hock's allusion to the tragedies that have occurred in our nation in the past week. She seemed to suggest that thn abortion issur. as it is controversial, should be sot aside for the time being in an effort to prr.serve national unity. However. it is precisely the purpose of our dub. and 1 often feel. my partirular railing in life, to speak about this divi­sion in an pffort to makP change. The abortion issue rnnnot be pushi>d aside. and as long as there are legal allowances for this atrocity. Notre Dame Right to Li!'e will b<' thrr.-lo stand against this injustice. Abortion. while it may not be on th!' forefront of tho political agenda now, is just as much a reality today as it has been in recnnl years. We must not forget that unborn human beings are mNrilcssly killed in the womb in the thousands every day. I will not compare numbers of abortions with the recent terrorist attacks because numbers have a ltmdency to avt:rt us away from reality and focus on arguments alone. Suffice it to say that one abortion is too many, just as one murder committed by a terror­ist is too many. Life is sacred and must be defended at every stage. 
My hopi> is that amidst these "r.omplir,ati>d mixed messages in this higher P.dur.ation environment." (of which Ms. Hock speaks) students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will spend thfl time and effort to seek the truth. Notre Dame Hight to LifP will not back down. we will not cease to prntrst injustice and we will not stop praying for an end to the violenr.e intlicted upon the most vulnera­ble of our sociNy. 
Mandy Reimer 
co-president, Notre Dame Righr to.Life Oct. I 5. 200 I 
demonizing its perpetrators. We know evil whon wo sec it. And we have to act to pre­vent it in the future. However. a military victory alone will not get at thfi root of the evil WP must prevent. 
We have le,m1ed this lesson br. l'ore. We once learnied that the Nazi war machinr. with all its hatred monopoliwd on the suffering of a people crushed under the burden ol' an inhumane armistice agreenrnnL When the war was won. the Marshall Plan was the Allied response to the incomparable evils or the Fascist rogimc so that similar ovils would not be repfJati>d. 
We have been demonized a:; a culture and as a nation. I laving called us evil. others havp, justified horrific evd arts. Demonizi.ng and dehumanizing the enPmy is the first temptation in violent conflict. This temptation is every bit as real for "us" as for "them." Once the enemy is demonized. nothing more is learned. We cease to look f:or root causes or any explanations for the aggression. We do this at our own peril. 
H is conn.:rning that we are not asking why t.he terrorists hate us. This may seem a frivolous question to ask as we continue to bury our dead, as we get on with the busi­ness of war. Knowing why they hate America will never excuse or justify the evils of Sept. 11. However. knowing the reasons for their rage is essential to preventing an endless pattern of reprisals. 
··on the Way" is the Campus Ministry ·s question and answer column that appears every other Tuesda.lJ. Father J. Steele is rector qfMorrissey l\1anor and also works in Campus Ministry. Please direct questions lo ministry. l@nd.edu. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Set the women free 
I was just listening to J-Lo and think­ing, I do live my life to tho limit and I love it. In a few days, I will be on vaca­tion. I will fiy in a plane to another state. another city in the continental 
United States. I  
will put on my  Anna Barbour  
vacation clothes  
-my warm  
weather clothes.  
While I am at the  Get a Life  
airport, I will  
probably stop and  
get a Cinnabon  

before I get on the plane and most like­ly on my way back, I will get another delicious cinnamon pastry. I will also pick up some gum and a Cosmo maga­zine for my reading pleasure and catch up on relationship dynamics and cloth­ing styles. Ifl go to the beach, I will wear a skimpy bathing suit so I can get 
tan enough to outlast South this would be unlawful. If I Bend's marathon winter. I will wanted to go to the mar­sleep as much as possible. ket by myself for cook­Perhaps [ vvill just sleep ing necessities. this the whole week. No. I will would not be possi­have to take my car and ble. If my rhildren go out once in awhile to asked me ques­see what's happening. tions about how f will talk on the this or that phone and listen to works, I do not music; go to movies think I would and restaurants; buv ever know the new items from mails answer. and stores; exercise It is a life I outside, jogging with­cannot contem­out having to wear plate very well. It sweatshirts and sweat­is a life I would not pants. wish upon my worst 
Whatever I do over my enemy. There will be glorious fall break, whatever good and bad conse­I am able to accomplish will be quences for this War on because it is what J want to do on Terrorism. If the liberation 
my var:ation in the United States of America. 
And how unbelievably fortunate and lucky am I? Not one item. you see, not one place or outfit or song or clothing style or food or book choice that I make, will a woman under the Taliban regime in Afghanistan ever bo able to acr:omplish. How many Amerkan citi­zens knew before the events of Sept. 11 what was orcurring in Afghanistan to women under Taliban control" 
When I read of professional doctors, lawyers and teachers forced to end their careers and put in Purdah in the attempt to rontrol man's sexuality. I try to remember what century I am liv­ing in. They are cloistered in homes out of the public nye where one·s world becomes about as big as a prisoner's world. Where am I that people still treat other people in such an unjust fashion under the guise of religious orthodoxy? Ilow is it that America, the sleeping giant that it is. took so long to awaken to this mass inhumanity to womankind? It is unimaginable to not be able to attend school. How would I learn to read, write and do arithmetic? Would I have to learn in serret? It is hard enough to do homework out in the open let alone to do homework in fugitive ways. And then what use is learning anyway? I would not be able to do a thing besides cooking, cleaning and caring for children -lots of chil­dren, at least seven children. I wonder what I would talk about all day long? It is a shocking situation. If I wanted to 
listen to music while I cleaned, 
of Afghani women from under Taliban control is an outcome. though, it might easily be worth the many sac­rifices and struggles on the part of those who live in the land of freedom. Something very much worth fighting for is the chanr,e lo realize one's humanity to its fullest extent Hurray for the United States if we succeed in setting those women free. 
Anna Barbour is finally a senior the­ology and pre-med major with four days left lo go until fall break. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
----·-­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 
page 10 Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Introspective Vertigo illustrates JLC's new maturity· 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
Vertigo is the third studio album for the North Carolina band Jump, Little Children. Although not as strong as their last effort L1998's Magazine), Vertigo nonetheless shows great promise for future development. After opening for Guster and playing dates in small clubs, Jump, Little Children seems to have earned enough respect for proper studio and production time. releasing an album that is infinitely more polished and lay­ered than their past work. 
Vertigo is a rather melancholy and slow album, and definitely not something that will show up at a dorm party. However, it is an introspective album, making it much more interesting than the self-serving music at the fore­front of today's music industry. 
The opening track, also entitled "Vertigo," is a song about con­templating suicide in the face of rejection, where the speaker is "Wondering should I take the fall/ Or should I take the stairs?" What makes this song emotional­ly bearable is the offsetting music, with a very easy groove backing up harsh emotions. 
Most songs run in a similar vein as the opening title track. "Too High," "Hold Your Tongue" and "Come Around" all consider the overwhelming desire to live in your own fantasy world rather than harsh reality, a reality where the speaker cries: "I've been patil~nv I've waited a -lif'c­time" for some sort of emotional rescue. One of' the strongest tracks on the <.Llbum, "Yearling," is a beautiful ballad that presents the singer as only "a callow schoolboy/ in the eyes of love." 
Parental issues are explored in the musically distorted track "The House Our Father Knew." With a hard-rock tempo the band delves into memories of child­hood abuse. "Mother's Eyes," which has possibly the strongest melodic composition on the album, is a story about a moth­er's death, where people pray beside her with "tears o[ ashes." Having one of the more light­hearted melodics, '"vVords of Wisdom" is a reflection of a father's death, asking "ii' you will go and not. ret.urn/ leave mo some words of wisdom." 

What is most interesting about this album is the signilicant role that nature pla)'S in the lyrical content of the band. "AngeId ust (Come Down)" talks about "standing on a turpentine beach" due to humanity's disregard for the environment. "Lover's Greed" explores the issues mentioned in its title through nature metaphors. 
The closing and most haunting track, "Pigeon," sounds, unfortu­nately, like a Wordsworth poem set to music. The last line ends "with peaceful eyes unsuffering/ a pigeon floats in the tide," and although the melody is fantastic, once the lyrics are on paper it ends up a rather pretentious song. 

The weakest song on the album is "Singer," a bizarre song that is more beatnik poetry than anything else. Although the rhythms are fairly good and interesting to listen to, this song does not belong within the con­text of the album and starts to wear on the listener after a minute or two. 
Although not as strong as their previous album, Jump, Little Children have made good strides in realizing their potential. Even though the lyrics can be confus­ing, signaling a desperation to be seen as deep or artsy, their abili­ty to write melodies rivals the best of the Brit-pop groups. 

Overall this is a solid album. Let's just hope they stop reading 19th century poetry. 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Tenacious D fuse comedy, rock in debut album 
By TOM O'CONNELL Scene Music Critic 
The self-proclaimed "Greatest Band on Earth" backs up that steep claim by delivering a magnificent self-titled debut album that's as funny as Spinal Tap and rocks hard­er than anything out of the current rap/metal genre. 
Tenacious D is acoustic dynamic duo Jack Black and his shorter, fatter, older and balder counterpart, Kyle Gass. You may recognize Black from his supporting roles in High Fidelity and Jesus' Son, or his upcoming role with Gweneth Paltrow in the Farrelly brothers' Shallow Hal. 
When not acting, Jack and Kyle have spent the last six years building a large, underground and insanely devoted fan base. Shortly after meeting in Tim Robbins' Actors Gang in the mid l 990s, they began performing as Tenacious Din Los Angeles clubs. In 1998, after being dis­covered by Mr. Show's David Cross, Tenacious D had a short-lived HBO comedy series in which they performed to an apathetic open mic crowd and pursued their ridiculous dreams of rock stardom. They assume that it is just a mat­ter of time until they achieve world dominance through their rocking power. Ironically, they do not seem to be far from reaching their goal. 
With the versatile vocals and the great spoken word delivery of Jack Black (JB) and the highly intricate guitar talents of Kyle Gass (KG), Tenacious D is actually playing themselves as caricatures of many kinds of rock music. Mixing deadpan God vs. Satan themes with excessive sex­ual prowess bravado and constantly self-referential lyrics, Tenacious D is like Simon and Garfunkel meets The Smotl1ers Brothers meets every glam rock and metal band ofthe 1980s. 
Spoofing all these elements leads to an album so entertaining, it dares you not to sing along, provided you are not already choking on your own laughter. Their songs are so earnest and convincing that you find it easy to forget that it's all just an act. As one critic wrote of a 1999 per­formance, "If watching these two short, fat, weird, bald guys perform doesn't make you hap­pier than you've been in years, then you are withered and dead within." 
Thinking themselves almost too powerful, KG and JB originally decided that The D did not need a backup band. For the album, however, they chose to recruit some extra muscle. Former Nirvana drummer, current Foo Fighter front man and long time D fan Dave Grohl returns to his true talents by drumming such hard rocking beats all over the album, that you wish he would join the band full time. Page McConnell of Phish adds smooth piano and keyboards, while Warren Fitzgerald's lead electric guitar slices through the tracks. Many fans (this writer included) were skeptical of the addition of drums and electric guitar to the originally acoustic Tenacious D, but legendary producers The Dust Brothers (who have worked with Bea<;tie Boys and Beck) have carefully crafted an album that mixes the acoustic with the electric 
Formed in the mid 1990s, Tenacious D have finally
to truly enhance the original sound. 
Songs like "The Hoad" and "Kyle Quit the released their self-titled debut album in an attempt to Band" are about the challenges and rewards of "achieve world dominance through their rocking power." 

being a rock star. "I met a tasty baby in Michigan/ We screwed two times then I left/ Sometimes I think of my baby in Michigan/ Why can't I stay in one 
place for more than two days?" "Rock Your 
Socks" unabashedly boasts the virtuoso of the band. "Me and KG were classically
Tenacious D 
trained to rock your socks offl/ So give it up for KG, give it up for me," But Jack warns that it isn't all fun and games, "I know whatTenacious D 
you're saying/ I think I'll get an oversized guitar, gain 40 pounds and be the next DI It ain't that easy/ Are you willing to make the 
Epic Records commitmenV To waking up at the crack of noon every day?" Epic battle songs of good and evil such as "Tributp" and ''\Vonderboy" are reminiscent
Rating 

of' old Led Zeppelin tunes. Kyle and Jack meet a demon on the road and he chal­lenges them to play the greatest song in the
....,......~~:i~ 
world. "So we played the lirst thing that came to our heads/ Just so happened to be the best song in the world." But then comes the catch, "This is not the greatest song in the world/ No, this is just a tribute /Couldn't remember the greatest song in the world." 
Some songs ooze with sexual hilarity. "Double Team" describes one lucky lady's night with the D. "You feel a tickling on your head/ It's KG with the feather and the French tickler/ Look out baby, he got the tools/ And then you feel something down by your feeV It's me, it's JB, I'm sucking on your toes!" 
Even if the music was bad, the songs would still be funny. But what is so satic;fying about Tenacious D is that they write truly great melodies and mix great guitar parts with gorgeous harmonies. Tenacious D has breathed new life intu both rock and roll and comedy, and it's been a long time since Hollywood produced anything so funny, filthy and wholly original. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE. 
1rlUSll~ 
Tuesday, October 16, 2001 page 11 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Travis bring spirited rock show to Cleveland 
poignant song that ended up on Travis' 
By GREG RUEHLMANN 
new album The Invisible Band. The song Scene Music Critic 
Cinjun came back with was called 'Tm Not Afraid," which he then began to per­
On a quiet Sunday evening in a sleepy form for the audience. Initially playing by Cleveland suburb, the bands Travis and himself. the singer shared with the crowd Berny Zero took the stage at the a beautiful ballad that only improved as Lakewood Civic Auditorium and trans­the rest of the band joined in. formed the place into the spirited sight of Remy Zero so impressed the crowd one of the year's best live shows. Each with their dynamic set of well-crafted band frequently brought the near-capaci­songs that people raced between acts to ty crowd to iL<; feet, and both left everyone the lobby to buy The Golden Hum in bngging for more. hordes at the merchandise booth. Many 
The night showed signs of magic from were fortunate enough to have the band the stm·t. With a remarkable opening set, members sign their copies when they tlrn Alabama quintet Remy Zero showed came out to converse with fans until the crowd why Travis had invited them Travis came on. along for a third consecutive tour. The Capitalizing on the electricity Remy band roared through a string of great Zero had created, Travis took the stage songs, many coming from their excellent and stirred the audience into a frenzy. new album The Golden Hum. The four-man group from Glasgow, 
Using very impressive musicianship. Scotland indulged in hit after hit from bassist Cedric Lemoyne, guitarists Jeffrey their three studio albums, Good Feeling, Cain and Shelby Tate, and drummer The Man Who, and The Invisible Band, Gregory Slay created but especially con­
GREG AUEHLMANN/The Observer 

highly charged sonic centrating on the lat­
Fran Healy, front man of the Scotish folk/rock band Travis, calls three fans
backdrops for the 
ter two.
Set List 
on stage during "Happy," the show's electric finale.
powerfully emotive vocals of frontman Cinjun Tate. Some  October 7, 2001 Lakewood Civic Auditorium (OH)  They began with the fantastic lead song from Invisible  Earnestly the band played good song  matched Fran's excitement, jumping  
of the highlights included "Glorious #1," "Bitter." "Impossibility," and "Save Me," an adrenaline-pumping anthem that has big hit written all over it. Prowling the stage in a hooded shirt. the shaved-headed Cinjun was an end­less source of capti­vating energy. This captivating quality became especially evident when he began telling an interesting story  Set: Sing Writing to Reach You Pipe Dreams As You Are Driftwood Turn Last Train Indefinitely Follow the Light Side Flowers in the Window Safe The Humpty Dumpty Love Song I Love You Anyways Why Does it Always Rain on Me? Slideshow Blue Flashing Light  Band, "Sing." As singer/songwriter Healy assumed the microphone and greeted everyone, lead guitarist Andy Dunlop took hold of a banjo that had been set up on a stand. As his guitar hung untouched from his shoulders, Dunlop started plucking the distinc­tive. bluegrass­tinged opening on the banjo. The crowd went wild. As the song approached the  after good song, each one prompting more displays of sheer joy from the crowd. They moved through hits like "Why Does It Always Rain On Me," "Flowers in the Window," "Side," and the stirring "Driftwood," as well as lesser known but equally impressive songs like "Blue Flashing Light" and bassist Dougie Payne's rendition of David Bowie's "All the Young Dudes." Over the course of the evening, Travis demonstrated that their appeal rests just as much on the members' charmingly fun-loving and unassuming personalities as on their knack for beautiful songwrit­ing. Fran especially was a constant source of humor and youthful exuber­ance. He playfully interacted with the audience all night, relating funny anec­ about and passionately pounding his gui­tar strings. During one song, Fran actual­ly had to tell him to settle down and play a little slower. The two ignited during the hit song "Turn" for one of the finest per­formances of the night. Running all over the stage and doing their best impres­sions of rock stars, Fran and Andy blast­ed the song's rhythm on their guitars while attempting jump spins and high leg kicks. The acrobatic activity earned huge applause. Travis closed their show at Lakewood with the old standby "Happy" from Good Feeling. As it started, Fran sighted three young female fans who had written out the chorus on large signs, and called them onto the stage. Each time he began singing 'Tm so happy 'cause you're so  
about one of his songs. One night, he explained, while talking to his good friend Fran Healy  Encore: Twenty All the Young Dudes Happy  chorus, Dunlop grabbed his guitar and began to wail, only to let it go again and re-assume the  dotes (including one about his first visit to an American hospital and the huge resulting bandage one could see on his thumb) and dancing around the stage. At one point, Fran's curious mohawk  happy," each of the three girls on stage held up the appropriate sign. The signs were a big hit, as was the upbeat song, which was a perfect choice to end a great concert. A superb night of music from  
(who happens to be  banjo as verse two  prompted a fan to shout "Nice hair!" The  two fantastic bands had left everyone  
the lead singer of  commenced.  singer responded with a sincere "thank  feeling very happy indeed.  
Travis), Fran proposed that the two write  From "Sing," Travis proceeded to  you," then wittily followed it by saying in  
a song that night and come back to each  "Writing to Reach You," the catchy open­ his best Sean Connery voice, "It's called  
other the next day to share the results.  er of 1999's extremely successful The  'The Gladiator."'  Contact Greg Ruehlmann at  
Fran came back with "The Cage." a  Man VVho.  The always-animated Andy easily  gruehlma@nd.edu  


-.::@r.fr·;:_::.:-·-:::~--­
-· . ,.
NEW 
FUii Ozzy 

ecraft ... .. . . . 
;;;"\~... ,-

Smell,the··•·Coffe .,, .. 
• ·"•l'lf>•.• ,·:c

Dila•ed Peoples -ExpansCon Team DIIX • The Grea1 Depression Bush .. Gold.en State , Incubus .;.":Norning"Yiew Too Shor1 • Chase the Cat 

·. 

• ••• 25 ...ij,l'1;.1¥/,y) ..•.,.··•.,79t.••·••..·•···\· Oct, 26 
·
.. 
Oct. ,,..t6

···.·.•''!~~~-c,r'.:tr•: ·· 
co,-rcesy fJf tfcketmaster.com
Courcesy of billlaoard.com 
--------~ 
---------~---·· 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 1G, 2001 
MEN'S GOLD INTERHALL 
Dawgs bite Knights with early touchdown, defense 
kicked a lield goal that gave them a CJ-offtlnse took over and drove to the By MATT DeNICOLA and MATT 6 lead and the win. Stanford 30-yard line. Then, on Lhird FURRIE "We are hyped about the close down, Keough quarterback Andy Sporrs Writers game and big win going into the play­Hess rolled left and connected with 
offs," said Linstrnth. After opening John Trischler in tho corner of the 
The last week of the regular season the season with a loss to Dillon, end zonfl for tlrn only scorn of the is not a tinrn to re.lax or hold hack, it Alumni impressively glided through half. is an opportunity to gel very impor­their next two games. The matchup "We were down a couple of guys tant game experience. with Keenan was a perfect prepara­and playing both ways," said 
Both Keenan (2-2) and Alumni (3-1) tion for tlw playoffs. Dilworth. "So it was real tough." took full advamage of their last regu­Tlrn Knights got similar game oxpe­The Griffins' la.ck of pnrsonel lar season game. but it vvas Alumni riPncP. became morl' and morfl apparPnt as who pulled out Lhe Y-6 victory. "IL was a really hard fought game ... the game went on and fatigue set in. 
"We wanted a big battle going into a tough one to lose,'' said Morlok. Led by llnss, the Kangaroo's offnnsn the playoffs. not another easy win," "But now we know what we need to played at an uptempo pace. Thny said Alumni captain Nick Linstroth. work on." completed six of thoir eight passes in 
After an early scor.•, LhP Dawgs "We can't kfwp spotting teams the first half and cv,m ran a no-hud­went into an offensive shell. AlLhough points," said Morlok. "We have done dle offmiso at times. thev thrnatP.ne<l to score, thev could that too much." Although tlrny cntor "We were having a lot of fun," said not push the ball past the Keenan the playoff5 at .500, the Knights havo Hess. "Tbny had an answer to our 
-
defense. given up 45 points on the season, running game nar!y, but we took what 
"Our linemen played pretty wc>ll while scoring only 33. "Our offens1! they gave us -our passing game was ancr that first score," said Keenan ha.s to pick up and score early." just really clicking." captain Brent Morlok. Key perfor­Alumni sees room for improvement With t.he start of Urn second half, it mances by Andry Groebner and as well. It enters as the second seed was Keough's ball on its own 35. Patrick Hobinson were important to and is outscoring tlrnir opponents 40-Eight plays later, Lhe Kangeroos the defensive effort for Keenan. 19. had their s11cond touchdown on a 14­
While Lheir defense played well. the "We feel there are things we need yard run by Clay Nuelle up the mid­Knights struggled on offense. to improve on going into playoffs," dle. "We just didn't get the offense off said Linstroth. "But I am proud of tlrn Luter in tlrn half, the Kangaroos 
the ground," said l\lorlok. team, and am confident about where would again drive deep into Griffin Other than a touchdown reception \<\ie are." territory, but would be stopped after by Steve Byrnes. the Keenan offense a Mark McNamoe interception in thn
Keough 14, Stanford 0

did not look sharp. endzone.
With playoff implications on thn 
In a key series in the final minutes For the day, I less was 8 for 13 with 
line, the Keough Kangaroos rose to 
of the game, the Knights made a huge one touchdown and one intPrception.
the challenge, as they defeated
goal-line stop on fourth-and-one. Stanford's olfonso was nol as pro­
Stanford.

But their offense couldn't push the dur.tive, going only 2 for 8 in the far.n
For Keough, now 2-2. a victory was
ball downfield. and had to punt aftnr of intense defonsive pressure.
necessary in orcl!ir to stay alivf' in this 
three downs. "Anytime you get a couple of touch­
year's tight playoff race. 

Motivated by their defensive stops, downs and µlay good on defense, it
Keough's defense' started off the
Alumni's offense seemed galvanized has to be a conlidence booster," said
game with a bang, intercepting a Nick 
for one last drive. Hess. "I just hope it continues after
Befera pass on the very first drive of
"Our defense had stopped them at fall break and into the playoffs."
the game.

the goal line before," said Morlok. 
"We ran the ball well," said 
"But they came up with the big play Contact Matt DeNicola at
Stanford captain Dilworth. "But it is 

at the end." mdenicola@nd.edu and Matt Furrie at
hard to be effective with turnoVPrs."
With 28 seconds to go, the Dawgs mfurrie@nd.edu
Two drives later, the Kangaroo's 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 ce111s per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE TO Fun promotional jobs WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! $300-$800 Scholarships SHARE A 2-BD.RM APT IN TUR-$10/hr to give away cool new prod-Sun Coast Vacations wants to send Available per semester! 
LOST AND FOUND TICKETS 
TLE CREEK FOR 2ND SEMES-ucts promogirl.com you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Looking for a job which lets you 
TER Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan work around your school schedule? IF YOU LOST A COWBOY HAT AT CALL HILLIARY 243-1840 OR BLACK FEMALE SEEKING SAME BUY-SELL FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1-We have several part-time and full-LAFAYETTE ON FRI, CALL 246-EMAIL HBURN@ND.EDU FOR ROOMMATE. CASTLE PT. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun-time day & evening positions paying 9313 $350 + DEPOSIT 271-7195. 277-6619 or 273-3911 coastvacations.com $7-$11/hr. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE We offer the following: SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX Spring Break Insanity' •scholarship money NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME FOR SALE WWW.INTER-CAMPUg COM or 'Flexible Schedules 
FOR RENT FOR SALE

VS. NAVY WEEKEND. AM. 232-2378 call 1-800-327-6013 'Paid vacations/holidays 
PM. 288-2726 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti-·optional Saturdays HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-ROOMS BLOCKED FOR AN ND For sale: 097 Ford Taurus. nations! Fifteen years experience! •Health/Life/401 (k) PUS CONFERENCE. EXTRAS AVAIL-Excellent condition. Power locks, ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED ·incentives/Raises mmmrentals.com ABLE. FOR MORE INFORMATION steering, ale. $6,300 O/B/O A.M. -232-2378 Wanted: Representatives and orga-·supervisory/Mg!. Positions email: mmmrentals@aol.com PLEASE CALL BARB HERB AT 1-616-663-8422 P M. -288-2726 nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your 1-(888) 801-JOBS 
312-243-4244 (X4192) resume jobs@americallcorp.com Nikon 6006 Camera Body. Recent ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. Just minutes north of campus THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad. overhaul by Nikon. $300 Call 631-232-0964. SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge 
weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219-7818 in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and ...ACT NOW! Guarentee the best Bed and Breaklasl Inn has space 277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com WANTED -ND TICKETS Parties with the Best DJs and spring break prices! South Padre. available for football/parent wknds. Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold 289-9280 celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Cancun, Jamaica. Bahamas, Mardi 5 rooms with private baths, $80-way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to Gras, Acapulco, Florda & Madrigas. $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from & kitchen with appliances. 1 car Buying some/ Selling a few extra StudentCity.com. Reps needed. Travel free, earn campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-WANTED garage. $69,000. N.D Football Tickets. $$$. Group discount for 6+. 800­800-418-9487 Call Doris at 254-1772 219-289-8048. call 1-800-293-1443 or email 838-8203 www,leisuretours.com 
Wanted: Babysitter with own trans­3 br 2 I.la ranch parklike yd all appl portation, for 1-2 children in our Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Have 3 pair of USC tix. Need Tenn. sales@studentcity.com to find out ADOPTION IS LOVE $1200 mo patti grice century 21 home, close to campus. Flexible Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bah, LR, DR Tix. Let's talk. 901-332-6735 more. Jim McDunfee 235-3062 hours 277-1037 & kitchen with appliances. 1 car Imagine your precious baby safe 
garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-Need 1 Tennessee ticket Contact Spring Break with STS, Americaos and happy in a loving family, ,,J For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. The Coffee Spot Cafe on Bendix 1772 for more into. Scott at 634-4946 #1 Student Tour Operator. adored by 2 ND grad parents (a full­..... 3 blks. from ND. near Cleveland Rd. Promote trips on campus earn cash time mom and lawyer dad) and lov-
Garage avail. 233-2104 
B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 
247-1124 
Lodging -Bed and Breakfast. 45 minutes from Notre Dame T&R INN Between the lakes. PH (616) 244-9084 www.innbetweenthelaKes.com 
Nice homes next school year north of ND. Great area. 277-3097 Part-time work available. Gorumet Coffee Shop Call 273-2931 

Babysitting 1,5,7 yr olds 12-15 hours/wk llexible hrs 271-0766 
In-home nanny needed to care for infant on Monday and Wednesday afternoons Must have transporta­lion. Experience with infants and references required. Contact Dr. Knoedler: 631-4264 or aknoedler@nd.edu 
BMW 94 3251, 4dr, green, loaded, 1 owner. all records. $11,000 289­4082 
Selling Varsity Club time share 1 soph wk. ii,9,500 272-1753 
Fifty-five gallon fish tank -solid oak Cabinet -all equipment ­presently set up for salt water fish. $1200 new -$300 or best offer. 631-6955 or after 6pm 272·6414 
Outgoing, energetic Individual need to babysit 2 children, 5 and 2, Fri. eve. 10/t9 and sat dllting game 10/20. Calt 937 294 4857 
U2 TIX 1 FLOOR TICKET CHICA· GO OCT. 15 BEST OFFER 287-9342 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. 
www.EpicllRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
and free trips. Info/Reservations ing playmates in a beautiful home. 1-800-648-4849 We promise to give your child the life you dream of for them. Medical, www.ststravel.com legal, counseling, court-approved 
living expenses pd. Confidential. Fraternities•sororities·c1ubs'Stude Please call our attorney at nt Groups (708) 922-4795 Earn $1,000-$2.000 this semester with the easy All apologies carnpusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. Kerry's a dork Does not involve credit card appli­cations. Fundraising dates are fill-Grunge is still cool ing quickly, so call today' Contact But Pearl Jam isn't campuslundraiser .com at 888 923· 3238, or visit www.campustundrais-How's that muffler working out for er.com you? Shiny muffler, happy girl. 
--------,.--.. ___,_______________________ 
--------. 
luesday. October l 6, 200 I The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Center for Social Concerns
csc 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 631-5293 
i

s o c I A L Hours: M,-F 8AM-10PM Sat~ '10AM-2PM SlJn. 6PM-9PM 
CONCERNS IVvR~~to-thetEve-vtt'~ofSeptet'JILb-ey 11tll/ 
H 
A 

p E N 
I 
N 

In this time of terrible loss and momentous decisions, the Center for Social Concerns offers resources through this website to assist individuals develop informed views, seek spiritual sustenance, and find just, wise, and effective ways to respond. 
please visit: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/septll 
Social Concern Seminars & SSPis 

,---Summer Service Project Internships : Summer Service Project Internships are eight-week service-learning 111 experiences sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs across the cou~!~Y· Room and board is provided while students work with agencies serving disadvantaged populations. 
I 

_,.__ First Information Session: Thursday, October 18th 6:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Conerns 
ACCI•N ACCION Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10 -12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are micro-lending organizations. $2,500.00 Scholarship. Room and board stipend provided. 
International Summer Service Learning Program: 
Sites represented this week are: Haiti and Honduras Tuesday Information Nights: 7-9 p.m. CSC Satellite Office (Coleman-Morse Center, Room 113) Applications now available at CSC and Satellite Office * Applications due: November 1st 
Border 
Border Issues Seminar Applications are now available at the CSC. ,. ~.. LAST CHANCE! APPLICATIONS DUE TODAY (Tuesday, October 16th) AT THE CSC! 
Center for Social Concerns Vehicle Trainin.: Sessions 
All fallbreak seminar drivers will need to attend a2nd meeting 
Thurs. 10/19 at 4:15 at the CSC. 
Current Volunteer Needs 
-SAT Help Milt Cooper@Washington H.S. * 283-7200 
Know how to ace the SAT? Please share your knowledge and help students prepare for their . SATs. After school or evening hours, flexible regarding location. 
Geometry Tutor Melanie Adams * 299-0331 or 325-6223 madams@sbtinfo.com 
Her son would like a tutor to help him in the subject of geometry. Flexible schedule and a location on campus could be arranged. 
Greater Holy Temple Church of God & Christ Howard Dukes * 235-6369 or 288-1199 
This church runs a bible study/youth group . Tuesday nights and is looking for tutors to assist students with their schoolwork, from 7:00-8:30, 
within walking distance from ND. 
; Riley High School
Q' ; 

Irene Patterson* 283-8114 
. ··. . . . ·.·. ,.·.·..•·... ··....-.'..-.-.·..1.· 
Looking for tutors to assist high ~chool stu~ents 
, . :,~~ weekdays from 3:00-4:00p.m. mall subJects ;<-;~:~:;:"i,,;1;r:'(-~:;j4 including Chemistry, Algebra and Foreign :3·n,;~;1, Languages. Ideally, they would like a group of -~/t1 ;:.~1 .. , students that can commit to a couple of days/wk 
. 
·" B,,)~ ~~:;~;::: ~~;~ ?;;:;;~lk@cs.com 
--,.>~ .fi A sixth grade student, Corey would like a tutor '. ;''.?i:i; to assist him with general homework including :\.:L}{'.; reading comprehension. Flexible schedule (a 
_ '.;_:}f','tj couple times a week), a meeting place on -: \· \11,·,,_,;J campus could be arranged. 
. ; J,{i\ · · 


' ·' Swanson Elementary School Lisa Horning or Kristine Torok * 243-7250 
Faculty Opportunities 
Faculty Needed! Through the Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame students participate in service experiences so powerful that the lenses through which they've seen the world are permanently altered. Such experiences -providing health care to poor people in Ecuador, an intensive week in Appalachia -make our students want to know more. To deepen the learning these experiences inspire, we need faculty members to help them formulate questions for academic pursuit; professors who can provide bibliography, direct students to relevant courses, help them design research projects; teachers who will guide our students in thinking carefully about the issues. If you have interest in working with these students in these or other ways, please contact Mary Beckman at the CSC. 
.....___________________________.....J 
---------------------------­
Presentation Tonight! 
Tuesday, October 16., 2001 
-.,.,c+ J,, 
7:30 P.M. Washington Hall 
The ~~verend lugene f. Rivers 3d 
,-_.·, .will,],e $P~¥Ong on ''JJle Resp<>A~ibilicy ofChris~iap Intellectµals . , inP~riods.ofPolitical(;risis" -· 
R_ev. Riyers currently ~eryes as co"'.c_hair of the N,ational Ten Point ~a(krship Poundation.'(h4t endeq,rurs to Quild1'1.f)l'grassroots let;ldership inforty onhe worst inner-city-~ghborhoefrh.by the ye(l-r2006. Hei~also General Secretary ofthe 
P~ African C.lufliftrU:4.:ic__ E,van~e}icaJ <;cmgress. an organk':atiQn (ha! links U.S.
chur,clt#~iJ:~htb#ir4Mf,gjrca1Q1tf!',:P{fl1Sto~'fl1-1?it.h the AIDS.eris~ in.Africa Pri!u/~p,~(, -~L~<fr:v,,0;r;4:ffj,fti,r.9_ ,,,, .--fo_r4ir!,~~~V~~op!!'flµJ:8licief()fthe -}!.S~ U!-ll.$; tt.l~il,{f.~y. vel,$ ~(9;,sp~ijldng,i}Jl i~~.,.~~-~l(lfing tp·r~¢ ·;: ·~:··~··e,,~}_~4f fi/j,!#rf,Yiifthe({,$,,:,c,<Zf:hol~,C~,Ver:~~ Jµ~ilee 
~-(jg g '~ ~sr~!!~;:.~~-' . --;~~.;; . . .:;s ~ . -• . 
H~ has, ap~fccl.9n,C~~i_l:la~«m'~P's Mee, the Pressi ras·s'FNf_(J_hµrlie ~ose Sh0 WdUJd BET_'s,;ui:ul Storyj among otll~r programs, -~d .as provided ,-c~n:µnenµtjj:f~ .~Y -, O~l>le pub~i9ations.. . : . x:~f~;,'-'; :·. ,,,::.w;,~:~?;\-''.;;'.;'£;if: ... . . >;i;: ,' Th,is.l~tyr;jf~pgg~q,r;ejl);,y]'Q~,, · ·. ~'W,~C.1!9l~ ~o&ram te9We ~~#es, Th.e 
Offi~qf:~p9i~,to:{J'~~:., . )n!&W~J8{i!9~~.~!½9~,~ ~e~~ ~~#~. 
,. ~~.The ~,l~!fO,r;~~,,~~p~~e~;;;,/ ·:·: ';/t.::]:f f -· :-. . :. ·,. · ·.,-' ·· · •,, ''"" ' · · · · ~ ' -­
Looking for tutors to assist an after school program Monday-Thursday, 2:30-3:45, could commit to just a couple days a week. 
• ..I 



pzge 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
great, and our movement beating Illinois gives more 
wasn't exactly together, but I evidence that we've beon
S01ith Tennis 

continued from page 20 
"There was a lot of thought [of leaving Notre Dame and accept­ing a job offer]," he said. "From a working standpoint and a stu­dent standpoint, you're tired of being broke. My whole class had graduated. One of my best friends, Jabari Holloway, had graduat­ed. It was time to move on. My time at Notre Dame was kinda over" 
But he just couldn't pass up one last chance at Notre Dame foot­ball glory. He couldn't pass up one last chance to let that dam burst. 
"How many opportunities do you get to play at the University of Notre Dame in front of 80,000 [people] every week?" he said. "l had a love for football and my teammates who were still here. I still wanted to play football." 
So he requested -and was granted -a fifth-year of eligibility. Ile returned to the Irish this year to ride the bench again -just hoping for an opportunity. 
When injuries devastated the Irish secondary, he finally got his opportunity. Ron Israel. Gerome Sapp and Glenn Earl were all injure<i to some extent Saturday, and as a result, Smith finally got his chance and made the big play when it mattered most. 
With Sapp and Earl feeling a .little healthier this week, Smith may not see the field as much, but he is still ready if the Irish need him. 
"The way things go now, I wi.11 still be in a relief role," Smith said. "But you never know what is going to happen out there. When bullets start flying, you have to be ready to go." 
While Smith gets his first taste of college football glory on the field this year, he is also getting a chance to enjoy life off the field a little more. As an undergraduate majoring in computer engineer­ing, he spent nearly all of his time in the lab. in class or on the practice field. Sleep was a luxury he almost never enjoyed. 
"Me and Jabari would sleep in the engineering lab ... if we got to sleep," Smith said. "Then we'd go straight to workouts in the morning, straight from there to class and then to practice. It was literally all-nighters." 
With his degree in hand, Smith is taking a lighter course load. Rather than intense computer classes with labs requiring hours of work, he takes sign language classes, diversity classes and assists a professor with research. And he is reintroducing himsBlf to his pillow. 
"lam a lot more relaxed," Smith said. "I can sleep at night now." 
Saturday may be the high point of Smith's career. With the Irish secondary getting healthier, Smith might take his place bark on the bench. But if the Irish need him, he's ready to make some more plays. 
"lt's kind of over," Smith said. "It's time to look forward to another week." 
This week, Smith will be waiting on the sidelines again, building his excitement, anticipating another opportunity and preparing to let the water crash down on another opponent. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish win first meet 
against Kalamazoo 
Special to The Observer 
Capturing its first victory of the season, the men's swimming and diving team defeated Kalamazoo College 137-104 at its home opener Friday evening. 
The Irish captured first place in eight of 13 events at the meet, with junior diver Andy Maggio leading the diving squad to pull the day's top finish. The Irish diving squad, undefeared in. the 2001 campaign, started this season on the same note. Maggio captured the top com­bim:rl finish with a score of 323.85 . 
DAILYSPECIALS 
Rated #1 Hot Wings ­in the area 
Tuesday: 
$200 32oz Draft Beer 
Individual speakers at each booth! 
1803 SOUTH BEND AVENUE -SOUTH BEND, INr~ 
N~, to Srudebagde F=147:9793, ~ 
Must be 2lwith valid ID to consume alcohol S P O ' r 5 
Relays got the meet off to a sound start, with the squad of David Horak, Mike Koss, Adam Cahill and Frank Krakowski win­ning the 200 medley relay in 1 minute, 38.10 seconds. The "B" relay of Dean Wolf. David Moisan, Matt Hyde and Matt Obringer fol­lowed in 1: 39.87. 
Freshmen pulled in big individual ½IDS for the Irish, with Kralmwski winning the 100-yard freestyle in 
48.08 seconds. Oassmatc Wolf also posted a win, winning the 200-yard backstroke in 1:57.28. Sophomore Matt Obringer won the 500-yard freestyle in 4:43.87. 
think we did a really good job of playing together as acontinued from page 20 

team, and I think we defi­think both of us, Casey and I, nitely have established our­really stepped up a level, and selves as a Learn that could we a.re realizing that we can do really well this year." 
play at that level." A.fter their surprising 
Smith and Taborga battled defeat over 1-lorida, Sinith through two qualifying ·and Taborga set up a meet­rounds just to gain entrance ing with Yale's Steve Berke 
into the main draw of the and Dustin West, and edged 
tournament, before their out the duo 9-8 (7-lJ to first round run-in against advancfl lO the semifinals of Scott Lipsky and David consolation. Martin of' Stanford, lhe sec­Notre Dame's Smith and ond-rank<'d doubles team in Taborga provided more 
the country and the top seed thrills for the crowd in their in the tournament. semifinal matchup against 
The Irish did not succumb 14th-ranked Michael Calkins easily to Stanford. but were and Amer Delic of lllinrtis. dropped to the consolation Although they found them­bracket after a tough 8-6 selves in a 7 -4 hole, the Irish loss. regrouped and survived two 
Following the Joss to match points hefnre winning Stanford, Smith and Taborga five straight games and Lak­regrouped to win two match­ing the match 9-7. 
es the following day and Smith and Taborga finished 
advance  to  off their win- 
the semifi­nals of the consolation  "/ think we did a really good job ofplaying  ning ways with an 8-5 victory over  
portion  of  together as a team."  26th-ranked  
the  doubles  J  a  m  e  s  
event.  Cameron and  
In  their  Casey Smith  J  o  h  n  
first win, the  tennis player  Chesworth of  
Irish  duo  Purman  in  
stunned  the consola­ 

12th-ranked Olivier Levant tion final, capping a success­and Eleazar Magallan of ful weehnd for the Irish. Florida 8-3, the team that The final win bumped the won the ITA All-American pairing's record to 9-2 on the doubles title last year. year, as they won 6 of 7 
Despite being teamed matches during the event. together for the first time The consolation title proves since 1998, Smith and that practice has paid off for Taborga have come together the Irish doubles team. to form a solid doubles pair. "Although we lost in the 
"Doubles I was really first round to the No.1 team, happy with," Smith said. "l it was close, arid we should felt like Javier and I really have made it even a little bit played well. At tlrn start of closer," Taborga said. "But tho year when we started we beat six teams that arc playing together our com­going to be ranked nationally munication wasn't all that this year, and especially 
Considering the 

London Program For Fall 2002 and Spring 2003? 
Remember you can apply via the web. Use our application at www.nd.edu/--londonvr
l. 
working because they aro supposedly the top team in the region, and we beat them playing well." 
While Smith and Taborga fared well in doubles, the three Irish representatives in singles were knocked out early. Both Taborga and teammate ,\aron Talarico were defeated in the qualify­jng rounds of the event, while Smith was stopped in the second round with a defeat to South Alabama's Kosta Zi nchanka. 
Smith, ranked 38th in the nation, had no troubles in the first round. topping Calle Hansen of Pepperdinc 6-2, 6­4, before being eliminated by Zinchanka. 
After having two set points with a 5-4 lnad in the oprm­in g set against Zinchanka, Smith dropped nine straight games to loso tho match 7-5. 
6-0. 
"!•felt lik0, I was striking the ball woll, I just wasn't able to convert. on a couple of key points in the match that I lost," Smith said. "I had double set point, and any time you have that you should probably win the set. The difference was he just played a couple points better than I did." 
Although Smith suffered a second set meltdown, he feels his game is progrnssing, and hopes it will continue to improve. 
"For the most part, I feel like my singles is coming along," Smith said. "It's not near where I want it to be. but its gradually getting bet­ter. Ilopefully by this week­end and regionals it will bo at a level I expect it to be." 
Contact Rachel Biber at Biber.l@nd.edu. 
.,. 

Tuesday, October 16, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SMC CRoss CouNTRY 
Wet conditions don't stop Belle runners 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spom Editor 
Bunning without three of their top seven runners in con­ti iti ons that were less than ideal. the Belles still managed a fifth place finish on Saturday in the Manchester Invitational. 
"The team performed well overall." head coach Dave 13arstis said. "Three of our top sev+~n didn't run due to illness, but we still managed to finish fifth. The whole team is still continuing to improve their times from week to week." 
For thfl second week in a row, the Belles faced harsh condi­tions that didn't lend them­selves to running, although Barstis was willing to make the best of' them. 
"llt was I wet, muddy, cold and windy. Perfect conditions," Barstis said. 
Sophomore Jackie Bautcrs led the pack again with another personal record of 20 min. 28 snc .. topping the 20:36 she ran last weekend at the Eagle Invitational. The time was good enough to give her an eight place finish overall. 
"[Bautersl had an eight sec­ond improvement," Barstis said. "The others ran fairly consis­
. tently." Freshman Amy Blue and sophomore Jessica Kosco kept 
close to each other. finishing in 22nd and 23rd place respective­ly. Blue ran a 21 :25 and Kosco finished the race in 21 ::H. 
llounding out the Belles top five were freshman Elizabeth Commers, who finished the racP in 36th place with a time of 
22:29 and junior Jennie Buehler who finished with a time of 22:38. 
With MIAA Championships in two weeks, Saint Mary's will be looking to improve on Saturday's results. The one-five split, that Barstis would like to be within 30 seconds, was more than two minutes during Saturday's racA. duA, in part, to illness. 
"There's not much you can do when runners get si~k," Barstis said. "The thing now is to get everyone ready to peak in two weeks." 
This week will involve intense training for the runners before they can rest in preparation of the final MIAA meflt. Saturday will be their first weekend off since they started running in early September. 
"We have one more week of hard training, then we have a rest, recovery week," Barstis said. "I feel everyone is primed to have their best race at the championships." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Cavanaugh smokes Farley 
By KATIE KINNER 
Spores \'v'ritcr 
On a muddy McGlinn field this Sunday, the Chaos of Cavanaugh hall defeated the Farlev rinest 14­
0. • "Wfl played rnally well," said 
senior wide receiver Katie Burdick. "Ii was nice to get out to 
a.n t>arly !Pad and get everyone into the g"dffie." 
Cavanaugh put together an eight-play drive, capped by a 20­yard quarterback draw on fourth down by senior Mandy Reimer. 
Earlier in the drive, Cavanaugh had its drive stay alive on a fourth down ilfogal rush penalty. 
Throughout the game, Farley's defense played well, getting three sacks and two interceptions. Senior Undsey Smith picked off a pass in the first half, keeping Farley in the game. But winning the game was secondary this week. 
"I thought we played really well," said Cordes. "The girlc, had fun which we were stressing all week and I think we left feeling pretty good." 
In the second half, the Chaos 
took their opening drive 50 yards 
in five plays. 
Once again, Reimer scored the 
touchdown on a quarterback 
keeper to put the Chaos ahead 14­
0, breaking the game open. 
Although Cavanaugh's defense held Farley to only two first downs, senior Farley coach Chris Cordes did not seem too impressed. 
'Their defense didn't play as well against us as they did against Howard," he said. ''We put togeth­er some good plays but it was hard to tell if they [Cavanaugh) were playing their regulars or backups." 
Meanwhile, Burdick thought the Chaos defense turned out another exceptional performance. 
"They [defense) played great as they always do," she said. "They make il. easy. We only have to score once and they never allow anyone to score." 
Farley (1-4-1) finished the year with only four seniors on the team, Smith. Beth McKay, Megan Sheehan and Anne Voglewede. With 12 freshmen on the team, Farley looks toward a successful season next year. 
"I wai1t to give the seniors a lot of praise," said Cordes. "They stuck with it and helped the fresh­men gain experience." 
Cavanaugh (4-1-1) advances to the playofl.<;, and looks to improve on its five game unbeaten streak. in attempting to get to the Stadium. 
"We are looking forward to the playoff_<;, but artl disappointed they are so far away." said Burdick. "We are excited about them. and will be disappointed ifwe don't get to the Stadium." 
Breen-Phillips 0, PE 0 
In the Breen-Phillips huddle at halftime, the team emphasized the need for a "big play." Unfortunately for the Babes, the big play didn't go their way in their game against Pasquerilla East on Sunday. 
However, for both teams, none of the penalty calls seemed to be going their way either. 
An interception by PE sopho­more Erin Muldoon off ofBP quar­terback Katie Macfarland in the second half stopped a strong scor­ing drive by the Babes. 
"Erin shifted the momentum and gave us good field position, and we tried to capitalize on that," said PE captain Lindsay Terifay. 
Returning the ball close to the BP 20-yard line, Muldoon's inter­ception set up the Pyros' best scor­ing chance. 

"A few callc; our way and it could have been different," said Terifay, commenting on the PE scoring drive that was halted by two con­secutivfl penalty calls and a final failed attempt on fourth-and-goal 
After a short completion on third down. Terifay ran a quarterback keeper close to the goal line. A controversial penalty on BP for pulling Terifay down gave the Pyros half the dL-,1.ance to the goal. BP coaches complained in vain from the sidelines that Terifay had the edge of her shirt hanging over her flags. 
On the next play. still fourth­and-goal, PE wa-, charged with an utr-,ide foul on a play in which the Babes defense had managed to strip Terifay's flags before she crossed tho goal lino on a keeper. BP capt.ain Jenny Wahoske tried to decline the penalty, but it was nlled a dead ball foul. 
PE lost five yards. hut was able to repeat the dovvn, although they were unsuccessful in scoring. 
"Our defense did an excellent job of staying in the game when we had to repeat the same play several times," said BP's Jenny Wahoske. 
Buth captains commented on the issue of the penalties, in a game where a total of 10 com­bined fouls were called. 
"We have to play the way the game is called. Some went our way, some didn't, but we don't pick the refs, we just have to deal with them," said Terifay. 
Wahoske also emphasized her team's need to focus on the game. 
"It's frustrating when the calls aren't going our way, but it is our job to play the game; we can't con­trol the refs," she said. 
Contact Katie Kinner at kkinner@nd.edu. 

International Study Programs University of Notre Dame 
roa way ea re eague 
October 18-19, 2001 
For tickets and informatio Call 234-4044 Toll Free 1-877-315-1234 
Student, senior, and group discounts available for all performances. 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
"" -"• • •~ •~ •.-,, ......,_ --,.............,._.,,w,., "•""'" ,...,~
v•.....~,....,... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Burge, Zahm hand Knott a defeated season 


By MATT MOONEY, MATT 
DeNICOLA, and AARON RONSHEIM 
Spom W ricers 
Sunday's game between the Knott Juggs and the Zahm Rabid Bats was one of con­trast. 
And in a game of opposites, it wasn't just the teams' records which were polar. 
ln a 21-0 shutout, the Zahm (2-1) defense turned Knott's (0-41 offense stone cold. Utilizing a variety of blitzing schemes, Zahm consistently hurried and put Jugg quarterback Ben tiilfillan under pressure. 
"Our defense didn't give them anything on the ground," said Zahm captain Gabe Ibanez. "They were force to pass the whole game and that makes a world of a diITer­ence." 
The defense forced Gilfillan into difficult passes. Rabid Bat Pat Amato came up ¼ith an interception and Zahm scored on the proceeding drive. 
However, Zahm attacked Knott aggres­sively on both sides of the ball. On offense, the Bats used their vaunted air attack to pick apart the Jugg secondary. 
Quarlerback Dan Burge had a big game, connf'cting for a tnuchdovvn pass and rush­ing for another. Running back Chris Bystedt added a long touchdown run of his own to cap the Zahm scoring. 
"We're proud of [our aggressive offense]," said Ibanez. "rwe execute} what we prac­tice and ifs what we do well." 
Unfortunately for Knott, their methodical running game was no match for the wide open Zahm passing attack. 
"Ow-offense was stagnant because they were blitzing every down and we didn't block well," said Knott captain Brian Schmutzler. "Our defense held pretty well against the run, they just passed all over us." 
The game also sends the two teams in totally opposite directions. 
Knott finished winless. This season turned out to be a disappointmrmt for the Juggs, having played in the stadium as last year's league runners-up. The goals for their last game of the season were not as they had hoped for at the start of the sea­son. 
Instead of playing for a championship, the Juggs merely tried to salvage a win. "WP werf' just gonna go out there to have fun, play hard," said Schmutzler. 
Zahm, on the other hand, now looks to Wednesday's game against Fisher for a chance at the playoffs. 
"It'll help if we win against risher to give us a better seed. Coming up with a goose egg in this game was pretty big. I think (it helps give us momentum],'' said Ibanez, 
O'Neill 7, Sorin 7 

Coming into Sunday's game, both O'Neill (1-2-1 Jand Sorin (l-l-1) were in a situation where they could not lose. 
And neither did, However, neither team picked up a cru­cial win in the playoff race, tying 7-7. 
Sorin plays St. Ed's on Wednf'sday. a game in which Sorin is farnrcd to win. Victory would mean a playoff spot, O'Neill's playoff hopos rely on a Sorin loss, and a hope that the tiebreaker goes in il'i 
tavor. . 
However, if Sunday is any indication. O'Neill proved that it can hold its own in the playoff<;. The Angry Mob held Sorin to only seven points after they had scored 40 in 
their first two. games. "Our defense played well today," said captain John Enterline. However, the key play of tho game came on offense. "We got out of the gate really fast," said Enterline. "That really helped us." Jesse Norman had an interception in the first. quarter. On the next play, Nate 
Schomas ran 25 yards for the touchdown. 
Sorin found its way into the endzone for one touchdown, but the rest of the game was a stalemate. The Angry Mob would have liked a win, but they are happy with their performance. . "We moved the ball a lot better this game than in our last two games," said Enterline. "If we get into the playoffs, we are going to keep working on our offense." 
However, O'Neill must wait for the out­come of the game on Wednesday. Although the Angry Mob did not secure a spot, this is the first time thcv have been in contention for the posl season. And they will continue to improve. 
"We have to stop shooting ourselves in the foot at the end of drives," said Enterlinn. "We are going to try to cut down on our mistakes." 
The Angry Mob has shown progress throughout the season, culminating in a well played final game. 
"We are hoping we make it." said Enterlli1<'. "But if things don't work out, we are going to build on our success and be much better next year ... O'Neill football has come a long way." 
Siegfried 21, St. Ed's 0 
The SicgfriHd Hamblcrs completHd their unrlefoatml sea.c;on with a 21-0 win against tlrn SL Edward's Steds. 
The Hamhlers now can turn their atten­tion lo the playoffs. "We are glad to gel some rnst," said Siegl'riod quarterback Hob Plumby. "We also get to work on some things. We stil.l need to exucute better." 
"The playoffs are a whole dif'fernnt atmosphere. Everybody starts from zoro," said Siegfrind runningback Travis Smith. "If we play like we arc capable of lplayingl we can definitely make it to the stadium." 
Smith scored all three Siegfried touch­downs on his way to a 100-yard game. "He is a good runner. When you tackle 
high like we did, he is going to run through you," said SL Edward's Coach Dan Zeller. Smith took advantage of the Steds sloppy tackling by breaking tackles on every play. 
The Rambters got off to a quick start. On its first offensive drive from scrimmage Smith scored on a one-yard touchdown run to make it 7-0 Ramblers. 
"We kind of use the first drive to find out what works." Said Smith. "We try to mix it up pass and run. Then we get the guys Lo talk to us. They were telling us running was where it was at today." 
The running game carried the Ramblers to their second touchdown by counting 40 yards on the drive, including the last four yards by Smith. 
Siegfried continued its offensive success by scoring on its first drive of the second half, Again Siegfried went to the ground, as Smith scored his final touchdown of a day on a 12-yard scamp1w. 
Smith credited his big day the Humblers success to the olfonsivc line. 
"Each week the have to show up to play. They win or losfl the game for us, Our 4-0 record shows they have," he said. 
The St. Edward's olfonse struggled with­out their starting quarterback, as t.h1) Stods worn hold to negative ten yards in tho first half. 
"They really sWpped it up today," said Smith. "Our D-lim1 was tough up front. Thny did a grnatjob today." 
St. Edward's, with a record ol' 0-3, still has one more chance to pull out a win against Sorin Hall. 
"It's our seniors' last lgamnl; we are going come out and give it our all," said St. Edward's coach Dan Zeller. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu, Matt DeNicola at mdenico@nd.edu, and Aaron Ronsheim at ronsheim. l@nd.edu 
This 

CY 
Resdav 
Weel< in Dia de los Muertos 
Campus Ministrv 
B.__d_av_______ 
Campus Bible Study 

7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Conference Room 
Confirmation Session #3 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Rev. Eugene River 3d 
The Responsibility of 
Christian Intellectuals in 
Periods ofPolitical Crisis 
7:30 p.m. Washington Hall 
The lecture is free and open to the public 
6:00 p.m. Institute for Latino Studies McKenna Hall Ofrendas (altar) building to honor those who per­ished as a result ofthe terrorist acts ofSeptember 11. The community is invited to bring tokens of rememberance (poems, prayers, pictures, etc.) to add to the altar. 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 
featuring a Conversation with Grant Irons 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayerx 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

_dav 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p..m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p..m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

Freshman Retreat #37 
(November 9-10, 2001) Monday, October 1through Monday, November 5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
THIS WEEK: 

A conversation with Grant Irons 
Coffee @ the Co-Mo on faith, athletics and academics 
co-sponsored by the Sophomore Class Spirituality Committee 
8pm • weanesaays 


page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish make Hurricanes look like light rain 

By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assi~tanr Sporrs Ediror 
This year, tile fifth-rankf'd Notre Dame women ·s sor:ccr team's offense bas been. in a word. adequatP. 
Against No. 24 Miami on Sundav, the 
Irish f1nallv u n lf! ash e~l 1 an offensivP furv. drub­bi1i'g the 
l!urril'anes 4-0. 
The high-scoring win followed a disman­tling of SL John's on Friday night at home. 7-0. 
Th·e Irish traveled Saturday to Miami. returning lat,~ Sunday night. 
lntt>rPstingly. unlike prnvious ganrns wherP the Irish did not win handily. Notre Dame did not dominate the sh<it statistic or conrnr kirk tally on Sunday. 
The Irish took 12 shots against Miami keeper Elizabeth Swinson. while the Hurricanes fired nine at Irish goalie Liz Wagner. 
"It's the best game we've had in terms of goals and shots," said sophomore striker Amy Warner. who scored twice against the Hurricanes. "It's something that us fonrnrds have been working on, capitalizing on the chances we're given." 
Warner 

The Irish shot total was tied for the lowest output since the first gamG of' Notrr Dame's sea­·son, a 2-1 victory over Penn State on Aug. 31. " 
The Irish defense was also solid throughout the game, as Wagner was forrnd to save just four Ilurricanc shots. 
Warner opened the Irish scor­ing 20 minutes into the contest. fiellow sophomore Melissa Tancredi set up Warner with a pass into the penalty area, a pass that Warner was able to put into Iwt to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
"We fp\t like WP did our job [with the scoring]." said Warner. 
Mia Sarkesi.an, who has emerged as an offensive power­houso for the Irish, put in Notre Damp's ser.onrl goal. Junior for­ward Ali Lovelace was the cata­lyst, beating out a Miami defond­er for a header, and th,rn passing the ball to Sarkesian to complete the goal. 
Sarkcsian, who had scored nine goals in her entire Not.re Dame r.areer up until this sea­son, already has five scores in 2001, while dishing out four assists. 
Sophomore striker Amanda Guertin didn't need help to give the Irish their third goal of the first half. Beginning at the top of the penalty area, she was able to shake off Hurricane defenders, setting up a shot that would become her fifth goal of the sea­son, tied for second on the team with Sarkesian, and behind 
vVarner's seven. 
"Tho first half we didn't actually play that well," said Warner. "But thi-~ second half was solid soc­cer." 
Warner's three-goal w e e k e n d earned her the Big East 0 f f e. n s i \' c Player of the Week award. 
Thal seventh goal by Warner would come very early in the second half, just four minutes in. After two failed attempts lJy the Hurricane defense to clear the ball. Warner took an outside shot that found the goal to give Notre Dame a 4-0 lead, and a very solid win over a nationally respected and ranked squad, on a Sunday no less. 
"We haven't played well on Sundays since I've been here," said Warner. "It was good to kind of get over that." 
Notes: Texas 2-1 on Friday. No. 3 
. The Irish will look to jump up Portland was stunned by No. 13 in the rankings when the new Saint Mary's (CA) Sunday. NSCANadidas Women's Division I poll is released tomorrow. Nu. 4 Nebraska, a team the Irish beat earlier in the season at 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu.
Alumni Field, lost to No. 20 
The Responsibili-ty of Christian Intellectuals in Periods ofPolitical Crisis 
Rev. Eugene F. Rivers 3d 
Tuesday, October 16, 2001 7:30pm Washington Hall The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Reverend Rivers currently serves as co-chair of the National Ten Point Leadership Foundation that endeavors to build new grassroots leadership in forty of the worst inner-city neighborhoods by the year 2006. He is also General Secretary of the Pan African Charismatic Evan_gelic~I 
· Congress, an organization that links U.S. churches with their African counterparts to deal with the AIDS crisis in Africa pandemic and advocates for changes in foreign and development policies of the U.S. in regards to Africa. Rev. Rivers travels widely speaking on issues relating to race and justice and was featured at the U.S. Catholic Conference Jubilee Justice Gathering in Los Angeles, 1999. 
Co-sponsored by The Office ofCampus Ministry, The Joan B. _Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, The Center for Social Concerns, and The Christian Scholars Program. 
ALDS 
Jeter, Yanks complete three game comeback 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

With no margin for error, Derek Jeter and the New York Yankees' pinstriped dynasty persevered with one of the great comebacks in baseball history. 
As Jeter solidified his place in Yankees' lore, the three-time defending World Series champions became the first team ever to win a best-of-five series after losing the first two 
games at home. 
New York fell behind early as Roger Clemens stumbled, then seized on Oakland's youthful nerves to beat the Athletics 5-3 in the deciding Game 5 Monday night and advance to the AL championship series. 
Alfonso Soriano started the comeback with a two-run sin­
gle, New York created two runs from three errors and David 
Justice capped the comeback with a pinch-hit home run into 
~he right-field seats -his first RBI in 62 at-bats since Sept. 
:,_ 
Then came Jeter, whose amazing backhand flip to the plate following an overthrow preserved the Yankees' 1-0 win in Game 3 -and turned the series. 
After getting two hits to break Pete Rose's postseasori record with 87, Jeter showed the heart and skill of a champi­on. 
With a runner on first in the eighth. he dived headlong into the photographu's box behind third base to catch Terrence Long's foul pop. The runner advanced, but was stranded, and after the inning Jeter bandaged his elbow cut. 
With the delirious Bronx crowd chanting at !'ever pitch, Mariano Rivera closed it out, capping 4 2-3 innings of shutout, two-hit relief started by winner Mike Stanton and Ramiro Mendoza. 
New York, trying to become only the third team tu win the World Series four straight times, opens the AL championship Wednesday at Seattle, with renewed confidence that nothing is outside its grasp. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
-
Bizarre win a win nonetheless 
You had to feel bad for them. 
The West Virginia coaching staff. I rnpan. \Vlmn wide rcc"iver Tory .Johnson hauled in an eight­yard touchdovvn pass with 5::{7 to go in the third quar­ter. they 
celebrated 
in the booth. 1-!igh 
UVPS. 
Shouts of joy. Even a little bit of fist pump­ing. 

And why not? They had just gotten their first lead of the day. 24-17 against the Irish. Johnson had just sr.ored his first collegiate touchdown. Everything seemed to be great. 
But. s0eing them. I could only think of one thing, and that was the last time I saw visiting coach­es get fired up like that in the Notre Dame press box. some two years ago. 
On Oct. 16, 191.J9., Notre Dame hosted USC. The Irish trailed 24-3 in the third quarter. Rain started to fall. The Trojan coaches were getting very excited. 
A quarter and a half later. the Irish were celebrating a 25-24 win, their biggest comeback in 20 vears. and the USC coaches ~veren't quite as happy anymore. 
A quarter and a half later on Saturdav. the 2001 Notre Dame Fighting Irish celebrated their second win of the season, by the final score of 34-24. 
No. it wasn't a program-defin­ing, or even season-defining, come-from-behind triumph. 
It was a win, though. 

"[We] saw about everything that could happen in a football game," Bob Davie said afterwards. "It was a little bizarre out there at times." 
So what's the definition of "bizarre?" An onside kick coming less than seven minutes into the first quarter with Notre Dame already up 10-7 probably quali­fies. 
Going for it on fourth down four times, and converting all four tries, makes it crazier. However, when one of those fourth down attempts is initiated from your own 32 late in the third quarter with the score tied at 24 -well, I don't think that guy who yells on those Nationwide Warehouse commercials could match that for excitement and intrigue. 
"To be honest, I made that deci­sion because I felt good about our offense running the ball," Davie said. "And I was a little [unsure] right there about how we were playing defense ... I did not want 

to give them the football back. 'v\'c 
didn't have a whole lot of co11fi­
rlenc:c right thl'rn." 

Earlier in the quarter, West 
Virginia had back-to-back offen­
sive possessions that produced 
totals of 14 points, 97 yards, and 
only took 4:57 otf the clock. That 
offensive surge was what got 
those coachcs in thn booth so 
excited. 

So the Irish rolled the dice, and 
they won. Granted. these dice 
might have been weighted. Notre 
Dame's offensive line effectively 
cleared hol<. s all day, and, in turn, 
the tailbacks and quarterback 
CarlylP !Ioliday took full advan­
tage of them, tu the tune ur 345 ·yards. 
Still, it's not like the decision 
was as easy as avoiding the dining 
hall on hlazin' sea nuggets night. 
" ... I don't really like doing 
that I ml'an, you're sitting there, 
in that football game, going for it 
on your own 32-or 33-yard line, 
but I felt good about some things, 
and we made the decision and we 
went with it." 

In a reversal from what we ·ve 
often seen in the past, it was the 
offense's job to pick up the 

defense this week, 1cvcn though 
that defense once again gave up 
less than 300 yards. (Davie asked 
if that was a misprint on the stat 
sheet.) 

But the defense did make that 
one big play it needed to. Fifth 
year free safety Justin Smith, who 
had logged less than three quar­
ters of game time in three sea­
sons, picked off a pass at the 

Notre Dame 12 with less than 
eight minutes left in the game and 
his team only up 27-24. 

That was enough for an offense 
that combined solid runs with 
some breakaway sprints and live 
passing first downs. 

The Irish didn't overpower the 
Mountaineers or destroy them 
like Virginia Tech did the week 
before. 

Taking some risks, they just 
went about getting their second 
win in a row, and continued to 
take advantage of this home 

stretch to get better. Just how 
much better, we'll see when the 
best 2-4 team in the country (my 
favorite line in all of sports) comes 
in from Southern California this 
weekend. 

True, they have a different head 
coach than they did two years ago 
on that rainy day.. But they should 
still wait until the game is over 
before deciding whether or not to 
celebrate. 

If they need a reminder, some 
guys from Morgantown can prob­
ably tell them why. 

Ted Fox can be contacted at tfox@nd.edu. The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


SOUTH BEND REGIONAL MUSEUM OF ART 
£ ilOIHilffliiiiC =-+ 
&f~~~Juel due ... 
tB ILt
BE~ ER i b1•
ffnlje, 
THE MUSEUM IS LOCA~D~ CENTURY CTNTER -+­DOWNfOWN soum BEND -120 s. SJ. JOSEPH STREET DOORS OPEN @ 7 -CABAR£f X BEGINS @ 8 P .M. -+­THE BALL BEGINS @ 9 P.M. -ON OCT. 27 ADMISSION $5 -AGES 17 + ADMITfED W / VALID I.D. --+­MUST BE 21 W/ I.D. TO PURCHASE ALCOHOL 
-. 

Tuesday, October 16, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 19 RYAN
TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSEDFOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 



FOXTROT 
PETE(< Fox, STEVE ANO WHERE ON I WENT To EARTH HAVE THE I.IBRAR"t', 
'YOU BE.EN \ ALL AfTE~­NOoN?! 
KEEP ..•LUl(:,t'S PIZZA, &01N6. GUITAR LAl'IID, AND THEN HUN(, 
OUT AT 
coFFEE'.Bllc"S. 

BILL AMEND 
A BtT oF HOW COULD ADVICE: '!'OU PoSS1BL'I' SENTENCES TELL?! "' 
\
DoN'T E.ND WITH 
COMMAS. 
I 

Bad Roommate 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Home of the Braves
1 Basic util. 40 Big expense for 
5 Part of the body an employer
that may be massaged 42 Minty herb 
10 Tool building 43 Yuletide 
14 Gloomy 45 Tubular instrument
15 Where Pago-Pago is 46 Baked item for Lent
16 Fruit for a twist 49 Have doubts 
17 Opposite of about
nearby 53 Urban trains, for
19 A single time short 
20 Bullwinkle, e.g. 
54 Bogged down 21 Acted hammily 55 Friar's home 23 Uncle 59 Pews' place 25 Overshadows 60 Mentally27 Betrayal 

stimulating 31 Fury pastime 32 Mr. Moto remark 65 Pretty soon 33 Scrawny one 66 Vagabond 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
P A S E O S E L A P S E 

67 Champagne or Chianti 68 Cattle group 
.69 "The Wild Swans at Coole" poet 
70 Scorch 
DOWN 
1 Dutch cheese 2 In _ parentis (legal doctrine) 3 Continental money 4 Joist, for 
instance 5 Draft org. 6 Meower 7 _, amas, amat 8 First gear 9 Junes 

10 Fore-and-aft­rigged vessel 11 Clues 12 Person with a 
Puzzle by Holden Baker 
mike 
34 Medieval 

13 Owners' papers 
weapons 18 Feature on an 
35 L.B.J. in-law 
official document 

36 Baseball family 22 Girl name 24 Potatoes' 37 Singer Campbell partner 39 India's first P.M. 25 Hosp. areas 41 Soothing plant 26 Barrel maker 44 Halloween mo. 27 "Doggone it!" 47 Uproar 28 Swearing-in 48 Cole words 49 Entertainer 29 Unsightly Shore 30 Protesters' cries 50 Mindless 
51 Taste 58 French/Belgian river 
52 The way things 
61 Fish eggs

are going 62 Lab eggs 56 French cheese 
63 Stage scenery 57 "Gianr author 64 Sophs., in two Ferber years 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Angela Lansbury, Trm Robbins, Suzanne Somers, Kellie Martin, TIIIl McCarver 
Happy Birthday: Your drive and determination will ouhnaneu­ver any competition you face, but don't lose sight of personal obliga­tions to loved ones. Ifyou set your sights high and take on too much, you may find it clifficult to accom­plish everything. It's better to focus and do a magnificent job instead of spreading yourself thin and falling short. Your numbers: 9, 13, 22, 24, 35,49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Get out socially with friends or col­leagues to discover a vast amount of interesting information. You will meet someone special if you attend cultural events. Don't be too quick to tell your life story. Listen and evaluate. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Put your efforts where you'll get the best results. You can make a difference at work by helping put some flair into a colleague's work. Your suggestions at home will not be as readily received. Someone will be whiny. 000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Go out shopping for hobby supplies or to an auction, where you can pick up some great buys. Consider using your ability to work with your hands toward creating a viable consumer product. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Don't be too quick to jump to con­clusions as you aren't likely to have all the facts. The truth will unfold. Put your efforts now into your own interests and financial future. 
00 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Open communication will be the key to staying in control of a dicey situa-
EUGENIA LAST 
tion. Don't leave anything to 
chance.000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Be 
prepared by taking action. Make your plans with family early so that you aren't disappointed. You can make a difference for those who can't make arrangements themselves. 000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-Oct. 22): Don't become frazzled. You can't possi­bly take on one more thing. If you cahn down and focus, everything will fall into place. Use your inge­nuity and stretch that dollar. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Avoid getting into heated discus­sions with officials. Observe, rather than participating in disputes at work. Everyone is stressed-out, so it's important for you to keep calm. 
000 SAGITfARIUS (Nov; 22-Dec 21): 
Your involvement in groups will be worthwhile, but choose careful­ly !he charity or fund-raising group to which you contribute. Volunteer your assistance, not your cash. 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will have to concentrate to sur­mount obstacles and accomplish anything. Expect your colleagues to slack off. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Engage in conversations with clients and colleagues. You might meet new lovers or friends through work today. Business trips will be informative and adventurous, but avoid delays in shipments, travel or correspondence. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Think twice before being an impulse buyer and heading for the cash register. It's time to Jock in a Jong-tenn investment so there's something left to put away. 000 

-
Birthday Baby: Your winning smile and air of sophistication will open doors for you. You are thoughtful, kind, and know instinctively how you can help others. . , . . 
(Need advice? Check out Eugerua s Web sites at astroadVIce.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) © 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
---------------------------------------------------------------~---------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
......
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D EncJosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
j 
~ 
, 

Campus Sports THE Campus Sports
OBSERVER 

. Column, Ted Fox, p. 18 
. SMC CC, p. 15 
. 
ND Women's Soccer, p. 17 . Women's lnterhall, p. 15 

. 
Men's Blue lnterhall, p. 16 . Men's Gold lnterhall, p. 14


PORTS 
Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Smith relishes opportunities 
Fifth-year senior's dedication and hard work finally translates to playing time 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores Writer 

For five years, Justin Smith rocfo the Irish bench. lie practiced hard. lie stud­ied the opposing offenses. And he waited. 
But as he sat on the bench, he didn't lose his intensity. He didn'l lose his focus. He became more excited about finally getting his chance to play. 
"It was like a dam with a bunch of water building behind it," the fifth-year senior said. 
Saturday, that dam burst and all the water ca.me crashing down on the 1\fountaineers. 
With almost eight minutes left in the fourth quarter, Smith intercepted \fountainr-er quart0rback Brad Lewis at the Notre Dame 12-yard line and returned it 33 yards. After the return Smith jumped up into the air screaming and celebrating with this tcamrnatfls. As he ran off the field he tossed the ball high into the air. 
Some might say his celebration was excessive and warranted a penalty flag, but for Smith. it was just five y0ars of practice and excit1m1ent spilling out into one big play. 
"You work hard. You work hard l'or five years." he said. "I am just glad I had the opportunity to make it." 
Smith almost passed up the opportunity to play one more season at Notre Dame and 1mter the work force. He graduated in 2001 with a degree in computPr engi­neering. He had several job offers. He was rPady to join the real world. 
see SMITH/page 14 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish roll after early loss 
. Seniors Taborga, Smith take consolation title 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer 
With tlw stab iIi ty of' tlw Nolrn Dame lineup in ques­tion. seniors Uts1iv Smith and .lavi<'r Taborga u,·anwd 11p in doublt1s al 
thP lntnr­collPgiatP Tennis J\ssocialion A I I American Champion­ships and prov0d that 


the Irish Taborga 
has tlH' tal­ent they havP boast!'d all along. 
J\f'ter getting knockPcl off in the first round of tlw main draw. tlw :'14th-rankPd dou­bles pairing of' Smith and Taborga camP back to win four straight matches and upsPl thrnP top-:10 tPams on LhPir way to claiming thP co11solation till<' of' tlw l'VPnl. 
"In doublns I think it was a really good tournament. tlw best one so l'ar f'or nw in my career," Taborga said. "I 

see TENNIS/page 14 
ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish face midterm examination in Iowa 
-
• Irish to hit road against No. 16 Northern Iowa 
By NOAH AMST ADTER 

Sports Editor 
'Nhile their follow students pre­pare for midterm examinations in the classroom. the Notre Dame volleyball team boarded a bus he-aded for Iowa Monday night for their ovrn midseason exam. 
The No. 19 Irish travel to Bettendorf, Iowa to take on No. 16 Northern Iowa on the neutral court of Bettendort' High School in the Quad Cities. 
The game marks the first match against a ranked opponent for Notre Dame (12-3) since being swept in all three matches against No. l Nebraska. No. 7 UCLA and No. 15 Pepperdine in early September. 
Since that weekend, Notre Dame has won nine consecutive matches, with all but one against less-talented Big East opponents. 
!lead coach Debbie Brown thinks that her team has devel­oped since September and tonighi.'s game should prove that. 
"I think we're a much strong,~r team, I think we've executed things better." Brown said. "I guess now's the time to be tested to see if that's really has paid off. I'm going into it believing that it has. Until you've been really pushed you don't really know that." 
A key to the Irish success this season has been a balanced offense in which seniors Malinda Goralski and Kristy Kreher have dominated at times, while sopho­more Kim Fletcher has been corning on as of late. 
Kreher earned her second Big East Plaver of the Week award Monday· after averaging four kills, 3.17 digs and L.:B blocks per game in Notre Dame's two weekend wins over Villanova and Rutgers. 
But Northern Iowa has its own trio of offensive stars. As the Panthers have compiled their 18­0 record. three players average more than 3.5 kills. Kim Kr.ster leads the way with a 3.92 advan­tagP. while Molly O' Hrien posts 
3.82 kills per game and Kim McCaITery 3.7. 
But of those three, McCaffory is a senior, a factor that Brown thinks can give the Irish the edge. 
"We have three seniors [includ­ing Marcie Bomhack] that are experienced and have played big in big matches and they have one senior," Brown said. "I have to think that our seniors are going to rise to the occasion." 
Brown also stressed that, while both teams have three strong offonsive players, the players do not execute from the same posi­tions. 
"Ours are two middles and one right side," Brown said. "Theirs am two left sides and one middle. I think there's some things we can do if we serve the ball strate­gical I y and put it in the right zones then we give our blocking defense an advantage in making them set the ball where they wouldn't want to." 

To support her confidence in her squad, Brown looks at the recent success the Irish have had compiling high hitting percent­ages, reaching their goals in blocks and scoring points while serving. 
But no numbers on a stat sheet can beat the No. 16 tPam in the country. Only a solid pffort from the Irish lonight can do that 
"On paper I think it stacks up really well," Brown said. "It's just a matter of going in the gym and fighting it out." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 


. SMC Soccer vs. Olivet, Wednesday, 3 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Football vs. USC, Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
ontine classifieds 
. Men's Soccer vs. Boston College, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Socce at Connecticut, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 










