
Ranking Playstation games 2001 
Raising the bar 
Papers aren't due yet and tests aren't 

Wednesday
Notre Dame's addition of64 new scholarships 
creeping up either. so you might have time to 
in the next four years will usher in a new era in 
chill and play some video games. 
Irish athletics. 
JANUARY 31, 
Scene . page 11 
In Focus 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 77 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Community gathers in prayer for cancer victims 
. Hundreds fill Zahm chapel to pray for Conor Murphy 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Ediror 
'While soft tunes from an acoustic gui­tar streamed through the Zahm Hall chapel Tuesday night. students' thought­ful prayers and quiet sobbing provided a fitting chorus for the occasion. 
"Miracle" may have been the operative word for the night, but it is uncertain if one will come for Notre Dame junior Conor Murphy. Amid reflections and grieving. several hundred students gath­ered for. Mass in Zahm chapel Tuesday to offer prayers for Murphy. Murphy's health took a turn for the worst Tuesday when doctors discovered he was stricken with apparent fatal complications from leukemia. Murphy, who was diagnosed with leukemia in March. recently developed pneumonia and his immune system is "seriously compromised," according to former Zahm rector Father Jim Leise, who has been in daily contact with the Murphy family. "It's a very critical time and prayers would be appreciated by the family," Leise said. In a homily at Tuesday's Mass, Zahm Hall rector Father Thomas Be-dnar spoke to a packed chapel that filled the pews and lined two walls of the chapel. "We ask that Conor's life be renewed, that by some miracle he may return to us," Bednar said. "It's good that we weep and grieve today. We know that our sadness is a sign of our friendship and faith." Throughout the homily, Bednar charac-

terized Murphy as religious and coura­geous. Murphy demonstrated a strong will and a desire to be a person of faith, he said. "We have the feeling that maybe Conor's life was too short, but we gather in a 
spirit of faith, knowing that life is a gift," Bednar said. "Let us trust in God's wis­dom and God's love for us." 
At points in the service, students were 
see CONOR/page 6 

. Make-a-Wish visitor Scott Delgadillo passes away before transplant 
By TIM CASEY 
News Writer 
Scott Delgadillo, the 14-year-old San Diego native who spoke at the Purdue pep rally, died at 9:10 Monday night in his home after a 12-month battle with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 
A vigil mass will be celebrated on Saturday at 11:30 
a.m. in California. Also, a special memorial mass will be said for Delgadillo at Notre Dame's Basilica of 


the Sacred Heart Delgadillo early next week. 
"You've never met a more amazing, personable young man," said Alex Montoya, a 1996 Notre Dame graduate and the young alumni coordinator in San Diego. "You could tell he was a warm, caring guy but the thing that amazed me was he was the sharpest kid you could ever meet. He was Notre Dame material all the way." 
Delgadillo was scheduled to fly to Massachusetts on Dec. 26 to undergo a bone marrow transplant from his 16­ye ar-old brother. Eric, at Boston Children's Hospital's Dana Farber Cancer Institute. But his leukemia relapsed on Christmas Day and Scott was rushed to San Diego Children's Hospital. 
Delgadillo's trip to Boston was can-
see SCOTT/page 6 



Future officers seek to unite religion, role in military 
Editor's note: This is the second of a three-part series looking at the discussion concerning the place ofROTC at a Catholic university. 
. Balancing between both worlds, ROTC and Notre Dame . 
By TIM LOGAN 
Senior Staff Writer 
When Pete Sweeney starts to talk about flying, his eyes light up. 
The junior has loved airplanes his whole life, and when he found out he could get make a living flying the fastest, most powerful jets in the world, and pay for college doing it, he signed up for the Reserve Officer Training Corps [ROTC]. 
Next year, he will graduate from Notre Dame and go on to pilot training school, and at least a 10-year career in the Air Force, preparing for the day when he may have to fly a plane into combat. 
Sweeney is one of the nearly 400 students enrolled in Notre Dame's ROTC program. and, like many of those students, he thinks about what it means to be a Catholic serving in the military. While ROTC's critics argue that the program has no place at a Catholic university, many of those involved with it say that the nature of this school, and ROTC, forces future officers to wrestle with ethics and morality from the moment they step 



on campus. 
From classroom discussions to dining hall chit 
chat to an organized retreat, students in ROTC 
are frequently asked to think about the impor­
tance of morality in military service. and to dis• 
cern if four years, or more, in the armed forces 
is right for them. 
"(The environment] doesn't allow you to sit back and accept everything," said Chris Rupar, a sophomore Air Force cadet. "\Vhen you go into the service you have this in your mind, and how faith plays a role." 
The ROTC curriculum focuses on leadership and ethics, not on how to build a bomb or fire a gun. The future officers are trained to lead other soldiers, and to make decisions that could have serious consequences. And while most ROTC students get scholarships to pay for college, the program puts significant emphasis on making 
--------------s-ee_R_O_T_C_/_p_a_g_e-4 that could have serious consequences. 
Wednesday, January 31, 2001 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN 

A boy's world 
I wish I had half the imagination that my lit­tlest brother Timmy (who just turned eight) has. If I did, I'd be lying on a beach in the Caribbean right now with Tom Cruise next to me and a margarita in my hand. 
Monday night, I started to tell Timmy about my trip to 
D.C. for the Notre Dame­Georgetown basketball game and about visiting our sister. who goes to George Washington. But I figured out pretty quickly that Timmy had much more interesting news. 
Timmy. by far the most entertaining, unpredictable kid of the five in our family, interrupted me to say, "Did you know I'm probably faster than anybody in sports history?" 
I have no idea how that popped into his mind, but I went along with the idea. I asked Timmy how he knew he was so fast, and he said, "I just know." 
Duh, Kathleen. Why even ask such a silly question? He then added, ''I'm even faster than John Elway." 
I'm not sure what makes the Broncos quarter­back the speediest guy ever. but ifTimmy says so, it must be true. 
"Wow, Timmy! If you're so fast, you'll proba­bly win gold medals in track in the Olympics." I told him. 
"Probably like 2,500 medals, or maybe 25,000," Timmy answered. 
At least he's not short on confidence. 
"So what else is going on, Timmy?" 
"I watched the Super Bowl this weekend," Timmy said. "I wanted the Giants to win, but I pretty much knew they weren't going to. I mean, once one team scores like 30 points and the other team only has like seven, Ijust stopped watching, because you pretty much know what's going to happen." 
Knowing how much Timmy likes *NSYNC, I asked if he had seen them perform in the half­time show. I found out he was more interested in another entertainer. 
"Yeah, and I also watched Britney Spears. my girlfriend," Timmy said. 
Geez, I knew Britney was popular. but I always thought second grade boys were in the "girls are icky" stage. My brothers (8, 10 and 12 years old) informed me that Britney Spears and relatives are the only girls excluded from that rule. 
"She even slept over on my top bunk one time," Timmy said. 
I guess he hasn't quite hit the Maxim stage, although he did tell me that the pop star was wearing shiny pants and a little shirt that showed her belly button. 
Timmy's old enough to know he's got competi­tion for Britney's affections, as he followed up by saying, "Brendan (our 10-year•old brother) and Michael (Brendan's friend) are trying to steal my girlfriend, so I have to wrestle them for her." 
Glad to know even 8•year-old boys settle their differences through wrestling matches and video games. 
But Timmy dropped back to earth when I asked what Britney thought about their fight over her. He said. "She doesn't know. She doesn't even know I exist." 
I almost felt sorry for him. but not too sorry. After &ll, I still haven't gotten that phone call from Ricky Martin, and I'm 21. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Maribel Morey Laura Kelly Nate Phillips Graphics Myra McGriff 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports 

Production 
Katie McVoy 
Rachel Protzman 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Lauren Beck 
Peter Richardson 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Preu. All reproduc1ion rights are resetved. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Event: Notre Dame  . Fundraising: St. Joseph  
Women's Basketball,  Tree Sale Program. the  
Providence vs Notre Dame.  Soil and Conservation  
Joyce Center, 7 p.m.  District office, all day.  
. Event: South Bend  
Rotary Club meeting,  
·century Center, 12 p.m.  

Friday  Saturday  
. Movie: "American  . Event: South Bend  
-Psycho". Snite Museum of  Symphony Masterworks  
Art, 7:30 p.m.  Concert Series, Morris  
Perfarming Arts Center, 8  
p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire .reports 

· OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Prof: Ashcroft questioned sexuality 
WASHINGTON 

A Georgetown University profes• sor has alleged that Attorney General nominee John Ashcroft questioned the professor's sexual preference during a 198 5 job interview. The allegations have added to the controversy sur­rounding the appointment of one of the country's most outspoken conservatives to President George 
W. Bush's Cabinet. 
Paul Offner, a research professor at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute, says that Ashcroft asked him if he had "the same sexual preference as most men" during a 1985 interview while Ashcroft was governor of Missouri. 
"I said that I did," Offner said. As an applicant for the position of 



EORGETOWN 

director of Missouri Health Services, Offner said he was asked only two questions, one about his sexual preference and another about drug use. Offner said that he also denied ever having used illegal drugs. 
Offner, 58, who is now married, was subsequently not hired for the 
position. 
DARTMOUTH UNIVERSITY 
Police investigate homicides 
HANOVER, N.H. 
New Hampshire Attorney General Philip McLaughlin revealed little more about the Zantop murders Tuesday except that an arrest is "not immi­nent," but deemed the Massachusetts Hall investiga­tion. McLaughlin said the investigation of the bloody handprint in Mass Hall turned out to be unrelated and that, as of now, they "have no idea" who commit­ted the horrendous crime. He refused to comment on any specifics of the crime scene, the killings, or whether the police had potential suspects, but did say the documentation of the Zantop residence would likely be finished Tuesday. He said the residence will continue to remain closed after the documentation is complete. He said the findings from the forensic investigation are being processed quickly, but that the results would not be released to the public. McLaughlin maintained that the investigation team still could not rule out the possibility that the Zantops were victims of a random attack. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Aro!Wealtrr ~b daytim:cooditioos and high tefl1}Cf'.itures 
I 
I 



4,~,~4.Q~ (f ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain R~s ~ Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Ashcroft, who has been tapped to head the Department of Justice as the nation's chief law enforce­ment agent, and his aides have denied he ever asked a question about sexual preference to Offner. 
"That question was never asked of Paul Offner or anyone else," Carl Koupal. one of the directors of Ashcroffs gubernatorial transi­tion team, said in an interview 
with  the  Milwaukee  Journal  
Sentinel.  
Offner,  a  Democrat,  said  he  

decided to come forward with the allegation after Ashcroft asserted in confirmation hearings in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee that he had never used sexual pref­erence in determining of whether or not to hire potential employees. 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
I 

University stops loans 
PHILADELPHIA A Princeton University education is about to become a lot cheaper. On Friday the Ivy League university decided that it would no longer require undergradu­ates to take out loans to help pay for their education. Instead, Princeton will replace all loans with grants and scholarships -an initiative that could make the school more accessible to low -and middle-income students. The decision, estimated to affect 25 percent of Princeton's current undergraduate population, will take effect this fall. The funding for these grants will come from the university's endowment, which posted double-digit gains in the past fiscal year, reaching over $8 billion. At a meeting on Friday the Princeton Board of Trustees approved a plan to add $57 million of the university's endowment income to its operating budget -with $16 million of this amount earmarked for undergraduate financial aid. The decision to end · 1oan requirements is the latest and boldest step in 
four years ofchanges to the aid system. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon,Wednesday, Jan. 31. 
0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. Coto WARM STATIONARY 
®,_© ...... 
High lAw Shower• Rain T-storms Flurries Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  74  62  Las Vegas  84  60  
Baltimore  74  27  Memphis  80  62  
Boston  74  27  Milwaukee  50  43  
Chicago  68  48  New York  70  49  
Houston  88  67  Philadelphia  34  56  

Portland  56  40  
Sacramento  61  48  
St Louis  71  58  
Tampa  78  54  
Washington, DC 75  54  



page 3 

Wednesday,January 31, 2001 The Observer . CAMPlJS NEWS 
Profs analyze elections 
By NICOLE HADDAD Saint Mary's News Edicor 
The emergence of John McCain in the primaries, George W. Bush's better than expected per­formance in the debates and the history of the Electoral College all led to the strange ending of Election 2000, according to Patrick Pierce and Sean Savage professors in Saint Mary's politi­cal science department in a lec­ture Tuesday night. 
At the start of the elections, the the debates are time limited, it presents a challenge. 
"If Gore was going to win, he had to impress Bush," Pierce said. "And if Bush loses his tem­per, it was off to the races." 
It was this sort of format, where Gore was constantly trying to corner Bush that benefited Bush. 
The lack of concrete issues in this campaign led to a focus on the character, honesty and lika­bility of each candidate, Pierce said. The lack of issues in the campaign will make it 
economy was 
"Gore won a plurality, tough for 
doing well, and Bush to gov­
which must make
Clinton had a ern. high approval governing harder for W." " T h e rating. This problem is would have lead there is not
Patrick Pierce 
to a victory for much issue
political science professor
Gore but there 
were weak chal­lenges in the nomination cam­paign to Gore and Bush, accord­ing to Pierce 
One of these weak challenges was "the relationship between McCain and the media," said Pierce. "He's not well known, but gave the media much access to the campaign. He has a progres­sive philosophy -cleaning up politics." 
"There were not particularly strong preferences and [it was not likely] that large amounts of voters would shift," Pierce contin­ued. 
The structure of the debates also led to the extremely close finish. 
"Debates are one of the really interesting parts of the process," he said. "They set expectations for how candidates should do." 
According to Pierce, because content, and 
if you add this onto the closeness of out­come," Piece ·said. "Gore won a plurality, which must make gov­erning harder for W." 
Savage discussed the Electoral College in terms of its historical origin. "The last time we had something like this happen was 1888," he said. "If you look at the origins of the presidency, Alexander Hamilton was the cre­ator of the American presidency. The power to pardon was under scrutiny, and you needed some­one to protect the rights of the minority. You couldn't leave it to the popular vote, it wasn't a nationwide popularity contest." 
"States could ccme up with whatever methods to choose the electors," Savage continued. "And the idea was that the electors would be like jurors. they would use independent judgement." 
History reveals role of women 
By KIFLIN TURNER News Wrirer 

The history of the ordina­tion of women requires a long and extensive journey back in time, but even then, the presence of women in the Church was an instru­mental and legitimate one, according to Michael Driscoll. associate professor of theology, in a lecture Tuesday night. 
Driscoll traced the devel­opment of the ordination of women back to the Middle Ages with the aid of histori­cal and religious documenta­tion to reveal the role of women as religious figures in the community. 
Religious texts such as the Romano-Germanic pontifical dating back to 12th Century explicitly outlined the conse­cration and ordination of women to serve as abesesses 
and  deaconesses  in  the  
Catholic Church.  
"This  comes  from  the  

mouths of popes, bishops, emperors and rulers," said Driscoll. 
These statements made by various authorities in the Church as well as other authoritative documents legitimatize the practice of the ordination of women even in times that were his­torically apathetic to women. Driscoll said his study of the ordination of women was separated into two, exclusive studies _ one historical and the other theological. 
"Historical conclusions ought to be keep distinct from theological conclusions as far as possible, .. said Driscoll. "The method of the­ology and the method of his­tory aren't necessarily the same." 
Historical documentation stating that women were prohibited from speaking in churches and from touching sacred vessels often conflicts with religious texts that pro­vide evidence that women were in fact religious figures 
. 



USA VEL TE/The Observer 

Sister Annie Dougherty, (center) Rectress of Howard Hall, looks on as Michael Driscoll, associate professor of theolo­gy, discusses the presence of women in the Church since 
the Middle Ages. 
in the Church. Many theolo­gians from the Middle Ages assert that because women were often not acknowledged in the Church. the possibility of women to say mass is ruled out of the question. 
"The women had the role of being submissive, and so it was based on gender stereo­types," said Driscoll. 
Early theologian commen­taries rarely discussed the ordination of women, as many theologians saw sex as an impediment. 
Stereotyping women into submissive counterparts of men were derived by method of sacramental symbolism, in which the roles of women were biblically ascertained. 
"As Christ was masculine, 
so too should the priests be masculine," said Driscoll. expressing the prevailing viewpoints of past theolo­
gians. 
"There is this whole idea that in a sense women are considered as kind of defec­tive men or not fully formed men," said Driscoll. The woman is seen as a faulty male, where the male is imminent and the woman is submissive. 

Consequently, theological commentaries as well as his­torical text may not be entirely accurate and inclu­sive of the role of women in the Church. 
Driscoll noted that imperial and theological texts demon­strate an understanding of the religious rites of which women were active and accepted participants. This occurrence was not an isolat­ed one as supporting texts show a geographical diversi­ty of evidence. 
"There didn't seem to be any problem in referring to the commissioning of dea­conesses, and abbesses, and nuns as a kind of ritual ordi­nation," Driscoll said. "No distinction was made between the ordination of women from the ordination of males into imperial states."
1-----------,
Color 

vSHoP 

LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry-expires 2114/01. \ Not valid with any other offer or discount. J 
'-----------. 
American Heart a'a 
Association.'Y" 

Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
01!l97, American Heart Association 



Student Special 
r--------------------, 
and Style 

:  $15  :  
I  I  
:  Women's Haircut  :  
I  I  

,L--------------------J, 
Monday Only 
r--------------------, 
:  $10  :  
I  I  
l  Men's Haircut  l  
I ,L  and Style  I ,J  

1357 N. Ironwood Rd. 
289-5888 

All Seruices are performed by Hairstylists in Training Ualid only w/ Julie or Lisa 

CHECK OUT SOME OF THE SUMMER 
C E NT l R F O R 
INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE AT THE csc 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Hispanic Leadership Internship African American Leadership Internship Chicago Latino Communities Internship (NEW) 
Includes: Tuition stipend Room and Board Theology credit 
Information session Thursday, February 1 8PM at the CSC 


NTERNATioNAL woRK1Na oProRTUNITY 
:::::-:,:··-·.·.· 


RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 2001 at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
Summer Positions Available: 
Notre Dame Athletic Department Sports Camp Office 40 Hours/Week Please Call: 631-8788 

Wednesday, January 31, 2001
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
ROTC 
continued from page l 
sure they're not just doing it for the money. 
"They provide the resources so you can make your own decision," Sweeney said. "They're not trying to dupe anybody into it, that's for sure." 
One of those resources is a retreat held by Campus Ministry each fall for all the freshmen in ROTC. The two­day session gives them a chance to discuss Catholicism and military service, and a lot of discussion goes on. The 
four chap­"The military has a noble a m o n glains for the 
cause and direction, as friends who
ROTC pro­come at the
does a group ofpacifists.
gram also issue from
interview Both seek peace. they just 
different
each fresh­
have different ways to go perspec­
man during 
tives.
about it...
their first 
Sh awn 
semester, to Storer of 
see how they Andrew DeBerry Pax Christi are adj us ting 
sophomore Air Force cadet has engaged 
"The most unnerving thing that I ever witnessed was in 1990-91 when the Gulf War kicked off and young people that I had taught the year before were going over there," he said. "You don't want to see it come to that." 
Lieutenant Colonel Mike Edwards, who has been the Army detachment's battalion commander for the last three years, put it another way. 
"The greatest pacifists on this campus are the guys wearing military uniforms," he said. 
While officers, priests and activists all have something to say. most of the discussion about this is informal, in dorms and dining halls, 
to life at Notre Dame, and to their military training. Four years later. the chap­lains interview every gradu­ating senior, reflecting with them on their experiences. 
The students are not with­out mentors. either. Every professor in the ROTC pro­gram is a commissioned offi­cer. and some have spent decades in the service. Over the years, these men have asked themselves many of the same questions which their students ask, and they have found answers which support their decisions to spend a life in uniform. 
"America. has stood and does stand for things that are just and right and so in that regard I don't see an incom­patibility in what I'm asked to do with my Catholic faith," said Major Joseph Thomas, who runs the Naval ROTC's Marine program. 
These men, many of whom have served in combat, also have watched as their stu­dents have gone off to war. That, said Lieutenant Colonel Doug Hemphill, a former bat­talion commander for Army ROTC, was the most sobering experience of his 27-year mil­itary career. 
in these dis­
cussions fre­quently. He has several close friends in ROTC and, although he actively opposes the organization, he learns a lot from talking with them about it. 
..They are good people. They are really concerned with their faith, really con­cerned with living good lives," he said. "We disagree on how to do that sometimes but we both grow from hav­ing that disagreement." 
It is that engaging and respectful disagreement that Pax Christi says it wants to have about the place of ROTC at Notre Dame, and many in the ROTC program say they welcome that disagreement. It is part of an ongoing dis­cussion that many people in the military community are having, and, they say, it helps them all to try and discover the best way to a better world. 
"The military has a noble cause and direction, as does a group of pacifists," said Andrew DeBerry, a sopho­more Air Force cadet who is also involved with Pax Christi. "Both seek peace, they just have different ways to go about it." 
, __ 
.. 

.. . .. . . .-. , , . . -~ 
St. ~dwarcf s '1-(a(( Pfayers Presents: 

91. P{ay by Pau{ 'RucCnick 
'Directed6y john Schirano 'Fe6. 1-3 7:30, Washirzeton '1-la(( 'Tickets are $5 On sale in La'Fortune :Box 0.fice 
Profs advocate Just War course 
By TIM LOGAN 
Senior Staff Writer 

One way some people have suggested to ensure ROTC stu­dents learn about the military from a Catholic perspective is requiring them to take a class which focuses on Catholic Just War Theory. 
Theology professor Father Michael Baxter is one who thinks this is a good idea. He says that a ROTC program at a Catholic school must more strictly examine the morality of using force. 
"The ethical code of officers, the morality of war, aren't brought with the critical per­spective and penetrating analysis that is called for in Church teaching," he said. 
Just War Theory is one of two primary Church 
Event
teachings about the use "Catholic of force -the 
Perspectives
other is Christian on ROTC" Pacifism. The 
7:30pm, CSC
Theory states that certain wars can be morally accept­able if a number of conditions are met, including noncombat­ant immunity and military actions remaining in propor­tion to the goals of the war. 
While many students in 

ROTC voluntarily take one of the several classes that discuss Just War, there is no require­ment to do so. And creating one, according to Lieutenant Colonel Mike Edwards, who heads the Army detachment, would open a Pandora's Box. 
At present. ROTC curriculum is established by the various armed services and is uniform across all the universities that have programs. If Notre Dame mandated a certain course for its ROTC students, every school could begin to do so, and military education would suffer. 
"You don't want that kind of variety in our course of instruction," Edwards said. 
Revue ballot lacks real power 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Monday's ballot initiative for the Keenan Revue will be used for informational purposes only. according to Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
"Right now, we're trying to gauge how the stu­dent body feels so we can relay that to the administration," said Michelle Nagle, current student body vice president and candidate for student body president. 
Board of Governance decided during Monday's meeting to add questions regarding the Keenan Revue to the ballot for student body elections. The students will be asked to answer two ques­tions: one, ifthey have seen the revue and, two, if they think it belongs on campus. 
The investigation comes both from student concerns and from the administration, Nagle said. 
"We felt pressured coming into our [Renner and Nagle] administration from the Saint Mary's administration that they don't want it [the revue] on campus," Nagle said. 
Nagle explained that they hope this gives them a better feel for what the students think. 
Although a survey was conducted by representa­tives from Keenan, many question the validity of those results. The survey indicated that a majori­ty of Saint Mary's students favored the revue staying on campus. 
''I was a little disappointed when I read the let­ter to the editor from the guys from Keenan say­ing that very few people -On our campus dis­agreed with the Revue," Kara Kezios, a senior in favor of removing the Revue, said. "I want to know who they surveyed." 
Some students are concerned with exactly what effect the survey is going to have on the administration's decision to have the revue on campus. 
"They [the administration] are going to do what they want to do anyway, so I don't know what difference the survey will make," Mary Wald, a senior in favor of keeping the Revue on campus. said. 
Nagle explained that the results will not be used as the decisive factor in deciding whether the Revue stays on campus or not. It will just be used as another tool for making those decisions. 
"There are so many factors to think about," Nagle said. "This will be another measure of how the student bodv feels." 
2001 Transition Retreat: Integrating Service beyond Notre Dame 

What Next? 

Come to reflect with other seniors on February ~hand l(Jth (4:30 p.m. Friday •-5:30 p.m Saturday.) 
at st. Joe Hall -Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Sign up by February 2nd by contacting... 
Andrea Smith Shappell (.1), 631-5779 Justin Dunn (.3~), ~_3_1-3390 
0MPUS
·­

SOC I A 

CONCERNS, MINIS1RY 

ATION 
Wednesday, January 31, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pakistan aids India in quake relief: 
Pakistan put aside its bitter rivalry with India on Tuesday and joined earthquake relief efforts, but heavy equipment and explosives brought in to clear debris signaled that hope of finding survivors had all but vanished. Experts say few people could survive more than 100 hours buried in rubble left by Friday's quake. Attention has shifted to getting tents, blankets and medical care to the living. Officials have counted 7,148 bodies, but Defense Minister George Fernandes estimated 100,000 people may have died. 
French may have found countess : A woman's body recovered from a French beach was found with a wedding ring that matches one worn by an Italian countess who disap­peared three weeks ago. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
SF woman dies in dog attack: 
Diane Whipple, a 33-year-old lacrosse coach. died Friday after she was attacked and killed outside her apartment by two dogs. Authorities said the dogs had been bred and trained to guard illegal drug labo­ratories. Due to the attack one of the dogs was put to death Friday. The other dog was taken to an animal shelter. No immediate charges were filed against the dogs' owners. 
California man arrested: San Jose Police arrested a 19-year-old man on Monday. Al DeGuzman was carrying 30 pipe bombs, 20 Molotov cocktails, and other weapons with a stock of ammunition. Police believe he planned to carry out a "Columbine-style attack" on the De Anza Community College. Police said that DeGuzman attended the college. Police closed the school Tuesday morning, believ­ing DeGuzman planned to blow it up. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Purdue running back charged: 
Purdue running back Steve Ennis was charged Monday with battery and criminal recklessness in connection with an October attack that left a classmate with a skull frac­ture. 
Death row hunger strike ends: Five death row inmates at the Indiana State Prison have ended a hunger strike that began in protest of a guard's assignment to their unit. The inmates had alleged a guard was antago­nistic and denied them their property. 
Market Watch 1/30 

Dow 
10,881.20 +179.01 
]ONES 
Composite
Same: 

Volume:
199 
NIA

• ~ 
Nasdaq: 2838.35 +0.01 
S&P 500: 1373.73 +9.56 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY /SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO}  +2.01  +0.75  38.00  
INTEL CORP {I NTC)  •.17  -0.06  37.00  
INFOSPACE INC (INSP)  -6.33  -0.38  5.62  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  ·.37  -0.15  66.75  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -.42  -0.13  30.31  

COLOMBIA 

Satena, a national airline, spokeswoman Maria trol over the Switzerland­
Associated Press 
and was hijacked while it Elena Moreno. sized zone expires 
BOGOTA sat on the runway in San Family members of Wednesday night, but it 
A gunman comman­Vicente del Caguan, the those aboard watched has already been renewed deered a passenger plane largest town in a rebel horrified as the plane several times and is Tuesday in rebel territory enclave in southern took off from San Vicente expected to be extended in Colombia with more Colombia, Velasco said. for destinations unknown. again. than 30 people aboard, Television footage later Just before the hijack­It was the second forcing it to land in the showed the plane on the ing, it had landed on a hijacking in months capital, Bogota. tarmac after it landed in flight from Bogota, with a involving the guerrillas. 
Gen. Hector Fabio Bogota, Colombia's capi­stopover in the southern In September, a jailed Velasco, the commander tal. city of Neiva. FARC rebel being trans• of the air force, said the Velasco said the hijack­The southern enclave ported from one prison to hijacker was a leftist er was apparently a leftist was ceded by President another hijacked a com­guerrilla. An air force guerrilla. Other reports Andres Pastrana to rebels mercial flight and forced 
officer, speaking on con­said there were three of the Revolutionary it to land at San Vicente dition of anonymity, said hijackers. Armed Forces of del Caguan before freeing that the gunman had told The plane, a German­Colombia, or FARC, two 21 passengers and crew the control tower over the made Dornier turbo-prop, years ago to propel peace unharmed. The rebels radio that he was a rebel had 27 passengers and talks forward. have refused government deserter. four crew members The government's demands to turn over the 
The plane belonged to aboard, said airline recognition of rebel con-hijacker. 
Georgia changes face of state flag 
Gov. Roy Barnes promised to sign it state seal. On a standard 3-by-5-foot
Associated Press 
quickly. flag, the small flags are little bigger ATLANTA "I think the people of Georgia were than a dollar bill. 
Georgia lawmakers agreed to ready to move on, they were ready ''I'm mad as a hornet," said Bill shrink the Confederate emblem on for this matter to be resolved, they Cawthon, a member of the Southern the state flag to a tiny symbol did not want a long, drawn-out Heritage League. "Our flag will 
Tuesday, heeding a plea from the process like they just had in South always remain our flag. We will governor to apply the "salve of rec­Carolina," Barnes said. never accept the new flag." onciliation" and avoid the turmoil The rebel banner, added to the flag It wasn't immediately clear when that swept South Carolina. in 1956 in what some historians say the new banners would fly at state 
The 34-22 vote in the Georgia was a gesture of contempt for school buildings. The design was unveiled 
Senate virtually consigns to history a desegregation, occupies two-thirds of just last week. flag that some say symbolizes the current flag. A fight over the Confederate flag Southern valor but others contend On the new flag, it will be reduced that flew over the South Carolina represents slavery. The measure to one of five historic flags displayed statehouse led to an economic boy­won House approval last week, and along the bottom edge, below the cott by civil rights groups. 
Wednesday, January 31, 2001
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Diego Union-Tribune in November. "I looked al[
Scott 
continued from page 1 
celled and he spent nearly the next month in the San Diego hospital. He received another round of chemotherapy but the treatment did not work. 
Around Jan. 22, according to Notre Dame public relations administrative assistant Jennifer Laiber. Scott's doc­tors told the family he had "two days to two months to live." He spent the final days of his life in his home with his mother Carmen, father Henry and Eric. 
Joey Getherall. a Notre Dame senior football player, spoke with Scott last week on the telephone. 
"You could hear how much energy he had (on the phone)," Getherall said on around and saw Rudy. I looked at the players, at the cheerleaders and the band. I kind of took a deep breath and started speaking." 
His talk inspired many peo­ple in the Notre Dame commu­nity. After his memorable speech, alumni, students, fac­ulty and the local community (both in South Ben·d and San Diego) wrote letters and e­mails and provided Scott with gifts and memorabilia. 
By October, 80 percent of the leukemia had resurfaced but as of Nov. 14, it had been reduced to 16 percent. Also in November, the San Diego-area Red Cross held several blood and marrow drives for Delgadillo. 
Delgadillo remained in fair condition and attended the Notre Dame-Southern California football 
Tuesday. "He "/ can't even fathom game on never com­Nov. 25.
what Scott's parents are
plained once. He spoke
going through. My
Ever. There's at a not too many out prayers and heart are all breakfast there like him." the next
towards the f amity"
"I can't even morning fathom what and then Scott's parents Joey Getherall headed are going senior football player back to 
through. My prayers and heart are all towards the fami­ly." 
As part of the Make-A-Wish Foundation, Scott and his fam­ily came to campus from Sept. 13-17. He was given a campus tour. visited the College Football Hall of Fame, received four tickets and two pre-game field passes for the Notre Dame-Purdue game and met with two of the most influ­ential people on campus: University President Rev. Edward Malloy and head foot­ball coach Bob Davie. 
During their meeting, Davie asked Delgadillo if he wanted to speak at that night's pep rally. To Davie's surprise, Delgadillo said "yes." 
"I was nervous at first but for some reason it just disap­peared,". Scott told the San 

for Murphy. At Murphy's urg­August. ing in March, more than 610 Liese said Tuesday that theConor people joined the National Murphy family is thankful for Marrow Donor Program the continuing support fromcontinued from page 1 (NMDP) at a drive held on cam­the Notre Dame community. pus. "(She's] been overwhelmed Murphy found a match for by how much the ND familyvisibly moved by the event. his transplant through the has proven to be that -a fami­Some students sobbed openly, NMDP, though not from a ly," Uese said. " ... she and herwhile many embraced each Notre Dame donor. Murphy family are so grateful for theother. underwent a bone marrow love and support that she andThe occasion did not repre­transplant early this Fall, but Conor have received."sent the first time the student did not return to campus thisbody has showed its support  
MSA program restructures aim advisor to current students two-week segments duringBy KATE NAGENGAST while launching the new pro­the summer, accommodating Assistam News Editor gram. A permanent director the full-time work schedules will be hired once the specific of anticipated students. Each Notre Dame recently needs of the position are fully two-week segment will be restructured its Master of understood and Ford returns composed of two courses. Science in Administration to Boston College to complete Elective courses will be (MSA) program to address the a doctorate in approximately offered via the Internet during changing needs and experi­one year. the fall and spring semesters. ences of non-profit organiza­"We wanted someone for "After evaluating internal tions nationwide. the transition," said said and external research, we Currently a part-time Edward Trubac, associate have redesigned the MSA pro­evening program aimed at dean of the Mendoza College gram for people who are mak­members of the South Bend of Business. "Since [Ford] is a ing a career in the not-for­community, this summer the graduate of the program we profit service sector but lack program's curriculum and thought he'd be perfect to the desired or required busi­schedule will transition to take care of the needs of the ness background," said attract professionals from current students and launch Trubac. both community-based and the new program. We really "This change in direction is nationally prominent non­feel lucky that he could do especially appropriate profit organizations. this." because the people and orga­"The program's restructur­Ford agreed that the cur­nizations involved in such ing is focused on social servic­rent students are still a pri­work share the personal and ing non-profit organizations ­mary issue. "We will continue institutional ideals that are on the larger end, programs to offer courses in the tradi­coincident with Notre Dame's like The Red Cross, NAACP tion the current students are commitment to social, com­and Big Brothers Big Sisters ­familiar with, but also give munity and church-based ser­but on the smaller end we them the option of taking vice," he said. would also target community­classes from the new summer Established in 1954 by then­based programs like homeless module," he said. "The cur­President Father Theodore shelters, soup kitchens or rent students have been Hesburgh, the MSA program even school administrators," accepting of the changes, and began as a graduate study said Father Larry Ford, the many believe it is for the bet­program to provide business interim director of the new ter. I think we've been very skills for religious brothers, MSA program and a '96 grad­attentive to their needs.'' sisters and priests involved in uate of the current MSA pro­The new MSA structure will Catholic education and later gram. enable degree completion in expanded to include religious In his position as interim 24 to 48 months. Courses will and lay people working in director, Ford will serve as an be offered in two intensive hospital administration.  
.....•-• ........................... • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •• • ••• • • •• I •• •• •• •• •• Reminder to all•• •• • •• ••• • students/faculty of• • •• • •• • our new Wednesday • ••• •• •• night special in pro­• • • ••• • •• ••m~ting TV's most• •••• • •• ••• intriguing series,• • • •••• •• • •• •• •••• •••• • • ••In addition to our regular deals, we will now be• •• serving wings (regular, hot, & barbecue) for • • ••••• • • •: $1.50 per basket. Be sure to take advantage of• •• •• • this special and others on Wed. night at the• • • ••• ••• Alumni-Senior Club. Sign-ups are also still• • • ••• •• •• availablefor Thurs. night dart league starting • • •••••• soon in Feb., which will also be offering prizes • • •• • ••••••• for winners. See our webpage for more• • • •••• information: www.nd.edu/-asc.• • • ••••• • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  

Wednesday, January 31, 200I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Georgia senate to shrink confederate emblem in flag 
New flag to fly In Georgia 
Ge«gia lawmakera ha\•e agrffd to reduce W'te Confede-ra~ emblem on 
o,. 1il4'1l• flag to one QI Iv• small s:,mbc;icJ at 1h• bo~QI lh• ~nn.r, 
~ th& &ate seal. The nag now~ to the gover"°' for approval. 
Propoud at.ate 1lag 

The ritb::ln cootai1l$ 
.'"' Hw 13 stars­$Ui!rOOnding the s-tate seal represem tne orginal 13 stak!is 
r-4\.1~ im"19H of. 
fl~ histxi<: iliiiQS 
1hat hav. flown in 
Gea'gia. 

C Tllt!I mte'9 first otki.-1~. 
1879-1902 

C 
L-,)slfrti¢n it'i Coof~A!il b~{tla 1002 itdd&d tM ~was13ddoo. 
~•of ar!"M. 
-


1956-2001 

It's hard to improve the WHOPPER~ but we did. 
The WHOPPER® Value Meal. 

.,-:-.J,,r.:,, ..,,.. ....,Q. 
uRGER 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Georgia lawmakers agreed to shrink the Confederate emblem on the state flag to a tiny symbol Tuesday, heeding a plea from the governor to apply the "salve of reconciliation" and avoid the tur­moil that swept South Carolina. 
The 34-22 vote in the Georgia Senate virtually consigns to histo­ry a flag that some say symbol­izes Southern valor but others contend represents slavery. The measure won House approval last week, and Gov. Roy Barnes promised to sign it quickly. 
"I think the people of Georgia were ready to move on, they were ready for this matter to be resolved, they did not want a long, drawn-out process like they just had in South Carolina," he said. 
The rebel banner, added to the flag in 1956 in what some histori­ans say was a gesture of con­tempt for school desegregation, occupies two-thirds of the cur­rent flag. 

A,P 
On the new flag, it will be reduced to one of five historic flags displayed along the bottom edge, below the state seal. On a standard 3-by-5-foot flag, the small flags are little bigger than a dollar bill. 
'Tm mad as a hornet," said Bill Cawthon, a member of the Southern Heritage League. "Our flag will always remain our flag. We will never accept the new flag." 
It wasn't immediately clear when the new banners would fly at state build­ings. The design 
was unveiled "Our flag will always black, Democratic 
just last week. remain ourflag. We will leader Charles A fight over Walker, the son of
never accept the new
the Confederate a sharecropper, flag that flew flag." said: "This flag over the South issue has divided Carolina state­us. This vote
Bill Cawthon 

house led to an today is about
member of the Southern
economic boy­uniting us." 
Heritage League
cott by civil Supporters 
banner's adoption. Barnes, whose great-grandfather fought for the Confederacy at Vicksburg, Miss., said the debate threatened to dis­tract lawmakers from other issues and endanger Georgia's economy. 
"We are one people forever woven together in a tapestry that is Georgia," he said. "We are all one or at least we should be, and it is our job, our duty and our great challenge to fight the voices of division and seek the salve of reconciliation." 
The chamber's 
highest-ranking 

rights groups, something Barnes wanted to avoid. The flag in South Carolina was moved to a spot on the 
Capitol grounds last summer. 
In Mississippi, the only state besides Georgia with the Confederate emblem in its flag, voters will decide in April whether to remove the sym­bol. 
Civil rights groups promised to call off any boycotts in Georgia if the 
new  flag  was  
approved.  
As  he  did  

before a House vote last week, B a r n e s appeared before the Senate to urge the new 
feared rural white 

Democrats would vote against the 
proposal, as happened in the 
Democrat-controlled House last 
week. But enough Republicans 
voted for the bill that it passed, 
94-82. 
In the Senate, four of the cham­
ber's 32 Democrats voted against 
the measure, but six Republicans 
voted for it. Of those six, four are 
from metropolitan Atlanta, the 
region that would have been 
affected the most by a boycott. 
Republican Senate leader Eric Johnson said the compromise flag was negotiated among Democrats in secret, sprung on an unsus­pecting lawmakers just last week and pushed through in ..the most vicious, focused political effort this Legislature has ever seen." 
GOP Sen. Joey Brush said his vote against changing the flag was a vote to honor the men of the Confederacy. 
"I cannot let those boys who left their homes and fought for Georgia be forgotten or let 'em down," he said..., don't feel guilty." 
Got the urge?"' The irresistible WHOPPER11, Value Meal. 
A flame-broiled WHOPPERil!l, fries and an ice-cold drink. Who can say no to flame-broiled perfection? 
The Huddle, LaFortune Student Cent~; 


O
THE 

page 8 BSERVER 
Wednesday, January 3 I, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco 
SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO........... ...631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING......................... ............631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS...................................................... ....631-5323 
observer .obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS......... ........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly srudenr reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either inscitution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, lecrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntions regarding Observn-pol.icier should be direct­ed to .Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

Have you ever met James Riley? He's an Admissions Counselor in the Office of Admissions. Great guy ... and a good per­son to have on your Bookstore Basketball team. He and his wife, Mirella, both graduated with me in 1994. 
MSPS 

Mirella is the Director of Alumni Clubs and Student 
What's Your

Programs at the 
Shade?

Alumni Association and just a few months ago gave birth to a baby girl. 
Jasmine is adorable and I have no doubt she will grow up to be a beautiful. bi-racial woman. You see, James is African-American and Mirella is Mexican-American and I tend to get excited for children like Jasmine who will certainly experience and learn about the two wonderful cultures of her par­ents. 
So if my calculations are correct, Jasmine will be a member of the Notre Dame Class of 2022. Well ... maybe. After all, I probably shouldn't assume that just because both her parents attended Notre Dame as students and are now working at the University as administrators that little Jasmine is a Domer-to-be. 
However, you might not want to bet against the possibility either. Jasmine may at this very moment be dressed up in Notre Dame gear with the fight song playing in the background. She may even be the star of the next Notre Dame Adidas commercial. 
If in fact Jasmine is accepted into Notre Dame and chooses to attend in the year 2018 she could possibly face chal­lenges that some of today's minority stu­dents face at Notre Dame. She may encounter discrimination, she may feel isolated from her peers or she might have difficulties finding other students with whom to identify. And neither her dad nor her mom would most likely deny that possibility. They were once students of color at Notre Dame. 
Of course, I would assume that the Notre Dame of tomorrow is going to be much different than the Notre Dame of today. The projected demographics of the future should certainly play a role in the make-up of the University in the next two decades. And while the issues of stu­dents of color persist more and more people are working harder and harder so that the discrimination, isolation and separation that students of color experi­ence subsides. 
How ironic. James and Mirella are two of those people. The professional work that they do may have a direct affect on their own child's higher education expe­rience. And I thought Jasmine was lucky enough just to have them as parents. 
As a member of the Admissions Office, James spends a good portion of his time working on the Spring Visitation Weekend for minority students and has done it for the past three years. I am not entirely sure what James' responsibilities entail for the weekend and during the weekend but I am quite sure he probably doesn't get much sleep. 
I see him every place I am that week­end -at the luncheons, the functions and the fairs. He picks the students up at the airport, talks to them, gets to know them a little. 
I know this weekend is one of the most important initiatives for the Office of Admissions and James treats it like a baby-literally. He's up late at night, gets very little sleep and tries extremely hard to make sure absolutely nothing goes wrong. Heck, if I ever get married and have a baby, I know who I'm going to call to baby-sit. 
I can't say I'm sure that James has thought it all the way through, but I have a feeling that he knows one of his babies can affect the other. And I would guess that most people in James' situation, with an opportunity to work on things that can directly affect their own child's well-being and success, would never be committed to a project that he or she didn't believe would have a positive out­come. 
Surely, James believes that Spring Visitation Weekend is important for the University and is a step in the right direction. Otherwise, he is either going to have to stop working so hard on that weekend or stop singing the fight song to get Jasmine to go to sleep. 
For every story about James, Jasmine and Mirella, I'm certain there is another for Dan, Steve, Cindy, Susan, Mike, Rita, Kim, Alisa, Moira, Michael, Felicia, Paul, Carrie, Bob, Belinda, Jesse, Santiago. Arienne and Richie. 
I know all of them work extremely hard, believe in what they do and care tremendously about the students that are a part of their lives and work. The Oflice of Admissions' staff does their job so that students can live their dreams and the entire staff of Multicultural Student Programs and Services have the utmost respect for them. support them in all their efforts and will continue to assist them in any way we can. 
So if there happens to be anyone who doesn't feel the same way. you are going to have to bring it up with Jasmine. And don't forget that mommy and daddy are very protective. 
Kevin M. Huie; Assistant Director of MSPS, Iris Outlaw; Director, Adela Penagos; Coordinator and the MSPS staff contributed to this article. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
WE OUTSOURCED OUR SALES AND FULFILLMENT FUNCTIONS TO AN ELBONIAN 
SCOTT ADAMS 
UM...ARE YOU SURE THAT'S THE BEST WAY TO SELL COMPLEX TECHNOLOGY? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"He who knows only his own side of the case. knows little ofthat.,, 
John Stuart Mill economist 


f'""\LHE 

Wednesday, January 31, 2001 vnSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Graduates express support for Monologues 
Play inspired pride on Art encourages 
all-women's campus 
debate 


Kathleen Crotty Notre Dame class of'00 January 28, 2001 
·Application ofChurch teaching is inconsistent 
After many years in the shadow ofthe Dome, the administration of Saint Mary's College has finally come out. President Marilou Eldred's decision to prohibit the performance ofa play on campus of our sister school is the most embarrassing decision yet. outstrip­ping (barely) Notre Dame's intellectually incoherent treatment of the GLND/SMC issue. 
The public rationale for censoring the play is not that it is porno­graphic; not that it is below reasonable standards of public decen­cy. It's apparently not expensive nor is there any lack of time or space available for the performance. Apparently it's not even a lousy play. It won't be put on because some people don't like it. 
The "not in keeping with the Catholic Faith" doctrine (always selectively applied) that has affiicted the University for at least a decade has now infected the College. Notre Dame supports a "Baptist Collegiate Ministry" and a "United Muslim Association." Have these groups recently resolved their teachings with those of the Mother Church? Better not catch them putting on any of those Muslim plays or we'll run them out of the joint. I presume duLac will be revised to address The Cider House Rules? 
The position taken by Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's respective administrations that free speech and association may be sup­pressed when the speech or association "conflicts" with Church teaching would be fine if the administrators were even slightly sin­cere about it. But the principle is only invoked against ideas and people they find distasteful. 
Hence students may gather to discuss pro-death penalty thoughts and watch pro-death penalty plays; and they may gather to discuss acquiring vast wealth. I assume they do that pursuant to Luke, 12:16-21 ("And Jesus said, 'Raise up before me a business school, that we may be highly ranked and profit mightily over the Earth and all her creatures"'). But no gay clubs: this is God's University. 
Marilou Eldred suggested that dialogue occur "without the play." I for one anticipate breathlessly the publication of President Eldred's Approved Methods for Dialogue ("Chapter One: Don't Say 'Vagina"'). The Observer reported Thursday that Eldred would not "approve" a letter from the play's supporters to its detractors. I didn't know she was reading everyone's mail. 
Telling students they can't put on a legitimate play is a disgrace -humiliating to anyone who cares about out schools. Telling these particular students they can't put on "The Vagina Monologues" because it isn't consistent with Church teaching is a lie that thinly veils the effect this censorship will give to the fear and hatred of certain ideas on the part of those who happen not to share them. 
Christopher James Regan 
Notre Dame class of '97 Notre Dame Law School class of '00 
w.v. 
January 26, 2001 

Americans must question veracity of rumors 
While I respect Mr. Marchand's right to disagree with Mr. Clinton's politics and to doubt his achievements I have to take issue with the first few claims in his Jan. 29 col­umn. Namely, that the Clintons "shook down Democratic fat-cat donors for more than $200,000 in housewarming gifts" and "cleverly timed" the gifts to skirt Senatorial regu­lations on donations. I'm not living in the United States right now, yet even with my meager Internet resources in five minutes I was able to dig up more facts than Mr. Marchand did. Since when does slinging unproven accusations count as journalism? 
First ofall, that figure. It's a nice, round, scandalous number, isn't it? Of course, it's a slight exaggeration. The actual number. which the Clintons submitted themselves, was $190,027 -which admittedly is still a hefty chunk of merchandise. 
Of course, if Mr. Marchand had done a little more research, he might've also discov­ered that the previous occupants of the White House, Mr. and Mrs. Bush, pocketed $144,000 worth of gifts. As Salon.com put it (http://www.salon.com/politics/fea­ture/2001/01/30/clinton/ index.html), "Not bad, considering those were recession years. Yet nobody suggests Poppy and Bar lacked a moral compass." 
Good old Mr. Reagan did even better, allowing his wealthy friends to buy him and Nancy a house worth over $2.5 million two years before he left office. Salon also points out that the Clintons received two pieces from a renowned glass artist (one from the artist himself) that cost a combined $60,000. That's nearly one-third of their entire take (not to mention the fact that without those two pieces, the Clintons "took home" less than the Bushes}. 
Mr. Marchand (along with several other sources like NPR's Scott Simon) also alleges that the Clintons arranged for the gifts to be given "just before Mrs. Clinton was sworn in, to avoid violating Senate ethics rules." Where is the proof for this? In fact, many of the gifts were given before she even entered the New York race. The Clintons' 2000 Personnel Public Financial Disclosure Report clearly states the the $190,000 worth of gifts included things given to them over the course of the last eight years. 
First Families are given many things and always decide at the end ofthe year which to accept and disclose and which to leave to the archives. Sometimes the decisions get put off, which is why the gift take in the final year is always the biggest. One of those expensive pieces ofart, for instance, was actually given to the Clintons nearly three 
years ago. Also, ifsomeone actually did want to give Hillary a gift worth more than the 
regulation $250, why notjust wait a month and give it to her now-private citizen hus­
band, thus rendering the entire ..Senate gift ban" issue moot? 
Mr. Marchand also refers to Denise Rich, whom he calls "one of the most generous suppliers of the Clinton's gift registry." He links her gift (for the record, $7,300 for two chairs and two coffee tables) to the pardon her husband recently received. Of course, the New York Post reported that the gifts were given over 10 months ago. One would think that if the furniture was meant as the bribe Marchand wants it to be, Mrs. Rich would've been careful to link the two events more closely. 
Why was any of this newsworthy in the first place? Because -as Salon pointed out -both mainstream (and university) journalists' standards seem to evaporate when covering the Clintons, especially when publicly questioning their character. There was absolutely nothing illegal about the gifts the Clintons received, and yet Mr. Marchand wants us to shake our heads and "tsk tsk" simply at the enormity ofthe figure (which isn't even that large when you put it in context}. This was a last, final low blow from bit­ter and childish members of the media eager to spread more disinformation about the former President. 
You know, when frieP.ds forward me similarly untrue and wildly inaccurate e-mails, I point them to the Urban Legends website at http://snopes.com. Ooh, and what was added there less than a week ago? A list ofthe pranks that Clinton staffers allegedly pulled. The site says that the veracity of such accusations is still "undetermined." Perhaps in the future Mr. Marchand should similarly wait to publish his "facts" until doing a little basic research. 
Kristine Howard 
class of'99 London, England January 31, 2001 


Bacon and eggs finding the balance in relationships 
I read somewhere that there are two types of people in this world, and that they are comparable to the traditional break­fast meal of bacon and eggs. 
Together they're a wonderful combination. However, when it comes down to it, although the chicken was involved, it was the pig who was truly committed to the project. 
As of late. I've noticed that the same can be said for relationships. Everyone I talk to, boy or girl. has the same story. 
A certain boy says, "Things are great with us. It's just that she's not as into it as I am." Another girl admits, "We're fine. I just think that he's not ready for anything serious. But I'd like it if he was." 
Is this a growing trend? Do we have to find someone who balances us? Someone who will sit on one end of the relationship seesaw, carrying all the weight, while we dangle in the air. or vice versa? 
In some ways, it makes sense. If people become overly committed to each other. hanging on for dear life, not letting anyone else play with them, the seesaw will eventually snap from the stress being placed on it and everyone will hit the ground, crying. 
However, if neither party takes the relationship seriously, both may escape without any bumps or bruises, but they never really got anywhere in the first place. 
Back to the chicken and the pig. Which is the better role to play? Involved yet casual or devotedly committed? Can you have both, and most importantly, do you get to choose your position? 
I realize that most relationships evolve from the casual meet-me-at-Reckers, to the inevitable SYR invite and, if all goes well, to the eventual meet-the-parents stage. 
But no matter what phase two people are merging into, one person always seems to be pushing a little bit harder for com­mitment. 
Admittedly, for collegiate relationship purposes, people like to take the chicken's point of view. It's easier, leaves you with more options and lets a person be involved without putting in a lot of work or effort. 
However, put two chickens together, and all you've got is a lot of clucking around. 
Then there's the pig. Eventually, this is the ultimate goal ­to find someone, someday, that you can commit to without reservation. Taking the committed route brings more of a sub­stantial connection to someone, and with that.connection comes security. 
But you also have to remember where the pig ended up in 
the end. 
Relationships aren't easy, and rarely are they safeguarded 
from heartache. But if both parties do somehow find that bal­
ance between overly committed and casually indifferent, the 
seesaw will be balanced and everybody will go home happy. 
You can still have your bacon and eggs, but instead of it 
being a relationship of contrast and disparity, it will be one of 
combination -and like a great breakfast, something you can 
really enjoy. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Books, movies, music, plays scratch that creative itch. 
Write for Scene this semester. 
Call 1-4540 or e-mail scene@nd.edu 
Don't let words fail you try O'Conner's new manual 
By KATIE MALMQUIST 
Scene Writer 

At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, none of us are strangers to writing. Even the busi­ness and math majors had to write an essay or two as part of their college applications. 
So why the need for Patricia O'Conner's ..Words Fail Me," an instructional treatise on the art? Perhaps because O'Conner takes an angle that few of our professors or TAs ever have: humor. 
In the end, "Words Fa.it Me" delivers a lesson that is 
pithy, witty and dripping HWords Fail Me" stands She instructs on note tak­with years of personal as a testament to the ing, on subject forming, experience. organization, tenses, gram•
joys ofwriting and to

After several years as edi­mar. style, rhythm. emo­tor of the New York Times the fruits ofa labor that tion. honesty and countless Book Review and publishing other aspects that compose
doesn't have to be one.

in both Newsweek and the quality writing. 
New York Times, O'Conner O'Conner goes so far as to is certainly qualified to use her ·acknowledgment instruct. section to actually give advice on how to O'Conner's simple, clear prose exemplifies write good acknowledgments at the opening 
her expertise, and her experience from a of a book, which "enable you to shamelessly lifetime in the field of professional writing drop names without seeming immodest." offers a wealth of personal anecdotes, funny Even in this pre-introductory section of her 
enough to keep the read­er moving while offering hope to even the most frustrated writer. 
Humor is key to O'Conner's stories, which discuss everything from friends in the steamy romance novel industry employed to catch details like 15 month pregnan­cies (details can get tricky) to little-known facts about well-known authors. 
Essen.ti ally, "Words Fail Me" says many of the same things we've been taught since elementary school -use strong verbs and vivid descrip­tors, avoid the passive tense -but it does it in a way that doesn't feel like school. 
For O'Conner's college­age audience, that's the most important thing. Her chapters are short, averaging three to 10 pages, and her examples direct. 
Most appealingly, her 
wit is sharp, refreshing 
and ever-present. 

The reader needn't 
look beyond chapter 
titles to recognize the wit 
contained within. 
Words Fail 
Me 

. \\ 11.\T E\-Kk\l>'lf. Wll<• \\'fl1tt;~ :::.::::; /:.!H-1~.T(,:t..n ~~·t_.)~ .\~(}Fr Wttii-i)(j '··• -== 
', ~ J • '" .. 
: .... . ., 
.A\Hi<1flt'J'.~>AI'\ 


Patricia T. O'Conner 
book, O'Conner reminds the reader that "Words Fail Me" functions not only as a tool, but as an example of what that tool can fashion, what her knowledge of writing can produce. 
O'Conner follows near­ly every one of her own rules, conscious enough of her reader to excuse herself when she breaks them (but she also notes that justified breaking of the rules is sometimes necessary for great art). 
O'Conner constantly points to her own prose and composition to rein­force a concept she is explaining, revealing a gift for tea'ching that nearly parallels her apti­tude for writing. 
Ultimately, "Words Fail Me" makes for a much more enjoyable read than anything you would find on a university course list. 
O'Conner parallels Bill 
Strunk's "Elements of 
Style" in content (a book 
often seen on require• 
ment lists for Core and 
other introductory litera-

Subject lines like "Pompous Circumstances: Hold the Baloney" and "Give Me a Break: Thinking In Paragraphs" promise to keep the pages turning. 
Of course, behind these titles, O'Conner continues 
to spoon•feed the humor. 
For example, when urging her readers to take notes whenever struck by an idea, however inconvenient, she is quick to interject, "No! Don't take your hands off the wheel. Just do it as soon as you can." 
At the heart of the book, O'Conner's humor gives way to her second strongest point: universality. 
As college students, we look to her for tips to dazzle our professors, which she no doubt delivers (not to mention some great. com· mentary on "academic gobbledygook" and the rampant abuse of the English language that occurs in academia). 
But her advice reaches way beyond the scope of academic and even fiction writing techniques, and approaches the realm of everyday usefulness -an area which seems overly accessible but which many writers of O'Conner's caliber tend to neglect. 
O'Conner writes for everyone from the novelists to the house wife giving "a talk at [her] local gardening club on repotting bon­sai." The majority of her advice applies to the range of writing that falls in between. 
O'Conner starts at the 
beginning and leaves noth· 
ing out. 
ture classes within the College of Arts and Letters}, but far surpasses it in readability. O'Conner's book has even been used in classes at Notre Dame. 
Her advice is relevant, her prose amusing, her scope universal, yet personal at the 
same time. 
As O'Conner's own coun­sel goes, "a good writer can find humor in almost every­thing." 
By taking a subject that is usually anything but amus­ing and transforming it into something fun, interesting and animated, she proves her point beautifully. 
"Words Fail Me" stands as a testament to the joys of 
o·conner follows nearly every one ofher own rules ... but also notes that justified breaking ofthe rules is some­times necessary for great art. 

writing and to the fruits of a labor that doesn't have to be one. 
So to the business student writing study abroad applications or to the English major who has lost passion for the art of articula­tion, take solace in O'Conner's words -they anything but fail her. 


Going for the win 
The Observer looks at the athletic department's plan to give the full number ofscholarships to every varsity sport. 
Wednesday, January 31, 2001 A regular feature ofThe Observer's News Department. 


With a bold plan to fully fund every varsity sport, AD Kevin White hopes to vault Notre Dame to the very top of NCAA athletics 
story by . ERIN LaRUFFA 
With less than a year under his belt, new athletic director Kevin White has announced a plan to provide all 26 of Notre Dame's varsity teams with the full number of scholarships allowed by the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA). 

The move will add 16 athletic scholar­ships each year for the next four years, 64 total. starting with next fall's fresh­men. 
"To achieve our stated departmental and University mission of providing a high-quality intercollegiate athletics experience for the most academically and athletically gifted individuals avail­able, it's imperative that our programs have access to the full complement of · athletic-related financial aid," White said. 
Th~ NCAA does not limit spending on certam expenses, such as recruiting and tr~vel, _but it does limit scholarships a umvers1ty can grant in each of its varsity 
see PLAN/page 4 
• Men's coaches predict big changes to come with funding boost 
By TIM CASEY 
In Focus Writer 

When asked what effect the addition of 
7.9 scholarships will have on his squad. men's swimming coach Tim Welsh offered a quick response. 
"I think it will change every single part of our program," Welsh said. "I think it's a dramatic change from top to bottom." . Welsh's en!husiasm is shared by many m the athletic department. His squad is among the biggest beneficiaries of the decision to fully fund every team. The men's swimming team currently has 1.5 scholarships. This money is divided up between several swimmers. 
There has never been a swimmer with a 
see FUNDING/page 4 
--. 
(t_ ~ 2 '> 
Wednesday, January 31, 200 I 

page 2 The Observer . IN FOCUS 
Stroking
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Releveling the playing field 
When Title IX was enacted in 1972 the result was supposed to be an equal playing field for men's and women's sports. Women's sports, which lagged significantly behind men's sports in scholarships. facilities and 
funding, were supposed to be improved so that all athletes regardless of gender had an equal chance to excel. 
Almost 30 years later, however, the playing field still isn't equal, but it's no longer women's sports that are stuck with lower funding 

and fewer scholarships. At schools all across the Mike Connolly country, men's teams were 
slashed while women's teams gained more scholar-Editor in Chief ships. Many schools could 
not afford to add funding, so rather than boosting their women's programs, the men's programs were slashed while the women's teams were only slightly elevated. 
Even Notre Dame fell into this trap. The wrestling program was eliminated in 1992. For years, with the exception of football, men's bas­ketball, hockey and men's.tennis, nearly every men's sports has received less funding and schol­arships than its female equivalent. Consequently, the women's teams are nearly across the board more successful than the men's teams. Women's soccer and women's swimming are perennial Big East Champions and national powers. 
Men's soccer has not qualified for the Big East Tournament since 1998 while the-men's swim­ming team has never finished higher than sec­ond. 
Both the women's and men's team work extremely hard but the men's st.art with less scholarships and never have the same chance to excel as the women's teams. 
This is not what Title IX intended. 
Notre Dame currently gives out 98 women's scholarships and 158 men's scholarships. When the 64 new scholarships are added, there will be 136,for women and 186 for men. While this is not an equal distribution ofscholarships, there is an important factor which Title IX does not include: Football. 
There is no such thing as women's football. There isn't a women's sport which requires as many scholarships, equipment and expenses or makes as much revenue for a school as football. Ifyou eliminate football from Notre Dame's scholarship equation, the scholarship levels are 136 for women and 101 for men. 
Title IX needs to be re-examined and reassessed. The goals are Title IX are important and should be attained. Men and women should be given an equal chance to excel. 
But don't punish the men's lacrosse team because football requires 85 scholarships. If the men's lacrosse team gets 15 scholarships and a new locker room, the women's lacrosse team should get 15 scholarships and a new locker room. If the women's swim team is fully funded, the men's team should be fully funded. 
That is gender equity. Trying to treat all men's athletics as equal to all women's athletics is not only foolish but unfair. 
With equal funding, both men's and women's teams can perform at high levels. Both men's and women's basketball are fully funded and both teams are ranked in the Top 25 .. Both tennis teams are also fully funded and every year the Irish compete for Big East titles in both sports. That is the equal playing field that Title IX was supposed to create. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: Tim Logan 

Photography: Tony Floyd. Liz Lang 
Lab Tech: Peter Richardson 
Womens crew hopes to reap huge benefits from plan 
By KERRY SMITH 
In Focus Writer 
With one all-encompassing plan to fully ftind all varsity sports, Notre Dame has given the women's rowing program a big boost on its way to becoming com­petitive in the national arena. 
Athletic director Kevin White, proposed the plan, with women's rowing the single biggest benefi­ciary, on Dec. 21. 
Head coach Martin Stone is excited to have the ability to take his team to a higher level. 
"It's very exciting for our pro­gram to now have the opportunity to go out and recruit on equal footing," Stone said. "The scholar­ships the University is granting us will allow us to be more competi­tive than we already are." 
A team struggling to attract tal­ented athletes without the incen­tive of aid money, the women's rowing program has gone from having no allotted scholarships to having the maximum 20 allowed by the NCAA. 
Added gradually over the next four years, the funding will put the program on par with some of the most competitive schools in the nation. 
"The team was very excited with the news," team captain Claire Bula said. "It's a great opportunity to be given and it will help in recruiting and keeping good row­ers. It will make the team more competitive and able to go up against some of the best teams across the country." 
The increase in athletic aid is a 
much-needed boon to a program 
which often must compete with 
academically impressive schools 
for the most talented rowers. 
Other programs at Notre Dame 
previously not fully-funded have 
traditionally enjoyed the upper 
hand when it comes to academics, 
but rowing has not. 
Most of the country's rowing 
powers hail from institutions 
which place a great deal of impor-


challenging to "It's very exciting for our the novice pro­recruit rowers program to now have the gram, Notre 
because schools Dame's dramati­
opportunity to go·out
that our academic cally improved peers are also and recruit on an ability to recruit good in rowing," equal footing." at the high school Stone said. "They. level will be piv­have great pro­otal to strengthen­
Martin Stone 
grams. So trying ing the varsity to convince a very women's rowing coach squad. 
tance on academic excellence, causing Notre Dame to have to compete with the likes of Duke and Princeton for athletes. 
"Without schol­arships, it is very 
smart, bright woman rower to come to Notre Dame and pay about $30,000 when they could go to a comparable school for less or even nothing is a hard task." 
That task just became a lot easi­er. 
With only about 10 recruited athletes possessing previous row­ing experience, currently the pro­
gram must rely on filling its roster with inexperienced Notre Dame students. 
While the on-site recruiting will still play a large role in creating 
"It will make a 

significant differ­ence for the team since most schools and the Big 10 schools have gone varsity and are provid­ing scholarships to their rowers," varsity rower Maureen Carr said. "Our recruiting will become a lot more effective." 
The effectiveness of the scholar­ship money will have dual results. 
"The benefits will be two-fold," Stone said. "We will get some of those kids who are heavily recruit­ed, while our competitor schools won't. \Ve will be even and will be able to recruit in a whole new way." 
That whole new way of recruit­ing will change not only the level of competition between Notre Dame and its adversaries, but will also the level of competition within the team. Irish rowers will no longer just be competing as a team against other teams, but as indi­viduals trying to earn one of sever­al available scholarships. 
"It will probably increase the competition among people on the team," Carr said. "But I don't fore­see it as a problem necessarily. Although I think it will be a hard transition." 
Just how that transition will work is still unclear. The logistics of allotting scholarships has yet to be worked out by Stone and his staff. 
"We're not sure [how the schol­arships will be distributed]," Stone said. "What we're doing now is we 

~£.?,..... 

Wednesday, January 31, 200 I 
The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 
Plan will impact
ahead 
Title IX compliance 

By CHRISTINE KRALY 
In Focus Writer 
With 36 of the 64 new schol­arships going to women's sports, the University has decided that it's time for its female athletes to wear the pants on this campus. 
Gender equality has become a big concern for many people in college sports, especially at Notre Dame, a school with a massive football program and a growing respect for its women's athletes. 
"We will be providing signifi­cantly more opportunities for women's and Olympic sports as a result of these additions," athletic director Kevin White said in a prepared statement. "We also will be strengthening our gender equity numbers as we look forward to going through the NCAA certification process again next year." 
"Title IX was always a part of our discussions during our decision," said Missy Conboy, associate athletic director for athletic department legal issues. 
Instituted in 1972, Title IX of the Education Amendments prohibits sex discrimination in education programs that receive federal funding. Though it does not require a 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

school have
rships over the next four years. The three-year old team does not have any grants to give right now, 
a male-to­
e programs. 
are in the process of recruit­ing people. And then we'll see and determine within the team how to allocate the money. It seems simple. but it's really a complex process. We're limited to 20 scholar­
ships. If someone is already receiving aid from t h e University, s a y $20,000 and we want to give them a $500 grant, then it becomes a 
$20,500 athletic scholarship and if we're not careful in that way we could go over out limit." 
While Stone grapples with the problem of scholarship distribution, Notre Dame men's rowing team is still dealing with the frustration of not only no scholarships, but no varsity status. 
And while their female counterparts are enjoying the perks of varsity status, the men are not as lucky. 
"While we're not varsity and only a club, we're trying to build a program that is just as strong and competitive," club captain Sam Wang said. "That's one of the things we pride ourselves on -the fact that we practice just as much as the women's program. Plus we have to do all our own fundraising. Rowing is an expensive sport, so if we're not practicing we're trying to raise money." 
The disparity the men's and women's programs is not unique to the Notre Dame campus; it is a continuing trend across the country. 
With the advent of Title IX, which requires roughly equal funding for men's and women's athletics, schools have used women's rowing as a balancer to fall into compli­ance. 
And while Title IX has been 
"It will make a significant difference for the team since mo.st schools and the Big Ten schools have gone varsity and are providing scholarships to their rowers ... 
Maureen Carr varsity rower 

lauded for its results in improving athletics f o r women, Wang and his team­mates have felt its affects in a dif­ferent way. 
"If you 
look around the country, a lot of men's programs are in the same situation," Wang said. "With Title IX, women's pro­gra ms are being built up quickly because school's foot­ball programs are so big. I think its good to see women's sports advance, but when you 're on the other end and· see all their equipment they're given and then we 
"It will have a profound
female ath­able to bring lete partic­impact with our success in more
A Growth Sport 

ipation recruits, your
in the Big East ...
equal to that team will be
Women's rowing is growing at big 

of enroll­more well­
football schools, including: 

ment, the Joe Piane rounded," 
University women's cross-country/ s a i d must be Tameisha
track and field coach
. Clemson University 

When deciding to create more scholarships, athletic department representatives worked with the Office of Admissions and other adminis­trators to project future enroll­ment, financial need and ath­letic participation. 
With administrators and ath­letic officials mulling over the legal and financial issues deal­ing with the scholarships, coaches and athletes are excit­ed about the possibilities. 
"It will have a profound impact with our success in the Big East," said Joe Piane. head coach of women's cross coun­try/track and field. Six of the 36 scholarships will go to Piane's female athletes. 
The scholarships wm no doubt aid in his recruiting efforts, Piane said. "Now we'll be getting to a level playing field with [our competitors]." 
"Of course in the long run it will help us, that's for sure," said Yves Auriol, head coach of the women's fencing team. 
The women's team has near­ly 25 players, Auriol said, and three scholarships split among five or six fencers. 
"Sometimes you are stuck looking at two great athletes and you can just recruit one because you don't have enough financial help," he said. 
"I think that just with any 
type of school 
when you're 
King, a 

sophomore member of the women's track and field team. "We can recruit better by having more money to work with." 
Attempts to achieve Title IX compliance have led the athlet­ic department to make some sacrifices, including disbanding the men's wrestling team in 1992, but administrators say that won't likely happen again. 
"I think we're going to have to be more concerned with if we're ever going to need to increase more women's sports," than with reinstating or adding men's sports, Conboy said. 
For the last two years the admissions and athletic departments have surveyed recently enrolled students. asking them about their ath­letic interests. 
"It's really an effort to moni­tor if there are unmet needs out there," Conboy said. "That could give us an idea if we're meeting the interest of [under­graduate students]. I think we need to survey more [before thinking of adding women's sports]." 
. 
Iowa University 

. 
University of Miami (FL) 

. 
University of Michigan 

. 
Michigan State University 

. 
University of North Carolina 

. 
Stanford University 

. 
University of Tennessee 

. 
University of Texas 

. 
University of Washington 

. 
University of Wisconsin 


University, University of Iowa, Indiana University and University of Wisconsin ­have fully funded programs and University of Minnesota is developing its program for the coming season. 
Women's crew is now the 25th sport in which the Big Ten competes. Thirteen of those 25 are women's sports. 
Back at 
Notre Dame. 

striving for a "pattern of expansion and growth" towards equality. said Sandy Barbour, associate athletic director for compliance and administration. 
Women currently constitute 45 percent of Notre Dame's enrollment, but only 38 percent of the varsity sports scholar­ships. By the time the scholar­ships are in place, that number will rise to 42. 
"To some degree, it's [Title 

IX] a moving target," Barbour said. 
Complying with Title IX hap­pens in one of a few ways, Conboy said. It could mean that a school's athlete participation mirrors its enrollment percent­age or that a school is looking to increase the number of its women's programs. In the case of Notre Dame, though, she said, it means always attempt­ing to meet student interest in the athletic program. 
"With the sports that we've

have to raise "While we ·re not varsity which, like 
added and the scholarships
our own most of its
and only a club. we're we've awarded ... we feel that 
money, you Midwestern
trying to build a program we have continued to make his­
feel that effect. counter­
torical strides toward {Title IX
{Title IX] is that is just as strong and parts lacks a 
compliance]," she said.
really impor­men's varsi­
competitive. ••
tant but it ty crew 
might need team, the 
Balancing the scales 
some modifica­Sam Wang male rowers · tion." are encour­
captain 

Scholarships awarded in 2000-2001:
U s i n g aged by the
men's rowing club 
boon to the

women's row­ing as a way to balance larger men's sports is becoming more popular.. Currently, the Big Ten, a con­ferenee known for strong foot­ball programs, is working to increase its rowing programs. Six schools -University of Michigan. Michigan State University, Ohio State 
sport. 
"It's great for them," Wang said. "I think whenever one of the teams finds success it's a good thing." 
The funding of 20 scholar­ships for the women's pro­gram will go a long way in helping the program find that long-term success. 

To men-158 To women-98 
T0TAL-256 

Scholarships lo be awarded in 2004-2005: 
To men-186 To women -134 
T0TAL-330 


,~ 
page 4 The Observer . IN FOCUS Wednesday, January 31, 200 I 
ate financial aid. "This proposal was made well 
Plan 
before the Fiesta Bowl," Scully continued from page l said. "We would have done this 
without the Fiesta Bowl." programs. Currently, Notre The athletic department Dame fully funds grants-in-aid based its decision to add 64 for 10 teams, including football, scholarships on several factors, men's and women's basketball, ranging from helping teams and women's soccer. become more competitive to 
Women's rowing, which will increasing opportunities for go from offering no scholar­female athletes. ships to doling out 20, will ben­The additional scholarships efit the most from the addition­are particularly significant
al funding. Men's lacrosse, resource to coaches. ·• At a another sport currently without place like Notre Dame with grants-in-aid, will gain 12.6. high tuition costs and a tremen­Men's swimming will pick up dous academic tradition" 
7.9 and women's cross coun­coaches must find athletes that try/track and field will add six. not only meet the school's high 
Other sports to benefit will athletic standards, but also that include baseball, men's and meet its high academic stan­women's fencing, men's and dards, she added, making
women's golf, women's recruiting a "tricky game," 
lacrosse, men's soccer, men's said Barbour. swimming, and men's cross "You have to give coaches the country/track and field. ability to go out and recruit 
Once they are in place, the these athletes," Barbour contin­
additional scholarships will cost ued. "When you're going upthe department $1.2 million a against other schools that are year, according to Sandy offering scholarships ... it is Barbour, associate athletic very difficult." director for compliance and While many of the programsadministration. The athletic benefiting from the scholar­
department, which operates ships are already nationallyunder a different budget than competitive, Barbour said the rest of the insufficient 
University, financial aid
"Why bother doing it if
must raise has• been money to you ·re not going to do it holding teams absorb the 

with excellence?" back. Overall 
additional participation costs. probably will 
Sandy Barbour
"We are not increase, allowing associate athletic director but Barbour [White] to anticipatesembark on that the quali­additional fundraising to ty of the athletes will improve.enhance his operating budget," "Watch out," Barbour said. said University executive vice "They're going to do phenome­president Father Timothy nal· things." 
Scully. One of the "phenomenal
The decision to increase ath­things" the University is hopingletic scholarships was indepen­for is improved standing in the dent of the $13 million the Sears Directors' Cup, a compe­school received from the foot­tition that ranks colleges by the ball team's appearance in the combined performance of all Fiesta Bowl, Scully said. That their varsity teams. money, Scully said, will The athletic departmentenhance general undergradu-would like Notre Dame to finish 
in the top five of that competi­tion, according to Barbour. In
Notre Dame's 

the final fall standings for 
Sears Cup Finishes 2000-2001, released on Jan. 9, Notre Dame was ranked eighth among Division I schools. 
'93 -'94 #11 Scully, however, wants more '94-'95 #3D than just a top five finish in the Sears Cup.
'95 -'96 #11 
"I'd really like to see Notre '96-'97 #14 Dame win that," Scully said, adding that he would also like
'97 -'98 #31 tied 
for Notre Dame athletics to 
'98 • '99 #25 
become known for more than '99 • 'DO #21 just an outstanding football program. Being a "superb university"
The Sears Directors' Cup is an 
and having great athletics is
annual all-sports competition 
possible, according to Scully,
among Division 1-A schools. 
who added that athletics can help create excitement among grams, but the majority of the students and alumni. 64 new scholarships will be 

He pointed to Stanford dedicated to women's sports. University, which maintains Women's sports will gain 36 high academic standards and grants-in-aid, while men's has numerous successful varsi­teams will gain 28. ty sports teams. Stanford was "It's the right thing to do," second in the most recent Sears Scully said. "We are currently Cup final rankings. not meeting Title IX require­
"Why bother doing it if you're ments." not going to do it with excel-Title IX of the 1972 1 enc e?" Educational Barbour said. Amendments
"It is imperative that our
Gender equi­requires that a ty was another programs have access to school provide factor behind the full complement of athletic oppor­the decision to tunities for
athletic-related
increase schol• men and arships, financial aid. •• women's ath­according to letics in a pro­Barbour, portion to the
Kevin White
adding that gender ratio of 
athletic director
the additional the entire stu­funding will dent body. "enhance Currently, [Notre Dame's] gender equity fem ale athletes receive 38 per­position." cent of the athletic department's 
The plan to fully fund all var­scholarship resources. With the sity athletics involves adding additional scholarships, that fig­scholarships to men's pro-ure will increase to 42 percent, 
,. 

more closely reflecting the 45 percent of student who are women, according to Barbour. 
"That takes us from being close to compliance to being in compliance," she said. "We have to close the gap." 
Next year, Notre Dame will go through the NCAA's certification process again, and one area the NCAA looks at during the process is gender equity. However, Barbour said that Notre Dame did not have to add the scholarships for that reason. 
"We're not worried about cer­tification," Barbour said. "We believe we provide in all the areas certification encompass­es." 
In fact, gender equity is only one of the benefits the University considered while considering whether to add the additional grants-in-aid. 
"That is not the full reason we're doing it," Barbour said. "The University did this because they believed it was the right thing to do." 
and cross-country coach will have an extra six scholarships by 2004-2005.
Funding 
Both teams presently share a total of 12 continued from page l scholarships but that will increase to 14, 
16, 17 and then 18. Piane mentioned full scholarship. But that may change by that Villanova, Seton Hall, St. John's, the 2004-2005 season, when the team Boston College, West Virginia, Miami, will reach the NCAA's maximum Connecticut and Rutgers all currently allowance (for men's swimming) of 7.9 have the maximum number of scholar­scholarships. In the next few years, the ships. scholarship money will The cross-country increase gradually team finished sixth in 
until it reaches the ..It puts us on a level the 2000 Big East 
maximum. Championships while
playing field. This is a
For the past five the track team placed years, the Irish have major. major plus. •• sixth in the indoor gone from seventh to championships and second in the Big East, third during the spring 
Joe Plane
and have faced several season. 
women's track and
teams with more schol­"It puts us on a level arship money. cross-country coack playing field," Piane 
"Certainly this said. "This is a major, announcement is a major plus. This is a strong show of support by the major shot in the arm. University," Welsh said. "It will make us a perennial power in 
Joe Piane agrees. The women's track the Big East. We've always had elite ladies but what we haven't had is suffi­cient funds to entice more. Those six extra scholarships can equate to 16 out• standing ladies." 
While the extra money may attract better athletes, Welsh maintains that the admissions standards will remain the same. He hopes to coach the first Notre Dame men's 
because we're interested in values, and because we're interested in getting bet• ter. 
"When those things are in place and we can help you pay for it? That's great. If those things aren't in place, Notre Dame's not the right school for you. Don't come here because we now have 
a checkbook. Come 

swimmer who qualifies for the NCAAs, but he does not want to sacri­ "'/ don't want a guy to come to Notre Dame for  here because you want to be a Notre Dame man and do it  
fice the University's values. "I don't want a guy to come to Notre Dame  the money. that's not why you come to Notre Dame.··  the Notre Dame way." For now, the coach­es remain optimistic that they can achieve  
for money, that's not  even more success.  
why you come to Notre Dame," Welsh said. "You come to Notre  Tim Welsh men's swimming coach  "Providing that peo­ple want our athletic department to be as  
Dame  because  it's  good as it can be, it's  
Notre  Dame  and  long overdue," Piane  

because we're interested in athletic said. "We wouldn't have it if it wasn't excellence, because we're interested in for [athletic director] Dr. White. He's academic excellence, because we're fired up, he's ready to go." interested in good human beings, So are the coaches and athletes. 

V I D 
M E s 
Wednesday, January 31, 2001 
page 11 

He shoots, he scores, he hits the slopes 
Scene reviewer Jose Cuellar compares the latest in sports video games 
All right kids, the people at 989 Sports and Idol Minds have released a couple of new titles for the 
avid sport video game enthusiast. Be warned, sport video games are not my specialty, but I was 
determined to give them a shot. Ifa good chunk ofthe student population plays these games, then 
I should too. Here are some categories that al} four games can be graded on. Enjoy. 

Hockey. All teams 
plus the two new 
.
expansion teams: Minnesota Wild and Columbus Blue 
Pretty standard for a hockey game. Good control ofthe instant replay with many 
by Jose Cuellar, Scene Video Game Reviewer Special thanks to Brian Lanktree for his help 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 2001 
NBA 
Bryant, Lakers beat Cavaliers without O'Neal 
Associated Press 
Cleveland 

Kobe Bryant scored 47 points -23 on free throws -and I I or ace Grant had 19 points and 14 rebounds as the Los Angeles Lakers survived another night without Shaquille O'Neal and beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 102-96 on Tuesday. 
Bryant took over when need­ed, driving the lane for short jumpers and pulling up over Cleveland's overmatched guards, who at times could do nothing but foul. 
Bryant went 23-of-26 from the line and scored 14 points in the third quarter when the Lakers opened a comfortable 19-point lead. 
But the Cavs, who can't seem to put four good quarters together, rallied from 21 down to get within 100-96 with 51 seconds remaining on a three­point play by Bimbo Coles. 
The Lakers, though, made sure the ball stayed in Bryant's hands and he hit two more free throws with 17 seconds left to make it 102-96. Bryant shot 19 free throws after halftime and the Lakers shot 32 of 38 from the line. 
Los Angeles snapped a three­game road losing streak and won for just the second time in five games. And with Grant and rookie Mark Madsen playing with energy and controlling the boards, the Lakers played as if they truly cared about defend­ing their NBA title. 
O'Neal missed his second straight game with an injured foot and didn't leave the locker room, staying behind to receive treatment while watching on TV. 
O'Neal has a tendon ailment in his right arch. He has diffi­culty pushing off the foot and is being re-evaluated on a day-to­day basis. O'Neal will travel with the Lakers to Minnesota but will probably sit out Wednesday night. 
Grant matched his season­
highs in points and rebounds 
and Madsen finished with a 
career-high 10 rebounds in 28 
minutes. 
A lingering feud between O'Neal and Bryant over who should be the go-to guy has contributed to the Lakers funk the past few weeks. But with the floor all to himself, Bryant made sure the Lakers didn't lose to another team they should beat. 
Andre Miller scored 25 points and Coles had 16 for the Cavs, who lost their third straight and for the 16th time in 21 games. Cleveland was without Lamond Murray, its second leading scor­er, who was a late scratch with a sprained left ankle. 
Raptors 96, 76ers 89 
The Philadelphia 76ers road winning streak is over, and the Toronto Rap tors didn't even need Vince Carter to end it. 
Carter played less than four minutes before aggravating a knee injury, but Morris Peterson scored 22 points as the Raptors ended Philadelphia's 13-game road winning streak. 
The 76ers had not lost on the road since Dec. 5 against the Lakers. 
Dell Curry scored 17 points, Alvin Williams had 16, Mark Jackson 15 and Antonio Davis 11 for the Raptors, who also beat the Sixers in Philadelphia on Jan. 21. 
Iverson led the 76ers with 38 points. 
Carter, the leading vote-getter for the All-Star Game for the second straight year, has been bothered by "jumpers knee" since November. Just before the game, Carter said he couldn't push off on it. He started but left with 8:22 remaining in the first. 
Philadelphia's Tyrone Hill made two free throws, narrow­ing Toronto's lead to two points with 2:53 remaining, but Peterson followed with a layup. After Williams made one of two free throws, Iverson made a layup and Davis had a layup, giving Toronto a 92-87 lead with 1:10 remaining. 
Hill followed with an 18-foot jumper, but then missed a wide open 3-pointer -his first attempt from behind the arc all season. 
Jackson made two free throws, giving Toronto a 94-89 lead with 16.6 remaining, and Curry made two to seal it with 
11.6 seconds left. 
Magic 93, Pacers 86 
Darrell Armstrong had 23 points · to pace three starters in double figures and Orlando stopped a two-game losing streak by defeating Indiana Tuesday night. 

John Amaechi had 16 points and seven rebounds and Tracy McGrady had 19 points. Armstrong added nine assists and seven rebounds. Orlando also got a boost off the bench from Michael Doleac, who had eight points, nine rebounds and four blocked shots. 
Orlando played without for­ward Bo Outlaw, who was sus­pended for one game without pay and fined $10,000 for intentionally making physical contact with a referee during the Magic's last game against Miami. 
The Pacers, who have dropped their last tl;lree games, had four players reach double figures. Reggie Miller had 18, Bruno Sundov 17, Jalen Rose 16 and Jermaine O'Neal 14. O'Neal added 12 rebounds and four blocked shots. 
A basket by Miller cut 

Orlando's lead to 74-72 with 
6:50 remaining, but Doleac made back-to-back shots and Armstrong followed with a 3­pointer that put the Magic ahead 81-72. 
Orlando led by at least six points the rest of the game. 
McGrady's basket to start the third quarter put Orlando ahead, 46-36. The Pacers went on to shoot 12-of-20 to lead 66­64 heading into the fourth quarter. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: Watch at DeBartolo Hall Must identify to claim 
Found: Glasses at Debartolo Must identify to claim 
Lost: SMC Ring Fri. Night 1/26, b/w Lafayette 28 and 720 Washington St. Call 284-4378 $$ Reward 
FOR RENT 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 Houses for Rent 1) 5-br $900/month 2) 4-br. $1000/month 3) 3-br. $600/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
House for lease 7/01 415 bedrooms. 3 blocks to campus. 773-486-8822 
All the good houses are not gone! We have 2, 4&5 bedroom homes 5 minutes from campus. Dave 291-2209. 
WANTED 
Cooks and delivery drivers wanted. Call Boracho Inc. at 258-9834. 
Parents who are ND grads seek older female babysitter to care for two girts ages 7 & 9, one or two weekend evenings & occasionally weekdays or evenings in our home. Must have own care. Call Judith & leave message: 287-0260 
Summer jobs! Camp Tecumseh YMCA is now hir­ing for cabins, equestrian, aquatics and support staff. We are a Christian camp located near Lafayette, Ind. Season is 10 weeks. Salary $1900-$2300. Representatives will be on campus on Feb. 8. Call for an application today! Call 1-800-382-2267 (www.campte­cumseh.orgl 
lt's an experience that lasts a life­time! 

Pet Refuge, a no kill animal shelter just 1 Omin from campus needs vol­unteers and fosters Please call 256-0886 or visit www,12etr.ef1,1~.com and email us 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spend­ing 2 hours a week reading chil­dren's books, buildings with blocks and singing songs with children, please call: Kari Alford at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Debbie Hart at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND) Please join our fun filled days. 
FOR SALE 

Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
Phone cards $20 -2601 min with .49 cent sur­charge or $20 -362 min with no fees 634-421 OSara or 634-1146 Claudia 
TICKETS 

Need tickets to ND v. Seton Hall on 2/18 Call 243-9306 2 tickets for the 2/18 men's basket­ball game vs. Seton Hall. Please call 4-3593. 
PERSONAL 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND Have your parents stay in real "Irish Comfort" at more affordable prices than area hotels. Gourmet breakfast brunch included. Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at 277­4303 Or visit our site: WWW iri§hfQ§~ QQm 
so cute. 
what else do I have to say? Nothing at all. 
Good night. 

u-----­
Wednesday, January 31, 200 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
The Notre Dame Law School 
< 
j 
• i
Natural Law Institute presents I 

The Olin 
Distinguished 
Lecture Series 
''The 
______ jectivity of Reasons tor Action'' 
Joseph Boyle 
Principal at St. Michael's College Upcoming Lectures University of Toronto 
Timothy Endicott 
Wednesday. January 31. 2001
April 5 
,, 
4 p.m.

John Gardner April 10 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Germain Grisez 
April 19 

¦ 
page 14 Wednesday, January 31, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hurricanes look for new coach after losing Davis 
has led the Badgers to two some great kids in the pro­coach. It's a great university change is right to make. 
Associated Press 
Rose Bowl berths. In addition, gram," Davis said. "But that with great academics. There's "They'll be one of the most Donna Shalala, who will program will survive. They've not a good time to ever to exciting, best teams in college 
There seems to be plenty of interest in Miami's head coaching position. 
Athletic director Paul Dee responded to dozens of phone messages, faxes, and e-mails Tuesday, one day after the Hurricanes lost coach Butch Davis to the Cleveland Browns. 
"There's always a group of people you have in mind," 
way." 
Like years past, Dee said he may seek advice from some of the nation's premier coaches. Dee talked to Bobby Bowden, Lou Holtz and Joe Paterno before hiring Davis. 
He did the same thing last year when basketball coach Leonard Hamilton left Miami for the Washington Wizards. Dee consulted Rick Pitino before hiring Tulane's Perry Clark. 
Bowden, Holtz, and Paterno may get calls again. 
"Certainly they're still the people that are the senior peo­ple in the profession and we probably will talk to them if it's possible. They are recruit­ing now," Dee said. 
Though Dee would not reveal any of the interested parties, he said interviews could begin as early as Wednesday. 
"We're getting started," he said. "We've got our legs down, we dusted off the rule book -the how-to, the idiot's guide to hiring coaches." 
Some of the coaches thought to be on Dee's list include: Wisconsin's Barry Alvarez, former Georgia coach Jim Donnan, Colorado State·s Sonny Lubick and Marc Trestman, a former Miami assistant who spent the last three years as the Arizona Cardinals' offensive coordina­tor. 
Alvarez might be Miami's 
No. 1 choice. 
He interviewed for the job in 
1995, but Miami hired Davis 
instead. Since then. Alvarez 
become Miami's president this summer, was Wisconsin's chancellor when the Badgers hired Alvarez to rebuild the program in 1990. 
"He is a terrific coach; he's done a lot of good things," Dee said. "Usually, when you think of the Big Ten, you think of Ohio State, Michigan and Penn State. But they've 
"There's always a group become a
Dee said. "But 
player in 

you never ofpeople you have in 
that confer­

know where 
mind. But you never ence, and
interest may 
know where interest may c o a c h 
come from. 
Alvarez has

We've had come from.·· 
done an out­

some pretty 
standing job

interesting 
Paul Dee there.
inquires, let 
"Whether

Miami Athletic Director
me put it that 
he would be 
the person 
that we 

would turn to is something we would want to take a look at." 
Dee scoffed at the notion of bringing back retired coach Jimmy Johnson, who coached the Hurricanes from 1984-88 before leaving for the Dallas Cowboys. Two other possible replacements also were dis­missed Tuesday. 
Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville said he has no interest in coaching at Miami, where he was an assistant during 1986-93. "I've got a better job than that now," Tuberville said. 
And former Auburn coach Terry Bowden was not among the 60 or more calls Dee has· received in two days. 
"We haven't (talked) and I don't know that we would at this point," Dee said, sounding like he might have a short list in place. 
Dee said he would like to have a coach in place before next Wednesday's national signing day. But he also will not rush to hire someone with­out an extensive search. 
The search could end down the hall at offensive coordina­tor Larry Coker's office. Coker was named interim coach Monday but probably would join Davis in Cleveland if not given the head coaching job at Miami. 
After weeks of repeatedly insisting that he would stay at Miami, Davis signed a five­year contract with the Browns. 
"There's a little bit of sad­
ness in the sense that there's gone through this transition. make a change. You have to football next season, and they There will be another good make the change when the will replace Butch Davis." 


IDEA OF ''SLIM-FIT'' JEANS 
Slightly different music, because you're slightly different. 
2000 Years Of Human Error The Massed Albert Sounds 







Looking for some extra bucks? Copy edit Observer sports. Call 631-4543 
PHUNK JUNKIE% BADLY DRAWN BOY Sex, Drugs And Rap 'N' Roll The Hour Of Bewilderbeast 
'Join Replay: MEDIAmPL~Y®The dub that rewards your love of entertainment.'" 
" Ask associate for details. Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. MediaPlay.comSM 
Cassettes available Selection, pricing and special offers may vary by store and online. on select titles. Sale ends February 10, 2001. 810411 6816 
Wednesday, January 31, 2001 page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
. ,·

HOLYCROSS: 
' 

GROWING INTO THE 21ST CENTURY 

Vince Bernardin Phil Donner 



They answered the call. What about you? 


Joe Fagan Greg Giefer John Glynn Mike Griffin, C.S.C. 





David Halm Brian Herlocker, C.S.C. Tom Hofmann 








www.nd.edu/,..vocation 
ANSWER ~ THECALL '<!)/ 




MarkLaheey Pete McCormick Patrick McGowan Brad Metz, C.S.C. 






Tim O'Malley Dan Parrish, C.S.C. Cort Peters Joey Pietrangelo 





Kevin Sandberg Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. Andy Sebesta Matt Vereecke Neil Wack, C.S.C. Nate Wills, C.S.C. Chuck Witschorik, C.S.C. 




page 16 
NBA 
New York trades versatility for power 

Associated Press 
j 
' ' 
In a trade that adds size and depth to their frontcourt, the New York Knicks acquired power forward Othella Harrington from the Vancouver I Grizzlies on Tuesday for guard 
i 
I 
i Erick Strickland and two draft
i 
picks. . 
Harrington, the starting power forward for the Grizzlies for the past 1 1/2 seasons.~ averages 10.9 points and 6.6 rebounds. He will give the Knicks another big body to back up starters Larry Johnson and Marcus Camby. 
Strickland, acquired by the Knicks from Dallas last sum­mer for John Wallace, appeared in only 2 8 of 42 games this season and aver­aged 4.3 points and 1.9 assists. 
A versatile guard who can play the point or the shooting guard spot. Strickland was stuck behind Allan Houston, Latrell Sprewell, Charlie Ward, and Chris Childs on the Knicks' depth chart. 
With the Grizzlies, Strickland i will be able to back up Mike
ll 
I Bibby at point guard and Michael Dickerson at shooting guard, or could move in as a starter if Dickerson is moved to 
I ! small forward and Shareef 
I 
Abdur-Rahim is shifted to power forward. 
The trade was the first for the Knicks since last September's blockbuster that , I sent Patrick Ewing to Seattle : ! and brought Glen Rice from Los Angeles. Aside from
!l Strickland, New York will give Vancouver the Lakers' first round pick in 2001 and a sec­ond-round pick. With a record of 26-16 head-
fRIC BIBB 
-----bluesguilarisl 
Tuesaay, February 6,200) 
1:30 P.M. in the little Theatre 
-··~-......0
1M8-{f.f!B, 
~Non• OAII.. IN 
for ti~~et info~mation c~ntact z31 -' 6 2 6 
the Samt Mary 5Box Office at Lt Lt 
ing into Thursday night's game against Philadelphia, the Knicks have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference. But they also have shown themselves to be vulner­able against teams with big front lines, a problem that was highlighted during the recent five-game suspension of Camby. 
For the Grizzlies, the move was the first in what could be a series of trades. Vancouver has been receiving inquiries from several teams regarding the availability of Abdur-Rahim and Bibby. although the Grizzlies would be much more inclined to trade center Bryant Reeves. 
Vancouver owner Michael Heisley addressed the media before Monday night's game against New Jersey, admitting his team lacks chemistry but would only make a trade if it got equal value back. 
"If I went out and traded Shareef and Bibby and all I got back was Joe Shmoe, I think the fans would be even more disappointed in us," he said. 
Harrington had career-high averages of 13.1 points and 6.9 rebounds last season but said he did not enjoy playing in Vancouver. 
The Grizzlies. with a record of 12-32, felt they could afford to move Harrington because they already have several other power forwards, including rookie Stromile Swift and vet­erans Grant Long and Tony Massenburg. 
Strickland, who spent his first four NBA seasons with Dallas, had career-high averages of 
12.8 points and 3.1 assists last season. He can opt out of his contract and become a free agent at the end of this season. 

Looking for a Creative --4rtijfto 
work Thursday Nights for the Viewpoint Section of The Observer 
Call Chad Maestas @ 243-1542 for more info. 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 2001 
Malone named to All-Star team 

Associated Press 

Karl Malone won't be going 
fishing on All-Star Weekend 
he'll be going to 
Washington instead. 

Stephan Marbury and 
Antonio McDyess a r e going, too, but Antoine .Walker, S t e v e Francis, a n d Latrell Sprewell 

are not -at least not yet. 
The NBA on Tuesday 
announced the results of the 
coaches' voting for the All­
Star reserves. Picked as the 
Western Conference reserves 
for the Feb. 11 game were 
Utah's Malone, Denver's 
McDyess, San Antonio's David 
Robinson, Seattle's Gary 
Payton. Dallas's Michael 
Finley. Portland's Rasheed 
Wallace and the 
Timberwolves· Kevin Garnett. 
The Nets' Marbury , 76ers' 
Theo Ratliff, Knicks' Allan 
Houston, Hornets' Anthony 
Mason, Pistons' Jerry 
Stackhouse, and Bucks' Hay 
Allen and Glenn Robinson 
were chosen for the East. 
Two spots remain open on the East roster because Alonzo Mourning and Grant Hill, chosen as starters in fan balloting, will not be able to play. 
Commissioner David Stern 
will choose their replace­
ments Wednesday. 


Stern may get an additional pick if Shaquille O'Neal is unable to play. He was expected to miss his second consecutive game Tuesday night with an inflamed arch on his right foot. 
For now, there are five first-timers -Marbury, McDyess, Mason, Ratliff and Tracy McGrady -among the 24 All-Stars. 
"When I came in this morn­ing and Dan [Nuggets coach Dan Issel] told me, he was excited but I was WAY excit­ed," McDyess said. "I jumped up and down about two or three times. 
"I was kind of shaking, shivering. A chill came through my body when I got the good news," Mc Dyess said. 
Previously announced as All-Star starters are the Magic's Hill, Heat's Mourning, Magic's McGrady, Raptors' Vince Carter and 76ers' Allen Iverson for the East; Lakers' O'Neal, Spurs' Tim Duncan, Kings' Chris Webber, Suns' Jason Kidd and Lakers' Kobe Bryant for the \Vest. 
Malone will be making his 13th appearance, while Robinson was picked for the 10th time, Payton for the sev­enth and Garnett for the fourth. 
Allen, Finley, Houston, Robinson and Stackhouse were selected for the second time each. 
Among the league's top 20 scorers. Antawn Jamison 
(25.1 points per game) of Golden State, Walker {22.4) 
and Paul Pierce (24.0) of Boston, Dirk Nowitzki (21.5) of Dallas and Elton Brand 
(20.8) of Chicago were left off. 
'Tm not disappointed at all. I'm disappointed more in the lack of winning of the team," said Brand, co-winner of the Rookie of the Year award last season. 'Tm sure if the wins were there, the accolades would be there also." 
"I understand everyone on here, but I can't understand Anthony Mason," Bulls coach Tim Floyd said as he looked at the list of the reserves. 
Also notable by their absence were Sprewell, who has helped the Knicks to the second-best record in the East. Jamal Mashburn of the Charlotte Hornets, who do not have any All-Star representa­tives, and Francis, who leads Houston in five offensive cate­gories. 
Robinson leads the Bucks in scoring, rebounding, blocks, and minutes. His rebounding and assist averages are career bests. 
"There's not a small for­ward in the NBA who's play­ing better," coach George Karl said. 
Allen, a fifth-year pro, owns the longest current starting streak in the NBA at 327 games. He leads the team in 3-pointers made and attempt­ed, free throws made and attempted and minutes. 
"Last year our record wasn't as good as it is this year, so a lot of people ques­tioned that we had two play­ers," Robinson said. "Now they can't say that." 

Wednesday, January 31, 2001 page 17 
The Observer . SPQRTS 

Women 
continued from page 20 
ward Jen Gombotz leads the Friars in scoring with an average of 12 points per con­test. Fellow senior Monika Roberts, the other forward, averages 11.6 points and a team-high 7 .4 rebounds per game for Jim Jabir's team. 
The Friars are coming off of a tough 72-71 overtime loss at Georgetown on Saturday -a game that fol­lowed the Irish men's upset of Hoyas. 
Despite Providence's record, McGraw's team is approaching the game seri­ously. 
"Tomorrow we need to make sure we are focused and we are ready to play," said Ivey. "Any day some team can come in here regardless of their record and come in and play good against us." 
The Irish have not played since topping West Virginia in Morgantown a week ago. The team must avoid showing 
rust on the court.  
"We'11 probably be  a  little  
complacent  at  the  begin­ 
ning," said Ivey.  

Playing at home I think we should be fired up and ready to go." 
Fans will also have the opportunity to celebrate Milk Mustache Night. The first 300 children through turnstiles can have their picture taken with a cardboard cut-out of McGraw sporting a dairy fla­vored brow. Other fans can bring their cameras to the upper concourse and join in on the celebration. Tip-off is tonight at 7 p.m. 
his 
was to be on the field for 

THE FIRE & ICE BAL..L 
***Sponsored by NAACP*** Saturday, February 10 9:00p.m. -1:30a.m. 
Lafortune Ballroom 
Only $2.00/!I 
Dress to Impress! 

Sunday night. between watching Bob Dole hawk cola products and seeing an unfortunate spill of a BudLight ruin an otherwise 
romantic  
night, I was able  Kevin Berchou  
to take in  
the  
Ravens'  Irish Insider  
demoli­ 
tion of the  
Giants in  

Super Bowl XXXV. In a game that was about as enthralling as the Fiesta Bowl, I only kept watching to see who would be named the game's MVP. 
Much to my dismay, the honor went to Ray Lewis, Baltimore's star middle line­backer and anchor of the Ravens' killer defense. Greg Gumbel, CBS' lead play-by­play man, only added to my exasperation when he took a timeout from promoting Survivor II to call Lewis a great individual following a post-game interview. 
Now, I'm one of those peo­ple who wince at the overuse of the word great. I like to reserve such superla­tives for Jesus Christ, Joe Montana, and maybe Britney Spears' performance at the American Music Awards, but calling Lewis great, that's like saying Lucifer was a good angel, or 
that Scott Norwood was a good placekicker. 

LIZ LANG/The Observer 
Sophomore guard Alicia Ratay puts her hands up to block a 
If Ray Lewis is a great

shot during a recent Irish basketball game. 
individual then Saddam 
Hussein ought to be canon­
ized. 
This is the same Ray Lewis who, just a year ago while attending the Super Bowl as a spectator. was involved in a fight which ended in the death of two men. While no one will ever know if Lewis actually inflicted the fatal wounds or not, it is certain that he fled the scene with his friends, both suspects. 

5 
It is also quite true that Lewis refused to cooperate with a police investigation, and during his double mur­der trial avoided a stiffjail
our 
sentence by copping a plea with a prosecution no more competent than the one that tried to squeeze The Juice. 
One might surmise that Lewis would be humbled by this experience, that he would realize how lucky he 

MVP not as valuable as some might say 
this Super Bowl instead of 
behind bars. But not this 
Ray Lewis. This Ray Lewis 
views the whole incident as 
a nuisance, and had even 
the gall to complain to a 
popular magazine that last 
year's trial forced him to 
miss the Pro Bowl. 
You might think that 
Lewis would have apolo­
gized to the victims' fami­
lies until he was blue in the 
face. Any great man would 
have, right? Not Ray Lewis. 
He's never spoken with the famities of either of the victims. Ray Lewis doesn't even consider them victims. He claims he was victimized, and "wrongly imprisoned." Obviously Lewis failed to schedule the classes at his alma mater, the University of Miami, that covered the accessory to murder section of the law. 
OK, so maybe he's no humanitarian but it would probably be a safe bet to say that Lewis, given where he was a year ago, would shun the spotlight and let his play on the field speak for itself, right? 
Nope, not Ray Lewis, owner of perhaps the plan­et's largest ego, who, while being introduced to the world before the game, launched into a foolish dance routine that resem· bled Ricky Martin in spasm. 
Adding to Ray Lewis' greatness are the four ille­gitimate children he has sired. But don't worry, Ray is a "great" father. In a recent article that appeared in ESPN The Magazine, Lewis proclaimed, "Friday night is family night." 
That's one night out of seven that the great Ray spends with his children. That's barely enough time to teach them to breakdance. 
In the end, things worked out for the incomparable Ray Lewis. He didn't lose the game, and it doesn't bother him that two families lost loved ones. But what Ray Lewis did lose is my respect. 
One night a week with the kids? Who knows what goes on the other six nights? Well, the families of two men do. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 


page 18 
Belles 
continued from page 20 players missed Monday's prac­tice due to sickness, swapping time that could have been used 
for team play for weight training and shooting drills. Post players Elizabeth Linkous and Katie Gamache are still questionable for play tonight. 
"We're excited to play," Christiansen said. "But our bod­ies have been run down." 
The last time these two teams 
,: 
faced off, Saint Mary's came close to defeating then first place Alma, dropping the game by only five points. 

"I think the Alma game was so close last time that we really want to win this," Smith said. 
In order to win, Saint Mary's will have to shut down Alma's sophomore leaders Shelly Ulfig and Janell Twietmeyer. Starting forward Twietmeyer dominates on offense and defense with 14 points a game and nine rebounds. Ulfig, the starting cen­ter, joins Twietmeyer averaging 
11 points and five rebounds. 
Smith will he looking to a strong zone defense and an aggressive press to cool off the hot Alma offense. 
"Their post players are very good," Smith said. "We're work­ing on shutting them down." 
Stealing the ball from the Scots will be up to starting guards Christiansen, Mary Campione and Julie Norman. Christiansen led the Belles on Saturday with four rebounds. Joining them will be post players Anne Blair, who has been leading the team in scoring, and Kelly Roberts. 

THE 

The Observer . SPORTS 
Scott 
continued from page 20 
God for all the nice people I 
have met at Notre Dame like 
Joey Getherall, Shane 
Walton, Coach Bob Davie, 

Father Edward Malloy, Rudy 
Ruettiger, the entire football 
team and Jennifer Laiber. 
These people in some way 
have made my wish an on­
going process and have 
affected my life in a positive 

way. These people as well as 
the whole ND family, in some 
way made me feel like I was 
a special kid." 
On Monday night, sports 
and the real world inter­
twined. 
On Monday night, Scott 
Delgadillo died. 
He was 14. 
Fittingly, the acronym for 

his disease was ALL, because 
Scott affected everyone. 
Including those who knew 
him simply through another 
source. 
Mention Scott Delgadillo 
and grown men cry, "tough" 
people suddenly let down 
their guard and subway 

alumni from Bangor to Baton 
Rouge relate numerous 
"Scott" stories. 
In a society criticized for 
insensitivity, ignorance, and 

individualism, Scott provided 
a uniting force. He brought 
out the best in people, espe­
cially Notre Dame people. 
Joey Getherall was one of 

Scott's closest acquaintances. 
The senior flanker and the 

teenager met when Scott vis-


Wednesday, January 31, 200 I 
ited in September. They immediately became friends and shared e-mails. phone calls and letters. 
In fact, they spoke on the phone last week. 
"You could hear how much energy he had (on the phone)," Gethcrall said Tuesday. "He never com­plained once. Ever. There's not too many out there like him. He always had a positive outlook. He would say 'yeah, I can't wait to do this, I can't wait to do that.' I remember him saying, 'I can't wait to go to college." 
I never met Scott. I never talked to Scott. I did not hear him speak at the Purdue pep rally. 
But last week. I was assigned to write a feature on Scott that would appear in the Feb. 5 edition of The Observer. 
While Scott spent his last hours with his family, I spent those hours in the Bond Hall computer cluster, searching the Internet for articles writ­ten about Scott. 
I intended to chronicle Scott's battle with leukemia and provide an update on his condition. 
Instead, I write this col­umn. 
On Monday night, sports and the real world inter­twined. 
On Monday night, Scott Delgadillo died. He was 14. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily 


is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume and a five-page statement to Mike Connolly by 5 p.m. Friday. February 2. 2001. For additional information about the position 
contact Business Manager Tim lane a 631-5313 or Editor in Chief. Mike Con.'1.olly at 631-4542. Applicants are also encouraged to stop by the office in South Dining 

Hall with any questions. 
I. 
Wednesday, January 31, 200 I page 19
The Obseroer . TODAY 

FOURTH AND INCHES  TOM KEELEY  
THE MA~ OF A NOTRE DAME ADMISSIONS BROCHURE  
JANUARY  
Fox TROT  BILL AMEND  

Then they'll k 
And. l thoutht
l'd. say there 
I SEE I 

The secret safe while we 
l was but a

You J'll1&St l,e &N two 
You 
WROTE

plans are lnlM wr own 
4eviliSh NfUI.

the one they foxes heN. 
Nf1&iSh 
I A REAL

in the safe. s-ret plant.
call "The Pox." 
, ....._. cl.evil. I
I 

\ 
PAGE­£ TURNER! 
\ 

HE USED FLIP THE SAME FLIP CHEESY 
FLIP 

LINES WITH
Fl.IP FLIP THE LAST 
F\.IP 

GIRL! 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

l /; 'I' ~ ­
.---'=:!!::::t:=:l 
FOX's original idea, "No Temptation Island", failed to capture a viewing audience. 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 

ACROSS 39 X-ray vision 69 More than 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON things that make you sad. Join blocker dislike THIS DAY: Susan Sontag, Alan groups _that will promote new
1 Kind of code 
Alda, Elijah Wood, Mikhail friendships. 000
41 Fuzzy fruits 70 Joanne of 
4 Krypton, e.g. Baryshnikov, Claes Oldenburg, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
•Abie's Irish
10 Did the crawl, 43 "Beat it!• Nick Carter, Sarah McLachlan, Don't believe everything you
Rose·
say 44 Short-straw Joey Fatone hear at work. A co-worker may 71 This-and-that Happy Birthday: You can take just be ~g to upset the rest of
14 Eddie Cantor's drawer 
dish control this. year. Be strong and you. Go to the source if you really
wife 46 Artery problems 
72 Assumes, as a force issues that you believe in. want to find out what's going on. 
15 Treat with 48 Barley bristle 
character Nothing will stop you if you are 000 carbon dioxide 49 Well-to-do determined to accomplish your LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):
73 "Uh-huh"
16 Yearn goals. People from your past will Don't overspend on entertain­
52 Freshman 

probably try to come back into ment or luxury items. Difficulties 
17 Easter language 
DOWN your life. Be cautious; you don't with older individuals will make
preceder? course 
want anyone to slow you down you angry. Put in extra time if 
1 Galvanizing
18 Fair fare 55 Early late-night or stand in your way. Be honest you have fallen behind in your
metal
20 •Downtown• host with yourself and you won't be duties.000
2 Golden calf 
singer Petula led astray. Your numbers: 9, 13, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
56 Verdi's •-tu" 

3 Some plane 22, 28, 32, 41 Coarse language in your home
22 One of five 57 Genesis 
curves ARIES (March 21-April 19): will not be acceptable. You will
23 Rap's Dr. _ 
61 Polk's New romantic partners are likely feel like getting out and away if
4 Parcel
24 Smile broadly predecessor if you ta.lee the initiative at group the tension escalates. You are bet­
5 Gorcey of the
26 End of a #2 functions. Make sure you check ter off doing things with friends 
64 1948 Rosalind 

Dead End Kids 
out their credentials before you than with family. 0000
28 Daydreamer Russell film, 
6 Some are become too attached. They aren't SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
with "The"

33 The lot performing likely to be as they appear. Don't 21): Social activity with friends 
34 Film star Flynn 67 Something up let others cost you dearly. 000 and relatives will be most suc­
7 Hoopster 
the sleeve? TAURUS (April 20-May 20): cessful. Get involved in the activi­
35 Shakers and Archibald 
others 68 _-European Don't let your jealous nature get ties of children. They will teach
8 Harrow rival 
the better of you. Arguments you far more than you imagined9 More uptight with your partner will lead to possible. 000 10 Where to sweat estrangement. You need to be CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
it out? more tolerant when your mate 19): You will have a greater con­
Puzzle by Richard HughH 
wants to spend lime with others . cern with financial matters. Use
11 Saxes, trumpets 
31 Is helpless with 52 Durable. trousers 60 South African 000 your creative ability to come up
and such 
laughter Peace Nobelist GEMINI (May 21-June 20): with ideas to bring in extra cash. 12 "The Gianr of 53 Don't exist Someone you meet while travel­000
32 George or T. S. 62 Neutral color
wrestling ing will intrigue you. Don't be AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
36 Gavel wielder 54 Espana has one 63 Start another 
13 Mobster Lansky afraid to make the first move. Your dramatic approach to emo­
58 Like _ of hitch Regardless of how far this con­tional matters may alienate you 
19 Largest asteroid 37 Burg 
nection goes, it will be well worth from the ones you love. Don't let 
21 Bro., e.g. 38 Psalm bricks 65 "I do," for one 
your while. 0000 others blame you for things you 25 Inflated currency 40 Lucy's partner 59 Motorway 66 Friend of Fidel CANCER (June 21-July 22): didn't do. Control your reactions. of the 20's 42 Cop's cry Investments will not be clear-cut 00 27 God of war 45 Dentist's Do research if you want to spare PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Answers to any three clues in this puzzle yourself a financial loss. You need Deception involving in-laws or
28 Washington's directive 
are available by touch-tone phone: to be careful not to take on too so-called friends may be some­
Vietnam 47 Criticizes 
many responsibilities. 0000 what upsetting for you today.
1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute).

Memorial, e.g. harshly LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): De­You will do well if you put your 29 Grocery stick SO Teensy Annual subscriptions are available for the pression has been getting you thoughts into organizational best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 down. It's time to make changes functions.000
51 Mary_
opt:v11 • cosmetics years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. that will help you eliminate the 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


r-
r 
\, 
r 
., 
j 
'I 
•! 


O
THE 
BSERVER

page 20 
Winning in Spite 

Despite being short superstar O'Neil. the Lakers defetaed the Cavs 102-96 at Gund Arena. 
page 12 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Zooperstars watch for Irish victory 
. Animal-impersonators to entertain fans at Lady Irish basketball game 
ByNOAHAMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
When a team is No. 1 in the country, even the celebrities come out to the games. 
As the top-ranked Irish women's basketball team hosts the Providence Friars tonight in the Joyce Center. fans will be entertained during halftime and timeouts by the Zooperstars, a group of athletic animal-impersonators. 
The group includes two "athletes" that may have escaped from Chicago's Brookfield Zoo. Following the end of the Chicago Bulls' title run, Mackerel Jordan and Dennis Frogman have been garnering much attention. Frogman should prove to be a crowd favorite. 
"He's a huge frog with tattoos and pierced nip­ples," said women's basketball marketing coordi­nator Heather Maxwell. 
Also appearing will be Dick Flytale, who promises to bug fans even more than his ESPN likeness. Two baseball-playing mammals round out the troupe -Ken Giraffey Junior and Cow Ripkin. 
On the court, the Irish will once again play without the services of starting power forward Kelley Siemon. Siemon, who injured her hand Jan. 13 versus Virginia Tech and hasn't played since Jan. 15, had been expected to return tonight. Instead, she is hoping to make her return to the court on Saturday at Boston College. 
"She's taking a little time to heal," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "We're taking as much time as we can." 
Although the Irish have easily won both games during her absence, senior point guard Niele Ivey misses her teammate on the court. 
"It's evident she's not there in practice with her voice, her leadership and her physical play," said Ivey. "We need her; I think it's evident that we need her." 
The Friars bring in a 7-10 record, including a dismal 1-6 mark in Big East play. Senior for-
see WOMEN/page 17 
Destination victory: Belles take to road 


Monday, January 29, 2001 
Scott taught 

about life 
On Monday night, sports and the real world intertwined. On Monday night. Scott Delgadillo died. He was 14. 
These stories rarely make it to the back of this paper, or in any sports page in the coun­
.try. 
It's a funny business. sports journalism. 
We spend countless hours typing. talking and traipsing around, trying to analyze ath­letic achievements. We treat games as somehow significant. We criticize coaches, put down players, ostracize owners. We glorify coaches, praise ath­letes, adore owners. 
In reality, very little of this has any relevance to the important things in life. 
Then along comes someone like Scott. 
For over a year, Delgadillo battled acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In those 12 months. he went from your typical teenager to a Notre Dame icon. 
Scott had become a symbol here. A symbol of hope, of 
•determination, of dedication, of strength, of character. For many, his speech before the Purdue pep rally was the most memorable moment of this football season. 
Following the short soliloquy, several major newspapers pro­filed Scott's story. In the past three months, The Observer published letters from coach Bob Davie, San Diego 
· ·Children's Hospital pediatric oncology nurse Meredeth McNamara, and Notre Dame public relations administrative assistant Jennifer Laiber regarding Scott's condition and inspiration. Then, Scott's words appeared in the Jan. 17 ediHon of The Observer. 
"Every night I thank God for all the nice people that have sent me their prayers," Delgadillo wrote. "I also thank 

see SCOTT/page 18 


By KATIE MCVOY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Belles are hoping to strike out on the road to victory today following a 0·3 home stand. They will take on the Scots of Alma at 7:30 p.m. in Cappaert Gymnasium at Alma. 
"I think we focus a lot better 
on the road," head coach 
Suzanne Smith said. "It could be 
good to get [the team] away 
from home and build some team 
unity." 
Saint Mary's will need focus and unity to defeat an Alma team (12-5) 
that holds second place in the MIAA with a league record of 7­
1. The Scots, who are 10-1 at home, are coming off of 

their third Smith straight vic­tory after defeating Adrian 73­59 on Saturday. 
The Belles are trying to recov­
er from their seventh straight defeat after a crushing loss to Albion on Saturday, 69-56. The loss dropped them to last place in the MIAA. 
"We're just going go out there and play and try to win," sophomore guard Katie Christiansen said. 
After starting the season with a 4-2 record, the Belles have recently fallen prey to some confidence problems. A victory 
tonight would mark only the sec­ond MIAA win all season. 
"I think right now we're play­ing against ourselves." Smith said late last week. 
Tonight, however. the Belles will be facing more than just emotional blocks. Leading post player, Kristen Matha, who sat out the last three games due to a hip flexor muscle injury, is still questionable for play. 
"I can see her getting in there," Smith said. "But it might just be for a few minutes." 
To add illness to injury. four 
see BELLES/page 18 

National Rolex Singles 
at. Ohio Statevs. Providence 

and Doubles Indoor 
Friday, 7:35 p.m.

Tonight, 7 p.m.
SPORTS • 
Championships Thursday-Sunday 
at Pittsburgh
ATA 


Track and Field Saturday, 7 p.m. 
at Alma 
Men's Swimming Meyo Invitational 
Tonight, 7:30 p.m. vs: Cleveland State Loftus Fieldhouse 
GLANCE 
Friday, 2 p.m. 
Friday-Saturday 








