Cosmo controversy
Mardi Gras madness 


Friday
Heading to the Big Easy to celebrate? Scene 
A Saint Mary's student says an article in 

gives you the history behind Mardi Gras and 
Cosmopolitan detailing the rape ofa Saint 

things to keep in mind at the festival. 
Mary's student should be a call to action. 

FEBRUARY 23,
Scene . pages 12-13 
Viewpoint . page 11 

2000 




. 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 94 -, 



Paving the way 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh had just been named rector of Farley Hall in the fall of 1948 when he received a phone call from an irate woman, the mother of one of his residents in the newly-built residence hall. 
"I got a call from a lady who said she was calling from New Orleans and her son lived in Farley Hall," said Hesburgh. "She then said to me, 'I understand you have a nigger living in that hall. Is this true?' I told her that yes, we had a black student liv­ing in Farley Hall and he was just as much a student as her son, was here legitimately and was staying here." 
Hesburgh's answer was not what the woman wanted to hear. At that time in Farley Hall, Hesburgh had 333 men living in the dorm, only one of whom was black. 
The woman gave Hesburgh an ulti­matum. She told him that he was to kick the black student out of the dorm by the next morning and if he didn't, put her son on the next plane back to New Orleans. 
The next morning came and the woman's son was on a plane headed towards New Orleans where he enrolled in Tulane University and went on to become a doctor. Hesburgh talked to the woman's son in the years after the incident. 
"He [the woman's son] told me that making him leave the University because there was a black student living in a dorm with him was the biggest mistake his mother ever 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Some ofNotre Dames first black students reflect on the early days of integration at the University and the struggles that remain 
made," said Hesburgh. 
Despite resistance from some and mandated segregation in the South, Notre Dame's policy was one of the more progressive when it came to attempting to integrate the University. 
In 1947, Frazier Thompson became the first black student to graduate from Notre Dame. A member of the Navy, Thompson was encouraged by vice president of Academic Affairs Father Kenna to return to the University to get his degree after completing his service in World War II, said Hesburgh. 
Having worked in civil rights previ­ously, upon becoming the executive vice president of Notre Dame in 1949, Hesburgh continued to push to inte­grate the University. 
"We talked and said it was a shame that we hadn't had many black stu­dents, professors, or even mainte­nance people at the University," said Hesburgh. "I wanted to see blacks as well as whites at the University." 
With Hesburgh and others' urging, the University opened up completely to blacks. Still, with options such as predominantly black colleges avail­able to black students, few chose to attend Notre Dame. 
"Everything opened up at once, including the athletic teams," said Hesburgh. "Yet I can understand that blacks may not have felt welcome here because they saw it was pretty much all white and that may have affected the number who chose to attend the University. I can see how it would have been kind of a lonely path 
see STUDENTS/page 6 

Administration: Cosmopolitan article unfair 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame administrations voiced concerns regarding an article in the March issue of Cosmopolitan magazine that hit stands Wednesday detailing the alleged rape of a Saint Mary's student by a Notre Dame stu­dent. 
The article titled .. Danger in the Dorm" detailed the story of Saint Mary's junior Sarah Alter who said she was raped her freshman year on Saint Mary's campus. 
Although the article portrayed Alter's story, members of the College and University administration felt their side of 
see COSMO/page 8 

Demonstrators push for ND to join WRC 
By JASON McFARLEY Assistant News Editor 

In the largest campus demonstration at the University in more than two years, about 100 students took part in a rally Thursday to urge Notre Dame's joining the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC). 
The rally, organized by the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), was the group's most visible and well-attended effort to date in its anti-sweatshop endeavors. On the below-freezing afternoon on the Fieldhouse Mall, speakers called for the University to commit itself to fighting unfair labor practices by joining the. watchdog WRC. 
Coordinators timed the event around the University's March 11 decision of whether or not to join the orgal1ization. 
Maureen Capillo, a Saint Mary's senior, said Notre Dame was once a leader in anti-sweatshop initiatives but has recently trailed other universities in championing the cause. 
"The reason Notre Dame has fallen behind is because it hasn't joined the WRC," Capillo said. 
The University has a history of taking an activist stance on the 
Various speakers urged students at a rally to see RALLY/page 8 lobby the University to join the WRC. 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 23, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Watch your back 

I've killed three people since Monday and I plan to continue my killing spree today. 
Empowered with a leaky water gun, I've stalked my victims, learning about their daily movements so I can hide behind a corner and shoot them dead (or, in one case, enlisting a 
strong friend to remove the  
target from the dorm so I  Scott  
could shoot him).  Brodfuehrer  
Knott and Cavanaugh  
began a game of assassins  
on Monday. For those of you  Copy Editor  
unfamiliar with the game, it  
is an opportunity for college  
students to act like third  

graders and squirt water guns at each other. Each person is given another person to kill and when he is successful, he must kill whomever the person he killed was to kill. This continues until you yourself are shot or you are the last alive, and win. 
This game is played under the guise of improv· ing gender relations. However, it just continues the practice you started freshman year when looking for an SYR date. Guys and girls sit pour• ing over the dogbook, hoping to find a person. If they are unsuccessful, they poll their friends until they come up with a successful plan. Basically, Notre Dame students are so successful at assas· sins because they know how to stalk members of the opposite sex, as that is the only way the know to meet someone who is not allowed in their dorm room past midnight. 
When I and two of my closest gun-wielding buddies infiltrated the fortress (followed a girl into the 'Naugh), we were laughed at by almost every girl that passed us in the stairwell. They all knew who we were and why we were there. One girl remarked that this was the most number of men in the hall at one time all year. At least the Cavanaugh rector has nothing to worry about. 
The game has provided some humorous situa­tions. One freshman was interrupted from study­ing by a call from Zahm Hall. The caller, in a most convincing voice convinced the student that he had a package that had been inadvertently sent to the same room in Zahm. Realizing he should have received a package from England, he went over to Zahm. 
On his way, near the North Dining Hall, two giggling Chaos girls assassinated him. Their friend from Zahm must have taken the same act­ing lessons as the Seton Hall players, because the Knott guy was as easily convinced as the refs at that game were. 
My advice to any would-be assassins is to catch your assaisee at one oftwo times to maximize the element of surprise. The best time is when they are drunk. A drunk assaisse is unsuspecting and an easy target. He can't run, and he can't hide. By the time he figures out what has hap­pened, he's dead, as I learned last night. 
Another successful tactic is to find your victim's first class and to hide in a corner. The unsuspect­ing person is barely awake and is not able to respond quickly enough to the threat. Both of these tactics have served me well and I'm plan­ning just as a successful one for the next victim. 
Watch out. 
I've survived my first week of assassins without a single scare. So, to my assassin, whomever you are, come and get me. Have fun finding me with­out a picture, which is conveniently missing from 
today's column. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Amanda Greco  
Scott Brodfuehrer  Graphics  
Andrew Thagard  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Noah Amstadter  Andrew Soukup  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Pat Kelly  Angela Campos  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vaca1ion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc: reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Lamb to be napalmed this week Monday, February 16, 1970 
A group of Notre Dame students intend to napalm a lamb on Wednesday, February 18, at 12:30 p.m., in front of the steps of the Administration building. The students are demonstrating against the presence of recruiters from Dow Chemical Corporation and Honeywell Corporation. The demonstration has been officially registered with 
Father Riehle, Dean of Students. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

AIDS ignored at Notre Dame, says alumnus Tuesday, February 22, 1994 
Graduate student John Blanford surprised the audience of a panel discussion last night by disclosing his infection with HIV. Citing the lack of awareness of AIDS and HIV at Notre Dame, Blanford made his status public at the dis­cussion titled, "Wise Before Their Time: Living with AIDS," in an effort to show the University that AIDS is indeed a problem on campus. he said. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Freshman's death remains a mystery 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
The Indiana University Police Department and the family of the freshman whose Feb. 4 death is still unexplained are concerned people with information might not be coming forward. 
Both are encouraging anyone who knows anything to call IUPD immedi­ately. 
Seth Korona, 19, died of bleeding in the brain caused by a head injury, Monroe County Coroner David Tourney said Sunday. Korona attend­ed a Jan. 27 party at the Theta Chi fraternity, was hospitalized Jan. 29 and remained in a coma until his death. 
The investigation will continue into 
next week at least, Lt. Jerry Minger 
said. Officials had hoped the investiga­

Minger said the department wants to speak to everyone who attended the Theta Chi party -potentially 600 people. 
Minger said 300 people were invited to the party, and each was allowed to 
bring a guest. 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Gore class hype wains 
The professor might have been the same, but the atmosphere surrounding former Vice President Al Gore's journalism class on Wednesday was far differ· ent from his first appearance at Columbia University two weeks ago. Whatever happened then, and what­ever the intention of both Gore and his students, the initial class was an event first and a class second. But the Columbia School of Journalism claimed all along that Gore was there to teach. and Wednesday made his first appearance in the classroom. Gone Wednesday were the television crews and throngs of reporters shouting questions, replaced by a smatter­'ing of newspapermen standing in the area cordoned off to contain the crowd that never came. Gone, too, were the faculty, students, and administrators lining the way from Gore's car to the journalism school, replaced by a pre-class coffee-and-cookies reception open to any student, faculty member, or administra­tor who knew enough to walk in the door. Only a few 
dozen did. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast Acx:11Weather ltirecast for da ·rre cooditiom and hi 
atures 

''I'd be happy if absolutely everyone at that party calls us," Minger said. "Then we'd be as thorough as possi­ble." 
He said the department wants indi­viduals at the party to call IUPD, whether or not they believe they have information to offer. He said some people at the party might think what they saw is insignificant, assume the department already knows what they saw or simply assume IUPD will call if it needs information. 
Minger said he has heard there are people with first-hand knowledge who have not contacted IUPD. He said the department wants to talk to these people. 
The department has not yet been 
able to obtain a guest list or list of 
rushees, Minger said. 
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINATTI 
Professors produce documentary 
Two University of Cincinnati professors are producing a documentary to honor the historical significance of the Underground Hailroad and to help preserve its memory. The Underground Railroad provided an escape route in the Ohio River Valley for slaves in the middle of the 19th Century. Electronic media professor Kevin Burke initiated the project after receiving a grant for $10,000 from the University Research Council in April, 1999. He called upon Keith Griffier. an African• American studies professor. to help with researching and launching the project. "The URC has been very helpful with initiating the project's research," Burke said. He added it has allowed producers to take the pro­ject a step further by developing a promotional video and an educational Web site. This will be part of the formal proposal they will submit to organizations and other funding sources. According to Burke, the College­Conservatory of Music has donated $715 for the project. 
"The fact that it happened here in our own backyard was fascinating," Burke said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

80• 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 23. 
WARM STATIONARY
COLD
C 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. 
,.,,,..,.., 

, '
® (b) D D o D D D 
k::• Sunny Pt-Cloudy Cloudy

High Low Shower• Rain T••tonna FlurTMS Snow 
V. ASSOCiltled Press  
Atlanta  65  47  Las Vegas  57  41  Portland  30  16  
Baltimore  45  26  Memphis  60  52  Sacramento  59  43  
Boston  32  20  Milwaukee  31  23  St. Louis  43  39  
Chicago  34  26  New Yori<  40  26  Tampa  78  63  
Houston  69  66  Philadelphia  43  32  Wash DC  49  30  

Friday, February 23, 200 l The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Joyce renovations in planning stages 
Filipino Fiestang set for Saturday 
24 at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. The event will feature six
By MEG DADAY 
Admission is $5 for students and dances inspired by different 
News Writer 
$7 for the general public. regions of the Philippines. According to Jane Ong, presi­According to Ong, students who Without leaving campus and 
dent of the event sponsor, the participated in Filipino dance 
for less than the price of a Filipino American Student troops in their hometowns movie, students can be trans­
Organization, the purpose of the helped choreograph the dances 
ported to a different country 
evening is to "expose the cam­and provided instruction to oth­Saturday night at the Filipino pus to Filipino culture. A lot of ers. 
Fiestang. 
the dances celebrate the simplic­In addition to the FilipinoThe seventh annual Fiestang ity of life and show how much dances, there will also be perfor­Filipino, a showcase of Filipino [Filipino people] enjoy doing mances by First Class Steppers,food and dance, will be held Feb. 
their work." the Hawaii Club and Troop ND. 
TAKE IT UP ANOTCH. 

CHOOSE THE PATH LESS TRAVELLED. 

At. Schlumberger we thrive on new challenges. We build and operate the 
most advanced technology in the world and travel to the ends of the earth to implement it. We don't follow paths, we forge new ones for the rest to follow. Our employees are trained to master the technology of today, and are challenged to create the technology of tomorrow. Go ahead, choose the path less travelled, or better yet. create your own. 
Notre Dame Interviews 
Information Meeting: 
February 26, 2001 
7:00 pm -9:00 pm Center for Co_ntinuing Education, Room 100 

TAKE IT UP A NOTCH. 
Interviewing:

PUSH YOUR LIMITS. 
February 27, 2001 

VISIT OUR WEBSITE. 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
After examining the condi­tion of all athletic facilities, the athletic department is holding preliminary meetings to discuss the renovation of the Joyce Center. 
According to associate ath­1etic director for Game Management and Facilities Tom Kelly, the department examined all game, practice, functions take place just in the arena, like basketball and volleyball games, freshman orientation and commence­ment." 

According to Kelly, since the Joyce Center opened in 1968, only minor improve­ments have been made to the facility. 
"We're anxious to get start­ed but do not yet know the implications of what will be done," he said. 
In the next weeks, the ath­

support and letic depart­conditioning "We 're anxious to get ment will facilities and hold meetings
started but do not yet 
compared to determine
know the implications of
them with what work facilities of what will be done ... will be com­other schools pleted. The during the department
fall semester, Tom Kelly will be work­as well as associate athletic director for ing with the c o n d u ct i n g Game Management and Facilities University over 50 hours during this of interviews process and with people who use the the construction will be done facilities. As a result of this in cooperation with the process, the Joyce Center University master plan. emerged as a facility that the "We will try to keep the department would like to facility available during con­improve. struction, like the stadium 
"It's a big part of our facili­was, so we won't be able to ty package," said Kelly. do everything we want to do "Such a large number of at the same time," said Kelly. 


Please Recycle The Observer.  



J(W[f'lf~@ ~ff@@~
Schlumberger 
~w,.~slb:c~~~°.""...< ' 1 

:'A [p @ ff 7f lAf\l <2 wlf~ 
· An equal opportunity employer. ___....;._____J 
Closest To Campus 

Hurry, Hurry, HurryUI 
Now Leasing 2-Bedroom Townhouses 
Spaces are FiUing Fastrn Stop by the Office for an Application or Call 272-8124 for Further Details! 
TIME FOR A CHANGE? 
Work for the OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
i...,.___ ((b.JDIISZP• JC . illl ilbi ldXSU ; £.... 

Work wnh the Athletic Depanment Develop Beard 01 Trustees Repons: Sena on Spiritual and Diversnv Committees; He11 Plan Founder's Dav; Assist with Public Relations, Programming, Potlcv, Academics, Student Services, Soclal Action, Webpauenechnology, 
andmore 

Applic.ations for all positions for the 2001-02 school year can he picked up in the Student Government Office, 203 LaFortune, starting February 21st. 1\ct quickly...~he deadline Is February 25th! 

milkplovv mixes reggae, funk. hip hop, industrial, techno, and loud driving rock for a revolutionary sound that is making them one of the best up and coming bands in Chicago 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 23, 2001 
LET'S TALK ABOUT LOVE
Notre Dame Film. Television. and Theatre presents 


_LL\t l ( ) rs 1~1 r< )l l l rrIl ( \ Li)l l cl()I l st(l gl1 

--~ The Winter's Tale 
by William Shakespeare Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............. 7 :30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7 :30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Please recycle The Observer. The earth will thank you. 

COME WATCH 12 REALLY NICE GUYS ACT LIKE 
ELVE 

Moreau Seminary Auditoriulll
ANGRY 

(Northside of St. Joe Lake, directly across from the Dome.) 
• the original • . Broadway production Fri/Sat, Feb. 23-24 
•THE PLAYERS• Matt Vereecke Matt B iergans Joe Fagan Tim O'Malley Greg Haake Tom Hoffman Mike Griffin Brad Metz Nate Wills David Halm Mark Holloway Joey Pietrangelo with Jim Gallagher, Neil Wack, and Eric Schimmel "A staggering achievement 
for first-time director, Matt Kutz" 
The Observer wants you to write for news. Call 1-5323 for more information. 
• 



ATION 
Friday, February 23, 2001 
COMPILED FROM -THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Zapatistas Qutline march plans: 
~exico's ~apatista rebels, who are preparing a Jcmrney from the jungle to rally support for Indian rights, accused President Vicente Fox on Thursday of trying to rush the guerrillas to peace without achieving justice. 
Britain tries to contain disease: 
Brandishing bright-yellow tape to cordon off farms and slaughterhouses that could harbor foot-and-mouth disease, veterinary inspectors set out into the English countryside Thursday, searching for new cases of the highly conta­gious livestock ailment. One new case was found Thursday, three days after the sickness surfaced, and authorities briefly quarantined a second slaught~rhouse over a suspected case that proved negative. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Indian convicted of killing sons: An American Indian was convicted of second­degree murder Thursday for drowning his two sons, a case tribal leaders said should never have gone to state court because of sovereignty concerns and because they had forgiven him. Kirk Douglas Billie, 32, from Miami admitted driving a sport utility vehicle containing his sons into the canal off the Miccosukee reserva­tion in 1997, He said he did not know the boys were in the back seat. 
U. S. warns Cancun travelers: The State Department is offering advice to the pro­jected 100,000 American teenagers arid young adults who plan on visiting Cancun, Mexico, during spring break: Behave yourselves or you could be in trouble. "Excessive alcohol con­sumption and unruly...behavior can lead to serious problems with Mexican authorities," says a State Department fact sheet. It said alco­hol is involved in the vast majority of arrests. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Brother saves sibling's life: Police say a bilingual 11-year-old helped save his younger brother's life when he calmly lis­tened to a Hammond 911 dispatcher's instructions and told his Spanish-speaking mother how to perform CPR. Daniel Tinajero said he knew it was important that he stay calm and listen to the dispatcher. "If I didn't remain calm, I couldn't translate everything," Daniel said. "I learned how to use 911 in school. They taught us about fire drills and other emergencies. They told us that in cases of emergency to stay calm." 
Market Watch 2/22 

Dow 
10,526.58 -204.30

]ONES 

Composite
Same: Volume:

1g)4 177 
NIA 

A.MEX: 
·912.30. Nasdaq: 2,268.94 -49.41 ···~ NYSE1lll!;:l[i62,?f •· ~11.62.:'!~ 


S&P 500: 1,255.27 -23.67 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICESUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1182 -2.63 19-62 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.62 -0.94 25.12 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQJ •2.81 
• l.49 SLSO 

ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 
-0.54 -0.13 23.00 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.19 30.75
-0,69 


NETHERLANDS 
Associated Press 
THE HAGUE 
A U .N. tribunal on Thursday established "sex­ual enslavement" as a crime against humanity, convicting three Bosnian Serbs who took part in the nightly gang-rapes and torture of Muslim women and girls at so-called "rape camps" during the Bosnian war. 
The tribunal found Dragoljub Kunarac and Radomir Kovac guilty of sexually assaulting and torturing Muslim women and girls as young as 12 years old; forcing them to perform domestic chores and selling them into fur­ther bondage. They received 28 and 20 year sentences, respectively. 

A third defendant, Zoran Vukovic, was convicted of raping and torturing a 15­year-old girl -who was about the same age as his own daughter -but acquitted him of most other charges for lack of evidence. He was sen­tenced to 12 years impr!s­onment. 
The· ruling marked a milestone for the recogni­tion of women's special vulnerability during war and the need for legal sanctions to prevent them from being treated as spoils of battle. It will help set legal precedent by out­lining the criteria neces­sary to bring future cases. 
Although there have been several rape convic­tions at both the Yugoslav tribunal and another U .N. court on the Rwandan genocide, the Foca case was the first international war crimes trial to focus on sexual crimes. And despite the well-document­ed rape of Asian "comfort women" by Japanese sol­diers during World War II, no one had been convicted before for wartime sexual enslavement, scholars say. 
"This establishes that being held in captivity in a sort of quasi brothel situa­tion against your will is a form of enslavement," Avril MacDonald, an expert at the T.M.C. Asser Institute of International Law in The Hague. "It's also rape as a separate crime, but now there are two crimes there." 

"What the evidence shows," the judgment said, "is that the rapes were used by members of the Bosnian Serb armed forces as c1n instrument of terror -an instrument they were given free rein to apply whenever and against whomsoever they wished." 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher wel­comed the verdict, calling it historic. 
Bush holds first press conference 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush, in his first full­fledged news conference, declared the military strike against Iraq a success Thursday despite the sub­par performance of U.S. missiles. "We got his attention," he said of Saddam Hussein. 
Fielding questions for a half hour. the president also said he was "deeply concerned" about the FBI spy case but gave agency director Louis Freeh a vote of confidence. "I think he does a good job," Bush said two days after FBI agent Robert Philip Hanssen was arrested and accused of spying for Moscow. 

By turns confident and cautious, Bush answered more than a dozen questions after opening the White House briefing room session with a defense of his tax-cutting and bud­get-tightening plans. 
Bush, who will outline his budget priorities in an address to Congress on Tuesday. said he would increase spending for popular education and Medicare programs while reducing the rate of growth in the federal budget overall. "Some are saying it's too small. Some are saying it's too large." he said of his 10-year, $1.6 trillion tax cut proposal. 'Tm saying it's just right." 
A punctual president, Bush start­ed and stopped the news confer­ence on time. 
Bush fields questions from reporters nearly every working day at the White House, but Thursday's session was his first formal news conference. 
Aides gave reporters just 60 min­utes notice and chose the briefing room rather than the more formal East Room setting. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS -Priday, February 23, 2001 
church on campus frequently [who ran his high school] off right now.'' attracting and retaining black (although he said he never my back," said Finley~ "I didn't During the time Finley was at students, both said there is still 
Students 
could keep up with all the Hail 
continued from page 1 Mary's). studied, and attended 
football games. and it would require a lot of Yet even though the courage." University was integrated, that 
didn't mean that black and 
white students were interact­
Clarence Hodges 
ing. In his free time, Hodges
For Clarence Hodges who 
would go to the Huddle to playgraduated from the University 
pool. Other students would
with a degree in education in 
gather there to play also. 
1955 and a master's degree in "I was older than those boys
1957, it didn't matter that 
to begin with and I know they
Notre Dame was an over­
came from well-to-do familieswhelmingly white University, 
but I did my best to integrate
because proximity to his home the pool tables," said Hodges.
in Michigan was a priority. 
"I would go down there and
Attending another college that 
play pool on all the different
could have promised more 
tables so if someone wanted todiversity wasn't an option. 
play pool, they had to play withHodges served in the U.S. 
me. I helped them to inte­
military from 1940 to 1943 and grate."
through the GI Bill, which 
After being a teacher for 40
enabled veterans to get a col­
years and receiving a master'slege education, 'decided to use 
degree in education from
the funds from the entitlement Michigan State, Hodges is stillto attend the University. With a in love with Notre Dame. 
wife, five kids, and a full-time "Notre Dame is an education­job at a factory in Michigan, al setting that is just different
Hodges was not a traditional 
from everywhere else," he
college student. 
said. comparing his experience
"I only lived 20 minutes 
at the University to his time atfrom Notre Dame and my time Michigan State. "If there is anyto use the money from the GI 
one thing that I like about
Bill was running out so I came 
Notre Dame it is that it is a
over to talk to one of the 
Christian university. I haven'tFathers at Notre Dame and he run across anything that comessuggested I apply and enroll at 
remotely close to being a
the University," said Hodges. 
Christian university like Notre
Being one of only three 
Dame. If I could do it all again, 
black students on campus 
I'd still come to Notre Dame.
didn't bother Hodges. In fact, 
I'm in love with the
race had never been something University."
that affected him. 
Hodges still returns to the
"I've never had any kind of 
University
internal feelings 
for foot­
about the race 
"/ was used to being a b a l 1
issue," said 
grain ofpepper in a sea of games,
Hodges. "I was 
particular-
born and raised in salt.·· 
1 y the
Arkansas where 
y e a r s
we had separate 
Ben Finley when the
schools but all of 
Irish playmy playmates Notre Dame alumnus Michiganwere white. The 
State.
only difference 
"I love
was that when 
to come topeople walked by 
t h o s e
we had to pretend games," said Hodges. "It's notlike we didn't like each other even a question of who I cheerbecause everything was segre­for though. Definitely not thegated at that time." 
Spartans. Once you are a NotreHodges attributed the lack of 
Dame fan, you're always a
racism he saw at the University Notre Dame fan."
to the Catholic nature of the institution. 
"I would have never gone to Ben Finley Indiana University of South Bend," said Hodges. "But I When Ben Finley arrived to knew Notre Dame was a begin his freshman year at Catholic university and that the Notre Dame in 1956, he was Fathers wouldn't take any fool­one of only 25 black students ishness and wouldn't tolerate on campus. For Finley, this racism. There was no feeling of was nothing new. Born and differences whatsoever when I raised in New York City, he was at Notre Dame. attended high school at All 
"I was just another Notre Hollow's Institute where in a Dame student. Notre Dame class of 56 students, he was was just different. I never one of two black students. heard anything of any racial "I was used to being a grain discussion while I was there. I of pepper in a sea of salt," said think people had other things Finley, who graduated in 1960 to think about, like getting with a degree in electrical their work for class done." engineering. 
Being "just another Notre However, Notre Dame was Dame student" meant that not Finley's first choice. Hodges had all of his classes in "I initially applied to Notre the Main Building, went to Dame to keep the Brothers want to go to an all-male insti­Notre Dame, the Civil Rights tution and I wanted the coed movement was in full swing. As experience." a whole, Finley said he 


In the end, Finley was left to wouldn't describe the student decide between the University body at that time as being of Colorado and Notre Dame. unprejudiced. As more stu­His decision to attend Notre dents on campus began to Dam~ was not the most ortho­become a part of the Civil 
dox. Rights movement through cam­
"The only thing left on the pus organizations, Finley found table was the University of himself being one of only 25 Colorado and Notre Dame so I black students in the role of 
asked my girlfriend at the time teacher fielding questions from where she thought I should go confused white students. and she said she would rather "Being one of 25 black stu­tell her friends I went to Notre dents provided me with manyDame so I chose Notre Dame," opportunities to explain to 
he said. white people at the University
In general, Finley said that 'why are you making our with very few exceptions, he 
Negroes unhappy?"' said 
experienced very little overt 
Finley.

racism. But one of those excep­This was a common question
tions came the first weekend 
he was asked by his white 
Finley was at Notre Dame. 
classmates. 

"During freshman orienta­"It was not unusual during
tion, I was down by one of the 
that time for guys, especiallylakes sitting on the dock with those from the South to come 
one of my dormmates," he to my room and talk about said. "What happened next 
race issues," said Finley. "They 
was that he 
were
used the 'n• 
"Ifyou are black, Protestant, racist
word and I just b u t
punched him in and a person who has grown 
t h e y
the face. We up in the city, packing up and 
h a d
ended up in the 
going to South Bend is not the been
lake and no one 
raised
most appealing thing on
tried to break 
racist
'us up. And that earth ... 
and for 
was the last 
them,
time that that 
Father Theodore Hesburgh t h i s
happened." 

w a s
For Finley, 
proba­
college proved bly the
to be a continuation of high 
first _time that they had inter­
school and he remained a 
faced with black students one­
"grain of pepper" along with 
on-one.

the 24 other black students at 
"We [Finley and the other
Notre Dame, who became a 
black students] were there to
close-knit group. 
teach, whether we wanted to
"Every night after dinner we 
or not, and explain to these
would meet in someone's dorm guys why folks in the South 
room for about two hours were conducting these civil
maintaining our ethnic identi­rights marches."
ty," said Finley. "We would just talk and make plans for the weekend and then after that. An Uphill Struggle we left to go back into the sea of salt. We were very close and While both Hesburgh and if you asked me today, I could Finley acknowledge that the tell you where each of them is University has made strides in a long way to go. 
"Today, there is no question that we spend much time try­ing to get black students to come to Notre Dame," said Hesburgh. "We have white stu­dents coming out of our ears applying here. If you are black, Protestant, and a person who has grown up in the city, the thought of p_acking up and going to South Bend is not the most appealing thing on earth. It takes having a number of people from a group here for those students to feel comfort­able. 
"Every year we get a few more black students but it has required enormous amounts of scholarship money. But I must say that the admissions office has done a great job. We are making more progress every year." 
The efforts of the Black Alumni of Notre Dame {BAND). a subcommittee of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. have_ been instru-mental in recruiting black students. In addition, BAND has gone to great lengths to interact with black students on campus. 
"In all honesty, Notre Dame has made huge strides in recruitment and while much is yet to ·be accomplished, the University should be congratu­lated for its accomplishments," said Finley. 
Finley said that the University needs to actively recruit more students in gener­al in order to recruit more black students. 
"In Notre Dame's mindset, we don't need to recruit stu­dents and we don't need to sell the place to people because they'll still get their 10,000 applicants from well-qu<!,lified people," said Finley. "A differ­ent tactic needs to be taken. We need more of a marketing pitch as opposed to an infor­mational pitch." 


r--------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, February 23, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
ByMOLLYMcVOY 
Saint Macy's Editor 
The lack of enthusiasm that characterized the student body elections at Saint Mary's did not carry over into the class elections when eight tickets presented their platforms at the meet the candi­dates night. 
Four tickets arrived to repre­sent the freshman class in run­ning for sophomore class board. Only one ticket was present to run for junior class board while three presented platforms for senior class offices. 
Sophomore class tickets 
The four tickets running for sophomore · class board all emphasized increasing communi­ty with Notre Dame and increas­ing pride in their class and the community of Saint Mary's. 
The Mahoney/McGraw ticket which emphasized activities with Notre Dame and new activities for the sophomore class think that if they are excited about activities, they can increase the rest of the student body excited as well. 
"If there's someone very excited about the activity in each hall, more people get excited," said Jenny McGraw, candidate for vice president. "If we could get some­one in each ahall to work with us in that role, I think that would help." 
The Mahoney ticket hopes to implement a class trip to Chicago and have a bowling night once a month as a class. 
With a motto of sophoMORE SPIRIT, The Brettnacher/Hall tick­et focused on activities that would increase spirit and communica­tion in board of governance and the sophomore class. They want to keep Dalloways open past pari­etals on weekends and sponsor a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's sopho­more back to school dance. 
SMC candidates discuss platforms 
Malloy: high academic 
Senior class tickets 

standards necessary 
"Our ticket's motto is 
sophoMORE SPIRT, and I think 
this platform has a ton of spirit," 
said Mandy Brettnacher, candi­
date for sophomore class presi­
dent. 
The Jablonski-DiehVJanke tick­
et emphasized coordinating activ­
ities for more participation and 
sponsoring both service and spirit 
activities. They want to have 
career exploration available for 
the class and sponsor a blood 
drive as a class. 
"Each of us on our ticket are 
diverse," said Linda Janke, candi­
date for vice president. "We each 
bring a lot of different ideas to the 
platform. Hopefully, they'll be 
new and innovative." 
The last ticket running for sophomore class offices, the Harrison/McLaughlin ticket emphasized all of the communi­ties that Saint Mary's women are a part of. The want to increase the communication between Notre Dame women, Holy Cross Women and Saint Mary's women in addition to having a mentoring program within the majors and a sophomore class picinic. 
"First of all, we want to do whatever you want us to do," said Katie Harrison, the presidential ticket. 
Junior class tickets 
The single ticket running for junior class offices consisted of Alison Joseph, Stephanie Pace, Maria Conticelli and Julie Richardson. Their focus is on unity and involvement. They hope to sponsor a junior spirit week that would culminate with a junior class dance. 
"Community is the key to any successful event," vice presidenial candidate Pace said. "To help enhance community between the board and our class, we want to have a suggestion box, a newslet­ter. a website and a bulletin board." 

Three tickets entered the race 
for senior class board and were 
represented at meet the candi­
dates night. They all emphasized 
the importance of making their 
senior year memorable and plan­
ning activities that will do so. 
The Kuhen/James ticket want 
to plan activities that make life 
easier for students, like offering 
Saint Michael's laundry service 
Volunteer work was important as 
with all the other tickets at meet 
the candidates. 

"Saint Michael's has the trans­
portation and the time for us," 
Kuhen, the presidential candidate 
said. "They don't have a way to 
bill us yet, so the only thing left to 
implement a way to collect the 
money." 

In addition to increasing spirit, 
the Meyer/Houser ticket wants to 
offer information and opportuni­
ties related to graduation and 
career planning. The also hope to 
have a spring field day and winter 
"snowdown" that will offer out­
door activities for the class. 

"We hope to have a column in our newsletter dedicated to senior post-graduation news," Meghan Meyer, the candidate for presi­dent said. "We'll have a liason on ·our board that will work directly with Dave Wilkenson from career 
and counseling." 

make sacrifices in the name of athletic success, Malloy said. But, pointing to the high grade point averages and graduation rates of Notre Dame student­athletes, he argued that the University is a good example of what can be done by a school which resists that temptation. 
"I think all of us here should be proud of our success in that area," he said. Notre Dame benefits from having built a strong support network for its student-athletes, Malloy said. Tutoring, academic support services and other programs go a long way towards helping to ensure success. The people who lead those student-athletes are a big influence, too. 
"I think the coaches have a very important role to play, in whom they recruit, in how much emphasis they place on academic success, on how they celebrate that success and how they deal with failure," he said. 
The University president expressed faith in the idea that Notre Dame can continue, and expand, its success in intercol­legiate athletics despite the trends towards professionalism 
in football and 

Another major part of their 
~:4s long as we can do basketball. He
them.

ticket was increased interest in 
dismissed, at

"There are what we do with
Saint Mary's athletics. They want 
least for now,
intense pres­

integrity. we'll go whole­
to sponsor a "game of the weelf' 
the notion that
sures to have

that will possibly be sponsored by 
hog in that direction ... Notre Dame
competitive

several classes at the college. 
should Jorn
salaries. to

The Weldon/Crawford ticket 
with other

have state of Father Edward Malloy
also emphasized the importance 
academically
the art facili­

University President
of a memorable senior year. They 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
The challenges facing univer­sities which strive to maintain academic integrity and field top-quality athletic teams are 
greater  than  ever,  said  
University  
president  
Father  
Edward  
Malloy  
Thursday  
in a broad­ 
ranging  
talk about  
sports and  
study  at  Malloy  
N  o t  r  e  
Dame.  
In  an  era  in  which  most  

schools lose money on sports. fewer student-athletes gradu­ate and the promise of profes­sional contracts lures many to leave college early, building programs that emphasize acad­emics while remaining compet­itive is difficult. This leads col­leges and universities to make sacrifices, financial and other­wise, to justify their sports pro­grams by excelling in 
departments nationwide oper­ate on a deficit. But those departments spend still more money, in order to be competi­

,.,-::., -"'~ COME To PAPA 
tive and potentially recoup their losses. This, in part, has led to high salaries for coaches. 
){t J 
Malloy noted that more than 30 college football coaches earn at least $1 million a year.
rJJI FOR 
Academic standards is anoth­er area in which universities 
'>~~ DINNER! 

The University of Notre Dame Department of .Music Gt.est Artist Series presents 
:.:/Join us for dinner and enjoy generous portions of 
Italian entrees and pastas like: 


S111ithsonian Trio 
Marilyn McDonald. baroque violin l\enneth Slowik. viola da gamba 'd? baroque cello
• Shrimp Farfalle • Chicken Parmesan 

James \Veave"r. harpsichord 
• Pasta con Fbllo • Shrimp Ravioli 

A Tribute to 
• Chicken Scallopini • Salmone alla Griglia 

Johann Sebastian Bach 
And remember, Papa recommends that you 
complement your meal with our delicious appetizers, 

Sunday, February 25. 2001 
2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art 
desserts and wines. 
Fantastico! 

Tickets required: $3 students • $6 senior citizens $8 ND/SMC employees • $10 general admission 
p,._,.1/t vt.~,?:J~­
Tickets are available at the Lafortune Box Office. 
(2 I 9) 63 I -8 I 28
-ftTALIAN KITCHEN® A celebration of great taste. 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219.271.1692 RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: 
Sunday -Thursday 11:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Friday -Saturdayll:OOa.m.-11:OOp.m. 



for more ,nformalion. plea"' call (21 ll) (l.'; I-H20 I. email congoers@nd edu. l1r ,1sit y.ww.nd edu/-congoers 
elite schools in 

a separate league from the rest of the NCAA, and said he is commit­ted to trying to both compete at the highest level and hold stu­dent-athletes to the highest academic standards. 
"As long as we can do what we do with integrity," Malloy said, "We'll go whole-hog in that direction." 
The discussion was part of "The Bridge" series, a monthly convocation about the relation­ship between athletics and aca­demics at Notre Dame. It was sponsored by the University's Center for Sports, Character and Culture. 
hope to be instrumental in those memories by having a first semes­ter senior retreat, Saint Mary's tailgates and a senior talent show. 
"The retreat will be there so bonding among seniors can take place," Erin Weldon, the presi­dential ticket said. 
ties, to keep up with the Jonses so you -can stay in the running," Malloy said. 
Notre Dame is nearly unique in the fact that it makes money on its sports programs. accord­ing to Malloy, who noted that 85 to 90 percent of athletic page 8 

Rally 
continued from page 1 
issue. 
In 1997 it created a code of conduct regulating the produc­tion of Notre Dame apparel and goods and a year later formed the Task Force on Anti-sweatshop Initiatives. 
In late 1999 the University requested that manufacturers of its school-logo merchandise disclose their factory locations and last August required dis­closure of factory addresses by its licensees. 
Notre Dame is currentiy a member of the Fair Labor Association (FLA), a corporate monitoring system, and con­tinues to study living wage issues in the United States and abroad. 
Speakers on Thursday raised several concerns about the University's membership in the FLA. 
Sheila McCarthy, who described garment factory conditions she encountered while studying in Sri Lanka, said the WRC is better equipped to address labor issues. 
While the WRC was formed by anti-sweatshop activists to empower workers, the FLA was created with the backing of corporations who want to protect their image, McCarthy said. 
"There are problems like sexual harassment and forced overtime occurring in facto­ries. The FLA doesn't address that like the WRC," she said. 
Event organizers collected more than 100 signatures Thursday on a petition that encourages the University to join the WRC. 

Saint Mary's already belongs to the organization. Purdue University and the University of Michigan also are members. 
Aaron Kreider, a PSA mem­ber. said the group will likely forward the petition to the Notre Dame Task Force on Anti-sweatshop Initiatives early next week, before the body makes a recommenda­tion involving WRC member­ship to University officials. 
Kreider said meetings with members of the task force have yielded positive results. 
The rally Thursday featured the biggest student turnout at a demonstration in at least two years. In fall 1998, stu­dents protested what they believed was Father David Garrick's forced resignation, following the University's deci­sion to not add homosexuality to its non-discrimlnation clause. 
Kreider said the PSA pro­duced more than 2,500 flyers, chalked sidewalks and distrib­uted leaflets in preparation for the rally Thursday. He said he was pleased with the turnout. 
"This is the result of about two weeks of organizing. We were only expecting around 50 people, so to see more than 100 today is great," he said. 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 23, 2001 
"If a student wants to report the assault to security they can and security performs an
Cosmo 
investigation," said Dana North. director of continued from page 1 Residence Life at Saint Mary's, "From there a student can choose to prosecute. But we are 
the story got lost in the final cut of the article. here as a support system for the student." "I spent an hour talking to Carol Huang [the 
Though not able to talk specifically about article's author] and she chose not to use our Alter's case, Linda Timm, Saint Mary's vice 
information," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice 
president of Student Affairs and Mary
president of Student Affairs at Notre Dame. "I DePauw. director of Career and Counseling atdid not think it was a terribly fair article." 
Saint Mary's discussed the procedure of rapeMelanie Engler of the Saint Mary's public cases.
relations office agreed. 
Timm and DePauw said officials from theEngler said she thought the story did more office of Student Affairs encourage studentsharm than good and said she was concerned to report any case of sexual
that both campus' administra­assault. Along with encour­
tions were talked to and not "I did not think it was a 
aging a student to come, thequoted. The article was "irre­
terribly fair article . ., office gives guidelines that
sponsible journalism," she said, are followed when such anbecause once it has been pub­
lished. many people can read it Bill Kirk assault case is known. 
are

and it is nearly impossible for assistant vice president of "When we notified of members of the administration an assault we put the cam­
Student Affairs 

to counteract damage that may pus on alert," said Timm. have been done by the article. Knowing her story hit 
"You can write letters to the newsstands on Wednesday, editor or send e-mails to the Alter said she did not tell reporter but who is to say that the same peo­her story to make her rape only a Saint ple that read that magazine will read the Mary's and Notre Dame issue. 
other with the retraction statement," said She said that she told her story to break the Engler. silence of rape victims everywhere, not just to The idea that nothing can be done about the draw attention to the rieed for adjusting the 
Cosmopolitan article concerns people in 
rape and assault policies at Saint Mary's and 
administration. According to people in the 
Notre Dame. 
Residence Life office at Saint Mary's, there is "I know there is a lot of negative feedback 
a specific procedure that is followed in 
out there but if my story can relate to some­
assault cases. A procedure that many feel 
one in Oklahoma and help them come for­was not touched upon in the Cosmopolitan ward, then that's good," said Alter.
article. 


;~f~'. , ?_:' 
-~\f::~:_'. ':-,, 
.t-~-,· -, ...: ,-·. 

our colleagues in imagining what we might do re Dame in the classroom and beyond." 
WORKSHOP: 
11DISTA·NCE LEA.RNING, INTERNET COMMUNITIES, AND STUDY ABROAD: REPORT ON AN EXPERIMENT" 
4:00-6:00 PM Monday, February 26, 2001 Room 117 O'Shaughnessy 
LECTURE: 
READING FOR THE LINK: 
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND 
THE HUMANITIES 12:30-1:30 PM Tuesday, February 27, 2001 Room 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Russell A. Berman, Stanford University Walter A. Haas Professor in the Humanities Professor of German Studies and Comparative Literature Dean for Undergraduate Studies Former Director of Standfords Overseas Studies Programs 
All Students and Faculty Invited to Attend 
Friday, February 23, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 9 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope assigns churches to 44 new cardinals 
Associated Press 
Along with the scarlet hat and golden ring, 44 new cardinals get a church in Rome to care for as a sign of their new responsi­bility as Roman Catholic "princes." 
Pope John Paul II. who bestowed the rings on Thursday and the hats 
o n 
Wednesday, I O


a s John Paul II 
charged each new cardinal with one of Rome's 1,048 churches. 
High-profile churches -often ones in need of costly repairs ­tend to go to cardinals from wealthy countries. 
Two of Rome's better-known churches went to the cardinals from New York and Washington. The United States is one of the church's leading financial con­tributors, along with Germany. 
New York Archbishop Edward 
Egan said he looks forward to 
helping raise money for repairs 
at his "titular" church, the 
Church of Saints John and Paul. 
"Rome is a city of great music, 
art and beauty. But above all, 
Rome is a city of holiness," said 
Egan, who takes "title" on 
Friday. 
Washington Archbishop 
Theodore E. McCarrick -one of 
four American citizens to have 
the pope slip the ring on his 
right hand at a Mass on 
Thursday in St. Peter's Square 
-was assigned the Church of 
Saints Nereus and Achilleus. 
Mccarrick will celebrate Mass 
on Sunday at the church, built in 
the fourth century over the 
graves of Nereus and Achilleus, 
who were killed by the Roman 
emperor Diocletian. 
The tradition of "titular" 
churches goes back centuries, 
when there were 25 major 
churches in Rome and a cardi­
nal's right to vote for pope 
stemmed from being pastor of 
one of these churches. Today, all 
cardinals under 80 are eligible 
to vote. 
The other new American-born 
cardinal, Fordham University theologian Avery Dulles is 82 and cannot vote for pope. Dulles · will take title Friday to the 1 Church of the Names of Jesus 
and Mary. 
Another U.S. citizen ­
Ukrainian-born, American-edu­
cated Lubomyr Husar, the arch­
bishop of Lviv, Ukraine -was 
assigned the Church of Saint 
Sofia, an Eastern rite church. 
Egan, 68, succeeded the late 
Cardinal John O'Connor in May 
as head of the New York arch­
diocese. McCarrick, 70, was 
named Washington archbishop 
in November.· 

SOUTH KOREA 
Nation could end missile accords 
Associated Press 

SEOUL 
In a sharp outburst Thursday, North Korea threatened to scrap missile and nuclear accords with Washington and railed against the Bush 
administra­tion's plans for a missile defense sys­tem. 
The new 
U.S. admin­istration's foreign and 


n a t i o n a l Bush security teams are increasingly adopting a "hard­line stance" toward Pyongyang. North Korea's Foreign Ministry said in a statement carried in English on KCNA, the country's foreign news outlet. 
Washington wants Pyongyang "to totally disarm itself first. The 
U.S. is seriously mistaken if it thinks that Pyongyang will accept its demand,"it said. 
The statement is a clear warn­ing to President Bush, four months after then-Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and North Korean leader Kim Jong II toasted one another at state banquets in Pyongyang, capital ofthe communist nation. 
While the fundamentals ofU.S. policy toward North Korea remain unaltered, there was a marked shift in tone after Bush took office. His senior aides seemed more wary about the prospect of progress and more assertive about the need for con­crete gestures of reconciliation from Pyongyang. 
And shortly before taking over Albright's job in January, Colin Powell referred to Kim as a "dic­tator" during a U.S. Senate con­firmation hearing. 
On Thursday, Pyongyang said it might abandon a moratorium on long-range missile tests, as well as a 1994 accord under which it froze its suspected nuclear weapons program in exchange for the construction by a U.S.-led consortium of two 
nuclear reac­
tors. Delays 

defense. 
"So it's not helpful for the North Koreans to threaten to have missile tests in order to get us to do something to give up missile defense. That's actually counterproductive,"Rice told reporters. 
Thursday's statement by North Korea could heighten scrutiny of the alliance between Washington and Seoul, which closely coordinate North Korea policy. Some South Korean officials worry privately that a sterner stance from Washington would jeopardize engagement with the North. 
There is 
even a per­

have plagued "So it's not helpful ... to ception the project. among some
threaten to have missile 
I n security ana­
tests in order to get us to lysts that
Washington, S t a t e do something to give up Washington Department is playing a
missile defense.,, 
spokesman "bad cop" Richard role, inten­Boucher said Condoleezza Rice tionally goad­ing North
that the National Security adviser 
United States expects North Korea to stick to commitments it has made. 

Boucher said the administra­tion "will abide and agree to the commitments made under the agreed framework, as long as North Korea does the same." 
Later, National Security advis­er Condoleezza Rice responded to the threat, saying develop­ment of missile technology in countries such as North Korea is one of the reasons the United States is considering a missile Korea. In this 
scenario, 

Seoul -now engaged in a wide range of contacts and exchanges with Pyongyang -is the "good cop." 
Paik Sung-ki, a political sci­ence professor at Kyongwon University in Seoul, speculated that the North Korean state­ment'was a diplomatic maneu­ver ahead of South Korean President Kim Dae-jung's planned meeting with Bush in Washington on March 7. 

Body Image Awareness Week 
"Mal<ing Weight: Men's & Women's Conflicts with Food, Weight, Shape & Appearance" Leigh Cohn, Author 
c5uncfay, Yeb. 25 7pm 101 7Je:7Jarlofo 
Body Image Awareness Fair 
Jl(onday & Juescfay, Yeh. 26 & 27 10-4 7Joofey, BaY.orlune 
Eating Concerns Survey 2000: "The student response" 
Jl(onday, Yeb. 26 7pm Genierfor c5oc/a/Concerns 
"What to say. Tips for tall<ing with a struggling friend" 
Wednesday, Yeb. 2cf 5:30 %onlgomery, f3aY.orlune 
"Developing a Healthy Lifestyle without the Qu icl< Fix" Judy Molnar -Founder of Rosie O'Donnell's "Chub Club" 
Jhursday, %arch1 7pm 155 7Je:73arlofo 
"Are you a perfectioni-st? Can self-acceptance be that bad?" 
Yr/day, %arch2 11am ~ :JOO, Gounsefin§ Genier 
Sponsored by RecSports, Food Services, IRISHealth, Health Services, Student Activities, Student Union & Counseling Center 
'f 

O
THE page 10 BSERVER Friday, February 23, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimb~rly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINiSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu foe daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up--co-the  movies/mwic for  
minute forecasts  weekly student reviews  
advertise: for policies  online features for spe­ 
and rates of print ads  cial campus coverage  
archives to search for  about The Observer  
articles published after  to meet the editors and  
August 1999  staff  


POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obsffllrrpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Conn.o/l_y. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The seven levels of existence 
The first and second in a seven part series by Seng Kai Wong 

Graduate Student off-campus December 2, 2000 



Nine days traversing a continent 
February 2, 2001. Fifteen minutes into a night train ride to Dresden. The car rumbles and squeaks over the tracks. I stretch my legs out on the top bunk of our sleeping car. 
My fingers, spine and ,-.,.,-----~ chest tingle as motion overwhelms me. A month to leave reality, to let"trains transport me across boundaries and cultures. 
February 3, 2001. Dresden. In the morn­ing we arrive in the East German city. I lock my backpack in the train station for four Deutsch Marks and a prayer that it will still be there that evening. 
Cold and grey snow covers the streets; construction sites that belie the devastation of a conflict almost 60 years in the past. Here, the ancient and the modern rise from the ground side by side. The facade of the cathedral appears an elderly masterpiece. The inside lacks the painting and the gold gilding that adorned the original. Only people enliven the interior of the beautiful shell. 
February 4, 2001. Berlin. Islept the night in a room with six other beds. The showers are down the hall. I awake my traveling companion Kirsten at 8 a.m. and by 9:30 we have eaten breakfast and con­sulted the map that would aid our naviga­tion ofthe metropolis. 
During this free museum Sunday, the treasures ofthe ancient world are open to us for nothing at the Pergamom Museum. Kirsten and I walk through the heated halls thankfully. 
That night we collapse in the hostel, exhausted from the hours in motion and surrounded by the Australians that seem permanent residences ofsuch European establishments. 
As I play Monica from Montana for a rather forward guy from Melbourne, I 

Joanna 
Mikulski 
Innsbruck Stimme 

realize the fluidity of identities. 
February 5, 2001. Berlin. Today we visit Checkpoint Charlie, the former U.S. post on the East-West border that now houses a museum documenting the stories of and methods of escape from the GDR. 
I watch a Japanese couple take a photo­graph in front ofthe sign, "You are now leaving the American sector," right after I pay six dollars to enter the museum.. Ironically, this line that just 15 years ago people died fighting over has become a tourist attraction. 
The hostel owner suggests a bar for the night -a local joint. I walk self-conscious­ly into the hole in the wall only inhabited by Berliners. We have left the safety of the tourist district and entered the realm of real life. A couple at the table beside us welcomes us to their home, pleased that we speak their native language. 
February 6, 2001. On a train to Hamburg. An amiable mother and her two-year old daughter share our compart­ment. The mother speaks with pride about her country and ofher pleasure that those once trapped behind the Wall can now partake fully in its beauty. 
February 7, 2001. On a night train to Bruges, Belgium. I eagerly await a few hours ofsleep. Only a few days into a month of travel life without a stationary home has caused my eyelids and legs to grow sore and heavy. 
February 8, 2001. Bruges. We rent bikes from a woman at a small corner­store and ride circles around some wind­mills. An hour later the wann cloudy day turns into a cold rainy day and we stand with raindrops dripping offour jackets and hair in front of the door to St. Salvatore's church. 
Agroup of 5 year-old boys enters before us. After running and shouting through the rows of pews, one of the clan lights his cigarette on a votive candle. He then held the door for us as we left. That night we meet one of the Australians from Berlin and spend the night playing pool. 
February 9, 2001. On a train to Amsterdam. We considered remaining on Bruges' quaint streets. Instead we journey to the city where the smell of marijuana overwhelms the district around Central Station. A walk through the·red light dis­tricts opens the eyes of a good Catholic girl. 
February 10, 2001. Tomorrow we must meet friends in Paris. "Can we get a reservation on the night train to Paris?" "No. That train only runs from April to October." 
"When is the last train to Paris today?" 
"It already left." 
Now aware that no one from Belgium travels at night to Paris in February we take a train to Antwerp. February 11, 2001. We arrive at 11 a.m. in the Brussels train station. "Could we make a reservation on the train to Paris?" 
"No. All of the trains are full." 
"Is there any way we can get to Paris today?" "Not with my company. Maybe ifyou take two trains." 
At the information desk: 
"We need to get to Paris today." 
"We have one train. It gets to Paris at 
10:14 p.m." "Great. Are there any other trains?" 
"No." 
And I had planned to write a column about the convenience of train travel. Twelve hours after arriving in the Brussels station, we reunite with our friends, who had spent the ·week in the British Isles. 
From the top of the Eiffel Tower the next night, I believe that I can see the lights of Spain, my next destination, beyond the expanse of Paris. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore cur­rently spending the year in Innsbruck, Austria. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
HELLO, ALICE. YOU'RE A MANAGER I'M YOUR NOW; YOU WON'T SOUL. BE NEEDING ME. 
\_ 
)
6 

SCOTT ADAMS 
.; 
C 

HERE'S A CLAIM TICKET IN CASE YOU 
;;•" 

GET DEMOTED OR
C 
•! ... 
Ill 

LEARN TO PLAY SAX. 
,, :, )
...• 
! 
i: 
::, 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Travel is glamorous only in retrospect.., 
Paul Theroux essayist 

O
THE 

Friday, February 23, 200 I BSERVER page 11 
Clothes controversy stem from double standards 

Controversy over the appropriateness of tight red shirts paired with short black skirts is a hot topic on the pages of Viewpoint. The original criticism of the so-called implied mes­sages of a lady who wears such attire has sparked an intense flurry of condemning reactions. Brittany 
There is one thing all Morehouse these arguments have in ------­common: judgments of the opposing view. It's all About Regardless of one's posi-Anthropology tion on the matter, it is clear that speakers from both sides see the other according to a certain preconception -or, misconception. 
This campus topic is more connected to anthropology than one might think. In his introduction to the anthropology classic, Writing Culture: The Poetics and politics of 
. Ethnography, James Clifford reviews how throughout history, the field has never escaped a political climate. 
Historically, anthropologists have been forced to account for the surrounding con­texts of colonialism, hegemonic structures and oppression within the fields they study. Often, field researchers have been blamed for 
promoting these inequalities. Especially here. on a campus where 1972 Other times, such as within cultures that still seems so recent to those who liked practice female genital mutilation, Notre Dame better as an all-male
;,fffi'

anthropologists have had to choose entity, we have double standards in 
the best of intentions, but that only shows how deeply ingrained those negative attitudes are." She pointed out that we need to stop relying on assumptions to which we have been exposed, those we have adopted as a result of our milieu. 
There is no logical support for assumptions that women dancing in tight skirts are "slu­uuuts," while women buried in the library stacks are "ne-rrrds." When you meet some­one on a weekend night at Coaches. she will be in a "club costume." 

But you cannot know how many hours she has clocked working in a homeless shelter. You cannot guess her G.P.A. You don't know whether she has traveled abroad to wander the Seine or commune with homeless children of an undeveloped nation. 
You just cannot assume to know who she is based on the person you observe in her Saturday night clothing. Her clothes are inan­imate and cannot speak. They do not give enough information to form a conclusion about her representing any particular type of person. The long and the short of this issue has been covered. Pun intended. 
The real problem here is hidden, like a Where's Waldo picture: double standards. 

between becoming too involved as a . participant and necessarily becom-If! ing an active advocate for the fl \\ oppressed or becoming too fl removed as an observer, thereby .,,. allowing an injustice to continue. J"I I 
Today, Clifford notes, "differ-1 -. ent rules for the game of ethnography are now emerging in many parts of the world," and an anthropologist studying Native Americans, for example, might find him or herself caught up in land claim litigations. Ultimately, anthropologists have never escaped requests from out­siders to make judgments on what is best for their particular culture. 
Clifford's conclusions have impli­cations for all of us at Notre Dame. Anthropologists will not attempt to list characteristics of studied cultures; to do 
· so would be to sell their science short. To 
) 

observe a culture is an appropriate thing to do. To place a judgmental overlay upon those observations is not. 
For example, in some parts of Africa, it is a taboo for couples not to have children. If a husband and wife are unable to produce, it is generally viewed as the fault of the woman. This, like the cultural practice of female geni­ta! mutilation, is an anthropological observa­tion, pure and simple. 
However, to recoil in horror from either of these betrays your personal Western bias and the culture is minimized when we stoop to sensationalizing and summarizing cultures and peoples in such a simplistic way. 
So, too, when we travel across the globe again to Notre Dame, do we observe various cultural tendencies. We see "costumes" for clubbing, finals week, job interviews and for health and fitness workouts. In fact, one per­son might conceivably dress in each of these costumes within the period of one day. 
Can we make suppositions about this one person based on which portion of the day we observe him or her? Do we know this person based on one observation? 
Monday. when sophomore Megan Kovac responded to Sheila Payne's critique of "club­bing clothes" she hit the nail on the head: "I have no doubt that the letter was written with 
\ every aspect of campus life. For example, parietal-based dormito­ry living has given rise to a cou­ple of slang phrases: "random 
hook-ups" and "the walk of ----shame." Only because the conse­'-1.J~~~g quences of parietal violations differ based on whether they -3..w ; occur in a female or a malet dormitory, women are much f\. --~-, more likely to stay too late in 
~• a guy's dorm. The point is Si~-P. that there is no such thing as r..ii;..:.....a a "walk of shame" when it 
.r_-.-:::~ comes to a male walking away -~::; from a female dorm. Also, only women's dorms are equipped with 24 hour detex sys-
terns and security monitors. The observational aspect of this double --~ standard is not lost on the women of 
Notre Dame. It doesn't feel like a safety issue to the women; it feels more like Big Brother is watching you. 
The real problem is, we have yet to ade­quately tackle men (except, of course, on the football field) and bring them into the dia­logue. Specifically, why is it the size of the skirt that gets the criticism here, rather than the behavior of the man as he reaches his hand to go where he has not been invited? 
What gives a guy the idea that his hand is welcome underneath, on, behind or otherwise attached to, someone's mini-skirt? Why isn't this rude behavior the gender topic of discus­sion? Isn't a flurry of letters on this issue long overdue? 
By the sheer nature of an atmosphere steeped in patriarchal connotations, we seem to be preserving double standards andjudg­mental attitudes. 
Brittany Morehouse is a senior American Studies and anthropology double major with a minor in African Studies. Like Salt 'n •Pepa, Brittany and Heather agree that club cos­tumes are "None ofYour Business ... She can be reached by e-mail at Morehouse.1@nd.edu. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Cosmopolitan article should call students to action 
At Saint Mary's College, many of the proud new owners of the March 2001 Cosmopolitan magazine were seen flipping to the first page of the "Danger in the Dorm" article, read­ing the section about the Saint Mary's College rape victim and closing the magazine or flipping to a different section. 
True, Saint Mary's College does not get much publicity. It is exciting that the name of the school was mentioned in such a well-known magazine such as Cosmopolitan. However, the article serves not to commend the school but to degrade the safety and moral character of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses. All over the nation, prospective students are getting the message: Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame are not supportive of rape victims. 
I applaud the writers of Cosmopolitan for actually covering an important issue. However, I would like to challenge the mem­bers of the Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross student bod­ies not to simply close the maga­
zine, but to use the article to call 
administrative attention to the deranged state of student welfare that is being broadcast to the nation. · 
What would make you listen to the information provided at the beginning of the year about campus attacks? What should be done to promote safety on our campuses? 
Our schools have just been insult­ed and rightly so, by a major publi­cation to which many prospective students subscribe. As the student body, it is our responsibility to insist on change. With the voice we have been given let us rally behind the women of our schools and pro­tect them from the negligence of campus policy. 
Becky Shepkowski 
freshman Holy Cross Hall February 21, 200 I 



Memorial is an honor to countless innocent victims 
Everyday in America, statues and memorials are dedicated to veter­ans, outstanding politicians. peace keepers and educators. Each dedi­cation singles out a person or group of persons and honors them for their life however long or short it was. 
Some of these memorials are for victims of wars, hate crimes and lives shortened by everything but choice. One of these such memorials is the statue of Mary dedicated to victims of abortion. A statue created in honor of victims of a choice-less death. 
Therefore, the statue dedicated by the Knights of Columbus is not a "trojan horse." It is not being used to house some hidden meaning of beliefs every person who sees it should have. 
It is meant to honor those whose lives were shortened by no fa ult of their own. If mothers who have abortions feel like ifs a "violating and shattering experience" then they must have honor for those lives that they have ended prematurely. 
Therefore, I can see no mother who would look at a memorial to the children who are no longer with them as a "slap in the face." If they did, then their experience must not have contained the violence that was so vividly described in the Feb. 22 letter "Remove the 'Trojan Horse."' 
Wars that are fought have two sides, but often only one is honored in a statue or in an artistic glimpse into the experience. This is the side the Knights of Columbus chose to honor because it gives those chil­dren a chance to have a name in this world. A name they deserve. 
They are the choice-less victims and those who chose to abort them should and, in my opinion. do, rec­ognize this helplessness. 
Gretchen Danysh 
JUOIOf 
Pasqucrilla Ease Hall February 22, 200 l 

T 
A V E L 


page 12 Friday, February 23, 2001 
. 

New Orleans' Mardi Gras: 
Thinking ofmaking a break for the Big Easy this weekend? Scene offers a feu 
BylAURA KELLY Associate Scene Editor 
Maybe you became a "Real World" addict, glued to your television every Tuesday night to watch last season's wild times in Belfort Mansion. Or maybe you've heard the tall tales of past Mardi Gras spring-breakers, marveled at their collection of stringed beads and seen their memorable photos. Whatever the reason, thousands of college students are inspired each year to make the pilgrimage to Mardi Gras in New Orleans. 
The lavish celebration of Carnaval is held all over the world during the period before Lent starts on Ash Wednesday. "Fat Tuesday" was a French tradition from New Orleans' 
earliest days, a season now marked by 

A little flashing here and Close and Whoopi Goldberg
outrageous costumes, indulgent drink­

will reign over the 2001
ing iind general debauchery. there isn't a big deal, but 

Krewe of Orpheus, with
Parades of elaborate floats wind ifyou start to draw a 

0 rp he us' founder Harry
down the city streets, with tourists 

crowd, you 're asking for Connick, Jr. participating as
sometimes packed in 20 people deep, 
straining to see. Green, purple and gold are everywhere, the official col­ors of Mardi Gras. The lucky few who get to ride on the floats toss heads, dubloons and other "throws" to the eager crowds below. And in what has become ~ 
recent -if often criticized -tradition of Mardi Gras in New Orleans, excessive partying leads rev;. elers of both genders to bare themselves to the hopes of earning beads or just their 15 minutes of 
fame. 
Today, Mardi Gras has developed into New Orleans' busiest tourist season, with millions of tourists packing the city to watch the parades and join in the parties. The partying in New Orleans officially began on Jan. 6 of this year. known as Twelfth Night or Kings' Day because it falls 12 days after Christmas, on the day the Wise Men are said to have reached Bethlehem. 
All that New Orleans is known for -jazz, mas­querade balls, spicy cajun cu,sine and a fun-loving attitude -culminates at the end of Feb. each year, 

as the whole city takes the day off to eat, drink and be merry. This year Mardi Gras falls on Feb. 27. ~-~
,.. 
',} 
Unfortunately, spring break for Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students starts several weeks later ­
March 10 to 18. This should not deter die-hard 
Mardi Gras seekers, however, for where there's a __,...._~ 
will, there's a way. 

Most tourists arrive on the Friday or Saturday before Mardi Gras to watch the biggest and best parades. The "krewes" of Endymion, Bachus and Orpheus -elite groups who host parades and pri­vate balls -roll out their floats on Saturday, Sunday and Monday, respectively. 
Each of these big krewes has a celebrity monarch to preside over its parade. -Glenn 
well.
trouble. 

Larry King will lead Sunday's Bacchus parade. The Grand Marshall of the Endymion krewe is Frankie 
Muniz, the 15 year old star of TV's "Malcolm In The Middle." Also performing in Monday's parade are country music legends Brooks and Dunn, and the '70s musical wonders K.C. and the Sunshine Band. 
This weekend of growing Mardi Gras frenzy marks the busiest time of the year for New Orleans' tourist industrv, as hotel occupancy nears 100 percent. Most ho'tels recommend booking 
rooms by August or September, as waiting until .··. Christmas may be too late. 
So those of you with great plans of escaping to the Big Easy this weekend better find a lost-long relative to crash with. But for those who are feel­ing lucky, hotels often have cancellations and ~ait­ing lists. With several phone calls and a little patience, you may still discover an open room. >" 
Finding a hotel within .•. 
walking distance of the 


parades is recommended, as public transportation schedules can be unreli-" able during the crowded weekend. Often the hotels on the parade routes are St ., 
cheaper than others, and .: !.. •...•-' although many hotels .ir;,' "l.:,:,,~-~ b._oas~ of ha~ing their loca-·~·~ ·1.1.··.,4"'.~' .".:: ...~ ' 
t10n m ~he Fr_ench Quarter. .··. 
~:~~d~~ n~~1ua\~;t ;~. '. through this area. Once you find a place to crash -and coming to, New Orleans without a hotel room is not recom-.·.. mended by Mardi Gras afi­cionados -transportation to the Big Easy is the next problem. By this point' in the game, flying is out of·~•· the question -if you don't have reservations by now, you'll pay through the roof to get to Louisiana. But hey. the 960 miles between South Bend and New Orleans (its rival for 
mayhem and excitement) Brightly colored beads, masks, flags of purple, yellow and green can be tackl~d by any ture signs of Mardi Gras, a festival whose sole purpose is the P hardY th ri 11-seeker· symbol gained through feats of public inebriation and indecenc)
'Road tripping across the country is a quintessential college experience, espe­cially if you decide to make the trip, drop all the home• work that's cramping your style and head out the door -all within an hour of

AFPPhoto 

your decision.
Mardi Gras is known for its showy parades that are months in coordinating, with 

Regardless of the means
floats that are intricately designed for their 15 minutes of fame down the street. 

by which you travel to New 
-:> ., ·~" l · 
t /'''* I-~ 
',,, , '..~..:: ........ 
\ l~ 
l 

Orleans once you arrive amusement is abundant: costum~ contests, swamp tours, gambling on river boats or in casinos, jazz in the French Quarter. The city's motto _ "Laissez les hons temps roule:" ­translates from French into "Let the good times roll," a battle cry for all tourists. 
New Orleans offers a wealth of food and fare, most noticeably the traditional Cajun cuisine. Feast on some spicy gumbo (a hearty soup) and tre~t yourself to king cakes. If you find a small plastic Friday, February 23, 2001 


page 13 
. 

• • 'Let the good times roll' 
utips to keep in mind as you live it up in the town ofjazz, cajun and beads. 


AFP Photo 

1 and elaborate clothing -and a lack thereof -are signa­>ursuit of pleasure. Beads are gathered as a sort of status f, or more conventionally, through attendance at parades. 
baby inside your sugary piece, you have the honor and the responsibility to provide the king cake for next year's Mardi Gras. 
Among the highlights of New Orleans' sights which should not be missed are the French Quarter and Bourbon Street. The historic French Quarter is a unique section of the city on the banks of the Mississippi River. Elegant hotels and fine Creole restaurants line its streets. During the night, how­ever, this is where the rowdiest and most risque partying takes place. It's everything your mother warned you about. And if you're not careful, a picture of your revelry may just end up on one of Mardi Gras' noto-
If you're looking for the heart of the 
Mardi Gras madness, Bourbon Street is the 
place to be. During Carnaval. Bourbon 
Street transforms itself into a wild party. 
Bands play round the clock and some of the 
1

~e;;1f~:~ :!1ota;J :;ftsb~~i~k:~!~si~v~~ 
flow while visitors enjoy the local drink, 
"Hurricane." 

There are parties in every hotel and 
apartment along the street, with balconies 
full of people throwing beads to passers-by. 
These prized possessions of the holiday are 
earned not only by baring whatever the 
thrower asks you to, but more modestly, by 
yelling the phrase, "Show me something, 
Mister!" Remember these words and you're 
sure to come home laden with shiny beads. 
So if you're ready to drop everything and 
make the trek to Mardi Gras, there are a 
few things you should know to make your 
time of revelry as exciting and worthwhile 
as it can be. Get to parade routes early if 
you want to be within the first two or three 
rows of people. Don't mess with chairs or 
ladders on the parade route, as locals stake 
their claim early and will defend it to the 
death. But bring along your own chairs and 
get there early (some recommend even 
before dawn) to get a good spot for the 
most p9pular parades. 

Drink and be merry all you like, but keep 
a few rules in mind if you're imbibing. It's 
legal to drink alcoholic beverages on the 
street, but not from glass containers or 
cans. So grab a plastic cup to go, and 
you' re all set. 

Also, while New Orleans is fairly lenient 
during the wild days of Carnaval. you 
shouldn't push your limits. Public drinking 
has never been a big deal, but any rowdi~ 
ness and belligerence that results could be. 
And you just do not want to spend any time 
in the New Orleans drunk tank. 

The same rules go for public nudity -a little flashing here and there isn't a big deal, ' but if you start to draw a crowd. you're ask­
ing for trouble. 

Another thing to keep in mind is that many 
restaurants and bars will deny you bathroom 
privileges unless you are a patron. So plan 
your partying strategy and find restrooms en 
route -public urination is a definite no-no 
and a serious hot-button for natives and 
police alike. 

Basically, during Carnaval, you'll have to 
work to get arrested, but if you are, you'll 
stay in jail until at least Ash Wednesday. 
This is city policy. And this will definitely put 
a kink in your plans to get back to school. let 
alone to start your Lenten resolution off on 
the right foot. 

But don't let these warnings deter you 
from having the time of your life on Bourbon 
Street. Wear a costume, grab some beads, 
gamble a bit, eat and drink to your heart's 

content -live it up to excess. That's what 
Mardi Gras is made for. 

Just one last reminder -Mardi Gras offi­
cially ends at midnight on Tuesday, and 
they're serious about this. Police officers on 
horseback will clean out Bourbon Street, 
forcing people into bars or down to the 
French Quarter. which will continue party­ing into the wee hours. If you don't want your night to be cut short like Cinderella's, contin­ue your wild times elsewhere. 
So if you find yourself inspired by visions of parades and costumes this weekend, just throw caution to the wind and jump in the car. With the unforgettable partying that awaits you, the 960 mile trip to the Big Easy and its Mardi Gras celebration will fly by. 
page 14 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 23, 2001 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
FENCING 

Irish lacrosse teams anxious to start play 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's men's lacrosse team got a taste of success last year when they made the NCAA quarterfinals last year. They begin their drive back to the tournament Saturday as they play their first match of the season at Penn State. 
There is a sense of quiet confidence for 13th-year Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan when he contemplates the 2001 season. With eight starters returning from last year's squad that reached the quarter­finals of the NCAA tournament for the sec­ond time in five seasons. Corrigan and his coaching staff can't help but think about the potential for success this season. 
Last year's dramatic 15-13 upset of Loyola in the first round of the 2000 NCAA tournament surprised everyone but those who had a part in the Irish reaching the quarterfinals. Winners of 10 games last season for the fourth time in nine years, seven of the team's top eight scorers are back from last year's squad that finished with a 10-4 record. 
"There is always a fine line between winning and losing," Corrigan said. "This is a team that is going to take nothing for granted. This group of players, especially the seniors, has worked extremely hard to position themselves for accomplishing some special things this season. But they also know what it takes to reach those goals." 
With a wealth of talent and experience returning at every position on the field, Corrigan understands that the expectation will be greater than in any of his 12 previ­ous seasons. But the Irish mentor knows that this is a different year and team. While the foundation is there for success again this season, this is not a Notre Dame squad which will rest on its laurels. 
"It's a delicate balance that we have to find between confidence in ourselves that we gained from last year's experience and the sense you have that every team has its own journey," Corrigan said. "We have many experienced players returning, but you don't start where you left off; you start over. Regardless of how many players we have coming back, this is a different team." 
A strong work ethic and key senior lead­ership were the driving forces behind the success of last year's team. Corrigan believes that the attitudes of his captains and his senior class will play a critical role this season as it did a year ago. It will be important for his captains Mike Adams, Tom Glatzel, Kirk Howell and David Ulrich and the rest of the senior class to provide the same type of leadership displayed by last year's squad. 

With the return of its top four scorers, there is no denying that Notre Dame has the offensive firepower to match any team in the country. In addition, the depth and experience of the Irish on defense will pro­vide Corrigan with one of the most bal­anced attacks of anyone nationally at both ends of the field. But he also knows that there is room for improvement from both the starters and players coming off the bench. 
"One of the most exciting things for me when looking at this year's squad is that we have the chance to improve in every area of the game," Corrigan said. "It's realistic for us to think that we can improve on every facet of the game. There's not an area of the game where I don't think we can be a better team than we were a year ago. That's exciting because I don't think that's always been the case. 
"We're not going to make any huge jumps this year," he continued. "But the improvements that we do make are going to be made incrementally in each area of the field." 
The strength of Notre Dame is with its attack unit, which could be regarded as one of the most potent in the country, as the Irish return all three of its starters, who also were its top three scoring leaders from a year ago. The trio of seniors Glatzel, Ulrich and Jon Harvey combined for 82 goals and 51 assists. 
Glatzel and Ulrich, high school team­mates at Boys' Latin in Baltimore, Md., were United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association {USILA) honorable mention All-American selections. Glatzel scored 38 goals (the third most by a Notre Dame player in a single season) and dished off 18 assists for 56 points, while Ulrich tallied 17 goals and tied the Irish single-season assist record with 38 for 49 points. Harvey, who scored just one goal in his two previous seasons, had one of the most dramatic turnarounds in school his­tory as he netted 28 goals in his junior sea­son. 
..With the return of Tom, David and Jon at attack, we are blessed with tremendous scoring ability up top," Corrigan said. "Collectively, this is the most talented group of attack players that Notre Dame has ever had. Tom [Glatzel] and David [Ulrich] have distinguished themselves as two of the nation's premier players, while Jon [Harvey] has made unbelievable strides and improvements in his game." 
ND to host 
Midwest Conference 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams return to action this weekend in the friendly confines of the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. wel­coming teams from 10 other schools for the annual Midwest Fencing Conference Championships. 
The top-ranked Irish men are led by defending NCAA sabre champion Gabor Szelle (37-3 record in 2001, 134-8 for his career} and last year's NCAA foil runner-up Ozren Debic (42-2, 84-6). Szelle and Debic own two of the top win­ning percentages in Notre Dame fencing history while sophomore Jan Viviani owns the best career winning per­centage in Irish _men's epee history (.872; 75-11). Viviani, who placed third at the 2000 NCAAs, posted a 44-4 record during the collegiate regular season and recently claimed the epee championship at the Junior Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
The sixth-ranked Irish women are led by sophomore All-American foilist Liza Boutsikaris (54-6 in 2000, 90-15 career) and a pair of All-American sophomore epeeists: Anna Carnick (53­18, 94-28) and Meagan Call (56-14, 95-23). The sabre squad won 80 percent of its matches in the regular sea­s on (best by any Irish women's weapon), led by senior captain Carianne McCullough (34-8) and fresh­man Destanie Milo (41-11). 
Saturday's all-day team championships begin at 9 
a.m. while Sunday's individ­ual championships are slated to begin at 8 a.m. The event is open to the public and free of charge. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.rn. at che Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
WANfEB  Ex ND staffer and spouse want to  Reward Available -Lost Class Ring  2 Houses, side by side, still avail.  $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$  If Muffet McGraw married Jimmy  
WANTED  rent your apt. for summer. Non­smokers no pets. Have rented from  Blue Stone with Small ND dark finish with '01 inside  Graduate Fellowships in Cell and Molecular Physiology  Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­vey!  Buffet, she'd be Muffet Buffett  
students tor past 12 summers.  Call Todd at 246-9085  Full lime Ph.D. student research tel- Mike, Noreen, Kerry -we did just  
Write 135 Lakeview Dr. Mulberry Fl  lowships are available in the Cell  fine without you. If you feel the  
Make $5500 in summer &/or start  33860 863-425-4402  and Molecular Physiology Graduate  SPRING BREAK DOWNTOWN  need to go away any more, Noah,  
now. Set own hours ­need hard work & good social skills. Call 4­ Summer camp positions: Make a  FOR RENT  Program of Loyola University Chicago. Reasearch areas include  CHICAGO! $22-25/night-hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF  Kathleen, and I will gladly write every sports article known to man  
2765.  differenc.e in the life of a child!  ion channel molecular biology, bio•  WITH AD  and still get to bed before 4  
Summer therapy camp for children  physics and biochemistry, cardiac  312/360-0300 or  
SUMMER HELP NEEDED  with disabilities. Located on shore  3-6 bedroom homes turn. Near  electrophysiology, calcium dynam­ www.hichicago.org  Except tonight  
TEACHER ASSIST ANTS  of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml.  campus 2001 /02&summer 272­ ics and excitationcontraction cou- 
The Early Childhood Development  Positions available for Counselors,  6306  piing, signal transduction, neuro- New Townhouse in 'The Forest'  To all Knott Hall residents:  
Center at the University of Notre  Lifeguards, Instructors tor  physiology, and neral and immune  2 story 2.5 bath Study  VOTE CRAIG NO-JO FOR SEN- 
Dame is looking for college stu­ Nature/Arts &  3-5 bedroom homes  components of trauma and injury  Hardwood floors Skylights  ATE!!!  
dents who enjoy young children. If  Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing,  close to campus  biology. Applications are sought  Deck French doors Alarm  
you would be interested in spending  Nurses. Therapists, Food Service  232-2595  from individuals motivated to  $179,000 243-2939  I'm proud lo say that I've driven  
the summer, June 7-August 3-40  and Auxilary. Must be enthusiastic,  mmmrentals@aol.com  become biomedical research scien­ througtl every NY borough in 3 and  
hours per week, assisting the chil­ responsible and love children. June  tists. See our web page at  a half hours  
dren and teachers on field trips,  17 through August 12. Call or write  2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT.  
reading children's books, building  for application and information. Bay  NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE •  or contact Dr.  PERSONAL  Well, I let Casey drive -or pretend  
with blocks, singing songs, playing  Cliff Health Camp, 310 W.  BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL  Stephen B. Jones, Department of  to drive, at least  
games and assisting with lunch,  Washington, Suite 300, Marquette  219-298-3800.  Physiology, Stritch School of  
please call 631-3344 to receive an  Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail  Medicine, Loyola University  Oh my gosh, I messed up so bad,  Wanted: an SYR date who will actu­ 
application and more infonnation.  BayClittHC@aol.com  Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue,  and that's why the clock has just  ally dance with me rather than go to  
FUN IN THE SUN!!  FOR SALE  Maywood IL 60153. Telephone (708) 327 -2470, e-mail  tolled 4:00 in the morning  the bathroom  
Reliable, quality childcare needed  . Loyola  It's time for some shoutouts. Let's  Lalalala -sleep is overrated  
in my home for 2-year-old and  LOST AND FOUND  PHONE CARDS  University is an equal  here ii for ...  
infant. Part-time hours are 2-3  $20:  opportunity/affirmative action  Other things are not  
hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1  2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR- employer.  RICO!  
Saturday a month. Majoring in early  SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED:  CHARGE  I can see the end!  
childhood development or child- For a lost gold and silver bracelet  or  For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4  PABLO!  
hood education with own trans- with alternating silver and gold  $20  BR & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V- And 1 'm outm  
portation a plus but not necessary.  blocks, if found please contact  362 MIN WITH NO FEES  ball, W/0, prime location  EL PRESJDENTEI  
References required.  Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email  634-1146 CLAUDIA  233-9947  Hey you, thanks for the candy, and _  
Phone 288-6795  634-4210 SARA  Greg  I am not going to bed tonight  I stopped by the Grotto tonight  


Friday, February 23, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

Special to The Observer 
The No. 14 Notre Dame softball team continues the 2001 season this weekend at the Morning News Invitational in Fayetteville, 
Ark. 
The Irish started the sea­son on a high note, sweep­ing five games at the Holiday Inn Invitational, hosted by the University of South Florida·. The 5-0 opening season record is the best start for a softball team in Notre Dame history. 
The Morning News Invitational is a double­header formatted tourna­ment. The Irish will face Texas Tech twice on Friday, Feb. 23, at 11 a.m., then take on Arkansas twice on Saturday. Feb. 24, at 4 p.m., followed by a double-dip vs. Maine on Sunday, Feb. 25, at 9 a.m. 
The Irish also received the highest ranking· in school history after their opening weekend. 
Notre Dame is now ranked 14th in the USA Today/NFCA Top 25, which is the the highest ranking in school history, due to its opening weekend when it earned the Holiday Inn Invitational title with a 5-0 record. 


GRAPE RoJ.81~~1 PLAZA 
• 


SOFTBALL 

Red hot Irish head to Arkansas today 


I GrQ,e._e a.• ,r···-··~ij,...,,y rd. I 
I Acrosei~~'. :: -··:--· et from I Bo~:,;.··___ -.. ;,.;ia·ooks
I I
.. ----.. 
cinema@thesnite 
FULLY RESTORED TO ORSON WELLES' ORIGINAL VISION! 
. di .
Tr-·_::) ··i +··· l rJr1 .,A
• -a. \..,• • 


Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www. nd.edu/--ftt 

The highest ranking the 

team had reached prior to 
this week's poll was 17th 
(the 2001 Preseason Top 25 
and the 1994 Preseason Top 
25). 
Notre Dame began its 

2001 season in impressive 
fashion last weekend by 
posting five victories at the 
Holiday Inn Invitational in 
Tampa, Fla. 
The 5-0 start to the sea­son is the best opening-sea­son record the team has · acheived since the program 
began in 1989. 
Senior Lizzy Lemire and 

junior Jenny Kriech shared 
tournament MVP honors for 
the weekend. Lemire pound­
ed out six hits, including a 
double and triple over the 
five games. Kreich led the 
team with eight hits and 
four RBIs, including the 
game-winning single against 
No. 4 Washington in the 
bottom of the seventh 
inning. 
Notre Dame's Jen Sharron 

gave three stellar pitching 
performances· over the 
course of the tournament as 
well. Sharron took the 
mound against Maryland, 
No. 4 Washington and No. 
15 South Carolina, coming 
away with victories in each 
contest. She gave up just 
two runs in the three games 
and struck out 26 batters. 
page 16 ·the-Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 23, 2001 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame heads to Alamo Invitational ranked No. 11 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assisranr Sports Editor 
Brian Stavisky and the Irish baseball team are on fire and heading into the heat of San Antonio. 
The 2-1 Irish enter the Alamo Invitational ranked 11th in the country, according to Baseball America. The team moved up slightly from the previous week thanks to two wins over No. 16 Mississippi State. 
Stavisky enters the weekend with a blistering .692 batting aver­age. At one point last weekend, Stavisky reached base in 10 con­secutive plate appearances. Collegiate Baseball Magazine 

I 
named Stavisky the National

I I 
Player of the Week for his efforts. 

I I I I Stavisky also earned the first Big 
I I East Player of the Week honors of 
I 
I 2001. 
This weekend's games pit the

I 
I 
I \ Irish against three tough oppo­
I I 
nents. Tonight, senior right-han­

: t der Aaron Heilman goes for his second win of the season against Texas-San Antonio. In his first start of the season against Mississippi State. Heilman pitched six innings. allowing only one earned run and striking out six batters. Heilman became Notre Dame's all-time strikeout leader in 
, I 
' 
the game as he notch~d punch-out number 320 for his career. 
The contest marks the first time Notre Dame will take on Texas­San Antonio since March 19, 1995. In that game, the Roadrunners topped the Irish 7-3. 
The Roadrunners return 17 of 27 letter-winners from 2000. Last year, they went 17-37, finishing 10th in the Southland Conference. Having already played a few games thanks to their warm weather climate, the Roadrunners bring in a 4-7 record this season, highlighted by two victories over Alabama. 
Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame takes on Texas-Pan American. Matt Buchmeier takes the mound for the second game of the week­end. The independent Broncs fin­ished 31-19-1 last season, and return 14 of 2 5 letter-winners from that weekend. 
However, the Broncs have run into some tough luck so far this season, compiling a 1-8 overall record. In the six times the Irish and Broncs have met, each team has come away with three victo­ries. 
Buchmeier started in the second game against Mississippi State last weekend, pitching four scoreless innings in the win. The game was only the junior's fourth career start. 
The final game of the weekend 
matches the Irish against the 
Bearkats of Sam Houston State 
Sunday at 11 p.m. Seventeen of 23 
players return from a team that 
went 25-29 last season. 
Senior right-hander Danny 
Tamayo starts that final game of 
the weekend for the Irish. Tamayo 
suffered the only loss o_f the season 
for the Irish last weekend despite 
giving up only two earned runs 
over six innings against New 
Orleans. 

NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 

Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 

Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. · 


is na.tv accept:ing applications for the 
2001-2002 General Board 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a freshman majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the sire each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume must be submitted by Friday, Feb. 23 to the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 
Friday, February 23, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Notre Dame point guard Martin lngelsby drives around Boston College's Troy Bell during Notre Dame's 76-75 win last Wednesday. lngelsby's off-balance jumper with 3. 7 seconds left sealed the game for the Irish. 
r· 
I 
Now's the time ... to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 

• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 

219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 adultprograms@bethel-in.edu 
:7-Cey (13e ft:_-.s. . . . 
_;zlre you interest;edin hearing ,u,,.,Fiat: 
your Class Candidates Fia-ve t:.o say? 
1'..4C=illE ~~~ ~ --­


flt; Saint; 9Vlary's College 
Thursday February 22nd Carre>ll A1.1dite>ri-u.m 
Class ef2004: 7:00pnz Class ef2003: ·B:OOprn Class ef2002: 8:30pm 
Free pizza to those in. atten.dan.ce 

Men 
continued from page 24 
The Hokies have nothing to 
lose by hurling their entire 
arsenal at the Irish. Just three 
games remain on their 2000­
'01 slate as they have already 
been eliminated from con­
tention for a Big East 
Tournament bid. 
Irish coach Mike Brey, mean­
while, faces the dilemma of 
trying to win a Big East regular 
season title while keeping his 
players' legs fresh enough to 
play well into March. Figuring 
into that predicament is the 
sprained ankle that forward 
Ryan Humphrey played 
through against Boston 
College. 
"It's something we absolutely have to consider," Brey said, "because we have to get Humphrey well. There's a big picture, too. We'll do what we have to do. We want to have as fresh of legs as possible going into New York [for the Big East Tournament]." 
Notre Dame can't afford to risk further injury to its leading rebounder and second-leading scorer, but it also wants to bat 
1.000 on this road trip against Virginia Tech and Connecticut. 
Going two-for-two on the road would assure the Irish of first place in the Big East West Division, since they boast a two-game lead over the sec­ond~place Syracuse Orangemen heading into Saturday. 
"These two games are criti­cal for us," Graves said, "because we're going to have to come home and face a very, very tough Georgetown team. You don't want to have a must­win game against a team like Georgetown. We're going to have to take care of business these first two games." 
Virginia Tech, while not as talented as Boston College, is similar in its speed and defen­sive pressure. 
The Hokies' top talent is sophomore guard Brian Chase, who leads the league with a 4 7 percent shot from behind the arc. He will be hard-pressed to match that against Notre Dame. The Irish hold oppo­nents to a conference low in shooting and stifled BC's dag­gers at the right times Wednesday. 
"You just extend your man­to-man out and don't let him get any good looks," Graves said. "Just disrupt his rhythm, do a Jot of the things they do to us. That's one thing we've learned. We can do a lot of the things they do to us. They'll bother the other teams, too." 
Other key players for the Hokies are 6-foot-10 transfer Carlton Carter and small for­wards Carlos Dixon and Bryant Matthews. 
Notre Dame holds the advan­tage across the board with steady Martin Ingelsby at point guard, aided by Graves and Matt Carroll at the guard posi­tions. 
Down low. the Irish are usu* ally dominant with All­American Troy Murphy and forwards Harold Swanagan and Humphrey. If Humphrey is missing from the lineup, how* ever, depth will be a concern, particularly on defense. 
"When we start man-to-man, it gets us active," Brey said. "\Vho's healthy? Is Humphrey starting? What we do defen­sively is based on. 'Is he going to be available?"' 
The Irish will see on Saturday. 
page 18 Friday, February 23, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Shamrock Invite is last chance for swimmers to make NCAAs · 
I. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
It's crunch time for the Notre Dame swim teams. 
This weekend's Shamrock Invitational is the last oppor­tunity for swimmers on the Notre Dame swimming and diving team to earn qualifying times for the NCAA Championship in mid-March, and the Irish swimmers are feeling the pressure. 
Although several women's swimmers have earned NCAA provisional qualifying times, not a single swimmer has an automatic bid. Meanwhile, the men's team is hoping to send the first Irish male swiµimer to the national competition. 
The No. 15 Notre Dame women, who won their fifth consecutive Big East champi­onship title last weekend, have several swimmers who rank among the top in the nation. 
Junior Kelly Hecking's back­stroke times rank her among the best in Division I competi­tion. She is ranked 11th in both the 100-yard and 200­yard backstroke events and is almost certain to compete at the NCAA championships. 
' Meanwhile, freshman Marie Labosky is ranked among the 
,I top 20 in three events. She is ranked No. 16 in the 400-yard individual medley and is 17th in both the 200-yard individ­ual medley and the 1,650-yard freestyle. 
Lisa D'Olier, who won both butterfly events last weekend, holds the No. 27 time in the 100-yard butterfly and is No. 34 in the 200-yard butterfly. 
Junior Allison Lloyd is ranked No. 22 in the 100-yard breaststroke, the same event she won last weekend. 
Other women's swimmers who have times in the top 50 are Nicole Kohrt, Danielle Hulick and Lisa Garcia. 
On the men's side, the best hopes for a NCAA bid rest on the shoulders of Jonathan Pierce. Last weekend, Pierce became the first male swim­mer this year to earn an NCAA provisional qualifying hid. His 
4:27.39 swim in the 500-yard freestyle also broke his own school record. Pierce also fin­ished fourth in the 400-yard individual medley. 
The Irish divers, who went through the entire dual meet season undefeated, also had a solid weekend at the Big East Championships. Andy Maggio led the Irish divers by placing second in the one-meter com­petition and third in the three­meter competition. Herb Huesman was close behind, finishing fourth on the one­meter board and fifth on the three-meter board. 
The Shamrock Invitational begins Saturday and continues through Sunday. Preliminaries begin at 11 a.m. At press time, it was unknown which ath­letes would be swimming. 



@ Notre Dame Room in La Fortune Monday, Feb. 26, 6 pm 
McDonnell has worked at John Hopkins Hospital. He is a well known bio-ethics author sponsored by STV & FBE 


LISA VEL TE/The Observer Freshman Lisa D'Olier takes a breath during the 100-yard butterfly at last weekend's Big East Championships. D'Olier won both the 100-yard and 200-yard butterfly events. 
2001/2002 FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE 
Your renewal FAFSA and PROFILE Application must be received by the processing centers on or before the dates listed below if you wish to apply for financial aid for the 2001/2002 acedemic year: 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's February 28, 2001 March 1, 2001 
For additional information or application forms, please contact your financial aid office. 
&:i, ••• ~~ _,·~-"' 
7" ""' 


' ~._;,,....... . 
.. , C ,' 
. ..-· .. 
-
., r.. :.:::--.
..... ~ 


. . ,--v~::,..'\. 
'1 ' .... vt\ 

'-i::·· ~~~ . 
-~;.;!:' -,~\
·~ ... -. -'~ 
' 
~ 
• . 

~ a' I J . .-• t«lll"t.1:.,V--«; --~ 
Live Comn:tun~ty. 
--. 

~-~. ; J,.. ~ 
_,.. •. -,. :. •~,. "' 
•.,· {;_r.f· 
._ -'.--.\j 

·11; ~tJJ,.. :):·~'. :.:.{ 
• ~}I~•'• i ­
' -•r-· -,i ;•~ 
-. ;J ~ .... '.:~~ 
' "' ..,. ..... t.. ·~-· 

As a Brother in the Congregation of Holy C'.oss you will share in a rich tradition of unselfish service and become a brother to many. 
For more information about beginning a new life as a 
Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460, Notre Dame, IN 46556
HRO~rl-IERS OF I-JOLY CROSS 
e-mail: d91bbs@hcc-nd.edu 
(219)-251-2222 
Friday. February 23, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

The Observer Ads Departmentis looking for a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior to work Tuesdays and Thursdays, 9 a.m to 11 a.m. If interested, call 1-6900. 

Earth Systems Science and Astronomy programs are offered for Science and Non-science majors at Columbia University Biosphere 2 campus near Tucson, Arizona. 
ALL PROGRAMS TAUGHT BY COLUMBIA FACULTY! 



Look at me,I'm 21, Never thought this day would come. 
So long to Sandra Dl 
Tubs of SMC chick love, 
KLMT 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks a2S,OOO Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisal$ large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Women 
continued from page 24 
Joyce had the best game of her 
young career off the bench for 
the Irish. Joyce scored 13 
points in 23 minutes, dishing 
out a pair of assists and sink­
ing two key three-pointers. 
The game marks the first 
time this season that the Irish 
take on the Hoyas. Georgetown 
sits in eighth place in the con­
ference, sporting a 6-8 Big 
East record, 15-11 overall. 
The last time these two 
Catholic school rivals met, the 
Irish dominated. Notre Dame 
topped Georgetown 87-56 in 
front of 4,324 fans at the Joyce 
Center. Ivey nearly had a 
triple-double for the Irish, 
leading the attack with 18 
points, seven rebounds and 
seven assists. 
Katie Smrcka-Duffy was the 
only Georgetown player in 
double figures in that game, 
scoring 23 points on six-of-14 
shooting. 
This season, the Hoyas are 
led by Duffy and freshman 
Rebekkah Brunson. Duffy, a 
senior, averages 16.9 points 
per contest. She has led 
Georgetown in scoring 15 dif­

ferent times this season. 
"Duffy on the perimeter is one of the best players in the league," McGraw said. "She can score a lot of points. She played really well here." 
Brunsen averages 15 points and 9.5 rebounds per contest. Big East coaches have named Brunsen, Georgetown's prize freshman, Rookie of the Week six separate times this season. Her rebounding skills will be needed, as the Irish out­rebounded the Hoyas 40-33 in their last meeting. 
"She's a very skilled player and is having a great year," McGraw said. 
Point guard Lesley Walker averages 8.7 points and 4.6 assists per contest. Walker is 20 for 46 from three-point range this season. The Hoyas also sport a deep bench. 
"They have a good point guard in Walker. They have a pretty good bench, probably seven deep," McGraw said. "I think that they're going to pre­sent some problems for us. 
"Hopefully we'll have two more after this, but this could be it for a lot of people so it's great that they're going to go out like this," McGraw said. 
SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS! 


APPLY TO BIOSPHERE 2 FOR SUMMER SESSIONS NOW! 
Summer programs: 
• Earth Systems Field School II -4 credits, June 2001 
• Summer of Stars -5 credits, June-July 2001 
• Earth· Systems Field School I -6 credits, July-August 2001 
• Biodiversity Institute -5 credits, July-August 2001 
Visit Biosphere 2 at www.bio2.edu/education (800) 992-4603 or notre_dame@bio2.edu 


-Large 2-Bedroom floorplan . · -Student Leases Available 
. -4 Blocks From Campus 
ONLY A FEW LEFT -SECURE YOUR APARTMENT TODAY. 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living'' 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 23, 200 I 



BENGAL BOUTS '01 
Fll'St day of charity tourney marked by one-sided matches 
. All 10 fights in lower weight classes decided unanimously 

By BRIAN BURKE Spores Writer 
After al:xmt the seventh fight of the 71st annual Bengal Mission Bouts preliminary round, something became apparent to the crowds that packed the stands. 
None of these fights were all that close. 
With the top seeds enjoying byes, the 135• and 145• pound weight classes put on a show of frantic swinging and hard hitting. At the same time, they also were all unanimous decisions, save one TKO. 
135-lbs. 
The TKO came in the first bout of the night at 135 pounds as Tony Hollowell bested Charles "Candler Park Kool•Aid" Cullen. Hollowell used a size advantage to back up Cullen with a good jab, scoring two standing eights in the fub1 round. 

''This is my first year, I had no clue what to expect," Hollowell said. "He had the reach on me, but I think I'm a 'little stronger, and I think that helped." 
The next fight between Eric "Kamikaze" Ota and Guillermo Tijerina was faster paced. Tijerina landed a few good jabs but basically earned the decision by winning most of the wild exchanges in the second and third rounds. 
The closest fight in the 135-pound division pitted Justin "The Virginian" Pendarvis against Hussell "The Muscle" Giancola. Giancola made a hard charge and at times had Pendarvis backing up, but Pendarvis ducked and coun• tered well. Overall, Giancola likely earned the decision by going on the offensive and finishing strong at the end of the third round. 
Christopher Cardillo then made it four in a row for the gold corner by defeating Michael "Oajae" Moore by unani­mous decision. The action picked up in the second round as Cardillo finally managed to land a jab to the,head of Moore. 
This seemed to make Moore impatient as he began swinging hard, but it only made him more susceptible to Cardillo's jabs and straight rights. Cardillo scored a stand­ing eight in the second round and controlled the fight after that. 
145-lbs. 
The 145-pound weight class opened with a strong per­formance by Daniel "The Aztec Warrior" Gonzalez, who notched the decision over Luke Macauley. The bigger Gonzalez stayed low and landed combinations, scoring often in the first round. 
In the second, he let Macauley come to him but still countered well. By the third Gonzalez was landing punch­I I I es that can only be described as hay-makers, much to the 
I 
I ·' delight of the raucous crowd. 
I I 
I • The next bout between Andrew 'The Golden Arms" 
I : 
Harms and Mark "Stop, Drop and" Roland was also one­
I ( 
sided. Harms chased Roland around the ring for most of 
I I the fight to earn the unanimous decision. Harms scored standing eights in the first and second rounds, and consistently landed while Roland consistently missed. Harms did much of his damage when Roland retreated. Next, Anthony "T.J." D'Agostino clashed with Luke "Coolhand Luke" Dillon. D'Agostino utilized a good left jab and straight right, backing Dillon into the corner on sever­al occasions. Both fighters tired in the third round, but ffAgostino held on for the win. The ensuing bout between Corey "To-Knockus Maximus" Shalanski and Jemar "Swift-T" Tisby was a brawl. The contest began with both fighters swinging fran. tically. almost getting tangled in the ropes. TL5by showed he is a force to be reckoned with, ducking under Shalanski effectively, backing him into the ropes and landing a devastating uppercut. One such blow to the midsection sent Shalanski to the canvas in the third round. Tisby earned the unanimous decision. Mike ''The Jersey Jackhammer" McAleenan took control early in the next fight against Eric Eddy, landing combina­tions that had Eddy backing up. Eddy soon turned the tide however, chasing McAleenan around the ring and scoring a standing eight in the second round. Eddy dictated the pace of the fight and sealed the win knocking down McAleenan at the start ofthe third round. The final-card at 145 pounds matched Walter "The Gator" Prenning and Jason Voss. Both fighters landed punches in the first round, but Voss especially did damage with a good hook After the pace slowed in the second, the third round turned into a slugfest, where Voss was able to land more consistently to win. "Before the third round, I talked to my corner, and I knew I had to fini<ih strong in the final 25 seconds," Voss said. "I had to concentrate on basic form, keep my hands up and don't get sloppy in the final 25 seconds. I was tired at the end of the second, but my nose was bleeding and when they stopped for that it gave me a chance to rest." 

. Middle weights see mix of close matches 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Sports Writer 
150-lbs. 
The 150-pound weight class' first bout featured a pair of fresh­man in Julian "Bel Biv" Devoe and Ted Volz. After a quick start of fast punches, the rook­ies settled into their own styles, though Volz dom­inated the first round with a stinging jab. 
Both fighters contin­ued to look for the big punch in the second, and Devoe was the first to find it, landing a solid overhand right that stunned Volz. But Volz recovered and the fight was stopped twice due to Devoe's bleeding. 

Mike Fink, left, takes a punch from Jeff Ream during their 160 pound fight
Devoe took control of 

Thursday. Ream won the bout by a unanimous decision.
the fight in the early 


third round with several consecutive connections to Volz's head. Fatigue quickly set in, and neither fighter fin­ished strong. The split decision for Devoe reflected the even bout. 
Next it was the seniors' turn, as John "The Knockout" Nowak and Matthew "You're Gonna Die" Yung squared off in the squared circle. Round one saw quick, clean punch­ing from both fighters, but it became clear in the second that Nowak had the upper hand. 
"[Yung] came in hyped up and threw a lot of punches at me," said Nowak. "It made it difficult at the beginning." 
Yung was on the defensive for most of the third round, but still managed to land multiple counter-punches. Still, Nowak remained aggressive and he attacked enough to have his hand raised in a unanimous decision. 
"In the third round I made a little 
run and I thought I pretty much had 
the fight," said Nowak. 

The third bout of the class saw two 
boxers that took "float like a butter­
fly;' too seriously. Neither Raymond 
"Tuff" Bolanos nor Tom "T.K." 
Owens was spectacular. When the 
two finally got to punching, it was the 
senior Owens that had the better of 
the exchanges in the second. 

The third round of the bout looked 
like a square dance without the cow­
boy hats. Owens took a unanimous 
decision. 

Patrick "The Kleese" Kolesiak, a 
lefty, took on Tucker "The Wicked 
Bad Bostonian" McGree next. The 
opening round saw a wild McGree 
landing punches. 

McGree landed several more hay­
makers in the second. But Kolesiak 
was able to stand firm the entire 
bout, leaving the decision in doubt. It 
was McGree's bout in a split decision. 
The fifth bout in the 150 division 
found Brian "The Irish Stallion" Long 
boxing Luke "Desperado" Busam. 
Both fighters threw clean punches, 
stunning each other several times. 
Busam used his superior reach to his 
advantage, but Long got inside him 
several times and did damage. 

Long landed two consecutive 
roundhouses in the second and the 
bell stopped a furious exchange at 
the end of the round. Busam bled 
throughout the second and third, and 
it seemed that Long was landing 
higher-quality blows. 

But, in a decision that met with an enormous negative reaction from the crowd, Busam was given a split deci­sion. 
"We both fought hard," said Busam. "I was happy the way I fought and I would have been happy with the fight no matter who won. Brian is a good boxer." 
Matt "Hogtown . Hurricane" McDonald faced Dave "The Kentucky Boy" Suetholz in the last bout of the class. McDonald had a straightfor­ward approach to the fight. 
"I wanted to keep my hands up and throw straight punches," he said. "Countering [Suetholz'sJ charges was important for me." 
McDonald stayed to his strategy effectively in his unanimous decision. Repeatedly, Suetholz plowed for­ward, only to be met by a counter­punch. Suetholz landed several quali­ty hits early in the final round, and McDonald responded by dancing. 
"Halfway through the third round I started doing a little keep away," said McDonald. 
155-lbs. 
From the start of Paul "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" Stinson's bout versus Joe "The Polish Tank" Czerniawski, it was clear that Czerniawski would have the upper hand. 
He remained aggressive the entire fight, following Stinson around the ring, tagging him multiple times with stinging body blows. In fact, the only problem Czerniawski had the entire three rounds was staying on his feet. The law student slipped twice during his unanimous win. 
The first round between Shawn 

"The Full Monty" Monterastelli and 
Steve "The Natural Lightweight" 
Keppel proved to set the tone for the 
two's entire bout. 
Keppel knocked Monterastelli 

down early, and after a standing 
eight-count, Keppel attacked. For the 
10 seconds after the count, it looked 
like Keppel's fist was attached to 
Monterastelli's head with a rope as 
he relentlessly pounded his oppo­
nent. Keppel secured a unanimous 
decision after three strong rounds of 
boxing. 
Brandon Gasser and Daniel "The 

Mauler" McCoy entered the ring for 
the third fight of the weight class. 
After an uneventful first, both fight­
ers came out of their corners swing­ing in the second. Both fighters could dominate the action. but Gasser looked tired late in the third. and McCoy managed to put together a strong combination right before the bell to pull off a split decision. 
The second round of the Matt "Diesel" Wilkerson and Robert "Little Mac" McColgan fight proved to be one of the best rounds of the weight class. Early in the round, Wilkerson went down. though it was unclear whether he slipped or was knocked down. Still, Wilkerson recovered to throw a massive right hand that floored Mccolgan. 
"All I remember is I threw a hook and he was down," said Wilkerson. "Then I could hear the crowd." 
In the end, the left-handed McColgan managed to land more punches in a unanimous decision, though Wilkerson finished strong. 
160-lbs. 
Vince "The Italian Meatball" Gennaro stepped in with Andrew "The Atomic" Baum to open the class. The first round was dead even, and it was not until the second round that Gennaro started to dominate. 
Gennaro continued his control of 
the fight in the third and was 
rewarded with a unanimous decision. 
Enormous crowd support could not 
power Michael "Peaches" Kwiatt past 
Mike "The Militia Man" Melby. 
Kwiatt managed to hold off Melby's 
charges for only the first round. The 
fight had to be stopped after a ses­
sion of Melby pounding K wiatt on the 
ropes in the second round. The fight 
was stopped again in the third en 
route to Melby's unanimous decision. 
Patrick "El Chipotle" Hobbins, 
younger brother of boxing captain 
Brian Hobbins, followed in his broth­
er's winning ways by taking a split 
decision over Brian Fellner. 
Both boxers landed big punches 
throughout the fight, and neither 
fighter quit. Hobbins did bloody 
Fellner early in the match, and 
Fellner had to be cleaned multiple 
times. 
Mike "The Alaskan Assassin" Fink 
fought Jeff "Re Re" Ream in the last 
bout of the 160s. Ream bloodied Fink 
in the second and remained solid 
until the final bell after a rough first 
round. Ream secured a unanimous 
decision to continue to the quarterfi­
nals. 
Friday, February 23, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

BENGAL BOUTS '01 
Upper weights fight relentlessly into wee hours of morning 
. Defending cham­pions advance to quarterfinals 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
17S-lbs. 
Rob "A.M.D.G." Joyce took the first step towards repeating as a Bengal Bouts champion Thursday night, winning a unanimous decision over Ryan 'The Rhino" Hernandez, but he knows he's got a long way to go. 
First, the boxing captain will have to weather Matt "The Rocky Mountain Avalanche" Padilla's attack Monday in the quarterfinals. If he can do that, the Siegfried Hall junior will have to \.\in another match just to score a spot in the finals, where he would likely meet another captain and defending champion in Mark "I'm So Pretty" Criniti. 
The most fearsome foe? 
"By far, Mark Criniti," Joyce said. "He's another captain. He's a southpaw and he's tough." 
But that potential matchup is a week away. Joyce, whose nickname's initials stand for a Latin phrase which means "For the greater glory of God," advanced to the second round with an aggressive but well­timed attack that rose to a crescendo at the end of round three. 
"He [Hernandez] is more of a 
brawler, a real tough kid," Joyce 
said. "I expect the next fights to 
be more technical." 
Criniti cranked out a 
unaminous decision win over 
Matt "The Rooster" Knust to 
keep Joyce's hopes for a cham­
pionship clash alive. 
Criniti came out quick and 
powerful, as the Keough junior 
landed more punches than his 
freshman opponent. 
Padilla snowed in Jarrett 
"Botta Boom Botta" Bingemann 
in a well-matched fight. 
In round two, Padilla sent in a 
number of straight left punches. 
Bingemann answered with a 
flurry of right-lefts to the chest. 
Padilla pounded Bingemann 
down in round three with his 
direct punches. 
Freshman Nathan Scheid 
shook down fellow first-year 
student Sean Tucker with a split 
decision, chalking up the win to 
his straight punches. 
Tucker turned it on late in the 
first round to seemingly take an 
edge. Round two had Scheid 
and Tucker circling one another 
and searching for their in, but 
Scheid wound up slamming 
Tucker. In the final round, 
Scheid came out on the offen­
sive. keeping Tucker tucked in 
against the wires. 
Keith Arnold sent Gerry "The 
Big Pint" Quinn under the table 
in a closely contested split deci­
sion, with a strong start giving 
him the edge. 
Arnold, a junior from 
Stanford, blasted Quinn with a 
huge hit to the face in round 
one. To end the round, Arnold 
drilled in a bunch of punches. 
Quinn came back a bit in the 
second round, but neither fight­
er managed too large an advan­
tage. Quinn. on his heels. put 
some hits into his opponent as 
the round closed. 
Round three was also a tight one. Arnold was armed with a power hit, but Quinn responded by knocking Arnold to his knee. The finale helped Arnold, who angled in on the grad student from Ireland to take the bout. 
Dan "Dan.gerous" Schaeffer, a senior, had experience on his side as he outdanced freshman Joshua Hill. 
Schaeffer led the dance the entire bout, assailing Hill with his hits. Hill didn't seem to suf­fer too much from the light hits, but his role of taking the punch­es didn't win him any points, as Schaeffer won a unanimous decision. 
O'Neill sophomore John Lynk, buoyed by a boisterous bunch of Mardi Gras revelers, beat John "The Valpo Vigilante" Baldea in a short, brawling battle. 
Just 34 seconds into the first round, the referee stopped the contest with Lynk pounding Baldea in the face. 
Brian "The Bulldog" Colville belted opponent Brent "El pas" Burish, bruising Buri~h through­out the fight. 
Colville followed a repeated strategy of going at his opponent fast and furiously, then loosen­ing up before things got ugly. 
16S-lbs. 
Patrick "The Guv'nor" Dillon laid down the law on Louis "Il Macellaio" Perry in the opening bout of the 165-pound weight class, taking the early offensive. 
Round two was when Dillon really got things going, using his height and reach advantage to help him strike out at the Knott Hall junior. 
"In the second round. the cor­
ner really helped me out," Dillon 
said. "I let my reach do most of 
the work for me." 
Perry pounced out on Dillon in 
round three, but a couple good 
punches by Dillon sealed the 
deal in favor of the Morrissey 
Manor freshman. 
Justin "The ResLife Regular" 
Myers made the most of his 
bounce and agility, beating Tim 
"Maximus" McCurdy in a unani­
mous decision. 
When McCurdy began to tire, 
Myers got through McCurdy's 
defenses. He sent a few quick 
combos to the face to help him 
corner the victory. 
Brian "Ice.. Berg put the chill 
on Stephen "The Slinger" Owens 
with a close split decision victo­
ry. 
In a bout between two fresh­
men, Owens broke the ice with 
several combination punches. 
But as the fight went on, Berg 
stayed away from the jabs and 
focused in on nailing Owens 
with head-on punches. 
"I was just trying to keep mov­
ing," Berg said. "Straight punch­
es instead of just jabbing and 
going nuts; straight punching is 
the key." 
Junior Chris "Can't We All 
Just Get Along?" Kitalong might 
have been nervous fighting in 
Bengal Bouts for the first time, 
but he didn't show it as he beat 
freshman Ryan "Ragin' Cajun" 
Gagnet with a unanimous deci­
sion. 
Gagnet was more active, 
jumping around. but Kitalong 
tossed his opponent around with 
his hits. 
"It was just straight jabbing, 
that's what they told me in the corner," Kitalong said. "I was nervous as hell." 

Billy "Sweetpea" McMurtrie knocked back Thomas "Grand Knight" Dietz again and again, · and it paid off with a unanimous decision. Dietz fell to the ground in the first round, and with a tentative bout thereafter, McMurtrie hung onto his victory. 
Thomas "Boom-Boom" Macias sideswiped opponent Kelechi "The Nigerian Nightmare" Ndukwe with his hook shots and roundhouse punches in an ener­getic assault. 
Both boxers put on a good show, but Macias out-duked the junior Ndukwe for a unanimous decision. 
Clay "Mouth of the South" Cosse walked the talk in beating 
J.P. Camarda Wednesday with a unanimous decision. 
"I had more diversity than J.P. did as far as throwing hooks and jabs," Cosse said. "J.P.• he's a strong fighter. He's gotten stronger since we sparred, and he surprised me." 
Camarda and Cosse opened with quick hits, but even from the start, Cosse held the edge. He clung to that through the first two rounds. 
In round three, Camarda came back, creaming Clay into one side, but Clay answered with crushing blows to the face. 
. Battles in high­est weights char­acterized by either split decisions or pure do11_1ination 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
185-lbs. 
As the Bengal Bouts stretched into their fifth hour, only the most loyal spectators remained to cheer on the last divisions. Their loyalty was rewarded as the Bouts' biggest men took to the ring. 
It only took one round for John "The Caveman" Caver to dominate Garrett "G­Child'' Balich, as Caver sent Balich stumbling twice. 
Eric "Superfreak" Goulet won over Ernesto "Manos de Piedra" Lacayo in a wild three round battle. In a split decision, Goulet's tenacious uppercuts and Lacayo's wide hooks forced them all over the ring. 
In another split decision, Chris "The Sweet Scientist" Pearsall won over Tommy "The Terror" Demko in a contest of endurance. 

With a series of decisive second round hooks and jabs John "You Want Some" Moore won over fellow Alumni Dawg John "The Miz" Wahoskie in a unanimous decision. 
Jared "Hairy" Beres couldn't get away from the relentless Chris Donovan as Donovan took control of all three rounds. 
Light Heavyweight 
The tired judges of the Bengal Bou ts were given a ­wake-up call as the first light heavyweight fight almost couldn't be contained in the ring. Bob "Kennedy, Kennedy" Kennedy sent Patrick "The Great White Hope" Otlewski teetering to stay off the judges' tables twice in the third round, fol­lowing two rounds of upper­cu ts and hooks that made Otlewski stumble. Kennedy won unanimously. Mike "Raging Bull" VanderPoel brought James "Strength and Honor" Crinion to his knees in an easy and unanimous victory. 
There were no Heavyweight Division bouts on Thursday because they were all byes. 
BENGAL BOUTS RESULTS 
130 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
There were no fights in the 130 lbs. class. 
145 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Daniel Gonzalez def. Luke Macauley Andrew Harms def. Mark Roland 
T.J. D'Agostino def. Luke Dillon Jemar Tisby def. Corey Shalanski Eric Eddy def. Mike McAleenan Jason Voss def. Walter Pfenning 
155 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS 
Joseph Czerniwski def. Paul Stinson 
Stephen Keppel def. Shawn Monterastelli Daniel McCoy def. Brandon Gasser Robert McColgan def. Matthew Wilkerson 
165 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Patrick Dillon def. Louis Perry Justin Myers def. Tim Mccurdy Brian Berg def. Stephen Owens Christopher Kitalong def. Ryan Gagnet Billy McMurtrie def. Thomas Dietz Thomas Macias def. Kelechi Ndukwe Clay Gosse def. J.P. Camarda 
185 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
John Carver def. Garrett Balich 
for fights on Feb. 22 
135 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Tony Hollowell def. Charles Cullen Guillermo Tijerina def. Eric Ota Russell Giancola def. Justin Pendaruis Christian Cadillo def. Michael Moore 
150 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Julian DeVoe def. Ted Volz John Nowak def. Matthew Yung Tom Owens def. Raymond Bolanos Tucker McGree def. Patrick Kolesiak Luke Busam def. Brian Long Matt McDonald def. Dave Suetholz 
160 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Vince DeGennaro def. Andrew Baum 
M_ike Melby def. Mic~ael Kwiatt Patrrck Hobbins def. Brian Fellner Jeff Ream def. Mike Fink 
175 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 
Rob Joyce def. Ryan Hernandez Matt Padilla def. Jarrett Bingemann Nathan Scheid def. Sean Tucker Keith Arnold def. Gerard Quinn Dan Schaeffer def. Joshua Hillen · Johm Lynk def. John Baldea Brian Colville def. Brent Burish Mark Criniti def. Matt Knust 
LIGHT HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS 
Bob Kennedy def. Patrick Otlewski 
Mike Vanderpoel def. James Crinion Eric Goulet def. Ernesto Lacayo Chris Pearsall def. Thomas Demko John Moore def. John Wahoskie Chris Donovan def. Jared Beres 
HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS 
There were no fights in the Heavyweight class. 


Friday, Februrary 22, 2001 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Irish sit in driver's seat for final CCHA spot; will play Alaska 
\ ' 
\ 



' 
' 
' 
' r 
' ' 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
There are two types of teams when it comes to mak­ing a postseason tournament in any sport -those who control their own destiny. and those that need help. 
Until very recently, the Notre Dame hockey team was the in the latter category. The Irish were in last place, and their chances of making the CCHA playoffs were in serious doubt. 
Then came a weekend sweep of Bowling Green and an unlikely tie at No. 5 Michigan. All of the sudden the Irish control their own destiny in the race for the final CCHA playoff spot. 
"We don't have to sit and 
watch," Irish coach Dave 
Poulin said. "We can go out 
and control our own fate." 
Notre Dame currently has 
15 points and sits tied for the 
last playoff spot with the 
Bowling Green Falcons. By 
virtue of the season sweep of 
Bowling Green, the Irish 
have the. tiebreaker on their 

U) 
C 
u 
D. 
0 

side. With only two more which have NHL sized ice weekends of hockey to play. surfaces, the rink in Alaska Notre Dame knows exactly is the bigger Olympic size. what they have to do. The game will have a lot of 
This week- open  ice,  
end  Notre  and  there  
Dame travels  "We don't have to sit in  will  be  
to  Alaska to  watch. We can go out and  many offen­ 
play Nanooks  the of  control our own fate. ·•  sive oppor­tunities.  
Alaska- That means  
Fairbanks.  Dave Poulin  there will be  
What  that  Irish head coach  more  pres­ 

means for the Irish is a four-hour time change and a grueling 16-hour trip up north. 
Poulin doesn't think that is very exciting, but realizes that his team has no choice but to go up there. Because Alaska is so far away, the CCHA usually only schedules for teams to go out there once per season. 
"We have no choice," Poulin said. "We have to get acclimated. We are going out there a day early so that our bodies can catch up." 
A smaller concern for the 
Irish will be the ice surface 
in Alaska. Unlike most of the 
other rinks in the CCHA 
Friday, February 23, 2001 
9-llpm Joyce Center Ice Rink 
nenta\ is $'2
skate 1' 

iii 
AITENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor W~ter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, February 27th 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, asheet of information may be obtained in 102•B O'Shaughnessy Hall after !he meeting date. 

sure on the defense not to give up 
breakaways, and on Irish goalie Tony Zasowski to be on his game. 
The Irish are starting to come together after a mid­season slump that saw the team go 1-11-1 in a two­month span from mid­November to mid-January. A big reason for that has be-en the renewed play of Zasowski. 
Zasowski stopped a career best 40 shots in last week­end's Michigan tie. After rotating goalies for the much of the season, it appears that he is the man right now. 
"Zasowski has played well," Poulin said. "He has stepped up and he is the guy for us right now." 
With only two more week­ends of hockey to play, Notre Dame knows exactly what they have to do to get into the playoffs. The situation isn't new since the Irish have been playing with their backs against the wall for the past three weeks. As improbable as it is, everything Notre Dame needs to do is on the ice. 
"A couple of weeks ago, if you would have told us that we would be in this position, I would have said it was improbable," said Poulin. "We are looking to control our own destiny." 

l)ON'T ~/IISS 
YOLTR 
CHANCE!!!! 

'II 
Hispanic Leadership Intern Program Chicago Latino Communities Internship 
Both internships provide: -Room and Board -All Materials for -Tuition Scholarship Theology 359C Three-Credit Course Turn in your applications by February 26, 2001, at the Center for Social Concerns by 4PM. 

INSTITUTE 
CENTER FOR 
for LATINO 

SOCIAL 
CONCERNS STUDIES 

" 

Friday, February 23, 200 I 
The Observer. TODAY page 23 

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
II 

rth1riK CA b4c.KpC\c.l<.. C~i\ SC\~ ~ \ot n"novt CA. pe.r~oo. 
( No, 11'\0.t I'M .stf'r>"9 ,,.... .-_ ond -tt-roc100s 
\, Ke "' 
rizz.\~. 
.. 
J 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 Noisy restaurant 67 Force against 
device lifting?

1 1 996 best seller 42 Nod
16 Like some 
DOWN

candies 43 Modem-day part of the old 1 Titan 11, perhaps
17 Runners 
Mogul empire 2 Friend's 18 Trombone address
44 Unwrap in aattachment 

hurry 3 Exactly .19 Geezers' replies 4 Lots of land
46 Put away 20 Flirt 5 On the canvas
47 Smith who for good

21 Key grip wrote "Natural 6 "Shine a Little
workplace Blonde" Love" rock grp. 
24 Grp. formed by 50 Make calls 7 Call from home?
the Treaty of 51 w_ ever!" 8 Any old time 
Rome, 1957 53 Tom of "The 9 Proficient26 Football Hall-of-Seven Year Itch" 10 Post-op stop: Famer Hein 56 Morse T 
Abbr. 

27 Vacation spot 
58 Convinced 11 Without hope 30 One who prates 
62 Opponent of 12 Word repeated 34 Like most Brutus before show sitcoms 13 Not second
66 Contrary to the 
stringers

36 Even rules 14 Honkers 
15 Debut of

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8/26/57 


HOROSCOPE 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Peter Fonda, Johnny Winter, Majel Barrett, Marc Price, Patricia Richardson, Bobby Bonil­la 
Happy Birthday: It's time to stop living in the past and for other people. You're the only one who can tum your life around, and it's time you did so. Start liv­ing life to the fullest. Rid yourself of the people who are dragging you down and holding you back. Find new ways to excel and do the things you enjoy most. Your nwnbers: 12, 17, 20, 35, 42, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You can make financial gains through conservative invest­ments. Deal with banks, govern­ment agencies or corporations that can help you further your interests. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
A romantic infatuation from your past may surface if you frequent places that you both used to go. You can enhance your reputa­tion by making contributions to worthwhile causes. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
You will overreact to personal problems. Don't let your emo­tional upset interfere with your professional objectives. A fellow worker has a vested interest in you.00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Friends and relatives will appre­ciate your sensitive nature. You need to put some time and effort into pampering yourself. Make those improvements you've been contemplating. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of any persisting minor ail­ments. Don't hesitate to formu­late or sign a legal document or contract. Older relatives may be a bit of a burden, but help them if 
EUGENIA LAST 
youcan.000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
This should be an active day for you and your lover. Make plans to spend the whole day together. You need time to get to know each other all over again. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Business will be favorable for meeting new and exciting part­ners. Your unique, creative approach to your job will win you points and a possible advancement. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Be prepared to meet new people. You need to become a bit more free-spirited and willing to inter­act with others. Your creative tal­ents are surfacing, and you must be sure to take advantage of 
them.00000 SAGITTARIUS <Nmt 22-Dec Zl): 
Real estate deals look good. Changes to your living arrange­ments or quarters will be positive. Matters relating to how you make your living will fluctuate. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You need to interact a little more. If you are willing to open up to those you encounter, relation­ships will follow. Pleasure trips will be more tantalizing than you imagined. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Take care of those personal mat­ters that have been eating away at you. Look out for yourself. You've been taken advantage of in the past, and it's time to look outforNo. 1.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A romantic encounter will devel­op through group activity. Don't hesitate to take a position of leadership. Your genuine warmth and compassion will win hearts. 000 


PuuJII by Mark Diehl 
35 Stew 37 Gyro need 38 Sci. course 39 Artist Magritte 41 Car rental 
freebie 45 Part of Rodney Dangerfield's 
trademark attire 47 The Hare 48 Cry of defiance 49 A Marx brother 52 Query in 
Matthew 26 
22 C2H. 
23 General description? 25 Under wraps 
Series locale 
mountain route 29 Feature of 31-Down 
Switz. Man" (1992 comedy) 
chorus 

54 The Earl of Kent 60 Oft-told tales is his courtier 
61 Temperance 55 Greek singer advocates accompaniment 63 nme long ago 57 Blood pigment 64 Triple_ 
59 Many a 65 Honeydew Norwegian eater 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, creative and always looking for something to do. You have lots of energy and are always willing to try something new. You are bright, dedicated and know how to have fun. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at .utroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 



It begins 
Day one ofthe 71 st annual Bengal Bouts began last night in the Joyce Center pgs. 20-21 


O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Friday, February 23, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 6 Irish tennis squad looks for best start in 5 years 

i 
J 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey seeks win with or without Humphrey 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
When Michelle Dasso broke the all-time singles victory record last weekend, she didn't even know it. The senior All-American was too concerned with beating then-No. 7 Pepperdine. 
Led by Dasso's victory at No. 1 singles, the 123rd of her career, Notre Dame paced to a 6-1 win over Pepperdine. The Intercollegiate Tennis Association rewarded Notre Dame by moving them from No. 11 to No. 6, matching their highest ranking ever. 
"It was really exciting," she said. "It was rewarding to see everyone pull together [against Pepperdine]. It was great for our confidence." 
Entering this weekend's tourna­ment in Kansas, the Irish, at 7-2, are off to one of the best starts in their history. In fact, if the Irish win all three matches this weekend against Kansas State, BYU and Kansas, they will match their best start since they went 17-2 in 1995­'96. 
Last weekend's tournament was highlighted by Dasso's singles victo­ry over Pepperdine's Ipek Sengolu. Dasso, currently ranked No. 2 in the nation, broke Kelly Zalinski's career singles victory record set last year. 
However, the senior didn't even realize she had the record until Monday morning. 
"I thought about it last week at Oklahoma State, but in the Pepperdine match, it really didn't cross my mind once," Dasso said. "I didn't realize it until the next day." 

Breaking the record was even sweeter for Dasso considering her parents were in attendence. 
This weekend, the Irish have a slightly easier slate of teams to play, but Dasso knows the pressure is still there. 
"I think we definitely should win all three matches," Dasso said. "Now that we are ranked No. 6, we have to step it up even further and stay focused." 
They hope to jump out to an early lead by winning the doubles match­es. Dasso believes that winning these early contests gives the Irish a huge advantage. Last week against Pepperdine, the Irish swept all three doubles matches, highlighted by Dasso and doubles partner Becky Varnurn's upset over the No. 1­ranked team of Senoglu and Paola Palencia. 
"It just makes the whole match 

that much easier when you start off 
with a point," she said. · Notre Dame's win over Pepperdine 
was the second time this month the 
Irish have beat a top 10 team. But 
they know that they can't afford to 
get complacent. 
"Now we cant take anyone light­

ly," Dasso said. "We can't let up and· 
we need to keep practicing and stay 
focused." 
Notre Dame begins their weekend 

today by playing No. 44 Kansas 
State. Saturday. the Irish take on 
No. 46 BYU. They wrap up their 
weekend by facing unranked Kansas 
on Sunday. 
Sports writer Andrew Soukup con­tributed to this report. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish face Hoyas on Senior Day 


By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
After nosing past the Big East's top-rated Boston Colege team Wednesday, outdoing Virginia Tech -the team at the bottom of the barrel ­should be simple for No. 18 Notre Dame. 
The Irish (18-6, 10-3 Big East) aren't looking at the standings, however. 
They're more concerned with another notation, the one that reads: game site -Cassell Coliseum in Blacksburg, Va. 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 
The Hokies (8-17, 2-12) are new to the Big East Conference, so the Irish are heading to Virginia Tech for the first time, expecting an atmosphere as hostile as the one they faced at the Appalachia neighbor West Virginia on Feb. 11. 
"Everywhere we go, we get that kind of greeting," Irish junior David Graves said. "Being a small town ih Virginia, there's nothing else to do. Especially against the top team in the league; they'll come out for us." 
see MEN/page 21 
at Kansas State Today, 2:30 p.m. 

Softball at Arkansas Toumament Today, 12 p.m. 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Ediror 
On Saturday afternoon, Irish fans will have a chance to say goodbye. The 1 p.rn. rnatchup with Big East rival Georgetown marks the regu­lar season's final home game, and the five graduating Irish players will be honored for Senior Day. 
Festivities throughout the day will honor Ruth Riley, Niele Ivey, Meaghan Leahy, Kelley Siemon and lrnani Dunbar. · 
Tradition dictates that each of the seniors will start -the five seniors consist of two guards in Dunbar and Ivey, 


Baseball 
vs. Georgetown at Texas San-Antonio Saturday, I p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 
vs. Northwestern at Virginia Tech Today, 11 a.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. 
two forwards in Siemon and Leahy and center Riley -but head coach Muffet McGraw is u:psure if she will replace nor­mal starters Alicia Ratay and Ericka Haney with Leahy and Dunbar, who normally come off the bench. 
"It's been a tradition that we have used in the past, but that's not set in stone right now," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "With five of them, it's a little bit different than we normally play." 
The game has been sold out since Feb. 9. Only 500 seats are reserved for students, so the packed house should mark only the second capacity crowd for an Irish women's game ever. A crowd of 11,418 fans attended Notre Dame's upset of No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 15. 
"Ifs just great to know how many people appreciate the effort and hard work they've put in for the last four years," McGraw said. "It's a chance to see them in their last home game." 
The Irish are coming off an 81-43 assault of the Miami Hurricanes at the Joyce Center on Friday night. Center Ruth Riley led the Irish, scor­ing 20 po 
ints while pulling down a team-high eight rebounds in only 25 minutes. 
Freshman guard J eneka 

see WOMEN/page 19 
Swimming Shamrock Invitational Saturday-Sunday 
Men's Lacrosse at Penn State Sunday, 1 p.m. 







