
'From Hell' is heaven sent 
RAIN 

Thursday 
Movie critic Jude Seymour writes that the new Johnny Depp
HIGH 66° 

NOVEMBER 1,
film "From Hell" is a great addition to the Halloween season. 
LOW 53° 
Scene . page 12 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 42 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 




Committees discuss ongoing projects for year 

By ERJN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Edi tor 
With most senators in costume for Halloween, the Student Senate dis­cussed several of its ongoing projects at its weekly meeting Wednesday night. 
The Senate's committee on resi­dence life wanted clocks added to classrooms in O'Shaughnessy Hall, according to committee co-chair Aldo Tesi, the senator from Stanford Hall. However, in a meeting with director of space management Joseph Schellinger, the committee learned that the University does not intend to put clocks in the building. 
"They've tried having clocks in O'Shaughnessy in the past, and peo­ple were stealing them," Tesi told the senate. 
However, Schellinger is considering added amenities such as pencil sharpeners and three-hole punchers to different locations around campus, according to Tesi. 
The Senate's University affairs com­mittee met with another administra­tor, counseling center director Patrick Utz, said Zahm senator Mark Roland. one of the committee's co-chairs. In that meeting, senators and Utz dis­cussed ways the Senate and the coun­seling center can work together to improve services. 
"He was more than receptive," Roland said of Utz. 
In other Senate news: 
The Senate will hold its a round­table discussion tonight in both dining halls beginning at 5:30, announced Alumni senator Matt LaFratta. The topic of discussion will be dining hall issues, LaFratta added. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 
Notre Dame 


plans benefit basketball game 
Special co The Observer 
University officials have announced that at the Nov. 28 Notre Dame-Army men's basketball game, a prostate cancer awarness group will use the event to bring attention to the disease. 
At 7:30 p.m. at the game in the Joyce Center, representatives of the Prostate Awareness and Cancer Education Program will teach more about this type of cancer. 
The event is organized by men's basketball team and coaches and the Management 231 class in the Mendoza College of Business. The class, a service learning course, is taught by faculty member Chuck Lennon. -At the event, representatives of Irishhealth, St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, Memorial Hospital, the Northern lndiana Cancer Research Consortium and local physicians will be available on the Joyce Center concourse before the game to answer questions and distribute information. 
Men more than 50 years old may qualify for a free clinical trial program, Project Select, being conducted nationally. The project is sponsored by the United States Cancer Institute. 
According to organizers the event has two key goals: 
. 
to encourage men over 50 to have a regular prostate specific antigen test at their annual physi­cal exam 

. 
to promote awareness of prostate cancer and to encourage more open discussion of the disease. 


The man_agernent class wm wear special shirts to promote the event on the Monday and Wednesday prior to the game. The Notre Dame and Army bas­ketball teams will wear special shirts during pre­game activities. 
On Oct. 19, sports analyst Dick Vitale appeared in the management class to shoot a prostate aware­ness commercial. 
NEW YORK ON THEIR MINDS 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, November 1, 200 l 
' 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Irish fans are the best 
This week I was reminded about how much I 
love Notre Dame football and its fans. Sure, 
we're in the middle of a season with more 
downs than ups. but I'd rather be "Gold and 
Blue through and through" than any other kind 
of college football fan. 
My friends and I traveled Bob Woods up to Boston for the "Catholic Super Bowl" (or so it was called by the Business Boston College fans) to see 
Manager 
our Irish take on the Eagles of Boston College. We had been lucky enough to get tickets and thought that we could sit in the BC student section without any trouble, like many of our friends who visit do here at Notre Dame. However, the assumption we made was proven wrong during halftime. 
The BC students had been yelling. cheering and booing like any group of fans would do during a game, when a Notre Dame student in the section took off his jacket and exposed his ND sweatshirt that he was wearing under­neath. 
The group of students around him began taunting, which is expected, but then they began physically pushing him and throwing food at him. I saw half-eaten pizza, full bottles of water and even a full tray of nachos being thrown or dumped on this Irish fan, all the while the BC fans are yelling obscenities and threats at him as well. 
As I saw this unfold I was reminded of the 
Michigan State weekend earlier this year. I 
was at a "pre-game festivity" that was right 
next to a group of State fans. They had 
Spartan helmets, flags, and were cheering the 
"Go Green White" fight song of MSU the whole 
time; they were true State fans. 
As the game approached, everyone began packing up, and a few of my friends and I talked to the obvious leader of this group of Spartan fans. He was a nice guy, shook all our hands and thanked us for being the "best group of home fans every time MSU plays Notre Dame." Apparently, Purdue fans had thrown food at them, and other schools had tried to start a fight with them. 
We had cheered for our Irish just as loud as they cheered, and we respected their right to cheer on their own team. 
Incidents like these prove me to more and more that coming to Notre Dame was the best choice I could have made. Many schools taunt other schools and talk about what's wrong with the other team; we simply talk about our own team and cheer them on. 
My personal thought is that we at Notre Dame know that talking about what is wrong with others is the first sign of feeling inferior to them, and we are better than that. We respect other teams for what they are and have confi­dence in our team's ability and winning tradi­tion. 
So, no matter what the outcome of the rest of this season's games, cheer on our Irish and be proud of the fact that we go to the best football school in the nation. Go Irish! 
Contact Bob Woods at Woods.31@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer published the incorrect date for the Balrimore Consort. The event is scheduled for Nov. 10 at 7:30 p.m.,·not Nov. S. The Observer regrets the error. The Observer regards itself as a professional publicarion and strives for the highesr standards ofjournalism at a.II rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can mrrect our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday "'"'"Pl during exam and V11cuion periods. The Observer is a member ofrhe Assoch.tM Pres-.s. A.H reproduction rights arc reserved.. 

THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S  
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Lecture: "What's  . Booksigning: "Food Men  . Recipe Tasting:  . Concert: "Peter & the  
happened with Vicente  Love," Margie LaPanja,  "Nutbread and Nostalgia,"  Wolf," South Bend  
Fox's Government?"  Hammes Bookstore, 2-4  Junior League of South  Symphony Orchestra,  
Sergio Aguayo, Hesburgh  p.m.  Bend, Hammes Bookstore  O'Laughlin Auditorium  
Center, 4:15 p.m.  . Pep Rally: Joyce Center  10 a.m. to 1 p.m.  
Arena, 6:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 




Washington State murder suspect disappears 
PULLMAN, Wash. "Along with the six felony orders law enforcement agencies Frederick David Russell, a 22-nationwide to hold Russell without
charges he already faces, we
year-old Washington State University bail. criminal justice student facing six are looking into the additional At a hearing Tuesday morning, felony charges, is still missing. felony charge ofbail-jumping. Frazier forfeited the bail posted for 
Russell was supposed to stand trial Russell last summer.
When caught, he could be 
Monday morning for the deaths of "Judge Frazier forfeited Russell's three WSU students on State route looking at seven felony $5,000 this morning at a hearing," 270 between Pullman and Moscow charges." said Jim Kaufman, prosecuting attor­on June 4. He is facing three counts ney for Whitman County. "His father, of vehicular manslaughter and three Greg Russell, is out the $5,000 cash
Ron Snowden

counts of vehicular homicide, and he posted in June to secure his son's possibly could be looking at an addi­Washington state patrol detective appearance [at the hearing and tional felony charge, said trial]. and since he did not appear, Washington State Patrol Detective felony charges." the $5,000 has been forfeited." 
Ron Snowden. A felony bench warrant for Russell Locating the whereabouts of 
"Along with the six felony charges was issued Friday afternoon after he Russell is a top priority for the he already faces, we are looking into failed to appear for a hearing in Washington State Patrol. the additional felony charge of bail­Whitman County Superior Court. The "It's all I'm doing," Snowden said. j umping," Snowden said. "When warrant was issued by Superior "Right now it's a matter of getting caught, he could be looking at seven Court Judge David Frazier and the word out." 

NORTHWESTERN U. 

Law alumni stop donating 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Five Northwestern University alumni told NU's office of annual giving on Tuesday they will stop donating to the university because of Law School professor Bernadine Dohrn's past involvement with a violent Vietnam-era protest group. 
The five alums followed in the footsteps of New York attorney Sean O'Shea, who demanded the return of his $1,000 contribution to the Law School after reading a July 16 New Yorker article about the Weatherman radical activist group. The article mentioned Dohrn, director of the Law School's Children and Family Justice Center. 
O'Shea said Dohrn and her husband, fellow Weatherman member Bill Ayers, were quoted in the story in an "unapologetic fashion" as they refused to repent their past actions. 
Dohrn and Ayers could not be reached for comment on Wednesday. 


U. PENNSYLVANIA 
Class meets in secrecy 
PHILADELPHIA 

After several weeks of secrecy surrounding the loca­tion and content of James M. Wilson's preceptorial on human gene therapy at University of Pennsylvania, the 15 students registered for the noncredit class were escorted Tuesday night from a meeting place in Williams Hall to a previously undisclosed location in the Wistar Institute on 36th Street. 
After consulting with Wilson. the preceptorial com­mittee has taken several steps over the past few weeks to prevent The Daily Pennsylvanian from obtaining information about the class. In addition to refusing the DP admission to the class -and even the Wistar build­ing -preceptorial board member Aaron Short requested students not speak to reporters afterward. 
Wilson, once a shining star in the breakthrough field of gene therapy, garnered national media attention and criticism following the 1999 death of Jesse Gelsinger, an 18-year-old patient who died in a study headed by Wilson. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 1. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pre.sure: 
C 2001 AccuWe11ther: Inc. 

® © D D D ~ EJ
. ,..
Hlih Low Show•n Rain T-•torma Fh,m'le• Snow sunny Pt. CloUdy Cloudy 
Atlanta 73 54 Las Vegas 77 53 Portland 57 47 Baltimore 73 52 Memphis 77 59 Sacramento 70 46 Boston 64 54 Milwaukee 60 49 St. Louis 72 59 Chicago 64 53 New York 71 54 Tampa 85 70 Houston 81 63 Philadelphia 73 56 Washington DC 73 55 

,---­
Thursday, November l, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
House to vote on aviation measure 
Associated Press 
WASlllNGTON 

llous<1 lrad(irs scrambled for volrs WednPsday a.s a tight vote neari>d on th,~ rolP of tho foderal gov<'rnm0nt in nnsuring tho safoty of tlw nation's 
nirwavs. 
Tlw· llous1' is to do1· id<' Thursday bntw!'cn two aviation ser.u­rity bills: a mostly 
I) r. m o ,. r a t i c ­baded bill that would makP all airport scrr.enr.rs public· employ<ins and a mostly H1'publiran-ba<'krd mPasure that 1,vould put tlH) gov,~rnment in rhargP of' srrcPnnrs but leavfl srrr<'ning duties largP!y in the hands or privatt' workers. 
Thi• outcomP was too close to c,tl!. 
Snv<'n wePks aft<'r thn S11pt. 11 attacks and with the holiday travel season approaching, lawmakers agrPPd on tlH' urgen<'y of passing a sernrily bill and rnstoring tlrn nation's confidence in thn safotv of air trav<'I. · 
"Thn biggest thing that is inter­rupting our economy is !'car. espe­cially fpar ol' getting onto air­planes." said Demor:ratic leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri. 
President Bush. who is actively lobbying for the House Republican bill. and rnngressional leaders pledged Wednesday to-work through their differences and take qui<'k action. "We're going to get this done." said Senate Republican leader Trent Lott of Mississippi. 

The f)('mocrats am bP.hind a bill that is idnntica.l to legislation the Senate passed 100-0 on Or:t. 11. Besides making airport screening a federal operations similar to customs or immigration work, it puts t.lin Justice Drpartment in chargr of aviation SPcurity and takes stP.ps to fortify co<'kpit doors. assign more air marshals lo flights, expand anti-hijac-king training for crews and inspect all carry-on and checkPd bags. 
If thn llouse accepts that bill. it would go directly to Bush. The Whitfl !louse has 

ranked Hopuhlican. But he said tough new standards "will turn out to be toothless" if the presi­dent isn't given the flexibility to <'hoose the most rffertive securit.v techniques and must adopt a ne~ federal work force instead. 
Democrats, in turn, said Republicans were succumbing Lo the lobbying p,fforts of the aviation security industry, which now sup­.plies the 28,000 airport screeners through contracts with the air­lines. They argue that privatP. sr,reencrs are poorly paid and poorly trained and that screening should be µerf'ormed by law enforcement offi­
indicated he will cers.
"The biggest thing that 

sign it despite his c;ephardt said reservations ovcr is interrupting our DeLay and other the federal economy is fear of opponents of scn'ener issue: their bill were
getting onto airplanes." 

If the House determined to H,~publican bill "get this bill into wins out. the issue Dick Gephardt a conference that goes to a llouse­never ends."
U.S. Rep, D-Mo. 
SrnatP confer­encr,. !louse GOP leaders said they were confident they could quickly reach a r,om­
promise. While the two bills differ on the issue of scrPcners and the lluuse bill k,~cps oversight of secu­rity within a now Transportation 
Department agency, they shar1) many common objectives. 
But unlike in the Senate, where Lott and other conservatives voted for the final bill despite reserva­tions over federal screeners. the two parties remained deeply divided on the eve of the vote. 
"There's a broad consensus that the current airline security system must be replaced," said Rep. Tom Delay of Texas, the Mouse's 3rd­Prnsident Bush 

is pcrs<J11a!ly lob­bying undecided lawmakers from both parties and the Justice Department this week released a letter stati.ng that it was opposPd Lo moving control of air scr.urity from the Transportation Dnpartment to Justice. 
Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta. the only Democrat in the Bush cabinet. was on Capitol Hill again Wednesday pushing the Republican approach. On Tuesday. Mineta said an "unac­ceptable" number of security breaches r,ontinue to occur at air­ports and he ordered immediate steps to tighten security. 
AFGHANISTAN 

U.S. intensifies Kabul air strikes 
Associated Press 
BAGHAM 

Thundering blast<;. plumes of smoke and scT<'aming 
warplanes over T,1Jiban frnnt lines north of Kabul on 
Wndnesday tflStified to an intensifying U.S. air campaign 
to help the opposition oust Afghanistan's hardline 
lslamic militia. 

In sornP of' the hPaviest bombing of the front linPs yet, 
U.S. jel'> pounded Taliban positions norLh or the capital. Children and adults gapnd at the skies. where U.S. planes -induding B-52 bombers -roared throughout the day and into the night. 
The northern-ba.:;ed opposition alliance has repeawdly 
called for more intense and frequent U.S. air raids 
against the front lines, where it daims thA Taliban have 
fortified thr,ir positions. 
It's not clear if the latest raids will satisfy the opposi­
tion, which is betting on breaking the 'faliban front lines 
to advance on the ca.pita.I and other key area'>, such as 
the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif. 
Both U.S. and alliance officials say they're stepping up their coordination in the fight against the Taliban, whic:h is undP.r U.S. attack ac;; punishment for harboring Osama . bin Laden and the al-Qaida tenor network, accused of 
carrying out thfl Sept. 1l attacks in the United States. 
Secretary of Defense Donald 1-1. Rumsfcld acknowl­
edged for the first ti.me Tuesday that a "very modest" 
<'ontingent of U.S. solc.Uers wa<, in northern AfghanL,tan 
advising the opposition. coordinating resupply and help­
ing direct U.S. airstrikes on Taliban targets. A Pentagon 
spokesman, Rear Adm. John Stufflebeem, said 
Wednesday that B-52 bombers were in use against 
Taliban lines in the north and elsewhere. 
On Wednesday, the sound of Taliban anti-aircraft fire echoed across the Shomali plain north of Kabul as American jets streaked across the sky. At one edge of the plain, in the foothills ofthe Safi Mountains, douds of dust rose. Northern alliance soliliers said Taliban forces were moving their tanks in the area. 
Australia 


''the land down under'' Information Meeting Monday,Nov.5,2001 
5:15 PM 
Room 127 Hayes Healy AL & BA Majors ! 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2001 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/--intlstud 

page 4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 1, 2001 
School applications 
Nation celebrates Halloween 
Christmas" on his list of wear masks, and some banned
Associated Press 
favoritA holidavs, the October toy weapons for the day. Off­
bypass post office 
ritual helpect' to restore a duty police officers and fire­·ATLANTA sense of normalcy. fighters from metro Roman Rheingans, a 12-"It does seem like there's a Minneapolis gave out candy at 
Associated Press year-old boy disguised in a lot of people who are jittery," the Mall of America. black prince's robe and plastic he said. "But S o m e TRENTON, N.J.
crown. was the voice of reason we should go places, mind­
'There's a lot ofcrazy 

Erin Matthews grew up 15
this Halloween on Dixie on with our ful of the
people out there and 

miles from Princeton
Avenue. lives. You growing fear University, but decided just
His classmates worried that mighL as well you don't know what over anthrax, terrorists might time another be happy, with even ditched last week that it had every­
they're capable of 

thing she wanted in a college.
strike in America for the a smile on your candy, staple
doing, especially when 

Days before the early decision 
ghoulish holiday. So in addi­face and a bag food of the deadline, she hurried to com­tion to trick-or-treating in his of candy." everyone is dressed holiday. A plete the 31-pagc application. 
Atlanta neighborhood. Roman Down the. Maryland
up and you don't know 

Not confident about trusting 
spent the day calming their s-treet, two mall passed
who they are." 

her Ivy League dreams to a
fears. bulging bowls out trinkets 
postal system beset by
"My friends are scared," the of sweets instead. and anthrax, college counselors
boy said, suiting up before he awaited at the offered
Margarita Lebron 

hand delivered the applica­
gathered mounds of candy home of Leigh pumpkin
Boston mother 

tion. Others were sent
Wednesday night. "They're looking up to the sky, expect­ing to see some giant jumbo jet coming down to the ground." 
It could have been any child, any neighborhood, on a Halloween night played out in the shadow of terrorism. The Sept. 11 attacks and lingering 
threat of anthrax left the nation struggling to redefine a children's holiday that makes light of fear. 
E x t r a deputies patrolled the streets, and police 
Anne Godfrey, who said Sept. 11 has helped her appreciate her three children and special occasions like Halloween ­and made her more careful. 
"We're only going to neigh­borhoods that we know," she said. "We can always skip a house, and go to one where we 
feel more comfortable."
"My friends are scared. 
The country,They're looking up to the forced to rec­oncile the
sky, expecting to see some 
good-natured
giant jumbo jet coming 
scares of a 
down to the ground. ,, typical Halloween with the still­
Roman Rheingans 
new fear of 
Atlanta trick-or-treater 
post-Sept. 11 
life, mixed its 
celebration 

promised harsh punishment with caution. for pranksters. Mothers and In Boston, Margarita Lebron fathers combed through bags chose to take her daughter candy with extra care. Some and grandchildren to a 
parents kept their children home altogeth­er. 
"There's a lot of copycat stuff out there," said Glenda Everett of Albany, N.Y., whose S­and 11-year­old girls gave up the October ritual in favor of a quiet Halloween party. "I don't want to take a chance with my children." 
In the Atlanta neigh­borhood of 
Halloween p a r t y instead of
"What we said is that 
trick-or­
because law enforcement 
tre atingis being so incredibly through the neighbor­
taxed working every time 
hood.
somebody spills a Pixy 
"There's a Stix and thinks they've lot of crazy 
got anthrax, that we people out 
there and
simply didn't have the 
you don't 
law enforcement know what personnel to to go and they're 
capable of
look at every sack of 
doing, espe­
candy in Arkansas." cially when everyone is dressed up
Mike Huckabee 
and you
Arkansas governor 
don't know who they 
Inman Park, are," she said. 

Roman and his friends trick­Malls throughout the country or-treated at houses where asked their customers not to devilishly grinning jack-o­lanterns glowed in front of 
painting and 
storytelling. 
Instead of sweets, Kristin Wyzik of Joplin, Mo., handed out homemade cards. They told trick-or-treaters Wyzik had donated the $10 she would have spent on candy to a relief fund dedicated to chil­dren of Sept. 11 attack victims. 
Patriotism was a popular theme on a Halloween that looked in many communities like the Fourth of July. At Western Costume Co. in Los Angeles, last-minute shoppers seeking pro-America outfits were turned away. 
"Anything we had in our warehouse that was red, white and blue is gone," company president Eddie Marks said. "Anything Uncle Sam is sold out." 
Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, who had discour­aged trick-or-treating this year, found himself' defending his name against parents who accused him of canceling Halloween. 
"What we said is that because law enforcement is being so incredibly taxed working every time somebody spills a Pixy Stix and thinks they've got anthrax, that we simply didn't have the law enforcement personnel to go and look at every sack of candy in Arkansas," the gover­nor said. 
In rural Taneytown, Md., population 5,200, an unofficial 20-year ban on Halloween fes­tivities was lifted. 
"Kids need some old-fash­ioned fun," said Naomi Lowenthal, the city's recre­ation director, who led the revival effort and urged par­ents to give candy to the town's children again. "Especially this year." 
solemnly draped American flags. 
Rf..SlDHJT COMPUTERS HI Tiff Rt:srnrna HALLS For the boy, who says 
-ANSWERHJG GrNERAl WIERNET S!.lrTWAH QIJESTIOtiS
~ ~Indoor {iJ

Halloween is "only bested by 
~?{-___ ~occer Apply now at http://www.nd.edu/... ndoiVemploy
~. Tournament 

(tl:.roc.gl! No'lc:mbci: 15th)
~ 
Fresco 
~aturday, November 10 ;/'5:? 


Qu0st1ons't CaU 631-H4~7 
('atalillO's ·r rnttoria 
tmail ahic!l:crs!!nd.cd'J.
Noon-Rolf~ ~port~ Recreation Center 1w
n,mniown South Heml 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 3 ON 3 PLUS GOALIE ONE DIVISION 


RINK IS WALLED AND NETTED REGISTER ATEAM AT RECSPORTS SIGN-UPS BEGIN MONDAY. 10/29 . 
DEADLINE IS FRIDAY. I 1/9 


LIMITED TO THE FIRST 8 TEAMS TO ENTE"-, ; '·' NO REFEREES WILL BE PROVIDED ,, · ,,, 
SINGLE ELIMINATION 
for ~ore Information Cdll 
llec~porl-!t at 1--6100 


/ ·=­
{I_\ 1 \ 
Hargadon, Princeton's dean of admissions. "I mean, they get anxious and concerned about applying to college anyway." 
Other colleges still don't know yet how their mail will be affected. 
Some American University mail is processed by Washington, D.C.'s contami­nated Brentwood facility. The university has received some mail, even though the facility is closed. 
"We're unsure whether we're getting all our mail," university spokesman Todd Sedmak said. "We're definite­ly keeping an eye on it." 
Rutgers University will ask guidance counselors to fax transcripts and is encouraging online applications, spokes­woman Sandra Lanman said. 
Some schools and parents are concerned about SAT scores. Educational Testing Service, the company that administers the test, is head­quartered in Princeton. 
The College Board, the exam's New York-based owner, said in a statement that it has received nearly all score reports from October. It expects delays but no major problems. 
Some parents from The Peddie School had offered to collect and mail applications in nearby Pennsylvania, but the school settled on using package-delivery companies. 
"Then we don't have to worry about somebody else's mail system going down," col­lege counselor Ted de Villafranca said. "And we don't have to worry about our mail getting stuck somewhere locally." 

overnight, using private pack­age-delivery companies. 
"Had they sent it regular mail, we probably would have all panicked," said Matthews, 17, a senior at The Peddie School in Hight.,;;town. "It's the next four years of your life ­and whatever happens after 
that.'' . 

Princeton said it would accept applications even if they arrive weeks late as long as they're postmarked by Nov. 
1. Anyone who recently mailed an application has been asked to fax the first four pages to the admissions office. 
The stress of applying for college is even more acute in New Jersey, home to a region­al mail facility that handled at least three letters contaminat­ed with anthrax. It has been closed for testing and cleanup. 
The post office serving Princeton shut down late last week after tests detected an anthrax spore on a mail bin. 
"I thought, 'Uh oh. They're really going to get anxious and concerned,"' said Fred 
Mte~tie;~-·st.·Ude.~ts;
. .. . .. . 
. .. ­

Look no further.. the OIT is HIRING! 
Resident Comuter Consultants f5pr;nq '0'-) 
DUTIES [NCWIJE: 

• . ril{)·U:SLtsHnnlrnG -WS'Tf.\LLWG & !ffP/\Hi.lNG NEf\10RK (;ONNfCTI\/TT'r uf 


ATION 
Thursday, November 1, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Experts examine Kursk sub: 
Investigators trying to determine what trig­gered the explosions that sank the nuclear submarine Kursk are focusing on dents in its hull, a top Cabinet official said Wednesday as experts pulled out a 65th body from the wrecked vessel. 
UK embryo cloning law, challenged: 
Anti-abortion campaigners launched a Iligh Court battle Wednesday to overturn new reg­ulations that allow the creation of cloned human embryos for medical research. In January, Britain's parliament passed regula­tions under the 1990 Human Fertilization and Embryology Act to legalize the destruction of human embryos for stem cell research, and, in a global first, permit cloning to create embryos for the research. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Former fugitive Olson pleads guilty: 
Former Symbionese Liberation Army fugitive Sara Jane Olson pleaded guilty Wednesday to possessing bombs with intent to murder policemen during the violent era of the revo­lutionary group in 1975. The surprise plea came in an agreement which does not guar­antee Olson a specific sentence. Her lawyers said they expected her to get about five years in prison, but the judge warned she could be sentenced to life behind bars. 
Television psychic violates NY law: 
The marketers behind television psychic Miss Cleo were accused Wednesday of violating New York's "Do Not Call" telemarketing law more than 100 times in the past seven months. C. Adrienne Rhodes. the executive director of the Consumer Protection Board. said Access Resource Services -also called the Psychic Readers Network (PRN) -may be subject to as much as $224,000 in fines. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Anthrax found on postal equipment: 
Trace amounts of anthrax spores were found on a piece of postal equipment sent to an Indiana postal maintenance facility from a contaminated mail processing center in Washington. Gov. Frank O'Bannon said that one positive test for a few anthrax spores had been found on equipment. "At this level of exposure, anthrax is not a threat to human health in Indiana," he told a news conference. "It did not handle any Indiana mail, so there is absolutely no reason for Hoosiers to be alarmed." 
Market Watch October 31 

Dow 9,075.14 -46.84 

Composite]~ Same Volume: 

NIA

t=l 
205 

AMEX: 827.69 +0.80 NASDAQ: 1,690.20 +22.79 NYSE: 546.34 -0.40 S&P 500: 1,059.78 -0.63 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE NASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) +1.56 +0.52 33.9€ SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +5. 39 +0. 51 10 .1: CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.11 +0.35 16.92 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3. 74 +0, 88 24. 42 NEXTCARD INC (NXCD) -83.74 -4.48 0.87 
AFGHANISTAN 


Associated Press 
KABUL 
Four weeks into the U.S.­led air campaign, a senior Taliban official said Wednesday the ruling mili­tia is willing to negotiate an end to the conflict. But he demanded proof of Osama bin Laden's involvement in the Sept. 11 terror attacks. 
"That's the message for Americans," chief Taliban spokesman Amir Khan Muttaqi said. 
"We do not want to fight." Muttaqi told The Associated Press. "We will negotiate.. But talk to us like a sover­eign country. We are not a province of the United States, to be issued orders to. We have asked for proof of Osama's involvement, but they have refused. Why?" 

"All one has to do is watch television to find Osama bin Laden claiming responsibility for the Sept. 11 bombings. There is no question of responsibility. There is no question of the responsibility of the Taliban, and there's no question of what they should do," State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said. 
The United States has repeatedly said that the demand to surrender bin Laden and his lieutenants in the al-Qaida network is not negotiable, and waves of bombers have pounded the capital and other cities. 
During the interview, Muttaqi, who also is educa­tion minister, exuded confi­dence, arguing in effect that Afghanistan's weakness was its strength. U.S. bomb­ing, he maintained, will not crack the Taliban, which claims no senior figure in its movement was killed in the four-week campaign. 
If there were no negotia­tions, Muttaqi, along with other Taliban leaders, indi­cated that the war would turn into a conflict on the ground in which the Taliban would prevail -as the Afghans did against the Soviets in the 1979-1989 war. 

Kabul, the capital, lies largely in ruins, destroyed by an earlier civil war. The estimated 1 million people are mostly those too poor to flee. 
"America, what do vou want to do?" Muttaqi said. "Don't make Muslims everywhere angry. Muslims have no problem with Americans. It is American policy they disagree with. America should not oblige thousands and thousands of Muslims the world over to feel for the victims of the bombing because they will cause more trouble for America." 
N.Y. anthrax victim is fourth overall 
frightening, it's scary," conceded their investigation. 
Associated Press 

White House spokesman Ari Fleischer, The woman worked in a basement NEW YORK as authorities also reported a new supply room that had recently includ­A New York woman died of inhala­suspected case of skin anthrax involv­ed a mailroom, but there were no tion anthrax on Wednesday, the ing a New Jersey postal worker and reports of suspicious letters or other fourth person to perish in a spreading closed the facility where he works. obvious cause for alarm -a sharp wave of bioterrorism. A co-worker Authorities expressed particular contrast to other cases in which taint­underwent tests for a suspicious skin concern over the early morning death ed mail has been linked to the disease. lesion, heightening concern the dis­of Kathy T. Nguyen, a 61-year-old At the White House, Fleischer told ease was spreading outside the mail Vietnamese immigrant who lived reporters that a co-worker of Nguyen system. alone in the Bronx and worked in a at the Manhattan Eye Ear and Throat Attorney General John Ashcroft small Manhattan hospital. Doctors Hospital had reported a skin lesion said, "I have no progress to report" in sedated her and put her on a ventila­that raised concern." Tests are being identifying the culprits or preventing tor after she checked into a hospital done. The tests were just undertaken. further attacks. three days ago, and officials said she and so there's nothing even prelimi­
"I think for the American people it's had been too sick to assist them in nary to report," he said. 
,--------------------­
--------------1 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November I, 2001 
SAUDI ARABIA ENGLAND 
Blair takes peace effort to Saudis 
"They did not take any respon­sibility for any groups that use violence in order to achieve polit­ical objectives, and from that point of view, it was not a satis­factory meeting," Manley said Wednesday in Jerusalem. 
Blair said Britain was seeking a lasting cease-fu-e in the Israeli­Palestinian fighting to create a base of calm for serious peace negotiations. "Violence from whatever quarter is deeply unhelpful," he said. 
He flew to Jordan, later Wednesday for a meeting with King Abdullah, and was to con• tinue onto Israel the next day. Israeli and Palestinian leaders have said they will meet with Blair on Thursday. 
"What I will be saying in Israel tomorrow is that we have to get .the process going again," he told Middle East Broadcasting in Riyadh. 
Be added: "We all want to see an end to the violence, the injus­tice and the poverty that is there." 
Wednesday appeared to be a difficult day for Blair, and his official spokesman evaded a question about whether anyone during the day had endorsed the U.S.-led military strikes in Afghanistan. 
The spokesman would say only that Blair heard strong condem­nation of the terrorist strikes and endorsement of the goal of elimi­nating terrorism. 
British officials said before arriving in Damascus that they had been encouraged by Assad's condemnation of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. They also sensed new possibilities with Assad, 35, who studied ophthalmology in London before being groomed to succeed his father, Hafez Assad, who died last year. 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Associated Press 
RIYADH 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair took his Middle Ea.st peace mission to Saudi Arabia on Wednesday after an overnight visit to Syria that highlighted deep differ­ences in the internation­al cam­p a i g n against ter­rorism. 
Syrian President Bashar Assad gave no indication that he was prepared to restrain violent Palestinian groups that operate from his territory. Syria, which remains on the State Department list of countries that sponsor terrorism, has long argued that Palestinians have the right to use force in opposing Israel's occupation. 
"Resisting occupation is an international right," Assad told a news conference with Blair fol­lowing their private talks at the hilltop presidential palace in Damascus. 
"An act of resistance is differ­ent from an act of terrorism," Assad said. 
Assad also criticized the mili­tary campaign in Afghanistan, where Britain so far is the only nation to join the United States in its bombing campaign. 
"We cannot accept what we see on the screen every day ­hundreds of innocent civilians dying," Assad said. 
Assad was apparently refer­ring to the extensive television footage of civilian casualties in Afghanistan aired every day by many of the Arab world's sta­tions. However, figures cited by these stations are nowhere near as high as the hundreds of daily casualties that the Syrian leader suggested. 
The Taliban claimed Wednesday that a total of 1,500 people had been killed so far in the air campaign. The Pentagon has accused the Taliban of inflat­ing civilian casualties, and says civilians are not intentionally tar­geted. 
Despite Assad's uncompromis­ing words, British officials pro­nounced themselves satisfied with the first official visit to Syria by a British prime minister. 
"Have we opened a bridge of dialogue? r think we have," said a senior British official who spoke to reporters during the t1ight to Saudi Arabia on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Canadian Foreign Minister John Manley said he also failed in a meeting Monday to convince Assad and other Syrian officials to rein in anti-Israel militants. 


Military action to go into winter 
A.sociated Press 

LONDON 
The U.S.-lcd campaign in Afghanistan will continue through winter into next spring, Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott said Wednesday, and the opposi­tion said the government was not doing enough to shore up public backing for the war. 
Prescott made his com­ments during a question and 
official spokesman, speaking on con.dition of anonymity, said: "It is not going to be done over three weeks." 
Prescott's comments came after Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon, in Washington for talks with his U.S. counterpart Donald Rumsfeld, admitted the imminent onset of winter in Afghanistan, could limit military options. 
"The weather is closing in. It docs limit the opportunity of certain kinds of opera­
answer session with lawmakers 

"We will now begin
in the House of Commons, sit­the steady progress ting in for 
over the winter, 
Prime Minister 

building up to the
Tony Blair, who is in the Middle spring ofnext year, East. 
offragmenting,
"We will now 

undermining and 
begin the steady progress eventually destroying over the winter, 
the Taliban regime ... " 
building up to the spring of 

next year, of John Prescott fragmenting, deputy prime minister undermining and eventually 
tions," Hoon told Sky News. 
The United States has said there is no timetable for complet­ing the cam­paign, which began with aerial born• bardment launched Oct. 7._lt aims to uproot the al-Qaida network of Blair on Tuesday exhorted Britons to remember the vic­tims of the Sept. 11 attacks and remain resolute in the conflict. 
The head of the opposition Conservative party, Iain Duncan Smith. criticised Blair on Wednesday, saying the prime minister has failed to communicate clear aims for the campaign and appears "to be losing the bat­tle for the hearts and minds of the British people." 
Duncan Smith has support­ed the government's overall conduct of the war but said mixed messages from govern­ment and military officials have led to public confusion and unease. 
"Even those who have sup­ported military action from the outset are beginning to ask what our real objectives are and whether we are going about securing them in the right way," he wrote in an article for the Daily Telegraph newspaper. 
"Recently it has failed to get the message across that there has to be a clear con­nection between a defined set of war aims and the current military action," he said. 
Speaking to the British Broadcasting Corp., the oppo­sition leader emphasized he still strongly supports Blair. 
"I think the actions he's taken are correct, I think the prosecution of the war is cor­rect," he said. 

destroying the Taliban regime as a serious force capable of inflicting any more damage on their country and the outside world," Prescott said. 
Blair's Downing Street office later said no timetable had been put on military operations in Afghanistan, although the Prime Minister's Osama bin Laden -the top suspect in the Sept. 11 terror attacks on the United States -and punish Afghanistan's ruling Taliban militia for har­boring him. 
Recent polls have shown that while a majority of Britons still support the war, support has dipped. Blolfore leaving for the Middle East, 

Thursday, November l, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Bush pushes economic plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush sought to break a Senate logjam Wednesday' by urging law­makers to pass an economic stimulus package of mainly tax cuts beforn Novem­ber's end. T h e Senate's t O p Democrat insisted t h c r e would be no deal without broad assistance for laid-off workers. 
Bush told a group of busi­ness leaders that Wednesday's report of a drop in the nation's gross domestic prod­uct was the latest sign of eco­nomic weakness made worse by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
"It's time for our govern­ment to act in a positive and constructive way," the presi­dent said. "The Congress needs to pass a stimulus pack­age and get it to my desk before the end of November." 
The plan should be mostly tax cuts because lawmakers already have approved $55 billion in spending since Sept. 11, Bush said. He repeated his four cornerstone proposals: acceleration of tax cuts set to take effect in the future; a new round of rebate checks for people left out of the first batch; repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax; and greater expensing write-offs for business investment. 
"I caution the Congress not to overspend," Bush said. "The temptation is to fund everybody's good idea. And my attitude is that our money ought to be focused and effec­tive." 

A leading Democratic plan contains some of Bush's tax elements but also includes expansion of unemployment benefits and a federal match for COBRA health insurance policies available to the job­1ess. Bush and House Republicans, who pushed through a $100 billion plan last week, favor grants to states that could be used to help laid-off workers. 
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., told reporters that tho GOP approach on unemployment would not pass the Democratic-led Senate. 
"We will fight with all that we've got to ensure that the unemployment compensation and health benefits are cov­ered in any economic plan that the Congress passes," Daschle said. 
At the same time, there was "general agreement" among Senate Democrats after a closed-door meeting Wednesday to attach up to $20 billion in spending for homeland security and infra­structure to the stimulus plan, said Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus. 
Baucus, D-Mont., said he hoped to schedule a commit­tee vote next Tuesday on the stimulus package, with or without an agreement with Republicans. 
Baucus has outlined a $70 billion proposal that would extend unemployment benefits by 13 weeks, provide a 50 percent federal match for COBRA health insurance poli­cies and allow more workers to qualify for Medicaid ­along with $35 billion in tax cuts. 
Bush told congressional leaders he wants lawmakers to hold overall spending to limits of $686 billion that was agreed on several weeks ago, and stuck to that message in an afternoon meeting with House and Senate Republicans. 
"He made very, very clear that 686 was a number writ­ten in stone," said Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa. 
Participants agreed that the spending limits should be obeyed, including vetoing any legislation that surpassed those limits, said people famil­iar with the meeting who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Mitch Daniels, White House budget director, said, "Ideas beyond the deal we have are unnecessary, unwise and they will not happen." 
Daniels did not rule out con­sidering additional spending early next year. 
"We're in a war, so we can't rule out anything," Daniels said. 
Daschle, however, told reporters that those limits were reached when "there was no real appreciation for the extraordinary needs we face as a country." 
Rep. David Obey of Wisconsin, top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, said the White House budget office was rejecting spending plans from agencies "that ought to be funded immediately if we're really interested in providing homeland security." 

Internet may help civic participation 
As.ociated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Internet may help reverse a decades-long decline in civic participation, particu­larly among younger adults, a survey from the Pew Internet & American Life Project sug­gests. 
The study released Wednesday did not attempt to determine whether such a reversal had taken place yet. 
"One of the big concerns that have existed since the mid­1960s is that young people were withdraw­ing from civic life," said Lee Rainie, the pro­ject's director. "It was just strik­ing to· see this technology that is enormously popular with young people is a Internet users. Sports fan groups followed at 31 percent. Entertainment fan groups were used by 29 percent of users, as were local communi­ty groups or associations. Other popular groups revolved around lifestyles or medical conditions. 
Totals exceed 100 percent because users can belong to multiple groups. The average was four. 
More than half of partici­pants joined a group after an 
"One ofthe big concerns that have existed since the mid-196os is that young people were withdrawing from civic life.,, 
Lee Rainie director, Pew Internet & American Life Project 
vehicle by which they are engaging in the community at some level." 
Overall, 84 percent of Internet users in the United States have used the Internet to contact or get information from a group. 
Rainie acknowledged some of the groups "are pretty frivo­lous, built around rock stars or popular TV shows or sports teams." Still, he said, younger adults initially drawn by hobby or fan groups later migrate to other online com­munities. 
Professional and hobby groups were the most popular, each used by 50 percent of initial contact over the Internet, while 40 percent said they became more involved with groups they were previously 
involved  with  
offline.  
Half  of  the  

group participants said they got to know people they would not have met otherwise, including those of different genera­

tional, racial, ethnic or eco­nomic backgrounds. 
The survey was based on telephone interviews with 3,002 adults, including 1,697 Internet users, between Jan. 17 and Feb. 11. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
The study, whose release was delayed by the Sept. 11 terror attacks, did not exten­sively cover participation in groups since then. 
"Since Sept. 11, ... a lot of people have discovered the virtues of the Internet in ways they weren't aware of," Rainie said. "My guess is these num­bers would show up even 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 1, 2001 
School crime drops 

Bush steps up effort to inform 
A.sociatc:d Press 
in four-year period 
~sociar.:d Press 
WASHINGTON 
School crime dropped slightly between 1995 and 1999, with the proportion of students saying they were victims of crimes dropping to one in 12, the gov­ernment says. 
More students feel safe at school as well, according to a report released by the Education and Justice departments. The percentage of students who say they were threat­ened with a 

comes as Bush prepares for
weapon at school ..Our schools ping crime statis­

speeches and events next week
stayed about the tics may not be
should be a haven 

to bring Americans up to date
same. entirely accurate, 
for our young 

on the bombing in Afghanistan
Attorney General a notion support­

and the fight against anthrax at
John Ashcroft people where they ed recently by a 
home.
called the results can learn without school police offi­

The two separate endeavors
heartening. but cers' group. 
fear ofviolence." 

reflect a desire bv Hush and his
said more needs to An Oct. 5 sur­

team to improve their public
be done. vey by the 

relations operation amid
"Our schools John Ashcroft National 

increasing questions about the
should be a haven Association of
attorney general 

Afghanistan war and the gov­
for our young peo­ple where they can learn without fear of violence," he said. 
Education Secretary Rod Paige said the report offered evidence that efforts by communities, schools, law enforcement offi­cials and religious and other organizations can lead to drops in school violence. 
The annual report said the percentage of students 12 and older who said they were victims of thefts, assaults or threats at school dropped from 10 percent in 1995 to 8 percent in 1999. The largest drop came for stu­dents in seventh, eighth and ninth grades. 
Figures for 11th-graders were unchanged at 7 percent. 
The percentage of students who reported street gangs in their school fell by nearly half, from 29 percent in 1995 to 17 percent in 1999. Also, fewer stu­dents said they feared being attacked or hurt at school and fewer said they avoided places on campus because they consid­ered them unsafe. 
But the percentage of high school students who said they'd been threatened or injured with 
. 


WASHINGTON The White House is intensify­a weapon in 1999 -8 percent ing its information war, sending -was the same as in 1995. The officials to London and Pakistan percentage of high school stu­to counter the Taliban's anti­dents who said they'd carried a 
American 
weapon at school in the past 30 statementsdays dropped from 10 percent in 
and to
1995 to 7 percent in 1999. 
explain the Thirty percent of students said 
anti-ter­
drugs were available on campus 
r or ism 
-2 percent fewer than in 1995. 
fight toKen Trump, a Cleveland school 
foreign
safety consultant, said school audiences.
officials have been doing a better T h ejob in recent years of balancing effort, runprevention programs and crime 
by one of
intervention. But President Bush's top advisers, he said the drop­helicopter, the false claims that they shot downaircraft, the false claims that they captured Americans." Hughes said. 

"Because of the time differ­ences, sometimes those claims are reported for hours while we'reasleep in Washington. Much of the world has heard those claims before we respond," she said. 
"This also allows us to proac­tively do a better job of getting our message out to the world about what the war on terror­ism is all about," she said. 
Hughes has begun chairing a team of communications spe­cialists from the White House, thePentagon, the State Department, the National to get out the word to Muslims that many of their clerics denounce terrorism. 
The effort stems from a con­versation Bush had with Hughes shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks on Washington and New York. He asked her to think of ways the White House could counter anti-American sentiments in the Muslim world. 
As a result of that conversa­tion, Bush has urged American children to donate $1 to Afghanistanchildren and has urged children from both nations to become pen pals. He also has met with Muslim lead­ers. 
Separately, White House offi-
Security Council and the British 

"This will allow us to
government. Theyare devis­respond more ing strategies 
frequently to
for disseminat­

misinformation put
ing the U.S.-led coalition's mes­out by the sage to the 
Taliban there. " 
world. 

Bush adviser Karl Rove and Karen Hughes Mary Matalin, 
presidential counselor 
adviser to Vice President Dick cials say the president will soon become more involved in explaining his views to the American public. 
Since  his  
address  to  
Congress  last  

month, Bush has let his Cabinet and top advisers do the bulk of the information School Resource 
Officers found that 84 percent of officers said crime on campus is underreport­ed to police. Curt Lavarello, the group's executive director, said principals are often pressured to minimize crime statistics at their school. As a result, he said, they often refer to assaults simply as fights or thefts as missing prop­erty -even when $150,000 worth of equipment disappears. 
Lavarello also questioned the government report's assertion that 43 percent of schools reported no crimes to police in 1996-1997. 
"I've yet to meet the school administrator who has zero crime," he said. 

ernment's response tothe anthrax scares. 
Karen Hughes, counselor to the president, said military offi­cials, diplomats and communi­cations specialists from the administration will be dis­patched to Pakistan and a White House aide will goto London to broaden the public relations campaign. They will respond to news developments andplot long-term communica­tions strategies that bolster the coalition's image. 
"This will allow us to respond more frequently to misinforma­tion put out by the Taliban there. For example, the false claims 'that they shot down a Cheney, are part of the strategy team, which will hold darly con­ference calls. Jim Wilkinson, a communications specialistand Navy reservist who works for Hughes, will run the new com­munications headquarters in anoffice building adjacent to the White House. 
One idea is to organize speeches in the region that highlight U.S. humanitarian efforts and makethe case -oft repeated by Bush -that the United States is fighting terror­ists, not the Muslimreligion. Hughes said she also would like 
work, particularly on the anthrax cases. 
Aides say he hasn't felt com­pelled to respond to every development in what promises to be a long war with many casualties, including U.S. civil­ians. 
Bush is working on several events next week to put his anti-terrorism campaign into a broader context, including the military and homeland defense components, aides said. The events will serve as a runup to his two-day United Nations visit. 


If you were a Notre Dame professor,
at•~ 
CUTPC!iT 

what would you say in your...
s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Sminutes from Campus Call 259-1000 for mare details 
..·. ·.· •. ':'~~". . ,..,,.w,.. . 



YOUR 'W:ftsrt! 

You are cordially invited to the inaugural
University of notre Dame's presentation of the Last Lecture Series for the 2001­
2002 academic year. 
Colleqe Bowl 
Compelllion lnform&~ion Colleqe Bowl Is I quesHon ud 1nswer game belween 2 lums of 4. Tlie ques.tlou cover 111 subjects (s.lmllu to TrlrlalPursu/1). 

Rev. Hugh Page, Jr.,, Ph.D. 
Associate Professor of Theology
First kound, 

Director, African-American Studies 
Tues 6 Thurs. nov. 13 Er 15 6pm-12mid nohe l)Ame R.oom. 2nd floor L~rorlune 

Monday, November 5
·"
kee3ish&tion l>e&dline: Thursd,y. november 8. s;oopm Cost. FREE!! fkt[!! fR.ff!! fRfE!l 
7pm 
~rl1es1 Winning Teu1i Elp~n~, p1ld trip to t>,Pquv University to compele 

Pasquerilla East Lounge
aq1.1nst wlnninq re&.11\$ fro11 ol~er Indian&. alllnol$e colleqes. WiJ1nln4 Tu11 akunner Up Ju11, nuu,$ placed on l permanenf plaque displ,red In L,forlune SludentCenler. 

REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
R.e9ister al the Lafortune lnform&tion Desk. SPONSORED BY P.E., KNOTT HALL, AND YOUR STUDENT
Main Lounqe. Laforluoe. for inore delatls. c,11631-8128 or e:HII 1ulcher.4@nd.edu. 
GOVERNMENTJ¼ 
Space is hml~ed. $0 slqn up as soon as poulble! 


UNITED KINGDOM 
Virgin unveils bulletproof doors 
with a digital lock and a steel all 340 of its jets will be fitted 

• Pilots concerned 
deadbolt. with a full-length metalthat new doors will Virgin's entire fleet will armor plate. not improve undergo the upgrade at a cost But the union representing 
of $1 million, an airline airline pilots said it was con­

aircraft safety 
spokesman said. Virgin flight Associated Press crews are being trainedLONDON by British spe­
Virgin Atlantic airlines cial forces in unveiled its first bulletproof an effort "to cockpit door Wednesday on a make su.re that jumbo jct renamed "The what happenedSpirit of New York" to honor in the U.S. does the thousands killed in the not happenWorld Trade Center attack. here," Branson 
Airline chairman Sir 
added. 

Thursday, November 1, 2001 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 9 
Richard Branson called the The first plane refitted with the threat of hijacking," said armor-plated door a "neces­the door is a Boeing 747. Christopher Darke, general sary safety change" after the renamed "The Spirit of New secretary of the British Air Sept. 11 suicide hijackings York," scheduled to ferry Line Pilots Association. "After that destroyed the twin tow­British emergency workers to all, the cockpit doors on the ers and part of the Pentagon. New York to help in the four airliners taken by the 
The door is designed to recovery effort. terrorists on Sept. 11 were all withstand small-arms fire British Airways announced locked." and intense heat and shock, Tuesday that cockpit doors on 
Irish Basketball-loniuht 1:30pm 
vs. International All Stars (gate 11 opens at 6:15pm) 
(Hlia,B 
SUBS & SALADS

BUY1,G01fREEcoupon 
Buy a 611 Blimpie Sub, Get a 611 Blimpie Sub FREE. 

Please present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered or duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per customer per day. Customer must pay any sales tax du_e. Not good in combination with any other offer. Cash value of 1/100 of 1¢. Offer expires 11 /5/01 • 
Martin's Ironwood Plaza North at Ironwood and State Road 23 


cerned about the new securi­
"British pilots have long believed that locked cockpit doors are not the answer. .. " 
Christopher Darke British Air Line Pilots Association 
ty mea­sures. 
"British pilots have long believed t h a t locked c o c k p i t 
do ors are not the answer to 

Saudis issue order freezing terrorist assets 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Saudi government has issued an order to freeze assets of people and groups suspected of links to terrorism, cooperat· ing with the U.S. campaign to disrupt terrorist financing, Bush administration officials said Wednesday. 
President Bush has ordered the freezing of U.S. assets of 66 individuals and organizations suspected of conducting or financing terror. 
The U.S. government is in a delicate situation in its rel.ation­ship with Saudi Arabia. The longstanding ally sometimes seems reluctant to be a full part­ner in the U.S.-organized anti­terror coalition. 
Saudi Arabia is believed to be the home of at least half of the suicide hijackers and other sus­pects in the attacks on the World Trade Center towers and the Pentagon. 
Secretary ot' State Colin Powell said he was pleased with the Saudi order. "Everything we have asked them to do they have done," he said at the State Department. 
If the United States needs more from the Saudis it will ask, Powell said. 
The information about Saudi Arabia came as a 29-nation task force, which had met in a two­day emergency session in Washington, announced it had adopted measures to disrupt terrorists' financing. 
The measures include impos­ing anti-money-launderin·g requirements on nonbank fman­cial systems, such as the infor­mal "hawala" network of money brokers believed to be used by the al-Qaida network of Islamic militant Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The actions by the task force "could potentially save thou­sands of lives," said Jimmy Gurule, the Treasury undersec­retary for enforcement. 

He said they show "the kind of cooperation and international teamwork necessary to shut down those who perpetrate acts of terror against us and other law-abiding nations." 
The group docs not plan to discuss until June, however, possible penalties against coun­tries that fail to cooperate in the effort against terrorist financing. 
Saudi Arabia "has cooperat­ed" with the U.S. financial action against terrorism and has issued an order to block the assets, Gurule said. 
Asked whether the Saudi gov­ernment had actually blocked assets, Gurule replied, "I think what's most important is coop­eration." In some cases, it may be more desirable to keep bank accounts open and monitor them as part of an investigation, he said. 
Treasury officials say 152 cotmtries have pledged coopera­tion with the U.S. effort. Of those, 81 have issued asset blocking orders, including Saudi Arabia. 
The orders freeze the assets and prohibit citizens of those countries from doing business with the named individuals and organizations. 
An official said Wednesday that the Gulf Cooperation Council, of which Saudi Arabia is a member, had said in mid­October that its member nations were issuing blocking orders. 
The U.S. list of terrorist-linked individuals and organizations includes Yasin al-Qadi, who heads the Saudi-based Muwafaq ("Blessed Relief') Foundation, which U.S. officials describe as an al-Qaida front that transfers millions of dollars from wealthy Saudi businessmen to bin Laden, a Saudi exile. 
O
THE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo.< Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN Cl:11.EF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPF.RATI0NS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

N.EWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR, Noah Amsi:adrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARi"s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS.........................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENP..........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARrs ............................................. 631-4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-883 9 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fuatutts for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observec 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrracion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lecrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include comae, informacion. 
QU6tions regarding Observer poli~s should be direct­ed ro Ediror in ChiefMike Cormolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Jason McFarley Andrew Thagard Meghanne Downes Sports Katie McVoy Viewpoint Teresa Fralish 
Scene 
Matt Nania 
Graphics 
Kristin Krouse 
Production 
Lauren Dasso 
Lab Tech 
Ernesto Lacayo 


Thursday, November I, 2001 

Sept. 11: a Catholic perspective 
The attacks on Sept. 11 have raised a wide range of questions. One is "What difference does a Catholic per­spective make?" There are a number of differences as well, and it is worth indicating some of them. 
1. Less initial sur­prise. Absent specif­ic intelligence infor­mation, no world­view could have pre­dicted the attacks. However, a Catholic perspective might be more attentive to a number of the factors that con­tributed to the motivation to carry them out. 
Catholic social teaching stresses that all persons, groups and states are deeply "interdependent" in a "univer­sal common good." 
This contrasts with a view that emphasizes the autonomy and self­interest of nation-states. With this lat­ter view. as long as no one is overtly interfering with our self-interests, then there is little to worry about. 
War here is simply the absence of overt conflict. In the case of the United States, this view has been rein­forced by historical circumstance. 
We have had unrivaled power, an economic boom and have not had a war on our soil for some time. The 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Africa caused almost no psychologi­cal ripple in the American public or even among the key public officials 
A view that emphasizes interdepen­dence in a universal common good would have been concerned about a variety of factors that contribute to animosity and often lead to conflict. 
Pope John Paul II writes, "If the social question has acquired a world­wide dimension, this is because the demand for justice can only be satis-

Todd David 
Whitmore 
The Common Good 

fled on that level. To ignore this demand could encourage the tempta­tion among victims of injustice to respond with violence, as happens at the origins of so many wars. People excluded from the fair distribution of goods originally destined for all could ask themselves: why not respond with violence to those who treat us first with violence?" 
Economic disparity is far from a complete explanation of events, but it is an aspect to which a Catholic per­spective pays attention. If peace is not merely the absence of overt conflict, but rather a quality of interdepen­dence -a "right relationship" -with one's neighbor, then the rich-poor gap its role in contributing to violence is an ongoing concern wherever that gap is manifested. 
2. More restrained initial response. In a New York Times column Thomas Friedman wrote, "We have to fight the terrorists as if there were no rules." Friedman's view is that there is what Michael Walzer calls a "supreme emergency." 
There is a threat in Walzer's words, "to everything dear in our lives." We have a case of necessity, and "neces­sity knows no rules." Walzer used the concept of supreme emergency to jus­tify the carpet bombing in World War II and the deterrent threat of nuclear annihilation. 
The events of Sept. 11 and after fail to meet the criterion. Over 6,000 lives lost is severe, but most of us in most ways go on about our lives as before even if we take a few more precau­tions. 
More importantly the idea of supreme emergency is objectionable on religious grounds. The just war tradition and the limits it puts on the use of force is in part a statement that we are not God and are not without limits. 
The idea of supreme emergency is idolatrous. It makes a proximate good -our nation or way of life -into an ultimate good. The language of "cru­sade" and "Operation Infinite Justice"· early on the administration's response were evidence of just such an idola­trous view. 
3. Firmer grounds for condemning the attacks and responding. My own understanding of the just war tradi­tion is that it may not only permit the use of lethal force against the Taliban and the al Qaeda network, it may require it if all other means of conflict resolution prove not to be adequate. 
However, a Catholic approach would have firmer grounds for mak­ing the case because of its greater sensitivity to non-combatant immuni­ty. The Sept. 11 attacks were particu­larly abhorrent because noncombat­ants were targeted. 
The United States, however, has a history of targeting noncombatants directly (carpet bombing, Hiroshima and the structure of nuclear deter­rence) and of calling "indirect" killings those that are more appropri­ately understood as direct. Between 500,000 and a million Iraqis, most of them children, died of diseases and malnutrition directly attributable to the U.S. targeting of water supplies and infrastructure. 
Greater integrity in world conflicts will require greater sensitivity to the effects of war on noncombatants. This is particularly difficult to do in the kind of conflict in which the United States is presently engaged. 
The temptation is to loosen the just war restrictions. It is a temptation that must be resisted. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associ­ate professor oftheology and the director of the program in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at whitmore. l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
POLL QUESTION 

Is excessive tailgating a problem at Notre Dame? Vote at NDToday.com by 5 p.m today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nonviolence is the answer to the crucial political and moral questions ofour time: the needfor man to overcome oppression and violence without resorting to oppression and violence." 
Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights leader 
t\LHE
VJjSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 1, 200 l page 11 
Stalking football players is all about love 
I've never been one ofthose girls who every time she saw him, along with a switch her places at the table so she'd My two friends haven't met yet, but I fixates on athletes. I'd say the closest I've description of the abject terror she had have a better view of Bocky. Then Bocky told them about each other. Marie, smil­ever come was a reasonably strong desire felt. But somehow, as happens to so many went to get some ice cream, and Marie ing but with steel in her eyes, instructed to meet Joey Getherall last year because I people, her terror morphed into a strong forced this nice, new boy to escort her to me to tell my freshman friend that she was so amused by the fact that he was 5-desire to marry Bocky and bear his chil­the ice cream machine. She did this was welcome to appreciate Bocky. but foot-8 or something dren. solely to be near Bocky, and -----at she, Marie, would beat her up and played college Marlayna In about three davs she went from a she didn't actually get any All("" · · she tried to take Bocky from football. I'm 5-foot-1, Soenneker strong desire to run whenever she saw ice cream. This nice , i I er. so I have a special Bocky to a strong desire to invite him new boy thinks she's \ 1 / , My freshman friend place in my heart for back to her room. This led to a number of crazy. · /-: / esponded that she
Here We Go 1 
short guys. strange behaviors on her part. My freshman 1 !t ould take Marie. They 
Again

Overall. I've just A possible example may be that one of friend with the . . ·, ff oth laugh, of course. never been that into the Irish Insiders last year may have had B_ocky ?bses-, . t I' , ( '. (; ut their eyes ~re the football team as Bocky on the front, which may have led to s10n thlS year , ,.it,..... 1 1i • , I; ot amused. I d guys are. I'm glad they are, but I'm not her creating Bocky shrines, one inside appears to //.. :/ -~ cl'Ii\ •1. ·I -~~~-4111~Ql1' uggest they start out to date them. I've heard girls joke and one outside her room. have ~~ad the ·,;f .:., , " ·. iI 1 j . l a fan club. but I about trying to date all the football play­This was sort of interesting, because 
stamStealkHow /! :+7~\1 \_ , / think it would just 
ers. but if I was going to pick a group of Bocky's girlfriend at the time may have 0 i\ 1 lead to physical guys to date all of, I'd probably pick the lived in the same dorm she did, leading 1 
;f;ythe:,;! .. ,,-t$/0\,.i, 1 
violence, which 

Glee Club. Guys who sing, that's for me. Marie to fervently pray she would never .,.. ~ l ._!\ • I wouldn't be right Nevertheless, I'm aware that I'm a very walk by her shrine. How exactly does one book that my· 1 •. ,.j:';'--~,.,. 1 , at all. While foot-small minority (it's pretty much just me) explain that to an irritated girlfriend? friend M_ arie ;/ .· ·.·.. ,,t·· • ~ ..,. : , : ' ball's supposed to when it comes to appreciating men who This also led to a disruption in our tim­did. She , _. ,/ -~ c.1, ""•1 ; ' be about physical sing. Most women are all about athletic ing for dinner. The football team ate din­knows not : ' a '!Ji. >1 violence, stalking 
1 
guys. In fact, there's a particular football ner at 6:45 p.m. last year, I think, which only when the · ,i,;~ ~ ootball players is player on campus -we'll call Wm, oh, meant we had to, too. This, of course, was football ~lay-.~tr" !':".':-/ I 
ll about love. how about "Bocky," a purely fictional to increase the likelihood of a Bocky sight­ers eat dmner, " · · ./,·. ; ·, \ name -who seems to have inspired quite ing for the day, a ploy which was usually but also when ·· Marlayna a female following. successful. Plus, we got to find out every and where Bocky • / \ ; i enneker is a junior 
I know two girls, one junior and one day what Bocky was having for dinner, eats lunch. :,~ 1 / i ychology major. freshman, who are fixated on Bocky. Last and if that's not interesting, then what is? She has a collection i \ ; l .' , •;. · arlayna would like to year, the junior, Marie, was completely lt's particularly fun when Marie eats ofBocky pictures in her , f · t \ . \'Ii~·:. assure "Bocky" that neither terrified of Bocky. He's sort of big, as most dinner at the same time as the football room. She also knows a ""-~ . Ir.,,.,!,":'.,,,. ofher friends is at all danger-football players are, and bears a striking players but with people other than me. guy who went to high school ~~/1 __ ous in any way. Her column resemblance to a certain group of ancient I'm used to rearranging my life around with Bocky. She swears that she's not appears every other Thursday. She can warriors, who may or may not be the Bocky, but other people are generally less friends with this guy simply because he be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. Vikings. so. The other day, Marie met a nice new vaguely knows Bocky, but she will admit The views expressed in this column are 
She spent the first half of the season last boy at dinner with friends. that it was the reason she got to know those ofthe author and not necessarily year terrified of our Bocky. She'd tell me She then proceeded to force him to him. those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
One issue is sufficient 
Let me get this straight -because children are starving, usually because of wars and vicious regimes about which the average man, especially in another country, can do nothing, and non-0.J. murderers are executed, ostensibly for public safety, though I agree that argument is less and less valid by the day, then the rest of us have no right to proclaim the humanity -and the right not to be brutally destroyed -of unborn chil­dren? 
So because cruel foreign dictators and merciless judges have the power to ruin lives, pro-lifers should not have the right to protest infanticide? 
Moreover, unless you do something about other crimes, you have no right to speak about abor­tion? I suppose also that nobody has a right to study chemistry who does not also study astrolo­gy. Maybe supermen like John Litle can solve all problems at once, but for most of us one is enough. 
Should we blame Mother Teresa for helping the 
• poor, while she neglected the American war on drugs? What about Dr. King -he bravely helped secure the rights of his people, but was he not awful quiet about saving the whales? Do everything or do nothing seems to be the point Mr. Litle wants to communicate. Well, just for the record, pro-lifers as a whole do go out of their way to help poor you·ng mothers and the poor of all stripes, as well as praying to end the death penalty. 
Get to know some active pro-lifers, not those who merely say they are, Mr. Litle, and hopefully you will change your tune. They themselves wiIJ tell you they could never do enough, but you will see they are doing their best. 
Benjamin Thomas Remrnert class of '00 Oct. 30, 2001 

Rethink policy on sexual 
assault accusations 
Notre Dame, whlch until recently I have always been nothing but proud to be affiliated with, should rethink its policies on dealing with cases of sexual assault for the benefit ofall students, regardless ofgender. 
Due to an unfortunate situation of late regarding a fel­low member of the Notre Dame family, of wWch I have regrettably been made aware, I feel sickened by the lack ofjustice that our present system provides. 
It is terribly unfortunate how easily it can be over­looked that females are not always the only victims of sexual misconduct. It is even more disheartening to see that this misconception is consciously promoted here at Notre Dame. 
The truth is that males too can suffer from the inequities surrounding a case of sexual assault, especially in an environment where young men are looked upon as criminals forced to defend themselves from crushing alle­gations, no matter how absurd or unfounded they may be. 
Here at Notre Dame individuals are guilty uritil proven innocent ofsexual misconduct. Even in a case with absolutely no concrete evidence, the accused will imme­diately be found at fault. 
This means that any student, male or female, may accuse another student of sexual assault on the slightest impulse, for whatever reason, and this accused student could be found guilty regardless of the evidence or lack thereof. 
Sexual assault is undoubtedly one of the most dreadful crimes, and false accusations serve nothing but to deni­grate its significance. I cannot imagine what it must be like to be a woman who has been a victim of sexual assault. 
I fully agree with Notre Dame's placing strong empha­sis against sexual misconduct as they do. It is important to create and nurture an environment where a young woman can feel comfortable coming forward ,vith such awful charges. The problem lies, however, in the subse­quent trial process of the accused. 
One might be under the impression that a situation such as this would never occur, where an individual cre­ates false allegations in order to appear victimized. 
I mean what kind of vindictive, manipulative human being would be capable ofsuch a blatantly wrong act as accusing someone of such a farce? You'd be shocked. 
It is far too easy for someone to wake up the morning after a night of drunken debauchery and place the blame for their irresponsible actions on the individual with whom they just had seemingly consensual relations. 
The American society in which we live is one based on freedom, liberty and natural human rights. Notre Dame's "witch-hunt" tactics of placing the burden of proof on the accused are not merely completely unjust but un­American and un-Christian as well. 
Instead, a thorough investigation must be conducted by Notre Dame to fully understand the situation. including delving into the character of each party involved, and find out what exactly went on. 
The stakes are much too Wgh in cases such as these for uninformed decisions based on hearsay and conjecture. lt is much too easy for innocent students with bright promising futures to be victimized by dishonest individu­als who can't come to terms with their own promiscuity. 
Finally, cases such as these where sexual misconduct is pinned upon innocent young men serve to cheapen the words ofwomen who truly have been victimized by sexu­al assault. 
An individual who comes forward with charges of sexu­al assault is less likely to be believed if it is widely known that innocent people have often times been found guilty of similar charges. 
The present procedure ofhandling cases of sexual assault is a shameful blemish on Notre Dame's otherwise untarnished standard of excellence. 
Andrew Oxenreiter 
junior off-campus Oct. 30, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, November 1, 200 I 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Jack the Ripper goes to 'Hell' 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Cricic 
"From Hell," the latest film to deal with the murders committed bv Jack the Ripper, is based on a detailed· comic book written by Alan Moore that reads as a revisionist history of the famous East End strangler. Moore saw himself as an artist rather than a historian, consequently tak­ing historical fact and blending it with fic­tions of the imagination to concoct a new identity for the killer. 
The directing team of Allen and Albert Hughes (The Hughes Brothers) follow Moore's cue, concentrating more on telling a good story than getting the facts right. 
"From Hell" tells the fictional account of the Ripper's pursuer, Inspector Abbcrline (Johnny Depp). Abberline is investigating the murders with the help of his psychic intuitions, which are coerced by a steady diet of Laudanum (a poison that contains strains of opium). 
Jack focuses his murderous spree on a group of prostitutes in the Whitechapel 


Johnny Depp investigates the Ripper murders in The Hughes Brothers' period thriller, "From Hell." 
district of London's East End, among them Mary Kelly (I-leather Graham). 
Mary and Abberline team together in hopes of keeping her and the other prostitutes alive. Meanwhile, the Nichols gang, a band of ruffians, accost Mary and her friends for protection money while at the same time the girls try to unravel the mystery behind the sudden disap­pearance of their friend Alice and her husband. heightening fears of an already xenopho­

The Hughes Brothers step away from bic London population, with the Ripper their previous black urban films -threatening the stability of the monarchy "Menace to Society" and "Dead with his dastardly works and elusive Presidtmts" -to give Ripper his first nature. The movie's underlying theme major cinematic birth. In doing so, they suggests that Jack may not "give birth to bring the romanticized the 20th century" but will criminal into a Kafka­instead challenge the
"From Hell"
esque setting of 1880s assumptions that the London. The streets are 
London upper class make rain-slicked, the fog is of his identity. Jack made 
out offive shamrocks 
heavy and the alleyways it unsafe to assume any­jut out in random spaces. Director: The Hughes Brothers thing about his social. The Brothers show, with Starring: Johnny Depp and economic, or ethnic class their stylized sets, that because of the ways in
Heather Graham 

the Whitechapel district was the perfect setting for corruption. prostitution and murder. 
Jack the Hipper is one of the more fasci­nating characters of the 19th century. And part of that fascination stems from the fact that the Ripper's true identity is, to this day, unknown. Before modern scien­tific techniques made fingerprinting possi­ble. it was necessary to catch a murderer in the act. The Hipper worked quickly, removing organs and entrails in rapid-fire succession and with remarkable precision in the dark of night. These facts consumed the curiosities of Londoners, because Ripper was the first serial murderer in a new age of mass newspaper distribution and a literate general populace. 
The Hughes Brothers bring all these characterizations to their Ripper, respect­ing his social significance although at the same time betraying the facts of his real identity. 
The directors primarily focu~ on the which he operates. 
Suddenly, the Ripper's treachery causes the magnifying glass to swing over the British elite (especially those with a keen knowledge of anatomy), making the monarchy quite uncomfort­able. Jack the Ripper has succeeded in doing more than just committing murders: he has obligated the British upper class to drop their pretentious self-denying n·atures and examine their ranks for a possible murderer. 
The Hughes Brothers have pieced together a compelling horror flick with a couple new chapters to add to the Ripper legacy. Propelled by Johnny Depp's won­derful acting, intricate scenery and a dark brooding sensibility, "From Hell" is a much-appreciated addition to this Halloween season. 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Old-timers clash in the 'Castle' 
•

when Winter overhears him of an unsavory character in
By CHRIS SIKORSKI 

telling the same subordinate, battle, male bonding among 
Scene Movie Critic 

"Any man who has a [combat former adversaries). the 
memorabilia] collection like strength of the acting and the 
"You look at any castle, and it that has never set foot on a bat­dialogue result in an intensely has four things: location, walls, tlefield." escalating storyline and a garrison and a flag. The differ­An unpretentious loner at thrilling climax. ence between most castles and first, the former general soon The big-name stars are of an 
this one is that most are built to finds a prison population suffer­older generation (possibly why 
keep people out; this one keeps ing from injustice and starved this under-hyped film had an 
people in." for leadership. Reluctant to insubstantial opening weekend 
So begins "The Last Castle," a resume any sort of command, box office take). While Mark prison drama directed by Rod he initially declines prisoners' Ruffalo ("You Can Count on Lurie ("The Contender") and pleas for assistance. After see­Me") gives a worthy perfor­
starring Robert Redford and ing examples of Winter's tac­mance as an amoral bookie James Gandolfini (TV's "The tics, however, he leads the who has personal reasons for Sopranos"). The opening narra­inmates in an all-out revolt. distrusting the former general. 
tion sets the metaphorical tone "The Last Castle" is reminis­Gandolfini and Redford are the for the entire movie: are the cent of "The Shawshank real draws, portraying grizzled inhabitants of Redemption" veterans of very different sorts. this facility 
in that the Gandolfini brings depth and 
soldiers or 
introduction of menace· to his role as a dictato­prisoners? a prisoner rial prison warden, fleshing out General with a "fallen" a character that could have Eugene Irwin out oflive shamrocks status in the become a one-dimensional car­
ly who wields the greater things seem to tie together just(Redford) is a outside world icature in the hands of a lesser
Director: Rod Lurie power: Irwin, with his loyal a little too neatly and conve­
decorated 
leads to an actor. army of prisoner-soldiers, or niently (but very enjoyably, if
Starring: Robert Redford, James

three star gen­ultimate con­Redford confidently steps into Col. Winter, with his cadre of you suspend your notion of dis­
eral who is Gandolfini and Mark Ruffalo 
flict and irre-the part of a former leader prison guards. The individual belief).
court mar­
versible whose hesitance turns into cal­clash of wills foreshadows the Lurie, a West Point graduate,tialed and sentenced to a prison change. cu lated determination and an escalation into a final war. relies heavily on the code ofruled with an iron fist by However, the movie forges its unbreakable resolve. 
Director Rod Lurie lends both honor, loyalty and respect toColonel Winter (Gandoliini). own territory, blending ele­The conflict between these subtle and heavy-handed ele­color our perspective of the
Their first meeting effectively ments of a stereotypical prison two leaders resembles two ments. Some sweeping, characters' interactions. This is sets the stage for the two gen­movie and a stereotypical war opposing generals negotiating 
panoramic camerawork helps the stuff of good war films, buttlemen. Winter states to a sub­movie into a final product that terms of war, rather than a reinforce the captive status of not necessarily great movies.
ordinate, "they should be nam­is not forced or formulaic. warden speaking to a prisoner. the prison's residents anding a base after him, not send­While some aspects may seem The hostility between the two is emphasizes the insignificanceing him here." Irwin, however, cliched (the comparison of men palpable, and eventually the 
of individuals within its walls. 
Contact Chris Sikorski at 

loses the warden's admiration to chess pieces, the redemption viewer begins to wonder exact-
However. on the whole. 
csikorsk@nd.edu. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
nzovi 


Thursday, November 1, 2001 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Comic 'World' of teenage angst 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 
After suffering through an endless parade of sum­mer movies geared towards teenagers who like to have their "American Pie" spoon fed to them, along comes "Ghost World," an edgy, uncompromising, darkly comic film that defies tradition and convention. 
Based on the comic book by Daniel Clowes, "Ghost World" puts the modern disenfranchised teen under a microscope, and what we see is a world filled with uncertainty and doubt. 
Thora Birch, the former child actress who graduat­ed to adult roles with full honors in "American Beauty," delivers a heartfelt, complex performance as Enid, a recent high school graduate who thinks she has her life and future all laid out. 
When we first meet Enid, she and her best friend Rebecca (Scarlett Johansson) are suffering through an endless graduation speech delivered by a classmate in a wheelchair. The edgy tone of the film is instantly established when the girls complain that the valedicto­rian was much more fun before she got drunk and had an automobile accident, ending up in the wheelchair. 
dark interior dialogues and inability to con­nect with people on a real, emotional level drives away most of the people in her life. 
Enid wants independence, but still lives with her dad and her ex-stepmother, She wants acceptance, but is unwilling to embrace anyone or anything. She's pas­sionate, but lacks conviction. She can't hold down a job for more than a day because she's not a people person. Maybe it's because people don't get her. But she thinks she knows exactly who she is and what she wants. 
Birch is brilliant in her attempt at getting under the skin of her character. Enid is sort of an extension of the role she played in "American Beauty." As Kevin Spacey's distant daughter, Birch showed angst and confusion. As Enid, she explores an even darker side of teenage turmoil. 
Steve Buscemi is extremely likeable as Seymour, a man who understands and accepts his limitations. When Enid and Seymour realize that they're not destined 
to be a couple, Enid tries to 
set him up with other women. Seymour 
Enid and Rebecca plan to get jobs, "Ghost World" immediately sets down the ground move in together and start their adult 
rules. He doesn't want someone who lives. That's the plan. Instead, Enid is shares his interests because he finds shocked to learn that she has to attend out offive shamrocks himself uninteresting. summer school because she flunked -Director: Terry Zwigoff Perhaps that is what drew Enid and 
of aJl things -art. While Enid toils Seymour together in the first place.
Starring: Thora Birch, Steve 

away in class, Rebecca ends up getting They are as different as night and day,
Buscemi, Scarlett Johansson

a job at a Starbucks rip-off. but these opposites hold an attraction
and !Ileana Douglas

Steve Buscemi enters the picture, for each other that transcends conven­
playing a lonely, shy man named Seymour who collects old records and spends most of his time summoning the courage to ask women out. Enid and Rebecca meet Seymour when they answer one of his personal ads, stringing him along as a joke. Then Enid gets to know Seymour and suspects that she has found a soul mate. 
As the two explore their new relationship, Rebecca finds herself pursuing the future the girls always talked about. The more we learn about Enid, the more we understand that she is destined to be alone. Her 

Photo courtesy of United Artists Thora Birch and Steve Buscemi are two outsiders in the satiric drama, "Ghost World." 
tional romance. 

"Ghost World" benefits from brave performances, both in front of and behind the camera. Illeana Douglas shines as the summer school art teacher, a former hippie who knows more about free expression than art (at one point she praises a brown-noser stu­dent's "found art," which is nothing more than a tam­pon sticking out of teacup). Brad Renfro ("Sleepers") is also good as the convenience store clerk the girls love to tease and admire, another lost soul just trying to make it through the day. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Psychobabble with a side of Spacey 
The film is blessed to have director Terry Zwigoff at the helm, a man who isn't afraid to take chances. Zwigoff is one of those directors who never flinches, and there are times when "Ghost World" becomes so risky you appreciate having a director on board who can go the distance (Zwigoffs last film, the documen­tary "Crumb," was a warts-and-all look at comic artist Robert Crumb). 
"Ghost World" may not be your typical teen flick, but that's its calling card. The film doesn't wrap things up in a pretty little bow with a conventional feel good ending. It's challenging, and any film and film­maker that cares to lay down that challenge warrants respect and admiration. 
If your tastes lean more towards "Election" and "Rushmore" than anything starring Shannon Elizabeth, then "Ghost World" will satisfy you with its audacity and daring. Look for it in Chicago-area the­aters and on video in the future. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 
ByJOHN DONNELLY 
Scene Movie Critic 
"K-PAX" treads water. It has some ambition, but hits too many false notes. The film doesn't stir the viewer's emo­tions, it only slightly nudges them. "K­P AX" is a nice movie, but forgotten as one leaves the theater. 
Kevin Spacey plays Prot, a man placed into the Psychiatric Institute of Manhattan for claiming that he comes from the plan­et K-PAX, located a 1,000 light years from Earth. Jeff Bridges plays psychiatrist Mark Powell, who is assigned to figure out what is wrong with Prot. Difficulties arise when Bridges is unable to discover any­thing wrong with the new patient. 
As always, Spacey is brilliant. His scenes bounce with vibrancy sorely lack­ing when he is not onscreen. He supplies 
the film with some light humor, toss­ing off clever one­liners to many of the buffoonish questions thrown his way. In partic­ular. his gentle mocking of Powell's humanis­tic psychology tickles the funny bone. Prot chas­tises the doctor for being an intcl­Hge n t man who does little early on except repeat what Prot has said. 
The real prob­

character. The film is too much about him silent Chief in "Cuckoo's Nest." than Prot, who is far more interesting to The music in the film functions mainly focus on. And, simply put, Bridges is not as a distraction. One sharp mind included the right actor for the part. He wears a Elton John's "Rocket Man." What a sur­dead-to-the-world look the entire movie. prise. Bridges as the timeless Dude in "The Big But "K-PAX" does have some excellent Lebowski" is funny -the ideas. One of Prot's major fact that the Dude had not "K-PAX" claims is that every person changed in years was much 
has the potential to better of the joke in that film. In "K­himself; alas, this interesting PAX," his possible encounter idea is stymied by 120 min­
out offive shamrocks 

with an extraterrestrial sup­utes of Bridges' extremely posedly changes his charac­Director: lain Softley static character. If the events ter's life, yet he has the same Starring: Kevin Spacey of a film do. not even move lifeless expression on his face and Jeff Bridges the main protagonist, how and in his eyes. 

Dowell's wife (Mary McCormack, '"Private Parts"). constantly frets about him. She worries that he is too dedicated to his work. In the end, not much changes, yet she somehow seems to think that a wonderful transformation in their rnarriage has taken place. 
Prot lives with quite a cast of characters in the psychiatric institute -"characters" being a more accurate description than persons. Each of his fellow inmates has one outlandish trait the audience is sup­posed to recognize. Many of these traits can be seen in other films, most notably "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest." In particular, Spacey is drawn to a fellow can they move the viewer? 
The film sells short the many thought­provoking insights Prot suggests. It never really delves into the questions it poses. 
At one point, Prot explicitly refers to Christ and Buddha, just as he is implicitly suggested to be living a. life along the lines of those two figures. Unfortunately, the film closes plausibly, but not satisfyingly. 
At the end of the film, Prot has come to a bel_ievable conclusion; Bridges' psychia­trist has not. The change that Prot sup­posedly advocates to Dowell is neither sold to him or, consequently. the audi­ence. 
As a mental-health patient in "K-PAX," Kevin Spacey tries to lem with "K-PA.X" patient who does not speak, much as Jack Contact John Donnelly at 
is Jeff Bridges' Nicholson's McMurphy is drawn to the jdonel2@nd.edu.
convince people he's an alien headed back to his home planet. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 1, 2001 
NFL 
Williams wants 
Ravens get ready to fly 
Associated Press 
OVVINGS MILLS, Md. The Super Bowl champs are ready to make their move. 
A year ago, the Baltimore Ravens entered November just one game over .500 and looking very little like a playoff team. Having virtually duplicated that start this season, they're seeking an identical finish. 
"Now is the time when the cream rises to the top," tight end Shannon Sharpe said Wednesday: "Every now and then you get a couple of teams that get off to great starts, but you know it's not for real and they fall by the wayside. Teams that arc for real find a way to sustain the growth they started in September and October." 
That's precisely what Baltimore did a year ago. After a three­game skid left the Ravens 5-4 on Oct. 29, they closed tho regular season with seven straight wins and breezed through tho playoffs. 
If the formula for success requires struggling through the first two months of the season, then Baltimore is right on course. 
The Ravens were in danger of falling under .500 before rallying to beat Jacksonville 18-17 Sunday. 
"It's a battle. We're battling, and that's exciting," Ravens coach Brian Billick said. "You show up every Sunday and go, 'Boy, let's have at it and see how this thing's going to go down."' 
It hasn't always been pretty. 
Tho Ravens were soundly defeat­ed in Cincinnati and Cleveland, and now concede that Pittsburgh, their opponent Sunday. is the team to beat in the AFC Central. 
That's OK, because the Ravens are just getting started. 
"The way we practice in train­ing camp, the way we lift, the way we practice during the course of the week, is built toward trying to be healthy and fresh in November and Dec­ember," Billick said. 

Stadium, where Baltimore has won eight straight. 
"It takes it out of you. playing on the road so many times," defensive tackle Tony Siragusa said. "Guys are a little worn out from it. But maybe in the second half of the season, when we're home so much, maybe we'll be a lot more refreshed." 
The Ravens went 2-2 in October, which is a whole lot bet­ter than last season, when they went the entire month without a 
The tech­"We're going to find out if touchdown. nique has we're built for this "October has produced been a shaky
November and 

the desired month for us the results. December." past couple of Balti-years. But we more is an still believe,"
Brian Billick

NFL-best Siragusa said.
head coach
13-2 in November a n d December since Billick took over before the 1999 season. 
"We're going to find out ifwe're built for this November and December," safety Rod Woodson said. "I don't care about the past.'" 
Billick does, and plans to let the players know as much. 
"We have a bit of a history in November and December, so I'm hoping to draw on that," he said. 
The schedule sets up well for a second-half surge. After the Ravens play the Steelers and travel to Tennessee for a Monday night game, five of their final seven games are at PS!Net 

"You've got to get 
better every 
game, and I think we are. We're just trying to follow what we did last year: improve every game, get the wins in the barn. then keep going." 
It should be easier this season, because the Ravens have history ­-and their reputation --to draw upon. 
"We've got to get the mindset back that we're the Baltimore Ravens, we have a great defense and we're winners," receiver Travis Taylor said. "We were at a down point, so we have to get back the attitude that we need." 
The Ravens may not get back their starting quarterback for Sunday's game. 
more play time 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Carolina Panthers defen­sive end Jay Williams lashed out at the team's coaching staff Wednesday, saying he wants to play every down or play somewhere else. 
Williams, who led the team in sacks last season with six. was benched last week against the New York Jets and replaced at left defen­sive end by Sean Gilbert. 

"When they told me about the change last week, I felt like I was smacked in the face and spit on," Williams said. "I felt like I wasn't given the opportunity to show what I can do." 
Williams started the first six games for the Panthers at left defensive end, but recorded just 16 tackles and one sack while playing most­ly on first and second downs. 
He said he agreed to play for Carolina after the 1999 season because the Panthers offered him an opportunity to be an every down player as left defensive end. 
Now he feels misled. 
"I mean. how can I not feel that way? When I got here, all I asked for was the opportunity to start," Williams said. "I didn't care if I came in as a backup at first, but as long as I got the opportunity to compete for a starting job, that's all I cared about." 
Defensive coordinator John Marshall said he has given Williams plenty of opportuni­ties to prove himself. 
"We had all last year and all through training camp and all last week to evaluate that, so how many more opportunities do you need?" Marshall said. "I think he had a lot of opportunities lo show the kind of production that we need." 
Marshall said he still believes that Williams can be a big contributor to the defense. but that he wanted to shake things up. 
"What matters is that nobody, including Jay, should think any less of him because we made a move that way," Marshall said. "He's a good producer. He is. But we just need more." 
Panthers head coach George Seifert said that while he's upset Williams vented his feelings to the media, he takes solace in the fact that Williams' heart is in the right place. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIF~EDS 
Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad. Selling Varsity Club time share 1 WANTED -ND TICKETS $300-$800 Scholarships HOPING TO ADOPT weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219-soph. wk. $9,500 289-9280 Available per semester! We are a fun-loving, well educated LOST AND FOUND 2TT-4303 272-1753 Looking for a job which lets you and financially secure married cou­www.irishroseinn.com Buying some/ Selling a few extra work around your school schedule? pie in Northern California. We are 
N.D. Football Tickets. We have several part-time and full-homestudy approved and excited to 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1999 Toyota RAV4 excellent condi-219-289-8048. lime day & evening positions paying share our love with a bay! You can Found knit cap with Barna on it 1) 9-br. $2400/month tion -only 10,500 miles, leather, cd $7-$11/hr. learn more about us at www .parent-Call 4-1627 2) 5-br. $1500/month changer, manual transmission Need NDfTENN Tix We offer the following: profiles.com/profiles/db2288.html or 
3) 4-br. $1000/month CALL 243-9937 272-6306 *Scholarship money call Adoption Connection toll-free at Call Bill at 532-1896 *FleKible Schedules 1-800-972-9225 and ask about 
Pair of Tenn Tix 4 sale 'Paid vacations/holidays Chris and Mary. Homes for rent near campus Moving out need to sell everything! 271-2970 'Optional Saturdays 
FOR RENT 
furn. Great prices! Furniture, kitchen *Health/Life/401 (k) I heard that Katie was giving out 272-6306 appliances, Iv, bed, and many more *Incentives/Raises giving out "tricks" tonight ... 
stuff. CALL 243-9937 *Supervisory/Mg!. Positions HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-PERSONAL 1-(888) 801-JOBS I had your mom... PUS jobs@americallcorp.com
WANTED

mmmrentals.com Just minutes north of campus I'm sick of yelling up to your win-
TICKETS

email: rrimmrentals@ao!.com SPRING BREAK dow likeyour Romeo... Student wanted! Alum owned 2 Largest selection of Spring Break story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ newer carpet. Student needs 2 tickets for Destinations, including Cruises! F raternities*Sororities •clubs• Stu de Tami, it's cold out there. You've 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Appl, sec, root & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 Tennessee game. Call Matt at 634-Rep Positions, Free Drinks and nt Groups been out there for hours! 
Breakfast Inn has space available blk N. of Club 23. 321-217-8451. 1854. Free trips available. Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms www. EpicuRRean.com witti the easy Hey, Amy, thanks for the 'treat" ;) with private baths, $80-S115, Houses available for 3-6 students. Need 2 tickets for Tennessee. Call 1 ·800-231 ·4-FUN campusfundraiser.com three hour Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air. Janel at 284-4436 fundraising event. Does not involve Watch out tor hypothermia! 
Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418-Dave 340-0106. WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! credit card applications. 9487 Need 1 Tennessee student convert Sun Coast Vacations wants to send Fundraising dates are filling quickly, Kendall, I picked up a copy editing 
Black female seeking same for tic-call Kate 4-1188 you on Spring Break to Cancun, the so call today! Contact campus-book for your away messages. B&B roommate Castle Point. $350 + Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan tundraiser.com at 888 923-3238, or 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES Deposit For Sale FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1 • visit www.campusfundraiser.com We still need to replace our shaggy 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 2 Tenn/ND tix 888-777-4642 or email: sales.@sun-carpet. 247-1124 Responsible person who enjoys call: 274-2211 coastvacalions.com 
kids needed for after school. ADOPTION IS LOVE SHOOOOOOOOPI Lodging -Bed and Breakfast. 45 Monday through Friday 4-7 PM. BUY-SELL Spring Break with STS, America's minutes from Notre Dame. T&R Need own car. Call 272-6145. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS #1 Student Tour Operator. Imagine your precious baby safe I'll never look at the library the INN Between the lakes 277-6619 or 273-3911 Promote trips on campus earn cash and happy in a loving family, same way ever again... PH (616) 244-9084 Fun promotional jobs and free trips. Info/Reservations adored by 2 ND grad parents (a full-www.innbetweenthelakes.com $10/hr to give away cool new prod• NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX 1 -800-648-4849 time mom and lawyer dad) and lov-Adrienne, don't forget you're a con­
ucts FOR SALE www.ststravel.com ing playmates in a beautiful home. test winner1 Nice homes next schocl year north promogirl.com We promise to give your child the of ND. Great area. 277-3097 A.M. 232-2378 life you dream of for them. Medical, It puts the lotion in the basket 
P.M. 288-2726 ...ACT NOWI GUARANTEE THE legal, counseling, court-approved ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! living expenses pd. Confidential. do-do do-do do-do da da da! (clap SOUTH BENO MARRIOTT FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, Please call our attorney at (708) clap clapl) NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL-922-4795 VS NAVY-WEEKEND. ROOMS Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold A.M. · 232-2378 CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. Watch out for mom. She's wearing BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER· way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR P.M. -288-2726 REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, the shoes that you hate. ENCE. EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT New standup Austin Powers cutout, MORE INFORMATION PLEASE garage. $69,000. NO tickets for sale. Lowest prices. FOR 6+. 800-838-life sized, says five things $20 Kate It's my night with Colin!!!!! CALL BARB HERB-AT 3i2-243-Call Doris at 254-1772 232-0964. 8203/www.leisuretours.com 4-1188 4244 (X4192) BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOTS!!!! 
:. " • • • .. • • • • • ~ -, • • • • & ••• 

... , ... ~::••··········-•" .......... 
------------~­


Thursday, November 1, 2001 page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 


All Saints 
Vigil Mass 5:15 pm All Saints Oay Mass 11 :30 am Solemn Mass 5:15 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center· 
Danielle Rose in Concert 
9:30 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

urdav 

Folk Choir Concert for Missions 
8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Dia de los Muertos Closing Event 
1:00 p.m.• Meet at LaFortune . Spanish Mass at Zahm Hall Chapel Reception to follow 
law School Mass 
5:00 p..m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.•m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Rejoice! African American Catholic Mass 
10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Our Mother Chapel Coleman-Morse Center Celebrant: Rev. J. Steele, csc 
L The Way Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
ACIA Study Session 
6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 


Campus Bible Study/CBS 
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 

7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation­Make-up Session #3 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
CAMPUS MINISTRY
-----------------r, 
Does God Check Email? 
0 

¦ by Frank Santoni, Assistant Director, Special Projects 
~ 

I have a confession to make: I shirk time at work by writing personal notes to friends and family every morning before I do any of work-related activity. It's true; I can't deny it. Each day, when I get to work at 
u, 

the Coleman-Morse Center, the first thing I do is check my email. I watch impatiently while the blue 
.....

status bar pushes its way across the screeen as it finds each new email message that awaits me. I fidget, listening for the loud beep to signal "You have new mail" as dozens of new missives fill up my In-Box. I scan the list for familiar senders' names and click eagerly on each discovery. For the next half hour or so, I 
t:J 

systematically reply to each personal message, one by one. There you have it. It's off my chest and with the number of priests around campus I hope I might 
n, 

have a good chance at absolution before the end of this column. It's old news that email has changed the way we communicate, the way we work, even the way we live. 
::tJ

When would I have ever, before the advent of this instant form of communication, arrived at work, or before going to sleep at night, pulled out some loose leaf stationery and written a letter the old fashioned 
:t:­

way to several of my friends at a time every single day? That just didn't happen. Email has made it easy to keep it in touch with loved ones. 
---1

A quick survey of my In-Box proves chat even my faith life has been altered. Regularly, during my on­the-clock email checks, I skip over forwarded and re-forwarded prayers and inspirational tales of the ..... chicken soup variety sent by family and friends. My attachments folder bulges with powerpoint presenta­tions of interviews with God and religious digital pictures. 
0 

All this email talk got me wondering. If email is so convenient and so pervasive, and if it's already improved the way I stay connected with the pr.:ople I love, then wouldn't it stand to reason that I should get 
~ 

God into my address book? I mean, God must have an email account right? And if he does, how often does he reply to his messages? Knowing that kind of info would come in very handy since I have a lot of 
u, questions and several requests. Just think of the possibilities. Daily emails would surely speed up the process of getting answers from the Almighty. If I had a problem. in the morning I could shoot off an • urgent email to God and get an answer by lunch. 
• 

First, I had to find God's email address. I knew from previous experience that God does not have a 
•

website. A search at yahoo.com generated 200 responses, none of them too promising unless I wanted to email The Evil Chicken God ofThe Underworld or Fred God from West Islip, New York. I did send a 
message to the_one_true_god@hotmail.com, but I'm not holding my breath. 
I had to resort to a little experiment. So, I typed up a message, quick and to the point. 
God, 

Hi. Just a quick question or two: How often do you check your email? And with what frequency 
do you reply? I'm just looking for a ballpark guesstimate here. I know how busy you must be. 
Peace, Frank 

I fired it off to god@hotmail.com, god@earthlink.net, god@aol.com, and for good measure, god@nd.edu. I got immediate replies from eanhlink and aol, explaining in tech jargon that God did not have an account with either of the giant email providers. I can also report, with some fear that I may shatter a few long-held ideas, that God does not rely on Notre Dame -at least not for an internet connection, that is. So far, nothing from hotmail. 
Trying to reach God via email proved to be a frustrating endeavor. I was met with no answers and only more questions. I imagined an efficient back and forth between me and God. Come to think of it, that could easily describe all the other methods I use to try to reach God, too. My litany of questions and requests is often lengthy, but the time I give God to reply is always short. I list all the important people in my life, throw in any major life issues and conclude with a general request for abundant blessings. 
I am impatient and email has only reinforced my expectation for immediate answers and easy communications. After all, if I email a friend I can usually expect to hear back within 24 hours. And ifI don't, I get upset. Shouldn't I be able to count on the same from God? In the end, my typical prayers filled with needs and wants, like short emails between friends, are fine to keep "in touch" with God, but deepening a relationship requires setting aside quality time away from the busyness of life. I have found that reaching God and, especially, hearing back, demands of me a deeper kind of commitment, one that is far more deliberate and patient. 
Maybe, if God doesn't do email, I can find some others who do. Don't Mary and the saints have a direct line? I'll have to check when I get to work tomorrow. 
31st Sunday ¦ Presiders 
Ordinary Basilica of the SacredHeart 
Time 

Saturday, November 3 Mass
Weekend , · 30minutes aftergame 
Most Rev. James M. Moynihan Bishop of Syracuse, New York 
¦ Sunday's 

45 minutes after game (Stepan Center) 
Scripture Readings Rev. John A; Hennan, c.s.c. 
1st Reading Sunday, November 4Mass 
B:00a.m.
Wisll:22-12:2 
Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, C.S;C. 

10:00a.m.
2nd Reading Most Rev. Anthony J. O'Connell
2 Thes 1: 11-2: 2 Bishop of Palm Beach, Florida 
11:45a.m.
Gospel 
C-M
Most Rev. Peter J. SartainLk 19: 1-10 
Campus Mlnlstry
Bishop of Little Rock, Arkansas 

-__. 
.,.. 
Thursday, November 1, 2001 

page 16 The Oh.server . SPORTS 
NFL 
Bears defense puts points on board 
Assodated Press 
L'\KE FOREST, Ill. 

The Chicago Bears defense is finding the end zone with regu­larity. 
Three times in four games, the Bears have taken either a fum­ble or interception for a touch­down, none bigger than Mike Brown's 33-yard interception return in overtime last Sundav. 
Brown picked off a ball, that hit San Francisco's Terrell Owens in the shoulder pads, and scored to give Chicago a stun­ning 37-31 victory Sunday. 
Three weeks ago, Brian Urlacher returned a fumble 90 yards for a TD against the Falcons. The next week, R.W. McQuarters sco_oped up a loose ball on a friendly bounce and scooted 69 yards for a score against the Cardinals. 
"Hight now it's big for us," McQuarters said of the Bears' ability to score on defense. "Not only are we talking about it, we're actually going out and doing it." 
The Bears 
"It's all about knowing has been

(5-1) have 13 
making big

takeaways where to fit and where to 
plays since. 

through their be, just taking the right 
"It's all

first six games 
alignment. " about angles.

and have con­
You can be

verted those 
off a couple

into 41 points, 
R. W. McQuarters 
of inches or

including the 
comerback you can be

three TD 
returns. 
"We empha­size it every time we get a turnover in practice. Every time a defensive player has the ball in his hands. you have that aggres­siveness and we're trying to score," Brown said. 
"We teach that in practice and you can tell in the games that when guys get the ball, they're trying to score." 
At the end of a drill that has them stutter-stepping through orange cones, defensive backs have to reach low and catch a shovel pass or pick up a ball on the ground that secondary coach Vance Bedford dumps at their feet, simulating a fumble recov­ery or an interception. 
But good bounces also help. 
"To win a championship you have to have some bounces, so if we have enough bounces, great. I'll take them all year," defensive coordinator Greg Blache said. 
The Bears returned four inter­ceptions for touchdowns last season and turning the other team's mistakes into points has always been an emphasis. Now it's been a big part of their quick start this season and a five-game winning streak. 
"We worked on that since we got here three years ago," Blache said. 
"Our speed has improved and there are a lot of factors involved. It's a matter of talent, a matter of emphasizing it and a matter of guys growing up into the defense." 
McQuarters had a touchdown return on an interception in last season's finale against Detroit. Then he won a starter's job in training camp and 
there to 
make the play by a couple of inches," McQuarters said. 
"It's about knowing where to fit and where to be, just taking the right alignment." 
Sure, there is luck involved, but there is also repetition in practice and a mentality now for the Bears that they can score on defense. 
"Turnovers and scoring on defense is one of the main things we .stress and harp on week in and week out," McQuarters said. 
"We've been able to do it in three of the last four games. It's actually happening." 

~ --University Resources : 
•
•
• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & 
• • • Bisexual Students 
• 
: liiiTH,i/,EiliSillllTfliiiANli,lii~ioiilNiiiJG 
• COMMITTEE ON 
• GAY AND LESBIAN 
• STUDENT NEEOS
•
••• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
. 
•.. Lesbian Student Needs • • (Confidential information, education, and resources) • 
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent • • members (see web site for student contact info.) • 
.• Office of Campus Ministry : 
• ("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which :
•
• include prayer and discussion ofspiritual issues; annual :
•
• retreat; library with relevant reading materials) :
•
• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steclc.3 l@nd.edu, or • 
• Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu :
• 
• University Counseling Center :
•
•
. (Individual counseling or a confidential support group) :
• 
Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz.l@nd.edu, or Maureen

• : 
• Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu • 
• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' • 
.

• 
······························~········~---······ 
NCAA to change scholarships 
decide on at least two other issues affecting college basket­ball: the reinstatement of ath­letes who rnmpeted profession­ally before entering college and changing the summer recruit­ing period. 
If approved, the penalty for student-athletes who competed professionally before entering 

The proposal would place a Kirwan "They at least did admit two-year moratorium on the said he still their mistake, to a so-called "5/8 rule" that pro­supports 
degree. the biggest mis­
hibits schools from awarding the reason­
. Board expected to end '5/8 rule' 
Associatccl Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
The NCAA's Board of Directors is expected to make a decision Thursday on a new basketball scholarship rule that has upset coaches. 
Kirwan, chairman of the board of directors, said that was not the intention when the rule was adopted. 
Rather. Kirwan said, the NCAA wanted coaches to be more deliberate about whom to offer scholarships so they could reduce attrition and transfer rates and boost graduation rates. 
W hi I e 

more than five scholarships in ing, he any one year and no more than acknowl­eight over a two-year period. It e d g e s also would increase the two­adjust­year limit to nine. ments may 
"They at least did admit their be needed. mistake, to a degree," Arizona "I think coach Lute Olson said. "The 
some of the 

take was doing something at all." 
Luke Olson 
coach 
college would be reduced. 
Those ath­letes are now required to sit out one col­lege game for each profes­sional game played. 
The change would limit the penalty to a maximum of 

biggest mistake was doing somP-thing at all." · 
If approved, the "5/8 rule" would be back in place in 2003­04 with one modification a one­scholarship credit when the combination of players gradu­ating and leaving early exceeds the amount of scholarships they could normally award. 
The athletes leaving early must be on track to graduate in five years. 
Olson's squad was one of the most affected in this, the first year of the rule. 
After reaching the national championship game in April, three Wildcats players left early for the NBA. 
Because of the rule, Olson could not fill those scholarships and will have 10 scholarship players this season instead of the 13 permitted under NCAA guidelines. 
Ohio State president William unintended consequences peo­ple have raised are how do you account for people who left the institution in good standing, whether they transfer or go to the pros," Kirwan said. "Some people have raised questions about whether there should be some accommodation in the rule when that occurs." 
Kirwan did not say whether he expected the proposal to be approved. 
In Olson's mind, though, the NCAA is moving in the right direction. 
"With a full complement of four we could go to 13," Olson said. "The thing that makes it difficult to plan ahead for is if we have someone going to the NBA late. By the time that's done recruiting is over." 
That isn't the only modifica­tion under consideration by the board of directors. 
The panel is also expected to 
eight games. 
The board of directors also is considering a proposal that would split the 20-day summer recruiting period into two 10­day periods, separated by a four-day break. 
Legislation that would pro­hibit certification of events scheduled to be played in facili­ties supported by sports wager­ing will also be on the table Thursday. 
In addition, the board will consider a proposal that would allow football teams playing a 12-game schedule to qualify for bowls with six wins. 
On Monday, the Football Study Oversight Committee rec­ommended that teams with 12­game schedules win seven games to qualify. 
NCAA spokeswoman Jane Jankowski said the board could only vote on the six-win requirement. 

THERE REALLY IS MORE TO LIFE THAN JUST BEING A 
SURVIVOR 

Join the adventure that never ends. 
ANSWER :-W 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 



Thursday, November 1, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
-
NBA 
Jordan falls prey to series 
. TV ratings for return much lower than baseball 
Associated Pre•• 
NEW YORK 

Michael Jordan had no chance against the World Series. 
About 13 million more U.S. TV homes 
tuned in to see the New York Yankees play the Arizona Diamond­backs than watched Jordan's first 


game with Jordan the Wash-ing­ton Wizards on Tuesday night. 
Fox's broadcast of the Yankees' 2-1 victory over the Diamondbacks in Game 3 of the World Series was watched by more than 16.2 million televi­sion households. About 3.3 mil­lion saw the Wizards' 93-91 loss to the New York Knicks on TBS. 
The baseball game produced a national rating of 15.4 with a 24 share, 24 percent higher than the rating for Game 3 between the Yankees and Mets last year. That helped the cur­rent Fall Classic move well ahead of the record-low pace in 2000. 
Through three games, the Yankees-Diamondbacks World Series was averaging 13.8/22, 
/.-----------·-----"' ( Don1t know which way to go? ' 
I 
I Head for Washington !)C and i The Washington Program! 
I 
I 
\ /
'·--r-------___,/


_,-/
/-,,.,-­
~ 
Applications 
are now being accepted for Fa/12002 and Spring zooi,= 
Visit our Website,and submit an .online application 
TODA~ 

···············································~--································ 
14 percent higher than a year ago. For broadcast networks, the rating is the percentage of 
105. 5 million U.S. television households tuned to a program. 
The basketball game pro­duced a national cable rating of 
3.3 on TBS, which translates to about 2.9 million homes. TBS's coverage was blacked out in New York, where the game was shown on MSG Network and was watched by about 347,500 TV homes --about 2 1/2 times what MSG averaged for Knicks games last season. 
The World Series game was watched by about 2.1 million TV homes in New York, the country's largest market. 
The TBS rating still tripled what the network averaged for NBA regular season broadcasts in. 2000-01, and more than doubled what TBS drew for its season opener last year between the Knicks and 76ers. 
Jordan, who is making his second return from retirement, will go head-to-head with base­ball again Thursday. 
Last year's World Series, also on Fox, was the worst-rated ever, averaging a 12.4 rating and 21 share, down 23 percent from 1999 and 12 percent from 1998's previous record low. 
Sunday night's Game 2. which Arizona won 4-0, drew a 15.0/23, making it the fourth most-watched program last week. trailing only "E.R.," "Friends" and "C.S.I." 
Fox is in the first season of a $2.5 billion, five-year contract with baseball. 
NFL 

Injured Cox missed by team 
As•ociated Press 

FOXBORO, Mass. 
Bryan Cox downplayed the revenge theme Wednesday and focused on helping his team­mates, even if he must do it while standing on crutches. 
The spirit and skill of the Patriots 


Cox

linebacker will be miss­ing from the field after his leg was broken on a hit by Denver tackle Dan Neil last Sunday. Cox thought it was an illegal block and vowed to retaliate. 
He won't he hitting anyone for a while, certainly not in Sunday's game at Atlanta. 
He expects to play again this season but wouldn't estimate Wednesday when that would be. Meanwhile, Cox, who alternated with Ted Johnson and Tedy Bruschi at New England's inside linebacker spots, will help in the meeting room and on the sidelines. 
"I can try to help the coach­ing staff. I can try to put myself in the position that Ted and Tedy would be in and look at things," Cox said, "just give them another set of eyes as to what I would see if I were out there." 
He probably would be out there if he hadn't been hit by Neil in the third quarter of the Broncos 31-20 win. 
After the game. Cox said, "If I ever play football again and I play against that guy, he's going to have a blown-out knee." 
He felt the same the next 
day. 
"I had a couple of experi­

ences with that guy before," 
Cox said Monday. 'Tm going 
to get him. I don't care how 
long it takes. I'm going to get 
him." 
By Wednesday, though, he 

had cooled off with the help 
of some advice Bill Parcells, 
then with the New York Jets, 
gave when the fiery Cox was 
on that team last year: "I've worked so hard to become a different person. Don't let something stupid feed me back into something that I would have done five years ago. 
"I've got to take the malice out of my heart. I've 
got to get yard gain.
"I've got to take the 
I.hat behind The drive 
me and malice out ofmy heart. ended with 
move on to I've got to get that behind Griese's 6­something yard scoring
me and move on to 
n e w . pass to 
Whatever something new. " D u a n e m Y Carswell thoughts that gave
Bryan Cox 
are, what­Denver the
linebacker
ever hap­pens from this point, it's not going to stop my leg from being broken." 
Still, the .loss of Cox can't help the Patriots struggling defense. 
The team that held Edgerrin James to 55 yards rushing and intercepted Peyton 

Call 259-1000 for more details 

THE 29th ANNUAL 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Nov. 30 & Dec. 1 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 2 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with period instruments, jugglers, a jester and a Master of the·House entertain 200 patrons per performance during a feast fit for a king . 
Saint M:s Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
For tickets call: 219/284-4626 

Manning three times on Sept. 30, has allowed an average of 397 yards in its last three 
games. · 
One of them was a rematch with Indianapolis in which James rushed for 143 yards and Manning threw for 335 yards with no interceptions. 
Last Sunday, two mental errors by New England led to two Denver touchdowns. 
A coverage mixup left Rod Smith free on a 65-yard touchdown pass play from Brian 9riese, cutting the Patriots lead to 20-17 early in the third quarter. 
On Denver's next series, Griese completed a pass to Desmond Clark, who fell after a short gain. 
But free safety Matt Stevens jumped over him without making contact and Clark got up to com­plete a 35­
lead for 
good. 

"It's not acceptable" strong safety Lawyer Milloy said Wednesday of Stevens' mis­take. 
But Milloy spread the blame around. 
"We all did some bonehead­ed things in that last game to help them win," he said. "That's why it makes you sick to your stomach." 
Now the focus is · on Atlanta (3-3), and the Patriots (3-4) better be ready. The Falcons, coming off a bye week, have outscored opponents 48-3 in the first quarter. 
"They have the advantage right now because they had a bye week, so they've been looking at us for the last cou­ple of weeks," Milloy said. 


i i 
1 
I 
. 
. I 




Thursday, November 1, 200l

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
-
NFL 
Owners ratify agreement 
. NFL to extend labor agreement for three years 
Associated Pres• 
PITTSBURGH 

NFL owners on Wednesday ratified a three-year extension of the labor agreement that will assure the league of labor peace through the 2007 season assuming that the players ratify it. 
The agreement was agreed to in principle in June by the NFL Management Council and the NFL Players Association and would be the fourth extension of the original agreement reached in 1993. The league's last labor­related interruption w.as the 1987 strike. 
Among the still-to-be-resolved issues before the agreement can be ratified by the players is how much of the NFL's increased security costs the union will pick up, and how the league and the players would divide any losses if games are can­celed by unforeseen events such as the terrorist attacks. 
The terrorist acts led the NFL to greatly increase security at all games, and commissioner Paul Tagliabue said the players are amenable to covering some of these unanticipated expens­es. 
"The whole league is focused on this," Tagliabue said Wednesday. "The players have said they want the fans to be safe, air travel to be safe, the stadiums to be safe." 
Earlier, Tagliabue said, "We think the cost of that should be split with the players associa­tion under the CBA in some way and not borne entirely by the owners." 
Tagliabue would not estimate how much the additional securi­ty is costing each team or the league, but suggested it would be substantial, especially during the postseason. 
The owners, meeting in Pittsburgh, also heard a detailed presentation Wednesday on security for the Super Bowl on Feb. 3 in New Orleans. 
"It will be the 
"We think the cost ofthat

m o s t have four more secure should be split with the seasons to run g a m e past this season.
players association 

played in Tagliabue said
under the CBA in some­

the history there was no dis­of the way and not borne cussion of any league," givebacks to
entirely by the owners." 

Tagliabue rights holders said. CBS. Fox, ABC . The col-Paul Tagliabue and ESPN 
1e ct iv e NFL commissioner despite a down­
bargaining agreement extension would push the salary cap through 2006 and would carry beyond the NFL's $17.6 billion television contract, which has four more years to run past this season. 
Under the proposed exten­sion, players could receive an increase in salary to as high as 
65.5 percent of designated gross revenues in 2005. 
Veteran players also would have a portion of their salaries paid out of a league-wide fund instead of counting against the salary cap. 

One of the criticisms of the current agreement was it gives too little security for higher­paid veterans to hold their jobs. 
Minimum salaries would increase to $225,000 for rookies and will go up Lo $300,000, $375,000 and $450,000 in sub­sequent seasons. A $525,000 minimum would apply through six seasons, with players in their seventh through ninth years guaranteed $650,000. 
For 10 years or more of ser­vice, the minimum would be $750,000. 
The owners also talked about 
the NFL's TV 
contracts, which 
turn in TV advertising rev­enue since the terrorist attacks. 
"We're not considering any givebacks to anybody.... We kind of looked ahead, knowing what the rights obligations of the networks are to us," Tag!iabue said. "But we didn't reach any conclusions and we're not going to react one way or another based on two months of experience." 
Despite the economic down­turn, Tagliabue said NFL mer­chandise sales are double what was projected before the sea­son. 
Mitchell looking for more catches 
Associated Press 

PHllADELPHIA 
Freddie Mitchell was sup­posed to give Donovan M.cNabb a much-needed threat at wide receiver. He's barely been on the field with him. 
Mitchell, selected with the 25th pick in April's draft, has just two catches in his first six games with · the Philadelphia Eagles. But coach Andy Reid may be ready to call the rookie's number more often. 
"We're to that stage now where we're easing him in, easing him in and easing him in, and with that, he's asked to learn the whole pack­age,"Heid said Wednesday. "He's getting close to that point where he should get in there and execute. He just hasn't been in there to do that, every route against every coverage and so on." 
Mitchell, a flashy receiver at UCIA, had 77 catches for 1,494 yards and nine touch­downs last season. He was the fifth receiver taken in the draft, and the highest select­ed by Philadelphia in 17 years. 
But Mitchell hasn't been able to beat out Na Brown for the No. 3 spot behind James Thrash and Todd Pinkston. While Thrash and Pinkston have emerged as capable starters, Brown has struggled 
lately, dropping passes in three consecutive games. That could open the door for Mitchell. 
"I like the role I'm in right now, "Mitchell said. "They are working me in slow. Now it's time to step it up a notch." 
MitchelJ's development was slowed by a hamstring injury that hampered him through­out training camp and the early part of the season. Ile said he's healthy now. 
"It wasn't that much of a hindrance,"Mitchell said. "The learning process didn't slow down. I was still learn­ing. It's just that I couldn't go out on the field. 
"Coach Reid has done a great job taking me slow, bringing me along little by lit­tle, helping me feel more comfortable. l can't wait to step up and take a bigger role." 
Mitchell realizes expecta­tions were high when he was drafted. But he isn't disap­pointed. 
"The No. 1 pick is drafted on potential,"Mitchell said. "A lot of people think the No. 1 pick is supposed to go in and play right away. That's not the case. You're drafted on potential and ability." 
The main concern for rook­ies is learning the intricacies of a complicated West Coast offense. 
Mitchell played in a varia­tion of it at UCIA. 


CHIWA 


STUDY, EXPERIENCE, LEA.RN 
INTERNA.TIONA.L STUDY PROGRAMS 
INFORMATION MEETING: Monday NOVEMBER 5, 2001 244 DEBARTOLO 5:00 PM

............ 
"'YOUR FAMH..Y FON CENTER., 
te111•1 NI.HT 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9PM-12 MIDNIGHT 
UNIJMJTED BOWLING 
$5.00 
$~· P.ER PERSON SHOES INCLUDED Beacon Bowi-4210 Umolnway W. South Send 234,,4167 

APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 2001 

Thursday, November 1, 200I The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
-
WORLD SERIES 
Jeter hits 11th inning home run to tie series at 2 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Tino Martinez made his 11rst hit of this World Series count. 
With New York down to its final out in Game 4, Martinez connected for a game-tying. two-run homer in the ninth inning off Arizona closer Byung-Hyun Kim to help the Yankees beat the Diamondbacks 4-3 in 10 innings Wednesday night. 
Martinez had been hitless in nine at-bats in the .Series against Arizona's tough pitch­ing and the Yankees had scored only four runs before his big shot helped turned the momentum and tied the Series at two games apiece. 
New York didn't win it until 
Derek Jeter's solo shot in the 
11th. Martinez was one of the 
first Yankees to pour out of 
the dugout to mob Jeter at 
home plate. 
But the celebration wouldn't have been possible without Martinez, who made sure his career in with the Yankees will last at least until a Game 6 in Arizona. 
Martinez is in the final year of his contract and his future in New York is in doubt. The Yankees have been grooming top prospect Nick Johnson to take over at first base and also might be interested in signing reigning AL MVP Jason Giambi. 
But Martinez is making their decision difficult, leading the team with 34 homers and 113 RBIs in the regular season. 
He has been a steady pres­ence in the lineup since replacing fan favorite Don Mattingly after the 1995 sea­son. 
Booed at first, Martinez quickly won over the fans and 


Yankee Orlanda Hernandez and Diamondback Erubial Durazo watch as Yankees catcher Jorge Posada tags out the Diamondback's Tony Womack in the fifth inning of New York's win against Arizona to tie the series at two. 
Series against San Diego ­but none was bigger than his shot against Arizona. 
Trailing 3-1 entering the ninth, the Yankees were look­ing at a 3-1 Series deficit. With the tricky, side-arming Kim on the mound, their 

has been one of the key play­ers in the Yankees' run of four World Series titles in five years. 
He has hit 1'83 homers for the Yankees in the regular and postseason -including a grand slam that turned the tide in Game 1 of the 1998 
NDcinerna 
THURSDAY, Nov 1 
f--1 ES BURG ~I LIBRARY ,AUD ITC Rt UM 
7:00 PM 
FREE ADMISSION 
PHL...cL!'sTLU DY l'I IL O Cf'J.'-'f:.tf t"'1LN I OF f"i!....h1. Tt.:LLVL..ilC!'-·J ).\.:°',jLJ Tt·H:/\1 t'·H... 
Dtin 't rni'is the FTT s!udr.;'!il fJJn.1 sf11Jrt ti!fore each l1iD,:;fnt.?mh ft•alvni 

after Paul O'Neill's soft single with one out to left field. 
After Bernie Williams struck out, Martinez walked to the plate. He didn't wait to deliv­er, hitting Kim's first pitch deep to center field over a leaping Steve Finley to tie the game and send Yankee Stadium into a frenzy. 
O'Neill wildly pumped his fist when the ball cleared the wall. 
The rest of the Yankees leaped out of the dugout in excitement and greeted a smil­ing Martinez after he touched home plate with the tying run. 
;,ff
only at s ..,: J&.. 
Sminute ~
from CUTPC!ff 
Camnus 9•Mif 
r Cold Weather Experts 

Calt 259-1000 for more details 
~------------­
---------------, 
-
page 20 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
game at point guard last year for the Irish and now works in Notre Dame's sports informa­tion department in addition to being a member of the International Select All-Star team. 
"I miss him -I really miss him," Brey said. 'Tm thrilled to coach Chris Thomas and nur­ture a talented young guard, but Martin and I were on the same page from day one. They played a little bit in pickup before. Will be will age get the better of youth?" 
"It'll be a little different see­ing Martin on the other team," Graves said. "He knows our tendencies and we know his tendencies." 
But more than anything. the Irish are looking forward to playing against someone other than themselves. And they're not going to be blowing off tonight's game --Brey and Graves both said it's a valuable opportunity to see how the team looks this early in the sea­son. 
"After two-a-days, you get into the dog days and you do need to play someone else," he said. "Beating on each other is getting a little old. I'm looking forward to Thursday when we're all sitting on the bench together and starting to look at ourselves against some outside competition." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Thursday, November 1, 2001

The Observer . SPORTS 
Barbour promoted to associate 
Special to <lie Observer 
Sandy Barbour, in her sec­ond year as a member of the senior athletic administrative staff at Notre Dame, has been promoted to senior associate 
athletics director u n d e r director of athletics 
K  e  v  i  n  
White.  
B  a  r  - 

bour, who 

served  as  Barbour  
athletic  
director  at  Tulane  from  

1996-99, joined White's staff as associate athletic director for compliance and adminis­tration at Notre Dame in the summer of' 2000. 
She continues to oversee the areas of eligibility, inter­pretations. compliance edu­cation and NCAA certification -and she now has addition­al senior level responsibilities while assisting in the day-to­day operation of the depart­ment. 
She is the sport administra­tor for women's lacrosse, men's and women's cross country and track and super­vises the athletic training and strength and conditioning units. She also assists White with administration responsi­bilities for women's basket­ball. 

"Sandy is a highly seasoned and skilled athletics adminis­trator," says White. 
"Over the years Sandy has always found just the right way to articulate both the departmental and university­wide mission and, more importantly, she has provid­ed the leadership and man­agerial ability to bring the expressed vision to reality." 
Barbour was appointed athletic director at Tulane when White left to become director of athletics at Arizona State University. 
She previously had served from 1991-96 as senior asso­ciate athletic director at Tulane under White in the areas of internal operations and compliance and spent eight years total on the school's athletic administra­tive staff. During her three­year tenure as athletic direc­tor, Green Wave teams won 12 conference champi­onships. 
In her first year, 1996-97, Tulane won four conference titles, a feat never before accomplished in the history of Tulane athletics. In 1998, the football team posted a perfect 12-0 record and won the Liberty Bowl with a victo­ry over Brigham Young, while the Green Wave cap­tured six conference titles, another school record. 
One of eight female athletic administra­t o r Barbour was elected chair of the inaugural Conference USA committee for SWAs and served on the league's executive commit­tee. In addition, she chaired the executive committee for the 1993 NCAA Division I Outdoor Track and Field Championships, hosted by Tulane. 

BRING YDIJR COLLEGE ID -MIJST BE 21 
directors at Division I-A schools at the time, Barbour 
· was chair of the board of directors of the National Association of Collegiate Women's Athletic Administrators. 
In her associate's role at Tulane, she oversaw all mat­ters related to internal oper­ations, including supervision of intercollegiate programs, compliance with NCAA and Con-ference USA rules, acad­emic student life, business affairs, facilities and recruit­ing. 
Barbour was part of' the administrative team that nav­igated the successful transi­tion to Conference USA and helped the school 
A native of Annapolis, Md., Barbour spent seven years at Northwestern University prior to joining the Tulane staff. 
At Northwestern from 1982 through 1989, she began as assistant field hockey and lacrosse coach and director of athletic recruiting ser­vices, then in '84 became assistant athletic director·for intercollegiate programs, overseeing 15 Olympic sports. 
Born Dec. 2, 1959, Barbour is a 1981 honors graduate of Wake Forest University with a degree in physical educa­tion. 
A two-sport athlete at the 
school, she 
was the cap­

maintain "Sandy is a highly tain of the 
one of the field hockey
seasoned and skilled
top Division team and a 
I-A gradua­athletics administrator. " member of tion rates. 
the women's As senior basketball
Kevin White 
women's squad.
athletic director 
Barbour 
earned a 
master's 
degree in sports management from Massachusetts in 1983 and received an MBA from Northwestern's J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management in 1991. In '97, she was named Massachusetts' Distinguished Alumnus in Sports Management. 

222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANOSOUTHBEND.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT &EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 

Thur.sday, November 1, 2001 page 21 ­
The Observer . SPORTS 



NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

A Belles player goes after the ball in a recent game. The Belles finished their season with a 3-0 loss to Alma on Tuesday. 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
Dineen took her last look at a collegiate volleyball court as a player on Tuesday, along with defensive specialist Denise Langolis and middle hitter Jolie LeBeau. Senior outside attacker Angie Meyers was unable to finish her senior season due to a knee injury. Although Tuesday's game wasn't a victory, Dineen was satisfied with the way the team played as a solid way to finish her senior year. 
"I think we really came together as a team against Alma and all the games were really close," she said. "We played really well, so it was a good way to finish the season on a high note." 
Although Alma held the lead during most of the match, the Belles did manage to keep things close until the end. 
"It was actually pretty much back and forth," Dineen said. "They would get ahead and we would battle back and get it close. It was pretty back and forth." 
It was ultimately the Alma defense that brought home the win for the Scots. Despite a varied Saint Mary's offensive attack, the Alma defense refused to allow the Belles to score points and preserved the win for the second-ranked team in the MIAA tournament. 
"Alma has really good defense," Dineen said. "They got a lot of our digs and tips. We tried to mix things up on offense and they always seemed to be right there." 
Junior Elizabeth Albert and freshman Alison Shevik led the Belles attack. Albert made 12 kills and 19 digs during the game while Shevik made nine kills and 25 digs. 
"Everyone really stepped up and really played their posi­tion to the fullest," Dineen said. 
Alma will continue in the playoffs and face off against Calvin on Friday in the semifi­nals. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

F F'd T' 1, t
Or n ay IC,._e S ­
www.nd.edu/--gleeclub
gfeeclub(iynd.edu 

Contact the LaFortune Information Desk at 631-8128 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish score Big East honors 
Special to the Observer 

Two members of the sixth­ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team have been recog­nized by the Big East Conference for their contribu­tions to last week's wins at Yale (2-0) and at home versus 23rd-ranked Michigan. Sophomore forward Amanda Guertin was named the Big East offensive player of the week while fifth-year defender Monica Gonzalez was recog­nized as the league's defen­sive player ofthe week. 
In other news, Notre Dame moved up from eighth to sixth in the National Soccer Coaches Association of America poll, edging past Nebraska, Penn State and St. Mary's (Calif.) while Portland vaulted from 10th to fourth. 
Jordan 
continued from page 24 

the Irish for the Class of 2001 was listed on the front of sports section with his stats and awards listed next to his name. From Anthony Denman to Justin Smith, each player was lauded for his high school achievements. 
Everyone except Jordan. 

Next to his name it said "Jordan Auditorium, 'nuff said" -referring to the auditorium on campus his father helped fund. 
Throughout his career at Notre Dame, Jordan has been aware of the rumors, but no one has ever confronted him. 
"Nobody really ever had the guts to say things to my face but I've heard people talk," Jordan said. "I hear stuff like that all the time but nobody ever said anything to my face." 
All the rumors about Jordan receiving special privileges from the football team has been just talk, according to Davie. 
North Carolina remains first in the poll, followed by four teams from the West region: Stanford, Santa Clara, Portland and UCLA. 
Guertin extended her goalscoring streak to five games, after recording both Irish goals at Yale and scoring in overtime to beat Michigan. She has scored four of Notre Dame's last live goals, five of the last seven and six of the last 10-with her season totals including team bests in points (24), goals (9) and game-win­ning goals (4). 
Gonzalez earned her second Big East defensive honor in the last five weeks, after help­ing the Irish allow just one goal, 10 shots (only four on goal) and one corner kick dur­ing the week. The versatile veteran continues to excel at her new central defender 
"There's nothing political about me. Nothing," Davie said. "So everything he's done here, he's earned and everything he's gotten here, he deserves." 
If anything Davie said that Jordan's pedigree has made Davie work him harder -not easier. 
"He always said to me that I would have to work harder than everyone else," Jordan said. "If I did succeed it would be even more rewarding to me and he has been right about that." 
Entering the 2001 season, Jordan thought his best oppor­tunity to succeed would be as a backup center for the Irish. He was listed as second on the depth chart in spring practice but injuries led to a position change. 
While he was still the backup center, he also filled in at guard. 
"He did some good things for us in that backup center and he continues to be very consistent in practice with the situation we had at guard. He is good at pulling, especially in the option game," Davie said. 
position, where she has played since late September (after playing mostly outside back in the Irish defense dur­ing 2000 and the first month of 2001). 
Notre Dame players have combined for seven Big East weekly awards this season, with junior Vanessa Pruzinsky and senior Liz Wagner named the defensive player and goal­keeper of the week after the season-opening wins over Penn State and Hartford while senior midfielder Mia Sarkesian was the offensive player of the week after scor­ing gamcwinners versus Nebraska and West Virginia. Sophomore forward Amy Warner was named the league's offensive player of the week in mid-October, after totaling three goals in wins over St. John's and Miami. 
But after a spring full of promise, Jordan injured his kriee in summer practice. Torn medial collateral ligaments in his knee forced him to miss most of summer practice and the first three games of the sea­son. He did not return until the Pitt game. 
But in games against the quick defensive tackles of the Panthers, the Mountaineers, the Trojans and the Eagles, Jordan has been valuable. 
"I am better against the smaller, quicker guys," he said. "I try to focus on my technique. I think that gives me that advantage." 
Saturday against Tennessee's huge defensive tackles doesn't fit Jordan's style of play so he might not see the field. But regardless of what the future brings, Jordan will be known by Irish fans for much more than his father. 
"We trust him," Davie said. "He goes in there and he knows what to do." 
'Nuffsaid. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

enormous 
FLEECE 
Selection . 
Sminutes ~ 
from DUTPDST Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Coll 259-1000 for more details· 

Vero Italiano 
Catalino's Trattoria Down town Sou th Ben cl 



John P. Morgridge 
Chairman of the Board 
Cisco Systems 
11Cisco Systems: The Network is the Company" 
Friday, November 2, 2001 2:30 -3:30 p.m. McKenna Hall Auditorium 
(formerly Center for Continuing Education) 
Faculty, Staff and Students Welcome 
ND 
Universtly of Noire Dame 
Mmdm&Oollefeo{BmloeN 
..,. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 1, 2001
-

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish look to avenge bad pool, memories 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Spores WriLer 
Purdue University's pool has never been Notre Oame 's favorite place to compete. 
An old, decrepit facility, the swimming pool resembled more of a dungeon than an arena for athletic competition. Dark, dank and disgusting, it rarely produced fast swims for any visiting team forced to navigate through its nastiness. 
And there's one more prob­lem, too. It was the only site where Notre Dame lost a dual meet last season. 
"I think they caught us off guard," said Irish head coach Bailey Weathers, remember­ing last year's 168-Hl loss to the Boilermakers. "The key for us is not to underestimate them this year. I think when we've been tricked once -we have the tendency to be smarter the second time around." 
But this evening's competi­tion in West Layfayettc, Ind. will likely be a different story. For one thing, Notre Dame will have the chance to compete in Purdue's new $17 million aquatic facility, the replace­ment for the 60-year-old pool that was closed at the univer­sity earlier this year. 
And the Irish swimmers ­who've had this date circled on their calendars si.nce last year's loss -won't be under­estimating anyone on the Purdue squad. 
"They showed up a lot more prepared than we thought they would," said senior co­captain Tara Riggs. "Thcv were as fired up last year as we are this year. We are more psyched for this meet than anv others ... just because we are so upset they beat us last year." 
On paper, the Irish match up well against Purdue, with a solid advantage in both sprint and distance events. The toughest match-ups will be in the breastroke and backstroke events, where senior backstro­ker Kelly Hecking will have her hands full with Purdue junior Lisa Dolansky, and senior breastroker Alison Lloyd will face difficult compe­ti t.ion from Purdue junior Lindsay Lange. 
Notre Dame will be Purdue's first dual meet in its home facility, and only its third com­petition of the year. The only competitions held so far at the new Haywood pool were an intersquad meet and an invita­tional meet last weekend. where the Purdue women won their inaugural competition. 
But that definitely doesn't have Notre Dame scared. "I think we'd swim them in the old pool right now," 


Weathers said. "We're more goal going into tonight's want these records to be star­approaching this as seriously competition, too. They want to ing them in the face for a long as we possibly can." make their mark on the new time." 
And if just beating their rival pool. wasn't enough motivation, the "We have the chance to set 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 

Notre Dame women have one pool records," Riggs said. "We 
gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 


MD AFTER FIVE 


Fridaa,r Mov.2 
Fridaqr Mov. 2
Thursdaljr Mov. 1 

9:30 p.m. Benefifconcert by Danielle 
5:30 p.m. Trailblazers Social Hour, 
4:00 p.m. -6:30 p.m. Open House, 

Rose Skorich, Coleman Morse Center 
LaFortune Notre Dame Room 
College of Eng. 1st Year Students, 

10:00 p.m. Loft Show, Blues Artist Keith 
6:00 p.m. Potluck dinner with Fr. Roy
DeBartolo 101 

Scott, LaFortune Student Center 
Bourgeois, Center for Social Concerns 
5:00 p.m. 'The Economic Causes and 

10:00 p.m. ~ 2:00 a.m. TranceNDdance
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce 
Consequences of the September 11 

2001, Center for Social Concerns* 
·Center (student doors 5:30 p.m.)
Attacks", a P~mel Discussion analyzing 

10:00 p.m. Movies: America's
6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. Trailblazers Panel 
the after-effects, Hesburgh Center 

Sweethearts and The Exocist,
Discussion with ND Alumni, LaFortune
Auditorium 

De Bartolo 101 and 155*
Student Center, Notre Dame Room 
7:00 p.m. Film, Malena, Carey 

11 :00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, Bingo, 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In
Auditorium, Hesburgh Library* 

LaFortune Student Center ND Room 
Badminton, Rolfs
7:00 p.m. Professor Thomas Noble 

12:00 a.m. Drumline Performance, Main
7:30 p.m. Movies: America's
speaking on "Saint Willibrord and All 
Building Steps 

Sweetheart and The Exocist,
Saint's Day", DeBartolo 131 
DeBartolo 101 and 155*
7:30 p.m. Men's Basketball vs. 

Saturdaljr Mov. 3 
7:30 p.m. Men's Swimming & Diving vs.
International Select, Joyce Center* 

7:30 p.m. Movies: America's
Tennessee, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
8:00 p.m. ND Glee Club Fall Concert, 

Sweetheart and The Exocist, DeBartolo
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman
Washington Hall 
101and155*
Morse Center 
8:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Trip to Bendix 

7:30 p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Syracuse,
8:00 p.m. ND Glee Club Fall Concert, 
Woods/Hayride, Contact Rec Sports 
Alumni Field 
Washington Hall* 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Lacrosse, 

8:00 p.m. Abundance of Flava, BCAC
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool 
Rolfs 

talent show, Washington Hall*
Room open, free billiards, LaFortune 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool 

8:00 p.m. Folk Choir Concert for the 
Student Center 
Room open, free billiards, LaFortune 

Missions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Knitting/
Student Center 

10:00 p.m. -1:OO a.m Open Karaoke in
Crocheting, ND Room, LaFortune
8:30 p.m. Bonfire, Holy Cross Hill 

the Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. -11 :30 p.m. Ice Skating, 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune 

10:00 p.m. Movies: America's
Joyce Center* 
Student Center Huddle 

Sweethearts and The Exocist, 
• All programs are free to ND students unless marked by an
10:00 p.m. Movies: America's 

DeBartolo 101 and 155*
*. This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. 
Sweethearts and The Exocist, 

10:00 ·p.m. -1 :00 a.m. 70's retro dance,
Programs subject to change without notice. 
DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

~ •I .1· .•·1 • -;_ •• I 
FOR ~ORE IMFORhfATIOM, VISIT: w,tw.nd.edu/~sao/ 

Thursday, November 1, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
CUNNINGHAM 
SURE, DORM-RUN CONCESSION STANOS GENERATE 
DECENT MONEY, Btrr THE REAL CASH UES B..SEWHERE... 
ONE PLY 
rJl<b HAi.L •.s
OR TWO? 
r-A-.fOJ.iN 
' 
fRias 
• $5 

I">­
j~. 

BILLAMEND
FOXTROT 
DADDY, WILL YOU IT'S 
TAkE THAT FAKE NOT 
8L000Y WOUND FAKE. 
OFF YouR CHEE!<? ,,-1--,....._.._ 
HALl.oWEEN WAS 
YESTERDAY. 
=l"i' 

Definition of drunk 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Ranges 57 I movement? 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 00 1 Shipping hazard 34 Kind of jacket 60 Jacklight 
fHIS DAY: Marcia Wallace, Lyle VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): ~ovett, Fernando Valenzuela, It's time to find out how everyone
BWhere the 35 Crimson Tide, 61 Big migration 
~obert Foxworth, Jenny else views your abilities. Display
Golden Horde informally area 
~cCarthy some of your detailed artistic cre­lived 36 Birthplace of 62 Star in Scorpius Happy Birthday: You have ations today. This could be the 15 Exam time, Allen Ginsberg what it takes to be a leader, so start of something new. 00000
63 Some sterling 

take action. It's time to rruse your LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You
maybe 39 "A Little Bitty silver gifts 
self-confidence. This is not the will be extremely lucky today.
16 Counters over Tear" singer, 
year to make decisions based on You can take a small risk or sell the counter 1962 DOWN emotion. Opportunities are pres­some belongings. Real estate 17 Brabantio's 40 Propel, in a way ent, so take advantage of your deals look lucrative. Breathe easy 
1 Reassuring 

good fortune. Your numbers: 1, and prepare to enjoy a little extra 
son-in-law 41 Musical section 
words 

16, 17, 24, 37, 39 cash.00018 Free 42 _ jocum (in 2 Baseball's _ ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 19 Floors, for short jest): Lat. Gaston Things are heating up at work. Try to be precise and to the point. 
New developments appear to be You will anger someone if you
43 Vase's handle

20 Last shot? 3 Old English 
better than anticipated. Your promise to call and then don't. 22 Prefix with 45 Taverns letters energetic nature has inspired con­Your family will be in an uproar phobia 46 Charles 4 Pass, of a sort fidence and enthusiasm in others, if they oppose your choices of 
Bronson's 

and you are ready for the payoff. entertainment and friends. This
23 "Hiroshima" 5 Reef dweller 
000 may be the right time to discuss
"Death Wish"writer 

6 Fiennes of stage TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your intentions. 00
role

26 Cross and screen Plan something nice for yourself SAGITTARIUS {NO\t 22-Dec. 21):50 Hoof sound and a special someone. This is a Do your job and stay out of trou­
28 Where to find a 7 Confine to home 
51 A plain Jane great day to be charming and ble at work. Try not to get
hero 
8 Maximum atone for past mistakes. You will involved and rectify any prob­
52_-timer

29 Certifiable, so to speed limit, e.g. be forgiven. Clearing up misun­lems that arise. Someone may try speak 55 Clever one derstandings will lead to peace of to blame you for his or her short­
9 Eastern holiday 

mind.000 comings. 000
10 Raines and 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Fitzgerald This may be a frustrating day of Spend time enjoying children or __....,..... 11 Word with mat red tape and opposition. Don't friends. You should be able to
Puzzle by Dllvld J. Kallf1 

give up hope. Work quietly accomplish things if you work as
or kick 

30 "What _I" (cry 47 Blood line 54 Decides behind the scenes to accomplish a team. 00000
12 Burger topper? 

of despair) your goals. 000 AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18):
48 Stimulant 55 Patty Hearst 
.....,_.._.... 13Thus CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time for an overhaul at home. 31 Belafonte 49 Transition kidnap grp. Participating in worthwhile Beautification of your property
14 Chicago-to­

standard 50 Movie sleuth 58 Fury groups will lead to interesting will pay big dividends later. This
Louisville dir. 

new friendships and partner­is a moneymaking period, so con­
32 Little cut · 58 roll
52Corner

__._.._.... 21 Liverpool is on it ships. 0000 sider investments. 00 ~..;.~,;,i 23 Coffees 33 Toast 53 Suffer from the 59 USA network LEO 0uly 23-Aug. 22): Being PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): heat rival too gregarious will cause some You will have problems with a
35 Sea
.....+.,;.t..,;,..i 24 Lulu 

friction today. If you have been colleague if you're not under­....,...,.._. 25 Dry Spanish 37 Durable ignoring things that you should standing and sensitive to his or wine garments of Answers to any three clues in this puzzle nave taken care of, someone you her complaints. Listen, but don't Chinese cotton are available by touch-tone phone: care about may be more upset get involved for the time being.
26 _ McGarrett, 

with you than you first thought. 0000
38 _ Railroad, 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
who said, "Book 

'em, Danna!" founded 1832 Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You are giving, caring and willing to do what's 27 Generation 4" You don't want best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 right for friends and family. You have a heart of gold and a unique per­need? to be under this years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. spective. You are a doer, inventor and contributor. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
MEN'S SOCCE~ #8 WOMEN'S SOCCE~ Sat. :Nov. 3 *Big East Quarterfinal* sun. Nov. q. @ 1:00 PM VJ-: St:JOM!r .VS. SYRACUSE As always, Students free at Alumni Field!!!  

-
Campus Sports THE National Sports
OBSERVER 

. ND Swimming, p. 22 
. World Series, p. 19 
. 
ND Soccer, p. 21 . NFL, p. 18 

. 
Barbour, p. 20 . Jordan, p. 17 . NCAA, p.16


PORTS 
Thursday, November 1, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
A glimpse of the future 
. Promising Thomas takes court for first time in college  much more comfortable having that experience surrounding him. "They're so mature about the whole process, with bringing me into the system and accepting me as my  
By ANDREW SOOK.UP Associate Sports Editor  point guard," Thomas said. "The biggest thing was them trusting me with the ball, and I think they do  
that."  
He's quiet, but doesn't hide his excitement. He's reserved, but knows his talent. And he's anxious, but at the same time, radiates confi­dence. Tonight, the Chris Thomas era begins as Irish fans get their first glimpse of the freshman point guard in his first collegiate game as the  "He doesn't try to do too much out there, and he looks for other people to help him out," Graves said. "Usually, you want a freshman to be quiet and stay out the way, but he's been a major part. He's kind of a quiet leader out there." . Irish fans got an early glimpse of Thomas' athleticism when he won  
Irish host the International Select All-Star team in Notre Dame's first  the slam-dunk contest at Midnight Madness earlier this season. And  
of two exhibition games. 'Tm just looking forward to that whole atmosphere," he said. "I  while Brey said he expects to see his young point guard make early turnovers that he wouldn't make  
haven't been in a place where it's this big with this many fans." Thomas, a McDonalds All­American and Indiana's Mr.  later in the season, he's not going to waste time trying to tell Thomas every little thing. "Chris Thomas is at his best when  
Basketball, enters Notre Dame with the highest expectations of Irish fans for any freshman since Troy Murphy arrived three years ago. 'Tm very excited to see Chris out there," said Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey. "It's nice that we have two exhibitions -dress rehearsals, if you will -because that can be a jittery time. With him, our theme has been we have a talented young man, and we have to be patient and nur­ he's instinctive and reacting to the game and playing with a free mind, and we as a coaching staff are going to try to let him do that," Brey said. "My theme is when you have good players, let them play. He's going to learn some things, and there's some things he's going to learn the hard way, but he has to be allowed to be daring, when he's daring, he's really good. Chris Thomas is at his best when he's instinctive."  
ture him." But with senior tri-captains David Graves, Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan joining junior Matt Carroll  It's ironic that the first college point guard Thomas will face is Martin lngelsby, who started every  RICO CASARES/fhe Observer Senior Ryan Humphrey dunks the ball during Midnight Madness. The Irish will start the  
in the starting lineup, Thomas feels  see IRISH/page 20  season with an exhibition game tonight.  

FOOTBALL 
Making a name for himself 
. J.W. Jordan emerges as a valuable member of the offensive line 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports W ritcr 
Before Irish fifth-year guard 
J.W. Jordan even stepped on campus. his name was already well-known. His father, John Jordan II, is a member of the Board of Trustees and an influ­ential donor. 
Now, five years later, J.W. Jordan is known by his own name -not his father's -as a member of the Irish football team. After seeing just 13 min­utes, 54 second of playing time in his first four years with the Irish, Jordan has become a reg­ular in the offensive guard rota­tion with 24:49 of playing time in 2001. He's made appear­ances in four games this year and, according to Irish head coach Bob Davie, he's earned every opportunity he's received. 
"I told him when he recruited him, I sat him down and said, "You're going to have to outwork everybody,"' Davie said. '"You're going to have to work for everything you get. You know, let's face it, you're going to have to be in some ways an overachiever, not because you don't have enough athletic abili­ty but because you are under­sized. You're just going to have to outwork everybody."' 
For five years Jordan put in his time in the weight room and with his playbook to improve. Through his dedication, he has become one of the most reliable players on the offensive line. 
"He knows how to get it done," Irish center Jeff Faine said. "He doesn't look like the most dominant player but he gets it done ... He has a lot of experience and knows what is going on." 
But at the same time that Jordan worked hard on the practice field to improve, rumors swirled that he only received his scholarship because of his influential father. The rumors began even before Jordan enrolled. In the Feb. 6, 1997 edition of The Observer, each football player signing with 
see STORY/page# 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Close game ends tough season 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
It was a disappointing game but a proud finish for the Belles. A Tuesday night loss to the Scots of Alma in round one of the MIAA tournament wrapped up a tough season that left Saint Mary's 1-11 in the MIAA and 3-16 overall, but the players left the court with their heads held high. 
"We played better as a team than we have played probably all season," said head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "Alma was good competition for us and I felt like we finished the season with our heads held high." 
The Scots took the match in three close games, winning 30-25, 30-23, 30-24. The Belles contributed their strong performance to heightened communication, a part of their game that has been weak all season. 
"I think we communicated well to each other," senior Jaime Dineen said. "We've been working on that all sea­son and I think it came togeth­er in the last game." 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 2 I 

. Men's Basketball vs. Intl. Select, tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Men's Swimming vs. Tennessee, Friday, 7:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
online 

. Football vs. Tennessee, Saturday, 2:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer at Connecticut, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 







