
VOL XX.XV NO. 22 
Fans donate $270,981 at football game 

By MARIBEL MOREY 
As~ist.1111 New, Fdimr 
Tlw 80.7<J:, fans in th<' Stadium Saturday for 
tlw \olrt' Danw-i\1irhigan StatP ganw rais<'d 
$270.981 l'or tlw l'amiliPs of' tlw lirP light<'rs and 
policPmPn who passPd away aft<•r llw \\'oriel 
Trad1• CP11t1•r's tPrrorist attacks. 
Blul' rPrycling bins substitul<'d as collPction 
bask<'ts and l'ans tunwd tlwir attt\ntion from the 
first quart<'r sron' to tlwir own \vall<'ts. 
"P<>oplP dPlinitPly \\'antc•d tiJ lwlp out and wlwn 
tht! opportunity prPsPnt<'d itself. tlwy really cam<' 
through" said Jonathan JorissPn, chief or staff !'or 
th11 of'fin• or thP prPsidPnt. 
With morP than 80,000 peopl<' in 01w arna, JorissPn b1•liPVt'd thn potPntial to rais,• this amount of monny w~ulcl bl' grPat. Onrn tlw stu­dPnt volunll'<'rs <·ol11•clcd bags of' mo1wy art,,r Lim lirst quart11r, a group ol' 20 stucll'nts rPmainPd sorting tlw monpy !'or tlw rPst of' tlw ganw. "We sort<'d it in lik<• pilPs and it took four and a half' hours Ito complt•tt' that!." said Joriss«-n. "Th!~ bank actually did tlw counting." 
JorissPn and FlorPs agTP<' that tlwy had no Pxpnctations. 
"We w1'rt' just going to bP grateful for what we got." said J1•sse Flor<~s. Carroll II all senator. "IThe monflyl is going to help a lot of people." 
Sonw had expected th<' sum to n~ach half a million dollars. but "that's what people werP say­ing when thPy saw the piles or money in the room," said Jorissnn. "It seemed likn a lot." 
Keough senator John Cannon agrPed. 
"It was ov,\rwlwlming to son all the bills com­ing in. s,~ning all that monPy mad,~ it appear much larger than it really was," he said. 
The $270,981 combined with th<~ $40,000 or more that tlw University has raised pushes the contribution to ovt•r $300,000. 
In an rffort to help tlw victims of the attacks. thP polirP officers and the firefighters wern srlcctcd to rPccive tlw money. 
..It's 01w thing to have been in thP building and to hawi b11Pn onP of tlw casualties and it's anoth­<'r to risk your lif'P and leave your family to save somconr dsf''s," said Flores. 
After so many innocent people lost their own liv(~s. the Notre Dame community sought to make a differern·c in some way. 
"/\ number ofstudenl.., and fanilty had voiced a desire to help with the relief pfforts in some way," said .lorisstm. 
Student government teamed up \Vith Father Mark Poorman. vice presidnnt for student affairs. and Father Hichard Warner, director or campus ministry. who had already started a l'und for thP lirnlightcrs and police officers. 
"We were seeking to find a way to steer the University. \Ve were trying to find a powerful and fitting way for the Notre Dame family to demon­strate: its support and gratitude for our nation's heroes," said Cannon. "And we just wanted to do that as a collective whole -everyone in the Notre Dame familv." 
Student goverr1ment and University ofticials met the Tuesday before the game and needed to find volunteers within 24 hours, with three days !'or planning. 
",\lmost 400 studt'nts volunteen!d -vvav above tlw :~oo studPnt volunteers Wt' needed:' he said. 
see DONATION/page 1 


Must see TV
PARTLY 


Wednesday

SUNNY 

Entertainment n~turns to the small screen after a week of delays, but how 

SEPTEMBER 26, 

much will the Trade Center attacks affect the plots of primctimc shows? 
HIGH 60° 

Scene . page 10-11 
2001
LOW 48° 


The Independent Newspap~r Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 





Burglaries inspire precautions 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Ediror 
.\ saf,,ty pres,~ntation Tuesday bv Notn· Dame s,~curitv/Poli1·e and tl1e South Bend Police i)epartment highlighted security concerns in two South Bend 1wighborhoods traditionally populatPd by off-cam­pus Notn• Dam<' and Saint Mary's studPnts. 
Hesidents of Turtlt1 Creek Apartnwnts should b,, on alert fol­lowing several burglaries of resi­dPnc·,•s thPre Friday and Saturday, South Bnnd Police Capt. Jim Ilasik said. 
"If' vou livP in that area. bP real­ly c1:trdul because sonwone is really targeting that area right now," llasik told about two dozen students at the Alumni-Senior Club Tuesday. 
The burglaries occurred during or af'ter large parties at th!~ apart­nwnt rnmplPx situated just mt.st ot' Notre l>anw's campus. llasik said. 
At tlw hour-long information session, llasik also distributed art~a maps detailing a rash of August residential burglaries in neighborhoods near South Bend Avenue. Eddy and LaSalle streets -all popular hubs of student housing. 
The neighborhoods, part of one South Bfmd police detail that bor­ders the University's campus, were also hit in August with a string of automobile break-ins, I Jasik said. 
"That trend is part of a city-wide proliferation of vehicle larceny," he said. 
Another police detail that extends cast of Eddy and includes Turtle Creek and Campus View apartment complexes also borders campus. 
llasik on Tuesday urged stu­dents to consider themselves members of both the South Bend and Notre Dame communities. As city Hasik's colleague Capt. \Vanda Shock said all students should 
Shock encouraged students to take secure their doors with deadbolt locks

residenL..,, they have an obligation to basic precautions to ensur·e their
safeguard themselves and their prop­safety while living ofT campus.
erty, he said. see SAFETY/page 4 
Lecture explores meaning of prayer 
whether praying makes any sense

By KATIE VINCER 
at all. The topic was approached News Writer 
through a discussion of how theolo­gy and spirituality are connected. "Prayer is the turning of The meaning of prayer can be "Theology £ind prayer go hand in the mind and heart to found through our everyday e:\.peri­hand. If one prayed l<rng enough to 
God instead ofraising

ences, according to the third lecture what one considered was an angry 
the mind and heart to

of Saint Mary's Center for God. then one will begin to believe Spirituality's series "Lord, h~ach us to that God is angry. This is due to the God." pray." human psyche," Dolphin said. "Prayer is the turning of the mind Dolphin explained that prayer is a 
Kathleen Dolphin

and heart to God instead of raising mystery, but the meaning of one's the mind and heart to God," said prayer may be discovered when director for Saint Mary's KathlPPl1 Dolphin. the new director stumbling through life. Dolphin Center for Spiritualityfor Saint Mary's Center for explains. "Prayer is a. daily experi-Spirituality. 
Dolphin addressed the question of 
see DOLPHIN/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, October 26, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Irish Pride 

I have been a die hard Notre Dame football fan for years. My fanaticism dates back to 1988 when coach Lou Holtz and the Irish battled against the odds (and one of the toughest schedules in history) to emerge as National Champions. 
Like many others in the Chad Sliker current student body, 1988 was the year I declared to the world my intention to Assistant attend the University of AdvertisingNotre Dame. My devotion 
Manager

started with football. 
I am not ashamed that football inspired my interest in Notre Dame. As an 8 year old, I could have cared less about faculty-to-student ratios, the Catholic nature of the University or the unique residence hall system. Academic offerings meant nothing. There is nothing sweeter than an Irish victory. Our recent struggles on the football field trouble me. In the past five sea­sons, ND is 24 -21 in games not played against the service academies, and there has not been a single bowl victory. Our record in the past 12 games is only 4 -8. 
When the Bookstore sold those t-shirts for the 1998 Michigan game which read "As Good As It Gets," I had no idea they would be right. 
Notre Dame football will not change the world. It will not cure cancer. It will not over­come the evils of world terrorism. But it might inspire some child sitting at home watching his or her television to dream of someday joining the student body of the University of Notre Dame. That child will receive an education that could lead to all those things and more. 
So don't criticize me when I grow restless at the game, wondering what e·xactly the coach­ing staff is thinking running a fake field goal. Don't be bothered by my crossed arms as the 1812 Overture plays for I am only proving my point. Do not believe boos from the student body are directed at the warriors in the gold helmets. You must realize the rants are from those who expect more directed at the men in the polo shirts and headsets. 
To the players: Please know the student body supports you, win or lose. We appreciate the long hours you put in, the injuries you must overcome and your desire to see results on the field. We also see your potential being held back by inept play calling, a lack of preparation and an absence of leadership. I expect this to change. 
To the students: Make sure to support the players through thick and thin. The troubles lately are not their fault. Continue to celebrate touchdowns with pushups. But do not accept mediocrity from our football program. This is Notre Dame, where dreams can come true. It is not normal to lose to Michigan State five years in a row, or be blown out by a team nicknamed the Beavers, or to never see a road win in your four years as a student. We are ND, and we should expect results that reflect our University's excellence. 
Life is more than wins and losses on the field. 

Football, in the grand scheme of things, is 
insignificant. But I cannot 'forget where my love 
for Notre Dame began so many years before. 
There are thousands of children across 
America who have never felt the magic I felt in 
1988. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chad Silker at Chad.D.Silker.1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
In Monday's scene section the Observer incorrectly 
reported the date for WVFl'S Quad Rock Festivsal. The festival will be held this Saturday from 4p.m. to mid­night on North Quad. The concert is free. THe Observer 
regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and scrivcs for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer CUSPS 599 2-4000) i5 published Monday through Friday cxa:pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduc1ion rights arc reserved. 
• 

STUDENT SENATE/THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday Thursday Friday The following issues will discussed . Application Meeting: . Training Session: . 8 Ball Tornament: at tonight's Student Senate meet­
The Washington Center for Social Scotch Doubles Format, 
ing beginning at 6 p.m. in the 
Program, Wednesday Concerns, Vehicle 8:30 p.m. ND Express,
Notre Dame Room in the Lafortune 
6:30 p.m. 129 Training Session, 6 p.m. lower level of LaF ortune 
Student Center. 
BeBartolo 
. 
New Dean's List requirements 

. 
dining hall issues/suggestions 

. 
excused absences for seniors for 


BEYOND CAMPUS Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Harvard student alleges police beating 

streets, just outside the Boston 
BHIGHTON, Mass. College campus. That, however, is as . A Harvard University junior much as the two versions of the story alleged a Boston Police Department have in common. officer beat him up after arresting Byrne declined to comment, defer-him about two weeks ago. ring to his superior, Cpt. William 
Although Garett D. Trombly has Evans. Evans-' office referred all calls not filed formal charges, his attorney to BPD's public relations office, alleged that after Trombly was which declined to comment beyond arrested for drinking alcohol in pub-Burns' statement. lie, resisting arrest. and assault and \~f · , . A Sept. 11 Boston Herald article battery on a police officer, he was • 1; ·· ·.~ quoted Evans, who commands the brought back to the police station, ',.,...,,!],t h\tA.\). r·1 Allston-Brighton, Mass., district, where Sgt. Harry /\. Byrne Jr. hit "'..»J/li , f'\ ,.,,.~/ denying the allegations, saying,
him repeatedly in tlrn face, breaking ,.._______~-"-'-~~-----~ "Nobody was taken away by ambu­his jaw. internal affairs division would be lance." 
Mariellen Burns. the director of conducting a preliminary investiga-and nobody complained that he the office of media relations for the tion into the allegations. was beaten up." BPD, said although no complaint had The situation began a little after 12 An incident report shows a more been filed against the officer who a.m. Sept. 9 at 2021 Commonwealth detailed police account of the night. allegedly assaulted Trombly, BPD's Ave. between Foster and South 

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY Congress recieves Terrorism reports 
Muslims persevere through insults 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
SYRACUSE, N.Y.
A congressionally chartered commission, led by A poster hanging in the lobby window of The IslamicVirginia Gov. .Jamos S. Gilmore III, has made its first Society of Central New York 'reflects a tolerance andround of recommendations to Congress and President friendship that the Muslim community largely has been Bush on combating t<)t-rorism. In a telephone interview missing since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on thewith The Cavalier Daily Monday, Gilmore cited border World Trade Center and Pentagon. In red and blue ink control, health and medical response, and intelligence it reads: "I pledge to remember that all of my fellow as the three most important areas in which the war Americans are my brothers and sisters. I promise notagainst terrorism can be fought effectively. Gilmore to encourage, support or participate in any words oremphasized that tlw commission took "a strong posi­deeds of hatred against my fellow citizens who aretion that the military is not a first response." He made 
Muslims or are of Middle Eastern descent."
it clear that the commission, which made its recom­Surrounding the words are the signatures of the 80mendation yesterday, believed the war against terror­Syracuse-area schoolchildren who made the poster.
ism would begin by fortifying our own nation. Gilmore Across the country Muslims have been singled outsaid that though tlrn commission predicted in 1999 the because the attacks have been attributed to a group ofpossibility of an attack, it was too late for the govern­fundamentalists, resulting in followers experiencingment to act on tho recommendations to prevent the how the brush of ignorance paints with wide strokes.
Sept. 11 attack. Ile added that he believed Bush took "The Muslim community finds themselves a minority indecisive action, but ''the enemy struck us before we this country,'' said the Rev. Thomas A. Davenport, the were prepared." 
Protestant chaplain at Syracuse University. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend l<'orecast AccuWeather ® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon,Friday, Sept. 21. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
50s 
Thursday Friday l ~ Saturd~y ~ 
·m,., 
..-._::·;<:)(.'. ·_ '.;~•: :.:·:i:)f}._ :-.:·:· FRONTS:

,Pund' 
0 2001 AccuWNthef, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
,,_,,.,

Monij-ay 
. r:-n 1777
® \elti: FT,"'7~W,...;;J~L;:.J-··· ~ .·. 
j , ~--"\. ./\.l.­,'\..,,,,..~ ~ .......,, I -'-< ,'\v-" V ~,  High  Low  Showers  Rain  T•1torm1  Flurrln  Snow  lea  Sunny  pt, Cloudy  Cloudy  
' ........  Atlanta  72  52  Las Vegas  99  70  Portland  66  51  
Q,Q,~4.QQ (f Showers T-storms Ram FJ~;ies S~ fee Sunny  ~ Ll Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  67 70 64 76  49 53 48 58  Memphis Milwaukee N-Yon< Philadelphia  75 61 66 67  50 47 53 54  Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  82 71 83 69  52 52 70 53  

Via M80Cialed Press Grapr,ICSNet 


Rehearsals  
6:30-7:30 p.m.  
Mondays & Thursdays  
Room 114  
Moreau Center  
for the Arts  
Saint Mary's  
College  
Fall Performances Include  
-l!i­ Choral Concert November 8  
SAINT  Lessons & Carols December 9  
MARY'S COLLEGE  Call 284-4633 for more information  
NOTRE DAME, IN  or come to a rehearsal.  

Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 

BELGIUM 




EU: Suspects cannot face execution in U.S. 
EU governments have moved 
Associated Press 
fast to set up closer police and judicial cooperation with eachBRUSSELS 
other and with the United
The European Union reaf­
States in the wake of the Sept.
firmed Tuesday it will speed 
11 terrorist attacks. 
up extradition procedures for 
Last week, EU justice andterrorism suspects, but 
home affairs ministers pushed
stressed 
through proposals
t h e y 
to set up a 
W OU l d "This has always been 
European arrest
only be the principle that has 
warrant, which 
sent to the 
been applied . ., Verwilghen said
United 
would come into
States if 
force in
there is a Marc Verwilghen 
December, and to guarantee Belgian Justice Minister step up extradi­t h e y 
tion procedures.
would not 
However,face a death sentence. European governments oppose
"This has always been the the death penalty and have principle that has been repeatedly asked Washingtonapplied," Belgian Justice to abolish it. Verwilghen called 
Minister Marc Verwilghen, on Washington to come upwhose country currently holds with some arrangement where the EU presidency, told VRT extradited suspects would not radio. face execution in convicted. 


fRIOAY. SEPr, 28 





8:30PM 
NO ExPPJsS 
ftMR tEVE1 OF UfORroHEl. 
96H (}p AT ND ExPREs~ UMITEO TO 32 ~ 
TENORS AND BASSES STILL NEEDED! 
far the SMC-ND COLLEGIATE CHOIR 

Voters ban mandatory labor dues 
350,000 Oklahomans believed such laws. Idaho was the last 
Associated Press 
our message." state to enact such a law, in "We have to back up and 1986.
OKLAHOMA CITY 
regroup. We built some fabu­No states in the industrialVoters approved a measure lous coalitions -teachers, fire­Northeast or the West CoastTuesday that makes Oklahoma . 
fighters, legal scholars, profes­have such laws. 
the 22nd state -and the first sors. We registered over 30,000 Spending by both sides in thesince 1986 -to ban labor con­
new union members over the Oklahoma campaign totaledtracts requiring workers to pay 
summer." more than $10 million, mostlyunion dues. 
The vote came after the most to finance a blizzard of televi­With 98 percent of the vote expensive election campaign in sion commercials containing
counted, the so-called right-to­state history, pitting business conflicting statistics on the eco­work measure was headed for and labor interests in a rematch nomic impact of such a law;victory 54 percent, or 434,744 
of a battle 37 years ago over the 
The Legislature referred thevotes, to 46 percent, or 370,975 
right-to-work issue. Unions won 
question to voters after morevotes. 
the battle in 1964 by fewer than 
than a decade of pressure from "I am excited for Oklahoma," 25,000 votes. 
Republican lawmakers. 
said Oklahoma· Gov. Frank 
Keating and chambers of 
Supporters including Keating Keating, a leading advocate for 
commerce led the fight for pas­
had argued that Oklahoma is
the measure, State Question 
sage this year. opposed by the 
losing jobs because companies695. "This is the first step in the 
Vote No on 695 coalition, made
liberation of Oklahoma's econo­shy away from states that lack
up of small-business people and 
my. It's a statement for pros­right-to-work laws, and that
union members. Together, the 
perity.and growth." workers should be allowed to
two sides spent more than $10 
Jimmy Curry, president of the million. choose for themselves whether Oklahoma AFL-CIO and an they want to support a union.
Less than 9 percent of 
opponent of the measure, said Opponents said such laws
Oklahoma workers are in jobs 
the anti-right-to-work cam­only-attract low-wage compa­
covered by union contracts. 
paign picked up speed after nies. They also said it was fair
The majority of right-to-work 
early polls showed public senti­laws, including 11 in Southern to require all workers to pay ment strongly in favor of right­states, were enacted in the dues because the Taft-Hartley to-work. years after the Taft-Hartley Act Act requires unions to repre­
"Tonight we got over 46 per­of 1947, which among other sent all workers, including non• cent of the vote," he said. "Over things allows states to enact members. 
House diverts missile defense money to counter terro_rism 
agreement to cut some funds from the missile 


Associated Press 
defense program while boosting the money to fight terrorism by $400 million, for a total of
WASHINGTON 
about $6 billion.
The House overwhelmingly approved a $343 House Armed Services Committee Chairmanbillion defense bill late Tuesday after diverting Bob Stump, H-Ariz., called the extra anti-terror­•some money from President Bush's prized missile ism money "an initial down payment until thedefense program to counterterrorism efforts. But president can better assess the long-term needs." 

the Senate's work got bogged down over objec­President Bush praised the House action, calling tions by a couple of senators. 
it a "vital step to ensure our nation's security." 
The 398-1 7 House vote followed bipartisan 







COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
.. 

Informational Meeting 
When: Thursday, September 27 
7:30 p.m. 

Where: Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 
Free Pizza Will Be Served 
Wednesday, September 26, 200 I 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Kathleen Dolphin, the new director for Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality, lectured on prayer Tuesday night. 
prayer." Dolphin said. Communal prayer


Dolphin 
describes relational prayer. It was noted that
continued from page 1 
communal prayer has 
become increasingly popu­lar. such that nven individ­
ence in which God calls us pray according our ual prayer has beconrn in
to to communal.
ovvn personality types." 
"Prayer
Dolphin 
should be
suggested 
"TA! d . h
n e are create ln t e transfor­
that there are three image ofGod. To issue mational. Prayer is
norms to explicit male language 
an oppor­
Christian 
when talking to God tunity for
Prayer: incarna­causes the lack ofrich­genuinP 
trans ri} r ­
t i o n a I • ness within prayer." 
mation
relational, and self­
and trans­
Kathleen Dolphin improve­
formation­
ment,"
al. director for Saint Mary's 
Dolphin


Within Center for Spirituality 
said.
the theme 
"When
of incarna­
th(~S(~
tional. sex-
three themes converge
uality matters. 
then prayer makes sense,''
"\Ve arP created in the image of' God. To issue explicit male language 
Contact Katie Vincer at
when talking to God causes 


vinc08S8@saintmarys.edu.
the lack ot' richness vvithin 





Donation 
continued from page 1 

"It was so awesome that so many people were vvilling to lwlp especially with such a short notice." said Flores. 
Along with Wariwr and Poorman. student government was able to crPate venues for people to donatP money and make an impact. The Sunday vigil and the collection baskets during basilica masses compli­mented Saturday's effort to raise money during the game. 
"We're very happy with this and we certainly will be able to make a difference," said Jorissen. 
Although student governmnnl is going to ker~p looking for ways to aide with thP victims in New York and Washington. there are no plans as of yPt f'or otlwr futurn proj<~cts, said Cannon. 
Contact Maribel Morey at mmorey@nd.edu 

AtGE, your career can take you anywhere. The diversity of our businesses means new opportunities are constantly unfolding. And ourfast-paced, informal environment is designed to help you explore them. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline and never leave GE 
Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. Were a high-spirited company where people are free to dream and encouraged to take risks. 
Find out foryourself why GE has been honoredas Americas Most Admired Company, by Fortune Magazine, fouryears in a row. An Equal OpportunityEmployer. 

1-----------------------------------------­
Aircraft Engines Appliances Aviatio_n Services Capital Services Card Services Commercial Equipment Financing Commercial Finance Research & Development 
Employers Reinsurance Corporation. Financial Assurance Equity Global Consumer Finance Global Exchange Services Industrial Systems Lighting Medical Systems 
Mortgage Insurance NBC Plasucs Power Systems Real Estate Specialty Materials Structured Finance Group Supply Transportation Systems 
,. 
Come Meet Engineering Reps at the 
Industry Day Career Fair Sept. 26th, 10:00 -4:00 JACC -North Dome 
For more info on opportunities at GE, go to www.gecareers.com/notredame. 
• We bring good things to life. 



Safety· 
continued from page 1 
and strik,~plat('S. Good lighting outsidP residences art as <Timi­nal deterrPnts. 
"Some of this basic security is something that landlords are n\quired to provide." slrn said. 
Students don't kno\\' about or tak<' advantagP or policP-run safoty programs. Shock said. 
A hom11,-watch program is availabh' during vacations wlwn studPnts an' away rrom tlwir homes. 
Studnnts can also sign up to b11. nnighborhood watch captains in their area. Captains rncnivP calls about crinws that occur within rivP blocks or their 1wighbo1·­hood. and police givP thPm descriptions of the susp('Cls. Captains am thnn rPsponsiblP f'or dissnminating tlw information to other 1wighborhood n'sidnnts. 
Further inrormation ~tbout nith<!r program is availabf<' at 
235-9201. 
Campus authoriti<'S also little­
u til iz11,d safoty programs. said 
Phil Johnson, assistant din!rtor 
or Notre Danw SPn1rity/Polic1•. 
During tlw month-long wintl~r 
vacation, NDSP ston\S off-cam­
pus students' merchandisP frf'P 
or cost. In tl11\ past. officials 
o/'l'Pr<'d tlw program o\'('r fall 
brnak but disC'.ontinw•d it dw• to 
lack of'us<'. 
Johnson said I\DSP 01T1•rs 
ollwr valuabl(• saf'Pty snrvic.-s. 
including a 12-hour sPlf-dP1'1•11sP 
program and allowing off-cam­
pus studnnts to park tlwir vnhi­
clt1s in UnivPrsity lots dut"ing 
vacations. 
SafPty is <~V(\ryone's rPsponsi­
bility. Johnson said. 
"WhPn WP talk about looking 
out l'or onP anolhnr. think ol' it in 
tlw broadnst sPnsn of' taking ('an' 
ol' your roomrnatns. vour housn­
m,{tPs and your f'riPnds," hl' said. 
.Johnson said Ttwsday·s 2!3­
pPrson turnout to the safety ses­
sion 1,,vas the largPst lw had spo­
ken to in 15 years of pn~smlling 
S('curity information to students. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley@nd.edu. 
SPRING BREAK 2002 

Organla Group &Go frN. .,<-.• "'" Parties ~~....,er
&Hours of ......­
FREE Drinks,. , • ·-. , . 

FREE Muh for L~ed Time! For Detalb and the lest btes 





ATION 

Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Afghan rebels are courted by U.S.: 
The tiny, long-ignored embassy of the alliance of Afghan rebel groups fighting the Taliban was buzzing with activity today. American diplomats and Russian generals are coming courting, testing the mettle of the new com­mander of the Northern Alliance. 
Political strive in Poland: Poland's political future became murkier today, with more complete tallies from the election on Sunday indicating that the clear victors, the Democratic Left Alliance of former Communists, will not be able to control Parliament without a partner likely to make demands that could slow entry into the European Union and to slash the budget deficit. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush freezes terrorists' assests: 
President Bush ordered an immediate freeze today of all assets in the United States of sus­pected Islamic terrorist groups and individu­als and gave the treasury secretary broad new powers to impose sanctions on banks around the world that provide them access to the international financial system. 
Mine explosions kill workers: Two gas explosions nearly half a mile beneath the earth killed four coal miners on Sunday after­noon and left nine of theirrescuers missing and presumed dead in what could be the nation's worst mining calamity in 17 years. Many of those missing and unreachable in the still-burning mine were colleagues of six men injured in a cave-in the initial explosion at the Blue Creek No. 5 mine, the nation's deepest, about 40 miles southwest of Birmingham. 
INDIANA News BRIEFS 


Republicans propose drilling ban: 
House Speaker Rick Johnson and a group of his Republican colleagues said Tuesday they are working on legislation to ban drilling under the Great Lakes. It's likely the House will pass the bills, where Republicans have a 58-52 majority. 
Burglar kills poodle: Police are investi­gating the beating death of a poodle during an early morning home burglary in Marion. The dog was put to sleep after her owner discovered the severely beaten animal when he returned from work, police said. 
Market Watch September 25 

Dow 
8,659.97 +56.11 

Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 
173 NIA 

AMEX: 780.46 -0.20 
NASDAQ: 1501.64 +224 
NYSE: 525.99 -t4.57 
S&P 500: 1012.27 +8.82 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
EXODUS COMM INC (EXDS) -66.00 -0.33 0.li . CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.32 +0.04 12.GE NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +0.30 +0.09 29.7E SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -0.46 -0.04 8.6~ INTEL CORP (INT() +1. 74 +0.37 21.Gt 
COMP.ILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
SAUDI ARABIA 

AFP PHOTO Kuwait's State Minister for Foriegn Affairs speaks to the press in Jeddah. Gulf monarchies pledged their total support for. efforts to track down the perpetrators of the U.S. targeted terrorist attacks. 



Saudi Arabia condemns Taliban 
Associated Press 
and haven for them." ter for attracting, training Trade Center and the

JEDDAH 
The Afghan people's and recruiting a number Pentagon. Mr. bin Laden

Saudi Arabia announced 
fight for independence -of gullible men from dif­has lived in Afghanistan

today that it had broken 
an allusion to their violent ferent lands, especially since 1996 under the pro­

relations with Afghanistan 
resistance to Soviet occu­citizens of the kingdom, in tection of the Taliban,

because of the ruling 
pation -had earned their order to carry out crimi­which refused to. hand

Taliban's insistence on 
country "a special status" nal acts that violate all him over and now claims

supporting "criminals and 
in the hearts of those who faiths and creeds." not to know where he is. 
terrorists." 
championed the right of The Taliban, it added, "In spite of what hap­

An official statement 
nations to be free and was «continuing to reject pened and what is hap­

issued through the Saudi 
independent, the Saudi handing over those crimi­pening," the Saudi state­

Press Agency said the 
announcement said. nals to justice." Such ment said, "the Taliban

kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
It charged that "the behavior by the Taliban, it government is still contin­

was severing diplomatic 
Taliban have used that said, was "defaming Islam uing to use its land to

ties because "the Taliban 
special status for and defaming Muslims' harbor, arm and encour­

have ignored all of the 
Afghanistan not for build­reputation in the world." age those criminals in

contacts and the attempts 
ing the ties of brother­The statement did not carrying out terrorist

by the kingdom to per­
hood and for building and specifically ·mention attacks that horrify those

suade them to stop har­
development and enforc­Osama bin Laden, the who live in peace and the

boring criminals and ter­
ing the lofty aims which Saudi-born terrorist innocent and spread ter­

rorists and training them 
Islam represents, but leader wanted in the Sept. ror and destruction in the

and inciting them and 
have made its land a cen-11 attacks on the World world."

making its land a refuge 

Congress shuffles with economy 
no decision had been made on a in the pipeline although Finance
Associated Press 
package to boost the economy, hit Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a WASHINGTON hard after the Sept. 11 attacks in Democrat from Montana, said the Worried about the impact a gov­New York and Washington, but that figure came up in the context of ernment spending and tax cut spree 

a stimulus package of as much as additional measures. could have on long-term interest $100 billion had been discussed. "I think it has to be temporary, but rates, key U.S. lawmakers said on U.S. House of Representatives significant enough to make a differ­Tuesday that any stimulus package Republican leader Dick Armey said . ence," Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa, to offset the shock to the economy that capital gains tax cuts were one the top Republican on the committee, from the hijack attacks should be measure under consideration and said of a potential stimulus package. short-term but hefty. added that White House economic Lawmakers declined to say what 
Following a closed-door meeting adviser Lawrence Lindsey favored advice Greenspan and Rubin gave
with Federal Reserve Chairman Alan corporate tax cuts . them during the meeting, but. Greenspan and former Treasury Lawmakers said they were unsure Grassley said discussions focused on Secretary Robert Rubin, members of whether the up to $100 billion would an amount "much higher" than he 
the Senate Finance Committee said had anticipated.
include some of the stimulus already 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
Brothers contribute to athletic grants-in-aid 
ership support from our 
Special to The Observer 
Monogram Club president." Notre Dame's 11th place
The University of Notre 

finish in the 2000-01 Sears
Dame has received a commit­
Directors Cup matched its
ment of $300,000 from Jim 
previous best performance in
and Billy Carroll of Fort 
the competition. Stanford
Lauderdale, Fla., to endow 
University. a perennial top
athletic grants-in-aid .at the 
finisher, won the cup.
University. Jim Carroll is the 
Billy and Jim Carroll both
current president of Notre 
are graduates of Marist High
Dame's national Monogram 
School in Atlanta, Ga. Jim
Club. 
Carroll went on to become
The Carrolls• gift will help 
captain of

further the 
the 1964

University's 
Notre Dame

goal of pro­"Our aims for this grant-in­
football

viding each 
aid initiative are to give 
team, the

Olympic 
every sport at Notre Dame f i r s t
sport with 
coached by

the full the means to excel and to 
A r a

number of 
place our athletic program 
Parseghian.

grants-in­
among the contenders for Playing
aid permit­
inside line­

ted by the the annual Sears Directors 
backer, he

National 
cup. which recognizes was 
named

Collegiate 
overall athletic achievement ... to several
Athletic 
All-America

Association 
teams. After

(NCAA). 
William Sexton 
being grad­
" W e 

vice president for 
uated from

aspire to 

University relations t h
excellence e 
University

in every-
in 1965, he

thing we do, 
played pro­

both in aca­
fessional football with the
demics and athletics. Our 
New York Giants and the
aims for this grants-in-aid• 
Washington Redskins.
initiative are to give every 
The Carroll brothers have
sport at Notre Dame the 
been in the automobile deal­
means to excel and to place 
ership business in_ Tennessee,
our athletic program among 
Georgia, and Florida since
the contenders for the annual 
1967. They own insurance
Sears Directors Cup, which 
and real-estate holding com­
recognizes overall athletic 
panies and a restaurant in
achievement," said William 
Cooper City, Fla.
Sexton, vice president for 
Athletic grants-in-aid are
University relations, in 
the financial awards provided
acknowledging the commit­
to student-athletes under
ment. "The Carrolls' gift is a 
NCAA regulations. The grants
most generous contribution 
cover tuition, room and
toward this effort, and we 
board, and books.
greatly appreciate this lead-

PAINTBALL NOTRE DAME YOU HA VE BEEN CHALLENGED!!!! 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY is bringing a group to Action Park Paintball in Mishawaka on Sunday September 30 and has officially challenged any ND students to come out and play against them, special discounted rates! 
Special discount rates for this outing have been given by the field, call 219-674-GAME for more details and to reserve your spot. Action Park is located minutes from campus, for a map go to actionparkpaintball.com 
The fun and registration starts at 11:00, call now for more details and save your spot in the action!!!! 
• 
Largest outdoor field in area, 23 + wooded acres. 

• 
Multiple fields .... can you defend the castle? 

• 
We provide all rental equipment needed! 


. 



Please recycle The Observer. 

TONIGHT 
The United Steelworkers ofAmerica and the Higgins Labor Research Center welcome ... 


LEO GERARD 
International President United Steelworkers ofAmerica 

Trade, Deception, Democracy and Steel Survival 
Wednesday, September 26th 8:00pm in 102 DeBartolo Hall 
LEO GERARD is one of the nation's youngest and most forward-looking labor leaders. He heads one of the most embattled unions of the day, the United Steelworkers of America. Although the Steelworkers represent many types of workers, the union's core is tied to the survival of the American steel industry. Global trade and the glut ofcheap steel is ruining the manufacturing base of the nation in haphazard ways. President Gerard will tackle some of the most far reaching and important issues of the day when he talks about trade, our communities, and, very consciously, how trade affects the poorest people in the world. 
Organizing For Justice on the Streets of Chicago! 

CENTER FOR 
SOC JAL 
• Learn how the Church is 


CONCERNS 
Respondi0g to Poverty and Injustice 
• Meet the organizers, 
pastors, lay leaders, & Other Advocates of the poor 
CHICAGO: 

City of HOPE? 
• Learn about key issues
Come and see... 
affecting communities: 
o Violence 
Social Concerns Seminar 
o Housing 
Theology 368 
o diversity 
In Chicago, 
• Explore Summer & Post 
January 8-13,2002 
Graduate Opportunities 
Applications available at: 
1{ 
• the Center for Social Concerns 
• Robinson Community Learning Center 
Application deadline; Monday, October 8, noon 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
For more information, please Contact Jay Caponigro at the RCLC 631-9423 



Do you like to write? Write for The Observer. Call 1-5323 . 

Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Mother of anti-gay victim speaks to ND campus 


sented in an effort to promote
Special to The Observer 
solidarity with gay, lesbian and bisexual members of the
Activist Judy Shepard, 
University community. The
whose 21-year-old son 
event is free and open to theMatthew was the victim of a public and will be followed by
1998 anti-gay hate murder, 
a reception.
will speak 
Matthew Shepard's death
Thursday at Lecture inspired thousands of people
7:30 p.m. in Matthew 
across the country to attend
t h e rallies and vigils in his honor
H es b u r g h Shepard's mother 
and moved Shepard and her
L i b r a r y speaks to campus 
husband, Dennis, to set up the
auditorium 
at Notre . Hesburgh Matthew Shepard Foundation in an effort to promote gay

Dame. Library auditorium 
and lesbian equality and helpS p o n ­
. Thursday prevent hate crimes.
sored by 
N o r . 7:30 p.m. Shepard now speaks to
t e 
audiences nationwide about
Dame's 
what can be done to make
Standing 
schools and comm unitiesCommittee 
safer for everyone, regardlesson Gay and Lesbian Student of their race, gender, religionNeeds, Shepard's talk is pre­or sexual orientation. 


AUDITIONS 
NOTRE DAME OPERA 
Friday, Sept. 28, Annenberg Auditorium 2:30 -4:30 pm Perform one song or aria from memory. An accompanist will.be provided. Performances on April 26 & 27, 2002 
OPEN TO ALL 

"Because we call Notre Dame a family..." 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs offers some opportunities to stand in solidarity with gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of our Notre 
Dame community. 
Featured Speaker: 

Mrs. Judy Shepard 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 
7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Admission is FREE Reception with Mrs. Shepard following the presentation 
Mrs. Shepard's story: 
In October 1998, Judy Shepard lost her twenty-one year old son, Matthew, to a murder inspired by 
anti-gay hate. Her ordeal moved thousands of people across America to attend vigils and rallies in 
Matthew's honor. 
Determined to prevent their son's fate from befalling other people, Judy and her husband, Dennis, 
established the Matthew Shepard Foundation to help carry on Matthew's legacy by embracing the just 
causes he had championed. This includes working for gay and lesbian equality and helping to prevent 
hate crimes. 
Judy is detennined to use her griefover her son's death to make a difference. She is now speaking to audiences 
nationwide about what they can do to make their schools and communities safer for everyone, regardless of their race, sex, religion, or sexual orientation. 
September 30, 2001, is SOLIDARITY SUNDAY. 
"Notre Dame, our Mother, in sharing your name, we claim that we are family. " Solidarity Sunday invites the Notre Dame community to pray and grow as one family. On this Sunday, we recognize the value of our community's gay, lesbian, and bisexual members. All Masses on campus will express the commitment of Notre Dame to stand with Christ, in community, with all her brothers and sisters. Prayer cards and rainbow ribbons will be distributed at all Masses to serve as symbols for the Notre Dame community to display their commitment to stand together and make Notre Dame a place for all people to grow in faith, hope, and love. 
Thursday, October 11, 2001, is National COMING OUT Day. 
On the occasion of National Coming Out Day, October 11, 2001, we the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs join Notre Dame's gay,_lesbian, and bisexual students in gratitude for the love and support they have received from family and friends. We urge all members of our community to redouble all efforts to make our campus a safe and welcoming place free from harassment of any kind. 

OTHE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, None Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates'ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Yiewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QUt:stions regarding ObsmJer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

Music means quite a bit to me. 
Accordingly, I want to thank the University for bringing U2 to campus. I offer my thanks in spite of the bizarre decision to sell better tickets for less money, and to offer the Eric Long majority of seats at a high price ­but I'm not about *Fitter, to get all Eddie 
Happier

Vedder up in here. 
I offer my thanks in spite of the ticket distribution system, which resembled Chinese algebra in its com­plexity. I offer my thanks because I find spiritual and physical renewal in music, and I'm glad the University is willing to nurture the love of music. 
That said, I saw an amazing concert two weeks ago in Chicago. David Byrne, ex-lead singer for the Talking Heads, came to the Riviera. I'm not the biggest Talking Heads fan, and I know only a few of Byrne's songs since he went solo, but this was a great rock show. Byrne was as weird as ever and he danced around on stage as though the music he played flowed directly from an essential place inside of him. 
At a point in the show, Byrne fin­ished a song and the crowd erupted in applause. The applause continued long after the appropriate time for applause to end. This was no longer the polite, automatic clapping that follows a song. The audience poured out pure joy. On stage, a thousand­watt smile illuminated Byrne's face. For that moment, everyone in the concert hall experienced a beautiful, revitalizing collective breath. It was the right feeling at the right time, coming a few days after the tragedies in New York and Washington, D.C. 
I'd call my experience elevating. Music can elevate like this.all of the time. For this reason, I think popular music is an important art form. In its best forms, popular music is passion­ate and profound; it is the dedicated effort to express a transcendent truth in an immediate, impermanent form -sort of like lyric poetry. Good popu­lar music captures a shared moment, it digs into common experience and thus transforms the experience into something extraordinary. Good pop consistently nourishes and re-estab­lishes an organic human community. 
Importantly, pop music is accessible to the masses. Anyone with a few dol­lars can enjoy music. If you have a radio, the music is free. I just wouldn't recommend turning on the radio these days. Don't expect to find good popular music there. You will be disappointed. 
The Backstreet Boys do not promote the human community. Britney Spears does not foster a sense of ele­vating shared experience. Limp Bizkit does not appeal to any fully human emotion or experience. 
I don't want to offend any fans out there, and I'm not insinuating that I'm a better person for the music I lis­ten to. Everyone listens to music for different reasons. Some people want to get angry and run into things, some people want to chant lyrics over and over again, some people just want to zone out and forget about daily stres­sors. I simply argue that music can bring about amazing transcendent experiences, and anyone who listens to the soulless drivel on the radio is being robbed of these experiences. 
Unfortunately, bad music is a neces­sary side effect of consumer culture. Humans are opportunistic creatures, and when they think they know what is good, they seize it for themselves. Money seems pretty good -how do humans get a lot of money in capital­ist economies? Make something, put it on the market and, through deep understanding of human nature or dumb luck, convince several million consumers that they need whatever it is that you made. The manufacturing of desire is a skill too, so I say bravo to Fred Durst the marketing agent. 
Fred and his Korn-wannabe pro­teges figured out how to sell anger to boys in the suburbs. Britney Spears figured out how. to sell her body to men (not such a difficult thing to do) and her-own skewed version of girl power to women. Or maybe people buy her records for their even more dreadful than Debbie Gibson sound. At any rate, Fred and Britney sure do sell a lot of records and get to be on television. 

Consumerism fits in with the pop ethos. There's no denying it. But there is a difference between crass greed and simply_having a large audi­ence. Consumerism is part of pop's accessibility. I mean, if an idea doesn't sell it's not worth very much because no one will have heard it. 
Which takes me back to David Byrne. No one has heard of him. But Byrne's concert was the best I'd seen in a while. Anyone would have enjoyed Byrne's show. The secret of Byrne's music, and all good popular music, is that its meaning transcends the words, chords, beat and even the way the band looks. The songs speak a simple human language, and one need only be human to relate. People talk about great concerts for years, spreading a secular gospel if you will. Few things compare to the joy and human unity created by a good con­cert. 
And now, we get U2 in a couple of weeks. \Vith hope, U2 will demon­strate my point: rock-and-roll can save your soul. After all the misfor­tune and pain of September, I think a good concert in October is just what this campus needs to bring it together as a community. 
Eric long is a senior PLS major. lie can be reached at long.31@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Maribel Morey  Gordon Strickland  
Van Giles  Graphics  
Justin Krivickas  Jimmy Atkinson  
Sports  Production  
Katie Hughes  Jeff Baltruzak  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Sheila Flynn  Amanda Hughes  

POLL QUESTION 
Are the new Dean's List requirements fair? Please e-mail viewpoint. l@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Rock ·n · roll is trying to convince girls to pay money to be near you." 
Richard Hell musician 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 26, 200 I page 9 
Two months in Africa: Living in a new reality 
I woke up last night in my mosquito net sleeping on the roof when I real­ized how rapidly my definition of nor­mal and daily reality changed in just 
two months.  
My three host  
brothers and one sister sleep next to  Maite Uranga  
me and periodically  
re-adjust through­ 
out the night. Any  Life in Africa  
night a rain or dust  
storm may send me  
into a sleepy frenzy  

of taking down my mosquito net, rolling up my mat, finding my shoes, my water bottle, my flashlight and somehow maneuvering everything down steep stairs with a 180-degree turn. Unless, of course, it is a light rain, in which case I attempt to sleep through it. I am acutely aware of the moon's cycle because the fuller it gets the brighter the night becomes. 
The call to the mosque at 4:45 a.m. and the goats at 6 a.m. are my daily alarm clock. Animals are everywhere -goats, lizards, birds, very large insects and chickens -all just outside the imagined protection of my thinner­than-paper, transparent mosquito net. This is my nightly reality. 
Daytime brings a whole new set of adventures. It is only possible to shep­herd a goat out of my room or ride on a donkey cart so many times before it moves through the cycle of being scary, funny and unusual to finally normal. 
The letters I write home are less and less about these sorts of things and more about my personal life or various emotions. People generally write let­ters about things that are at least somewhat exciting or humorous and my life here feels more like routine than adventure. 
In my mosquito net on the roof I thought back to a letter my col­lege roommate wrote me. She wrote something about meet­ing some friends, going out to a restaurant and then dancing. She went into detail about the people, the dancing, the drinking, the music and other debauchery. Then at the end she wrote ..but I am sure this all seems so trivial to you as you sit in your hut in Africa." 
My reaction was the same as I am sure her reaction is when she reads stories about my days and nights. It was amazement. 
At this point I love reading about the boring and mundane details about America. Bars are so far out of my realm of under­standing that I loved her story. Even if she simply wrote "I drove a car today. I took a shower. I went to McDonald's. I e-mailed. I used a phone. I ate with a fork," I would be amazed. 
At this point the concept of a grocery store is overwhelming to me. The bou­tiques in Mauritania sell about 25 dif­ferent products and it satisfies almost all my needs. It would be very difficult for me at this point to go to a grocery store and try to figure out what I want­ed, but this is her reality. She is aston­
ished by my average day 
and I by hers. I have spent approximately 
·\. two months in Africa and I already have no idea what 
is on the radio or in the news. 
Perhaps Britney Spears wrote 
l· meaningful another ' song. Maybe ~/ Survivor is in 1 Antarctica or maybe I am on Survivor. I know more about the politics of Senegal, .,.,. Morocco and 
___.::::;::--;,M·auritania than I know about the politics in the states. Is George having a fling with Monica? My brother starts med school in about six days. I do not know if he is nervous, excited, scared or even if he is still going. Letters take between two weeks 
and never to get here. News and pop 
culture takes about the same amount 
of time. I will not know what I missed, 
in some cases, for two years. 

Do not get me wrong; sometimes that is a good thing. I am not bombarded daily with whatever the media thinks is the hot story of the week and I get away from the American and Western slanted media. The truly important things do get to me eventually. 
My patience is increasing and my pace of life is decreasing. I very much enjoy the lack of instant gratification e­mail provides. I think, partly as a result, my life "crises" are no longer so severe. I know when I write a letter to friends or famity they will not get it for at least 13 days and a response back takes approximately two and a half weeks. When I e-mailed I would get upset if I did not hear back for a day, . which did not really give me time to think situations through on my own. 
I feel like I finally have time to think in an unaccustomed daily reality that is almost normal some days. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Praising academic standard 
The football fortunes of the Fighting Irish have plummeted, like in the days when Gerry Faust coached a barely 500 team, or like in those dark days before Ara Parseghian. Oregon State and Nebraska were strong, nationally-ranked opponents, but Michigan State is not a national power and will not likely finish near the top of the Big Ten, which makes Saturday's outcome all the more embarrassing. Notre Dame received not one vote in this week's AP Poll, and only nine votes in the USA Today/ESPN Coaches' Poll. 
Nevertheless, pride can be taken in the percentage of student-athletes who graduate each year, and in the academic standards for which Notre Dame is legendary. If it is still true that all freshmen at Notre Dame, football players included, have to take calculus, for example, then maybe wins and losses on the gridiron aren't such a measure of the stu­dents who play the game, and certainly not much of a measure of the University they rep­resent. _ 
If Notre Dame's athletic programs are run cleanly, without any further problems like those that led to the NCM probation in recent years, and Notre Dame's athletes are truly student-athletes, then the words of the fight song, "What tho the odds be great or small, old Notre Dame will win over all," don't ring hollow at all. 
Russ Stone 
class of '72 Sept. 25, 200 l 

Davie was disrespectful 
Ever the optimist, I nonetheless believe Coach Davie must resign. I do not reach this conclusion lightly or because of what happened on the field last Saturday against Michigan State. My reasons stem from what did not happen on the field on Saturday. 
Where were the Irish players and coaches during the pre-game ceremonies? Did Coach Davie conclude that those last few minutes to prepare to play the game were more impor­tant that leading his players and coaching staff onto the field to stand in solidarity with the fans, the bands and the Spartan players and coaches? Was a last minute pep talk more important that participating in the prayers and praise for those who died, those who took on the roles of heroes and for all of us who carry on as part of this great nation? God, Country, Notre Dame? 
Coach Davie cannot offer any valid explanation for the disrespect shown by the failure 
to be on the field. be resignation.  He must answer for this serious error in judgment. His answer should  
Tom Desmond class of '78 Chicago Sept. 25, 2001  

Apologizing for misdirected blame 
Last Thursday, along with more than 4,000 other students, I waited for U2 tickets for what seemed like an eternity. I missed the Dillon Pep Rally and was pretty annoyed. Make no mistake about it, the ticket distribution system used by the JACC was just plain stupid. 
Just like everyone else there, I was impatient, hungry and tired, and I needed a place to vent my anger. Not knowing who was in charge of the fiasco, most of us could only direct our anger towards the person we saw standing with the JACC ushers: Brooke Norton. This was a large mistake, and many of us owe an apology to Brian Moscona, the student government and most of all, Brooke. 
First of all, in case anyone doesn't already know, it was the JACC ticket office and not the student government who orga­nized the distribution. Brooke was just another student in line to buy a ticket, but, seeing the mass chaos around her, volun­teered to help out. This example of proactivity should be an excel­lent lesson to all of us (me includ­ed) who can rant and complain about how unfair things are but not have the guts and courage to go and do something about it. 
That's exactly what Brooke did. 
Second. what I didn't find until Sunday night was that the student presale that many of us attended is an extremely infre­quent occurrence for U2 con­certs. The only reason that we had a presale guaranteeing us students tickets is that Brooke fought with the U2 promoters until they gave in. If it weren't for her, we would have had to fight everyone else with Ticketmaster trying to get a tick­et. Because of Brooke we were all able to get tickets. 
For those of us who have ever held a position of responsibility, we know that it is not an easy thing. I cannot imagine the responsibility and commitment it must take to be student body president, and to be honest, I don't want to. 
But those of us like myself who choose to not take on that much responsibility need to respect those who do and make sure we get all of our facts straight before slinging any criticism. 
This concert is going to rock. Thanks, Brooke. 
Matt Bleecher 
junior Siegfried Hall Sepr. 25, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
Television 
ets t 
By MELISSA RAUCH 
Scene Wri rer 

In the wake of the recent terrorist attacks, network television decided wisely to postpone the debut of its fall season. Acting in the public interest. they broadcast national news instead, and pushed back all of the season premieres one week. They were also forced to make dras­tic changes in the plotlines of shows 

Photo courtesy of www.nbc.com 
that hit too close to home with the 
Viewers this year will await the develop­
tragedy. Some shows had to be 
ments between Ed and his longtime
rewritten and reshot, and some will never see the airwaves. One episode crush Carol. of New York-based "Friends" for 
too cool for this family show, thinkinstance, had to be· reworked because again. It has a talented cast and cleverit took place in an airport. as Monica 
writers who know how to find the
and Chandler prepared for their hon­humor in everyday life. It's what greateymoon. Obviously, airport humor is comedy is all about.
no longer funny. Despite the necessary changes, how­ever. the networks are ready to roll 
Tuesday
out the new season and the public is ready to receive them. Viewers will be "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" UPN, able to escape temporarily from some 
8:00 p.m.
unpleasant realities into a fantasy 
This is the best show on television. 
world where the biggest concerns are Yes, it has a silly title. Yes, it features "Will they or won't they finally kiss?" 
a girl who kills vampires. Get over it or "Who killed Laura Palmer?" and "Are 
you will continue to miss out. You 
you master of your domain?" Best of 
don't have to be a sci-fl lover to enjoyall. as Americans try to return to their the genius of this show. It is sharplynormal lives, television will be a great 
written and superbly acted. The fact instrument in re-establishing normal 
that Emmy voters annually overlook it daily routines. 
is as mind-boggling as it is frustrating.
Here, then, is an easy to follow 
Whatever you seek in a show. comedy. 
schedule of the best returning "can't 
action, romance, horror, fantasy,
miss" shows of the fall. [Note: All times "Buffy" has it all. It will alternately are EST] 
cripple you with laughter. choke you with tears, and stimulate the philo­Monday sophical recesses of your brain and it will continue to do so for long after the
"Everybody Loves Raymond" CBS, 

credits have rolled. 
9:00 p.m. In the upcoming season, "Buffy" lit­
The new season will offer more of erally and figuratively gets a new lease the same, and thank goodness. This on life, as her character returns from sitcom offers the best example of the the dead and switches networks to classic family comedy of all shows cur­UPN after five years with the WB. rently on the air. Series star Ray Ensuring its high quality will not falter Romano shines as the.•hapless hus­as a result of the switch, imaginative band. father. brother and son of his author Joss Whedon, remains as exec­entertaining family. Romano and TV utive producer. Although the network wife Patricia Heaton have great chem­shuffle unfortunately spells the end of istry, and supporting stars Peter Boyle crossovers with its spin-off series and Doris Roberts. who play Ray's par­"Angel" (which remains on the WB), ents, get funnier each time they barge "Buffy" will not disappoint. Already into their son's home. If you think causing industry buzz is a musical you're a college student who is much episode featuring songs written by 

Photo courtesy of www.nbc.com Martin Sheen portrays a Notre Dame alum In NBC's critically acclaimed drama "The West Wing." 
Networks unveil new 
Whedon and performed by the cast. ("Angel") Take one hit of "Buffy,"and w h o undoubtedly you'll be hooked. replaces A n g i e Harmon
Wednesday 
as the "Ed" NBC, 8:00 p.m. n e w "Ed," both the title character and Assistant the show itself, epitomize charming DA. After television, and it's not too late to t h r e e join in Ed's fun. When we last left brunettes the show, he was finally on the the pro­verge of a romantic breakthrough ducers with life-long crush Carol, when in decided perfect TV timing, ex-girlfriend to shake Bonnie showed up on his doorstep. things upWhile everyone knows Ed and Carol a bit and are meant to be together, the pro-see how ducers will keep torturing viewers a blond 

with through another season of wanti­will conduct herself in the courtroom. ng and waiting. And though we'll It will be interesting to follow how throw shoes at the screen in the frus­this show, which is set in New York 
trating wait for that first kiss, we'll and often promotes its "Ripped from love every delightful, unrequited the Headlines" storylines. will respondminute of it. to the World Trade Center tragedy. Other real life news stories, the disap­pearance of Chandra Levy, the murder
"The West Wing" NBC, 9:00 p.m. 

of actor Robert Blake's wife, and the
Before recent tragic events, Aaron 
arrest of rapper
Sorkin, creator and head writer for 
S e a n
"The West Wing," had always empha­
"Puffy/P. Diddy" 
sized that although the president and 
Combs. will be
administration he created do work in 
incorporated
The White House, they liye in an artifi­
into the sh ow
cial, hypothetical world. For this rea­
this season.
son, he avoided topics that related too closely to the contemporary political climate and refused the requ~sts of "NYPD Blue" real-life politicians to guest star occa­
ABC, 10 p.m.
sionally in episodes. 
Two Words:
The attacks of Sept.11, however, 
Zack Morris.
were too monumental to be ignored. 
That's right
Sorkin felt that if the events were not 
kids, Mark-Paul
somehow addressed, viewers would 
Gosselaar. the
never be comfortable watching Martin 
coolest kid
Sheen's President Bartlet continue 
from Bayside
with his fictional presidency. Thus, at 
High, is joining
Sorkin's request, NBC has agreed to 
the 16th
pre-empt the already filmed season 
precinct.
premiere with a specially penned 

Gosselaar replaces Rick Shroeder.
episode dealing with the issues facing 

whose character disappeared in last
the world following the terrorist 

year's season finale after a dead strip­
attacks. The stand alone episode will 

per was found in his apartment.
air on Oct. 3, pushing the original sea­

Producers say Shroeder will not
son premier back another week. 

return. implying his character may
Once the previously filmed episodes 

have met an untimely end, but who
begin running, the storyline will pick 

really cares? Shroeder was cute while
up where last year's cliffhanger left 

riding that giant toy train through the
off. The Oct. 10 episode will answer 

first floor of the "Silver Spoons" man­
the question of whether the president 

sion, but can he really compare to
will run for re-election after losing a 

Zack Morris? Like it or not, Zack is the
great deal of credibility by revealing 

Fonzie of our generation, but unlike
his secret affliction with multiple scle­

the Henry Winkler. his youth still
rosis. Fans need not fear their favorite 

allows us to enjoy him in new roles.
fake president is going anywhere. 

Don't forget the most important thing
however. Since this show is NBC's 

about an actor who joins the "Blue"
prize jewel, it's a safe bet that 

squad: sooner or later you'll probably
President Bartlet will remain at work 

see his bum. What would Mr. Belding
in his v.·ing of the White House. 
say? 

Additionally. Mark-Paul's acting"Law & Order" NBC, 10:00 p.m. skills have ripened with age. and he If you've been with NBC this long on should be able to hold his own with Wednesday night you might as well the Emmy-Award winning Dennis 
stay tuned for Law & Order. Although Franz. Gosselaar will play the son of a 
there may be too many incarnations of Bronx cop who has long-standing ani­the L&O series on the Peacock net­mosity with Detective Sipowisz, ensur* 
work. the original show has remained ing wonderful dramatic tension strong year after year, continually between the new partners. Vanessa promising a gripping hour of TV Marcil ("General Hospital", "Beverlydrama. Numerous cast-members have Hills 90210") will also add fire to the come and gone. but the show has mix as Detective Carmen Olivera. a 
never fallen off track because of top­replacement for the departing Kim notch writing and replacement actors Delaney and potential love interest for who are equally talented, if not better Gosselaar. The one glitch is that the 
than their predecessors. This year's show airs opposite "Law & Order." but 
newcomer is Elisabeth Rohm that's why we have VCR's. 



O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 26, 200I page 11 
,ack to business 
season oftelevision 

Thursday "Friends" NBC, 8:00 p.m. 
True to form, the show ended its eighth season with yet another cliffhanger. 

Photo courtesy of www.nbc.com Viewers 
go around for the cast of w e r e informed that Rachel, not newly­
wed Monica, was pregnant, and were~ left to wonder who the proud papa could be. The mystery will be solved by the end of the second episode, in which four potential daddies will pre­sent themselves: the obvious candi­dates Ross and Tag. the less likely Joey, and from out of nowhere, the lovable German, Gunther. 
Beyond the paterni­ty revela­tion. expect big things from the sextet this season. Yes, last year was a huge disappoint­ment, but all current signs say this will be the last year f o . r


Photo courtesy of www.thesimpsons.com 
"Friends" so

for a thirteenth year of fun 
it's safe to assume the group will do its best to go out on a high note. The writers showed great promise with the Rachel pregnancy twist. Hopefully her impending motherhood, as well as Monica and Chandler's young mar­riage will offer some good material for entertaining storylines. If all else fails they should just focus the show on Matt LeBlanc's Joey Tribiani. Throughout the ups and downs of the show. LeBlanc has truly grown into his Joey persona and promises to come through with the laughs whenever he is on the screen. LeBlanc is definitely the most underrated actor on tht> show. having been bypassed for an Emmy nomination each year while his 
less talented cast mates, Schwimmer, Kudrow and Aniston. have all earned nods. If this is to be the last year for the show. here's hoping that the writers let him and the rest of his "Friends" finish on top. 
"ER" NBC, 10 p.m. 
The big news in County General this season is the return of Dr. Susan Lewis, played by Sherrv Stringfield, who left the show ii'.i its third season to spend more time with her husband. (Interesting side note: they're divorced now). Dr. Lewis will surely cause some disruptions in the new married life of Dr. Mark 
the last few years has definitely caused the show to lose steam over the years. Perhaps the group should take a cue from the "Friends" cast, and close up the "ER" before it's too late. 
"Survivor" CBS, 8:00 p.m. Like Wednesday, Thursday is a 


Allen movie, only the most intel­ligent, well-read and culturally aware viewers will be able to truly appreciate the magic. This year's treats again include his­torical and literary allusions, as Bart imitates Hamlet, Lisa does Joan of Arc. and Homer stars, appropriately enough. in a trib­ute to Homer's "The Odyssey." Displaying knowledge of current pop culture as well, the annual Halloween "Treehouse of Horror" series will feature a Photo courtesy of www.nbc.com parody of the Harry Potter books. As always many famous
ER faces the prospect of losing several of Its 
original cast members this season. 

Green (Anthony Edwards), her old flame. and his new bride Dr. Elizabeth Corday (Alex Kingston). It's likely she'll also factor 

tricky night forcing you to choose between you're old "Friends'' and these new "Survivors." The next set of 16 competitors will find themselves com­
pleting challenges and forming alliances in Africa. The two tribes will outplay. outwit and outlast each other amidst the beautiful but dangerous Shaba National Reserve in Kenya. The landscape is sure to be gorgeous, and the cast will likely be younger and more beautiful than before. The reality genre may be losing its luster, however. Time will tell if viewers remain fascinated with the antics of the compet­ing clans and their ensuing tribal coun­cils, especially after getting such an over­whelming dose of reality during the past few weeks of constant news coverage. 
Sunday "The Simpsons" FOX, 
8:00 p.m. 
The longest running television show currently on the air begins its 13th season, and it is still as strong as day one. It amazes the show's loyal fans to hear some label it a silly cartoon or kids' show. Ironically, those who deem the pro­gram juvenile, miss out on the most smartly written show on television. Wi.th more references than a Woody 

voices will pop up throughout the year, while the core charac­ters will remain as fresh and amusing as ever. 
"Malcolm in the Middle" 
FOX, 9:00 p.m. 

Here's another misunderstood show, often mislabeled as a live­action"Simpsons." This categorization does not give"Malcolm" the credit it truly deserves for its original writing and especially its amazing group of actors. One commits a grave error in simply lumping all dysfunctional fami­lies into one big bucket. Each idiosyn­crasy is special and hilarious in its own unique way. The producers will continue to push the envelope with more outrageous behavior this season as Malcolm ages and begins dealing with girls, eldest brother Francis is discharged from miHtary school, and the great antagonizer Reese obtains a learner's permit and immediately wreaks havoc. This show only has one danger: the dreaded puberty. Unfortunately little boys like Frankie Muiz cannot stay little forever. We all remember what happened to"The Wonder Years." When Fred Savage grew up, viewers lost interest. Let's hope"Malcolm" doesn't suffer the same fate. 
Those are all the shows you really need to know, unless you have HBO. In that case."Sex and the City" and"The Sopranos" will throw a kink into your Sunday night schedule. For the most part, though, you can stick with one network per evening with a few options on Wednesday and Thursday. Take your pick and enjoy. 
Contact Melissa Rauch at mrauch@nd.edu. 

into Green's departure mid­way through the season. Also leaving the show is Eriq LaSalle, who has decided he's done about everything he can do with his character, Dr. Peter Benton. 
With the loss of these two origi­nal cast mem­bers, producers are fortunate to have Stringfield back. The loss also ensures that Noah Wyle'.s Dr. 
Carter  will  
become  the  
show's  main  

focus, in particu­lar his entangled romance with med student Abby Lockhart (Maura Tierney). The loss of so many central characters over 


::Yy1:oamn:~:ris1·sbRaocbkeartgsaiint'bringing adnothehr season of witty fa~ily comedy to your television set. With a strong supporting cast Including head case;:;~~;:;:;;; 
• s no won er w y everybody loves him. 
! page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 26, 2001 
.l \ 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Baseball returns to Bronx, Yanks clinch 
Bay's s11cond straight shutout. Nolan Byan (5.7141, the fourth tirn(~ in thrPc onf~ run in sevPn innings and
Associated Press 
Tlw l>Pvil Hays bPat Toronto innings or fewer. "It's bPPn all but assuring himsPlf he 1-0 Sunday and haV(' a fran­right off the bat and it's not won't lose 20 gamt~s. II<' is
NF\V YOBK Pirates 13, Cubs 1 
ch isP-rPcord 20-i n n in g sc ort'­evnn been r<'ally dos<'. expt~rtPd to start twice more.
BasPball rt'turnnd to thP If it was possiblP to nwlt
lPss strl'ak. It ,vas the second f'ivP-run and thus can losn no morP
Bronx on Ttwsday night with a do\\'n on a 4(>-dPgrPe night. tlw 
lkspit<' tlw loss. tlw YankPPS inning by the Pirates in a span than 19 ganws unless he pitch­
tribut<' to th(' victims ol' th1' Chicago Cubs did it. 
a S SU r I'd tlw 111 S(~ IV nS O (' th I' ir of livn innings. Tlw Piral(\S ral­es in rPliPf'.
t<'rrorist attacks and anotlwr Pittsburgh opnrwd a 12-run
rt'rord 31Hh l'irst-placl' finish. li<'d from a 5-0 deficit with a "[ just want to finish strong
division rhampionship l'or thl' 1I' ad in t lw th ird i n n ing o v (' r 
But tlwy planiwd a to1wd-down five-run sixth inning Monday in my nnxt couplP of' starts and 
1\J1'\\' York Yan k('<'S. thP rPPling Cubs as Aramis 
rl'l<'bration artPr tlw gamn in and went on to win 7-(1. comP bark llPXt yPar."
ThP Yank<'PS. playing at Hamirt'Z homPr('d and Craig
d1•l'<'rP11c1' to tlw tragPdy. This tinw. Brian Cill's. Bob :\ndPrson said.
honw for tht' first tinw sine<' \\' iIson cl r o v P in th r 1' P r u n s. 
/\mid tight sPcurity. basPball Mackowiak and Wilson had
t lw tra g <'di t' s on S<'pt. 1 I . and tlw Pirat11s wPnt on to a
rnturnPd to its most famous run-scoring singl<'s in tlw first.
dinclwd tlwir l'ourth straight romp Ttwsday night. Reds 8, Phillies 1
silt' for tlw first timP sinn' tlw vvhile Kevin Young had a sarri­
.\L East titlP wlwn Boston lost Tlw Cubs f'ollow(•d up eon­Larry Bowa didn't want to 
attacks two W<'Pks ago. Then' fin, fly and Jason Kendall dn•w 
to Baltimon'. sPcutivt' 7-(i lossPs to thP \\.atch thP scorPboard. llf~
Wl'rP long linPs to t'lltPr tlw a basPs-loadPd walk after
Tlw final scort' from Fnnway Astros and Piratns with their tu rrwd to it f'or comfort. 
stadium as fans had their bags starting thP inning with a l<'ad­
Park was postPd in tlw St'vPnth fourth straight loss. one that KPn Criffny .Ir. had thrt'<' hits 
dwckt'd. off walk.
in n in g at Ya n kP t' Sta d iu m . f'urthPr damag<'d tht>ir l'ast­and tv,o HBls, and Joey
It was a night l'or contrasts of "Our responsibility is to go
drawing applausP from the fading playoff hop<'s. Thny foll Ilarnilton pitched l'ivP shutout
emotions. Th(~ fans inter­out and play as hard as Wl'
!'ans who no long<'r cart'd that 4 ganws bPhind St. Louis in tlrn innings. IPading thP Cinl'innati
spPrsPd rhants of' .. USA! USA!" ran. whether wp'rn playing th<'
Tanyon Sturtz<' outpitchPd NL wild card racP as the HI' cl S tO a V j C tO r y O V (' r th ('
with "Ld's Go YankPns!" and contenders or not.·· PiratPs
H o g e r CI e nH' n s to giv P th e Cardinals beat tlw Astros 3-2. Philadelphia Phillies on 
evnn did tlw wave. manager Lloyd McCIPndon
Tampa Bay Devil Hays a 4-0 Tlw Cubs' second-half fall -Tw~sday night.
PlayPrs from b.oth teams said. "\Ve played the MPt.s hard
win. tlwy onc:e led the NL Central by The Phillies dropped a ganw
linPd tlH~ baselinns sidn-by-sidP and the Cardinals hard too.
Clenwns (20-2 l lost for tlw six games -has beconw a behind th(~ Atlanta Braves l'or 
with city rescue \Yorkers dur­\Vr're just trying to win."
first timP since May 20 at frppfall with l O losses in 14 l'irst place in the NL East.
ing patriotic songs. Mayor The Cubs· bullpen wasn't
Srattle. ending a 16-ganw win­ganws and 11 in 1(>. Atlanta beat Florida 5-2 in 11
Hudolph Giuliani; the rity's No. much better than Here. with
ning strPak. IIe did strike out "\Ve just need wins ... said innings.
1 Yankees fan. got a loud ova­Carlos Zambrano giving up
ninE~ batters to move into third Cubs startPr Jason Ben', who Once the Beds took a 6-0 
tion before joining the Yankees three runs in the second and
place 011 the carepr strikeout lasted only one-third of an lead in the sixth. Bowa found 
on tlw pitcher's mound before Courtney Duncan four morn in
list. inning. "Ho1,,v it happens himself' penking al th<' 
the gamr. the third to mak<' it 12-0.
Clrrnens is high-strung and doesn't really matter." Atlanta's sc<Jr<~ a lot mor<' than 
Flags \vnre hanging from tlw \Vinning pitcher Jimmy
The Cubs' fade hasn't been lw'd likP.

sometimPs succumbs to his 
upper d1~rk and waving from Anderson 18-17 l helped him­
fm10tions. He had a hard tinw just against the contenders, "I don't watch rh<~ score­
all the .fans in the ballpark self with an BBi single in 1~ach
getting started after the gamr either; the Pirates. who have board whnn it's 2'-0." Bowa 
locatrd less than 15 miles from inning. while Hamirez hit a
started 1 hour, 11 minutes latn beaten them two straight, have said. "When tlw scon' is 8-1. I 
where the \\'oriel Trade Center two-run honrnr _ his 33rd _ in
bPcause of a ceremony in the NL's worst record (58-<J4) !'ind myself looking up."
used to stand. the third and Wilson had an
honor of the victims and res­and will los<' 100 games by IIamilton (1-l) a.llow<'d two 
CIPnwns. the only pitclwr in HBI singln and a double. 
r,ue workers from tlw attacks. dropping six of their final 10. hits and won for tlw first tinw
major lnagun history to win 20 "\Vp've been vvaiting f'or one
lie gave up a one-out single "\Ve have to be really cog­since beating the Phillies 4-2 
of his first 2·1 dncisions in a of those for a long time.·· 
to Brent Abernathy in thP first nizant of the year wn'vc had." on July 14 whc~n he pitchPd l'or 
spason, allowed four runs and McClendon said. "I just didn't
inning then threw wildly into Cubs managPr Don Baylor Toronto.
eight hits in (> 2/3 innings. know it would takP so long to
thr stands on a pickoff said. .. W <' hav c 1 I IP ft and David Coggin t 5-(>) allowPd
Ile moved past BPrt Blyl('Vtn get I.. t " 
attempt. !kn Grit>ve and Toby we'rp going homP to finish four runs and four hits in l'ivn
for third place wlwn lw struck \Vi Ison, who f'inishPd
Hall hit HBI singles in the af'tpr tomorrow (\1\'11dnnsdayl innings.
out Toby Hall leading off the Monday's game with thrPP hits
inning to givr Sturtze a 2-0 night. WP cannot end this sea­"Didn't lw gt•l rnleas1\d by
fourth inning for No. 3.702. in thn~e innings, startnd
lead lw wouldn't rPlinquish. son on a down not,~. not at all. Toronto'!" Bowa said ol'
Oddly Pnough. tlrn pitch was in Tunsday's gamn doing th<'
SturtzP (<J-12) was pitching WP 'vc got to kick it in gnar." llamilton. vvho was 11\t go by
the dirt and got past catcher sanw thing, giving him six hits
with a heavy heart. Tara Tuesday's ganw began badly tlw IHut' .lays 1111 Aug. J af'tt)r
Jorge Posada, allo\ving I!all to in a span of six innings. That
Crcanrnr. tho \Vifo of Sturtze's for the Cubs and quickly got compiling a 5-8 rncord with a
reach on tlw wild pitch. streak ended wlwn lw didn't
close friend. John Creamer, worse with Bere (11-1 Ol. com­5.89 EHA. "May"bn hP just
The crowd of 33,777 at bat in the fourth. and he hit 
was 011 one of' tlw t1ights that ing off seven shutout innings throws good against us."
Yankee Stadium gave Clemens into a double play in the firth.
crashed into the \Vorld Trade against Cincinnati. retiring Griffey, who had four hits in 
a standing ovation after the "To do something liko that,
Center. only one batter whilr throwing his last 26 at-bats, was :~-l'or-4,
feat was put up on the score­you 'vc got to have everybody
But lw was extrenrnly effec­37 pitches in a five-run first missing the cycle by a triple.
board. Clemens finished with else hitting around you."
tive, allowing four hits in seven inning. Ile also scon1d throe runs.
nine strikeouts. giving him \Vilson said. "And the guys
scoreless innings to end a four­"Obviously. my bad ones "I was 0-for-9 here last year
3.705 for his career. He trails were crushing the ball."
start winless stretch. Victor have been really bad," said so I was just glad I got hit."
only Steve Carlton (4.136} and Anderson lt~ft after allowing
Zambrano finished Tampa Bere, who was knocked out for Griffey said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every husilll'SS d;1y from 8 a.111. ro 3 p.111, at rh.: Notrl' D.urn: otfo.:e, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-d,1y classifieds is 3 p.nL All classifieds 11111s1 be prepaid. 
The clurgc is J cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Ohservcr l'l'Sen·es rh.: righr ro t·dit all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall Tuesday. It's blue and white Jansport with Leprechaun patch. Please return to Laura Lacayo 4· 4273 
FOUND: Small gold pendant with Virgin Mary. Found in parking lot behind Lyons.Kstekbe@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
5 rooms for rent on football week­ends. Many happy repeat cus­tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 277· 8340 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email: mmm­rentals@aotcom 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 
1 )9-br $2400/month. 
2) 5-br $1500/month. 
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at 
532-1896. 
Turtle Creek Apt Opening 1 Br $655 276-4809 
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 234· 2104 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 
5 rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1­800·418-9487 
ROOM FOR RENT ND GAMES 
$250 WEEKEND. CONT. BRKFST. CALL 272-0877 
B&B 

2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 
2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 
247-1124 

For Rent various sizes apts. avail. 
1-1/2 miles from ND 
233-2098 

WANTED 
STUDENT WORK $14.50 Base-appt. Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. svc.isales positions (5-20hrs) Flex. around classes. Scholarships. Cond. apply www.workforstudents.com/np call M·W 12·5pm 282-2357 
Seeking reliable, experienced babysitter for 3 month old girl. Weekday afternoons, 5 mn. from ND. Call Jame at 288-1801. 
FOR SALE 
Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LA, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 
52055 Old Post Lane Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private lane in Farmington Square. 2373 SF + professionally finished base­ment, Call Jack at 280-7730. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. 
'88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks good, runs great. Call Mark at 273­0449. 
'98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19" Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277­8208 after 3:30 
TICKETS Helpl Need 8 West Virginia tickets for family coming to the game! Please call Kerry at 243-0928 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. • 232-2378 P M. -288-2726 
OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO GA'S TO ANY GAME CALL JACK 674-6593 
Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix. Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash Call Bob at 219-315-8964 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M, -232·2378 P.M. -288·2726 
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED -ND TICKETS 289-9280 
Wanted: ND vs BC tickets. Please call4-1157 
Buying some/ Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets. 219-289-8048. 
Need 2-3 A&M VS ND tix. Call Pat 277-2243. 
USC: Loyal alum who missed the lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar! Ask for Gary at toll free (888) 893­6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations. including Cruises! 
Rep Positions. Free Drinks and Free trips available. 
www. EpicuRRean.com 1·800·231-4-FUN 

Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or ca!l 1-800-327-6013 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga• nizatoins. earn top $$$, build your resume 
Erin -good luck driving! Glad I'm not there to see it' 
Ruth Riley loves Keistler's Deli any­time after midnight because it is open until 4:00 a.m. 
Hey Britt -meet me at Keistler's Deli tonight at 3:00 a.m. 
love that Deli across from Martin's every night after the bars close! 
Dude, the real world people suck this time. They're either ignorant, meek, or just flat out bee-otches 
Better band: Styx. or Frankie Goes to Hollywood? 
I give it to Frankie 
AM-
You're my girl. 



Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Rogers needs to take responsibility 


Last Saturday, Irish offensive uncoor­converted quarterback and defensive Jones, Fisher or Terrence Howard if home tells me that it's time for a dinator Kevin Hogers probably cost end. I takf1 nothing away from John they'd appreciate a fullback right about coaching change. head coach Bob Davif~ his job. Two Owens and Gary Godsey's efforts on the now. Ir I'm the Texas A&M defensive coor­things an' nvident during Notre Danw's field. My point is that in Hoger's world, Hogcrs sacrificed the fullback and the dinator, how do I prepare for Notre current thrPP game losing streak: a they're nothing more than extra line­tight nnd, thus limiting the potency of Dame this weekend'? Eight in the box lackluster. prc­men. A quarterback has yet to attempt the remaining offense: What's left? Our on first down to stop the run up the dirtablc, confused 
01111 pass to a tight end this scason. passing game's sophistication is on par middle. This has become as predictable offonsivc attack. Tight ends are essential to a quarter­with a mediocre junior high program. I as the rising sun and watered-down and two roarlws back's livPlihood. especially young didn't sec a pass longer than 15 yards drinks at th() Linebacker. with no id1·a ho>v\' to quarterbacks. If all Plse fails, they against Michigan State. Arnaz Battle Then, on second and 11, here comes fix it. know they have a "safety valve" in made an excellent point after the tlrn option. On third and seven. play the 
B!~causP of his their tight end-a big guy with sticky Nebraska game: "Joe Montana r.ould be receivers tight to either tackle them defonsivP pedign~e. fingers who finds an open spot. Godsey the quarterback, and we still would immediately after the short pass or. Davie must 1'xer­is <>-f'oot-7, and a former quarterback. _ have difficulty moving the ball." better yet, intercept. On fourth down, cisP great car<' in Why have we not ,~xplored the possibil­This is exactly why I don't pay much it's Sctta. You can't stop him, you can sPIP.cting an offPn­ity of integrating this big targnt into the attention to yesterday's quarterback only hope to contain him.
Peyton Berg 

sivt' coordinator passing game with two inexperiencnd swap. I think there is a bigger coordi­People always point to Davie's con­who ran not only quarterbacks? nator controversy. Carlyle Holiday has tract extension as a roadblock to resig­coach tlw of'fonsP All Hogers needs to do is loo!:;: at the shown flashes of' brilliance, yet has also nation. To the contrary. Athletic 
Inside College

ind1\pendently. but Nebraska film. I shown that he is indeed Direr.tor Kevin \Vhite made resignation also call all tlw Football don't know any just a first-year starter. easier by rnstructuring Davie's contract
The proble,n isn't
plays and make kPy other individual LoVccchio is the more into a package of five one-year deals. p1\rsonnPI deci-player who hurt injuries. quarterbacks or stable of the two, but he White signs all head coaches to this sions. Let's face it: in tlw last thn~P Notre Dame more opposing defenses, has proven woefully inef­type of contract because it is less years. Knvin Hognrs has done none ol' than Ilusker tight fective in the red zone. expensive for the University to get out
it's the men wearing
the above wnll. end Tracey Condusion: both havf~ of them. The good news is that Notre 
In addition to not scoring any points, Wistrom. Last year, the headsets. their faults, but the larg-Dame does not need to rebuild. There HogPrs has lat1~ly emerged as a spin tight ends Jabari er problem is on the side­is probably more talent at Notre Dame doctor of ClintonesquP proportions. IIolloway ,tnd Dan line. Rogers' one-dimen­than there was at Oklahoma last year. The problem isn't injuries, quartnr­O'Leary were rarely used in passing sional attack gets worse as the game Ho>vv many of you readers have Josh barks or opposing defenses, it's the situations. goes on. Heupel on your fantasy football teams? men wearing tlw h(~adsets. Instead of' Both were drafted by NFL tpams, and Kevin, if you're not going to help your We need new leadership that 
benching Matt LoVccchio. Davie should made the op1~ning-day roster. What did tailbacks with a fullback or your quar­includes an innovative offensive coordi­bench HogPrs. I hear sonwbody in Nnw tlw Patriots and the Bills see that terbacks with tight ends, exactly who nator who can prepare his team and Jprsey laugh.ing, and it's the Hutgers Hogers didn't'? will make your "big plays" in this make key adjustments. Combine this athletic dirl'ctor knowing that he mad<' Th,~ Notre Dame fullback is about to offense? I saw on Saturday that you with a head coach who can recruit and tlw right d('cision when hn hired somP­follow tlrn Tyrannosaurus Hex into thought the answer was Nick Sctta up inspire, and Nick Setta can return to 
body else. extinction. In Notre Dame's current the middle on fourth and seven, and kicking field goals-not getting clothes­
Consider my laundry list of gricv­mm-back set. Kevin Hogers seemsmore I'm not talking about a field goal. lined by defensive players twice his annis: why don't we use tl1<1 tight end intent on finding the best of three tail­That looked great to dozens of high size. Leave that job to the fullback. or thn fullback? Notrr. Dame fullbacks backs {Tony Fisher. by the wayl than school seniors across the country. \\Thy and tight ends are punishing blockers he does on helping the tailbar.k position go to Florida State or Michigan when Peyton Berg can be reached al with sof't hands who did the dirty work succeed. the coach counts on the kicker to get berg.21@nd.edu The views expressed for their tnammatcs first. then created Come Now~mber, there's nothing like the tough yards? Notre Dame's inabili­in this column are those ofthe authr;r opportunitiPs for thcms<'IV<'S later. a big fullback leading the way through ty to score more than 17 points against and not necessarily those ofThe 
Today, our starting tight ends are a a hole in bad woathcr. Ask Julius a mediocre Michigan State team at Observer. 
,

r -------------------------­
I I UNION I I I. ~c=''=.~~~-----~s~e~~~t~2~6~-_oct2 I 
i¦ :Q1d=J Judy Shepard Lecture I 7:30pm. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. free. I Mod Quad Mania, Music and Games I 9:00pm. Mod Quad. I AcoustiCafe. 
I

I 9:00pm -midnight. Lafortune Huddle. free. 11Swordfish11 and 11 Pulp Fiction11 
•

I 10:00pm. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3. I 
I ii;•• I 
Hall Dances Tonight: Walsh, Cavanaugh, 8-P, Dillon/Alumni, Knott, Keenan,Carroll I
I 
8-Ball Tournament I 8:30pm. ND Express Lafortune. I "Swordfish" I 7:30 & 10:00pm. 101 DeBartolo. $3 I 11 Pulp Fiction" 
I

I 7:00 & l 0:00pm. 155 DeBartolo. $2 
I

I Bil• Hall Dances Tonight: 
II 

Keough, PE, Pangborn, McGlinn/O'Neill, Fisher,Morrissey Sophomore Class Field Day/Community Service 
II 

1 0:00am-1 :00pm . ND Football @ Texas A&M 
II 

Keough Chariot Race 1:00-5:00pm. I
I 
VWFI "lrishpaloozo" I 7:00pm. North Quad. I 
11 Swordfish11 
I 7:30 & 10:00pm. l 01 DeBartolo. $3 I "Pulp Fiction" 
I

I 7:00 & l 0:00pm. 155 DeBartolo. $2 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
NBA 
It's official: Jordan will bring magic to Wizards 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Michael Jordan made his conH~back offir.ial Tuesday, announcing he will rdurn to play in tht' NBA and sign a two-year contract with the Washington Wizards. 
"I am returning as a player to the game I love.'' s a i d Jordan. 38 and more than three years removed from what seemed to be a storybook ending to his career. 
Jordan will donate his entire salary for the upr,oming sea­son to relief agencies working with the victims· of the terror­ist attacks on Washington and New York, said Estee Portnoy, a spokeswoman for SFX, Jordan's management agency. 
"I am especially excited about the Washington Wizards, and I'm convinced we have the foundation on which to build a playoff-con­tention team." Jorda:n said in a statement issued through his management agency. 
"The opportunity to teach our young players and help them elevate their game to a higher level, and to thank the fans in \Vashington for their loyalty and support, strongly inl1uenr,ed my decision." 


The five-time league MVP. who retired for a second time in 1999 after leading the Chicago Bulls to their sixth title. announced his comeback after dearing up a lir.cnsing issue with one of his sponsors -a disagreement that caused the official announcement to come a day later than expect­ed. 
Jordan never completely ruled out a comebar,k when he retired in January 1999, hedg­ing his bets with the statement that he was "99.9 percent" certain he would never play again. Leaving the door open, even by one-tenth of 1 per­cent. meant Jordan cou Id always kick it back open with­out going back on his word. 
Now, he has. 
"I am happy to welcome Michael Jordan, the player. back to the NBA. although, as commissioner, I am sorry to lose him in the board room," NBA commissioner David Stern said. "Michael has always brought joy to basket­ball fans around the world, and. in these difficult times, we can all use a little more joy in our lives." 
Jordan said he would not comment further on his return until Oct. 1. 
Jordan has been training for a possible comeback for about six months. at first saying that he was simply trying to lose the extra weight he had gained in retirement. He rigor­ously worked himself into playing shap,~ over the sum­mer by holding several invita­tion-only camps of' pickup games with other NBA players at a gym in Chicago. 
Jordan's first official prac­tice with tlrn \\lizards will be Oct. 2, the first day of training camp at \Vilmington. N.C. lie ocr.asionally vvorkcd out with the team last season when he was president or basketball operations. a job in vvhich he almost complet~ly overhauled \Vashington's roster and put the team into a rebuilding mode. 
His supporting cast will include the likes 
ship stake in thf' Wizards, which he obtained along with a share of the NIIL's \Vashington Capitals on Jan. 19, 2000. HP also had to resign his position as Washington·s prnsident of bas­ketball operations. 
The ownership paperwork was completed Friday. and Jordun's attorneys ironed out the last few glitches lo cl<~ar the way for his comeback announcement. 
The final holdup involved the video game licensing rights to Jordan's likeness, ar,cording to Jeff Brown of EA Sports. a 
game man­
of Jahidi \Vhite, Hichard  "/ am returning as a  ufacturPr. "Th is is  
Hamilton  and  player to the  certainly  
Courtney Alexander  garne I love."  a n extremely  
none of whom were in the NBA  Michael Jordan  important moment in  
when  Jordan  Wizards guard  tlw history  
was  playing for  of  our  
the  Bulls.  franchise.  
Turning a  team  however  

that won only 19 games last our excitement is muted by the season into a winner might be world events that surround an insurmountable challenge us," Wizards owner Abe Pollin even for Jordan. said. 
"I know there are a lot of "The greatest player in the naysayers out there," Jordan history of the gam(~ is joining said earlier this month to my team, and for that I am reporters in Chicago when he extremely honored and all but made his return offi­pleased." cial. "Winning isn't always Jordan will be in the unusual championships. \\!hat's wrong position of playing for the with helping kids find their coach he hired, Doug Collins. way. teaching them the who joined the Wizards in game?" April and also coached Jordan 
To comply with NBA rules, for three seasons with the Jordan had to sell his owner-Bulls in the 1980s. Jordan will share tlrn court with players he signed, drafted and traded for, including high school graduate Kwame Brown. selected No. 1 overall by the Wizards in June, and vnteran forward Christian Lacttnrr ­a graduatP ol' Duke, the archrival of Jordan's alma mater, North Carolina. 

Jordan sulTPred thnw physi­cal setbacks over the summer. raising doubts about whether his body could endure the rig­ors of an 82-game schPdule. Back spasms and knee ten­dinitis curtailed his workouts. and two cracked ribs from a collision in a pickup game took him off the court for four weeks. 
Jordan will return without the all-star cast that he hoped would accompany him. Charles Barkl<~y. who spok1~ of' playing with Jordan, aban­doned his comeback bid dur:.. in g t h e s u m nm r . a n d t h e Wizards were unable to sign any marquee players. 
But by ridding the Wizards of the high-salaried, long-term contracts of' Hod Strickland, Juwan Howard and Mitch Richmond. Jordan has given the Wizards enough salary cap flexibility to rnstock the roster next summer. 
Jordan won 10 scoring titles and is the NBA's fourth all­time leading scorer with 29,277 points. lie has aver­aged a league-record 31. 5 points per regular season game throughout his career and 33.4 in the playoffs. 

THE WASHINGTON PROG APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 Wednesday, September 26 6.·30 P.M. 129 DeBartolo FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME  

Wednesday, September 26, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Davie 
· continued from page 20 
explained for S<Wl\ntl minutes that Notrr DanH\, Michigan State and NBC agreed that tlrn teams would not be prnsPnt for 

SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
Talk It Out... Walk It Out... Wait It Out... 
TAKE TEN 
~ 

Application Deadline: October 1, 2001 
Volunteers Welcome! Contact: TakeTen. l@nd.edu or Student Coordinator Sarah Greeman 631-9424 
1{ 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY 
LEARNING 
CENTER 
staying in the locker room and game into perspective. Davie make it as simple as we could said he also did not attend the make it." Dillon Hall pep rally on Sept. 
Davie was especially angered 19 because he didn't feel a bccaus1~ h,~ felt his team and rah-rah pep rally put the game 
Notre  Dame  into  the  
has been shin­ing examples in th1~ir actions  "The logistics ofit, there was no decision  proper per­spective. Davie said  
in  the  days  to mak " e.  his  team's  
aftnr  the  actions out­ 
tragedy. Davie said he can­ Bob Davie  side the spotlight  
celed  practice  head coach  more  than  


tlrn C<'remony before the game started. When the tt~am enterPd the lor.kPr room fol­l<nving warm ups, Davie assumed that tlw original plan was still in effoct and did not bring his team out of' tlw lock­er room narly. 
Davie cited tight space in thP tunnel as th<' main reason for following tlrn original agn~e­
nrnnt. 

"We had a group of IformerI play<)rs to run through to get out. We had both bands. We had NBC. The logistics of it, thPre was no decision to ma k e , " Im s a id . "\Ve we re 
TAKE TEN: 
Preventing School Violence in South Bend & beyond 
Social Concerns Seminar: Theology 368 
Fall,2001 

Team with fellow ND Students & help schools in South Bend STOP Violence before it happens 
• 
This ONE -CREDIT COURSE focuses on issues of youth and violence in South Bend schools. 

• 
Participants will learn ways to help reduce violence while having fun interacting with children in area schools. 

• 
Take Ten Team members spend !hour per week in their schools and 1-2 evenings per month discussing their experiences of promoting Take Ten. 

• 
Readings supplement training, an address the Church's role in preventing violence in our society. 


For an Application or more Information, please 
Contact Jay Caponigro at 631-9423 
On-Campus Presentation 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 
Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center 
6:00 pm -8:00 pm 
Interview Date 

Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
Flanner Hall 

...................······•"'....... • ... • .. • • •• • • • •• • • ...........................¦ •••••••••••-. ..................................................................,................................ . 
1 Founded in 1970, Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin is an international investment banking firm providing a wide range of services, including mergers and acquisitions, corporate alliances, private placements of debt and equity capital, financial opinions and advisory services, financial restructuring, and merchant banking. With a staff of over 500 employees in IO offices across North America and in Asia, the firm serves more than 1,000 clients annually, ranging from closely-held businesses to middle­market companies to Fortune 500 corporations. 
Recent Accomplishments Include: 
Ranked Among the Top 20 M&A Advisors for the 9th Consecutive Year Advisor on $39.2 Billion in Announced U.S. M&A Transactions Advisor on I 00 Restructuring Transactions Rendered Over I 00 Fairness Opinions Ranked 3rd in M&A Transactions under $500 million 

at 11 a.m. on 
Sept. 11 
regardless of 
whether or not the team was 
playing on Sept. 15 against 
Purdue. · 
"I bet you can count on one hand the number of teams that canceled practice that day," he . said. Purdue practiced on Sept. 11. 
He also spoke about his play­ers attending the Mass on South Quad that afternoon and Notre Dame's leadership role in canceling all college games that weekend. 
lie further pointed out that Father Mark Poorman had delivered a prayer at both the pep rally on Sept. 21 and the afternoon luncheon to put the 
made up for 
his team 
remaining in the locker room when the spot­light was on. 
"\Ve handled this situation with nobody looking since the moment it happened," he said. "Now maybe if they would not have handled it or not seen it or we had not provided infor­mation to fthe players] or lwe weren't] on a campus like Notre Dame where they live it every day, maybe [having them on the field for a public show­ing] would have been tremen­dously important to me." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

Looking for off campus housing that is close and convenient? 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL TERM! 
Special "Student 10'' Lease available 
•Mini Blinds Included 
• Balcony/Patio 
•Spacious 
Walk-in Closets 

•On-site 
Laundry Facilities 

•Central 
heat/ Air 

•Swimming 
pool 

•Sand 
Volleyball 




Turtle Creek Apartments P: 272-8124 F: 272-8204 
Just East ofthe Notre Dame Soccer Field! Walking distance from Campus ' 
STOP BY AND PICK UP YOUR APPLICATION TODAY! 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Davie faces crowd noise, closed restaurant in Texas 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Wi ncr 

Bob Davie is not looking forward to the trip to College Station. Texas this Saturday. 
The former Texas A&l\,1 d{,fonsive coordina­tor's new team is 0-2 and facing the 3-0 Aggies. It's going to be hot. It's going to be loud. 
And to top it all off. his favorite restaurant closed. 
"One of the small pleasures I was looking for­ward· to -at least I could go to Tom ·s Barbcque. But now that's out of business. so I'm not nearly as excited." 
Tom ·s was a hole-in-the-wall barbrque place that you never left hungry, according to Davie. They gave you everything you want -except a plate. 
"They just put newspaper on your table and then come out and they put slaps of brisket and pickles and cheese and they just dump some sauce right on that newspaper," Davie said. "So you just sit there, dip that stuff in that sauce. you kno\\' what, it might haw~ been a health saff­itation deal that got them closed down." 
The closing of Davie's favorite restaurant isn't even the worst aspect of the trip to College Station for the Irish. After coaching at Texas A&M for nine seasons, he understands how loud Kyle Field can get. His former boss at Texas A&M. H.C. Slocum, doesn't even think Nebraska's Memorial Stadium is a loud stadium. 
"So, you can imagine what it's going to be like in College Station, if R.C. didn't think Nebraska was a loud place to play," Davie said. 
Davie's players are having a hard time believ­ing that Texas A&M will be the loudest stadium they ever experience. Tony Fisher said he doesn't think any crowd could be louder than what Notre Dame has experienced before ­especially at Purdue two years ago when tlrn crowd noise caused some players to think an audible had been called on the last play of tlw Irish loss. 
"I le said they will be the most -hostile crowd we have ever played against," Fisher said. "Even morP than it was at NPbraska or Tennessee. \Ve just expect the crowd to play a big role in the 
a~ ., , 
~ame. 

The Irish are again using giant sound speakers to make noise this week during practice and are simplifying the checks at the linA, according to Fisher. 
"Our quarterbacks have to make less reads," he said. The Irish are also working on silent snap counts in practice this week. 
''You're kidding yourself if you think you are going to get up them and change things at the line of scrimmage," Davie said. "You can forget about that in that stadium. You are probably kidding yourself if you think you are going to hear the snap count; so you haw~ to work on some kind of silent snap counts where every­body is going off the football. ft's that kind of game." 
Notes: 

. 
17ormer Irish assistant .coach Urban Mever has yet to frise a game as the new head C(;ach of Bowling Green. Meyer's team is 2-0. "He's a great coach and a great guy," Davie said. "I could not be happier for him." 

. 
Davie left the pep rally Friday early to watch his daughter in her high school homecoming court. Although Audra Davie didn't win, she has a very proud father. 


"She didn't win, but she did great," Davie said with his biggest smile of the press conference. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

No. 4 Irish jump one spot behind Shay, Watson 
+ Notre Dame achieves highest ranking ever after home win at National Catholic Invitational 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame men's cross-country team movnd up one spot in the MONDO NCAA Division I Men's Cross-Countrv Poll n·leased on Tuesday. The Irish are now ranked fourth in th~~ nation. up a spot from fif'th after an impressive victory at tlw National Catholic Invitational on Notre Dame's campus last w<>ek­end (Sept. 21 ). The No. 4 ranking is the highest the team has 1wer been rank,~d during thP Sf'a­son. 
Senior Hyan Shay. became the lirst ru111wr to win the National Catholic title four times with his victory last weekend and he was closely followod by Luke \Vatson and sophomore Todd Mobley in second and third place, respectively. 

Marc Striowski took fifth place and 2000 cross country All-American Pat Conway came across the finish line in eighth place to provide the Irish a team point total or 19. Brian Kerwin linish,~d 11th and Mario Bird 16th to round out the eight Irish runners in the lield. 
Notre Dame will be back in action on Oct. 6, in the Notre Dame Invitational on the Notre Dame Golf Course. No. 19 Indiana and No. 24 Eastern Michigan will be among the teams in the men's field. 
The top three spots in the MONDO cross-country poll remain unchanged with Colorado first. Stanford second and Arkansas third. Notre Dame leapfrogged f'ellow Big East Conference member Providence to move into fourth. The Irish and the Friars, along with seventh-ranked Villanova and 10th-ranked Georgetown. will meet Oct. 26, at Van Cortland Park in Nevv York for the Big East Championship. 

Amate House-Mattkw Bmach, Me~ Hurley. Jaclyn Jarasuwski, [rill Lovell A.mtrxorp&-JaM Cox, }.(atthtw Hendcd, IJndee Uoyd,Eriai TbwngAndre House-Rob Cellini Assoc.iate l.(issionaries If the -Assu111ption--sh~ Oi:etmyer Athletes in ktion-Kelcy Srmon Boys Hope, Girls Hope-John Ravasio Cabrini Missiori CoTl>$· Charlotte Cable Capuchin-e-0~-Brendan P. Dowdall Christ HolM-Kcly Wc$t Cbmtian Appatachian Project-Carrie Fligera1rl Clntian Brotkm Volu~-JelfKl arnut, Rene M~Fellowship of RecMcilialion-Dawn Larclnff Focus on the Famiy-.JiU GmhaJII Geor~own Visitation Associates­Jennifer Barchie Girls and BO)& Town-Ma,y Beth Stryker Gobiemo de d Kstado de iaaaujpa-Jose Cuellar Goad Shepherd Votu.n.teem-Katie Kearney 'J'.he Haitian Project-MarisaJarrel Holy Child Midtie School-Mia Nu~aurn r-hl.y Cross Assoc1&tcs-Jessica Abel. usa Buckingham, Liam Brennan. Mary Chrk. Carll lkJohn, Maria Feikneyer, Peter Oeh1Cd, Jom. Halpin. Tho~ Haman, Jennifer Hickman. Andrea MechmbEr. Susan Roberts. Kal' Sl.ttr, Adam Wea\ru, Carin WeiPgaltf.n, Bnan Wtiford, Holy Cross Noritiate--VU1ce Bemanm IMer City Tedun,g Caps• Olarlyn Hendemon, Colleen lhuphyJe$UI. Voluntm Corp;.. Katie BO)ie, 
Erin Flynn, Uz Ha11pct~, David Hanzel Molly Kinder, Miuy Lyom, Maureen Md:a rthy, Anne Preston. Katr. Warn Kr«>M-Tin Bodony, John Hal Lalannr--Mqhan Gurgd, Anne Purey L'Arehe-Abdul Ismail liff T1tatmrnlCenter-John Railich Los Angeles Catholic \bi(er •She:la McCarthy Maggi!', Plai:e-Jennifer Getman Mercy Home fer Boyg aid Girls-Megan Rtct.or Nati\'ity 'Prep Schools-Margery D~nwrg. Liadsay Goodwin, Li:n J.tart.in. ltikc Moran, Trace Pa\-cy, Emily Rocbu:k, Matt Walsh Notre Da!11C Cam.JO Minisl:Jy-Kath.tyn Hainley, Omek.od Acosta Paracklt Ccnter· Matt &t,Jtha, Cbarb Gabbert Pea« Corps· K.ada Acayan, Olivia Almeida-Duque, Sttve Case, Sharon Farrell, John Frislcel. Cathryn O'c.onnril, Chariic Roth, CDrty Shalarulci, Joe Smllh 

Ut.£.LlJ,
so~tAL 
-

C«>MCE'""S
COl!ICl!AHS 

You are cordia{{y invitedto tlie ­
LI.I, t.CI t 't"l 
SOC l,1, l -IOC: IAL C(INC(M'S CONUl'tlls. 
'Post-Graiuate Service Jair 

SOCIAL 
CONCFIH$
-
1Veclnesday, September 26 
-6-9 p.m. at Stepan Center 
-Pkase come to exp{ore serviceprograms and 
Ct.),,•rt, ,, 
soe, ,.L 
CONCDNS 

-
consider joining witli tliese Cl, lite I ".:J 
JOCIAl
$ OC!A L -187 graduates oftlie Cfass of'01 
C:OHCEllflS ~tii's 
wfio are committinn to a, year or two 
tl•J:lal:JI .ct:•H• 1.:, 
50CI r.1. CONC.t:Rftli 

witli domestic andinternatwna{programs. 
, • rtt , ·, 
50CllL 

-II, 0 t '" I.
tollfCl:IN5 ro~r.il!H'l 

~e.:t ¥rve ·Lila Nlbechia Publr Allies-JwSal.Mo N!lic kia.s1 llea.i:hGrwi:as-Kelly Besittt PLA.c.E. C'.ofP'• ~aSadll•i Puerto R.ioo ~gam-Aogcla B-..., lri.sleo loJ11111, Scaa Muna~. PatriciaSiaoor,Skpla ~acheled Ooo4 Vol LlfllflclS· Sha'lloll S10 rer, ~~ Ytag .Rt!peme-Abiury· Aatges S1 ryjcwsti led !or A.lmk:a-Erb Cudla. Otad N"o11~ AbiJail Glmdlalk. Dao Ker, rmy, Sr:ace)'Lei:bl Eliz:lbdtt Y:arin b. ~•Gr.aller.Stac; Waril Tom lmleyPogtiot-lJlke SdlleeirJ USCC-&hx:cioa-C~IJ1Weir Xnerian Drol.llClS-Petet DeenACE-PsaliJIC A1ololaro, Adam Anden;oa, EdtMld &'l''Cl!l, Emily 13 riU, EJqeiJa B111tstber, Rachel Buadid. Scoa Crlill, AlgeJa Oepix.1ah Cook,. TMisDncy, Aubree Dill. Ke~it 0-. Ed•-ardf•y, Daicilc 0.1:«I, KaLitGaffxy. Collea Gavcy, Jtssica Gr.ay, Tisha GKltJsladc,Briu.Hobbms.itlis>o lhm;k, Cballc.\Holdeo-COl!ti:c, Skphc,-.KtJkl!er. Tnolby KllhD. ichchhMadcid.Tm Malu.c:smilli, Bret Maier, C:toJitcMarioo, Casey McCb~y. lclnifcrMm:itet, NichoJaNqurski, Joe N'apolituo, Marie Nola Rnandli, Tboam Ogemkl, Andmy Pem, ~Dy ~I,Kalflt.me R•ow*~ NoN1cq1 R1lln\ Maggie lc!Mtai, Michel Riley, Mic..lld Ri~hert, kai Ria, acr, Bmdroi-4 R°"'lurs, Mou:aS.w.ar, Kailee1 Sauer; tc.d Wallac\, t.tikc Wcaer, Kilt-. Wit11t1, Marpct Wa,d, ~mtl alcw Otlkr P1ofram5-Lasy Bm:\eat. Gli.111 Blarral, Alldrew Dow1tf, Ya:rcmim Gadclw:, Pdri(k :t4::GrA TJtVII Moris, EJinbcil Swk. Eli:Jabeti Brott AIIFlaC.mpkH, T..., Deeogcs, .14Cq11eli~ Fabrrt)~ K.ieJsle11 Feipso11, Adam Frt.;t, J:i:n Gtieeae. Kri$tit«<w. Kaa Ha.m~y, Joe Hol.,a,th, Mai Je01i1gs, R1ebel ldly, Emily Keneed_y, f.Jle.11..tll(~lmll. EliubelJI lAMr, Im M:tytr. ~eMd>o~Vioc~ O'COMCr,Smdra Pcltrsoa, ROH Rwdica, {la,Jii: xAocnfekl l\ilipS~Ali.soc Tullis, Oclsic Vmcchat. AldJcw W~r.Jnoic Wellmaa, l.Jc: W'tld:le11u A1of°"1>Wf 

Wednesday, September 26, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish win thriller at Bradley 
• Irish pull off 3-2 victory against No. 19 Braves 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
The men's socn'r lcat11 finally had a dose game go their way as the Irish snuck awav from P,~oria, Ill., with a 3-2 ~ictory 
against the 
N<>. 1{J 
Brad I Py 
.~~:»'.~ 

Braves (4-3­1). 
The decid­ing goal r.anw for the Irish with just 2:47 remaining in regu la­tion when _junior Andreas Forstner kno(:kPd in a p<malty kirk l'or his first goal of tlw year. 
"It \.\'as a very <'xriting ganw that also had a vt>ry good 


Last Chance.:. 
Concession Stand Training 
...for OGtober Foatball Games 
Thursday, September 27,2001 at4:00pm in the Natre Dame Room of 
LaFortune 
· There will be one more training on rueeaay, OGtober 30, 2001 at4:00pm In the Notre Dame Room 
For more i11formatio11 contact the Student Activitie!:3 Office at 631..7308 
Traditional 
music from the west of 
Ireland 

Friday, Sept. 28, 2001 at 7:30 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE /M8_~~SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 ~~i;:/~._,,. 
result." head coach Bobby Clark The quirk score was eerily said about the team's f1rst win similar to the one that the Irish against a rank(~d opponent in gave up early in the second half four tries. "Th,~ro was a great to Hutgers that seemed to turn feeling to this game~. There was a the tide in that game. 
nice crowd and a very good atmos­plrnre." 
The Irish got on the board first in thP eighth minute as junior Justin Ratcliffe deflected in a corner kir,k from midfielder Chad Hiley. 
"The credit for this goal goes to Chad Hiley," Clark said. 'Tie's been making some tremendous corners lately. and this one was just a great kick." 
Notre Dame held its 1-0 lead through the first half. but quickly gave up the tying goal early in tlH' S<'<'ond. With just about a minut<' off the dork. Bradlcv for­ward Gavin Glintim took a· pass from tPammate Craig WhilP and drovn tlw ball across the net. 
"A minute into the sec­

"A lllinute into the 
ond half, we 

second half. we conceded r.onr.edfld a goal that
a goal that Bradley got 
Bradley got

sort oflucky on." 
sort of lucky 
on," Clark 
stated.

Bobby Clark 
"They

head coach 
looked a bit 

offside, but the referee let play go on. But the boys stuck vvith it. and thev showed a lot of character at that point to get back into the game." 
The Irish regained the lead at the 54:05 mark on a long throw­in from freshman Kevin Goldthwaite. Justin Deeter head­ed the ball forward to Erich Braun, who knocked in the team's second goal. 
"Erich got the ball from Justin and made a great shot on goal to put it in the net," Clark said. 
Thnrn time All-Amerir.an Glinton, who gave the Irish trou­ble last year by scoring two goals in Bradlev's 3-1 victorv. tied the game at 2-2 in the (,1st minute with his second goal of the game. 
\Vith just under three minutes left. Bradley def'endflr Thando Dzowa took down an Irish play­er. giving Notre Danrn a penalty kick. Forstner beat Bradley goal­keeper Natfl Adams with a low shot to the left rorner of the net to score the game winner. 
The victory evens Notre Dame's rncord at 3-3 for the sea.­son. 
Contact Chris Federico at federico. 1@nd.edu. 
Women, Religion, and the African Diaspora 
A Two Day Symposium Convened by the African and African ~erica.n St'll.diea Program 
CCE/McKenna Hall • University t>fNotre Dame • 28-29September 2001 
Friday, ~8 September 2001 8.45pm 
Keynote Address and Op~Reception 'Catherine in the Garden': Clothing the Spiritual in an African Caribbean Religion Dr. Carol Duncan 
Department of aeligion a.nd Culture • Wilfrid Launer Umversiey • Wawi-loo, Ontario • Canada 
Saturday, 29 Septe111ber 2001 
9:00 am Women and African-based HealiD& Traditions Dr. Yvonne Cb.ireau Department ofReligious Studies • Swarthmore College • S1"art.hmore, PA 9.30 am Refiner's Fire: Doing Interdisciplinary, Analytical, and Critical Research from a Womanist Perspective while Dancing with God Dr. Cheryl Kirk-Duaan Center for Women and Religion • Graduate Theological Union • Berkeley, CA 10.15am Child.Marriage in Ancient Israel 
Dr. Wilm.a A. Bailey Christian Theological Seminary• Indianapolis, IN 
10.45am. 
The Emergence ofBlack Catholic Women in Church and Society 
Dr. Jamie T. Phelps, O.P. Loyola University • Chicago, IL 
11.16am 
Hermeneutical Challenges; The Intersection ofCu.1tural and Biblical Wisdom in the · Caribbean · 
Dr. Mignon R. Jacobs Fuller TheologicalSemi.nary • Pasadena. CA 
2.00pm 
Panel Discussion Women Re'.:~on and the African Diaspora-Future Trajectories for Research and
' ...... • In .
qUll'Y 
Co--.-ponaored by the GenderStu.diee Procram and The Graduate School 
NBA 
Johnson: give Jordan time to adjust to league 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Magic Johnson knows about making comebacks in thfl NBA, and he cautioned fans to· give Michael Jordan time 
to readjust to the rigors. 
"I want to see what happens over the son,"Johnson told The Associated Press on Tuesday. "People are going to have to understand he's got to get his legs back. They're going to have to give him a little time to adjust. 
"I think we're going to see some spec­tacular games." 
Johnson said young NBA superstars like Kobe Bryant, Vince Carter, Allen Iverson and Trar,y McGrady arc proba­bly excited by the prospect of playing against Jordan. 
"It's going to be fabulous to see how he performs against the new top guns. He's the old top gun,"Johnson said. ''I'll take 80 percent of Michael Jordan against any­body.:' 
In July, Johnson had expressed concern about Jordan losing some of his luster if he returned to the NBA. 
"If he feels like he's not messing with his legacy, then nobody can say he is,"Johnson said. "lie wants to do it, so now we just get on the bandwagon and r,hecr him on." 
Johnson led the Los Angeles Lakflrs to five NBA champi­onships during his 13-year career. 
He made t'wo comebacks after initially retiring Nov. 7. 1991, ber.ause he had acquired the HIV virus. whir,h causes AIDS. 
In his first comeback, Johnson played in the 1992 NBA All-Star game and earned MVP honors. He also played on the gold medal-winning 1992 U.S. Olympic basketball team. 
Four years latflr, Johnson returned a second time. He led the Lakers to a 29-11 record over the final 40 games of the 1995-96 season and also surpassed 10,000 assists in his r.areer. joining Utah's John Stockton as the only players to do so. 
course of a sea­



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 26, 2001 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
front of the box. Guertin then flicked thP ball into Tancredi, waiting in the corner. Tancredi then snaked the ball across the penalty area to the waiting Sarkesian, who drove it pa.st Ilusker goalkeeper Erin Miller. 
"It wa.-; a set play· -and it was great to see it work." saicl Tancredi. ··we always take a little time at practice to work on it." 
For much of the game. it looked like Nebraska might bf' the one to score off a set play. The Huskers had several scoring chances off corner kicks. On two consecutive corners, Nebraska was able to get their heads on the ball, but could never direct the ball with enough force or placement to bf'at Irish goalie Liz Wagner. 
It was appropriate that the 

game ramc donn to execution. Tim teams werP very Pvc~nly matched. and the ball wPnt up and down the field consistently, never spending an extcmded peri­od in either o!TPnsive zone. 
"There's not much diffen~nce between the two teams," said Nebraska he:ad coa.r.h John Walker. "The game had a good physic.al edgr•." 
And plenty of reasons for both teams to \Vant the vvin badlv. The Irish have knocked the llusk(•rs out of the NCAA tournament three times in the last four years, and the players have seen enough of ca.ch other to ferment a intense rivalry. 
"I really wanted to beat them," said Tancn~di. "It feels good to beat them." 
Tancredi had two early oppor­tunities in the game to ,wt a goal for the Irish. With 36 minutes !cit in the half. she fired a powerful shot from 30 yards out. only to watch l\1illnr barely save the ball by tipping it up and ovPr the net. 
Sarkesian had an even sweeter opportunity to give the: Irish an insurance goal. Guertin was dropped in tlrn Nf~brm;ka penalty area by Husker midfielder Shannon Tanaka. Sarkesian then stepped up to what should havt~ befrn an automatic goal on the penalty shot. 
But thr. senior captain kickrd the ball a shade too wide, hitting the left post low and bouncing f<irward and off Miller. 
After such a physical, but dean game, Waldrum was happy to sec the Irish r:ome out healthy. 'Tm most happy -that we·n~ not real banged up." 
Not banged up. and the proud owners of a win over a top-five tP-am. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltru l@nd.edu. 
Sarkesian 
continued from page 20 

initely a chall<'nge for me to be mor<' vocal and l<~ad that way." Tim entin' t<>am knew thPy W!'rP bPttPr than thPy w<~n• playing in tlwir la..-,t four gamPs. according to Sarkesian. 
"Before this gamn wc·w had a rough sewmn. \,Yn'vc had mom1\11b of good soccer but it hasn't b<~Pn very complnh'." shn said. "Tonight was thP;, first that WP camc1 out and showPd f'Veryorn~ how good \VP can bo. 
Sarkesian might not Iii! too many pagos of the soccer media guide alter she graduatrs but shr does undrn·stand Notre Dame socc11r. ThP Irish. <1Spfwially sincf' \Valdrum bPcamc head coach two yPars ago, have traditionally played down to thPir opponent-;' l<w1'l Party in ttw Sf'ason. At thn same time'. hov.·ever. they have always be('.ll ready to play whrn it rnatlPrs. 
"We ahvays senm to show up iiir tlw big ga1111)s,'' Waldrum said. "It's gPtting us to show up for the othnr 01ws that is thn frustrating part." 
"\V11'v<~ always slmwPd up for th.-big ganws," Sarkesian said. "NPbraska is a huge rivals so we stnpp1\d it up." 

Notre Danw now !Pads the NebnL-,ka snrins 3-0-1 .Tlw tie camn during the 1<JCJ9 NCAA qua.rtPrlinals. Tlw Irish eventually won in a penalty-kick, suddPn dPath shooU)llt. Sarkc~sian was on that team as ,veil ,L., tlw 1998 tPam that knocknd Nebrm,ka out of th<' playofls in the third round. 
"I definitely think vve have their number if \IV!~ come out and play hard," she said. 
If NotreDamP keeps playing ,L., hard as they did last night, ttwy could have everyone's number this y<'ar. And when thn big ganw comes, knep your ('ye on No. 4. Sarkesian just might g1'.t that big garrn~ winning goal. 

And then she will havn a plan' in Irish soccer lore as big ,L., any All­American or 100-point srnwr. 
:Wike Connolly can he reached al connolly.28@nd.edu. J1ze views expressed in this column are those oftht! author and not necessarily those Q{'/1w Observer. 
We're looking 
·.••-.·· ___ ·_·••···•·••••· ,.. 

for the•···•···•.• .· , \••·····••·••·.•····· < 
BEST & BRIGHTEST 

BAN K··a,~iescHotAR Prt'otRAM :1r1mw·­

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29TH 
7:00 P.M. TO 9:00 P.M. CENTER.FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
.. CCE RM 100-104 . .. . 



-Tired of getting sick all the time? -Need increased energy throughout the day? -Wanna shed a few pounds? 
Juice Plus is Your Solution to Good Health 
For Ordering information and for a complete product description, do not hesitate -call Andrew Laflin, Juice Plus distributor, for more information 
634-33:co 
Because Proper Nutrition Shouldn't Have to Wait! 
Robinson 

Community Learning ·Center 
Are you looking for a place to volunteer this semester? Do you want to work with kids? Well we have the perfect job for you!! The Robinson Community Learning Center needs tutors for our Tues­day/Thursday tutoring program. No prior experience necessary. 
Tuesdays and ThursdlfS 
3:30pm-4:30pm 
Contact Andrea Mechenbier At 631-9427 or amechenb@nd.edu 
921 North Eddy Strett 
South Btnd, IN 46617 
No car? Don't worry! We are on the ND/SHC Shuttle route!!! 
1( 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY 
LEARNING 
CENTffi 


Wednesday, September 26, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
HI, 00 YOU HAVE A UST WHERE I CAN SIGN UP FOR INTERVIEWS? 

FOXTROT 
I o,o. 

A LITTLE. DID YOU I 
DIDN'T IT HURT? 
AND
'-­
YOU DtD IT ANYWAY? 
\ 


TOM KEELEY 

H, WE 00 SO WHAT SYSTEM 00 YOV USE? 
,.,____ ----~··· 
WB.L, IF YOV'b JUST TAKE. THIS ENTITLEMENT 
TICKET AND STAND IN LINE OVER THERE ... 
BILL AMEND 

I FIGURED DoINC, N0THtNG WOULD HURT A LOT MoRE. 


RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 

CUNNINGHAM 

Mo....., ;\. 
~Ure& i :S 
v\~ce.11t1 out, 

Kevin's new word confuses and offends. 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  27 Enthusiastic  54 Be friends (with)  1  
1 Skiing mecca 6 Cross of Egypt 10 Weather indicator  response to a tennis shutout? 32_-cone 33 Glimmering 34 Household  57 Field opening 59 Siamese 63 Soothing words to a tennis player?  
14 Taco topper,  37 Weapon that  66 Crow  
perhaps  can cross the  67 Black card  
15 Needy 16 Intestinal parts  Atl. or Pac. 39 Expensive transport  68 Legend's locale 69 Composer Alban 70 Dole (out)  
17 Where ordinary folks play tennis?  41 First name in daredeviltry 42 Daddy  71 Hardly Mr. Nice Guy  
20 Controversial  Warbucks's  DOWN  
spray  henchman  1 Dog of detective  
21 Tarkenton of Minnesota 22 Actor Edward James 23 Othello's ensign 25 "The Last Days of Pompeii"  45 Architect Saarinen 48 Where some M.D.'s work 49 What standers and waiters do in tennis? 52 Ridicule  fiction 2 Comic Mort 3 "Don't hurt me!," for one 4 Bon vivant's gift 5 Highlands negative 6 Stamps, maybe  
heroine  53 Rare bills  7 Town where  
Augustus died  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  8 Chekov player on "Star Trek"  
9 Many mins.  Puzzle by Klntn Young Bonin  
___,...  10 Reason for an,"R"  29 Gambler's pass  47 Spanish bear  58 Juillet's follower  
___,...  11 Wound  30 Oil holder  50 Sock type  60 Waikiki wiggle  
application 12 He ordered Seneca's death  31 White cliffs locale 35 TV's Griffin  51 Net worth 54 Singing brother of 60's-90's pop  61 Author Paton 62 Teeny 64 Cable sta. for  
.................... .....................,  13 Grub 18 Attila, the Scourge_  36 Other 38 Game played in "The Joy Luck  55 French 101 verb 56 Bygone despot  cinema buffs 65 Grp. of relatives  

Club"1-=+~~ 19 First name in 40 Place for a lab Answers to any three clues in this puzzle late-night TV experiment are available by touch-tone phone: 

24 Clay, today 
43"_evil" 1-900·420-5656 (95e per minute).
.....+.....+---+....+-.-1 26 " ... _ quit!" .....+---+....+--1 27 were 44 Poet laureate Annual subscriptions are available for the ....+---+.....,....c 28 liny amount of before Southey best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
progress 46 Crew member years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
-Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON get. 000 THIS DAY: Jacqueline Bisset, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Peter Cetera, Fiona Apple, Ben Offer advice, not cash. Your com­Savage, Michael Johnson, Jean passionate nature and practicality Smart, Nell Carter will enable you to help those who 
Happy Birthday: You've prob­are going through difficult times. ably had it with working alone. 0000 Its time to partner with individu­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do als who can contribute to your your job and refrain from life and future prospects. Move in involvement in other people's 
a positive direction that will be melodramas. It will be difficult to far more satisfying. Your num­stop once you get started. If that's bers: 11, 14, 28, 31, 33, 39 the case, you'll regret it. 00 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Changes to your personal life and Stop everything and take a break. at home are necessary and will be Times have been tough, and the favorable in the long run. Expect pressure has been on. Look into to face some opposition, but if vacations that won't break the you stand your ground, others budget but will offer much-need­will see things your way. 00 . ed rest. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22.-Dec. 21): Your positive attitude will con­Bas~our decisions on well­tribute to the activities you take thou t-out plans. Just because a part in. You will have a soothing love one as"ks for money doesn't effect on those less fortunate and mean that you have to give it. 
offer hope to those who are suf­Offer advice and help him or her fering. 0000 set up a new budget. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your diligence will pay off big­You may find it difficult to make time so keep at it. Being dedicat­decisions regarding your person­ed to your beliefs will enable you al life today. Someone you care to make changes that others about may be going through 
thought were impossible. 000 uncertainties. Take time out to be CANCER (June 21-July 22): with friends. 00 
Put things in perspective. Reflect AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): and keep your emotions under You'd be crazy not to take advan­control. Sort out differences with tage of opportunities that appear 
those close to your heart and to be an arm's length away. But don't let problems get blown out you must be wilfing to work of proportion. 00 hard. Your insight into future LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't trends will help. 000 
follow a false lead. You'll waste PISCES (Feb. 19•March 20): your time on someone who may Stop trying to please everyone be leading you on. You will else. Put yourself first and do improve your chances by trying what will bring you the most sat­
not to be obvious about your isfaction. Pamper yourself; you interest and by playing hard-to-deserve it. 00000 
Birthday Baby: You have a creative and unique way of looking at 
things. Your powerful presence cannot be denied, and your bright 
smile lights up a room and draws a crowd. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
IC) 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 


Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Peyton Berg, p.13 
. Baseball, p. 12 
. 
Football, p. 16 . American League, p. 14 

. 
Men's Soc.cer, p.17 . Magic and Michael, p. 17 


Wednesday, September 26, 2001 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish win battle of unbeatens 
• Tenacious defensive effort spearheaded by Chapman gives ND win 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assisr.mr Sporrs Ediror 
Behind another big-game goal by senior midfield(~r Mia Sarkesian, the No. 4 Notre Damp women's soccer team used a combina­tion of gritty detPrmination on defense and physical upl'iPld play to down the third­ranked Nebraska Huskers at Alumni Field Tuesday night. 

'Tvf' got to be pleas('d," said Irish head 
coarh Randy Waldrum aft1~r thf' game...\Ne 
,. always shmv up for big games ... 
,. The Irish did more than show up. The Notre Danw back line. prone to leaks that lead to goals earlier in the season, ,vas watertight against th.e n~lentless prPssure of Husker striker Christine Latham. Freshman CandacP Chapman, who played with several Nebraska players on the Canadian national team, played especially well, controlling the Nebraska forwards with gliding speed and tough play on head balls. "I knew they'd be fast, and I had to be strong in the air," said Chapman. who also saw time at forward late in the game. The Irish oflense put together a solid out­ing. with Melissa Tancredi creating multiple golden scoring chances in counterattacks off Husker corner kicks. In the end though. it was practice, preparation and execution that netted the Irish the winning goal. Midfielder Handi Scheller pao;sed the ball into sophomore frirward Amanda Guertin in 

see SOCCER/page 18 

• Sarkesian soldifies herself as clutch performer with another big-game goal 
You \·von't find \1ia Sarkesian's nanw in any all-tinw scoring rt'cords. Shi' probably won't t'arn all-conlh·pnc1' or All-:\nwriran honors. Sim·s probably not nwn the best midliPlder on tlw 2001 Irish ll\am. 
But whnn it comes to big goals at big monwnL-;, thn Irish look no further than Sarknsian. She has only sc<irt'd 10 goals in hE'r carPPr, but fivP of thPm haV!~ bePn gamP \\1inners. Shr hrn, scored against the best-North (:arolina. Stanford and Boston Col!Pgn. TuPsday night sht> add<>d one mor<> virtim to her list: tlw Nebraska Cornhi.1skPrs. 
"Mia st•ems to srnn~ the big goals in the big games." !wad coach Handv Waldrum said. "Slw sc<m's the g;,als that bPat thn Stanfords and the Boston Colleges and now 
Nebrrn,;ka." 
Sarkt~sian·s goal at 17:30 or the first half gave the Irish more than just a victory against No. 3 Nebraska. It gave thf' Irish thf'ir first comph1 t11 victory. 

Although the Irish an' <>-0-1 on the year, they looked less than th0.ir best in their last four ganws. Against four lightly regarded oppmwnL-.. the Irish tied orn~ ganw and won Uw other thrm~ ganws by only one goal. 
Waldrum publicly challPnged his team to find a leader. l I e called on them to step up their play and start playing like a ttmm. 
Ilis team answerPd his call Twisday night with Sarkesian leading the way. Even if' sh,~ w,L'-a rnluctant leader. 
"I guess I am morn of' a silent leader," she said. "It's def-

see SARKESIAN/page 18 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles take down Scots 
By LINDSAY MOLIAN Sporrs Wrirer 
The Belles followed up their first victory on Sunday against Rose-Bulman with a close 4-3 win against Alma College on Tuesday night. The win, however. did not come easily to the Belles, who trailed the Alma ScoL'> for the majority or the first half. 
Saint Mary's dominated the second half but were slow to start out the game. Within the first 28 minutes, Alma's Jessica Roberts scored twice, giving the Scots a fast 2-0 lead. Saint Mary's, however. was not discouraged. 
"This game was what we've 

I 
I been waiting for to finally 
,, show all of our hard work." said freshman Shannon Artnak. Four minutes after Alma's second goal, the 
Belles' hard work paid off with a goal by freshman Emily Wagoner, cutting Alma's lead to 2-1 at halftime. 
In the second half. Saint Mary's came out strong, scor­ing three goals almost imme­diately. Within the first 15 minutes of the half. freshman Jennifer Concannon scored twice and junior Heather Muth once. 
"We were definitely domi­nating the game," said Concannon. "(Alma] got two lucky goals. We made two mistakes and they capitalized on them." 
Alma, however, would not be defeated so easily. Only 54 seconds after Saint Mary's fourth goal, the Scots retaliat­ed with a goal of their own. This third and final goal was not enough to defeat the Belles, who controlled the ball for the majority of the second half. "We played a great game," said Belles coach Bobby Johnston. "This is the best game I've seen them play yet.., 
With eight freshman starters, experience may have been all that the team was lacking in the first part of their season. "After the first few games, our nerves calmed down. The freshman have gotten a lot more comfortable with this style of play," said Artnack. 
Though Saint Mary's record is 2-5, the team's latest wins have given them a positive outlook for the rest of the sea­son. "Finally, we have confi­dence. Everyone is really coming together as a team," said Artnack. 
Contact Lindsay Mollan at moll 1311@saintmarys.edu. 
FOOTBALL 

Davie answers MSU pre-game cr1t1c1sm 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
Bob Davie addressed the recent criticism of Notrn Dame's deci­sion to remain in the locker room during the pre-game ceremonies at Saturday's game in his weekly press conference Tuesday. 
"I think it's unbelievably ridiculous that this thing has taken on a life of its own." Davie said, clearly angered by the criti­cism leveled by South Bend Tribune columnist David Haugh, Ch'icago Sun-Times columnist Jay Mariotti and others. 


Notre Dame was criticized for remaining in thP locker room during the National Anthem and pre-game ceremony honoring America. Michigan StalP was on the field holding hands for the entire ceremony. Notre Dame took the fie Id at its usual ti me just before kickoff. 
"I am really disappointed that · somehow this could be spun into a negative for one team or anoth­er team based on the way our University and our team handled this situation. I think it's totally ridiculous that this is nvnn an issue." 
In his most passionatn n~marks of the conl'erence. Davie 
see DAVIE/page # 
. 
SMC Volleyball at Hope, Thursday, 7 p.m. 

. 
ND Volleyball vs. Va. Tech, Friday, 7:00 p.m.


SPORTS 

. ND Women's Soccer vs. W. Virginia, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/-observer
AT AGLANCE 

j 
J
; 
' 
. Football at Texas A&M, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
online classifieds 










