----·· 

Need a job? Be a hacker. Weekend display mocks Indians 
The 20 year-old hacker who corrupted emails 
Native Americans, dressed in costume and 
Wednesday
with a picture ofAnna Koumikova has been 
giving out feathers, entertained parents at JPW,
offered a job by a Dutch company. 
but was the laugh at the expense ofa culture? 
FEBRUARY 21,
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 92 

Busts may paralyze businesses 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assistanl News Edi1or 
The windows of Finnigan's Irish Pub may be darkened after the Oct. 12 raid that netted 147 underage citations, but that doesn't mean Bcnchwarmer·s owner Steve Mitchell is happy about the reduced competition. 
"Business creates business. The more people in the downtown area the better," Mitchell said. ''I'll get my share." 
Despite the early morning Jan. 25 raid on Benchwarmer's that yielded 18 underage citations, Mitchell refuses to compare his establishment with the likes of Finnigan's, lCONN and Bridget McGuire's Filling Station where numer­ous underage patrons were cited. 
"As far as raids are concerned, I'm not worried because I've got good guys at the door. My philosophy is that I don't want underagers," he said. 
When a bar gets busted, a variety of consequences can result. At !CONN and Bridget's. liquor licenses were immedi­ately revoked. Bridget's owner Karen Bauer transformed her bar popular with underage students into Molly McGuire's, a coffee house for all ages, after her bar was busted on Jan. 30, 1998. 
Bauer said she was unaware of the heavy underage patronage to Bridget's, blaming the bust on incompetent bouncers at the door. She said owning and managing Molly's is much easier than owning Bridget's. 
"I can control what is going on now. I guess r learned this lesson the hard way." she said. "Most students don't know about Bridget's and I don't want them to. It is all about Molly's right now. Everybody comes together in this place and everybody feels welcome." 
For Bauer. opening up Molly's took months of preparation and planning. After seeing a Starbucks commercial on television three days after the Bridget's bust, she decided to continue her business in a new direction. 
"I went in there with a bottle of disin­fectant and a putty knife. It took nine months, and voila, Molly's came. It was like giving birth," Bauer said. 

ICONN owners changed their bar into a young adult dance club called the Four Penny Oasis. The owners of Finnigan's were unavailable for com­ment on the fate of their establishment. 
Both Bauer and Mitchell agree increases in the availability and quality of fake IDs contribute to underage 
see BARS/page 4 
HTTP://OBSE VER.ND.EDU 
CLC optening connects ND to neigl1bors 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assisrar1r Ncv,s Editor 
Tours, demonstrations and appear­ances by prominent guests will highlight grand opening celebrations today at the University-sponsored Community Learning Center [CLC]. 
The ceremonies today come nearly a month after the center's quiet official opening in mid-January. The open-house style activities will take place from 4 to 8 p.m. 
The center. housed in the former Goodwill building at n1 N. Eddy St., rep­resents Notre Dame's latest effort to strengthen ties between itself and the South Bend community. University offi­cials said the CLC has already begun to address education, health care, and other community-issues Ln the Northea.st Neighborhood. 
"It's been encouraging to see the com­munity taking ownership of the center. That's the key to its success." said Denny Moore, director of public relations. 
U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer and South Bend Mayor Steve Luecke are among the guests appearing today. University President Father Edward Malloy, Northeast Neighborhood activist Rev. Tim Rouse of First AME Zion Church and CLC director Jay Caponigro will a.lso participate in grand opening events. 
Malloy, Rouse and Caponigro were also on hand for the Dec. 1 press conference at which organizers announced Caponigro as the center's director. 
Today officials plan to name the center in honor of a well-known neighborhood leader. 
Tours of the faci!Hy are scheduled today, and a 20-computer lab highlights the center's offerings. The event will also feature demonstrations by St. Joseph's Regional Medical Cent.er, the South Bend Community School Corporation, the St. Joseph County Public Library and the 
see CLC/page 4 
Student governmE~nt webpage to open co~munic~ation 
tical Web design currently used. sulted their advisers regarding "We believe students would in revamping the Web page
By LAUR.EN BECK 
"Last year's administration the Web page. rather see their money go to next year. One of the planks in 
News Wri1er 
spent tons of money creating "We were not allowed to con-programming events than to a her communication platform (the page), tract off Web site. Furthermore, the was increased use of the Web The Notre Dame student gov­
and it was 
campus counter indicated that last year page. ernment Web page will remain purely con­with a Web not many students visited the "I would like to lobby for 
full of out of date information 
structed design com­Web page," said O'Donoghue. more money with which to con­until a new design that is both because of pany, but In response to these issues, struct our Web page," Norton 
practical and affordable can be 
the vanity of we were O'Donoghue and Norton opted said. "If this is not possible, I created. student government that admin­also not to use The Observer, Scholastic will ensure that the Web page is 
officials said. There are no 
istration," allocated a and class list serves as forums updated by the technology divi­plans to try and update the O'Donoghue l a r g e for communication. confident sion." 
information until a new design said. enough that these types of outlets would According to Norton, a suc­chosen. 
Upon tak-O'Donoghue Norton amount of reach a greater number of stu­cessful student government
Student Body President Brian ing office money to dents. Web page would feature a list of O'Donoghue blamed prior this year, O'Donoghue and vice contract with an on-campus As student body president­administrations for the imprac-president Brooke Norton con-provider,'' Norton said. elect, Norton expressed interest see WEBPAGE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


From -within this bubble 
This campus, this University, is not reality. 
It is a fantastical place where students are all blessed beyond belief. The future is ours to take. The sky is limitless. 
I find myself stuggling with how I should give back to the world that has given me so much. 
This past weekend. in an attempt to escape from Junior Parent Weekend and cabin fever, my friend and I packed up for a trip to Chicago. 
On Saturday night, my parents took us out to a nice dinner on Michigan Avenue, and then we head­ed to the House of Blues. We didn't think twice to drop $20 dollars apiece for tickets, and once inside proceeded to ring up a drink tab. 
By the end of the evening, we had spent well over $200 dollars. 
As my friend and I headed back towards our car, we were approached by a homeless African-American man. He was dressed in rags, and told us that if we did not help him buy a train ticket, he would freeze to death during the frigid night. 
My initial reaction, unfortunately, was to keep walking. I was tired, and I had spent enough money already on myself. 
I began to keep moving, but stopped as he called after me. This may not seem too pro­found, but I was suddenly struck by a realiza­tion. 
What if I had been born in the slums of the inner city? What if I had been discriminated against because of my skin color? What if I had not been given the oppourtunities to succeed the way I have? 
Why has God blessed me the way He has? Why am I at Notre Dame? Why do I deserve it, and not this poor guy on the street? 
It almost doesn't make any sense. 

But, nevertheless, lhere must be some reason 
that we all have been given such wonderful 
oppourtinuties. 
The golden dome that rises out of the center 
of campus should not solely be a symbol of aca­
demic and athletic excellence. It should be a 
sign of compassion and of charity. It should 
represent our Chrisitian obligation to the rest 
of the world. upon whose backs we have riden 
this far. 
I wok Barney with me. I spent four measely 
dollars on a train ticket for him. 
It was such a small act. bul I think it meant a 
lot to him. It felt good. 
Students of Notre Dame, I encourage you to 
realize your blessings, and to give back to those 
less fortunate. 
This weekend, beginning Thursday, a num­
ber of our own students will be participating in 
Bengal Bouts. All proceeds go to the Holy Cross 
Missions in Bangladesh. Its a good and noble 
cause; its a fun cause. I encourage everyone to 
go out and cheer on the guys while helping out 
people less privalaged than ourselves. 
Its the least we can do. 

I leave you with this simple parting thought: 
"To who much is given, much is expected." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe 0bseruer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Maribel Morey Laura Kelly Nare Phillips Graphics Myra McGriff Katy Hall Sports Lab Tech Brian Kessler 
Perer Richardson Viewpoint 
Lauren Beck 

Th, 01,,c-rvcr (USPS 599 l-4000) is published MonJ•.y through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a memb.r of tn• Associated Pms. All reproduction riglm arc re,..rvcd. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 

Wednesday Thursday 
. Event: Men's Basketball . Movie: "IL Postino." Game, Joyce Center, 7:30 DeBartolo 155, 7 p.m. 
p.m. . Event: Bengal Bouts. 
. Fundralsing: St. Joseph preliminary round, Joyce Tree Sales Program, the Center, 7 p.m. Soil and Conservation . Event: Acoustic Cafe, District, all day. Lafortune, 9 p.m. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

U. of California's SAT policy questioned 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Four days after the initial announcement of University of California's President Richard Atkinson recommendation to make the SAT optional for UC applicants, many academics are left questioning his unprecedented move and how it will change the university system and colleges across the nation. 
While the long trip to implementa­tion could take more than a year. the mere mention of the proposal was enough to cause speculation to circu­late nationwide. 
"The University of California is the premier higher learning institution in the country, and I think this will be very important fyr universities across the country," said Pedro Noguera, a former University of 
GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY 

Student confesses to murders 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
Last Tuesday, Joseph Mesa. a 20-year-old Gallaudet University freshman, was arrested and charged with two counts of felony murder in connection with two separate murders in the past four-and-a-half months. His arrest came 10 days after the body of former dorm-mate Benjamin Varner. a 19-year-old freshman, was found stabbed to death. Last September, Eric Plunkett -a freshman with cerebral palsy who also lived in the same dorm as Mesa -was found beaten to death. In a videotaped confession. Mesa told detec­tives that he killed the two freshmen because he need­ed money. After Mesa killed Varner, he wrote himself a check from Varner's account for $650 and cashed it the next day. He explained he chose Plunkett because Plunkett was vulnerable from his condition and lived alone. Police reported they were led to Mesa by a trail of blood from Varner's room Lo Mesa's room. Detectives found bloody shoeprints in both rooms that matched the brand of shoes Mesa wore. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

S Day South Bend Forecast Aro.I Weallrr f!.u:asi fa-daytim::coodirions and hi temperJ!ures 

"[U. ofCJ is the premier higher learning insitution in the country, and I think this wit be very important across the country. " 
Pedro Noguera 
fonner professor 

California-Berkeley professor who now teaches at Harvard University. 
Some academics have hailed the proposal as a step in the right direc­tion for the university, while others defend the SAT's ability to reliably predict how students will perform in 
Friday 
. 
Event: Michiana Boat & Outdoor Show. Century Center, 5 p.m. 

. 
Theater: "The Winter's Tale," Washington Hall. 


7:30 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 
Task force pushes accountability 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Standards used to measure state universities and their local governing boards were questioned Monday at the final meeting of the task force charged with over­hauling the state's educational system. While some argued the task force's accountability plan was not well-developed and lacked necessary details, the Education Governance Heorganization Transition Task Force strongly defended the program, saying it was one of the most comprehensive ever. Regent Steven Uhlfelder said the task force was releasing power to Boards of Trustees before having a sound accountabili­ty system in place. The trustees will be the nine-mem­ber board appointed by the governor to oversee each of the 10 state universities under the reorganization plan. 'The devil is in the details. I really believe you're on the right track, but I think you're turning the keys over without the [system in place)." Uhlfelder told the task force. Universities will be held accountable by factors such as graduation, completion rates and diversity. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 21. 
FRONTS:

.................. .,,....,.,.. 
O 2001 Accuweathar, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY ,.,_.,,,, r:7 ~ 
® © D CJ Q L:..J . t.2:1! 
Pt. Clou'iy CLoUdy Via A&1Mt11!Bd Prvss 
High L-Shower• Fl¦ tn T••torma FIUl'rlea 8n<>w ,.. Sl4nny 
Atlanta  64  52  Las Vegas  61  44  Ponland  52  37  
Ballimore  55  43  Memphis  66  40  Sacramento  59  46  
Boston  47  38  Milwaukee  31  6  St. LOUIS  52  20  
Chicago  36  9  New York  41  39  Tampa  78  63  
Houston  78  64  Philadelphia  54  43  Washington DC 59  44  

college. They all agree, however, that the UC president's landmark recommendation is sure to challenge one of the nation's most influential standardized tests. 
"The rest of the nation will look to California and begin long-overdue debate about the standard of these tests," said Michael Reese, a UC spokesperson. 
The UC system has often been viewed as a leader among public universities, setting the trend on a variety of issues. 
Most private schools already utilize a more comprehensive process for evaluating applications, said Michael Rowan, chair of the executive board of the Academic Senate, the statewide faculty governing body for academic policy. 
Saturday 
. 
Event: Women's Basketball Game, Joyce Center. 1 p.m. 

. 
Movie: ''Best in Show," DeBartolo 101, 8 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Wednesday, February, 21, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
COME WATCH 12 REALLY NICE GUYS ACT LIFCE 



"A staggering achievement 
with Jim Gallagher, Neil Wack, and Eric Schimmel 
for first-time director, Matt Kutz" 
Prof. discloses adllli:ssions process 
admissions processes against you."
By PAT McDONALD 
economically disadvantaged The admissions process is NewsWrirer 
students, Stevens said. further skewed by outside "If you're from an unc:1crpriv­rankings. particularly the Underprivileged students are ileged background, you can annual US News rankings of at a distinct disadvantage due either be an exceptional stu­top collPges and universities. to the intricacies and biases of dent, an athlete or a racial Ratings factor in median stu­the undergraduate admissions minority. Being a racial minor­dent SAT scores and GPAs. dis-systems at elite American uni­ity is the only inclining versities and colleges, said way a social admissions Mitchell Stevens. a professor at disadvantage officers from
"The process consists of 

llamilton College who also can be translat­taking a
reducing an applicant to

worked in the admissions ed into an chance on olTice of the college this year. advantage for a grid sheet full of an applicant 
"The admissions process sys­with less
admittance to a numbers and then 
tematically favors students top college or than aver­
recreating their personal 

coming from privileged back­university," age scores grounds," Stevens said at a Stevens said. narrative. " but other lecture in Flanner Hall today. "Multicultural superior Stevens said Hamilton status places qualities
Mitchell Stevens 

College rates its applicants students into a that do not
professor at Hamilton College

academically based in large different deci­appear in 
part on the caliber and cur­sion -making 
riculum of their high schools. matrix with 
Students from less privileged clearly different standards." 
back •  Stevens s.aid that  
grounds typically attend h i g h schools  "The admissions process systematically favors students coming from  elite colleges and universities natu­rally target stu­dents from elite high schools at the  
in which Io we r  privileged backgrounds."  expense of less prominent 8Chools.  
percent­ages of students  Mitchell Stevens professor at Hamilton College  "If you're an admissions officer and walk into a  
go on to f o u r •  school in South Philly to recruit, no  

year schools and offer fewer one will show up because Advanced Placement courses they've either never ineard of than schools with more eco­your school or their r,ot going nomically privileged students. to skip their AP class to meet 
These ratings then factor with you," he said. "But go to a into decisions on the amount of privileged school out on the linancial aid to offer an appli­Main Line and the students are cant, further prejudicing the practically handpicked for 
A:cn.eric.a.n Heart • 
Association. 
ONE OF TI-IE.SE 
C.AN"CI-LANGE 
A. THOUS.ANT:> LIVES 

SUPl'•OR.T ~DICAL RESEARCH 
TWE,LVE
ANGRY 
• the original • Broadway production 
MEN 
magazine 
rankings, Stevens said. 
Admissions officers face the difficult task of comparing an applicant's broad academic and personal profile to those of others in an effective and effi­cient manner. 
"The process consists of reducing an applicant to a grid sheet full of numbers and then recreating their personal nar­rative," Stevens said. "Decisions are rarely made by voting but rather by a consen­sus of the admissions commit­tee." 
Stevens, a sociology profes­
sor, is currently studying 
admissions at elite colleges 
and universities as part of a 
fellowship from the National 
Academy of Education. 

Dartmouth sus1Jects killers to be frit:~nds 
Associated Press 
CHELSEA, Vt. 

One way or another, Rob Tulloch and James Parker have been partners for nearly a decade -rafting rivers, climbing mountains and debating for their high school team. 
According to friends and neighbors, the pair did every­thing together. According to authorities. that included mur­der. 
Tulloch, 17, and Parker, 16, known around Chelsea mostly for their cocky, mischievous attitudes, are accused of killing two Dartmouth College profes­sors in their Hanover. N.H., home three weeks ago. The teens were arrested Monday at an Indiana truck stop. 
Authorities have refused to 
discuss a motive or any con­
nection between the boys and 
the victims, who were stabbed 
repeatedly. Friends and 
acquaintances in this isolated 
town of 1,200 people are 
grasping for an explanation. 
To them, Parker was the 

class clown and Tulloch was 
an honors student who had 
earned enough credits at 
Chelsea Public School to grad­
uate early. 
"Whatever he did, there was 

a reason for it,'' said Kip 
Battey, Tulloch's friend and a 
fellow debater. "He's really 
smart, very logical. Everything 
he did, there was a reason for 
it... 
Both boys come from well­

respected families. Their 
fathers are carpenters, and 
Parker's was known for his 
work with the community's 
recreation program. He also 
coached basketball and helped 
Moreau Seminary Auditori11m 
(Northside of St. Joe Lake, directly across from the Dome.) 
Fri/Sat, Feb. 23--24 
build the town's soccer and baseball fields. 
"These kids were average teen-agers," said John Upham. owner of a variety store. "There was nothing extraordi­nary about th.em. There was nothing that would lead you to believe that they could do the crime they are accused of." 
But not everyone speaks so highly of the boys. Some sug­gested their families were too permissive. 
"This does not surprise me in the least,'' Robert Childs. the town property assessor, told The Boston Globe. "These kids weren't coming hori:J.e from a job after school. These kids were unsupervised and on the streets. 
"They aren't pillars of the community. Jimmy Parker wasn't quite wild, but his par­ents were permissive. [and hc's1 shunned by a major pop­ulation of the school." 
But as far as most of the 
community is concerned, any 
mischief the boys were 
involved in was minor --they 
liked their paintball guns 
(using them on neighbors' 
trees and lawns). clowning 
around in school and loved to 
speed along the town's narrow 
roads. 
Encounters with police had 
been mostly stay-out-of-trou­
ble-type talks. Boys-will-be­
boys type stuff. according to 
Steve Watson, who owns the 
town video store. 
"It's going to take a long 
time for me to believe these 
kids were involved," he said 
Both boys were considered 
part of the school's preppy 
crowd, which friends said 
avoided drugs, alcohol and 
smoking. 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 21, 200 I 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County and other. local organi­
zations. 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, RecSports and the Notre Dame music depart­ment will pre­sent University­sponsored pro­grams at the center. The 1st Class Steppers, a 
Notre Dame 

"Bringing this center into being has been a very impor­
Bars

tant and gratifying activity for the University to carry out, 
continued from page 1 
especially in conjunction with northeast neighborhood resi­dents," Moore said. "We're 
looking forward 
"Bringing this center into being has been a very important and gratifying activity for the University to carry out ... " 
Denny Moore director of public relations 
busts. They said Internet andto this formal student-made IDs can be justopening." 
as authentic-looking as the real
N o t re 
ones.
D a m e "For years, people have been

announced 

making IDs. We check pretty
plans for 

close. But with these new IDs it
the CLC in 

is really tough to tell which
August. 

ones are fake and which ones
University 
administra­

are real." Mitchell said. tors said 
'The fake ID stuff is unfortu­the costs of 
nate, but it happened when I renovating 
was in school," said Bauer, a and equip­
197 4 graduate of Saint Mary's. ping the 
center exceeded $500,000 and step dancing troupe, are also its annual operating budget scheduled to perform. will be about $300,000. 
Webpage 
continued from page 1 
members and their e-mail addresses, a message board, updates on events and projects. the stu-
AND SAVE."' 
Bauer recalled a much dif­life but you can't drink a ferent bar scene when she was beer?" Mitchell said. "But, the a Belle. She said Eddy Street laws is the law and you've got was the place to be, with one to obey the law." 
bar after another running up "The fake ID stuffis 
and down 

unfortunate, but it 
the street. 

Both Bauer happened when I was in a n d 
school." 
Mitchell ag-ree that t h e 

Karen Bauer nation's owner of Molly McGuire's current drinking age should be re-evaluated. into them. 
"I don't think the government will ever change it. It's just going to get tighter and tighter," Bauer said. 
Bauer offered some advice to the other bars in town -and the underage drinkers getting 
"[ think 18 year olds should "Anyone in the bar business be allowed to drink. You could should know, it's a time bomb," get drafted and go lose your she said. 
dent union calendar and more specific informa­tion on the current and upcoming programs and services. 
"We would also like to make it more interac­tive, provide links to various organizations and advertise the address. Ideally, I would like for it to be another forum for student suggestions," she said. 
Celebrate America Recycles Day on November lSth. AVOIDING ft would mean the world to all of us. For a free brochure, 
A TICKET IS A SNAP
call 1-800-CALL-EDF or visit our web site at www.edf.org 
YOU COUW LEARN A LOT FROM A DUMMY..,, 
U.S. Departmen1: o,f TraneporteUon .. vino•.., Lany e-011HHI u.a. DOT~ 

THE 

BSE 


NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
is nOtJ accepting applications for the 
2001-2002 General Board 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge ofcomputer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a freshman majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to march top-qualiry graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume must be submitted by Friday, Feb. 23 to the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 
GRACANICA  
Carefully, Slavisa Cokic laid out  
the clothing he brought: Sunday  
best for his brother and sister-in­ 
law and pajamas for his 2-year-old  
nephew, Danilo.  
"I wanted to make sure he was  
warm," Cokic said as he prepared  
for the virtual certainty that the  
bodies of loved ones are among the  
mutilated remains of at least 10  
Serbs killed in a bus bombing that  
has left Kosovo teeming with ethnic  
t,:msion.  
Families of the passengers miss­ 
ing after Friday's attack gathered  
Tuesday in Gracanica, just south of  
the capital, Pristina, to wait for  
peacekeepers to deliver the remains  
of their relatives -or at least tell  
them when the victims will be iden­ 
tified.  
They waited outside all day in  
freezing temperatures, pacing and  
smoking cigarettes ­in vain.  
The bus was carrying Serbs on a  
pilgrimage to the graves of their  
ancestors when the bomb blast tore  
it apart on a road near Podujevo, 25  
miles northeast of Pristina. Bodies  
were disfigured, making it difficult  
to establish identities.  
The hours of uncertainty took  
their toll on Radoslav Kragovic, 56,  
who wept as darkness fell and  
another day ended without informa­ 
tion on his missing brother.  
"We can't even get our dead out  
of here," he said, his body shaking,  AFP Photo  
tears streaming down his weath­ered cheeks. "I've lost my brother. I can't tell vou the pain I feel."  A woman from Kosovo holds a placard of her missing relatives, during the protest organized by the group known as the Union of Helatives.  
To reduce the shock of being con­fronted by mutilated bodies of loved ones, experts planned to use pho­tographs to help family members identify relatives before actually 5:howing them the remains. But that wasn't happening for most people Tuesday, and the wait­ing fueled anger, feeding deep-seat­e d opinions that the NATO-led peacekeepers and U.N. officials who govern the province are insensitive to Serb concerns.  after the Yugoslav withdrawal. TheTens of thousands of Serbs have the Serbian province of Kosovo bus bombing was the deadliest since the 78-day alliance air war attack since Julv 1999, when 14 forced former Yugoslav President Serb farmers wer~~ machine-gunned Slobodan Milosevic's forces to with­to death in a field. Some angry Serbs claim the U_N,draw in mid-1999. Those who authorities and NATO peacekeepersremained have been subject to attacks leveled in revenge for have understated the number of vic­Milosevic's crackdown on ethnic tims in the bus bombing in order to minimize publicity and avoid fur­Albanians. ther violence. They say as many asSeveral Serbs have been killed in the Serbian province since the 23 people took the bus ­and never United Nations and NATO took over came home.  


ATION 
Wednesday, February 2 I, 200I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
Columbian troops raid drug trade: 
Troops making a late-night descent on an airstrip in the Amazon didn't get the men they were looking for: a fugitive Brazilian drug lord and the Colombian guerrilla com­mander who allegedly sold him cocaine for arms. But the military said the commando­style operation near the Brazilian border helped to expose a cocaine-for-guns opera­tion fueling the country's 37-year war and demonstrating the guerrillas' deepening involvement in the international drug trade. Troops arrested 29 people. Six Brazilians are among the 29 people arrested so far in Operation Black Cat, launched on Feb. 11. One is said to be the girlfriend of Luiz 
Fernando da Costa, a fugitive Brazilian con­sidered one of his country's top narcotics traffickers. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
New York man slain: A man sitting with his girlfriend on a bench in Central Park was shot to death during an attempted robbery early Tuesday, police said. Ismael Marzan, 25, and his girlfriend, whose name was not released, were sitting on the bench at about 
12:30 a.m. when they were approached by three men, police said. The men demanded the couple turn over jewelry and a jacket. Marzan was shot in the head before the two could com­ply, and the men fled. Marzan's girlfriend was unhurt and able to call police. 
Potential cancer vaccine created: 
Government scientists have created a poten­tial vaccine against a virus that causes cervi­cal cancer, a promising development against a cancer that each year kills 200,000 women worldwide, including 5,000 Americans. The experimental vaccine just passed its first human safety test but has years more testing ahead to prove if it does protect women. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Suspects arrested in Hammond slaying: An alleged drug dealer and his cousin have been arrested in connection with a triple homicide that police believe may have been a mistaken act of revenge against a police informant. Zealand Bea, 25, of Matteson, Ill., and Eric Sanders. 25, of East Chicago, were arrested Friday and each was charged with three counts of mur­der. Lake County Prosecutor Bernard Carter was reviewing the charges Tuesday to determine whether he would seek the death penalty. 
Market Watch 2/21 

Dow 
10730.88 -68.94 


]ONES 
CompositeSame: Volume:
196 
NIA

• 
Nasdaq: 2318.35 -107.03 
S&P 500: 1278.94 -22.59 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE -7.75 --2.19 26.06
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) JDS UNIPHASE ()DSU) 
-4.20 -1.50 J4.Jl 

NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) -3.88 -2.14 52,99 INTEL CORP (INTC) -8.54 -2.94 31.44 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -4.04 22.25
__94 

FBI agent accused of espionage 
suburban Virginia after Ames pleaded guilty to from Alabama. "Here's an 
As,;ociated Pre•• 

dropping a package of spying for the Soviet agent who is a veteran of 
A veteran FBI agent documents for his Union in 1994. the FBI, who's been doing was accused Tuesday of Russian contacts, authori­Operating under the counterintelligence for a spying for Russia for ties said. FBI agents con­codename Ramon, long time. He knows a lot. more than 15 years, fiscated $50,000 hidden Hanssen kept his identity He could have given them betraying three Russian for him at a nearby drop and occupation secret a lot." undercover agents to site. from the Russians, Freeh Hanssen provided the Moscow and disclosing Hanssen provided said. He said Hanssen KGB and its successor volumes of U.S. secrets in Moscow with the identi­frequently ran his name, agency, SVR, with infor­return for diamonds and ties of two KGB officials address and his drop sites mation since 1985 on top up to $1.4 million. The who had been recruited through FBI computers to secret U.S. intelligence FBI director called the by the U.S. government to see if they had raised any and counterintelligence case "the most traitorous serve as agents in-place alarms. activities, including inves­actions imaginable." at the Soviet Embassy in Sen. Richard Shelby, R­tigative techniques , 
Robert Philip Hanssen, Washington, FBI Director Ala., who said he was sources, technical opera­56, the father of six, was Louis Freeh said. The briefed on the case a tions, double agents and only the third FBI agent agents, whose names week to 10 days ago as targets of U.S. intelli­
ever accused of espi­were first compromised chairman of the Senate gence, according to a 
onage. President Bush by Aldrich Ames, were Select Committee on 100-page FBI affidavit. ca.lied it "a difficult day," tried on espionage Intelligence, said Hanssen He also tipped off the particularly for the law charges on their return to may have caused grave KGB to the FBI's secret 
enforcement and intelli­Moscow and executed. A harm. 
investiitation of Felix 
gence communities. third KGB official identi­"This could be a very, Bloch, a foreign service 
1-fanssen, a 25-year FBI fied by Hanssen was very, very serious case of agent suspected of spying ai{ent, was arrested imprisoned but ultiI\)ately espionage," Shelby said in for Moscow in 1989, the Sunday night at a park in released, Freeh said. a telephone interview FBI said. 
YUGOSLAVIA 

l:;1amilies mourn victims of bornbing 
Associated Press 


Wednesday, February 21, 200 I 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ISRAEL 

Barak turns down defense post: a step farther frolll peace 
Associa1cd Press 
JERUSALEM 

In a dramatic turnaround, caretaker Prime Minister Ehud Barak said on Twisday he will not serve in Ariel Sharon's Cabinet, throwing into disarray plans for unity government that might renew peace negotiations with the Palestinians. 
Barak had said in recent days he would serve as defense minister under Sharon, drawing a whirlwind of criticism from his allies in the Labor Party, charging he had sold out. 
If Barak's latest change of mind means a government with­out Labor, Sharon will likely be forced into a narrow coalition dependent of right-wing parties -hawks and religious nation­alists -who would have little flexibility in talks with Arabs and who oppose any territorial concessions to the Palestinians. Such a grouping-would likely be unable to make progress in peace talks with the Palestinians. 
Barak announced his latest change of mind Tuesday in a let­ter to Sharon -a sharp reversal to the prime minister-elect's efforts to set up a national unity government with his Likud and Barak's Labor. 
Sharon, who trounced Barak in a Feb. 6 elections, has said he needs a broad-based government to deal with nearly five months of Palestinian-Israeli violence. 
It is unclear whether Barak's statement meant the Labor 
party would not join the unity government. Some leaders of 
the party have said they would favor such a coalition but one 
without Barak. 

In Washington, the State Department had no comment Tuesday on Barak's move, but said the administration looks forward to working with whatever government emerges. 
In his Tuesday letter. Barak charged that Sharon had dealt 
with the Labor Party "in a way that seriously harms the trust 
between us and does not allow me to accept the position" of 
defense minister. 

Barak's decision to enter Sharon's government had set oJT a 
groundswell of opposition in his own party among activists 
who blamed him for the election failure. They also charged 
that his continued presence on the scene would undermine 
their efforts to revive peacemaking_ 

The activists also saw Barak's landslide loss as a repudiation 
of his peace policies. They also blamed him for a low voter 
turnout, and claimed he had froze them out of the decision­
making process_ One by one, his political allies dropped away. 
Barak's frequent changes of mind also angered party mem­
bers: Hight after the election he said that he would resign from 
politics. But a few clays_ later, he accepted Sharon's offer to 
serve as defense minister in a joint Likucl-Labor government. 
Barak lost his majority in parliament last July over conces­
sions he planned to offer the Palestinians at a summit meeting 
in Camp David, near Washington. There and at a last-minute 
round of intensive negotiations just before the election, Barak 
suggested a Palestinian state in almost all the West Bank and 
Gaza, with Palestinian control over parts of Jerusalem. The 
Palestinians did not accept the proposals. 
Voters who backed Barak in an election in May 1999 
switched to Sharon in droves, complaining about Barak's fre­
quent policy shifts. 

After the negotiations with the Palestinians ended without 
agreement several days before the election, Barak began talk• 
ing of' the need for unilateral separation, drawing a border 
between Israel and the Palestinians without further talks, if 
necessary.Barak led his party directly into negotiations with Sharon after the election, though he had warned the people that a Sharon government might bring war to the Middle East. When he accepted Sharon's offer to serve as defense minister, along with party veteran Shimon Peres as foreign minister, both sides expressed confidence that a coalition agreement was near. Hut negotiations between Likud and Labor hit a snag over the inclusion in the government of far-right parties that reject compromise with the Palestinians_ 
The Observer Ads Departmentis looking for a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior to work Tuesdays and Thursdays, 9 a.m to 11 a.m. If interested, cal I 1-6900. 
ZIMBABWE 

Mugabe lashes out at journalists 
next March. Under the constitu­International observers moni­
Associated Press 

tion, Mugabe, 76, can only call an toring parliamentary elections early election if he resigns, leav­last June said pre-election vio­HARARE. Zimbabwe ing his deputy to act as caretaker lence, mainly committed by rul­
President Robert Mugabe 
during the campaign. Mugabe ing militants of Mugabe's party,lashed out at international jour­
might

nalists and foreign governments, 
prefer to

threatening to ban them from 
face vot­

future elections to keep their 
e r s

"dirty, interfering hands" out of 
before
the Zimbabwe's affairs. 
the coun­

Monday night's warning follows 
try's situ­

a weekend crackdown on foreign 
ation fur­

journalists, in which two news­
t h e r

men were ordered deported. 
detcrio-

The opposition charged 
rates,

Tuesday that Mugabe's com­
Monday night's warning follows a weekend crackdown on foreign journalists. in which two newsmen were ordered 
deported. 
analysts said. 

ments and what it said were Instability in the country andincreasing restrictions on foreign Mugabe's increasingly authori­journalists arc an effort to thwart tarian rule has crippled the econ­foreign scrutiny and might be 
omy, scared away foreign
part of a plan for Mugabe to call investors and drawn scathingearly presidential elections this criticism from the internationalyear. 
community.

Mugabe's six-year-term expires 
It's hard to improve the WHOPPER~ but we did. 
The WHOPPER® Value Meal. 
had tainted the result. 
Mugabe told for­eign diplomats Monday evening that there was "a mas­sive degree of exter­nal interference" in the June ballot, and his government would not tolerate 
the "prevailing practice of observing elections for purposes of interfering with them." 
"Zimbabwe ... will never in future brook the phenomenon of dirty, interfering hands in it~ domestic affairs," he said. according to state media. 


Wednesday, February 21, 200I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Leadership key ir1 AIDS battle 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

It is now possible tu dramat­ically reduce the spread and impact of AIDS. and the most important factor is global and national leadership. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Tuesday. 
In a report which will serve as the backdrop to the U.N. General Assembly's special session on the AIDS crisis in June, Annan called for expanded prevention pro­grams and stepped up efforts to combat the stigma sur­rounding the disease and make low-cost generic drugs available to those infected with the HIV virus. 
He also called for intensified 
development of affordable 
Al DS vaccines and new HIV 
treatments. greater efforts to 
alleviate the social and eco­
nomic impact of the epidemic, 
and more money to fight it. 
"The most important lesson 
learned from countries that 
have successfully responded 
to the epidemic has been the 
critical role of government 
and civil society leadership in 
increasing the visibility of the 
epidemic while decreasing the 
stigma associated with it," 
Annan said. 
But despite successful AIDS 
prevention programs in a host 
of countries from Uganda to 
Thailand, last year also saw 
an estimated 5.3 million new 
infections around the globe, and 3 million deaths, the highest annual total of AIDS death ever, the report said. 
Annan noted that the spread of the IIIV virus has brought about a global epidemic far more extensive than was pre­dicted a decade ago. About 
"Leadership ... is the single most important factor in reversing the epidemic." 
Kofi Annan UN Secretary-General 
36.1 million people am living with HIV or AIDS worldwide today, 50 percent higher than the figure projected in 1991. The modes of transmission remain the same -unpro­tected sex, unscreened blood and blood products, contami­nated needles, mother-to­child transmission, and breast feeding, he said. 
While AIDS is now found everywhere. Africa is home to 70 percent of adults and 80 percent of children living with HIV, and to three quarters of the nearly 22 million people who have died of AIDS since the epidemic began two decades ago, he said. 
Nonetheless, Annan said, "Collective experience with HIV/AIDS has evolved to the point where it is now possible to state with confidence that it is technically, politically and financially feasible to contain HIV/AIDS and dramatically reduce its spread and impact." 
"Leadership -at the global as well as the countrv level ­is the single most irnportant factor in reversing the epi­demic," the secretary-general said in the report. 
There is strong evidence that the incidence of IIIV infection has declined in Asia. Australia, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean, North America and sub­Saharan Africa when people have access to effective pre­vention programs, he said. 
Annan called for intensive 
education programs to reduce 
the risk of sexual transmis­
sion. greater accessibility to 
male and female condoms, 
and much cheaper antiretro­
viral drugs so people with IIIV 
in Africa and other developing 
countries can get the same 
treatment as those in industri­
alized nations. 
"The availability of low-cost 
generic drugs needs to be 
expanded, in accordance with 
national laws and internation­
al trade agreements and with 
guarantees of their quality." 
he said. "Other approaches, 
including tiered pricing, 
improved global and regional 
procurement policies and new 
funding mechanisms, also 
need to be explored." 

:JEC~~:P ::a::-E9C::S,C:I.i:ai..§I: w-e>:a:-:k:.:i.xig­
~ ~-..i:v ::r'E=' c:37<:I.Etd..­~ 
c:=­
c::-1-b::ir.aL.t_, ...A..~-z-i~-. :a.-c::-;:src::I.et-:I[>--~ 
<>XL :r.l"'<>~Et::w::::IE1b-et::1:-1~--Jl:L­
F"'C>-X-~ fx-Ete-'b,r:-C>~:h.."1..1":r"C91.., 
:r;>:J. EU3t,S EO oai..:J..:J. 1-8 C> C> -C..A..I..:J:.. -:EI>:F" 
e>X-~1s:1t e>'-1-X--"'V'V"'"E3b s:l.tt3 e1.t Vi,# v• Vv-E.'tc:1..f-<:>:r-g 
Napster attempts to settle lawsuit foJr $1B 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Napster Inc. offered $1 bil­lion to the recording industry Tuesday to settle a copyright infringement lawsuit that threatens to shut down the free Internet song-swapping ser­vice. 
Under the proposal, $150 million would be paid annually for five years to Sony. Warner, BMC, EMI and Universal. Another $50 million would go to independent labels in each of those five years. 
Napster believes it can gen­erate hundreds of millions of dollars to pay record compa­nies, mostly through monthly subscriptions. It has tried to reach agreements with record companies, but has done so only with BMG parent Bertelsmann Inc. 
Analysts said they doubted the rest of the recording indus­try would allow Napster and Bertelsmann to control the online distribution of their music. 
"Napster is basically trying to purchase the copyrights and resell them," said Susan Billheimer, an analyst with Zona Research. 
Universal Music Group called Napster's offer a rehash of pre­vious promises that have gone unfulfilled. 
"It is Napster's responsibility to come to the creative commu­nity with a legitimate business model and a system that pro­tects our artists and copy­rights," the company said. "Nothing we have heard in the past and nothing we have heard today suggests they have yet been able to accomplish that task." 
An industry group urged Napster to accept a federal injunction ordering it to block copyrighted music from its ser­vice. 
"This path would be more productive than trying to engage in business negotiations through the media," said Hilary Rosen, president of the Recording Industry Association of America. 
A week ago, a federal appeals court said the music industry 
almost certa.inly will win its lawsuit against Napster. A three-judge panel of the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered Napster to stop mil­lions of users from swapping copyrighted music without charge and without restriction. Napster, whose lawyers have said such action would be virtu­ally impossible. vowed to appeal. 
The company has argued it is not to blame for how sub­scribers use copyrighted mater­ial. But the appeals court said there was evidence of "massive, unauthorized downloading and uploading of plaintiffs' copy­righted works -as many as 10,000 files per second by defendant's own admission." 
Napster's popularity exploded in 1999 after founder Shawn Fanning rcleo.sed software that made it easy for personal com­puter users to locate and trade songs stored as computer files in the MP3 format, which com­presses digital recordings with­out sacrificing quality. 
The five largest record labels sued as soon as Napster took off, saying it could rob them of billions of dollars in profits. Bertelsmann reached a deal with Napster, promising much­needed capital if Napster switches to a subscription­based service that pays artists' royalties. 
Napster's new service could be ready by .July, according to Thomas Middlehoff, head of Bertelsmann. 
Napster said monthly sub­scribers paying from $2.95 to $9.95 would be able to down­load a limited number of songs, while unlimited service would be available to those paying double that amount. 
Transferring files to blank CDs or portable music players would cost extra, the company said. 
Napster chief executive Hank Barry estimated that 17 million fee-paying, registered users could generate more than $1 billion by the fifth year of the deal. 
"It's the biggest, largest col­lection of music lovers," said Andreas Schmidt, president and CEO of Bertelsmann's e­commerce group. 


TINIE FOR A CHA11VGE? 
milkplow mixes reggae, funk, hip hop, industrial, techno, ancl loud driving rock for a revolutic::>nary sound that is making them om~ of the best up and coming bands in Chicago  


page 8 The Ob,erver . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
Jury convicts doctor in botched abortion 
Associated P rcss 
PHOENIX, Ariz. 

A doctor was convicted of manslaughter Tuesday in the death of a patient following a botched abortion and a former clinic administrator was found guilty of negligent homicide. 
Or. John Siskind, 75, and Carol Stuart-Schadoff, 63, were both charged with manslaugh­ter in the death of 
"We don't usually didn't see it
LouAnne Herron, who prosecute doctors for bad our way, 
Kazan said.

died three 
medicine, but this case 
"We think athours after ait 

was so bad we had to worst this
abortion at the was a case of
now-closed A­make a stand. " 
medical mal­

Z Women's 
practice."

Center in 
Paul Ahler 
Stuart­

Phoenix in 
prosecutor Schadoff's
1998. An 
Stuart-Schadoff's disregard for a sonogram showing the fetus was more than 24 weeks old and her failure to schedule a nurse during llerron's abor­tion. 
Biskind had no comment. His attorney, Lawrence Kazan, said the jury made a crime out of a medical mistake, and he won­dered what implications that would have. 
"W c ·re 
sorry the jury 

autopsy found llerron's uterus had been ruptured by a medical instrument. 
"We don't usually prosecute doctors for bad medicine. but this case was so bad we had to make a stand," prosecutor Paul Ahler said. 
Prosecutors said Biskind and Stuart-Schadoff caused the death by providing little care for Herron as the 33-year-old woman bled heavily. Prosecutors also accused them of ignoring sonograms showing Herron had a pregnancy too advanced to be terminated. 
Sentencing was set for March 20. 
Jurors disapproved of Biskind's decision to leave the clinic as his patient lay dying. 
"We all agreed from the start of deliberations that he was guilty," said jury foreman Russell Craig. a 56-year-old retired government worker. 
Jurors also were struck by 
attorney, 

Cameron Morgan, said he wants a new trial. "Obviously we disagree with the verdict," Morgan said. 
The case led to a state law, now being wrangled in the courts, that would require a medical license for clinics per­forming more than six abor­tions per month and analysis of fetuses aborted after 12 weeks. The Legislature is also consid­ering a bill requiring doctors to provide abortion information to women at least 24 hours before undergoing the procedure. 
Arizona law does not give a specific date after which a doc­tor can no longer terminate a pregnancy, but it prohibits aborting a fetus after it becomes viable, or able to live outside the womb -usually 22 to 26 weeks. 
The clinic advertised itself as the only place in Arizona per­forming abortions up to 24 weeks. 

ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of 
deadline dates and the Fall application process on Tuesday, February 27th 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, asheet of information may be obt~ned in 102-B 01Shaughnessy Hall after tl!e meeting date. 
Ark. honors civil rights pioneer 
. In 2002, Daisy Bates to get state holiday on President's Day 
Associated Press 

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
Daisy Bates, the late civil rights pioneer behind the nine black students who broke the color barrier in proud of what they were accomplishing. 
The Central High incident was a sign that Washington was going to enforce the 1954 Supreme Court ruling in Brown vs. Board of Education that school segregation was uncon­stitutional. 
The signing ceremony took place outside the Central High School Visitor Center, along Daisy 
L. Gatson Bates Drive. Among those in atten­dance was Shirley Brown, 18, who said Bates 
city schools in 1957, will be "None ofus can match honored with a state holiday. 
her courage, none ofus
Gov. Mike Huckabee signed 
can match her record on
legislation Monday to honor Hates on the third Monday in .civil rights." February. Beginning next year, residents will honor her while 
Mike Huckabee 
at the same time observing President's Day. Arkansas governor The nine students walked into Central High amid rioting 
was her mother's godmoth­er. She said the holiday recognition was important. 
"She thought it would make a better Arkansas ­and it did," she said. 
Bates, who died two years ago at age 84, became a national symbol of black hope and a target of segre­gationist hate during the 1950s, first for her promi­nent role in desegregating 
whites and with an Army escort. Meeting the Little Hock bus system in 1956, then as before and after school at Bates' small home adviser to the Little Rock Nine. during the crisis, she advised the children on During legislative debate, some lawmakers how to face the taunting and urged them to be argued that Bates should be honored but not 
Firefighters battle Florida wildfire 
Associated Press 

POLK CITY, Fla. 
A central Florida wildfire had grown to 11,000 acres Tuesday after closing part of a key east­west highway and forcing the evacuation of dozens of homes. 
The blaze was only 20 per­cent contained, authorities said. 
There was no immediate indication when authorities would reopen a 10-mile section of heavily traveled Interstate 4, which connects Tampa, Orlando and Daytona Beach. 
The wind-driven fire in Polk County had charred 11,000 acres by early Tuesday. 
No injuries were reported 
and no houses were damaged. Some residents returned to About 30 homes were evacuat­their homes Sunday afternoon ed in a sparsely populated area after being told to leave near Polk City. Saturday night. Others ignored "Because of the swampy the evacuation orders, choosing 
area, this fire isn't going to to run sprinklers on top of their subside for a long while," Gov. homes and in their yards. Jeb Bush said Monday as ash The Detroit Tigers, who hold from the fire swirled around their spring baseball training in 
him. "It's got anywhere from 4 Lakeland, had to use alternate to 10 feet of fuel to burn before routes to get to their practice it reaches the dirt." facility from Haines City hotels. 
"People need to know that The Polk County Correctional most of these fires are man­Institute took 120 inmates with made, either by arson or respiratory problems to neigh­human error," Bush said. "1-4 boring jails, authorities said. is closed, which has created an A federal fire suppression incredible hardship for many grant was approved for the 
people, and we've got hundreds state. said Joe Myers. Florida's of firefighters out there all emergency management direc­because of human error." tor. 
CHRISTMAS IN 
APRIL APRIL 21, 2001 
Join together with up to seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April (CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the South Bend com­munity joins forces with the students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of a South Bend neighborhood. 
-I

s_r_G_N_-u_P_s_,j 
Tues -Thursday, February 20-22 11 am-2 pm, 4-8 pm 
In LaFortune & Reckers 

Limited Spots Available 
Questions? Contact Craig Komanecki at Komanecki.1@nd.edu or OR Laura Brennan at bren3534@saintmarys.edu 

www.nd.edu/~stdntaff/christmasapril.html 


Wednesday, February 21, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

BRAZIL 
Planned uprises en•d in 15 dead 
wants to control the prison
Associated Press 
system." After nearly 24 hours ofSAO PAULO, Brazil tense negotiations, authoritiesBrazil's largest prison riot in 
persuaded the rebellious
history ended with at least 15 inmates at all 29 facilities to
dead and many questions 
release the hostages and visi­
about just who's truly in 
tors -many of them familycharge of the nation's peniten­members.
tiaries -the state or orga­"None of us considers our­
nized crime. 
selves hostages, we could have 
The uprising by the First 
left whenever we wanted, but
Capital Command organiza­
we pre­

tion. or PCC, 
ferred to

started Sunday 
afternoon at "The uprising was clearly stay inside for fear
Sao .. Paulo's the organization's way of 
there could

h u g e 
getting back at us for the be a rnpeat
Carandiru 
transfer." of the mas­
prison complex 
sacre of

and spread to 
1 9 9 :~ , '' 

28 other pris­
Marco Vinicio Petreluzzl 
C I a r a

ons in the state 
public security secretary Martin
before negotia­
tors regained control Monday. 
In Carandiru, some of the 10,000 inmates took guards hostage and held nearly 8,000 visitors inside. 
"It was a carefully planned operation by an organization that exerts its influence over inmates in other prisons," said Marco Vinicio Petreluzzi, Sao Paulo's public security secre­tary. 
The inmates demanded the 
return of 10 PCC leaders who 
were transferred from 
Carandiru to other facilities 
last Friday after stockpiles of 
ammunition, knives and cellu­
lar phones were found in their 
cells. he said. 
"The uprising was clearly 
the organization's way of get­
ting back at us for the trans­
fer." said Petreluzzi, calling 
the transfer part of a govern­
ment effort "to dismantle an 
organized crime group that Kalil, an 
inmate's wife, said in reference to an operation to quell a riot at Carandiru that left at leaE:t 111 inmates dead. 
Officials had made it dear they would not return the PCC leaders to Carandiru. and the uprising ended peacefully. 
Authorities said at least 15 inmates were killed, including seven at Carandiru. five at the Franco da Rocha prison, one at a penitentiary in Pirajui and two at Belem, a jail. 
Most of the violence appeared to take place between prisoners. But authorities were investigating the deaths of two inmates at Carandiru who may have been killed when police returned fire. 
Inmates set bedding on fire 
in prisons, and smoke was 
seen pouring from windows of 
Carandiru as the revolt began. 
After it ended, television 
footage Monday evening showed naked inmates in recreation yards while guards in body armor searched prison cells. 
Troops suspended the searches before nightfall. and officials said they would return in the morning. 
The riots threw a spotlight on the PCC and its increasing influence in the state prison system, which holds more than 90,000 inmates. The state is about the size of Oregon. 
Most observers say that the group was formed four years ago by convicted bank robbers and drug dealers serving time in the Taubate Penitentiary, 55 miles northeast of Sao Paulo. 
In a 1997 television inter­view that was rebroadcast Monday, a prison guard said the group controlled drug trade in the prisons and extorted money inmates who refuse to join them. The guard, who was not identified, claimed those who don't pay or who betray the group are killed. 
The size of the latest upris­
ing reflects the group's grow­
ing power, said Renato 
Simoes, president of the Sao 
Paulo State Legislature's 
Human Rights Commission. 
"With the rebellion, the PCC 
has shown that it has become 
a parallel power and that the 
state's prison system is com­
pletely bankrupt," Simoes 
said. 
"The government has only 
itself to blame," he added. 
"Because its focus is on 
repression instead of rehabili­
tation, the prison system is 
fertile ground for the PCC and 
its growing influence." 

RUSSIA 
Putin presses for l'iATO mobile missile def~ense 
Associated PreliS 
MOSCOW 

Russian President Vladimir Putin lobbied NATO's chief Tuesday to give serious thought to Moscow's answer to the United States' multibillion­dollar plans for a national mis­sile shield -a smaller mobile defense system for Europe. 
NATO Secretary-General Lord Robertson said Russia should not count on Europeans in the alliance splitting ranks with Washington over a missile defense system. 
"I made it clear that the NATO allies accept that the United States has made its 
"/ made it clear that the meeting.
decision to have an effective mis­NATO allies accept that P u t i n 
first made
sile defense," 
the United States has 
the propos­Robertson said. 
made its decision to have al last
"But what is 
important now is an effective missile year, but 
the lack of
that we now 
defense." 
details
have a Russian 
prompted
proposal to deal with the same 
Lord Robertson observers to call it an
kind of perceived NATO Secretary-General 
threat." 
Moscow vehe­mently opposes the U.S. plan to construct its own missile defense shield to protect against intercontinental mis­siles from small potential nuclear powers like North Korea. The estimated cost of a 
U.S. system ranges from $30 billion to $60 billion. 
Details of the Russian alter­
native presented to Robertson 
on Tuesday were sketchy, but 
it includes proposals for joint 
Russian-European mobile 
defenses to counter medium­
and short-range missiles. 
The plan, said Russian mili­
tary officials, also envisages 
forming a joint group of 
experts to analyze possible 
missile threats. If such threats 
are considered serious, Russia 
and European states would 
jointly deploy anti-missile 
defenses as a last resort. 
Moscow fears the U.S. project would be expanded to protect the United States from larger nuclear arsenals, like Russia's. It savs the shield would violate 
S..~'{''l'l-f 'D'A '],{ C2 
~®~~® 


•••• Date: ••• Wednesday, Feb. 2Js'
• 

Place: LaFortune Ballroomi 
Time: ,. 
8-11 pm 
Admission: Goods and monetary do11atio11s acceyted to benefit victims of the recent earthquakes in El Salvador,. 
Sponsored by Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) and WVFI 
the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, which Moscow consid­ers a cornerstone of disarma­ment; the ABM treaty prohibits a national missile defense umbrella. Russian officials also insist that Washington has exaggerated the missile threat. 
In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. Craig Quigley said Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld had not seen the Russian proposal but was "heartened" by Russia's acknowledgment that Europe faces possible missile threats. 
Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev presented Robertson with Russia's official proposal in a Kremlin 
attempt to 
draw a wedge between European NATO members and the United States. 
Putin urged Lord Robertson to quickly consider the propos­al. "Our military and civilian experts are ready to arrive in Brussels to explain the mean­ing of Russian proposals to the European public," Putin told Robertson at a Kremlin meet­ing. 
"The mobile anti-missile 
units will be deployed in the 
directions of the greatest risk 
of missiles to cover the most 
important facilities," a top 
Defense Ministry official, Col. 
Gen. Leonid lvashov, told 
reporters. 
In Beijing, Chinese President 
Jiang Zemin on Tuesday 
denounced lJ .S. plans for 
missile defense shield, saying 
the system could "sabotage 
global strategic balance and 
security." 
Jiang made his comments to 
German Defense Minister 
Rudolf Scharping. 

. 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

page 10 .BSERVER Wednesday, February 21 , 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre O..mc. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nom, Di.lYlc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHJ.l!F 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGINC EDITOR 8USINF.SS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillc:spic Tim Lane 

NEWS EDITORt Anne Marie Mattingly 
VIEWPOINT .EDITOlb Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR, Kerry Smith 
SCENE EDITOR. Amanda Greco SAINT MAl!.v's EDITOR, Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR, Eliz.a~th Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
Ao D..slGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
S'YSD:MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB AoMINl~TIIA:fOR, Adam Turner 
CoNTROU.ER, Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGEKIGENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 
FAX.............................................................G3 l-G927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631°5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................,.................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu Sc:ENE.........................................................631-4540 observcr.sccne. !@nd.edu 
SAINT MAltv's ............................................. 631-4324 
observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at hnp:llobs=.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wc:U as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 

weekly srudcnt reviews
minute furccasa 
advertise for policies 

onlinc features for spe­
cial campus coverage: 
and rates of print ads 

about The Observer
acdtivcs co search for 

co mecr rhe editors and
arridcs published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is 1hc independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe s1udents ofthe University of Norn: Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial conccnr, including advertisements, is no1 governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertiscmcnl5 based on contem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent 1he opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A.isisrant Managing Editor and deparcment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opm1ons through lencrs is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and mu.st include contact information. 
Qu,,tions r1:1,arding ObunmpoJicin ,hould ~ diro:1­,d IO Ji,ljtor in Chirf MJt, Connolly. 
LEXINGTON, Ken. 
So, we're all guilty. For the record though I don't think anyone thought what they were doing was legal. 
Yep, Napster is soon to be a thing of the past. Sad, I know. I too will miss being able to get practically any Alan Slone song that I wanted at any given time. 
But Jet's be hon­
Kentucky
est, kids. Did any­
Kernel
one really think this was legal? Did anyone really think that. stealing the creative works 
of thousands of artists wouldn't be. I don't know, a slight bit unethical at least? 
For those of you who bust out with the "hey-music-should-be-free-to­everyone-dude" side, sit down a minute and listen to yourself. Unless you prac­tice the musical equivalent of commu­nism or even heavy-grade socialism you can't go out and purchase anything from a store and then ask a hard-work­ing (or hardly working) artist to just give you his music, his "wares" if you will. 
Our society (however screwed up you might think it is) just doesn't work that way. For better or for worse we go to jobs to get money and we sell ourselves each day to make money. 
These guys -the guys out there who aren't on MTV and aren't selling mil­lions of albums -those are the guys that are really getting ripped off. The 
GUEST COLUMN 

Bands lose with Napster 
f apologize in advance for my hypocrisy. Just a few days ago I was laughing with friends about how "The Vagina Monologues" issue was still making the newspaper. Glancing at Monday's front page article, however, prompted me to put my foot in my mouth and write in to share my viewpoint. 
I thoroughly enjoyed the Arts and Letters faculty presenta­tion this past weekend as it helped justify in my own mind my switch to that college in the hopes of a more fulfilling career. The faculty members who spoke emphasized, among other things, the absolutely vital role of open and ongoing discussion and debate of "tough questions" -academic, as well as moral, ethical. and spiritual -among students, fac­ulty and administrators in a university of Notre Dame's repute. 
Contrast this with the paraphrase in Monday's issue of The Observer of Marilou Eldred which indicated that "The Vagina Monologues" would not be allowed because of con­cern that the play would "draw more controversy than healthy discussion." 
Pardon me. but doesn't the debate of tough questions that the Arts and Letters faculty spoke of imply a degree of con­troversy? 
I might go further and infer that Marilou Eldred's idea, ­then, of "healthy discussion" involves everybody agreeing on everything ... which also implies that nobody learns anything from anybody. 
As students in the Notre Dame family we are special. But guys like Metallica and Dr. Dre that get millions upon millions of dollars any­way really don't need the half million they lose to Napster. 
While they stiJl deserve the money (they did unfortunately earn it) it's the guys like Cracker, Burlap to Cashmere and Guster that are taking the hits to album sales. 
As much as we don't like them; one­hit wonder bands like Aha and Men Without Hats are suffering even more. Not only do they have the stigma attached to them that they were "one­hit-wonders" but now their album sales on compilations and singles are down the tubes because you can easily get it off of Napster. 
Band members in the public eye (as cushy as their jobs look now) really do have to work. Yes, even Fred Durst has to sit down and write lyrics to his songs, spend countless hours in the studio and travel away from his family. 
Then there were the times before bands were big when they had to open for first-tier acts. play small clubs or even play out of their basement. They deal with the inability to work with their group, legal contracts, blood­thirsty and money-hungry promoters and deal completely with life as you and I see it. 
They are not exempt from everyday life even though it might seem so among the pyrotechnics and screaming groupies. They work hard for their money and they deserve the paychecks that are supported by the money that 
you the consumer throw at them. Think they shouldn't make the money they do? Don't pay the prices. 
Oh, and I'll let you in on a little secret: the producers and record com­panies make more money than the per­formers do at almost a 5-to-1 ratio. 
Even with this said, the idea of music trade isn't going anywhere in the near future. Even though people might be taking down places like Napster and Scour music services the MP3 age is upon us and it's not going away. MP3 players are selling well and the actual technology of trading, sharing and encoding is just shy of sheer brilliance. 
Hopefully the old ways of the music industry will embrace this new technol­ogy. I don't think they can survive with­out it -no matter how many lawsuits they win. 
So what is the common college stu­dent to do? 
I'd say this: if you like your music, do as you would have normaHy. I plan on getting while the getting is good. But when all is said and done I won't com­plain when it's gone. 
Hopefully you won't either. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 19. 2001 issue ofthe University of Kentucky's newspaper, the Kentucky Kernel. and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WlRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Debate must follow controversy 

are we not also just normal people? Don't we also have the same concerns and personal issues as students elsewhere? In particular are violence, sexuality and the combination of violence and sexuality not crucial to our developing lives? (If sex isn't a part ofa Catholic's life, then how is it that they have such big families)? 
Suggesting otherwise -that we are somehow above these issues -is turning a blind eye to stark reality; it is burying our heads in the sand. I don't want to learn to live as an ostrich. If our leaders are ostriches then I don't want to fol­low them. 
I'd like to close this letter with a story about a close friend of mine with whom I had the pleasure of talking over Christmas break. I'll call her Valerie. 
Valerie is a student at a Michigan state school, is a theater major and is deeply religious. She was also sexually assault­ed recently -an event which shattered her life. It was through hearing 'The Vagina Monologues" and eventually through participating in the production that she was able to find strength. meaning and direction again in her life. 
I thank God that she chose not to come to Notre Dame. 
Kyle Demko 

junior Mo rrisscy Manor February 20, 200] 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAYDILBERT 
"It is easier to fight for one's principles than to live up to them." 
Alfred Adler psychologist 


VIEWPOINT 
A!,HE

Wednesday, February 21, 200 l vnSERVER 
page 11 
Learning center enriches community 
Can you imagine knocking on the door of a house in your neighborhood and finding out that the fall.!ily living there has never before seen a comput­er? 
Asking them if they have a "PC" brings a response of bewilderment, con­fusion and embarrassment. I must admit as a senior here at Notre Dame from the Silicon Valley it is hard for me to imagine anyone in my neighborhood who could possibly fit this 
John Micek

bill. Up until a year ago I would not have believed that someone in my neighborhood would have never seen a computer or understood what a PC was. Sadly, if Fora More you answered "no" to the first question you, as I, are Just and unaware of the neighborhood surrounding our home lfumane World here at Notre Dame. 
Until last year I did not know that the area extend­ing away from our campus toward and including Molly McGuire's, Lafayette and St. Joseph Medical Center was called the Northeast l\eighborhood. 
I did not know I.hat there was a diverse community of p,ersons with the challenges of a neighborhood so close 1:o the "Notre Dame bubble." Many in the neighborhood do not have computers. · 
It was then that I learned about certain students, staff and faculty mem­bers of the Center for Social Concerns who were working with an initiative of the President's Office and,residents of the Northeast Neighborhood to cre­ate a center in the old Goodwill Building. They hoped to partner in a way to "strengthen interaction between the Northeast Neighborhood and Notre Dame by building trust through partnerships that stimuh!.te community revi­talization" (excerpt from the Community Learning Center Mission Statement). 
Sadly, many in this neighborhood have in the past felt neglected and some abused by the powerful institution of Notre Dame. Why, many ask, has the University, a place of such education and philanthropy, not given and shared more with its neighbors? This, a sentiment long fostered in the gen­erations of some families within the Northeast Neighborhood, is now being addressed structurally and through programs. The University is extending itself into the area in the form of a major revitalization program. One part of this program is the development of the Community Learning Center. 
I think that we all understand the importance of our education in our own lives but this Center offers us a chance to enrich our education and experi­ence within a neighborhood of which we are fortunate to be a part. 
The Community Learning Center will be a place of mutuality where stu­dents and neighbors alike will engage in shared learning. I must stress that the time you will spend in this Center will in no way be a one-way flow of information and learning. This two-way street, if you may, is why this opportunity should strike at the hearts of the entire Notre Dame community. Students, staff and faculty can both give and receive from this unique and beautiful Center. 
Today members of the University and residents of the .\lortheast Neighborhood are coming together for the grand opening of the Community Learning Center. This celebration from 4 to 7 p.m. is the culmination of a wonderful instance of collaboration amongst the Northeast Neighborhood, Notre Dame and community partners. 
The Center houses a new computer cluster, exercise equipment and class­es, health screening through St. Joseph Medical Center, a library, tutoring, piano lessons and more. Located next to Molly McGuire's on Eddy Street, the Center is less than four blocks from campus, a spot ideal for any student to drop in and expand their outlook on the richness of our neighborhood. 
I recently visited the CLC in its initial days of operation. I'm filled with joy and great hope about the future of this collaboration in the Northeast Neighborhood. In the future after my Notre Dame undergraduate years I look forward to returning to this neighborhood to witness how these written goals will come to life beyond this first month. 
The following is a summary of the goals of the Community Learning 
Center: 
1. 
To create a neighborhood setting that will house ar., array of community programs and activities and will serve as a place of gathering, welcoming and interaction for all. 

2. 
To establish educational programs beginning with a. computer initiative that develops skills. encourages new efforts in commun.lcation and commu­nity building and provides new opportunities for teaching and learning across generations and within families. 

3. 
To provide space and support for cooperative programs with local health care agencies, businesses, schools, faith-based group and community organizations that enhance the quality of life of the neiHhborhood by provid­ing increased access to health care, employment and business opportuni­ties, new community-based learning resources and faith-based initiatives that encourage the revitalization of each person's God-given dignity and worth. 

4. 
To foster an enhanced sense of citizenship and commitment to commu­nity revitalization among all the Center's partners and 1participants. 


The Center for Social Concerns' column appears every other Wednesday. This week's column was written by John Micek. Micek. a senior and a Center for Social Concerns student intern this past summer, was, along with many ND students, faculty, staff, Northeast Neighborhood residents and various community agency representatives. involved in the initial stages of the CLC's development. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Display mocked culture 
The brochure from the Junior Parents Weekend Gala last weekend listed a num­ber of displays, including "Indians: A pro­motion of the Indian heritage through dec­oration andl scenes." 
If we are trying to better understand Native American cultures there are 
much better ways than inviting amidst tacky displays, most signifi­them to perform in a side-show cantly a campy wild West display style settini~ side by side wil.h a that propagated stereotypes set cardboard "saloon" staffed in place by old television west­with people costumed as erns? Do we see these things cowboys and prostitutes as deserving of equal treat­
serving "cactus juice." ment? 
I am sure that everyone I may b,e accused of who attended the events falling prey to the very this weeke:ud will join racism and exoticism that me in thanking the JPW I am trying to question in committee for a wonder­my failure to take offense ful weekend and for at some of the other dis­their hard work; I am plays; however, none of sure that they did not this existed in a vacuum mean to offend. I am not and the s.ocial-historical questioning the Native context in which Native Americans who were pre­Americans have been mar-sent at the gala dancing, ginalized cannot be separat­drumming and singing. I do ed from this event. not know how they felt about The bottom line is that we the event although I hope to invited these people to perform contact them to find out. here and then we paid little atten­
My intent is to encourage ques­tion to them and wore feathered 
tioning within the Notre Dame commu­nity as to why we were comfortable with the placement of Native American dancers right next to a fake wild West scene and a teepee with moving Indian statues. 
When faced with this grotesque juxtapo­sition the majority of the people in atten­dance did not seemed bothered; on the contrary many cheerfully sported feath­ered headbands that said "JPW 2001." I admit, I too have worn a headband such as this ... wh,m I was in kindergarten for a Thanksgiving celebration. Back then I was 
Pr<)test against sweat~~hops should persever«~ 
Soon Notre Dame will decide whether or not it wants to join with 7 4 other schools already signed on to the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC). The WRC is a monitor­ing system that will begin to end sweat­shop labor by focusing on the manufactur­ing of collegiate apparel. 
Notre Dame may have led the way early on in the fight against sweatshops but that position as a leader is being lost. Seventy­four other schools have already decided to join forces under the WRC. 
The WRC is the best way for this University to stop using sweatshops. It gives a voice to those who know best what goes on in a sweatshop -the workers. It also publishes the information it finds so the public will know what abuses are pre­sent in a. companies factories. The WRC will use Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) that are already in countries with sweatshops. These NGOs will continuously monitor the situation at apparel factories. 
Notre Dame is a founding member of the monitoring system known as the Fair Labor Association {FLA). The FLA was cre­ated by the Apparel Industry Partnership in 1998 to "provide the public with confi­dence" that their clothes are not made in sweatshops. 
Many student and human rights groups feel that the FIA is just a public relations ploy that will only do minimal amount to change the current industry-wide use of sweatshops. The FlA will only check an average of 10 percent of the apparel facto­ries each year once it is in full operation. It too young to know the tragic effects of the conquest and European colonization on the indigenous peoples of the Americas. 
What is it about the Notre Dame culture that allows us to participate in such an event in which actual Native Americans 
performing dances could be placed 
headbands, actively participating in cre­ating a situation which could potentially be very degrading. 
I would love to see more events on cam­pus that could work towards a greater understanding of Native American cultures and issues today; however these events should be held in a respectful setting. 
Krista Schoening junior off-campus February 19, 200 I 
could be over 10 years from one factory check to the next. 
The FIA also keeps the factory abuses to itself. The public will never know what companies to avoid when buying sweat­shop-free clothes. This iis not adequate. The WRC is clearly better with continuous monitoring and making its findings avail­able to the public. 
Notre Dame now wants to create its own monitoring system. This system will be similar to the FIA. There will only be spot checks of a company's factories by Notre Dame's monitoring system. It will not pub­lish any of the abuses it finds either, leav­ing the public and students in the dark. 
Although Notre Dame has a chance of doing good alone, by joining with 74 other schools so much more can be done. 
Notre Dame has many things to be proud of but this pride should not get in the way of doing what i.s best to end sweatshops. Notre Dame should resume its position as a national leader and join the WRC. Saint Mary's has already joined the WRC as have some of our closest foot­ball rivals: University of Michigan and Purdue. 
Joe Smith 
senior O'Neill Family Hall February 20, 200 I 
.,. . • ... ... .. .. -.... ' -• • .. -• • -• ' ••• ,, • • • ... • -.. • .. .. .. " ! • 1., • • .. , • ·~ ' . . 

I N E T 
page 12 Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
New technologies can identify songs, 
ba~ysit your kids 
We've all done it. We're rolling in our '83 Datsun or Dad's 2000 Explorer. We hear a new song that sounds like Madonna circa 1987 and we say, "What's this song called? I want to go home and download it, so I don't have to buy another CD for just one song -that Vanilla Ice album really sucked except for 'Ice, Ice Baby.'" 
Bul then at the end of the new song, 

the smart-mouthed DJ starts talking Jeff Baltruzak 
about how Britney is denying her alleged surgery to distance her nipple from the rest or her body. and they never get around lo saying th,~ title of the song. Short Circuits 
What do you do? Whip out ·that cell phone! ConneXus, a company out of Pennsvlvania, has a free service called *CD w·here you hit *23 on your phone. punch in the station's frequency and then get the title of the track you just heard, as well as titles of other songs you heard earlier in the day on the same station. 
Then you can be a sucker and actually buy the CD using your cell phone instead of just downloading the songs from one of the dozens of MP3 sites the University hasn't blocked. I would mention them, but I don't want to give anyone any ideas. 
ConneXus runs this service by using sound-recognition tech­
nology on a dozen of the top radio stations in each city. Then 
the song is compared to a database with one million tracks 
stored in it. 
Spiffy, you say? The best thing about it is, it doesn't cost a 
thing. The bad news is that it's only available in Philly and San 
Francisco. But the company is monitoring radio stations in 32 
other cities. looking to expand the service. 
Do you think South Bend is one of those lucky towns? I don't. 
Has anyone ever used the words "lucky" and "South Bend" in 
the same sentence? I'll have to do some research on that one. 
It seems everyone is getting DVD players these days. Good 
ol' VHS is going off to join Beta in VCR heaven because the 
tapes just can't keep pace with the multiple camera angles 
and director's commentary added on DVDs. 
Resist the urge to buy "Weekend at Bernie's" because the 
NFL has now caught the DVD wave with "The NFL's Greatest 
Moments in Super Bowl History" ($25). As you watch each 
play, you can interact with the DVD by hitting one of the icons. 
Each icon provides more in-depth information about the play. 
like different camera angles and the chance to listen to the 
opposing team's announcers. 
I like this product because I always wanted to hear the 
Buffalo Bills announcers during those four Super Bowl losses. 
I bet they would say something like, "Scott Norwood is the best 
pla.ce-kicker in football" right before he choked it in Super 
Bowl XXV. 
Also available on the NFL DVD are screen savers and trivia 
games. This product might help you get your football fix dur­
ing the off-season without watching the XFL. 
Here's a good present for your parents after you win the l?t­
tery: the DC06 robotic vacuum cleaner made by a company m 
England. . _ . 
Like the robotic lawnmower featured in this column earlier 
this year, it uses sensors to negotiate around you~ living_ roo;11 
while vacuuming in a spiral motion. The crazy Brits behmd 1t 
claim it "has more sensors than the Mars lander." 
While that may not be good news for NASA, it's good news 
for your glass coffee table. 
The vacuum costs $3,500. lf you're wondering how many 
snooty butlers you could hire to vacuum for less than $3,500, 
the answer is five. 
For people that don't want the dry British wi~ that comes 
with a butler, you can buy an I-Robot-LE from 1Robot for 
under $5,000. The company says you can control it from any­
where using the Internet, even letting you "hold a remote con­
versation with your babysitter." 
I thought people normally just gave the babysitter the num­
ber they would be at, but I guess I'm wrong. . 
The 1-Hobot-LE also climbs stairs, just like a real babysitter. 
Herc, trust your kid to a robot. That's a great idea. Then tell 
them to talk to strangers and sit really close to the TV. 

The views express<:d in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Get something for nothing 
By MERIDETH PIERCE Scene Writer 
It has long been man's goal to obtain something for nothing. And with the birth of the Internet, we may finally be reaching that goal. 
Believe it or not, there are actually thou­sands of Internet sites that want to give you free stuff'. 
If you set your mind to it, and point your browser in the right direction. even you can obtain products and offers completely free from the Internet. 
In fact many sites are practically begging for you to take their 
with these "'freebie" pages, which arc an easy way to start your quest for free stuff. On all of the search engine sites you can sign up for a newsletter that will keep you aware of the new freebies being added daily. 
If you are looking for free downloads of any type, the best site to visit is TheFreeSite .com. 
For those Web surfers who know exactly free stuff they are looking for. TheFreeSite.com provides a handy subject keyword search. This homepage is also full of categories that you can browse and choose from. 
Some of' their popular categor,(es, include 
samples or free ser­vices. 
Granted, there mav 

·····y~·~;FR9'Estuff_~~---.. 
be oftc~ 

...........
some draw­backs and catches to 

We separate the FREE from the Fake™
these free­

8:55 P.M. Tuesday, February20, 2001
bies. It is 

There :are 1052 FREE offers today 
Pholo courtltSY of YourFreeStuff.com
always best 

to remem­ber that people usually don't give away free stuff out of the goodness of their hearts. · 
By and large, freebie providers are looking to draw you to their site to drum up busi­ness. so they can sell you something else. 
All catches and loopholes aside, there are an enormous number of freebies out there for the taking. As long as you are careful and use common sense, you'll be OK. 
On many of these Internet sites, you will be required to answer some marketing ques­tions in order to have something sent to you for free. 
Other sites simply require you to sign up for one or more mailing lists. And there are a few Web sites which offer free computer downloads that generally require nothing at all. 
There are numerous search engines linked 
I· r c e Fonts," " F r c e Graphics," " fl r (~ C Internet Access," " F r e e Software" and .. Free Games." 
Once you find a topic of interest, all the free orfers arc listed and described 
in a concise manner. 
Most of the time when searching for down­loads. you are linked to another site where you have to download what you are looking 
for. 

ThcFreeSite.com is full of popular freebies. One offer links you to NeoPets where you can create your own virtual pet. Another option helps you create your own search 
engine for a personal Web page. 
If you are looking for something new to spice up your computer, you will find what you are looking for here. 
TheFreeSite.com also has a listing for free goods. Some of the easy and in~erestin_g offers include samples from Physique hair products, free stickers from eSticker.com and a free mouse pad from the aptly named FreeMousepads.com. 
Another search engine for freebies is Free-Stuff. Center.cum. This site has fewer offers then The­F r e e ­Site.com, but what they do have is more exciting. 
The "sam­ples" section at Frce­Stufl'Center­.com has many entic­ing offers. These sam­ples range from free makeup and beauty sam­ples to free long dis­tance phone cards. 
The page also has a link to Postage­Shop.com. a site which will send you 10 prc­s tamp c d envelopes as well as coupons for postage. 
A perk to 


I N E T 
Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
page 13 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS
Internet sites offer freebi4es 



Free 11'13gazines H01f Wired. theStandard. Home Office ... 
/.lnon~<mo,Js Freebies Encryption, E-mail, Web Surfing... 
Business Freebies Stock Quotes, Management, Jobs... 
rree u·,at sen,1 ces: 
Free Online Chat Services ... 
Erna,! Freebies E-maii Services. Free Ne\f\lS letters ... FaroilY. Freebies 
Ms:c. Freebies Vario us Free Stuff Lis:tin !~:S ... 
Free Nev,sl etter TheFreeSite.corrls Newsletter... 
Nev•.est Freebies Check Out Our Latest U;tings.. 
other Free S't1.Jff Sites Roundup of the Web's Freeb11:!s Sitl:!S .. 
Personal r•,•'lanagfilU§ill! Online Cal!:!ndars, Bookma11< ... 
Photo courtesy of Th.iFreeStte.com 

Search engines like TheFreeSite.com direct Internet freebie-seekers to the bargains unline. 

FreeStuff-Center.com is the category marked "contests." 
If you are feeling lucky. this option is for you -with one click you are instantly linked up to win $1 million. 
For those of us who like something a little more assured, there is also a category for coupons. 
With this option you can print off coupons from CoolSavings.com or have them sent to you from SaveCoupons.com. 
If by chance you have any spare time and not enough school-related reading, check out the category of books on FreeStuffCenter.com. 
Here, leisure readers can link up to TheBookCart.com where you can get a num­ber of paper­b a c k books for no cost at all. 
In the book cate­
gory you can also surf mystery and sci-fi book clubs that have a verv low fee. 
TheFreebieDiroctory.com is yet another of the hundreds of freebie resources on the Internet. 
Of the many search directories. this site is the easiest to read and use. What makes this site unique is that once you pick from the wide variety of categories of freebies, it lists them all. 
Besides general information about the product or offer. TheFreebieDirectory.com also ranks the freebie, tells you when it was added and how many people have visited it from TheFreebieDirectory.com and allows you to read reviews that other users have written about the freebie. 
There are many links on TheFreebieDirectory.com to useful tools for students. 
Through these links you can get free sam­ples of Excedrin and Folgers Coffee through these products' Web pages. · 
Other perks are a free CR-R disk from FileBurner.com. After registering to File­Burner.com and referring others to the site. you can earn even more free disks. 
You may also choose to visit GreenTea­Lifo.com to have a free sample of g1reen tea sent right to your dorm room. 
Pantene Pro-V is also a part of TheFreebieDirectory.com and you can have hair product samples sent to you as well as coupons for their products. 
Some people, however, might be better off checking out the link to Beano.com. There you can request a sample of the dietary sup­plement that helps prevent gas and sub­scribe to Beano's free mailing list. 
A very helpful service that TheFrecbie-Dir­
e C t · 


o r y ­. CO m pro ­vid es is a link to Di a 1­
Photo courtesy of TheFreebieDirectory.com 
p ad ­
.com. 
This unique service lets you make free unlimited long distance calls via your com­puter. 
Dialpad is Java-powered. so you don't need to download and install software to use the service. This is a freebie you cannot miss out on -you might never have to pay for long distance again. 
If all this talk of free stuff peaks your interest, there are hundreds more freebie searches that you can do on the 'Net. 
YourFreeStuff.com specializes in name brand item samples. Samplesite.com is another worthwhile engine with links to freebie sites. 
Manufacturers of food and small house­hold items are continually sending out coupons and free samples all the time. 
So get online and make sure you don't miss out on all that's free for the taking. Who says you can't get something for noth­ing? 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
NBA 
Marion scores 28; leads Suns to 110-104 victory 
Associa1.ed Preu 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Shawn Marion scored 28 
points and made a key late bas­
ket as the Phoenix Suns beat 
Orlando 110-104 Tuesday night. 
snapping the Magic's nine-game 
winning streak. 
Jason Kidd added 15 points and 15 assists for the Suns, who have beaten the Magic six straight times. Tony D1ilk scored 22 points. 
Orlando's Tracy McGrady had 11 career-high 44 points, includ­ing 19 in the fourth quarter. However, McGrady missed three of four foul shots in the final 55 seconds. 
The Magic last won nine straight games early in the 1994-95 season. 
Marion, who also had 11 rebounds, hit a 13-foot jumper from the left baseline with 1:06 remaining to give to Suns a 105­101 lead. 
McGrady, who was perfect on four free-throw attempts up to that point, missed two free throws on Orlando's ensuing possession. 
Marion finished 8-for-12 from the field and 11-of-13 from the line. 
Phoenix had 55 free-throw attempts, a record for an Orlando opponent. The Suns sank 43 foul shots, while the Magic shot 16-for-23 from the line. 
Kidd hit two free throws to put the Suns ahead 101-99 with 
2:22 left. After Darrell Armstrong missed a 3-pointer, Rodney Rogers followed with a scoop layin as the Suns assumed a four-point lead. Rogers fin­ished with 20 points. 
McGrady, who shot 18-for-31 from the field, hit a fadeaway from the left baseline to bring Orlando within 103-101, but Marion responded with his last points of the game. 
With 9:58 to play, Phoenix opened an 84-79 lead, its largest advantage since the first quarter, when Marion was fla­grantly fouled by Monty Williams. Marion and Williams, who was ejected, exchanged words. but the two were sepa­rated and Marion followed with two free throws. 
The Suns eventually opened up a seven-point lead, but Orlando recovered to tie the game at 99 on Don Reid's thun­dering dunk off a McGrady pass with 3 minutes remaining. Reid had nine of his 13 points in the fourth quarter. 
The Suns capitalized on Orlando's poor shooting and broke out to an 11-point lead a little more than five minutes into the game. The Magic missed 10 of 12 shots at the start of the game, while Phoenix shot 4-for-6 from the field and was perfect on six free throws. 
But Orlando came back with 13 unanswered points and went ahead 18-16 with 2:46 remain­ing in the quarter. McGrady had nine of his points in the run. 
Knlcks 76, Heat 74 
Tim Hardaway threw up an airball and an off-target 3-point­er on Miami's final two posses­sions, and the New York Knicks held the Heat to 12 points in the fourth quarter of a 76-74 victory Tuesday night. 
In a typical Heat-Knicks matchup highlighted mainly by defense, both teams struggled to score down the stretch. The Knicks had only two field goals over the final six minutes, while Miami had just three over the same span. 
After Eddie Jones of the Heat stole the ball from Latrell Sprewell with 15 seconds left, Hardaway rushed a 3-point attempt that missed badly. Charlie Ward was fouled with 
3.3 seconds left and made one of two from the line, giving the Heat another chance. 
Hardaway attempted another 3-pointer just before the buzzer, and the shot bounced hard off the rim as time expired. 
The victory moved the Knicks back into second place in the Atlantic Division, just a few per­centage points ahead of Miami. 
Sprewell led the Knicks with 17 points, while Larry Johnson 
had 14. Marcus Camby 13 and Allan Houston 12. Anthony Mason had 17 points for the Heat. 
Neither team led by more than five points over the first three quarters, and Miami took a 62­60 lead into the fourth. 
The lleat committed three turnovers and missed their first five shots of the fourth quarter before Mason made one of two from the line with 7:30 left to cut Miami's deficit to 64-63. 
The Knicks stayed ahead until Hardaway drove around Sprewell for an uncontested layup that made it 70-69 with 
3:54 left, but Miami's lead lasted just 14 seconds before Houston hit two foul shots. 
A turnover by Jones was fol­lowed by a layup by Camby for a three-point lead with 2:33 left, and New York held the lead the rest of the way. 
Ahead 75-74, Sprewell missed a 3-pointer as the 24-second clock was about to expire with 34 seconds left. Camby grabbed the offensive rebound, and the Knicks ran 19 seconds off the shot clock before Jones sneaked up behind Sprewell and stole the ball to set up the final sequence. 
Grizzlies 116, Wizards 104 

Michael Dickerson scored nine of his 23 points during a deci­sive third-quarter run as the Vancouver Grizzles beat the Washington Wizards 116-104, extending their franchise-record winning streak to five games. 
Vancouver, which had never won more than three straight games in its six-year history, won its third straight on the road after losing 15 straight road games. 
The Grizzlies received double­figure scoring from six players. 
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf scored 13 of his 19 points in the second half. Shareef Abdur-Rahim also scored 19 points. Grant Long. who had 14 rebounds, matched his season-high with 16 points. 
Mike Bibby had 10 points and 13 assists, included 12 in the second half for Vancouver, 
which received 40 points from 
its reserves. 

Juwan Howard led 
Washington with 27 points. 
Chris Whitney hit a season-high 
six 3-pointers and finished with 
24 points. 

Washington scored the first four points of the second half' and trimmed its deficit to five points, 59-54, 2 minutes into the third quarter. 
But Dickerson seized control, hitting two 3-pointers and cap­ping a 13-0 run with a three­po int play. as the Grizzlies moved out to an insurmountable 72-54 lead. 
Raptors 113, Warriors 102 

Vince Carter scored 33 points and Mark Jackson moved passed Isiah Thomas into fourth place on the NBA career assist list as the Toronto Raptors beat the Golden State Warriors 113­102 Tuesday night. 
Jackson had 12 assists, raising his career total to 9,065. After passing Thomas with his ninth assist, Jackson hugged his team­mates and received a standing ovation. Jackson, a 14-year vet­eran, played for New York, the Los Angeles Clippers, Indiana and Denver before signing with Toronto as a free agent in Aug. 2000. 
Mookie Blaylock's jumper cut Toronto's lead to two points with 3:22 remaining, but Jackson followed with a three­point play. 
Toronto's Antonio Davis made one of two free throws, and Jackson followed with an assist on Alvin Williams' 3-pointer, which gave the Raptors a nine point lead with 1 :56 left. 
After a turnover by Antawn Jamison, Jackson sealed the win with a 3-pointer with 1:20 remaining. 
Jamison had 31 points for the Warriors, who have lost five straight and 10 of their last 11. 
Blaylock had four steals, rais­ing his career total to 2001. Only seven other players have 2000 steals in NBA history. 
Carter, held to six points in his last game, had a season-high 13 
rebounds for the Raptors, who ended a two-game losing streak. Carter scored 13 points as the Raptors built a 56-55 halftime. 
Bucks 101, Bulls 92 

Glenn Robinson beat up on one of the Chicago Bulls, and Ray Allen took care of the rest of them. 
Allen scored 17 of his 34 points in tho fourth quarter in the Milwaukee Bucks' 101-92 victory over the Bulls. But the game was marred by an ugly scuffle between Robinson and Chicago forward Hon Artest in the third quarter. 
"I think that was the turning point, because I got it going a little bit," Allen said. 
With approximately 5:35 left in the third, Artest and Robinson were jockeying for position near the Bucks' basket when Robinson threw an elbow that hit Artest in the stomach. Artest wrapped his arms around Robinson's shoulders and pulled him to the floor from behind. 
The two scuffled, trading punches and kicks before being separated after several minutes. Calm was finally restored after about five minutes. 
Both players were given tech­nical fouls and were ejected. Artest also received a flagrant foul. 
Team officials accompanied both players to their locker room to make sure there wasn't another run-in. Robinson also was escorted out of the locker room after the game, and he refused to comment. 
As for Artest, he was sorry the whole mess ever happened. 
"We were just being aggres­sive all game, we were being competitive all game and I might have blown it out of pro­portion," Artest said. "I was just trying to play hard. I think I overreacted." 
This is the second time the two players have clashed. Robinson was ejected during a game in Chicago last year for a hard foul on Artest. 
But Artest said there's no problem between the two. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Summer camp positions: Make a  3-5 bedroom homes  NICE HOME NORTH OF ND  SPRING BREAK DOWNTOWN  
WANTED  difference in the lite of a child! Summer therapy camp for children  ctose to campus 232-2595  GOOD AREA FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  CHICAGO! $22-25/night-hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF  Full time Ph.D. student research fel­lowships are available in the Cell  
with disabilities. Located on shore  mmmrentals@aol.com  277-3097  WITH AD  and Molecular Physiology Graduate  
BLACK FEMALE ROOMATE IN  of lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml.  312/360-0300 or  Program of Loyola University  
CASTLEPOINT  Positions available for Counselors,  All the good houses are not gone!  www.hichicago.org  Chicago. Reasearch areas include  
$350  Lifeguards, Instructors for Nature, Arts & Crafts, Recreation,  Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom.  FOR SALE  ion channel molecular biology, bio­physics and biochemistry, cardiac  
271-7195  Canoeing, Nurses. Therapists, Food Service and Auxilary. Must be  Dave 291-2209 macos@michiana.ora  BRONCO II  PERSONAL  electrophysiology, calcium dynam­ics and excitationcontraction cou­ 
Models Wanted Females  enthusiastic, responsible and love  5 spd  pling. signal transduction. neuro­ 
Long black or dark brown hair for  children. June 17 through August  2-4 person house for rent. Newly  $1000obo  Graduate Fellowships in Cell and  physiology, and neral and immune  
portrait & glamour photography  12. Call or wnte for application and  renovated three blocks from cam­ 4-3472  Molecular Physiology  components of trauma and injury  
inforrnabon. Bay Cliff Health Camp,  pus  biology, Applications are sought  
Call chuck @ 616-687-3800  310 W Washington. Suite 300,  call 219-298-3800  $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$  from individuals motivated to  
Marquette Ml 49855, (906)228­ Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­ Happy Birthday, BEAUTLFULI  become biomedical research scien­ 
Reliable. quality childcare needed in my heme for 2-year-old and  5770, e-mail BayClitlHC@aol.com  2 Houses, side by side, still avail. For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4  vey! www,money4opinions com  (I'm glad you saw the ad this year.) Yours truly,  tists. See our web page at www.meddean iuc edu/iurnen/Deot  
,ntanr Part-time hours are 2-3  BR & 6 BR, Fumished, beach V­ Sri  Webs/physjo or contact Dr.  
hrs/day. 3-4 days/wk with 1 Saturday a month. Majoring in early  LOST AND FOUND  ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947 Greg  PHONE CARDS  HAPPY BIRTHDAY,  Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch School of  
childhood development or child­ $20:  MATT LUTZ  Medicine, Loyola University  
hood education with own trans­ SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED:  CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW  2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR·  Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue,  
portation a plus but not necessary.  For a lost gold and silver bracelet  VISITORS OR OTHER SMC/ND  CHARGE  I think we dol  Maywood IL 60153. Telephone  
References required,  with alternating silver and gold  EVENTS: Why not reserve ­ clos­ 0(  (708) 327-2470, e-mail  
blocks, if found please contact  est to ND -a fully furnished  $20  Mardi Gras  sjones@iumc.edu. Loyola  
Phone 288-6795  Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email  condo containing kitchen wtth refrig­ 362 MIN WITH NO FEES  here we come!  University is an equal  
Ex ND staffer and spouse want to  ohillios zs@nd.edu  erator, microwave, disposal, dish­ware, laundry facility and fireplace  634-1146 CLAUDIA  It all comes down to who changes  opportunity/affirmative action employer.  
::.  rent your apt. tor summer. Non­smoker1, no pets. Have rented from srudenls for past 12 summers  FOR RENT  on the corner of Ivy Rd. & Edison Rd? Available for extended stay or tor weekends. Contact Unicom Management at  634-4210 SARA NORDIC TRACK FOR SALE GOOD CONDITION. $250  their oil the fastest. Good job Ernesto  Let's Go Rangers Lemieux should hang 'em up  
Write 135 Lakeview Or. Mulberry Fl 33860  3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001/02&summer 272­ 219-232-1242 for assistance or leave message on the reservations  0/b/o  Hey, You know what time it is?  Night  
call 863-425-4402  6306  line 219-273-IVYND (4896)  289-2370  Oh wait....  Night  

• _ ....._ 1,. ---·-·­

... -·-_.,_Ir,,~-· 
Wednesday, February 21, 200 I The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 15 
.com .com .corn .corn .com .com .com .com .com .corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .corr. .corn .con1 .corn .com .com .com .con, .com .com .com .com .corn .com. .com .com .com .com .. com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .cor,-f .corn .corn .corn .com .com .com .com .com .corn .corn .corn .corr, .com· .con1 .com .com .corr·. 



Why work for on ­
• • • • • I ••¦ 

,,.,r' .·
.con, .com .com .com 
.c 
~ -i.,_ ,,.I I ' I 

.con1 .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com 
,.,. 


.con, .corn .com .com .com .com .corn .corri 
.COtll .com .com .com .com .corn .corn .com .COlll .com .com .COIT\ .COtTl .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corT1 .con1 .com .com .com .corn .corTi .com .com .com .com .com .corn .corn .com .com .com .corn .com .com .corn .corn .com .corn 








FORTUNE" You haven't gotten this far by limiting
!89~~i!~ 
your possibilities. And if you want to
.COiTi 
.com .com .com 
TO WORK FOR~ go even farther, consider the possibilities at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most 
.corn .corn .com .com .com 
sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on. 
.c:>rr 
.com .com ~com 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 

. ­
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
NBA 
Buffalo enters race for Grizzlies 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

While city officials admit it's a longshot, add Buffalo to the list of places seeking to lure the NBA's Vancouver Grizzlies. 
City council on Tuesday unanimously approved inviting NBA commissioner David Stern and Grizzlies owner Michael IIcisley to visit Buffalo to con­sidt,r relocating the franchise. 
"/\ny time we get an opportu­nity to promote Buffalo as a big-time city and a big-time regional sports city, we need to do that," Mayor Anthony M. Masiello said. "I think it's worth pursuing. ls it a longshot? Probably." 
Last week, lleisley, who said the team is expected to lose at least $40 million this year, was given permission to explore moving to another city next season. For that to happen, he har.. until March 1 to submit an application to the NBA outlin­ing his intention to move. 
Numerous cities have already lined up for the Grizzlies, with Anaheim considered the early front-runner despite the region already having two NBA fran­chises. 
Other cities are regarded as question marks because they lack the facilities, such as Louisville, Kentucky, or lack the fan base to support another major pro sports team ­Nashville, where the NHL's Predators are against sharing their arena with another sports franchise, St. Louis and New 
Orleans. 
Then there's Las Vegas, which is regarded as taboo because it allows betting on NBA games. 
Ileisley met with St. Louis Blues owner Bill Laurie on Tuesday in St. Louis. 
"Michael lleisley traveled to St. Louis today to meet with me for the first time," Laurie said in a statement. "There is noth­ing to report other than the meeting occurred and it was scheduled last Thursday." 
Laurie declined further com­ment. 
Laurie, who purchased the NHL's Blues and their Savvis Center home for $100 million in Sept. 1999, has already bid once on the Grizzlies. 
He pulled out of that $200 million deal after commissioner David Stern and the NBA voiced objections to Laurie's intent to move the team to St. Louis. 
Vancouver also has an out­side shot of keeping the team after a group of business and community leaders announced they received four offers from prospective buyers willing to purchase all or part of the team and keep it in Vancouver. 
Buffalo, according to city offi­cials, has the fan base, the facility -the five-year-old HSBC Arena, which also serves home to the NHL's Sabres ­and location. 
"We have a great geography to attract fans from Erie, Pa. to Rochester, N.Y., to southern Ontario," Masiello said. "I'd love to invite them to Buffalo to look and see what we have here." 
According to studies, there are more than 4 million people that live within 130 miles of Buffalo, and the city is consid­ered the 26th largest market in the U.S., and one of the largest without an NBA franchise. 
Buffalo lost its NBA franchise 
23 years ago after Braves 
owner John Y. Brown Jr. 
swapped teams with the owner 
of the Boston Celtics, a deal 
that resulted in the Braves' 
being moved to San Diego and 
eventually becoming the Los 
Angeles Clippers. 
The Grizzlies, who've strug­gled in their six years, denied comment on Buffalo's bid. 
Heisley, who purchased the 
team last year on the premise 
of keeping it in Vancouver, 
does reportedly have a $200 
million offer to sell the team to 'an undisclosed person who would move the franchise to an undisclosed city. 
Notre Dame Film. Television, and Theatre presents 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Belle still bothered by hip 
Associ.ated Press 

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
His limp was more telling than the physical he passed hours earlier. 
Albert Belle worked out with the Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday, but his arthritic right hip hindered his ability to run and forced him to perform at less than full speed. 
Belle is coming olT arguably the worst season of his career. Forced to miss 20 games in September with an inflamed bursa sac in the right hip pointer, the outfielder finished with a .281 batting average and only 23 homers, the first time since 1991 he failed to hit at least 30. 
He worked during the off­season to rehabilitate the degenerative hip, but at this point he's striving primarily to prevent it from getting any worse. Belle also put on 15 pounds in his upper body dur­ing the winter -some in his chest but a good portion in his belly. 

After being examined by team physicians Tuesday morning, Belle was hindered by a restrictive limp as he participated in his first prac­tice this spring. Right from the outset, as he hobbled in the outfield while jogging in line with his teammates, Belle showed that he is not nearly at 100 percent. 
"Swinging the bat, he looked fine," manager Mike Hargrove said. "I thought he looked a little limited in his running, but it was only the first day." 
Hargrove, who has project­ed .Belle to be his starting right fielder, did not back off that assertion. 
"If Albert either proves to himself, or to us, or breaks down or something happens that says he can't, obviously we will adjust," Hargrove said. "But until that happens, Albert is the right fielder." 
Passing the physical was an important step for Belle, but it didn't provide any assurance that he will be able to play effectively, if at all, when the regular season gets underway in April. 
"We just have to wait and see what he does and see how he reacts to baseball activi­ties," said Syd Thrift, the Orioles' vice president of baseball operations. "The first thing we're going to do is sec if he can play the outfield. We have to see how he plays the outfield, how he runs, how he hits." 
Belle did not talk to the media after practice. But he told reporters Sunday that he was healthy enough to man his usual spot in right field. 
"I feel like right now I can play. llow many games, couldn't tell you," Belle said. "It'll just be day by day. But I'm pretty much on course." 
Belle has three years left on his $65 million, five-year guaranteed contract. He will receive the remaining $39 million even if his injury pre• vents him from playing for any or part of that time. 
Orioles third baseman Cal Ripken, who once played in 2,632 straight games, missed dozens of games over the past two seasons with a back injury. He can sympathize with Belle, whose string of playing in 232 consecutive games ended on August 27. Belle never sat out more than 20 games in a full season before last year. 
"I can relate," Ripken said. "I would imagine that there's a lot of frustration inside Albert." 
Have a message for a friend? Use Observer classifieds. 
csc 
CENTER FOFI 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES WITH... 
ACCION 
A MJCROLENDING ORGANIZATION ASSISTING SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS WITH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS TO IMPROVE AND BUJW THEIR BUSINESSES 


10-12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: 
ALBUQUERQUE _CHICAGO EL PASO NEW YORK CITY SANANTONIO SAND/EGO 
BENEFITS: 
COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION 3 COLLEGE CREDITS HOUSING PROVIDED BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 
Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............ 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.rn. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and MCOB Undergraduate Office 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 20, 2001 
INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 21 & 22 AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Wednesday, February 21, 200l The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Nelson returns tc> Mavericks 
Associated Press 
· DALLAS 

Leave it to Don Nelson to turn his return from beating cancer into a· laughing mat­ter. 
Seeking levity on w h a t could have been an emotional night, the Dallas Mavericks' coach cel­ebrated the end of his 52-day absence to treat prostate cancer by wearing a red foam ball on his nose and ending his pseudo-feud with Shaquille O'Neal. 
Nelson, looking tan and about 10 pounds lighter, was beaming as he walked into Reunion Arena for his pregame introduction Tuesday night for the Mavs' game against the Los Angeles takers. He received a stand­ing ovation as the public­address announcer said, "Welcome Back Nellie." 
Once on the court and sur­
rounded by players and cam­
eras, Nelson pulled the 89­
cent, racquetball-sized toy 
out of his jacket pocket and 
squeezed it onto his nose so 
he'd look more like "a 
clown," which is what O'Neal 
called him after the 
Mavericks abusively defend­
ed him the last time the 
Lakers played the Mavericks. 


Nels on 's gesture wasn't meant to re-ignite O'Nea!'s fire. The hatchet had long been buried as O'Neal called Nelson during his recovery and has been saying "I love you, Don Nelson" since hit­ting town Monday. 
O'Neal was even in on the prank as he came over to Nelson, took the ball off the coach and wore it himself. The pair hugged then Dallas assistant coach Del Harris, formerly O'Neal's coach in~ Los Angeles, put on another foam ball. 
"I am a bit of a clown," the 60-year-old Nelson said before the stunt. 
Nelson, a master prankster and former advocate of the fish tie, was coaching for the first time since Dec. 30. On Jan. 4, his prostate was removed because the early stages of cancer had been detected. 
The third-winningest coach 
in NBA history spent most of 
his recovery in Maui. where 
walking on the beaches led to 
his bronzed skin and the 
addition of several stray dugs 
into his household. 
His son, Donnie, coached 
the team in his absence and 
kept the Mavericks solidly in 
the chase for their first play­
off berth in 11 years. Dallas 
went 13-8 (.619) under 
Donnie compared to 20-12. 
(.625) under his dad. 
Nelson admitted that he 
plotted for his return to b~ 
against O'Neal and the 
Lakers. 

"I didn't even think about it until a couple of weeks ago, then I kind of circled it," Nelson said. "l wouldn't call it a big splash. I had to come back against somebody. I thought this was a logical one." 
While he was gone, Nelson watched about half the games and talked to Donnie roughly every other day. He returned to Dallas on Saturday, met with coaches Sun.day and led the team through a workout Monday. The practice included plenty of hugs. 
"I needed that from them more than they needed it from me," Nelson said. 
Nelson. who also is the 
Mavs' general manager, said 
he never considered return­
ing only to the front-office 
post. 
"I wouldn't change this particular job for any job in the NBA," said Nelson, who has two seasons of coaching left on an 11-year deal that will wean him into retire­ment. 'Tm enjoying coaching and I'm enjoying working with Mark." 
That would be owner Mark 
Cuban, who missed this game 
while serving the second of a 
two-game suspension for rac­
ing on court Last week to 
break up a fight. 
Although Cuban wasn't 
present, he said via e-mail 
that he supported the foam 
noses. 
'Tm for anything that is 
fun," he said. "After all, this 
is a game and games are 
supposed to be fun." 

IPlease Recycle The Observer. I 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
El Sid, Sianders rt~port to sprin,g trainin1~ 

Associated Press 
Sid Fernandez was so eager to begin his comeback, he caught a redeye flight to Florida and walked right into the New York Yankees' camp Tuesday morning. 
An unex­pected face at spring training, for sure. At 38, the for­mer Mets left-hander has been out of base­ball since 1997. 
Fernandez showed up at spring training at Tampa, Fla.. went through a 15-minute, 48­pitch audition and wound up signing a minor league con­tract. 
"It's win-win for 
me,"Fernandez said. "It's 
exciting to come here. It's not 
a guarantee. At least I got a 
shot." 
Said Yankees general man­
ager Brian Cashman: "We saw 
enough where we're 
intrigued." 
Deion Sanders, also out of 
the majors since 1997, report­
ed to Cincinnati's camp at 
Sarasota, Fla. 
"What we're asking him to 
do for a normal human being 
is fairly impossible, "Reds 
manager Bob Boone said. 
"He's probably the one guy on 
the planet who could do what 
he needs to do to get back to 
world-class status in base­
ball." 
Barry Bonds 


is wondering "I just don't want to look Fernandezabout his 
down the road two years, pitched for
future. 
the Mets
·The three­or 20 years. and say 
from 1984-93
time MVP 'fVhat ifI tried, I should 
and was partopened spring 
have tried."' of the team
training by 
that won the
asking the San 
1986 World
Francisco Sid Fernandez 
Series.Giants either Yankees' pitcher Current 
to begin nego­tiations on a contract exten­sion or to consider a. trade 
Bonds will make $10.3 mil­
lion this season and is eligible 
for free agency after the sea­
son. He wants to stay in San 
Francisco and would like an 
answer from the Giants before 
the regular season begins. 
"If there's dead silence, then 
I've got an answer," the 36­
year-old outfielder said in 
Scottsdale, Ariz. 
"At this point in my career, 
after all I've done for this 
organization, I should just be 
told whether I'm going to be 
back here or not. If I am going 
to be here. then let's talk 
about it and let's get it done." 
GM Brian Sabean said the 
Giants "unequivocally" want 
to keep Bonds, and wouldn't 
consider trading him during 
the season unless they were 
hopelessly out of the pennant · race. 
Devon White, meanwhile, 
joined fellow Los Angeles out­
fielder Gary Sheffiel<l in ask­
ing to be traded. 

White, 38, is unhappy that 
the Dodgers plan to use him 
as a fourth outfielder. 

"I said to the group today 
it's very. very important that 
we go west with a group of 
people who rnally want to be Dodgers," new manager Jim Tracy said in Vero Beach, Pia. 
Kerry Wood, the 1998 NL Rookie of the Year winner, agreed Monday with the Chicago Cubs on a $1.94 mil­lion, one-year contract. 
The 23-year-old right-han­der, who made $690,000 last year, was 8-7 with a 4.03 ERA _... after missing the entire 1999 season while recovering from reconstructive elbow surgery. 
He has a 21-13 record and 
4.03 ERA in 49 major league starts, striking out 365 in 303 2-3 innings. 
In other medical news, Los Angeles pitcher Kevin Brown returned to training camp, one day after having an irregular heartbeat checked out at a hospital. 
"It's really not a big deal," Dodgers team physician Frank Jobe said. "He came in saying he had a lot of Cokes and had an arrhythmia of the heart. I have it myself, and a lot ·of people have it." 
Fernandez was 114-% with 
a 3.36 ERA in 15 seasons with 
the Mets, Los Angeles, 
Baltimore, Philadelphia and 
Houston. 

He retired because of what 
was thought to be an elbow 
problem, though the pain 
turned out to be related to a 
nerve in his neck. 

Fernandez threw for scouts 
in Arizona last Thursday. 

"l just don't want to look 
down the road two years, or -20 years, and say 'What if l tried, I should have tried,"' Fernandez said. "So at least 
now I can say I tried." 
Yankees 
pitching coach Mel Stottlemyre held the same job for that champi­onship team. 
"The ball is flying out of his hand pretty good," Stottlemyre said. "The motion looked good. We'll see what's left and go from there." 
Sanders signed a minor league contract Monday after none of the other 29 big league teams objected. The commissioner's office had voided a contract he signed last month because the deal was reached after a Dec. 7 deadline l"or Sanders to re­sign with Cincinnati. 
Sanders, 33, started last 
season at Triple-A and hit 
.200 and 25 games, then got 
permission to return home. 
When the Reds tried to call 
him up, he refused because he 
said he wanted to concentrate 
on his NFL career. 

The Washington Redskins 
defensive back wants to be the 
Reds' leadoff hitter and right 
fielder on opening day. 

"tds speed. compared to 
baseball speed, is still going to 
be at the top,"Boone said. 
"That's something you can't 
teach and something you're 
always looking for." 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Jones wins record arbitration case 
Associated Press 
Andruw Jones became the first player in nine years to set a salary arbitration record with a win when a panel selected his 
$8.2 million request Tuesday 
o v e r Atlanta's $6.4 million offer. 
"Wn !'cit like we had 


a stron~ Jones c a s e , Braves gen­eral manager John Schuerholz said. 'Tm surprised a little bit, but not entirely. That's the nature ofthis process." Jones· salary eclipsed the pre­vious arbitration hi!th of $7.25 million set last year by New York Yankees closer Mariano Hivera -who had requested $9.25 mil­lion but lost his hearing. Texas outfielder Huben Sierra had been the last player to set a record with a win, getting $5 million in 1992. That mark was broken two years later by Chicago White Sox pitcher Jack McDowell. who lost his case but got $5.3 million. No one topped that figure until Rivera last year. Jones, who made $3.7 million last season. had his best year in 2000, hitting .303 with 36 homers, 104 RBIs and 21 steals. The center fielder also won his third straight Gold Glove. Arbitrators Howard Block, Roger Kaplan and Elisabeth Neumeier made the decision a day after hearing the case in Phoenix. "It's probably a surprise to some people, but not to me," Braves catcher Eddie Perez said. "He's the best player we've got and the best center fielder I've ever seen." Jones' agent, Scott Boras. stopped a seven-case losing streak. "We would have settled at the midpoint in this case but they chose not to accept it," Boras said. During the hearing, Boras compared his client l.o Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, who agreed this month to a $189 mil­
lion, 10-year deal. 
"We had videos of Andruw's throwing, his speed, his power, his ability to hit for average, showing he's a five-tool player," Boras said. 
Jones, who turns 24 in April, is eligible for free agency after the 2002 season. Boras said the Braves have talked about the possibility of a multiyear con­tract but that talks have not got­ten very detailed. Ile compared Jones with another of his clients, shortstop Alex Rodriguez, who in December agreed to a $252 million. 10-year deal with Texas. 
"It's always diflicult when you have young players like Andruw and Alex," Borns said. "You're going to have to have a contract to allow adjustments within the contract. So while it's open for us. it's going to take special considerations on the part of the club and it's usually something they don't want to do until a player's a free agent." 
Players and owners have split the 12 cases decided so far. 
There was no decision in the case of Baltimore right-hander Jose Mercedes, who also went to a hearing Monday. He asked to be awarded $3.8 million instead of the team's $2.75 million offer. 
Mercedes made $800,000 last year, going 14-7 with a 4.02 ERA in 20 starts and 16 relief appearances. His case will be decided by Block, Reginald Alleyne and Kenneth Perea. 
Cincinnati pitcher Osvaldo Fernandez had his hearing Tuesday, asking Neumeier, Richard Bloch and Matthew Finken for $1.2 million instead of the team's $600,000 offer. Fernandez was 4-3 with a 3.62 ERA in 14 starts and one relief appearance last year. 
Minnesota pitcher LaTroy Hawkins. who had been sched­uled for a hearing Tuesday, instead agreed to a $4 million, two-year contract. 
Oakland pitcher Jim Mecir. whose case was scheduled for Wednesday, agreed to a $6.95 million. three-year deal. 
The last player remaining in arbitration was Boston pitcher Rich Garces, scheduled for a hearing Wednesday. 
Recycle The Observer. 

7J('l)[f1[~{3 ~If)@@~ .A ip @ f 1r :,:ru @ rtJ ir ~ 
Closest To Campus 
Hurry, Hurry, HurryUI 
Now Leasing 2-Bedroom Townhouses 
Spaces are Filling Fastll! 
Stop by the Office for an Application or Call 272-8124 for Further Details! 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 

the Eagles creep among the two lowest-rated teams in each category. Notre Dame's stature helps it smother its opponents into shooting a league-low 39 percent. 
So while the Eagles can dart in and out of the pockets to defend their opponents, 
Notre Dame can stand tall as the Irish Guard. 
"We're still in first place," Murphy said Sunday of Notre Dame's lead in the Big East West Division. "We're still in the driver's seat. 
The game tempo could be key. as the Eagles are 12-0 when they score more than 80 points. Another point to watch will be the shooting. The Irish. whose normally strong 3-point shooters 
Martin Ingelsby, David Graves and Carroll were off against the Pirates. but won't be likely to stay that way for long. 
The Eagles are confident, coming off a close home win over smooth-sailing Providence, but the Irish are hungry after a disappointing loss to the Pirates that ended an eight-game win streak. 
"It's going to be a big win for us," said Carroll. 
t.l1e 


Wednesday, February 21, 200 l 
The Obseroer . SPORTS page 19 

WoIDen 
continued from page :20 
because they have the ability to rebound, the ability to pen­etrate," Labati said, explain­ing why her young team was out-rebounded 47-33. 
"You get into the NCAA Tournament [other teams] will start shutting down your transition game," Labati con­tinued, explaining how good teams can do what her 13-12 te~m cannot. "But they're gomg to have a hard time with Notre Dame if you give them 19 rebounds on the offensjve glass and they really play well as a team in the full­court." 
Quite simply, what Labati saw was the team that opened the season with a 23-game winning streak. 
She saw a team that cuts through ranked opponents like an Oregon State running back cutting through the Notre Dame defense. 
She saw the team that top­pled powerhouse Connecticut. 
This was not the team that suffered a humiliating 1-point loss to Rutgers only three nights earlier. 
Against the Scarlet Knights, only five Irish players scored. Tuesday, all 12 players on the Irish roster put the ball in the basket. 
To put this teamwork in perspective, never before in this "dream season" have as many as 11 players s.cored in a single game for Notre Dame. 
"They haven't been given a lot of opportunity in the last three games," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "They were just ready to come out and they were ready to play." 
Freshman Jeneka Joyce. often mistaken for a team manager as she sat out with a fractured foot in December and January, scored a career­high 13, ran the offense through most of the second half. She also hit two key 3­pointers. 
Center Amanda Barksdale, known more for her shot blocking than her offense hit a pretty turn-around jumper at the end of the game. 
Even Karen Swanson, the only player on the Irish roster :,vho has to worry about pay­mg back loans following grad­uation, got into the act. 
After a loyal fan contingent cheered her onto the court, the 5 foot-7 Swanson did her best Ruth Riley impersonation -heading full-speed into the lane to draw two fouls. She hit three of her four free-throw attempts. 
These players have spent more time standing and lis­tening to the national anthem than standing on the court with the clock ticking down lately. 
But they will be essential in the Big East Tournament. With games on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, the Irish cannot expect to com­pete with deeper teams such as Rutgers and Connecticut if each of their starters have to play 35 minutes in the first two games. 
The bench will not be expected to extend a lead, but it needs to b,e able to maintain a large lead as the clock winds down. They could not do so against Pittsburgh or Providence. They extended the lead against the Hurricanes Tuesday. 
The Irish also blew the Hurricanes over with another impressive crowd of 6,533 fans. Labati praised that, too. 
"Look wh~,t Notre Dame has done this pa.st year," Labati said. "They went out and hired a full-time marketing person. You guys pack the place now. It shows a tremen­dous effort from a media and a marlreting standpoint." 
Thanks Ferne, don't forget 
to kiss the pig on the way out. 
The views expressed in this column are those of The Observer. 

WOMEN'S COi.LEGE BASKETBALL 
Connecticut crushes West \!irginia, 197-34 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Swin Cash had 20 points and a career-high 20 rebounds to lead an injury­riddled No. 3 Connecticut to an easy 97-34 win over West Virginia on Tuesday night. 
With three key players ­Svetlana Abrosimova, Tamika Williams and Diana Taurasi -in street clothes, the Huskies were still too much for the overmatched Mountaineers. 
Abrosimova is out for the season with a foot injury; Williams is nursing a bruised rib and Taurasi has a mild ankle sprain. They average 33 points and 14 rebounds. 
UConn (23-2, 13-1 Big East) got plenty of help from its remaining reserves. Freshman Maria Conlon had a career-high 16 po:ints and was 4-of-6 from the 3-point line. 
Starter Shea Ralph had 14 points and nine rnbounds as 
the Huskies dominated the glass 56-29. 
Kennitra Johnson, who started in place of Taurasi, finished with 15 points, four assists and two steals. 
The Mountaineers (5-20, 3­
11) struggled against UConn's up-tempo game from the opening ltip and were held scoreless for the first nine minutes. By the time Zsofia Horvath hit the first Mountaineers bucket, UConn was up 19-2 and the rout was 
on. 

West Virginia shot just 15 percent in the half, and 19 percent for the game. 
The Huskies got 31 points off 25 West Virginia turnovers and outscored the Mountaineers 42-10 in the lane. 
Darya Kudryavtseva led West Virginia with 16 points. Kate Bulger, the leading scor­er among: Big East freshmen, was held to six points, eight below her team-leading aver­age. 
Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
scorer. Eleven of her 13 points came in the second half.
Woinen 
During a one-minute stretch in the second half, Joyce con­
continued from page 20 
nected on a short jumper, knocked down a 3 from the
Rutgers, the Irish rebounded 
left corner, intercepted a
with their usual domination of Miami pass and then camea second-tier Big East squad. 
down and threw a bounce
All 12 players scored and the pass to forward Ericka Haneyreserves, who failed to score for an easy lay-up. 
against the Scarlet Knights 
"Being out for seven or eightand tallied just 20 in the pre­weeks. you really do get out ofvious four games, chipped in synch with playing ball," Joyce with 32 points last night. 
said. "But I think I'm starting
Swanson's free throw with 
to be the player that I was
1:04 remaining was her first 
before I was injured."
point scored since Jan. 24. 
As has been the case for the
And sophomore center 
past few weeks,

Amanda 
the Irish strug­

Barksdale, 
"We did not come here gled at the hegin­
who had 
and play to our capabili­ning. They led
made two 
19-15 10 minutes

field goals ties, but I really. truly 
into the game

in the last 
believe that so much had 
and 29-20 with

11 games, 
to do with the way Notre two minutes left
matched 
in the first half.

that total Dame played. At this 
The Irish missedand scored 

point Notre Dame is a all seven of their
4 points. 
Final Four team." 3-point attempts
"We' re 
and turned the 

r e a I I y 
ball over 12proud of 

Ferne Labatl 
times. Afterthem to Miami head coach abandoning the come in 

full-court offense

the game in the past fewand not weeks, Notrelose the momentum," Ruth 
Dame attempted to return to aRiley said. "We 're going to transition game, which caused
need that going into the 
problems.
stretch we have ahead of us. 
"It was a track meet and it
It's good they got time and 
was ugly for a couple of min­played well." 
utes," McGraw said. "But I'llHiley bounced back from a 
definitely tolerate thesub-par performance on 
turnovers."
Saturday to once again lead 
By midway through the sec­the Irish. She scored 20 points ond half, the lead expanded to(on 8-of-11 shooting and 4-of­
55-34 and Miami never got
5 from the line) and grabbed any closer. Sheila James ledfive rebounds. 
the Hurricanes with 11 pointsWhen she left the game with but shot just 3-of-9 from the
11 :25 remaining, Riley sat on field. Miami connected on 16­
the bench, a white towel 
of-57 from the field and shotwrapped over the back of her 4-of-18 on 3s.
neck, and cheered on her 
"We did not come here andteammates. 
play to our capabilities,"
The biggest applause, other 
Miami coach Ferne Labatithan when Swanson entered, 
said. "But I really, truly
was reserved for sophomore 
believe that so much had to do
guard Jeneka Joyce. Joyce, with the way Notre Dame
who missed 11 games earlier 
played. At this point Notrein the year with an ankle 
Dame is a Final Four team."
injury, was the second-leading 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

Work for the Office of the. President 
work whh the Alhl11Uc Deuanment; Develop Board of Trustees Repons: Serve on Splrttual and Dlversltv Commmees; Help Plan Founder's Dav: Assist with Public Rela1Ions. Programming, PoHcv. Academics, Student services, Soclal Action. Webpaaenechno1ouv, and moru 
Applications for all positions for the 2001-02 school year can be picked up and submitted in the Student Government Office (203 LaFortune) on Wednesday, February 21st• Applications are due no later than Sunday, February 25th. 


WHAT SISTAHS KNOW 
The REAL deal on love and rela-tionshipsll 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 
LaFor-tune Ballroom 8pm 
Sponsored by NAACPI MSPS & Student Activities 
--------------~­
Wednesday, February 21, 200I The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BASEBALL 
Stavisky earns national honors 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore right­fielder Brian Stavisky lived up to his preseason billing as a first team All-American and Big East player of the year. earn­ing national player-of­th e-we e k honors after batting .692 (9-for-13) and reach­ing base on 10 consecu­tive plate appearances at last week's National Bank of Commerce Classic. 
Stavisky was recognized by Collegiate Baseball magazine as the national player of the week 

Alblon College American University Arfzohlt State University Bard CoHoge Bola State University 
Boston College 
Brown University Central Michigan Unlvershy Clark University 
College of the Holy Cross 
Columbla University Cornell Unjverslty 
DePaul University 
Earlham College Georgetown U nlverstty Haverford Collage llllnols State University Indiana University 
Loyola University Chicago Loyola University New Orleans 

while the National Collegiate Baseball Writers Association tabbed Stavisky as its 111ational "hitter of the week." The 6-3, 220-pound lefthander also earned the first Big East player­of-the-week award for the 2001 season. 
Stavisky's rare 10 consecutive times on base included hits in his final two at-bats versus New Orleans on Feb. 17 and a 3-for-3 effort (with two walks) later that day versus host Mississippi State. In the final game of the NBC Classic, he then collected hits in his first three ABs versus MSU­yielding 10 straight times on base. 
A strikeout to open the eighth inning halted Stavisky's streak (he had hits in eight of his first 10 ABs overall) and his final at­bat was a hard-hit lineout to center field in the 11th inning of that 4-2 win. 
In addition to the nine hits, Stavisky's weekend production from the cleanup spot included three walks, three RBI, three runs scored, two triples, two doubles, 15 total bases, a stolen base and two strikeouts. 
His nine hits included a sixth­inning RBI triple in Sundafs game, plating Alec Porzel with the day's first run. In the first win over MSU, Stavisky doubled in the fifth inning and scored for a 6-5 lead (the Irish went on to win 7-5). 
Stavisky's 10 straight times on base included a wide variety of at-bats, with three first-pitch hits (one RBI double, one RBI triple), four hits with two strikes (one RBI triple), two lead off hits and a two-out RBI double. 
Unh1ersIty of Callfornla • San Francisco  
Unlver9lty of Callfornkl ~ Santa Barbara  
Northern Arizona University  
University or Illinois-Urbana Champaign  
University of Iowa  
Oberlin College  University of Malne--Farmlngton  
Purdue University  University of Massachusetts  
Regis University  University of Massachusetts -Amherst  
Saint Cloud state Uniwrsffy  university ot Massachusetts -Boston  

Sal'nt Joseph's Univeirsity University or Massachusetts. Dartmouth 
Saint Mary's College 
San Francisco state University Sarah Lawrence Collego smtth college Transylvania University Trinity College Tuhm• Unlverstty Unton Collage Unlv.rslty of Arizona University of cantornla -Berkeley Universityor ca11tornla -Davis university of callfomla -lrvlne University of Ca111ornla -Los Angeles Unlvenlty of Callfomla -Merced University of Callfornla ~ Riverside University of Calltornia -San Diego Unlv•rslty of Massachusetts -Lowell UnlversltyolMassachusotts-Worcestar University o1 Michigan University of Minnesota University of North Carol.Ina· Chapel HIii University ot Oregon University of Pennsylvania University of Washington University of Wlsconstn-Madlson University of Wlseonsln-stevens Point Va&sar College western Mlehlgan University Wllllams College Unlvarsltyof Callfomla -Santa Cruz University of Connecticut 
Then why have 74 schools signed on to the WRC before us?~ 

NASCAR 
Funerc1l servic1e set for Ear·nhardt, Sr. 
Associated Press 
MOORESVILLE, N.C 
Dale Earnhardt's funeral will be held Thursday in Charlotte's largest church, closed to the public but tele­vised live nationwide to allow his fans to mourn with his family. 
Thousands of those fans continued to stream to Earnhardt's team headquar­ters, leaving a 150-,foot-long trail of mementos and tributes to the fallen racing champion. 
State police estimated 10,000 stopped by on Monday and the turnout was just as steady on Tuesday --even as the weather turned dark and windy_ 
Employees were all back at work at Dale Earnhardt Inc., and his three drivers were inside the shop somberly preparing for this weekend's race the Dura-Lube 400 at North Carolina Speedway in Rockingham. Daytona winner Michael Waltrip, Dale Earnhardt Jr., and Steve Park, who all drive DEi cars, will take part. 
Earnhardt's family was at 
the Mooresville complex, too, 
planning the funeral. 

Services for the 49-year-old 
Earnhardt 
will be held 

"Because it is impossible general man­
at Calvary 

ager of North 
to accomodate the 
Church, 

Carolina
which seats tremendous outpouring 
Speedway,
5,800 on of support from those said track
three levels 

who followed Dale, we officials were
and features 

consulting
huge video are unable to open the 
with NASCAR 
screens 

service to the public. '' a n d
inside. 

Earnhardt's
"Because it 

family on a
is impossible NASCAR statement 
to accommo­date the 
tremendous 

outpouring of support from those who followed Dale, we are unable to open the service to the public," NASCAR said in a statement. 
"With that in mind the fami­ly has chosen to broadc~st_ the service live on television, enabling fans across the coun­try to share in thfts service for Dale." 
The service will be broad­
cast live on Fox Sports Net. 

Earnhardt was killed on the 
last turn of the last lap Sunday 
in the Daytona 500, slamming 
into the concrete wall after 
making contact with Sterling 
Marlin at the head of a tight 
pack of five cars fighting for 
position. 

Driver Rusty Wallace 
described how difficult it has 
been to come to grips with 
Earnhardt's death. 

"He and I were about as 
close of friends a.s you can get 
in our sport, with the competi­
tion and all that goes along 
with it," Wallace said in a 
statement. "I just keep on run­
ning that last lap in my mind 
and keep saying to myself, 
'Man. if I'd just been able to 
give him a little tap from the 
rear ... that could have meant 
all the difference in the world.' 
It's just a helpless feeling I 
have." 

At Earnhardt's headquar­
ters, a 27-foot long banner 
was propped up for fans t? 
write their thouights. When 1t was full, a security officer brought it inside the DEi com­plex and replaced it with a clean one. 
When the weather turned threatening, four DEi employ­ees emerged from Earnhardt's garage carrying clear plastic cartons, walking slowly along the makeshift memorial to the seven-time Winston Cup champion and removing items. Flowers, T-shirts, letters and hats all went into the boxes. 
One employee went to a clear spot along the fence and hung a sign: '"Due to inclement weather and preservation of the memorials, they are being moved inside." 
A man who called himself "Wild Bill" Byrd rode along the memorial on a motorized wheelchair, passing out fliers to the fans with a tribute to Earnhardt on them. On his lap was his 13-year-old German Dachshund, wearing a small black hard hat with a No. 3 painted on it and a replica 
pair  of  the  sunglasses  
Earnhardt was  famous for  
wearing.  

"If we go anywhere, she wants to get the helmet and the sunglasses in case she spots Dale," said the 77-year­old Byrd. 
C h r i s Browning, 
possible trib­
ute to 
Earnhardt at the track this weekend. 
"We are in the discussion stage of trying to put some­thing together as ~ tribute. to Dale that is consistent with what his family would want," Browning said. 
Other tracks around the country have gone ahead with tributes and memorials. Both Atlanta Motor Speedway and Talladega Superspeedway planned Tuesday services, and flags were at half-staff at Indianapolis Motor Speedway. 
In Bloomington, Ind., a pub­
lic memorial service for 
Earnhardt was planned for 
Wednesday night. 

"We just felt strong we had 
to do something. We're real 
good NASCAR fans here, and 
we've lost a legend," said Kelly 
Cissell, manager of the 
Deremiah-Frye Mortuary. 
Meanwhile, the 
International Motorsports Hall 
of Fame :said Earnhardt won't 
be eligible for induction into 
the Talladega (Ala_) museum 
for five years, just like any 
other driver. 

"He'll he eligible for induc­
tion in 2006, and he'll obvi­
ously get in on the fir~t ba~lot," 
Hall of Fame executive direc­
tor Jim Freeman said. "But 
our feeling was that to w~ivc 
the five-year rule would, m a 
sense dc,wngrade all the other 
peopie we niade wait five 
years. It's not something we 
wanted to do." 

page 22 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
Carroll carves own mark into family game 
. Sophomore guard took great coaching, became great player 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associarc Sports Editor 
Lot5 or sport5 figures say athletic talent runs in their families, but Irish basketball player Matt Carroll can one-up their claim. Basketball is not only in Carroll's bloodlines: it brought his family together. 
The sophomore guard's parents, John and Maureen Carroll. met through basket­ball. I le was a senior playing basketball at Pittsburgh's North .Catholic High School. She was a freshman at Penn State, and the daughter of Donald Graham, John's coach at North Catholic. Their relation­ship grew, and John followed Maureen to Penn State the next year, where he played football for the Nittany lions. 
Decades later, basketball still winds through the Carroll family. 
Graham retired in 1999 as the win­ningest high school coach in Pennsylvania history, following 51 years on the job. Two of Maureen's brothers played Division I basketball. Mike for American University and Don for St. Francis (Pa.). John Carroll was one of Pennsylvania's top basketball players as a senior, but opted for football instead. 
Now the next generation is making its mark. Matt Carroll is a two-year starter for the Irish; his younger brother Pat a
,...­
signee with St. Joseph's in Philadelphia. In a family filled v.ith basketball talent, Matt Carroll may be the best of them all. 
Halftime Show to Highlight Reel 
Carroll got his start in organized basket­ball in second grade. It wasn't long before Carroll, who put on dribbling shows at half-time while a ball boy for Duquesne University, began dreaming of someday being in more than the halftime show. 
Carroll used to drag his younger brother Pat to the backyard to practice. He stayed on the court after North Catholic games, impressing straggling fans with his play. By fifth grade, Maureen Carroll was used to people commenting on her son's talent. 
Carroll's grandpa recognized his basket­ball potential by the time he hit sixth grade. lie was already dominant, scoring 40-plus points in the grade school state championship. 
Graham was looking forward to coach­ing his grandson, whom he expected to be his "best player in 25 years," but the fami­ly pairing never happened. The day Matt began high school, the Carrolls moved from Pittsburgh to Philadelphia, robbing him of the chance to play for Graham's North Catholic team. 
"That year [Matt's freshman year). we won 23 games. I'm sure with Matt, we would have won a state title." Graham said. 
Instead of playing for his grandpa, however, Carroll became a starter for Walt "Ozzie" Ostrowski at Hatboro­Horsham High School outside Philadelphia. Rumors of Carroll's skills reached Ostrowski before the moving truck did, leading the Batters coach to test the talk by giving his newest player an outrageous challenge -one the 14­year-old easily fullilled. 
"The first time I saw him ever walk in 
the gym at the end of eighth grade, I said, 
'Go up and dunk."' Ostrowski said. "The 
first shot I ever saw him take was a dunk. 
I knew he was something special." 
Other people soon learned what Carroll's family and coach already knew -that he was a player. At Hatboro­Horsham, Carroll averaged 26.5 points, 
7. 3 rebounds and four assists per game as a senior shooting guard. He recorded even more rebounds and assists his first three seasons, when he started at point guard for the Hatters. 
At the end of high school, Carroll ranked second in scoring in the history of southeastern Pennslvania, trailing only current Los Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant. Carroll surpassed Bryant by becoming the only Pennsylvania player to be named Mr. Basketball twice. 
Basketball gurus around the nation noticed, as they selected Carroll for the United States Junior National Team not once, but twice. That selection teamed Carroll up with players such as the Orlando Magic's Michael Miller, Stanford's Casey Jacobsen and Arizona's Michael Wright to compete in the Dominican Republic in 1998 and Portugal in 1999. 
In addition to the U.S. Junior National Team, Carroll made it onto the roster for prep all-star games such as the Magic Johnson Roundball Classic, where he finally had the chance to play for his grandfather, and the Capital Classic in Washington. DC. 
Fortune Teller 
All the acclaim, along with Ostrowski's description of Carroll as "coachable," "unselfish" and a "student of the game" made the 6-foot-6 guard a hot commodity among college coaches looking for new recruits. Notre Dame, Penn State, Wake Forest, N.C. State, Villanova and Syracuse were among the schools that came calling. 
"When he first started playing basket­ball in an organized league, he would say, 'I don't know whether to go to Penn State or Notre Dame,"' Maureen Carroll said. "We would always tease him and say. 'If you're lucky enough to get a scholarship there, then you can make that choice."' 
Her off-handed remark came true, and the son of two Penn State alums picked Notre Dame. 
Carroll's uncle Don had told him to pick a program based on the school he liked best, because the coach could change and the team could change, but the university would stay the same. Uncle Don was good at reading tea leaves. as Carroll is already on his third Notre Dame coach. He was recruited by Coach John MacLeod, played for Matt Doherty as a freshman and now has Mike Brey at the helm, none of whom Carroll has a bad word for. 

At Notre Dame, Carroll's role has evolved from the go-to offensive guy he was in high school. 
High school opponents used to get so excited about taking, on an All-American that they constantly seemed to put up career-best performances against Carroll. 
That doesn't happen anymore. Brey often holds Carroll responsible for keeping opposing teams' top perimeter player in check. While Carroll can defend, Brey knows he can do more than that. too. 
"The first six weeks of the season, before our first exhibition game, no one was better than Matt Carroll, and that includes Troy Murphy, Ryan Humphrey. He was as consistent as anybody," Brey said of Carroll. "He's absolutely delivered. He had the mark. the reputation as a shooter. This young man is a basketball player." 
The current Irish players are aware of Carroll's abilities as well. 
"1 think he will be one of the first people in Notre Dame history to record a triple­double, because he can do it all -score, pass, rebound," Humphrey said. "Plus. he's a defender." 
Carroll is one of two Irish players, along with senior point guard Martin Ingelsby. to start every game this season. But despite logging 32 minutes of playing time per game, Carroll's not usually looked to for late-game heroics. Rather than leading Notre Dame in one category, Carroll checks in as solid, but not spectacular, in nearly every area. 
Invisible Man 
Notre Dame's leading 3-point shooter tallies 12.4 points, 4.5 rebounds and four assists per game. Rather than making SportsCenter, his balance shines like a candle in the wake of Murphy's spotlight. Even when Carroll posted a team-high 20 points Feb. 14 against Rutgers, Murphy cornered the headlines by putting up a poised 18 points before a hostile home­state crowd. 
Not that Carroll minds being an invisible a.s:,assin for the 17 -6 Irish. 
"I came in here pretty much known as having a reputation for being a scorer and a shooter," Carroll said. "After my fresh­man season, l felt that I wanted to be known as a complete player. In the off­sea.50n, I worked hard at getting stronger and tried to become a defensive player. E I think I'll always be able to score, but I want to be known as a defensive guy." 
Carroll is content to fill any role neces­sary, be it scoring or dishing olT the ball. According to Brey, he alc;o leads the team in floor burns. 
As long as it leads to wins. 
"l write on my shoes, 'Play for one rea­son," and that's to win," Carroll said. "No matter what it takes, I'll do whatever it takes to win." 
Although still early in his Notre Dame career, the 20-year-old Carroll is already a floor leader for the Irish. When team­mate Jere Macura became the victim of a foot in the face earlier this season, Carroll reined him i.q with a few calming words and two arms around the waist. 
But the normally calm sophomore wasn't so composed against West Virginia on Feb. 11. He reacted to a hostile West Virginia crowd by Oicking the fans off after the game, surprising Brey and Ostrowski, who called his former prodigy to give him an earful. 
"I know about how classy Matt is," Ostrowski said. "For him to be provoked like that would be really unusual. It's real­ly out of character." 
Because the action was so unusual for Carroll. Brey didn't suspend the starter. Instead, he talked with Carroll about the problem and asked him to write a letter of' apology to West Virginia's coach. 
The incident is over and behind Carroll, who's focused on his future in basketball, not his past. 
He's got short-term goals, which include a Big East regular season title, a Big East tournament title and an NCAA Championship. 
Then there are long-term goals, includ­ing a career in the NBA. He hasn't dis­cussed that possiblity with Brey. He's leav­ing that for a future date when Brey doesn't have to deal with rumors (If Murphy jumping to the NBA. 
But Carroll's career prospects have alre;uiy crossed Brey's mind. ..Absolutely, he is definitely an NBA prospect." Brey said. "The sky is the • 
limit" 
O~e ne with 

Matt Carroll 

Carroll 

position: guard year: sophomore awards: two-time member of U.S. Junior National Team, only Pennsylvania high school player to be named Mr. Basketball twice notables: has one ofthe top assist-to­turnover ratios in the Big East. averages 1 2 .4 points per game birthdate: August 28, 1980 hometown: Horsham, Penn. dorm: Dillon major: marketing dimensions: 6-foot-6, 2 10 lbs. greatest personal athletic moment: 
beating Ohio State last year best sports movie: Hoosiers favorite movie: Road Trip favorite book: Bill Bradley's Values of the Game favorite TV show: Friends favorite sports team: 76ers dream car: Hummer Final Four predictions: Notre Dame. Duke. Illinois, Stanford All-American picks: Notre Dame's Troy Murphy, Duke's Shane Battier and Jason Williams, North Carolina's Joe Forte. Clemson ·s Will Solomon what I like to do ott the court: hang out with my roommates. watch movies. download music 
Wednesday, February 21, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
NCHUMLLY, THE QUESTION OF EATINS THE APPLE VERSUS NOT EATINfi Ir IS PRETTY C:VT I\ND DRV 
8VT YOU s...oweo YOUR REASONINGS WEt.L, • AND YOVR THESIS SEEMS TO BE Ok,I.Y•.• 

"' 
Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
ANY CHANCE of LEARNING MIND IF 
YOUR ''uNDo" I SNAP A COMMAND? QUICIC 
J'PEG
\ 

F1~ST? 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
/7,
/' 
\Jt.'ve. C!,ot a 
pt').r1e.to.l~"10l0..tor. 
• 
\... (> 
• • It's onl,~ 
12:01 I
.,I • 

CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE.  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS 27 Monochromatic 1 Big blowout rock? 5 Little dent 33 Up to snuff 9 Candidate's 36 Junior, to Senior concern 37Holy_ 14 19n movie in 38 Plunders which Bo 40 Took in Derek's leg is 42 College bigwigsbitten ott 43 Water channel 15 Snack item 45 Slalom track since 1912 47 Lotion16 Rover ingredient17 Statement from actor Rob's 48 Aged, unemotionaldebtors? shrew?19 Hot trend 51 Pointer's word 20 Rocl<'s Bnan 52 "A Hard Day's21 Disney's Ludwig Nighr directorDrake 56 Reports by22 Make more phoneattractive 24 Dr. Dre. for one 60 Hail, to Caesar 26 Columbia 61 Stowe girl Pictures 62 Self-evident co-founder truth ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  63 Question from an uncertain Osiris? 66 It may be about a yard 67 Casing 68 Prelude to a duel 89 First name in rock since 1970 70 Put up 71 Azillion DOWN 1 Shady spot 2 Kind of football 3 Lois Lane exclusive 4 Tum left 5 Del Rio of film 6 Tend to pressing business 7 Just out 8 Keeps at it 9 Hopping mad 10 "Encore!" 11 Latin I word 12 A crystal ball user has it 13 Worry-free locale 18 Roulette bet 23 Put an edge on 25 like some justice 26 Dispute 28 Words in a dedication 29 Radial sur1aces 30 Viva-voce 31 Dessert, say, to a dieter 32 Limerick language  PUU11 bV Rlc;nard Sll~Nlt1 33 E!esides 34 Weevil's target 35 Garish 39 Followers of l~obert Bruce 41 i>C key 44 J_ike some :;choolbook publishers 46 What you're doing now 49 Coffee accompaniment, maybe 50 Wine sediment  53 Colleague of 57 Jump on the ice Edison 58 Kind of trap 54 Perrier 59 Nutsalternative 60 Speller's phrase 55 Hoarse 64 Reggae relative56 Soup and sandwich spot 65 Doctrine Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from 1he last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  WEDNESDAY, FEIIRUARY 21, 2001 CELEBRITIES BORN ON that someone at work hasn't been TIIIS DAY: Erma Bombaci;, Bar-trustworthy. 00 bara Jordan, Rue Mcclanahan, VIRGO (Auf;. 23-Sept. 22): Jill Eikenberry, Kelsey Grammer, Don't become involved with co­Mary-0\apin Carpenter, William workers or clients unless you Baldwin, Jennifer Love Hewitt want to risk ruining your profes-Happy Birthday: This is a sional reputation. Channel your romantic and creative year for energy into your career, and you you. Enjoy the corhpany of oth­will get ahead. 01:>0 ers. Your vision will enable you LIBRA (Sepl 23-0cl 22): You to add a unique quality to your need to concentrate on yourself. work. Let your imagination flow Get busy making those changes and believe in your abilities. You you've been/romising yourself. know what you want to accom-Quit any ba habits that you've plish, so focus and don't stop picked up and i,tart fine-tuning until you. reach yc,ur goals. Your your body. 000)0 numbers: 9, 12, 14, 30, 35, 38 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): ARIES (March 21-April 19): Discord will surface on the home Underhandedness with co-work­front if you have been secretive ers is apparent. Do not reveal about your wh•!reabouts. Resi­secret information to those you dential changes will not run feel may be =trustworthy. Youx smoothly today. 00 home environment will be erratic SAGITTI\RIUS (Nmi 22-Dec. 21): if precautions aren'l taken. 0000 Travel beckons you. Take off for a TAURUS (Ap1dl 20-May 20): few days if y01.1 can afford the Don't let anyone push you time. Try to fin,i a remote place beyond your limit. Haste makes where you can do a bit of reflect­waste, whereas a steady pace will ing, and sort oul: any matters that pay off. Don't let ,:olleagues stand may be confusing you. 0000 in the way of your progress. 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): GEMINI (Ma,y 21-June 20): This is not the• time to invest, Your ability to communicate elo­especially with !lorneone else. You quen!ly will aid you in capturing may find that someone you love the heart of someone you've been needs help with private affaits. interested in. Don't be afraid to Try to help judic:iously. 000 stand up and voice your opinions AQUARIUS, (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): at groupmeetings. 00000 Don't allow others to play with CANCER (Ju.ne 21-July 22): your emotions. Let them know Lovers are likelv to cause some how you feel, and what you upset today. Do your best to expect out of partnerships. Take !'lease, but refuse to give in to a heed of the ad\ice given by trust­shouting match. If you can't avoid ed friends. You will enjoy short the debate, do something that will trips to visit old friends. 00 make you feel better. 000 PISCES (F,ib. 19-March 20): LEO (July 2.l-Aug, 22): You Activities involving large institu­can make or break your personal lions may be depressing. Try not relationship today. Be careful not to give in to the melodramas that to show your temper when deal-surround you. Follow your intu­ing with the bo11s. You may find ition, which is strong. 000  ....  

Birthday Baby: You have an unusual style. You will always follow your heart and do things your own way. You are friendly, easygoing and a little dramatic. 
(Need advice? Oleclc out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the well at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----------------------------~------------------------------------·--------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ > City ________ State ____ Zip.______ 

All in the Family 
Sophomore guard Matt Carroll. who grew up in a basketball family. has become a complete player for the Irish this season.
PORTS 
p.22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, February 21, 200 l 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish, Eagles battle for top spot in conference 
Dame win would leave both ings -Boston College -must they boast the best turnover Sunday was a shorter 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
teams at 10-3 in the league. beat the Irish tonight in order margin in the Big East. The wingspan than Seton Hall, Associate Sports Ediror "We still dream about maybe to stay there. squad coached by Al Skinner which won't come into play winning a regular season The Eagles and the Irish are also tops the Big East in steals against a shorter Hoston The possession arrow points champi­both sharp shooting squads per game -Bell alone aver­College team. toward Boston College. onship,'' with Player of the Year candi­ages three per contest -and Height is where Notre Dame 
Notre Dame's loss to Seton Irish coach dates in BC sophomore Troy scoring. holds the advantage tonight.Ilall Sunday gave the Eagles a Mike Brey Bell and ND junior Troy Boston College's speed AIi-American Murphy. at 6­one-game lead.in the race for s a i d Murphy but legions apart in should concern Notre Dame, foot-11, towers over all Boston the Big East regular season Sunday. most areas. which was bothered by Seton College's players, and 6-8 title, but that just means the N o t r e The Eagles are small and Hall's pressure defense Ryan Humphrey has a great Irish need a steal. The Irish Dame's quick, with four players in Sunday. vertical leap. Behind Murphy, (17-6, 9-3 Big East) can swipe schedule their starting lineup who could "Thev're No. 1 over in their Humphrey and junior Harold the advantage away from the makes that be considered guards. division," Irish guard Matt Swanagan. the Irish are sec­Eagles (19-3, 10-2) by knock­a reason­Having a court full of ball­Carroll said. "They're proba• ond in the conference in both ing off their cross-divisional able goal. handlers. with point guard biy going to be the favorite in rebounding and blocks. while rivals in a 7:30 p.m. Joyce since the one team higher Bell at the helm. helps the this game." Center clash tonight. A Notre than Notre Dame in the stand-Eagles hold onto the ball. as Notre Dame's other downfall 
see HOOPS/page 17 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish return to winning ways with 81-43 victory 
. McGraw records 400th career victory as Irish head coach 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Sports Editor 
A large contingent of teenage and pre-teen girls, all season ticket hold­ers, situated between sections 9 and 11 at the Joyce Center, normally chant "The Ruth, the Ruth, the Ruth is on fire" at least 10 times per game. 
Last night in Notre Dame's 81-43 win against Miami. the group added another cheer to their growing reper­toire. With 4:12 left and the Irish ahead by 35 points, the girls screamed. "We want Swanson, w.e want Swanson." 
As in seldom-used sophomore walk-on guard Karen Swanson. Seconds later. coach MulTet McGraw looked down the bench, pointed at Swanson and signaled her to enter. 
"That was coincidental," said McGraw, with a smile, "that I put her in at that exact moment." 
McGraw could manage to be sar­castic after an 81-43 win over Miami. which was also her 400th career vic­tory. Following the contest, athletic director Kevin White and her hus­band Matt presented McGraw with a brown and white basketball and a bouquet of flowers. 
"It doesn't feel any different," McGraw said of her 400th win. "It's just a chance to look back and remember all the great people that have been in this program. I'm so happy to be where I am right now.'' 
She should be. 
Three nights after the loss to 
see WOMEN/page 20 


. No. 2 Irish use total team effort to knock off the Hurricanes 
At halftime Tuesday night, they brought out a 360-pound pig to help promote diabetes awareness. The promotion was called "Kiss the pig." 
After the game, other things were being kissed ­this time on the part of Miami head coach Ferne Labati. 
Responding to her team's 81-43 loss to the now No. 2 Irish. Labati offered praise and even apolo­gies. 
"It was just an outstanding per­formance by Notre Dame and I apologize that we didn't have a bet• ter game to challenge them a little bit," Labati said. 
The opposing coach's response sang a far cry from the view taken by other opponents lately. 
In recent weeks, the Irish gave a glimmer of hope to such sub-par teams as Pittsburgh, Providence and Syracuse. Coaches reflected on how they nearly missed an opportunity to dethrone the then-No. 1 team in the country. 
Tuesday, Miami's Labati had no such reflections and was ripe with praise. 
"Notre Dame is a Final Four team 

see WOMEN/page 19 
• 
Baseball vs. NorthwesternSPORTS • vs. Boscon College (t,;1at Texas San-Antonio Saturday, 11 a.m.
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. c;: Friday, 7 p.m. 
ATA • • 
vs. GeorgetownSoftballat Kansas State . Saturday, l p.m . 

at Aikansas Tournament
1~)
..__,. Friday, 2:30 p.m.
GLANCE 

Friday, 12 p.m. 



