
Happy Thanksgiving
RAINY 

Tuesday 
The Observer wishes everyone a safe and happy Thanksgiving. We will 
return Tuesday, Nov. 27, 2001. 
NOVEMBER 20, 
HIGH 37° 
LOW28° 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 55 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
CLC 

Task forces review alcohol, tailgating 
been the focus of three task that the task force explore also surfaced amid discussion tion in the past.ByJASON McFARLEY forces this semester. ways to emphasize to drink­of campus drinking. In partic­"There's definitely miscom­News Editor 
The task forces on alcohol ing-age students who buy ular, members expressed con­munication here," said Tim use and off-campus living will alcohol for their underage cern about Notre Dame offi­Jarotkiewicz, Judicial Council 
Surveys will help two present a report or resolution peers that they are breaking cials' crackdown this year on president. Campus Life Council task in December based on e-mail the law. Piennette said the student tailgaters. While drinking was a popu­forces move toward drafting surveys of students and resi­problem seems " I t ' s lar topic Monday, there was reports or resolutions, while dence hall staff. much more important to no indication that the alcohol
"It's important to know
another "We want to find ways of rampant this know what task force would change ·the task force grabbing freshmen, finding year than in the what rights a student rights a stu­focus of its survey or if the will send ways to keep them away from past. does and does not have." dent does CLC would form a separate its recom­less desirable events," Jesse "I don't think and does task force to ad dress issues mend a -Flores, the Student Senate they have any not have," that came out of members'
Matt Lafratta 
tions in a representative to the CLC, said idea as to how said Matt discussion. letter to about discouraging first-year serious that can Alumni Hall representative Lafratta, The alcohol task force's sur­the Office students from underage drink­be," Piennette to the Senate another vey will likely poll students of Student ing. said of students senate rep­and rectors. Affairs The alcohol task force's sur­21 years of age resentative Two surveys planned by the n e x t Norton vey will also be meant to gen­and older. "Until the older to the council. off-campus living task force month. erate ideas to deter students people who supply realize Members said administra­will poll students, rectors and 
CLC members announced from drinking before attend­what kind of jeopardy they put tors should have found better resident assistants. their plans at the council's ing dances, especially in resi­themselves into, the vicious ways to communicate tailgat­One survey will' explore stu­regular meeting Monday, as dence halls, Flores said. cycle will continue." ing rules, especially to upper­dent housing options, accord-the group appeared close to Sister Piennette, Welsh The subject of the classmen who had tailgated wrapping up work that has Family Hall rector, suggested University's alcohol policies with little University interven-see ALCOHOL/page 4 



College celebrates Native American heritage 

By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 
Through the use of split-loom jewelry design and traditional materials Linda Topash-Yazel is known as one of the 
nation's best Native American headers. 
Beading for 10 years, she f i r s t learned the art from her mother and now spends her t i m C 
"I teach others so that Michigan University
the traditional skills 
to create

will not be lost and so 
tradition­that others, outside the al bead­
work foe

culture, can appreciate 
t h e

the beauty ofbeading. " Museum 
of Natural 
a n d

Linda Topash-Yazel 
Cultural

Native American leader 
teaching classes in the art form of creating bracelets and bead designs. Yazel led a beading class Monday night at Saint Mary's, as one of several events tak­ing place this month in honor of Native American Heritage Month. 
Yazel encouraged the students to create a beaded key chains. She also allowed the students to create their own bead­ed bracelets and designs and a small dream catch­er ornament. 
"I teach others so that the traditional skills will not be lost and so that others, outside the cul­ture, can appreciate the beauty of beading;" Yazel said. 
She has taught at the Detroit Institute of Arts, Krasl Art Center and the Fernwood Nature Center. She was recentlv com­missioned by Central 
History. 

Ya z e 1 expresses the cultural heritage of her people who come from the Potawatomi and Ojibwe heritage, primarily through her art design and use of traditional materials such as porcu­pine quills and small glass beads. She also uses buttons and semi­precious stones. 
"Even though I have been doing this for a while it can still take me up to several weeks to finish some of my bead­ing projects," Yazel said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 20, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Giving thanks 
What does it mean to give thanks? Why do we even celebrate the holiday of Thanksgiving? It's a national holiday ... but that doesn't tell us much about thanks. We talk 
about how the pilgrims cel­ebrated the first Thanksgiving to give thanks for surviving a rough harsh year. We depict it as them reaping bountiful harvests, with cornucopia overflowing after a year of toil. 
That first Thanksgiving 


though, they gave thanks more for friendship and  Angela Campos  
help they received from the  
American Indians in the  
area. They gave the pil­grirns food and helped them  Lab Tech  
survive the harsh East coast  
winter. They helped bring  

and make the feast that we now consider Thanksgiving. 
So, as we go begin this holiday season take time to look at the things you do, the places you've been and the people you know. 
Don't just give thanks for the things that you were able to do or the places you were able to be. Give thanks for those people who have helped you get through your tough times, give thanks for those people who have helped you celebrate your glad times. Give thanks for those who made you smile or laugh, for those people who challenged you to be a better per­son. Give thanks for all the people who love you. 
Give thanks for your family, for your friends, and for getting home and returning to campus safely. Give thanks for the opportunity to live and study at Notre Dame. Give thanks for the people who work day in and day out so that we can learn. Give thanks for the next person who says hi to you. 
There are many places I've been, many peo­ple that I know, and many things that I've done. I'm thankful for all of them, because they have helped me grow into a better person. They have helped me to understand myself bet­ter. 
There are a lot of people I'd to whom I'd like to say thank you. Thank you to everyone who stood by me when I was going through hard times, thank you for making the time to listen, console me and love me. Your support has been awesome. 
Thank you to the Basilica staff for giving me the opportunity to serve God while at church. Thank you to the Knights of Columbus for won­derful camaraderie during steak sales and other events over the last four years. Thank you to Student Government for giving me the opportunity to serve the students here at Notre Dame. Thank you to the Keough Tabernacle Choir for creating a wonderful community of praise at Mass. 
Thank you to the class of 2002, for being there, challenging, striving, dreaming over the last four years. Thank you for your enthusiasm, your ideas and your solidarity. 
Thank you, Notre Dame for giving me the opportunity to learn and grow in faith, scholar­ship and community. 
I have much to be thankful for. I am truly blessed. Have a safe and blessed Thanksgiving. 
Contact Angela Campos at Campos.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mi.cake, please contact us ar 631-4S4 l so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep1 during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A.ssodaccd Press. All n:produccion rights arc rc.ervcd. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"Obviously, Saint Mary's "I totally plan on discourages premarital being back here next sex, but it's not like we year and continue to become the pregnancy try and get this police or the sex police. football team to 
We encourage women to improve." be careful.., 
Bob Davie Jerry Madsen assistant head football coach on director of Residence Life not resigning · 
on pregnancy. 
Compiled from U-Wire r-epo/1s
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Brown allows grad students to become unionized 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

In an historic decision, the National Labor Relations Board ruled Friday that Brown University's graduate student workers are employees entitled to unionization privileges. 
NLRB regulations require a secret ballot election be held within 30 days to allow graduate students to vote on unionization. The date of the election will be established within the next week by officials from the NLRB, United Auto Workers and the University, according to the ruling of Rosemary Pye, NLRB region one director. 
Brown will be the first Ivy League institution and the second private university in the United States, to hold a unionization election for grad-
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
University looks for fair admissions test 
University of California is looking for a fairer test to use in admissions, because less wealthy and underrep­resented students receive lower standardized test scores on average than their wealthier and nonminori­ty counterparts. The College Board and ACT Inc., the two largest standardized testing companies in the nation, announced Friday at a meeting of academic and state officials at UC-Santa Barbara that they would work with the UC in addressing this issue, though they did not mention spec.ific actions. "This is all to open up the university to people who do not have all of the advantages that our society has to offer," UC President Richard Atkinson said at the meeting. "My arguments against the SAT I were not based on pre­dictive validity but on pedagogical and philosophical convictions about achievement, merit and opportunity in a democratic society." Gaston Caperton, president of the College Board and former governor of West Virginia from 1988-96, defended the SAT as being a valid -but not perfect -test. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"forecasl for daytime conditions and high tern eratures 
\ ! 

4.~,Q._9-~ 8 (f ~ u 
ShoWers T•storms Rain Flurries si.o,,, /Ce Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associal.ad Press Graphic!JNt1f 

uate employees. 
Sheyda Jahanbani, a member of the BGEO/UAW, said the decision reinforced her faith in the democrat­ic process. 
"It's a very pleasant victory," she said. "We felt strongly as the sum-
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Woman looking for student sperm doner 
"Stanford student wanted for sperm donor. $15k offered. Intelligent, good looking, over 6 ft. tall. No histo­ry of self or family addictions." This is not the sort of advertisement that readers usually expect to find in the Palo Alto Daily News classified section. Yet just such an ad has appeared there for the past two weeks, placed by a Burlingame woman who hopes to find a sperm donor in order to have a child. The 33-year-old woman, who wishes to remain anonymous, explained that she specifi­cally wants a Stanford University student because she assumes that the donor will have a high level of intelli­gence. As for her other requirements, she said she will decide when she meets the donor. "Intellect is a given if they go to Stanford," she said. "And if I meet them and I like them, I'll choose them." The woman said her uncon­ventional approach to having a child stems from her frustration with the dating scene. 'Tm planning on wait­ing another year until my 34th birthday, and if my dating situation doesn't get any better, then I will go the artifi­cial insemination route," she said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, Nov. 20. 
FRONTS:
......... .._..._ ....... 

COLO WARM STATIONARY
C 2001 AceuWeather, Inc. 
'l/"1aA.saudalElt.lPress  
Atlanta  61  37  Las Vegas  69  46  Portland  52  45  
Baltimore  53  30  Memphis  54  31  Sacramento  65  50  
Boston  56  32  Milwaukee  41  32  St Louis  51  34  
Chicago  44  32  New York  52  32  Tampa  78  58  
Hous1on  64  41  Philadelphia  54  33  Washington DC 54  35  

"Diversity and culture is not this intangible idea. It's something that people you go to class with every day encompass." 
Joyce Deleon c~halr of the diversity division on culture fest 
mer wound down and as the hear­ings wound down of this decision. H was not surprising but very pleas­ing." 
The decision states all graduate students employed as teaching assis­tants. teaching fellows, proctors and research assistants in humanities and social sciences, including recipi­ents of training grants and medical school students who are enrolled in a biomedical Ph.D. program, are entitled to vote. Research assistants in the life and physical sciences are not eligible to vote. 
The Graduate School has roughly 1,300 students; about 450 have vot­ing rights. · 
This decision is almost identical to an earlier ruling at New York University. 
"When Navy again beats Notre Dame, which will happen, it will be a special situation for all those kids." 
Rick Lantz Navy interim coach on Navy's loss 


Tuesday, November 20, 200 l 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOG 


Eldred elaborates on Strategic Plan 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Marilou Eldred, president of Saint Mary's, updated the Board of Governance on the College's progression of' the Strategic P l a n Monday night. 
T h e 

Strategic 
Plan allows 
for renova­
tions of the 
N o b l e 


Eldred

Family Dining llall and Angela Athletic Facility along with the construction of a new academic building to replace Madeleva Hall, explained Eldred. 
"We hope to have ground breaking for the dining hall in the spring," Eldred said. 
However, plans are moving at a slow rate due to insufficient funds. Eldred stressed that there has been a decline in fundraising and donations due to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. When members of BOG asked what initiatives student govern­ment could take to help in the process, Eldred assured the body that the only thing it could 
do to help the implementation 
was to talk about fundraising. 
According to Eldred. by increasing the amount of money generated by donations, Saint Mary's would not only be able to break ground on planned projects but also promote inter­est in further development of the College by raising money for scholarships. 
"It is exciting to see the change on campus. It creates a real positive feeling throughout the school," student body vice president, Kristen Matha, said in response to Eldred's remarks. 


In other BOG news: 
Matha updated the Board on the progress of the proposed study day. This past month it was low on the faculty meeting agenda so there was not much discussion. However. it will be further up on the agenda in the December meeting. 
"The faculty will take into consideration student's opin­ions when considering the pos­sibility of implementing the study day proposal." said Matha. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 

PRAISES OF THANKSGIVING 

I lie lllaslll•¦••· PNl¦I'¦­
* 




Applications now being accepted for Fall 2002 & Spring 2003 



-
* 


Visit ourWebsite at: www.nd.edu/-semester 

* 








page4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, November 20, 200l 
what about the rest of the who aren't 21 to go ... I think ing this semester. some rcaUy great reports, seniors?" attendance would be really Brooke Norton, student body some really great resolutions,"
Alcohol 
The task force wiU likely for­high," LeBlanc said about use president and CLC chair, said Norton said. 
ward results of the surveys via 

continued from page 1 a report or resolution to the Office of Student Affairs,ing to Jarotkiewicz, the task 
force's chair. 
"We just want to test the waters, see what's out there ... get as many respons­es as we can," he said. 
A second survey of only rectors and 
Jarotkiewicz said. 

"We want to find out what we can do to get seniors more involved.,. 
· Tim Jarotklewlcz Judicial Council president 
The CLC's task force on social space won't conduct a survey but instead sub­mit recom­mendations in a letter to Student Affairs. 

RAs will focus on seniors' involvement in campus activi­ties. 
"We want to find out what we can do to get seniors more involved," Jarotkiewicz said. "Some seniors are IlAs, but 
The letter will propose the addition of a 24-hour eatery in North Dining Hall and more use of Alumni-Senior Club for all-ages programming. said task force chair Bob LeBlanc. 
"If there's a place for people 


FBI connects two anthrax letters 
As•ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The FBI announced Monday it believes a letter to Sen. Patrick Leahy, belatedly found last week, was written by the same person who sent an anthrax­laced letter to Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle last month. 
Investigators are looking into the possibility that the letter to Leahy, D-Vt., was misdirected, which could have been the source of anthrax contamina­tion at a State Department mail facility that sickened one work­er. 
Two buildings on Capitol Hill struck by the anthrax scare reopened, and U.S. health experts provided assistance to authorities in Chile who found a new letter that may contain anthrax. 
Torn Skinner, spokesman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, said the agency was planning to test a substance found in a letter that the Chilean government said was tainted with anthrax. The government of Chile said the letter came from Switzerland. 
Regarding the Leahy letter, 

U.S. Postal inspector Dan Mihalko said it contains a hand­written Zip code of 20510 that also can be read as 20520 by optical character reader machines at the postal service. 
"That's the exact change needed to forward something to the State Department," said Mihalko. 
"It raises an interesting possi­bility that the letter to Leahy could have been misdirected through the State Department mail system, which might explain how that system got contaminated," said Mihc!Jko. 
The Leahy letter was found Friday by the FBI and haz­ardous materials personnel from the Environmental Protection Agency in one of 280 barrels of unopened mail sent to Capitol Hill and held since discovery of the letter to Daschle. 
The outside of the Leahy let­ter appears virtually identical to the Daschle letter and bears the same fictitious "Greendale School" return address, all-cap­ital block letters and other characteristics. 
Investigators are convinced the two letters were "sent by the same person," the FBI said. Both the Daschle and Leahy let­ters also had block printing with a slight slant to the right and a postmark from Trenton, 
N.J. 
Two of three Senate office buildings reopened Monday after being swept for anthrax contamination. The Hart Senate office building remained closed. 
Environmental Protection Agency officials have said it will take three to four weeks to decontaminate the offices of 10 senators in the Hart building in which traces of anthrax have been found, a Senate aide speaking on condition of anonymity said. Those cleanups have not yet started. 
Two other offices where bac­teria were found -Daschle's and the next-door suite of Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis. -will be sealed and cleaned with chlorine dioxide gas. 

of the senior bar. 
The CLC task forces may have only until Dec. 3 to finish their work. That may be the date of the group's final meet-a Dec. 10 meeting would be scheduled if necessary. 
"I think once we get surveys in and substantive documents in, we can move forward with 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

Blood Drivg 
!!pon~orod by 
Notro Damg ~tudont Govornmant 
Date:.: Wedne5da_y, November 2a, 2001 lime: 9,00 am ­


,,,opm 
Location: Notre Dame Room 
Appointments can be made b~ calling 6,1-7668 
Monda_t;1-frida_t;1 8:00 am-5:00 pm. 
Appointments are scheduled every 15 minutes and it takes about one hour tor the entire process. 
If!:JOU have a 9uestion about the donation process or your ability to donate, please call the Central I)lood I)ank at 2}4-1157­
Donating Blood !!avog LivogJ 

South Bend Medical Foundation, Inc. 
Central Blood Bank 








ATION 
Tuesday, November 20, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Earthquake rattles Colombia: A 6.0­
magnitude earthquake struck in the moun­tains of northeast Colombia on Monday, sway­ing buildings as far away as the capital. There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries. The quake's epicenter was in the town of Sevita, located 150 miles from Bogota. 
Bulgarian leader backs EU membership: 
Bulgaria's newly elected Socialist president Georgi Parvanov pledged to work for Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and NATO, while strengthening the role of the state. Parvanov pledged at a news conference to work for a stronger role of the state in alle­viating economic burdens and to strengthen ties with the rest of Europe. Bulgaria hopes to join the EU in 2006 and is also seeking an invitation next year to join NATO. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

FDA approves controversial gel: 
The Food and Drug Administration made an unprecedented about-face Monday, approving a gel that promises less internal scarring for women undergoing certain surgeries -even though regulators originally deemed the prod­uct too risky. The FDA had initially rejected Lifecore Biomedjcal Inc. 's Intergel, which promises to reduce internal scarring from certain gynecologic operations 
Gore takes job at financial company: 
Al Gore has accepted the job of vice chairman of a Los Angeles-based financial services holding company. The former vice president will help the firm find investments overseas as well as private-equity investments in biotechnology and information technology. Gore will add the new job at Metropolitan West Financial to his other duties as college professor, guest speaker and writing a book with his wife Tipper about the American fam­ily. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Prisoner attempts escape: A prison inmate used a dense fog as cover to climb a barbed wire fence in an escape attempt that ended when a guard spotted him less than three hours later in a nearby town. Despite extra officers patrolling the Westville Correctional Facility's grounds Sunday morn­ing, Kimlynn Patton was able to slip from a group of inmates being led to breakfast, prison officials said. Patton, who is serving a six-year sentence for burglary, scaled the fence lining the grounds about 7 a.m. A prison guard captured him about 10 miles away in Union Mills. 
Market Watch November 19 
Dow 9,976.46 +109.47 Jones 

Composite
Same: 

Volume:
213 
1,287,401,984 
AMEX: 802:77' ·+4.01'· NASDAQ: 1,934.42 +35.84 NYSE: 584.29 . +5.46. S&P 500: 1,151.06 +12.41 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +2.84 +1.12 40.49 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSC0)+3.45 +0.69 20.71 PALM INC (PALM) +12.83 +0.44 3.87 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +5.69 +0.66 12.26 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.18 +0.36 30.99 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The government began taking charge of airport security Monday at the start of the holiday travel season. President George 
W. Bush signed legislation that will have more screeners peering in pas­sengers' bags and more sky marshals flying on planes. 
"Today we take perma-· nent and aggressive steps to improve the security of our airways," Bush said at a ceremony at Reagan National Airport. The new law will put airport screening in the hands of 28,000 federal workers and require inspections of all checked baggage. 
The signing of the most comprehensive air security bill ·in the nation's history came three days after pas­sage by Congress and three days before Thanksgiving. Lawmakers and the administration were determined to act before the holidays in an effort to convince travelers that it was safe to get back on airplanes 10 weeks after the hijacker attacks on. New York and Washington. 
Fewer Americans were planning to travel by air this Thanksgiving, accord­ing to the AAA. The group, formerly known as the American Automobile Association, forecast 4.6 million people traveling by air, a 27 percent decline from last year's 6.3 mil­lion. 
The new law, said Bush, "should give all Americans greater confidence when they fly." 
For many air travelers, already seeing longer waits on the ground and more restrictions in the air, some of the effects of the law won't be readily apparent. 
"It's not going to be a dramatic change immedi­ately," said Transportation Department spokesman Chet Lunner. "There are thousands of posts to be filled ... and dozens of mandates and milestones." 
Federal managers will be moving into position at screening stations, although it -will take a while, probably three months, before travelers see uniformed federal workers doing the screen­ing, said Rep. James Oberstar of Minnesota, ranking Democrat on the House Transportation Committee. 
The law calls for all screening operations to be under federal control with­in a year. 
AFGHANISTAN 
Alliance warlords show divisions 
Associated Press 
KABUL 
Less than a week after the Taliban were driven from Kabul, 3,000 Shiite Muslim fighters are poised outside, demanding a share of power. Major cities are now warlords' fiefdoms, and the idea ofa broad-based government is being challenged by hastily multi­plying posters of factional leaders. 
While the United Nations is trying to organize a power-sharing conference, it must move quickly or Afghanistan could suffer the same anarchy and division that paved the way for the Taliban's rise in the last decade. 
The sudden collapse of the Taliban throughout much of the country has left a power vacuum which the arrival of the northern alliance into Kabul last week only partially filled. 
The alliance is a coalition of five groups -mostly representing ethnic minorities -which were driven from power by the Taliban in -1996 and whic-h rallied together because of their common hatred for the Islamic militia. 
In areas vacated by the Taliban, former warlords such as Ismail Khan in the western city of Herat and 
. Rashid Dostum in the north's Mazar­e-Sharif simply took back control of their old fiefdoms. 
page 6 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Tuesday, November 20, 2001 

t's 
I

It's cold. 
People need coats. You'reinaDORM COMPETITION to bring in the most coats. Bring coats backfrom THANKSGIVING BREAK. 
Ask your President/Service Commissioner or check out our webpage for details and sponsors at: http:1/centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu/ProjectWarmth/index.html email: projwarm@nd.edu 
Tuesday, November 20, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Weddings rise after Sept. 11 
The surge in business is a 
Associated Press 
pleasant surprise to ihe $70 billion bridal industry, which 
NEW YORK 
traditionally does most of its Darcy Rowan and Antal 
business from January
Voros had talked about mar­
through March as couples
riage during their five-month 
prepare for summer wed­
courtship, but it took on sud­dings.
den urgency after they 
"This is usually a quiet peri­watched the Sept. 11 attacks 
od, the least busiest time,"
unfold on television. said Ingrid Kelly, director of Voros headed to a mall to 
special events for David's 
shop for a ring that week and 
Bridal, which operates 144 
presented Rowan with the diamond one month later. "The terror­ "...We are seeing a tremendous increase in bridal registries."  s t o r e s nationwide. "But we are seeing a tremendous increase in  
ist attacks shook me up. I  Ingrid Kelly  bridal istries."  reg­ 
was really worried about  director of special events for David's Bridal  Some cus­tomers, she  

her," said Voros, 42. who lives in Elmer, N.J., two hours away from Howan, a New Yorker. "This made me think, maybe I shouldn't wait as long." 
Added Rowan, 34: "I heard all those stories about people losing their loved ones. It made him more important." 
There aren't any statistics to prove that more people have been getting engaged since the attacks -but there is plenty of anecdotal evi­dence. 
Retailers from David's Bridal to Ashford.com and Bluenile.com are reporting a jump in sales of wedding mer­chandise including gowns and rings. The number of people setting up bridal registries is also up. 
said, are 
moving up wedding dates from 2004 and 2003 to next year. 
Wedding World Inc .. a 19­store bridal chain based in Altoona, Pa., so far has a 22 percent gain in sales in November at stores open at least a year. 
"The Sept. 11 event is giving the business more momen­tum," company owner David Kaufman said, adding that business got a boost from people in the military who wanted to get married before being sent overseas. 
The wedding industry typi­cally is one of the few sectors that holds up in a recession, though couples tend to scale back on expenses. There are more than 2 .2 million U.S. marriages annually. 
The post-Sept. 11 rise in bridal business surprised David Liu, chief executive of The Knot.com, a leading wed­ding resource. The Knot.com compared its online traffic during the first week of September with traffic during the first week of October, expecting a negative impact. 
Instead, Liu found a 10 per­cent increase in bridal reg­istries. The site also had a 17 percent gain in traffic to its marriage license finder, and has gained advertising from tuxedo retailers and photog­raphers. 
"Bridal is one of the very few businesses that is doing well, and totally defies eco­nomic recession and terror­ism concerns," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report in Upper Montclair, N.J. "In fact. the greater the uncer­tainties of the time, the greater apparently the eager­ness to get married and form a family." 
Millie Martini Bratten, edi­tor-in-chief of Bride's maga­zine, agreed but said it's not known if the uncertain times have inade couples choose more intimate weddings or bigger affairs. 
Patty Walsh, of Waterbury, Conn., was inspired to spend $6,000 more on her wedding, padding an initial budget of $14,000. 
"I realized that what's money at this point. I wanted my wedding to be the best it could possibly be," Walsh said. 
Police arrest man for terrorism links 
. Saudi man pleads guilty to visa fraud after accusations 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 
A Saudi man arrested dri­ving a car with a flat tire near a Washington airport on Sept. 11 pleaded guilty Monday to visa fraud after prosecutors said he wasn't involved in the terrorist hijackings. 
Khalid  al-Draibi,  32.  
entered  the  plea  in  U.S.  
Di~trict  Court  in  this  

Washington suburb as prose­cutors secured convictions from two men arrested initial­ly in the terrorism case. 
The other man, Victor Lopez-Flores, also pleaded guilty to helping one of the Sept. 11 hijackers fraudulent­ly obtain a Virginia identifica­tion card and illegally re­entering the United States after being deported. 
Al-Draibi was arrested about 13 hours after the attacks when he aroused sus­picion by driving away from Dulles International Airport in a car with a flat tire. 
After he was stopped, police found driver's licenses from eight states and flight manu­als for small aircraft, prosecu­tors said. 
But al-Draibi passed two lie detector tests that showed he wasn't involved in the attacks. his attorney, Drewery Hutcheson Jr., said. 
U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III asked prosecutors Monday if the government was satis­fied al-Draibi had nothing to do with Sept. 11. "That's cor­rect," Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton answered. 
Al-Draibi faces up to 10 years in prison and $250,000 fine when he is sentenced Jan. 18 on the visa fraud charge. 
In his guilty plea, Lopez­flores admitted he falsely cer­tified on Aug. 2 that Ahmed Alghamdi lived at his Alexandria, Va., address. 
Alghamdi, who was aboard one of the hijacked airliners that crashed into the World Trade Center, used the resi­dency certification to obtain an ID card from the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles a month before the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Prosecutors said Alghamdi paid Lopez-Flores $100 for his help. Lopez-Flores, who was deported in 1993 after a crim­inal conviction, acknowledged that he helped at least 20 peo­ple obtain false Virginia IDs since last May. 
Lopez-Flores was the second person to plead guilty in northern Virginia to charges arising from· the investigation into false ID cards obtained by the hijackers. 
Officials expect economy to dip indefinitely 
sored J:.y the University of During question-and-answer 10 times since the beginning flurry of reductions "will go
Associated Press 
California at Berkeley. The sessions with the audience of the year, decreasing its down in the history books as SAN FRANCISCO presentation marked his first and the media, Parry predict­benchmark federal funds rates effective." He said a sharp public remarks on the econo-ed consumers will curtail their from 6.5 percent to 2 percent drop in mortgage rates The sliding economy proba-my since the Sept. 11 terrorist spending and save more -the lowest level in 40 years. already have spurred a refi­
bly will continue its descent attacks. 
money during the next few "If it were necessary -and I nancing boom that has boost­
through the winter amid rising .. Frankly, over the short 
months as businesses continue am not making an interest ed household incomes and 
unemployment and falling term, the 
to fire rate forecast -there is suffi­fueled consumer spending.
property values, a top Federal O u t I O O k 
workers to cient room" to lower rates The refinancing gains,
"Frankly, over the short term, 
Heserve Bank official said isn't great 
shore up below 2 percent, Parry told though, won't be enough to Monday. and there's the outlook isn't great and their sag­Monday's audience. reassure increasingly uneasy
The economy's output, or a lot of 
there's a lot ofuncertainty." ging profits. Parry participates in the consumers about the wave of 
gross domestic product, will 
uncertain­The com­meetings of the Federal Open layoffs since the Sept. 11
decline in final three months 
ty," Parry mercial Market Committee that sets attacks, Parry said. The coun­
of this year and the first quar­Robert Parry 
said in his real estate interest rates, but doesn't vote try lost 415,000 non-farm jobs 
ter of next year, predicted 
speech. He president of the Federal Reserve Bank industry, in on the group's decisions. in October -the largest one­
Hobert Parry, president of the 
said steep of San Francisco particular, Under the Fed's system for month setback in 21 years.
Federal Reserve Bank of San 
slump in will "face rotating power around the "I would be very surprised
Francisco. The economy 
the technol-quite a bit country, Parry won't vote on if we don't see some pickup in
should start rebounding in the 
ogy industry makes it highly of challenge" as office vacancy the direction of interest rates the savings rates because peo­
spring, Parry forecast, result­
unlikely California -and the rates rise and rents decline, until 2003. ple are feeling uncertain,"
ing in modest growth in the 
Bay Area in particular -will Parry said. Although some economists Parry told reporters. Parry
second quarter. 
recover anytime soon. To combat the weakness, the have questioned whether called relatively strong con­
Parry made his remarks 
California is the largest part Fed may lower interest rates interest rate cuts will provide sumer spending "the most sur­
after a speech at a real estate 
of Parry's Fed district, which even further, Parry said. The the financial tonic the country prising element of the past
and economics meeting spon­
spans nine Western states. Fed has lowered interest rates needs, Parry said this year's year." 


page 8 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 20, 2001 

I Vv R~~to-the,Ev~ofSe;pt-eAnb-e,y 11trv 
~n this time of terrible loss and momentous decisions, the Center for Social Concerns offers resources through this website to assist individuals develop informed views, seek spiritual sustenance, and find just, wise, and effective ways to respond. 
Please visit: http:// centerf orsocialconcerns.nd.ed u/septl 1 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 
Summer Service Project Internships : Summer Service Project Internships are eight-week service-learning experiences sponsored 
t; 
by Notre Dame alumni clubs across the country. Room and board is provided while students work with agencies serving disadvantaged 
populations. 
Watch for the Summer Service Project Internship Blitz week 11/26 -30thH 
~llf!IOl'llMIIIII 
ACCION Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10 -12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are
ACCl•N 
microlending organizations. $2500.00 Scholarship. Room and board stipend provided. 
From Field to Table Sociology 468, Immersion in ImmokaJee, Florida, March 9-17, 2002 
Description: 

Building upon the richness of the Migrant Seminar, this semester long course examines changing food production in America and the impact on the people involved in the food system. The course will introduce students to the cultural and social issues surrounding migrant farm labor through both classroom and experiential learning. Those who participate in this seminar commit'themselves during spring break to working with migrant farm workers in Southern Florida. 
Instructor pennission required. Maximum enrollment -15 students. This seminar is a three credit Sociology course (with a variable credit option.) Applications available at the Sociology Department (810 Flanner) and the Center for Social Concerns; Contact Professor Lincoln Johnson, Johnson.4@nd.edu, 631-7615, or Carl Loesch, Loesch.4@nd.edu, 631-3175 
Post-Graduate Service: Holy Cross Associates 
Holy Cross Associates Satellite Office Hours in the Coleman-Morris Campus Ministry Building: Every Wednesday from 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Stop by with questions or just to talk with Anne Moriarty or Rebekah Go about the HCA post-graduate service program! Additional hours possible if requested by calling: 1-5521 

With Gratitude ... 
Many thanks to the 180 student volunteers who rak the yards of 60 homes in the South Bend Northeas eighborhood on Saturday, November 10th through 
"Turning Over a New Leaf' project! 

Current Volunteer Needs 
Mentors Melanie Williams 234-6985 
She is looking for role models/mentors to spend some time with her daughters, aged 10-12. They enjoy games, puzzles, crafts and outdoor activities. Transportation to Notre Dame can be provided. 
Second Grade Tutor Carla Cross 233-3756 
She is in need of a tutor for her second grade son. Student would need transportation to 617 Cottage Grove. 
.Jefferson EJementary -Learn.Fun Program Tamika Jones 283-8720 
Looking for some tutors to help with homework during theLeam.Fun 
Faculty! HELP US IDENTIFY COURSES FOR STUDENTS WHO HAVE GONE ON THE URBAN PLUNGE!!! 
In January, 200 students will be traveling to every major urban center in the U.S. to take part in a 48-hour investigation of urban social issues, with agencies, parishes, and others working on problems of poor children, un­employment, homelessness, racism, and many more. After such experi­ences, our students are excited to pursue new academic questions. What policies should be used to address the poverty in our cities? What does my faith tell me about the social problems I have witnessed? What is the "living wage"? If you will be offering a course, either this coming spring or next fall, in which students could explore these types of questions, please contact Mar Beckman at the CSC. 
Program. It serves children K-6th grade, Monday-Thursday from 2:40p.m.-3:30p.m. They would be happy to have volunteers for even just one to two days a week. 
Riley High School Eric Collins 283-8421 
Looking for tutors to assist their afterschool program. Commitment would be two days a week from 3:00p.m.-4:30p.m. Help is especially needed in Algebra and Chemistry. 
Washington Hieh School Mrs. Roberts 283-7200 
Washington High School is a diverse urban school, serving mostly African American and Hispanic students. They are interested in starting an after school program and looking for some students to serve as tutors. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu. *** 
http;'/centerforsodalconcerns.~d.edu * . 631-5293 * .Hours{M-F8AM-10PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
---~ 
'" 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 20, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
Tiu Indq,m.Jnu, D1'11, N~wspnprr S,trvlng NonT l>111n, ,mdS11int Mary', 
P.O. Box Q, Norr, Dame, IN 46556 024 Soulh Dining Hall. Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pa!wel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROil.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAG.ERIGEN.ERAL (NF0..............631-7471 FAX........................................................ .....63 J-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF ........................................63I-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 N~..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. .......................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu 
SAJNT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:!!observer.nd.,du for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fuatures for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, indud.ing advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must inchide contact information. 
Quntions regarding Ob.erver pCJlicies should b, direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

Nazr Mohammed shaved his beard today. He did it in solidarity with his fellow Afghanis, liberated from Taliban rule. "My home of Mazar-e Sharif was freed," he told me recently. "I can go home now and 
take care of my Scott Fllpse mother and sis­ter." 
Nazr Mohammed Pro Bono owns a sandwich stand in down­town Washington, D.C. He is a big man, always smiling while serving up a con­stant stream of small talk and delicious soulvaki. He was a teacher in Afghanistan. He was wounded fighting the Soviets and came to the United States for surgery. He stayed because the Taliban murdered his father. A devout Muslim, Nazr prays several times each day in the back room of a nearby Persian rug dealer. "I pray often," he told me with a smile, "but I'm no Taliban. They are not true Muslims." 
When I asked him whether the fall of the Taliban and the capture of Osama bin Laden would make any difference in the war against terrorism, Nazr's face darkened as he shook his head. "There will be more Osamas," he said. "America helped create him and we Muslims must now deal with his fol­lowers." 
I thought his words were insightful and go directly to the dilemma faced by those nations fighting in Afghanistan. Is there anything that can address the root cause of international terrorism? 
In a recent Newsweek article Fareed Zakaria posited two sources of Muslim rage: U.S. support of Israel and the alliances made between secular authoritarian regimes and the United States. Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Bahrain, Egypt and Kuwait are exam­ples of regimes that have repressed popular political opposition. In this atmosphere Islam is the only way for the "street" to express its anger over dictatorship, changing social mores and poverty. The mosque is the only way to gather freely. Mullahs are the only ones able to speak freely -as long as they blame the nation's prob­lems on nonbelievers, America and Israel. This message is institutionalized by their near monopoly on education. 
But what can the United States do to address this situation? 
For one thing, U.S. support for Israel's existence should not change. The conflict will remain as long as there are those who refuse to recog­nize a Jewish state. President Clinton's recent mediation of a peace agreement generally gave Yassar Arafat every­thing but total control of Jerusalem. That this was rejected should be evi­dence that a resolution might have to wait until the warrior generation exits. Until then, we should try to help the two sides reach an interim, and largely peaceful, way to live. 
On the other problem, I generally agree with those who assert that the United States should insist that its allies stop repression of truly democra­tic opposition if they want U.S. aid. Of course, even here we walk a fine line, for at this p·oint in time we cannot ask our friends to commit political suicide. Yet, there has to be a price paid to stop terrorism. We should ask Saudi Arabia and Egypt to stop the vehement anti­Americanism being taught in their schools and trumpeted in their official press and media. This should be cou­pled with support for democratic edu­cation and alternatives, particularly those outside the control of the most conservative religious authorities. Giving the "street" alternatives to the anti-modern message of Islamic funda­mentalism should be the focus of U.S. foreign policy in the region. 
Yet, even as I write this, I can only think how extraordinarily difficult this will be. There will be no quick solu­tions. We might have to recognize that we have limited ability to address the root causes of the conflict. It is a reli­gious war that can only be won when Muslims stand up and fight it them­selves. 
This is the position taken by Adrian College professor Muqtedar Khan. In a blunt and courageous "Memo to American Muslims," Khan finds those who defend terrorism a scandal against Islam. We cry out about Israel's injustices, writes Khan, but "are silent about Muslim injustices against other Muslims." We cannot reconcile the "vast distance between Islamic values and Muslim practice by pointing out that other nations" have committed injustices against us, argues Khan. We have become so focused on "the other ... that we have completely forgotten our duty to Allah," writes Khan. "In pursuit of this inferior jihad, we have sacrificed the superior jihad -to build a just, merciful, peaceful and moral society."· 
We have been told that this war is not a religious war. Yet, the words of Osama bin Laden are saturated with religious argument and theological language. His battle is not simply one of Islam vs. Christianity and Judaism, but of his brand of Islam against all others -including moderate Muslims. 
With this point Khan agrees. "Biff Laden is a cancer ... that undermines spiritual health and morality," he con­cludes. We must "police our world ... to prevent people from abusing Islam and to make sure that what happened on Sept. 11 never happens again." 
From the outside, it seems like such a daunting task. But I do have hope because Nazr Mohammad is returning to Afghanistan. The faith, values and work ethic he represents will win this fight in the end. I will, however, miss his soulvaki. 
Scott Flipse is currently associate director of the Notre Dame's Washington Semester and a Pew fellow at the Brookings Institution. He can be reached at sflipse@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Helena Payne Sam Derheimer Courtney Boyle Graphics Elizabeth Lee Andy Devoto 
Sports Production 
Bryan Kronk Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kristin Yemm Amanda Greco 
POLL QUESTION 
. Given recent events, do you feel comfortable flying? 
Poll appears courtesy of CollegeC!ub.com. The Observer/NDToday poll will return after break. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We make war that we may live in peace. " 
Aristotle philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 20, 2001 page 11 
Appreciate life at Notre Dame 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are two fine, fine institutions of learning; there is no debating that fact. People apply to these two schools from all over the nation and even some come from other coun­tries. There was a guy from Haiti who 
Joe Larson
lived down the hall with me freshman year, for crying out 
Principles of
loud. I'm not wheel­
Idiocracy
barrowing excre­ment at you here, these places are great. 
Really, they are. But, alas, we wouldn't be human ifwe didn't have problems, and we do. 
Being two highly selective schools, we select the people who excelled in high school. We have valedictorians coming out of our ears, high school sports all­stars, legends of the secondary school stage, class presidents, probably some math team geeks, maybe some people who even did all of these and more. People who go to school on either side of Interstate 31 are often categorized with 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
the words ambitious, excellent, unique, advances. Maybe your car gets bad gas stylishly dressed and darn 11ne looking. mileage. Maybe you never seem to be 
With all these great, ambitious people there when they serve mozzarella sticks around, though, sometimes things get a in the dining hall. Maybe you didn't get little foggy. Priorities are shifted. impor­that job you really wanted. Maybe you lost tant things get tossed to the 
wayside someone really special to you. like an old pair of drawers. Maybe you're having prob­People _around here get caught lems at home. up in things like GPA, big I think the Man in biceps and being the best, Black summed it up and they forget about best, "Life is pain. what'.s actually going on Anyone who tells you arow1d here. As bonkers something different, as it sounds, people even is selling some­argue about things they thing." don't really understand Poop happens. But just for the sake of being what's really impor­right. tant is that we all 
The truth ofthe matter realize how privileged is that every single one of us we all are. We're in col­is really lucky to be here. lege at a great place filled 
Sure, you have problems. with people who honestly Everyone does. Maybe you studied care about our well being. We really hard for that test and still didn't get don't live in poverty. We don't go an A. Maybe your professor just "doesn't home and have to scrounge around on the like" you. Maybe that special guy or girl streets for food. Things are great here in just doesn't seem tu be responding to your the bubble and they will continue to be for constant barrage ofwitty lines or outright a longtime. 

Since the subject of fake IDs appeared in a news story and the Inside Column in The Observer on Nov. 19, of course I have taken it upon myself to comment on the matter and the way the University has been han­dling these situations, being yet another opinionated Notre Dame student. 
I'll start by saying that it is true, part of the social life at Notre Dame does involve finding an ID with a photo that remotely resembles oneself in order to get into any particular bar (I think we all know which bars I'm talking about). Of course there are people who chose not to partake in the bar scene, which is fine. whatever gives you kicks. However, there's quite a large num­ber of people enjoying themselves ("Oh no!" cries Rcslife) from time to time with the aid of a fake ID. So that makes a group of peo­ple who have the potential to be caught in a bar raid on a random Thursday night, which is always the talk of the under-agers during the day on Thursday -"I heard that place is gonna get busted!" So the risk is taken, and people get lucky with a legally uneventfol night at whatever bar they hap­pen to choose. 
Recently, however, a "half a dozen" indi­viduals were punished by Reslife for pos­session or soliciting of fake IDs. Here's the kicker: neither Reslife nor the Notre Dame police had ever seen these fake IDs or had any proof that these "invisible" IDs were used, The individuals were punished due to the word of mouth from one other student. 
So yes, Student A says, "Student B has used/made/looked at/breathed on a fake ID." So Student Bis intimidated, threatened and badgered by the Notre Dame police into saying it is true. Student B is punished (rather extremely considering the "proof' came from student A's mouth) and there­fore becomes just a little frustrated because he or she can no longer go abroad, is t>anned from the dorm, must find a place to live for next semester and has a whopping fine on top of it all. Not to mention that per­son probably will not go out ever again until their 21st birthday for fear of Reslife's wrath again in a similar situation (a "tattle­tale" situation, if you will ... oh, and are tat­tletales always telling the truth? Yet anoth­er issue I suppose,) . 
We're not talking about sexual assault here, we're talking about fake IDs, where the results of one's fake ID actions (having it, specifically) do not affect others. So I guess there are a few problems: The Notre Dame police members who feel it is neces­sary to use their power to bully others and have a lovely ego trip, and Reslife. It seems that Reslife may have run out of excitement and needs a few more lawsuits to liven things up. Any other ideas? 
Gina Maccarone 
junior Howard Hall Nov. 19, 2001 
There have been a lot of things that have happened in the last few months that have been truly damaging to a lot of people in this country, and things have almost completely gotten back to normal aroUlld here. And that's what's supposed to happen. But it's especially important that we make sure we don't forget what's really important. 
Thanksgiving is this Thursday, and this year, just like every year, people on cam­pus should be thankful for the things we have in the grand scheme of things. I repeat, we are really lucky to have the things we have here. Sometimes getting the best grades on a paper and being around for the mozzarella sticks get in the way of remembering that. As important as those things are, there are other things that are much more important. And it is essential that we know that and be thank­ful for it. 
Joe Larson is a senior English and his­tory major. He can be reached at lar­son.13@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily 
Don'-t suffer from silence 
Every generation has its own set of issues that it deals with. In one gen­eration it is the ending of slavery, in another it is women's suffrage. One of the marks of the present generation is that our society is coming to terms with homosexuality. Perhaps it is not so obvious to someone in their late teens and early 20s just how fast society is changing in its acceptance of people who are gay. Just 15 years ago gay charac­
Father J.
ters were virtually non-existent in the media. Homosexuality was not a fit topic for decent con­Steele versation. 
Here at Notre Dame there have been some signif­icant attempts to create a more accepting and wel­On the Way coming environment for students who are gay or who are beginning to question their sexual identity. Solidarity Sunday has been a great success across . campus. Network training is available to RAs and University staff and fac­ulty as well as students who take an interest in gay and lesbian issues on campus. The University will continue piloting a program on this issue for first year students this spring semester. Campus Ministry is dedicated to providing a safe, confidential place for gay, lesbian and bisexual students to support one another in a positive and affirming environment. This weekly group is led by a excellent group of undergraduate students and myself. 
Unfortunately, the great majority of undergraduate students at Notre Dame who are gay or lesbian keep their questions, their struggles and their fears to themselves. Most suffer in silence. Most suffer from their silence. They suffer from feeiings of being different, unaccepted. They live in fear of rejection by their family, friends, their roommates and others in their sections. Most do all they can to fit in, all the while fearing the worst if they were to be found out. 
As Catholics and Christians we believe that all people are made in God's image and likeness. God has personally created each one of us and will always love us. For someone who is gay to encounter the very real love of God for them personally is a completely transforming experience. It is this powerful experience that we in Campus Ministry pray for all of our stu­dents and especially for those among us who are gay or lesbian. 
This Nov. 30 Campus Ministry will have the Sixth Annual Gay and Lesbian Retreat, "All Made in God's Image." This retreat is open to all Notre Dame students who are gay, lesbian, bisexual or who wish to sup­port someone who is. If you are interested in participating in the retreat, you may pick up an application in the Retreats Office of Campus Ministry, 114 Coleman-Morse Center. You may also contact me at 1-8144 or Tami Schmitz at 1-3016. The deadline is Wednesday, Nov. 28. Put aside your fears and join us. It may be the best thing you have ever done. 
"On the Way" is the Campus Ministry's question and answer column that appears euery other Tuesday. Father J. Steele is rector ofMorrissey Manor and also works in Campus Ministry. Please direct questions to min­istry.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
O
THE
BSERVER 

CENE.
music 
page 12 
Tuesday, November 13, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Starsailor follow the lead of Travis, Coldplay 
By TOM O'CONNELL 
Scene Music Critic 
The Unitod Kingdom has always sent some of its best music across the Atlantic. \Vhen one British style becomes popular in /\merica, a wavP of' similar bands floods our airwaves. 
The most recent style to emerge has been that or acoustic Brit folk/rock. Bands like Travis and Coldplay have bad huge success in America. Starsailor is the next to emerge out of this genre. 
Led by singer/guitarist James Walsh, Starsailor's debut album Love Is H+ire is a mellow, mostlv acoustic set of songs that-has enjoyed great buzz since its British release last month. When the album hits U.S. record stores in January. the band will likely see a fair amount of success. 
Backing up Walsh are bassist James Stelfox, drummer Bim Hyrnc and keyboardist Barry Westhead. ThA band has a sound that is comfortabJp, and familiar, but not over-. ly impressive. Love Is Here shows tlrn band's talent and potential, but they have a long way to go before their 
sound matures. 
Love is Here 
Starsailor 
Capital Records 
Rating 
....
~ 

st.atuilor 
~~f·~ 
As a new band, Starsailor seems to suffer from the Lenny Kravitz complex -while able to produce good music, the band's influences. are just too recognizable, which hurts the originality and credibility of the musicians. 
The band has said that tlrny are greatly inllucnccd by Jeff Buckley, and they wanted to make an album that could be as powerl'ul as his work. They may have bmm trying a bit too much to emulate Buckley and other acts. 
Many songs can bP quickly idcm­tified as having a similar style to some~ other popular bands. "Good Souls" has a very obvious 01.L'lis !'eel to it, while "Fever" hovers danger­ously closo to Radiohead's cre0.py classic, "Exit Music (For a Film)." 
Starsailor will attempt to carve their own nitch in the ever growing scene of
l\ol all songs have this problem 
Brit folk/rock when they release Love is Here in the U.S. next January.
tl10ugh. "Tic Up My Hands" has a 

smooth and mesnmr­izing rhythm that holds your attention. "Alcoholic" is a powerful and deeply person­al tune as Walsh's vocals llood with emo­tion. 
"Lu1laby" is a fun and original track that is one of' the better songs on the album. The cool melody and slowish pace always seem like they want to speed up, but the song stays calm and controlled. 
The theme of' the album, and obviously of' most of' the songs, is explorations of love. The title track. "Love Is I lern," is a slow and sad ballad with dnprnssing lyrics and a heartfelt piano solo. "If' you could sen the lover in mn/ And we could join our hands together/ You could see how good it could be/ We'll sing these stupid songs fornver." 
Coming from Britain, many ,bands have to face up to tlw fact that they will never be able to top some of the greatest British bands that have come beforn them. The Beatles. The Holling Stones, Pink Floyd and Radiohead seem to have set the benchmarks for British rock music. and it would take something extraordinary to find yourself counted among them. 
Though Starsailor is rnwcr going to be as big as these bands. they are trying to carve out their own niche in the world. So far. they hav11 only made a small dent. but for a debut album. it is a good start. In time they will find them­selves and should probably be able to put forth ·some entertaining and stimulating music. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Live album puts everything in a new place 
so innovative and sensual are d0construct­ on the senses  
By SAM DERHEIMER  ed and stripped to their barest existence.  and the spir­ 
Assis.cant Scene Editor  The songs are left with little more to sur­ it.  
vive. on than Yorke's melodic, haunting  Pnrhaps  
Radiohead have been throwing their fans  vocals an.d the reemergence of Jonny  more  than  
for a loop lately. Just as fans had finally  Greenwood's guitar. And the songs thrive.  any  other  
managed to choke down the dense, elec­ In typical Radiohead fashion. the album  song  that  
tronic soundscapes of Kid A and the ambi­ opens with tlrn resonating roar of' "The  found its way  
ence and textured guitar of Amnesiac,  National Anthem." Left completely void of  onto I Might  
Hadiohead have a  new assignment for  the lush jazz horns that define lhe studio­ Be  Wrong,  
thPir faithful ­ a live album.  version  of the  song.  "The  National  "ldioteque"  
I Might Be Wrong ­ Live Recordings is a  Anthem" literally forces its way upon its  exposes the  
raw collection of eight tracks compiled  audience through nothing more than tlrn  cathartic and  
from Kid A and Amnesiac recorded live  sheer will of the band. Yorke's frenzied  explosive  
over four shows last sum­ bcatbox vocals push the  soul  of  a  
mer in Europe.  song in the absence of  ltadiohead  
From the hazy boom  horns. and a strained,  pnrformance.  

I Might 
Be Wrong 
Radiohead 
Capital Records 
Rating 
........ 

that opm1s "The National  I Might Be Wrong  wavering guitar fills-in  Pownred almost completely by the heavy,  the threshold or crumbling into nothing at  
Antlwm."  to  the  final  Summer 2001  the sound from under- pounding beats of drummer Phil Snlway  all at any monwnt, but finds its essence in  
"Thank you1" y1illed to the  Europe  neath. nw song ovolvos  and the frantic chant vocals of Yorke, the  its ability to run that lirw without failing.  
audience from lead vocal­ (or is it devolves'?) from  song literally (ixplodcs in a paradoxical  The soil. sombnr lrnauty of' the song is a  
ist Thom Yorke at the cul­ Album "Set" Usl.  its densely free-flowing  mesh of' its electronic roots and a n<)W­ stark contrast from the backward-tracked  
mination of the album,  Tht1 National Anthem  original vnrsion to an  l'ound sense of' human nmotional fury. With  arrang1\mnnt of the studio-version·. "Like  
Hadinhead rede!'inP the  1Might Be Wrong  intense and compelling  a guicknr tempo, an added guitar under­ Spinning  Plates"  truly  showcast\S  
concr.pt of a livn album to suit their own exacting purposes. This band couldn't do anything nor­mal if it tried. Nowlwrn on I Might Be  Morning Bell Like Spim1i11g Plates ldiotcquo Everything in its liight Place  rumblo that dmnands attention l'rom its audi­ence from the very beginning. The energy and force behind the song will takti  belly and Yorke's rush or base human emotion. "ldiotnqw1" takns on a complctnly new nature from its studio counterpart. J\s the bnat comos in thicker and t.hicknr. onn can just imagine Yorke swaying voilently. dancing in a spastic frenzy, as the  Hadiohead's ability to transform thn oddest of'sounds into the most beautiful of songs. Also present 011 the album is a cut of "lure Love Waits." one of Hadiohead's most sought after underground secrets. For a true fan, purchasing the entire  
Wrong will fans find tlw  Dollars and Cents  manv  fans  who  havn  audinnco loses itself in the mesmerizing  album is justified by this one song.  
cleanest.  or  even  th(!  True Love Waits  neve·r  hoard tlw band  sound and emotion embedded so deeply  I Might Be Wrong may not contain the  
chiarnst, versions of each  play live by surprisn.  within the song.  "best" versions of each of these eight  
song. Instead, 11adiohcad  rans who have grown  The live translation of "LikB Spinning  songs, but it will show anyone who picks it  
opt to showcase thn unrestrained transfor­ accustomed to tho slow and methodical  Plates" can only be likened to a buttnrfly  up exactly what Hadiohcad live is all about.  
mation studio-version songs undergo when  studi(J Hadiohead. making certain that  emerging from the harsh, uninviting  And in the end. isn't that the point of a live  
played live. The complex arrangements  even the most miniscule of cords is put in  cocoon of its former state. Yorke's frail  album?  
and intricate layered sound that made the  its optimum placn, will find that Radiohfmrl  voicn lluttflrs above thn angf)lic hum of a  
studio-versions of songs like "Everything in its Hight Place" and "Likfl Spinning Plates"  concerts are not nearly as forgiving. Hadiohp,ad live is an all-out frontal attack  piano and the soft, slow rhythem of Colin Greenwood's bass. The song balances on  Contact Sam Derheimer at sderheim@nd.edu  

L ' 

-----------------------------------,--------­
O
THE BSERVER 

CENE.
music 
Tuesday, November 20, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Simple punk-rock album succeeds for Strokes 
and effects take a background been recorded in a garage and Songs such as By LIAM FARRELL to their roots. sold at a punk show for five "Someday," "Alone, Is This It 
Scene Music Critic 
Add The Strokes to this list. dollars. It is a testament to Together," and "Trying With an album and sound the band that being released Your Luck" occupy more 
Every once in awhile, a more suited to an evening at by a recording industry con­typical relationship band comes along that defies CBGB's than a video on MTV, glomerate did not kill the non­stances for a punk band, the conventional music scene The Strokes lay it all out on Is conformist spirit inside of as each song considers and comes out with something This It, a rough, complicated them. The entire album clocks romantic failure among completely different. The album filled with the punk in at just over a half hour. a landscape of pulsating Velvet Underground, the and rock influences of the The album's lyrical content guitars and heavy Ramones, Television, the underground. is similar to what their influ­drums. Replacements. Bands that Filled with jangling guitars, ences dealt with. Bad rela­"Alone, Together" is have a minimalist attitude heavy backbeats and distorted tionships, break-ups, seduc­the strongest of these about rock, where production vocals. Is This It could have tion and conflict with society tracks, with a very dark 
all play recur­melody and angry vocals. ring roles. Non-conformity is the 
The albu·m subject of "Soma," "Hard opens with the To Explain," and "Take title track "Is It or Leave It." Although 
The Strokes
This It," a lay­the lyrics are almost ered groove unintelligble in "Soma," with simple it's obvious the speaker RCA Records guitar licks is ranting about people and vocals who are "trying so hard reminiscient of to be like them," a refer-Lou Reed. A ence to society in gener­song about al. misunder­The last song on the standing each album, "Take It or Leave other, the It," is a great summation s p e a k e r of the whole punk attitude. the end though, he proclaims argues that The speaker says "leave me that "I don't care no more/ I'm "we're not in a alone/ I'm in control," and as walking out that door." maze/ we just for the band's music, it The Strokes make their disagree." doesn't matter to them if you point and then leave. Is This It 
"The Modern don't like it. It is a good song is a short album with great Age" and about indifference toward the music and great attitude. It is "Barely Legal" opinions of thsoe who don't refreshing to hear a band in find the speak­matter. -touch with musical roots that er occupying The strongest track on the have long been abandoned for the unlikely album is the band's first sin­a highly produced sound and role of a gle, "Last Nite." Featuring a more pretentious lyrics. seductor, with great buildup of instruments A lot of times in music, the the latter and vocals that sound like Jim simplest of approaches is the track pro-Morrison, it's a great rock best. The Strokes prove that. claiming that song about the morning after 
Is This It is a simple and raw tribute to all that punk-rock should be by The he'll "only a breakup, with lyrics under­Strokes, a band that refuses to lose touch with their underground roots. As steal your lining the speaker's mass con­Contact Liam Farrell at punk slowly deteriorates into pop-rock, The Strokes remain true to punk form. 
innocence." fusion over his situation. In lfarrell@nd.edu 




l_ 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 20, 2001 
MLB 
OLYMPICS 
Bonds wins 4th MVP 
Associated P rcss 
Barry Bonds is looking for affection, not money or tro­phies. 
He's likely to wind up with all three. 
"I just want to be wanted," he said Monday after becom-· ing the first player to win four Most Valuable Player Awards·. 
Bonds won the National League MVP in a landslide to cap a record-breaking sea­son in which his 73 home runs broke baseball's biggest season record. He received 30 of 32 first-place ballots and 438 points in voting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
"Once you've won it a few times, the standards for you are very high," Bonds said. "It's very difficult to achieve it again." 
The 37-year-old outfielder hit .328 with 137 RBIs for the San Francisco Giants. Chicago Cubs outfielder Sammy Sosa got the other two first-place votes and fin­ished second with 278 points. 
On Tuesday, Bonds can start translating his statistics into cash. That's the first day free agents can negotiate salaries with all teams. 
"The most important thing for me is winning," Bonds said. "I really want to have an opportunity to win. I've played a long time." 
His new agent, Scott Boras, quickly modified his client's remarks. 
"ls this about money? Of course it is. This is a busi­ness," Boras said. 
Bonds is coming off a $30.7 million, three-year contract and Boras is seeking a con­tract of up to five years. Since the end of the season, Boras and the Giants have talked just once, a session last Friday dealing with gen­eralities. 
While Giants' teammates have been cool to Bonds, he feels appreciated by the Bay area fans. He has bristled at his image -a detached and sometimes selfish star. 
"I learned that there's a lot of people here in · San Francisco that do like me," Bonds said. "Sure, my pref­erence is to stay. My prefer­ence is to play baseball, but I have to do what is best for me. and I know the organiza­tion has to do what's best for them." 
Bonds also won the MVP award for Pittsburgh in 1990 and 1992 and for the Giants in 1993. He finished second to Atlanta's Terry Pendleton in 1991 and to San Francisco's Jeff Kent last year. 
"I don't have a home big enough to put trophies in my house," said Bonds, who has earned in excess of $ 75 mil­lion in nine seasons with the Giants. 
Boras, using Bonds' aver­age of 47 homers in the last five seasons, projects his client will have 802 homers by the end of the 2006, 47 more than Hank Aaron•s career record. 
Bonds will be 42 by then. 
"There's a lot of statistics I can do if I stay at the same pace and stay in the same shape," he said. 
Before Bonds, the only three-time MVPs were Roy Campanella, Stan Musial and Mike Schmidt in the NL, and Jimmie Foxx, Joe DiMaggio, Yogi Berra and Mickey Mantle in the American League. 
"I don't think you could ever dream of surpassing players of that stature. There are no words for it," Bonds said. ''I'm just grateful." 
Bonds broke two of Babe Ruth's records last season, walking 177 times -seven more than Ruth's total in 1923 -and finishing with an .863 slugging percentage, 16 points higher than Ruth's percentage in 1920. Bonds has 567 career homers, sev­enth on the career list. 
He also broke the season home run of 70 set three 
years ago by Mark McGwire. 
It is not yet clear how much of an effort the Giants will make to retain Bonds, who has failed to lead them to the World Series. The last reigning MVP to change teams was Bonds, who left Pittsburgh in 1992 to sign with San rrancisco. 
Both Bonds and the Giants were pleased with Friday's meeting. 
"In layman's terms, it was a sharing-and-caring ses­sion. We were listening to their concerns," Giants gen­eral manager Brian Sabean said. 
Because of Bonds' age and failure to win, it's unclear how many teams are both interested and have enough money to sign Bonds. The Giants are not among base­ball's top spenders. 
"Can I compete with the Yankees' payroll? The an~wer is no," Sabean said. "But can I compete to sign Barry? Yes." 
Sosa, who hit .328 last sea­son with 64 homers and a major league-leading 160 RBIs, got the first-place votes of Teddy Greenstein of the Chicago Tribune and Mike Kiley of the Chicago Sun­Times. 
He was followed in the vot­ing bu by Arizona outfielder Luis Gonzalez (261 points) and St. Louis infielder-out­fielder Albert Pujols (222), who became the first NL rookie to finish as high as fourth since pitcher Joe Black was third in 1952. 
Pujols had the high est fin­ish by a rookie in either league since 1975, when Fred Lynn was voted the AL MVP and Boston teammate Jim Rice finished third. The only other rookie to finish higher than Pujols was Boston Braves shortstop Alvin Dark, third in 1948. 
Bonds gets a $100,000 bonus for winning the award, while Sosa gets $100,000 for finishing second. 
The American League MVP is announced today. 
Olympic flame 
begins journey 
Associated Press 
The Olympic flame began its journey to Salt Lake City on Monday, carrying hopes that the Winter Games can bring solace to a nation in mourning and at war. 
The flame was displayed in a traditional ceremony among the ruins of the ancient birth­place of the Olympics. 
But clouds and rain prevent­ed the ritual lighting of the flame using the sun's rays on a concave mirror. A flame ignit­ed in the mirror during an ear• lier practice session was used instead. The name had been kept burning in lamps. 
It was the third consecutive time -dating to the 1998 Nagano Games -that the torch was not lighted during the official ceremony because of bad weather in Ancient Olympia, about 135 miles southwest ofAthens. 
"The forebears of Olympians, of civilization, of humanity looked beyond them­selves to find the source of greatness and of light. May we look to the eternal source to guide our world today,"said Mitt Romney, head ofSalt Lake City organizing committee. 
Greek actress Thalia Prokopiou, in her role as high priestess during the ceremony, used the flame to light the Salt Lake City torch at a grove of cypress trees dedicated to Pierre de Coubertin, the French baron who revived the Olympics more than a century ago. 
The first leg of the torch relay was run by Lefteris Fafalis, a Greek cross-country skier. 
Greek runners will carry the torch to a ski center near the ancient ruins of Delphi. It is scheduled to arrive in Athens on Tuesday and burn in the all-marble Panathenian stadi­um, site of the first modern Olympics in 1896. 
The torch then heads by plane to Atlanta on Dec. 3. The 65-day relay across the United States ends at the opening cer­emony in Salt Lake City on Feb. 8. The route passes through all the U.S. states except Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and Hawaii. 
Police will also accompany the flama in a sign of the heightened worries following Sept. 11, Romney said. 
"The torch is an important symbol which we wish to pro­tect,"said Romney, who was accompanied by Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt and U.S. Olympic Committee president Sandy Baldwin. 
Ancient Olympia Mayor Giorgos Aidonis hoped the torch relay will "warm the hearts of people." 
The Olympics were held in Ancient Olympia from 776 B.C. to 394, when the Roman Emperor Theodosius abolished them after Christianity took root and he deemed the games pagan. 
The president of the Greek Olympic Committee, Lambis Nikolaou, said the flame's long journey could convey a spirit of unity "at a time when humanity is shaken by tragic events." 
He also announced that 17 foreign ministers, including those of Israel and the Palestinian Authority, had signed a declaration in support of an Olympic Truce during the Salt Lake City Games. 
The effort -spearheaded by Greek Foreign Minister George Papandreou -seeks to revive the ancient tradition of sus­pending conflicts during the Olympics. 
"Because of the tragic events of Sept. 11, we see this as the first time that the world has come together to heal, ... that fate has fallen upon Salt Lake City to be the place and we will be ready," Leavitt said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day_ from _8 a.m. to 3 f.rn. at the Notre Dame o_ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day cl~s1fieds 1s 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be p_repa1d. . 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
2 tickets for navy game for sale 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, S Padre, & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOWEST prices! 
www.breakerstravel.com 
(800) 985-6789. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your precious baby safe and happy in a loving family, adored by 2 ND Grad parents (a full-time morn and a lawyer dad) and loving playmates in a beautiful home. We promise to give your child the life you dream of for them. Medical, legal, counseling, court approved living expenses pd. Confidential. Please call our attorney at (708) 922-4795. 
WANTED 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
Male roommate needed for upcom­ing Spring semester. Turtle Creek, 2 bedroom apt., fully furnished. $405/mo. Contact Cory and Eric at 277-6560. 
BABYSITTER for 3 children; One 6· yr-old, 2-yr-old twins. Flexible hours: 12-15 per week. Five min­utes trom ND Campus. 289-5763. 
Female seeking hockey gear ­pads, helrnet,right-handed stick. Call 634-2446 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­rentals@aol.com 
B & B 3 Miles NO Best Area 287· 
4545 
Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ new carpet. appl., sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk N. of Club 23 321-217-8451 
Houses available tor 3 to 6 stu­dents. Good area ... ADT, washer­dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9-br $2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month 
3) 4-br $1000/month Call Bill at 532-1896. 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS. furn. 272-6306 
TICKETS 
SELLING PURDUE, STANFORD TIX. A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 
FOR SALE: 4 Purdue tkts. Call Gerry 4-1994. 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruisesl Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips avail­able. www.EpicuARean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and tree trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel com 
...ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL­CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT FOR 6+. 800-838-8203/ WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 
FOR SALE· 2 bdrm limestone ranch, close to campus. 2-car attached garage, hardwood floors. finished basement, C/A. Call 219· 233-9146. 
HOPING TO ADOPT We are a Catholic, fun-loving, well educated and financially secure married cou­ple in Northern California. We are homestudy approved and excited to share our love with a baby! You can leam more about us at www.parent­profiles.com/profiles/db2288.htm1 or call Adoption Connection toll-free at 1-800-972-9225 and ask about Chris and Mary. 
H!T AND RUN. ND SWEAT BLAN­KET TAKEN FROM GOLF CART. CASE OF MISTAKEN INTEGRITY. 
FOR SALE 1994 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera. 86,000mi, fine cond., loaded, $3000 or best offer. Call 1­5233. 
FOR SALE: 87 Honda Civic 4dr auto AJC stereo. Runs well, reliable. $1000 obo. 233-0296. 
Last paper before break. Bedtime HERE I COMEIII 
One more day of stats. Woo HOO 
Lord, save the Minnesota Twins. 
Mad props to Observer Sports this weekend. Katie, Katie, Chris and Bryan and Brian and Rico.. travel is fun, huh. Jeff, Malt and Bryan, thanks for the extra effort in the office. You guys are the glue that keeps this paper together. 
Tuesday, November 20, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
eled team this year, and hope­fully we can get it up to 20 games with 12 on the road." 
After dropping their semifinal match in the Big East tourna­ment by a score of 1-0 to eventu­Howard stated. "Unfortunately, for one reason or another, it hasn't. happened in the past, but I'm very excited that it hap­pened this year. I think that we can do very well. I'm very opti­mistic, and I have a lot of confi­dence in our team right now. It's a brand new season." 
The Irish are not content, 
however, to 
be satisfied 

al champion St. "When you come to a with just 
John's last school like Notre Dame, making the Friday, the Irish tourna­
the expectation is that 
players are ment. They
you're going to be
cager to get back have every on the field. playing in the NCAA intention of "Everyone's making a
tournament."
real excited right run at the now," freshman end of the K e v i n Griffin Howard year. Goldthwaite said. Irish senior "There's 
"It's kind of like the season start­ed over a little bit -like this is the beginning of it for us. We feel that we can do well, and we need to start preparing for what we have coming up." 
After missing out on the NCAA Tournament for tho past four years, some of the older players on the team are anx­ious to finally get their chance in postseason play. 
"When you come to a school like Notre Dame, the expecta­tions are that you're going to be playing in the NCAA tourna­ment," fifth-year senior Griffin 
no question 
that we're a very good team, because it's only good teams that get into the tournament." Clark stated. "I think the big thing now for the guys is to find out if we're a great team, because great teams aren't satisfied just with getting in. They want to go somewhere when they get it. We know we're a good team, but do we want to be a great team -I think that's the test for us now." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles learn spirit of teamwork 
Saturday. meet. Belles' performance in each "We didn't take divers," saidBy NELLIE WILLIAMS 
"By Saturday, the (team] was Petcoff feels that the intense meet. Petcoff. "We definitely outswam
Sports Writer 
pumped up and closer togeth­three-day weekend of races will "Almost every single person the team ahead ofus." er," said coach Gregg Petcoff. work to the Belles' advantage. had a best time Thursday night Sophomore Megan RameseyPulling together for the last "No one else was probably Not only was the team able to and [we] broke two team led the Belles in individual 
meet of their tough three-day 
going into the same three day experience the fatigue they will records," said Petcoff. scores with a final score of 46. 
schedule, exhausted Saint 
situation as we did. It made us be facing during the conference The Belles finished seventh She placed in the 200-yardMary's College swimmers real-~ have to be closer." meets later in the season, but out of nine teams, trailing only freestyle, 200-yard butterfly,ized the closeness of a team. 
While other teams at the they were also able to feel the 13 points behind and 100-yard butterfly. Other "As a team we learned how to 
Wabash Invitational may have effects of a taper. Indiana/Purdue at Indianapolis, swimmers who placed in multi­depend on each other in new competed in other meets this "We learned a lot from the and ahead of Tri-State ple events included sophomore ways. It was nice to know that weekend, what set the Belles weekend," said Petcoff. "How University and Vincennes Maureen Palchak, junior 
your teammates were there 
apart was their two dual meets people reacted differently to a University. Lauren Smith, sophomore Katy 
supporting you all the way," 
and an invitational meet. Unlike rest cycle to prepare them for a The difference in the scores Lebiedz, sophomore Julie said freshman Sarah Williams, 
conference meets, the swim­big meet." between Saint Mary's and McGranahan, and sophomorewho felt encouraged to race her 
mers can swim three individual Petcoff felt the rest cycle con­Indiana/Purdue was due to div­Candice Polisky. 
hardest by her teammates on races plus relays in each dual tributed immensely to the ing. "I felt the strongest on Saturday," said McGranahan, who received season best times in 200-yard butterfly and 100­yard butterfly. Friday was probably the hardest day, though. Once Friday was over, [we] knew [we] could get through Saturday." 

Alicia Lesneskie, senior, felt drained after the weekend. 
"By Saturday, I was just ready to be done and get some sleep," said Lesneskie. "It was the first time we've had three meets in a row while I've been on the team. It was a lot like a conference meet, but harder 
, because we had to work classes into our schedule." 
The Belles will now fall back into training for the next month. Petcoff is eager Lo see the results of a taper from a whole season of training instead of just half a season. 
"When we taper off from a whole season of work our times should be even faster," said PetcofT. "Everybody has a lot to look forward to. [The swim­mersl will reflect on this week­end and see a lot of positive with only half a season of train­ing." 
Contact Nellie Williams at 
will6l 76@saintmarys.edu. 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 20, 2001 
r------------····-------, 
Do it all night more time. 



The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
I I I I I I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
' 
' 
I • 
' 
I 
. 
Tue~day, November 20, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
·• ~t ~ppreciatio · b,e '4 r~ . "W!!?..J Show your Student ID and Receive ~ .20% off Notre Dame Clothing Notre Dame Gift Items* General Books HAMMES Notre Dame NOTRE DAME Varsity Shops BOOKSTORE Located in the Joyce Center IN THE ECK CENTER 631-8560631-6316 www.ndcatalog.com 631-5683 9:00am -10:00pm 9:00am ­5:00pm *Student ID Required-Notre Dame, Holy Cross and ST. Mary's Students. *Does not include the following items: Non-Notre Dame logo merchandise, Text Books, CD's, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies, Health & Beauty.  

Men 
continued from page 24 
cheer on the Irish. 
"The other team members coming oul to see the rac<,. I was so proud to see them. hear them roaring, 'Hern comp the Irish.' \Ye had some of tlw best fans out thrrn," said Shay. 
ThP group had plenty·ot· ener­gy to be heard throughout the I 0.000-meter r:orn·s<' anrl sfien waving hugP ND nags. nvcn after the 10 hour drive from South Bend. 
"That kind or loyalty typif1es our tmun and the rlosfl1wss of it," said 
W;itson. "Everyo1H' supports each other and it builds on itself." 
Shny nnd Watson. working off of each other from the third mile until the finish. finished among an rlitr front pack that included 2001 NCM champion 
Eastern  Michigan's  Boaz  
Chbuivwo.  
Chboiywo broke the  meet  

record. finishing the 10,000­meter course in 28:47. 
"I didn't look back. I just ran," said Chboivwo. "I ran for­ward. If I looked forward maybe I would relax. I was just concerned with running my own race." 
Behind Chboiywo was Colorado's Jorge Torres. fol­lowed by Alistair Cragg of Arkansas and D. Ritzenheim of Colorado. 
"[The team's performance] shouldn't take anything away from a marvelous year." said Piane. "It's nice to see the pro­gram has matured to the level that our guys are all upset at being [6th] in the country. We 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 20, 2001 

RICO CASARESfThe Observer 
The Irish head out of the gate at the National Championships Monday. Notre Dame was disappointed in its sixth place finish, but had two runners in the top 10 and three All-Americans. 
would have liked to have run a time of31:55. All-American was 243rd in what we wanted to, hut I'm not just a little bit better today." "I don't know, I didn't feel 34:11. disappointed in anyone." 
Todd Mobley was 38th overall like I finished that well," said "I thought I would try to start in 30:09; senior Marc Striowski, Mobley. picking people off and it wasn't who was 58th in 30:27; sopho­Senior Sean Zanderson was really happening," said Contact Katie Hughes at more David Alber was 188th in 192nd in 32:00 Conway, a 2000 Zanderson. "We didn't achieve khughes@nd.edu. 

WoDlen 
continued from page 24 
wew happy to reach the championship race. llowever, running as hard as tlwy did to rnach Grnenville took so1i1ething out of tlrn tP,Un. 
"You look at tlrn people that run rPally. rnally wtdl. Chai1ces am they didn't have to r u 11 v e r y ha r d i11 t lw r P g i o 11 a I m P P t . " Connnlly said. "TIH•se girls had to run prntty hard just to gnt to tlw nwnt." 
Tlw effect of two \\·eeks of hard running showed itsfdf in 'vltegan Johnston's ran'. Johnston finislwd tlw race right lw hi 11d teammate Ilandlny. with a tirnf' of 22:24. but Connnlly krww slw could ha\·p do1w bettf'r. 
"One of' the big k!-iys to this nwet is just !'oming in and doing what you'vp don<' all year," Connelly said. "f\legan·s lrnPli doing good all year and she strugglPd a bit. .. 
.Jp1111ifor Fiburh and Christi Arnf'rich wrap1wd up tlw top fivP Irish rurnwrs. fin­ishing tlrn rac<' in 22::Ei and 22:5•) rPspec­tivPlv. 
Br.igham Young took homP the national championship with all five of its top runners finishing in the top 25 and all livf: of its run­1wrs finishing within 2h seconds of f'arh othnr. '.\Jorth Carolina State finished in snc­OlHI, followml by (;(1orgntown. 
Now that the 2001 season is ovPr. tliP Irish movPd on to tlrn 2002 season with tlwir sights snt on finc_ling tlwmsPIVPs in tlH' top l 0, f\!011clay's ran.· was anotlwr markn for tlrn young I.Pam that tht\rr' is tlw distinct pos­sibility of making this rare 01w in which tlwy 
l\X<'.PI. 
"They know llwy can run lwtfor," Connolly said. "And they know tlH•y can do sonwthing good in this ll11'1't nven Lua Ily." 
"A lot o I' it is a lnarn ing t'X pnrin nrf' ... Ilandley said. "Our 1ww sPason for noss c:ountry starts today. WP haw a lot of work to do. /\ year from now, ho1wfully we'll just hep gntting bdter and lwttnr." 
RICO CASARESfThe Observer 
Irish runners Megan Johnson (left) and Jen Handley (right) hit a straight away in the early part of Moday's nation­Contact Katie McVoy at al meet. The Irish finished in 19th place. mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
page 19
Tuesday, November 20, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS 
A senior ode to the place we call home 
I gradunLPd Parly Saturday Pvcning. 
Yeah, I know tlw official r.om­mr11ct1mnnl for tlw class of 2002 isn't for another six months. but having watdwrl my last gamt' in '\iotrn 
Danw 
Stadium as a studt•nt mak('s iL !'!'Pi likP I'm already 
dorw. 
From a stadium that was almost too mythical. too unlw­lirvable to rven exist whPn I was growing up to the place l'Vf' lived an night-minute walk from for the last thrcP and a half' yPars. Notre Dame Stadium -a11d tlw teams that have playPd tlwrt' ~ have bePn larg­<'r than lift\ to me. 
Of course, the last gipne was 

Special on Color Copies 
8.5 X 11 regular paper only 
.79 
This Week in 
nothing too spedacular. a 34­
16 win over winless Navy. Still, as a sappy senior who still foels like a freshman, I present you with this poem or ode or mon­ster ballad, whichever you pre­for to call it. about a plare so many of us call home. 
It's tlw only way I know to say thank you. 
Saturday, Nov. 17 rolled around. just like the calendar said it would, 
My last hmm• game in Notre Damn Stadium, against a team not-so-good. 
No, I'm not a player. just a know-it-all obnoxious fan. But attachment comes with the territory When you love the most sto­ried team in the land. 
Like 1900 in my class. I start­ed school hen• just over three years ago, 
With dreams of classruom 
grnatnl'ss, perhaps. hut. let's be 
honest. football stole the show. 
The defending national champs, the Michigan . Wolverines rolled in for game one, 
A 36-20 Irish win, and we all 
stormed the field 
Thinking waking up echoes 
would always be so much fun. 
But there were some bad 
losses along the \vay (try the 
next week at MSU), 
Although most have come on 
the road. it seems. away from 
the !louse of Knute. 
Yet there was a day in 
September of 2000, when num­
ber one Nebraska rolled into 
town. 
Most thought Notre Dame had no shot. evidenced by all the Husker fans 
And the abundance of tickets that they found. 
The Irish trailed 21-7 in the third and the skeptics stated their points, 
"It's simple, Notre Dame just can't rompetn, not with what this schedule appoints." 
But along came a man named Jones. follow1!d by a guy c,1Ued "Joey G," 
Ami of all of a sudden the game was tied, The air overf1owing with chants o(' "We arc ND." 
Of course that game went to overtime. and tlrn Irish took a three point lead, 
Lntil that future NFL special teamer Crouch whizzed by. and scored the winning TD.­
I sat in my seat for 20 min• utPs after that linal gun, My eyes welling, on the verge of tears. Wishing we had stopped that run. 
The last four years haven't 
shown the NlJ greatness that 
wP've all come to cravP, 
A 27-18 mark and a bowl win 
drought stretching back to our 
eighth grade. 
However, in that place we all 
call home, the Irish have won 
20 of 25, 
But trust me, you don't want 
to do the math 
To figure out that record on 
the road side. 
Especially at night. 
But whether 3-5 or 8-0, I 
knew my last game at home might br a little hard. 

So l showed up an hour early, flashing an usher my soon-to­expirn ID card. 
I tried to explain to my junior roommate just how strange it felt to be at the end, 
Sitting on a wooden bench and talking about a brick stadi­um, 
Knowing I was saying good­bye to a friend. 
My words trailed off a lot. building emotions coming close to turning to water, 
They were just doing drills on the field, how would I get through the Alma Mater? 
But then the game started, and despite the less than rivet­
ing drama that would ensue, 
I was more thankful than ever that this was the school, and the team. 
That I did so long ago choose. And just an aside, a small postscript to my thanks: When the game ended, to my surprise, 
I did not shed a tear. 
I think those tears are on hold, my friends, Waiting to see if Davie will be our coach next year. 
Email Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily The Observer. 


Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
Prayers of Thanksgiving 
Bright and beautiful God, thank you for our world, a place full of beauty and variety. Thank you for the wind and the waves. 
the stars in the sky, the changing of the seasons,
¦~d-a-,-------------­
the animals in all their splendor. 
campus Bible Study/CBS 
Thank you, God, for the gift of people, 
7:00 p.m. 
men, women and children,
114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
of many colors and creeds, 
in different shapes and sizes, 
with many gifts and talents, 
all made and loved by you. 
Thank you, God, for the variety of life;
The Way Catholic Bible Study 
everything points to your love and glory.
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Francis Brienen /rom "Prayers Encircling the World" 
Freshman Retreat #38 
(December 7-8, 2001) Monday, November 12 through 
We thank you, gracious God,
Monday, December 3 
that we are the guests at your table. 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 
As_ we have been fed by your gifts of life;
All Made in God's Image: 
Gay and Lesbian Retreat 
so we will share with the world 
(Nov. 30-Dec. 1, 2001) 
all that you give to us in love. 
Monday, November 19 through Wednesday, November 28 
Dorothy McRae -McMahon 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 
/rom "Prayers Encircling the World" 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Shay, Watson finish careers together 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 20, 2001 

By KATIE HUGHES Spons W ricer  stick with him."' The two have found a balance in their training as well. filling in one  "This race was the top finish if my career ­especially with all the emotions I had tlrn whole yoar,  
anothPr's few weaknesses.  being sick and injured. When I  
GllEENVILLE. S.C.  "I think we r:omplenwnt each  passed tha1. spot today when~ I  
Three miles into the 10,000  other in training," said Watson.  passlid out at Pro-Nationals, I got  
meter NCAA Championships  "Ryan is more of a strength runner  the chills a little."  
Monday, Luke Watson was run­ and I'm more of a speed nmnPr.  Both Watson and Shay have  
ning behind tho front pack. main­ And the mental attitudes of us  shared a leadership role for the  
taining a pace that put him around  combined. The whole is more than  team, leading them to an NCAA  
10th place. Then he folt a tug on  thl' sum of its parts. You put two  meet where a national champi­ 
his shirt. It was Ryan Shay. who  great runners togethr.r and com­ onship wouldn't have bnen out of'  
had worked his way up from the  bined it with the rest of the team  the question.  
crowdPd congestion of' the park  and that's what you ,med to have  Both look to sophomore Todd  
and was readv to take 011 the next  outstanding performanc!'s. I  Moblny, who finished 38th to narn  
one in the last race of both their  wouldn't have finished firth [today]  All-Amnrican honors, to take over  
college cross co1,mtry careers.  without Hyan there. It providl'd the  whern they will lt'ave olT. Mobley  
"I was like, 'Lucas. let's go,"'  m0ntal strength to get up tlwre  has been tho most improved run­ 
said Shay.  and bridge the gap."  ner for tlrn Irish this season,  
And they went. Together.  Watsou and Shay, who arc also  improving in this year's NC,\A  
Working off of' each other like they  roommates. havri both had impres­ meet from a 99th place finish last.  
always have.  sive cross country earners at Notre  year.  
"That just woke me up in the  Dame. Shay's accomplishments  "[Todd's improvement.I was all  
middle of tlw race," said Watson.  inrlude a 12th place finish in the  just due lo hard work," said  
"It's really easy to get into a  I <)C)C) NCAA championships and a  Watson. "lln's going t.o do a grPat  
groove and just roll there, but we  Big East Championship in 1999.  job lnading tlrn team next year"  
started to move up at that point.  Watson was S£\Cond in this year's  Immediately af'ter the m<~ct  
We almost got into a 110-man\s  Big Fast Championships. and fin­ Mobloy was still disappointed in  
land between two packs. but work­ ish t'd 6th in last year's NCAA  leaving without a national rhampi­ 
ing together we wen' able to  Championships.  ouship, he is looki11g ahead as  
bridgP the gap. We stayed in there,  "We're VPry similar in that we're  well.  
we exchanged leads, it was awe­ both bluP-rnllar, hard-working  "I wanted to iinish higlrnr for the  
some.  people. Wn use that lo work off  team. But going into this season,  
Both had earned All-American  Hach other in practice every day,  making AII-Anwrican was 01111 of  
finishes in the NCAA nrnet before,  and that's how we got better," said  my main objectives. For my par­ 
but neither could have finished  Shav.  ents. f'or my family. for nveryone ·  
where tl1Py did without the other  a· was good to have someone  1ilse. I want to carry it into next  
on Monday.  them for training. and it was good  year and continun to improve. It's  
"I\Jeither of u·s did the majority of  for Shay to have someone tlrnre  not going to be a hard team to  
the work." said Shay. "We just  when he passed the all-too-farnliar  lead. Everyone has a grnat work  
consistently kept changing posi­ spot on thr, Furman cross country  othic."  
tions, working off of each other. It took me three miles to find Luke, but once I did. I was like. 'I have to  course v.here ho had dropped out of the Pre-National meet due to ill­ness.  Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu.  RICO CASARESfrhe Observer Senior Ryan Shay finished in sixth place in Monday's meet, his highest finish ever.  

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
King earns All-American as a freshman 
the same place.
By KATIE McVOY "Top 30 is only top 30," she said. 
Associare Sporn Editor 
"I hope to improve from thorn." 
Improving may mean changing 
GHEENVILLE, S.C. her situation in a race. The tight On :Vlonday, Lauren King fin­competition boxed King in and she ished first for the Irish. She took felt like she was not in charge of 23rd place overall in the National her own perl'ormancn, something Cross Country Championships. she .knows will have to change if' King was named an All-American. she is going to win. And slrn's only a freshman. "When you're in the pack likn 
"Laurcm was good," head coach that, you don't havo much con­Tim Connelly said of the fresh­trol," she said. "I love to lrn in a man's performance on Monday. "I situation where I'm in control or mean, All-American as a fresh­the race and that's going to be man is a good performanc(J." something with my training and 
King took home Notre Dame's good coaching." top spot with her 21:17 race time In addition to controlling the at Furman University. race, as a new collegiate runner 
King, who hasn't even been on King will also have to look forward the Notrn Dame campus a semes­to some serious strength training. ter, has only run half tho s<mson. Running hard two weeks in a row Due to a late end to her high took its toll. Although talent has school track season. King joined gotten King as far as she has th<' Irish latn in tlrn regular sea­come, strength training will have 
son. to take her the rest of the way. lJespite the low number of races "She's young and so to able to she's competed in, she has already run hard two weeks in a row is made her prr,sencc known. hard for an 18-year-old kid to do," 
King won the Notrn Dame Connelly said. "She's just not lnvitaticmal, her first collegiat,1 strong. She's talented, but she's rar.e. \1onday's 23rd place finish not. strong." gave Connelly the hope that some­As a high school senior. King day he may have a national cham­was a Canadian national champi­
pion. 011. But despite her individual suc­
"Lauren's a great athlete," cess. sh1~·s still looking for her Connelly said. "Lauren's got big team to be the big story. expectations of herself and she's "I have sumo great teammates," talflntod fmough to come into this she said. "Our team's going to do 
meet someday and win it." some great things. So watch out 
However, that day has not yet (for} ND." come for King and she knows it. Following her performance on Monday, she was satisfied with her race but said, as a runner, she Contact Katie McVoy at would never be satisfied staying at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


Tuesday, November 20, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Piane named National Coach of the Year 
States Track and Field Piane's 2001 Irish men's 
Special to The Observer 
Coaches Association. squad currently is ranked The award was announced fifth nationally coming offNotre Damo track and cross Saturday night in Greenville, victorin~ at both the Big East country coach Joe l'iane has S.C., at a banquet preceding Championships and the NCAA
been named the National 
the 2001 NCAA Cross Great Lakes Region meetCross Couutry Coach of the Country Championships to be Nov. 10 at Indiana State.
Year for 2001 by the United run Monday at Furman. Piane last weekend was 
SLIGHTLY 
DIFFERENT MUSIC 
for 
SLIGHTLY 
DIFFERENT TASTES. 




named the 2001 MONDO Great Lakes Region Coach of the Year. He has helped the Irish to six meet titles in 2001. including the Big East 
and  the  
C  r  e  a  t  
L a  k  e  s  

Regional champi­onships. The Irish have been r a n k e d fifth in the MONDO M c n ' s Cross Country Top 25 for most of the fall, marking the highest position the team has ever been ranked during the regular season. 
The longest tenured coach at Notre Dame with 26 full seasons behind him, Piane has developed one of the most talented and deep cross country rosters in the nation this season. The Irish earned team titles, at the Valparaiso Invitational and Central Collegiate Championships with its "13"' team, and defeated two ranknd teams en route to the 2001 B[G 
Ir----------------~ I 
I MOVIE POSTERS : www.moviepostersonline.net , : (mention OB w/ your order for free S/H) : I I 
~----------------· 


EAST Championship. Piane and volunteer assistant coach Matt Althoff earned the BIG EAST Cross Country Staff of the Year award after the conference meet. 
Piane has now earned five regional cross country coach of the year awards including this season's honor and was named the NCAA Division I Cross Country Coach of' the Year in 1987. 

Happy 21st Masse! 
Arrgghhh! 
Ill¦ Ill. Notre Dame Center 
¦· ¦• for Ethics andReligious ¦ ¦.111· Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Ms. Jacquelyn Gates 
Vice President of Diversity and Ethics, Duke Energy 
"Bui]ding with the Storm in Mind­How to Prepare for Unforeseen Ethical Challenges" 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
*Sponsored by the Center for Ethics & Cargill 
MEDl6PLAY" 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, 
www.mediaplay.com
call toll-free 1·888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and special offers 
Sale ends December J, 2001, may vary by store and online. Cassettes available on select titles. 
8l67HI 10420 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 20, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Macura steps up at as ND tops Cornell, 78-48 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spores Editor 
Confidence is key !'or Jeri' Macura. 
Last season, tbe forward spPn t most of the time on tlw bPnch while Troy Murphy. Ryan Ilumphrey and Harold Swanagan got most of thP playing timP. !IP didn't get in tlw game much, and whPn hP did, he \Vasn't vPry produc­tive. 
But with Humphrey serving the final game of' his suspen­sion and Swanagan hampered by a knee injury, Macura was the dominant inside force Monday night. He scored 16 points as Notre Dame rolled to a 78-48 win over Cornell. 
"I think his attitude is great brcause he's playing. Kids need to play," Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey said. "It was tough last year to get him into the mix. It was tough to get him in there as a fourth big man... this year, we need him to give us some minutes." 
Macura scored nine points during a 15-0 Irish run _in the first half that blew the game wide open. including a three­pointer from the top of the key and a thunderous dunk that drew a foul. He finished the game 7-of-9 from the field and recorded eight rebounds. 
'Tm more confident. Way more." he said. "Coach has more confidence in me. and I've got more confidence in myself." 
Although Swanagan didn't practice Sunday after his kneecap slipped out of place during Friday night's game, he entPred the game just three and a half minutes into the first half. Ile recorded ni1H! points and Pight rnbounds in 23 minutes of action. 
Jordan Cornette started in Swanagan·s place and played 29 minutes in just his second college game. 
"I felt good !Sunday] and last night, and today felt pret­ty good," Swanagan said. "They just wanted to know what I felt before the let me go out and play." 
Notre Dame didn't have much trouble against an undersized and inexperienced Big Red squad. The Irish defense, which forced 22 Cornell turnovers, kept the Big Red out of sync all night long. Each time Cornell seemed to gain any offensive momentum. the Irish switched from their traditional rnan-to­man defense into a 2-3 zone. 
"l thought there were times where we got in a rhythm, and then Mike went right to the zone and said, 'We're not going to mess around with this, chasing those guys around,' " Cornell head coach Steve Donahue said. "It was a great call. We didn't feel com­fortable against it, and we hadn't really practiced against it." 
"Our defense in the first half 
was real solid, especially 
when we went tu the zone," 
Notre Dame's Chris Thomas 
said. "We were able to rest a 
little bit but at the same time 
get out in the passing lane 
and disrupt their flow of the 
game and their style of' play." 
Donahul1 was impressed 
with the play of Thomas, Matt 
Carroll and David Graves. J\ 
game after rcicording Notre Dame's first-ever triple-dou­ble. Thomas f'inislrnd with a game-high 22 points, six assists and six rebounds. II!i shut 7-of-14 from the field, including 6-ol'-7 from thnw­point range. Carroll bounr:Pd back from a poor shooting pPrformance against New l lampshirn to l'inish with 13 points. Graves had trouble finding tlrn basket Monday, hitting on only 3-of-11 finld goals. but he still picked up 10 points. 
"I was just real impressed with tlw three perinrnter guys," Donahue said. "They 
have  as  good  as  perimeter  
players a·s  you 'II  see  in  the  
country."  

Both· tPams stayed relatively close throughout the early part of the first half until Notre Dame took control with a 22-3 run that spanned 
11 :23. The Irish entered the locker room with a 39-21 lead at the half. 
Cody Topport -one of' seven freshmen on Cornell's roster -led the Big Red in scoring with 1(, points. Chris Vandenburg and Ka'Ron Barnes added eight points apiece. 
Notre Dame next heads to Hawaii to compete in thn Hawaii Pacific UnivPrsity Thanksgiving Classic. Their first round opponent is Hawaii Pacific. The Irish could poten­tially meet Hampton. who qtrnlified for lho l\CJ\J\ tour­nament last season and upset No. 20 North Carolina 77-69 Friday night, in tlrn third and final round. 
'Tm excited lo get going," Brey said. "I think our guys am excited, and it's a grpat trip for our seniors ... I'm happy we can do something like this, especially f'or Graves and Swanagan." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


Guess what... ? 
KYLE BRUNELL 
will be 21 on 
Turkey Day! 
Happy Birthday, 
Cutie Patuttil 
Love, Lauren & 
Aunt Janet 
"As You Vlish1' 'Qt·,,. · 

.POR·TS -u ..-LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY 
IM 
. · , SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS .,,,-"\. TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE ... 
PURSES, WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES, INCENSE SARONGS 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Thailand • Mexico • India 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry gaurantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. 
LaFortune Room 108 (Near Telephones) Nov. 26 -Dec. 1 (Sat, 10 to 5 m 
21 st Ox! 
From the guys 

Tuesday, November 20, 2001 The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHEN DINING HAU. LADIES GO UNDERCOVER..• 
FOXTROT 
I couLD BE PLA'flNG A GAMEcU8E RtC":,HT NOW, BUT NOOOOo.•.WE CAN'T AFFORD or-IE. 
\ 
CROSSWORD 
l CoULD BE PLAYtNb AN ,cBox RIGHT NOWt BUT Noooooooo•••wE CAN'T AFFoRD ONE. 
\ 
I COULD SE PLA"1tNG A PS2 RtC":,HT Now, SUT r,1000000000000••• WE CAN'T AFFORD oNE. 
\(r-==./ 
r 
TOM KEELEY 
YO. THIS FOOD IS MAO 
TIGHT, VOi IT'S SO 
GOOD, I MIGHT TAKE 
SOME BACK TO MY CRIB. BUT THAT WOUl.O REQUIRE ME TAKING TWO PASTIUES OUTSIDE Of THE DINING 
HAL.L ANt> YOV SOYS WOUL!>N 'T KNOW .ANYTHING ABOUT 
THAT, RIGHT? 
RIGHT? 
BILL AMEND 
MAYSE tF I IF YOU DIDN'T HAVE To BOUGHT SPEND QUITE ME :JUST 
So MUCH MoNE.Y oNE, ON EARPLUC":,S. I'D BEG I A THIRD LESS. 
I 
page 23 BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED .CUNNING~ 
\  d'  , .. . " ,J·!)'J{t;, . . . . . . . '\\ .  11  
"They should move Thanksgiving to a weekend when the traffic isn't so bad."  •  


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
64 Change for a five 65 Places 66 Delight in 67 Outlasted, with 
"our 
68 Leave in, to an editor 69 HaNests 
DOWN 1 Kilmer of "At 
First Sight" 2 Belfast grp. 3 Explorer 
Amerigo 4 Prefix with 
stellar 5 Going to hell 6 PlayStation 
maker 7 Tater 8 Aquarium 
favorites 9 Curl one's lip 1 O Like jokers 
Puzzle by Sheny 0. Blackard 11 Walk, slangily 
12 Hesitant 13 Kitchen gadget 18 One who knows the scoop 21 Modify 22 Part of A&P: Abbr. 23 Utah's National Park 28 Tennessee athlete, for short  31 Going _ (fighting) 33 Cake decorator 35 Unfavorable 37 Macaroni & Cheese maker 38 Composer Rorem 39 Hindu prince 40 Sign above a door  46 "Beats me" 57 Valentine 47 Sailed bouquet item 48 Rad 58 Remote button 59 Helper: Abbr. 49A,BorC 62 Old man 53 Rope fibers 63 The ·s·of CBS: 55 Swiss capital Abbr. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1 ·900-420-5656 (95e per minu1e).  
29 Company that introduced  44 Suffix with Manhattan  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
Donkey Kong  45 Tavern supply  years: 1·888·7-ACROSS.  

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Elizabeth Perkins, Kevin Nealon, Margaret Atwood, Chloe Sevigny; Sinbad, Owen Wil­son 
Happy Birthday: Your creativi­ty and passionate nature will attract potential partners profes· sionally and personally. Opportu­nities to broaden your horizons and develop your talents will be plenliful. This is a year to push the envelope. Your numbers: 3, 16, 18, 21,28, 34 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Avoid involvement in other peo­ple's affairs. You can console, but if you give advice, you may end up losing both the friend and his or her mate. Find something else to do and meet new people. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is a great day to enjoy friends or family. Avoid gossip or overex­ertion. Minor health problems will flare up if you don't take care of yourself. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): li you handle your current situation carefully, financial gains are likely. Real estate, invesbnents and mon­eymaking opportunities will be fruitful 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Avoid any commitment that could lead to disaster. Although romance is in the air, infatuations will lead only to heartache. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): li you feel that you're being taken advan­tage in your current position, it's time to make changes. Don't be afraid to start your own small business on the side. Avoid intima­cy withclients or colleagues. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your ability to work with such fine 
EUGENIA LAST 
detail is impressive. You can find new friends and hobbies if you join groups that are involved in creative pursuits. 00000 
LIBRA (Se,J:l_l 23-0ct. 22): You have to keep things in perspective today. Emotional deception will cause friction with family mem­bers. Be upfront and discuss your options openly. With a little help, solutions can be found. 00 · 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stop sitting around and move about Expand your interests and your circle of friends. Join worth­while groups where you can meet interesting new friends who will motivate you. 0000 
SAGIITARIUS (Nmt 22-Dec. 21): 
It may be time to pick up some 
new skills. Career changes will put 
you in a higher earrung bracket. 
Talk to those who can help you get 
ahead,000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
It's time to confront your current 
situation. Re-evaluate your posi­
tion in life and prepare to make 
changes. Be honest and acknowl­
edge what isn't working for you 
anymore.00 
AQUARIUS Uan. 20-Feb. 18): 
It's not wise to avoid issues or tell 
white lies today. Be careful how 
you handle a friend or relative 
who may take what you say the 
wrong way. Take a look at your 
financial situation and set a stricter 
budget.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
This may be a day of discovery for 
you. New connections may be 
short-lived, Stay alert for evasive 
or deceptive statements. Don't 
bother retaliating. New friends 
will come into your life if you join 
adub.0000 
ACROSS 1· Bright-colored 6 Planes in the 
news 10 Beat but good! 14 Ice Capades 
locale 15 Dentist's request 16 Actress Skye 17 Just under the 
wire 19 Forfeit 20 Old-fashioned 
popular novel 22 Shades of blue 24 Elbow's place 25 Hot temper 26 Muscle spasm 27 Prima donnas 30 Gourmand 32 Centers of 
activity 34 "i" finisher 35 Termite's relative 36 Trivial 41 Goof up 42 Gun, as an 
engine 43 Travel across a tarmac 45 One who's diplomatic and urbane, 
astrologically 48 Cuba's Castro 50 Big success 51 Altar words 52 Agcy. with loans 
for homeowners 54 Money back 56 Navy petty 
officer 60 "Render Caesar_::,­
61 Places for cheese 

Campus Sports National Sports
OBSERVER 
. Men's Basketball, p. 22 
. Barry Bonds, p. 14 
. 
Cross Country, p. 21, 20 . Olympic flame, p. 14 

. 
Fox Sports p. 19 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 15 


PORTS 
Tuesday, November 20, 200 I 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish finish sixth at Nationals 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports W ricer 
GREENVILLE, S.C. 
Thev ended their most suc­cessfu·I season in recent history the sam(' way they began: as a team committed to each other and to a common goal.
• Their goal going in had been a National Championship, hut as the race unfolded it became clear that the best team the Irish had evrr had would come away from tlrn strongest field the NCAA had ever had without a national title. but still !Paving thf'ir indf'lible mark on college cross country, placing sixth at Mondav's national meet. Seni~r Luke Watson finished fifth in 29:19 right ahead of senior Rvan Shay, who finished sixth in 29:23. Sophomore Todd Mobley finished 38th in 30:09. "Having two finishers in the top 10 is an accomplishment for any team." said Watson. who 11 as seventh in last year's \CA\ meet. The Irish have become a team that has come to expect nothing less from itself than flawless performances. A Big East Championship. A Great Lakes Regional Championship. Second in the Pre-National meet. 
Ranked No. 4 going into the 
meet, the Irish had hoped Lim return of Shay, who had been suffering from an injured Achilles. and senior I'at Conway, who had heen battling a chest cold, would be enough to upset Colorado and Stanford. 
Colorado won the team race with 90 points, followed by Stanford with 91 points. 
Though Notre Dame had fin­ished serond to Colorado in the Pre-National nrnet, the Buffaloes boasted three run­ners in the top 15 and a fifth man who finished 47th. Arkansas was third with 118 points, whiln Northern Arizona was fourth with 193. regional rival Wisconsin was fifth with 245 points and Notre Damn had 248 points. 
"As a team we're probably a little disappointed," said Shay. "I don't think we did as well as we wanted to. Our fifth man wasn't whnre he should have been. Pat Conway had been really sick. and that's obviously going to have an eITect." 
Far from disappointing, though, was the support the team got from the loudest cheering section at the meet. Seven carloads of teammates and friends, painted blue and gold, ran madly between van­tage points on the course to 
see MEN/page 18 

RICO CASARES/The Observer Irish seniors Luke Watson (left) and Ryan Shay (center) run together during Monday's NCAA Cross Country Championships. Watson took fifth in the race while Shay finished sixth. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
King leads Irish to 19th 
By KATIE McVOY As~ociate Sports Editor 
GREENVILLE. S.C. 
At the beginning of this season. the expectations for the Irish were not vnry high. But a successful season raised those expectations and left the team proud of how far it had come, but slightly disappointed with its finish in the NCAA National Cross Country Championship. 
"We didn't run as well as we wanted to coming in hf're," head coach Tim Connelly said of his team's 19th place l1nish Monday. "I was hoping we'd be in the top 15. I thought we'd run better than we did." 
The runners agreed. 
"[The race] was not nearly as good as we could have placed." junior Jen Handley said. "We had a lot of people who just h 0 ~d mediocre per­formances. 
But all the talk was not talk of disappointment. Last sea­son, the Irish didn't make it to the national m1rnt and, coming into this season, \/otre Dame was rated low in tho region and was unranked in the nation. The 19th place finish left the Irish in a good position to start off next sea­son. 
"That's great. I mean, I told our kids before the regionals, I think a year from now we've got the makings of a great team, you know. a top 10 place team," Connelly said. "So we've got to get to the meet and experience it and that's what we did today."' 
"It was a pretty solid show­ing." first-year runner Lauren King said. "We're a young team and we now have somewhere to work up from." 
King went home an All­American. The freshman fin­ished first for the Irish. her 21:17 time earning her 23rd place overall. 
"I take it one race at a time," King said. "Each day you can only run as best you can on that day. Today I was fortunate enough in this race to make All-American." 
King was the only Irish runner to finish in the top 100 runners. 
Junior Jen Handley fin­ished in 22:24. crossing the finish line in 101st place. 
Like many of the runners. she knew that racing at this level requires experience. 
"I was so happy to be here, just ready to go," she said. "At the end of the season, my body's just tired. A lot or it is I have to learn to race at this level." 
Handley wasn't the only runner who was feeling a lit­tle tired at the· end of the season. Following last week­end's regional meot, the Irish 
see WOMEN/page 18 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish earn NCAA bid at Maryland 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
The men's soccer team heard the news at about 3 p.m. Monday -Notrn Dame earned a berth in the NCAA College Cup for the first time since 1996. 
After an impressive regular sea­son in which the I r i s h worked to a 12-5 record and a sec­ond place finish in th11 Big East conf'erence. the Irish players were confidente they had done enough to receive the invitation, and Monday con­firmed their hopes. 
"I think we're good, and I 

think tlw team is very excited about being in the tourna­ment," head coach Bobby Clark. "Also we'll be playing two teams that we hav11n't played. I think that's also excit­ing." · 
The Irish will travel to Maryland Friday to take on the Terrapins on their home field. The winner of that match will face MAAC Champion Loyola. who earned a first-round bye with their 16-1-2 record during the regular season. 
Taking to the road for the first-round contest should not be too overwhelming for the Irish, who have played 10 of their 18 games on the road already this year. 
"The way our schedule has been this year, we seem to have been on the road pretty often," Clark said. "We're a well-trav­
see SOCCER/page 15 

. Men's Basketball vs. Cornell, Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER
. Women's Basketball at Colorado State, Wed., 7p.m.
SPORT 
o n Iin e edition 
. Men's Basketball at Hawaii Pacitic, Friday, 6:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football at Stanford, Saturday, 5p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 






