
Nine Inch Nails 
Times, they are achangin'
Music critic Chris Yunt takes 
The CLC discusses its current 
Tuesday
a look at Trent Reznor's latest remix, 
structure and whether it 
Things Falling Apart. 
needs to be revamped. 
JANUARY 23, 
scene . page 12 
News . page 3 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Admitting a class of colors 
Notre Dame and Saint Marys actively recruit minority students to create a diverse environment and enhance students' overall education 
Moving Toward the Dream 

Part I: Recruiting

'0-~IJ 

Editor's note: In honor ofMartin Luther King, Jr. celebrations on campus, The Observer explores diversity issues in a four• part series. Part one examines the challenges and successes of recruit­ing minority applicants. 
. ND identifies, pursues high talent minorities 
By MIKECONNOLLY 
News Writer 

With the same vigor it pursues the top high school athletes in America, the Univnrsity uses phone calls, mailing and campus visita· tions to lure some of the most highly qualilicd minor­ity students to the Golden Dome. 
A predominantly white, private, catholic school in the Midwest is not necessar· ily the first choice for many minorities who often come from warmer climates and lesser financial means. The University must overcome cultural, regional, historical. meterological and financial barriers to win the enroll­ment of these students against fierce competition can't be met socially at this school," the sophomore from Dallas continued. 

The task of convincing qualified minorities to apply begins in the spring of the applicants' junior year of 
see ND/page 9 
. Targeting minorities early critical for SMC 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
As a junior in high school, Adriana Garces knew she was going to college. 
She just didn't know how she was going to get there. 
As the South Bend native sat in her classes at Washington High School. she mulled over several different plans -she could move to Texas. and try to go to school there, or attend community col­lege at Indiana University at South Bend, close to home. 
Heady to explore her educational options fur• thcr, she found the Saint Mary's Encuentro pro• gram, a two-week sum• mer camp where high­achieving Latina students have the opportunity to live the college experi• ence. Through attending classes taught by Saint Mary's faculty, living in 
sec STORY/page 7 
from other elite schools. 
"[Difficulties in recruiting minorities] lies with minori• ty perceptions of the school," said Nikki McCord. co-chair of the diversity committee in the student senate and a student mem­ber of the University com• mittee for cultural diversity. 
"I know many minorities believe before coming to Notre Dame that this is an elitist campus. Some think it is full of rich people and a lot of students might feel that there are so few minorities and their needs 


By MOLLY McVOY 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
College president Marilou Eldred told student organizers of "The Vagina Monologues" Tw~sday that the play would not make a reappearance on Saint Mary's campus this year. 
The play is part of a nationwide movement on college campuses to increase dialogue about women's sexuality. 
In response, the student orga­nizers have called for a speak-out on Wednesday evening to discuss if' the play has a place on the Saint Mary's campus and, if so, what place that is. In part. the speak-out comes in ·response to the College administration's posi• tion that the play should not be presented this year. 
''The administration's position is that we don't want IThe Vagina Monologues] performed on this campus a.gain," said Marilou Eldred. the College's president. 
The nationally acclaimed play, 




Saint Mary's cancels 'Monologues' 
currently playing oIT-Broadway, was written by playwright Eve Ensler. Ensler's work is per­formed solely by women and addresses issues of women's sex­uality. In particular, the move• ment to perform the monologues on college qi.mpuses L,; part of an effort that began three years ago to stop violence against women. 
Last year's February produc­tion at Saint Mary's was spon• sored by tho Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE). After the performance, CARE offered counseling. 
The play generated needed dia• logue about the issues of women's sexuality, lesbianism, rape, and the need for women to recognize that their bodies should not be violated but celebrated, according to "Monologues" supporters. 
"I think what happened last year after the Monologues was that people had a healthy discus• sion on sexuality," said senior Julia Malczynski, the women's studies representative to the stu• dent activities council. 
Although the administration supports the idea of generating discussion, the play would cause more controversy than healthy discussion, according to Eldred. 
Issues of' lesbianism and explicit discussion of sexuality have causctl some to question its appropriateness for a Catholic campus. In rnsponso to last yoar's presentation and a subsequent letter to the South Bend Tribune by a former professor, several members of the College Parent's Council expressed concerns to the president about the presentation of themonologucs. 
"l think the discussion Le; neces• sary," Eldred said. "My issue is clearly with redoing the play." 
"We have to be responsible to all our constituency -studenLc;, alumni and supporters," said Unda Timm, director of student activities. "Voices on the other side of the issuP [opposed to the Monologues) have scld()m been 
see CANCELED/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, January 23, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Can you say vagina? 
That's right, I'm talking to you. So can you say vagina? It seems that at Saint Mary's, not only can we not say the word vagina. but we had better not talk about our vaginas or anyone else's either. 
On a campus that has 1,565 students with vagi­nas, you might wonder why we are experiencing this vagina prohibition. Let me explain. Last year, as part ofa nation­wide movement on college campuses to raise awareness about violence against women and generate dialogue about women's sexuality, the nation­ally acclaimed play "The Vagina Monologues" was presented at Saint Mary's on the same day as at other col­leges. When student organiz­ers wanted to perform the play this year, it seems that alumnae and community members put pressure on the appropriateness of performing the play on a Catholic campus, nanrnly Saint Mary's. 
My concern is that these individuals protesting the presentation of the "Monologues" at Saint Mary's may not realize what it is really all about. It's not a smutty, made-for-the-stage porno. Rather, itis the culmination of hundreds ofinter­views by the playwright, Eve Ensler, with old, young, married, single, lesbian, heterosexual, CEOs, actresses, health workers, and women of various religious and ethnic backgrounds about what they think about their vaginas, issues of sex­uality, and violations of their bodies. 
Other "Monologues" include one about a Bosnian woman who experienced violence-and was raped during the war in her country. Another deals with the idea that women are not supposed to talk about their vaginas and media portrayal of women and vaginas. Yet another tackles a woman coping with sexual abuse by relatives and how she was able to reclaim her body after the experience. The play also encourages women to celebrate their bodies and features a "Monologue" with a scene from a room where a woman is giving birth. 
By not allowing the "Vagina Monologues" to be performed at Saint Mary's, it is sending a message for women to talk openly about their body and their sexuality is shameful. Prohibiting the "Vagina Monologues" sends a message loud and clear that there is no place for dialogue about violence against women. This is an abomination. Women should be encouraged to talk about their bodies and violations of their bodies and recognize that we need to celebrate our bodies. · 
Encouraging women to talk about their bodies is 
a step toward empowering women. By not allow­
ing women to talk about their bodies and sexuali­
ty, it leaves the door open for society and the 
media to define what is and is not appropriate for 
women in regard to their sexuality. Ifwomen can't 
defme their sexuality and talk about their anato­
my, they have to accept what society and the 
media gives them. This leaves women voiceless 
and unable to send a message to the media and 
society that they do not want to be treated only as 
sexual objects. If women can't talk about their 
vaginas, how can a message be sent that violence 
and rape against women -a direct violation of 
their body-is unacceptable? 

As a woman. I think it is of utmost importance to 
be able to talk about, understand.and celebrate 
what it means co be a woman. 

It's time to talk about our vaginas. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Laura Rompf  Sam Derheimer  
Colleen McCarthy  Chris Scott  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Sports  Jose Cuellar  
Lauren Conti  Production  
Viewpoint  Kerry Smith  
Kurt Bogaard  Lab Tech  
Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is amember of the Associated Press. All rcprocluc1ion rights arc reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"To come out and see "We would not have 
the Joyce Center full used the stadium ifit 
has been my dream was a risk, but there 
Jorever since I've been are substantial repairs 
here." 
that have to be made. " 
Notre Dame women's 
Director of public basketball coach, Muffet 
relations Dennis Moore 
McGraw on the UConn on stadium repairs 
win 

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

U.Illinois students speak up about T.A.'s language 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
If understanding an instructor is harder than understanding class material, students have some­where to turn. 
University of Illinois policy out~ lines specific procedures for stu­dents with complaints or problems understanding their instructor's English. 
Before instructors from foreign countries can teach, they must meet the university's English lan­guage requirements. The universi­ty follows the state law that all instructors at state universities must be orally proficient in English. According to campus poli­cy, exceptions can be made for instructors who teach foreign lan­guage courses in their native Ian-
UNIVERSITY OF CALFORNIA-SAN DIEGO 

Campus braces for power crisis 
The power crisis that left thousands of Californians in the dark during the past week has forced the University of California at San Diego to prepare for the possibility of rolling blackouts. Wendy Schiefer. manager of customer relations at Physical Plant Services, said the UCSD campus is in electrical stage three emergency, which means there is a threat to the electrical system reliability and an increased possibility of the campus experiencing rolling power outages. Schiefer says that under stage three emer­gency, sturlents should reduce electrical usage as much as possible and refrain from any sensitive research that requires electrical power. Schiefer, who is living in the dark and without heat due to skyrocketing energy bills, said she believes it will take an actual blackout to get students to conserve. "Some people may not take the energy crisis serious­ly," Schiefer said. "We've sent out e-mails and com­
munity bulletins to residents, asking them to serve energy as much as possible." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeatn:r i'bn.'Ca<t for daytime conditions and high tem!)!rJtures 


guage. 

International teaching assistants show oral proficiency in English by passing either the Test of Spoken English or the Speaking Proficiency English Assessment Kit, also known as SPEAK, said 
con­

IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Student falls overboard on ship, dies 
An Iowa State University freshman climbed over the railing of a cruise ship off the coast of Florida, lost his ·grip and fell overboard, where he died on impact, said police officials in Tampa, Fla. Officials said 19-year-old Michael Hepner, freshman in landscape architecture, was on a week-long trip with his girlfriend on the Carnival Cruise Sensation before he died Jan. 14. "Earlier that night, they got into an argument, and they walked out to the side of the ship," said Joe Durkin, spokesman for the Tampa Police Department. "The victim climbed over the railing, as if he was going to jump, and decided he was not going to. As he attempt­ed to climb back over, he lost his grip and fell." The cruise crew attempted to locate Hepner and called the Coast Guard for assistance, Durkin said. The Coast Guard found Hepner two miles off the Florida coast near Tampa, he said. Hepner was taken to Tampa General Hospital, where he died about 7 a.m. from neck and head injuries sustained from the impact of the fall, Durkin said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

@'"""co D D c:J D . . 
HJtih low Shower• A•tn T••lorma Flurrkl• 6now k:e Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vf.a Assot:1alad Pro:..s 

Atlanta 47 29 Las Vegas 61 34 Portland 51 38 Baltimore 41 25 Memphis 45 31 Sacramento 54 38 
Boston 28 25 Milwaukee 30 26 St. Louis 41 32 Chicago 30 25 New York 35 26 Tampa 60 44 Houston 60 35 Philadelphia 34 26 Washington 41 27 
"We've been very "/ think peace is to 
fortunate all the way respect people, to sit through. There has been together, to speak as tremendous support for equal 
/Generations]." people.". 
Executive director of Noah Salameh Ghnaim on development, Dan Reagan the lsraell-Palestinlan on "Generations" conflict 
Cheelan Bo-Linn. interim head of 
the division of instructional devel­
opment. 
SPEAK, the test's older version, 
operates on a scale from 20 points 
to 60 points, with 20 being the 
lowest possible score. A passing 
score is 50 or higher. The Test of 
Spoken English has been used 
since 1996 and has a different 
scale. On this test, a passing score 
is 2 30 or higher. 
University policy also requires those who pass the English-profi­ciency test to attend both an orien­tation for international teaching assistants and an all-campus ori­. entation for teaching assistants, participate in two follow-up work­sh ops and have their teaching 
monitored by their department. 

..-------------------------·-··-. 
Tuesday, January 23, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CLC 

Me01bers discuss the possibility of structural changes 
The is accepting applications for: 2001-2002 Editor in Chief Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University ofNotre Dame, Saint Mary's College, or Holy Cross College is encouraged to apply. The editor in chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspa­per experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. Applicants should submit a resume and a.five-page statement to Noreen Gillespie by 5 p.m., Tuesday, January 23. For additional infbrmution about the position or application process, contact Noreen Gillespie at 631-4541, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall.  

By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Al a meeting Monday that may havo prompled more con­cerns lhan it resolved, Campus Life Council members looked for ways to address problems that have long nagged lhc organization. 
In the midst of some tension. the 75-rninulc meeting meshed much discussion with relative­ly few rosults. before members moved to halt lhcir talks and ruconvcno at a later datn. 
The move cfTcclivcly gives represtintativcs two weeks to reconsider ttrn CLC's mission and rnlc al Nolre Dame ­issues lhat didn't bring the council to a. consensus on 
Mondny. 
"Do we like the current structure of' the council, or do we noed a new structure'!" student body president Brian ()'Donoghue asked. "What can we do to redevelop this body?" 
0'Donoghue, who didn't link his concerns to any specific incident, said these were ques­tions he has had throughout the year. On Monday, he asked CLC members to come to the meeting prepared to speak openly about their own reser­vations. 
Most of their feedback cen­tered around members' responsibilities on the council. 
"I sometimes feel unclear about the role I should have on the council. There are a lot of times when [ want to jump in, but I know this is a student­run body, and it's their ball­game," said Sister Mary Ann Mueninghoff, Pasqucrilla East Hall rector. 

Philosophy professor Ed Manier also expressed some uncertainty about his role on the council. At one point, Manier talked about having a large workload while students are partying near the end of the semester, and the dialogue led to a brief but tense exchange between Manier and Knott llall rector Brother Jerome Meyer. who mistook Manier's comment as an insult. 
Later, other controversy arose as Manier seemed to diret:t comments at Bill Kirk, assistant vice prnsident for student affairs. 
"I low can any of us hope to accomplish real change in an environment where sludcnt life administrators dictate what we can and cannot do. You can't achieve change in at an institution where there isn't academic freedom," Manier said. 
Shortly after, Kirk moved to end discussion and reconvene at the group's next meeting. 
At that meeting, members will likely return to other top­ics that arose Monday -the CLC's taskforce work and the scope of the council's authori­ty. 
Many members agreed that the council has been more pro­ductive than in recent years. 
"I like having task forces to address specific issues. It keeps us focused on a mis­sion," Dillon Hall senator Brendan Dowdall said. 
But student body vice presi­dent Brooke Norton offered a different perspective. 
"The only perceived problem is we're still stagnate. There hasn't been a huge report or concrete results, but that may be because we have such long­term goals," Norton said. "Still, it might be good to do some reports and show that we are being active." 
Also in question Monday was the scope of the CLC's authori­ty. O'Donoghue told members that he would consider any matter that affects the Notre Dame community as legitimate fare for the CLC. 
Manier said other organiza­tions have an advantage over the CLC because they have clear missions. The CLC estab­lishes goals as needed. Manier said. 
O'Donoghue noted that the CLC is a University body under the control of the Office of Student Affairs, and as such, it remains the only body of its type to have public meetings. He asked members to consider whether or not to close meet­ings, citing past comments from CLC members fearful of making public statements. 
In other CLC news: 
. O'Donoghue told the CLC 


that the newly formed Advisory Committee on Academic and Student Life (ACASL) will have its first meeting sometime next week. He said the CLC will remain a body separate from the ACASL. 
. Jay Smith, student govern­ment chief of staff, said the Office of the Student Body 
President is sponsoring a stu­dent panel Wednesday as part of Martin Luther King activi­ties at Notre Dame. The "Colors of the World" forum will be moderated by University executive vice presi­dent Father Tim Scully at 6 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
page4 The Observer . CMvfPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 23, 2001 
Whibnore: forhtnate should help poor 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
The Catholic Church's social teachings can make valuable con­tributions to the living wage debate, said Todd Whitmore, Notre Dame Anti-sweatshop Task Force director and ass,ociate professor of theology. 
About 50 people attended Whitmore's Monday night lecture titled "The Living Wage in Catholic Teaching: Economic Justice for All." It was the first in a semester­long series on the "Living Wage." 
In his lecture, Whitmore present­ed an overview of Catholic social teaching and an account on the liv­ing wage. He also made suggestions as to what the Catholic perspective adds to the issue. 
"According to the Pope, this [social justice) is a non-optional part of Catholic teaching," Whitmore said. 
He maintained that the Catholic Church has traditionally called for a living wage to serve as a baseline for administering social justice. 
"It's important to recognize that the living wage is a minimum con­dition according to Catholic social teaching. Where there is more, more ought to be given," he said. 
However Whitmore was quick to point out that the Catholic Church's perspective does not support social­ism or the elimination of private ownership. Rather, he maintained that the creation of a Jiving wage would allow more freedom. 
"The same type of democracy we practice in the political sphere can extend to the economic sphere," he said. 
Whitmore also suggested that the Catholic Church's position seeks to improve the quality of life and sus­tain the family. 
"It [Catholic teaching) points out 
canceled 
continued from page 1 
heard." 
The supporters of the "Monologues" feel that Wednesday's forum is the best way to generate a substantial amount of discussion and no other venue that they have encountered causes a large num­ber of men and women to talk about issues of sexuality. 
"Of all the programming I have seen in the last four years at Saint Mary's, there has been nothing that has brought so many people out and generates so much dis­cussion," said Emily Koelsch, one of the organizers and supporters of the "Monologues." 
"It's your peers putting on a production that talks about things that you're usually not supposed to talk about." 
"I think the shock value of the 
play is very valuable," said Julie 
Frischkorn, another organizer of 
the monologues. "I've never been 
to anything else that draws the 
number of people that 'The 
Vagina Monologues' does." 
In order to advertise on the 
campus and reserve facilities to 
present the "Vagina 
Monologues". the students must 
have administrative approval. 
Although Linda Timm, College 
vice president for student affairs, 
explained that the College has the 
power to deny 
advertising on campus grounds 
and deny access to facilities, she 
hopes it won't come to that. 
"Typically, our response has not 
been to Hat out say no," Timm 
said. "I've always felt that we 
have been able to work with stu­that the living wage is a 'right to life' [andJ a pro-family issue," he said. 
Whitmore said that not only the worker but also the family suffer when their salary is below the liv­ing wage. Ile added that this fact was supported by empirical studies, citing the higher infant mortality rate and shorter life spans among lower paid workers and their fami­lies compared to their more affiuenL counterparts. 
Lastly, Whitmore stated that Catholic teaching encourages shar­ing between the more fortunate and those who need help. 
"The well off can help meet the living wage by taking less them­selves. Private property is a right but it's not an absolute right. You are a steward of that property," he said. 
At Notre Dame Whitmore sug­gested that the University could take a cut in their commission from school apparel if the manufacturing companies agree to do so as well. That money, he maintained, could be funneled toward impoverished factory workers. 
He also compared Disney CEO Michael Eisner's $560 million annual salary to the dollar-an-hour wage that Chinese factory workers earn producing Disney brand prod­ucts. 
"There's a point at which you say 'that's too much," he said. 
More lectures to follow 
Arguments for and against the living wage will receive special focus this semester as Notre Dame gears up for a four month-long symposium on the subject. 
The 12 lecture series is sponsored by the University's Anti-Sweatshop Task Force, the Program in the Catholic Social Tradition, and the 
dents in a non-adversarial way. We don't always agree, but I have not felt that these students have listened to our arguments. I'm confounded by their response." 
Frischkorn and Koelsch said there is a need to present the "Vagina Monologues" on campus and hope that, after Wednesday, some option will become clear. 
"We recognize the administra­tion's ability to say no, but we don't want it to come to that," Frischkorn said. "We do feel so strongly about our cause that we are going to try to have the same effect as last year, but, as of now, we do not have a specific plan." 
"Not letting us have it on this campus is going send a bad signal to women who have finally start­ed talking about their bodies," Koelsch said. "It tells the students 'last year, you could talk about these issues. This year, you can't."' 
Both sides of the issue hope the speak-out generates discussion from those in favor of the mono­logues and those with concerns. 
"I don't feel that, at this point, 
there's much dialogue happen­
ing," said Timm, the director of 
student activities. "I feel like we 
fthe administration] weren't 
heard. J felt that we were very 
reasonable." 
"If this is not going to happen 
on this campus this year, the stu­
dent body needs to know why," 
Koelsch said ...We're just going to 
have to wait and see what hap­
pens Wednesday." 
"Why so many people support 
this Le; because it is promoting the 
end of violence towards women," 
Koelsch said. 
The speak-out will be 
Wednesday evening at 9 p.m. in 
the Dalloway's cofleehouse. 
TONY FLOYD/he Observer Todd Whitmore, director of Notre Dame's Anti-sweatshop Task Force, discussed the Catholic teaching on living wage . 
Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Economic, global and religious issues will be addressed in support and against the establishment of a living wage both in the United States and abroad. 
"We want to raise people's awareness about the issues sur­rounding the living wage and to do what is possible to see that these issues are worked out. Last year we dealt with a lot of issues regarding sweat shops and we have yet to address the li.ing wage," Whitmore 
said. 
Sponsors: 
African American Studies Alumni Office Athletic Department Campus Ministry Center for Social Concerns College of Arts and Letters Fr. Theodore 1-Iesburgh, csc, 
University President Emeritus Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies Multicultural Student 
Programs and Services Multicultural Student Alfairs, St. Mary's College ND Resid~nce Halls; Breen­
Phillips, Fischer, O'Hara­Grace Graduate Residences, Fisher, Howard, Keenan. Keough, Lewis, McGlirm, Pangborn. ONeill & Walsh. 
Office of the E><ecutive Vice 
President Emerih1s Office of the President Office of the Provost Student Affairs Student Union Board Theology Department 

Abroad students can vote at SMC 
By NICOLE HADDAD Saint Mary's News Editor 
Beginning with this ye,ir's student body elec­tions, Saint Mary's students studying abroad will have the opportunity to vote for candidates during the elec­tions. According to student body president. Crissie Renner, candidates' plat­forms will be posted on Web sites and students will then e-mail in their ballots. 
In case of a run-off. abroad students will not again. Instead, they will use a ranking system in the primary vote, whereby they rank the candidates by first, second and third choices. 
Although students abroad will have a voice in student government for the first time, there is concern that the voting system will not be anonymous because it is conducted through e­mail. 
In addition, students will not have the opportunity to meet the candidates and ask questions, their opin­ions are based solely on the posted platforms and pre­vious knowledge of the candidate. 
Despite these problems, many students felt that the most important thing was that they are given this opportunity to be a part of the campus while oversees. 
"It's only fair that the 
option is available to every Saint Mary's student and if she doesn't feel she wants to be revealed, she doesn't have to vote, but every Saint Mary's student should have the opportuni­ty," said sophomore Anna Lentz, who just returned from studying a semester in Rome. 
"I think more students are interested in voting than are in keeping anonymity," said Renner. 
Cathy Canetti. a sopho­more who also recently returned from Rome, agreed. 
"It's more important that we get to vote than that it is anonymous," she said. "The Rome students are going to be on campus next semester, and next year these people will be rcpre­sen ting them and it's important that these stu­dents are part of' the deci­sion making because it's their school too." 
Some disagreed, arguing that students won't take the time while abroad to inform themselves on the platforms and make and an educated decision. 
"Well, the reason I didn't do an absentee ballot is because I knew nothing about the platforms ... and if I didn't take the time to research before I left I don't know that I would have taken the time to read the internet platforms either," said sophomore Erin Moran who went to Rome last semester. 
University of 
Notre Dame 
Dr. Martin 
Luther King Jr.: 
Holiday 
Celebration 
KEYNOTE ADDRESS: 

"It Takes a Village to Plant the Future; The Partnership Between Institutions of Higher Learning and Surrounding Communities" 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2001 
7:00 P.M., 101 DEBARTOLO HALL 
For information, contact Chandra Johnson (G31-3748), Iris Outlaw (631-6841), or Priscilla Wong (1-5242) 

·--------· --­
-


ATION 
Tuesday, January 22, 2001 COMPILED FIWM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
-=--~-=::-.::-~-=-==========-=-~.:-====-:.:-:-::::=.========================-================================================= 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Child rebels surrender: The teen-ago twins who led the God's Army rebel group acknowlndgcd on Monday they have no mysti­cal powers to repel bullcls and said tlwy want lo givn up fighting. Wearing oversized soccer. shirls. Jnhnny and Luther I!too, who led a hit­and-run c.tmpaign !'or three years against the Myanmar military, said their days as soldiers ;trn at an end. "I want to live as a family with my pan~nts," Luther told reporters at a bor­dt~r !}[)lice base near the Myanmar frontier with Thailand. •·1 want lo study." 
World's oldest man turns 112: An Italian shepherd listed by Guinness World Records as the world's oldest man celebrated his 112th birthday Monday by downing a glass of red wino -the secret, he says, or his longevity. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Reprieve granted for inmate: A Texas death-row inmate who came within minutes of bdng executed in 1987 was deprivod of "the guiding hand of counsel" when his lawyer slept for 10-minuLe stretches during his trial, a d1{cnse attorney told a federal appeals court Monday. The napping lawyer "didn't just doze or daydream -he was unconscious," Hobert McGlasson told the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
Meningitis on the rise: Two more cases of spinal meningitis were confirmed in subur­ban Ilouston, bringing to at least 18 the num­ber of cases in the area sincu Oct. 9, health ofTI­cials said. Two have died of the diseasu this month. The 1mmingitis outbmak has added to concerns raised late last year about IIouston's potential for epidemic as the city with the low­est vaccination rate in the nalion. Ollicials say the city is already vulnerable to disease bncause of its role as a port and airline hub. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Man jailed for killing father: A man who was charged with setting a fire that killed his wheelchair-bound father was being held without bond Saturday in the LaPorte County Jail. Hodney Fleming, 24, Michigan City. appeared Thursday in LaPorte Superior Court to !'ace a charge of murder in connection with the Dec, 30 blaze that took tho lil"e of Albert Fleming Sr., 68, whose charred body was found on a living room sofa whore he normally slept. /\uthoritios say Fleming became the prime suspect after it was learned he made previ­ous threats to burn down the house to kill his father, 
Market Watch 1/22 
Dow 

10,578.24 -9.35 
/ONES 

Composite
Up: Same: 

Vdum~:
=I'.
1,.248 456 

~ NIA 
AMEX: 893.26 -6.62 
Nasdaq: 2757.91 -12.47 
NYSE.: 646.57 -4.95 
S&P 500: 1342.90 +0.35 
TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
AMFRICAN EXl'RES~ (AXr) -746 -.l,6210 4~.00 
CAP (Gi'S) , 12.10 ,,.so z~_z, 
cru lCPLI) -IU6 -3.9371 30.12 
INHlSl'ACE UNSl'i -21,0> -11.05 7.oJ 
KAYE Cl(OUf' (KAYE) , 50.7') ,4 00 II.HR 
ECUADOR 

Workers race to contain oil spill 
Associated Press 
PUEHTO 13AQUEHIZO 
U.S. team was setting up equip­ment Monday for the dangerous task of transferring diesel mixed with sea water back onto a ship that has dumped 150,000 gallons of fuel ull into this fragile marine environ­ment. 
Ecuador's environment minister, Hodolf'o Hendon, said the spill had already caused "extremely grave" damage. 
The Ecuadorean tanker, which began leaking fuel Friday. was lying tilted sharply toward its right side abuut 550 yards from San Cristobal Island. 
San Cristobal is one of the Galapagos Islands, which arc famous for their giant tortoises and rare species of birds and plants. Charles Darwin developed his theory of evolution by studying wildlil'c on these islands in the Pacific Ocean, 600 miles off Ecuador's coast. 
The team of U.S. experts, includ­ing 10 members of the U.S. Coast Guard's pollution response National Strike Force. arrived late Sunday with specialized oil spill equipment such as inflatable containment barges and high-capacity pumps. 
U.S. Coast Guard Cmdr, Edwin Stanton told The Associated Press that his team would attempt to transfer remaining fuel spilling through the ruptured hull to empty storage tanks that arc still intact within the ship.. 
But he said pounding surf and shifting pressure within the vessel could cause the tanker to break apart. 
As of Sunday, 150,000 gallons of fuel had leaked, Rendon said, and slicks had affected a 117-squarc­mile area. 
Rendon said surf pounding the tanker Jessica, which ran aground Tuesday in a bay off San Cristobal. has opened up new fissures in its hull, speeding up the rate of the leak. The ship carried 243,000 gal­lons of diesel. 
lie said the spill was heading south and could reach Santa Fe, a small island 37 miles west of San Cristobal famed for the Santa Fe land iguana. a species that is found nowhere else in the world. 
Experts said curtailing the now of 
escaped fuel is almost impossible 
now, 
"The bottom line is once oil gets out of a ship it's virtually impossible to remove it or contain it on the 
CONGO 

Kabila's death sparks xenophobia 
Americans killed the presi­Associated Preos 
dent." Such anti-Western senti­
KINSHASA Along with thousands of ment has skyrocketed in other Congolese, Deborah 
this Central African capital since Kabila was gunnedNgondu waited in line for 
down in his presidential
hours to pay her respects t() assassinated President palace last week. 
Details of the assassina­
Laurent Kabila, lying in state ahead of a Tuesday tion remain murky. The government -now led by
funeral. 
"I won't go home without Kabila's son, Joseph -says 
seeing the president. I must a lone bodyguard shot the say goodbye," the 17-year­president; but some reports old student said Monday at suggest a bitter argument 
the open-air Palace of the with military brass prompt­People, 'Tm very sad. The ed tho slaying. 
ocean," said Stanton. 
Galapagos National Park biologist Mauricio Velasquez said the long­term danger is that the fuel will sink to the ocean f1oor, destroying algae that is vital to the food chain, threat­ening marine iguanas, sharks. birds and other species. 
Velasquez said the current was also pushing the spill south, and that within days it could reach Espanola 

A host of African coun­tries are supporting the government or various rebel factions in a civil war that erupted in 1998, but frustrated Congolese arc increasingly pointing fin­gers further afield to explain their deeply divided nation's problems. 
"The white man is very bad. They don't want blacks to progress," said Vital Nutedika, 35. "Kabila has died because he said no to the white man." 
The West has a brutal 
Island, where large colonies of sea lions and other marine animals con­gregate. 
Floating nets and barriers have been set up to control the spill, but officials said slicks had reached nearby beaches and harmed at least 11 sea lions. which were expected to live, Some 20 birds, including blue­footed boobies, pelicans and alba­trosses, also were affected, 
past in Congo, The nation, originally formed in the late 19th century·as the pcrson­a l property of Belgium's King Leopold II, was built by slaves, some of whom had their hands chopped off when they did not fulfill rubber harvest quotas, 
In the decades after inde­pendence in 1960. the West kept friendly relations with heavy-handed ruler Mobutu Sese Soko, one of many anti-communist dictators tolerated by the United States and its allies. 


page 6 

Bush blocks United States abortion aid 
Associated Press 
~ WASHINGTON 
On Monday's anniversary of the Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion, President Bush signed a memorandum reinstating the full abortion restrictions on U.S. overseas aid that his father and former President Reagan had insti­tuted before him. 
"It is my conviction that tax­payer funds should not be used to pay for abortions or advocate or actively promote abortion either here or abroad," Bush wrote in his executive memorandum to the U.S. Agency for International Development, which oversees family-plan­ning aid to foreign countries. 
It was Bush's first major policy action since becoming president on Saturday. 
It reverses the Clinton administration's position on unrestricted family-planning aid and bars U.S. money to international groups that use their own money to support abortion -either through performing the surgery, coun­seling on abortion as a fami­ly-planning option or lobbying foreign governments on abor­tion policy. 
On his first workday in the White House, Bush also gave a wrftten statement to marchers on the 28th 

"Meet me at the Linebacker..." 
Pre-game at the 'Backer before the ND vs. Syracuse basketoall game 
Tuesday Jan. 23rd 
4pm-7:30 pm 
Prizes: adidas gear 
Drawings every 1/2 hour 
GO IRISH!! 
Have agreat time before game time! ! 
anniversary of the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade decision that legalized abortion. 
"The promises of our Declaration of Independence are not just for the strong, the independent or the healthy: They are for everyone, includ­ing unborn children," his statement said. "We share a great goal, to work toward a day when every child is wel­comed in life and protected in law ... to build a culture of life, affirming that every per­son at every stage and season of life, is created equal in God's image." 
Abortion-rights supporter Kate Michelman saw it as Bush's latest act of war on women's reproductive rights, following on his nomination of staunch abortion opponents to key Cabinet posts --former Sen. John Ashcroft for attor­ney general and former Wisconsin Gov. Tommy Thompson as secretary of health and human services. 
Bush "is using his presiden­tial powers quite aggressively already to undermine a woman's right to choose and clear a pathway to the over­turning of Roe v. Wade," Michelman said. "I think it's a harbinger of things to come -Supreme Court appoint­ments, judicial appointments .... There's quite a bit of harm that can be done to women's reproductive rights. 

The Obmver . NATIONAL NEWS 


How can you participate in the International Year of the Volunteer? 
FIND OUT AT THE SOCIAL CONCERNS FESTIVAL ! ! 
Where: Center for When: Thursday, Time: 7 p.rn.. -9  Social January p.rn..  Concerns 25, 2001  

. 
Learn about the many ways to get involved in the local community through social service agencies and campus clubs. 
All eligible graduate students are invited to attend an INFORMATION NIGHT for those interested in becoming ASSISTANT RECTORS for the 2001-2002 academic year. 
Information session will be held tomorrow evening: 
Wednesday, January 24th at 7:30 p.m. in the Hospitality Room at Reckers 
( to the right ofthe main social area in Reckers) 
Presentation will include a panel of current Assistant Rectors; refreshments will be provided. The information session is optional and attendance will not affect your selection as an assistant rector. For more information, see our web page at 
http://www.nd.edu/~stdntaff/Hallstaff.htm . 



Tuesday, January 23, 200 l The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
residence halls and participat­ing in a mock college applica­tion process. the women learn what it takes tu be a successful candidate for admission at Saint Mary's. 
"I was interested in the pro­gram because it was a pre-col­lege program," Garces said. Having alroady toured Saint Mary's, she was also interested in meeting "other women who worn intorestcd in higher edu­cation," she said 
Through mock college-level classes in literature. history. sociology, math and art, stu­dents meet other Latina women who arc exploring the meaning of culture, identity, and their educational plans. For Garces, tho program gave her the l'oun­d a tio n to define her college future -and herself. Now a Saint Mary's senior. Garces credits the prngram for giving her Lhe motivation to apply to Saint Mary's. 
"We had some seminars where people from financial aid and admissions came to speak wilh us," she said. "They told us if' we wanted to pursue Saint Mary's, we could. They answered a lot of questions ­before, I didn't think Saint Mary's was a financial option." 
While the program is a valu­able tool to teach the college application process to Latina students. it is dually important f'or the College. While minority enrollment has increased by almost 4 percent in the past decade, it hovers at just 7.1 perccnl -numbers that arc far billow whern many directors and administrators would like lo see them. 

"We have an internal goal of 10 percent," said Mona Carrandi de Bowe, associate director of admissions who spe­cializes in multicultural recruit­ing. "But it takns timo. It's a high goal to make that jump in one year. We're getting there 
- particularly  with  our  
increases  in  the  past  five  
years.''  

The Encuontro program is just one in an arsenal of tactics that helps Saint Mary's target minority students early on in their high school career ­something that is critical to succcssrully recruiting -and enrolling -minority appli­cants. said Mary Pat Nolan, director or admission. 
"What we really try to do with multicultural students is give them time to prepare," Nolan said. "Part of' recruiting multicultural students is help­ing them identify what their goals are, helping them know what courses they need to take -answering the question of what would a successful candi­date look like." 
"We also try to be a service to the family -we want the fami­ly to be comfortable with their daughter's choice as well. You can't do that in a six month period," Nolan said. 
Saint Mary's targets potential minority applicants through membership in organizations such as the National Hispanic Institution, tho Lorenza DcZavala (LDZ} organization, the National Scholarship Se·rvice for Negro Students (NSSFNS) and the A Better Chance program, as well as targeting high schools with high minority populations. Through leadership confer­ences, camps and college fairs sponsored by membership in these organizations, admission counselors have the opportuni­ty to reach minority students as early as their freshman or sophomore year in high school to educate them about opportu­nities at Saint Mary's. 
The relationship between the College and the applicant becomes critical in overcoming a host or factors that are ortcn roadblocks to enrolling minori­ty students at Saint Mary's. Distance from home, low minority enrollment. family ties, climate, linancial aid con­cerns and minimal knowledge of the college application process can be obstacles to suc­cessfully enrolling minority stu­dents. 
The strong relationship between the College and minor­ity applicants can help to address these issues, suggested Carrandi de Bowe. 
"Traditionally, a lot of stu­dents that come from under­represented groups are first generation college students. We're really teaching the col­lege application process," Carrandi de Bowe said. "We're trying to provide a service for these students, even if they don't come to Saint Mary's." 
Teaching the college applica-



Information Session: January 23 (Tues.) 6:30 PM 
Center for Social Concerns 
• eigfit weef:J ofService-Learning 
• 3 creaits • $1900.00 Scfw£arship • sponsorea 6y a[umni c{u6s across tlie 'U.S. 
Deadline for application: February 7th Applications at the Center for Social Concerns 
Interviews in progress now! 
Stop by the Center for more information and ask your Hall Rep. (See poster in Hall) 

ti-ill
Ct.lff'II J'Ci,t 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

tion process is often involves more than just making connec­tions with the student, howev­er. Particularly when it comes to financing a college educa­tion, admission and financial aid counselors have the task of teaching the parents about the financial side of the admissions process -often through a Ian• guage barrier. 
"You generally find a real concern about loan indebted­ness," said Mary Nucciarone, director of financial aid. "And it's not just funding the educa­tion -many parents have the concern about their daughter fitting in the community. What we try to du is talk to them about the investment of an edu­cation. We have them talk with other minority students, who can share their experience." 
Additionally. the office works with the Oflice for Multicultural Affairs to work with parents from non-English speaking backgrounds, and the financial aid oflice has been developing literature in Spanish to assist parents in understanding the financial aide system. 
The trust factor, however, remains critically important, Nucciarone said. 
"It's important to work on the trust relationship," Nucciarone said. "If a student comes in here and tells her story, she wants to keep telling that story to the same person. For that reason, I try to work with a lot of the minority students myself." 
Through a combination of work study programs, federal aid and scholarships, Nucciarone tries to help minor­ity applicants and families make a college education affordable. But she does run into roadblocks. The linancial aid office has had a high suc­cess rate in helping minority students fund their education at Saint Mary's -95 percent of minorities receive some form of financial aid. with the average grant standing at $19,778 per year. Sometimes, the money just isn't enough to lure a student to Saint Mary's. 
And that can leave 
Nucciarone scratching her 
head. 

"One phenomenon that we see is even if we offer free tuition and fees, the student will still decline our offer for admission," she said. "(The answer to enrolling more minorities] is not necessarily giving more money. There's a combination of factors that play into that -the student may have been admitted to Stanford and even been giv1rn f'ree tuition. You don't know." 
As administrators continue to pursue increased multicultural enrollment at the College, they can find themselves trapped in an oxymoron. Without a high minority enrollment on cam­pus. many potential applicants could feel that they will bo iso­lated. One way administrators attempt to connect minority students before they enroll is by introducing current minority students to minority applicants. 
It worked for Homona Parks, a first-year African-American nursing major. 
"I don't sec the color." Parks said. "When I came out here to visit, it was so gorgeous, so peacerut -I loved it. My host­ess was black, and she'd still bn out here when I got here. I didn't feel like I wouldn't fit in." 
Getting minority students on campus and in contact with current students is one of the most successful ways of over­coming roadblocks \o enrolling minorities, Carrandi de Bowe said. 
"If we can get students here to visit, so they can sec it, they can know what we're about." she said. "We have morn hur­dles to clear if all they know about the College is what thoy see on paper." 
But since arriving on campus, Parks will admit that the tran­sition was hard -and she began to sec the racial break­down of the campus more than she had during the admission process. Realizing that she was the only African-American nursing major and the only African-American student in her classes, Parks did begin to realize what it meant to be a minority on campus. 
"You need to come here with your own perspective ... you need to come in here with something in your heart that says you're going to give Saint Mary's a chance," Parks said. 
For the minority students who have thrived at Saint Mary's, however, they are con­tent with their choice to come to the College. 
"The people that I came across during the Encuentro program were so supportive, so encouraging," Garces said. "It impressed me how much per­sonal attention the admissions and financial aid people gave me. Once I became a student here, the atmosphere worked well for who I am." 
~ Attention4 \<l Juniors_!!! 'Ip 
Lector Auditions for JPW Mass 
will be held 
Monday, Jan. 29th@ 4 pm and Tuesday, Jan. 30th @ 7 pm 
in the Basilica. Come audition to be part ofthis event!!! Questions? Contact Brooke Glessing @4-1674 or Glessing. l@nd.edu. 

Page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 23, 2001 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
ne of the great myths in this 
very complex, nation-dividing 
0 


Sacred Heart Parish Center 
s·1gn up a whole group or individually

Freshman Retreat #33 

anytime between Monday, January 29 

Sunday, January 28, 1 :30 g.m. 
and Friday, February 2. 

EMMAUS
Zahm Hall Chapel 

Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. Tom Bednar, c.s.c. 
Sunday, January 28, 7:30 p.m. 
stop by Campus Ministry 

Montgomery Theater 
at Badin Hall or at Hesburgh Library.

Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
I f you have any questions, call Amy@ 1-3389. 
Monda:t-Friday, January 29-Februan,, 2 112 Badin and 103 Hesburgh Library 
Emma says: Support the campus MLK celebration! 
103 Hesburgh Library 
Wednesdav, January Zi/th. 1:30 11.m.
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #34 
(February 23-24, 2001) 
Camnus Ministry Office. Badin Hall 
Tuesday Badin Hall Chapel 

Campus Bible Study will resume February 6, 2001 
Monday-Tuesday, January 22-23, 11 :30 Qm-10:00Qm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, January 23, 7:00 g.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Session #7 
Wednesday, January 24, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Dr. Martin· L. King. Jr. Holida~ Celebration 
Tuesda~. January 23, 7:00 (1.m. 101 DeBartolo 
Keynote Speaker: Dr. Corne} West "It takes a Village to Plant the Future: The Partnership Between Institutions of Higher Learning And Surrounding Communities" 
Wednesda¼ Janua(¥ 24, 6:00 g.m. Hesburgh Libra~ Auditorium 
"Colors of the World: An Inter-Active Forum" Presented by the Student government Moderator: Fr. Tim Scully, c.s.c. 
Thursda~. January 25, 7:00 Q.m. Keenan-Stanford ChaQel 
Prayer Service : "Mustard Seed Faith" Reflections by Fr. Edward Malloy, c.s.c. and Senior Rene Mulligan 
Friday-Saturday, January 26-27 Oakwood Inn 
El Encuentro con Nuestra Fe Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, January 26-27 
Sign-up for Emmaus New group or individuals interested in a small faith sharing group. 
Beginning Monday, January 29 through February 19 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh Library 637-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 
Faith FAQs ?Catholic facti  
Q 4 •  legalized Abortion: lm't it good for women?  

debate over abortion is that abortion is good for women. Ir is as ifto be pro-life one has to be anti-woman, or that the debate is about the good of the woman versus the good of her child. In recent years I have come to know about a half dozen women who have had abor­tions. Each one of them felt trapped by her life's circumstances, either for lack of resources, family support, church sup­port, or the support of their environment on campus where they w.:re studying at the time. They did not feel they had options or someone to help point out their options.· In short, they felt they had no choice. 
They also never knew how this decision would have repercussions in their life in the future. They dreaded the moment and hoped it would pass. After nearly 30 years of 1egalized abortion in the US, we now know too much about abortion's long-term effects on women to accept that abortion is good for women. Post abortion syndrome is closely related to post traumatic stress syndrome. Feelings ofdread, depression and worse are triggered by the commonest experiences-a child the same age as the one that was lost, the time of year when the abortion took place, the child's would-be birthday, 
seeing ocher mothers happy with their
After nearly 30 yean oflegalized abortion in-rhe families. Often these symptoms do 
nor appear for as long as ten years
U~, we now know too much about abortion's long­

after their trauma. They are often debilitating.
term effecn on women to accept that abortion is 

Women are in a way the greatest good for women. victims of abortion. But healing and 
support are possible. Fortunately on the local scene there is help for women who have been through the trauma of abortion. The University Couseling Center and the Women's Care Center in town offer free counseling services and programs to help bring about healing. Perhaps even more I mportantly, these same centers will help a woman feeling trapped to see the full array and beauty of her truest choices. As a church and as a community we are slowly [earning 
that being pro-life is about supporting women in their greatest hours of need. 
Ever wonder why we as Ca.tholiu do what we do or believe what we believe? Please send m your questiom, commenn and suggestions to ministry.1@nd.edu. 
~~ I • --..: 

Faith-Sharing Groups · 
., .?"'1 f'!·.: 
sign-up now for an Emmaus group! 
~•·•w
I
m Women's Vocations 
1, 

Conversation on Religious Life for Women 
For info., please call Sr. Sue Bruno., OSF at 631-5740 
II~ Campus Bible Study 

Campus Bible Study, an interfaith Christian bible study group with Fr. Al D'Alonzo, c.s.c., will resume on Tuesday, February 6, 7:00 pm at the Badin Hall Chapel. All are welcome. 



Tuesday, January 23, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

ND 
continued from page l 
high school. Notre Dame pur­chases test scores and profiles from the SAT, PSAT and ACT and looks for minority students that show the academic ability to succeed at Notre Dame. 
"We are not admitting minori­ty students just to make Lhc school more diverse," said Cynthia Santana. multicultural rncruiting coordinator for the undergraduate admissions office. "We arc admitting these students because they are quali­fied, cun succeml here and will make the school more diverse." 
Chandrn Johnson. assistant io the president and a member of the University committee [or cultural diversity, said Notre Dame's high admission stan­dards makes recruitment of minorities even more challeng­ing. Many intelligent minorities. who oflnn have less educational opportunities compared to their white counterparts, have not taken enough high level classes to be admitted lo Notre Dame. 
"I Minority studentsI are less visible in education main­strna.ms where students can get the courses they need to apply so we have to go out there and find them earlier," she said. "If they arc in a high school where the high school offers AP (Advanced Placement) and other courses that will eventually give these studpnts a high prolile, we have to encourage them to take th1isc courses." 
Notre Dame needs to seek out these students earlier in their high school careers and point them towards the appropriate classes so they will be ready for to them means free money. So acceptirnce to Notre Dame by they prefer a scholarship to a the senior year, according to financial aid package." Johnson. Beyond the racial and ethnic 
Even if minority students arc dilforcnccs between the ma_jority qualified academically, financial of Notre Dame students and reasons often prevent them from potential minority recruits, the attending the University. Notre culture of the Midwest is often Dame competes with olher pres­one of the largest deterrents. tigious schools that usually offer Many Hispanics and Asian more lucrative offers. American students come from 
"Every school has some way of the Southwest or West while luring them in," Santana said. many African-Americans live in "For some ii's dangling big the South. The vast differences scholarships in front of them. between their home life and the But that's not something we do. culture of the Midwest can be a We are more committed to pro­major drawback for the viding financial aid for all of our University. students rather than using big "I've had experiences with diversity scholarships to lure people from California who say students here." The Midwest is just not for me. I 
Instead of giving free rides to want to go back. It's just not for multicultural students, Notre me,'" said Kevin Huie, assistant Dame uses government loans director of Multicultural and financial aide packages to Students Programs and Services help minority students attend (MSPS). Anything from the University. This usually Midwestern weather to requires the families to fill out Midwestern accents can only complicated forms. Admissions highlight the alienation some officers work closely with the minority studenlc; feel. families to help them under­"South Bend isn't exactly the stand their financial aide pack­most attractive place for many ages and fill out the forms cor­diverse students," Santana said. 
rectly.  The Catholic  
T  h c  i  r  nature  of  
work  is  "South Bend isn't  Notre  Dame,  
sometimes fruitless. however.  exactly the most attractive place for  however. is one of the biggest draw­ 
Many t'ami­ many diverse students. "  ing points for  
lies  chose  Notre  Dame  
the simplici­tY Of a scholarship  Cynthia Santana multicultural recruiting coonlinator  a m o n g Hispanics. Veronica  
over  the  Trevino,  a  
complicated  freshman from  

loans and financial aide pack­Coachella, Calif., learned of ages offered by Notre Dame. Notre Dame from Holy Cross 
"They don't even understand priests in her town. The Church the words 'financial aid;"' drew her to Notre Dame even Santana said. "They do under­though the admissions depart­stand 'scholarship.' Scholarship ment didn't actively recruit her. 

African­American  "[Difficulties in recruiting  came." Trevino  
students." Santana s a i d .  minorities] lie in the minority perceptions ofthe school. "  feels ii' tho University made its  
"That's  applica­ 
probably  Nikki McCord  tions  more  
the popu­lat ion  co-chair of the senate diversity committee  available to h i g h  
that  we  schools  
have the  with a high  

most difficulty with. They see number of ethnic students, there the Catholic aspect as a turn­would be more minority appli­off." cants. 
Johnson and McCord, both of "I think getting out to those whom are African-American, schools for example iu my valley disagree with Santana. where there aren't many people 
"That is not true in my experi­applying to Notre Dame [will ence," Johnson said. "I believe increase diversity] because them that is a myth. The reason I say wasn't any information availabfo this is that of the students who in the counseling office," she come, 75 percent are not said. "They need to go to those Catholic ... The Catholic nature schools and make their applica­of the institution is a draw tions available to more pllOplc." because students embrace the In the end, making Notre spiritual aspect of the University. Dame accessible to more people This is unfortunately a belief is the ultimate goal or recruiting that tempers our passion to a more diverse student body. recruit African Americans. It is a The University believes diverse historically passed down percep­students with diverse ideas and tion that not only majority folk diverse cultures only enhance but also African Americans tend the educational experience. to think is reality." "The opportunities I had here 
While Notre Dame has were incredible," Santana said. increased the number of multi­"Not only career opportunities cultural students since 1990, but meeting people of other recruitment continues to be dif­backgrounds. Meeting people ficult. Convincing one student from all over the country. J\11 from a high school to attend over the world. A lot of schools Notre Dame rarely leads to don't have that. A lot of schools other students attending in later don't have this geographic years, according to Santana. diversity. We tell students that 
"It is just as hard today as it they are only going to add to was before," said Santana, who that by coming to this campus." 
Santana said the Catholic nature of the University is not a positive, however, for African­American student-. who are usu­ally not Catholic. 
"The Catholic aspect of the University can be not as attrac­tive to 
graduated from Notre Dame in 1998 and came from a predomi­nantly Hispanic high school. "l remember going back to my high school and talking to stu­dents ever year but it wasn't until my junior year that anoth­er girl 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Oh~l:RVER Tuesday.January 23, 2001 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo.x Q, Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly 
V1£WPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh 
Sa.NE EDITOR, Amanda Greco 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR, Eliz.ibeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD OF.SIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPtflCS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX................. .............................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF. .......................................631-4542 MANAGING Emroa/AssT. ME.................... 631-454! BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 63I-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. !@nd.edu SPORTS.......................... ····•··· .......... ··•····· .•.•631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................63I-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSIWEB.ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visir our Web sire ar http://obsm,er.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-che 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares of prior ads 

cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published afrer 

co meer rhe edirors and 
scaff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prinr and on line by the students of che Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither inscicucion. The Observer reserves rhe right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of che majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assiscanr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers co rhe Editor muse be signed and muse include conracc information. 
Qumi'ow rrgarding Ob;erver policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Cbirf M,lu Connolly. 
Flying the friendly skies 
This past break, in between lounging on my couch watching numerous reruns of now-cancelled T.V. shows and working at a thankless job which I very much dis­like, ( had the enthralling experience of going out to Tempo, Ariz. to watch the Molly Irish play a little Strze.lecki football. In addition I was able to take in the entire experi­
Growing Up to 
ence of what a bowl 
Be a Kid
game entails. 
Football aside (we're not even going to touch on the embarrassing defeat except to say that itgot very cold in the stands during the third quarter with no one in front of me to block the wind). there is so much more to an expe­rience like Tempe. For one, there is sim­ply the adventure of getting to and from the destination. 
Upon leaving the windy and very cold, negatively temperatured, city of Chicago, l was all prepared to be little miss snotty pants with the airline people in order to get out on time if my flight was delayed. lt was. indeed, delayed, but instead of using vicious words, I changed tactics and was actually extremely nice to the woman behind the counter. And what happened? Lovely woman that she was, she put me on direct flight from Chicago to Phoenix that got me in earlier than I was expected. Oh, happy day! 
Once I was on the plane and we took off, got out of the snow (scariest take-off I have ever in my life come across) and I un-gripped my hands from the arm rests and my knuckles regained some color, I had nothing to do besides relax, if possi­ble and observe what was happening around me. 
Airplane passengers are probably some of the most interesting confined groups of people you can come across because each person varies in levels of flying expertise, if you will. And airline passen­gers in the economy class are even more the spectacle. 
There is a wide spectrum that shines on airplane rides. First of all, there is someone like me, for example, who thinks that at any moment, with each rock and roll of turbulence, that the plane is going to crash and who is con­stantly trying not to hyperventilate and simply answer the flight attendant that yes, I would like something to drink. Then there are those people who look absolutely relaxed and serene as the plane is bumped up and down, with no net underneath it and who simply go about reading the in-flight magazine like they are sitting in a Jacuzzi, while sip­
ping on their water. Frankly, the latter group of people annoys me. You cannot tell me that they are completely oblivious woman and her daughter, who both talked to me every minute that I was awake and, frankly, thought I was the most interesting person ever. (Not that this is untrue. but I do like to reserve a tad bit of modesty. Just a tad.) . 

On the flight home, however, I sat next to a "solitary" passenger, like myself, who, after the initial hello, said nothing to me and as it was a ridiculously early flight, I had no desire to talk to him, 
to the chaos that is going on outside r-,,, either. The uncomfortable silence the plane, forcing it to teeter to ., ~hatendured the entire flight and fro. I think this bunch is made me wonder why passen­
~~~ ~~~~Jg~i~~r~~~~ting~ ~~~·
~,V~~~~\g~~~~~~v:~;; :~~~:. ~i~~ it emotmns. which means~ & ~ ~ seems 1t would be the that inside they are ~'~ '?/,~ natural thing. Here is screaming the!r.brains ~W'.d~~ .~ ~ th~ theory I came up
out and bargammg ~?1 · ,, ~ ,~, with: with God that if a ,/ ~ ~ People traveling plane has to go .?/,//, ~~~' with friends and 
down, just please, ~ family do not want please, please do ~ to talk to each other not let it be theirs. because they have 
There does not ~• just spent a week seem to be any or two of quality middle ground family time togeth­with airplane pas-er, there is nothing sengers. You • left to say and either handle the ~ they're probably turbulence or you i,.. ~ still peeved over run up and down ~ , , \.~ the comment that the aisles scream-\~ ~ ~,,'\ Uncle Ralph made ing mass hysteria. • \\\\~~\\ ~\i about their hair. 
You either keep \\ \\\ '\\~ People flying alone ... your food in your • well, they're just stomach where no : afraid that if they get 
one can see it or you \ ~ into an in-depth con-use the barf bag to its ~ versation with their maximum capacity. You /~ seatmate, he or she will either absolutely detest #4, turn out to be some sort of the aforementioned food or ,,,, , psychopath and they will you scarf it down like five star • /4"~ both end up on some sort of 
}
cuisine. (If there is anybody out _______ freaky Dateline NBC scandal. 
there who feels this way about air­line food, I'm quite curious to know what exactly the pull is of Juke warm cheese tortellini with metallic tasting sauce accompanied by a lifeless salad with one cucumber slice and half a cherry toma­
to). 
Surprisingly, it is my experience on ilights that people traveling with friends and family tend to be those people most likely to strike up conversations with strangers. Such was the case on my flight to Phoenix. I sat next to a very nice 

So, dear readers, I think there is only one thing left to save me from this madness called flying: fly first class. They're normal up there and they give you hot towels to boot. 
Molly Strzelecki is a senior writing major at Saint Mary's College. She can be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys.edu. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Showing students can behave at games 
I just wanted to take the opportunity to congratulate the Notre Dame men's basketball team and Notre Dame student body for restraining themselves during the home game against West Virginia on Sunday. Considering the events which occurred last year against Connecticut and Miami, this could have been an extremely ugly incident had the students escalated their behavior to that of Mountaineer center Chris Moss. Mr. Moss may have some personal problems off the court but in no way does that give him a legitimate excuse for stepping on Jere Macura's face, elbowing Troy Murphy or spitting on Notre Dame cheerleaders and students. One can only hope that Mr. Moss is suspended for the Feb. 11 game against Notre Dame in Morgantown in order to avoid further confrontation or maybe not, he finished with three points and five fouls. 

Luke Burke 
Dillon Hall 
January 22, 200 l 
DILBERT 
I'M GOING TO STA.RT 
UP A. DISCOUNT 
BROKER.A.GE FIRM. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DID I MENTION
I'LL OFFER MY 
THAT I WON'TLOWEST COMMISSIONS 
BE KEEPING
TO CUSTOMER.$ WHO ANY RECORDS?
DON'T MIND Bf>..D A.DVICE A.ND VER.BA.L 
ABUSE. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"On this shrunken globe, men can no longer live as strangers. " 
Adlai E. Stevenson politician 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, January 23, 2001 BSERVER page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Injured student thanks community 
Now and then negative things are said about Lhe University of Notrn Dame. Usually students. like myself, can find many trivial things to complain about. Examples include book costs, dining hall food, sports teams, parietals, student government, The Observer, etc. Sometimes these small problems can block our view of the kindness and generosity of the Notre Dame communi­ty. I will never again overlook the compassion of this community. 
About two months ago I was struck by a car while returning homo from the establishment known as the Linebacker. I spent nine days in St. Joseph's Medical Center followed by another two days in the infirmary. While I was at St. Joe's, I received numer­ous visitors, many of whom I do not remember due to my condi­tion. I also received many get-well cards. For this I am very grateful. I am convinced that all the prayers and support I have received here have helped contribute to the speed of my recov­ery. Unforlunatcly, there is nothing I can do to fully reciprocate all the kindness I received. I would like to do this to a limited extent by ending Lhis letter by thanking the people who aided my recovery through their support. 
I would like lo begin by thanking the University as a whole for their prayers and concern. I also thank the Offices of Resident Life, student government and Student Affairs. I would also like to thank all my friends here, my fellow Chemical Engineering class­mates and professors and my high school alma mater, St. Edward, for their support. I would like to thank my family for their prayers and especially my father, who took o!T work to come to South Bend to keep an eye on me during first part of my recovery, when I was at my weakest. 1would also like to give special thanks lo my dorm, Dillon Hall, my section and especially the rest of my hall staff. Most of all I would like to extend my utmost gratitude to Fr. Paul Doyle, who was there with me after the accident, regularly visited me in the hospital and kept the dorm updated on my progress in the hospital. I am very grateful to thi8 community as a whole and I plan lo return the love as a part ol' the community in the future. Thank you all very much. 
Joe Steirer 
Resident Assistant Dillon Hall January 22, 200 I 


In regards to the Jan. 19 Observer letter con­cerning student athlete role models: 
I would like to help Tim Crouch become better informed about the athletes at this school by providing him with a few facts. Hopefully he will use these facts the next time he judge and con­sequently greatly olTends these intelligent hard­working individuals. 
First, the Student Athlete Advisory Committee (SAAC) planned the Christmas party he referred to for children with cancer and their families. The simple motivation was to spread some Christmas cheer while doing something nice for others. This was not meant to be a good show of PR for the University. 
Secondly, there are around 780 student-ath­letes currently at Notre Dame. The University gives out about 300 scholarships every year. Thus, the typical student-athlete is paying his/her own tuition. This also means that the typical student-athlete. since he/she is not on scholarship, must meet the same challenging academic standards required of all students. Athletes are in the same classes as their peers and manage to achieve comparable grades while spending 15-20 hours practicing. 
Thirdly, no one can deny that the student-ath­letes here are very physically gifted. probably never worrying about their health beyond the Ou. However, 1believe he would have a difficult time finding one athlete, even one member of the Notre Dame community, whose life has not been touched by cancer or some other serious disease. Although they may not have experi­enced a serious illness first-hand. they have watched a relative or friend battle for their lives. 

Finally, I find it very sad that he didn't want to allow these children to dream. Who knows, these children could go into remission and could represent Notre Dame athletically someday. Even if they do not, maybe for two hours at the Christmas party they temporarily forgot their troubles while celebrating Christmas with some of the Notre Dame athletes. Is that so bad? Regardless, I would gladly offer up any Notre Dame athlete as a role model over athletes from schools such as Oregon State or West Virginia. Be proud of the community you live in! It may not be as bad as it seems. 
Kathleen Rimkus 
senior, Badin Hall 
Norre Dame women's swimming 
January 23, 200 l 
A distinctively diverse banquet 
If you have never been to Truman's, plan to go on your birthday. You just might end up in a house on Ivy Road, surrounded by a diverse group or people who sing you a birthday song in as 
many as 10 difTcr-Brittany ent languages. Such 

a celebration is a Morehouse 
spectacular mon­

tage of harmonious It's All About sounds that simulta-Anthropology 
ncously celebrates 
di!Terence as well as commonality. 

If you have never taken an Anthropology class, sign up for one on war and peace. Studying conflicts occur­ring in countries about which you have never heard, all Lhe while hearing from classmates with exotic, unfamiliar accents, is the best course on open­mindedness you could ever have. 
Diversity is the greatest. 

Many members of the Notre Dame community have commented that diver­sity is something we arc lacking. Others argue that diversity is here, but it is something that we overlook and under­estimate. Either way, diversity is a fea­ture about which we do not pay enough attention. do not discuss and certainly do not embrace. 
"Christianity transcends national bor­ders as docs scholarship and learning. Indeed, the notion of a Catholic University argues powerfully for an edu­cation that is boldly international." wrote Father Scully and Father Malloy in a pamphlet regarding international programs. Our school sends more stu­dents abroad during the course of their Notre Dame education than any other 
university in the nation. Certainly, we advocate a worldly education in unique cultural settings. But, back on campus, are we aware of and tuned into the 
international faces in our midst? How many students have participated in a multi-cultural event on campus? How many caucasian students have attended a meeting of the Asian club or La Alianza? 
Stereotypes based on race are so deeply ingrained in our minds. we are mostly unaware they exist. One African­American economics Ph.D. candidate says that he is automatically assumed to be an athlete whenever he first meets a new student. Another African-American sophomore who is a legacy admits that people find it hard to believe that she is not here as a result of an athletic or a minority scholarship. When meeting an African-American student who happens to be a varsity athlete, how often are his or her interests reaching beyond the scope of sports the focus of attention? The word from those who have traveled far to join the Notre Dame family: not often enough. The majority of us seem content to remain ensconced in our homogeneous existence, curious to a certain extent, but not really enthusias­tically appreciative of diversity. 
It has been a laudable feature of Notre Dame's past leadership that diversity is an asset to this University and, as such, is to be prized. With active campaigning to bring diversity to us. even as Notre Dame makes it possible for her students to experience diversity abroad, it seems the problem is not so much with the guiding leadership but with those to whom the message filters in a very diluted format -that is, us. We, the students, must do a better job of picking up the challenge and following through with the intent behind the many pro­grams and people available to us. 
This week provides a perfect opportu­nity to stretch in terms of our self-cen­teredness and to grow in terms of our appreciation for those different from us. The contributions of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to our society are being noted by a week-long intellectual and prayer­ful celebration in his honor. 
Last week, The Observer noted Northwestern's admirable activity list in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in its "Outside the Dome" page. If you search their Web site, you will get lost in a sea of information regarding Or. King and such events. They include an exhibit on display until Feb. 2, two services, two forums, one panel. four lectures, two observances, two presentations and three meetings. It is not too much to ask students to participate in at least one of the three events the University of Notre Dame offers this week. In fact, it is not too much to ask students to be excited about attending all three events. 
Or, stop by the Hamme's Bookstore. The staff there always celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by preparing a wide-ranging and inspirational display of works by or about people who have been different and whose perspective on the experience helps us grow in our own tolerance and compassion. 

There are two kinds of eating. One is the consumption of food when hunger needs to be alleviated. The other way to eat incorporates all the live senses, not just taste. A small repast served in a beautiful display, consumed in a special atmosphere, incorporating a meaningful discussion with someone else, perhaps with strains of music as accompaniment -now, that's more than just a meal. That's sustenance for the mind, body, soul, personality -it's so much more than just food. 
The same is true with education. We can complete a required course of study at just about any college or university throughout the land. Or, we can come to the Notre Dame table with the purpose of feasting upon its distinctively diverse banquet. The difference is one of degree: the degree of our educated­ness. learned-ness. open-minded-ness. What we help ourselves to while here is really up to each one of us. 
Brittany Morehouse is a senior major­ing in American studies and anthropolo­gy and minoring in African studies. She thinks her roommate needs to keep icing her ankle and she encourages all stu­dents to keep supporting women ·s bas­ketball. Even though they beat VConn, they could still use as many fans as pos­sible. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

C 
page 12 

Tuesday, January 23, 2001 

FEATURE COLUMN 

Annual Rahie Awards rip through 2000 music scene 
It's been a year since I first started the Annual Rahie Awards, and I know the Notre Dame community has been anxiously waiting patiently for the second install­ment. The year 2000 was filled with craziness and music. So here arc the correct answers to all of the really important musical questions of the past year. 
Album of the Year: Kid A by Radiohead 

I have never heard rock critics say a bad thing about Radiohead in the last three years. but I can't really blame them. 
What most people don't understand. though, is that this band is single­handedly saving rock 'n' roll. Kid A might be lacking guitars, but it is defi­nitely not lacking creativity. The album is hypnotic, frantic and beauti­ful. 

Best New Artist: David Gray 
Ok, so he's not exactly "brand new," but he was just introduced to America this year. His distinct voice and folk/electronic style made White Ladder (his latest release) a big hit. Now he just has to stop trying to look like Dave Matthews when he sings live. 
Single of the Year: ..The Real Slim Shady" by Eminem 
Say what you will about Eminem, but no one can deny that this was the song that started all of the talk. Eminem created a catchy tune that also man­aged to take cheap shots at Christina Aguilera, Tom Green and other celebrities. ' 
Britney vs. Christina 2000: Definitely Britney 
What Britney lacks in singing ability, she makes up for it in, ah, personality. Britney has managed her career very well so far, coming off as a wholesome girl in interviews and doing FOX TV Specials, so that a nation of boys can get their fix. Meanwhile, Christina has maintained the role of the dirty girl who never gets her way. Plus, Britney is hotter. 
The Whiner of the Year Award: Billy Corgan 
The Smashing Pumpkins saw their album sales plummet and Corgan needed to come up with an excuse. So he blamed it on the boy bands eating up the Pumpkin's market share. Essentially, he's right, but he didn't have to make his band's demise into a melodrama. There are plenty of "old" alternative bands -like Pearl Jam ­who are doing just fine with their mea­ger fan base. Old Billy just couldn't stand being second rate. 
The Most Blatant Rip-off of Pearl Jam Award: Creed 
I was paging through my friend's music co\lection the other day and stumbled upon two Creed albums. My friend (who prides himself on his great musical taste) was thoroughly embar­rassed when I discovered his dirty lit­tle secret. And he should be embar­rassed! I can't understand the fascina­tion with this group. The lead singer's Eddie Vedder impersonation is simply hilarious and their power ballads are almost laughable. Take me higher. baby! 

Welcome Back Award: U2 
In this messed-up industry it's refreshing to see some old heroes get a lot of publicity. Although the new album isn't U2's greatest, it showed that the group can ·still rock with the best of them. And the frenzv over the upcoming tour has been th~ big talk of the music world. 
The Please Break-up Soon Award: Limp Bizkit 
I remember when this band played a few years ago under the name 311. 
Worst Song to make a Reference to Classic Rock: "Kryptonite" by Three Doors Down 
Are you kidding me? Any band that says "Dark Side of the Moon" in a song with a straight face should be shot. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Latest NIN remix not as strong as past efforts 
By CHRIS YUNT 
Scene Music Criric 

In light of an ongoing Nine Inch Nails tradition, Trent Reznor and friends have come together to deliver a col­lective reinterpretation of 1999's much-anticipated The Fragile with its 10-track E.P., Things Falling Apart, released late last year. 
Tho.ugh this handful of remixes maintains the decon­structive precedent set by previous Nails releases, the record as a whole lacks the nihilistic fervor of 1992's Fixed or the innovative experimentation captured in 1995's Further Down the Spiral, mostly because of the annoying presence of three versions of "Starf"**ers Inc." 
Even still, fans of Reznor's work can appreciate the "fun" in taking apart and recklessly redefining an album that took five years to create, if only in the sense that kicking the crap out of your brother's tediously-crafted sand castle always proved to be quick and painfully rewarding. 
The album starts out strong with "Slipping Away," which shares the same rhythmic swagger and chorus as its counterpart track on The Fragile, "Into the Void." Yet while "Into the Void" merely suggested mild funk beneath a distressed account of losing one's sense of self, this track basks in full funk glory and proclaims the process of self-privation as an occasion to get out the old Parliament records and celebrate. In this context, "I keep slipping away" is more of a taunting reminder than any serious emotional concern it might have been for Reznor a year ago. 
The following track, "The Great Collapse," is ironically stable with steady beats, simple melodies, and vocal reinforcement coming from the same whispering girl featurerl on the elegantly melodic "La Mer" of last year. The hook, "Now you know/ this is what it feels like," becomes eerie and pensive this time around and themat­ically feeds right into Keith Hillebrandt's reconstruction of "The Wretched," which rivals the original version in production quality and overall listening enjoyment. 
Things don't start to fall apart, however. until Adrian Sherwood's horrible remix of "Starf""**ers Inc." almost single-handedly shoots the wheels off Reznor's opera­tion. Sherwood, an old pal from the Pretty Hate Machine era, shows he has grown little during his sabbatical and returns with an out-of-date and completely irrelevant mix representing the intimidatingly-named "140dB" group. Caution: this mix has scary lasers, sirens, and people screaming "woo!" in it. 
The best it has going for it is how good it makes Beuelli's following version of "The Frail" sound -beautil'ul strings provide a backdrop for what sounds like a crip­pled wind-up toy on its last leg telling the story of per­sonal loss and decay through a series of sputters and wheezes. 
"The Frail" rightfully keeps intact the delicate marriage of aesthetics and demise established in The Fragile and brings back some of the momentum destroyed by the track before it. Unfortunately it is sandwiched by another mix of "Starf"**ers Inc.," this time a dancy manipulation from Dave "The Rave" Ogilvie. Though it is the best version out of the three fea­tured on this album, Ogilvie's mix is still nothing to write home about, most likely because he didn't have much to work with in the begin­ning. 

The problem Things Falling Apart w i t h "Starf***ers Inc." is that it exceeds the 
boundaries in which Nine Inch Nails oper­ates best. While Reznor reigns supreme in the bleak atmospheres of painful intro­spection and self-reflection and in his abili­ty to harness 
Nine Inch Nails
the inward momentum of self-absorption, Nothing Records he comes up short when 
· dealing with Ratingexternal issues on a more 
socially-con­...... 
cerned level. 

Regardless, the next two tracks make Things Falling Apart worth the five or six bucks it costs. Danny Lobner and Telefon Tel Aviv deliver the best remix on the album with their ver­sion of "Where Is Everybody," a beautiful and innovative interpretation of the original ~ith vocals manipulated in a manner that makes Nine Inch Nails once again sound ahead of its time. Reznor's cover of Gary Numan's "Metal" is subtly entrancing and conjures up images of a 1980's synth-rock Heznor trapped in a world or really bad music video effects, yet at the same time manages to st.ay fresh with an oddly organic !'eel despite its title. Very tasteful. 
The last two tracks, however, are unnecessary and make the catharsis experienced in Lohner's "Where Is Everybody" feel cheap and premature, especially since the version of "10 Miles High" sounds exactly like the original. And the closing track, yet another remix of "Starf***ers Inc.," uselessly hammers itself into the ground rTght on top of the other two buried versions beneath it. 
If Things Falling Apart was refined to about six of its 10 songs, it would be extremely solid and accessible to any music fan, but its sloppy excess makes it just anoth­er novelty halo for Reznor's loyal fan base to collect. 



c~nec 


Tuesday, January 23, 200 I page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Furtado offers pop fans an icon with actual depth 
NEW RELEASES 

Today 
Jennifer Lopez • J.Lo George Harrison • All Thinas Nuse Pass o-Town -·o-Town Godhead• 2000 Years of Human Error 
January 30 
,.

Vicamin C • Nore Frank Black and che Catholics • Dog in che Sand Nacchew Good Band • Beautiful Nidniahc 
February 6 
Rod Stewart -Human Donny Osmond • This Is che Nomenc Tricky • Mission AccompUshed Sounclcrack • Malcolm in che Nllddle Jeff Beck • You Had le Comina 

Coure:es• of wallofsound,com 
By TOM OGORLAZEK 
Scene Music Criric 
While tho boy bands and tneny bopper idols churn out platinum tripe, there does in fact exist a moro thoughtful side of the music industry that sucC(icds in finding fresh new acts with actual creative ability and panache. As Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera are markett,d for mass con­sumption, the thinking man with a sofl spot for pretty­faced artists has an alterna­tive, and her name is Nelly Furtado. 
Furtado represents all that multiculturnl society can hope for in pop music; a Canadian child of' Portuguese parents. The 19-ycar-old Furtado reveals startling maturity for someone with so few years behind her. In travels to Europe with her parents, she bocume captivated by the rhythms and styles of the Portuguese sound, which has evolved in concert with Brazilian music over the cen­turies of the close tics between 
Whoa, Nelly! Nelly Furtado 
DreamWorks Records 
Rating 
........ 
the two countries. Indeed. if asked who she sees as int1u­e n c ing her music she cites compatriot poet Leonard Cohen. father of bossa nova Antonio Carlos Jobim, soul rebel Bob Marley and hip-hop revolutionaries De La Soul. 
Adopting an eclectic style in her own music, Furtado takes il upon herself to create a sort of fusion between Old World and New -between the tradi­tion al. Latin sounds of her personal cultural heritage and the new bass-driven sounds of American hip-hop. In doing so, she creates some amazing effects. The first track begins with a string quartet and the chirping of teensy finches ­until Furtado inserts a rhythm guitar and beatbox behind her strong vocals. Over the course of the album she uses every­thing from micro-synthesizers and turntable scratches to the berimbau and the udu (two instruments with which few popular music fans are famil­iar). 
In addition to instrumental diversity, Furtado varies styles from track to track -some-

NELLGlt 
Nar. I 7 
Feb. t I 
Feb. 15 
Nar. I 
Nar. 6 
Jan. 25 
Jan. 25 
Feb. S Feb. 11 Feb. 17 Feb. 19 
Nar. :I Nar. 3 Nar.9 Nar. 10 


times singing coyly, betraying her youth; sometimes rapping to build up· an image of strength and experience. And although it is not until the final two songs that she chooses to break out the Portuguese, it is well worth the wait -these are two of the more intricately arranged and exotic offerings on the record. 
Behind those hypnotic blue­grey eyes. Furtado's mind has created a sound almost com­pletely unique to herself. doing so by borrowing from creative strands that span the musical spectrum. The hip-hop int1u­ences are perhaps more perva­sive than the others, but the hints, sometimes subtle but frequently overt, of Latin and World Music allow her to shirk the constraints of traditional genre. Listening to this album, one might not know where exactly to place it in a record store. 

She describes herself as an artist, put on Earth to create real music that genuinely inspires, not just cheap sounds for MTV. 
Perhaps this is the key to her allure. As she struggles to truly create, she can reach her audi­ence on a level that manufac­tured singers can't hope to 
touch. Although some of 
Furtado's lyrics do suffer from hollowness, and it is somewhat difficult to believe her refer­ences to love lost and deep emotional history, it is clear that even at her weakest points she exposes those other acts for what they arc in essence ­weak sauce. 
She lets us know that she's been around, lived her lif'c well thus far, and in short, that she's not that innocent. But she makes this fact clear in a much more interesting, com­plex, and believable way than those weak saucers could ever hope to achieve. 
Everlast Ruck La Rou and 
1he Drapes Evil Beaver Unkin Park Face to Face Coldplay Pantera Eve6 Saw Doctors Noe. 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 

South Bend 
Umphrey•s McGee Norr•s Perf. Arcs 
Indianapolis 
Nari Denson•s 

Tiny Universe  Yoaue Thea-cer  
Neac Puppets  Voaue Theater  
Dark sear Orchestra  Yoaue Theater  
NaCchbox Twency  Conseco  

Chicago 
House of Blues 
Necro Necro House of Blues Riviera Riviera 
UIC PavHion House of Blues Necro Ri¥iera 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 23, 2001 


NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Moss apologizes for behavior, leaves team 
~soci..tcd Press 
MORGANTOWN 
West Virginia center Chris Moss left the team for per­sonal reasons and apologized for spitting on a Notre Dame cheerleader. 
"I'm sorry for my behavior that occurred within the heat of competition, which caused me to overreact to a situa­tion," Moss said. "This was totally out of character for 
me." 
Coach Gale Catlett said Monday he would allow Moss to take an unspecified leave to "get his personal life in order." The player's mother has multiple sclerosis, a school official said. 
"He wants to take some time away from the team," Catlett said. "He's a great young man. He has never been a problem. Chris comes from a great family. I'm sure he will get this corrected and get on with his life." 
Moss had to be restrained after fouling out during a 78­61 loss Sunday. Catlett sent assistant coach Lester Rowe to escort Moss to the locker room. 
As Moss walked in front of 
the Notre Dame student sec­
tion, fans began taunting 
him. 
He turned quickly and spit toward the crowd, hitting a female cheerleader sitting on the floor along the baseline. 
"l embarrassed myself as 
well as West Virginia 
University," Moss said. "This 
will never happen again." 
Catlett wasn't aware that 
Moss had spit at the crowd 
until told by reporters after 
the game. 
The coach said Moss has been frustrated because at 6­foot-8 he is playing out of position at center. 
Moss was called for two fouls in the game's first 10 minutes and sat out the next 5:23. 
Catlett said he warned Moss not to pick up his third foul, but Moss was called for a charge with 1:31 left in the half and given a technical for striking Jere Macura in the face with his foot while Macura was on the floor. 
Moss sat out the first 6:51 
of the second half. But a little 
more than four minutes after 
re-entering the game, he was 
called for a technical for 

NHL 
Knee surgery sidelines MVP Pronger 
. Defenseman set for operation in St. Louis today 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Chris Prongcr, the NHL's MVP last season. is scheduled for knee surgery Tuesday and will be side­lined 4-to-6 weeks from the St. Louis Blues. 
The defense­man will be operated on in St. Louis. A t e a m spokesman said the Blues hope he can return earlier 

than anticipat-Pronger ed. Pronger, the Blues' captain, was to start in next month's All-Star game. He played nine games after tear­ing cartilage in his left knee Jan. 4 against Nashville. He had two goals and 15 points 
in that stretch but decided on surgery after playing nearly 31 minutes Sunday in a 3-1 loss at Nashville. 
"It's something we need to take care of now before it becomes a problem," Pronger told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. "You don't want it to become a problem in the playoffs when everything counts. Four weeks now could turn into two months." 
Pranger said he didn't believe the injury affected his play. 
"You don't feel good, but you never feel good," he said. "If I could play a game when I felt good, it'd be nice." 
Pronger ranks fourth among NHL defenders with 41 points, on six goals and 35 assists, and is plus-18. 
General manager Larry Pleau said the extent of the damage was revealed in an MRI exam Friday. 
"He tried to play with it, but it kept bothering him," Pleau told the newspaper. "We thought about it for a couple of days here, and we felt the best thing to do is get it done now. 
"He can play with it, but you never know what could happen. He could go down tomorrow, next week, the end of the year or not at all." 

pushing Troy Murphy between free throws by Martin Ingelsby. 
He argued at first, and when teammate Tim Lyles grabbed Moss' shirt and tried to pull him off the court, Moss knocked his hand away. 
Official Jim Burr restrained Moss from getting closer to official Ken Clark, who called the foul. Catlett then tried to pull him away, and Moss pushed him. 
Students who watched the game on television were aware of Moss' tirade but didn't know about the spit­ting until they read a news­paper article. 
"We're already considered to be rednecks and drunks anyways, then he goes and acts like a redneck," said Dutch Underwood, a fresh­man from Summersville, W.Va. "Spitting on people in the crowd, that's the worst thing you can do to some­body." 
Perhaps the bad blood between the schools could resurface when Notre Dame's top-ranked women's team comes to Morgantown on Wednesday, but many stu­dents called the spitting an isolated incident. 
"I don't think it necessarily gives the university a black eye,"said Chris Mann, a junior from Union, N.J. "Not many people saw it, so not many people are aware of it." 
Athletic director Ed Pastilong said Moss left the team voluntarily. 
"I had wished it hadn't occurred, but it did," he said. "Chris feels bad about it. We as educators, as we have for the past couple of months, will continue to assist Chris." 
WVU President David Hardesty declined an inter­view request Monday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for c;ontent without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
•,  TICKETS  Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. $235  mmmrentals@ao!.com HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-br $900/month. 2) 4-br $1000/month.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 277-3097.  Advertising sales ...Are you a self starter eager to work for the most respected advertising company? Are you interested in a long lasting  PERSONAL  
219-862-2082  3)  3-br $600/month.  and rewarding career selling to  
Need two GA's to the Men's Hoops  We'll make almost any changes to  IDEAL 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE  business owners? You can easily  Rock/Funk Band looking for Bass  
game against G'town on 3/4. Will  the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776  2 BLOCKS EAST OF ND  start earning $401</year + bonuses  player. Call Jason at 4-1639.  
pay cash or swap tor !ix to Seton Hall game on 2/18. Call Mike 287­ FOR RENT  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01  2n.3097  and perks and head up ·our new South Bend territory. Fax your  Parents who are ND grads seek  
2562.  4/5 BEDRM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAM•  Ali the good homes are not gone!  resume and a brief letter telling us  older female babysitter to care for  
PUS. 773-486-8822  We have 2, 4&5 bedroom houses  why you're the one. 888·206 4054  two girls ages 7 & 9, one or two  
All that you can't leave behind!  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  five minutes from campus•  weekend evenings & occationally  
Sefling 2 U2 tickets for cost.  Haveyour parents stay in real  House for rent near ND.  Dave 291 ·2209  Summer Jobs with gifted kids  weekends or evenings in our home.  
Chicago, May 15 Leave message  "Irish Comfort" at more affordable  2 bedrooms. No pets. $525 plus  Macos@michiana.org  Northwestern University's Center  Must have own car. Call Judith and  
tor Patrick 243-n53  prices than area hotels.  deposit. 219-654-8157.  for Talent Development is hiring  leave message: 287-0260  
Gourmet breakfast brunch included.  residential counselors/Tas.  
FOR SALE  Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at 277-4303 or visit our site:  Nice and large 2 bedroom apart-men! tor rent. Close to campus in a quiet and safe area. Small pets ok.  WANTED  Room/board pr011ided for coun­selors. Comp Salary, great work experience 6/24-8/12 + training. To  We miss you Patrick' THIS WEEKEND RELIVE THE  
www.irishrose.com  313 North Frances. Not a driveby.  Pet Reluge, a no kill animal shelter  apply, call (847)-467-7884  MAGIC. COME CELEBRATE THE  
PHONE CARDS  Rent is $425 a month.  1ust 1Ominutes from campus,  15TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE  
$20 ­ 2601 min with .49 cent sur­ 3·5 BEDROOM HOMES  Excludes utilities.  needs volunteers and fosters.  Great job opportunity: Care tor  GREATEST DEFENSIVE TEAM IN  
charge or $20 ­ 362 min with no  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Call 232-1242.  Please call 256-0886 or visit  adorable children 1 morning a  FOOTBALL HISTORY.  CALL ERIC  
surcharge 634-4210-sara  232-2595  Ask for John.  www.petrefuge.com and email us.  week. 254-9466  AT 4--4859 FOR MORE INFO.  


..----------------------------------~­
Tuesday, January 23, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SUPER BOWL XXXV 
Billick chastises media for continued interest in Lewis case 
Associ••~d Press 
TAMPA 

The Super Bowl took on the tenor of a daytime talk show, filled with heartwrenching confessionals, stunning accu­sations, and a rapt audience held captive, not wanting to miss the nexi revelation. 
At ono team hotel Monday, Giants quarterback Kerry Collins gave an unflinching breakdown of the alcohol problem that nearly ruined his life and his career. 
Al another. llavens coach Brian Uillick was brash and accusatory with reporters, whom he knew were eager to interrogatu his embattled star linebacker. Hay Lewis. 
Yes. tlrnrc's lots of talking yet to take place this week and a football game to be played Sunday, but it's hard to imagine it could get much bct­lM than this. 
First came Billick, who went on the offensive a day before Lewis takes tho stage at media day to discuss the run of events that have changed his life and made him the most compelling story of Super Bowl week. 
"t\s much as you want to do this, we are not going to retry this," Billick said. "It's inap­propriate. and you're not qualified." 

In a story already well-docu­mented, Lewis was charged with double murder in the stabbing of two men outside an Atlanta night club after last year's Super Bowl. He wound up pleading guilty to obstruction of justice and received probation from the courts and a $250,000 fine from the NFL. 
Billick says the issue has been resolved. In an uninter­rupted, live-minute speech, he accused news outlets of misre­porting and sensationalism in their unending quest for new information that he claims won't ever turn up. 
"Those who wish to embell­ish it, not to crystallize it, not to shed new information, but simply to sensationalize it for your own purposes, quite per­son ally. this is a personal observation. it's reprehensi­ble." Billick said. "I don't like it. It's unprofessional. That's my personal opinion." 
Ho has instructed Lewis to answer the questions Tuesday, and not after that. Other players have been told not to touch the issue, 
"As much as you want to do this, we are not going to retry this. It's inappropriate, and you 're not qualified." 
Brian Billick Ravens head coach 
although some -like the chatty Shannon Sharpe ­may not have heard the warn­ing. 
"I really don't foresee it lin­gering any longer Lhan tomor­row," he said. "I know you guys arc going to talk about it this week. The questions are going to be harsh, they're going to be brutal." 
Billick senses that, too, so he went on the offensive from the start. then defended his actions. He said he had every right to use his bully pulpit to chastise the media because "I have the podium and you're all here to listen to me." 
It was a rocky close to an interesting day for tho Ravens. who began in Baltimore with a weightlifting session, contin­ued at a pep rally with more than 50,000 fans and saw their procession to the airport 

interrupted when one of the team buses collided with a police car. Nobody was seri­ously injured. 
"He had a New York emblem on the side," Billick said. in one of the few light moments. 

The Collins session was less combative, more touchy-feely. Standing wide-eyed, gesturing with his hands and answering questions without hesitation, the quarterback's 30 minutes behind the podium were pure, cathartic drama, a ground­breaking exhumation of the problems that nearly buried his career. 
"I think I'm a better success story off the field than on the field, because the things I've done off the field have tran­scended into my professional life," he said. "I had a hard time separating between Kerry Collins the quarterback and Kerry Collins the person. That distinction wasn't very clear until recentlv. until I realized I had to take care of myself first before I could do anything else." . 
Collins said his drinking problem led to almost every­thing else bad in his life -the d ri vi ng-wh ile-in loxi c ated charges, and his earning the labels of quitter and racist. 
Of his ugly exit from the Carolina Panthers, he said: "I never wanted to quit on that team. II' I had wanted to quit, I surely wouldn't be standing here." 
For the first time, he dis­cussed his use of a racist remark to a black Panthers teammate at the end of train­ing camp. 
"I used a term that was not meant to be used in a mali­cious way," he said. "In my polluted, altered mind, believed that, in some sort of way. it would bring forth some sense of camaraderie." 
Since his troubles, he entered counseling and was picked up by the Giants, fin­ishing with a 3,600-yard sea­son that led them on this unexpected trip to the Super Bowl. 
'Tm very proud sitting at the Super Bowl as tho quar­terback for one of the teams," Collins said. 'Tm more proud of what I do, day in and day out, that makes my life what it is today." 
A few moments later. he stepped down from the podi­um and walked away, his head held high, as the curtain closed on a most revealing day. 

r 
r 

Where it matters most. 
As one of the 1NOrld's leading diversmed technology companies, we're breaking new ground in every­thing from defense and commercial electronics. and business aviation and special mission aircraft. As a Raytheon employee, you' II contriqute to the development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning NightSighr'"'technology. 
But it all start) with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge and innovation. And enthusiasm about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development oppor­tunities. Asupportivi:, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexi­ble ,chedules designed to respect your quality of life. 
So you can still show offall those great qualities ofyours outside of work, too. 
We'll be visiting your campus soon -contact your career placement office for information on schedules and to arrange for an interview. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments). Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 
75266. U.S. Citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 

• 
Computer Science • Physics • lndus_trial and Labor 

• 
Computer Engineering • Chemical Engineering Relat•0?5 . . 

• 
Electrical Engineering • Aeronautical Engineering • Marketmg/Commumcat1ons 

• 
Mechanical Engineering • Finance/Accounting • Management 

• 
Math • Human Resources 



Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including acalendar of recruiting events At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for adiverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people. 


Bringing technology to the edge 

Raytheon 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 23, 2001 

NBA 

Dawson calls Olajuwon trade unlikely 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON 
It's almost unthinkable that Hakeem Olajuwon would end his great career anywhere but in Houston. 
Since arriving in the city from his native Nigeria, Olajuwon's name has been synonymous with Houston basketball. first at the University of Houston -taking the Cougars to three NCAA Final Four appearances -and later leading the Rockets to consecutive NBA titles. 
Yet, in the final year of his con­tract that pays him $16.5 million, Olajuwon told the Rockets he would consider being traded and possibly extending his 17-year career beyond this season. 
But Rockets general manager Carroll Dawson has told the center it was highly unlikely the team could pull off such a deal. 
"He asked us to look into 'can he be traded.' and that's where we are and we can't do that," Dawson said Monday. "l keep getting these calls that I don't have an answer for (about trades)." 
The 38-year-old Olajuwon, on the team's disabled list with a cyst on his right knee, went through a rugged workout Monday but prob­ably won't be with the team when it plays in Denver on Tuesday night. 
Olajuwon has had difficulty pre­viously playing in the high altitude of Colorado. 
"You don't want to start back in Denver," Olajuwon said, smiling. 
Olajuwon ended the interview, however, when asked when he planned to sit down with Rockets owner Les Alexander to discuss his desires. "I don't want to talk about that, that's it," Olajuwon said. 
Dawson said it was .his under­standing that Alexander and Olajuwon would meet this week, possibly Wednesday when the Rockets host the Philadelphia 76ers. 
"They are going to talk and something else may come out of that," Dawson said. "My job is to try to get him back and win as many games as we can." 
Dawson doesn't doubt there are teams that would take Olajuwon. "Anybody that's in the race would be interested in Hakeem as far as trading," Dawson said. "I think _if they said they were interested m Hakeem, 1 believe it. But think how many players it would take for a deal like that." 
After Olajuwon's contract expires, the Rockets will be under the salary cap, giving Dawson room to sign his own players and possibly shop for free agents. 
Olajuwon missed four games after a cyst on his right knee caused swelling and on Jan. 9 he was placed on the team's disabled list, still affected by the swelling that first occurred when he fell Dec. 21 in a game against the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Olajuwon is playing his 17th sea­son and is averaging 10.2 points and 1.3 blocks in 29 starts this sea­son. 
The Rockets have played their last 11 games without a true cen­ter. Kelvin Cato is out with a par­tially torn rotator cuff and Jason Collier is recovering from knee surgery. 
SOCCER 

McBride, Pope picked for exhibition game 
Olsen (Nottingham Forest in Petke (New York/New Jersey), Pete Vagenas (Los Angeles).
Associated P rcss 

England). Eleven of the U.S. Eddie Pope (DC United). Greg Richie Williams (DC United). 
players have five or fewer Vanney (Los Angeles) Kerry Zavagnin (Kansas City)CHICAGO international appearances. Midfielders -Chris Armas Forwards -Chris AlbrightForward Brian McBride and China, led by former U.S. ,(Chicago), Cobi Jones (Los (DC United), DeMarcus Beasley 
defender Eddie Pope, who 

coach Bora Milutinovic, plays Angeles), Chris Klein (Kansas (Chicago). Landon Donovanmissed the last two World Cup the Americans at Oakland, City). Clint Mathis (New (Bayer Leverkusen, Germany).
qualifiers because of injuries, Calif. The United States then York/New Jersey), Ben Olsen Brian McBride (Preston North were among 23 players picked plays a Feb. 3 exhibition game (Nottingham Forest, England). End, England). 

for the roster for Saturday's against Colombia at Miami
exhibition game against China. 
before starting the final round
McBride, who is on loan 
of qualifying Feb. 28 against
from Columbus of Major 
Mexico at Columbus, Ohio. 

lv
League Soccer to Preston Costa Rica, Jamaica,
North End in England, had a 

() 1 0 ·1 0 1 "I
:wante~: ·
Honduras, and Trinidad andblood clot removed from under Tobago also are in the finals 

' ' 'I I .
an armpit and missed a score­
of the North and Central
less tie against Costa Rica and 

Students familiar with both Mac (0S9) and
American and Caribbean
the 4-0 win at Barbados that region, which will produce 

Windows ·(WIN2000 Professional, Server) 
gave the Americans a spot in three qualifiers for the 2002the six-nation regional finals. 

platforms as well as networking.
World Cup in Japan and
Pope hasn't played for the 
South Korea. 
United States since a Sept. 3 The complete roster: 

Must possess strong problem solving and 
win over Guatemala due to Goalkeepers -Kevin
several nagging injuries. 

adminis.trative ski~l_s.l • 1 ~. 0
Hartman (Los Angeles), Matt
The youth-oriented roster 
Jordan (Dallas). Tony Meola
announced Monday by U.S. 
(Kansas City)coach Bruce Arena had only 

Salaried Position. Average 5-7 hrs/wk.1 u
Defenders -Jeff Agoos (DCthree European-based players; 

E-mail resume to mgunvill@nd.edu
United), Gregg Berhalter,
McBride, forward Landon 
Carlos Bocanegra (Chicago),Donovan (Bayer Leverkusen in 

1 ( 1
C.J. Brown {Chicago), CarlosGermany) and midfielder Ben 

Come meet GE representatives to leam about internship opportunities for summer 2001. 
No other corporation can match the diversity ofoppor­tunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with 

2001 Notre Dame Internship Fair 
large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, 

January 24th 12:00-4:00 PM 
and never leave GE. 

Joyce Center Field House 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Thanh who will take us even 

Please bring a copy of your resume. 
further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
We didn't become Fortune~magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training confident graduates with the courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
Learn about us at 
www.gecareers.com 


We bring good things to life. 
GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Global eXchange Services• GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems• GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems• NBC 
"2/21/00 


,------------------------------------·--­
----·· 
page 17
Tuesday, January 23, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
=------==============-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-==-==-==-=:=:-=--=====-=~=-======-----==----=----_-_-_-_--~-­
INTERNSHIP FAIR 2001
. 

QUALITY OF LIFE IN THE WORKPLACE 
Sponsored by The Career Center :Ill 
1111
....
Wednesday, January 24, 2001 

) i
12:00 noon -4:00 p.m. Bring your resumes to the Joyce Center /
/
North Dome (Hockey Rink Side) (Enter Gates 1 or 2) 

EVERY MAJOR! • EV.ERV DEGR&&I • EVERY GRAD;UATION DATE! 
Employers Attending the Job Fair 


· Employers Not Attending the Job Fair 
Online Resume/Document(s) Drop Deadline for drops is NOON on Wednesday, January 31 through Go IRISH 
AFLAC ALCOA Accenture (formerly Andersen 
Consulting) Allegiance Healthcare Corporation Allstate Insurance Company American Electric Power American Express Financial Advisors American Management Systems Ameritech/SBC Global Network Arthur Andersen LLP Avanade, Inc. BOO Seidman LLP Bibb &Associates Boston Consulting Group CSG Systems, Inc. Cabrini Connections Camp Sweeney Cargill, Inc. Chicago Consulting Actuaries Citigroup/Primerica Financial Services City of Indianapolis Clarity Consulting, Inc. Clarke Environmental Mosquito 
Management, Inc. Cochran, Caronia & Company College Football Hall of Fame Compaq Computer Compendit. Inc. Corning Cable Systems Culver Academies Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte Consulting Donnell Systems. Inc. 
Blocks Together CB Richard Ellis CPPAX Collette Tours Cooper Communications, Inc. El Pomar Foundation eResearch Technology Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago First Investors Corporation Governmental Studies Program Greenburgh Nature Center Indianapolis Convention and 
Visitors Association Jackson Hole Conservation Alliance
, 
James E. Childs and Associates. Inc. Jericho Communications Mandalay Pictures Martin Riley Mock Architects/ 
Consultants Music Theatre Louisville Musiker Tours and Summer Discovery Northwest Voyageurs Paramount Sagemark Consultants Solomon E.T.C. Architecture and 
Urban Design 
Easter Seals Emmis Communications Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young LLP Ford Motor Company (3 Divisions) Fox Sports Net -Chicago General Electric (2 Divisions) General Mills Gibson and Associates Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Goldman Sachs Hewitt Associates Honeywell IBM Corporation Indiana Department of Transportation Indianapolis Motor Speedway Inland Real Estate Sales, Inc. Intel Corporation Interlachen Arts Camp International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans 
KPMG LLP 
Kids Corporation 
Legal Services of Northern Indiana 
Lieutenant Governor's Office -State of Indiana Lincoln Partners LLC Little Brothers -Friends of the Elderly Meijer Minnesota Life Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Motorola Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Networks (2 Agencies) State of Indiana -Personnel 

Department The Brookings Institute The Growing Stage Theatre 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission VISIONS/Services for the Blind and 
Visually Impaired Westinghouse Electric Company WISH-TV Young and Laramore Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Oxford Capital Partners PNC Financial Services Group Patrick Engineering & Architecture­Peterson Consulting Pfizer -Steere Pharmaceuticals PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Procter & Gamble (3 Divisions) Retail Expert, Inc. Roswell Park Cancer Institute Round Barn Theatre at Amish Acres SalomonSmithBarney South Bend Silver Hawks Student International Business Council TRW Space and Electronics Group Teach for America Technology Services Group Tellabs The Children's Museum of Indianapolis The May Department Stores Company The Pulliam Journalism Fellowship 
(Indianapolis Star) 
The Troyer Group Towers Productions, Inc. Travelers Insurance Tucker Alan Inc. 
U.S. 
Department of Education 

U.S. 
Marine Corps 


U.S. 
Steel Uline ~niversity Directories Visteon Corporation Walsh Construction WNDU-TV 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 23, 2001 

LIZ LANG/The Observer 

Irish players Meaghan Leahy, Ruth Riley and Kelley Siemon cel­ebrate after downing then No. 1 Connecticut at home. 
WANT TO MAKE A 
DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF ACHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES. INTERVIEWS THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, JANUARY 25TH AND 26TH FROM 9:00 AM TO 5:00 PM IN FLANNER HALL. 
Camp Sweeny is an equal opportunity employe,~ 
Ranking 
continued from page 24 
76 last Monday. 
Connecticut's drop in the rankings marks the first time since 1999 that the Huskies have not been ranked No. 1. It is also the first time in seven years that two schools from the same conference held the first and second positions in the same poll. 
"Everybody has a shot to come out and be a great team," said senior Neile Ivey. "I think we proved that. Nobody thought we'd be as good as we are." 
"We've thought of ourselves as No. 1 for a long time, but nobody outside Notre Dame really recognized that," senior Kelley Seimon said. 
Although the team's focus remains on winning the nation­al championship, Riley admit­ted that it feels good to receive national recognition. 
"A lot of the focus is on how you end the season," she said. "But because this is a first for the University, it makes it spe­cial." 
Even though the ranking is a first, the Irish have felt they belonged at the top all season. 
"People are going to start noticing that Notre Dame is a powerhouse team," said junior Ericka Haney. "We've been in the top three all year, and all we'd hear would be Connecticut and Tennessee. We kind of thought, 'What about us?'" 
Although the ranking thrills them, the Irish know they still have a long way to go. 
"We're going to have a lot of confidence," Ivey said. "But we have to realize that we have to give 110 percent in every prac­tice. If we don't, we're not going to be No. 1." 
"The big question now is how we are going to react," said McGraw. "Are we going to be nervous or tentative, or are we going to keep playing with the same confidence we have had the entire season?" 
Notre Dame's first game as the No. 1 team will be Wednesday when they travel to West Virginia to take on the Mountaineers. 

Late Night Olympics Raffle 
£rnPoriurn 8t,v3 s 
s~\ece tea.\<..nouse outoac\<.. 5 Studebagels Flowerama 

Friday, January 26, 2001 • 7:00 pm -4:00 am ~&,--· Joyce Center • 631-61 00 ~­All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association -· _~~,ck Posters Donated by Express Press ~.:~. ·, ­
Information Session: Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
Interviews: Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
FactSet ranked #29 
by Forbes Magazine's "200 Best Small Companies" 
See your placement office for more details, or call our recruiting coordinator at 203-863-7602, and visit us on the web. 
FactSet 1s an equal opportunity employer 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Tuesday, January 23, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 


Fencing 
continued from page 24 

a tough time," Boutsikaris said. 
The women's cpee squad managed to perform only slightly better than the foil squad. With No. 1 starter Anna Carnick hobbled by an injury and ex pee tcd-star Kerry Walton ineligible, the Irish stumbled to a 2-2 record on the weekend with wins against NYV and Yale and 
losses  to  St.  John's  and  
Columbia.  
"Anna Carnick was  a  little  

bit injured so she is not back to her potential yet," Auriol said. "She was our top girl in epee. We also lost Kerry Walton and she was going to be our No. 1 women's cpee fencer. That is going to hurt us for the rest of the season." 
Meagan Cali's 7-4 record was the lone bright spot for the women's epee squad. 
The women's sabre team picked up two dominating wins but also dropped two key matches. Freshmen Destanie Milo and Jessie Filkins posted 7-3 and 7-1 records respec­tively as the Irish beat NYU 9­0 and Columbia 8-1 but fell 7­2 and 6-3 to St. John's and Yale, respectively. 
"We are young in sabre but they are good," Auriol said. "The two freshmen arc going to help right away and it showed last weekend. The women's sabre team is the best squad by far. That might help the rest of' the team pull it off the rest of the season." 
The men's team quickly reestablished themselves as the best men's squad in the country after thoroughly dom­inating NCAAs last year and sweeping the competition this weekend. 
As usual, the Irish were led by sabre squad. All-Americans Andrejz Bednarski and Gabor Szelle and sabre captain Andre Crompton led the Irish to a 6-3 win against the Hod Storm. 
St. John's was Notre Dame's main competition for the title of best sabre team in the U.S. before the weekend. Although Notre Dame took home the victory, the battle is far from over. St. John's was missing 
its best fencer this weekend, 1999 National Champion and Olympian Keeth Smart. 
Auriol J'cels, however, that the Irish will still reign supreme in the rematch at NCMs. 
"Even with Keeth Smart, we would have won the match in sabre," he said. "!The Irish sabrcmcn] were fencing very tough." _ 
Sophomore Matt Fabricant rotated with the other sabre­men and posted an undef'catnd 9-0 record. 
"The sabrn team is by f'ar in my opinion the best squad in the country," Auriol said. 
Sophomore Ozrcn Dobie, who was nearly the best in the country last year as he fin­ished second at the NCAAs, finished the weekend with an 11-1 against stiff competition. 
Ilis only loss came against Kevin Erikson of Columbia but Debic blamed his only blemish on heartburn and not lesser skill. 
"That loss was all lunch," Debic said. 
The sophomore foil captain said he was lothargic in his final match of the day. After facing the best teams in Yale and St. .John's before lunch, Debic didn't try his hardest against Columbia. Although Debic jumped out to a 3-0 lead, he let Erikson come back to win the match 5-4. 
"That was a lesson to me ... not to think that I was done because I will have to fence the good guys at NCM in the linal matches," Dobie said. 
The surprise hero of the foil squad was junior Steve Mautone. Despite finishing with a disappointing 2-7 record, Mautone picked up his two wins against the Hcd Storm in the biggest match of the day. Mautonc's 2-1 record against St. John's helped the Irish eke out a 5-4 win. 
"Steve basically pulled us up," Dobie said. "(Irish starter] Forrest (Walton who lost all three bouts against St. John's] didn't fence very well. I don't know if it was stress or something because we were fencing St. John's. But Steve went out and won two bouts and nobody expected that." 
Sophomore All-American Jan Viviani paced the epcc squad with a 9-1 record including a 2-1 record against St. John's. 
**ATTENTION** ~JllNIORS!!:,//) 

~ In tribute to our classmates 
'ft,>
Conor, Brionne, and Erica, 
and also as an act ofSocial Justice, a collection is being taken for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society at JPW seating registration: 
Wednesday, Jan. 24th 1:00-6:00 pm and Thursday, Jan. 25th 12:00-4:00 pm in Rooms 112-114 in the CCE, McKenna Hall 
A $2.00 donation is requested from each Junior. Your generosity is greatly appreciated. 
page 20 The Obmver . SPORTS Tuesday, January 23, 2001 
CLUB SPORTS 

Kraft leads team as bowlers pin 37th spot at Invitational 

Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame bowling club finLc,hed 34th among 57 teams. at the Las Vegas Invitational. Darren Kraft paced the Irish with a 184 average, while Brian Gerken next at 175. 
Two pins back were Dave lligto and Jason Pawlak with 173 aver­ages, while Kevin Gerken round­-ed out the team scoring with a 167 score. 
The lrLc;h will host the Blue and Gold Classic this Saturday and Sunday at Beacon Bowl. Now in its fourth year, the tournament boasts a full intercollegiate field of 52 teams, and is one ot' only 10 tier-one events in the country. This year's field included eight of the top 10 ranked men's teams, and seven of the top 10 women's teams in the country. Nationally recognized as one of the coun­try's premier events. the competi­tion will run Saturday from 1:30 to 7:30 p.m., and 9 a.m. to the closing ceremony at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
Skiing 
Defending Division champions. the women of the ski club are determined to qualify for the Nationals this year. After finish­ing fourth among the top varsity and club teams in the region a year ago, missing the nationals by .04 seconds, the Irish unleashed a summer of festering by sweeping Michigan, Michigan State, Grand Valley State and Western Michigan off the slopes this'week­end at Schuss Mountain. 
In the slalom. sophomore Molly Munsterer paced the squad in capturing first place, while fresh­man sensation Leigh Hellrun took third. Junior Ellen Block finished ninth to score for the Irish. Munsterer repeated her perl'or­mance with gold in the giant slalom, while 1-follnrng managed to take eighth, despite a fall on her first run. 
Sophomore Mike Ryan is once again the pacesetter for a young men's squad that finished fifth among the six competing teams. Ryan skied two solid runs to earn fifth overall. Wes Jacobs, Kevin Kennedy. Hyan Boger and Jon Pribaz were all able to finish both runs on the hard packed snow. The club will be back in action next week at Crystal Mountain. 
Men's Volleyball 
The men's volleyball club con­tinued its most successful season in recent memory, recording four victories in six matches in Midwest 10 Conference play at Marquette this weekend. Peter Strottman, Greg Silber and Rob Smith had dominating perfor­mances as the team posted solid opening wins over host Marquette, 25-18, 25-23; Wisconsin -Milwaukee, 25-20, 26-24; and a nice comeback spurred by Scott Hapeman against Iowa State, 11-25, 25-21, 15-11. 
After falling to Northern Illinois, 25-21, 25-21, Chris Nickele spearheaded a rebound win over Missouri, 25-23. 25-16. 


RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 2001 at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
f±i
Saint Mazy's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
The Naffon·s P1a-mi1tr-CatholK Womon's Co/leg• 
28TH ANNUAL 
E'U:f~_OPEA,N STUDY TO)UJR 
IYl{ormctt'U)ftl Mf%-t'~ 6:30-7:3o p.WII., r~,1~23 WiW'vPCtf""lor, tt~c~c~ SCIM'\t Mcuy'~ C~ 




Ti-avels fn lrel<'ln<:1, S~otlan~, En~land ,H1ct Frc:1nce 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
Despite tl)e heroics of Dan Madden, the club dropped the final contest with Western 

Michigan. 18-25, 25-18. 15-9. Wisonsin Whitewater, Wisconsin -Oshkosh, and Ball 
State remain in conference play. The club will return to the courts next weekend at Michigan. 

Old College upperclassmen and staff with Bishop Dan Jenky, C.S.C. 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ TIIECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Cami ng -Re] ati vel y soon, 
Keenan HaJ1 Pr_oudly presents: 


2001 KEENAN RE~u~ 
Anniversary Spectacular 
-February 1st1 2 nd~ and 3rd 
T1c-k--et Otst-rtbution: 
Sa-int M-ary;s-Coliege: Wednesday, January 24 3:30 -4:30 p.m. 
O'LaughHn Auditorium Lobby 

Notre Dame: Thursday, January 25 2-3 p.m. JACC -Gate 10 
No lines more than an hour ahead oftime. 2 tickets per ID, one ID per person Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
Tuesday, January 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Sunday. lie played just 24 minutes and zone defense. Notre Dame's defense is "Their program versus our program, scored only five points in the game, on the upswing, and in Sunday's divi­over the history, it's time," Brey said.
Irish 


continued from page 24 

A slow start against West Virginia gave Notre Dame a 13-point handicap, but the Irish managed to come hack. Dropping behind early againsL Syracuse could diminish the home court advan­tage and tic a noose around Notre Dame's neck. 
"We have to come out with the inten­sity in the first 20 minutes," Irish poini guard and captain Martin lngelsby said af'ter beating the Mountaineers Sunday. "Tonight we got down. We can't get down at the beginning against Syracuse." 
Syracuse may be missing one of the weapons that struck down Notre Dame in .January. Senior forward Damone Brown, who scored a career-high 26 points to go with 13 rebounds in his tnam's 11arly-season win over Notre after bruising his thigh in practice late last week and taking a bump in the same location early in the game with Seton Ilall. 
Dame,  is  likely  to  miss  tonight's  
matchup.  
Brown  hobbled  through  the  
Orangemcn's 77-65 loss to Seton Ball 


Syracuse coach Jim 13oeheim told the Herald-Journal Monday, ·•1 don't antici­pate him playing Tuesday." 
The Irish better avoid taking Brown's injury as a green light to sit on their haunches. Notre Dame played Seton llall when the Pirates were without top player Eddie Griffin, yet came away 78­76 losers. 
Syracuse is still a team that has only lost twice this year, to No. 16 Seton llall and No. 6 Tennessee. The Orangemcn's Preston Shumpert, a 6­foot-6 junior guard, leads his team with 
20.5 points per game and 5.4 assists. OeShaun Williams and Allen Griffin both average in double digits as well. 
"They're a team that we haven't beat since I've been here," junior guard/small forward David Graves said. "To be the best, you have to beat tho best." 
The Orangemen employ a stifling 

The tasty Rodeo Cheeseburger for 99C. 
(Cowboy hat, boots and lasso sold separately.) 

sion al victory. the Irish switched between zone and man. Defensive efforts will be especially crucial if the normally hot-shooting Irish squad struggle from the field as they have in several losses. 
Finding a way to get All-American Troy Murphy's hands on the ball more would boost the Irish, as would a repeat of Ingelsby's double digit perfor­mances the past two games. 
A sellout crowd is expected for the 
7:30 p.m. tipoff, but Hrey's hoping for none of tho antics that occurred in last year's Joyce Center game against Syracuse. A Notre Dame student threw a water bottle onto the court late in the game after repeated warnings from both referees and then-coach Matt Doherty, and the Irish were assessed with a technical foul. Syracuse pulled out the late-season victory, a knife in the heart of Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament hopes. 
A close loss won't satisfy the Irish, who are aiming to go undefeated at home in the Big East. 

Notes 
. 
West Virginia center Chris Moss, who was assessed two technical fouls and spit at a Notre Dame cheerleader in Sunday's loss to Notre Dame, took an unspecified leave from the Mountaineers Munday for personal rea­sons. 

. 
Freshman guard Chris Markwood has been cleared to play for the Irish, but will probably not sec action until next season. Markwood underwent arthroscopic surgery on his left knee Sept. 29, and had been in rehabilitation ever since. 


"I just don't think playing him this season is an option," Brey said. "He's not in game shape. Ile hasn't played a full practice yet." 
He has been practicing on a limited basis.with the Irish the past two weeks, but sitting out games for the rest of the season would give him an extra season of eligibility. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Alma edges Saint Mary's in final event of meet 

Got the urger 

The delicious, flame-broiled Rodeo Cheeseburger. 
Just ride in, saddle up to the counter and try a tasty, flame-broiled burger topped with melted cheese, crispy onion rings and tangy BULl:S-EYE® BBQ sauce for only 99q;. Hey, at that price you can afford to feed your whole posse on 'em. 
By JANEL MILLER 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's swimming and diving team got an early start to the semester on Jan. 16 when the Belles faced off against Alma College at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Alma got the best of the Belles, however, taking the meet 116­115. 
"They swam really well," said head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt. "The times accom­plished by these women who were tired and broken down are absolutely remarkable." 
The Belles spent their break training in Florida where they couldn't escape the cold weather with 37 degree mornings, frost and chilly breezes. 
"It was ironic to find out that it would have been warmer some mornings to swim in South Bend," said Hildebrandt. "But the women remained very posi­tive and worked extremely hard." 
Despite being sore and fatigued from their intense training over break, the Belles stood strong against a team that beat them in 2000 by more than 60 point.'i. 
The meet came down to the linal event the 200-yard freestyle relay. Saint Mary's grasped the first, however. Alma's second and third place linishes put them ahead of the Belles. 
"It was a great meet," said Hildebrandt. "We swam right with them in every event." 
The Belles pulled another live first place finishes. Maureen Palchak captured the 50 freestyle after finishing third in the 200 freestyle moments before. Elizabeth Doro, joined her by taking the second place spot. The Belles then finished first, second and third in the 100 freestyle with co-captain Colleen Sullivan taking first with a time of 57.63 seconds, followed by Doro (59.02) and Chloe Lenihan (1 :002.24). 
Meghan Hamsey helped the team with her top finishes in the 100 butterfly and 500 freestyle. Diver Hyann Cox and many swimmers set many personal and season best times. 
The nation's largest publisher of college and university campus telephone directories 
~J~&n
INTERNSHIPS 2001g is offering paid full-
time summer sales and marketing internships. Tremendous practical business experience and resume booster. Position begins in May with a week-long, expense paid program in Chapel Hill, NC. Interns market official directories locally, selling advertising space co area businesses in specific college markets. Earnings average $3200.00 for the I0-week program. All majors welcome! 
look for us January 24, 200 I at the Internship Fair on your campus. 
Call 1-800-743-5556 x332 or visit our website at www.universitydirectories.com for more information and to apply. 



88 VilCom Circle Chapel Hill.NC 27514 
~ University
(800) 74HSS6 
,-_.... Directories 
__,.,,..,_.,,..,....__
Fax: (919) 968-85 13 www.universitydirectories.com 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 23, 200 I 


Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
MEN'S TENNIS 

No. 33 Irish cruise past Badgers 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sporn Writer 

The Irish men's tennis team may have worn the visiting colors for its match against the Wisconsin Badgers on Sunday, but they played like they were right at home. 
Thirty-third-ranked Notre Dame cruised to its second win of the season, sweeping the doubles matches and dropping only one singles match to the Badgers, while extending an impressive winning start to the 2001 season. 
"I think that it was a good day," the 15th-ranked Irish junior Javier Taborga said. "We all knew that last year was a bad year on the road, and that wc had to start playing better. 1 think everyone was very focused and basically we knew we were better than them and we wanted to show them from the beginning that wc were going to dominate and not give them any chances." 
Led by 95th-ranked Casey Smith at No. 1 singles, Notre Dame gave Wisconsin no oppor­tunities for an upset. Smith downed the Badger's Danny Westerman 6-4, 6-4, while Taborga raced past Wisconsin's Dustin Friedman 6-0, 6-2, in the No. 2 singles position. The Irish also garnered wins from Luis Haddock-Morales, Aaron Talarico and Matt Scott, in the respective third, fourth and fifth singles positions. 
Dustin Traylor won the Badgers' only match, defeating 
"I think the teams we've played so Jar didn't challenge us as much as other teams are going to, and I think we are going to have to work hard in 
doubles." 
Javier Taborga Irish doubles player 
Brian Farrell in a fiece third-set tiebreaker, 11-9. 
Being on the road is usually difficult for the Irish, but the intensity they played with sup­plied an extra boast, Smith said. 
"I think individually I played pretty well," Smith said. "I got in a groove on their courts. H's always tough playing on the ­road, because every court is dif­ferent, the lighting is different, the actual court is different, and the people you are playing are different. I felt pretty good, I felt confident out there, and also the team was playing really well. and when you are able to look around and see everyone hitting the ball well and winning it's obviously a big boast emotionally for yourself." 
The intensity was not lacking for Notre Dame in the doubles portion of the match either, as the Irish convincingly captured the doubles point. Taborga and Talarico, ranked 38th in the nation, knocked off the Badger's duo of Westerman and Friedman, 8-4, at No. 1 doubles, while the pairing of Smith and Haddock-Morales defeated Wisconsin's Stefan Reist and Scott Rutherford, 8-5, in the No. 2 doubles match. Andrew Laflin and Farrell also picked up a win in doubles for the Irish bv beat­ing the Badger duo of Scott Green and Jason Gonzaga. 8-5. 
Despite the dominating doubles performance by the Irish, the team knows it still needs to work on a few aspects ofits game. 
"We can improve a lot, espe­cially in doubles we haven't been playing as good as we can," Taborga said. "I think the teams we've played so far didn't chal­lenge as much as other teams are going to, and I think we are going to have to work hard in doubles." 
Initiating the match-up against the Badgers with a vengeance in the doubles portion of the match enabled the Irish to set a domi­nating tone throughout the day's competition, helping the team put another win in the books. 
With two wins recorded and many more matches ahead, Notre Dame knows they have plenty to work on and do not plan on fooling around. 
"l think that we are playing well for this point of the season, but I think we have a long way to go," Smith said. "I think that we have a lot of potential on this team and if we could just keep on improving and keep on working on some of the things we need to, I think we could be a very, very good team." 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Blue Devils overpower Irish in season opener 
. No. 3 Dasso upsets No. 2 Cargill in singles 
Special to The Observer 

Despite impressive victo­ries by senior All-American Michelle Dasso and junior Nina Vaughan, the 13th­
r an k e d N o t r e D a m e women's tennis team lost its dual­m at c h season 


opener 4­ Dasso  
3  to  
fourth- 
ranked Duke  at  the  Eck  

Tennis Pavilion on Sunday. 
The teams split the sin­gles matches and the Blue Devils took all three dou­bles matches to win their first dual match of 2000-01. The Irish will next be in action at the adidas Classic in Orlando, Fla. this week­end. 
Third-ranked Dasso opened the spring season with an impressive victory over freshman Ansley Cargill, ranked No. 2 in the nation, 6-2, 6-3 at No. 1 
singles. Cargill played in 
the French Open and U.S. 
Open in 2000 and has been 
ranked as high as 253rd in 
the world by the Women's 
Tennis Association. 
Vaughan also notched a 
qualify win, defeating 
senior All-American Megan 
Miller 6-4, 6-4 at No. 3 sin­
gles. The other victory for 
the Irish came from senior 
Kimberly Guy, who defeat­
ed sophomore Ilillary 
Adams 6-4, 5-7, 6-2 at No. 
6. Sophomore Katie Granson clinched the match for Duke with a 6-3, 6-3 win over junior Lindsey Green at No. 5 singles, while 14th-ranked Kathy Sell and 16th-ranked Amanda Johnson also claimed wins for the Blue 
· Devils. 
Duke claimed the doubles 
point by taking all three 
matches. 
The Blue Oevils got an 8-6 
victory by sixth-ranked 
Johnson and Miller over 
Dasso and junior Becky 
Varnum, the eighth ranked 
team in the country, at No. 
1 doubles. 
Cargill and Sell defeated sophomore Katie Cunha and Guy to clinch the doubles point 8-3 at No. 2 doubles, while Cranson and Adams also won at No. 3 doubles. 
Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  34 Kitchen or den  57 Wide of the  
1 King with a golden touch 6 Ones wearing knickers  35 Car until 1957 37 The "L" in AWOL 38 Spanish museum work  mark 60 "L' c'est moi": Louis XIV 61 Don Juan, e.g.  
10 Lion's antithesis 14 Sports venue 15 Mideast-based grp, 16 Say for sure 17 Not the sailing sort 19 Quick snack 20 Big bang maker 21 Mine extraction  39 Squirrels' homes 41 Diva's song 42 Put on a happy face 44 Confident 45 Obsolescent phone feature 46 "What's you?" 48 Drill instructor, usually  64 Cook's seasoning 65 Scientologist Hubbard 66 "The Magic Flute," e.g. 67 In that place, to a whaler 68 Hangup 69 Mary Poppins, e.g.  
22 Steamroll  so They "just want  DOWN  
24 Access the Internet, with "on· 25 Postpone 26 Amtrak employee 30 Made a movie  to have fun" in a 1984 song 52 Ruin 53 "The Satanic Verses" author 56 Office seeker, informally  1 Drive-in order 2 Big rug exporter 3 Bumper blemish 4 What's more 5 Place with swinging doors 6 Rounded part  
7 N.Y.P.D. alert  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  8 Mower maker  
S T O P NOV A  9 Back of the neck 10 Samuel Gompers, e.g. 11 Tel_, Israel 12 Dish (out) 13 Fox 18 FedEx notation 23 Moon man Armstrong 24 Stage star 25 ''The Cat in the  Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 29 Supports for specs 31 Newswoman Shriver 32 Poland Spring competitor 33 Handed out, as cards 36 Roll call reply  49 Cider unit 51 live's companion 53 Downtime 54 Four Corners state 55 Sweeping story  56 Engine kr]ock 57 Dutch cooker 58 Forest plant 59 Skirmish 62 fault (overmuch) 63 _-Locka, Fla.  
Hat'' writer 26 Clean a  40 Billy Graham delivery  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:  
blackboard  43 Novelist  1-900-420-5656 (951! per minute).  
27 Actress Shearer  Bagnold  Annual subscriptions are available fo_r the  
28 Cry after a  47 Gives the third  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
catch  degree  years: 1-868-7-ACROSS.  


Wednesday.January 23, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 

WHATELY 
,, 
Are 1;1ou eot,n9 

D,dn't a.nyone ever tell
the 6YIOW? 

Fox TROT BILLAMEND 



Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address ----------------------------,. 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON fault. Avoid travel if possible. 00 THIS DAY: Jeanne Moreau, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): If Princess Caroline, Rutger Hauei; you bend over backward to help 
Richard D. Anderson, C.eoff Wig­friends in need, you will enhance 
doi; Tiffani-Amber Thiessen, Earl your reputation. Your ability to Falconer look at situations logically will Happy Birthday: It's time to allow you to make constructive 
turn things around by making suggestions.00000 the necessary changes. You've LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Visi­been on the fence for too long, so tors may drop by, resulting in 
make your move. You'll need to friction between you and your be versatile if you want to get mate. Tzy hard to keep your calm, ahead. The more adaptable you or the silent treatment will be are, the better. Keep your com­sure to follow. Don't take on too 
ments to yourself and work hard many projects. 000 to ensure that you reach your SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): goals. Your numbers: 9, 12, 16, 22, Don't spend too much on travel 25,37 or friends. Opportunities to meet 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): new and exciting individuals will Domestic purchases will be prof­develop through educational · itable today. You should be look­pursuits. Sign up for lectures or ing into real estate buys or a resi­courses. 0000 dential move. Listen to your SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. friends. Their advice will be quite 21): Unexpected visitors will be a valuable. 000 welcome sight. You can make 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): favorable changes in your Don't overreact or allow your domestic scene. Take care of all temper to explode. Work quietly those chores that have been behind the scenes, paying special building up. 0000 attention to detail. Your lover CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. may take drastic measures to get 19): Instant romance will not be your attention. QOO lasting. Take precautions if you 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): wish to spare your heart. Your You should not give to organiza­concern for older family mem­tions today. You are likely to bers and those who need help donate too much or give too will enhance your reputation. much of your time. lnvestments 000 will not be as profitable as they AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): appear. Take a closer look. 000 You should spend time with 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): those who can help lift your You can help children with their depression. You need intellectual problems. Financial investments interaction. Don't let employers pertinent to your home will be interfere with your plans. They lucrative. Be careful when sign­may try to take credit for your ing contracts or formulating efforts. 000 agreements. 0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You Concentrate on your hobbies. will get into arguments with Don't let anyone take advantage friends or relatives today. Try of your generosity. You will expe­hard not to instigate unnecessary rience financial loss if you are friction with loved ones. Your careless with your wallet or your own irritability will be largely at investments. 000 
Birthday Baby: You take the lead and stay there. You're quick to 
evaluate and to make your move. Your strong vision of the way things 
are supposed to be gives you confidence in yourself. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
e 2001 Univeraal Preos Synpicate 

The Observer · 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 




Making a racket 
Junior Javier Taborga and the 
men's tennis team had no trouble downing the Wisconsin 
Badgers Sunday. 

PORTS 
page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, January 23, 200 l 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish earn No. I 
ranking for first time in school history 
By ANDREW SOUKUP SJ>Orts Writer 

In the middle of October, Ruth Riley happened 
to walk near Grace Hall and noticed the eight­
foot high No. 1 sign illuminated on top of the 
building. 

"We passed it when it was up for the soccer 
team," Riley said. "I remember thinking in that 
back of my mind how cool it would be if we 
could have it up for us." 
Now it is. 

For the first time in the 24-year history of the 
Notre Dame women's basketball program, the 
Irish are ranked No. 1. 

In both the Associated Press and ESPN coach­
es' polls released Monday, Notre Dame jumped 
from No. 3 to claim the top spot following wins 
over Connecticut and Seton Hall last week. 
Connecticut dropped to No. 2 and Tennessee 
moved down to No. 3. The Irish received 40 of a 
possible 41 first place votes in the Associated 
Press poll, and 33 of a possible 40 first place 
votes in the ESPN coaches poll. 

"We're just so excited about the No. 1 rank­
ing," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. 
"We've just made a major step forward in our 
program. 

Notre Dame, the nation's only remaining 
unbeaten team, ended Connecticut's 30-week 
hold on the top slot by beating the Huskies 92­
see RANKING/page 18 
Topping the charts 


LIZ LANG/The Observer 
Irish guard Niele Ivey locks arms with the Huskies' Kennltra Johnson In Notre Dame's Jan. 15 win over Connecticut. 
The win marked the first time the Irish beat the Big East powerhouse, leading to Notre Dame's top ranking. 
FENCING 

Irish find success, failure on road 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Two very different fencing teams came back from New York late Sunday night. 

-
The men's team returned victorious, buoyed by four wins against top competition -including championship 
favorite St. John's. 
"l think this team can go undefeated this season," head fencing coach Yves Auriol said after Notre Dame's 15-12 win against St. John's, 16-11 win against Columbia and a pair of 18-9 wins against NYU and Yale. 
The women's team, howev­er, knows it has a long road of improvement to travel if they want to be national title contenders in March. The women dropped three of their four meets over the weekend including an 18-9 loss to St. 
John's, 15-12 to Yale and 17­10 to Columbia. The women's lone victory came over NYU 23-4. 
"We are not as deep with the women as we are with the men," Auriol said. "We have a couple fencers from the women's side who are not fencing at their best right now. We are going to improve on the women's side but we won't be as good as we were in the past three or four years." 
Although the women return five of six qualifiers from the 2000 NCMs, the hole left by the graduation of four-time All-American Magda Krol has yet to be filled. 
"Magda was really the one who could fence with the best," Auriol said. 
All-American Liza Boutsikaris has stepped into Krol's role as foil captain and posted an 8-4 record over the weekend. The sophomore, however, has yet to fill the leadership void left by Krol and is still learning on the job. 
"It is kind of difficult only being my sophomore year," Boutsikaris said. "I am sure there are people on my team who know what to do better than I do. I just try to copy off Magda and use her for my roll mo.de!. She was a great, great captain so I just try to model myself after her." 
Boutsikaris' foil squad had its tough match against Columbia as the Irish dropped all nine bouts. Columbia's foil squad is per­haps the best in the nation and features Olympian Erin Smart. Smart defeated Boutsikaris 5-3 in the first meeting between the two. 
"It was my first time fenc­ing her but I think I gave her 
see FENCING/page 19 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish remain hungry for conference wins 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish have a chance to do something this week they've never done before, move into the hunt for a Big East Championship. 
"Notre Dame's never been in a league r a c e , " men's bas­ketball coach Mike Brey said. 


N o t r c 
Brey

D a m e joined a league for the first time in 1995-96 when it entered the Big East, and last year's 8-8 
conference record marked the first time the Irish did as much winning as it did losing. This year's Irish, at 3-2 in the con­ference, stand third in the West division of the Big East. just one game behind Georgetown and Syracuse. both teams that Notre Dame (11-5) will play this week. 
But beating No. 11 Syracuse (15-2) tonight won't come easi­ly. since the Irish have lost five straight games against the Orangemen. In the two team's first meeting this season, a Jan. 2 clash in the Carrier Dome, the Irish f'ell behind early while shooting just 1-for­10 from the free throw line in the first half. Syracuse went on to win 79-70. 
see IRISH/page 21 
at Michigan at West Virginia Today, 7:05 p.m. Wednesday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 

Women's Swimming at Norrhwesterm
ATA 

Thursday, 5 p.m.
vs. Syracuse vs. Indiana Today, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 






