
moe. 
Farewell, Dale
Music critic Tim Bodony takes a 
A racing Jan addresses the sudden death ofthe 


Tue:sday
look at Dither. the latest studio album 
sport's greatest driver, Dale Earnhardt. 
fromjam band heros, moe. 
FEB RU.ARY 20,
Scene . page 10 
Viewpoint . page 8 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 91 HTTP://OBSE VER.ND.EDU 



Vagina Monologues performed at SMC 
the hour and 15 minute perfor­By KERRY SMITH mance. 

News Writer 
The women who performed 
the "Monologues" -undergrad­

More than 150 students, facul­uates, graduate students and ty and community members faculty from both Notre Dame 
filled the Regina Hall lobby and Saint Mary's --felt the Monday night to attend a read­reading was necessary to pro­ing of "The Vagina mote awareness of and concern 
Monologues." 
for women's issues within the After the Saint Mary's admin­community. istration refused to officially "The play's purpose is to host the production on campus, spread awareness at>0ut rape15 women from the academic and violence," the representa­community banded together to tive said. "I was surprised [theperform the Monologues. College .cancelled th,3 produc­"It's really important to tion]. It was getting pressureunderstand that this was not 
from alumnae and donors who 

done in response to the adminis­are part of the community. It's tration canceling the produc­too bad that's the case. Four tion." the group's representative hundred fifty colleges and uni­said, on condition of anonymity. ve rsities, a number of them "It was done because one in Catholic, perform T1e Vaginafour women are raped in the Monologues' across the country. United States. It was done Under normal circumstances, because 500,00 women are this play raises a lot of money raped each year in this country. for groups dealing with these 
These are issues that affect issues." every person in this room, this Monday's performance did Prior to performing the been organizing it for three said. "We did a lot of it just byschool. this community and the raise a small amount of money "Monologues," the group met weeks. We got together through word of mouth." 
nation. This play embodies that through donations made at the three times to put the reading a sort of filtering and network­The performance was sched­and we need to talk about it." conclusion. The group plans to together. ing process to put it together." uled to take place in Regina'sBarefoot and clad in black, the donate the money r,~ceived to 'Some of us were in the The group was pleased with dance studio, but because so performers read a series of one of three organizations: the 'Monologues' last year and oth­the attendance at the reading. many people attended. the monologues depicting various YMCA, Saint Margaret's House ers had seen it performed," the "We were happy so many peo­"Monologues" were moved to sexual issues facing women in or Sex Offense Services. representative said. "We had ple came," the representative the larger Regina lobby. 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members discuss cju Lac policies 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
With major revision work to du Lac slated for this summer, Campus Life Council (CLC) members on Monday heard w h i C h 
areas of the University student handbook will likely undergo change­and made clear which 


issues they Kirk plan to keep off the agenda. 
Discussion at the 70-minute meeting centered on the du Lac introduction, which details the University's unofficial poli­cy of drafting major changes to the handbook every two years. The CLC was somewhat recep­tive to proposed changes by the Office of Residence Life (ORL), but several members expressed doubt and frustra­tion toward Faculty Senate-ini­tiated recommendations. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent for Residence Life, told the group Monday that the ORL, based on information from residence hall staff and campus security reports, has placed four du Lac policies under consideration for revi­sion: 
. 
Expanding the definition of abusive drinking to include the misuse of prescription or non­prescription drugs in connec­tion with alcohol consumption 

. 
Formatting and presenting housing and residence hall information and regulations 

. 
Determining the impact of disciplinary sanctions on stu­dent eligibility for athletic par­ticipation and awards, campus clubs, student government positions and study abroad programs 

. 
Regulating the use of small appliances in residence hall 


rooms 
"I don't know which way 
administrators are leaning in 
any of these areas, but [the 
recommended changes] high­. light concerns," Kirk said. 
Kirk, who was rnquired to 
present to the CLC before the 
group's first March meeting 
any areas under consideration 
for revision in the next edition 
of du Lac, said silgnificant 
changes to the handbook are not likely. 
"I don't see revisions we're making being terribly dramatic this year," he said. 
Most work on changes to the 2001-02 edition of du Lac will take place in early summer, according to Kirk. He said the handbook then moves to University trustees for approval in August. 
But if the CLC's discussion Monday was an indication, some proposed changes may fall off the agenda long before summer. 
While Kirk's recommenda­tions prompted little debate Monday, three Faculty Senate resolutions presented by Ed Manier stirred some tense, frank exchanges. 
The resolutions. passed unanimously by the senate on Jan. 24, target the section of du Lac. which indicates the process by which students and clubs may propose changes to the handbook. 
Nathan Hatch, University provost, directed the recom­mendations to the CLC after the senate forwarded them to 
see CLC/page 4 


McGriff traces llistory of African-Am.e1ricans 
Irish and African ancestry in 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 

his family, traced the origin 
News Writer 

of intraracial prejudice to the onset of the slave trade in The roots of intraracial Portugal h1 1493. A division tension dig as far back as the was created among African origins of the slave trade in Americans when many were Africa, according to Ronald brought into the slave trade McGriff, by members professor of their own of social "Africa is not a countrb~ racial group sciences at -not only
it is a continent. " 
t h e whites. The College_ of assumption t h e Ronald McGriff that the 
Sequoias. social sciences professor entire 
Because of a long his­tory of deep wedges within the African-American racial group, intraracial tensions and prejudice is a subject that needs to be addressed, McGriff said in a Black History· Month address at Saint Mary's Monday evening. 
Because outsiders to racial groups have a tendency to group various ethnicities in one category, different ancestries among African Americans can be ignored. McGriff, who claims a mix of 
African 
American 

race felt the same abou:t the slave trade is false, McGriff explained. 
"The wealthy blacks along the coast [of Africa] were wealthy for the very same reason whites were wealthy in the South -the slave trade." McGriff said. "It lays the groundwork for people to be separated by racial preju­dice." 
Early diverse cultural and geographical demographics in Africa c.lso makes the soli­
see AFRICA/page 6 

Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMI~ 


Vagina Pride 

Last weekend I faked an orgasm in front of my mother and 20,000 perfect strangers. Sitting in Madison Square Garden, I marveled as the entire arena erupted into a jubilant, orgasmic yell. Laughing, I turned towards my mother and wasn't a bit embarrassed. 
Laura Kelly

In fact, I had never felt so proud to be a woman. When she called me up two weeks 
Associate

ago and asked if I wanted to 
Scene Editor 

fly to New York to see "The Vagina Monologues." I was floored -my mother is about as Catholic and conservative as they come. 
So when she told me that her friends had planned an entire trip around seeing this contro­versial play, I was more than a little intrigued. I told her I was up for it. 
I'll never forget that evening. A rally organized for "V-Day" -a mov1iment fighting to end vio­lence against women, included an extended ver­sion of the "Monologues." Playwright Eve Ensler hosted the event, and even directed the audience in faking that orgasm -a unique mother-daugh­ter bonding experience, to say the least. 
That night I saw Jane Fonda enraptured by the miracle of giving birth. Oprah's haunting voice described the oppression faced by women in Afghanistan. Survivors of rape and female geni­tal mutilation wept as they told their stories. And my mother and I, her friends and their daugh­ters, shared it all. 
We roared with laughter, we sobbed, we sat stunned at the testimonies we heard. Then we stood when Ensler asked who knew a survivor of rape or assault. 
There was one face missing. one who under­stood better than any of us the reality of sexual assault. And because she couldn't be there that night, we rose and stood for her. To me, this is what the "Monologues" arc about -giving a voice to victims of sexual assault, empowering men and women to fight against violence. When I returned Monday night and announced to my roommates that I loved my vagina, they were slightly taken aback. 
But as I told them about my weekend, they became intrigued, maybe even envious. I felt proud to be a woman, I told them. rfelt comfort­able enough to talk with my mother about any­thing. And I understood that in order for things to change, maybe we had to shake things up a little and talk about our vaginas. 
My roommates didn't get to see the "Monologues" this year. Rut maybe they ·will next year, thanks to groups like C.A.R.E. and the Saint Mary's women who continue to read the play, hoping its message wiH be heard. Regardless of administrative rulings, the V-Day movement is growing. working all over the globe to stop vio­lence against women. 
If you believe that all women should be able to live in freedom and safety, then don't let the cen­sorship of a play keep you silent. Male or female, you can make a difference -in the jokes you tell, the attitudes you live by, the causes you fight for and the victims you pray for. 
That's what "The Vagina Monologues" are all about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer Kiflin Turner 
Chris Scott 
Finn Pressly 

Graphics 
Sports 
Katie McKenna 
Lauren Conti 

Production 
Bryan Kronk 
Katie McVoy 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Kurt Bogaard Naomi Cordell 

lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond•y through Frid.y except during exam and vacition ~riods. The Observer is • member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"This district has the "They leave early worst test scores I've when they think ever seen. Ifchildren everyone is asleep. 
were blindfolded. Six o'clock might be they couldn't get any early for them, but lower.,, not for the rector.~· 
Joan Raymond Jeffrey Shoup superintendent of the Director of Residence South Bend Community Life on breaking parietals Schools Corporation 

''I'd love to see some­one call Nelly on the phone and tell him to come to Notre Dame to speak about diversity.,, 
Nikki McCord vice-presidential candi­date on diversity at the run-off debate 
"It's nice to look in the newspaper and see Notre Dame in first place because I remember when we got our heads handed to us." 
Troy Murphy Notre Dame forward 

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 


University of Kentucky debates visitation policy 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
The Student Government Association (SGA) and Resident Student Council have proposed a new visitation policy for the residence halls. 
After four months of preparation, last Friday they sent a proposal to the office of Residence Life. 
Under this policy, the coeducation residence halls would have 24-hour visitation and the single-sex residence halls would be 12 p.m. to 12 a.m. dur­ing the week and 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the weekends. 
Under the current visitation policy, the coeducational residence halls have visitation from 2 p.m. to 12 a.m. dur­ing the week and 12 p.m. to 2 a.m. on the weekends. The single-sex resi­dence halls have visitation from 2 p.m. 


to 12 a.m. during the week and 12 
p.m. to 2 a.m. on the weekend. 

James Monroe, a freshman senator, decided to dedicate the last four months to this issue because he thinks the current policy is inconvenient. 
"The visitation policy is so strict that it was a nuisance," he said. 
According to information that SCA has collected from UK's Office of Residence Life and nsc, the visitation policy has remained unchanged since the transition to coeducational resi­dence halls in 1960. 
"Essentially the issue is one of social standards, one of common sense. Now that we have coeducational residence halls it is difficult to enforce the policy that they have in effect because undoubtedly people go between floors in the halls," said Edwin Orange, chairperson of the student senate. 
Joe Impellizzeri, a member of the committee who has proposed the new policy agrees that prevailing social standards have changed and changes need to be made. "It's definitely time for a change." 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

Code redefines labor standards 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
University of Michigan President Lee Bollinger last week approved a new set of standards for compa­nies who manufacture university-licensed products. The code of conduct will affect more than 500 exist­ing deals the university has with apparel, souvenir and office supply companies, among others. "We have rooted this in a concept of human rights," Bollinger said at the University Board of Regents meeting Friday. "The refinements of this code are based on this general understanding." The code was drafted by the Committee of Labor Standards and Human Rights. The group took a labor code that had been drafted by a previous committee in March 1999 and tweaked it to meet the University's current stan­
dards. 'Tm pleased that the president took our rec­ommendations,"said committee chair and Social Work Prof. Lawrence Root. "I think the committee worked hard ... The code expresses the goal that the university has." 

BARNARD COLLEGE 

Daughter of Malcolm X speaks out 
NEW YORK 
In a speech delivered Sunday to a packed audience in Barnard College's LeFrak Gymnasium, Attallah Shaba;z:z demonstrated that she is more than the oldest of African-American civil rights activist Malcolm X's six daughters. Her speech commemorated Malcolm X's last public address, which also took place in the LeFrak Gymnasium, exactly 36 years ago. only three days before the civil rights leader was assassinated. Shabazz spoke confidently to the large crowd, often stopping to ask the audience if it understood her points. Shabazz stressed that her father's philosophy came not only from him, but also from those around him. Like her father, Shabazz said, she is the product of a long lineage of ancestors with distinguished histo­ries. She told the audience that her father had taught her that "we are all descendants of a continuum" and 
therefore should not judge each other based on lin­eage. "By the power invested in me, I now pronounce you all brothers and sisters," she said afterwards. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeatrer llrec..stfc.-cla 

The AccuWeather4' forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 20. 

Prlqn; 
.

® © D . D D . D 
= 

High Low Show•ra Rak> T-atorma Aurrtn Snow Ice Bunny Pl Cloudy Cloudy W.AuoCNl/lldP,,.. 
Atlanta 64 52 Las Vegas 61 44 Ponland 52 37 Baltimore 55 43 Memphis 68 40 
Sacramento 59 46 Boston 47 38 Milwaukee 31 6 St. Louis 52 20 Chicago 38 9 New York 51 44 Tampa 78 63 Houston 76 64 Philadelphia 54 43 Wash DC 59 44 
page 3 

Tuesday, February 20, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Me01bers discuss u.pcoming class elections, Bengal Bouts 
. Tickets must declare candidacy by tonight at S 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 
Upcoming elections for the classes of 2002, 2003 and 2004, Student Diversity Board and Residence Hall Association highlighted discussion at the Board of Governance meeting Monday. 
Unlike the one-ticket elec­tions for student body presi­dent and vice president, com­petition promises to be more intense for class elections. Turnout was high at informa­ticmal meetings for those inter­ested in running for class boards, said Nickey Prezioso, BOG elections commissioner. 
"We had a great turnout and at least 17 different people showed up to express inter­est," said Prezioso. 
Although interested tickets 
running for class boards do not 
have to declare their candida­
cy until today at 5 p.m., 
Prezioso said she tentatively 
expects three to five tickets to 
run for the Class of 2002 
board, one for the Class of 
2003 and four tickets for the 
Class of 2004. 
Students can question the 
tickets and learn more about 
their platforms at ·•Meet the and fundraising," said Kahn. dent body vice president-elect) non-alcoholic events, received Candidates" on Thursday" at 7 "If any students have questions and I want to look into if these a co-sponsorship of $3,000 
or concerns before the meet­boards are taking into account from the Board. The group is
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 

ing, they should feel free to student opinion in decisions or also soliciting funds from other
Elections for class boards 

how the process works," said Saint Mary's and Notre Dame
will be held on Monday. call or e-mail me." 

Posters soliciting candidates Kahn said many students vis­Nagle. "That way we will organizations as well as even­for Student Diversity Board ited her during her office know how to respond to stu­tually seeking corporate spon­will be posted this week, hours she held last week and dents when we get these ques­sorships for che event. 
during din­tions." . Tiffany ~.,1eerhoefer was
according to Akmaral 

ner hours . Josh Thompson, co-president selected as coordinator of the Omarova, the "We had a great turnout in the din­of the Bengal Bouts club at Student Activities Board for current presi­ing hall. Notre Dame approached the the 2001-2002 school year.
and at least 17 people

dent of After the Board to ask for a co-sponsor­She currently serves on SAB as
showed up to express

Diversitv meeting, ship. Innovation Chairwoman. 
Board. · interest. " Kahn will "Our main objective is to . Community Leadership An informa­compile a send all the money we raise to Teams (COi.Ts) which feature tional meeting report to the Holy Cross Missions in students, faculty and staff from 
Nickey Prezioso 

for interested present to Bangladesh," said Thompson. 
Saint Mary's will be hosting an 
BOG elections commissioner "The money is used to feed
candidates will the student informational meeting in 
held bodv based and clothe kids and to send Feb.28 detailing
be Dalloway's on 
on · the kids to school. lf you are at all
Thursday and how to set u:p a COLT and the 
meeting. In order to make the willing to donate to this cause,
elections will take place March requirements, said 
5. report even more informative, we would greatly appreciate Georgeanna Rosenbusch,
it.,.
Kahn has requested that other

The Residence Hall Director of Student Activities. 
students who sit on Board of The Board voted to give $350
Association has set its elec­. The All-School Formal will 
tions for March 22 with infor­Trustees committees submit a to Bengal Bouts. be held on March 24, said 
report to her detailing the . In anticipation of an event
mational meetings to be held Mindy Rennaker, president of 
committee's meetings to be featuring multiple well-known
before spring break. RHA. Tickets will go on sale
included in her final report to bands to be held at the begin­
the week before and the allot­
In other news: 

students. ning of the 2001-2002 school 
ment of tickets will be 250
. With the Board of Trustees 

. Due to questions from stu­year, Sarah Hoshaw and her
meeting on-campus Thursday couples per class. The theme
dents regarding how much Flipside colleagues approached
and Friday, student represen­will revolve around Mardi Gras 
groups such as the Parent's the Board to request a co­
tative to the Board of Trustees and tickets will be $10 per
Council, Board of Trustees and sponsorship of the event.

Molly Kahn reported she person.
Alumnae Board take into "We anticipate that the event 
received much feedback and . The board will discuss the
account student opinion when will attract at least 6,000 peo­
comments from students to Vagina Monologues issue next
making decisions, student body ple and will cost us $150,000," 
pass on to the Board at the week after the executive board 
president-elect Michelle Nagle said Hoshaw. "It will be held 
meets with College Presidentmeeting. said the issue will be discussed outside on North Quad at 
"This meeting we will be Marilou Eldred, according to
at a meeting of the Student Notre Dame and will be free to 
talking specifically about Chrissie Renner, student body
Life Committee on Thursday. students."

strategic planning initiatives president.
"Both Kristin [Matha] (stu-Flip~ide, which sponsors 

We've got 20 TVs, including oo~oftfaeij;aredts1:•: nicest big screens, 6 satellites, and:Hlt~ 6~;1: )> place to watch all the big games. GetreddYd~ the Irish head towards March Madm?ss,. where you can catch EVERY game of the .1t1en's. tournament, and if the ladies ictre 
\IC;!ol~.vised, this is the place to catch th•~m. :til:M&;;:::::~:~~~:;!ij5k to all the Irish sports tearr1s!! 
i:ll~,i;lfifori!i ::111111::::@11 ;;;r••··· ·•·t••1· 
t?~¾tf?Jifl?\iitiit~tf: 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
tion on abortion. The WRC has since been

CLC 
taken off probation, but as continued from page 1 recently as last December. the -------------senate cited conflict surround­
the senate forwarded them to 
tho new Academic and Student 
Life Advisory Council that 
Hatch co-chairs. 
The senate proposals high­

light three areas of concern in 
du Lac: 
.A 
discrepancy between the academic freedom guaranteed to professors by the faculty handbook and that wanted to students in du Lac 

.I 
lcaring procedures for disci­plining student organizations 

. 
Faculty participation in major revisions of du Lac 


Several CLC members debat­

ed at length over the first pro­
posal. before tabling the dis­
cussion and agreeing to 
resume talks at the group's 
March 5 meeting. 
In general, members were at 

odds over the role of academic 
freedom at a Catholic universi­
ty. 
"There are no provisions for academic freedom for students anywhere in du Lac," said Manier. a philosophy profes­sor. "I personally have indulged in activity that may contravene the mission of the Catholic Church. but I don't think that l should not be free to inquire, to obtain informa­tion." 
At recent Faculty Senate and CLC meetings, members of both groups have discussed controversy surrounding the Women's Resource Center (WRC). In April 1998. the University placed the center on probation following sanc­tions for distributing informa­
ing the center as evidence 
against a free academic envi­
ronment. Sister Adrienne 
Piennette disagreed with 
Manier Monday. 
"Academic freedom in the 
classroom -that's fine. 
Outside, that's a different con­
text," the Welsh Hall rectress 
said. 
Kirk also offered a candid 
opinion. 
"I think all three resolutions 
are so fundamentally flawed 
they're beyond rep.air," he 
said. Kirk's comment followed 
thr, CLC's decision to form a 
task force to look into du Lac 
revisions. 
Brian O'Donoghue, student 
body prnsident. said the task 
force will make recommenda­
tions that must be approved by 
the CLC before moving to the 
Office of Student Affairs. He 
said in the past, the Office of 
the Student Body President 
would appoint representatives 
to make proposals to Student 
Affairs, but a task force puts 
du Lac revisions under the jurisdiction of the CLC. 
O'Donoghue said the task force's make-up would be sim­ilar to the CLC. which now includes students, faculty, rec­tors and administrators. 
In other CLC news: 
. O'Donoghue said the forum on teaching and tenure sched­uled for Wednesday is post­poned indefinitely. He cited panelists' scheduling conflicts as the primary reason for the cancellation. 

Report: U.S. bridges inadequate 
Commissions of Alabama. Associated Press 
In Louisiana. a bridge over Thompsons Creek was hastily
WASHINGTON put back in place, not rebuilt. 

More than a quarter of the after floodwaters washed it 

nation's bridges are too weak, away. To compensate, officials 

dilapidated or overburdened 

put new limits on the weight of for their current traffic, accord­trucks crossing the span. 
ing to fed­"It woulderal records not makethat detail 

a n "We said to ourselves any structur­al engineer
American many times we ought to 

comfortableroad system 
be ashamed ofourselves 

to look at the
that hasn't 

for letting that happen. " thing," state
kept pace 

engineer Gill
with a 

Gautreaubooming 
Sonny Brasfield 
said.
economy. 

assistant executive director of the And in
Dramatic 

Association of County Denver, sof't­
stories of 

b a 11-sized
spans with Commissions of Alabama 
falling con­
crete or 
weak supports abound across 
the country, even though the 
government has spent billions 
on repairs over the last few 
years. an Associated Press 
computer analysis of the 
records found. 
School buses in Washington County in southwestern Alabama seeking to lower their weight used to have to stop at one end of a decaying bridge, let children off to walk across the span, and pick them up on the other side. Now, the buses drive 15 extra miles a day to avoid the bridge altogether. 
"We said many times we ought to be ashamed of our­selves for letting that happen," said Sonny Brasfield, assistant executive director of the Association of County 

chunks of 
concrete 
routinely break off the 
Interstate 70 viaduct near the 
city's coliseum. "It's just falling 
apart," firefighter John Afshar 
said. "They dean up the mess · pretty quickly." 
The AP computer analysis of 
Federal Highway 
Administration records found 
167,993 of 587,755 bridges ­
or 29 percent -were rated by 
the government as "deficient" 
as ofAug. 31, 2000. 

That's a slight improvement from four years earlier when 31 percent of bridges were deemed deficient, defined as structures that either require repairs or are too narrow or weak to handle the traffic that must use the bridges to get from place to place. 
"There has been some 
improvement, but the numbers 
are quite high. There's certain­
ly a long way to go," said Frank 
Moretti, research director for 
The Road Information 
Program, a transportation 
group funded by construction 
and manufacturing companies. 
Three states ~ Hawaii, 
Rhode Island and 
Massachusetts -report more 
than half of their bridges arc 
rated as deficient. 

Few deficient bridges are in 
danger of' collapsing, though 
there have been a few recent 
incidents. 

In October 1999, a section of' 
pavement on Lee's Bridge 
across the Sudbury River in 
Massachusetts collapsed with­
out warning. No one was 
injured, but the bridge was 
closed for repairs. Even before 
the collapse, heavy trucks were 
banned from the well-traveltid 
structure. 

In Wisconsin, ceremonies Saturday marked the reopening of the southbound lanes of the I-loan Bridge over Milwaukee's Lake Michigan harbor. The bridge had been closed since December after cracks were found in two of the three gird­ers supporting a section of the northbound lanes. The south­bound lanes, which have been reinforced, now carry two-way traffic. 
Many bridges deemed defi­cient simply fail to meet current safety standards, such as the width of lanes. Such narrow bridges further clog already crowded roadways. 
See thi 
Bengal Bouts tickets on sale nowl Call the Notre Dame t.icket office at 631-7356, or see any boxer for tickets. Bouts begin Thursday, February 22. 
Don't Miss the Action! 

l!I @) 


ATION 
Tuesday, February 20, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ship recovery mission continues 
Massacre draws investigation: A 
human rights group on Monday called for an inquiry into reports that as many as 300 Shiite Muslim civilians were recently massacred by Afghanistan's ruling Taliban in central Bamiyan province. Citing witnesses. New York­based Human Rights Watch said Taliban troops rounded up and shot about 300 men after cap­turing the city of Yakaolang in January. The Taliban rejected the report. 
Crash kills government officials: A 
Myanmar army helicopter crashed Monday, killing the No. 4 general in the country's ruling military council and two Cabinet ministers, gov­ernment officials said. The helicopter carrying Lt. Gen. Tin Oo and about a dozen other offi­cials crashed in southeastern Myanmar because of engine trouble. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ra. blacks feel disenfranchised: A 
majority of Florida's black voters believe their ballots were unfairly rejected in November at a higher rate than those cast by voters of other races, and an even larger number think the election's loser is now president, according to a poll. Ninety-one percent of the respondents said they believe Al Gore won the election over George W. _ Bush, according to the poll conducted for The St. Petersburg Times. 
Dartmouth suspects caught: Two teen-agers wanted in the stabbing deaths of two Dartmouth College professors were arrested Monday after authorities acting on a hunch used a CB radio to lure the boys to an Indiana truck stop. James Parker, 16, and Robert Tulloch, 17, were captured peacefully before dawn at an Interstate 70 truck stop in New Castle, Ind., more than 700 miles from the site of the slayings in Hanover, N .H. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Arrests made in homicide case: 
The car of a Muncie woman who was brutally stabbed to death last week was found Friday night in Arizona, and police have arrested two people in the case. Christopher A Burns. 19, and Christy Shinnock Williams, 21, both of Muncie, were arrested Friday by Arizona authorities, Muncie police Capt. Robert Weller said Saturday. Weller said Phoenix police found Burns and Williams in a wrecking yard about 8 p.m. with the car owned by Tammie Craycraft Smith. Smith's bloody body was dis­covered at her home Thursday afternoon. 
Market Watch 2 2 O 

Dow 
10,799.82 -91.20

]ONES 
Composite

Up: Same: 
Volume:

t:H6 216 
•=
'~ NIA 


Nasdaq; 2425.38 -127.53 
S&P 500: 1301.53 -25.08 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY /SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
NORTEL NETWORKS (NTI  -32.77  -~-75  20.00  
JDS UNIPHASE (JDSll)  -20.64  -9.31  35.RI  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -8.32  -2.56  lB.l5  
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)  -14.70  -4.00  23.19  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  -5.60  -3.27  )5.13  

Associa,.ed Press 
HONOLULU 
The Navy resumed inspection of a sunken Japanese ship after sidestep­ping earlier technical problems with a deep-i;ea robot. 
Crew members aboard the USS Salvor lowered a second robot into the ocean nine miles south of Diamond Head on Sunday night, after the first robot was removed for repairs. 
The Navy is using the unmanned submersibles to evaluate the feasibility of raising the 190-foot Ehime Maru, which sank minutes after the USS 
BRAZIL 
Greeneville submarine surfaced underneath it Feb. 9. 
Families of the nine men and teen­agers missing since the collision are pressing the United States to salvage the ship if that is the only way to recover bodies that may be entombed in its hull. 
"The U.S. Navy has never raised a vessel of this size from this depth, so it is an immense task if that were to be the directive," Lt. Cmdr. Jane Campbell said. 
Videotape taken by the first robot showed ilie ship in good condition. sit­ting upright on the ocean floor, but the Coast Guard said the full extent of damage had not been determined. 

The Navy said the deep-sea robots may be too big to enter the wreckage to retrieve any bodies that may be inside, especially if the vessel has not broken apart. 
The Ehime Maru, a commercial fish­ing training vessel, was headed toward fishing grounds 300 miles southeast of Oahu when the Greeneville collided vvith it during an emergency rapid-ascent drill. Twenty­six people were rescued, but there have been no signs of the nine miss­ing. 

Piolice work to quell prison protests 
Assocfated Press 
SAO PAULO 
Authorities said they were reining in prison riots that spread across Brazil after inmates at Latin America's largest jail took nearly 8,000 visitors and guards hostage. 
Aft er the riot at Carandiru prison, similar revolts spread to 22 other prisons across Sao Paulo state. Late Sunday night, the state government said 19 jails had been brought back under control and negotiations at Carandiru would resume on Monday. 
At least five inmates were killed in the unrest, which began at Carandiru as prisoners protested the transfer of 10 people believed to be members of a Rio de Janeiro-based arms and drug trafficking ring. The group is influen­tial among the prison's 10,000 inmates. 
Prisoners released about 20 hostages late Sunday night, local media report­ed, but police said they were unable to confirm the report. 
Earlier, a rebellion leader identified only as Roberto spoke to TV Bandeirantes by cellular telephone and said he expected the hostages ­who he called "visitors" ­to be released Monday. 
Marco Vinicio Petreluzzi, Sao Paulo's public security secretary, said the return of the 10 ringleaders was out of the question. 
"It was a carefully planned operation, by an organization that exerts its influence over inmates in other prisons," Petreluzzi 
AFP Ph010
said. "The uprising was 

Rioters display a banner with the initials of the First Commando of the Capital
clearly the organization's 

from a window of Sao Paulo's notorious Carandiru state penitentiary.
way of getting back at us 
for tr..e transfor of the 10." 
The riot started during late morning visiting hours in Carandiru, where a bloody operation to quell an uprising in 1992 left at least 111 inmates dead. 
Some 72 prison guards and more than 7,900 visi­tors -including 1,700 children -were inside when the rebellion started, said police Capt. Monica Bondezan. It wasn't clear how many prisoners were rioting at the jail. 
At least three prisoners were killed and six were wounded at Carandiru, law enforcement officials said. Pctreluzzi said two prisoners had died at another jail, apparently killed by other inmates. 
The 10 prison leaders were transferred Friday after authorities at the jail raided cells and found stockpiles of ammunition, knives and cell phones. 

The 10 belong to a crimi­nal group known as First Capital Command. The group is believed to be a branch of a Rio de Janeiro organized crime group that calls itself the Crime Party. 
The rebellion was a clear slap in the face to state government, who most observers agree is losing its grip over the state's prison system. Riots and violence in the country's overcrowded jails are com­mon. 
"The government will not allow organized crime to dominate the prison sys­tem," said Geraldo Alckmin, a.cting governor of Sao Paulo State. 
page 6 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
Hesburgh Center panelists discusses peace research 
By ERIN BRADY 
News Writer 
Peace research, once regard­ed by many as a topic of con­troversy, has now become a widely accepted ideology, gen­erating much support and dis­cussion from scholars and pro­fessors throughout the world, according to panelists at the llesburgh Center for International Studies Monday afternoon. 
Several specialists on global conflict resolution spoke on the effects of pea(:e research throughout the world and noted the differences of the topic throughout different soci­eties and generations. 
"At its foundation, 'peace' was politically incorrect ... the idea that one could do research on such a subject made others skeptical," said Nils Gleditch, research profes­sor from the International Peace Hcsearch Institute in Norway. 
llowcver, he also said that the nature of the term "politi­cally correct" has changed, especially in eastern countries. 
"War was not good for social affairs or the economy.. .in a 

Africa 
continued from page I 
ity assumption about the African American culture incorrect. From Portugal's acquisition of Africa in 1493, the continent has been host to several different religions, cul­tures and languages that divide the race into different value systems. 
"Africa is not a country, it is a continent," McGriff said. "Some people will tell me that 30 miles will put you into a dif­ferent language, a different culture. You're talking major, major differences. There are rooted differences of language, religion and different cul­tures... they are about as simi­lar as a Frenchmen and a Norwegian. The share perhaps their color, but nothing else." 
Once in America by result of the slave trade, intraracial divi­sions continued over the fight for abolition. Many well-off African Americans had no rea­son to light for the end of slav­ery because their life remained relatively unaffected. But for less wealthy African Americans and women, the issue of slav­ery was a critical fight, McGriff said. 
"Women were concerned about abolishing slavery because if black folk got the vote, women would get the vote too," McGriff said. 
However, the fight for aboli­tion was self-centered for many women, who sought to stop interracial sexual relations between white slave owners and black slaves. Many women were simply tired of "hus­bands, brothers and sons hav­ing liaisons with black folk ... creating brothers, sisters and cousins of color," McGriff said. But as these relations began to produce a population of mixed heritage, intraracial divisions over the abolition movement deepened. 
McGrilT referred to the rela­sense you could say 'war is out, poaco is in,"' said Gleditch. He said that there has been an increase in acceptance of peace research in academic studies at universities through­out the world. 
tionship  between  Sally  
!lemmings  and  Thomas  
Jefferson,  which  produced  

"IThisl is an tance of looking at relative cir­cumstances when researching the peace structure of a partic­ular area. 
"We don't tend to go back to quantitative, rather much more comparative studies," 
s a i d 
exciting and new competi­ "India is not getting what  Kacowicz. He also  
tive environ­ment," said Gleditch. The idea of  it thinks it should get with respect from some other communities ...  noted that economic and social structures  
p  e  a  c  e  what's sad is that  are key fac­ 
research began in the 1950's, due in  movement towards the peace process is not  tors when dealing with a more  
part start  to of  the the  taking place."  broad per­spective of  
Cold War. and sparked  Harish Pont  p e a c e research.  
increasing  doctorate student of government  He  added  
interest during  at Notre Dame  that  peace  
times of social  research is  
and  ethnic  a  regional­ 
conflict in var­ ized activity  

ious nations throughout the and issues of conflict manage­world. ment and resolution are rela­
Other panelists included Arie tive to the area. Kacowicz, senior lecturer at Pont gave a description of' the lhe Hebrew University in Israel progress, or lack thereof. of the and Harish Pont, doctrine stu­peace process in the countries dent of government and of South Asia, namely India. international studies at Notre "India is not getting what it Dame. thinks it should get with 
Kacowicz stressed the impor-respect from some other com-


eight children of mixed her­itage from the interracial affair. 
"Those who were like the !lemmings began to become different from those in the fields. The desire for emanci­pation was not across the board. Those who didn't want it were those who were doing well, who were living in the big houses," he said. 
lntraracial tensions have continued even after the slav­ery era, as the African American community has struggled with internal stratifi­cation due to skin tone. "Lighter" skinned African Americans with more European features have enjoyed either preferential or detrimental treatment depend­ing on the community. Showing a video clip of two boys, one light skinned and one dark skinned, dealing with the prej­udice against darker skinned African Americans, McGriff explained that some blacks will stratify members of their racial group according to appear­ance. 
"The undoing of difference of color is more of a theory than actual practice," he said. "We are wired to see people in an actual group. Blacks them­selves will begin to stratify when they look at each other [according to skin tone}." . 
McGriff was critical of Marcus Garvey's leadership in the black community, arguing that Garvey's view of racial sol­idarity to unite African, Americans was selective and did not include all members ot the race because of visual dif­ferences in skin tone. 
While the movement was; successful in deconstructing some of the socially construct­ed negative images and self-, hatred many members of the African American community experienced, it did not reach far enough. 
"He himself had a problem 
with people who claim to be 
black, but didn't look like him.ff 
McGriff said. "lie was exclud­
ing people of color who he 

munities ... what's sad is that movement towards the peace process is not taking place," he said. Pont also noted the increase of social inequality in countries such as Sri Lanka and Pakistan. 
Leading the discussion was chair professor Peter Wallensteen, a visiting fellow to the Kroc Institute at Notre 
Dame  who  is  a  leading  
research(u on the  topic of  
peace.  

claimed weren't of color enough." 
Addressing intraracial ten­sion today involves recognizing the roots of intraracial conflict and deconstructing our socially constructed view of what race is, McGriff said. The outside observer's tendency to group all members of one racial group into one category is a starting point. Discussing the problems with racial grouping on college applications and on the U.S. Census, McGriff emphasized that there are ancestral differences within the African-American community that need to be recognized. 

"People are starting to want to say, Tm tired of disappear­ing my grandparents, my rela­tives, because l have to lit into this box,"' McGriff said. 
Overall, addressing intrara­cial tension will have to come in a historical perspective, McGriff said, and progress over time. 
"I'm not so na'ive to think people won't lump people of color into groups," McGriff said. "The difference the peo­ple of color see is predicated on wedges set years and years ago. Many think people of color are all like when in reality, we've never been alike. The observer doesn't see it, but those of us who are of color do see it, and it needs to be put to rest." 
CHRISTMAS IN 
APRIL APRIL 21, 2001 
Join together with up to seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April (CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the South Bend com­munity joins forces with the students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of a South Bend neighborhood. 
.--1

S_I_G_N_-U_P_s__,I 
Tues -Thursday, February 20-22 11 am-2 pm, 4-8 pm 
In LaFortune & Reckers 

Limited Spots Available 
Questions? Contact Craig Komanecki at · Komanecki.1@nd.edu or OR Laura Brennan at bren3534@saintmarys.edu 


www.nd.edu/~stdntaff/christmasapril.html 
Tuesday, February 20, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
IRAN 
Officials support 1tnass weddings 
. 14,000 expected to wed by the end of this week 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN 

With unemployment soaring high enough in Iran to keep many young people from sav­ing the money they need to the purpose~ to "encourage marriage among our young people and invite the public to hold modest celebrations in order to save money." 
Many young Iranian men do not get married before they are 30 because it is too difficult to save enough money. Many cou­ples come to Tehran from country villages for the jammed mass wed­
'Tm spending the dings.

get married, 
Unofficial

government happiest moments ofmy 
figures put

officials 
life. Today's colorful 
unemploy­

planned some­
thing romantic ceremony will remain a ment at and cheap: sweet memory for us.,, over 30 
percent.

mass wed­dings. 0 n 
Zahra Nowruzi

Wedding day Monday, 
at the Interior Ministry Monday included dancing, folk music. gifts and some 700 young cou­ples exchanging vows. Another 850 pairs got hitched in the same huge hall the day before, and organizers -who are rep­resentatives of Iran's supreme leader -said 14.000 couples were expected to do the same in Tehran and other cities around the country during this week of mass weddings. 
The general director of the project. Ahmad Bahraini, says 
bride men in khaki hats a:nd baggy red trousers danced, women watched and clapped in encouragement. Rahraini, who represents supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at a Tehran univer­sity, said he began organizing mass weddings in 1. 998 with only 150 student couples. By last year, the number of cou­ples had risen to 1,000. Each couple receive as pre­sents a gold coin, a copy of the Quran -the Muslim holy 
book. a blanket and a license for a telephone line. 
They also take part in a big party with bands from their districts playing traditional music. As Iran's strict interpre­tation prohibits men and women from dancing in public, it is the men who dance and their wives and female guests clap in encouragement. 
'Tm spending the happiest moments of my life. Today's colorful ceremony will remain a sweet memory for us," said Zahra Nowruzi, a bride in a white chador -a head-to-toe garment that covers all but the face and hands. 
Her groom, Rostam Bahadori, 27. a geography graduate who is looking for work, said that unemployment is the main reason for young people's avoiding marriage. 
"But I'm not really worried," he said. "If I can't find a job, I can work on a piece of land for my father." 
Another groom, Sadeq Mashhadi, 27, had a job and knew that life becomes more expensive after marriage. 
"Many of the new couples are jobless. They will have more and more problems after marriage," he said with a laugh. His bride, Nawab Saleh, pinched him. 

ABA votes onL 'zero tolerance' policies 
As•ociated Press 

SAN DIEGO 
The leadership of the American Bar Association voted Monday to recommend ending "zero tolerance" school discipline policies and stopping the government's use of secret evidence in most immigration cases. 
The zero tolerance policies -which can mandate expul­sion or referral to juvenile or criminal court "without regard to the circumstances or nature of the offense or the student's history" -are unfair and inappropriate for many children, advocates said. 
"Zero tolerance has become a one-size-fits-all solution to all the problems that schools confront," said a report accompanying the resolution adopted by the policy-making House of Delegates of the 400,000­member lawyers' organiza­tion. "It has redefined stu­dents as criminals, with unfortunate consequences." 
The ABA resolution, approved without a roll call vote on the closing day of the group's winter meeting, has no legal effect, but advocates hope it will prompt schools to re-evaluate such policies maintained by many of the nation's approximately 14,000 school districts. The policies typically cover weapons. drugs or violence in school. 
Those who oppose zero tol­erance say tho rules have gone too far, with occasion­ally ridiculous results. 
One example in the ABA report: A 12-year-old referred to Louisiana police for tellinH classmates in the lunch line, 'Tm going to get you," if they ate all the pota­toes before it was his turn. 
Supporters of zero toler­ance rules say they help keep schools safe, and that parents and law enforce­

ment  generally  support  
them.  
The  ABA's  House  of  

Delegates also agreed to sev­eral recommendations for changing immigration law. Again, the ABA positions ­these also taken without a recorded vote -have no legal bearing, but the orga­nization likely would back them up with lobbying efforts in Congress. 

The group approved rec­ommending changes to a 1996 anti-terrorism law that has made it far easier for the Immigration and Naturalizaition Service to use secret evidence against noncitizens. The INS typical­ly has done so in cases of suspected terrorism, citing the potential damage to national security if the evi­dence became public. 

is naw accepting applications for the 
THE 

2001-2002
BSE General Boar(:l 



NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editin~; skills. The News Editor man­ages a sraff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content ofthe news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and ediring skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff ofeditors and reporters, generates story idea, and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsibl:a: for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 

Applicants should have features writing and editing experi,~nce. The Scene Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 

Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff ofaccount executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Q_uarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout ofadvertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowiedge ofcomputer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use ofthe system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a freshman majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maimaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand rhe capabilities of the sire. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content ofeach day's newspaper. 
Any fall-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume must be submitted by Friday, Feb. 23 to the basement ofSouth Dining l-Iall. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Souih Dining Hall. Noire Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR 8UlilNESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Ann" Marie Martingly VIEWPOINT EorroR, Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smich SCENE EDITOR, Amanda Greco 
SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Eli:zab,,th L-tng 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvilk 
Wu AJJMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROlllJ!: Bob Woods 
GiW'HICS EDITOR: Jo•e Cuellar 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL [NFO . ...........631-7471 FAX............................................................631-6927 AuVERl'ISING ....... .............................631-6900/8840 
obs,-rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4 542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME.. .. ................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
obscrvcr.obsnews. !@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 ob,crvcr.viewpoinr.J@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s..... ........................................631-4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYS'TEMSfWEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar http://aburver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, r<!Vicws and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhc 
movies/music for 
minute forc:asts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives <o search for 
about The Obs.:rvcr 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
,raff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and onlinc by the srudencs of1he U niversicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coll~. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhc administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right 10 refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accura1ely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprc:senr the opinion of the majoriiy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparcmem cdi1ors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor nc=ily those ofThe Ob>erver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters 10 the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Qunr,o,is regarding Obsm,,rpolicies ,hould be dir~t­rd to EJ11or in ChiefMike Omnoliy. 
Karaoke kills monotony 
I had a hard time coming up with an idea for this week's article, but I didn't want to disappoint all my fans out there (all two of you), so I searched back in my brain to the No. 1 basic rule of writing: Write about what you know. 
And this is what I know: I know that I am a smart young woman with a lot of potential to do great things, but then again. what Saint Mary's or Notre Dame woman is not? I know that I have wonderfully supportive family and friends. A lot of people do. And I know that I am destined to sing the song "You're So Vain" in karaoke and make an absolute fool of myself. 
And I am okay with that. 
What? you ask incredulously. You are going to voluntarily get up in front of your friends and strangers and sing loudly and not-so-much on key into a microphone? 
Oh yes. And I will do it sober, too. 
I'm not proclaiming myself to be some sort of karaoke diva. We have already been over that, and I am not going to go there again. But don't you ever just want to burst out of the skin you wear and jump into one that lets you do what you want, where you want, when you want and not concern yourself with what oth­ers think? 
Both the SMC and ND campuses push diversity like it is going out ofstyle. And they do a pretty good job, too. I have been to more dance shows, art exhibits and talks that have opened my eyes and sparked my interests to the worlds of 

Molly Strzelecki 
Growing Up to 
Be a Kid 
culture and whatnot beyond the LeMans tower and to what awaits me north, south, east and wesi of U.S. 31 come this May. Yet still one thing remains the same, which really bothers me and which boils down to one thing: same thing, different year. 
This message is essentially a real downer, if you think about what it means. With the exception of my sopho­more year spent in Rome, the other three years of college have run a pretty regular course. I look around me and see this year's freshmen and think. wow, was I really that annoying once? Most definitely. 
And that's not a bad thing, either, because we were all there at one point. We all went to the dorm parties and we all tailgated (a lot) and we all go to Corby's on Tuesdays and Heartland on Thursdays and dance our pants off at the 'Backer on the weekends (if you are "of age," that is). I see the same people out and about all the time. to the point where I think I know that kid, but really, no. I just see him or her at the 'Backer. or I sat by them at a football game. 
All of these pseudo-bonding adven­tures eventually become another sort of unwritten tradition and a big part of what social life in the Bend means. But you know, doesn't that get a little tire­some sometimes? 
I don't mean to try and make the SMC and ND social life sound like it is the absolute worst thing on earth. or that it is one big drinking and bar fest, because really the social aspect of college is what you make of it. For some, it is bars and clubs. For others, it is movies and exhibits. And for still others, it is video games and Papa John on speed dial. 
But whatever you decide, remember ... it is your choice. 
Think about that the next time you have absolutely no desire to do thi.5 

Saturday what you have done for the past sixteen Saturdays in a row. even if it means going against everything that all your friends want to do and what they want and think you should do, too. That's kind ofhow I feel about karaoke. I have actually done it a couple of times, but never seriously (wait ... karaoke can be serious?!) and never solo. 
But every now and then I think about and feel the need to bust out a little Carly Simon in front of an audience just for the sake of doing it because I want to. I think it would be fun and I've never done it before. I'm sure a lot of other people have, and it would be no big deal to them. My sister, for one. She goes to karaoke bars every other weekend, and that nervous high that you get when you maybe are about to do something totally out of character does not phase her. 
I am not saying that karaoke is the cure to unleash all that is hidden within you. Not by a long shot, people. But think about that thing. that plan. that adventure that you would love to have. that would make people step back and say, "Wow, there are sides to you that I never knew existed." Or even make them step back and simply say, "Hoo­Wah" while they look at you with new eyes. 
It is the breaking out of that shell that makes me realize that I was wrong in what I said earlier. College does not run a regular path. In fact, I like to say that I have taken many a side road, a scenic route and made a few pit stops along the way. 
Molly Strzelecki is a senior writing major. She can be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys.edu. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Saying goodbye to a legend 
The e-mail from my cousin read, "Dale Earnhardt dies today as a result of injuries sustained in a crash head on into a wall at Daytona. Oh my God!" I read the words 
on the screen and my head began to sp;n. I thought ~~ 
to myself, Dale Earnhardt dead? I couldn't believe ~ it. It just didn't seem possible. I immediately looked up the ESPN Web site and the main head­line glared out at me, "Earnhardt killed at Daytona," and a wave of grief hit me. This man. MThe Man in Black" and "The Intimidator" as fans knew him, was a childhood hero of mine. I can remember several Sundays, sitting around with my father watching Earnhardt's black No. 3 Goodwrench Chevy on television. 
I can remember watching the Daytona 500 in 1998 as he won for the first time. After 19 years of disap­pointment after disappointment the Man in Black had finally won NASCAR's greatest race. On that day, Earnhardt's drive toward Victory Lane was slowed considerably when crew­men from virtually every team poured out onto the pit road to congratulate him with high fives and cheers. Everyone knew he deserved it, everyone knew that the day was some­

thing special. Dale Earnhardt was the active wins leader in the circuit and at Daytona. The Intimidator's seven NASCAH Winston Cup Championship crowns offer all the proof needed to those who question his place in history. Earnhardt was the first driver in the history of the sport to win the rookie of the year award and the series title in back-to-back years. He was the first three-time winner of the Winston Select, and he won three !HOC championships. His racing style helped define a generation of drivers -those who run hard Sunday, then shake hands and exchange congratulations when all is said and done. Dale Earnhardt is truly a legend in the sport of racing, and Sunday at Daytona NASCAR and its fans lost one of our greatest friends and sportsmen. Goodbye, Earnhardt-you will be missed. 
Justin Williams freshman Carroll Hall February 18, 200 I 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

I'M ADDICTED TO 
IT NOW ... BUT IT'S 
WEAR.ING OFF ... 
MUST GET MORE. .. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"ft is the nature ofman as he grows older to protest against change, particularly change for the better. " 
John Steinbeck author 
VIEWPOINT 

O
THE Tuesday, February 20, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Father Mike's memory is harmed by show 
A "triple-domer" and a graduate of Harvard everyone is fair game, and everyone is kept humble. Universitv, Father Mike Mccafferty was one of the five The humor's often outrageous and even bawdy. but for finalists in the search for the successor to Father the most part one would have to imagine that Father Theodore Hesburgh as President of the University of Mike himself is laughing along with the audience. Notre Dame. Father Mike was only 40 years old when Anyone who has attended the Father Mike show in he died on June 12, 1987, of lymphatic can-recent years, however, cannot help but cer. At the time, he served on the facul-~ A wonder if it is the most appropriate ty and administration of the Notre ~ '-./.]\.._, way in which to honor the memory Dame Law School. ,::;, ,:;, of a man who dedicated his 
Among the list of Father £. .a. • short life to Notre Dame and Mike's legacies are the Saint ~~ the Roman Catholic Church. 
~j\V,~
.. 

Thomas More Chapel, ~ Despite the fact that the where the law school dis-SBA reviews all of the plays his stole and a rug evening's scripts and the from his room, as well as Law School administra­the traditional Sunday tion claims to be con-
f£[I] 1 ®

evening Law School litur-cerned about honoring
gics. After his death, the • Father Mike's memory 
Notre Dame Law School · • • o of priestly service, this established a scholarship in weekend's Show features his name. According to the ' ,4 references to "getting 
Student Bar Association p some," one night stands, (SBA), raising funds for that ~ ~ casual sex, alcohol and drug scholarship remains part of the ~ / abuse, John and Bobby association's mission of service to the Kennedy's "sloppy seconds" and a Law School family. classmate's alleged breast augmentation. 
Although few current students had the opportu-In lieu of intelligent humor, some performers nity to know Father Mike, the Law School remembers chose to substitute profanities and bitter potshots at his legacy as a priest, a lawyer and a professor during both stuqents and professors, choosing the path of the the annual Father Mike show, which the SBA sponsors lowest common denominator. In some places, cruel as its primary fundraising activity. The show is sup-jokes and personal attacks created the impression that posed to be a good humored mix of performances and the performers were more mean-spirited than they skits that poke fun at law school professors and st11-were imbued with the spirit of Father Mike. dents alike. The jokes are often pointed and witty -Humor -even sharp satire -is one thing, but in the name of common courtesy and ordinary decency, there is a line to be drawn. It's difficult to understand why the administration of a Catholic law school, which claims to educate "a different kind of lawyer," would have trouble finding the moral courage and clear­headedness to draw that line. Father Mike's memory deserves a little bit more respect, and a little bit less lip service. 
To educate a different kind of lawyer means to edu­cate young lawyers in virtue, to show them the path to holiness and sainthood through the daily sanctification of their legal work by teaching then how o draw closer to Christ. The Father Mike Show in its current incarna­tion fails this mission. If anything, it educates in the path of selfishness over self-giving. 
Words have consequences. Langua:ge is a lawyer's stock and trade and in a sense, it is the tool with which members of the legal profession preside over the orderly and humane administration of society. Saint Thomas More, the patron saint of lawyers, was execut­ed precisely because he refused to act as if words didn't matter. Would it be too much for the SBA and the Law School administration to require participants in the Father Mike Show to think before they speak? Otherwise one wonders if Notre Dame Law School's mission to educate a "different kind oflawyer" is noth­ing more than a hollow phrase. 
Conor Dugan off-campus Michelle Chelvam O'Hara-Grace Hall law students February 19, 200 I 

GUEST COLUMN 
Only you have the power to change your W'orld 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

"Our mission is a world free of poverty," states the World Bank slogan, embla­zoned in huge letters upon its headquar­ters. It's easy to understand why many of us flinch at this. It is, after all, a bank. And to stay in busi­ness. banks have to 
Andrew Banyai

make money. A quick look at the statistics of develop­
The State 

ing nations shows 
News

the gaps between 
the rich and poor 
have been increas­ing since the World Bank started tinker­ing with foreign economies. 
That's probably why the last two U.S. conventions of global development orga­nizations have been met with violence. 
Although I wasn't there, I'm told the World Trade Organization's meeting in Seattle was a chaotic mess. 
The World Bank meeting in Washington, D.C., was much less volatile. I remember seeing more aggression from the D.C. cops than the protesters, but some of the more confrontational activists definitely tried to take matters into their own hands. And it was a little intimidating when they rolled out the miniature tank at the demonstration in front of the Department ofJustice. 
It felt exhilarating to be there. I felt as though I was helping to make a positive difference. That's because at the time, I lacked an understanding of the source of the problem. 
I am the problem. 
In this particular case, I thought the World Bank was responsible for the con­ditions of extreme poverty and hardship in developing nations. I made this connec­tion, I think. because it is the agency responsible for enacting programs to eliminate world poverty. It cleans up our mess, and, in many cases, what it does doesn't work very well. 
But without delving too deeply into eco­nomics, the reason the way people in 
Africa live the way they do is because I 
live the way I do. The notion of raising 
them to our level is an elaborately 
financed joke. My lifestyle, as an 
American, is so exorbitant in the 
resources I consume and the system I 
contribute to that equality on my level is 
structurally impossible. 
It would take five planets' worth of resources to fuel the capitalist machine and balance my overconsumption, and then we might be able to bring them to our industrial level. But until I change what I do, others will continue to suffer. 
And this is just the beginning. 
The biggest hypocrite of all is the American college student environmental­ist. We actually entertain the fantasy that we are having a significant environmental impact by recycling everything in sight, avoiding the use ofplastic, cutting down on frivolous car trips and so on. It dis­tracts us from the tremendous volume of waste and resources the systems we con­tribute to secrete. 
Michigan State, for instance, dispensed 125,884 cubic yards of what's called uncompressed municipal solid waste (an Environmental Protection Agency catego­ry for the stuITyou throw out) during the last fiscal year. And while we have room for improvement, we set a fairly good example as an institution, recycling close to 19 percent of all our municipal solid waste. And there are initiatives on cam­pus to substantially increase this number. 
That's nice. But municipal solid waste only accounts for 2.2 percent of the total 165 pounds of waste you, the average American, will create-today. 
Don't shake your head in disbelief. The MSU power pl~mt, for instance, actually throws out more used coal than we throw out trash. Getting the idea? Have you used the bathroom or taken a shower today? Eaten industrially processed food? Purchased an industrially manufactured shirt? Driven a car? These conveniences add up. 
I do have a point. Social activism strokes the ego. There are seemingly invisible malevolent forces at work all around us, and of course we'd rather be good (than bad}. But the reason you so rarely see Haitian tree­huggers and Zimbabwean ~ environmentalists is not just that they're too busy being hungry. It's also that they're not con• tributing to these problems in nearly the same capacity as we are. 
To put it another way, we have the energy and resources to care about these prob­lems because we consume so much energy and resources. 
Please do not mis­understand me. l would never say recycling and screaming at D.C. cops have no place. They should be very effective in temporarily prolonging our self­destruction. I have always recycled and I will continue to do it. But we should do these things out of guilt, in spite of ourselves. If you believe your lifestyle is positively affecting humanity and your planet, I would disagree. lfyou continue to con­tribute to this society, especially this American society, it is your job to try and minimize your damage as much as possi­ble. 
I've thrown up my hands. convinced fighting the destructive system itself has long been futile. I see two options. 
I can drop out and go learn how to live in the woods. Or, rather than fighting with the system, I can fight within the system to enact social change. 

In this country, there are plenty of opportunities for social change avail­able. Women, when you get your degree, you can expect to make 76 percent as much money as me for performing the same job. Does that anger you? It should. Last week, our president was talking about 
reducing our foreign military commit­ments. This week, 
bombing Iraq is part of his "strate­gy." 
There's madness in every direction. Why aren't we flooding the streets in droves exercising 
our right to peace­fully assemble? Has the sitcom age of 30­
minute comedic problem-solving real­ly reduced my genera­tion to such a pitiful state of apathy? These 
gigantic problems can seem so overwhelming at times, and yet, simultaneous­

ly seem so distant. But Gandhi taught us the power 
of political change lies in the collective presence of the individual. What l mean is, there are great leade:rs, but in the end, only you have control over yourself. 
This article first appeared in the Feb. 19, 2001 issue ofthe Michigan State University newspaper, The State News, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . . 


C<tnec 

page 10 Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Black shakes up classic western rock with Dog 
Black and friends laid most of the ground­CaptainBy JOE REISING 

Dog in the Sand
work for 90s rock music with their early Beefheart 
Scene M"sic Critic 
use of start-stop song dynamics and gener­and Pere Ubu al knack for finding fresh ways around reg­member Eric 
Frank Black
It is usually never a good sign when a ular rock formulas. D r e w band puts their picture on the album No such groundbreaking sounds are to Feldman. 

and the Catholics 
cover. Case in point. every Britney Spears/ be found on Dog in the Sand. Black's off­Backstreet boys! N'Sync record ever made. On a recent tour. Black said that the the -w a 11 A band's picture usually signifies that the band listened to the Rolling Stones' Exile lyrics show 

What Are Records 
music is not good enough to stand alone on Main Street every morning, and Bob up through­and the record companies need to market Dylan's Blonde on Blonde every afternoon. out the song,band members· faces to sell the album. which gives a pretty good idea of Dog in with lines 
Rating
Fortunately, Frank the Sand's overall like, 'Tm in a Black does not have a sound. Beckett 
pretty face. and he and One can easily picture One can easily picture trance/ from ........ his band, the Catholics, halfofthe songs from the half the songs from the all the chemi­are definitely not hash­album pouring out of cals/ and
album pouring out ofthe

ing out flavor-of-the­the jukebox in some when we get there/ the Irish in me is gonna tric piano lament 'Tve Seen Your Picture" year sound to hungry jukebox in some smokey smoky barroom on the claim it for France." Not too many road­drag down the pace a little bit. But even teenage consumers. bar-room on the edge of edge of the desert. The house rock songs can claim to reference these songs are done well and add a few In fact, Dog in the use of the pedal steel existentialist playwrights, or spout off lines more moods and details to the album's
the desert. 

Sand reaches about as guitar throughout the like. "Union pour la promotion de la sepia toned view of the western horizon. far back into rock and album, an instrument propulsion photonique." It is that kind of Frank Black is not going to inspire any western roots as any responsible for much of eccentricity that makes an otherwise good future Nirvanas with Dog in the Sand. But band can reasonably go. As Frank Black that 50s western sound, definitely helps old-fashioned rock song a little more fresh he does do an excellent job re-imagining explains on the W.A.R. Records Web site, create the effect. and challenging. the western roots of old time rock 'n' roll, the album was recorded live onto two But Dog in the Sand is much more than a On "Bullet," Black has fun with the tradi­while still throwing in plenty of his inven­tracks -meaning no studio overdubs or rock revival. It is also a Frank Black tional minor chord stomp of the song, tive oddness at the same time. even edits. Black. hopefully joking, foresees album. and as such. carries with it Black's singing, "If you don't like my melody/ J'll Dog in the Sand is an album worth buy­a time when the band will record on wax penchant for always doing something dif­sing it in a major key/ I'll sing it very happi­ing, both to hear phrases like "In division cylinder, and then, perhaps a release just ferent -both as a singer and lyricist. ly." The Catholics pull off all the western pelagic you were choragic" and simply to on sheet music. "Blast Off," the album's opener, begins genres on the album expertly, but it is hear some great rock tunes. With this 
It may seem strange for Frank Black to with Black singing in a shaky goth voice reassuring to know at the same time that album, Frank Black and the Catholics be embracing such a time-worn rock over slow chords but then quickly breaks they aren't taking themselves too seriously. relive a vintage sound sadly forgotten amid sound. As the former lead singer of the into rowdy rocking beat with pounding Occasionally though, songs like the slow the stacks of discs with pretty faces and not Pixies in the late 80s and early 90s, Frank honky tonk piano courtesy of former sprawling ballad ''I'll Be Blue" or the elec-an ounce of inspiration. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Dither marks noticeable maturity for jam band moe. 
fled their early work, moe. has they still wear glasses.
ByTIM BODONY 
decided to economize. Like the music, the 
Scene Music Critic 
Memorable choruses and capti­lyrics on Dither show a 
vating hooks, bundled into tidy movement towards a 
According to the Merriam­four-minute packages, greatly greater maturity. Webster Dictionary, "dither" overshadow the interplay Earlier songs evoke a means to act nervously or indeci­between guitarists Al Schnier comic book world filled sively. With regards to the new and Chuck Garvey that charac­with flying pigs. giant moe. album, either the guys in terized moe.'s first records. moths, and pinballthe band never bothered to check Nothing exemplifies this shift in machines that openly
if "dither" was a real word after style better than the band's deci­profess, "I can't tell the they decided to use it as the title, sion to break with tradition and difference between/ my or they are exercising remark­record a cover: the mid 80s hit belly button or navel/able humility. "In a Big Country" by Brit rock­ping pong, pool cue, or 
Truth be told, Dither is rnoe.'s ers Big Country. This song has a foosball table.'' While 
most deliberate and mature more hooks than a tackle box, most of moe.'s lyricsrecording to date. Having earned with melodies and harmonies still don't mean any­a reputation for its marathon­being deployed with pop-star thing, one theme does 
length live shows, the band now proficiency -an approach total­manage to rear its seems intent on proving its worth ly absent from any of moe.'s pre­head at various points in the studio as well. This means vious albums. throughout Dither ­placing greater emphasis on Dither even contains moe.'s frustration. songwriting and inevitably call­first ready-for-radio ditty "New In "Faker," ing in some violin players -or York City," a romping quasi­bassist/vocalist Rob 

Photo courtesy of www.moe.org 
maybe even a DJ (moe. recruited Celtic ode to the endearing idio­Derhak depicts the 

DJ Logic, a frequent collaborator Known for single-song jam sessions that last up to an hour, Dither is by far
syncrasies of the Big Apple. But feelings of regret and with Medeski, Martin and Wood). fear not. moe. has not fully recast weakness that come moe.'s most industry standardized album to date. Instead of returning to the themselves in the mold of from just sliding same kind of intricate and Matchbox-twenty. They still through life. while "Rise" plays still fails to equal the group's epic is not completely unfelt. abstract compositions that typi-make plenty of space noises, and upon the unbearable impatience 1996 record, No Doy. The chief In the end, it is hard to believe that one feels when confronted ingredient of that album missing that Dither comes from the same 


with even minor inconveniences, from Dither is Chuck Garvey. band that might jam on the same in this case. a flat tire. Arguably the group's most talent­song for over an hour in concert.
Dither 

The frustration is almost palpa­ed musician, and certainly its But the sleekness of Dither is all ble on "Can't Seem to Find," the most identifiable singer, Garvey part ofmoe.'s master plan. band's most serious lyrical foray stays too far in the background As Rolling Stone editor David
moe. into the ubiquitous topic of seek­on this record. Fricke once wrote, "The secret of ing a mate. Derhak and Schnier penned all great jamming is accomplished Love in the modern age has of the songs (except for ''In a Big songwriting." Nothing encapsu­Fatboy Records more competition than ever, or in Country") and handle all of the lates moe. better than this. The lyrist Schnier's words: "They say lead vocals, leaving Garvey only a material on Dither never quite that time will tell/ and that may limited space in which to assert reaches .the stratosphere, but be true/ but I can't seem to find himself. But his fluid and lively instead provides a solid platform
Rating 

the time to be with you." Such is guitar playing manages to rescue from which I.he band can launch the plight of the sensitive, jet-set­some otherwise mediocre tunes its trademark i1nprovisations. So 
ting rock star. such as "Understand" and to hear this record's full poten­Despite all of its virtues, Dither "Water," so his musical presence tial. go see moe. in concert. 
.......... 

C<tnec 

Tuesday, February 20, 2001 page 11 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Gatecrasher sho~wcases best DJs, effects in trance 
By DAVID FULTON Scene Music Cricic 
"Welcome to the Future," the screen ilashes in unison with the thunderous beats that shakes one to the deepest depths of his or her soul. The screen could not have been more accurate in its message, as Gatecrasher stormed the Point Depot Theater in Dublin with more intensity than a glare from Hannibal Lecter. 
With the current status of the music industry trapped in a monotonous doldrum of pre-packaged pretty boys and repetitious rebels, Gatecrasher provided a glimpse of hope for the future. With six of the biggest names in trance music on the bill, including Judge Jules, Timo Maas, Sander Kleinenberg, DJ Tiesto (who just started his residency at Republic, an English club), Scott Bond and Robbie Butler, the show raised music from one-dimen­sional ear candy to a six hour, mind-blowing, three­dimensional spectacle. 
Based out of Republic, Gatecrasher is quickly becoming a worldwide phenomenon. New Year's Eve brought simultaneous shows in London and Belfast with DJs flown back and forth after sets. The travelling dance club has already done several shows in South Africa, New York and parts of Asia with a load of shows scheduled all over the world, including the United States in the Summer of 2001. appropriate trance flavored intro of U2's "Where the 
With more than 20 past and present resident DJs from Streets Have No Name." the club enlisted in the tour, painting the globe in the bril­From there Tiesto took the crowd on a sonic voyage liant musical colors of trance should not be difficult. that at times seemed to be moving in slow motion, while 
Much like the Grateful Dead, the true brilliance of moving dangerously at the speed of light at others. Even a trance music is in its live performance. With a light show monk would have had a hard time standing still as on par with any Pink Floyd concert, flashing images that Tiesto's music infected the crowd like a dancing virus. He both exhilarate and disturb, a sound system powerful and himself could be seen gyrating with a sly grin on his face 
clear enough to wake the dead and 7,000 bodies writhing and dancing, the music was given life. Where most With a light show on par music performances of today focus 
with any Pink Floyd concert, 
on the artist, here the focus was put 
flashing images that both 
on the music, with each DJ only visi­ble as a mysterious shadowy Victor exhilarate and disturb, a Frankenstein among the spastic sound system powerful and lights waiting to bring his creation to 
clear enough to wake the 
life. In fact. a clear distinction 
dead and 7,000 bodies
between the DJs was difficult to find. As one finished his set, another was writhing and dancing, the there to seamlessly continue the blitz 
music was given life. 


Clockwise from top left, Sander Kleinenberg, Scott Bond, Judge Jules and DJ reaj pleasure of the evening came Tiesto collectively form Gatecrasher, an immense techno/trance festival during DJ Tiesto's set. The 32-year­tour traveling the wor1d in promotion of their music. old Tiesto took the stage to a rather of beats leaving sounds of silence few 
and far between. There is much credit to be given to 
DJs. Many refuse to dignify them with the title of musi­
cians, claiming they do not sing, play instruments or even 
write their own songs. Some even go so far as to group them with the highly unoriginal Puff Daddy as rip-off artists. But lumping a trance DJ and Puff Daddy together is giving Mr. Daddy too much credit. It is true -they do not sing. and most do not write their own songs, but they do play instruments, as unconventional as it may be. The mammoth rig of turntables and records is as much their instrument as a Fender Stratocaster was for Jimi Hendrix. Where as Hendrix played his instrument, DJs knit theirs into a brilliant web of color­ful tones and beats that entangle the listener in its maze of sound. Each DJ provided his own blend of style, record selection and beats, which meshed together during transitions. While sets by all of the DJs were carried out with brilliant style and flawless performance, the 

behind the massive rack of equip­ment. 
The Holland native has quickly become one of the most successful producers in trance music and helped form Black Hole Recordings. With numerous albums under his belt, including the highly rated Magik series, he continues to impress critics and is currently working on an album of original compositions. He has his own dis­tinct style that not only compliments the songs on his decks, but also transforms them into vivid musical works of art. 
Tiesto's performance offers a bit more flash than that of the others. At one point he threw his arms into the air and stood tall gazing into the audience, like an ancient pagan priest holding court to thousands of followers during a rit­ual sacrifice. His music is almost sexual in nature as it slowly builds until peaking in an orgasm of sound that washes over everyone in earshot. 
While some trance DJs attempt to beat the listener to death with thunderous blasts of' bass, Tiesto chooses a more melodic and smoother approach, as evident in his performance. He takes a melody line and repeats it while dropping the bass completely out of the mix, thus giving the listener almost a sense that they are floating in the surrounding sound waves. 
Slowly, cymbals re-enter followed by beats that increase in speed and audibility. With lights strobing and images flashing in time with the music, everything reaches a crest just before a sensory overload and the viewer/listener rides out the sonic wave in a rush of audio-visual ecstasy 
Once the last loop ofTiesto's encore had died away, the lion logos 0ooking quite similar to the lions on the label of Lowenbrau beer) that flanked the stage had flashed for the last time, and the house lights came up -the audi­ence was brought back to reality. T\Je reality they came back to was lacking in comparison to where they had just been. The musical journey to ecstasy .and back had ended. 
Check the Web site www.Gatecrasher.co.uk for listings offuture concerts. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Mindless of populctr trends, Jeff Beck finds succes~; again 
By GREG RUEHLMANN Scene Music Cricic 
When guitar legend Jeff Beck released Who Else! in 1999, fans and critics alike rejoiced. Who Else! was the first new studio album from the former Yardbird in 10 years, and showcased his surprisingly diverse musical tastes and talents. Most surpris­ing perhaps was the grizzled vet­eran's use of newer electronic beats to support his Stratocaster. 
Who Else! was a success, both commercially and critically. Yet it was Carlos Santana, another famous guitarist from days past, who took the spotlight that year by adapting his sound for today's audience -through his memo­rable Supernatural. However, unlike Santana, Beck didn't need a U-Haul to take all his Grammys home in 1999. Who Else! did earn him a Grammy nomination for Best Rock Instrumental Performance. 
Most fans were certain that scv­eral years would pa.ss before Beck again emerged with a studio album. But, as was shown on Who Else!, Beck is a man of many surprises. He toured briefly, and then returned to the 5tudio. The result is You Had It Coming, a solid album which presents the classic, bluesy wail of Beck's gui­tar against the backdrop of decid­edly modern dance beats and drum loops. 
You Had It Coming starts on a high note with "Earthquake." It's the kind of song sports teams use to pump up the crowd. "Earthquake" is a pounding repe­tition of guitar and keyboards, and even includes some vocals, which are rare on Beck albums. On another of the album·s finer tracks, "Rollin' and Tumblin'," Beck gets vocal help from promis­ing newcomer lmo~ren Heap. Heap's seductive voice carries the song. 
But for the most pari Beck lets his guitar do the talking. Remarkably, he only uses one guitar, at one setting, for nearly the entire album. This gives the work an overall good continuity, but it also gives some songs like "Roy's Toy" and "Dirty Mind" so much similarity that they seem to be indistinguishable. 
As usual, Beck coaxes an impressively varied number of sounds from his guitar. The album's real jewel is an instru­mental called "Nadia," originally written and recorded by Indian pop star Nitin Sawhney. In the hands of a master like Beck, nothing is lost in the translation from raja to rock song. His guitar perfectly mimics the styles of the Far East in this gorgeous, wistful piece. 
Though You Had It Coming is a good rock album. it isn't likely to earn Beck much more popular airplay. It's simply not commer­cial enough. 
What seems to distinguish Beck from more commercial guitarists like Santana or Eric Clapton is Beck's willingness to experiment in whatever he pleases, without concern for album sales. The finest example from You Had It Coming is an intriguing song called "Blackbird." It features the recorded call of a blackbird cou­pled with Beck's best attempts to mimic the bird's notes with his instrument. 

Because of his experimental flare, Beck's name is likely to remain familiar only to serious music fans. This is surprising for a man who has been one of the world's finest guitarists for more than 35 years. and has played alongside the likes of Rod Stewart and Mick Jagger. 
But no one seems less disturbed by his lack of publicity than Beck hjmself. He has a tendency to sud­denly disappear from music for years at a tin1e, neither recording nor touring. But even if Beck decides to take another long sab­batical. with You Had It Coming he has given his fans further proof that he is always worth the wait. 


page 12 

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
CLUB SPORTS 

Ski team takes 2nd place in MCSA Championship 
anchored the women's water points.

Spcci..l to the Observer and Kathryn Deely both took Salllng
polo team, as they swept all 

She then went on to tie for seconds on consecutive days in The Notre Dame sailing club
comers this weekend in the

Led by strong performances third with a member of the Novice Fences. earned the right to representby Leigh llellrung and Molly Irish Invitational. Ohio State men's team in open 
In flat competition, Kelly the district this year at the 
Munstrer. the Notre Dame ski The Irish opened with a air pistol, scoring 551 of 600. Gentine took second in inter­
Charleston Spring
thriller, as Liz Parolin found

Learn took second at the MCSA These results are expected to mediates, while Mastej fin­Intersectional at the College of 
Regional Championships. St. the back of the net with sec­earn Salb a return trip to the ished second in open. 
Charleston. 

Olafs Look home the champi­onds remaining in regulation Nationals when qualifiers are The team is currently 
Each of the 18 districts 
onship. to knot the score with Purdue announced. 
ranked third in the region, and nationally sends its best repre­at 7-7.
Hellrung posted one of the will compete once more at sentative, and the field glit­
Another goal by Parolin in

best Irish performances in Gymnastics Purdue on March 25. tered with many of the best
overtime forced the contest

school history this weekend, at Nine of the Midwest's elite varsity teams in the country,
into sudden death, where

the MCSA Regional teams met this weekend at Ultimate including Saint Mary's,
Smith came up big with sever­Championships. St. Olafs var­the Purdue Golden Grips. An The University of Cincinatti's Stanford, Coast Guard and 

a I outstanding saves and

sity squad, ranked fifth nation­Irish team depleted by both defending national champion
Arctic Vogue, the traditional
freshman Allison Gienko

ally, was one of a half dozen Charleston.
injury and JPW managed a season kick off' for both the
scored on a lob shot to clinch

varsity teams ranked national­fourth place finish behind the men and women of the R. J. Wolney and Katie
a 9-8 victory.

ly in the top 20 participating, efforts of Mickey McGarry and Ultimate club, was played Roney placed 11th in the A
The Irish then tamed the

including Minnesota, Jason Miller. Division, while Jack Gaither

once again in conditions thatWildcats of Northwestern, 6-3,
Wisconsin Madison, Wisconsin McGarry's 9.4 placed him seemed arctic. and Amy O'Connor placed
behind the balanced scoring of

Lacrosse and Northern second in the vault and an 8.8 The women dropped their 14th in the B Division. The
Sarah Todnem. Lauren

Michigan. put him fourth in the floor, opening two games to Illinois, sailors raced 420's in this
Kuzniar, Margot Klosterman

With nearly 100 top varsity Miller. still recovering from 15-7, and Ohio U., 10-8, event, which signals the start
and Parolin.

and club racers competing. shoulder surgery, scored a 9.2 before rebounding with a 13-6 of the spring season.
The third game was another

including those from national­on the vault to claim sixth in win over Ohio State.
hard fought game with a third

ly ranked varsity programs, the event. 
On Sunday, the Irish started Men's Volleyball 
Big 10 opponent. Illinois.

Hellrung captured silver in the Emily Smith had an out­strong, beating Michigan 5-4 A promising season slammedBridgette Alge had an excep­
slalom on Saturday. standing meet for the Irish. as behind the strong cup defense into a roadblock this weekend,
tional game for the Irish in

On Sunday, Hellrung then her first in the floor, second of Julie Schutte and an attack as the Irish managed to win
hole defense, while Lauren

blitzed the course and won on the uneven bars and third spearheaded by Mia Stephen. only one of four matches at the
Kuzniar exploded for five

the gold in the Giant Slalom, on the balance beam. tied her As all teams with members on Midwest 10 Conference play­
goals out of the hole as the

as she was crowned individual for first in the all-around. JPW, the squad was down to offs at Northern Illinois.
Irish pulled away to an 8-5

regional champion. The per­Erin Henry helped the short­eight players, including rookie Seven Irish missed the con­
victory.

formance garnered Hellrung a handed squad to a 115.7 Julia Dickenson, who made test due to JPW, forcing the
In the finale, the Irish posted

trip to the Nationals at Bogus result. with a fourth on the some key catches. Fellow squad to play shorthanded all
Angie Gaul in goal, and fea­

Basin, Idaho in March. bars and a sixth in the Vault. rookie Naomi Cordell and weekend. The club opened
tured Klosterman, Katie

Molly Munsterer, the Irish's The Irish will compete next Schute both played hurt in the with straight game losses to
Kleber and Deana Brewer in

other reigning Divisional weekend at Indiana. semifinal, a 13-6 loss to Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Ball
attack as they overwhelmed

champion, was in seventh Indiana. State, before extending
Grand Valley State, 12-1. The

place after the first run and on The men salvaged a string of Wisconsin-Milwaukee to three
Irish will travel to Purdue next Equestrian

pace to challenge teammate comeback wins as they opened games behind the strong play
weekend. St. Mary's of the Woods

Hellrung in the slalom. But the season with victories over of Scott Hapemen. 
College was the bone-chilling

Munsterer had a disappointing Miami OH (13-10), Vanderbilt Sophomores Andrew
venue for this weekend's

second run. Munsterer did fin­Pistol (13-5) and Ball State {13-10). Mascarenhas and Brian Price
show, where the Notre

ish a very respectable ninth in Tes Salb, Notre Dame's Against the Cardinals, the displayed the skills that gar­
Dame/Saint Mary's equestri­

the Giant Slalom, with Allana returning All American in pis­Irish were down 7-2 at half­nered them All-Conference
ans finished a strong third in a

Lungren 23rd. tol shooting opened her quest time before roaring back for nominations in the three game
deep field.

Jennifer Caswell, and Ellen for the national championship eight straight scores. victory over Wisconsin­
First place ribbons were

Block also posted four qualify­with a huge win at Ohio State The club then lost to a club Whitewater. Jon Linzer, Aidas
awarded to Diana Mastej in

ing runs for the Irish, and both this weekend. Salb. a member team, Team Comet, 14-12, Kuolas, Chris Nickele, Jim
open fences and Jennifer

finished among the top half of of the varsity fencing team, before falling to Ohio State in Lowder. Corey Berghoefer and
Pojunas in Intermediate Flat,

the field. finished second among all the playoffs. 13-3. Seven Pete Strottman all played
which qualified her for the 

women in last year's Olympic rookies debuted for the Irish. solidly.
Regionals.

tryouts. Up next for the team, the The Irish will return to the
Women's Water Polo Pojunas also placed second
This weekend Salb placed club will travel to the warmer courts this Thursday, when
A dominating performance in intermediate fences, while

first in women's air pistol, climes of Louisiana for the they host Western Michigan at
by Lisa Thomas in goal newcomers Laura Anderson
scoring 370 of a possible 400 Mardi Gras Invitational. 7:30 p.m. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edi, 
all classifieds for con1en1 without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW Graduate Fellowships in Cell and B-Two -the bananas visited me in 
WANTED 
BLACK FEMALE ROOMATE IN CASTLEPOINT $350 271-7195 
Models Wanted Females Long black or dark brown hair for portrait & glamour photography Call chuck@ 616-687-3800 
Reliable, quality childcare needed in my home tor 2-year-old and intanr. Part-time hours are 2-3 hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1 Saturday a month. Majoring in early childhood development or child­hood education with own trans­portation a plus but not necessary. References required. Phone 288-6795 
LOST AND FOUND 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: For a loat gold and silver bracelet with alternating sliver and gold blocks, If found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email phillips.75@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 200l /02&summer 272­6306 
3-5 bedroom homes 
close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
NICE HOME NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097 
All the good houses are not gone! Available 4 bedroom. 
Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291­2209 macos@michiana.org 
2-4 person house for rent. Newly renovated three blocks from campus call 219-298·3800 
2 Houses, side by side, still avail. For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6 BR, 
Furnished, beach V-ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947 Greg 
VISITORS OR OTHER SMC/ND EVENTS: Why not reserve Iii clos­est to ND Na fully furnished condo containing kitchen with refrigerator, microwave, disposal, dishware, laundry facility and fireplace on !he corner of Ivy Rd. & Edison Rd? Available tor extended stay or for weekends. Contact Unicorn Management at 219-232-1242 for assistance or leave message on the reservations line 219-273-IVYND 
FOR SALE 
BRONCO II 5spd $1000obo 4-3472 
$$ Get paid lor your opinions!$$ Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­vey! www.money4opinions.com 
PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR· CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 634-1146 CLAUDIA 634-421 OSARA Molecular Physiology 
Full time Ph.D. student research fef­lowships are available in the Cell and Molecular Physiology Graduate Program of Loyola University Chicago. Reasearch areas include ion channel molecular biology, bio­physics and biochemistry, cardiac electrophysiology, calcium dynam­ics and excitationcontraction cou­pling, signal transduction, neuro• physiology, and neral and immune components of trauma and injury biology. Applications are sought from individuals motivated to become biomedical research scien­tists. See our web page at 
www.meddean.iuc.edu/iumen/Dept Webs/physic or contact Dr. Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch Schoof of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood IL 60153. TelephOne (708) 327-2470, e-mail sjones@iurnc.edu. Loyola University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
NORDIC TRACK FOR SALE. GOOD CONDITION. $250 0/b/o 289-2370 
PERSONAL 

Sophomore managers, you still rock (recruiters you rule) -Kronk 
Francine -I'm expecting birthday presents on the 30th ......... of February 
WAKE THE F UP · IT's MARDI GRASf!I 
He really is a chiropractor, Sam 
Happy 20th, Katie "Britney Spears" Malmquistllt Love Conto and Sam 
Hope you're sober enough to read this at lunch 
10,000 mullets were cut in effigy today 
Kendall -any luck creating that nor­mal box yet? f'm waiting for the millions that will come with it! 
Molly -sleeping through your sis­ter's phone calls will not be tolerat­ed. Love, Murray 
the office tonight. They missed yo a lot. 
Renee-Why haven't we figured out how to use the tools properly yet? 
Grovel or hit the road! 

Ex-roomie . The auction would have been a huge success if you were there to bid on a certain Italian Station 
Karen • you know you love Karl Marx! 
What's up to Kris and Hill from Kif Doll 
Mer -Beware of horoscopes! Especially horoscopes on February 281 
I am working on a plan for pants, right????? 
Canto and Barrboy forever ... 

Mer and Ren -please forward my mail to the basement of South Dining Hall. 
I am being held captive at the sports desk by ........... . 
' Tuesday, February 20, 200I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

page 13 
Sug;x)rt existj.ng prcx;r-rarrs 
Cultivate are:rgjrg icrns 

Cra:lten:winitiatives... 

FurxliJv Available 

Come to l.010 Flanner Hall or.L March 1 at 7:00 p.m. 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I ·• I 
I 
I I I I 
I I I I I 
_. I 
I 
I
For more information please call 1-4447 I or visit: http:/ /ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/ 
page 14 
Wo1Den 
continued from page 20 
Sophomore Tameisha King performed solidly in the 60­meter hurdles and the long jump, earning third-place in the long jump and fourth in the hur­dles. Piane said King was not satisfied. 
"It' vou asked her, she'd tell 

you she could have done better 
in both," Piane said. 
King's long jump of 19-11 was a full foot behind Seton Hall's Nolle Graham. Gina Harris of Miami also jumped 19-11 but topped King with a longer sec­ond-best jump. 
In the hurdles, King entered the finals with the second-best qualifying time, before taking fourth in 8.49 seconds. Her per­formance provided five valuable poinl'i for the Irish. 
"She did a good job in the hur­dles for us," said Winsor. "She'll be the first person to admit that she could have taken second in the long jump." 
Kristen Dodd surprised coach­es and teammates alike, scoring in both the 60-meters and the 400-meters. 
Dodd was entered in the 60­meter dash more for experience than to cam points, yet she became the only lrish athlete to qualify for the finals in that event. Dodd 's time of 7. 73 sec­onds earned the Irish two valu­able points. 
In the 400-meters, sophomore Kymia Love took sixth place in 
56.16 seconds, while Dodd took eighth, running 57 .30. 
Because the 200-meters immediately followed the 400, 
t:tJ1:a:a :!EDI 
llllllll IIIID , _..,....--, ·-·. ~
-~ r· 
!; li .... 
mtm 
Grow did not compete in the 
shorter race, despite owning the 
best Irish time. Dodd's class­
mate, Ayesha Boyd, made up for 
Grow's absence, placing eighth 
in 25.27 seconds. 
Freshman Megan Johnson 
scored the only Irish points in a 
distance race, placing fifth in the 
mile in 4:57 .26. Sophomore 
Jennifer Handley just missed 
scoring in the 3,000 meters, 
placing ninth in 9:48.45. 
In the high jump, freshman Jennifer Kearney took sixth in her first ever away meet, clear­ing the bar at 5-4. 
"She had one good attempt at 5-6." Winsor said. "She needs to mature as an athlete and not let circumstances get under her skin and affect the way she's going to compete." 
In the pentathlon, sophomore Betsy Lazzeri placed seventh, accumulating 3375 points. Fifth­year shot-putter Emily Bienko just missed the finals in the shot­put as her throw of 42-9 placed eleventh overall. 
"l was really surprised that Emily's throw did not make the finals," Winsor said. "Her third throw was her best throw and I think she would have been able to score for us." 
The Irish also earned valuable points in the relays. In the 4x400-meter relay, the team of Grow, Love, Dodd and Boyd took fifth, finishing in 3:44. 73. 
In the 2-mile relay, the team of Johnson, Leanne Brady, Rachel Endress and Kristen Flood took seventh. 
The final relay, the distance medley, earned the Irish 2 points in placing seventh. Amanda Alvarez, Peterson, Flood and Endress finished in 12:13.20. 

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 2001 

* 


page 15

Tuesday, February 20, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in Campus Minist y 

Beginning Monday, February 5 through February 23 
Sign-up for Senior Retreat #5 (March 2-3, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at www.nd.edu/..-ministry/seniorform.htm1 
Beginning Monday. February 19 lb.rough February 23 
Sign-up Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #65 (March 30-April 1, 2001) Pick up applications at l 03 Hesburgh Library or print one out online atwww.nd.edu/ -ministry/ ndeform.html 
Monday-Tuesday, February 19-20. 11 :30 pm-10:00prn St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. February 20. 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February 20, 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation -Session #9 
Wednesday. February 21. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday. February 22. 6:30 p.m. 201 De Bartolo 
RCIA Study Session 
Frid~y. February 23 ~•~ , ;,fffi1llllliiit. 
Morrissey Chapel ..,_.,.... 1111 1 • f -~ 
807-A new Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday-Saturday. February 23-24 Angela House 
Coro Primavera Retreat 
Friday-Saturday. February 23-24 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Freshmen Retreat #34 
Friday-Sunday, February 23-25 Central Illinois 
Handbell & Celebration Choir Tour 
Sunday. February 25, 10:00 a.m. Notre Dame Room. LaFortune 
RCIAClass Mass at 11 :45 a.m. 
Sunday, February 25, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. J. Steele, c.s.c. 
Sunday, February 25. 2:00 p.m. McKenna Hall. CCE 
Confirmation: An Afternoon of Recollection We Live What We Believe: Sexuality & Christian Marriage, 
Sunday. February 25. 8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Collegium Concert 
Beginning Monday. February 26 through March 26 
Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #35 (February 23-24, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at www.nd.edu/,-,ministrylfreshmanform.html 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Opening March 2001 
Coleman-Morse Center 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 J03 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
email ministry. l@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
Fasting or giving something up for Lent may seem like Medieval leftover and abour as relevant as 


Faith FAQs
sdf-flagellation. Yet fasting or abstain­ing from things we enjoy for the sake of spiritual progress makes more sense for us today than ever. 

?Catholic fact~ 
Daily life today is smothered in conveniences-from instant foods to palm pilots and cell 

Why do we 
fan during lent? 
phones to video games. Hav­ing everything we could want and more can fool us into a complacency about our material abundance. Three things can happen when we get too comfortable. We can loose a sense of our need for God. It becomes easier to forget that the vast majority of the world's people live in severe poverty. And the pursuit of still more can preoccupy our endeavors. 
Fasting, prayer, and works of charity, as the Church recommends during Lent, break through the spiritual barrier of material over-abundance. The ancient wisdom of the monastic tradition tells us that if we can control the permissable desires, we will be 
better suited to control the 
impermissablc ones. That is,
Three thingi can happen when we get too comfortable. 

fasting builds what John Paul 
We can loo~e aieme of our need for 6od. It becomei II calls the virtue ofself 
mastery, the foundation upon
ea~ier to forget that the vait majority ofthe world'ipeople which the life of virtue is 
built. In addition ro the
live in ~evere poverty. And the punuit of ~till more can ancient truths, today we have 
some more immediate
preoccupy our endeavon. 

reasons, as well. Especially in a place as prosperous and enclosed as Notre Dame we need to be reminded that we are not the center of our world. Fasting combined with prayer opens us to our need for God. The practices of Lent can also fuel a spirit of generosity which leads us out of ourselves toward others who may need what we can give. In short, prayer, fasting and works of charity can awaken us again to the life of the Gospel. 
fver wonder why we a1 Catholici do what we do or believe what we believe~ Plea1e \end m your queitioml commen« and rnggeitiom to mini~try.1@nd.edu. 
Friday Night Mass 


A new Mass on Friday Nights 
starts this Friday @ 8 :00 pn1 
(Who are we kidding? lt111 really start around 8:07 ... hence the name) 
Morrissey Chapel ... a great new way to kickoff the weekend. 


The Love Patrol is on the pr wl ... 
--ii 

No G,iv~dt~v l-ov~ 
C-omi~ Safvvd@~, M@v-e,,h 24th 
r 

page l 6 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
Men 
continued from page 20 
clearing 6-5. 
"lie was sore," Winsor said. "It would have been a good thing if he could have hit the next height. He was working on a sore knee, and he gave us what he had." 
The Irish ea.med valuable points in the triple jump as freshman Godwin Mbagwu pulled out a jump of 48-2 on hi'i final atlcmpt to take second in the event. 
Sophomore Scott Kelley took sixth, hopping 44-11. 
"For a freshman to come through and move from fourth to second place on his last jump was very encouraging," Winsor said. "We couldn't be prouder of him." 
In the pole vault, junior Josh Heck and sophomore Nate Cahill broke out of season-long strug­gles to take second and fifth, respectively. Both athletes cleared 15-9, but Heck took sec­ond by virtue of less misses. 
"Both of them vaulted better," Winsor said. "They're still not where they need to be, where they want to be. We have two vaulters who can do some major damage outdoors." 
The Irish performed less than expected in the long jump. Sophomore Tom Gilbert, expect­ed to contend for first, took sixth, jumping 22-7. far less than his season best. Mbagwu took sev­enth, jumping 22-1. 
"I think it was just chalk it up 
to a had day," Winsor said. "We 
didn't get done what we needed 
to get done." 
Gilbert raced the 200-mcter 
preliminaries at the same time as the long jump. 
His sprinting appeared to affect his jumping, according to Winsor. Winsor expects Gilbert to be able to excel in both events, as 2000 graduate Marshaun West did throughout his Irish career. 
"We knew we were asking Tom Gilbert to put forth an effort that's not easy: to run the 200­meters and the long jump at the same time," Winsor said. "Those are things that we have to ask out ofour better athletes." 
In the sprints. the Irish failed to perform up to their capability, sending only two athletes to the finals. 
"The sprinters' performance as a whole was disappointing," said senior Terry Wray. "We didn't do what we prepared to 
do." 
Senior Travis Davey qualified for the last race in the 60­meters. finishing seventh in 6.99 seconds, only a hair ahead of former Notre Dame football player Cooper Rego, who was running for West Virginia. 
In the 400-meters, freshman James Bracken took sixth, finish­ing in 49.46 seconds in only his second time ever running on a 200-meter track. 
Wray, junior Mike Mansour 
and sophomore Nick Setta all 
failed to make finals in the 500­
m e ters, an event all three 
excelled in throughout the 
indoor season. 
The Irish came back to take 
fourth in the 4x400-meter relay. 
The team of tSetta, Wray, 
Bracken and Mansour finished in 
3:17.09. 
"We didn't place as high as we 
wanted to," Wray said. "but it 
was one of our best times of the 
season." 


Tuesday, February 20, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
Irish's offense recorded their low­est point tot.al of the season. 
"Coach stressed that we have to get back to our transition game," Joyce said. "We haven't hePn able to run as effectively as we would like to." 
Whether it's fair or not, the loss to the Scarlet Knights will domi­nate conversation for the next few weeks, until the Big East tournament. Just like the Connecticut victory caused maybe too much optimism. Urn Hutgers defeat may cause too much pessimism. 
"You can't take anything away from Rutgers because they're a good team," Joyce said. "But it was just very disappointing when we knew we had the potential to have an undefeated season. Now we've got to readjust and take care of business." 

The tasty Rodeo Cheeseburger for 99C. 
(Cowboy hat, boots and lasso sold separately.) 

Got the urge?'" 
The delicious, flame-broiled Rodeo Cheeseburger. 
Just ride in, saddle up to the counter and try a tasty, flame-broiled burger topped with melted cheese, crispy onion rings and tangy BULL.:S-EYE~ BBQ sauce for only 99~. Hey, at that price you can afford to feed your whole posse on 'em. 


page 17 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles hope ner1ves ground Flying D·utch 
and No. 1 in the MIAA. Their By KATIE McVOY last loss was Dec. 7. Assistant Sporn Editor Saint Mary's will play without 
Kristen Math and Leighanne 
The Belles are counting on Matesich again tonight. This nerves to play an important could cause a problem against role in round one of the MIAA Hope's strong bench. Hope playoffs as they take on the head coach Brian Morehouse Flying Dutch of Hope College. uses his bench frequently, tak­They're hoping the No. l­ing advantage of his team's ranked Hying Dutch will be too depth. tense to play their best. Smith, however, will have to 
"l think Hope might be a little work without that depth. nervous from the last time they "Right now we don't have a were up here," head coach lot of depth,' Smith said. Suzanne Smith said. "You lose "We've had a lot of injury." one [tournament game) and Smith will keep her regular you're oul. There's added pres­starting rotation: sophomore sure on them." guard Katie Christiansen. 
The last time Saint Mary's senior guard Julie Norman, faced Hope, junior guard the Belles M a r y lost by 16, Campione and
"You lose one [tourna­
but led by post players 
as much as ment game] and you're junior Anne six during out. There's added pres­Blair and the first half junior Kelly
sure on them [Hope].,, 
of play. Roberts. Coming in "We'll stick as the Suzanne Smith with what's 
working and

underdog, head coach 
the Belles see what hap-are not pens," Smith 
expecting to said. worry about Saint Mary's their own nerves. is ready to face off against a 
"We should feel good about tough Hope defense that going up there [to Hope]." switches between zone and Smith said. "Our focus is play­man-to-man coverage. ing up to our potential." "Offensively. we have to be 
After two strong perfor­ready for a lot of pressure," mances against Hope, Saint Smith said. Mary's is looking for a tough Hope's strong post players 
match-up even though the will be the main hurdle for the Belles are ranked last and the Saint Mary's offense. Junior Flying Dutch are in first. Laura Poppema has consistent­
"I think it should be a good ly led the Flying Dutch on match-up," Smith said. "Both offense. times we've played Hope we've "On the defensive side they 
played our best and I think have a lot of post players," we'll come out there [today] Smith said. "So we have to be ready to play." ready to defend the inside." 
Saint Mary's (8-18, 2-12 in Although the Belles usually the MIAA) enters tonight's tour­focus better on the road. Smith 
nament game after ending the would like to have the support regular season with a loss to of the home fans during Kalamazoo on Saturday. Hope tonight's game. (22-2, 14-0 in the MIAA) is rid­"Obviously we would love to ing an 18-game winning streak. play here with crowd," Smith 
The Flying Dutch are ranked said. "But it's a short trip, so it third in the NCAA Division III shouldn't be bad." 
Notre Dame Film. Television. and Theatre presents 

Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $1 6 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 -81 28. 
7 I I I I I I I I 
r 
! 
I page 18 Tuesday, February 20, 2001
I The Obseroer . SPORTS 
I 
! : 'El Papoose' belongs in the ring
I 
I 
I 
You're not going to see him on HBO or a pay-per-view fight on channel 128. 
You won't even see him box­ing in Bengal Bouts later this week at the Joyce Center. You'll prob­ably never get to see Edward llernandcz III, a Notre Dame junior from Lubbock, Texas, who sports somewhere near a 90-8 career record as an amateur boxer, lace 'em up and step into the ring. 
And that's a shame. 
Hernandez started boxing under the guidance of his dad at tho Boys and Girls Club when he was younger but didn't decide to devote himself l.o just one sport until his senior year of high school. 

"I was seeing guys that I had fought when I was little, and they were doing really well," he said. "I was just like. 'Man, I'm better than these guys.' I'll get a slate championship. It's cool with me. That just motivated me. seeing other people that I knew that I was better than. It motivated me to see how far I could go." 
There's probably a lot of guys out there who wish he hadn't gotten quite so motivated. The Texas State Championship in 1998 as a 147-pound fighter was a nice sidebar to being named the Texas Amateur Athletic Federation Athlete of the Year. 
That was good for the 10 spot in the national rankings. 
Hernandez describes himself as a finesse fighter, and prefers that style to that of lighters who just go out and wail away. His taste might differ from those of us who'll plop down the 50 bucks, buy (and then return) the big screen TV, and invite some people over to watch a fight. 
"l think most pcople ... IthinkJ ... when boxers move and throw straight shots, and move and throw straight shots ... they're scared," he said. "Whereas they want to see peo­ple just slug it out, go toc-l.o-toe. That's no skill. That's just: 'Let's see who lands ... the lucky shot first.'" 
To develop his personal mas­tery of this "hidden art" of box­ing, Hernandez has watched the styles of many fighters, from the great Ali to many of today's best. 
"l really like De La Hoya, and 1 really like Sugar Shane [Mosely!. and Roy Jones, Jr. -those are all pure boxers. They don't depend on knockouts, they don't depend on just one punch. They're boxers. They can do it all," Hernandez said. 
"They'rl~ smart fightArs, but they're not afraid to stand in there and slug it out if they need to. And that's what I respect." 
Given bolh the unique nature of the competition and training involved in boxing, I.he lessons 'earned between the ropes serve Hernandez well whatever he's doing. 
"I would definitely say that the mentality in the ring of depend­ing on myself, doing what I need to do to win the fight is exactly doing what I need to do to win in life," he said. 
So with all his other accolades 

Ted Fox 
Fox Sports... 
Almost 
and his true understanding of 
the sport. it probably comes as 
no surprise that this fighter who 
likes to jab and weave won 
Bengal Bouts fighting in the 150 
pound weight class as a fresh­
man. 
What might surprise you is 
that the boxer known as ..El 
Papoose" isn't allowed to tight in 
Bengals any more. 
"They told me that I was a lia­bility," Hernandez said. "If someone were to get hurt while they were in the ring with me the question would arise that should that person even have been in the ring with me." 
Speaking from the perspective of someone who's been around the ring his entire life. he told me that the real danger lies in having two inexperienced fight­ers who might get llustered and then try to retaliate when they get hit. 
"Anybody that knows anything about boxing knows that there's definitely more opportunity to get hurt with two beginners than two skilled fighters." he said. 
Furthermore, when he was fighting in the Bouts his fresh­man year, Hernandez says he was never told his performance in the ring was a cause for con­cern. 
And in a way that wasn't cocky or self-absorbed but sim­pJy straightforward, he said: ''l think part of the reason was, too ... that they didn't think I could be beat. I think that was really unfair because they're the ones that should know what Bengal Bouts is about [raising money for charity]. and it's not about winning or losing, and ( think they lost sight of that." 
I talked to Rich O'Leary. a member of the Bengal Bouts administration, and he told me that it was much more ofa fair­ness issue than a safety concern that made for the final decision. 

no other tournament like it, and Trust me, Edward. A lot of us column are those ofthe author that's why I'd like to be a part of wish you were, too. and not necessarily those ofthe it." The views expressed in this Observer 
Vv V F I P R E S E N T S= 
C l a 

. . .., 
' ,i ., 
,_ ~ ­
l) 
live TOESDl... Y 
7:30 P~i
in-studio . 

•BRIDGING
acoustic 

ncrformance THE GAP•
.. 


h t t ~ : i i w v f i ~ n d ~ ~ d u 
He echoed Hernandez's feel­ings that experienced boxers an much more controlled in the 
csc 
ring and said: "I have no doubt 
CENTER FOR 
he wouldn't have gone to hurt 
SOCIAL
anyone." 
CONCERNS
However, he described Hernandez as having reached a "level way beyond our boxing 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES WITH... 
program," and in interest of 
maintaining the intramural 
nature of the program. the 
administration chose not to let 
him fight. 

ACCION 
Despite not feeling they can A MJCROLENDING ORGANllATIONASSISTING allow him to compete, those 
SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS WITH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS 1V IMPROVE AND
running Bengal Bouts had noth­

BUILD THEIR BUSINESSES
ing but good things to say about 
"El Papoose." Faculty advisor 
Charles Rice described him as a 
"terrific guy" who has been 

10-12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: 
nothing but helpful to the pro­

ALBUQUERQUE
gram. 

CHICAGO
Still, like the former varsity 

EL PASO
basketball players who partic­
ipate in Bookstore, Hernandez 

NEW YORK CITY 
SANANTONIO
can't help how good he is, and 
rather than being angry. he 

SAN DIEGO 
seems more disappointed that · he can't take part in this venera­

BENEFITS:
ble Notre Dame tradition. 

COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION
"!Cs a totally di!Terent situa­tion when you go into a tourna­

3 COLLEGE CREDITS 
ment," he said. "You're fighting 

HOUSING PROVIDED 
your hardest to win, and benefit 

BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 
for yourself. Whereas this one 
[Bengal Bouts], you just go to 
light, and hopefully people buy 

tickets to see you fight, and Applications available al the Center for Social Concerns and 
you're helping others." MCOB Undergraduate Office 
"It's a title to show that you helped other people. When I go to a boxing tournament. I APPLICATION DEADLINE: wouldn't say I was Bengal Bouts FEBRUARY 20, 2001 Champion. I mean, I'm not try­ing to put down Bengal Bouts, 
INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 21 &22
but the fact of the matter is this 

AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS
is a tournament that's fun, and 
it's for other people, and there's 



----------~-----------­

Tuesday, February 20, 2001 The Obrerver . TODAY page 19 
----------------~--~-----------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
15 WOVt..D 91: EA E#@Mt/1'.IC  LET's see... JGRBLX ••. IS THAT Pf<ESENT TENSE Oil: PAST PARTICIPLE?  STEP 4t STAl'LE COLLAR 8IU..S TO OOSTING PAGES ANI> HANb IT IN  
STEP 1, BEGIN PAP~ ROUGHlY EIGHT HOURS BEFORE IT IS WE  STEP 3: SLEEP FOR AN 1-J(JUI:( AND INTERPRET AAl:VIOVS NIElHT'S W~  
Fox TROT  BILL AMEND  

MISS CHRISTOPHER?  wE FoR6E.T-WAS 1T CHAP­ I THINIC  CALM DoWN.  
ABoUT THIS AFTER•  TER FOUR 'YoU SAID To  X~iAIC>  1 HATE  IT'S JUST  
NOON'S TEST.••  STIJDY, oR CHAfl'liR FIVE?  To 43,TUDY  STUDY•~  A. PAGE  
\  CHAPTERS  THf R16HT  EVERY 30  
12·•i+w.  ONES MoRE.  SECONDS.  
)  I  

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
Kr~ptol\1 te ... 
O.A~,. • q 1 ,-....eQn 'I' M "too hero1<.. 
.J 

( 
Supennan's first interview. 
CROSSWORD 
WHATELY 
5ow~t 1s 
o,,e. of ~our 
\.<)e,o. "-t\ esse.~? 
\. 

... 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MU G S C H A P B R A D S I S I T L O B O R E B U T L E G O A P E S O C E A N 

AM I DE ONOR 
SEV ED WORK 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receivE: The Observer in your home. 
61 Company that merged with BP, 
1998 m--+-·-+---lf--­62 Be dependent 63 Capone's nemesis 64 Spud 65 Carpet layer's calculation 
DOWN 
1 Tramp's attire 2 Part of Q.E.D. 3 Go on the lam 4 Dover_ 5 Dresses down 6 Sidewalk 
eateries 7 Birds in barns 8 Prankster's 
projectile 9 Univ. e-mail ending 10 Part of a pirate'srefrain 1n-1---1r---t-­
11 Like J.F.K. 
PUUle by Nlck Gtlva,
Airport 12 Cheat, in a way 48 Thief's 54 Terminal man? customer
13 They're dubbed 55 Hold sway 31 Dclnny's sister 49 Israel's Abba 
18 Address 56 "Orinoco Flow" 50 Chaplin prop singer
19 Pulls a fast one 32 Comforts on 34 "I bid you _ 51 D-Day craft 58 Polish off farewell" 52 Knee-slapper
23 Takes wing 59 Diminutive, in 24 "This one's 
• 37 Graf 53 Hospital fluids Dundee 
38 Really enjoy 
25 Almanac stuff 
26 Open, as a 39 Fl,ushed Answers to any three clues in this puzzle jacket 44 Basra residents are available by touch-tone phone: 27 Girder 45 "Swan Lake" 1 ·900-420-5656 (95e per minute). composition attire 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 28 [not my error] 46 Demosthenes, best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 29 Three, they say e.g. years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
30 Early New ZE1alander 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sidney Poitier, Gloria Vanderbilt, Cindy Crawford, Ivana Trump, Robert Altman, Jennifer O'Neill, Andrew Shue, Bobby Unser 
Happy Birthday: You will have the vision to take any proj­ect to the limit. Success will be yours as long as you stick to your own ideas and don't let anyone stand in your way. Don't rely on others. The more control you have over your life,the better you'll do. Surround yourself with people who believe in your abili­ties and support your goals. Your numbers: 5, 18, 19, 21, 24, 32 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to get out and mingle with those who can help you move ahead. Your involvement in active groups will allow you to demonstrate your leadership qualities. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Partners may be difficult to deal with. Do not sign contracts unless you have gone over them with a fine-tooili comb. Others may get the wrong impression if you are too open about your personal concerns. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be more relaxed and should enjoy creative endeavors or physical fitness programs that will help get you into shape for the summer. 00000 
CANCER Oune 21-July 22): Problems with older members of the family may be a real burden. Try not to overextend yourself at the bank. Unforeseen bills will cause worry and stress. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Romantic relationships should stabilize. Pleasure trips will tum out better than anticipated. You can catch up on your correspon­dence and reading. Look into 
Birthday Baby: You have a unique_ style of d_oing things that Mil always draw attention. You are clever, interested m ahnost everything, and quick to pick up on whatever is going on ~und you. . 
{Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sttes at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
@ 2001 Universal Preso Syndiate 
EUGENIA LAST 

unusual forms of entertainment. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. W-Sept. 22): 

Look for that pat o:n the back. You've done your job well and rewards should follow. If they don't, consider looking for a position with a competitive company. 000 ­
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 

Long-awaited relati-onships can begin. You may find that children are not as accepting as you have been. Pamper yourself you deserve it. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

Don't take on the weight of the world. Getting inv,:,lved in the personal lives of colleagues will be a big mistake. Protect yourself from those who would like to make you look bad. 00 
SAGfITARIUS (N~ 22-Dec. 21): 
You need to get away and enjoy yourself. Time spent with close friends or relatives will be relax­ing and rejuvenating. Others will admire your progressive 
mind.0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need to concentrate on get­ting ahead. Help those less able to take care of their personal papers. You can make extra cash if you look into small investment opportunities. 00() 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your emotions run wild. It is wise to deal with your personal life behind closed doors. Your partne·r may not real­ize that he or she is making you feel insecure. OOCI 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Insincere gestures of friendli­ness are likely if you allow oth­ers to find out about your pri­vate life. Don't bE,come involved in a love triangle. Keep your reputation spotless. 000 

.,. 
ACROSS 
1 Zebras on the gridiron 
5 Examine, slangily, with ·our 
10 Puppy sounds 14 He sang about 
Alice 15 Imitated a crow 16 "The Love· 
(R.E.M.hit) 17 Comical 
Highlanders? 20 Belfry spots 21 YaUow parts 22 Harris and 
Bradley 23 Former frosh 25 Acts like a 
mother hen 29 Clear soup 33 Prank 
34 Biblical name for Syria 35 Bumper sticker letters 36 Proofreaders from Prague? 40 Cause for overtime 41 "Stalag 1T extras 42 Like much of Poe's work. 43 Pass receiver 46 Your parents' music 47 Wished undone 48 Part of T.G.I.F.: Abbr. 49 Brilliance 52 Give comfort to 
57 Beachgoers from northern Spain? 
60 Naysayer 

-

! 
I 
•
: 
I 
I 
Hoping for victory 
l Saint Mary's will take on I Hope College tonight in the first round ofthe MIAA playoffs. 
p. 17 

I PORTS 
O
THE 
page 20 
BSERVER

' I Tuesday, February 20, 2001 
I 
I I 
' BIG EAST TRACK AND FIELD INDOOR CHAMPIONSHIPS
' 
I 
I 
I 
t I Georgetown sweeps Indoor Championships 
' 
' 
i 
' • Two first place efforts 
I 
I' lead ND men's track and . Young Irish women's 
I 
I field to third place finish team takes seventh place finish at Champions'-'ip
By NOAH AMST ADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

By NOAH AMST ADTER 
I Assistam Sports Editor There were surprises both good and bad as 
I' 
I the frish men's track and field tBam took third 
Youth proved to be the key as the Irish 
I place last weekend at the Big East Indoor
' 
women's track and field team finished seventh
) 
Championship meet in Syracuse, N.Y.

I last weekend at the Big East Indoor
Notre Dame finished with 83 points, behind

I Championships.
Seton Hall's 90 and champion Georgetown's 

The Irish earned 57 .5 points, while
130.5 points.

f Georgetown won the meAt with 111.
"l thought that we could have done a little bit

' While no athlete brought home a gold medal
( better on the men's side," said Irish head 
from the meet at the Carrier Dome, there werecoach Joe Piane. "We did have some good per­
' many strong performances.
I formances." 
Junior Liz Grow failed to defend her confer­i The Irish received two !irst place efforts, one 
I ence championship in the 400-meters. 
I each from Hyan Shay and Andrew Cooper. 
Pittsburgh's Tia Tabb took the race from theCooper, a senior who sat out last season, sailed
t start, finishing seven hundredths of a second 
over the bar on his first attempt at 6 feet, 9 ahead or Grow. Still. Irish head coach Joe Piane 

inches to take the gold in the high jump. 

thought Grow ,who also competed in the 60­"It couldn't happen to a nicer guy," said field meters and the 4x400-meter relay, ran well for I events coach Scott Winsor. "He made 6-9 on the weekend. 
I his first attempt and that's what it took." 
"Liz Grow had a pretty good weekend," Piane Cooper's victory Sunday came a day after
' I said. "She ran well several times." 
Shay ran for the gold in the 5,000 meters. Shay 

Jaime Volkmer took the only other silveri ...,. led the race throughout, pulling away in the medal for the Irish, placing second in the pole
final laps to win in a time of 14:10.1, five sec­

I vault. Volkmer cleared 12 feet, 1 1/2 inches in 
onds ahead of the nearest competitor. 

the event, second only to West Virginia's Erin
1 
Shay also took second place in the 3,000 Nett, who cleared 12-5.

I 
I meters. behind Providence's Keith Kelly. "I think she finished where she probably
• Shay's time of 8:10.21 came in five and one­should have," said Irish field events coach Scott 
I 
I half seconds behind the NCAA cross country Winsor. "She had good attempts at 12-6. she'll I champion. make that soon."
I I Shay wasn't the only strong performer for The Irish scored 14.5 points in the pole vault, 
I 
the Irish distance squad. The Irish earned nine the most points in any event. Freshman Jill Van
I 
I points in the mile, as junior Pat Conway came Weelden tied for -fifth in the event, clearing 11 · ' in fourth at 4:15.:~2. Senior Sean Zanderson 3.
I 
I I 
took fifth, four tenths of a second behind "She's a good competitor," Winsor said. "She Conway. didn't let the atmosphere of the Big East get to Quill Redwine, competing with a torn menis­her at all." cus in his knee, took seventh in the high jump, 
Irish high Jumper Andrew Cooper took first place in the event this -----------ee_W_O_M_E_N_/_pag-e­
5 14 
see MEN/page 16 weekend, helping lead the Irish to a 3rd place finish. 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Now No. 2 Irish brace for Hurricane warning 
.. 
By TIM CASEY 
Assisrant Sports Editor 
The Irish may have lost on Saturday but don't expect Miami coach Ferne Labati to shed any tears for the Big East's top team. 
"As the season progresses, teams go up and down," Labati said. "But they'm still winning. They've got to be doing something right." 
With the 54-53 loss to Rutgers, Notre Dame (23-1 overall, 12-1 in Big East) fell to No. 2 in both the Associated Press and ESPN/USA TODAY polls. Tennessee (26-1 overall) vaulted to the top while Connecticut {22-2 overall, 12-1 in Big East) remained in third. 
Since then, a prevalent theme among Irish fans has been that Notre Dame's loss was somehow beneficial. 
Not one of the Irish playeri, would publicly agree with that logic. 
"It's never good to lose," fresh­man guard Jeneka Joyce said. "People are always like, 'Oh you needed that. It serves as a wake­up call.· All of us were very unhappy to have lost. We can take several things away from the loss but we just wished the out• come would have been different." 
Notre Dame returns to the court tonight at 7 p.m. for a conference game against Miami. The Hurricanes arrived in South Bend Monday afternoon and practiced for two hours in the Joyce Center. Miami (13-11 overall, 6-7 in Big East) lost early season games to Florida International and Fairfield but has gone 4-1 in February. 
Freshman Chanivia Broussard, who starred at Miami's Northwestern High School, aver­ages a team-high 12.7 points and adds 5.3 rebounds per game. 
Junior Sheila James, sopho­more Alicia Hartlaub, senior Dalia Clarke and sophomore Meghan Saake join Broussard in the Hurricane's starting rotation. 

"The thing that have really cost us games are young kids making costly turnovers in critical situa­tions," Labati said. "That has really hurt us." 
In last year's 83-68 win over the Hurricanes on Feb. 22. Ruth Riley scored 36 points and 12 rebounds. She hit 18-of-23 from the line and was 9-of-16 from the field. 
"If the officials make all these calls," Labati said, "there's noth­ing you can do." 
Needless to say, Labati men­tioned containing Riley as her team's biggest target for tonight. The Hurricanes plan on imple­menting several defensive strate­gies to counterattack the lrish's balanced offense. 
Lately, though, coach Muffet McGraw has depended almost exclusively on her starters. Against Rutgers. the reserves did not score and logged only 25 of the possible 200 minutes of play­ing time. 
And in that same game, in which Riley scored just 12 points and fouled out in 25 minutes, the 
see HOOPS/page 17 
vs. Miami Baseball 
vs. Boston College 

Tonight, 7 p.m. at Texai, San-Antonio
SPORTS 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 
vs. Northwestern
at Hope College 
at Kansas State

sw, (I) 
Saturday, 11 a.m.
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
Friday, 2:30 p.m. 
GLANCE ® 

-






