
Saint Mary's must be clear about rape occurences
SUNNY 
Friday 

As a Catholic institution, Saint Mary's has a moral responsibility to be 
NOVEMBER 9,

honest about rape occurences and not just meet minimum standards.
HIGH 52° 
Editorial . page 12
LOW37° 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 48 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Seniors struggle to find a job 

By HELENA PAYNE Assistant News Editor 
On-campus recruitment has taken a deep plunge due to the current economic recession and the attacks of Sept. 11, and the Notre Dame Career Center is implementing several methods to remedy the problem, said direc­tor Lee Svete. 
"This generation of students has not experienced a down economy since they were 10 years old," said Svete. "It's now back to the old-fashioned net­working way." 
The Career Center has made efforts to utilize the Notre Dame alumni network, but also attract the mid-market of small to medi­um businesses. Those companies 
-------------------------------·---------------­
still have fewer job openings than a larger company typically would, but because of the recession they offer a significant pool of employ­ers that universities generally miss. 
"The mid-market doesn't do on-campus recruiting," said Svete. "They hire one or two peo­ple, not 100 analysts like Goldman Sachs." 
The Career Center has also tried to attract defense contrac­tors such as Lockheed Martin and Raytheon, as well as government agencies such as the FBI, CIA and State Department. 
Due to the recession and other impacts on the economy, the job market has been detrimental for seniors. Since the school year 2000-2001 on-campus interviews have dropped 20 percent and the number of companies that come to campus is sliding from 400 companies last fall semester to between 60 and 80 companies for fall semester 2001. 
"lt definitely has increased the anxiety among students," said Svete. 
Despite the low null).bers, Svete said students can still find employment during the recession with the right credentials. 
"Students are still getting jobs, students are still getting second interviews," said Svete. 
"[The interviews] tend to he going to the cream of the crop.,., 
According Svete, this last pat­tern is not a big change from pre­vious fall semesters' recruitment statistics. During the fall, he said 
see JOBS/page 8 




College faculty to get pay 
•

raise 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
Some faculty members at Saint Mary's will see a boost in their next paycheck, after the Board of Trustees voted last month to tack on an additional 2-percent raise for the 2001 fis­cal year. 
Full-time, continuing faculty members had already received a 5-percent increase that began June 1. The additional two per­cent raise will be paid retroac­tively in a lump sum during the next pay period, totaling the 2001 increase to 7 percent. 
·The raise should put Saint Mary's faculty compensation figures in the 80th percentile for colleges of its type and size, according to statistics complied by the American Association of University Professors. Saint Mary's aims to stay around the 80th percentile mark, accord­ing to Keith Dennis, vice presi­dent of finance and administra­tion. 
"We had been falling behind that standard," Dennis said. "We had to do something to catch up." 
The College had been run­ning somewhere around the 75th percentile, said Chris Dunlap, chairman of the Faculty Compensation Committee. 
see SALARIES/page 6 

Joyce renovation moves towardS approval 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
The Athletic Department is hopeful that University officials will approve its Master Plan within the next month so the department can get to work on projects identified in a 15­month study of athletic facili­ties, including renovations to the Joyce Center. 
"We have been working through the process of dis­cussing our hopes and ambi­tions [for facilities] and we are hopeful that they will be approved within the next few weeks," said associate athletic director for facilities Tom Kelly. 
Working with HNTB Sports Architecture, one of the biggest sports architecture firms in the nation, the athletic department examined the strengths and weaknesses of each athletic facility. The Athletic Department Master Plan contains improvements the department would like to make, with many of these improvements aimed at the 
Joyce Center, a facility that was opened 33 years ago and has not had any major renova­tions since that time. 
A top priority is the Joyce Center arena, which the Athletic Department hopes to outfit which new chairback seats, a new scoreboard and an improved press box. Maintenance of the current seats is becoming a challenge because the company that designed them is no longer in business and it is difficult to obtain replacement parts. 
"The reason the arena has 

been mentioned so prominent­ly is that it serves so many functions, from athletic events to freshman orientation to commencement... We would like to see it a little more full of pizzaz, although it is a great facility in terms of sight-lines and acoustics," said Kelly. 
Another major goal of the department is for each athletic team to have its own locker room and a small lounge. 
"Right now, we have some teams sharing locker rooms. Coaches are trying to give pre­game talks to their teams, while another team is in the locker room, using the show­ers," said Kelly. 
Once the department's mas­ter plan is approved, it will be integrated into the University's master plan, and the depart­ment will know the timetable for the renovations. Although specific designs, such as blue prints, have not yet been com­pleted, Kelly said that the detailed information in the master plan would make this process go smoothly. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu 

Friday, November 9, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Escape with Harry Potter 
I plan on taking the Hogwarts Express the next time I travel. 
Take what? you ask. How will that take you home to San Diego? 
It won't take me home, but it will take me to Hogwarts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry, one of the most captivating places that I've found. 
If I've lost you at all, I'm referring to the school in J.K. Rawlings' Harry Potter series. I'm a big fan of fanta­sy and fiction, but I was entranced by these books 

about a little boy who, on his 11th birthday, finds out that Angela Campos he is a wizard. I was told by 
some people that these books might be childish, with Lab Tech their primary audience being 
10, 11 and 12-year olds. I don't know what these peo­ple were thinking when they told me this because this is one of the most dynamic stories that I have read. 
It is incredible what these books do. They take the ordinary and make it extraordinary, especial­ly when they have wizards trying to use what we wouldn't be able to live without-telephones, electricity, stamps, etc. I mean the first time we see a wizard sending a letter by post, the enve­lope is entirely covered with stamps! , 
Central to the story is Harry Potter, a skinny, black-haired, green-eyed boy with a lightning­shaped scar on his forehead. He got the scar by defeating the most powerful wizard at the time, Lord Voldemort, when he was only a month old. 
Okay, so you probably are thinking that this is just one of those push-over fairytales of witches, wizards, warlocks and the fight of good versus evil. 
Well, it is the fight of good against evil, but it's not just a cakewalk. Our illustrious hero isn't epitome of good. He's constantly getting into trouble with the Mr. Filch, the custodian, and his cat, Mrs. Norris. And Harry and his friends. Ron and Hermione, can't help but make the potions master, Professor Severus Snape, furious at them in and out of potions class. And as much as she likes her Gryffindor students, Professor Minerva McGonagall doesn't let them get away with mis­chief. So they've all done their detention and have all gotten points taken away from their House score. 
But he has his good points, too. Harry is the first first-year to be on the House Quidditch in at least 100 years. He is completely enthralled to be · at Hogvvarts, and as a GryfTindor does not like those cheating scoundrels in Slytherin, another I louse at Hogwarts. 
So, when I say that I will travel on the Hogwarts Express. I will let it take me away ­away from the stress I have. Away from the busyness of everyday life. Even away from the Notre Dame bubble. I can get away; I can escape; I can work magic. 
So, the next time you need to escape to another world. think about looking at our world (the Muggle world) through the eyes of a wizard. See how they shout into a telephone, marvel at paper money and cover envelopes with stamps. Then see how they get their mail, by owl post, buy things with knuts. sickles, and galleons, and use magic to talk to each other, or escape in the mid­dle of the night under an invisibility cloak into the Forbidden Forest 
Contact Angela Campos at Campos.1@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highesr standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact u~ at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righu an: rcsc,rved. 

THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Moreau Seminary seeks senate seat November 10, 1966 Notre Dame seminarians wanted to feel more involved in the campus community arid they felt student senate rep­resentation would be a good start. Student Government expressed interest in seminarian representation but the organization recommended the seminarians observe some senate meetings first. 
Notre Dame student killed in crash November 15. 1993 
Mara Fox was killed early Saturday morning. The Lyons Hall freshman was struck by a car while crossing Douglas Road early Saturday morning. The driver, Notre Dame law student John Rita, fled the scene. Rita faced charges of causing a death while driving intoxicated and leaving the scene of a fatal trafTic crash. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Evidence links U. South Florida prof to terrorist group 
TAMPA, Fla. 
Attorneys for the federal govern­ment are attempting to overturn a dis­trict court ruling that last year freed Mazen Al-Na]ar, a former University of South FlQrida adjunct professor who was jailed for three years and seven months on secret evidence. It was evidence the government said tied him to terrorist groups. 
The appeal by the government was heard Thursday morning in a Miami courtroom. 
Al-Najjar was released on bail in December 2000 after U.S. District Judge Joan Lenard ruled that he was not given due process, judicial pro­ceedings intended to protect an indi­vidual's legal rights. It was deter­mined by the court that since the evi­dence was not disclosed, Al-Najjar 

Al-Naijar said Wednesday afternoon he would be surprised if the May 31, 2000, decision that ruled in his favor was reversed. 
"I believe the chance that it will be overturned is weak," Al-Najjar said. 
"They're using the hysteria from the aftermath of Sept. 11." 
But J. Edwin Benton, a USF political science professor, said, in a time like this, the chance of the court reversing the decision is greater than Al-Na,ijar thinks. 
"In light of [the Sept. 11 attacks,] the chances it will be overturned is more likely," said Benton. 
Al-Naijar said the process of over­turning the decision, which could sub­sequently land him back in jail if the Justice Department again uses the secret evidence they said made Al­Najjar a national security threat in 1997. is not a simple task. 
"This matter is simply constitution­al," Al-Na.ijar said. "You can't change the Constitution without amend­ments." 
UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI 
Frat party under investigation 
OXFORD, Miss. 
Two members uf the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity at the University of Mississippi are being expelled from the organization in connection with a racially insensitive pho­tograph taken at this year's ATO Halloween party. The University and the ATO national organization will contin­ue to investigate the actions of the entire chapter. The photograph depicted a fraternity member, dressed as a police officer, holding a gun to the head of another mem­ber dressed in blackface. The member in blackface was wearing a straw hat while kneeling on the ground pick­ing cotton. The picture was posted on the Party Pies' net­work Web site. The Web site posts professionally taken pictures at organizational parties as a means of distribut­ing photo proofs for purchase. The pictures have since been removed from the Web site. ATO president Grant Gremillion refused to comment on the situation. Wynn Smiley, chief executive officer of the national fraternity, said the incident was unfortunate and there will be an investigation into the chapter's responsibility. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for dayt.ime conditions and high temperatures 

ST. CLOUD STATE UNIVERSITY 
Officials ban broadcast of ethnic team names 
MINNEAPOLIS 

One student was suspended from work and litiga­tion is pending after St. Cloud State University decid• ed to crack down on the use of' American Indian nicknames or logos in their publications or broad­casts. A student television producer wasn't allowed to broadcast last weekend's hockey games against the University of North Dakota after he said he would use the team's nickname, the Fighting Sioux. Lisa Foss, SCSU marketing communications director, said the student violated a 1993 university athletics department policy prohibiting the use of American Indian nicknames and mascots on all publications, broadcasts and press releases. The student worked for Husky Productions, which is hired by the univer­sity to broadcast the games. The university's student government also passed a resolution Nov. 1 restrict­ing campus media from using such terms. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones lo, the day. 

0 2001 AccuWeether, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
-...., ® © D . . L2J . w 
High Low Shower• A•ln T..atorrna FJutt._¦ Snow lo• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
\ill ~1'90,,,...  
Atlanta  70  43  Las Vegas  75  54  Portland  55  43  
Baltimore  57  35  Memphis  61  39  Sacramento  75  46  
Boston  52  35  Milwaukee  51  39  St Louis  58  40  
Chicago  53  ;J9  New York  53  37  Tampa  79  60  
Houston  72  53  Philadelphia  55  38  Washington DC 63  42  

page 3

Friday, November 9, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's students may get one study day 
By MARY CAMPE 
News Writer 
Student government has been pushing for a study day the past three years and may get its wish with a trial run next semester. 
In the 
past. the' faculty did nol want lo forfeit any class time and there­fore the College did not sched­ule any study days. 
To meet the needs of all involved. the College is consid­ering adding a study day next spring semester on a trial basis. If passed, classes will begin on Jan. 14 instead of the 15th. 
Student body vice-president Kristen Matha sent out a cam­pus-vvide survey explaining the circumstances and asking for student feedback. The survey is intended to see how the sched­ule change would effect stu­dents' travel plans and other personal concerns. 
"Students may have made travel arrangements already," Matha said. "We would like to hear how they feel the change would work. \Ve're the voice of the students and want to have their input." 
The decision to include a study day in next semester's schedule will depend on the cooperation with student responses and flexibility of the faculty. The faculty assembly will be meeting later this month to decide if the trial run should be approved. 

Before considering the possi• bility of a study day, the student government had to check with the Registrar's office. According to Matha, student government wanted to make sure there would not be any complications with the College schPduling or Notre Dame's schedule. 
"The Hcgistrar's office did not see any problems schedule­wise, so we are now proceeding by checking with the students," Matha said. 
There has been confusion about study days scheduled this current semester. According to Matha, every so many years. the college schedule changes in a way that requires a "study day" to occur. 
"This semester's [free day] is not a study day," Matha said. "H is simply a day that works out with this year's schedule." 
She explained that the College would only continue to have study days schedule.d in spring semesters in order to keep the Monday before classes of fall semesters open for stu­dents to arrange and work out their schedules. 
Next semester's possible trial is exactly that, only a trial run. Matha explained that if there is a study day planned for next semester, it might never hap­pen again. 
Matha hopes students and faculty would first consider the possibility of a study day and try it out rather than complete­ly rule it out. 
Contact Mary Campe at camp9575@saintmarys.edu. 
Leaders disco~ race conference 
By KATIE RAND 

News Writer 
A panel of five Saint Mary's student leaders discussed their trip to the 14th Annual National Conference on Race & Ethnicity in American Higher Education, Thursday. 
Each member of the panel gave descriptions of their favorite lectures at the con­ference. personal highlights and growth experiences. The 
group also discussed how they plan to bring their newfound knowledge back to campus to benefit the entire Saint Mary's com­munity. The conference was held in Seattle, Wash. from May 30 to June 3. 
Senior L i l I y Morales, who is serv­
"/ brought a lot ofthe ideas back from the conference back to Saint Mary's. The best part about it was that it was such a real world experience and I got to know a·lot ofdifferent people who I normally would not have had the chance to meet.,, 
Lilly Morales Student Diversity Board president 
ing as the President of Student Diversity Board this year, said the program was a really interesting experience where she learned a lot about the issues of ethnicity and race.· 
"I brought a lot of the ideas from the conference back to Saint Mary's," Morales said. "The best part about it was that it was such a real world experience and I got to know a lot of different people who I normally would not have had the chance to meet." 
Sophomore Ramona Parks, 
this year's president of the Sisters of the Nefrititi, also attended the conference. Parks said she felt honored to be one of the six students selected to go. 
Parks noted that no matter where you are or what type of school you attend, whether it is private. public or Catholic, everyone encounters the same experi• ences in life and has a com­mon bond. 
Parks. like .MoralPs and 
Nagle. also 
brought ideas back to campus. 
"\,Ve want to make you all aware about what exactly diversity is," Parks said. 
Junior C a r o l Tushabe said that at times the conference was difficult as it dealt with issues that people generally 
fear talking about. However, that proved to be a really great challenge. according to Tushabe. 
"Challenges bring you from where you are now and take you to where you want to be," she said. 

Tushabe also stressed the importance of learning to appreciate each other in our classrooms, offices and hall• ways, and recognizing that we are all different but equal at the same time. 
Sophomore Marieke Van Der Maelen said that after her first year at Saint Mary's she faced many issues involving diversity. 
"I wanted to keep on learn­ing about the bigger world outside of Saint Mary's," Van Der Maelen said. "I went to Seattle looking for answers to my questions. What I got was a million more ques­tions. But I learned the steps 
I need to take to answer them." 
She came back to school more open-minded than she was before th~ conference. She tries to apply the lessons she learned at the confer­ence every day. 
"I try to bring a bit of Seattle back," Van Der Maelen said. "We need to celebrate our differences but realize that we all have inner 
.beauty. hop~s and visions 
ins id<' us that \\ P sh o u Id s ha r c w it h t he r n s t o I' t lw College community." 
Marc Belanger. professor of political science. said that going to a conference like this one is a very empower­ing and energizing experi­ence that provides many ideas and resources to bring back .to school. 
Foreign language professor Jennifer Zachman said that 
one  of her favorite things  
was  the group of people she  
was  with. She also felt very  

strongly about the issues at hand. 
"We need to think about these issues in a broad sense and not compartmentalize them. It is a commitment we need to make as a communi­ty of educators." Zachman said. "There were different issues that struck people at their core, but it was an attempt to show us what we can all achieve." 
Terri Johnson. director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs, said the conference proved to her that everyone has his or her own ideas. She said that acceptance is the key. 
The faculty and students were sent to the conference by Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership. The Leaders of a New Indiana also provided fund­ing. The trip was sponsored by the. and also included Saint Mary's faculty and administration. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu 


II ¦¦ Notre Dame Center -¦¦ for Ethics andReligious II¦ Ill Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Mr. Philip J Krawitz 
CEO of Cape Unionmart and an important business and civic leader in the new South Africa 
"The Sixth Revolution -Developing Competitive Advantage in the 21st Century" 
Tuesday, November 13, 2001 Jordan Auditoriul!l, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
*Sponsored by the Center for Ethics & Cargill 

page 4 Friday, November 9, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SOUTH BEND'S SEXIEST
Prof. calls Mexican voters heroes 
These factors lead to a situation 
By JOE ACKERMAN 
where only about 3 percent of 
News Writer 
voters are undecided before the election campaign. This renders Jorge Dominguez called the campaign itself almost incon­Mexican voters "heroes" for their sequential, according to 

decision in the 2000 presiden­tial election which moved Mexico from single party rule to a more representative government in a Thursday lec­ture at the Hesburgh Center. 
Dominguez, Director of the Center of International Affairs at Harvard 
"The campaign mattered because social cleavage was weak {and] party identification weaker. Prospective economics were more important and so were [the] candidates· personal effects.,, 
Jorge Dominguez Harvard professor 
University, conducted a study of Mexican voters between February and July 2000 leading up to the 2000 presidential elec­tion. Along with a panel of col­leagues, Domiguez's endeavor consisted of a series of four inter­views each with a sampling of Mexican voters over this time period in order to gauge an over­all picture of the status of the Mexican electorate in the months leading up to the election. 
According to Dominguez, vot­ing patterns in the United States and Western Europe are firmly tied to factors such as social class, party identification, mem­bership in unions or other orga­nizations, incumbency of elected otlicials and economic attitudes. 
Dominguez. 
The  team  
found  that  
the  2000  

Mexican presidential campaign produced a statistically astonishing number of political con­v e r t s throughout the cam­paign sea­son. 
Whereas elements 
such as party identification to the long entrenched PRI ruling party, high approval ratings for the out­going PRI president, and small, but steady economic growth had in the past been more than enough to ensure repeated presi­dential wins for the PRI candi­dates, the 2000 election proved that campaign factors can actual­ly make a difference under cer­tain circumstances, according to Dominguez. 
PRI candidate Francisco Labastilla should never have lost the election to Vicente Fox, if not for a few yielding factors that hurt both him and the PRI. 
In Dominguez's view, it was weakening of party identification among voters, lowered self~iden• tification with social class, future economic outlook, and effective negative campaigning on Fox's part, that led to an astonishing 12-15 percent conversion rate among voters. These voters, who supported LaBastilla at the beginning of the campaign despite eventually voting for Fox, represent double Fox's margin of victory, showing that the cam­paign made a significant statisti­cal impact on the outcome of the election. 
This was able to happen for several reasons, Dominguez said, most notably the effective nation• al and international oversight of the election which reduced elec­tion fraud and the media's bal­anced coverage of both candi­dates. Election fraud was less of a problem than ever due not only to the effective oversight, but also to the fact that the PRI no longer holds governships and political infrastructure in many Mexican provinces. 
Also contributing to the swing of voters was Fox's successful negative campaigning, in which he found a pubilc receptive to his attacks on Labastilla as a "drag queen" and a "faggot," according to Dominguez. 
"The campaign mattered because social cleavage was weak [and] party identification weaker," Dominguez said. "Prospective economics were more important and so were [the) canidates' personal effects." 
Contact Joe Ackerman at ackerman.4@nd.edu. 
Special to the Observer 

Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives will host a national education forum titled "Stability and Change in 
American  Education:  
Structures,  Process,  and  
Outcomes" Nov.  10 in  the  

Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The conference is the fourth annual national forum spon­sored by the institute. This year's program focuses on the contributions made by researcher Robert Dreeben to the field _of' sociology of educa­tion. 
Drecben has been at the forefront of a movement by 
· sociologists to identify the structures and elements of schools that help build produc­tive citizens in industrial soci­eties. By contrasting the arrangements of schools and families, Dreeben made a strong case that the school is the most effective institution for teaching these norms. 



The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 

ATION 
Friday, November 9, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Media access to troops limited: 
American troops stationed in central Asia to support the war in Afghanistan will remain mostly off-limits to U.S. reporters because leaders in countries there worry that publicity could cause political unrest. Media groups sought greater access to the U.S. operations, saying that the public in a democracy needs information to evaluate the progress of the war. 
Chancellor wants solidarity: 
Insisting Germany must take on greater glob­al responsibility and show NATO solidarity, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder urged law­makers Thursday to back sending up to 3,900 troops into the U.S. war on terrorism. Schroeder is seeking authority for an initial one-year deployment. v 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Dem. proposes change in presi­dential succession: A California law­maker wants to change the line of presiden­tial succession to ensure the White House stays in one party's hands if both the presi­dent and vice president die or are unable to serve. Democratic Rep. Brad Sherman said Thursday he wants to allow the president to designate the House minority leader as next in line after the vice president should the president and the speaker belong to different parties. 
Firestone helps investigate Ford: 
Now that Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. has paid $41.5 million to head off consumer protection lawsuits in every U.S. state and territory, the tire maker is helping attorneys general inves­tigate Ford Motor Co. 's role in accidents involving Explorers and Firestone tires. Under the settlement, each of the 50 states will get $500,000 from Bridgestone/Firestone. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Panel releases death penaltyreview: Indiana's death penalty law has extensive safeguards at the trial and appellate court levels to protect innocent defendants, a state commission concluded Thursday. At Gov. Frank O'Bannon's request, the 25-mem­ber panel has spent 16 months studying Indiana's death penalty statute to determine if it is applied appropriately and has adequate safeguards to prevent innocent people from being executed. O'Bannon did not ask the group to determine whether Indiana should do away with its 1977 death penalty statute. 
Market Watch November 8 
Dow 
9,587.52 +33.15 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 1,479,661,056
217 
AMEX: 818.41 -3.57 
NASDAQ: 1,827.77 -9.76 
NYSE: 570.07 +1.59 
S&P 500: 1,118.54 +2.74 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.85 +0.16 19.09 UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +5. 40 +0. 68 13027 SDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -1.15 -0.44 37.75 NTEL CORP (INTC) -0.04 -0.01 28.28 NRON CORP (ENE) -7.07 -0.64 8.41 
ATLANTA 


Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
President Bush assured an uneasy nation Thursday night that the United States will prevail against terrorists and said Americans should not "give in to exaggerated fears or passing rumors."' 
In a prime-time address, he told Americans to turn their fears into action: Volunteer in hospitals, schools, homeless shelters and at military facilities or train for emergency ser­vice work and join a new civil defense force he hopes to build. 
"We have entered a new 
era. This new era requires new responsibilities ­both for the government and our people," the presi­dent said. 
Nearly two months after the attacks, Bush conceded that his administration does not know who unleashed anthrax in the 
U.S. mail. Nor did he offer hope that U.S. troops would soon find Osama bin Laden and unravel his Afghanistan-based terror­ist network. 
"We are a different country than we were on September 10th: sadder and less innocent; stronger and more united; and in the face of ongoing threats, determined and courageous," the president told a crowd of 5,000. 
The loudest applause came at the end, when he praised the actions of pas­sengers who fought with hijackers aboard United Airlines Flight 93 before it crashed into a Pennsylvania field. Bush recalled the words of Todd Beamer, a 32-year-old businessman and Sunday school teacher, who was overhead on a cell phone to say, "Let's roll" as pas­sengers charged the ter­rorists. 
"We cannot know every turn this battle will take. Yet we know our cause is just and our ultimate victo­ry is assured," Bush said. "We will no doubt face new challenges. But we have our marching orders: My fellow Americans, let's roll." 
The address was billed as an update on the war in Afghanistan, the anthrax scares at home and the new responsibilities of gov­ernment and all Americans. He also out­lined actions the govern­ment has taken to strengthen homeland secu­rity. including deploying National Guard troops to airports and giving law enforcement authorities more powers. 

Judge blocks suicide directive­
general's action," Jones said. practice of medicine.
Associated Press 
Oregon has the nation's only law Oregon's assisted suicide law was PORTI.AND, Ore. allowing physician-assisted suicides. narrowly approved by voters in A federal judge on Thursday tem­It has been used by at least 70 termi­1994. It survived legal challenges porarily blocked a federal order nally ill people since 1997, all of and was later re-approved by a wide aimed at thwarting Oregon's assisted whom used a federally controlled margin in 1997 before it was official­suicide law. substance such as a barbiturate. ly signed into law by Gov. John 
U.S. District Judge Robert Jones The order does not call for crimi­Kitzhaber two years ago. granted the temporary restraining nal prosecution. but effectively put Under the law, doctors may pro­order requested by Oregon Attorney the state's law on hold because a vide -but not administer -a lethal General Hardy Myers. three termi­doctor would have to be willing to prescription to terminally ill adult nally ill patients and others. The give up the right to prescribe feder­state residents. It requires that two order is in effect until Nov. 20. ally controlled medicines. doctors agree the patient has less 
"There is no showing that the U.S. The state responded with a federal than six months to live. has voluntar­would be irreparably impaired by a lawsuit, saying Ashcroft had taken ily chosen to die and is able to make temporary stay of the (U.S.) attorney away Oregon's right to govern the health care decisions. 
Friday, November 9, 2001 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Dalloway's turns 10 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Dalloway's, a landmark on Saint Mary's campus, turns 10 years old today. 
In the spring of 1991, several students, including Peggy Abood of the class of 1992, sug­gested the College turn The Clubhouse into a place for more than just social space. 
In November of 1991 the idea became a reality when the cof­fee house Dalloway's opened in The Clubhouse. 
The original building was located adjacent to Holy Cross Hall and was a gift of the class of 1922. 
After a lot of deliberation Saint Mary's officials in 1999 to demolish the old clubhouse and construct a new orie. The Dalloway's that Saint Mary's students know today had its grand opening in November of 2000. 
In honor of Dalloway's 10th anniversary, the College has planned a day filled celebratory events. A complementary conti­nental breakfast spread will be available from 8 a.m.-10 a.m. Then there will be two show­ings of the movie "Mrs. -Dalloway," which portrays, the building's namesake, from 9 a.m.-11 a.m. and 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
Students can drop in through­out the day for food and free gifts. 
A closed reception is taking place from 5:30 p.m.-8 p.m for members of the Parent's Council, past student man­agers, faculty and. Entertainment will be provided by student singer Lily Morales and student Erica DeVoir, who will perform a poetry reading. 
Later, from 8 p.m.-10 p.m., Doug McKenna, an acoustic guitarist will perform. 
Teresea Shaffer. assistant director of student activities encouraged students to come share in the celebration. 
"It will be a fun day." she said. "Dalloway's is opened all day for students to stop in and do whatever they want.'' 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail l 407@sain"tmarys.edu. 
...,__,.,~~~~~.: • ·$!' -~ -·~···@mo 
Saint Mary's College 
Theatre presents the play ­
MJ , 
Mother said~ ~ever 
sho~~~ 
te •· ..;./ 
> *'·· p.. R l -s ~ c H 
Thursday --Saturday. November 15-17 at 8 pm 
I ~~~~~ber 18 at 2:30 pm
I Little Theatre i For ticket information 
average faculty salaries were $64,400 for a professor,
Salaries 
$50,300 for an associate pro­continued from page I fessor and $41,700 for an assistant professor. 
"The Board of Trustees has Saint Mary's will not made a commitment to facul­release faculty compensation ty that we will be in the 80th or salary numbers because it percentile," Dunlap said. is a private institution, Dennis "[The raise] was necessary to said, but he expects the raise meet the College's commit­will put the College at or ment to the faculty that around the 80th percentile. Board of Trustees has made." Saint Mary's will not know 
The Faculty Compensation if the adjustment will put the Committee recommended to College in the 80th percentile the administrative council until the 2001 statistics are last December that faculty released by the AAUP in receive an 8-percent raise, April. but a low enrollment projec­"I think we're pleased with 
tion at the College prevented fulfillment of that request. W h e n enrollment figures came in stronger than the original projections, the College was able to increase the raise. 
"We had to wait and see what the enroll-
I contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4626 
iwn·••mm 
a 
"The Board ofTrustees has made a commitmeent to faculty that we will be in the Both percentile. [The raise] was necessary to meet the College's commitment to the f acuity that the Board of Trustees has 
d
ma e. 
Keith Dennis vice president for finance 
the addi­tional 2 percent we have now," Dunlap said. "The Board of Trustees h a s promised we will get something by end of academic y e a r should we 
not  have  
met  the  
80th  per­ 

centile." 
S t a f f members 
ment was," Dennis said. "When enrollment came in 
stronger,  we  had  the  
resources  to  do  what  we  
wanted  to  do in the f irst  
place."  

The MUP reported in 2000 that average faculty compen­sation was $81,055 for a pro­fessor, $63,409 for an associ­ate professor and $52,212 for assistant professors. Faculty compensation includes both salary and the benefits pack­age. 
In the same report, it said 
I .,
wo~hats 
, :1\:rg aves
{ ~ ~ 
;~at;:5;~
5minute
from au IPGIIT 
Cam nus ~ 
r Cold WNthu Expem 
Call a 9-1000 for more details 
t 
JJd ' J 


~EA nhE :c 
,. 1 £. "' Mot e,...,,
O Secrets uaug\).tt\"e1rutb 
~ 

/HS__"l/ifl'f{_/ 
~,:0~A:.!:-.,,, 
· 
who were seriously behind targeted salaries for their positions will also see a raise, Dennis said. 
"There were areas and groups of individuals that were considerably behind our target salaries for people in those positions," Dennis said. "We are trying to catch up and get back, and raise our salaries to the goals." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 
Lyons remembers Mara Fox with run 
By JOE LUCERO 
News Writer 
It has been almost eight years since that fateful night when Mara Rose Fox was hit and killed by a driver, who was charged with drunk driving but not convicted, on the way home from Macri's D-eli. That night, the lives of Fox, her family and friends, and every member of the Notre Dame family were changed forever. 
Those who knew and loved Fox were profoundly changed by her death. Outside Fox's cir­cle of family and friends, her death has had a profound effect on the University community. Every year since her death Lyons Hall has hosted a race in her honor. 
Malia Lam is one of the orga­nizers of this annual event and said that as of Thursday. already more than 100 people have signed up for the run. In past years. several hundred runners have shown up to run, and this year, the organizers aro just as optimistic. 
"We really hope a lot of people will come out because it's a lot of fun and it's for areally good cause," she said. 
Dealing with alcohol use and abuse at Notre Dame has gained in importance since Fox's death eight years ago. Before the ninth running of the race in her honor this Saturday, Brad West, assis­tant director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, spoke at Lyons Hall about the dangers of alcohol abuse. · 
"In three months, I've proba­bly seen 200 students dealing with alcohol abuse ...," West said. "Two of these cases dealt with drinkfng and driving." 
Many of the students who meet with West about alcohol problems are referred to him by rectors or the Office of Residence Life 
Besides disciplinary action dealing with Reslife which usu­ally consist of small fines and several hours of community ser­vice, students can not be forced . into any other program to help them with their problem. 
"It is up to the student to choose what he wants to do about [the problem]," West said. 
Drinking and driving are espe­cially large concerns for the University after Fox's death. 
Rex Rakow is the director of Notre Dame security and in the 22 years he has worked in his department, he said there have been a number of students who have been killed by drunk dri­vers. 
"Our dcpartnwnt stops cars every werkend to question tht•m about drinking. and we make arrests for drinking and driving all year long," Hako\\' said. 
This Saturday Lyons Hall will host the ninth annual Mara Fox Hun to honor Fox's memory. For $12, participants in the five-kilo­meter walk or two-kilometer run will receive a T-shirt and a chance to win other prizes. The race begins at 11 a.m. After the race, Station One will play a concert near Lyons Hall. 
All money raised will be given to the Mara Fox Scholarship fund. 
Contact Joe Lucero at Luccro.l3@nd.edu 


Snite Museum Shop> Pre-Holiday Sale 
Open. House 


25°/o -40o/o Off 
No Additional [>iscounts 
St1ndav,., November 11, 2001 1:00 -5:00 PM 



Friday, November 9, 2001 
Conference to provide global view of hot spots 
Special to the Observer 
"Crossing Borders," a film and lecture ·series on Latin American cinema, will conclude today and Saturday at Notre Dame with presentations by leading filmmakers and schol­ars in the field. 
A part of the Henkels Visiting Scholars Series, "-Crossing Borders" is sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute for Scholarship in the Uberal Arts and Kellogg Institute for International Studies and has included a vari­ety of presentations throughout the semester. 
Events today, all at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, are as fol­lows: 
. 
1:45 p.m. -Lecture by Charles Ramfrez-Berg, profes­sor of radio, television and film at the University of Texas, titled "Promotion, Memorabilia, Primary Sources: Heading Mexican Movie Posters from the Golden Age" (room C-103) 

. 
3 p.m. -Presenta~ion of the documentary "Human \Vrongs" by British filmmaker Michael Chanan (auditorium} 

. 
4:15 p.m. -. Lecture by Kathleen Newman. professor of cinema and comparative litera­ture at the University Iowa, titled "Contemporary Argentine Cinema" (C-103) 

. 
5 p.m. -Lecture by Laura Podalsky, assistant professor of Spanish at Ohio State 


University, titled "Cities of the Dead: Affect, Distance, and Horror in Recent Latin American Cinema" (C-103) 
. 7 p.m. -Presentation of the historical drama "Brava Gente Brasileira ("Brave New World") by filmmaker and human rights activist Lucia Murat (auditori­um). Murat is a visiting profes­sor in the study of Brazilian cul­ture at Notre Dame. 
Four lectures will be delivered Saturday in room 119 of O'Shaughnessy Hall, to be fol­lowed by a concluding film in the Hesburgh Library's Carey Auditorium. The schedule is as follows: .. 
. 
10 a.m. -"The Golden Age Within the Golden Age: Conceptualizing the United States and Mexican Cinema" by Seth Fein, assistant professor of history at Yale University 

. 
11 a.m. -Visions and Versions of History: Cinemattc Reflections on Dictatorship and the Armed Struggle in Brazil" by Randal Johnson, chair and professor of Spanish and Portuguese at UCLA 

. 
1 :45 p.m. -"The Conundrum of Cuban Film in the 1990s" by filmmaker Michael Chanan 

. 
2:45 p.m. -";,Hay Vida (y Cine) Despues del Nuevo Cine Latinoamericano?" ("Is There Life (and Film) After the New Latin American Cinema") by Jorge Ruffinelli, professor of the Spanish and Portuguese at Stanford University (to be deliv­ered in Spanish} 


page 7 

The Observer . NEWS MEXICO 
Eight more bodies found 
Associated Press 
CIUDAD JUAREZ 
Police found the bodies of eight more young women this week in this tough border town, renewing fears that a 1990s string of rape-murders had resumed. 
In March 1999. five bus dri­vers were charged in. 20 of the 57 previous murders, and police thought they had solved brutal killings. 
But this week's shocking dis­coveries showed they were wrong, said women's rights.. activists who have insisted the killings never stopped. 
Authorities in Ciudad Juarez found the skeletal remains of five women Wednesday near a field where they had uncovered the decayed bodies of three other young women the previ­ous day. 
"My God, I'm so angry,"said Victoria Caraveo of Mujeres por Juarez, one of a dozen women's groups that has pressured police to do mi,re. The activists marched to the prosecutor's office Thursday to demand action. 
"Tell me, in what part of the world do you find a cemetery with bodies of girls who didn't do anything wrong -they just worked -and for that they have been raped, tortured and murdered, their bodies thrown in the desert like dogs,"she said. 
Between 1993 and 1999, 
police found at least 57 bodies 
in the desert around Ciudad 
Juarez, a sprawling city of 1.3 
million people across the border 
from El Paso, Texas. 
Most were young teen-age 
women who had come from 
small, poor towns in the 
Mexican countryside to work in 
the city and support their fami­
lies. Some aspired to earn 
enough money to eventually go 
to school and begin new 
careers. 
Women's groups have insisted 
that the number of women who 
disappeared had risen to more 
than 200, and they accused 
police of failing to investigate. 
More than a dozen Juarez 
women disappeared this year 
alone, they say. 
"We want straight 
answers,"Caraveo said. "The 
police don't do anything and 
they don't care to do anything. 
Yet they always have a perfect 

excuse for their incompetence." On Thursday, Chihuahua state authorities announced that a special police task force will investigate the killings and ,they set a $21,500 reward for 
the capture of the killer or 
killers. 

"This is no halfhearted effort, the state government has an absolute resolve to clear up this case,"Chihuahua state Interior Secretary Sergio Martinez Garcia, told local media. Also Thursday, Mexico's Congress 
voted to create a special com­
mission to follow the investiga­
tion. 
At the time. police identified 
as the main suspect Abdel Latif 
Sharif, an Egyptian citizen for­
merly employed as an engineer 
at a Ciudad Juarez factory. 
Sharif allegedly paid as many as 10 other men. including the bus drivers, to commit copycat murders to draw suspicion away from him. Sharif denied any involvement in the killings. and his 30-year sentence was overturned on appeal last April. He remains in custody pending appeal by the prosecution. 
Following the arrests. the killings appeared to have ended for a while. and police said the disappearances of other women were unrelated to the serial killings. 
But at least one of the victims found this week had her hands tied behind her back and was stripped down to her socks in a murder chillingly similar to the dozens of killings that occurred here in the 1990s. She had been killed about 10 days ago, and was between 15 and 17 years old. 
The bodies were found about 300 yards from the offices of the Association of Maquiladoras, the group representing the mostly U.S.-owned export assembly plants that dominate the city. Most of the victims in the 1990s killings were young, slender maquila employees. 

Apply Today to be President of THE SHIRT 2002 This is your opportunity to coordinate the biggest student tradition of the ye?r! Applications can be picked up outside the Student Activities Office in Lafortune and must be returned to Student Activities by Nov. 9, 2001. For more information contact Scott Palko at spalko@nd.edu  


Friday, November 9, 2001

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
were not supplying a service or a three, so that makes the inter­goods. "If my parents are going to give product." views that much more competi­..You've got to feed your kids me the opportunity to come here,
Jobs 
With the meltdown of the once tive," said McWilliams as he pre­cereal in the morning," said then I will stay," said Pich. continued from page 1 thriving dot-com companies, pared for an interview with the Svete. She, like McWilliams maintains 
. Svete said companies are very investment banking firm In the past. the winter career a 3.5 grade point average, but companies often look for students cautious about hiring. Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin. fair has been geared toward she said one thing that employers with at least a 3.6 grade point "Last year's seniors, with the One of the ways McWilliams seniors graduating from the often ask her in interviews, "Why average and previous internship dot-com meltdown, many of their has tried to make himself more College of Arts and Letters, but do you think we're going to hire experience. job offers were delayed. Some marketable is by getting involved. this year will have some changes. an international student?" 
It is also characteristic that fall [companies] delayed up to eight He is currently the assistant "We're opening the career fair Her response varies, but she recruitment is dominated by busi­to 10 months," said Svete. director of public relations for the up to any reputable firm, whether brings to their attention her abili­ness and industries, the main A graduate of the class of 2001 office of the president in student it be engineering, science or liber­ty to speak not only Spanish and employers that have suffered and former Career Center student government and a member of the al arts," said Svete. English, but also French and greatly during the recession and assistant, An'tione Tobias was one Financial Management Board. He Svete has also established an Italian. This, Pich said, has been after the recent attacks. The ofthe students who had a delayed previously served as the junior online consortium with other one extra attribute that has given industries of travel, tourism. starting date for his current job at class treasurer. schools in the Big Ten called Hire her an advantage in a economy retail and durable goods were Charter Communications. Although McWilliams, who has Big Ten Plus. Through this initia­that has emphasized a global strongly hit by the Sept. 11 events "I originally thought I would be a 3.5 grade point average, recog­tive, medium-sized companies market. and the consequence has been a working for IBM, but they nizes the competition among col­can post jobs with the advantage "Many companies are expand­decreased gross national product. rescinded their off er because of a lege seniors to find jobs, he said of establishing ties with major ing and have subsidiaries all 
"Sept. 11 had a negative impact hiring freeze, so I had to look he is confident and already con­research institutions. Hire Big over," Pich said. on the whole economy," said elsewhere," said Tobias. sidering some job opportunities. Ten Plus is modeled after a simi­Svete said the Career Center is Svete. "It has significantly affect­Instead of starting in June at He said he would like to work in lar project Svete worked on with dedicated to making sure that all ed our own campus recruiting." IBM, Tobias did not begin work­the areas of either finance or Ivy League schools in the past. seniors can find post-grad uatc 
Although Sept. 11 and its ing until October, but for Charter investment banking, but he is "By using technology we're work. effects have contributed to the Communications instead where open to other possibilities. going to help in finding jobs," said "We are allocating staff. We are downward spiral of the economy, he is a network engineer. 'Tm keeping my options open," Svete. "I think we will recover allocating resources. We're being Svete added that it is not the sole "I started in October for a com­said McWilliams. "I've applied for from this recession." very aggressive in a down mar­source of problems. pany I did not think I was going to jobs in other industries as well." Senior Michelle Pich, who will ket," Svete said. 
"This isn't all September 11." work for," said Tobias. Svete said the Career Center is graduate majoring in finance and He added that this is the third said Svete. "This includes Social Waiting to begin work, Tobias catering to the needs of students economics, has had success with recession he has seen while Security administration, govern­said he felt anxious. who might have to look for jobs getting job interviews, but she working at the career center. ment accounting [changes] and "I was a college graduate," said outside of their major during the said she can see the impact that "My advice to students is that the Department of Justice." Tobias adding that he would recession. The staff is planning its the economy has had on the job the Notre Dame diploma will 
Since last spring consumer think, 'Tm supposed to have a large winter career fair on Jan. market. never leave you. It's not reces.: spending has dropped which has job." 31 by using a phone-a-thon. 'Tve had many interviews, but I sion-proof. [but students will] hurt businesses. However, once he was settled "We have diversified our cam­know it's hard," said Pich gain a return of their investments 
"This has 'psychologically into his position, he realized that pus recruiting," said Svete. Monday after an interview with in Notre Dame 10-fold," Svete impacted the consumer and the he would be one of the last at The Career .Center has com­Deutsche Bank. said. "That comes with the acade­ripple effect has been quite nega­Charter Communications to be monly drawn banks and consult­Pich said she has attended busi­mic and spiritual reputation of tive on the job outlook," Svete hired for a while. ing firms, but Svete said it is try­ness job fairs where there were the University." said. "As soon as I got on board, they ing to expand the focus this year. many empty tables. For students who· have had 
In addition, the brief boom and had a hiring freeze. It's no secret One way is by also extending sev­"People are reluctant to travel trouble finding full-time jobs. bust of the dot-com companies that the economy is horrible right eral invitations to companies that and invest right now, so you can Svete recommends that they seek have decreased some of th~ job now," said Tobias. manufacture specific products see it's affecting the market," she post-graduate paid internships opportunities for seniors who had Senior finance major Taylor like Johnson and Johnson, said. because there is a possibility that hoped to enter high-tech careers. McWilliams said it seems that General Electric, Eli Lilly and However, Pich, an international these internships could turn into 
"Companies have become quite there was more job openings for General Mills. These companies, student, has traveled from job offers. conservative," said Svete. "The his friends in the class of 2001. according to Svete, have more Panama to study at Notre Dame, high-tech boom quickly became a "Rather than hiring eight or stability because of the need for and said she hopes to find a job Contact Helena Payne at bust when e-business companies nine people, they're hiring two or their continuous productions of after her four years of study. hcayam@nd.edu. 

Would you like to Seea comedian that studied with Paul Newmanand Sall <.::,1.~ ·.· ...-.,:.v Come see Alexandra McHale. This member of the prestigious Actor's Studio in NYC has performed at The Comic Strip, Catch a Rising Star, and Caroline's. She's touring over 60 coHeges this fall, and she1II be here November 9,2001 10 pm in the Lafortune Ballroom Be there!  



PHILLIPINES 
Tropical storm Lingling death toll reaches 110 
Associated Press 
MAHINOG 
Tropical storm tingling bat­tered the Philippines for a sec­ond· day Thursday, leaving at least 110 people dead, sinking a cargo ship and virtually shutting down several provinces. 
The death toll included 80 in Mahinog town on the resort island of Camiguin, which suf­fered its worst disaster in a half­century. With 300 people miss­ing, officials said the overall toll was likely to rise, 
By early Friday morning, the center of the storm was over open water about 180 miles southwest of Manila. It had winds of 65 mph and was mov­ing slowly toward the South China Sea. Forecasters said it could strengthen into a typhoon with winds of at least 74 mph. 
Nineteen of the missing were Filipino crewmen on a cargo ship that sank Thursday in stormy seas off the northwest­ern .Philippines. There was no word on survivors, as the poor weather hampered rescue efforts. 
The storm was blamed for the collapse of a tunnel in a copper mine in Cebu province. Rescue workers on Friday were trying to reach 14 miners trapped under tons of rock and earth. 
Most of the other deaths were caused by flash flooding spurred by the torrential rain. Authorities said fast-moving water bearing boulders cascad­ed from hills surrounding Mahinog and some other river­side communities as many peo­ple were still sleeping Wednesday. 
Hecovery efforts in Mahinog, which reported 203 people missing, continued into Friday morning. The devastated town ran out of embalming fluid to preserve the dead. 

It's 8ack...0Ytly at Cov~cil Travel 
AMAZING SALE 
Stvde~+ / Yovt~ / Tea,~er 5 Days Onlyl Nov. 6-101 20 European Cities Available. 
'NYC to LONDON 
$95 
CHI to DUBLIN LAX to PARIS 
$133 $168 
FARES ARE ONE WAY, ROUND TRIP FARES ALSO AVAILABLE. 
T1cke1s are subJect to availa1>1I,ty and must be paid in full at t,n;e of booking T1Ckels are non-reiundabte T<J~es and fl';es are extra Additional restrictions ·and blackout dates apply ISIC. ITlC and IYTG card i-e<1wr~d Valid for departure through March 2002 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 

CALLING ALL MUSICIANS!!! 
au ,pa inuwlfa in platfoul fa t1re dimret 04 6'umdi at tlw ywt'6 J!IW? 
If so, you are in luck! 
The JPW uecutive Committee is looking for instrumentalists to perform for dinner on Feb. 16 and brunch on Feb. 17. 
Auditions will be held Wednesday, November 14 at 7:30 pm in room 323 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
Contact Emilie Robb at 4-2513 or at erobb@nd.edu to set up an audition time or if you have any questions. 
Friday, November 9, 2001 page 9
· The Observer . NEWS 
Used car sales plummet 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
As interest rates as low as zero percent spur a surge in new car sales, used car lots are filling up fast and values are plummeting. 
New cars sold at record lev­els last month as shoppers rushed to take advantage of special financing offers from the Big Three -Ford, GM and Chrysler -and a few other automakers. Many of those buyers traded in their existing cars and trucks, cre­ating a glut that will take months for used car dealers to unload. 
Dealers say used-car sales are steady but haven't nearly kept pace with the growing supply. Some dealers plan promotions on used cars after the no-interest offers for new cars expire later this month. Already, interest rates for used cars are near historic lows, averaging 9.3 percent nationally for a 36-month loan._ according to online ser­vice Bankrate.com. 
As trade-in volume increased last month, dealers began paying less. Many con­sumers considered the no• interest financing more important than obtaining a 
high price for the  car they  
have now.  
Some didn't even  ask for a  

trade-in arrangement. 
"We realized if we told the dealer we had a trade-in they were going to lowball us right off the bat," said Scott Pendlebury of Richmond, Va. He and his wife sold their 1992 Buick on their own after buying a new Mercury Sable in a zero-percent deal. 
Making a deal on a used vehicle is tricky for both con­sumers and dealers because the vehicle is always declining in value, or depreciating. The rate of decline varies depend­ing on economic conditions 

A traffic jam of used cars 
When new cars sold at record levels last month, dealer lots became jammed with used car trade-ins. With so many used vehicles to unload, dealers are hoping that attractively low interest rates and dropping prices will lure customers and empty lots. 
Interest rates for used vehicles Manheim Used Vehicle Value Index 
Weekly averages for a 36-month loan January 1995:::: 100 
120---------­
9.5 ---------­

1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 JFMAMJJASO 2001 

SOURCES: Manheim Auctions; Bankrate.com AP 
and supply and demand for vehicles. . 
Data through August from the National Automobile Dealers Association, which publishes a monthly guide to used-vehicle values, showed the annual depreciation rate rose to about 15 percent this year from 13 percent last year. The increase is partly due to strong sales of new vehicles in 1999 and 2000, some of which are starting to show up in the used market. 
In another sign of a soften­ing used-car market, an index of used-car prices by Manheim Auctions has fallen most of the year. On Wednesday, Manheim said the index fell in October at its fastest rate of the year, drop­ping to 110.4 from 112.1 in September. 
Dealers over the past decade have relied more 

f!•:«-:v:-»:,;.:-;--.«-:«-:¥~:;;:;i~;~~1·:c:~::::,,-x-::v-.~~-..~»»>.":-.s.;:1c1 Q~:~.:c::::~c111;1:::,c:~,1::~:,},.»x-:•»:>~:«-»:,:,:,.-.:,:-x,:,x.~-.;«o:::;:i;:::c;:::::;,~­
l 
I(t5ENBACtkOOREMC6risoRt
I 
I 
M~()
I c;_~ THE ARTS 
~NOTRE DAJ/lli, IH 

For ticket information 284 4626 
; contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at ­
j

L.,., "o o , "'""""' : __, _ _,, , """" , m: """'" :m , , , 110:oom: • mmo·«.-"'""""'""" "" "°"""" 
heavily on auctions to balance 
their us~d-car inventories. 
But so many used cars came 
into dealers in recent weeks 

that they're now having trou­
ble disposing of the surplus at 

auctions. 
"If we've got a used car 

that's questionable, we're just 
dumping it" at an auction, 
said Paul Walser, who owns 
several dealerships in the 
Minneapolis area. However. 
he added, "what we've heard 
is there's a lot of no-sale 
activity at the auction." 
Prestige Ford in suburban 

Dallas took 50 used cars to a 
wholesale auction this week 
and sold just two, said owner 
Jerry Reynolds. The dealer­
ship has about 650 used cars 
and trucks right now, com­
pared to 250 during a typical 
month, and is storing them in 
an off-site facility typically 
used for new cars. 
Reynolds said he 'II devote about half of the dealership·s newspaper and radio ads to used cars when the no-inter­est incentives on new cars end. He usually devotes just 25 percent of his newspaper ads to used cars. 
Sitton Buick Pontiac GMC in Greenville, S.C., has about 100 used cars now, up from a typical 80, sales manager Glen State said. No-interest incentives caused people who typically shop for late-model used cars to purchase new cars instead, he said. 
Some dealers kept used-car inventories in line by steering buyPrs who couldn't afford new cars over to used models. vVes Lutz's Dodge and Hyundai dealerships in Jackson. Mich., sold 108 used cars during the month, com­pared to an average of 85. "We did a great job of manag• ing inventory," Lutz said. 

Coll 259-1000 for more details 
. .

-----,:,,-·--"" ......... , ----... ---------·
. ---------~------------­
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL 'NEWS. Friday, November 9, 2001 
Buildings may never be free of anthrax 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
There is no practical way to kill or remove every bit of anthrax from contaminated buildings, experts told Congress Thursday. 
"We will never remove every spore," said Dr. James Baker Jr.. a professor of medicine at the University of Michigan and a military researcher on ways to neutralize biological weapons. "There will be no assurance of total safety." 
In testimony before the House Science committee investigating ways to remove anthrax conta­mination from federal buildings, Baker spoke of the effort to clean the Hart Senate Office Building. 
"You will not sterilize that building no matter what you do," he said. "Like it or not, we are entering into a research 
project. What "You will not sterilize formalde­
we are doing that building no matter hyde gas on the Hart that soaked
what you do. Like it or
building is an the inside of 
experiment not, we are entering into the building 
that we need a research project. What for more to learn from." than 18
we are doing on the Hart 
Dr. Charles hours. 
Haas, a profes­building is an experiment 
Afterward, sor of environ­that we need to learn the gas was mental engi­from.,, neutralized neering at with another Drexel chemical University, Dr. James Baker and the said an 
Professor of medicine building 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. "We have not seen that type offrame­work." 
She said risk communication to the public should be factual and not cause fear. 
Goldman also called for a con­ference of scientists who could determine a level of contamina­tion that would be acceptable. 
Manuel Barbeito, a retired bio­logical cleanup expert who worked at the U.S. Army Biological Warfare Laboratories at Fort Detrick, Md .. said he supervised the cleanup of a number of buildings, including one that contain_ed labs, offices and more than a million cubic feet ofspace. 
Barbeito said the building, where biological warfare weapons were developed, had been contaminated with anthrax and other organisms that were being studied. 
He said his 
crew used a 
absolute cleanup of anthrax contaminated buildings is impractical. 
Instead, he urged that experts establish what is an acceptable risk and clean the buildings to that point. 
"There is no absolutely safe level." he said. "We need to edu­cate the public that we cannot make everything sterile. There will always be residual risk. The question is what should we shoot for in the cleanup." 
The experts said that science does not know how many spores of anthrax could be considered a normal, natural part of the background. Anthrax is common in many parts of the nation, and it would not be surprising if there were natural levels in buildings. 
Haas said the decision about safe levels should not be left to scientists alone, noting that "an acceptable risk level is a public policy issue." 
The expert.s said that the gov­ernment response to the anthrax-by-mail crisis has lacked a central focus and that there has been poor communi­cation about the risks . 
..People will deal with the risks if thev understand," said Baker, "ifyo~ tell people what the ratio­nal risk is and that they will be supported if there is a problem." 
"The government needs to develop a clear way of assessing risks in a building," said Dr. Lynn Goldman. a professor of environmental health sciences at 
cau259-1000 for more details 
aired out. 

Barbeito said that test strips, containing harmless bacteria, were placed in the building during the gassing to ensure that the chem­ical was concentrated enough to kill microbes. He said the air was sampled to ensure that there were no more airborne spores and that surface swab­bings were taken throughout the building as a final test. 
Barbeito said even this effort could not kill or remove every spore and the plan anticipated some lingering small traces of the bacteria. 
But he said the formaldehyde gas eliminated any dangerous levels of bacteria and the build­ing is now being used by federal cancer researchers. 
Tiny target, large scale operation 
An anthrax spore is smaller than the period at the end of this sentence. It is difficult to kill because of a tough protective coating. The government is studying several ways to clean a contaminated building. Here are two of those methods. Each kills spores, but both have disadvantages. 
Chemical foam 
Relatively inexpensive, foam can be applied with minimal risk to areas known to contain anthrax. Applying it requires little training, and it kills everything it comes in contact with. 
Up to 3 inches of foam is sprayed onto surfaces. 
' 1 
\ 
Disadvantages 

. 
Ruins documents and photographs. 

. 
Clear varnish on furniture or woodwork may become clouded. 

. 
Requires a de-foamer to be applied, followed by a soap and water cleaning. 


SOURCE: Associated Press AP 
Thousands prescribed anibiotics 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Some 32,000 people have been prescribed antibiotics in the anthrax crisis, 5,000 of whom really needed them and thus must take the pills a full 60 days, health officials said Thursday. 
Medical authorities said in new guidelines that merely finding traces of anthrax cling­ing to surfaces does not war­rant closing buildings or pre­scribing antibiotics. 
President Bush, on a visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, expressed reservations about vaccinating all Americans 
Killing anthrax: 
Chemicals soften the 
spore's hard coating ... 

<''.f~-=-~-:;;:·,, . 

Chemical ..· "';"';"~re 
... penetrating to the core and killing the organism. 
,,.. ,;;,,c>·••·'" . .. • . • 
/>t......... ·•.. •·.·· :··,);.;··· 
Test strips of bacteria are used to verify effective­ness. 

Chlorine dioxide gas 
The gas fills every available 
space inside a building and 
doesn't damage paper. 
photographs or artwork. It is 
known to kill most organisms ­
including anthrax. 
The gas is 

. 
Uniform application is uncertain, even with the use of test strips. 

. 
Entire building has to be sealed. Afterward, air has to be detoxified, followed by tests to guarantee safe air quality. 

. 
May damage electronic equipment. 


against smallpox. The disease has been eradicated but could return in an act of bioterrorism. He noted that the vaccine occa­sionally has fatal side effects. 
..I would be deeply concerned about a vaccination program that would cause people to lose their lives," said Bush, who has asked Congress for a half bil­lion dollars to stockpile the vac­cine. 
Bush thanked scientists who are working around the clock to deal with the anthrax cases that have killed four people and sickened 13 others. He said the researchers were "part of a vast army trying to fight off ter­rorism in America." 
"I firmly believe ... we've saved a lot of lives-;'' he said. 
In Washington. Postmaster General John Potter asked Congress for $5 billion to offset the toll of the attacks by mail. He said the government should pay for safety equipment and other recovery. 
"They should be considered costs of homeland security," Potter told a Senate Appropriations subcommittee. 
In the most stunning picture yet of how far anthrax has reached, the CDC disclosed that 32,000 Americans have taken antibiotics for at least several days while scientists raced to tell who was truly exposed to the germs. Of them, 5,000 were found at risk for anthrax inf ec­tion and told to take antibiotics for a full 60 days. 

Notre Dame Film. Television. and Theatre presents 

i\(·l ( ) rs l .1 I"( )I l l rrIl ( \ Li)I l ( I ( )I l ~ lHg·p 
AMidsun1mer Night's Dream 
1 o,~ b y Wi I I i a m S h a k e s p e a r e

." 

Thursday, November 8 ··········-······ 7:30 p.m. 
Friday, November 9 .............."......... 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, November 10 ............... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Riley High School • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Vis;:i orders call 631 -81 2 8. Shuttk s~n ii:1.: A\ ailahh.· 


Friday, November 9, 2001 page 11
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

I 
I 
l 
' 
I 
!J 
f' 
I 
I 
i 
I 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

N1:.ws EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOl!'lff EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY"S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer An DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ............. -.........................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.~bsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE............-.............................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJm MARY"s.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO .................... , ...................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsnver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and races ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of che majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lecters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obserorr policies should be direct­ed to £/itor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Friday, November 9, 2001 

SMC musJ be honest with rape 
Since May 2001, Saint Mary's and the Departm'ent of Education have been cor­responding through letters about possi­ble discrepancies in rape statistics reported during the last decade at the College. After five months of questioning, the DOE OJhe 
oserver

will visit the College at the 
end of this month to con­satisfactory to the DOE. duct further investigation which now finds it neces­
Editorial
about the actual number of rapes that have occurred at Saint Mary's. 
Should the DOE find missing cases in Saint Mary's reports when the depart­ment representatives visit, the College faces a $35,000 fine -and the blemish of being only the second institution the DOE has fined. 
College administrators have repeated­ly emphasized to both the DOE and The Observer that they have complied with the agency's original requests. updating security statistics and modifying the sex­ual assault policy that appears in the 
student handbook. 
Clearly, the College's 

response has not been 
sary to come to campus to review files, conduct interviews and review correspondence in person. If campus administrators have been com­pletely honest with the DOE, why is the visit necessary? 
The answer is clear: DOE is not con­vinced there are inconsistencies in the reporting of campus rape statistics. And that's simply not acceptable to the DOE. 
or to the students Saint Mary's claims to serve. 
The DOE told Saint Mary's it has a legal obligation under the Jeanne Clery Act to be up front about the actual num­ber of rapes that occur on campus. But Saint Mary's, as a Catholic ·women's institution, has a greater moral responsi­bility to be honest to its community. Being dishonest about the rape statistics is not only wrong according to the law­books, but especially vvrong according to the Catholic values the College teaches. 
When DOE investigators drive up The Avenue later this month. Saint Mary's has an opportunity to correct the incon­sistencies in its statistical reporting. It needs to seize this opportunity, and stop the questions. It's not wrong to admit rape happens. But it is wrong to hide it 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Woiidering if the University is really concerned about·rape 
The word "rape" has appeared repeat­edly this semester in the pages of The Observer as well as in hushed conversa­tions all over campus. The Observer has felt it its responsibility to keep the cam­pus up to date. Maybe it's because I'm a casual reader, but its coverage has been spotty at best. 
First the paper informed us about the possibility of the date rape drug's use on campus, and then practically accused a quad in Keough of rape. Friends of those men and sympathetic students respond­ed in rage and then the topic was dropped. Rape came up again during the week before the West Virginia game, when a former student who had been accused of rape and banned from cam­pus was going to return to play for the West Virginia football game. Recently, an incident in Turtle Creek has been debat­ed on the Viewpoint page. 
The Observer's coverage of rape on campus has left me with a lot of ques­tions. Were the women in these situa­tions actually raped? Is the date rape drug on campus? How does the University deal fairly with someone who has been accused of alleged rape? Are women safe at Notre Dame? 
The point of this letter is not to accuse The Observer of bad coverage. Let's be honest -The Observer is a student newspaper run by students without jour­nalism degrees. They do a good job cov­ering campus events and the football team, but rape is a complicated and deli­cate subject, difficult to write about even for trained journalists. I do not blame The Observer for a lack of clear informa­tion. 
No, I blame the administration. To my knowledge, the University has not released any official statements about these situations. If it has, it certainly haven't made the message clear to its students. No information about the inci­dents. No education about the date rape drug. No promise of safety for women or punishment for sexual violence. 
Rape is serious crime, a vicious act. It is a living horror, a nightmare that wakes you up in the middle of the night. a woman's worst fear. Clearly put, a woman is afraid of being raped. 
So when the word rape is thrown around, when you think there's a chance it may have happened on your campus, you begin to wonder if you're at risk. The fact that the University has not been up front about the facts and has done noth­ing to warn us about the date-rape drug makes you feel your safety is not their top priority. 
If the date-rape drug is on campus. then the women of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross need to know. Even if it's only rumored or alleged, the University must alert women to the possibility. To ignore it is to put women at risk. 
Awareness of the presence or use of the drug and information about it is vital to the safety of women on campus. It's completely irresponsible to leave it to The Observer to provide information about rape cases; it's not its job to pro­tect women from rape. It is absolutely inexcusable that the University made no attempt to educate the student body. 
Rape -does not only affect women. A false accusation of rape can severely affect a man. My friend's cousin was accused of rape in high school and had to go to court to prove that the woman had completely fabriGated the story. A year later he killed himself. The University should handle rape cases, not The Observer and not the student body. If a woman accuses someone of rape, stu­dents have a right to know the simple facts, but no one should be assumed guilty until proven guilty. 
If proven guilty. then the rapist should be severely punished: kicked out. sent to jail, whatever, just away from us. The University should make it clear to every­one that rape is not tolerated at Notre Dame. 
Perhaps one reason Notre Dame has been evasive about these incidents is because the University wants to save face. Perhaps they think that it's better to sweep it under the carpet and maintain their Disneyworld image. I think that is despicable and dangerous. 
Despicable because students have a right to know what occurs on their cam­pus. Dangerous because we do feel that at Notre Dame we're completely safe. We leave our door unlocked, our drink unat­tended. The possibility of rape seems impossible. If women were aware of rapes that took place at Notre Dame. they might do more to assure their safety and to avoid situations that put them at risk. 
Recently the University has cracked down on tailgating. Cops patrol ouL'iide the senior bar. RAs explained the situa­tion to-their sections. I wish the University would do the same for rape. Rape is something to crack down on, not fun at a football game. Rape harms a woman much more than a Natty Light. Apparently the University thinks that shot-gunning a beer is a greater crime than sexual assault. 
\,Ve call ourselves a family. I pose this question to the administration: what family does nothing to prevent the rape of its daughters? 
Allie Swiacki 
iumor Welsh Family Hall Nov. 7, 2001 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scott Brodfuehrer Andrew Thagard Joe Ackerman Sports 
Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint Pat Kelly 
Scene 
Amanda Greco 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Production 
Noah Amstadter 
Lab Tech 
Ernesto LaCayo 
Angela Campos 
OBSERVER/NDTODAY POLL RESULTS 
70% 
Yes 
. Should The Shirt be the same color every year? 
• 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And when you look long into an abyss, the abyss also looks into you . ., 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 
nJ_HE

vnSERVER 

Friday, November 9, 2001 page 13 
Tragedy changes hometown life 
Surrounding discussions of the prevention of future terrorist attacks on America has arisen the possibility of the restriction of certain civil liberties. The idea of a national identification card has entered the public forum. Many Americans. aware of the hijackers' abuse 

of the U.S. immigration system, have expressed their willingness to subject themselves to random security checks at airports and other public places. A minority even supports internment camps for suspected terrorists and the detainment and interrogation of citizens who fit the profile of a terrorist. 
From the vantage point of cam­pus, such measures to aid in the prevention of terrorism have appeared extreme responses to the actual threat and unnecessary restrictions of freedom, even in light of the tragedies in New York and Washington. Since Sept. 11, 
Joanna Mikulski 
Tuesday Voice on Friday 
life at this University has remained essentially the same. Classes are in session each day. Professors still assign papers and give tests. \Vith the exception of the postponed game against Purdue, the football team still competes in its Saturday match. Ainidst the struggle to complete class work and pass tests, television and newspapers exist as the students' only connection to the outside world. I have found the media coverage of the war in Afghanistan and the recent anthrax scares very sensational. CNN and Fox News have assigned dramatic titles to America's struggle against terror, like "America Strikes Back," and focussed extensively on isolated incidents of anthrax contamination, arous­ing public panic. 
Over break, I returned home. Trips back to Doylestown have traditionally evoked within me the feeling that I have left one country of campus and entered another, the nation of the real world. Yet, this time the feeling of foreignness struck me particularly strongly. My week spent at home and in Washington, D.C., led me to realize my detachment from the gener­al state of the nation and provided me with insights into and understanding of the paranoia sweeping the country and inspiring the talk of the restriction of lib­erties. 
The West Trenton Post Office, believed to be the ori­gin of the anthrax sent to Senator Daschle's office, is 20 minutes away from my home. The postal woman affected picks up mail in the neighborhoods surround­ing my aunt's house. 
On campus in Indiana, my roommate and I had joked about the possibility of anthrax in our mail. (We reached the conclusion of our safety, as we never receive any letters.) However for those in the Trenton 
area, the threat of anthrax had become very real and apparent. FBI agents had cordoned off roads near my aunt's neighbor­hood. They had questioned family friends. 
My return home also brought me much closer to the suffering of the victims of 
the World Trade Center col­
lapse. My mother described the crowds of people at funer­als in our area. Local business­
men and women had died in the -.~·,;:-'(.•;\ ;ti · tragedy. A pilot and a flight ' ·,f;.:,~ 'h ~ J'!:ft~ , 
h.. k d l l.. f /1 •.
i..
attendant of the IJac ·e panes ''\'.-,1 'f' -~1«tii grew up in neighboring towns. '\-"~-! :'•J • 
In Washington my-friend avoided '.\l.-jiitt the metro for two weeks. fearful that the T, city-wide transportation system ~ould be target of terrorism. 
Alerted to the closeness of the threat,) suddenly understood the sentiments of those proposing tighter restrictions on immigration and supporting the issuance of national 1.0. cards. Regardless of the actu­al degree of threat, life local to my home had changed. Fear had swept the area. Measures aimed at ensuring local security through limited restrictions of freedom had become for many residents of my hometown rea­sonable means to regaining the normality of life before Sept. 11. 
In accordance with this sentiment, President Bush recently signed legislation entitled the "USA Patriot Act." This act grants the government extended author­ity to perform searches of suspected terrorists, reduces judicial oversight of telephone and Internet spying and 
allows the government to jail suspects who are not 
U.S. citizens on the basis of suspicion. It lends enor­mous power to the attorney general to define terror­ism and terrorist acts and provides the government with unprecedented surveillance authority. In particu­lar, the act allows for "roving wiretaps," which enables 
officials to place surveillance devices on any phone a suspect might use. Yet, the question arises as to . . whether these efforts will prevent 
~: terrorism and to whether the pro­
/J,,._fov '1·'t<~;i1, tection which they provide out­'l!if'>"" : ~-!.'\ weighs the danger it presents to 
"-W i:\)i.-!~ •' -ij ~f1':.·J_t, 

O,~ ~ \,'.\. \\~).~:. 
,~ .:'; ,~rl ~ , /"'.\f:\ .... . ~~ .l,· ..v.:i~.~_:t.r.~
f:'.~. ;: ·l ~' , .,,·:~~ {;{ '.' l' .rt. t.'• . if,/1.. t \.! :,:!:;. ,,_ .,.lllll!llll!llll-~~~/-l\: :,.; .i_J l. 
• {\_'-,' • . ~ . • . 
• -~••'1 •j·/, 'j':. · 
. -.1 •t·'\'1:f)r.

·-:.t; ·: .t{,J~, power. Cognizant of the risk, leg-
¼, ' • •. ,· }ffi . I h . l d d " 
__ , 1,\.! ·;f, 1s ators ave me u e a sunset 1 r'j,/ clause" to the bill, which revokes .... •· certain provisions after four years. Even from the vantage point of Doylestown, PA, the trend that the USA 
Patriot Act exposes seems a greater threat to the security of Americans than the actions of terror­ists. The freedom of American society comes with a certain amount of risk. The acceptance of the liberties of this society in turn requires a measured renuncia­tion of security. Benjamin Franklin best expressed this reality. He explained, "They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve nei­ther liberty nor safety." 
Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German major. Her column appears every other Friday. She can be contacted at jmikulsk@nd.edu. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of 
the personal freedoms of 
Americans. The expanded sur­veillance authority in the USA Patriot Act contains the possi­
bility of breaches of privacy. The concentratio_n, o_ f th_ese 
expanded capab1ht1es m the hands of one man, the attor­ney general, and law enforce­

ment ag~ncies opens great opportunity to the abuse of 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
.Sex policy should not come as a surpJ1se 
I have a confession to make: I'm a virgin. But do you want to hear the real shocker? I'm glad! 
But before I get accused of hating sex. let me assure everyone that this is far from the truth. I, along with the Catholic Church, believe that sex is one of God's greatest gifts to human beings. It is an integral part to one of the Church's sacraments, matrimony. A Church that believes this neither fears nor hates sex. 
The University of Notre Dame is a private University that associates itself with the Catholic Church. It is thereby called to hold up Catholic morals and principles. Students are not required to accept Catholic beliefs, however, every student here is required to abide by any rules based on those beliefs. 
People hate to be told what to do. Isn't it.much easier to do whatever we want and claim a right to freedom as our justification? Let me suggest that freedom is not the right to do whatever one desires. 
That idea may be jarring in our relativistic society. I realize that the notion oftruth is quickly disappearing 
amidst notions that there is no right or wrong but only 
personal whims which for some reason are assumed to 
be more infallible then any religious teaching and more exempt from scrutiny. 
Most people would say that murder is wrong and would not dispute this fact as being oppressive in any way. However, take something that people have a desire.to take part in, such as sexual intercourse, and all of a sudden any moral judgements on it are deemed to be oppressive and probably the result of those out of touch with their sexuality. 
To those who claim that the University's attitude regarding sex is repressive and unhealthy, I might sug­gest that they are the ones who are repressed by an unhealthy understanding of human love and dignity. 
I do not understand why anyone would settle for an idea ofsex that is little more then a tumble in bed solely for the gratification of hormonal urges. Speaking from a woman's point of view, why would I ever accept an offer purporting to be "the best 39 seconds" of my life when I could accept a vision of sexuality that gives me a lifetime of love and respect for my entire heart and soul, rather then just a vague lust for my body? 
Regardless of our personal views on sex, it is impor­tant to remember that when we all decided to attend Notre Dame, we knew it was a Catholic University. No one should be shocked to find Catholicism at a Catholic school. Notre Dame isn't perfect, but its vision is good and true. Asking it to be less Catholic is asking it to be less Notre Dame, and God forbid that ever happens. 
Erin Griswold 
sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall Nov. 8, 2001 


I I 
O
THE 

BSERVER 




page 14 Friday, November 9, 2001 



Rembrandt's 
A private collection now on display at the Snite features rare and unique etch 
By PAUL RILEY Scene Writer 

All too often, busy college students don't take the time to stop and appreciate life's simple pleasures. They're often so busy and so stressed out by class work that when the work slows down a bit and they do finally have some time to relax, they often just like to have a couple drinks and kick back. 
One of the simple pleasures that often gets neglect­ed is the appreciation of fine art. 
Within the Mestrovic Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame students have the opportunity to relax and spend some time with images produced by the hand one of the most masterful artists in Western History, Hembrandt Harmensz van Rijn. 
The show in the Snite, called "Rembrandt Prints: Rembrandt's Personal Vision of the Bible," features a series of 70 etchings produced by Rembrandt during a number of years which magnificently represent the stylistic and thematic characteristics of his "oeuvre." 
The collection of etchings was a bequest to the Snite by Jack and Alfrieda Fedderson of Elkhart who care­fully hand chose each of the etchings in this collection. "[The collection of the Fedderson'sJ is one of the more important private collections of Hembrandt etchings in North America," said Dean Porter, director of the Snite. 
Although Rembrandt is best known by the public for his magnificent oil paintings with their loose and feathery brushstrokes, he is also extremely well known for his etchings. He is second in his preemi­nence as a graphic artist in both quality and quantity only to the late Renaissance German artist Albrecht Durer, and made a career in printmaking that lasted more than 40 years and resulted in more than ·325 different prints. 
Like Durer, Rembrandt took the graphic arts to new levels stylistically and in the method with which he produced the works themselves. 
The etching process is complicated. The collection of pieces in the exhibition are nearly all etchings, with the ~xception of a few pieces that are produced in dry point. The etching process begins as the artist uses a stylus, a metal carving pin, to carve out his intended design on a metal plate that has been covered with a 
thin layer of wax, resin and gums called a ground. After the ground has been cleared away, the metal plate of the bottom layer is exposed in the design that the artist has executed. The two layers are then dipped into an acid which bites into the metal that has been exposed. The acid thus leaves grooves in the plate that will hold the ink when it is applied to it. 
Drypoint, which Rembrandt often employed to add details to his etchings, is simply produced by using a metal tool called a burin to scratch the intended design into the metal plate. In this method, metal fil­ings produced by the scratching of the burin in the metal remain in the newly created grooves. 
When ink is applied to the plate, it gets caught on the fibers and a smoky effect of variegated shades of light and dark is created. Rembrandt's "Christ Crucified Between the Two Thieves: Three Crosses'' is a marvelous example of Rembrandt's use of' dry­point. 
The haziness created by the drypoint in the piece helps to produce a dramatic baroque lighting effect that thrusts a spotlight on the emaciated body of Christ while only hinting at the forms of the thifwes crucified to his right and left. 
"One of the things that is absolutely characteristic of Rembrandt is his willingness to experiment with media in a really often radical way," said Professor Charles Rosenberg, a professor of art history at Notre Dame specializing in Renaissance and Baroque art. 
One of the prominent examples of this innovation is 
Rembrandt applied the ink to each ofhis etchings by 
personalized. Shown here (clockzDise from top !~ft "Abraham's sacrifice, ""Christ returning from the 1 between the tw1 

O
THE 
BSERVER 



Friday, November 9, 200 I 
page 15 

fingerprints 
ings and drypoint works whose ink was applied directly by the artist's hand 
the method of ink application to the metal plates that he has etched. Rembrandt used his hands to apply the ink to each individual print and made it a priori­ty for each print from each etching to be unique in its own right. 
"His philosophy of printing was different from that which prevails today," Rosenberg said. "Contemporary artists aim for uniformity, so that print No. 1 is virtually identical with print No. 1O," Rosenberg said. 
This is one of the reasons that the Snite is so fortu­nate to have this amazing collection of prints. Each one is entirely unique and has had direct contact with the hand of Rembrandt. 
The 64 images presented in the exhibition almost entirely present New Testament and Old Testament narratives. The images were meant to be kept in pri­vate homes in albums or cabinets where they were to serve as personal devotional images to the owner of the print and his family. 
The primary market for these prints was wealthy Protestant families. The intimate and private nature of these prints was well suited to the religious envi­ronment in which they were produced, where public worship of icons or images was outlawed. 
"One of the characteristics of the Calvinist religion, along with other Protestant sects, is the notion of direct access to the deity without the hierarchical priesthood. These images allow this kind of direct access," Rosenberg said. 
These prints essentially provided the intimate and direct access to a personal relationship with God which the Calvinist sects called for. This made for a booming market for producers of personal devotion­al images such as Rembrandt whose images would often fetch large amounts of money. One of Rembrandt's most famous etchings is named after the price someone paid for it, the so•called "Hundred Guilder Print." It is a phenomenal print of Christ Healing the Sick which masterfully employs chiaroscuro, the subtle gradations of light and dark in the modeling of the figures and objects. 
The small scale of these images, their subject mat­ter and the stylistic methods in which these pieces all were carried out help to create this atmosphere of intimacy and exchange between the viewer and the image. 
Rembrandt meant for these pieces to be viewed close up, one on one. Through this show, Notre Dame students are given the unique opportunity not only to witness the awesome technical mastery that Rembrandt displays in his prints, but also the oppor­tunity to view these pieces as they were intended to be viewed as they create an intimate dialogue with the viewer. 
"What most people don't think about in art history is that these [the etchings] are all messages," Rosenberg said. "They are discussions as profound as the writings of Descartes or Spinoza or Kant or any other philosopher or theologian. These are visu· al narratives to that kind of investigation of the meaning of spiritual narratives, and one can take away from them a better understanding of the nature of spirituality and human experience," said Hosenburg. · 
This is an opportunity that shouldn't be missed. Everyone should take the time to enter into this dia­logue with these etchings. There are only two more weeks until the exhibition closes so relax, put down the book or drink for a serond and wander into the Mestrovic gallery in The Snite to view these marvels for yourself. 
Contact Paul Riley at priley@nd.edu. 
hand, to insure that every piece was unique and 
L) "Self-portrait in a velvet cap u1itli plzune," fenzple zvith his parents"· and "Christ crucified 
o thieves." 

Friday, November 9, 2001

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND MEN'S TENNIS 
Smith, Taborga upset No. 1 doubles team 
Special to The Observer 
FARMERS BRANCH, Texas 
The doubles team of seniors Casey Smith and Javier Taborga knocked off the nation's top dou­bles team Thursday in advancing to the semifinals at the Omni Hotels National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships in Farmers Branch, Texas, just out­side Dallas. The Irish pair won two matches on the first day of competition, highlighted by an 8­6 victory over the top-seeded team of Marcin Matkowski and Jean-Julien Rojer of UCLA. 
The Irish team broke serve in the first game of the match and then held their own serve throughout to gain the win. Matkowski and Rojer won last month's Intercollegiate Tennis Association All-American Championships and had not lost a match this season prior to falling to Smith and Taborga, winning each of the three previ­ous tournaments they entered. The Bruin pair was ranked 18th in the preseason rankings, released in September, but was considered the top doubles team in the nation heading into National Indoors because the ITA releases preseason rankings in early September, but does not release another set of rankings until after the conclusion of the fall season, in December. The top seed at the National Indoor Championships is considered to be the top team in the country at that time since the tournament features the best players in col­lege tennis. 
"Any time you beat the No. 1 team in the country, it is excit­ing," said Irish head coach Bob· Bayliss. "This was definitely an indication of all the hard work Casey and Javy have put in. Their ability to break serve has become a potent weapon and it has been gratifying to sec their improve­ment over the course of the fall." 
Earlier in the day, Smith and Taborga beat Tulsa's team of Dane McGregor and Shri 
Sudhakar 8-2 in first-round action. The Irish seniors are now 15-3 in doubles this fall, includ­ing four victories over doubles teams ranked in the top 30 nationally. Smith and Taborga have won 10 of their last 11 matches. 
The Notre Dame team will take on Southern Methodist's Johan Brunstrom and Eric Cohn Friday at 6:30 p.m. in semifinal action. Brunstrom was a member of the doubles team that won the title at last year's National Indoor Championships. The other semifi­nal features Oliver Maiberger and Ryan Redondo of San Diego State taking on Baylor's Marcus Hornung and Rainer Neurohr. The final is slated for 2 p.m. on Saturday. 
The first day of the National Indoor Championships proved to be a day of upsets, as all three seeded doubles teams fell in the quarterfinals. 
Smith and Taborga are the first Notre Dame doubles team to par­ticipate in the National Indoor Championships since 1997 when Brian Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski won the Region IV doubles title to gain automatic entry into the National Indoors. After losing in the first round, the Irish pair won the consolation title. The best result by a Notre Dame doubles team in the tour­namen t came in 1992 when Chuck Coleman and David DiLucia reached the final before falling to USC's Brian MacPhie and Jon Leach 7-6, 6-4. 
The All-American Championships, the National Indoors, and the year-end NCAA Championships are college ten­nis' three national championship events during the season. From 1986 until last year. there were four national events, but the ITA National Clay Court Championships is no longer played. The National Indoor Championships date back to 1978 and were played in February of each season and sponsored by Rolex until this year. 

Javier Taborga returns a serve during a home match earlier this fall. Taborga and Casey Smith upset the No. 1 doubles team in the country Thursday afternoon. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 1he Noire Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves 1he right to edic
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER­ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243­4244 (x4192) 
FOR SALE 
Moving out, need lo sell evefyihlng! Great Prices! Furniture, kitchen appliances. tv, bed, and much more stuff. CALL 243-9937 
Selling Varsity Club time share 1 soph. wk. $9,500. 
272-1753. 
2 bdrm limestone ranch, close to campus. 2-car attached garage, hardwood floors, finished base­
ment, CIA. Call 219-233·9146. 
For Sale 1999 Toyota RAV4 Excellent condition-only 10,500 miles. leather, cd changer, manual transmission CALL 243-9937 
FOR SALE: 87 Honda Civic 4dr auto A/C stereo. Runs well, reliable. $1000 obo. 233-0296 
WANTED 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
Male roommate needed for upcom­ing Spring semester. Turtle Creek, 2 bedroom apt., fully furnished. $405/mo. Contact Cory and Eric at 
277-6560. 
Female seeking hockey gear ­pads, helmet,right-handed stick. 
Call 
634-2446. 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­rentals@aol.com B & B 3 Miles ND Best Area 287-4545 
Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ new carpet appL, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk N. of Club 23 321-217-8451 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­dents. Good area...ADT, washer­dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9-br $2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month 
3) 4-br $1000/month Call Bill at 532-1896. 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS. furn. 272-6306 FREEDOM! 4 and 5 Bdrm Houses, furnished, • sec syst, wash/dry, PRIME loca­tions, util incl. 4 Br has V-ball & b­ball courts. 233-9947. 
TICKETS 

2 Navy GAs for sale Call Kim 634-3541 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P.M. ­288-2726 ND tickets tor sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED -ND TICKETS 289-9280. 
BUYING NAVY TIX SELLING PUR­DUE, STANFORD TIX. A.M. 232·2378 P.M. 288-2726 
FOR SALE: 4 Purdue tkts. Call Gerry 
4-1994. 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www.EpicuRRean.com 1·800-231-4-FUN 
HOPING TO ADOPT We are a Catholic, fun-loving, well educated and financially secure married cou­ple in Northern California. We are homestudy approved and excited to share our love with a baby! You can learn more about us at www.parentprofiles.com/proliles/db 2288.html or call Adoption Connection toll-free at 1 ·800-972-9225 and ask about Chris and Mary. 
HIT AND RUN. ND SWEAT BLANKET TAKEN FROM GOLF CART. CASE OF MISTAKEN INTEGRITY. 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOW­EST prices! www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985· 6789. 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648­4849 www.ststravel.com 
Need a cheap trip back to California or Arizona at Christmas?l'm driving back to LA, looking for someone to help. Call Jett x4996 
My Bed comes today!!!!! 
No more 9021 Osheets. 
No more backaches... 
But I get something nobody else can ever have... 
I love you Jennifer!!! 

Friday. November 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish look forward minus Shay 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
Men's head cross country coach Joe Piane 
has had a little trouble sleeping this week. 
Two of his team's top runners, All­American seniors Pat Conway and Ryan Shay. will not be competing in this Saturday's Great Lakes Hegional meet in Terra Haute, Indiana, where a first or second place team finish will guarantee a berth in next week's NCAA Championships. 
Shay will allovv his Achilles tendon, which he injuered a few weeks ago, to heal for another week, while Conway continues to recover from a chest cold he has been bat­tling for almost a month. 
"[Shay] will be ready for NCAAs ... Conway is getting healthy now, but I don't think he's ready to run yet ... [Conway] is significanty better, and I think he has a race in him. I just don't think he has two, so let's save it for NCAAs. It's the same with Shay. He could probably run, but if we don't [run him] it will put significantly less strain on his achilles. I think [not running Shay and Conway} is the prudent thing to do." said Piane. 
Sophomores Todd Mobley, David Alber and Brian Kerwin, junior John Keane and seniors Luke Watson, Sean Zanderson and Marc Striowski will run Saturday. Watson won the Great Lakes Regional meet last year. 

"We have so much depth that [the rest of the team] can step up and fill the roles that need to be filled by Pat and Ryan," said Striowski. 
Currently ranked No. 5 nationally behind Colorado, Stanford, Arkansas and Wisconsin, the Irish will once again rely on depth that has carried them all season to get them to 
NCAA's. 
"We can get [to nationals] without [Shay 
and Conway]," said Striowski "Them not run­
ning is the best decisions we can make now. 
I'm confident in our team's ability to make it 
without them." 
No. 4 Wisconsin, No. 11 Michigan, No. 19 Michigan State should be the biggest competi­tion for the Irish -and also the most person­al. Sophomore Todd Mobley is originally from Michigan, and will face his high school, rival who runs for Eastern Michigan. But great performances by lower ranked schools like Butler and Indiana could jeopardize an at large bid for the Irish. 
"It will be fun to race this meet," said Mobley, who won the Valparaiso Invitational earlier this season. "He would outkick me at the end of every race during my junior [ and his senior] year. I beat him in every race last year, except nationals. My high school coach always gives me a hard time about that." 
But' unlike his coach, Mobley has been sleeping just fine this week. 
"There is more pressure on the sixth and seventh runners, Zanderson and Alber. They have less of a margin of error, but I think they'll respond nicely. [Coach Piane] gets a little anxious before meets, and this one will not be an exception," he said. " If we can't qualify without [Conway and Shay]. we don't deserve to go." 
An at large bid is likely to be won by the Irish_ if they do not finish in the top two this weekend. 
"We can't screw up. No one can screw up," said Piane. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 

ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
No. 19 teaID focused on advancing 
· By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
Getting to NCAA's has been the goal on the radar for the women's cross country season all season. Heading to Terra Haute, Ind., this weekend for the Great Lakes Regional meet riding on the momentum of a fourth place finish in the Big East Championships, they rwPd to rinish in tlw top two for a guaranteed spot in next week's NCAA meet. Then the· goal on the radar will become a long coveted reality. 
"We match up very well with just about anyone," said head coach Tim Connelly. "[Getting to NCAAs] has got to be our goal every year. That's what you' re running for ­that's what it's about here." 
The biggest threat to an automatic NCAA qualification for thP No. 1') Irish will lw 
No. 18 Marquette, Big Ten champs Michigan State, \Visconsin and Purdue. 
Juniors Jen Handley, Muffy Schmidt and Jen Fibuch, sophomores Megan Johnson and Julie Schmidt, freshmen Lauren King and Christi Arnerich will run on Saturday. Sophomore Rachel Endress will be an alternate. 
"Coach wan ts three in the top 10, the next five in the top ]0. If WP do that. lw thinks 
we can qualify," said Johnson. "We're pretty confi­dent. We've been pretty con­sistent. Everyone's had a bad race, but we're ready to go out there and run well. We've been running really well in practice, but everything has to click." 
The Irish, ranked No. 19 nationally, look to avenge a disappointing failure to quali­fy for last year's NCAA's. llandlcy took 19th. and th<' 

SPO~SORE:T> BY TUE CLASS OF 2003 
Saturday, November 10 12 pm -6 pm Walsh Hall Social Space 



Includes brief talks 011 \X'omen i11 Relacio11ships \Virh Men, Wo1nen and Bod1r Image!' and Women as Role Models. \>C'ill conclude "'rich Mass@) 5. Also includes activities arid refreshrnents. (:on1e a11d sh.are and fellcJ\vship \virl1 your fello,v \V01nen 011 ca111pus about issues specific to our sex, \valks-ins \velcon1e! Stay as long or as short a.s you wish. 
team took eighth overall in last year's Great Lakes Regional meet. Lauren King, who has competed in three meets this season, won the Notre Dame Invitational and was 24th in the Big East. Christi Arnerich and Megan Johnson, who finished 25th and 14th, respectively. in the Big East, will also be key on Saturday, 
"I think if we didn't make f 
NCAAsl il  would  bt>  a hug1•  
disappointment,"  said  
Johnson.  

Belying on an at-large bid would be a precarious posi­
.tio n th at t h e Ir is h w o u 1d rather avoid. "It becomes a numbers game," said Connelly, "Who beat w-ho, what teams were automatic qualifiers out of the region that you've beaten. I think we have a good shot.,. 
"It would be nice to auto­matically qualify, so we don't have to spend all day Sunday and Monday worrying about it," said Johnson. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 

Cold WMther Exp«u 

Sminutes from Campus Call 259-1000 for more details
• 

\ page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 9, 2001 
l 
\! 
<\ 
) 
I' 
I ! 
I
I 
I 
: i 
'I Ii 
! I 
I; 
it r 


Friday, November 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 



Observer classifieds deadline is 3p.mM-F  


HOCKEY 
Irish return home, face No. 8 Ferris 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team will look to continue its momentum when the Irish return to the Joyce Center this weekend after six straight road games. Last weekend the Irish earned their first win of the season when they defeated then CCHA leader Northern Michigan 5-4 on the road Friday night. The weekend split with Northern Michigan pushed Notre Dame's overall record to 1-3-2 and 1-2-1 in the CCHA. 
This weekend Notre Dame takes on another CCHA adver­sary in the Ferris State Bulldogs. Ferris State sits in eighth place in the CCHA with a 2-3-0 record and four points. Notre Dame is in 10th place in the CCHA. 
For the Irish to be successful they must continue to play well on defense. The Notre Dame defensive unit is very young, featuring two juniors. four sophomores and two freshmen. Add into the equation a fresh­man goalie in Morgan Cey and it is easy to see that the Irish must be patient defensively. Several times already the Irish have grabbed an early lead, only to see it evaporate in the later periods. It is evident that Notre Dame has worked on clamping down defensively in the past couple of weeks. 
During last Friday's game against Northern Michigan the horrors of the early season appeared to be repeating them­selves. Notre Dame took an early 1-0 lead, but let it slip away with three quick Northern Michigan goals. Then the defense was able to clamp down. Down 3-1, the Irish fought hard to clamp down on defen_se and keep the game close. In the end, Notre Dame was able to outscore Northern Michigan on their way to a 5-4 victory. 
This week defensively the Irish will have to be on the lookout for Ferris State's Rob Collins. Collins is the current CCHA offensive player of the week after turning in four goals and three assists against Lake Superior State last weekend. He leads Ferris State this sea­son in scoring with 16 points. 
Offensively the Irish are doing just fine. Senior David Inman and junior Connor Dunlop con­tinue to get it done for Notre Dame upfront. Dunlop had four assists in the Irish victory last week, and he leads the team in points with 10. Inman is second in points with eight, and he leads the team in goals with four. 
This weekend the Irish will try to continue what they are doing. They will look for the offensive output from Dunlop and Inman and Aaron Gill. They will continue to clamp down on defense. And most importantly the Irish will look to continue winning and their 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 

Joint Military Ceremoriy 
Friday, 9 November 2001 
ND ROTC units pay tribute to America's military veterans with guest speaker 

CoL Brian C Regan, USMCR, (Ret.) 

4:00pm at Stonehenge 
Clark War Me,norial 
Inclement weather site -Stepan Center 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish travel to UConn 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
The early season has just been a rehearsal for the men's swimming and diving team, after competing against Pittsburgh and nationally­ranked University of Tennessee. But this weekend will be opening night for the Irish, as they step onto the Big East stage in Connecticut. 
The top-caliber match-ups early this season may have taught the Irish what they have to do to clinch close races, but they'll need star-studded per­formances to come out on top of Rutgers and Connecticut. 
"I know that our skills are better. and I know that we have faced fast teams already." said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "Both of those things strengthen us. The key move in the game will be to put it together at the right 
. ..
tim
e. 

Saturday's meet will be the first Big East dual meet this season for the Irish. Connecticut. coming fresh off of victories against Villanova and Seton Hall, is 2-2 in the Big East, and will have the advantage of competing at home in Storrs, Conn. Hutgers. however, will chase after the Irish after placing .5 points behind Notre Dame at last year's Big East Championships. 
On paper, Rutgers will have the edge against Connecticut and Notre Dame, according to Welsh. 
"We have reason to want to stay in front, and they have reason to want to pass us," Welsh said. "This is going to be a side-by-side match-up. There are too many races that are just too close to call." 
"This will be our first real 

test of how we fare in the Big 
East," said senior co-captain 
Mike Koss. "Hight now, going 
into the meet, Rutgers wins by 
about 20 points. But a lot of 
times a 10th of a second makes 
all the dilTercncc. The bottom 
line is to just get up on the 
blocks and race." 
Senior diver Andy Maggio will lead the Irish from the 1­meter and 3-mctcr boards, and Notre Dame can also expect big performances from freshman sprinter Frank Krakowski and senior distance swimmer Jonathan Pierce. 
"The team has spent the last few days evaluating and re­evaluating the lineup during practice to put together the fastest possible lineup," Welsh said. 
"We will need every single person. We have no extra speed anywhere in the pro­gram," Welsh said. 
The meet begins at Connecticut at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Noteen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
South Quad rivalry hits semis 
running attack.
ByJOE HETTLER AND "We think we can move theMATT DeNICOLA ball and we have the running
Sports Wricers 
game to do it," said Linstroth. "We better stick with what's A rivalry will be renewed on working because we're on Sunday with the stakes higher four straight wins right now." than ever. In This whole week Dillon has 
the first week of the season, stressed playing tougher foot­No. 1 Dillon squeaked by No. ball against the Dawgs after 4 Alumni 6-0 to give the what happened during the Dawgs their only loss of the first game. season. This week the winner "We think that the first not only gets bragging rights, game [Alumni] played a lot but also the opportunity to harder than we did and we play in Notre Dame Stadium, want to reverse that this while the loser goes home. week," said Odom. "We want 
I 
"If you're not fired up for to go out and play harder and this game against Alumni, our play stronger and play more big rival. and it's a game to intense than the first game." get into the Stadium, then I With so much on the line, don't know if you should real­that shouldn't be a problem 
i 
ly be playing," said Dillon co­for either team this weekend. captain Tayt Odom. Alumni co-captain Nick 
Seigfried vs. Fisher
Linstroth couldn't agree 
Two teams who followed 
more. 
promising regular seasons
"[This game] is personal in 
with convincing first round
the sense that it's a rivalry," 
victories face off Sunday as
said Linstroth. "I think going the No. 2 Seigfried Ramblersto the Stadium is the prize. It take on the No. 3 Fisher Wave
would be nice handing any 
for a trip to the Stadium.
team their first loss of the The Siegfried Ramblers 
season to kick them out of the 
handed Keough a 20-6 loss,
playoffs, but basically we're 
and the Fisher Green Wave

just looking to win the game.'' 
dominated Keenan in a 26-7
Each captain also said that victory. Both teams have for­both teams played well in the 
midable offenses combinedfirst game of the season and 
with solid defenses. However,that the two Alumni turnovers 
they have not played eachinside Dillon's 20 yard-line 
other.
proved costly for the Dawgs. 
"We really don't know that"The first game was a great much about Siegfried," said 
.game," said Linstroth. 
Fisher captain Ray Everyone has heard the Siegfried's offense scored a
"Basically both defenses were Aftandilians. "But I do know saying, offense wins games, league high 61 points. Thisplaying well. We just had one 
that they are a good team." but defense means champi­becomes even more impres­fumble and one interception 
Siegfried dominated their onships. Fisher lives by this sive when one considers that
inside Dillon territory. [This 
league during the regular rule. their defense allowed a
game] I just think we need to season, with only one miscue "Our offense has been very league low seven.
control the mistakes we made 
against Zahm in the second stable, " said Aftandilians. Both Siegfried and Fisher
the first time against them." 
week. Since then. they have "But our defense has won are threats to score. Both
Odom knows that the team 
been unstoppable. Their games." Siegfried and Fisher pride
that makes the least mistakes 
'touchdowns scored and If defense keeps winning themselves on keeping the
will be victorious. 
touchdowns allowed were games, then the champi­opposition out of the end
"They had two big 
best in their league onship does not seem far off. zone. 
turnovers and l think that 
However, now they must It doesn't hurt the Fisher "Getting into the· Stadium 
was the biggest difference in 
play Fisher. another team poses one of the most formi• [for the championship] isthe game," said Odom. 
that has played do min ant dable offenses in interhall. entirely within our grasp,"
"Otherwise it was a pretty 
football. Tight end Tom "We are just going to keep said Aftandilians. "I think that
good battle back and forth, 
Gorman, running back playing like we have all year," we are unstoppable rightbut this game will be different Kamron Chappell and line• said Aftandilians. now."
because both offenses should 
backer Dean Korolis have Ramblers quarterback Rob
be better." 
lead the Green Wave as they Plumby and tailback Travis
Linstroth says that Alumni Contact Joe Hettler at 
wiped out teams throughout Smith are one of the most
will stick with what's worked jhettler@nd.edu and Matt 
the regular season. impressive duos on any team. 
page 20 Friday, November 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 

for them this season, their 
I·I ' 
.1 
I. 
l
/ r 
'­
I 

Look no further~ the OIT is HIRING! 
Resident Cowuter Consu1tar}tStipr;l\;, •o'-) 
DVTIES INCLWJE: 
., 'HHlUBU.SHrHH rn$ 
-INSTALLING &REPA[Rl~G NETWORK caMNECTIV!TY OF RESIDHJT CO~PUTEi{S rn THE ~rswrncE HALLS. ANSWE!HNG Gr.ti£RAl,. Hfl.ERNET $0rTWAf;£ QllES'fIOtis 
Apply novv at http://www.nd..edu/,.ndoit/employ 
(1'hro~gh Novcwbc.r 15th) 
r Questions? Call 631•• 84~7 tmail ahickcrsffnd.c<iu 
' I 
. I 
~ ,_ -... .. .... ,J ... • • -.... • -• I ..... "1 ~ ••••• ~ ii-•• ,. •••••••••••••••••• ., .:
I I 
i 




DeNicola at mdenkol@nd.edu. 
Men 
continued from page 28 

guys were excited and they're ready to play." 
The Hoyas enter Saturday's match-up with a 6-4 record and a No. 7 seed in the Big East. Georgetown finished the regular sea­son tied with Boston College, but the Eagles took the sixth seed as a result of defeating the Hoyas in their only matchup. Georgetown's overall record is 9-8-1, but that includes defeats to lop Big East contenders such as St. John's and Hutgers. 
Georgetown also holds the distinc­tion of being the only team to defeat No. 1 seed Connecticut in conference play this season. The Hoyas beat t~e Huskies, 1-0, on Oct. 20 at Harbm Field in Washington. D.C. 
The Hoyas come into the game on a three-game winning streak. After a rough October, which saw the Hoyas go 2-5 in their first seven games ofthe month, 
Georgetown enjoyed key victories over Pennsylvania, Seton Hall and Pittsburgh. They also bring the Big East's fourth-leading point scorer in Nate Port, who has 11 goals and three assists in 17 games this sea­son. 
However, on paper, the Hoyas seem overmatched by a very tough Irish squad. Anchored by a defense and goalkeeper who have allowed only three goals since the end of September, the Irish also enter the match with·some momentum. 
Notre Dame is coming off an emo­tional 2-1 overtime victory against Big East rival Syracuse, essentially preventing the Orangemen from a third straight Big East postseason appearance. 
The win on Nov. 3 caps off a streak in which the Irish have won eight of its last nine games, with the sole loss coming to top•seeded Connecticut by a 1-0score. 
"\,Ve didn't play our best game against Syracuse, so obviously we've got to go in with almost a fresh men­tality and not have big heads," Rosso s-aid. "We've just got to go in and play hard. We can't rely on our momentum, but on the fact that we're in the playoffs and playing for something 
The winner of Saturday night's contest will face the winner of the No. 3 vs. No. 6 match-up -Boston College at St. John's -next Friday at 5 or 7 p.m. at Morrone Stadium, at the University of Connecticut. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu and Chris Federico and cfederic@nd.edu 

~en's Soccer 
5Al. ~OV.10 7:30 PM 
vs. Georgetown 

Free Admission for • first 300 Students 
Z> 

........ f,111 ••••• !Ill •••••• 
a!:•••••"'.•--••••••••••••••--••••• 

Friday, November 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FENCING 
Irish face challenge at Penn State_Open 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The trophy case behind Yves Auriol's desk in the Notre Dame fencing office is filled with bronze, silver and gold plaques attesting to the greatness of the Notre Dame fencing program. Five national titles and 42 top 10 finishes glitter behind his desk in the Joyce Center. 
But with five highly touted new fencers added to last year's third place finisher, this year's Irish team has even higher expectations. 
"I think this team is the best team Notre Dame has ever had," junior epee captain Anna Carnick said. 
Auriol is not a quick to drape the banner of greatness around his team before a single bout is fenced but does acknowledge that the 2001-02 Irish could be special. 
"It's more talented than the last three or four years," Auriol said. In the last four years the Irish have finished second three times and third once. 
Most coaches would be happy enough to return 11 of 12 starters from an NCAA third place finisher. But in the off season. Auriol recruited four highly touted freshman and welcomed the top recruit from 2000-01 back to the team. . 
Foilists Andrea Ament. Alijica Kryczalo and Derek Snyder and epeeist Michael Sobieraj, all 
· enter their freshman year at 
Notre Dame with a wealth of 
experience against some of the 
top fencers in the world. 
Sophomore Kerry Walton, the 
No. 4-ranked junior epeeist in 
the country, returns to the Irish 
lineup after being declared aca­
demically ineligible for the 
spring semester. 
This weekend's Penn State open will be the first chance for the Irish to see how their new fencers match up against other top collegiate fencers. All of the Irish, with the exception of Walton who will be trying to qualify for the Junior National Team at a tournament in Dallas, will travel to State College, Pa. for the individual tournament. 
"We have some very good recruits and we are going to be ready to claim the national title at the end of the year," foil cap­tain Ozren Debic said. "This meet is for the new people to feel their way out and see what they are up against." 
The Irish will face two of their stiffest competition this week­end. Both teams that finished ahead of them at the 2001 championships, Penn State and St. John's, will compete this weekend. 
"This is an individual competi­tion so it doesn't count for dual meets but we will find out where we are right now," Auriol said. "I don't think we are where we want to be right now. But I don't worry about that because it is very early in the season." 
While this weekend's results 
will not impact Notre Dame's 
record or seedings for the NCAA 
Championship qualification, it 
serves as a barometer for the 
rest of the season. 
..The Penn State Open is always a good measuring stick to see what kind of team you have," Auriol said. 
According to Carnick. the Penn State Open in some ways sets the tone for the rest of the season. 
She fenced well at the tourna­ment in 1999 to finish fourth and finished ninth at the 2000 NCAA tournament. In 2000, she fenced poorly at the Penn State Open and dropped to 12th at the NCAA tournament later than season. 
"I am nervous for this week­end," Carnick said. "I did well my freshman year and last year had a poor showing. I am excit­ed to fence against different people than the ones we fence every day in practice." 
The meet is also important for foreign fencers who are not used to the American tourna­ment system. Debic, a two-time All-American and member of the Croatian National Team, was.ill prepared for the stamina needed for American fencing as a freshman two years ago. He expelled too much energy in the early rounds against lesser competition and was tired by the time he faced the better fencers in the later rounds. 
"That was a totally different experience. I was used to fenc­ing at World Cups where every­one was really tough so making it through the first three rounds was a big deal;" the foil captain said. "Whereas this was a long tournament. It was round after round after round of mediocre people. Basically I lost because I didn't have enough energy to make it all the way. It was a good experience for learning the system." 
Debic has warned Sobieraj 

and Kryzcalo, who are both members of the Polish National Team, about what to expect this weekend. 
Sobieraj and Kryczalo both enter the tournament with high expectations from their coach. Auriol believes both fencers could win their weapons this weekend. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
~ -:t. '~ ,.-:1. ";f. ...,,. . ~\.:·;p,S . I ,. f, .-.,•1:~, .•# I .c· '41. . .. ~ WI" .... ,,,~·· ... Evan Adams Co1ne take a fascinating journey into the custotns, culture, and accomplishrnents of Native An1cricans. Evan Adarns is an accomplished actor, \Vriter, and dancer. Join us for a personal account of Evan's experiences. When: Nov. I 2th , 2001 @ 7:00prn Where: Reckers Hospitality Roon,  aUve America .. .,,,,_ EVENTS 11111N bOVClll er J ~1nvie Night <d· Dillon I lall 14-1 lour space td 7pm Novcrnbcr 14th Native Art ·1 our 'd, Snilc lv]usl:um Call h.14-4732 l<.1r details Novc111bcr I 5th Native Dancing with the family of I,awrcncc Santiago. 2002 (ii: 8pm *Native American Week is co•sponsorcd by NASAND and MSPS  Jackie Bird ('0111c be a part ofa \\'onderful experience that includes conte111porary and traditional n1usic. songs. and dances. Join us as \VC share this experience ,vith Jackie Bird, a Native Arncrican who has mastered the skills necessary to preserve her culture. When: Nov. 16th' :!001 (i]J 8:00pm Where: Notre l)ame Faculty · Dining Roon1  


l) 
~ 
'.~ 
'\ 
/ 
; 
' 
page 22 Friday, November 9, 2001
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Drune finishes season with Eck Classic 
head coach Jay Louderback is can play. In order to maximize Louderback has been pleas­nents, Louderback's main con­By COLIN BOYLAN looking forward to getting in match experience, most teams antly surprised by his doubles cern for the rest of the fall 
Spores Writer 
some quality match time against fill their schedule with tourna• pairings. which have played semester is reviving a lagging tough opponents. ments versus many other with much greater success than singles game. 
After a week off from orga• 'Tm pretty sure that all four schools. his singles players this year. "I don't feel that our singles nized competition, the Notre teams will be ranked in the top Hence, Louderback states his One such pairing is the team game has been at the level we'd Dame women's tennis team will 35 in preseason rankings," said main goal for this weekend is of Katie Cunha and Sarah Jane like so far this year," said wrap up its fall schedule by Louderback," so this should be a just "getting in as many matches Connolley,who have a chance to Louderback. "We're definitely
hosting the Eck Classic this 
good sendoff for the fall semes• as we can -especially doubles build on the success generated going to have to work that out weekend at the Eck Tennis ter." matches.·• by their four-match winning this weekend and in the upcom­Pavilion. More import.antly, the Irish Indeed, usually just a side· streak in the Omni Classic. The ing months." 
The Irish will play host to 
hope to recapture valuable event to singles competition, tandem even has a chance to The Irish will face off against 
Indiana, Arizona and Texas 
match. time that might have doubles matches have the exact revenge on the team that Texas A&M starting at 1:30 p.m.A&M in a dual match format been lost in their dual match potential to take center stage defeated them in the semi-finals, Saturday and play will continue that is intended to prepare the against USC. this weekend, as A&M boasts Indiana's Karie Schlukebir and throughout the weekend. 
teams for spring competition. 
Typically in the preseason, two top•50 nationally ranked Linda Tran. While the tournament will not teams have only a limited num• doubles teams and Indiana has Aside from tough doubles Contact Colin Boylan at cboy­count for ranking purposes, ber of weekend matches they at least one. competition from their oppo-lan@nd.edu. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Bullfrogs battle Chicks to continue Cinderella season 
"We're really looking forward ferent ways. prominence, members of both good as any in the league," said By ANTHONY BISHOP and to the game," Zachry said. Welsh has amassed a 6·0 teams agree that the game will Dillen berger. 
DAVE COOK 
"Our defense has stepped up in record through relentless come down to defense. 
Spores Writers 
key situations all season, and offense. Consistently one of the "Defense will decide the we're hoping that both our highest scoring teams in the game. It will come down to 
Coming off their first win in defense and offense can make league, the Whirlwinds pride whose defense will hold," said Contact Anthony Bishop at playoffs history, the Badin the most of the opportunities themselves on having arguably Welsh captain Vanessa Lichon. abishop@nd.edu and Dave Cook Bullfrogs look to continue their that arise during the game." the most potent and unpre• "Our defense needs to step at dcook@nd.edu 
Cinderella season by knocking The Lewis defense has other dictable offenses in the league. up. Welsh's defense is just as off the second-ranked .Lewis plans for Badin. On the other hand, Walsh has Chicks. "We're not really changing grinded its way to a 3·0-4
ii 
Lewis has had a more sue• things up, we have a couple record by boasting one of the 
cessful history. Five years ago, new sets but we 're going to most stalwart defenses in the I they lost the championship stick with league. The i game in a defensive shootout. what we Wild Women 
i 
I 
6-0. Tight end and Lewis assis• know." said "Defense will decide the have not 
cornerback allowed a
tant rector Liz Talarico is the 
game. It will come down 
only player remaining on the Kara Helmig. touchdown to 
to whose defense 
team from that game. "We're just be scored on ) "I hope to give team support," going to play will hold. ,, them all year. I she said. "Hopefully I can help our game." "Our girls 
The Lewis are ready to
calm the nerves of [the younger 
Vanessa Lichon
girls]." defense is no fight extreme­The Lewis tradition of solid pushover. Welsh captain ly hard," said defense is finally complemented Giving up only Walsh head by a powerful offense. two touch-coach Steve Behind the arm of Erin downs in the regular season,. Dillenberger. the Chicks have established "We have a really strong
Nasrallah. Lewis is also one of the most prolific offenses in the themselves as a team you will defense," said Walsh captain not drive on. Alison Troy. "Our defense is
league. She led the team to a 21-12 victory last week, throw­That total was matched last run differently than most ing 8-11 and completing one for week as McGlinn punched in defenses in the league." a touchdown. two scores. exposing some Despite the confidence the 
weakness in the Lewis defense. \Vild Women have in their
The Chicks like to score fast and score often. usually taking Lewis captain Caitlin Murry defense, .Walsh knows that the said, "\Ve got relaxed with the road to the championship game 
no more than seven plays to big lead. We have to make sure runs through the Welsh offense. 
march downfield. Lewis isn't the only team with we keep our focus." "[Welsh] has the best offense Zachry doesn't seem phased in the league," said
an explosive offense though. by the intimidating style of Dillenberger. "They run lots of
Badin likes to make big plays to keep the game close and score defensive play by the Chicks. offensive formations. We need that last touchdown to take the "We plan to stay calm, exe­to prepare defensively." 
lI
., game. cute our offense, and take Welsh has seen vValsh prac­With quarterback Erin Zachry advantage of opportunities as tice, and they know what to 
commanding the offense, any• they come," she said. expect in the high level of thing can happen. Many times, defensive play they will be fac­she's been able to pick out the ing.
Welsh vs. Walsh 
"We have practiced more this
open receiver and connect week. We've put in a whole

whenever the team needs it. Last week was no exception, Both No. 1 Welsh and No. 5 bunch of new [offensive} plays," 
Recycle The Observer. 
Walsh will come to Sunday's said Whirlwinds head coach Joe 
as she found receiver Stephanie interhall semifinals with unde­
Blaney.

Heath in the end zone to finally 
feated records. But they will 
Despite Welsh's offensive
overcome Cavanaugh. 

have arrived there in verv dif• 

NOTRE DAME VOLLEYBALL (Friday, Nou. 9 @ 7:00pm ) r----------. r----------.I Get your FREE II FREE ~&~Jrilm I Payer 9liryCane Contest: 1•cast Away" Wilson II Mini-Megaphone I Win a Sony C'D yCayer or Panasonic 'DV'D.J'{ayer!l I volleyballs and II and I .._________.. .. _________..I popcorn fill-up!! I See wfio can 80 tfie distance to win! I FREE movie passes!! I ~unday, Nou. 11 @ 2:00pm )  

Friday, November 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Guertin has been a consistent scorer the last seven games for the Irish, and carrie~ a six game goal-scoring streak continued from page 28 into Friday's contest, dating back to Notre Dame's 7-0 win over St. John's Irish this season. Oct. 12. She has had a point in 11 of But following a solid week of practice, the past 13 games, and leads the Irish the Irish have confidence. in scoring, with 26 points on the sea­
"Overall, it was a good week of prac­son. tice," said senior midfielder Mia The Irish have even more incentive to Sarkesian. "I think since we've won the perform well in this weekend's tourna­Big East the last six times Ethe other ment than just winning the Big East teams are gunning for us." title. The NCAA selection committee 
The Irish have to like their chances will pick the seedings· for the NCAA against the Eagles. The Irish backline is tournament following the conference playing the same, suffocating defense championships. The Irish, currently that has carried Notre Dame all year ranked no. 6, are looking to grab a No: and goalkeeper Liz Wagner has been 1 seed in the tournament, guaranteeing solid in front of the net. their first four games of the NCAA tour­
Experience and skill personify the nament would be at home. Irish defense. Senior defenders Monica "We're hoping that we the Big East," Gonzalez and Lindsey Jones have said Sarkesian. "That would help us logged 183 games in the back com­with our seeding." bined. Pruzinsky is a finalist for Player The Irish have not lost at home in 38 of the Year, and freshman Candice games, a streak dating back to a win Chapman's speed and skill have made against Duke 4-1 on Sept. 5, 1999. her rock solid in the back. Despite Notre Dame's strong perfor­
"I think they're a good team, and our mance in the Big East regular season, defense is strong," said Wagner. the Irish received none of the top six "They're good enough that they'll prob­awards for the Big East. Pruzinsky. ably get off a few good shots." Gonzalez, and Chapman were all 
Overall. the Irish defense also match­named to the Big East First Team, and es up well against an Eagle offense that Sarkesian got a second team nod. is not overwhelmingly productive, aver­Should the Irish defeat the Eagles aging 2.1 goals a game. tonight, they would go on to face the 
The Irish offense, which has strug­winner of the Connecticut-West gled at times this season to finish scor­Virginia semifinal on Sunday. ing opportunities and completely blow "We'd like to play Uconn on Sunday," out opponents, has come on as of late, said Wagner. "But [tonight's game] is in part due to sophomore forward our focus right now." Amanda Guertin's strong play. 
"In the last month of the season, they've been a lot better," said head Contact Jeff Baltruzak at 
Women 

coach Randy Waldrum. jbaltrul@nd.edu. 
"Retiring Or  
Changing Jobs?''  
The largest single swn or money you receive in your life will probably come from your pension. thrift or profit sharing plan when you leave your co1npany or school.  
Salomon Smith Barney invites you to a free seminar to review your retirement altcrnutives. S01ne points to be discussed ..ire:  
• • • • •  How to take your lu1np-sum distribution. Your choices und options. What arc the tax implications? Whut investn1ents can you and should you choose'.? Is your current IRA -.vorking for you?  

Free Retire111e11t Pla1111i11g Se,11ilu1r 
DATE:  Tuesday, November 13  
Tl ME:  7:30 pm  
SPEAKER:  Gnry Rakan  -Oppcnhcianer Funds  

PLACE: Summit Club, 25th floor, City Center Building RSVP: 800-322-2425 or Julic.a.bergman«,1)rssmb.com 
Set1li11g is lhnitetl, Sll ple11sc cullfor reservi1//011s or hifor11u1tit,11. Bri11;.: " frie11tl or callet1J[11e. 
SALOMON SMITl-1 BARNEY 
A member of citigroup'J" 
Championship, defeating But even though the Connecticut has proven more Huskies are confident head­
Huskies 
and more difficult for the ing into this weekend, they Irish in the last two years. still don't forget their past
continued from page 28 
The last three meetings struggles against the Irish. said. between the two teams have This year's Connecticut team 
But if history is any indica­been evenly split. Each team features eight seniors who tion, both Notre Dame and has one win, one loss and a have gone 1-4-2 against the Connecticut should meet tie. In Notre Dame's only vic­Irish. again in the Big East tory -in the finals of the "Frustration has set in," Championship on Sunday -2000 Big East Championships Bowie said. "It's always dis­
just like they have for the -the lone Irish goal was appointing. There is not last sixth straight years. And scored by a Connecticut play­doubt about that. You can the Irish expect to have the er into her own net. sense that frustration from same result -another cham­The close nature of the our coach when that hap­
pionship. most recent match-ups has pens. You don't want to let 
"I think we still are in a the Huskies brimming with him down and you don't way just because we have confidence. want to let each other won it the past few years so "Notre Dame has always down." 
we are still the favorites," been a big game," Husky If Notre Dame and Irish captain Mia Sarkesian senior Mary-Beth Bowie said. Connecticut both win their said. "They have always been a semifinal matches, they will 
Even though the Irish claim strong team and they still meet in the finals at noon on that soccer experts across are. To beat them, especially Sunday. In the past, making the country still expect them with the 3-1 score is always it to the finals would have 
to win the Big East a confidence booster." been enough for the Huskies. They set their goals for the season to play to the best of their abilities. After six­'straight finals losses to Notre Dame, they aren't accepting their best effort any more. Anything less than a Big East Championship would be a disappointment. 

"We have some higher
he fRJ:_i:_ ~LAN R.eview Dat 
expectations of ourselves this year," Caldwell said. "We
~IMY. Nov. Df::h@O~~ rt>011'520Ll.2o6.207 
aren't going to just settle for10:00-?:?0 an:I 208 playing well. We want to play well and come out on top." 
k?:00-IO:.?Oam 12egistrati9 n Contact Mike Connolly at 
connolly.28@nd.edu.
k?:30-ll20a m Inl:-roduditJnta day's e-Je. nts 
ll.30-12.:20 Cwi::-e ofworksh'lps 
t_og;c ~ames (applies to all 3 ~ms-) f2eading Comprd.ension (all 3 ~ms-) Dahl !)ufficiency (Qi,1Al) funciamenl:als ofArgu~ (L~T) 
12:30-l15pm LJJrrh 

nf . <•
~~--~~
l15-21521"!! OEA with ad't/60rs 
5n1inute~ ~ 
220-3:~pm Ch:,r;e ufworksh?ps 
{!on1 CIUTPCIST Cmnpus llllllll[T!EifJ
Cold W..ther Ex,,.,.r. 

CoU 259-2000 for more details 
Friday, November 9, 2001 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
from the field and 42 percent from behind the three-point

Bball 
line. "They went 9-for-23 from
continued from page 28 
three, and I thought they Humphrey. trying to go for a went 23-for-23," EA Sports 
dunk. \Vas fouled hard by EA coach Price Johnson said of Sports' John Mobley. Notre Dame's 11-of-26 3­Humphrey landed on his head point shooting. 
and lay motionless for about Brey was impressed with a minute before slowly stag­the inside play of Harold gering to his feet. He was led Swanagan. With Humphrey to the locker room by team on the bench for most of the doctors and did not return to game, Swanagan played 32 the floor in the first half. minutes and finished with 14 
Humphrey points and returned to the 1 2 
..We were first going to 
court at half­rebounds. time and played hold [Humphrey] out for The Irish the first 58 sec­trailed 15­
the second half. Our 
onds of the sec­13 early in
doctor took him down
ond half before the first sitting out the and looked at him for the half before rest of the Torrian
second halfand felt he 
game, a move Jones stole 
was OK.,.
Brey said was the ball planned going and was into the game. fouled
Mike Brey
Brey said going for a
Irish head coach 
I 
Humphrey lay-up. would be able Jones, who to practice, and finished that he thought the forward with 13 points, hit both free­only had a headache. th rows to kick-start a 9-0 , "We were first going to hold Irish run that gave the Irish a 
I him out for the second half," 26-15 lead midway through Brey said. "Our doctor took the first half. l him down and looked at him Then, with 17:06 left in the for the second half and felt he game and the Irish leading by was OK. He wanted to play. I 13 points, Notre Dame went was not going to start him in on a 20-4 run, highlighted by the second half given that he 3-pointers from Graves, Jones will not be able to play for us and Jordan Cornette, to give for the next two games [in the Irish a comfortable 73-44 order to serve a suspension margin. as a result of an NCAA viola­"We played these guys last tion] l don't think his injury year, and I had a bad team, anything serious." · and they beat us pretty Chris Thomas finished the good." Johnson said. "This game just three assists and year, I have a good team, one rebound away from a good athletes, good shooters, triple-double. He had 16 and they beat us as bad. This points. nine rebounds and team is as good as any of seven assists. However, the those teams I've played freshman point guard also against, including Missouri. If committed seven turnovers. they don't go into the tourna­"This was a good learning ment, I'll be surprised." experience for him, pl_aying Notre Dame's first regular against some older guys season game is Nov. 16 

~-----------------­
who've got tricky hands," against New Hampshire. The 
' 


Brey said. "I think he grew up game begins at 9 p.m. and 
a lot and understood how follows the football pep rally. 
strong he's got to be with the 
basketball." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at
Notre Dame's strength was 
asoukup@nd.edu.
in its perimeter play. Although guard Kelly McClure 
r-·-·-·-·-·-·,
led the All-Stars with 25 • • points, the Irish limited the MOVIE POSTERS 
I I
All-Stars to just 37 percent 
the • www.moviepostersonllne.net •
shooting from field. 
1

Meanwhile, the Irish finished I (menUon OB w/ your order for free SIB)• the game shooting 50 percent 
L--·-·-·-·-·.J• 
II ¦¦ Notre Dame Center 
¦ ¦ ¦ for Ethics and Religious 
II ¦ Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Mr. Philip J Krawitz 
CEO of Cape U nionmart and an important business and civic leader in the new 
! • 
South Africa 
"Madibats Management Mantra" ­Management Lessons We Can Learn From Mandela 
Brown Bag Luncheon ·ruesday, November 13, 2001 339 Mendoza College of Business 12:30 p.m. -1 :30 p.m. 
* Beverages will be provided. Please bring your own lunch. ** You can find additional information at www.nd.edu/--ethics/ , 

University ofNotre Dame 
l
International Study Program 
Ill 

Dublin Ireland 
Information Meeting 
Tuesday, Nov. 13, 2001 155 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 PM 
with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 for Fall 2002, Spring 2003 All Year 2002-2003 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
... 


Friday, November 9, 2001 
A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 25 
AP poll 
team record points 1 Mlamf(55) 1~0 it ·1,781 2 Nebraska {17) 10-0"· · · 1,145 3 Oklahoma ·· · 
8·1 >..• J,623
4 '.Florida .>;*~•r1.1•··. ···.··>·•··•·•····.·.1,s91•·... 
5 Texas 
8·1 .1,517 6 Tennessee 11~99 7 Oregon ·;@ 1··...•·3·4·3 
·· ..·:t':"' ~ '.. 8 Washington > t,~88 9 BYU,," 9·0 1}147 10 Florld'a State 6·2 t,060 
11 Washington State 8·1 1,050 12 Michigan 6•2 . 922 · 13 Maryland . 8-1 ·· 892 
14 South Carolina 7•2. · 748 15 Illinois 
~:~'Z.;\r .•
16 Stanford 17 UCLA 6·2 . 693 18 Syracuse.;;••··•· 

Georgia 1S%> .. ... · .. Y./.Ii( · "' ...'W .. . ·.•.. ..•.·· ..·55•··•·5~ · . ..•.•.· •••
:%iii••·.:7s··•.722. u•..••.'.'.:•.••.·•.·.,.•.1 ··•.. ·..··.·,·•.··..·...•..· .•....sai.•·.•.•.·.·.;.••.·. .....• .:,;.•.•·.·•,. ....•..••• 
·
19 ·:ff:::?·:·. 
20 Georgia Tech 6-2 501 21 Colorado · 7·2 389 22 Michigan State 5-2 287 23 Virginia Tech 6·2 221 24 Auburn 6·2 125 25 Louisville • 8-1 121 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
team points • 
1 Mlam·1 (.41) · .....· J.i.b7.Q ··4·79 ·•:?it
·.·.,.•.•®.•
•. ' . . •.rn; 2 Nebraska {18} • 10·0 
.1,4~6 3 Flor.Ida. (1) '':,)\:..: .fr.:::~: ·.;-ij:-•.•····••1...··,•3·....4.· 4 Oklahoma 
5 Texas i;i§6
6 . Tennessee... 1~17. 7 Oregon "'' IPl 
8 WashJngton1:·.•··· -1 ·.... :" 
10 11 
13 9 ~;1;:i:::~"::~ g;,rf;F<
12 
Michigan ··· •r 6-2 755 · 14 Illinois 7-1 ii 749 15 South Carolina 7•2 596 
16 . 
UCLA 6-2>· 570;:· 17 Georgia Tech 6·2 513 18 Syracuse 7·2 4G3 19 Stanford 5·2 422 20 Colorado 7·2 .· 317 21 Georgia 5·2 303 22 Virginia Tech 6·2 286 23 Michigan State 5·2 154 24 Purdue 5~2 25 Loulsville 8·1 

Eye on Irish Opponents· 
Saturday 
. , .fr.. 
•.·.·. '\ 
, . 

STANFORD (5·2) at Arizona 

around the dial 
Miami at Boston College Purdue at Ohio State Minnesota at Michigan Penn State at Illinois Auburn at Georgia East Carolina at Cincinnati 
noon, ABC 
noon,ESPN noon,ESPN2 
3:30 
p.m., ABC 

3:30 
p.m., CBS 


3:30 p.m., ESPN 
GAME OF THE WEEK 

KAT Photo South Carolina quarterback Phil Petty stiff arms his way past Wofford's Nathan Fuqua during the second half of their game last weekend In Columbia, S.C. The Gamecocks host Florida on Saturday. 
Holtz, Gamecocks ready for Gators 
By GREG lADKY Sports Writer 
With the Irish enjoying a bye· week, Notre Dame fans will have a close eye on the game between the No. 4 Florida Gators and Lou Holtz's No. 14 South Carolina Gamecocks. 
The game matches not only two great teams, but also two of the best coach­es. Steve Spurrier is an offensive genius. Lou Holtz has maybe half the talented players he had at Notre Dame, but has quickly turned South Carolina into an SEC jug­gernaut. 
Florida still has a legiti­mate shot at the Rose Bowl. Their current low strength of schedule and average computer rank­ings have kept the Gators out of the BCS top five. But a victory this week­end, along with wins in upcoming games against Tennessee and Florida State will put the Gators in the mix. 
Rex Grossman remains a Heisman Trophy candi­date as the nation's leader in passing efficiency. Grossman has· the best wide receiver combination in the nation at his dispos­al in Jabar Gaffney and Reche Caldwell. 
OTHER Top GAMES 
Oregon at UCLA 
Saturday's Pac-Ten showdown matches two teams going in opposite directions. 
No. 7 Oregon has won two in a row to jump back into BCS contention. If the Ducks win out, they are on their way to the Fiesta Bowl. 
Three weeks ago, some felt UClA was the best team in the country and bound for the Rose Bowl. But consecutive loses to Stanford and Washington State on the road dropped UClA out of the top ten and the BCS standings. A loss this week­end, and UCIA may be off to the Las Vegas Bowl. 
Lately, Oregon quarterback Joey Harrington has proven why he was, and may still be, a Heisman candidate. He threw six touchdowns in a 42-24 win over Arizona State last week. 
Bruin quarterback Corey Paus has been ineffective of late with a thumb injury. Even worse, the NCM declared Pac­Ten leading rusher DeShaun Foster ineligible for Saturday's game for receiving an extra benefit. 
Don't count out UCIA. They lost two tough road games with injury trouble at wide receiver. They may still be the class of the Pac-Ten. This weekend will be their chance to prove it against Oregon, who is in the driver's seat in the conference. 
The Gamecocks are 5-0 at home this season, but under Lou Holtz have yet 
to  beat  Tennessee  or  
Florida.  
Last  year,  South  

Carolina led Florida 21-3 in the first quarter in Gainesville. But the Gators scored 38 unan­swered points to win 41­21 and grab first place in the SEC East. 
South Carolina has two solid running backs in Derek Watson and Andrew Pinnock. Defensive End Kalimba Edwards is a freak of nature and may be the most talented player on the field on Saturday, 
Gators included. 
However, the re is no mistaking how awesome this Florida team can be. "Maybe we should forfeit and lose 2-0," Holtz said. "That way we can at least say we played them close." 
Holtz will have his play­ers ready and motivated. "Whatever it takes," Holtz said. "Force. Threats. Butter up. Praise. Redefine words in their scholarship." 
South Carolina must pl.1y mistake• free football. Otherwise, they can't match up against the Gators. But if anyone can make up for a talent mis­match, it's Lou Holtz. 

Kansas State at Nebraska 
Saturday's Big-12 contest between Kansas State and No. 2 Nebraska has upset potential. Kansas State has been plagued by injuries, especially to their offensive line. Quarterback Ell Roberson has struggled with an ankle injury all year, but now feels close to full speed. 
The Wildcats uncharacteristically lost four in a row this sea­l son, but have won the last two, including a 42-3 win over an I underrated Iowa State team. 
"There's no question they are better than their record [4-4] 
l indicates,.. Iowa State head coach Dan McCamey. "They are I an excellent football team. They have playmakers." 
Kansas State is healthy again. They bring to Lincoln the l same team that lost to Oklahoma by one point at Oklahoma. I I Nebraska is undefeated. If they can keep it that way, they 1 
j 
are off to the Rose Bowl. But the schedule gets very difficult 
I 
starting this weekend. A win this weekend and at Colorado would likely set up a game versus Oklahoma or Texas in the 
l
Big-12 championship 

I
Kansas State has the playmakers in Josh Scobey, Aaron Lockett, and Ell Roberson to keep them in this football game. I Plus, they have speedy, aggressive linebackers to put pressure on Crouch. Look for Nebraska to pound the football right 
l 
at Kansas State. 

l 
Page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 9, 2001 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish return home after 6 road games 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
After 26 days filled with road games, the Irish volley­ball team (16-5, 10-0) returns to the Joyce Center court tonight as the team hosts St. John's in the first of two Big East matches this weekend. 
Since defeating Rutgers in three games on Oct. 14, the Irish have struggled at times in six consecutive road match­es, going 4-2, including losses to Northern Iowa and Saint Louis. 
"I think we're more comfort­able, we're more relaxed," head coach Debbie Brown said of the team's return to its home court. "There are differ­ent variables to deal with ­travel and staying in hotels and that kind of stuff. I think we'd rather play at home than be on the road." 
With a return home, the Irish return to the basics. As of late, the Irish have been successful hitting and blocking but struggled at various times with passing and serving. 
"The more we've played, I think that when we serve. very well it just makes our defense and our block that much bet­ter," Brown said. "When we pass really well, that just makes our offense that much better. That's really been our focus this week, trying to work on those two skills." 
With the Big East Tournament next weekend in Pittsburgh, shoring up any offensive struggles is key. 
"I think if we play well in those two areas, that'll make a big difference for us," Brown said. 
With the four spots in the tournament are already locked in by Notre Dame, Hu tgers, Georgetown and Connecticut, the Irish look to remain undefeated in the con­ference and secure the No. 1 seed. 
As they take on St. John's tonight. the Irish face a Red Storm team that comes in with 17-8 record, but just two wins in its last eight matches. But with a balanced attack that boasts four players -Sarah McCrary, Rosalyn Dang, Kristy Mercein and Mischara Saunders -with more than 190 kills, St. John's is not a team to be taken lightly. But Brown is confident her team's defense can respond to the challenge. 
"I think that they are defi­nitely an improved team over last year," Brown said. "I think they're outside domi­nant. We tend to match up pretty well against those teams with our blocking and our defense. I think we feel pretty good about what we can do against them." 
Last year against the Red Storm, current senior Marcie Bomhack had 16 kills while classmate Malinda Goralski added seven blocks and eight kills. Brown knows for her team to be successful heading into the postseason, the seniors must step up as lead­ers. 
"We've talked to the seniors specifically and I think they responded really well about taking over at this time in the season," Brown said. "It's important for them to be real­ly strong in their leadership, not just being vocal but with their play." 
Sunday's match pits the Irish against the Pirates of Seton Hall. At 12-11 this sea­son, the Pirates enter the weekend with a 5-5 mark in the conference, the same record St. John's brings in. The key offensive threat for Seton Hall is Kari Belin, who averages 3.09 kills per game on .319 hitting. 
"She's definitely picked it up and she's what I would call their go-to player," Brown said of Belin. "She plays a couple of rotations outside plus one middle and carries a pretty heavy load for them in the back row too. She's defi­nitely the person on their team that we'll key on." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 


out 

%
AslowAs 
APR* 
¦ 

It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'! 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us to be better 
2t9n39-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 

~"Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 6.50%APR 1s available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without 

~notice.Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 


Friday, November 9, 2001 page 27 
The Observer . TODAY 
-

FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
ANOTHER THlNG KUCHA? PAGoNG? SoRAN? 
I'D CHANGE ABOUT EXCUSE ME? I'D GtVE "suR'IIVOlf' ARE THESE TEAMS NAMES THE LOUSY TRIBE THAT INSPIRE FEAR!••• 
NAMES. DREAD!.•• TERROR!•••A 
\ I 
I' 'l 
IMA(;lNE THE SITH TR18E VERSUS THE 8oRG TR18E. 
I 
RYAN
B B

TOM KEELEY 
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 
BILL AMEND 
YOU, UM, LEFT oUT 1 SWEAR I 0 DER1S10N." GOT CHILLS 
I 

juST SAYING 
,. 
THAT. 
l 

~ 
" !'. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 State capital 58 Angolan 1 Steamy, say about 60 miles currency units 
7 Excuses from Manhattan 60 Like NaNO2 in 14 Shelley poem 35 According to H20 16 Looked for 36 Person who &1 Grogshops 17 Stick over should know 62 Gives away
38Big_
18 Product 63 Crew team originally called 39 Cutting member nearest m--t--+~1---t11 Or. Bunting's 41 1988 Heisman the stem Sunburn Trophy winner Remedy 43 Units of O's and 
DOWN 
19 Jack of "Rio 1's 
1 More enticing,Lobo• 44 _City (game) to a philatelist20 Sci-ti 45 -Can't Get It 
2 "A Passage to conventioneer, Out of My India" woman perhaps Head" grp. 
3 Citrine
22 Trimmer 46 Heckle 
4 Fill with ardour24 Quadrant 47 Stiff hair 5 Some Securityseparators 48 "Shakespeare in Council votes
25 Manche's capital Love" Oscar 
6 "Norma Rae" 29 Neighbor of N.Y. winner director30 "NO" follower 51 Most repulsive 7 Less fat31 City on the 54 Grease gun's 8 Dwellers on theYangtze target moon of Endor32 Hangout 55 Cosmo offering 
9 One with a checkered past, ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE possibly"!!!!'I"!-----. 10Judges 
PuzmbyPltterGordon 
------11 Suffix with Capri..,...........,+.-4 12 Like the Span. 32 Costa del Sol 49 Metal-on-metal 55 Azer. or Lith., 
attraction sound oncearmada? 
33 Polit. label
13 H.H.S. division 50 1946 Literature 58 Classified ad 34 Taps time Nobelist inits.
15 Bright wraps 35 Certain diet. 
entry
23 Hangs (on) Claudius's reign
53 First word of -=+!"!'t-!!.....,.~ 26 Place to find 37 Patterned "Jabberwocky" 59 High, in music 
· fabrics
alligators in New York City 40 Pinochle-like 27 Limnologists game Answers to any three clues In this puzzle study them 42 "Pollyanna" are available by touch-tone phone: .............................,..,.......+--1 28 John Synge writer_ H. 1-900-420·5656 {95e per minute) . poem•_ Porter Annual subscriptions are available for the Anniversary" 44 Confiscates best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 __.__..._...._......, 31 Expressed 47 Trade years: 1·888·7·ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
11 /9: Friday @ 7:05pm 
*FREE L~pizza to 1st 250 students! *FREE1~pizza to 1st 250 students! 
;•(::,.:; f;;~?\:U!(,,t~ 
11.Fanlslt 
f'.ct~~:~~~rth.

""'·:~=-r .:,'i;;,. 
*Get gour official Puck Pound tshirts! 
*FREE rfj· . mini-megaphones
fREE to 1st 500 students!! 
to 1st 500 fans! *Chance to win great prizes in asled race 
*Win great prizes in turkey bowling or shoot out! or hula hoop race! 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••tt·••~-d~··•·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
,lllii ,lllii One "~an:~:fe a0.;!,'IJ.rerence! 'lltl\ ,litli
'l'f'. ... 'Brin a can o ooi or the 'Michiana 'Food 'Bank. 1W, ... 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
' 

CELEBRfflES BORN ON lHIS den changes in your personal statu: DAY: Martina Hingis, Deborah ~ are apparent lliithofd bad;; go wit!: Fran Dreschei; Eric Stoltz Jenna Elf­the flow. Rcmarce will be better thar man, JoonnyMathis, Kieran Culkin you ever lhooght pa;sible. A a:nunit 
Happy Bhthday: You are capable mentmaynotbea bad idea. 000 ofdoing whatever you desire this year LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Focusor 
Alttntghyou have plenty clopportu­your future. If you aren't happy wilt nities to get ahead ~you the pn:ie;acriallifeis~ will also enjoy the social circles you !iart~ior a fieki that~ pin Take advantage citravel to distmt you mere. Cned< out <.llllR'S that wiD plaa:s. Your numbers: 6, 19, 22, 25, '37, providethe necessary skills. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-N<N 21): Yoo'll
41 

ARIFS (Man:h 21-April 19): This be in a mood to socialize and have can be a rewarding day. YCAI will win some fun. Don't hesitate to invite favors ~ presenting your ideas to friends over or make plans that 
family. Change, at home will be pooi­irrlude the people you er;:iy the mcst. tive, and property investments should You have a knad< for dealing with diil­pay off. VISillxs are likely to drop by. dren today. Music should be part of 0000 yourserial activiiy. 0000C'I 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): On­SAGrITARIUS (N<nt 22-Dec. 21): versations with friends will lead to Make tha,e overdue~atlure. interesting events. Opportunities for You can accomplish a lot and please 
xomarXE wiil develop lhrwghgroups. your family if you finish what you 
Problems with financial investments start. You will raise the value of your will make yw rerva.is, but tiy not to lunewith a little redecorating. C'JO overreact to the la.9. 000 CAPRICORN(Dec. 22-Jan.19):This 
GEMINl (May 21-June 20): Plan is a perfect day to do things with to socialize with some colleagues friends or family. Oiances are good to:iay. You stand to gain by picking up that you will please your partner. If 
infonnation that will be valuable la.tee you dent have a male, ycx.1 are likefy 1his is a good time to rned< out ways to meet someooe who interests you. 1o makeextramooey. 0000 Mostofall, getout and have sarefun. 
CANaR (June 21.-July 27.): Ifyru OC'I00 have children, spend some time with AQUARIUS (Jan 20-Feb.18): You them This is a wccrlerful day lo sign may have a change of heart regaro!ng 
up for stimulatingand creative oourses your direction in life. Re-evaluate what or hoobies. If friends oc family ran be you are doing an::i what you want to 
iocluded, that's evenbettei: CXXXX> do. It's revet to late to make a change. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Spend 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Mardt 20): You'll

time arouni your h:mie fixing things up or entertaining friends. You can do best if you are involved in some­rome into money or find something thing you believe in Yoo will be~ you may havemisplare::l 1oday. Dcxl't and receptive ard pid<_up infonnaticn waste this auspicious day; take action easily. 1ravel for krowk!dge should be 
on your ageoo.a even if it is to your
000 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sud· loo11 library orsurfing ire ret. C'Xl0 
Birthday Baby: You are genuine, caring and fair. You _have stamina and will stop at nothing to reach yo!-11" g~. )'.ou have high stthroandardghsand never cfo anythingnalfway, which will bnng you praise u • out life. . d . 1 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites a,t astroa vtce.con, 
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

11/10: Saturday @ 7:05pm 
-
I I
.: l I 
l 
I 
1 
l -' I I I 
ij 



Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's lnterhall, p. 20 
. ND Volleyball, p. 26 
. 
Fencing, p. 21 . ND Cross Country, p. 17 

. 
Hockey, p. 19 . ND W. Tennis, p. 22 

. 
Men's Swimming, p. 19 . Women's lnterhall, p. 22 


Friday, November 9, 200I 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Looking for lucky No. 7 
. Irish head to New Jersey looking for 7th straight Big East title 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The No. 6 ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team enters the semifinals of the Big East champi­onships in Piscataway, N.J. this weekend playing solid, but not domi­nating soccer. 
Coming off of a winning, but unspectacular 2-0 performance over St. John ·s, the Irish are looking to kick their game up a notch as they face a stronger Big East opponent in Boston College Friday night. 
"Everything's worked out [from St. 
John's]," said junior defender 
Vanessa Pruzinsky. "We're not so
r 
much worried about, BC as we are worrying about us." 
The Irish, who have won the last six Big East championships and have never lost a Big East championship game, face off against an unfamiliar Eagle squad at 5 p.m. Notre Dame last played Boston College Nov. 3, 
_,,.... 
2000 at Alumni Field, earning a 3-0 win. 
The Eagles have been the Big East version of Survivor so far in the Big East tournament, barely escaping their quarterfinal match against Rutgers, 4-3. 
Rutgers was the only Big East team besides Connecticut to defeat the 
see WOMEN/page 23 
. Huskies look to fill gaping hole in otherwise impressive list of titles 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports.writer 
The Connecticut women's soccer team has had success on ·nearly every level. 
The Huskies have qualified for every NCAA tournament -only North Carolina can match this feat. 
They have advanced to the Final Four six times. 
They have made it to the champi­onship game of. the Big East tourna­ment seven times. 
But there is one thing the Huskies have never done. One area where they have always come up short. One game they have never won. · 
Connecticut has never won the Big East Championship. 
This year may finally change that. With a 3-1 victory against perennial Big East Champions Notre Dame on Oct. 21, the Huskies could be consid­ered the Big East Championship favorites. 
But after losing six straight Big East finals to the Irish since Notre Dame entered the league in 1995, the Huskies aren't taking anything for granted this weekend. 
"I don't think you can say we are a favorite just because of the talent and the caliber of the teams in the tourna­ment," Husky goalie Shanna Caldwell 
see HUSKIES/page 23 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish wary of upset in Big East tourney 

I 
' 
I ( 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
EA challenges Irish 
didn't start off looking 5-of-9 from 3-point range,
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
smooth offensively and it and led all scorers with Associate Sports Editor 
wasn't pretty offensively, 26 points. so I thought we got frus­"I thought David Graves' A little more than three trated at times." demeanor was fabulous in 
minutes into the first half "We're gonna have the first half," said Brey. against the EA Sports All­games "We had Stars Thursday night, the l i k e a little Irish found themselves this," "Tonight was a good bit of trailing. In an exhibition I r i s h example ofa good test for game game, no less. In fact, forward p r e s ­
us. We didn't start off look­
they didn't even take their David sure on 
first lead of the game Graves ing smooth offensively and us. He 
until 14:53 remained in s a i d . it wasn't pretty offensively. ,, was the the first half. "From only guy But thanks to a strong start to I
Mike Brey
second half, the Irish finish, thought overcame their slow start we· re Irish head coach w a s and blew past the EA n o t keeping Sports All-Stars, 95-70, in going to be dominating for us pretty solid and pretty Notre Dame's final exhibi­40 minutes like it was last sane at the time." tion of the season. game. Those are good The Irish got a scare 
"Tonight was a good players.-and that's a good with 5:45 left in the first 
example of a good test for team." half when Ryan us," Irish head coach Graves went 10-of-17 Mike Brey said. "We from the field, including 
see BBALL/page 23 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Boston College, Today, 5 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. ND Volleyball vs. St. John's, Today, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
onUne 

. Women's Tennis Eck Classic, Friday-SundayAT AGLANCE . Men's Soccer vs. Georgetown, Sat., 7:30 p.m. http://\\·ww.nd.edu/~observer 
By BRYAN KRONK and CHRIS FEDERICO· Sporrs Writers 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will be on high alert ·on Saturday night, making sure to not let the upset bug infect it when the Irish take on Georgetown at Alumni Field in the quarterfinals of the Big East Championships. 
While the Irish beat the Hoyas 3~1 on Oct. 5, a lot has changed since then, and the Irish are aware that the Big East tournament is a whole new ballgame. 
"We've played Gf;orgetown before, so we know a little bit about them and we know their style," senior forward Matt Rosso said. "We just want to play to the best of our ability, and the rest 
should take care of itself." The Irish enter the first round of the Big East tournament seeded second 
. overall with a 7-3 conference record. They tied for second with St. John's, but the Irish earned the tiebreaker due to having more conference wins. The Irish did not play the Red Storm this year. Notre Dame's appearance in the Big East Tournament has the Irish players excited about what they've accom­plished so far this season. Only the top eight teams advance to the conference tournament at the end of the regular season, and the Irish fell just short last year, finishing in ninth place. "I think today's practice is a great example [of the excitement]," Rosso said. "We were just clicking, and the 
see MEN/page 20 






