
Praising Potter
SUNNY 

Wednesday 
Audiences of all ages are finding joy in Harry Potter in the wake of terrorist 
attacks.
HIGH 67° 

NOVEMBER 7, 
Scene . page 14
LOW 49° 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 45 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND. DU 


University Club tests below health standards 

. Inspector finds food in kitchen below specified temperature 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Assistant News Editor 
· The St. Joseph County health department recently cited Notre Dame's private dining facility, the University Club, during an inspec­tion and will soon release its offi­cial report from last week's follow­up inspection. 
Although the initial Oct. 16 visit from the department was supposed to be a routine inspection. the University Club failed to show that they were complying with public health standards. 
An inspector from the St. Joseph Health Department dressed in a black pants suit and a black base­ball cap and carrying a bag walked into University Club's kitchen dur­ing the peak lunch hour and found food below the suggested tempera­ture. 
"When [the inspector] was there, the University Club didn't have a 

Applying sociology 
. Lecturer describes role of subdivision within sociology discipline 
By JILL MAXBAUER 
News Wricer 
Applied sociology isn't an inferior brand of sociology that needs to be hidden, according to sociologist Jay Weinstein from Eastern Michigan University. 
"Sociologists say that there wasn't applied sociology before 1981, when actually people were doing it," Weinstein said in his Tuesday address at Saint Mary's. "Some scientists think it is an inferior brand of sociology, whereas L believe it's the only brand of sociology." 
Applied sociology is a division of the discipline that uses sociology's theories and core princi­ples to improve and analyze social structures. 
Weinstein said applied sociologists want to make their mark on the world. 
"We go into the world of sociology to repair the world ... to leave the world just a little bit better," he said. 
This hope is at the core of the evolution of the discipline. Weinstein split the evolution of applied sociology into three stages: amateur, academic and post-academic. In the amateur stage, sociology was studied because the schol­ars loved it, not to make a living. 
"For them, sociology was technological knowl­edge designed to change the world," Weinstein explained. It gave the world an outlet that would allow us to organize social life in a moral and scientific way. 
The academic stage was important due to 
"We go into the world of
the fact that major voices were looking at sociology to repair the society. such as 
world ... to leave the 
Durkhiem and Weber. 
worldjust a little bit 
The main push in this stage of the discipline better." was to prove to the world that the scholars 
Jay Weinstein 

were scientific and aca­
sociologist

demic. Unfortunately, 
the interdisciplinary Eastern Michigan University aspect of sociology was sacrificed when looking 
at society. "Problems do not come with labels, only the disci­plines have names," Weinstein said. 
The third stage of the evolution is the post-acade­mic stage. In this field. sociological d·epartments all over the world have to turn to a university for fund­
ing. With state grants, the federal government and 
see SOCIOLOGY/page 4 

others support the school of thought. This stage is also when the concept of altruism comes into play. 
"Altruism is the idea that behavior should be pro-social, intended to help others in and above itself," Weinstein said. 
Figures who use this concept range from Comte to Jesus Christ. 
"Altruism goes together in a common humanity. You'll find it in those individuals, in those times, where there is a perception ... that we are all one," Weinstein explained. 
Weinstein spoke after accepting an invitation from sociology department chairman Jeff Breese. 
Weinstein is president-elect of the Society for Applied Sociology and specializes in demography and urban sociology for the master in applied sociology program at Eastern Michigan 
University. 

Weinstein spoke on campus since the College has both a major in sociology as well as a major in applied sociology, which has students involved with an internship in the community that will be the basis 
'The biggest thing was the temperature problems." 
Rita Hooten assistant food service supervisor St. Joseph County Health Department · 
very good inspection," said Rita Hooton, assistant food service supervisor of the St. Joseph County 
see HEALTH/page 4. 

Rape victim confides sense of helplessness 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 

Rape victim Wendy said she never thought her best friend Bill was "that type of guy." 
"He was supposed to be my best guy friend, but at a point when r was weak he had taken advantage of me," she said. 
Wendy described her experience of sexual assault Tuesday in a talk about surviving after rape. 
During her junior year of high school, Wendy spent most of her time with Bill. "We talked on the phone every night, went to dances together," she said. "His parents even had pictures of the two of us all over their house." 
When Wendy learned from a mutual friend that Bill wanted to date her, she dis­missed the idea and continued their friend­ship. Weeks later though, after a dance, Wendy found herself intoxicated and alone with Bill in his lake house 40 minutes from home. 
"It was my first time drinking alcohol. and he was making my drinks for me," she said. "I had no clue what I was doing and that was really bad." 
Eventually Bill convinced her to go to bed. "I couldn't walk on my own, so Bill took me back to the bedroom. He tucked me into bed and then turned off the light. but then he sat on the edge of the bed and kissed me on the forehead. 
He kept kissing me but I wasn't kissing back," said Wendy. 
She described her feelings of helpless­ness, confusion and vulnerability as Bill proceeded to rape her. 
"Nothing was making sense and. I was con­fused as to why it was happening," Wendy said. "It was like he was moving me but I had no clue what was going on. Mentally I couldn't think, 'This shouldn't be happen­ing ... It wasn't registering with me that I could do something to stop this." 
see VICTIM/page 4 

Wednesday, November 7, 2001
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
NDSP a pawn for du Lac 

The Oflice of Student Affairs must think that the Notre Dame Security/Police is a collection of idiots. How else can you explain the no tailgating rule in du Lac? 
Rather than allowing 

NDSP to act like the intelligent thinking men they are when enforcing alcohol laws before foot­ball games, the University enforces a strict and illogical policy. 
Du Lac states: No stu­dent. student organiza­


tion, or University hous­ 
ing facility may organize  Mike Connolly  
or sponsor tailgaters on  
campus or on any adja­ 
cent fields or parking  Editor in Chief  
lots at any time for the  
purpose of serving alco­ 
holic beverages.  

Here is what the rule should state: The University will enforce Indiana State liquor laws in regards to all tailgaters before football games (or some sort of legalese saying the same thing). 
With that, NDSP would be free to act as intelli­gent guardians of the law. They would stop underage drinking by carding and citing suspect­ed underage consumers. This is Indiana law. 
No arguments about tradition or anything else will supercede Indiana law. State law says you have to be 21 to drink. Notre Dame has every right to enforce that law at tailgaters -even if it does completely ignore it on Saturday night when 100 freshmen are packed into a dorm room drinking Busch Lite and singing YMCA. But University hypocrisy is a topic for a completely different column. 
NDSP officers could also cite students who are publicly intoxicated. Public intoxication is against the law regardless of age. Notre Dame has every right to arrest publicly intoxicated individuals who are a nuisance to people around them. 
If a group of 21-year old students are complete­ly drunk and obnoxious, Notre Dame should cite them. Becoming so drunk and belligerent as to disrupt the tailgating enjoyment of others is a problem. NDSP officers are intelligent people who can spot this type of behavior and put a stop to it. 
But if a group of 21-year-old students are standing behind a car, grilling some burgers and drinking a few beers, this is not a problem. If they are not disrupting anyone. if they aren't intoxicat­ed, if they aren't underage, they aren't violating any Indiana law. NDSP can easily determine the difference between the obnoxious drunks and the quiet tailgaters. NDSP can tell the difference between alcohol use and alcohol abuse. 
But ResLlfe won't let NDSP act in an intelligent manner. 
Rather than writing a rule that makes sense, ResLife creates an illogical and stupid rule that classifies all drinking -legal or illegal -as a violation of du Lac on or before football games. 
I applaud all attempts to stamp out alcohol abuse. I feel that Notre Dame has every right to enforce Indiana liquor laws. But telling 21-year olds that they cannot enjoy alcohol in a responsi­ble manner is asinine. 
If ResLlfe officials are really concerned about alcohol abuse, they need to enforce laws designed to end alcohol abuse. Indiana has already passed many laws designed to curb alcohol abuse ­Notre Dame does not need to expand on these rules. 
But Notre Dame should also encourage stu­dents that do use alcohol to do so responsibly. Citing every 21-year old with a beer, regardless of blood alcohol level, is not accomplishing this goal. It is only turning the NDSP into mindless ticket writers. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARI FlCATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for che highest standards of journalism ac all cimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mi,cake, please con.act us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Th, Ob,erver (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday cxccp, during <xam and vacation periods. The Obscrv<r is • member of the Associated Press. AH reproduction rights arc reserved. 


THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Information meeting:  . Performance: A  
Nagoya.Japan  Midsummer Night's  
International study pro­ Dream, Riley High school.  
gram, 245 Debartolo, 5  all students $12, 7:30 p.m.,  
p.m.  

Saturday 
. Shaheen Discovery 
Series: "Baltimore 

Sunday . Vespers: Lady chapel of tho Notre Dame Basilica, 7 
Consort" O'Laughlin audi­p.m. torium, 7:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 

Princeton ·analyzes Bush/Gore election one year later 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
While millions of Americans are headed for the polls Tuesday to cast their vote for candidates from gover­nors to congressmen to city council­men there will be no punch marks or levers pulled for presidential candi­dates this year. . 
One year after one of the most con­tested presidential elections in histo­ry, few Americans seem to remember the turmoil of Bush v. Gore. 
I.t was an election many analysts said would taint the new president with illegitimacy and contaminate the Supreme Court with partisanship. But after the shock and anger stem­ming from the attacks on Sept. 11, America has become a united, patri­otic country proud of its political institutions and leader, President George W. Bush. 

"I think the irony is that an election that seemed fated to give us a presi­dent who would be deemed illegiti­mate is virtually forgotten," noted politics professor Fred Greenstein, an expert on the American presidency. "Even before Sept. 11, Bush was accepted by the bulk of the public and all of the nation's major political actors." 
The Bush presidency has garnered support from both Republicans and Democrats. Politicians who once bickered over social security and taxes are cooperating on some issues and at least refraining from criticiz­ing the Bush Administration. 
"Since [Sept. 11) he has been the beneficiary of the 'rally around the president' effect that regularly occurs in times of international crisis and has the highest public approval rat­ings in the history of the presidency," Greenstein said. 
Last year, like the election 200 years earlier, the presidential voting was deadlocked. Two candidates claimed victory. 


HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Bush limits public's access to records 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
President Bush's order Monday granting former presi­dents greater authority to withhold records requested by historians and other researchers is causing discontent among academics, who say the government is illegiti­mately blocking access to valuable resources. The order is a modification of the Presidential Records Act of 1978, which requires disclosure of particularly sensitive records 12 years after presidents have left office. Bush and White House officials say these measures are being put in place to ensure that no information will be released which could lead to a breach in national securi­ty. But some historians and scholars see the order as a smokescreen for the Bush administration's desire to con­ceal potentially embarrassing records from past admin­istrations. The records, scholars claim, contain no infor­mation that would assist a terrorist attack. Some histori­ans point out that there are strict exemptions that keep important information protected from the public. 

LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Admissions office delays deadlines 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

As anthrax scares plague the mail service, high school seniors are facing difficulties ensuring their col­lege applications arrive on time. As such, the University of Virginia admissions office has joined other schools across the nation in delaying its early decision application deadline. Applications postmarked as late as Nov. 8 still will be accepted, as opposed to the usual Nov. 1 deadline. Admissions officials made the decision because anthrax scares and new safety measures slowed mail traffic, particularly on the East Coast. "Applicants deserve the necessary amount of time to prepare, and our application is not one that you do lightly," Dean of Admissions John A. Blackburn said. Blackburn said he anticipates receiving more early decision applications this year than in the past. "The high school population is growing. And because of a declining economy, public colleges are becoming a more popular option than private schools," he said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 7. 
...-T" ...................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
0 2001 Acc:uWeather Inc. 

Hlsih Low Showara Rain T·alorm• FJurrMa Snow lea Sunny Pt, Ck>udy Cloudy 
Atlanta  72  46  Las Vegas  77  52  Portland  52  40  
Baltimore  66  43  MemphiG  70  48  Sacramento  73  42  
80E;ton  57  39  Milwaukee  59  45  St Louis  71  49  
Chicago  64  45  New York  60  42  Tampa  77  57  
Houston  77  58  Philadelphia  64  46  Washington DC 67  47  


52750 IN 933 
(Formerly U.S. 31/33 -N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
243-1122 
Serving St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, 

Larue Piz~a OR 
Cheese & Any 1 Topping 

Subs 
s 

Specialty Pizzas 
Deluxe: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Green Peppers, 
Onions, Italian Sausage, & Extra Cheese All Meat: Pepperoni, Italian Sausage, Ham, Bacon, & Extra Cheese 
Hawaiian: Extra Ham, Bacon, Pineapple, & Cheese 
Pepperoni  Mushrooms  
Ham Italian Sausage  Green Peppers Fresh Onions  
Ground Beef Black Olives  Bacon Seasoned Chicken  
Pineapple  Banana Peppers  

Chicken Club: Seasoned Chicken, Bacon, Onions, Cheese, & Tomatoes White Cheezy: Garlic Butter Sauce with 4 Blended 
Cheeses, Feta Cheese, Sliced Tomatoes, Bacon, & Onions Garden: Cheese, Mushrooms, Black Olives, Onions, Sliced Tomatoes, & Feta Cheese 
....,Subs $4.69 
• Italian Sub • Ham & Cheese Sub et\• Steak & Cheese Sub • Veggie Sub 
thee~;;~;Bd $3.49 
Fresh-Baked Bread Strips with 3 Kinds of Cheeses &Garlic Butter, Topped with Parmesan &Roma Seasoning. Served with a Side of Pizza Sauce &Ranch Dipping Sauce 
Marco's Salad $1.99 
Crisp Lettuce, Pepperoni, Cheese, Tomatoes, 
ONLY 


10"MENU Small  12" Medium  14" Large  16" Xlarge  
Pizza S5,95  S7,45  sa.95 $11.45  
Add'I Toppings  s,75  S1,QQ  S1,QQ  S1,SO  
Specialty  SS,95  s11.45 s12,95 S17,45  
Pizzas  

DOUBLES 

2nd Pizza of 
Anchovies Feta Cheese
equal or lesser size and 
$4,99 $5,99 $5,99 
$7,99 
Fresh Tomatoes

toppings only ... 

CRUST STYLES 

• Classic Crust • Pan Style • Crispy Thin 
PIZZA CRUST TOPPERS 
• Parmesan Cheese • Garlic Butter Crust 
• Roma Seasoned Crust (Special Blend of Crunchy Italian Seasonings) 
SIDES 

• Garlic Butter Dipping Sauce • Banana Peppers • Ranch Dipping Sauce 
• Roma Seasoning Packet • Cheezy Dipping Sauce 
*1st Side With Pizza Free. Additional Sides 25¢ Each.
* DELICIOUS FRESH QUALITY PIZZA * 
Minimum Delivery Order $7 .00. Gratuities Not Included. Free Delivery. Prices are subject to change. 
Toppings 
& Holy Cross 

Two fted~dd 
Banana Peppers, Black Olives, Feta Cheese &Italian Dressing 
Visit ua on the Web at www.marcoa.com @2001 Marco's, Inc. 2132-701 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Pokagon site reveals treasures 
By SARAH NESTOR News \X'ri,er 
On the site vdrnre the Pokagon Villagr, used to exist in Northern Indiana. the disc0Vl'l'Y of butlons. poLtery fragnwnts, bends. pipe fi·agmt->nts. na.ils and animal borws begin to tell the story of' what no longer rnmains. 
Notrn Dame authropology prol~ssor Mark Srhurr passed around these artifacts in a lee­turn nntitled "Pokagon Villagn. Sites, i\.rtifacts and Tlwir Meanings" Tuesday at Saint Marv's. 
Sr.lrnrr has conducted field r('search elassns at tlw Pokagon sitP for tlw past thren yPars and has over 1,000 artifacts from thl' site. TherP haw also hmm artifacts found dating back 
1.000 t.o 2.000 years ago. lw said. · 
Leopold Pokagon and his hand. whirh wern part of the 


l'oLawaLomi Indians, inhabiled tlrn Pokagon Village in the I830's. This WI.L'i during the peri­od known as l'f'!moval. when Native Americans in tho early 19th ceutury were being forced out of northern Indiana. 
Schurr said that some of the remains found gives evidence that tlrn Catholic faith may havr. been a tool that helped the civilization resist removal. 
"Pokagon Village was suc­cessful in resisting removal by using the Catholic faith." he said, explaining that researchers found artifacts from a church site that may have existed. 
The historic site is now located on private property where investigations were conducted in cooperation with the Pokagon 13and and were Pnrlorsed by thi> Tribal Council. 
"The rule of arrheol6gy is not to excavate I 00 percent of the site, bncause futuro gnnerations will comi> along wilh better Pquipmrmt and understanding. We only excavated about 10 per­cent lofthe Pokagon site]."' Schurr said. 
Using metal detectors and conducting hand excavations revealed many of the artifacts. The excavators sifted through a mix of trash and dirt to find manv of their artifacts. 
Schurr explained the artifacts show what "day to day life was like for the Potawatomi." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
Asian Allure shifts focus for Saturday 
Ry MAUREEN SMITHE Associate News Editor 
Plenty of dancing. !lot fash­ions. Pounding music. Sounds like a typical night at a South Bend dance club, right? It's not. 
A s i a n 
Asian Allure

Allu.re is 
back again This 90-minuute 
Saturday show has changednight at 
its focus from

7:30 p.m. at Washington fashion to culture. Hall. The 
. Saturday

evi>nt's offi­
. 7:30 p.m.

cers, along 
with differ­. Washington ent clubs, 
Hall

worked together to make this year's show a cam­pus-wide effort. according to coordinator Joyce De Leon, a Notre Dame junior who has bei>n involved with the event since her freshman year. 
De Leon said many r,hanges aro in the works for this year's performance. Focusing more on culture than on fashion, the night is also run­ning on a strict 90-minute time frame. 
"It's not going to be dragged out. When it's as long as it has been in the past, things got repetitive. We want to make it more entertaining," De Leon said. 
This year's organizers offered the theme of 
"It's not exlusive to any group. Like any cultural event on campus, we welcome everyone of every background. " 
Joyce De Leon junior involved in Asian Allure 
"ldontity" to highlight the many aspects of Asian­American culture. 
"Th c o ffi c ers chose 'Identity' to say that Asian­Americans today -and our genoration in particular ­encompass so many things that the line of identity is blurred. We're a mix or everything," Dn Leon said. 
More clubs are involved this vear with folk dances representing Chinese, Vietnamese and Philippine cultures. Additionally. Chinese, American and Latin pop music will accompany students modeling contempo­rary fashions. 
De Leon said that tickets for the show typically sell out every year. 
"It's not exclusive to any group. Like any cultural event on campus, we wel­come everyone of every back­ground," she said. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at smithe. l@nd.edu 

l 
l 
,l 
' 
l
The Observer's 35th 
' 
Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com_for more information 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
Health 
continued from page 1 
Health Department. "The biggest thing was the temper­ature problems." 
In the health department's reports, Hooton said the inspector noticed that there was prime rib left in a holding pan that was not at the speci­fied temperature that it should have been. The 
"They 're supposed to

health inspection on department identify themselves and Oct. 31 can­not be offi­
inspector ask for the person in also cited cially
charge."

t h e released University until at least another 10
Club for Rita Hooton 
cross-conta­assistantfood services supervisor days a fter m in at ion the inspec-
St. Joseph County Health _tion.
after spot­
ting raw chicken stored on top of pans of a cooked product in the walk-in cooler. 
Workers at the facilitv were surprised when the inspector. who did not immediately iden­tify herself, began to record temperature problems and poor food storage, said Deborah Colley, assistant gen­eral manager of the University Club. 
~·when you're in the middle of serving 100 people, things aren't always-the way they're supposed to be," said Colley. 
Part of the seemingly disar­rayed state of the kitchen, according to Colley, was due to the busy lunch hour when workers were constantly opening and closing refrigera­tors. 
'Tm thinking you should get a little leeway while you are serving lunch," said Colley. 
Although the health depart­ment routinely visits various dining facilities to check its sanitation standards, Colley, who has worked in· the 
INTERNATIONALLY ACCLAIMED ... 

tne BAcc1moRe consoRt 
University Club for 20 years, said the unexpected visit was unfair. 
"We felt that it was very unprofessional to walk in a private club and not announce herself," said Colley. "It was right after we had three home games in a row. so everything was a little unorganized." 
After the citations were made, the Club had 10 days to improve the conditions in the kitchen, but the department's report of the follow-up 
Colley said 

t -h e University-Club would have a satisfactory report. 
"We are absolutely fine." said Colley. 
The staff did address the inspector's failure to immedi­ately identify herself in a let­ter of response to the health department, Colley said. 
''They're supposed to identi­fy themselves and ask for the person in charge," said Hooton referring to the inspectors' visits. 
Hooton said the inspector that visited the University Club is on medical leave, but she will address the inspec­tor's behavior when the inspector returns. 
"It bothers me that my inspector went into the estab­lishment and didn't identify herself," said Hooton. "I apol­ogize to the University Club for (that] because that's just not protocol for us." 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
•.
• 

until my life has changed to the point where I'm happy
Victim 
with my situation," she continued from page 1 said. Wendy chose not to take Wendy said she realized that legal action against Bill. She she was not making the act 
said that in her small, mutual and finally began to close-knit community, too piece the situation together many people would get 
and to say no. involved and too many rela­Bill eventually stopped, but 
tions hips would be f o r 
destroyed. She Wendy, 
acknowledged 

the pain "Counseling helped me to 
the courage did not talk about my feelings. to she would e n d 
get my experience out need to make 
there. 
the rape public

there and to get someone
She said knowledge, and 
she dealt else's view and support." 
she recognized with the that people rape by Wendy might question 
avoiding 
rape victim her own 
Bill for 
integrity and t h e 
character. remainder of high school 
Support from friends in and admits this was not the high school, and more best way of handling it. She 
recently, from a counselor, faced her own emotional enabled Wendy to move on damage as well as the pain with her life. of losing her closest friend. "Counseling helped me to 
Wendy did not seek counsel­talk about my feelings, to get ing until her freshman year my experience out there and 
at Notre Dame, and she still  to  get someone  else's view  
has not told her family. "I want to tell them, but not  and support," she said.  Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu.  

Sociology 
Sacre to perform 
continued from page l 
Special to the Observer 

for their senior comprehen­sive, according to Breese. 
In the first performance, at

"I wanted to bring to cam­
7 p.m. Wednesday in the ball­

p us voices who practice 
room of the LaFortune

applied sociology and 
Student Center, Sacre, a cele­

understand it. Professor 
brated solo performer, will

Weinstein is one of the 
present a story titled "Brown

major voices in the field," and Black and White AllBreese said. 
Over," which examines the 
issues of race, class and eth­
nicity through the voices and 

Contact Jill Maxbauer at 
feelings of 80 at-risk male 

maxb3 I26@saintmarys.edu 
adolescents and adults with whom he spent a one-week 

University ofNotre Dame 
International Study Program in 
PARIS, FRANCE 
Study Political Science, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, and Modem History in the Heart ofParis at Science Po, one ofEurope's most Prestigious Institutions 
Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director, Returnees ofthe Program, and Exchange Students 
INFORMATION MEETING November 8, 2001 
5:00 PM 231 DeBartolo 
''Afriend who had a similar experience with Bill told me that no matter what I said or did, he would always win. But I didn't believe that then, and I don't believe it now." 
Wendy rape victim 

Wendy said she believes that in the end she has survived after rape. . 
"A friend who had a similar experience with Bill told me that no matter what l said or did, he would always win. But I didn't believe that then, and I don't believe it now," she said. 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination [C.A.H.E.]. a group dedicated to raising campus awareness about rape, sponsored the talk as part of their Sexual Assault Awareness Week activities. 
retreat in northern California. Through masterful story­telling, Sacre translates the rage, fear, pain, despair, laughter and hope of the retreat participants. 
At 8 p.m. Thursday in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art, Sacre will present "Si La Gente Guiere Comer Carne, Le Damos Carne: If the People Want to Eat Meat, Let them Eat Meat, The Remarkable Story ofMyBrother." 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. and India strenthen ties: 
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told India's defense minister, George Fernandes, today that the United States is committed to building closer military ties between their two countries, and the two men discussed possible sales of American military equipment to India. 
Wife of man slain in Kuwait conf~: 
The wife of a Canadian man who was fatally shot last month has confessed to police that she and three accomplices were behind the attack, the ii1terior minister said Tuesday. There were suspicions the Oct. 10 killing of aircraft technician Luc Ethier was related to the U.S. military operation in Afghanistan and retaliatory threats against Westerners Jiving in this oil-rich state. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Lawyer's ethical duties weighed: 
A lawyer who was appointed to represent a murder defendant in a l 992 trial in Virginia had represented the murder victim in an unre­lated case just a week earlier, an unusual situ­ation that led to a wide-ranging Supreme Court argument today about lawyers' ethical obliga­tions to clients. The question for the court was what should happen when those obligations are breached in the presence of a judge who should have realized there was a problem. 
Man carries knives past screeners: 
A Nepalese man was indicted today on a feder­al charge of trying to carry weapons onto an airplane, after the authorities said airline workers caught him boarding a flight to Omaha this weekend with several knives, a stun gun and a can of pepper spray. Eight employees of a private security company have been suspended for failing to detect the weapons in the man's carry-on bags at an ear­lier security checkpoint. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Museum plan~ed for minister: The boyhood home of a prominent Baptist minister has been shipped from Texas for a planned museum on the grounds of a college he helped found. The 16 feet-by-24 feet home of the Rev. Jack Hyles. who died in February, was shipped to Hyles-Anderson College in September. It will be rebuilt if approval is granted by the Lake County Board of Zoning Appeals. Hyles, who church officials say authored 48 books and pamphlets with a circulation of more than 14 million copies in sales, also co-founded Baptist­based elementary, junior high and high schools in Schererville. 
Market Watch November 6 

Dow 9,591.12 +150.09 

Composite/~ Same: 

Volume: 
1,328,509,056
~ 208 

AMEX: 817.43 -2.90 NASDAQ: 1,835.08 +41.43 NYSE: 570.29 +6.50 S&P 500: 1,118.86 +16.02 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.18 +0.57 18.47 NASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) +3.89 +1.43 38.19 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +2. 74 +0.33 +2. 74 INTEL CORP (INTC) +4.78 +1.29 28.25 
ENRON CORP (ENE) -13.43 -1.50 9.67 

ATION 
COMPILED FROM TnE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CHICAGO 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Struggling to reverse the slide in the American economy, or at least slow it, the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates today by half a percentage point, to 2 percent, the lowest level since the 1960's. 
In a statement explain­ing the rate cut, the Fed's policymakers said that "heightened uncertainty and concerns about a dete­rioration in business con­ditions both here and abroad are damping eco­nomic activity." 
Wall Street analysts 

interpreted the half-point cut as determination, par­ticularly on the part of Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, to go all out in reviving an economy that had been weak before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and grew weaker from the blow. 
"The message is pretty clear," said James Glassman, chief domestic economist at J.P. Morgan Chase. "They are quite uncertain about what is going on in the economy, and they are not going to err on the side of caution." 
The Fed cut its target for the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks for the 10th time this year, to 2 percent. It also dropped its discount rate on loans the Fed makes to banks by half a point, to 1. 5 percent. 
Not since the presidency of John F. Kennedy in 1961 has the overnight rate been as low. 
In its statement, the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market said it still sees the economic downturn rather than inflation as the main threat. "For the foresee­able future, then, the com­mittee continues to believe that, against the back­ground of its long-run goals of price stability and 

sustainable  economic  
growth and of the informa­ 
tion currently available,  
the  risks  are  weighted  
mainly toward conditions  
that may generate eco­ 
nomic weakness," it said.  
The statement was not a  
surprise, since even before  
the  Sept.  11  terrorist  
attacks, the economy had  
been slowing since the  
heady days that ended  
around the spring of 2000.  
"The objective here is  
growth, growth, growth as  
soon as possible, and everything else is out the  
window," said Ian Shepherdson, an econo­mist at High F-requency  l l j  
Economics.  

1 
Afghan rebels capture territory 
Associated Press 
AFGHANISTAN 
Northern Alliance officials claimed today to have captured three districts near the strategic northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif after what they said was extensive involvement by United States military advisers in the attacks. 
If confirmed, the capture would be the opposition's biggest breakthrough since the United States began its bombing campaign nearly a month ago, a New York Times correspon­dent, Dexter Filkins, reported from Khoja Bahauddin, near Afghanistan's border with Tajikistan. 
Northern Alliance troops captured the districts of Zari, Aqukupurk and Keshendeh after a short but intense overnight battle, a top opposition aide, Qudratullah Hurmat, said by satellite phone today. 
Keshendeh, the capital of Baluch Province, which borders Uzbekistan, is some 25 miles south of Mazar-i­Sharif, which the opposition has tried in vain to recapture from the Taliban. 
There was no independent verifica­tion of the attacks. Asked about the attacks today at a 
Pentagon briefing, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said he liked "to let the dust settle" before comment­ing on such reports. 
The number of United States forces on the ground in Afghanistan has more than doubled since last week, and more are preparing to go in when weather and circumstances on the ground permit, Mr. Rumsfeld said. 
The Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press reported five people from both sides were killed in the fighting for Zari, but, again, independent confir­mation could not be obtained. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
Conference provides cultural view to global trouble spots 
The conference's of the roots of conflict scholar on violence in South Asia and
"In the aftermath ofthe
Special to che Observer 
transnational agenda have been and can partition in India
Sept. I I attacks, U.S.
is a deliberate effort continue to contribute The conference is being supportedWith the Sept. 11 attacks as a back­
to emphasize the citizens demonstrated a to a peaceful future." by a $40,000 grant from the U.S.
drop, an international panel· of schol­
common barriers to deep appreciation for the Conference presen­Institute for Peace, a federal,
ars will assemble in December for a peace. The interdisci­ters include : Congressionally mandated organiza­
conference at the University of Notre interpretation ofevents
plinary mix of schol­. Leading Israeli tion that advances peace through
Dame to discuss the historical and cul­
ars seeks to further provided by various revisionist Benny research, grants and fellowships; the
tural legacies of political partition in define the key contri­Morris, Ben-Gurion Northern Ireland Bureau of the British
such trouble spots as the Middle East, academics and scholars.,,
bution that cultural University Embassy and the Irish Council ofSouth Asia and Northern Ireland. 
and historical insight . Rashid Khalidi, Chicago.
Titled "Partition and Memory: 
can make to peace­Seaumus Deane chair of the 
Notre Dame sponsors are the Kroc
Ireland. India and Palestine" and building processes. director of the Keough Institute Department of Institute for International Peace
organized by l'Jootrc Dame's Keough 
"In the aftermath of
Institute for Irish Studies, the confer­International Studies Studies, the Kellogg Institute for 
the Sept. 11 attacks, at the University of
ence will bring together leading.histo­International Studies, the Nanovic 
U.S. citizens demonstrated a deep Chicago, and a specialist on partition Institute for European Studies, therians, anthropologists, literary critics. 
appreciation for the interpretation of . South Asian historian Gyanendra
biblical· scholars, sociologists, political Graduate School, the Institute for 
events provided by various academics
scientists and novelists to debate the Pandey of Johns Hopkins University Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, the 
and scholars;" said Seamus Deane, . Novelist and scholar Anton
complex afterlives of partition in these departments of' history. anthropology, troubled regions. director of the Keough Institute. Shammas of the University of Michigan English and government, a~d the pro­
"This conference intends to empha­
The conference takes place Dec. 6-9 . Veena Das, professor of anthropol­grams of gender studies and Islamic
size how -beyond insights about cur­ogy at Johns Hopkins University and a
at McKenna Hall. studies. 
rent events -a deeper understanding 

Peace activist to speak on Merton 
Spedal to the ObserYer 
Jim Forest. a peace activist and biographer of Thomas Merton, will give a lecture entitled "Bearing the Gift of Peace: 
Thomas Merton's Advice to Peacemakers" at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Forest who also is sec­retary of the Orthodox Peace Fellowship, joined the Catholic Worker community in New York City in 1961 after being discharged from the Navy on grounds of con­scientious objection. 
He edited the commu­nity's newspa-per, The Catholic Worker, and worked as a reporter for Religious News Service and for the daily Staten Island Advance. An outspoken opponent of the war in Vietnam, he was imprisoned from 1969-70 for his involve­ment with the Milwaukee Fourteen, a group of Catholic priests and lay people who burned draft records. Forest and Father Merton, a Trappist monk at the Abbey of Gethsemane in Kentucky, corresponded lengthily and became friends during their mutual involvement in the anti-war movement of the 1960s. After 
r

. ·--·----·-----¦ ·, 
I MOVIE POSTERS ' 
j www.movlepostersonline.net · 
• (mention OB w/ your order for free SIH) I L ........ -• ._... _____ ,..i 

O'Hara Lounge (111 LaFortune) ··-::::.:_:--··....................
i+@r 
-:-:-:-:.:-,· 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
Merton's death in 1968, Forest wrote "Living With Wisdom: A Biography of Thomas Merton." 
Forest is the author of numerous other books, including "Praying with Icons"; "The Ladder of the Beatitudes"; "Love is the Measure: a Biography of Dorothy Day"; "Religion in the New Russia"; "Pilgrim to the Russian Church"; "Making Friends of Enemies"; "The Whale's Tale"; "The Tale of the Turnip" and "Four Days in February." He also edited, with Tom Cornell and Robert Ellsberg, "A Penny a Copy: Readings from 
G 

Maximum Student Resource Center 
-an office ofStudent Government 
Come check out the resource center for campu~ events
-

The Catholic Worker." 
Forest has taught at the New York Theological Seminary. the College of New Rochelle, the University of Dayton and Notre Dame's Institute for Ecumenical Studies at Tantur, near Jerusalem. He received the Peacemaker Award from Notre Dame's Kroc 
Institute  for  
International  Peace  
Studies in 1989.  

Forest's lecture is sponsored by the Center for Ethics and Culture, the Department of Theology, the Kroc Institute of International Peace Studies and Pax Christi. 
ran d 
Mathematician to deliver talk 
Special to the Observer 
Philip Maini. director of the Centre for Mathematical Biology at Oxford University. will deliver the first Nieuwhnd Lecture in Applied Mathematics at 4 p.m. Thursday in room 127 of the Hayes Healy Center. 
Maini's talk, which is titled "Does Mathematics Have a Role to Play in Understanding the Life Sciences?," is free and open to the public. The lecture is sponsored by the University's Center 
I 
I I

Open1ng .. 

ax 


for Applied Mathematics in collabo­ration with the Center for the Study of Biocomplexity. 
A professor of math­ematical biology at Oxford, Maini is a visit­ing fellow at Cambridge University this academic year. His main research interests lie in deter­ministic modeling of embryological pattern formation and in wound healing, specifically in the analysis of spatial patterns and traveling wave phenomena. 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Democrats win Va., NJ; Green concedes New York 
precincts reporting, Warner had President Bush, who didn't campaign candidate race.
Associaced Pres, 
994,399 votes, or 52 percent, to for the GOP candidates. "I think it The incumbent in Cincinnati, 
893,232, or 47 percent, for Earley, was the right call," Rowland said, Charlie Luken, prevailed over chal­
Republican Michael Bloomberg, a 
Earley was handicapped by "You can't have the commander in lenger. Courtis Fuller in a race
media mogul with no political expe­
Republican infighting over taxes and chief in a political between registered
rience, defeated veteran Democrat 
the state budget. Warner put $4.7 mode." Top Democrats. Fu lier.
Mark Green on Tuesday for mayor of "The Republicans call us
million of his own fortune into a Democrats were elat­who is black, had
embattled New York City. Democrats tax-and-spend
campaign that has raised $18.2 mil­ed. predicting their criticized the white
captured governorships in Virginia 
lion, a state record. party would hold a Democrats." mayor's handling of
and New Jersey, breaking eight 
Warner's fellow Democrat, majority of the gover­friction between
years of GOP control in each state. 
Timothy Kaine, was elected lieu­n ors hips after lhe 
blacks and police

Bloomberg. who trailed badly in 
tenant governor. But the 2002 elections, when Terry McAuliffe 
that sparked rioting

the polls just a few weeks ago in a 
Republicans. who control the legisla­36 states choose gov-Democratic National Committee 
last April.

city where Democrats outnumber 
ture, gained ernors. chainnan 
In Houston,

Republicans 5-1, will succeed 
12 seats in the
Rudolph Giuliani, a Republh;an incumbent Lee 
House of "Republicans, Democrats, 
barred from seeking a third term. A Brown -the city's
Delegates. "Republicans, Democrats,
billionaire former Democrat, independents all support first black mayor -led five chal­
In New independents all support
Bloomberg will take charge of the the president in times of lengers in his bid for a third two­
Jersey, the president in times of
daunting efforts to rebuild New York year term but fell short of the 50
Democrat Jim international crisis." international crisis," said
after the Sept. 11 terror attack on percent and headed to runoff. His
McGreevey, a Maryland Gov. Parris
the World Trade Center. opponent will be city councilman
suburban Glendening, who in January
''New York is alive and well and Parris Glendening Orlando Sanchez. who would be 
mayor who will become head of the 
open for business," Bloomberg Houston's first Hispanic mayor,
Governor, Md.
narrowly lost Democratic Governors
declared in his victory speech. Gay rights supporters were pleased
a race for gov­Conference.
With all precincts reporting, by results of ballot proposals in 
ernor four "But when you look at the
Bloomberg had 719,819 votes, or 50 three Michigan cities. Voters in 
years ago, rolled to a landslide victo­key issues -the economy, educa­
percent, to Green's 676,560, or 47 Traverse City and Kalamazoo 
ry over former Jersey City Mayor tion, the environment -Democrats
percent. refused to ban municipal policies
Bret Schundler. Democrats also won are the clear winners." "The
Green, the city's elected public protecting gays from
control of the New Jersey Assembly Republicans call us
advocate, spent about $12 million on discrimination, and
from the Republicans and gained five tax-and-spend
his campaign, while Bloomberg. "But when you look at voters in Huntington
seats in the state Democrats," said 
owner of the Woods upheld an
Senate for a 20-20 Democratic National the key issues -the
Bloomberg financial 
"We gave it our all and it ordinance banning
split. Committee Chairman 
economy, education. the

information compa­
anti-gay discrimina­

wasn't enough. I ask the With 97 percent of Terry McAuliffe. 
ny, was expected to environment -tion.
the precincts report­"But in two of the
spend more than city to support 
ing. McGreevey had most tax sensitive Democrats are the clear In Miami Beach, 
$50 million of his 
{Bloomberg] . ., 1,200,253 votes. or 56 states in the country, winners. voters approved a 
own money. It was 
ballot measure offer­

percent, to 901,634 that argument didn't
the most expensive 
ing health care cov­

votes, or 42 percent, work." In notable
Mark Green

mayoral campaign 
for Schundler. mayoral races, Terry McAuliffe erage to the domes­
in U.S. history, veteran Democrat 
McGreevey had tried Cleveland elected a Democrat National Committee tic partners of gay
according to the cit­
to portray Schundler woman as its leader and lesbian city
chairman

izen lobbying group 
as an extremist for for the first time, employees. In
Common Cause. 
his opposition to abortion and sup­county commissioner Washington state,
Green's once-large lead in the 
port of school vouchers. Schundler and former legislator voters decided to
polls faded after the popular Giuliani 
charged that McGreevey would raise Jane Campbell. raise tobacco taxes to the highest
endorsed Bloomberg. 
taxes. But in Minneapolis. the city's first level in the nation.
"We gave it our all and it wasn't 
With the victories, there will be 21 black and female mayor, Sharon A pack of brand-name cigarettes
enough," Green .said. "I ask the city 
Democratic governors, 27 Sayles Belton, lost her bid for a third will top $ 5 in some places.
to support him." 
Republicans and two independents. term to a political novice, R.T. Washington voters also approved an
In Yirginia, Democrat Mark 

Connecticut Gov. John Rowland, Rybak. Incumbent mayors Thomas initiative that would limit local prop­
Warner, a wealthy entrepreneur who 
chairman of the Republican Menino of Boston and Thomas erty tax increases to 1 percent per
has never held elected office, beat 
Governors Association, contended Murphy of Pittsburgh won easily. but year, unless voters authorized a
Republican Mark Earley. a former 
the outcome in New Jersey and Miami voters ousted their mayor, Joe higher increase.
state attorney general. With all 
Virginia was not a reflection on Carollo, who finished third in a 10­
Join C.Ql. 'R.:E.for: 
Sexua('Jlssau& 'Awareness Week 
Wednesday, 'Novem6er 7 -zaoym Skit: "Wfien a 'Kiss is 'Not Just a 'Kiss" 
Wafsfi 'Ha{( 13asement 

'Tfiund'ay, 'NavemGer 8 -zym Q,&' '1l with 'Advisory 'Board 'Foster 'Room, La'Fortune Student Center 

Presented"'By tfie Camyus '.Jl((iance for 'Raye :Eltmination 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
Federal Reserve drops interest rates to lowest level 
become fearful of losing their own the Sept. 11 attacks, loans to 
Associated Press 
jobs, deepening and prnlonging thf-l businesses declined at an annual An other haIf-point 
WASHINGTOI'\ 

The Federal Heserve dropped a kev interest rate to iis lowest level in ·40 years as it hauled to prevent the "heightened uncertainty" fol­lowing the terrorist attacks from sending the country into a deep recession. 
The Fed on Tuesday slashed its federal funds rate, the key bench­mark for overnight loans, hy a half­point to 2 percent and signaled that it was prepared to continue cutting if conditions deteriorate further. 
"The Fed is telling us they are really worried and they will likely move again at their December meeting," said David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. 
Wall Street rallied on the news, given that investors had been split over whether the Ped would move by a half-point or a quarter-point. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 150.09 points at 9,591.12. it best close since the attacks and within 14 points of its Sept. 10 !eve!. Other. indexes posted gains as well, with Lhe technology­lrnavy Nasdaq up 41.4:{ tel 1,835.08. 
The latest rate cut, the 
"H , h d

I 0th this 
ezg tene uncertainty 1961, when John F. 
vear. was 
and concerns about a Kennedy was president.
taken against 
Some analysts arc 

a backdrop of deterioration in business 
worried that plunging
increasingly conditions both here and 
consumer confidence
gloomy statis­
abroad are damping and the fears generated
tics indicating 
by the terrorist attacks
that the economic activity.,, 
a'nd anthrax shipments
nation's 
in the mail will over­
longest eco­
Federal Reserve whelm the Fed's rate
nomic expan­
statement

sion -more than a decade of uninterrupted growth -has ended. 
The government reported last week that the gross domestic prod­uct declined at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the July-September quar­ter. Many analysts believe the pace of the downturn will accelerate to a drop of 2 percent or more in the current quarter. A recession is tra­ditionally defined as two consecu­tive quarters of falling GDP. 
Job cuts in October alone totaled 415,000, the biggest one-month total in 21 years. 
The concern is that the hundreds of thousands of job layoffs that have occurred since the Sept. 11 attacks will trigger a sharp reduction in consumer spending as more people recession. 
The Fed's action, which pushed the funds rate down to its lowest poi1it since September 1961, was quickly matched by commercial banks that reduced their prime lending-rate Ly a half-point. The benchmark for millions of 
rate of 20 percent. 
"Under normal circumstancns, the decision of hanks to tighten credit in response to unprece­dented losses would be undnr­standable. But we are at war aud a stroug economy is essen­
tial to vic­

consumer and business t o r y , " 
" ... We are at war and a
loans was cut to 5 percent, Jasinowski its lowest level since June strong economy is said, call­1972. essential to victory. " ing on 
kHeightened uncertainty governnrnn t and concerns about a deter­regulators
Jerry Jaslnowski
ioration in business condi­tu convince tions both here and abroad president of the National banks to are damping economic Association of Manufacturers restore 
activity,'' the Fed said in a four-paragraph statement. 
The Fed repeated the phrase it employs when it wants to hold out the possibility of further rate cuts, saying that in the near future "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weak­ness." 
Many emnomists said the Ped could very well cut rates by another half-point at its last mcPting of the yoar, on Dec. 11. That would push the funds rate 
down to 1.5 percent, a 
. . level last seen in July 
cuts. 
"The Fed is trying 

to arrest the slide in the economy and in consumer confidence, but it may be run­ning out of ammunition," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo [news/quote] in 
Minneapolis. 
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said that on top of all the other prob­1ems, his member companies are beginning to report increased trouble getting bank loans. He said that. in the four weeks following 

University of nohe Dame's 
4(olleqe Bowl 

Co11petlllon lnforlfta~ion College &owl Is a. question and answer ~a.me belween 2lea.111sof 4. The quesllons cover all subjecb hlmllu to1,Ma/ Pursul/J. 
firsl·Round, 

Tues Et Thurs. Mov. 13 615 6pm-12mid 
nobe Dame R.oom, 2nd floorlaforlune 
~ 

Re91strallon Deadline: Thursday, november 8. 5l00pm 
,:;i,l Cosb FREE!! FRffl! Fllffll FREE!! 
i:,~1,:,: '~$ ~rites, Winning fa1111 [~pen~e pa.Id hip to CePquw University to compele
.-, -"b 
· a.qr.Inst wlnnlnq rea.111 lro11 other lndlua alllnolse colleqe,, --~ Winning Tea• Et l ¦oncr Up Ttllll n,.at~5 pl•ced on l p~un1n~nl pla.que dlspla.red In la.forlune StudenlCenter. 
hqisler a.l lke Laforlune lnfor11.a.tion l>esk, 
Main lounqe. L1.fortune. for 11ore delalls, cr.ll 63t-8128 or e11all 1ulcher.4@nd.edu. 
Space ls limited. $0 si<3n up u soon as po$slble! 


Making summer plans? Want to trY somethin@ differ-ent? 


• 


Have Questions? We've got an Answer: 
§V~~~I) §~l)J/IC~¥Jl)OJ~CT l~T~l)~§lil¥J§ 
8 weeks $2900+ tuition credit 
(Including Americorps funding) 
3 THEO credits Alumni Contacts 120 Locations 
FUN! 

Lear-n mor-e atthe Center-for Social Concer-ns: 
Weds. November 7th, 7p.m. Weds. November 28th, 7p.m. 
*Sponsored by the CSC and ND Alumni 
"sensible lending standards." 
Many economists argued that the Fed's aggressivemoves, along with the massivo tax cut Presidont Bush pushed through Congross last spring and an additional $100 bil­lion in economic stimulus now being debated in Congress, should bf-l enough to assure an end to the recession next year. 
However, while many analysts had expect11d the rnhound to occur in the lirst three months of' next year, the recent string of bad statistics has caused some analysts to predict the recession will last into spring, with the unemployment rate, which shot up to 5.4 pP-rcont in October, topping 6 percent before the recovery begins. 
Analysts believe tho rocession will not be worse than the 1990-91 d<}Wll­turn, which lasted nine months, although they cautioned that it could feel worse to many people given that unemployment had dropped to a 30­ycar low of 3.9 percent last year. 
"While tho data are unmistakably dismal, this is so-far simply a normal recession,'' said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock in Boston. "There is every reason to think that vigorous monetary and fiscal stimulus will produce a vigorous recovery." 
cut by the Fed 
~-, an '=':tern pt l:o reg::1,1e ar1 econorny edgir,g toward rec:es­sior,.. t:he Fedetal Reser.4:: cut: the fed':fl!J f•.tlds r-:i.t:e Tuesda'y'ftorn 
2.5 perrent to 2.0 pr::tcett. 

1---------­
"' D·. J F-IJ A IJ J J .'•. !ii •~ ~l ~) 2001 
.tKJ'T~ C@~ ~~ ¥I' c"l:il~ 
/na'II:' _a-J>N,J".w ~.._... ~..,,.,~~~ 
.u.P 

http://observer.nd.edu Visit The Observer Online. ,http://observer.nd. ed u 

Wednesday, November 7, 200 I The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

Trilllble re-elected as First Minister 
GERMANY 
~ Chancellor pledges use of 3,900 troops 
"This is an important. funda­Canada, another major contrib­
A.ssoci.tcd Pn,s, 
mPntal and -if you like -his­utor with ships. aircraft and spe­toric decision," Schroeder said, cial forces, has provided 2,000 
BERLIN adding he expects parliament to personnel. France has about 
Thf1 G1>rman d1anl·ellor pledgPd give its approval next week. 2.000 military personnf'l current­up w· ],900 firrnrnn troops for Schroeder and key aides have ly involved in the effort, counting th«-U.S. war on terrorism prepared a wavering public for naval, air force, and intelligence, TuPsday. pushing the nation wcrks fur a German military role, acrording to a French official in' toward its most l'ar-rnaching par­saying the nation could not sland Washington. ticipation in military action sinr.o aside and provide only finanr.ial Italy has offered an armored World 'v\'ar IL backing as it did during the 1991 rogiment, attack helicopters. 
(;Prlwnl Srhroedrr's <lncision to l'r.rsian Gulf War. fighter jets and specialists in srPk a !1•ading ml<' in the anti­· .Japan. another country haunt­nurlear. chemical and germ war­li)rror campaign is a now step in ed bv memories of World War IL fare. (;r.rmany·s quest for g1•pater loosenf\d postwar rnstrictions on Other contributors include world influPIH'P as it sl1Pds its its military Oct 29. It has been Australia with SAS special forces, rl'I uctancn to join in warfare. considering various non-c.ombat war ships and aircraft; New 
llowevrr. the rhanrrllor said rolPs. including sending warships Zioaland with a commitment of there wcr(• no plans to send and pP-rsonnel lo help with refu­special forces and humanitarian ground troops, and tlw d.pfonsn eling and re1;onnaissance mis­aid, and Turkey, which pledged ministPr said CPrman forces sions in the Indian Ocean. an anti-guerrilla mountain war­would not nPC(~ssarily bf' Schroeder's offer, though short fare uniL dc•ployprJ insid(• Afghanistan. on sperifics. would put Germany Schroeder said his govern­
C!•rmanv would offPr armored in the forefront of U.S. allies sup­ment's positive response to spe­V<'hirlt>s ·equipp11d Lo detect porling the campaign -second cific U.S. requests for military nuc!Par. biological and !'11emiral only to Britain, ·whirh is Oying support underscored "a solidarity vrnapons: special forces; a med­refueling and reconnaissance that I have expressed again and ind 1wa1·uation unit: and air missions in support of U.S. again" since the Sept. 11 attacks lransporl and naval l'orct>s to pro­airstrik0s and has also fired on New York and Washington. tect shipping lanl\S, Schroeder Tomahawk missiles at Afghan The Cabinet would approve the told a nPWS confr.rf'ncc. targets. plan Wednesday, he said. 

. Leader's re­election gives life to peace coalition 
Associated Press 
BELPAST 
Shouting over heckling 
and shoving hard-liners, 
First Minister David 
Trimble returned to 
power Tuesday as leader 
of a Northern Ireland gov­
ernment saved from the 
brink of rollapsr. 
Trimble's re-election by 
the lawmakers gave a 
new lease on life to the 
Protestant-Catholic coali­
tion at the heart of the 
peace process. It came 
four days after Prornstant 
hard-liners threatened to 
bring down the power­
sharing government by 
blorking his return to 
office. 
"We will carry through 
the work. and ½·e will not 
allow ourselves to be dis­
tracted by the sort of mob 
violence that some parties 
descend to," said Trimble. 
a Protestant. 
Barely 10 feet away, Protestant lawmakers opposed to his re-election jostled and traded insults with Catholic politicians. 
Britain and Ireland her­
alded the victory as likely 
.to usher in a period of rel­
ative political stability ­
a rare state of affairs 
sinc·e Trimble agreed 
nearly two years ago to 
lead his Ulster Unionist 
Party into a coalition with 
Catholics, including the 
IRA-linked Sinn Fein. 
The government had 
been shelved three times 
in disputes about when. if 
ever, Sinn Fein's allies in 
the Irish Republican Army 
would support power­
sharing and peacemaking 
by starting to disarm. 
Now, following the IRA's 
start to scrapping 
weapons and Trimble's 
willingness to resume 
power-sharing in 
response, key planks of 
the 1998 peace accord 
appear finally to be falling 
into place. 
"We should be under no 
illusions that there will 
still. no doubt. be obsta­
cles to be faced. there will 
be differences to be over­
come," said Britain's sec­
retary of state for 
Northern Ireland, John 
Reid. "But there is at least 
now the prospe1;t that the 
institutions will work 
effectively and inclusively 
as the agrnement always 
intended,'' 
It looked different on 
Fridav. when Protestant 
hard:liners led by the 
Hev. Ian Paisley blocked Trimble's re-election. 

While Trimble. leader of the largest Protestant party. the Ulster Unionists, received unani­mous support from the Catholic legislators, he also required majority backing from his own side -where Im fell one vote short. 
That raised the likeli­hood that Britain would havp to strip power from local hands on Saturday, the deadlinn for Trimble's post to be filled. Instead, Britain pressured a small neutral party, Alliance, to allow a few of its member to briefly join the Protestant voting bloc for an unprecedented second vote. · 
With Lhrcc Alliance law­makers behind him. Trimble won the Protestant vote 31-29. The result also confirmed Mark Durkan. a moderate Catholic, as the adminis­tration's No. 2 figure. deputy first minister. 
Paisley's Democratic Unionists refused to accept the result. They stormed into the lobby of the Stormont Parliamentary Building just seconds behind Trimble and Durkan. and hurled abuse as the two attempted to give their victory speeches. 
"You're a cheater!" shouted Ian Paisley Jr. "You're in the pocket of the Provos!" accused another Democratic Unionist, Paul Berry, using the local nickname for the IRA. 
Paisley's supporters had hoped that, by keeping the 12-member Cabinet's top two posts unfilled, Britain would have to dis­solve the entire 108-legis­lature in favor-of a new Northern Ireland-wide election. 
Citing growing Protestant opposition to working with Sinn Fein, Paislev·s Democratic Union(sts are aiming to outpoll Trimble's Ulster Unionists and become the largest party -putting Paisley in line to be first minister and pull the plug on power-sharing for good. 
But Reid. who retains considerable power in Northern Ireland because the province remains part of the United Kingdom, announced Tuesday that as far as he was con­cerned. Paisley would have to wait. He said he had no intention of calling a nt>w legislative election until the end of its full term -May 1. 20(R 

' 
' 'I I I 
__J 
page 10 Wednesday, November 7, 2001
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Life is hard without b~]~anc-;:~. 



Al Ern.sl & Young. Wt enable people to bring their professional gouls Into harmony with their 
personal aspirations. It's a work ethic we believe in. That's why we were named one oi the 100 Best Companies 10 Work For. Three times in a row. P~rhaps you'll want to join us as we go for four. Come on over dnd get a warm welcome. 
ey.com/us/cotccrs §JJ f RNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.TN 

Wedoeshy. Novcmb" 7, 2001 Th, Ob,,rw, . NEWS p,g, 117
~~~~~~========================::::::::::::====================================================== 
RUSSIA 
Court orders generic 
Foreign leaders discuss terrorism 
drug off the market 
Asso~i a ted P re.s 
MOSCOW 

The Hussian and Indian leaders met in the Kremlin Tuesday for talks on su bjccts ranging from the fight against 
international terrorism to con­struction of a Russian nuclear power plant in India. 
"In India thf're is a political consr.nsus on a spr.cial rela­tionship with Russia," Indian Prim<' "vlinistr.r Atal Bihari \'ajµayee said during talks with Prnsidcnl Vladimir Putin. 
Russia was the l'irst stop of Vajpa.yer.·s 10-day world tour tha.'t inl'ludes official visits to 
t h e Uni led S t a t <' s a n d 
Hritain. Hussian 
o f'l'i r i a Is said they hoprd Lhr Kremlin t a I k s would consoli­dat<' th<' "strategic 
between thr two countries building on decades of Soviet­!ndian frir.ndship. 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
www.counci !travel. com 

Call 24 hrs. (EST} 8am Tues. Nov. 6 -12am Fri. Nov. 9 & 10am -7pm Sat. Nov 10. 
he fQCC ~LAN Review Day 
6a-b..sday. Nov. Dl:h(!!J(J~h!.g_ rooms2042o6.207 10:00-"?:30 a~ 200 
l(J:00-k?:.?Oa m '2egistratt1n
~J30-ll20a m Introdoctt'ln wdays events ll30-12.:20 Ch?re uf worksh?ps
Logic .;·ames (applies to .all 3 e.Qlms,) 12.cading C-om~ion.(all .:> e.Qlms) Dab. !)ufficimlcy (Q,,1Al) fund.amenbb of Argumenb (~l) 
1230-llSpm Lurrh l15-2: IS_pf!! OE.A wil:-h advisors 220-3:50pm Ch?r:-e uf woti(sh?ps 
Call 259-2000 for more details 
"Our political dialogue has _qone further. cmd our military technical cooperation has risen to a new level . ., 
Vladimir Putin Russian President 
partnership" 

and terrorism," Vajpayoe said. 
The leaders signed a decla­ration vowing to struggle against terrorism and agreed "Our politieal dialogue has that a post-Taliban govcrn­
• Three judges rule 
gcm0 furt.hor, and our military­mAnt in Afghanistan should tPch n kul cooperation bus represent all political and 
breast cancer drug
risen to a nAw levP.I," Putin ethnic viAws. exr.ludin,g the 
wrongly approved 
said in welcoming Vajpayee to Taliban as an organization. 
the Kremlin. Russia's Associated Press 
Hussia and Deputy India both "We have a full agreement Pr i m e 
oppose the Taliban regime in Af'gh a nista n and support the U.S.-led war against Afghanis tan designed to 

uproot thP al-(laida terrorist network led by Osama bin 
Laden, the chief susper.t in the Sept. 11 terror 
attar.ks  on  New  
York  and  the  
Pentagon.  The  

United Statr,s daims the Taliban shelters bin Laden. 
"We have full agreement in combating extremist ideas 
in combating extremist ideas and terrorism." 
Atal Bihari Vajpayee Indian Prime Minister 

The order had not yet trick­
ronfirmed its intention to buy 
led down to
the Admiral Gorshkov aircraft 
the FDA, and
carrier and the r.ontract 
law,

the generh; "We are convinced that
would be finalized this fall.· 
FDA can­

drug maker
The !TAR-Tass news agency 
the FDA's order ... was n o t
plans an
reported the deal would be 
appeal, so it arbitrary and capricious approve
worth about $2 billion and 
generir.

is unclear if and must be vacated." 
ini;lude two squadrons of 1::ar­
drugs if

or when
rier-bas c d MiG-29 fighter 
there are

cancer
jets. 

Laurence Silberman v a I i d
patients
After the Putin-Vajpayee 
patent

would lose judge 
TbuPSdaqs oPe students rtlqht . .Studenfs Peceive 25% off meal pirke witb qou• sfudent I.D. 
U.£1 
Michian«'s most unique dining •"-P•"';4!nce Located f.1 tlte bN"WePq c,t tbe H,sforic 100 Center in Mis"awalco (219) 257-179.2 ·www.lOOcenter.com 
\\'ASHINGTON
Minister 

The Food and Drug
l l y a 

Administration was wrong to
Klebanov, 

approve a generic version of
w h o 

the breast cancer drug Taxol,
attend <"d 

a federal appeals court sa.id
the talks, 

Tuesday, ordering that the
t o l d 

generic drug be pulled from
reporters 

the market.
that India 

$1 billion in ll.S. sales each year. 
Ivax Corp. of Miami has been soiling its generic version of Ta.xol, called paclitaxel. for just over a year. 
It was approved by the FDA despite objections from a third company, American Bioscience Inc., which claims it holds a patent that covers the methods by which the drug is administered. If ABI's patent is valid. then [vax could be forced to negotiate with AB I for the right to manufacture the drug. 
Under 
federal 
the 
claims. 
Rristol­

M v e r s Squibb's patent has expired. but ABI says it has a claim on the drug, too. and says that claim is still in force. 
The FDA argued that ABl's patent claim was not filed on time and therefore is not valid. But after analyzing the com­plex regulatory law, the judges disagreed and said the FDA was wrong to ignore the claim. 
"We are convinced that the FDA's order, in this case. was arbitrary and capricious and must be vacated," wrote Judge Laurence Silberman for a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals. 
Specifically, the order instructs the district court to order the FDA to rescind its approval, but that hasn't hap­pened yet. 
Ivax said it would ask the full appeals court to reconsid­er Tuesday's ruling. 
Separately. in a California court. Ivax is arguing that on its scientific merits. ABI's patent claim itself is not valid. That question was not before the appeals courts in Washington. 
In the last year, the FDA has approved two other generic forms of Taxol. While· the court's action does not directly affect them, the FDA used the same reasoning in approving those applications. 
Ivax President Neil Flanzraich would not say how much his company charges for its version of the drug but said it was 30 to 40 percent less than Taxol, which can r.ost $5,000 to $7.000 per person. He said the court's ac:tion would hurt consumers. 
talks, officials signed a prA­liminary agreement on Russia building the Kudunkulam nuclear po·wer plant in [ndia's southern Tamil l\'udu state·, with two 1,000-megawatt reactors. Klebanov said the $2.6 billion contract could be signed before the year's end. 
access to the cheaper vor­sion. 
Taxol is onr, of the most widely used treatments for breast and ovarian cancer and earns manufacturer Bristol­Myers Squibb Co. more than 


O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF:SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smirh  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: )a.son McFarley V1EWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 

SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadte, SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richard.son 

AoVERTI.SING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin 
WES ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROUJ;R: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 

CONTACT Us 
OFFIC£ MANAGER/GENEIW. [NF0..............631-7471 fAX............................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4)42 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................ .631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sport.s. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obmver.nd.edu for daiiy updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather fur up-to-the movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer articles published afrer 
to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
r possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of che authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Qum;ions rrgarding Observer policies should be direct­
ed ti} Editor in Chief Mike Ctmnolly. 
The Dork Theory 
Guess what? You're a dork. Don't believe me? Think about for a minute. 
Still not convinced? Remember this morning when you were alone in your room listening to music? Remember when you started to sing along and maybe even dance or play a lit• tlc air guitar? Remember when you were walking through the quad and you 
Joe Larson 

saw someone you have met before but don't know if they remember you? Remember how you awkwardly looked 
The Principles 

up at them and then back down at the 
ofJdiocracy

ground and then back up at them again? Remember how as they passed by you kind of halfway cocked your head which could signify acknowledgement, but in case they weren't looking it didn't look like anything? 
Still no? How about the time you vomited all over that 
unsuspecting sober girl at a party? How about the fact that you own all three Spin Doctors albums? Had enough? 
Okay. ( know what you're thinking: how can these things make me a dork? Everyone does them. 
Yes. Exactly. And tha.t's what Dork Theory is: Everyone (absolutely everyone, no exceptions. Except for maybe U2, they wail) is a dork. Every single living, breathing human being on the face of the Earth is a dork. Try me. Clint Eastwood ­pretty cool, right? No, dork. He was in Bridges of Madison County. Bruce Willis? Look Who's Talking. 
How about politics? Clinton. Self•explanato· ry. George W. Big ears, looks like the cartoon character from MAD magazine. Abraham . l~ Lincoln? Beards like that are only cool on lep· --....c...:::.~~ 
rechauns. 
And I'm sure these known cool guys and world leaders have tons of other little dorky quirks to go along with these more obvious ones. It doesn't mean they're bad people. These are the things that make them regular people. Even Batman had to wear blue underwear over gray tights before he got the bad•ass black rubber suit. The point is that no matter how cool a person may seem, there is always something about them that negates the coolness; hence, they are no more cool than anyone else. Whoever you are and however good you are at concealing your dorky quirks, they are pre­sent and therefore you are a dork. 
But wait, you contest. if every single one of us has dorky quirks, then why are we all dorks? Aren't we just normal? 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Simple shirt solutions 
Over the last week or so, much talk has been made about what color shirts we should wear to home football games. Is it blue? Is it green? What is it? 
The real problem with the whole effort is a communica­tion problem; most alumni simply don't hear about the effort until game day, and by that point, nobody wants to waste time buying a shirt that they feel is going to be used for one or two games. 
Here's are three potential solutions. First, when tickets are distributed next season, the athletic department could include a pamphlet outlining what color should be worn to the games and why this effort is being undertaken. The selected color &hould not change throughout the season, and The Shirt should be a matching color. The second potential solution, which would be more effective, would be to make some simple shirts and to sell them for cost, proba­bly about $5, all over the outside and inside of the stadium on game day -n~t simply in the bookstore. Finally, our 
Fair point, but no. Dorky quirks are normal (to have, not the quirks themselves; those will never be normal), but the acceptance of them is not. See. since people in the world choose to shroud their dorkiness from the public, they ulti­mately prohibit a dork from being normal. These cowardly "Shrouders" arc the problem. These people walk around pre­tending to be cool when they are, in fact, dorks. Everyone knows these people. You may even be one. These are the people who are always perfect every time you see them. They never trip. They're never wrong about anything, ever. Their hair is always in exactly the right place. If they wanted, they could probably grow full beards, or fly like a bird -whatev­er. These people may even act like they are so cool that they can't be bothered with the likes of you because you clearly possess faults. Your hair may not be so perfect. Your facial hair may be accurately categorized as "squirrelly." You may 
actually like the Spin Doctors. 

What needs to happen is an overall understand­ing and acceptance of dorkiness. "Shrouders" need to realize that their dorky quirks don't make them bad; they make them original. And it's much better to be original than phony. 
Now don't misunderstand me here. I'm not asking for everyone to share every little dorky quality with everyone else. Some things should mosl definite­ly be left alone. If you like to do calis­thenics in nothing but a sombrero 
before you go to bed, that's fine, but 
that is probably a dorky quirk that you should only share with yourself. What I'm asking for is. that everyone just be comfort­
able with their own dorkiness. Realize you are not the cool person you project yourself to be. Realize you have personal qualities that may 
seem a little weird to others. Realize this and know that you are no cooler than anyone else and they are no cool­er than you. My grandmother used to say, "Everyone's a little weird." And I think she's completely right. 
Think about it. You're a dork. That's what makes you who you are. So stop trying to hide it and embrace the dorkiness that is you. 
Joe Larson is a senior English and History major. He would like to take this opportunity to reinforce "Dork Theory" by admitting that the person who owns all three Spin Doctors albums mentioned above was not made up. It was him. And he's not ashamed to admit it. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author 
coach (whoever that may be next season) needs to energize the fans and rally them behind this effort. 
I saw a photo of Texas A&M's stadium earlier this year, when a group of students banded together and organized an effort to make patriotic shirts for the entire stadium. They sold the shirts for a price that was about $5 each. The picture of that stadium was one of the most impressive sites I have ever seen, with one tier of the stadium red, another white, and another blue. 
I challenge someone in the athletic department to consid­er implementing one of these solutions next season. It will bring the stadium together, make it louder, and make Notre Dame a tougher place to play for our opponents. 
Chris Shutler Class of '00 Nov. 4, 2001 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maribel Morey'  Gordon Strickland  
Van Giles  Graphics  
Justin Krivickas  Jimmy Atkinson  
Sports  Production  
Katie Hughes  Jeff Baltruzak  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Sheila Flynn  Nellie Williams  

POLL QUESTION 
Should The Shirt be the same shade of green every year? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

''As for conforming outwardly. and living your own life inwardly, I do not think much ofthat." 
Henry David Thoreau 
·--------­

O
THE 
BSERYER 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ACEing Life's Trials 
Ryan Smith is still praying for my cousin. 
My cousin had surgery about a month ago related to Crone's disease. That, in and of itself, is not terribly significant. The fact that Ryan Smith -a kid with memory and reading dis­abilities so severe that his teachers must read his tests to him and write him reminders about what to bring from class to class -has remembered my special intention from a month ago and is still praying for my cousin L'l significant. 
Ryan is one of the sixth graders I teach at St. Vincent de Paul school in Mobile, Alabama. As an Alliance for Catholic Education teacher, I "have to" and "get to" spend time with Hyan and SO-something other kids just like him everyday. 
I say that "I have to" spend time with them somewhat negatively because some days it is a real chore to bear with these students. They pass notes with mean rumors and gossip. They lift their legs to secretly break wind. They forget things I tell them a hundred times. They make fun ofme in hushed whispers. They drive me crazy. 
Sometimes at the end of the day lessons I have spent hours preparing are not remembered by my students as fondly as a shot a fellow pupil takes to the twigs and berries at recess. Those are the days 1 wonder, "Why am I an ACE teacher?" On those days, I hang,m}'head and wonder where is tbe reward in this? 
Then I remember that Ryan Smith is still praying for my cousin. 
The reward on those days is that I feel "I get to" spend time with the kids rather than "l have to" teach. On those days the student who is hard to reach will tie it all together and answer a question correctly. On those days par­ents will mention how much they appreciate what I am doing for their son or daughter. I will catch kids doing acts of kindness to each other instead of punching one another behind my back. They remember their manners and their homework on those days. On those special days when the cafeteria serves lasagna, the kids all pass the test and the student council elections come off without a hitch. Those are the days I love being an ACE teacher. 
Is ACE for you? I can't tell you that. If you are looking to do service after you graduate, if you like kids and if you are really, really patient, it might be. If you think teachers only work from eight in the morning until three in the afternoon and are looking for an easy job, it might not be what you are after. 
The best way to find out if meeting and working with kids like Ryan as an ACE teacher would tickle your post­graduate fancy would be to meet John Staud and the rest of the inspiring Alliance for Catholic Education staff this Thursday. Pay good attention, ask a lot of questions and eat all the free food ACE offers, because they will expect a 1ot in return. There will be a lot of challenges and there will be some of "those days" described above. But there are a lot of rewards too. 
Maybe next year a student like Ryan Smith will be praying for your special intention. 
Brian Hobbins 
class of200 I 
Mobile, Ala. 

Unfounded claims 
•

·are invalid 
The letter published by Andrew Oxenreiter in last Thursday's Observer was repulsive. Andy wrote a rather biased let­ter filled with all sorts of legalese to attempt to cover the thinly veiled malice with which he wrote. I hold no shame in being blunt and forthcoming with my dis­gust for the thoughts that he penned. 
He wrote, "Due to an unfortunate situa­tion of late regarding a fellow member of the Notre Dame family ..." when simply writing, "My friend got in trouble for" would have certainly sufficed -such ver­bosity, Andrew. The appeal to the glorious Notre Dame family will be addressed later. 
A later claim: "This (presumed guilt of accused parties) means that any student, male or female, may accuse another stu­dent of sexual assault on the slightest impulse, for whatever reason. and the accused student could be found guilty regardless of the evidence or lack thereof.'' I intensely disliked Andrew's letter. Could I accuse him of sexual assault for that rea­son? Maybe he would be convicted; of course he probably would not be found guilty due to the "lack of justice that our present system provides." 
"One might be under the impression that a situation such as this would never occur, where an individual creates a false allegation in order to appear victimized." Later Andrew implies that the victim in this incident is an exception to this notion. When would a person create these false allegations? What benefit is gained? Wouldn't the victim be better off just keep­ing quiet? 
Mr. Oxenreiter appeals· on separate occa­sions to the Notre Dame family, Christianity, and America. One might sug­gest that when a person violates the digni­ty of another member of the Notre Dame family, he or she forfeits membership in that family. Andrew attempts to hide his perverted thought behind the dome, flag and cross. in that order. 
I sympathize with some of Andy's argu­ments. Legally his position is very sound. Sexual misconduct often serves as a diffi­cult charge to support with physical evi­dence. I also appreciate his desire to limit claims of sexual misconduct only to cases where sexual misconduct has taken place. The major problem is that Andrew never distinguishes this case from an unfounded case. Why should I not believe this person? 
At different points in the letter, Andy wants me to support him because the claimant is "vindictive," "manipulative," "capable of a blatantly wrong act," "irre­sponsible," and "dishonest." In addition, she has hurt the cause of later women who may be actually victimized by sexual assault (for she was obviously not). Finally, she is one who "can't come to terms with [her] own promiscuity." Why not use "whore" or "slut?" Certainly those terms are the ones bandied about when you and your friend discuss her. 
The real problem is that Mr. Oxenreiter knows as well as 1what went on between his friend and the other party -absolutely nothing. He was not there. Neither was I. Of course, I did not write a letter to be published in a public forum calling Andrew and his crony thoughtless. degenerate · idiots. Unlike Andy, I do not have evidence to support a claim of this sort. 
John Donnelly junior Zahm Hall Nov. 4, 2001 


God can be found outside of church 
This summer my church was located in a dilapidated office building in the impov­erished community of Wilkinsburg, Pennsylvania. This was the location of the Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force (PATF) and the home ofmy summer internship. As a student at Notre Dame with theology as a second major and someone who has always taken her Catholic faith seriously, I was not expecting PATF to have such an influence on teaching me how to be a better Catholic. 
Two very different scenarios demonstrate how the Pittsburgh 
Nora Jones
AIDS Task Force showed me how to live faithfully everyday. Scene I: The setting is my home parish church on a bright Sunday morning. Hundreds are present. Many straggle in after 
For a More 
Mass has already begun. Some members of the congregation 
Just and 

sing songs of praise and glory to God while others look at their 
Humane

watches longingly. Some parishioners listen attentively to the 
World

priest's reflection on the Gospel while others balance their check books to pass the time. We exchange a sign of peace and most people shake hands with the others around them without ever looking into the eye of the person they are touching. Some let the incredibly powerful meaning of Jesus' tremendous sacrifice for us sink in during the Eucharistic celebration, while most go through the motions, not allowing the significance of the Sacrament to move them at all. The Mass ends and there is a mad rush for the parking lot as very few stay to sing the last verse of the exit hymn. God's name has been mentioned often during the hour we are there. 
Scene II: It is a muggy Wednesday at the Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force. There are many clients to be seen. One is a transgendered person who comes to use the food pantry but stays to talk because there is no one else in her life who knows she is battling this fatal illness. She is respected by the PATF staff and encouraged to please come back. Another client has found a job but cannot afford the clothes needed for it. His case manager connects him to a place he can go for clothing. He is grateful. Another client calls from jail and asks for assistance from one of PATF's volunteer lawyers. Another client is a drug addict fighting two diseases at the same time. The Task Force's door is open to all of them, discriminating against no one ­regardless of race, religion, sex, sexual orientation or income level. During the whole day there is no mention of God's name. 
The first scene is in a church. The second setting claims no religious affiliation at all. Yet it is the latter that clear.Jy stands out as doing the work of God. In compar­ing these two scenes. I am reminded of the Bible story in Matthew 21:28.-31. 
Jesus teaches: "A man had two sons. He went and said to the first. 'My boy, you go and work in the vineyard today.' Ile answered, 'I will not go,' but aftcrwar_ds thought better of it and went. The man then went and said the same thing to the second who answered, 'Certainly, sir,' but did not go. Which of the two did the father's will? 'The first,' they said." 
The Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force is akin to the first son, not claiming to follow God's will but doing it nonetheless. My parish church proudly proclaims to house faithful people while so many among us do not even rejoice in God on Sunday, a day set aside for the Lord. I am confident that God is present in both places at all times. There are many incredible people who go to my church who I am not giving enough credit to in this analogy. However, I draw the analogy as a sharp contrast in order to illustrate how much more my daily job affected my faith than did my attendance on Sundays at my parish. 
I saw the staff of the Task Force more clearly doing the will of God because they welcomed every type of person. The door was open for everyone -including drag queens, drug addicts and of course, homosexuals. I do not know if I could say that of my church. I am saddened at the thought of the reaction my church might have if one of those people walked through the door. I hope they would prove me wrong, but judging by my conversations with homosexual staff members at PATF, 1 doubt they would feel welcome. 
Ubi caritas et arnor, Deus ibi est is. "Wherever there is charity and love, there is God." Charity and love are endless at PATF and the presence of God is strongly felt. I am so grateful to have met the staff of PATF and so many of their clients this past summer. l thank them for being my faith-teachers. 
I also thank the Center for Social Concerns for providing me with an opportunity to learn like this over the summer. As an RA this year, I think my section gets tired of my constant pleas to just walk throughthe door ofthe CSC -I have assured all of them that it will impact their college careers and undoubtedly their lives. 1 would encourage anyone to look at what the CSC offers over breaks but most especially what is offered during the summer. The Summer Service Project Internship, the International Summer Service Learning Program, ACCION and others are all incred­ible summer opportunities -ones that have changed the way I think, learn and practice my faith. I feel blessed by the opportunities I have participated in at the Center, and my hope is that no one leaves Notre Dame without participating in just one thing that the CSC offers. It will truly be unforgettable! 
For a More Jusl and Humane World is the Center for Social Concerns column. It appears every other Wednesday. Contact the csc at ray. I J@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


E. 
m vies 
page 14 Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
Harry Potter provides welcome relief for terror-stricken audiences 

Rebecca Sutherland Borah, a 
By MARTHA IRVINE 

pop-culture expert at the 
Associted l'ress 

University of Ch1cinnati who has taught classes examining Once upon a time, a little music or a author J.K. Rowling's best­Fred Astaire video would've calmed selling series. 
Borah, too, knows people
Ruth Sexton as she unwound with her cats and tropical fish after the train who have rec"ently started ride home from her Washington work­reading the books. She also 
day. has watched online discussion groups dedicated to Harry
Then a plane struck the nearby Pentagon. And an anthrax scare tem­Potter become places for peo­porarily shut down the office building ple to bond and talk about 
where she works. their anguish over the attacks and the war in Afghanistan. 
"I found that l could not escape the horror that is going on," the 53-year· And many who have already old Maryland resident says. read the Potter series are 
So Sexton did what a number of returning to it as literary Americans have done since Sept. 11 -comfort food. That includes she looked to a young wizard with big Pam Huber. She had bor­round glasses and a knack for escap­rowed all four books from the ing evil. And she's been reading the library and finished them well Harry Potter series ever since. before Sept. 11. But after a 
Though its Nov. 16 release was stressful day working in planned well before the attacks, the media relations at the series' first movie, "Harry Potter and University of Dayton on the the Sorcerer's Stone," is also provid­day of the attacks, she was so 
ing a welcome distraction. drained that she stopped by a "In a world of chaos -utter chaos bookstore on her way home 
at the moment to have a movie like and bought the entire series. 'Harry Potter' pop up is extraordi­"The clear-cut difference nary," says actor Richard Harris, who between evil and the heroism 
plays Harry's bearded mentor of a young boy -it's just 
Professor Dumbledore. what I needed," says Huber, Those who have tracked the Harry who went home, put her Potter phenomenon for a while are not "sweats on, plopped down in surprised that the stories are winning the recliner and decom­a new group of fans after the attacks. pressed with the first book." "Harry's always one to reach out Many say the hunger for and accept the help of friends and to good prevailing over evil ­admit, Tm not the smartest and I'm namely, Harry outfoxing the 
not the fastest, but we'll get through villainous Lord Voldemort ­this together,' And that's a really com­is certainly part of the appeal. forting message right now," says But Borah says she has cau­
tioned s o m e against reading t h e fourth Potter 
Photo counesy of www.moviefone.com 
book, 

The movie "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone," based on the popular children's 
which is 

book, promises to amaze us with new visual effects and captivate audiences world­
darker 

wide.
than its prede­cessors."It just Potter." Pam Taylor, a Nashville divorce hits a little too Escaping the horrors of the real attorney and devoted Harry Potter fan, close to home," world has often been especially diffi­is also thankful for the movie's timing. she says, noting cult for those closest to the attacks. "It's kind of like the Yankees winning that some char­Harrison Asen, a 9-year-old from in the bottom of the 10th," she says, acters are killed. Manhattan, has been collecting pen­referring to the Halloween night victo­
That warning nies to contribute to victims' families. ry that temporari!.y put New York isn't deterring He also went with his parents to pay ahead in baseball's World Series. "It's Natalie Quick, a respects at a fire sta• nice for everyone to 23-year-old tion near their home have something to
"In a world ofchaos
Seattle resident that lost several fire­cheer about. ··· To who bought fighters in the World utter chaos at the help get in the spirit, some of the Trade Center col­Taylor and several
moment to have a movie
books las1. month lapse. others in her firm
like 'Harry Potter' pop up 
and read two Mostly, though, his have been writing and a half of parents have been is extraordinary." with Harry Potter them in just five trying to shield glitter pens and days. Harrison -who still drinking from Harry
Richard Harris

She says likes to wear the Potter mugs. They
actor

there's no com• glasses from his plan to take a rare paring reality Harry Potter afternoon off to see with Harry's life Halloween costume -the movie together at the lfogwarts from as much stress as they can. His the day it opens. School of mother, Betsy. says the excitement But it's not just the heaviness of life Witchcraft and over the movie is helping them do after Sept. 11 that they'll be dodging. Wizardry. "Sept. that. 'Tm sure he's not even aware of says Joanna Stanfield, a paralegal who 11th makes me some of the feelings he has right works with Taylor. "What we do all think of Sept. now," she says. "So this is good. It's day is deal with nasty divorces and 11th," Quick giving us something to look forward custody cases," she says. "So we like says. "Not Harry to." to escape any time we can." 

Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
-
76ers remain winless after loss to Pacers 
20 with Mutombo on the bench. The Sonics came back from three fouls for the entire third made four of the Kings' 3-point­,. 
Associated Press 
The Sixers closed to 69-66 an 80-73 deficit to force over­quarter when the Timberwolves ers and Doug Christie made early in the fourth on six time. Miami went scoreless over made a decisive 24-5 run. three in the third quarter forPHILADELPHIA straight points by Coleman. A the final 5:31 of the fourth Terrell Brandon scored eight Sacramento (4-0), which is offLarry Brown couldn't turn to dunk and a short jumper by quarter and had two chances to points and Anthony Peeler had to its best start since the 1995­Allen Iverson and Eric Snow 'en O'Neal made it 73-66, but win in the closing seconds, but seven during the run. Brandon's 96 team opened the season withthe court, so he turned to them Coleman answered with an Kendall Gill and LaPhonso Ellis jumper from the right corner five straight wins.
in the locker room after the 
alley-oop dunk from Claxton. missed shots. gave Minnesota .its biggest lead, "We've got a lot of guys who76ers remained winless. 
However, the Sixers were Neither team scored in over­82-63. can shoot," said Bobby Jackson, Jalen Hose scored 26 points called for their second defensive time until Jones drove for a New York rallied within seven who added 17 points and eightand Jermaine O'Neal added 22, three-second technical and layup and converted a free points in the fourth quarter, rebounds. "As long as we moveleading the Indiana Pacers to an Coleman got a technical for throw to put Miami ahead 83-80 relying on its bench for 43 the ball around, we're going to87-77 victory over the Sixers in arguing. Rose made both free with 2:22 left. points on a night when leading get open shots. It's just a matter 
a rematch of an Eastern 
throws and Austin Croshere hit Sam Mack scored in the lane scorers Latrell Sprewell and of making them." 
Conference first-round playoff a jumper to give Indiana a 77 -to push the lead to 85-80, but Allan Houston struggled for Vlade Divac and Stojakovicseries. 
68 lead midway through the the Sonics tied it down the much of the game. added 10 rebounds apiece forDerrick Coleman scored 25 fourth. stretch. Vin Baker scored Houston scored seven consec­the Kings, who outreboundedand Speedy Claxton had 23 for Philadelphia didn't get closer Seattle's first points on a tip-in utive points to pull New York to the Cavs 14-7 on the offensivethe injury-riddled Sixers, who 
than seven points the rest of the with 58 seconds left, and Gary 88-81 with 8:41 to play, but end. 
were without Iverson, Snow, way. Payton tied it with a 3-pointer Szczerbiak answered with his Sacramento, missing Webberand Aaron McKie. 
"They were shorthanded so from the corner with 22.5 sec­first second-half basket. a 3-(sprained ankle). was playingPhiladelphia, which opened we knew if we just played our onds remaining. · pointer from the left corner, to the first of four straight road
last season with a franchise­
game, we'd be OK." Rose said. The Heat worked for the final restore a 10-point lead. games, and the Kings figuredbest 10 straight wins en route to "We had to combat their big shot, and Jones hit it from 17 Houston finished with 17, but the best way to beat the Cavsthe NBA Finals. is off to an 0-4 guys and we did a good job of feet over Payton with 1.7 sec­the Knicks struggled from the was to take them out early. 
start. 
that." onds left. free throw line, making only 20 They did with a 37-point sec­Brown, disappointed with his Mutombo finished with just Payton attempted a 28-footer of 34. ond quarter that gave them an
team's effort, lectured them 
three points and six rebounds. just before the buzzer, but it They also couldn't contain 18-point lead at halftime.
after the game, and then turned Matt Harpring had 11 points rimmed out. Szczerbiak. He scored 15 con­"We talked about how thisit over to Snow and Iverson. 
and 10 rebounds, but was Sean Marks, making his first secutive Timberwolves points was the first game of the trip"We don't want to develop a scoreless in the second half. career start in Mourning's over a 6-minute stretch of the and how they've been beatenlosing mentality and that's what "We're just throwing it to absence, scored a career-high first half. badly at home," said Kingsit's headed toward," Snow said. 
Derrick and hoping he bails us 15 points with five rebounds. The Knicks fought back in the coach Rick Adelman. "We want­
Snow hopes his teammates 
out," Brown said. "Dikembe and Payton led the Sonics with 24 second quarter behind 10 points ed to come out with intensity
aren't just waiting for him, 
Harpring have to step it up." points, and Baker added 20. each from Charlie Ward and and focus. We were in the firstIverson and McKie to return. 
The Heat opened the third Shandon Anderson. half."
"It's a team game. If they 
quarter with a 10-2 run to build Kevin Garnett added 19 points Lamond Murray scored 22think that's the savior, they're 
Heat 87, Supersonics 85 
54-39 lead and led by 17 points for Minnesota. points and Andre Miller had ain for a rude awakening," Snow Eddie Jones scored 25 points, midway through the period. career-high 17 assists and 19said. "You can see there is not including the game-winner with Seattle closed with a flurry, hit­points for Cleveland, whichmuch excitement. We have to 1.7 seconds left in overtime, as ting three 3-pointers to pull to Kings 115, Cavs 99 dropped to 0-3 at home thisget our confidence up. I don't the Miami Heat overcame the 67-61 at the end of the quarter. Until Chris Webber returns, season under new coach Johnthink it's a situation where guys 
absence of Alonzo Mourning for the Sacramento Kings are rely­
Lucas.

aren't trying. Maybe it's inexpe­a victory against the Seattle ing on other things to win. On The Cavs' three home lossesrience." 
Supersonics. Timberwolves 104, Knicks 94 Tuesday night, they turned to have been by 17, 30 and 16
With Dikembe Mutombo on 
Jones scored five of his points Wally Szczerbiak tied his pre­the 3-pointer. points.
the• bench because of foul trou­in overtime to help the Heat vious career-high of 28 by half­Predrag Stojakovic scored 32 "It's the NBA," said Lucas,
ble, Indiana opened a 48-39 
snap a a two-game losing streak time and finished with 35 points points, Mike Bibby 18 and the who has taken the "tough love"halftime lead. Mutombo got his and beat Seattle for only the as the Minnesota Timberwolves Kings made 14 3s to defeat the approach with his players. "Nothird foul with 3:08 left in the sixth time in franchise history. beat the New York Knicks. Cleveland Cavaliers boys allowed. We got to step up
first quarter and didn't return 
Mourning missed the game Szczerbiak shot 14-for-l 9, and remain unbeaten. and play. There is nothing to be
until the second half. The 
because of food poisoning. although he was sitting with Stojakovic and Bibby each happy about." 
Pacers outscored the Sixers 32­
The Observer accepts classifieds every bi:.siness day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE  Houses available lor 3-6 students.  Spring Break with STS, America's  HOPING TO ADOPT  
LOST AND FOUND  SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS  Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340·0106.  TICKETS  111 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations  We are a Catholic, fun-loving, well educated and financially secure married couple in Northern  
BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER'  SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge  1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com  California. We are homestudy  
Found knit cap with Barna on it  ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE FOR  in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and  BUY-SELL  approved and, excited to share our  
Call4-1627  MORE INFORMATION PLEASE  Parties with the Best DJ's and  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  ...ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE  love with a bay! You can learn  
CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243­ celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica,  277--6619 or 273-3911  BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES!  more about us at www.parentpro­ 
4244 (X4192)  Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to  SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN,  files.com/profiles/db2288.html or  
FOR RENT  Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad.  StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­1443 or email  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL T!X FOR SALE  JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL­CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS.  call Adoption Connection toll-free at 1-800-972•9225 and ask about  
weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219­ sales@studentcity.com to find out  A.M. 232-2378  REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE,  Chris and Mary.  
277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com  more.  PM 288-2726  EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM·  FOR 6+. 800-838-8203  daily show  - 
PUS  HOUSES FOR RENT:  COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas- ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  www.leisuretours.com  with jon stewart  
mmmrentals.com  1} 9-br. $2400/month  ketball coach: responsible and  AM. -232-2378 P.M. • 288-2726  
2) 5-br. $1500/month  dependable, student or grad to  $300-$800 Scholarships  what came first, football or the  
email: mmrnrentals@aol.com  3) 4-br. $1000/month  coach 7-8th grade reserve basket- ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  Available per semester!  tailgate?  
Call Bill at 532-1896  ball team, Nov 12-Feb 21; for south  232-0964.  Looking for a job which lets you  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  side private elementary school,  work around your school schedule?  is ND becoming no fun, or is it just  
Breakfast Jnn has space available  Homes torrent near campus  located near Scottsdale Mall on  WANTED -ND TICKETS  We have several part-time and full- me?  
for footbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms •  furn.272·6306  Miami St. Must be available for  289-9280  time day & evening positions paying  
with private baths, $80-$115,  practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20·  $7-$11/hr. We offer the following:  Little known fact: Bob Davie didn't  
Middlebury. 30 miles from campus.  Northshore Condo,  3: 15. Game schedule varies with 9­ Buying some/ Selling a few extra  •scholarship money  actually graduate from DeVry  
Toll Roaci Exit #107.  1428 Marigold Way  1Ogames beginning after school at  N.D. Football Tickets.  •Flexible Schedules  Institute of Technology.  
near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR &  4 or 5 pm. Paid positron. Call 291­ 219-289-8048.  •Paid vacations/holidays  
1·800-418-9487  kitchen wlappliances  4200 to apply  •optional Saturdays  He went to Youngstown State, the  
1 car garage. $69,000  'Health/Lite/401 (k)  HaNard of Youngstown, Ohio  
B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS  Call Doris at 254-1772 lor more info 1-bdrm w/ patio, $545/mo. Swm  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  •incentives/Raises •supervisory/Mg!. Positions 1-(888) 801 ·JOBS  Jon Gruden looks like chuckie from child's play  
247-1124  pool, exercise room, laundry tac.  SPRING BREAK  jobs@americallcorp.com  
3.5 miles from campus. Lease  Selling Varsity Club time share 1  Largest selection of Spring Break  Just minutes north of campus  I feel bad tor Bob.  
Lodging · Bed and Breakfast, 45  expires 5/2002, may be renewed.  soph. wk. $9,500  Destinations, including Cruises!  
minutes from Notre Dame. T&R  Call Ben Feden  272-1753  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  ADOPTION IS LOVE  I really do  
INN Between the lakes.  (219) 255-2153  Free trips available.  Imagine your precious baby safe  
www. EpicuRRean.com  and happy in a loving family,  Put yourself in his shoes: every- 
PH (616) 244-9084  1999 Toyota RAV 4 excellent cond i- 1-800-231-4-FUN  adored by 2 ND grad parents (a full­ body's bitter, and everybody's  
www.innbetweenthelakes.com  WANTED  lion -only 10,500 miles, leather, cd changer, manual transmission  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  time mom and lawyer dad} and lov­ing playmates in a beautiful home.  blaming him  
FREEDOM! 4 and 5 Bdrm Houses,  CALL 243-9937  Sun Coast Vacations wants to send  We promise to give your child the  that Stinks  
furnished, sec syst, wash/dry,  Student wanted' Alum owned 2  you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  life you dream of for them. Medical,  
PRIME locations, util included. 4 Br  story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ newer carpet.  Moving out need to sell everything'  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  legal, counseling, court-approved  north carolina raise up  
has V-ball &B-ball courts.  Appl, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1  Great.prices! Furniture, kitchen  FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1·  living expenses pd. Confidential.  
blk N. of Club 23. 1375 inc. utilities  appliances, II/, bed, and many more  888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun- Please call our attorney at (708)  rollin in the Cut-C  
233-9947  321-21 7-8451.  stuff. CALL 243-9937  coastvacations.com  922-4795  nothing better  

--------· . 
I I 
' 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
NHL 
Islanders short out Lightning at home, 3-0 
... 
> 
-
As,ociaLCd Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

Michael Peca scored a short-handed goal and Shawn Bates scored one on a power play as the New York Islanders beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 3-0. 
Brad Isbister scored an emply-nct goal with 1:35 remaining for the [slanders, who are 11-1-1-1. Last sea­son, it took them until Dec. 29 to get to 11 wins, and until Jan. 13 to get their 12th. 
Adrian Aucoin, who played for Tampa Bay last season, had two assists. Peca extended his point streak to six games, and Mark Parrish extend­ed his to nine with an assist on Bates' goal. 
Chris Osgood, who had 29 saves for his third shutout, and the Isles defense have held opponents to under two goals for nine straight games and 11 out of 14 this season. 
With just over two minutes remain­ing, Osgood just missed an empty-net goal of his own when his sweeping shot trickled down ice and tipped off the left post. 
Peca put the Islanders up 1-0 at 4:40 of the second period. He won a faceoff in the Islanders' zone and Aucoin scooped the puck just past the blue line where Peca could get his stick on it. Peca, skating down the right side, and Bates, skating down the center, led a trail of Tampa Bay players. Peca appeared poised to pass to Bates the whole way down the ice, but at the right circle Peca snapped the puck high into the far side of net. 
With 7:30 left in the third period, Aucoin took a shot from the point, the 
rebound was tipped by Parrish, but Bates put it high from the. left side of net. 
The first period was full of near-miss­es for the Islanders, who had just eight shots on goal but also had many breathtaking tries that flew just wide. Osgood had to make just two stops in the first period. 
Tampa Bay had a spirited rally after the short-handed goal, outshooting the Isles 9-0 to finally test Osgood. The Islanders went more than 11 minutes without taking a shot, but retained the lead when Tampa Bay couldn't· take advantage. 
Rangers 3, Wild 1 
Theo Fleury had a goal and an assist, and Mike Richter made 23 saves to lead the New York Rangers to a victory over the Minnesota Wild. 
Flcury's goal, his fifth, gave the Rangers a 3-1 lead at 15:47 of the thil"d period. Fleury followed Mike York on a rush into the Minnesota zone and redi­rected York's pass past goalie Manny Fernandez from close range. 
The Wild pulled within 2-1 when Pascal Dupuis scored his first goal of the season at 11:14 of the third period. With Minnesota on the power play, Sergei Zholtok sent a centering pass from behind the net to Dupuis, who blasted a shot from the inside of the left circle into the top corner of the net. 
It spoiled another shutout chance for Richter, who hasn't blanked an oppo­nent since Feb. 26, 1999, a 136-game span. 
Eric Lindros gave New York a 1-0 lead 3:20 in with his sixth goal. Fleury intercepted a clearing pass in the 
Minnesota zone and took a wrist shot that Lindros redirected past Fernandez. New York led after the first period for 
the first time this season. 
The Rangers took a 2-0 lead when Steve McKenna. in his Rangers debut. scored his first goal of the season at 
17:31 of the second period. Jeff Toms circled behind the net and sent a pass across the goal mouth, where McKenna smacked it past Fernandez. 
McKenna, who played with the Wild last season, had not scored an NHL goal since last Nov. 12. He was recalled from Hartford of the AHL on Sunday. 
The Wild average 22 shots a game, the fewest in the league, but forced Richter to make a number of quality saves. Richter denied two shots in quick succession against Jim Dowd and Willie Mitchell in the third period. 
Canucks 3, Blue Jackets 2 
Todd Bertuzzi scored a goal and had an assist in his first game back from a 10-game suspension as the Vancouver Canucks beat the Columbus Blue Jackets. 
Ed Jovanovski and Brendan Morrison also each had a goal and an assist, and Markus Naslund had two assists. 
Dan Cloutier, who made 26 saves, and the Canucks weathered two late Columbus power plays after the Blue Jackets pulled within a goal. After Columbus pulled goaltender Marc Denis, the Blue Jackets had a 6-on-4 advantage for the final 1:08. 
Bertuzzi had to sit out since leaving the bench to join a fight during the Canucks' game against Colorado on Oct. 13. Vancouver was 3-6-1 during his suspension. 
Bcrtuzzi's power-play goal late in the second period helped the Canucks end a five-game road losing skid. 
Columbus lost its fifth in a row at home -and.have been outscored 23-6. The Blue Jackets are 0-5-2-0 this year at Nationwide Arena. 
The Blue Jackets were scoreless on seven power plays, and are 1-for-36 with a man advantage at home. 
Denis was holding onto a 1-0 lead through the first 35 minutes until Jovanovski's shot from the point was redirected by Bertuzzi at the 15:07 mark for his second goal of the season. Harold Druken also picked up an assist. 
Less than 2 minutes later, the Canucks took the lead for good with an even-strength goal. 
After a giveaway by Columbus defenseman Mattias Timander, Naslund ended up with a breakaway that Denis stopped with his left knee pad. With Denis sprawled in the crease, Morrison got a stick on the puck with Jovanovski coming in late to jam it in. 
Jovanovski's fifth goal came with three minutes left in the second period. 
Columbus, last in the NHL on the power play at home and next to last on the penalty kill, scored a short-handed goal to take an early 1-0 lead. 
Espen Knutsen took a lead pass from Robert Kron and beat Cloutier at 11:37 of the first period. 
Cloutier, who had missed the Canucks' last game with a slight groin pull, was in control most of the game the rest of the way. He allowed Sean Pronger's goal with 6:35 remaining. 
Vancouver added an insurance goal midway through the third on Morrison's one-timer in the slot from Naslund. 

Because -we want to know. 
Find the Observer /NDToday.cotn weekly poll online or in Viewpoint. Logan to www.ndtoday.com and let your voice be heard. Because campus is waiting to hear . 
.... 
,-----------------------------------~-~----­Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS 
Officials worry about 2002 Games contracts 
The venues have been built,  IOC  member  Gerhard  cancel travelers'  plans  to  Years ago, U officials signed 
ByJAKE PARKINSON  Park City is fitted with a new  Heiberg suggested it shouldn't.  attend the Games? Those trav­ a contract with SLOC for com­ 
Daily Urah Chronicle  ski jump, and Kearns has  a  Two weeks ago, Heiberg said  elers will  not  be spending  plete and exclusive  use  of  
new ice skating oval. The U  he  felt  the  United  Sta'tes  their money in Utah, they  Rice-Eccles Stadium and the  
SALT LAKE CITY  has a brand new stadium and  should not be able to sponsor  won't  be  coming.  Small  Heritage Commons residence  
Even before 1996, when the  residence halls, but what hap­ the Games because of the war  crowds during the Olympics  halls during the Olympics. For  
International  Olympic  pens if something goes wrong?  in Afghanistan. He said the  mean big problems for the  this right, SLOC agreed to pay  
Committee selected Salt Lake  If the Games cost more to  IOC should discuss what type  state's economy.  .  the U $36 million to renovate  
City to host the 2002 Winter  put on then they bring in, or if  of an offense the United States  After the terrorist attacks,  and build the new facilities.  
Games, millions of dollars had  they are canceled, SLOC might  was involved with-armed con­ security became the top priori­ The U was grateful to get  
already been spent on Olympic  not need to honor the con­ flict, military action, a strike  ty in preparing for the Games.  financial backing to help com­ 
preparations.  tracts. That means  the agen­ against terrorism or a  war­ To ensure spectators' and ath­ plete  the  projects.  
Now, with less than 100 days  cies that built the venues, or  and then make  letes' safety  Administrators admit the U  
before Opening Ceremonies, more than $1 billion has been  the state, will be held respon­sible for tho costs,  a decision as to whether or not  "Everybody sfull speed  during the Olympics,  would have built new resi­dence halls and a new stadium  
spent by federal, state and city  If the Games  are canceled,  the Games can  ahead, waiting and  Gov.  Mike  anyway.  
governments and other agen­cies, including the University  everyone loses win the gold.  - nobody will  go on. One day later, Heiberg  preparing for the event."  Le.avitt and Salt Lake  The stadium and Fort Douglas were in the U's long­ 
of Utah.  SLOC officials have said they  retracted  his  City Mayor  term plans. Without the money  
The Salt Lake Organizing  aren't even  considering the  words.  Wayne McCormack  R  O  C  k  V  they received from SLOC, they  
Committee has a $1.3 billion budget to use on the Games.  possibility of a cancellation -neither are U officials.  In 1916, the Games were  2002 Olympic Coordination  Anderson have met  would not have these facilities today, McCormack said.  
However, only $150 million of  rn his effort to manage the  scheduled to be  with mem­ According to the contract  
that is insured. Many agencies  U's  involvement,  Wayne  held in Berlin,  bers  of  between the two agencies,  
that have contracts with SLOC  McCormack, director of 2002  Germany. That  Congress  SLOC  will  pay  the  U this  
are  waiting for reimburse­ Olympic Coordination, meets  didn't happen because of the  and national defense officials  money on certain conditions. If  
ments  for money spent  on  with SLOC officials multiple  outbreak of World  War  I.  to find ways to beef up securi•  the Games don't make money,  
facilities and Olympic prepara­ times each week.  Tokyo, Japan, was to host the  ty. They plan to add security  then the U may be added to  

tions. 
Rftfflffltl 
,<~YJ-f_
lit---+ 
t/1.• i ~ 
CUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experta 
5minutes {ram Campus 
Call 259-1000 for mare details
• 

McCormack said he can't 1940 Olympics. Many coun­checks and send the bill back the list of Olympic losers. The detect any concern from SLOC tries planned to boycott the to Congress. U might be stuck paying for officials. "Everybody's full Ga.mes because of Japan's They also received permis­the construction projects. speed ahead, waiting and aggressive war in Asia. sion to make an extended no­"The good news is $26 mil­preparing for the event," he In 1939, the IOC announced fly zone around the Olympic lion has already been paid by said. the canceUation of the 1940 Village. Security will be tight the State Building Board," 
But maybe SLOC officials Games because of the begin­all around the village and traf­McCormack said. should be concerned. ning of World War II. Because fic on many of the U's roads The board paid the money 
In modern Olympic history, of the length of that war, the will be limited to authorized for construction and renova­since 1896, the Games have 1944 Olympics were never vehicles only. tion of Heritage Commons, been canceled three times -given to a host city. Despite all of the inconve­because the dorms will host each time because of war. So if the Games are canceled niences the Olympics cause U athletes during the Games as 
Should the United States, -what happens? What if employees and students, the U the Olympic Village. now at war, be allowed to host safety concerns, sparked by is still better off because of the Renovations were needed to the Games? the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Games, McCormack said. make this possible. 
International Study Programs 
On-Line Application 

Demonstration 
Instructions & tips/or using ISP's new on-line application. 
-

Wednesday,Nov.7,2001 

101 DeBartolo 5:30PM 
Angers, Athens, Berlin, Biosphere, Cairo, Dublin, Fremantle, Innsbruck, Monterrey, Nagoya, Paris, Perth, Puebla, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Russia, Santiago, Shanghai, Toledo· 
Page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 7, 2001
-
Dalis to retire as Bruin athletic director 
think change is actually very A.ssoci2ted Press 
good, I've been doing this a long time. The athletic direc­LOS ANGELES tor's job is seven days a week,UCLA athletic director Peter 12 months a year. "You don't 
Dalis announced Monday he 

get these years back. I'll be 64 
will retire June 30 after 19 

1/2 when I retire. I've got a lot years on the job. 
of things I want to do. There "I think the program and the 
are some consulting opportuni­
department is in very good 

ties that people have talked 
shape right now," Dalis said. "I 

about that may or may not 
PGA 

Woods has lo-west 
•

scoring average, most money on tour 
Associated P re.ss 
HOUSTON 

Tiger Woods won the Vardon Trophy on Sunday, the third consec­
utlve season he has had the lowest scoring average on the PGA Tour. 
Woods also won the PGA Tour money title for the third straight season, making him the first player since Tom Watson from 1977-79 to sweep golfs two biggest indicators for three straight years. 
"It wasn't quite as good as last year, but it was still a pretty darn good year," Woods said after finishing the Tour Championship in a tie for 13th. 
Woods was coming off a record-setting season, winning 12 times around the world -nine of those on the PGA Tour -including three straight majors. 
He set the record for the adjusting scoring average at 68.17, and won the Vardon Trophy this year with an average adjusted score of 
68.81. Davis Love III was second at 69.06. Woods won the money title with nearly $5.7 million. down from $9.1 million last year. "When I won 12 times around the world ... it's kind of hard to 
duplicate," Woods said. Still, he had few complaints. Woods won five times on the PGA Tour, twice more than anyone 
else. He went five tournaments without winning -the longest he has gone to start a season in his professional career -but then won three straight. 

Notre Dame Film. Television. and Theatre presents 

.Li\tlors F,ro1n rrhP l.JHHIOll Slag·p ANlidsummer Night's Dream 

Playing at Riley High School • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. Shuttle Service Avai Iable 
materialize, one in particular." 
Dalis, who turns 64 next month, made his surprise announcement after UCI.A foot­ball coach Bob Toledo's weekly meeting with reporters. 
''Pete's a great friend of mine, he'll do anything to take the pressure 0f'f me," Toledo said with a laugh, referring to two straight losses by the 17th­ranked Bruins after they won their first six games of the sea­son. 
Chancellor Albert Carnesale said a search committee chaired by vice chancellor Peter Blackman will be formed to hire a replacement, and Blackman said he anticipated an appointment will be made late in the spring. 
"I hope it's a Bruin," Dalis, said of his successor. although he added he didn't believe that was imperative. "It's critical you're in concert with your chancellor. I've got a great staff, I hope all the staff stays in place." 
Dalis said he leaves a much different job than he took in 1983. 


The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
-
~HI! 

·ired of getting homework1 ~ 
.. 

Then give some! 
JoinA6'E Information Night 
Tomorrow th 
November 8 
LaFortune Ballroi: 00 
The 31 ACE communities are spread across the southern United States in such diverse settings as inner-city Atlanta, south Texas, rural Louisiana, and South-Central Los Angeles. ­
ACE is a two-year, post-graduate 
service program featuring three pillars: 
Master degree teacher preparation, 
community life, and spiritual development. 
= 
:,r:; ..» To find out more about ACE, please stop by 112 Badin Hall or call us at l-7052. 
~:
(:~~{~½~


l 
l 
I I I 
-~-I
I _j 
-
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL NFL 
Williams selected as top All-American 
Associated Press 
Jason Williams, who led Duke to the national championship last season, was a unanimous selection Tuesday to The Associated Press pre­season All­America team, the first player on every ballot since 1996. 
The junior guard was joined on the team by Stanford's Casey Jacobsen, like Williams a returning first-team All• American; Missouri's Kareem Rush; Frank Williams of Illinois; and Kentucky's Tayshaun Prince, the lone senior selected. 
Jason Williams was on each of the 72 ballots from the national media panel that selects the weekly college basketball poll, becoming the first unanimous preseason pick since Tim Duncan of Wake Forest five years ago. · 
Williams averaged 21.6 points last season -the first Blue Devil to lead the Atlantic Coast Conference in scoring since Danny Ferry in 1989 N 3.3 rebounds and 6.1 assists. 
He was the only player to rank in the top 20 nationally in scor­ing (15th) and assists (19th) as Duke won its third national championship. 
The top-ranked Blue Devils lost national player of the year Shane Battier and fifth-year for­ward Nate James, but Williams, who averaged 25.7 points in the NCAA Tournament, will lead the way as they try to become the first team to repeat since Duke did it in 1992. 
"We want it just as bad as last year," Williams said. "It's like putting your fingertip in honey and tasting it and never getting a chance to do it again. You say, 'I want it again really bad."' 
Rush, the preseason Big 12 player of the year, was the sec­ond-leading vote-getter with 47, one more than Prince and two more than Jacobsen. 


-
The 6-foot-6 Rush led the con­ference in scoring last season with a 21.1 average. His run at national postseason honors was hurt when he missed seven games with a thumb injury on his shooting (left) hand. 
Rush, an honorable-mention pick last season. scored 29 points in the Tigers' 94-81 loss to Duke in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
"Even though people are talk­ing about him the way they are now, he should still get better. And he can," Missouri coach Quin Snyder said. "There is a lot more there." 
Prince, the Southeastern Conference player of the year. withdrew his name from the NBA draft to return for his senior season with the Wildcats. The 6-9 Prince belied his thin frame by playing at power for­ward last season and wound up a second-team All-American after averaging 16.9 points and 
6.5 rebounds. 

Jacobsen is going to draw a lot of attention from opposing defenses this season as the only returning starter for the Cardinal. 
The 6-6 swingman averaged 
18.1 points in a balanced offense as he became Stanford's first-ever All-American. He'll look for his shot more and that's not a bad thing considering he hit 51 percent from the field, including 47 percent from 3­point range. 
Frank Williams returns to the Fighting Illini after being select­ed Big Ten player of the year and a third-team All-American. 
The 6-3 guard, who averaged 
14.9 points, 3.7 rebounds and 
4.4 assists, already has said he will enter the NBA draft after this season. Last season ended on a sour note when he went 3­for-15 from the field in the 87­81 loss to Arizona in the region­al final. 
Three members of last year's preseason team -Battier, Troy Murphy of Notre Dame and Joseph Forte of North Carolina -went on to be first-team All­Americans, while Jamaal Tinsley of Iowa State was picked for the second team and Loren Woods of Arizona was an honor­able mention selection. 
Saints slap Turley with $25,000 fine 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
It wasn't as bad as it could have been -New Orleans Saints coach Jim Haslett originally thought about cutting tackle Kyle Turley or at le~t suspending him. But it was no slap on the wnst either. 
Turley was fined $25,000 for conduct detrimen­tal to the team during Sunday's game against the New York Jets. 
Turley has also agreed to undergo counseling at the team's request. 
Turley attacked Jets safety Damien Robin~on when Robinson grabbed the face mask of Samts quarterback Aaron Brooks and twisted it. Turley ripped Robinson's helmet off and threw it down­field, then made an obscene gesture. His actions got him tossed out of the game. They also drew a 15-yard penalty that ended the Saints' final chance to tie or win the game. The Saints lost 16-9. 
''The Saints do not condone such· actions," gen­eral manager Randy Mueller said Tuesday. "We believe that the amount of the fine is appropriate for the severity of Kyle's conduct on the field. We understand that Kyle is a very emotional player, but it is clear that the type of actions he demon­strated last Sunday will not be tolerated." 
Mueller said that Turley will not be suspended by the Saints and is expected to play Sunday against the San Francisco 49ers. 
"Unfortunately Kyle's actions cost us a chance to possibly win a game," Mueller said. "I would hope that the lesson learned here will bring our team together." 
Turley also faces disciplinary action from the NFL. 
Turley was composed, but not contrite, when he• spoke to th 3 media Monday. 
"It was a very emotional outburst on my part that I nead to be a little more mature about," Turley said. "But I cannot apologize for defending my quarterback and trying to, basically, from my point of view, save his life. The guy was seriously trying to break hLc; neck." 
Trailing 16-9, the Saints marched to the Jets' 6­yard line in the final minute of the game. On sec­ond-and-3, Brooks ran to the 5-yard line only to be stopped by Robinson, who grabbed Brooks' face mask. 
"I figured I had him bent back when I heard Brooks scream," Robinson said. ''Then I let him go." 
Turley had a different take on the situation. 
"I came up on the play and the guy started twist­ing Aaron's head back and he started screaming," Turley said. "I've never been placed in a situation like that before where I sec my quarterback get­ting his head turned around like the exorcist." 
Turley, who turned 26 in September, jumped into the pile, grabbing Robinson and eventually his helmet. He emerged without his own helmet, but still clutching Robinson·s, which he flung down­field before making an obscene gesture. By that time the field was littered with players, oflidals and yellow flags. 
"l felt like Turley was trying to break my neck," Robinson said. 
"They pulled my hair, the bunch of girls," Turley responded. "I got turf burn on my head. I've never had turf burn on my head. They were trying to get me when I was down." 
There were offsetting penalties for personal fouls, but Turley, who was thrown out of the game, drew a second 15-yard penalty for throwing the helmet and making the obscene gesture. That put New Orleans on the 20-yard line and ended the scoring threat. 
"Driving home (Sunday) night I was thinking about cutting him," Haslett said. "Last night, lay­ing in bed, I thought about suspending him. I didn't see the whole incident on the field. Then I saw it on TV where Damien Robinson was trying to pull Aaron's head off. Then I talked to Aaron about it and Aaron said he thought he broke his neck. So 1 can understand why Kyle did it to that point." 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
Presents a lecture by 

Anton Pelinka 
University of Innsbruck 
"Austria Between East and West: Xenophobia and the Haider Phenomenon" 
Thursday, November 8 
12: 15pm 

140 DeBartolo Hall 
A professor of Political Science at the Uni~ersity oflnnsbruc~ (since 1975) an~ d!rector of_the Institute of Conflict Research in Vienna (smce 1990), Dr. Pelmka has been a v1s1tmg professor at Stanford University (1997), the University of New Orleans (19~1), Schump~ter_ Fellow at Harvard University (Center for European Studies, 1990-91), and the Umversity of M1ch1gan (?OO I-0~)­He speciali~es in comparative politics (esp. the Austrian politica~ syste~), E_uropean integration and democratic theory. During his stay in Ann Arbor, where he 1s teac?mg m_t?e Departments of Germanic Languages and Political Science, he is writi:1g a_book on Indian poht1cs. He spent I~77 as a visiting professor at Nehru University, New Delhi. His most recent_books mclu~e Austria. Out of the Shadows ofthe Past (1998) and The Politics ofthe Lesser Evil: Leadersh1P_, , Democracy, and Jaruzelski's Poland (1999). He is co-editor of Contemporary Ausman Studies 
(since 1993). 
..,,._ 
Look no further-the OIT is HIRING! 
Resident Co.muter C.onso1trn}tS t!Jprinq 
•.0'-) 
DUTIES iNCWDE: 

rtintilt.:E.SBMllnC . .· · rnsrni..u1iG t fffP/,!!HNG NETWORK CffliNfCHVf:T''I' or: ' xFsrnnH i::o~PUTERS HI THE Rtsrnrncr HAU..S ·. . . 
ANS.Wt.RING (,l:JifRAL INT EJZflET 50rTWAHf QlJESHOI~$ 
Apply now at http://www,nd..edu/...ndoit/emptoy · 
('l.'h.JCOUl)h Novet'!'..bCt; 15th} . . . .. 
r · Questions? (a!f631-Ht;1,7 t"1ail ahiCktJrs,nd.t<d':l. 

Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rodriguez wins I0th straight Gold Glove, ties Bench 
Associa.ted Pre .. 
Texas Rangers catcher Ivan Rodriguez won his 10th straight 
Gold Glove award Tuesday, tying his idol Johnny Bench for the 
most by a catcher. 
"I can see him winning 12, 13, maybe as many as 14," said 
Bench. the former Cincinnati star and Hall of Farner. "I don't see why he would stop. He wants to be behind the plate. He thrives on it." 
The only thing that might stop Rodriguez's streak is a position change. Wear and tear behind the plate has led some good-hitting catchers, like Bench. to switch positions to extend their careers. 

Rodriguez joined Atlanta right-hander Rodriguez Greg Maddux, and Cleveland second base­man Roberto Alomar as Gold Glove record-setters. 
Maddux extended his NL record for pitchers by winning his 12th straight Gold Glove. He trails only Jim Kaat, who won the award 16 times. 
Alomar passed former Chicago Cubs second baseman Ryne Sandberg with his 10th Gold Glove, the most for that position. 
He was joined by his Cleveland double-play partner shortstop Omar Vizquel, who won for the ninth straight seaso_n. Vizquel trails Ozzie Smith, who took the award 13 times. 
Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki and Mike Cameron earned two of the three AL outfield spots. Suzuki made only one error in his first major league season after coming ove.r from Japan. 
Torii Hunter of the Minnesota Twins filled out the AL outfield. 
Mike Mussina, in his first season with the New York Yankees, was again chosen as the top pitcher in the American League. Mussina won four straight years (1996-9 9) before Texas• Kenny Rogers broke his streak last season. 
Minnesota first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz, and Oakland third baseman Eric Chavez round out the AL squad. Atlanta's Andruw Jones -who won his fourth straight out­field award in the NL. 
The St. Louis Cardinals had two winners, outfielder Jim Edmonds and second baseman Fernando Vina. Edmonds won his second NL award in a row, after winning three in the AL with Anaheim. 
Vina took over from Cincinnati's Pokey Reese, who won the past two years. 
Colorado also had two players make the team. First baseman Todd Helton broke the run of San Francisco's J.T. Snow, who won six consecutive. 
Helton was joined by teammate Larry Walker, who completed the NL outfield. 
-

Friday, 9 Nov-errobe:r :Z00:1. 
ND ROTC unit:::s pay t:ribL1t:e t:o An,ericv's 1nilit:a1 y vel:,ierans vvit:h guest.: speaker 


... 1:<><>1H11 nt :-;t..._,,, ...~1,._,,,µc c.-"/.r-7,-/.,.· l J·'<rr A-1<•,,.;c>rh:.,, 1,,~1~111 ...-1,1. ,v,.,.-~;1,1io1..~,-~i,c.."? -SL~r>1.1.11 <_:•c11lc-r 

_ __/Indoor ~?-{-___ ~occer ~ Tournament 

~aturday, November 10 f;_:;­
1 

~oon-~olf~ ~port~ l!ecreation Center;~\ 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS . 3 ON 3 PLUS GOALIE ONE DIVISION 

RINK IS WAUED AND NETTED REGlffiRA TEAM AT RECSPORTS SIGN-UPS BEGIN MONDAY. I0/29 /,-= 

DEADUNE IS FRIDAY. 11/9 ~ I '-/ 1 LIMITED TO THE FIRST 8 TEAMS TO ENTE~1 "' NO REFEREES WILL BE PROVIDED / SINGLE ELIMINATION 
for ~ore Information Call 
l!ec~porl~ at 1-GIOO 


Purdue game start pushed back 
national telecast, with time. Special to The Observer Oregon-Oregon State also The Notre Dame-Purdue being televised by ABC in game will mark the 111th 
ABC Sports annoucned the same time slot. consecutive Notre Dame Tuesday that it will televise The Notre Dame-Purdue football game to be televised the Dec. 1 Notre Dame­game is part of an ABC by either NBC, ABC, CBS or Purdue football game from tripleheader that day with ESPN. Ross-Ade Stadium in West Miami kicking off against The game originally was Lafyette, Ind., with a kickoff Virginia Tech at 1:00 p.m. scheduled for Sept. 15, but it of 4:30 p.m. EST. EST and the Big XII was postponed and resched­
The Notre Dame-Purdue Conference championship uled due to the terrorist game will be part of a split game being shown in prime attacks earlier that week. 
NFL 

·Ex-Cowboy Newton arrested on Inarijuana distribution charge 
man who helped Dallas win three Super Bowls.
Associated Press 

He spent. 14 seasons in the NFL, 13 with 
Dallas. He retired last year after a season with 
ST. MARTINVILLE, La. Carolina. 
Former Dallas Cowboys star Nate Newton The 39-year-old Newton worked last year as 
was arrested when police confiscated 213 a commentator on ESPN radio and more 
pounds of marijuana from a van on a highway. recently was an analyst for some BET televi­
Newton and two others were charged Sunday sion college football broadcasts, said his agent, with possession with intent to distribute mari­Jim Neader. Neader had not heard about the juana, Trooper Willie Williams said Tuesday. A arrest. fourth person, arrested in a separate vehicle Williams said a state police patrol pulled over 
with $18,000, was charged with conspiracy to a van for a traffic violation on Sunday about 6 
possess narcotics. a.m. east of Lafayette. 
All four were in the St. Martin Parish Jail on "The driver seemed nervous and gave con­
Tuesday with bail set at $200,000 each. sent to search the van," Williams said. He did 
Newton is a six-time Pro Bowl offensive line-not say who was driving. 
NFL 

Irvin beats coke rap 
Associated Press  plain view in the apartment when the officers entered the  and was hired for Fox Sports Net's Sunday pregame show.  
DENTON, Texas  apartment," according to the motion.  He lost that job a few weeks later after an initial arrest in  
A felony drug charge against  The state also said that sep­ the North Dallas apartment  
former Dallas Cowboys receiv­ arate internal affairs investi­ case.  
er Michael Irvin was dismissed  gations of three officers from  Irvin was  arrested Aug. 9,  
Monday because prosecutors said an officer conducted a  three law enforcement agen­cies called into question the  2000, at the apartment where law officers said they found  
search without a warrant.  testimony of material witness­ marijuana and other drugs.  •  
State  District Judge Lee  es.  Prosecutors said without  Authorities said they found  
Gabriel  honored  a  state  that testimony, the state could  less than 2 ounces of marijua­ 
request dismissing the felony  not  pre­ na  along  with  
charge of possessing less than a gram of cocaine.  sent c a  s  a e  "Our initial reaction is  ecstasy pills. Irvin was not  
Irvin was indicted in June,  against  one ofgreat relief"  charged  after  
10 months after he and  a  Irvin  or  the arrest. The  
woman were arrested at a Dallas apartment where law officers said they found mari­ N e I l y Adham, t h e  Peter Ginsburg attorney  indictment on the cocaine charge was  
juana and ecstasy pills. He has  woman in  returned  in  
denied the drugs were his. No  the apart- June.  
charges were filed involving  ment with him who later was  In 1996, Irvin pleaded no  
marijuana and ecstasy pills.  indicted on the same charge.  contest to felony cocaine pos­ 
Irvin was to appear in court  "Our initial reaction is one of  session in exchange for four  
Friday for  a motions hearing  great  relief,"  said  Peter  years of deferred probation, a  
in the case. A trial date had  Ginsberg, one of Irvin's attor­ $10,000 fine and dismissal of  
been set for Jan. 14.  neys. "We  are glad Michael  misdemeanor marijuana pos­ 
A  prosecutor  said  in  a  can go on with his life now."  session charges.  
motion in court in Denton  Prosecutors said they had  The NFL suspended Irvin for  
County that attorneys learned last week that a warrant-less  not been able to question the officer before last week  five games. He finished his deferred probation on the  
search of the apartment had  because of an internal investi­ charge  just  before  he  
been conducted.  gation involving an unrelated  announced his retirement.  
"Until this fact was revealed  internal affairs investigation.  He was a  member of three  
to the state, the state was  The district attorney's office  Super Bowl champion teams  
under the belief that all of the  could not be reached by tele­ with the Cowboys and estab­ 
evidence that the state intend­ phone for comment Monday  lished himself in 12 seasons as  
ed to introduce in the trial of  night.  one  of  the  NFL's  best  
Michael Irvin  ...  was found in  Irvin retired in July 2000  receivers.  

Call Sports at 1-4543 Call Sports at 1-4543 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Baseball moves to d·isband two franchises 
A,;sociatcd P rcss  a viable major league franchise." Montreal is considered the front-run­ gered list. 'Tm not going to deal in what-ifs,"  lhey can't compete with big spenders, like the Yankees and Diamondbacks.  
ROSEMONT, Ill.  ner to he cut. The Expos averaged just 7 .648 fans per game at Olympic Stadium  Selig said. Selig said the possibility of moving  and the high-revenue teams don't want to give up any more money to revenue  
Baseball owners voted Tuesday to  this year and no progress has been  teams ha·s not been ruled out, but he  sharing. No small market team has won  
eliminate two teams before the start of next season. but didn't spedfy which ones. They also said they wouldn't lock out players when the labor contract  made toward a new ballpark. The team's owner, Jeffrey Loria, is a New York art dealer with few ties to Quebec. Selig said all 30  added there currently aren't any accept­able cities to move to. "Merely transferring existing problems to another ownership  the World Series since the 1991 Twins. "Is this a tacit admission that anything is fundamentally wrong? Absolutely it is not," Selig said. "This shows we're com­ 
expires this week. The Montreal Expos, Minnesota Twins and Florida Marlins were the teams recently mentioned as the likeliest can­didates, while Oakland and Tampa Bay were discussed earlier this year. This  major league teams will continue to sell season tickets for 2002, even though he thinks two of them will not play.  "There were a lot of people in the game who were in favor offour­team contraction."  group or another city would only exacerbate the problem, not resolve it," he said. Washington-Northern Virginia has been the  mitted to solving our problems." Asked if this was a sad day for base­ball, Selig said, "Sad day after the Series we just had? 1 wouldn't say so. The human part of this equation is what bothers me most. As someone who ran a  
would be the first contraction by major  "There are more  most aggressive area in  team on who a lot of people's livelihood  
league baseball since the National League shrank from 12 teams to eight following the 1899 season. No major league team has moved since the Washington Senators became the Texas Rangers in 1972. "It makes no sense for major league baseball to be in markets that generate insufficient local revenues to justify the investment in the franchise," commis­sioner Bud Selig said. "The teams to be contracted have a long record of failing  than two candi­pursuing a team, but theBud Seligdates," he said. "We Baltimore Orioles say thatbaseball commissionerhaven't picked the territory belongs to them. final teams. "If at some point in time ''I'm not going to relocation serves that end, get into the numbers game," he said. we. of course, will consider it," Selig "There were a lot of people in the game said. who were in favor of four-team contrac­The actinn by the owners comes two tion." days after the World Series culminated The move could set up a battle among in Arizona's thrilling Game 7 victory cities to avoid being eliminated. over the New York Yankees, baseball's Government assistance for new ball­most-watched game in 10 years. Owners  and careers depended, I'd say it's a sad day. I worry a lot about that." Owners also said they wouldn't lock out players or freeze player signings when the collective bargaining agree­ment expires Wednesday. Baseball has undergone eight work stoppages since 1972, including a 232­day strike that wiped out the 1994 World Series, and some owners are pressing for concessions from the play­ers' association, which could trigger  
to generate enough revenues to operate  parks could get teams off the endan­ of low-revenue markets complain that  another stoppage.  

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

D-backs say they're no fluke 
While many of the players are players are nearing the end of 
Associated Press 

in their mid-to upper-30s, they their careers, and teams would showed this season that they be reluctant to pick up those PHOENIX have some baseball left in them. contracts. 
The World Series champion Johnson is 38 and had arguably A World Series that went Arizona Diamondbacks were his best season, culminating it seven games undoubtedly willstill spraying champagne in the with five postseason victories, bring some much needed clubhouse when Curt Schilling three in the World Series. money to a franchise that Jost at pronounced Schilling turns 35 this month. least $48 million over its first this team 


Grace is 37. three seasons. 
no one-year The bigger questions will be Ten of the top players agreed wonder. 

how Arizona handles its talent­before the season began to "I believe ed reserves. defer large chunks of their 
this is not 

Erubiel Durazo wants to start salary to help the financially our last," he at first base, but he would have strapped franchise through the 
said. "We 

to wait another season of play­next two years. 
have the 

ing behind Grace. Jay Bell, with An estimated $16 million in 
makeup 

a year left on his contract, has World Series revenue will cer­
and the Schilling 

made it clear that he wants to tainly provide a boost, and sea­
chemistry 

end his career as a starter. son ticket sales that haveand the talent and personnel to Trades are possible for the declined each year since the do it again, and maybe it will go likes of Durazo or David 1998 expansion season proba­through New York again. Who Dellucci, but the Diamondbacks bly will go up. 
knows?" 

want to hold on to their younger The team also did a hugeDiamondbacks owner Jerry players for when the old guys business in merchandise sales Colangelo repeatedly has reject­finally call it quits. over the past few weeks. 
ed the notion that these are the Miguel Batista will be back, Arizona has just five freeFlorida Marlins West, a team and so will embattled 22-year­agents. The most prominent are put together with high-priced old Byung-Hyun Kim, who could starting right fielder Reggiefree agents that will be sold to become a setup man if closer Sanders and one of the World the highest bidder now that a Matt Mantei successfully comes Series heroes, Danny Bautista. 

title has been won. 

back from "Tommy John" elbow The others are pitchers Albie Colangelo said the team was surgery. Lopez, Mike Morgan and Bobbyin the third year of a four-year Todd Stottlemyre is trying to Witt. 
plan. The contracts of free 

make a comeback, and young Sanders could be headed else­
agents Matt Williams, Mark reliever Bret Prinz wiJI bring where after resurrecting his 

Grace and Jay Bell expire after some much-needed power to career with 33 homers· and 88 next season. Randy Johnson is the bullpen. RBI this season. He had signedsigned through 2003, Schilling Brenly believes Kim will a one-year. $1 million contractthrough 2004. 

recover from the psychological and will get far more than that Colangelo was on his way to beating he took by giving up the now. 
the baseball meetings in 

two game-tying ninth-inning The Diamondbacks retain the Chicago on Monday, but general home runs in Yankee Stadium. rights to second baseman Craig 
manager Joe Garagiola Jr. 

ln the postgame bedlam Counsell, but probably will have repeated the promise. 
Sunday night, Kim was shown to give him a big raise becauseUI can't be any more emphatic on the giant screen at Bank One he is eligible for arbitration. 
than Jerry has been," Garagiola Ballpark wandering in the out­The team was basking in its said. "It's not going to happen. 

field with a big smile. The glory on Monday. Brenly and This team is not going to be dis­crowd gave him a huge cheer. Garagiola made the rounds on mantied. ls that saying there "It was like 49,000 people giv­radio talk shows. Johnson left
will be no changes? No. We 

ing him a hug," Garagiola said. for Los Angeles to appear onhave made changes every year 
"It was just a wonderful "The Tonight Show with Jayif it's something we thought 
moment." Leno." A parade was plannedwould make the club better. But The Diamondbacks probably for downtown on Wednesday
those will be baseball-driven 

couldn't hold a clearance sale culminating with a rally at the decisions." 
anyway. Most of the highly paid ballpark. 
Call Sports at 1-4543 
" ••••• " .......... 111 .. • • •• 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Largest audience in 10 years tunes in for Game 7 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Nearly 40 million people watched Game 7 of the World Series, the largest TV audience for baseball in 10 years. 
Fox's broadcast of the Arizona Diamondbacks' 3-2 victory over the New York Yankees to win the championship Sunday night drew a 23.5 preliminary national rating and 34 share, making it the most-watched telecast in the network's history outside of NFL games. 
The rating is the percentage of the country's 105.5 million TV households tuned to a broadcast. Share is the percentage of homes with TVs in use. 
The game, which Arizona won with a two-run rally in the bottom of the ninth inning to end New York's streak of three straight titles, drew more than twice as many viewers as Sunday night's Emmy Awards show on CBS. 
Overall, the World Series averaged a 15.6 rating and 25 share. 26 percent higher than the record-low 12.4/21 for the 2000 Subway Series between the Yankees and Mets, which generated little TV interest outside of New York. 
One indication, though, of how the proliferation of cable and satellite TV has changed viewers' habits is that only one other World Series (the Yankees' four-game sweep of the San Diego Padres in 1998, with a 14.1 average) drew lower ratings than this year's. 
An estimated 39.1 million people were tuned to Fox at any given time during Sunday's game. Only three TV programs were watched by more people in 2001: the Super Bowl (No. 1 with 84.1 million). the premier of "Survivor" (which fol­lowed the Super Bowl on Jan. 28) and the Academy Awards show. 
It was he biggest average audience for a baseball game since 50.3 million tuned in for the 10-inning Game 7 of the 1991 World Series between the Minnesota Twins and Atlanta Braves. 
Fox estimated that 71.9 million people watched at least part of Sunday night's game, which had a rating more than twice that for Game 1 on Oct. 27 -the lowest-rated game in World Series history. 
• .,, 
. ····---­
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
-


Pholo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnlormation The Notre Dame women's field hockey club team poses for a team picture. The Irish defeated University of Chicago 6-0 on Sunday, with five different players scoring for Notre Dame. 
CLUB SPORTS 
Field hockey blanks Chicago, 6-0 
Saturday at the Rolfs Sports and 
Special to The Observer 
Recreation Center. The equestri­ans travel to Terra Haute for aThe Notre Dame field hockey two day show at St. Mary's of theclub defeated the University of Woods College this weekend,Chicago 6-0 Sunday. The Irish while the rowing club will partic­jumped out early and continued ipate in the Marietta Challengeto apply pressure throughout the in Marietta, OH. The ultimate game. Courtney Schuster, Kathy club's women's squad will playZeidler, Molly Savage, Claire 
in Purdue, and the women's
Kelley. and Bridget Roddy all water polo club will kick off their scored for the Irish. 
season with a Big 10 tournament Coming Events including Purdue, Iowa, The men's volleyball club will Wisconsin, and Minnesota at the 
host a six-team invitational this Univ_ersity of Illnois. 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Huskies nab top preseason spot for third year 
A<socia tee! Press 
Conneclicut, still brimming with tal­ent even after losing three key players, was an overwhelming choice as the No. 1 team Tuesday in The Associated Press preseason women's basketball poll. , 
It was nothing new for the Huskies. This will be the third straight season that has started with Connecticut lead­ing the poll and the fourth since 1995. 
'Tm sure that our performance in the NCAA Tournament had a lot to do with this, but this is a different season and different circumstances," UConn coach Geno Auriemma said. 
"I don't think it's as clear cut going into the season as to who the favorite should be this year. I'm sure there are plenty of other schools who feel .:they deserve to be number one." 
Performance Artist and 
Bilingual Storyteller 

Connecticut no longer has All­Americans Shea Ralph and Svetlana Abrosimova, and center Kelly Schumacher also is gone. But the Huskies learned to play without Ralph and Abrosimova after they were 'injured last season and UConn still made it to the Final Four. 
Point guard Sue Bird is back to run the offense and she'll have plenty of options on the floor with Swin Cash, Tamika Williams, Asjha Jones and Diana Taurasi, who played fearlessly as a freshman last season. 
"We've got as good a first five as any­one in the country," Auriemma said. 
Williams is not playing at the moment because of a condition that causes pain and numbness in her left arm. It's not known when she'll return. 
Connecticut received 31 of 45 first­pl ace votes from a national media panel and had 1,102 points. Tennessee, which has been No. 1 in the prescason poll three times, was second with five first-place votes and 1,032 points. 
The Lady Vols' big three of Tamika Catchings, Semeka Randall and Kristen Clement have moved on, but coach Pat Summitt still has veterans Michelle Snow, Kara Lawson and Gwen Jackson and a freshman class headed by national player of the year Shyra Ely. 
Three teams split the remaining first­place votes. No. 3 Vanderbilt received six, No. 4 Oklahoma had two an.d No, 5 Duke got one. Vanderbilt finished nine points behind Tennessee. 
Louisiana Tech was sixth, followed by Texas Tech, Iowa State, Stanford and North Carolina State. Stanford was the only team in the Top 10 that was not in the final poll last season. 
Purdue, the national runner-up last season, was voted into the No. 11 spot. Then it was Colorado, Florida, Baylor 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
7:00 pm La Fortune Student Center Ba fl room 
Si la gente quiere comer came; Ifthe People Want to Eat Meat., Let them Eat Meat, The Remarkable Story ofmy Brother 
Performance Artist and Bilingual Storyteller Thursday, November 8, 2001 8:oo pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
The performances are cosponsored by: Multicultural 

Student Programs and Services, the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Creative Writing 
£atin elub
Department, the Film, Television, and Theater Department, and La Alianza, all of the University of Notre Dame 
Dancing 
and defending NCAA champion Notre Dame, followed by Georgia, Michigan, Old Dominion, Washington and George Washington. 
Penn State, Arizona State, Maryland, Colorado State and Utah held the final five spots. 
The No. 15 ranking for Notre Dame was the second lowest in the preseason poll for the defending champion. Purdue started at No. 23 after winning the 1999 title. 
Notre Dame lost national player of the year Ruth Riley. plus starters Niele Ivey and Kelley Siemon. 
Other members of the Top 25 that did not appear in the final poll last season were Michigan, Old Dominion, Washington, George Washington, Maryland and Colorado State. 
Maryland made the poll for first time. since Jan. 4, 1994. Colorado State last appeared in the 1998-99 season. 

I.N'S TIT u· T E••·V 

This excitingnewclass will presenttwo different levels of Latin Club dancingstyles, introducing new dancers to Salsa, Mambo, Merengue and Chachacha'. The focus is on learning to hear dance rhythms, leading, following and gaining the confidence to get on the floor as soon as possible. 
-' . . . ' . .· .. .. . ....# 
~i9n-Ul)fl 6tgin: 1hunida-f, Novtrnber &. S:ooam-\ZS!Zl. 
c.la~ e,egin: TtJUda-t, November 13 --At.t. fl!m. 2. ~ 
Intro to L.atin Daru.ing daMiU ~i\\ ~tiu~r,from 1-S:oopm in N.t. [Zfn of tt'le ~-and~ lnttrmtAiate daM ~i\1 mut from s-~:oopm. ihe fu for -the r,e,me&ter long daM> i& $to. lZ-egi&ter in advanu at !Zu~rt&. IZ-egi&'lration begi1111
Latino Studies 
immediatle1 fol\o~ing -the demo1111'1ration. Open to a\\ ND r.tudmt&, faw\1'(, &taff,
liiiilllii!iil! w 
l'llil!J;illillli!I ? 8iil !!UJl!ilS!! i!!I f ill il!ii re.tirw., and fueir &f>OUM-S. ~ue i& limited. IZ-egi11'1ration ill limited to 10 flingle 
fmia\u, 10 ~ng\e malu and 15 couplu. 



I 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
-
Page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Coaching will make big difference for Irish 
rwas pleasantly surprised to. sive coordinator refusing to run a Kustok will have a good laugh at young Jon played quarterback for seasons, and the Ducks just keep watch good football in Notre Dame play inside the 10 out of anything Bob's expense a day or two after Clay High School. He claims to getting better under his tutelage. Stadium. other than that dam three-back the Purdue game. · have a strong affinity for Notre They beat Chris Simms and Texas 
The Tennessee Volunteers over• set. Some call it macho football, I I have taken it upon myself to Dame football, and would proba­in Lhe 2000 Holiday Bowl to finish came a hostile crowd and a stingy call it predictable and inefficient. help Kevin White select a new bly be the top choice. However, 10-2, and this year's unit is tied for Irish Quarterback Carlyle Holiday head coach. I'm looking for a Grudcn comes with some baggage. first in the Pac 10 at 8-1. They run defense to made key throws to his tight end coach with two qualities: He must First, his Haiders will play into ·an exciting oflense, and I think emerge and to flanker David Givens, but consistently get the most from his January. Imagine Kevin White Carlyle Holiday would thrive in a with a 28· inside the 20 it was the same old players, and he needs to have a calling Al Davis asking for pennis­system that produced Akili Smitl1 18 victory. Kevin Rogers. I counted three penchant tor winning big games. sion to talk to his golden boy dur­and Joey Harrington. They capi· options in a row at one point. After This will come as a shock, but ing the NFL playofls. . Tyrone Willingham. The talized on a failing to score more than 11 I'm not talking about Lou Holtz. Also, why should he leave the Stanford Cardinal head coach host of Irish points against a team with a v-.'in­Holtz is a program builder,-but not Raiders? They came ¼ithin a makes the list as a wild card. I was turnovers, ning record all season, I wish a program maintainer. He beat the game of the Super Bowl last year, impressed by his back-to-back and Philip Kevin the bf>,,st of luck at Prairie Michigans and the Florida teams, and are currently in first place. \Nins vs. Oregon and UCLA before Fulmer's View A&M next year. Please take but lost to the Northwesterns, Air While we court Cruden, the Irish falling to Washington last coaching that stupid stiff-arm handoff tf'lch­Forces, and Stanfords all too often. would be leaderless during the Saturdav. He knows what it's like staff made nique with you. After 1993, he never really con­critical winter recruiting season. to coach wider stringent academic 
Defensively. the Vols adjusted tended for another national title. We would be forced to sell recruits requirements, and seems poised to
key halftime inside College 

like a top-10 team should. With He has clearly worked another on rumors. Finally, Gruden will take over a top-flight program. In adjustments Fooball 
that paid Notre Dame routinely putting eight miracle at South Carolina. I think, come at a price no lower than six years, Willingham has led dividends. in the box, Tennessee started to though, that he'll build the pro­seven figurns. We need to start Stanford to three bowl games, 
Fulmer throw quick slants and let the ath­gram for another year or two and calling NBC, Adidas, Eddie including the 1999 Pacific-10 correctly stated after the game: · leticism of Kelley Washington and then let son Skip attempt to main­DeBartolo, Regis, and the Welsh Conference championship and the "They stopped themselves enough Donte Stallworth take over. tain their newfound success. family right away. Put that new school's first Rose Bowl appear­to help us beat them." To maintain balance, Travis I'm also not talking about Rick law school on the back burner. ance in 28 years. He was the Pac• 
I want to emphasize the true dif­Stephens shot past Grant Irons for Neuheisel. Surfer Hick is the only . Tom Coughlin. The current 10 Coach of the Year twice in 1995 ference in Saturday's game: coach­big running gains in the second coach making a million dollars Jaguars head man is suffering and 1999. HL'> overall record at ing. It was not talent, although half. Speaking of Grant Irons, why without a national championship through a 2-4 season, and is prob­Stanford, however, sits at a balmy Volunteer defensive tackle John does defensive coordinator Greg ring. He destroyed the Colorado ably more available than Cruden. 35-33-1, Henderson is possibly the largei,t Matlrlson pull the 6-foot 2i6-program in four short years, riding Jacksonville faces salary cap prob­We are in danger of permanent­individual I've seen this side of the pounder in long passing situa­former coach Bill McCartney's lems in the ofiseason, and will not ly tarnishing the most storied pro­WWF. I'd like to say I was amazed tions? After five seasons marked players for two seasons before contend any time soon. gram in college football. at Notre Dame's bad breaks and with injuries and position changes, falling on his face. He has college experience with Opponents simply do not fear us inability to adjust on both sides of we all know the answer: he is an The Huskies played well last BC, and orchestrated the stunning anymore. After five seasons with the ball, but I have simply come to average defensive end at best. year, and continue to squeak out 1993 upset against then No. 1 no bowl wins, a 1-i record against expect it this year. Tennessee showed Notre Dame lucky wins this season. Fear not, Notre Dame. I like his "old school" top-ten teams, and a 32-24 record 
Critics will contend that we what to do in the red zone. Casey they will start playing turnover­discipline, and his teams rarely overall, would Bob Davie keep Bob moved the ball well on offense, but Clausen hit Stallworth in the cor­happy Neuheisel football starting make mental mistakes like what Davie? I counter that we managed a pal­ner of the end zone for one score, next year. we've endured under Bob Davie._ Peyton Berg can be reached at try three points in four trips inside then executed a great play fake Let's look at the serious candi­. Mike Bellotti. The Oregon Berg.21@nd.edu. The views the Vols' 20-yard line. rollout to end the game. Bob Davie dates: head coach appeals to me because expressed in this co/,umn are those 
The problem? Critical turnovers didn't want this guy, either? . Jon Cruden. Cruden's father he gets the most out of his players. ofthe author and not necessarily at the worst times and our offen-Clausen and Northwestern's Zak coached at Notre Dame, and He has a 49-22 record after six The Observer. 
, 

HAPPEN_! NG~
UN J ·, Q,-N 
~---------~--------------·-----..······-----n.o.Y.._..Z_..__:..........o.v 13 
~ 7:00-7:30pm Sexual Assault Awareness Week Skit@ Walsh Hall Basement 7:00pm Antonio Sacre, perfonnance artist & bi-lingual storyteller@ BallroomI 7:00pm Latin American Film Symposium "Doces Poderes• (Brazil)@ Hesbvrgh Center Auditorium 8:00-9:00pm Coffee rit the Co-Mo 
I ld•!i:@ 7:00pm Sexual Assault Awareness Week Q&A w/ Advisory Boord@ foster Room Lafun 7:00pm ND Cinema 'Toste of Cherry''@ Carey Auditorium Hesburgh Library I
I 

7:30pm Actors from the London Stage "A Midsummer Nighfs Dream'@ Riley High School ($12 tix@ LaFun) 7:30pm Men's Basketball vs. EA Sports All-Stars@ JACC 
I

I 8:00pm Notre Dome Symphony Orchestra Concert @ Washington Hall (free) 8:00pm Antonio Sacre @ Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum (free) 8:30-10:30pm Drop in lacrosse @ Rolfs I
I 

9:00pm SUB AcoustiCafe @ Huddle Lafortune 10:00pm SUB Movies "American Pie 2' & 'American Pie"I 10:00pm Karaoke/Dance @ Alumni-Senior Club I 
llill 7:00pm ND Hockey vs. Ferris State @JACC-North I 7:00pm ND Women's Volleyball vs. St. John's@JACC 7:00pm Latin American Film Symposium 'Brevo Gente Brasileira' (Brasil)@ Hesburgh Center Aud. I
I 

7:00-l 0:00pm Drop fn Badminton@ Rolfs 7 :30pm Actors from the London Stage "A Midsummer Night's Dream' @ Riley High School ($12 tix@ La Fun)I 7:30&10:00pm SUB Movies "American Pie 2" & 'American Pie' 8:30pm-1 :30am ND Express Co-ed Billards Tournament 
I 9:00pm Crafting Comer "Soap Carving' @ Dooley Room I 1O:OOpm Comedian Alexandra McHale @ LaFun Ballroom Dances Tonight: Alvmni, Sorin, Walsh, Siegfried/Lewis, PE, Band I
I 

Elli 8:45am 'Turning Over a New Leaf' Class of 2004 Community Service 
I

I 10:00am-4:00pm NDSG/KAPLAN '2001 Graduate School Dav' LSAT/GRE/GMAT Review@ O'Shag (free) 11 :00om Moro Fox SK Fun Run @ Lyons Holl ($10 pre-, $12) 4:00pm "Morrissey Unplugged" @ Morrissey Manor I
I 

6:00pm Latin American Film Symposium "Lista de espers' (Cuba) @ Hesburgh library Aud. 7:00pm ND Hockey vs. Ferris State@ JACC-North 
I

I 7:30pm Actors from the London Stage 'A Midsummer Night's Dream"@ Riley High School ($12 tix@ LaFun) 7:30pm "Asian Allure"@Washington Hall
I 7:30& l 0:0Opm SUB Movies "American Pie 2• & "American Pie' I 9:30pm Flipside Cord Game Night @ Co-Mo 10:00pm Open Karaoke @ Huddle Lafortune I
I Dances Tonight: Howard, McGlinn, Badin, Stanford, Pangborn, Lyons 
•d!ll--r---2-:_0_0p_m_W_o~m-.e-n-'s Volleyb~ll-vs-.Se;~~~H-cill@JACC·--­I
I 

Campus-wide Collection @ Masses to benefit Afghani Refugees 
I t;•••li . ----~ . . I
k
sponsored by 

lll!Ql!IIIIIIII_IIE1f.!f-"".'7~:0=0-p-m""'."'N'.:D-:W~om-en'""'.'s-:--Bo-s":'k-et-;--b-:al~I-vs-=.Christian B~-th~e~rs_A_c_o_d_am-y~@-J_A_C_C___________
I Student Union 

7:00&9:00pm lnt'I Film Series "Pelle the Conqveror" (Sweden)@ Montgomery Theolre LoFun
Execotive Cabinet 

8:00pm NDSG Town Hall Meeting @ ND Room LoFun
I 



Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
-

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Saint Mary's blows Rose-Hulman out of water 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Sports Wricer 

Saint Mary's swim team made a splash into their season with a 151-84 victory over Rose­Hulman Saturday. 
The Belles had recently competed in the Notre Dame Relays and were looking to build on that performance. 
"Each meet we'd like to see improvements in different areas," said first-season coach Gregg Petcoff. "So the basis of our view is from the Notre Dame H.elay meet." 
After a seventh place finish at the Notre Dame Relays, the Belles went back to the practice pool with a new focus. 
"We have been training harder and longer than we had been going into the early-season Notre Dame Relay meet," said Petcoff. 'Tm not sur­prised with our somewhat mixed results with regard to times, but the technical improvements l was looking for were clearly there this weekend." 
Many of the swimmers made a point of improv­ing their individual times. 
"One group that really stood out in their times, improvement and technically were our breastro­kers," said Petcoff. "[TheyJ all seemed to have at least one best ever collegiate in-season time." 
Petcoff was especially pleased with sophomore Maureen Palchak's performance. 
"Not only did Maureen lead our sprint freestyle swfmmers in the 50, 100, and 200 yard freestyles," said PeJcoff. "But she was a fantastic aid to the coaches and captains in helping with the many first-year swimmers we have who were swimming their initial collegiate individuals events." · 
Junior captain Lauren Smith said she was satis­fied about how things a.re falling into place in the team's training and performances so far this sea­son. 
"As a team we did really well," said Smith. "It wasn't a high pressure meet." 
Smith, along with sophomore Megan Ramsey, won multiple events. Hamsey took first in the 100-and 200-yard butterfly races. Smith domi­nated the pool in the 100-and 200-yard breast­stroke events and the 200-yard individual relay. 
Smith credits her performance on Saturday to the team's new coach this season. 
"I think [Petcoft] is doing a great job. I couldn't be happier," she said. "It's been two years since I felt this good about how I swam." 
The Belles now .turn their focus toward three big meets that will begin at the end of next week. They will be facing two Division I schools, Western Ontario and· Texas Christian University, and then compete in an Invitational at Wabash College. · 
Petcoff looks to build off this victory and contin­ue to improve with each meet. 
"I can see that the beginning of the next train­ing cycle this week will continue the progress that they have been making so far this season.0 
Contact Nellie Williams at wi1l6I76@saintmarys.edu. 

Age doesn't matter demeanor or not, and Chris 
Since there are only four has that. It is one of the essen­seniors on the Notre Dame tial qualities for a quality squad, the young team has goalkeeper. It's an instinct." had to look for many under­classmen to step up and fill 
roles. Great Expectations "One thing our team has Sawyer is an example of done this year is they've kind things to come in the future 
of eliminated the age bound­for the Irish -a sample of the aries completely," Sawyer variety of young talent on the said. "They don't put you team. With only five players down for being a freshman. not returning after this sea­They don't put you down for son, the brightest days seem being a sophomore. Anyone to still be ahead for the youth­can be a leader on this team." ful squad. 
It's this team mindset that "We know how young of a has helped the freshman team we still are, and that's Sawyer to be so productive one of the reasons I came to this year. A goalkeeper must this school," Sawyer said. 
"[It's exciting] looking at how
stay calm and confident in crucial positions and not young our team is and how 
much potential we have."
worry about age or inexperi­ence. 
"I don't think it really mat­ters whether you're a fresh­man or a senior," Clark said. 
Contact Chris Federico at
"You've either got that calm 
cfedric@nd.edu. 

! tt ~ R L O 1' £ K E ~ ~~~~-!
! s " c Dauihte~\\ie 1ruth j
I Thursday -Saturday, i l November 15-17 at 8 pm i 
i ~~~~~her 18 at 2:30 pm ~Mo~D 
,1_; 

International Study Programs University of Notre Dame 
/WAGOYA,JAPAN 
,-,------, 


------------'",·,......._ 
. '

~:al~...,, 
:,,,-~
~ 

Information Meetings: 
Thursday, October 18 at 5:00 245 DeBartolo 
Wednesday, November 7 at 5:00 231 DeBartolo 
http:/ /www.·nd.edu/ ~intlstud/ 
i.• Little Theatre THE ARTs 
~ NOTRE DA.ME, IH
j For ticket information I
I contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4626 I 
~;::~~":;:;.,~:;:_~~::~~~'t:~..::::~~A~~:~~~~t!W;*:@!,f,$:.':!,,'%~':W:~'-W5~!*.:;~::::::J 
Sawyer 
continued from page 28 
offense away from the net. 
"[Our defense] has made my job easier than any other goal­keeper in the league." he said. "There have been games when we've only allowed one or two shots, or even in some cases none." 
Sawyer has also benefited from the knowledge of an experienced backfield. All three of the team captains ­Griffin Howard, Andreas Forstner and Martin -are defenders in front of Sawyer. 
"The captains in the back have helped me a lot to figure out my role and what to do in some of the tougher situa­tions," Sawyer . said. "Basically, I can just look at my defenders for guidance." 
With the more experienced players such as Howard, Forstner and Tait guiding him, Sawyer has been able to settle into his position early in his career. 
"They always keep giving me advice on and off the field," Sawyer states. "Once I started playing, they were the first people to show me my role and help me fit into it." 
r 
( 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS
-

Basketball 
continued from page 28 
nine points and 10 rebounds, 
almost getting a double-double, 
Wicks wasn"t the only one who 
was glad she got to play. 
"Kelsey Wicks had a great game," McGraw said. 
ln addition to posting solid 
stats, Wicks also took a versatile role, playing at three different positions during the game. After nursing the injury during prac­tice, Wicks was merely hoping · for the best when she set foot on 
the court. 
"I think everyone hopes for the best," she said. 
on the court. 
"We pulled together in the second half, but I think we're going to need more timeouts," McGraw said. "I think there'll be more coaching." 
Batteast put back a rebound less than a minute into the sec­ond half to start the Irish oITon­sive attack. A three-pointer from junior Alicia Ratay, who led the Irish in scoring with 20 points, sent the Irish up 45-42, a lead they would not relinquish. 
Notre Dame grabbed 58 rebounds during the final 20 minutes of the game, while hold­ing the Legends to only 41 rebounds and 21 points. 
"We played much better defense after halftime," McGraw said. "We wanted 
to hold them to

"J was really impressed
"And you • 60, they got 62." 
work hard with how Thresesa 
Offensively, the in prac­[Borton} played, how Irish stepped it up
tice." 
in the second half

Jackie [Batteast]
Despite 
as well. They

solid play played, how Kelsey 
improved their 

by Severe 
[Wi,cks] played. " shooting percent­
and Wicks, age from 37 per­
the Irish cent in the first
Alicia Ratay
struggled 
in the first guard 
half. With 
only two 
and a half minutes left to play 
Notre Dame trailed the Legends 
by 10 points. But Wicks hit a 
three-pointer sending the Irish 
on a 10-point scoring run that 
left the game tied at 40 going 'into halftime. 
A defense that allowed six three-point shots in the first half, stepped up play and held the Legends to 21 second half points. Despite improved play in the last 20 minutes of the game, McGraw is looking to spend more time talking with her team half to 44 percent 
in the game. 

"We're not real­ly worried about shooting per­centage. We're not really wor­ried about the shots," said assis­tant coach Coquese Washington. "We're looking for a consistent effort. We're looking at our ten­dencies. We're looking at getting game by game growth and get­ting better each game." 
The six Irish freshmen will be key to that consistent play. As McGraw tried out several com­binations on the court, the coaching staff and the large crowd at the Joyce Center got a feeling for the young team's 
' 

play. 
"I think they did definitely well for the first game," Severe said. "I know my first game wasn't that good. I think they all held their composure and they did well." 
Despite playing a majority of the game, Batteast, who was chosen preseason Big East Rookie of the Year. only shot 4­17, but managed to grub 10 rebounds. 
"Yeah, I was a little nervous," she said after the game. "Next game, I'll be ready." 
Like Batteast. the rest of the freshmen battled nerves, but turned in promising perfor­mances. 
"I thought they did great," Ratay said. "I was really impressed with how Theresa [Borton] played, how Jackie [Batteast] played, how Kelsey [Wicks] played." 
The Irish will play one more exhibition game next Tuesday at the Joyce Center against the Christian Brothers before open­ing regular season play against Valparaiso on Nov. 18. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Coll 259-1000 for more details 
Apply Today to be President of THE SHIRT 2002 
This is your opportunity to coordinate the biggest student tradition of the year! 
Applications can be picked up outside the Student
-
Activities Office in Lafortune and must be returned to Student Activities by .Nov. 9, 2001. 
For more information contact Scott Palko at spalko@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
BOB. HOW ARE YOU GOING TO APPROACH THE UPCOMING FOOTB,'.U. GAMES1 

FOXTROT 
lloGE.R, WHAT'S WOULD YOU HE MIND PUTTING OOINC:,? 

WE'RE THE SPOILER. NOW. 
we' RE GOING TO GIVE IT OUR ALL BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE ANYTHING TO LOSE 
HE'S SEEN DREAMING UP \IAR10US IDEAS To MAk'E THE. TV SHOW "suRvwoi:( MORE EXCITING AND HE 
WANTS To PASS THEM 
ALONG To THE PRoOUcERS. WHERE'S THE HARM? WHO 


k'NOWS-MAYBE THEY'LL 
EVEN USE. ONE OR TWO! 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 

PEOPLE QET VOTED NO, 
INTO THE ISLAND? No, SHOULDN'T THE.Y SEE, 
B B ~~ 
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Some signs are • 61 "A Delicate posted in it Balance"
1 Con game 36 throat playwright
5 "There ought to be_!" 
37 Confused 62 City on the locomotive buffs Brazos

9 For all to hear becoming 63 Lotion 14 Fill with freight Iberian tourists? ingredient 
15 Spymaster's 40 Sauce maker? 64 They're worry sometimes wild 
· 41 Pain relievers 

16 Hiatus 65 Trumpeter in 
42 Com bread the park 17 Shortly 43 It regularly 66 Recipe amts.

18 et Chandon blows its top 19 Coincide 45 Mimic 
DOWN

20 Confused 46 Forty-niner's tool 1 Some sides ornithologists 47 Delhi division 
becoming lousy 2 lippy transport52 Confused
speakers? 3 Bedeck
fencers

23 Pick up on 4 Fixes
becoming river 24 Superlative end crossing guides? 5 Magazine supplies
25 "Monty Python• 56 •... and_a airer good night!" 6 Sack 7 Knighted
28 Fishing gear 59 Cry of dismay Guinness32 Room in a casa 60 Inky mess 8 Gelded ram 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 One way to fall
10 Falls behind G A M S 11 "_Gang" Puzzle b1 Stephen Budlllnaky 
e=t-,:+.,,-,1

0 R A L 12 Treat shabbily 34 Porcupine's 48 In the box 54 Builder at Cuzco U L N A I D E -,.,+-=+.:+:.-t 13 Wallace of "E.T" pointer 49 Vends 
55 Hired heavy GE 21 Mourn 35 Wan 50 Hike 
56 chi
l--iE~N;;.h,:~F.r:-11-::-i•-=+::.r.~:r:*-f!II 22 Road curve 
38 Photosynthesis 51 1950's Sen. 
57 & 58 Civil War product Kefauver

_._.':"1":::r-::1 25 Vermont city battle eagle 38 Harvest goddess 52 Pet's pest 
26 Give approval named after the to, in a way 39 Unsatisfying 53 Clarinetist Artie president 27 Mortarboard game result 29Cape_ 40 Place for a 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
massage
30 Morse E are available by touch-tone phone: ~-=+..+.:.-t 31 Young Jetson 43 Needlefish 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). ~~:+:;..i 32 Editor's "let it 44 Furnishes (with) Annual subscriptions are available for the 0 L be" 46 Onetime best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 0 N E 33 Thwart in court explorers' goals years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON league will lead to frustration. nns DAY: Ang Lee, Johnny Car­000 son, Pele, Weird Al Yankovic, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Michael Crichton, Doug Flutie You should be concerned about 
Happy Birthday: You're a loyal reaching your fullest potential. and trustworthy friend, but also a Participate in functions that will vehement enemy. Quick to make boost your seH-esteem. 00000 decisions, you are even quicker to LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
act upon them. The year ahead Changes at home will not go over will be challenging but satisfying well with everyone. Be careful not as long as you stick to your plans to overdo it and don't spend and don't deviate to accommodate money you really shouldn't part others. Once you are on the right with.00 track, it will be hard to sway you. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
This is no time to be wishy-washy. Although relatives may mean Your numbers: 9, 12, 17, 29, 31, 35 well, their advice won't help your 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): predicament. Try to sort out differ­Farnily discussions are like!y to get ences by yourself Your mate may out of hand, so refrain from jump­not tell you the whole truth. ing to conclusions. Some honest, 0000 
·hard work is in your best interests. SAGITTARIUS {Nll\t 22-Dec 21): 00 Don't let anyone take advantage of 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your generosity. Be careful not to Romantic encounters appear neglect any problems that crop up promising. Check out travel with skin, bones or teeth. Preven­
opportunities to unusual destina­tion is the wisest course. 000 tions. Take an interest in the CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): accomplishments of younger fami­You can't make a decision based ly members. 00000 on the facts you've been given. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Delve deeper and be 100 percent Parents or elders will probably put sure before acting. Romance will demands on you. Try to be patient develop through group events. and do what you can to help. They 000 are concerned about getting things AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): done before the end of the year. You can expect to encounter diffi­000 culties with officials if your per­
CANCER (June 21-July 22): sonal papers aren't in order. Ask Much can be learned from books. for help if you're uncertain about Too much idle time will lead to procedures. 000 nervousness. You can enhance PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your appearance, but don't let Your involvement in groups will vanity putyou over budget. 000 lead to greater popularity and self. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't confidence. Don't be afraid to give go back on your word; confusion your opinion. You will attract makes you look bad. Colleagues romantic interest if you are are counting on you for support. straightforward and caring. Romantic infatuation with a col-0000 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, determined and reluctant to back 
-

down. You will stick to your beliefs and values. You are also brave, encouraging and extremely clever. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugeni3:1ast.com, astromate.com.) 
©2001 Uruversal Press Syndicate 
-------------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ___Zip_____ 
-··-. ­
O
THE BSERVER 

Campus Sports 
National Sports 
. 
SMC Swimming, p. 25 . W. NCAA Basketball, p.23 

. 
Inside College Football, p. 24 . Diamondbacks, p. 22


PORTS 
. M. NCAA Basketball, p.20 _. NFL, p. 20 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 

ND w. BASKETBALL 
Severe 
1D1pr~1ve in Irish win 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Tuesday night's exhibition game was a first for the six freshman players that stepped onto the court at the Joyce Center. But they weren't the only women facing new roles. 
Although all eyes were on Jackie Batteast, Theresa Borton and Kelsey Wicks. it was sopho­more point guard Le'Tania Severe that turned in the most notable performance during an Irish 76-62 victory against the Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine Legends. 
"Le'Tania Severe was proba­bly the one I'm most pleased with right now," head coach Muffet McGraw said. "She did such a great job leading the team." 
With the graduation of last year's leaders Ruth Riley and Niele Ivey, the Irish needed someone to step up on the court and take a leadership role. especially with six freshman players. Severe took that posi­tion. 
"It's very rewarding," Severe said. "This-summer I worked very hard to get healthy and get back where I was." 
Severe. who sat out much of last season due to injury. only sat out eight minutes during Tuesday's game, grabbing five rebounds and posting eight points. 
"{Severe's] nice," Legends coach John Feasel said. "She's quick, she penetrated against us, played good D, pressure our guards. She's a nice player." 
After Severe's performance in Tuesday's game, there are no doubts that her injuries are behind her. 
"I feel 100 percent now com­pared to last year," Severe said. "I wasn't anywhere near where I wanted to be and now I've got healthy. I'm ready to go." 
Severe wasn't the only player whose injuries made her play questionable. Wicks, a fresh­man guard, has also been ham­pered with an ankle injury. She took part in half a practice on Monday and was still question­

-able before the game started. "We were kind of debating it this morning -seeing if this would set me back," Wicks said. "So there was a little bit of doubt but I'm happy I got to play." After finishing the game with 
see BASKETBALL/page 26 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Bringing a fresh attitude 
Freshman Sawyer ma.kes integral contributions to surging Irish squad 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Irish goalie Chris Sawyer makes a save in Notre Dame's 3-1 win against Georgetown Oct. 5. Sawyer, who took over the start­ing goalkeeping job five games Into the season, has a 9-2 record this season, Including a five-game shutout streak. 
"He's probably one ofthe
East conference this season. Greg Tait five c o a c h Freshman goalkeeper Chris games into the best goalkeepers in the B o b b y Sawyer is one glimpse of the season, the Clark]
country, especially 
future of Notre Dame soccer Irish were 2-3 gave me a
with the way he's
who has already played an and searching chance," instrumental part in his for identity. playing right now." Sawyer team's success. Since taking said. 
At the end of regular sea­over, the Irish A f t e r
Greg Martin 
son play. the Irish have have gone 9-2. securing climbed to third place in the In those eleven Co-captain the full-
Heading into the season, Sawyer wasn't even sure if he'd see playing time with two experienced keepers ahead of him, Tait and junior Cole Straub. 
"I came in with the assump­tion that I'd have to fight my hardest to get any· playing time at all, and then it just worked out that [head 
at all because they could just as easily be in my position right now," Sawyer stated. "They've helped me so much that I wouldn't even have a chance of playing if it weren't for their help early on." 
A little help 

Part of the identity the Irish , have established since Sawyer has come in is that of a dominant defensive squad, having recorded six shutouts and four one-goal perfor­mances in their last eleven contests. 
"Our defense starts with the strikers," forward Erich Braun said. "Then the mid­field takes over, and if the ball gets through, the defend­ers are the next option we have. Then back in goal there's Sawyer, and if any­thing gets through the defenders, hopefully not, he's there to save it., and he's doing a tremendous job of that." 
Sawyer understands how important this idea of team defense is to the goalkeeper in keeping the opposing 
see SAWYER/page 25 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
This was to be a year of change for the men's soccer program. A new coach with a. new scheme and many young players with a new attitude were given the task of turn­ing a struggling 2000 team into a contender in the Big a little bit of attitude to the team," sophomore co-captain Greg Martin said. "He's kind of given new life to the defense since he came in. There's a bit of confidence that I think he carries, and that's certainly a positive for us." 
When Sawyer took over the starting spot from junior 
Big East with an 11-5 overall record. For the first time since 1996, Notre Dame finds itself ranked in both the Soccer America and NCSAA polls -19th and 23rd, respee tively. 
A new attitude 
Often in sports, in order for a team to begin winning, they have to have the attitude that they can win. 
"Chris has kind of brought 
games. Notre Dame has allowed only six goals, and at one point it had a stretch of five consecutive shutouts before dropping a l­
o loss to defending national champion Connecticut. 
"Chris has done well iri training since the beginning, and he brings a great level of intensity," Martin comment­ed. "He's probably one of the best goalkeepers in the coun­try, especially with the way he's playing right now." 
time posi­tion from Tait and Straub, Sawyer has spent all but nine minutes and 57 seconds of play in net. In that time, he has posted a .53 goals against average -a mark that would place him fourth in the NCAA and first in the Big East. 
Sawyer credits much of his current success to his two predecessors. 
"If it weren't for Greg [Tait] and Cole [Straub]. I wouldn't even have a chance of playing 

. M. Basketball vs. EA All-Stars, Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Hockey vs. Ferris State, Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classifieds 
. ND Volleyball vs. St John's, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Cross Country at Great Lakes Region, Saturday, 11 a.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 






