Welcome to New York 
Hey, who turned off the lights? 
Colleen McCarthy worms her way through the 
A series ofscheduled blackouts hit parts of 
Thursday
/-Jig Apple. as The Observer continues its look 
California on Wednesday. leaving many people 
at spring break hol spots. 
in the dark. 
JANUARY 18, 
News . page 7 
2001


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 68 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


ND Stadium undergoes repairs tied to lawsuit 

STUDENT SENATE 
Senators take care of houskeeping ntatters 
bers of the election council that 

By LAURA ROMPF 
were appointed at their Dec. 6, As.,istJnt New, Editor 
2000, meeting. The members will be Paul Ybarra, Eric Hedin. 
In a housnkenping meeting, Son Nguyen, Anne Trayor, snnate discussed accomplish­Alysse Latour and Michelle ments of" last semnster and set 

Bottilta. 

goals for I.his immestcr. 
The senate unanimously elect­"I (!llco11rnge you to stick to it 
ed St. Edward's llall senator 

and gel those things donn we 
Seth Wetzel as the senate liaison 

said WP would," said Vice 
to the Judicial Council. Chief of 

l'nisidcnt Brooko Norton. "Each 
staff Jay Smith informed the 

committ,•(\ should choose a fow 
state that tho omcc of the presi­things it r(\ally wants to accom­

dtmt is sponsoring a panel dis­

plish for tlw stud1mt body." 
cussion in honor of Martin 
Tlw committens am hoping to Luther King. Jr. week next week 1:onlinun working 011 projects 

on Wed. at 6 p.m. in the Librarysuch as nnline IJAHTing. tutor­
Auditorium. 

ing for sophomores, getting a 
. At its Dec. 6, 2000, meeting,full limo counselor for nating Melissa Hauch, McGlinn sl'nator,

disordnrs, Frnshman Orinntation 
informed the senatP. that the 

rncommendations, stopping 
Undm·graduate Committ,ie of the 

phorw soliciting and cxnrsed 
Student Advisory Council denied absences for senior for job hunt­

the request for four study days

ing. 
noxt !"all. Students will have two In other senate news: study days, followed by two 
. Th11 sPnatn unanimously conlirnrnd tho tixecutivn mem­
see SENATE/page 4 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 

Responding to structural problems resulting from the 1997 expansion and renovation of Notrn Dame Stadium, the University began repairs to the upper concou rsn floor, concrete toppings, joints, railings and sealants dur­ing holiday break. 
According to Dennis Moore, dirActor of public relations and information, the majority of the repairs will be com­pleted by the next football soason, but repairs may con­tinue al'tflrwards. 
"The principal repairs will Im compl11ted by nrxl August. The bulk of the repairs has been sclwdulrd for this time period," Moore said. 
While the stadium is being repaired, meeting and training rooms are still available for use. Tho repairs became necessary after concrete in the expanded section began to crack following the expansion. Although tlw expanded stadium has been in use since thn 1997 foot­ball season, the problems did not prnsont a safety hazard for fans. 
"We would not have used the stadium if it was a risk. but there are substantial repairs that have to be made," Moore commented. 
While the University is currently footing the bill for tlw stadium renovations, legal action against tl111 stadium's architect and engineer will decide who ultimately pays the tab. 
The Univeristy filed suit in August 1999 against Ellerbe Becket Inc. of Minneapolis, the project's architect, Casteel Construction Co. of South Bend, tho construction manager and general contractor and Ideal Consolidated Inc. of South Bend, the plumbing and mechanical con­tractor, alleging major construction and engineering flaws in the expanded stadium. 
The University first became aware of design flaws after the opening game on Sept. 6, 1997 against Georgia Tnch, when water and sewage began l1ooding tlrn stadium prior to the start of the game. The suit alleges Ellerlw 
see STADIUM/page 4 

Time honors ND theology prof 
recognized in Time was differ­childhood expnriences grow­
. Elizondo earns 
ent," he said. ing up in tho west-sicln barrio
recognition as 
The essence of" Elizondo's or San Antonio. 
spiritual innovator ministry is the mestizajc theol­"I have a Mexican heritage ogy, a call to ethnic unity. The but grew up American. Tlwrn term "mestizo" is a Spanish was a time growing up that By ANDREW THAGARD word that describes a person speaking Spanish was lookPd News Writer of European and Native­down upon. I didn't experiencP American ancestry. I-le com­it as much as my friends 
Time magazine recently rec~ mented that his goal is to help because I was light-skinned," ognizcd Father Virgilio elevate the term mestizo from he said. Elizondo as a spiritual innova­an ugly connotation to one of Still, Elizondo has facnd tor in its series "Time 100: beauty. His theology calls for a problems adapting to each or The Next Wave." new ethnic his two cul-
Elizondo, the associate unity. turns.
"/ certainly value my
director of thn Institute for "If we don't "I am Latino Studies and a visiting work together to own thought, but to rnminded of my thoology professor earned the unite differ­see it recognized in lduall lrnritagP nomination for his attempts to ences in a posi­on both si!lns. I
Time was d(flerent."
unite the Mexican-American tive way we'll was never real­community of San Antonio. get into territor­ly at home; 1 Through his work in the San ial fighting." Father Virgillo Elizondo had to struggle Antonio diocese, Elizondo Elizondo said. with that," hn
visiting theology professor
helped integrate aspects of the However, he said. Latino culture into church ser­docs not M 11 st i z aj o vices. encourage the blind assimila­thnology is also shap(1d by 
Elizondo views the achieve­tion of people into society or Elizondo's prayers and spiritu­m ent as a challenge to his the rejection of cultural beliefs al ref"lections and. through ministry that brings new oblig­and practices. studying Our Lady of" ations. "Jesus never said wn should Guadalupe and scripture. 
"I was very honor<~d. espe­all be the same hut he calls us "Jp,sus· message proclaims cially when I saw the company to be one," he said. that everyone is wc1lconrn," Im [in the issue]. I certainly value Elizondo's mestizajc theolo­my own thought, but to sec it gy is partially shaped from his see ELIZONDO/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, January I8, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 
20 candles on the cake 

You guessed it, it's my birthday this Saturday. Actually, it's my golden birthday. Twenty on the twentieth. Yup, that's me. 
Many times during the past I have listened to older and wiser friends discuss the weirdness of being that age. The in-between age where you are no longer a teenager and you're not exactly a full time adult yet. Some even call it the "year of confusion." And to me, that analogy makes great sense. 
The year of being age 20, split between sophomore and junior year. It is the year before a person makes the final decision to take those entrance tests, begin apply­ing for the continuation of their education, practice pos­ing for a new ID. Very stress­ful times. So stressful, that I fear some people may gei lost and not enjoy each day. It is a stress that I am trying to avoid at all costs. 
Too often, I see people break out the 365-day countdown on the evening of their 20th birthday. My question: Why are you so eager to grow older? Enjoy each year. Putting a line through each day for a year until you turn a year older is no way to spend a life. It is wasteful. Instead, enjoy each day, and live each moment. 
What happens if for some tragic reason you don't see your 21st birthday? Will your life be any less successful because you failed to cross off all 365 days? Will anyone remember you as a failure if you only make it through a couple of them? I think not. I would hope that everyday you lived held memories and !earning experi­ences that shaped and made being twenty worth living for. 
I will admit, I have been scared of growing older with past birthdays. I was a little worried at 16, feeling I was the only teenager in the world without a car of her own. I was a little frightened at 18 when I officially became my own legal guardian, breaking away from the parental security blanket that had covered me through problems of the past. I was a little scared at 19 when I started thinking about the fact that things happen to people everyday and that I might not live to see my next birthday. 
But things are different this year. I am not scared of turning 20. I am actually kind of proud. I look at what l have become, and I look forward to becoming what I aspire to be -or not to be. Either way, 1 choose to live, and enjoy every moment of everyday as a twenty-year-old daugh­ter, student, and friend. 
Twenty years old. One fifth of a hundred years. 1am thankful for every single minute of that one fifth. I wouldn't exchange any second. So, what am I trying to say? Turning 20 is just another notch in the belt. Funny enough. 21 will be too. With the exception that I'll need to have someone else hold my drink while I furiously chip away. 
But until that day comes, I will enjoy it all. Twenty is a wonderful age. A year full of growth and enlightenment. I only hope that people real­ize this and live for this instead of looking for­ward to waking up and crossing one more day off on their calendar. 
Yes. The confusion, the wonderment, 365 days 
of being 20. 
lam ready for what the year. unfolds. 
Bring it on. I'm 20, and I can handle it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Jason McFarley  Matt Narnia  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Nicole Haddad  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Molly McVoy  Kathleen O'Brien  
Viewpoint  lab Tech  
Pat Otlewski  Naomi Cordell  

The Ob,mer (USPS 59') 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exce-pr <luring ~xam and vacation p~rio<ls. l11e Oh1erve-r is .t member of rhe Associatt:d Press. All reproducti.on righcs arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: Gerry Matatics  . Movie: "The Virgin  
"How the Bible Converted  Suicides," 7:30 p.m.,  
I\Ie to Catholicism: One  DeBartolo  
Protestant Minister's  . Event: "Rick Kelley:  
Pilgrimage," 7:30 p.m.  Hahama Beach Party,''  a  
. Movie: "Almost  one man interactive  
Famous," 10:30 p.m. Lo  show, 10 p.m., LaFortune  
11 :30 p.m, DeBartolo  

Saturday 
. 
Event: "Mark Reedy Comedy Show," 10:00 p.m., Comedy Show with free food and entertain­ment, Lafortune 

. 
Movie: Cool Runnings, 


10:30 p.m., DeBartolo 
Sunday 
. Mass: Spanish Mass, 
1:30 p.m., Chapel of' the Holy Cross. Keenan/Stanford Chapel 
. Event: Georgine Bcsick. soprano faculty recital, 
2:00 p.m., Annenburg Auditorium 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Ohio State rioters suspended from class 
COLUMBUS 
As a result of their actions during the Nov. 19 riots, three Ohio State University students have been prohib­ited from attending classes or partic­ipating in any official student activities this quarter. 
The three suspended students are among eight others who also received sanctions from the university for their behavior during the riots. Bill Hall, interim vice president for Student Affairs, imposed the sanctions after reviewing arrest reports and inter­viewing each of the students involved before making a judgment on appro­priate penalties. 
All of the sanctioned students, except one, were arrested by the Columbus Division of Police on charges ranging from air pollution to 

The Student Code of Conduct gave the students the right to appeal, which had to be submitted no later than 14 days after the sanctions were determined. An appeal officer then made a decision whether to dis­miss the case or refer a new hearing. 

Of the three students who were suspendod for this quartor, Hall said only two of them appealed the sus­pensions and both appeals were denied. All threo suspended students will also serve two quarters of pro­bation upon their return to the uni­versity and will be required to par­ticipate in alcohol assessments. 
"J think the university did the right thing in suspending students involved in the riots," said Dave Spehek, a senior in engineering. 
Out of the other 8 students, four were placed on probation, three of' whom must also serve 40 hours of' community service each and under­go alcohol assessment. Three others wore given written warnings and will also be assessed. 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
Court rejects newspaper appeal 
Tuesday, The U.S. Supreme court denied a petition filed by The Pitt News. The case, which focuses on the constitutionality of a law enacted by the common­wealth of Pennsylvania, will return to District Court in the coming months. The Pennsylvania law at the heart of the case is Act 199, a statute that prohibits any school-related publications from printing "all alcoholic beverage and malt beverage advertising." The prohibi­tion effectively illegitimizes alcoholic advertising through school-affiliated mediums including radio or television broadcasts, newspapers, periodicals, out­door advertising, booklets, fliers or "any other printed or graphic matter." Vic Walczak, the executive direc­tor of the Pittsburgh American Civil Liberties Union, is The Pitt News' lead counsel in the case. Walczak said he was disappointed, but not surprised by the high court's refusal to hear the case. "Personally, I'm not surprised," he said. "We were not real hopeful that they would take our case." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWe.ither lbrecast f<Y d:Jytime conditions and high temperJtures 

TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY 
Coach accused of discrimination 
Despite head coach Dennis Franchione's departure from TCU more than six weeks ago, the impact of' his tenure is more evident than ever. Two weeks before Franchione and part of his coaching staff left for Alabama, he and ex-TCU linebackers coach Mark Parks were formally accused of racial discrimination and harassment by two TCU football players. Both coaches deny the allegations. According to the Houston Chronicle, juniors Adrian and Allen Lewis filed the complaint with the U.S. Department of Education claiming the coaches used "racial slurs and stereotypi­cal comments." The Lewises refused to comment Tuesday under advice from their counsel. According to the Associated Press, the Lewis' complaint describes three years of mistreatment and racist comments by Parks, including his alleged comments: "I am glad we finally have some white players on the team instead of the team being all black," and "All you people care about is chasing (women). fine clothes, fancy cars and good times." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

.,,..... 

~ 2001 AecuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure~ 
®© ...... 
High Low Shower, Rain T·•lorm• Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy i,11 Assoc1a/ed Pr11ss 
Atlanta  55  47  Las Vegas  54  34  Portland  44  38  
Baltimore  39  36  Memphis  38  22  Sacramento  54  36  
Boston  32  30  Milwaukee  32  20  St. Louis  48  32  
Chicago  38  26  New York  31  25  Tampa  78  64  
Houslon  49  40  Ph1ladelph1a  34  22  Washington OC 47  32  

Thursday.January 18, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
GE to fund ND engineering grant Saint Mary's students 
--------~----­
ondorsos our aspirations for ing and learning process, with 
Special to The Observer 
endorse adinissions
reinventing tho curriculum in clear results in torms of stu­
Tlw (iciwral Electric Fund has awarded a $300,000. two­yPar grant to ttw University of' Notrn Damn in support. ol' an innovativn. multidisciplinary approarh lo PnginoPring instruction. 
Thn grant was prnsnntlid as part or tho c;E Fund's I.Panting Hxcnllence lnitiativn. a i:ompctitivo program that invnsts in tlw d(•veloprnnnl ol' imwvativl', intnrdisciplinary curricula and tuaching mnth­mls in cngirwering and busi­1wss. 
Tlw fund's girt will allow Notrn Dami' !'acuity to dovnlop multidisciplinary lnarning modules l'or HS!' in tlw col­lnv;c 's 1ww Engincrnring I.earning C:onlPI". Notre Dame was awardncl thn maximum grant allownd hy the program. 
"WP ar(• nspncially ploasod to rnc1\iv1i this gift bocausn it Urn engineering disciplines," said Notre Dame's Presidont Father Edward Malloy. Opened in fall, the Lnarning Cnntllr provides hands-on opportunities to explore an unclnrstanding of' tho interre­lationships among the varying disciplines of nnginncring ­civil, chemical, electrical, mnchanical, computer, and acrospacn. 
"Every day we son the lromondous changes and opportunities brought about by technology, globalization. and other forces that require crnativitv and the ability to think in i1 boundaryless fash­ion," said Keith Shcrin, GE's chief' financial officer. mem­b<H' of the GE Fund board of dir1!ctors, and a 1981 Notre Damn graduato. 
"Learning Excellence grants support the same kind of transformation of the teach-

dent learning." 
"Competition for this grant is extremely intense, and we'ro delighted to have our vision for now directions in engineering education aflirmecl by the GE Fund,"said Frank Incropera, Matthew 11. McCloskey Dean of Engineering and 11.C. and E.A. Rrosey Professor of Mochanical Engineering at Notre Dame. 
Tho intent of' Notre Dame's Engineering Learning Center is to bridge traditional disci­plinary boundaries, providing students with experiences at the interfaces between disci­plines. 
"It is at these interfaces whore important new tech­nologies emerge," said Stephen Batill, associate dean in the College of Engineering and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
===-----=-=--.--=-==================================================== 
NEWS IN BRIEF 
Tlwrn will bn a mandatory meeting for any­onP intr.rnstt~d in running f'or student body pr(\Sidnnt on Thursday, Jan. 18 at 7:45 p.m. in llw Studl'nt Govornnrnnt Office. 
l'ntitions for the of'l'icP am availabln at noon on Tuesday. Jan. 16 in the Student Governnrnnt Office. 

If anyone is unable to attend the meeting or has any questions. they should contact Judicial Council at 631-4556. 
Check out The Observer Online at http://observer.nd.edu 

Come hear an eye-opening,
Why would an anti-Catholie
. 

humor-filled talk by
Protestant 1niniste1• 

Gerry 
he<•o1ne a llo1na11 Catholie!1 

Matatics 
h11ernation:1lly known as oiw of tht' most t'xritinl! and intellectually l!ifrrd defenders of rhe f-airh in our rime, Gerry has ht·t·n praist'd and r1ulorS<•d hy many cardinals, bishops, and other Catholic leaders. Whil,• an ordain,·d minister in the Preshyt1·rian Church in Americ;1 he ;pent , years researching and attt·mpting to refure Cnrholicism to pre,·ent friend & forma .,,·minary classmate Scorr Hahn from l>t'coming-Catholic, hut t'nded up coin-erring before Scott, the first PCA minister ,·,·er to hecomt· Roman Catlwlic. Gt'rry has spoken to hundreds ,,f thousands of pt·ople throughout tht' English­sp,·aking 1rnrld ar major conferences, Cnholic & Protestant churches, seminaries, and uni\'ersities, including Oxford, Boston Colltge, Har,artl, Prinet·tun, and Yale, as wdl as on radio and lV, including EWTN. A graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy, UNH (BA, Phi B,·t,1 Kappa), Gmdon-Conwdl Tlm,lo!!ic.d Seminary (M.Di"), and ABD for a Ph.D. in Bihlical lnt1·rprt·tariun from Wl'stminster Tlwoloiticnl Seminary, he has taught at St. Joseph's University, the Uni,·ersity ofSan Dk~o, tht' Noerr Danu: Pontifical Catt'dwtical Institute, Aquinas G.,llt')?e, Christendom Colle~e. and Our Lady of Guadalupe l11tt'mation,1l S1·minary of th<' Priestly fmtt'rnity of St. Peter. Ht' & his wife Leslie homeschool their 8 children. 

'l,hursday~ .Jan IS 

Hesburgh Library Lmu1ge 
7:30pm 

(May be moved to library auditorium if add'! seating required) 
"'llow t.hc llible Converted Me to Catholieis1n: ()ne l>rotestant Minister's Pil~:rimap;e" 
Talk is FREE and open to the public: Catholics and non-Catholics warmly welcom.e Followed by Q& A session: Bring your Ribles, your questions, and your friends! Span.sored lry the Jacques Maritain Center I For more information plea.se call 63 I-5825 
Also hear Gerry speak January 19-21 at the Signature Inn, 215 Dixie Way South, South Bend: 
Fri  7: 15 pm: "'l'he Myth of l•~volution vs. the 'l'ruth ofSacred Seri1,ture"  
.J,m U)  8:30 pm: ..A-Mary-{'a: Tlw 1-'ost 1-'ink Between Our 1-'amd and Our 1-'mly"  
Sat  "The \Vcck 'l'h11t Chnn~cd 'l'he World:  
.fan 20  How C'hrist's Passion Would l~ashion Our l1'atc"  
JO am  9 pm  Ei1<ht 1-hr talks explninin" the mystt>rious ,·,·enr~ of our Loni's bst w,;ek, based'"' all f,n1r G,,~µrl accotmts  
I  Lunch break, 12 1 pm I Supper ln,ak, 5:4 5 -7 pm  
I-­ 
Sun  '"Shadows ot"thc (luccn: 'l'}'IJC"l ot•~tary in the Old 'l'cstmnent''  
•Jam 21  4 eye-opening rnlb on dozen.s of suhrle Scriptural foresh~dowings of the Mother of the Ml'ssiah  
10 am· 4 pm  Lund, break, 12: 15-1: 15 pm  

All talk.1 are FREE and open to tlte public: Catholics & non-Cat/wlics warmly welcome (Q & A sessiorn included) Vi.1it Gerry'.1 u,ebsite at u~1•w.genymntat1cs.01i: for more information 
applications 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 

Students now have the opportunity to nndorsn candiclat"s for admis­
sion at Saint Mary's as a result ol' the newly-enaded student nnclorsnd 
application process. 

The admissions department decided to launch a student <1ndorsnd 
application program this past Decemb1H". The pro1-,11·am, which allows 
students to pass on the application to a potential Saint Mary's appli­
cant, was inspired by the alumnae endorsed application program. 
"Both the alumnae and student endorsed applications W!H'e 
launched at Christmas time to parallel the gift-giving season," said 
Nolan. "As we did five years ago with our alumnan, we wanted to giw 
our current students tlm opportunity to share a gift with a student who 
may be a good match for Saint Mary's by 
waiving the application feo," she said. 
"The student 

Saint Mary's enrolled 52 alumnae 
endorsed

endorsed students in 1996, the first year the alumnae endorsed applications were applications are a distributed. Nolan estimates that Saint 
great way to get

Mary's might enroll 15 student ondorsed 
current students 

applicants for the first year of the student endorsed application program. involved in the "To date we have received nine student 
College."

endorsed applications. I suspect that in 
the next few weeks that that number will 
grow," Nolan said, Allyson Palombaro 
-She also expects that number to sophomore 
increase in the future. 

"This year, for example, over 41 per­
cent of entering first year students were endorsed by an alumnae ... It 
definitely speaks well of'the Saint Mary's experience," she said. 
In late summer or early next fall, new application forms specifically 
designed as student endorsed applications will be made available. 
Several Saint Mary's students have decided to utilize the studm1t 
endorsed application program. Sophomore Liz Bailey is tho second 
woman in her family to attend Saint Mary's College, and her applica­
tion was used to keep the tradition in the family. 
"I gave my applir.ation to my sistor to apply to thn Collnge. MaybP 
she will decidn to continue our-family tradition at Saint Mary's," said 
Bailoy. 

Allyson Palombaro, alsll a sophomore, b,\lieves tlrn program is beiw­
ficial. 

"The student endorsod applications are a great idea to get current 
students involved in the College," said Palombaro. 
"More prospective students who would be a good match !'or the col­
lege will most likely apply to Saint Mary's," she said. 
The numbnr of applicants to Saint Mary's has steadily increaS(\d 
over the years. Nolan bolieves that with both the alumua1\ and student 
endorsed application proh11·ams the numbnrs will continue to grovv. 
"We believe that our current student<; will rise to tho occasion, like 
our alumnae have, and will help us to mntinuo to increaim tlw number 
of applications for this class, (the class of 2005), and thosn to follow in 
future years," said Nolau. 

I FITNESS CJJA~LENGE SPRING
,iU
SCHEDULE 2001 RSRC ACTIVITY ROOM 1 1 12:15-12:45 Cardio Sculpt (ends 5/18) M/W/F $38 2 3:45-4:45 Cardio Sculpt M/W/F $38 3 4:50-5:20 Arms n'Abs M/W $20 4 5:30-6:30 Power Step n'Pump M/W $27 5 12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 5/17) T/Th $26 6 4:15-5:15 Step II T/Th $26 7 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box Tffh $26 8 10:00-10:50 Jump n'Jab (ends 3/3) Sa $6 9 11:00-11:30 Arms n'Abs (ends 3/3) Sa $5 10 4:15-5:30 Cardio Sculpt Su $14 11 5:40-6:00 All Abs Su $10 
RSRC ACIIVITY ROOM 2 12 4:15-5:15 Cardio Box M/W $27 13 5:25-6:10 Flex n'Tone M/W $27 14 7:15-8:30am Step II n' Sculpt T/Th $33 15 4:15-5:15 Cardio Sculpt T/Th $26 16 5:25-6:10 Lo Impact T/Th $26 ROCKNE ROOM 301 17 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box M/W $27 
18 5:30-6:30 Step I T/Th $26 
ROLFS AQUATIC CE~TER 1912:15-12:45 Aquacise (ends 5/18) M/W/F $38 20 7:00-8:00pm Aquacise T/Th $26 REGISTRATION WHEN: Thursday, January 18, 7:30am WHERE: Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Classes are open lo all ND students, staff, faculty and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change, Minimum of 14 class registrants. Classes begin the week of January 22 and unless noted, end the week ot April 30. Please call 1-6100 with questions. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January I 8, 2001 
StadiuID 
continued from page 1 
Reckett failed to design an adequate water supply system for the stadium and did not notify the University that the current sewage system need­ed repairs or upgrades. The suit claims tlrn company made design errors based on inac­curate assumptions of the expected volume of toilets flushing at peak points before. during, and after the game. The suit also claims that Casteel and Ideal did not test the water supply and sewage systems before the first game to assure they worked proper­ly. 
In addition. the University bas said that since the open­ing of the stadium, hand rails and joints replaced during the renovation have failed. 
For now, Moore said the University is being "intention­ally general" about details of the repairs, so as not to affect the litigation. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this report. 

Elizondo 
continued from page l 
sairL 
Elizondo now spends his time commuting weekly between Notre Dame and San Antonio. The University asked him to help develop more outreach toward Latinos. 
"They [the University] wanted me to me to help develop a healthy Latino experience (at Notre Dame]." he said. 
Today, the Institute for Latino Studies works with all depm·t­ments to help Latino faculty and students. Rather than losing Latino heritage, the Institute uses it to help University life. 
"I think it's [the Institute] got a lot of potential, it's a visionary move on the part of the University. I think Notre Dame can make a major difference in the role that Latinos can play in the Church and this country." 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
exam days and then one study day, followed by three exam days. 
. 
At its .Dec. 6, 2000, meeting the senate unanimously approved a letter regarding stu­dent input for the alcohol policy. The letter was brought forward by the University Affairs com­mittee. 

. 
At its Dec. 6, 2000, meeting Zahm senator Ryan Becker informed the senate that a pilot cooking class would be o1Tered this spring for students. Becker also said there would be a copi­er installed in Reeker's and the Residence Life committee was working on getting the two-dol­lar foe waived for a forgotten TD. 

. 
At its Dec. 6. 2000, meeting Luciana Reali was elected to serve as the representative to the new Academic Student Life Committee. 





is accepting applications for: 
2001-2002 
Editor in Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University ofNotre Dame, Saint Mary's College, or Holy Cross College is encouraged to apply. The editor in chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspa­
per experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and a.five-page statement to Noreen Gillespie by 5 p.m., Tuesday, January 23. 1'or additional information about the position or application process, contact Noreen Gillespie at 631-4541, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 


RLD NATION 
Thursday, January 18, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Salvadorans return from U.S.: With n•lativHs honwlnss and hungry and many vii­iages cut ol'f rrom llu~ 011Lsidc world, Salvadorans living in the United States new lrnnw WmJrwsda.y to lwlp bury the dead and rubuild thnir country aft.nr a devastating narthquah that killed nearly 700 pPople. More than 1 million Salvadorans -15 percent of Lim country's population -live in the U.S. 
Peru's Toledo leads in polls: 
/\lejanclro Toledo, the opposition leader whose (icry speeches helped drive Alberto Fujimori from powPr. held a cll'ar lead in a presidential poll released Wednesday. Toledo. a U.S-trained economist. had 34 1w1-ce11L support ahead of' the April 8 vole, up from 2') percent in Dc1cember.according Lo tlrn nationwid(i survt1y by Datum lnt1•rnational. The poll had a margin of P1-ror or 3 pPrcentagc points. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Blackouts hit California: Pushed over thn brink by its botched experiment with dnrcgulation, California cut o!T power to hundreds of thousands of pliopln Wednesday in Lhn first rolling blackouts imposed during its d1•clricity crisis. Lights blinked off about noon in parts of' San Francisco. Sarrt\a11w11to and San Jose. as well as other snclions of' Silimn Val Icy. 
Clinton declares disaster in Ill.: 
Prnsidnnt Clinton issued a disaster declara­tion Wednesday for 21 counties in Illinois struck by heavy snowfall that began Dec. 10. Tho dcclaralion makes federal aid available to local governments in the counties of Bureau. Cook. DeWitt, DuPage, Ford, Fulton. Grundy, Ilcnry. Iroquois, Kane and Kankakee. The Federal Emergency Managmnnnt /\gency will provide assistance for the emergency measures take to protect public IH\alth and safety and property. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Boy charged in father's murder: 
Attorneys for a 10-year-old boy charged with fatally shooting his father intend to argue that hu was a victim of' abuse. Wayne Salyers Jr., who is charged in the slaying of Wayne Salyers Sr., 37, told police he shot his father /\ug. 25 because he was "tired of getting whipped," according lo court documents. The boy's trial had been set to start next week, but Juvenile Hefnrne James McKown Jr. on Tuesday granted a continuance until March 19. Salyers' attor­ney, Martin Lake, states that the defense is still dtweloping the boy's case. 
Market Watch 1/17 

Dow 
/ONES  10,584.34  -68.32  
Utt•I, 88  s.mr: 400  11fffli: ~  Composite Volumr: NIA  
AMEX:  906.02  -5.55  
Nasdaq:  2682.78  +64.23  
NYSE:  648.06  -2.12  
S&P 500:  1329.47  tl.82  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMl'ANYISECURITY %CHANG!'. $GAIN rRICI'. INfEI ,;1 tRI' (INTC) -l.7~ -.87 .lll. >0 ll\CO sYSTEM\ 1csc,)) t I ._JO t.'iU jlJ,UO NASlltl!) 100 Slli\lt (QQQ) d.Ob ~ LH'' (,_I.SM <llv\CI.E CORP (Oltl:I.) ,4.52 'i.4J ,l.\.2~ WOIU.lJCll,\l INC (WUlM) ,,.57 ,I.IH ,11.,0 
COMPILED Fll0M THE OBSEHVEH WIHE SERVICES page 5 

AFP Photo 

Holocaust survivor Kurt Ladner, from Austria, signs the agreement on establishment of a fund to compensate holocaust survivors and their heirs for property losses. 
Austria to compensate for Holocaust 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON the United States -would brings the total promised household goods or other Austria agreed go ahead without them. in the last year by the property and received ear­
Wednesday to pay almost Under a preliminary country for Holocaust-era lier payments they thought $500 million as compensa­agreement in October, abuses to $900 million, were inadequate. tion for Jews who lost Austria had already Sucharipa noted. The interim plan was apartments and other pledged to pay $150 mil­A letter of apology is to intended to get some property when the Nazis lion for the Holocaust-era go to the victims. as well. money to elderly victims as came to power. seizure of apartments and Negotiators for Austria. soon as possible while 
"Like all nations we have businesses. Wednesday's survivor's and the U.S. negotiations continued on to live up to our past" lead agreement adds $210 mil­government had been the rest of the package. Austrian negotiator Ernst lion and $20 million from rushing to finish the resti­The $112 million for social Sucharipa said before interest for all other prop­tution plan before the benefits will cover such erty claims and for insur­Clinton administration things as nursing care and
signing the agreement at the State Department. ance, said lead U.S. nego­leaves office Saturday. will extend pensions to 
The agreement was not tiator Stuart Eizenstat. Officials have said the more victims than now get unanimous. Lawyers said An additional $112 mil­$210 million will cover them. several of the dozen or so lion will pay social benefits some 60,000 households. Essentially, pensions 
parties to the negotiations such as pensions. Also That $150 million from were available before to refused to sign because the included are a land swap October was designed as survivors who were six package was too small to and $8 million. an interim promise while years old as of 1938 
accommodate many large With a more than $400 negotiations continued. -meaning it did not cover claims. Others said the million pledged last year to That is some $7,000 each Jews forced to flee Austria. those who were forced to 21,000 Jews who lost Now there will be no age
program --in return for the dismissal of lawsuits in laborers in Austria, that apartments, businesses, limit, lawyers said. 
COLOMBIA 

Gunmen kill 25 in machete attack 
Associated Press_ north or the capital Bogota. Hed 
Associated Press 

The victims, all men between the Cross workers were traveling to the BOGOTA ages of 22 and 65, were removed region Wednesday. Suspected right-wing paramilitary one by one from their homes. sur­Witnesses told police that the rounded and killed with machete attackers were memb<1rs of right­
gunmen with machetes hacked to 
wing paramilitary groups, but
death 25 men in northern Colombia blows to the head and neck. The 
on Wednesday before burning attackers apparPntly accused the police couldn't confirm those 
dozens of homes to the ground. men of working with leftist guerril­reports. 
police said. la groups. The attack is the latest in a wave The attackers then set fire to of' terror blanrnd on paramilitary
Survivors told police that about 50 heavily armed men dressed in about 30 homes in the village and groups that has left more than 20 carried off seven other men as dead in January alone. The violence
military uniforms converged on the 
town of Chengue at about 3 a.m. hostages. police said. has increased pressured on After the assault, many villagers President Andres Pastrana to reign
Wednesday and roundPd up 25 vil­
fled for neighboring hamlets. in the militias, believed to have
lagers they accused of working with 
Chengue is home to about 1,200 killed most of the 1,226 civilians
leftist guerrillas, Sucre state police 
people, and is about 370 miles who died in massacres last year.
Lt. Alexander Collazos told the 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 18, 200 I 

FORTUNE 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FORN 
Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. 
ey.com/us/careers . . . . i!/ fRNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
@2001 ERNST & YOUNG LLP 


Thursday, January 18, 200 l The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Blackouts strike California 
Silicon Valley reported no managed their finances. The 
major problems, just a state ought to just take them 
handful of darkened olliccs. over. The bottom line is that 
SAN Hlt\NCISC:O "The power wimt out I 0 this is all about grePd." 
Law sludrnts wnrr or 15 minutes brfore lunch, Meanwhile, ·1eaqers of trapfHHI on olevalors. so overyone took lunch 10 to California's $4.3 billion dairy Tourists wnn• unahl<• to get 15 mirrntBS early," said industry feared thfl ongoing hot clogs. And A1111i11 Liln, K a r c n crisis would who works at a B1!n and I111imbncknr, a lead to big .frrry's kiosk at Pinr 41, spokeswoman "! think it's all a losses. moarwd: "It's lwrri!Jlc. All at Silicon Jim Gomes,
ploy being used to 

mv ice cr11am is going to Graphics Inc. 's vice presidflnt
raise our rates. 

111;1lt." headquarters of corporate Thn rolling blackouts that in Mountain This is opcwations for had lrn1•11 !.hrnalPned in View. "By the California
happenning

California for t.lw past fow time most Dairies Inc.,
because the utilities

WPPks lwcausr• or tlw statn's peopl1~ got the second­power ('.risis 11nally bf\Camn back about an mismanaged their largest dairy rnality Wcdrwsday. hour and a cooperative in
finances." 

/\round norllwrn and rm1-half later, we the nation, Lral California, stoµlights wern ba1:k said the w1•nt dark and policn offi­up." Kenneth Carrero power supply cnrs directnd traflic. Store Most busi­San Ramon resident to its cus­ownnrs, d1!pl'ivod of their nesses that tomers cash rngislnrs, turnnd to rely on elec-including pork1it calculators. t\TMs tricity fur manufacturing Kraft Foods Inc. -has been WP!ll oft lirw. The lights and other critical svstr.ms interrupted by Southern W(ml out at state buildings have backup gc.nct:ators, California Edison for the and at tl111 countv court­said Michelle Montague­past throe days. hous1• in San .Jnsn.' TV sta­Bruno of tho Silicon Valley "Every hour that a big 
tions WlmL offtlw air. Manufacturing Group. plant like Kraft is shut down, 
Two studnnls wnrn llcwlctt-l'ackard Co.. with they turn away about trapp11d in an nlrvator at 110 sites in the San 100,000 pounds of milk," be llaslin).(s School of Law in Francisco Bav area, lost sairl. California Dairies San Francisco l'or nearly an power at two buildings, processes and soils about 38 hour. Four workers using affoding about 400 employ­million pounds of raw milk crowbars tried to pry open ees. Cisco Systems Inc., San from 700 farms daily. thn elevator doors, but the Jose's largest private At the Jailhouse Cafe on sludm1ts finally had lo dimb employer. was not affected. Pier 41, a tourist spot along out on a ladder. Kenneth Carrero of San San Francisco Bay, people 
"W1i'v1i just bnen in here Hamon turned off his com­were unable to buy regular talking about classns," said putcr early Wednesday hot dogs at a food stand 
.IBssn Sisgold, who was afternoon when he heard because there was no elec­trapped in the el1)vator with about the blackouts. tricity for cooking. So Jo Lisu Gill, an exchange stu­"I think it's all a ploy being Jones, a Texan who was in dc nt from Vancouver, used to raise our rates," he the city on vacation, settled British Columbia. said. "This is happening for a Polish sausage with 
lligh-tech companies in because the utilities mis-cheddar cheese. 

Silicon Valley businesses surviving power outages 
tricity crisis. The rotating, hourlnng
Associated Press 

blackouts across the northern half or the state wore haltnd in the 
SAN JOSE, Calif. afternoon but werr to resume 
High-tech companies in tho statewide by evening. Silicon Valley reported no major Some buildings nt Silicon problems from Wednesday's rolling Graphics lnc.'s Mountain View power outages -except for a headquarters went dark just before_ handful of darkened offices and an lunch, said spokoswoman Karen opportunity for early lunches. lleimbecker. 
Most businesses that rely on elec­"The power went out 10 or 15 tricity for manufacturing and other minutos beforn lunch, so everyone critical systems havo backup gener­took lunch 10 to 15 minutns early," ators that switch on instantly af'ter slrn said. "By tho timn most poopln power is disrupted, said Michelin got back about an hour and a half Montague-Bruno of later, we were back the Silicon Valley up. It was kind of a Manufacturing "We have normal convenient time to Group. have a blackout, I
contigency plans as
Hewlett-Packard guess." Co., with 110 sites in most companies do, Cisco Systmns Inc., the San Francisco and, knocking on San Jose's largest Bay area, Jost power private employer,
wood, we don't forsee 
at two buildings in was not affected as Mountain View and any problems." of mid-afternoon, one in Cupertino. spokesman Stnve About 400 employ­Langdon said. He
Fred Anderson 
ees were affected, said the lntnrnnt
CFO, Apple Computer Inc.
said spokesman equipment giant has Dave Berman. generators ready lo 
Tlrn darkened buildings made protect critical functions, such as work difficult, but did not affect its network operations centflr. critical manufacturing or opera­Power also continued to flow into tions. Apple Computer Inc. 's Cupertino 
"This is all office stuff," he said. headquarters, and officials, sprak­"A number of things could happen, ing during the company's earnings depending on the outside light and conference call, did not expect any the comfort of the building. People problems given that its operations may continue to stay at work or are scattered around the world. some might have setups where they "We have normal contingency can work at home." plans as most companies do, and 
California cut off power to hun­knocking on wood, we don't foresee dreds of thousands of people any problems," said Fred Wednesday in the first rolling Anderson, Apple's chief financial blackouts imposed during its elec-officer. 
escape the 
... 

Give a cold shoulder to your "usual" night out & warm-up your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet 113.991, t-bone (17.99) or our specially, 12oz. of USDA prime New York strip 114.95). lighter options, too! 
HOW OPEN fOR LATE HIGHT DINING fRIDAY fr SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 
219·234·5200 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 18, 200 I 
FDA issues new Bio food rules 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Seeking to ease public anxiety 
about genetically engineered 
food, the government proposed 
a mandatory review process for 
new biotech products that will 
include posting scientific data 
on the Internet. 
The Food and Drug 
Administration relies on biotech 
companies for voluntary consul­
tation with the agency before 
the release of new biotech 
crops. 
In addition to the proposal 
Wednesday for mandatory 
review, the I--'DA also is propos­
ing voluntary labeling guidelines 
for foods that claim either to be 
nonbiotech ·or to have special 
biotech ingredients. A claim 

such as "biotech-free" would 
not be allowed, because of the 
difficulty of proving it. A label 
that said "We do not use ingre­
dients that were produced using 
biotechnology" would be OK. 
The mandatory review 
process "addresses what is of 
most concern to consumers; that 
is making our process more 
op{m and transparent and mak­
ing it mandatory," said FDA 

Administrator Jane Hennev. 
Companies would ha·ve to 
notify FDA of new biotech prod­
ucts at least four months before 
they are to be put on the mar­
ket. 
Scientific descriptions and 
Georgine Reside, soprano Maria StAblein, piano 
Songs of Olarles Koechlin 
Sunday, January 21, 2001 
2 pm, Annenberg Auditorilm 
Tickets required: $3 students• $6 sen,o,s • $8 ND/SMC• $10 geceral admission fakets available attne Lafortune Box Ott,ce.1219) 631-8128 
For more irl-!or"'a1100. i1'ease c.all \21CJ; 631-6201 (I{ wsrt htt.p:f/wNW.nd.ecuf-co11gD!fs 

data about new crops or food known about the health and animals, including information environment.al effects of biotech about genetic modification and products. the potential to cause allergic "If these products are as safe reactions, would be put on the and benign as their manufactur­Internet during the agency's ers and the FDA contend, why review. Some of the data could not subject them to the kind of be kept confidential if a compa­rigorous scrutiny that will ny were to convince the PDA assure public confidence both in that its information involved the safetv of the new food prod-
trade secrets. . 

The new rules are in line with "ffthese products are a series of pro­
safe and benign as their
posals the White 

manufacturers and the
House made in the spring tC> FDA contend, why not respond to criti­
subject them to the kind 
cism of its regu­

ofrigorous scrutiny that 
lation ot' the biotechnology will assure public industry. They 
confidence ...?"
do not go far enough to satis­fy many con­Carol Tucker Foreman 

sumer advo­director, Consumer Federation cates and envi­
of America's Food Policy
ronmentalists, 
lnstitue
who say federal regulation of the ucts and the integrity of r'DA?" asked Carol Tucker Foreman, director of the Consumer Federation of America's Food Policy Institute. 

Genetic engineering in agriculture involves splic­ing a gene from one organism. such as a bac­terium, into a 
industry is lax and want manda­plant or animal to confer certain tory labeling of all biotech foods. traits, such as drought tolerance 
Under a policy developed dur­or insect resistance in plants. ing the Bush administration, the Genetically engineered vari­FDA considers gene-altered eties of soybeans and corn crops to be essentially the same became popular with farmers in as those produced by conven­the late 1990s and are found in tional breeding methods and products throughout supermar­thus not subject to the tighter kets. regulatory controls for food Monsanto Co. has created a additives. A federal judge herbicide-resistant wheat upheld the policy last fall. expected to come on the market 
Critics hold that too little is as early as 2003. 
Brits stand up for foxes 
Associated Press 

LONDON 
The fox won out over the 
hounds Wednesday as the 
House of Commons voted to 
ban traditional fox hunts, seen 
by many as a cruel indulgence 
of aristocrats. 

The 387 to 174 vote brings 
the long-debated prohibition on 
fox-hunting a step closer to 
becoming law, but it may yet 
languish in the llouse of Lords. 
The divisive battle over the 
hunts has pitted city-dwellers 
against residents of rural areas 
and made the fabled British 
love of animals into a political 
force. 

llunt opponents say the sport, 
in which hounds chase and kill 
foxes, is inhumane. [ts defend­
ers claim it is a central part of 
rural life and is necessary to 
control the fox population. The 
emotional debate has made 
headlines for years and divided 
all the major political parties. 
Thousands of hunters demon­
strated around the country 
Wednesday as the Commons 
considered three legislative 
options: an almost total ban, 
compulsory licensing of hunts 
and self-regulation. 

The ban won handily, but its 
fate is uncertain in the Ilouse of' 
Lords, where pro-hunting sen­
timent is stronger. If the bill 
doesn't pass both houses before 
the government dissolves 
Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Monday, January 22 • 5:30pm 
Deadline-January 19 Saturday, February 3 • 11am or 2pm Deadline-February I 
Clinics held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $5.00 + Equipment Rental** 

www.nd.edu/~ndhorse 

Parliament to call a general election, expected sometime this spring. then it would die and would have to be reintro­duced in the new Parliament. 
Prime Minister Tony Blair supports the ban, but he freed Labor lawmakers to vote their consciences. rather than along party lines. The bill would only outlaw using dogs in hunts, not killing foxes with guns. 
Opinion polls consistently have shown that most Britons oppose using hounds to hunt foxes. But the rural lobby says many urbanites do not under­stand the need to keep the ani­mals' numbers down -or the importance of hunting to rural economics. 
Supporters also say the wide­Iv held view of hunting as a favored pastime of aristocrats and the upper classes is unfounded. 
"The fox has to be controlled, so can you tell me a better way of doing it?" Bob Collins asked, arguing that letting dogs kill foxes was more effective than shooting them. which he said often fails to kill them. 
Maureen O'Dwyer, a spokes­woman for the League Against Cruel Sports, said being killed by a dog was far more painful for foxes than getting hit with a bullet. 
"llunting with dogs is cruel and barbaric," she said. "The fox goes through a lot of trau­ma." 
•IHSA Competitions 
•Weekly 
Lessons 

•Fun 
Club Events 



'"* Equipment Rental A1Jailable-$4.()() Charge to be 
** Ifready to sign up bring checkbook and copy ofyour insurance card. For more information 
paid at t/Je GolfCourse 011 the day ofthe clinic. 

and unable to attend contact Diana@247-0015 or Mary@634-3838
Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 

Thursday, January 18, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Moderates support Ashcroft 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN(;TON 

Testifying ul the request of tlrn Bush trnnsition tnnm, Son. Susan Collins. an abortion­rights supportor, emphasized her support W1\dnesday ror John i\shcrof'l and signaled to Dmnocrats that moderatcl Hr.p11hlica11s will not brnaks­ranks to lwlp dd,iat his nomi­nation. 
Collins. who differs wiLh i\shcrof't 011 abortion and other with my moderate colleagues. We arc dismayed that John Ashcroft is being portrayed as a person he isn't. I have absolutely no doubt in his word that he will faithfully and fully enforce the laws of Lhe United States." 
Ashcroft opposes abortion but said he would not partic­ipate in a Suprr.mc Court chal­lenge of a woman's right to the proceduro, if confirmed as attorney goneral. 
Collins said she is "strongly pro-choice" and added that. 

iSSllPS, prt•vi­0 ll S I y 
a n n o u n c ,i d 
support f'or hnr formor Senatn col­lnagun, 110111i­111tl1\d lo IH\ the noxt attorney g1i1wral. Sim said slw want-1•d to appear Im fo rn t. lw trh'vis,,<f twar­
ings lO snnd a 
widPr nrns­
sagP. 
"f've had several discu.<;sions with my moderate colleagues. 
We are dismayed 
that John Ashcroft is being portrayed as a person he isn't. " 
Sen. Susan Collins R-Maine 
",John and I. our voting records are probably as different us they could be within 
the Hepublican 
caucus." 
She said Bush's transition team asked her to appear on Ashcroft's behalf. 
"Thern's no question·• that Collins sent a strong signal to 

i\ski•d ii' IH\r testimony lwf'orc~ tlrn .fuclici:uy CormniWin ,vas a messa){o on behalf' ol' Hepublican moder­al<'s, tho Mainti snnator said in an intervimv, "Yes, I think it was." 
''I've harl sPvPral discussions opponents that they would fail, said Sen. Orrin !latch, H-Utah. who will tako over as commit­tern chairman on Saturday af'ter President-elect Bush is sworn in. "llern's a pro-choice woman senator who says he will enforce the laws." 
With the Senate split 50-50 hut able to use Vice President­elect Dick Cheney to break any ties after Bush becomes presi­dent, Democrats and liberal groups hoping to derail Ashcroft's nomination would need help from Republican moderates. 

Interest groups plan an intense lobbying blitz after the Senate Judiciarv Committee hearings on Ash.croft to con­vince moderate 1,epublicans to deny him confirmation, lead­ers of' the effort say. 
Halph Neas, president of People For the American Way and a chief coordinator, said the anti-Ashcroft campaign was the largest ever against a Cabinet nominee. 
He said the groups have asked senators at this point only to keep an open mind, but acknowledged that moder­ate Republicans would be con­tacted after a record is made at the hearing. Collins origi-' nally was on the list of those to be contacted. 
There was no guarantee, however, that all, or even most, Democrats will oppose Ashcroft. 
As if to emphasize the diffi­culty of defeating his nomina­tion, a Democratic committee member, Herb Kohl of Wisconsin, told Ashcroft at the hearing: "You are likely to be confirmed, as we all know." 
Bush, McCain discuss caillpaign spending 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President-elect Bush and for­mer GOP rival Sen. John McCain talked by phone over the weekend about working to find com-
Ill O 11 
ground on McCain's push for campaign spending changes, according to a Bush spokesman. 

"We real­ly have never been all that far apart," said transition spokesman Ari flleischer. Ile said the two talked for about 20 minutes on Saturday. 
McCain, R-Ariz., and Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., plan to reintroduce their campaign spending legislation on Jan. 22. two days after Bush's inaugura­tion. Their House counterparts. Reps. Christopher Shays, H­Conn., and Marty Meehan, D­Mass., say they will bring forth their similar version by the end of the month. 
The legislation could present the new administration with its first test of working with a divided Congress. 
McCain wants to ban "soft money" contributions -the unlimited and unregulated funds that corporations, labor 

unions and wealthy individuals pour into political parties. llis legislation would also curb "issue ads" that support or attack candidates under tlrn guise of' educating votnrs. 
Such a measure passed tho llouse twice in the previous 

Congress, but was b e e n b.lockerl rnpnatndly in the Senate by delaying tactics of 
McCain opponents.llowover, (' j V e Republican incumbents who opposed tho McCain-Feingold bill worn defeated in last November's elections by five Democrats expected to support it. McCain got another boost last week when Son. Thad Cochran, H-Miss., a rospBctod conservative, announcud his support. Bush has said he supports campaign spending overhaul "so long as business and labor are treated equally." That includes what he calls "pay­check protection" to allow union members to opt out of paying dues to support political payments. Unions' soft money contributions overwlrnlmingly go for Democratic campaigns. Unions vehemently oppose the provision and have mobi­lized huge resources to block it. 



1 7 · 1 9 JANUARY 2001 
today•s happenings 

Java & Jazz at the JACC ice arena free ice skating 
9.15pm 
Mighty Ducks 15S debartolo, $2 



just one more reason to be merrv this season. .. 1 «X1msnf:: ·• •: w 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
BSERVER Thursday, January 18, 2001 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 

Catholics vs. sport utilities 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. lN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Noue Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mamngly 
Vn,wroJNT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith 
SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimhcrly Springer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT US 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO...........63 l-7471 FAx............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu Eurnm IN CHIEF........................................63I-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.. .................631-4 54 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................... ....... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIE\WOINT... ..............................................631-5303 observcr.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS............... ........................................631-4543 obscrver.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE. ....................................................... 63I-4540 
observer.scenc. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MAily'S ... ......................................... 631-4 3 2 4 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................63I-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sice ac http:llobrerver.nd.ed11 for d~ily updates ofcunp11,.news. sports. features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the fu>odated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/mwic for minute force.ms 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
artide.s published nfrer 
to meet the editors and August 1999 
scaff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent. daily newspaper published in prim and on line by tht' students of the University of Notre Dame du L,c and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial contem. including advertisements, is not governed by policie.s of the administration of t'ither insricution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverti:,eu1cnr::, b,iscd on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objeccivcly as possibk Unsigned editorial, reprcsenc tht: opinion of che majority of the Ediror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and dcpnrtment editors. Commencaries, lcm:rs and columns presem the views of rhe authors ,ind not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
VicWpoinr spact' is available to all readers. The £roe expression of all opinions chrough letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include conract intOrmation. 
Q11estivns n-garding Observer policies ,ho,./d br direct­ed 10 Editor;,, Chief Mike Comwlly. 
Yesterday I returned to my car, a Suburu Impreza, to find two gouged troughs -each about a foot long and denting in about three inches deep -on the hood. They are the tell-tale marks of the undercarriage of the sport utility vehi­cle or "SUV" which was previously parked in front of me and which had obvi­ously backed up too far, a good distance too far. So much for the vaunted visibility that SUV's offer their drivers. 
The depth of the gouges indicates that it would have been very difficult for the 

· driver not to know of the damage. No note was left. I conl'ess that I treated the empty seats in my car to a string of expletives while I was driving home. It was the second accident causing damage to the car by an SUV in under a month. The first was when one spun out in front of a line of cars. So much for the marketed perception of the added control of' an SUV. Insurance companies deter­mined that due to the recent snowfall. no one was at fault. Because of the inconsiderate nature of the driver in the first case, I have no per­sonal redress. Otherwise, I could have simply sought an estimate and had work done for which the driver paid, either per­sonally or through insurance. Because of the self-interest of the insurance compa­nies -"no-fault" means that they do not have to pay out-I have no legal redress in the second case. However. it might be worth looking at SUV's from a moral perspective and the Catholic social tradition or "CST" o!Ters such a standpoint. We can look at it as "CST vs. SUV." I am sure that some read­ers might well be thinking, "Whitmore. lighten up. It's just a car. CST doesn't apply to everything. just the big issues." But I encourage even the skeptics to stay with my argument that the matter of SUVs is a big issue both in its own terms and for what they reflect about who we are. Afterwards. you can make your own determination. The first thing to say is that the matter of' SUV's is a specific issue that requires the prudential application of the general principles of Catholic teaching. The teach­ing is clear that persons of' good will can come to differentjudgments. The American bishops, for instance. write, that "when making applications of these principles" they are "making prudential judgments which can change or be inter­preted differently by people ol' good will." They simply ask that their arguments "be given serious attention and considera­tion." The first set of relevant principles arc those of human dignity, solidarity and the common good. We arc to act with solidar­ity towards the common good because of' the inherent dignity of' all persons. John Paul II writes that solidarity is "a firm and 

persevering determination to commit one­self to the common good." We should commit ourselves to the common good, "that is to say, the good of all and to each individual. because we are all really responsible for all." 
SUV's fail the test of human dignity, sol­idarity and the common good on three counts. First, they use more gas and release more poisonous emissions than cars in general do. This might be accept­able if there was a specific need for SUV's. but as we will see. in the vast majority of' cases, there is not. 
The second way in which SUV's fail these principles L<; in the fact that they are more dangerous to other vehicles and their passengers than cars generally. This is both because of the size of SUV's and, especially, their height. Such height means, for instance, that the lights from oncoming SUV's go directly into the eyes of the driver of a standard car. This is part of the intimidation factor that SUV's are designed to bring. but it also can blind the other driver and cause an accident. The height of suv·s also means that in collisions the full weight of the SUV strikes above the protection of the car. Again. the rear bumper of the SUV went above the hood of ,-...._...,,., 
my car. The SUV driver may walk away, but the passen­gers in the other car may be decapitated. This is why insurance companies have been investigating raising rates on SUV's. 
The SUV driver may not walk away. however, and this is the third con!lict with the common good. The vehicle may even be more susceptible to one­car accidents because of its tendency to roll over. SUV owners and drivers should read Charles Wheelan's Jan. 10 editorial in the New York Times. "Lives Changed in a Split Second: The Terror of an SUV rollover." Wheelan normally writes for The Economist. so he can hardly be charged with left­ist. anti-freedom, anti-capitalism bias. In this particular column. he writes that his vehicle, "felt a lot less practical as we lay smashed upside down in it on Interstate 80 at 4 a.m ... I learned a lot of' things very quickly. Each of our girls screams in a slightly different way and I now know that it is a good thing to hear both screams coming from inside a crushed vehicle -because it means that everyone is alive ... I know that when there is no other way to get a six-month­old out of a crushed vehicle, you will drag her through broken glass ... My threc­year-old daughter's hand was smashed and she lost her right thumb." 
Wheelan continues, "SUV's as a class are more likely to roll over than other vehicles. Indeed, the problem is inherent in vehicles that ride high on a relatively narrow wheel-base. which is the most attractive feature ofSUV's." Wheelan's message to potential and real SUV drivers is this: if you don't care about the good of passengers in other vehicles. at least con­sider the good of the passengers in your own. 
SUV drivers may claim a right or free­dom to own one.and in a legal sense this is the case. In Catholic teaching. as John Paul makes clear in Veritatis Splendor ("The Splendor or Truth"), the exercise or freedom is not an end in itself. but must be in relation to truth. Wheelan confesses that he bought the SUV because it "pro­jected a different image than a minivan or a station wagon." That image is one of the rugged outdoorsman. as is evident in the many SUV commercials and vehicle names like "Expedition." 
I lowcver. the vast majority of SUV's are • not used for these purposes; the minivan would do even better for the owners. The image sells. The automotive industry's own psychological studies -used for marketing purposes -state that SUV owners arc more anxious about their 
image than other vehicle owners. They are more taken up with what John Paul JI decries as "consunwr culture" than other drivers. Meanwhile, the automotive industry is thinking, "gotcha." The irony is that persons 
who really do those outdoor activities look upon SUV's with a skeptical eye. One or 
the magazines that actual rock climbers and alpinisl<; read, Climbing, ran a survey about whether it should run 
tobacco and alcohol ads. The consensus was that it should not. but a further concorn surfaced. "The heated debate also revealed that many readers are strongly opposed to any 
advertising that is not direct­ly related to climbing. with unrealistic SUV ads taking 
tho brunt of the criticism." If' one travels to !led Hiver Gorge, the best place to climb in the Midwest and parb at Miguel's. the place where most of the climbers camp, one firids few SUV's. but rather high mileage pick-ups with cabs convcrtt>d for 

sleeping and -the horror of' SUV owners -minivans. That's right; real rock climbers drive minivans. There may well be places and times where high car­riage on a vehicle is helpful; northern Indiana even in this winter docs not count. 
It seems that when freedom is related to truth, the only honest SUV is the "Suburban." Saying so doesn't take the dents out of my car. but it is more cogent than the expletives I unlcash.~d on the way home. 
Todd David Whitmore is an assislanl professor in the theology department. I!is column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
E 
0 '-! 0 
THE A.D AGENCY 
., 
@J
., 
E
THIS CAT WILL 
,,
" 
z::"
SAY SOMETHING. 
0 0
., 
) E 

0 
() 
t'. 
GI 
..c 
i5 
~ 
;= 
~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
,.; 
E.
THEN THIS OTHER 
• 
,;
CAT WILL SAY I 
.!! 
~
"YEAH, RIGHT." 
,. 
"'
\ 
, ~ 
.
IT'S LIKE 
:. 
..,
SARCASM. 




QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'You are either on the bus or off the bus." 
Ken Kesey author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, January 18, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Iraqi conflict is not over 

J,rnuary Hi markc<l thc 10th 1tn11ivcrsary of till' beginning of Urn war against Iraq. a solemn day i11dC11d. It is mad11 even moru solemn by the fact that that war has nt)vnr cndPd. Tho 
U.S. has ncV<~r stopped iL,; mili­tary campaign against Iraq, and continues lo bomb Iraq lo this day. Even Iran, Iraq's sworn enemy, opposes the U.S. bomb­ing campaign. This campaign of violence and death is being car­ril'd out without United Nations authorization or a declaration of war against Iraq by the U.S. It is also in violation of the Catholic Just War theory and therefore immoral. 
The U.S. military also 1mforces economic sanctions against Iraq. According to a 1998 UNICEF report, aµproxi­matnly 2~0 Iraqi people die cvPry day, 4.500 Iraqi children dh) nach month. a total of 1.5 million Iraqis, all due to the ,~ffocts of these sanctions. The numbnr of deaths reported in Ira.qi public hospitals !'or chil­dren u11d11r fivti y<'ars of ago has increuscd by some 40,000 dnaths ynarly compared with 1989. Thnso infant deaths are due lo diarrhea, pneumonia and malnutrition. In those Iraqis over live years of age, the increase is 50,000 deaths yearly compared with 1989. 
The reason fol' this slauglltcr is not that Iraq under Saddam Jlussein is a threat because it is "suspected" of having the "capacity or ability" to possess chemical or biological weapons. as the U.S. administration and military leaders would have us bnlicvc. Nine other nations, including India, Israel and Saudia /\rabia, have such chem­ical and biological weapons and yet the U.S. is not bombing them. In fact the U.S. military has 31,000 tons of chemical weapons. more then the rest of the world combined! Likewise. the U.S. supports numerous dic­tatorships that torture their citi­zens or illegally occupy other countries, such as Colombia, Indonesia, China. 
Oil is the reason that the slaughter in Iraq continues. Iraq's wrrilory contains one­tenth of the Earth's known oil reserves and 13ig Oil companies in the U.S. want r.ontrol of it. They want this precious oil so that they can sell to us. to put in our big cars and SUV's. Until we in the U.S. begin to realize the violence and death being carried in our name, all so that we can continue to live in a certain ''American" lifestyle, Jan. 16 will continue lo be a solemn day each year. 
Benjamin Peters 
Ma.stets of Divinity Student January 17, 2001 


Freshman foily 

A fow days ago I finally learned the true meaning of the phrase "freshman mistake." I guess after a successful first stimtister I thought I might be immune to such tragedies, but unl'orlllnately I was caught when I l(mst expucted it. 1 am still kind of new to the whole buying your own textbooks process, so when I heard that Lhe bookstore will purchase your old books from you I thought it was a great idea. 
Little did I know. like most sernningly great ideas, the offpr was too good to be true. Aftm paying nearly $300 for text­books this fall. I was surprislld to find out that my books would earn me a grand total of $1 if I decided to turn Llwm in. • Apparently the bookstore was too good for some ul' my books and the value of my only worthy and once $40 book fell to $1 afler opening it once all semes­ter. Until that poinl in my life I always considered myself lo be a good guy, but I soon began to wonder ii' my touch was really that bad. After this experience I have a f'ew suggestions! 
For those or you who had previously considered going tho same route as myself. First, just giv,1 your books away to friends. Even if you do not have friends, try a stranger, maybe they'll soon become a friend and I'd like to think a friend is worth more than the $0.25 the book­store will give you. 
Second, station a f'ew NDSP oilicers near the bookstore. I know patrolling the lounges of girls' dorms for people without two feet on the 11oor is crucial to the survival of the University, but I can assure you that more people were violated in the lobby of the bookstore last night alone than any other place in the history of our fine institu­tion. 
Thomas McTaggart 
Freshman, Dillon Hall 
January 17, 2001 

Are we there yet? 
DURHAM. N.C. 

I was reminded recently of the continuing struggle of African Americans to live in a just society, and of why Dr. Martin Luther King .Jr.'s birthday observance is so important to each of us. 
Ouring the sPrmon in our church this Sunday, the Edward Benson pastor recounted a child­hood incident in Fayetteville. N.C., in 1964. Entering town, just after 
Duke 

the city limits sign, ho 
University

encountered a large road sign which read, "You arc now entering KKK coun­try." 
The pastor's father was then working to bring about integration. so perhaps it should not have been surprising that the family was called, anonymously and he was w.arned to stop his activity. My pastor continued, "The caller said that we had a 
present on the front lawn ... My family went to tho front door. and of course you know what was there. a burning cross." 
The mother of the fam­ily b(igan to put lt out. fearing lhat the neigh­bors would know that the Ku Klux Klan was targeting the family; but the father stopped her, saying, "I want them to know. Let it burn.'' And while the chil­dren felt an intense hatred for the KKK. their father said only, "No ... If you answer their hate with hate, you only increase hatred in the · world. The hate must end with 
us.'' 

It was a pro­found, life-alter­ing experience for a child who would one day be called to the ministry ­a day when child­hood seemed to end and a recogni­tion dawned, not only of the evil in the·world but of the capacity for evil in oneself. 
The sermon was impressive. 
Then, as the pastor asked for prayer requests, a young white man in the con­gregation stood and said that he wanted to give thanks that incidents like those just described no longer occur today. 
Fair enough. But I suspect that not everyone in that 
church shared his response. In particular, I could not help but think that black members of the congregation might have had other impressions. 
Blacks and whites both recognize that. over time, the lives of African Americans in the United States have improved remarkably. Their ancestors started here as mere property. "Pursuit of happiness" once included property rights so sweeping that ownership of another human being was not only allowable, but to some, fundamental. Eventually, slavery became so fundamental to the financial success of Southern elites that they were willing to go imperfect. But in striv­
/VA /\ IS , 
ing for improvement,/\ L . I , ,,1 '••:,/-:' we ennoble ourselves 
· 

to war over it. 
After the Heconstruction, whites reclaimed social supremacy. and civil rights for blacks again languished. Thn stnady growth or a black intelligentsia finally paved the way for the movement that was dramatically personified by Martin Luther King .Jr. That movmnent lwlprid Americans see Urn vicious manifestations or 
racism in this nation. 
In the last 50 years. in a single lifetime, this nation really did begin to live out the meaning of his creed: "'We hold these truths to be sell'­evident, that all men are created equal.'' And yet, in our current society, there is much room for improvement. Perhaps most importantly, it is clear from many recent polls that while whites often sec past progress as most striking, blacks as often see the remaining problems 
most clearly. 
Yes, blacks are no longer property or repressed freemen. Yes, whites who seek to help them no longer lind 
crosses burning on their lawn. But blacks comprise a percent.age or the prison population far above that which they comprise in the total national population. The average black house­hold's net worth is 10 times lnss than the aver­age white household's. Such statistics go on. and most whites either don't know them or 
don't particularly care to. And since liigal dis­crimination is out­
lawed, the problem's solved, right? 
Only the facts show that it is nol. And blacks. who cannot 
ignore those statis­tics because they live them everyday, can feel like only they can under­

'Gb~,,.,...,~ stand their prob­lems, and whites don't give a damn. 
Which is not true. Some whites just don't see it from the same per­spective. And like most people, until they sec it, lirst­hand, inescapably 
-in short. the way blacks sec it -they can't understand. But understanding is 
possible and essen­tial. Doubtless, our soci­ety will always be 

/ ,. :;,•:-ti:'. and our nation. TheJ ./;? ,. 'lJ. effort matters and not 
~ ~"'·t I '1f I • • d ' . .
•,(f e ,,t·. · Just m to ay s s1tuat1011. It is caring, and doing, that make us better people. Thus, a day which makes us remember that, a day which honors Dr. King, is not 
only good for the nation. it is good for each of us, as well. 

Edward Benson is a student at 'Juke University. This column first appeared on Jan. 17 in The Chronicle nd is reprinted here courtesy ofthe U­Wire. 
The views expressed in £his column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Ohserver. 
T L 

page 12 
With Broadway musicals, famous landmarks and a renowned club scene 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Scene Wrirer 
Editor's note: This week Scene is featuring popular spring break desti­nations. 
fiecling the need to escape from South Bend and the ethanol permeat­ing the air? Looking !'or a club to rival Heartland'? Is the mall in South Bend not fulfilling your shopping needs? Seeking a place more exotic than Tippecanoe or Macri's to have dinner? There's only one option for you and your Spring Break week away from South Bend. You need to go to New York City. 
So it may not be a traditional spring break destination like Cancun or Florida with all their drunken debauchery, but New Ye,rk City offers plenty to do. The largest city in the 
U.S. features five boroughs: Manhattan, Brooklyn. Queens, the Bronx and Staten Island. However, because you will be limited for time during your visit and this article is limited for space, the article will focus on Manhattan. 
Highlights of Manhattan 
If you've never been to New York City before, there are a few major stops that are "must-sees" for the first-time visitor. Head down to Battery Park in lower Manhattan where you can buy tickets to take the ferry to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. You can buy tickets for a stop at either location or both. (Insider tip: the ferry ride out to Ellis Island gives a great view of the Statue of Liberty so if you are limited for time, buy the pass to Ellis Island and spend time in that museum). 
Ellis Island is well worth the time and money with its displays concern­ing the nation's immigrants. Be sure to see the movie offered describing the experience of the first immigrants who arrived at Ellis Island. Also while in Lower Manhattan, be sure to hit the Financial District during the day. The Federal Reserve building is located in the area as well as the New York Stock Exchange and the Wall Street area. 
Alternative routes 

If you don't want to spend money taking a boat ride around Manhattan to get a view of the skyline, a cheaper alternative is to take the subway to Brooklyn's Borough Ball stop. From there, walk a few blocks to the Promenade. A small park, it features a breathtaking view of the Manhattan skyline and plenty of benches from which you can sit back and take it all in. 
Another way to get a view of the Manhattan skyline, the surrounding boroughs and i\/ew Jersey is at the Empire State Building seen in movies like "Sleepless in Seattle." Another option is to go downtown to the World Trade Center, the tallest building in New York. From the 107th floor. you will be treated to views of the harbor, New Jersey, Brooklyn, the Bronx and all of Manhattan. 
Times Square 

After viewing the skyline, take the subway back to Times Square. the 42nd Street stop. When you emerge from the subway, you will find your­self in the heart of the famous Times Square featured on Dick Clark's New Year's Eve special. 
The best time to visit Times Square is at night when the billboards and buildings are aglow. 
Once filled with shops selling pornography and generally considered a rather unsavory place, Times Square has been sanitized thanks to NYC mayor Rudy Giuliani and few opportunities to purchase your favorite porno video or get a lap dance 

Photo courtesy of NYCtourism.com One of the United States' most famous landmarks, the Statue of Liberty, can be seen on New York's Ellis Island ferry ride. 
remain. The only remnants of Times 
Square's former life is the guy on one 
street corner who sells a pamphlet for 
$1 that claims to contain 101 sexual 
positions. Now Times Square is home 
to ESPN Zone and MTV studios -you 
can even stop and scream for Carson 
Daly's Total H.equest Live. 
As you walk around you will 
encounter the theaters that house 
famous Broadway musicals such as 
"Phantom of the Opera" and newer 
hits like "The Lion King." If you plan 
to see a Broadway show, purchase 
your tickets at the TKTS booth. The 
booth opens in the afternoon and sells 
tickets up to half the price of the stan­
dard price for a number of Broadway 
shows that have not sold out the tick­
ets for the night. 
If you don't purchase your tickets 
from that kiosk. don't hesitate to try 
and buy them at the theater's.box 
office. Many times during the week 
the shows do not sell-out. However, 
newer and popular musicals such as 
"Aida" and "The Lion King" are often 
tough tickets. If you want to see a 
newer show, purchase your tickets 
well in advance. Tickets in the upper 
mezzanine of the theaters (better 
known as the "nosebleed" section 
where the performers may appear to 
be the size of G.I. Joe figurines) can 
often be purchased for $30. Other 
recommended Broadway musicals 
include "Hent" and "Les Miserables," 
two performances that are guaran­
teed not to disappoint. 
If you do not want to pay to see a 
Broadway production, there are plen­
ty of street performers who are happy 
to dazzle crowds with their dancing 
or musical skills. These are truly the 
"off-Broadway" performers. 
Other Highlights 
The area surrounding the famed 
Fifth Avenue is also full of things to 
see. Start at the end of Fifth Avenue 
closest to Central Park. Herc you will 
find the Plaza Hotel, featured in 
movies like "Home Alone 2." A stroll 
through the lobby is worth the time 
to observe the rich and famous. 
Across the street from the Plaza 
llotel is the home of arguably the 
world's best toy store, F.A.O. 
Schwartz. There are toys galore and 
you can even reenact the scene from 
the movie "Big" where Tom Hanks 
played a song on a giant keyboard. 
Need a break from all the walking? 
Head across the street to Hockefeller 
Center and slip on a pair of ice skates 
and take to the rink that is open dur­
ing winter. The famed Hadio City 
Music llall is also located just off Fifth 
Avenue and offers tours. 
In the mood for museums? NYC has 
something for everyone. From the 
Museum of' Natural llistory to the 
Guggenheim to the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art, a whole day could be 
occupied with just visiting museums. 
Shopping 
As you walk down Fifth Avenue. you 
will find some of the most exclusive 
shops in the world including Tiffany's, 
Saks Fifth Avenue and Gucci, just to 
name a few. Good shopping can also 
be found on Madision Avenue and at 
Macy's, the famous department store 
that takes up a full city block. Other 
shopping options are found in the 
boutiques and small shops in ·Greenwich Village and Soho. 
Religious attractions 
Beyond the shopping, other land­marks include Saint Patrick's Cathedral. The renowned Catholic "The Today Show" films from its stu­dios in Rockefeller Center and crowds gath­er outside each morning hoping to get on television. If you attempt this, be s uPI to arrive about 6 a.rn. to get a good spot outside the studio and bring your signs with you to hold 
up as the TV New York's Central Park is a tourists to enjoy the open air 

T L 

Wednesday.January 18, 2001 page 13 


has It all. 
canwrns pan the crowd. (A word to the wise: if you really want lo get on TV, position yourself next tu babies or ()[d people who am having birthdays; i\l HokPr always talks lo those people and Lhny irrnvitably end up on TV). 
Central Park 
!\rtor that, head to the famous Central Park. Each day. jog­gers, walkers, ro II er b I ad e rs 111HI tourists descend upon this popular recreation spot for some exercise. You can easily nav.igate through on foot. but h orso-d rawn carriages line the 1•ntrances lo the park eag1ir to take 


York, New York 
the Big Apple offers urban alternatives to other spring break hot spots 
you on a high-priced tour. If you 
choose to walk through the park, 
beware or the evidence loft behind by 
the horses that makes their presence 
in the park known. Besides walking 
through the park, there arc also 
places to rent bicycles and row boats 
(!'or the small lakes in the park). 
If you want to do some quality peo• 
pie-watching, head to Sheep's 
Meadow. A huge green space, it's the 
ideal place to have a picnic. play fris­
bec, or just sit and watch the crazy 
New Yorkers. · 
Bethesda Fountain, l'catured in 
numerous movies, is not to be missed. 
You'll also encounter a carousel dur­
ing your walk. 
Be sum tn take a stroll around the 
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir· 
f'or a prime view of New York's sky­
line. Named after the l'irst lady 
because she used to run in Central 
Park on her jogging excursions, the 
reservoir is popular for runners and 
walkers. If you didn't get enough ice 
skating at llockefeller Center's rink, 
head to the Wollmann rink, which is 
popular with iccskaters in winter and 
converted into a rink for rollerskaters 
and rollcrbladers in the warmer 
months. 
Riverside Park 
Another lesser-known park is Hiversidc Park, located along Hiverside Drive on Manhattan's Upper West Side. Far less crowded than Central Park, it is a favorite for upper Westsiders and their dogs and kids. The park features a boulevard-style walkway that has English Gardens in the center of the boulevard that are tended by people from the neighbor­hood. The park is featured in the movie "You've Got Mail" where Meg Hyan met her mysterious email pen­pal. Tom Hanks, for the first lime. 
Food 
New York is a haven for gastronnm­
ic delights. If you arc looking for a 
less expensive option, try Gray's 
Papaya located at Sixth Avenue on 
8th Street. Gray's l"eaturcs the best 
buy for food in NYC with its 
"lleccssion Special" that features two 
New York-style hot dogs and a drink 
f"or $2.%. 
Another lower-priced dining option is Tom's Restaurant located at 112th and Broadway. The facade of Tom's will be recognizable lo fans of the TV show "Seinfeld" as the place where the characters frequented. If you're a true "Seinfeld" fan, another restau­rant featured in the show is the home or the Soup Nazi, Soup Kitchen International located at 55th street between Broadway and 8th Avenue. A word of warning: play by thn rul11s and plan to stand in line to sample the suup otherwise it will be "no soup for you!" 
In pursuit ol' the J.wrfoct New York City bagel'' The two best bagel bets arc found on the Upper West Side. Columbia Bagels at 110th street and Broadway is a good choice and less well-known than the famous ll&II BagPls at 80th street and Broadway, which ships lhcir bagels worldwide. 
Want to treat ynursc•lf'? Be prcparnd to pay the big bucks to dine at NYC's l'in11r culinary cstablish11wnt!l. The Hainlrnw Hoom at NBC studios off or Fifth Avenue is a good bet. llowever, Windows on the World located on the 107th lloor of the World Trade Center gives you an unbeatable view of the city as weli as (foe food. Be prepared to pay out for the view. however. Dinner could run at $60 per person. 

Tavern on the Green, located in Central Park is another more expen­sive dining locale. The res1aurant overlooks the park aud is a good place to have brunch, if you don't mind pay­ing around $18 for an omelette. 
The various ethnic enclaves of the city also offer great dining options. Chinatown (located at the corner or Bowery and !lester} serves up authen­tic Chinese cuisine as well as opportu­nities to buy bootleg CDs, movies and designer knock-off purses (if you couldn't bring yourself to pay $300 for the Kate Spade purse at Saks Fifth Avenue). Three blocks away on Mulberry Street is where you will find Little Italy. The street is closed to traf­fic and is lined with Italian eateries. 
If the weather is nice, try dining alfresco. Dinner in Little Italy ranges from cheap to expensive. Most of the restaurants post their menus outside for passersby to peruse. Workers from the restaurants arc often stationed outside the door near the menus on display to try to woo in guests to the restaurant. For dessert, try one of the street vendors on Mulberry that sell gelato and cappuccino. 
Nightlife 
NYC is known as "the city that never sleeps" -and with good reason. Nightlife options abound, from pubs to casual lounges and bars to exclusive clubs. Anyone visiting NYC must stop at McSorley's Old Ale !louse for the best and biggest selection of beer in the city. Located on 7th street off of Cooper Square, it was originally known as a bar f'or the working men of the city and only opened its doors to women about 30 years ago. 
Looking for bars where NYC college students hangout? lie ad to Union Square, an area that attracts 20­somethings. Lemon Bar at Park Avenue between 18th and 19th streets and Union Bar at Park Avenue between 17th and 18th streets arc good choices as we!. 
If' you seek that rare establishment that features a trendy lounge/bar area and a dance rloor, then "151" is the choice for you. Located at 50th street between Lexington and 3rd Avenue, "151" features a huge dance floor playing house and techno music. Walk 



Photo Counesy ol NYClourism.com 

Some of the best restaurants and markets are located In Little Italy. 
away from the dance floor and in a separate room you will find a trendy bar minus the dance club atmosphere. 
Obviously, there are better places in NYC to dance and shake your groove thing than lleartland. llowcvcr, if you want to hit the NYC club scone, know that clubs are pricey and can run upwards of $30. They can also be dil'­l'icult to get into unless you are on the guest list. Tho biggest club in NYC, "Exit," is located on 56th street between 11th andl2th avenues. The club features nine different rooms, each featuring a different kind of' music. 
Sporting Events 
One other way to entertain yourself in NYC is to attend a sporting event. If you don't go during baseball season, call ahead to get tickets for a Knicks basketball game and see Spike Lee sit­ting courtside at Madison Square Garden. Or grab tickets for a Hangers hockey game. 
Anthony /Jianco contributed to this report. 
-
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 2001 
NBA 

Timberwolves use triple threat to knock off Utah Jazz 
As:sociate... .. ____ . 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Terrell Brandon and Anthonv Peeler were on target in the fourth quarter. And with Utah facing a shortage of big bodies to slow Kevin Garnett, he was tough to stop all night. 
GarneLt scored 23 points and had 11 rebounds. while Terrell Brandon had 19 points and 11 assists as the Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Utah Jazz 89-81 Wednesday night. 
Peeler had seven of his 17 points in the final period and Brandon scored nine points in the l'ourth quarter as the Timberwolves closed with a 9-1 run to end Utah's four-game winning streak. 
"We wanted to be aggressive down the stretch, to move the ball around and shoot with con­fidence," Brandon said. 
Brandon and Peeler scored the final nine points for the Timberwolves, who pulled away from a 78-78 tie with 2:02 remaining. With the Jazz col­lapsing inside on Garnett, either Brandon or Peeler was open on the perimeter. 
"That's always our strategy, to feed off Kevin Garnett," Peeler said. "I missed a couple shots early, but when (John) Starks sagged off in the fourth quarter, I knew I could make them." 
It was a big learning experi­ence for the Timberwolves, who blew an eight-point lead in the final five minutes of a 107 -102 homectiurt loss to Boston on Monday and blew double-digit leads in the second half of two earlier losses to Utah. 
"We've been in that position before so many times," Garnett said. "We weren't always aggressive down the stretch. I told myself I wanted to stay aggressive and just react." 
Karl Malone led the Jazz with 22 points, while Donyell Marshall scored 19 and John Stockton had 10. 
Utah suffered without the inside defense of center Olden Polynice, who was suspended by the league office for one game after he pleaded guilty Tuesday to misdemeanor charges of impersonating a police officer and disturbing the peace. The charges stemmed from traffic altercations last year where Polynice followed other motorists and exchanged words. 
Greg Ostertag, returning after a one-game suspension for skip­ping Sunday's practice, played well in place of Polynice. But Utah's recent trend of shuffiing the lineup caught up. 
76ers 99, Bulls 88 
Allen Iverson scored 27 of his 43 points in the Orst half as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Chicago Bulls Wednesday night in a matchup of teams with the NBJ\'s best and worst records. 
Philadelphia won its fourth straight, 11th in its last 12 and improved the league's top record to 29-9. The Bulls have lost six straight and seven of eight. 
Bryce Drew scored a career­high 24 points and Elton Brand added 24 points and 19 rebounds for Chicago. 
Theo Ratliff had 12 points and Aaron McKie added 11 points and seven assists for the Sixers. 
After beating the top team in the Central Division and Midwest Division in its last two games. Philadelphia struggled against the Bulls. Chicago led most of the third quarter and stayed close until missing 14 straight shots at the start ofthe fourth. 
Kevin Ollie gave the Sixers the lead for good, 75-73, on a layup with 34.8 seconds left in the third quarter. Philadelphia closed the third with a 9-3 run and scored 10 straight to open the fourth. 
A driving layup by Iverson capped a 12-0 run, giving the Sixers their biggest lead to that point, 87-74, with 6:39 left in the game. Chicago didn't get closer than nine points the rest of the way. 
Brand ended a 5:42 scoreless drought on a hook shot with 
5:19 remaining. The Bulls went 
9:10 without a field goal. 
Iverson survived a scary moment early in the second quarter when he was fouled by Fred Hoiberg on a breakaway. Hoiberg was called for a flagrant foul as Iverson hit the floor hard, came up limping, but stayed in the game. 
Nets 108, Wizards 89 
Keith Van Horn scored a sea­son-high 27 points and grabbed 12 rebounds and Stephon Marbury added 22 points Wednesday as the New Jersey Nets handed the Washington Wizards their eighth straight setback. 
The victory was the second straight for the Nets, who snapped a four-game losing streak Monday with an 84-78 win over the Atlanta Hawks. 
New Jersey appeared to have a comfortable 71-52 lead early in the third period before Washington made a run. The Wizards outscored the Nets 18-9 


AFP Photo 

The Minnesota Tirnberwolves' William Avery puts tough pressure on Utah's John Stockton (with ball) in Minnesota's win over the Jazz Wednesday night. 
to close the third period with and Nelson drew up a play for Wednesday night as the Raptors Chris Whitney hitting a pair of 3-either Dirk Nowitzki or Michael rallied from a 19-point deficit to pointers to pull to 86-77. Jahidi Finley to try to get a good look at hand the San Antonio Spurs White's rebound to open the the basket for a jumper that their third straight loss. fourth quarter cut it to 86-79. could tie the game and force an Mark Jackson added 23 points 
But Stephen Jackson hit back­extra period. and Morris Peterson had 15 for to-back 3-pointers, Johnny Finley inbounded the ball to the visiting Raptors. Newman scored on a drive and Nowitzki, who nearly lost it San Antonio. which came into Sherman Douglas drove the while looking to pass it. As the the game with the NBA's best length of the court for a layup to Hornets moved in on the ball, home record, fell to 15-3 at the make it 96-79 and ice the victo­Nowitzki spotted Eisley alone in Alamodome as Tim Duncan ry. the left corner and whipped the scored 22 points and Derek 
ball over to him. Anderson had 20. 
Eisley barely looked before he Toronto, which trailed by 19
Mavericks 91, Hornets 90 
tossed it up and the ball swished points in the opening half, began All the Dallas Mavericks want­through as the clock hit zero. the fourth quarter with a 16-5
ed was overtime. Winning in 
"I have no idea how I got that run to take a 90-79 lead onregulation was never an option. 
open," said Eisley, who scored Peterson's jump shot with 5:36
It didn't go as planned, 
11 of his 23 points in the fourth to play. 
though, as Howard Eisley hit a quarter. "I was just there and I San Antonio answered with a
3-pointer as time expired 
yelled for Dirk and hit the shot." 9-0 streak of its own to close toWednesday night to lift Dallas to The Hornets stood on the court 90-88 with 3:17 remaining on a
victory over the Charlotte 
in disbelief after the shot while running jump hook by AntonioHornets. 
the Mavericks, led by flamboyant Daniels.
"I felt good about the momen­
owner Mark Cuban, sprinted Jackson's 3-point field goal
tum and thought we could have 
across the court screaming in stretched the Raptors' lead towon in overtime," said Dallas 
delight. 93-88 and the Spurs missed fiveinterim coach Donn Nelson. "I "Oh, man," a breathless free throws over the final 1 :58 wanted the two to send it into Nelson said. ''I've said it about a and could get no closer than fourovertime. I never called for the gazillion times, but oh, man." points the rest of the way. San3, but I'll take it." 
Antonio went 21-of-31 at theCharlotte led 90-88 with seven free throw line on the night. 

seconds to play after Jamal Raptors 98, Spurs 91 
Terry Porter's 3-pointer withMashburn made one of two free Vince Carter scored 27 points 1:15 to play in the third quarterthrows. and all five Toronto starters gave the Spurs a 74-72 lead. 

Dallas then called a timeout scored in double figures 
The Observer accepts da.<sifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

TICKETS 
Need two GA's to the Men's Hoops game against G'town on 314. Will pay cash or swap for tix to Seton Hall game on 2/18. Call Mike 287-2562. 
FOR RENT 

3-5 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
232-2595 
i:mnm!llnlals~agl.,QrIJ 
HOUSES FOR RENT. 1) 5-br $900/month. 2) 4-br $1000/month 3) 3-br $600/month. We'll make almost any changes to the houses Call Bill at 675-0776 
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 BEDRM 3 BLOCKS TO CAM­PUS. 773-486-8822 
House for rent near ND. 2 bedrooms. No pets. $525 plus deposit. 219-654-8157. 
Nice and large 2 bedroom apart­ment tor rent. Close lo campus in a quiet, safe area. Small pets ok. 313 North Frances. Not a driveby. Rent is $425 a month. Excludes utilities. Call 232-1242. Ask for John. 

NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 277-3097. 
IDEAL 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 BLOCKS EAST OF ND 277-3097 
WANTED 

Parents who are ND grads seek older female babysitter to care for two girls ages 7 & 9 One or two weekend evenings & occasionally weekends or evenings in our home. Must have own car. Call Judith and leave message: 287-0260 
Great job opportunity: Care for adorable children 1 morn­ing a week. 254-9466 
Rock/Funk Band looking for Bass player. Interested? Call Jason at 4­
1639. 
PERSONAL 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 ~19-862-2082 
Don't worry, Connotly, I won't get clear braces. 
Chuk, I've got my independent Oprah woman thing going on, and you'll deal with it 
In fact, maybe I WILL get clear braces! 
No, no, just kidding Connolly ­don't have a heart attack. 
Nell, the ultimate act of friendship is to wake up at the crack of dawn tor you. Especially since I don't lune­tion well before noon. Just know I love ya. (It's your version of my dri­ving in the snow for Stina.) 
Erin, wine and the vine, then heartland. sound good? 
Hey tigger, piglet and eyeore!! Have a fantastic Thursday -get ready for heartland 
Mary Louis and Andrea Louis have safely arrived on campus. Here's your headline ladiesll 
Noreen -get ready to take over Heartland tonight (from both sports people on Wednesday!) 
JJ, 
just wanted to say hi. 
Al, I miss you 
smile everybody, we're going to get done early, i hope 


Calendar of Events 
December 4-January 22 Virtues: Means to an End 103 Hesburgh Library 
by Fr. Bill Wack, c.s.c.
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #33 Qan. 26-27) All dorms welcome 
Friday-Saturday, January 19-20 
What if I told you that you had at your disposal the means to avoid sinful behavior and St. Joseph Parish live like Christ right now? Better still, the more you practice these the better you will MBA Retreat 
become at living them. Saturday, January 20. 11 :00-3:00 p.m. You do have these means. They are called virtues. In fact, the Catechism of the Catholic Reckers Hospitality Room 
Church does an excellent job of defining them: "Human virtues are firm attitudes, stable 
Africentric Spirituality: 
dispositions, habitual perfections of intellect and will that govern our actions, order our Freshmen Intro "The Plunge -Phase 2" 
passions, and guide our conduct according to reason and faith" (# 1804). The virtues, in shore, Sunday, January 21, 1:30 p.m. assist us in living as Christ taught. Zahm Hall Chapel ¢ new location Scriptures tell us that, above all, God wants us to lead faith-filled and moral lives on earch Spanish Mass so as to dwell in Heaven with Jesus and all the saints. From the Book ofWisdom we learn Presider: Fr. Tom Bednar, c.s.c. how to do this: "Ifanyone loves righteousness, [Wisdom's] labors are virtues; for she teaches 
self-control (temperance) and prudence, justice and courage (fortitude); nothing in life is
Sunday, January 21, 11 :30 a,m. more profitable for mortals than these" (8:7, NRSV).
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Confirmation: Rite ofWelcome These four are known as the "Cardinal Virtues" because they are most excellent among all virtues. Read them over and ask yourself how you are living them. 
Monday:Tuesday, January 22-23 11 :30 pm-10:00pm 
1) Temperance, or self-control. "Temperance is the moral virtue chat moderates the
St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
attraction of pleasures and provides balance in the use of created goods" (CC # 1809).
Eucharistic Adoration 
le gives us a healthy discretion over the use of the world's goods. In a society which Tuesday, January 23. 7:00 p.m. 
cries to tell us that "more is better", Temperance helps us to be satisfied with what we 
Siegfried Hall Chapel 
have, and to assist those who have less to obtain what they need. Jesus practiced this Confirmation -Session #7 
virtue perfectly, when he did not cling to his divinity, bur instead embraced humanity Tuesday. 7:oo p.m. (see Phil 2:6-7). Temperance voluntarily places limits on our appetites so chat we can Badin Hall Chapel better appreciate all of God's gifts. Practically, this means that we keep watch over the Campus Bible Study (To resume February 6) amount of goods and services we consume -for instance, in regard to food, Internet 
and TV use, video games, alcohol, non-renewable resources, etc.
Wednesday. January 24. 1o:oo p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 2) Justice. This virtue helps us to promote equity and peace in the world and in all our relationships. This is what Christ meant when he told us to love our neighbor as
Dr. Martin L. King, Jr. 
ourselves: it entails being concerned about the whole person. Justice moves us to
Holiday Celebration 
build a society where all people are treated equally and all have an opportunity to seek
Tuesday, January 23. 7:00 p.m. 
and find happiness. Jesus Christ was the perfect Just One, announcing that the reign
101 DeBartolo 
of God has come to every person in every age. Exercising Justice means working for 
Keynote Speaker: Or. Cornel West 
the underprivileged, attempting to make peace with all peoples, and being fair in
"It takes a Village to Plant the Future" 
business transactions, classwork, and in all relationships.
Wednesday. January 24, 6:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
3) Prudence. St. Thomas Aquinas (following Aristotle) states that "Prudence is right
"Colors of the World: An Interactive Forum" 
reason in action." Ir helps us to know and choose the good in every situation. It
Presented by the Student Government 
informs our conscience and moves us co ace like Christ. This virtue, above all, needs to
Moderator: Fr. Tim Scully, c.s.c. 
be cultivated and practiced so that we may have more of it. The people in the Bible Thursda_y. January 25, 7:00 p.m. 
proclaimed Jesus as perfectly Prudent when they said, "He has done all things well!" 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
(Mk 7:37). Being Prudent involves weighing all options before making a decision. Ir 
Prayer Service:"Mustard Seed Faith" 
means giving the benefit of the doubt co the Truth found in Scriprure and Tradition. 
Reflections by Fr. Edward Malloy, c.s.c. 
The Prudent one keeps one's neighbor in mind at all rimes when making a decision or 
and Senior Rene Mulligan 
acnon. 


Third Sunday 
4) Fortitude. "The virtue of Fortitude enables one to conquer fear, even fear of
in Ordinary Time 

death, and to face trials and persecutions" (CC #1808). It means having courage in Weekend Presiders the face of difficulties so as to remain resolute in choosing the good. Jesus addressed 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart this directly when he told his disciples, "Do not be afraid; just have faith" (Mk 5:36). Fortitude also means that we do not give in to temptations when they arise. The 
Saturday, January 20 Mass 
person who has this virtue recognizes temptations and rums away from them. Also,
5:00p.m. 
Fortitude gives us the courage to confess our sins and remain strong. Finally, practic­
Rev. John H. Pearson, c.s.c. 

ing this (and all) virtues strengthens the faith in others. Sunday, January 21 Mass 10:00a.m. Here are the means by which we can become more Christ-like. They are available to all of 
Rev. Charles B. Gordon, c.s.c. us right now. As we prepare for a new semester, we would do well to cultivate the Cardinal 
11:45 a.m. Virtues and incorporate them into our lives. Rev. John E.. Conley, c.s.c. 
"Nothing in life is more useful to mortals than these."
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Neh 8:2-4a, 5-6,8-10 
I¦ 

2nd Reading lCor 12: 12 -30 (Z\MPUS
MINISTRY 

Gospel Lk 1: 1 -4; 4: 14 -21 
----
page 16 

The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Stoops not aiming for Browns job 
Associated Press 
NORMAN. Okla. 
Talk that Oklahoma head coach Bob Stoops was think­ing about taking the Cleveland Browns' head coaching job turned out to be just that. 
Oklahoma football coach Bob Stoops tells Sooners fans to forget everything they're reading, that he plans on stay­ing put in Norman. 
Stoops said Saturday that he plans to remain at OU "for a long time," ending speculation that the coach who led the Sooners to a national champi­onship might move on after just two years. 
"Regardless of what you hear, I plan on being at Oklahoma for a long time," Stoops said to thunderous applause from a near capacity crowd during hall'time at the Kansas-Oklahoma men's bas­ketball game Saturday. 
''I still believe it's a privilege to be the head football coach at Oklahoma," Stoops said. "I've got the very best assis­tant coaches in the country and I get to coach the best players in the country." 
The Browns fired coach Chris Palmer on Thursday, and Stoops said he would talk to representatives of the Browns if they called. That night, Stoops said Browns president Carmen Policy had been trying to reach him for two days. 
"But my cell phone went 
dead for two days and I just got it working again and got my messages," Stoops told the Tulsa World. "I don't know if that (job opening) is why Carmen Policy has been trying to call me, or if he just wanted to offer congratulations on winning the national champi0 onship." 
But Stoops declined to say Saturday whether he had been contacted by the Browns. 
'Tm not getting into any of that," he said during a news conference. "That's something that's personal and whether I did or not or whether I will ever or have I doesn't need to be discussed or hashed around anymore. 
"In my lil'e right 
"Regardless ofwhat 

now. I'm Stoops Sr., at fortunate you hear. I plan on Cardinal Mooney 
to be the being at Oklahoma for High School. 
head foot­Stoops said the
a long time." 

ball coach interest h e r e . expressed by the Hopefully Bob Stoops Browns and ear­they'll have 1ier by Ohio
Oklahoma football coach 
me here for quite a while. I plan on that. Life's never certain of anything. but right now I believe I have the best football job in the country and that means college or pros." 
University president David Boren said he is "pleased that Bob Stoops has reaffirmed his clear decision to stay at OU." 
Stoops. 40, had said he was intrigued by the prospect of coaching a professional team but would not say whether he had to decide between the coaching jobs. 

"That's not fair to them or me to get into particulars about any of H," he said. "A lot of things intrigue me. Coaching high school intrigues me ... I don't think you ever say never to anything. That's a Jong time and you never know from Yl~ar to year what your life brings you or what you want out of it." 
Stoops, who grew up rooting for the Browns, and Policy share a background. 
Both are from Youngstown, Ohio, and have known each other for several years. One of 
Policy's  sons  played  f?r  
Stoops'  late  
father,  Ron  

State Univcrsity has not affected his staff's recruiting efforts. 
"In fact, it enhances it," he said. "I think all those recruits, they recognize when that happens and particularly if the NFL's calling, that this staff is really a quality stall It only hurts it if you leave, and I don't intend to do that" 
Stoops recently received a five-year extension on his con­tract at Oklahoma. and a raise to $1.4 million a season. 
Thursday, January 18, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Stoops pegged as nation's top coach 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON 
Bob Stoops, the Oklahoma coach who led the Sooners to the national championship in only his second season at the school. received the Bear Bryant Award on Wednesday night as the top college football coach. 
Stoops was selected from a field of six finalists in voting by the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association. Other finalists were Florida State's Bobby Bowden, South Carolina's Lou Holtz, Oregon State's Dennis Erickson, Miami ·s Butch Davis and Dennis Franchione, who was at Texas Christian before moving to Alabama. 
"We need to do it again or 
there will be pressure on me. 
too," Stoops said. "That's the 
nature of the beast. I think it's 
neat what our program was 
able to do in a short time. but 
now we've got to do it again. 
"We are no different from 
anyone else. We'll put it to 

rest shortly and get back to work." 
The Sooners finished 13-0 and beat Florida State 13-2 in the Orange Bowl f'or the school's first national title since 1985. Oklahoma started the season ranked No. J 9 and made a steady rise to No. 1. def'cating No. 11 Texas, No. 2 Kansas State and No. 1 Nebraska in October. 
"The biggest difference was our approach with the play­ers," Stoops said. "We embraced them immediately and told them we expect to win with them right now." 
lie said the players embraced and accepted the teaching and coaching quick­ly. 
"We moved as one and that makes a big difference." he said. 
Stoops took over in 1998 from John Blake, who led the Sooners to a 12-22 record over three years. Oklahoma finished 7-5 in Stoops· first season and went to a bowl game for the first time since 1994. 
"A lot of factors needed to be shored up. our discipline, our expectations and wnrk ethic all needed developing and nourishing," Stoops said. "But it happened quickly and I credit the players for accept­ing it." 
Please recycle The Observer. 

..., 
--
There will be a MANDATORY MEETING for all interested candidates for 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
on Thursday, January 18th at 7:45 PM in the Student Government Office. Petitions will be available in the Student Government Office Beginning Tuesday, January 16th at 12:00 PM 

Do YOU LIKE SPORTS? KIDS? DO YOU WANT TO GET PAID 
AND 

EARN 3 CREDITS? 

National Youth Sports Program Sponsored by the NCAA 
A program of at:hletics and enrichment for economically disadvantaged children Crom the South Bend ai-ea. 
Training dates: June 18 -22 Program dates: June 25 -July 27 
• 
Housing provided on campus 

• 
Three meals per day 

• 
Salary of approximately $1,200 

• 
Three elective credits 


Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns Application deadline: February 9 For additional information, call 631-6614. 
r---------------------­
Thursday, January 18, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Buckeyes hire Tressel as new coach 
Associatrd Pre» 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Ohio State has a new coach ­Jim Tressel -and it didn't have to travel far to lind him. 
Tressel,  wlrn  guided  
Youngstown  
State  lo  
rour  I-AA  
national  
champi­ 
onships  in  
15 seasons,  
will  be  
introduced  
o  n Tre ssel  
Thursday  
as  the  
Buckeyes' new coach.  
Th!!  48-ycar-old  Tressel  

accepted llrn job Wednesday, said .Jack Hall, chairman ol' the Ohio Statn Athletic Council. 
i\thlctic diructor Andy Geiger callnd a 4 p.m. news conl'crenco !'or Thursday to introduce the new coach, although he would not conHnn it was Tressel. 
Earlier, WTVN-AM. WBNS­TV and The Columbus l)ispatch's Web site reported that Tressel would replace John Cooper, who was !ired on Jan. 2. 
On Tuesday, Tressel and his wife, Ellen, were in Columbus touring the Ohio Stale campus. Tressel met with the school's advisory committee and also spnnt 90 minutes with Ohio State president William Kirwan. 
On Wednesday, Tressel returned to Youngstown State. less than 200 miles from Columbus, and told his players of his interest in the Buckeyes. By lale afternoon, Tressel had lcfl and a school spokesman said he did not know where ihc coach was headed. 
Tressel, 135-57-2 with the Penguins, also served as the school's athletic director. lie is moving to the I-A level for the first time. 
/\fter Oakland Haidcrs coach Jon Gruden joined Oregon's Mike Bellotti in dropping out of contention, Tressel and Minnesota coach Glen Mason were the finalists. 
Mason took the full tour of the school on Wednesday. Mason said his meeting with Kirwan went "great." 
The hiring capped a 16-day search that finally settled on one or the lop two candidates from the beginning. 
Tressel was expected to sign a multiyear contract paying him around $1 million a year. 
Others who either inter­viewed or spoke with Ohio State onicials about the job included current Buckeye assistant head coach Fred Pagac, former Ohio State and NFL linebacker Chris Spielman and Stanford coach Tyrone Willingham. 

Cooper was fired on Jan. 2 after Ohio State lost 24-7 to South Carolina in the Outback Bowl. Cooper was 111-43-4, shared three Big Ten titles and played in bowls in 11 or his 13 seasons. 
Rut he was 3-8 in those bowl games and just 2-10-1 against Ohio State's chief rival, Michigan. And in Columbus, the annual showdown with the Wolverines is called "The Game." 
Tressel's Youngstown State teams won national titles in 1991, 1993, 1994 and 1997 ­the most for a coach in I-AA history -and had 12 winning seasons. 
In an interview last week, Tressel said the pressures at a I-AA program were different from those at a Big Ten power -but were pressures nonethe­less. 
"At Youngstown State right now, we're supposed to win 15 games in a row and we're sup• posed to have 20·,000 people happy in the seats and a half-a­million people in our market happy," he said. "At Ohio State, you're supposed to win 12 straight games and keep 98,000 people happy in the stands and 13 million people in the state of Ohio happy. Both arc pretty hard." 

Information Session: 
January 23 (Tues.) 
6:30 PM 
Center for Social Concerns 


• eigftt week;J ofService-Leaming 
• 3 credits • $1900.00 Scfwfursfiip • sponsorea 6y a{umni c{u6s across tfie 'U.S. 

Deadline for application: February 7th Applications at the Center for Social Concerns 
Interviews in progress now! 

Stop by the Center for more information and ask your Hall Rep. (See poster in Hall) 


ti-41il
Ct~Tt• ,011 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
Tennessee keeps Fulmer through 2007 
Associated Press 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer agreed to a new con­tract on Wednesday worth $9.1 million over seven years. 
Fulmer, who guided the Volunteers to the 1998 national championship, was given a $250,000 raise, boosting his annual pay to $1.3 million, and a two-year extension through 2007. 
"We hope he will stay and be our coach and our pro­gram will keep going and we will continue to be in tho top five or six people in the country (in wins)," Tennessee athletic director Doug Dickey said. "We're very happy about that." 
The Vols had on off-year in 2000, finishing 8-4 and out of the final AP Top 25 for the first time since 1988, But Fulmer. who took over as coach before the end of the 1992 season, has the best winning percentage (.824) among Division I-A coaches with a minim um of' five years on the job. 
His bowl record, though, is 5-4. including a 35-21 loss to Kansas State in the Cotton Bowl. llis Vols heat Florida State 23-16 in the '99 Fiesta Bowl to win the national title. 
With the pay raise, llrn 50­year-old Fulmer moves up the earnings ladder but not to the top. 
Florida's Steve Spurrier is the nation's highest-paid col­lege football coach at $2.1 million a year. Florida State's Bobby Bowden makes $1.5 million, Texas coach Mack Brown is at $1.45 mil­lion and Oklahoma coach 13ob Stoops is up tu $1.4 mil­lion with his raise after lead­
ing  the  Sooners  to  the  
national title.  
New  Alabama  coach  

Dennis Franchione has a seven-year deal worth between $1.2 million and $1.4 million. Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville's raise gives him $1.25 million annually. 
"I am extremely grateful to the administration at the University of Tennessee for the confidence and support it has in the leadership of the Vol football program," Fulmer said in a statement. 



r 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 200 I 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Loss to Notre Dame fills UConn coach's mailbox 
Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. Geno Auricmma, you've got mail. Auriernma's e-mail inbox has been full of comments. 
questions and criti­c i s m s since his top-ranked Connecticut team suf­fered a loss !'or the 


first time Auriemma in 30 games. The Huskies (13-1) lost 92­76 to No. 3 Notre Dame on Monday -Connecticut's 
worst loss in seven years. The lluskics will likely be knocked from the No. 1 spot they've 
held since the 1999 prcscason in the AP poll. 
After a win. the Huskies coach said he gets a couple of "keep up the good work" e­mails. Hut since Monday, Auriemma has had plenty of reading material. 
"It shows people have a tremendous passion for what's going on," Auriemma said Wednesday. 
The missives criticized Auriemma on everything from his sideline demeanor. lineup decisions to his "tacky" wrist­watch. Auriemma said the only thing that bothered him was the shot about his watch. 
"It's a Big East champi­
onship watch. I've got 10 of them," he said Wednesday. "When you win as much as we won and we lose, people can't wait to get their shots in. We just take it in stride and we have run with it." 
The defending national champs prepared for Thursday's game against Old Dominion (8-4} with two hours of practice. They want to fix what wasn't working for them Monday -team­work. 
UConn shot 36 percent from the floor, rushed shots, lagged on defense and was soundly beaten by Ruth Riley and Notre Dame -a cohesive team on top of its game. 
"We weren't helping each other out. We were like five individuals 

someone else," Ralph said. "It's not like I'm the only per­son on the team he can turn to. If I'm not getting it done and it means I'm on the bench to win that game, then put (me) on the bench because I want to win that game." 
· Auri.emma said he takes the blame for nol preparing the team for Notre Dame. "I have not figured out how to sustain from a day-to-day basis our guys' mindset so we play and practice the same way for a long period of time. and it caught up to us against a really good team on the road," Auriemma said. Auriemrna said there was one phone call he fielded after the loss, and got a real earful. ll was his 
P I a Yi 11 g , " "When you win as much m O 1 h e r , said senior Marsiella, Shea Ralph, as we won and we lose, who last year 
who welled people can't wait to get sprinkled holy with tears as their shots in.,, water on the s h e team before answered the national questions. Geno Auriemma championship 
"I hate that UConn basketball coach game. 
it has to be such a hard lesson," Ralph said. 
Ralph, last season's Final Four MVP, sat out most of the second half against Notre Dame, and Auriemma was criticized by fans and letter-writers. Ralph. who had just two points in the game, said she agreed with the move. 
"He can only give me so much time before he goes to 
hursday, January 18 
:30 p.m. Prof. Gerry Matatics, ecture, "How the Bible Converted Me 
o Catholicism: One Protestant Minister's Pilgrimage", Hesburgh Library Lounge 
8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune tudent Center Huddle 
9:15 p.m. Free Ice Skating, Java andA Ja~ -Joyce Ce~te,~ Ice Arena " 
~ 10.30 p.m. Movie, 'Almost Famous , DeBartolo 101*and "Mighty Ducks", DeBartolo155* 

She was worried. 
"What's wrong with the girls? They looked terrible. I never see them like that. I think there's something 
-wrong," she told him. "What do you think is wrong," Auriemma asked. "I don't know. You've got to find out," she said. "OK," he said. "Whatever you say." 
Friday, January 19 
6:00 
p.m.-12:00 a.m. Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 

6:00 
p.m. ND Track and Field vs. Ball State and Western Michigan, Loftus Center 


7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
7:05 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Ohio State, Joyce Center* 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Virgin Suicides", Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "Almost Famous", DeBartolo 101* & "Rocky", DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m. Flipside Bowling Trip, Meet at Hesburgh Library Circle* 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Virgin Suicides0 Snite Museum* 
, 
10:00 p.m. Rick Kelley: "Bahama Beach Party", LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "A/most Famous", DeBartolo 101* & "Rocky", DeBartolo 155* 

Saturday, January 20 
5:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
7:05 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Ohio State, Joyce Center* 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Virgin Suicides," Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie,"Almost Famous", DeBartolo 101* and "Coo/ Runnings", DeBartolo 155* 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Virgin Suicides", Snite Museum* 
10:00 p.m. Comedian Mark Reedy in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
10:30 p.m. Movie,"Almost Famous", DeBartolo 101 * and "Coo/ Runnings", DeBartolo 155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/ SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to further calendars, please send the details about the activity to 
sao@nd.edu. 


Thursday, January 18, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SUPER BOWL 
Ravens believe title is their fate 
out of a live-game TD drought

Associated Press 
Modell called "The Dust Howl." 
Now, bec:ause they perse­
OWINGS MILLS, Md. vered, the Ravens an~ heading 

The BalLimorc Havens figure to tho Super Bowl. there's only one l<>gical conclu­"For 21 quarters we didn't sion to a season in which score a touchdown, and cvery­adversity and long odds were one wrote us off. To come constant companions during an where we came from, it's improbable march lo lhc Super amazing," said tight end Bowl. Shannon Sharpe. 
"We're destined to win this "It's gratifying," said defen­thing," corncrback Chris sive tackle Tony Siragusa. Mct\listnr said. "After what "After going through the whole we've gone through, I believe season waking up Mondays and it's our destiny to win the Super feeling like garbage, all beat up, Bowl." when you get lo the Super Bowl 
Before this you feel as if season, tho there's a reason
"We 're destined to 

Havens were for it. You go 24-31J-1 since win this thing." honrn early and owner /\rt you're not in the Modell moved playolls. It's as if
Chris McAlister

the franchise you beat yourself 
O Ravens cornerback

f r Ill all season for 
Clt~veland in nothing." 19%. They The New York nnvcr had a winning record, Giants n~pr<>sent the final hur­nov<!r won more Urnn four dle fur the Havens, who have ganws in a row and never canw encountered one obstacle after close to getting a whiff or th11 another, beginning with the 
post.sPasor1. murder trial of star linebacker 
Their objective in 2000 was Hay Lewis. The journey didn't just lo makti the playoffs, bul get any easier in tho playoffs, af"lcr nine games it appeared when Baltimore had to dispatch 
evtrn that modest goal was in Denver at home before playing serious j<\opan.ly. top-seeded Tennessee and sec­
Al'ler !'ailing to score a touch­ond-seed etl Oakland on the down during the month of road. October, the Havens bad a Now, the Havens must avoid 
tlmie-garnc losing streak and a the just-happy-to-be-here trap. '.i-4 record. During that swoon, Given their lackluster history coach Brian Billick reluctantly and ttw turnaround they expe• switched quarterbacks in a dcs­rienced this season, the Havens pernlc attempt lo pull Uw team have every riglll to be happy 

University Residence Halls are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 

For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 or go to www.nd.edu/ --stdntaff/ AsstRector.html for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed Applications must be submitted by February 9, 2001 
2001-2002 

Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

with what they've accomplished -regardless of how they fare against the Giants. 
Although 16 of 24 teams play­ing in their first Super Bowl lost the game. the Havens insist that they've come too far to bow out when it counts the most. 
''No way. Like I said before, it makes no sense to get to the playoffs if you're not going to play in the Super Bowl," cor­nerback Duane Starks said. ..And it makes no sense to play in the Super Bowl if you're not going to win it." 
The Ravens (15-4), who have won more games than any team in the NFL this season, arc in no way considered to be old. But no one is talking about a dynasty here, and the players realize there's a possibility that this could be their lone chance to claim the one possession every pro football player craves -a Super Bowl ring. 
It won't be easy, playing against u. tough New York defense and the top seed in the NFC. But, given what the Havens have gone up against this season, they wouldn't have it any other way. 
"We've got a great challenge ahead of us, but I think that's perfect," said Trent Dilf'er, who replaced Tony Banks at quar­terback on Oct. 22. ''I'd rather have a Super Bowl where there's a huge challenge rather than play a team that has a sus­pect defense. We tend to play our best games against better opponents." 
Good times return for New York Giants 
Associated Press 

EAST HUHIEHFORD, N.J. 
Being around the New York Giants wasn't fun late last sea­son. 
The team was en route to a sub .500 record, Jim Fasscl was at odds with Pro Bowl player Jessie Armstead and Michael Strahan and the finger­pointing between a frustrated defense and a somewhat non­productive offense was con­stant. 
There's very little of that now with the Giants lr.ss than two weeks away from a Super Bowl showdown with the Baltimore Havens, but winning wasn't what made this a fun team to bci around. 
It's what Fassel and the play­ers did in the offseason that unified the team. 
A roster facelift got things going, bringing in vetoran offensive linemen Lomas Brown. Glenn Parker and Dusty Zeigler and middle linebacker Mike Harrow. 
The real change came in the months that followed the sea­son. 
Fassel has said getting all his players lo commit to aLtending an offense training program was a big step forward. 
"You could foe! the bonding coming on a regular basis," Fasscl said Wednesday. "They 
I

www.sunchase.com 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
clubs to Armstad. 
It was like that in many of the foursomes, and the bonds on the Gianl'i grew. 
"I don't know if it's maturity or what you would call it," guard Hon Stone said. "Everybody came to understand that things work more when there is no ani­mosity. We've been working hard and caring about each other instead of f'igh Ling each other. There's been no problems." 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
·Used Books bough! and sold -25 Calegories of Books -25.000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-ot:rrinl search service ·Appraisals large und small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Y<elaxal.1on 7rainin!J 
bearn menlalcf: p/J_ys1calslraleyies lo induce cal,n andrefaxalion. c51i1fls can 6e user!: *lo help prepare/~r slress *as an allernaliue lo alcohol, drugs cC ooerea/1i~<J *lo 1',nproue concenlral.t'on a6d;lies ZJr. Wendy c5e!lle l' 7Jr. hen Jfic.kman J'ridays, ../:00-.J:OO, 7?alj.;-c..5porls Xec Genier 


Jebruary 2, 91 /6 S/0 7?eyislrah'on begins :January 19, 7:JOam, '.7?cSJ?C 
R~~~~~ 
were enjoying each other. Hight from that point, I felt like we had a chance to have a heck of a year if we stayed healthy." 
Not only did the players bond, they also learned to do crazy things that make them more than teammates. 
There was a team boat trip around Manhattan in the spring, a wild golf outing at Forsgatc Country Club in Central New Jersey in May, a trip to the movies (Gladiator) during train­ing camp and a day of bowling during the season. 
"Playing with these guys has been a lot or l'un, probably the most fun l've had in my career," Armstead said. 
The golf tournament might have been resulted in tho most laughs. Eighteen foursomes went out, but the one that included Armstead, defensive tackle Keith llamilton, defensive line coach Denny Marcin and coordinator John Fox was the one to watch. 
llamilton. who had never golfed, spent hundreds of' dollars on clothing, shoes and clubs. Ile even looked like a golfer, until he started swinging. 
It got comical after that. 
Another novice, Armstead w,L'i just as runny according to tcam­mates. lie drove his golr earl down the middle of' the fairway. through a sand trap and on the green, all moves that would have left golf purisL'i aghast. 
"I le lost two of my clublrnads. too," said F,L'isel, who loaned his 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday.January 18, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tarheel treys lead North Carolina for 11th straight win 
ble digits in the first half as the of Teddy Dupay. who is out for Indiana 77, Penn State 69 Marshall 72, Miami 68 
Associated Press 
Tar Ileels were 8-for-15 from 3-at least four weeks with a back lndiana found the one-two Tamar Slay's 3-pointer with point range, getting long-range injury. Starting forward Brent inside punch it needed 25 seconds left lil"ted Marshall to CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
shots from six players as Wright is out with a stress frac­Wednesday night. a comeback victory over Miami No. 6 North Carolina beat the Clemson's zone proved ineffec­ture in his foot. Kirk Haston scored 22 points, (Ohio) on Wednesday night.
longshot with long shots 
tive. Williams made a layup to give 16 in the second half, and Jared Slay. the Mid-American Wednesday night. 
The Tar Heels then polished it the Bulldogs a 69-68 lead with Jeffries added 15 points as Conference's leading scorer,Joseph Forte scored 14 points off in the opening five minutes of 3:20 remaining and made sure Indiana staved off a late Penn went 6-of-11 from beyond the and the streaking Tar Heels had the second half, going on a 16-2 they never relinquished it. After State charge and held on for a arc and finished with 24 points. 
a season-high 12 3-pointers in a run. Forte scored the first six Udonis Haslem missed a shot, victory. Haston also grabbed 13 He also was a hero on defense,victory over Clemson -running points of the spurt with three the sophomore from Marietta, rebounds, giving him his seventh blocking two shots in tho finaltheir home mark to 47-0 all-time free throws and a 3-pointer, and Ga.. converted two free throws double-double of the season. minute. 
against the Tigers. 
Jason Capel added a shot from to increa'ie the lead to three. The Hoosiers led 40-22 at half­Junior college transfer Latece The win by North Carolina (14­beyond the arc for a 60-33 lead. Florida cut the lead to one and time, as Jeffries scored all 15 of Williams scored a career-high
2) was its 11th straight overall 
Clemson coach Larry Shyatt had a chance to take the lead his points in the first half. 20 points for Marshall (l 1-3, 5­and tied il with No. 2 Duke for was called for a technical foul when Brett Nelson stole the ball Penn State opened the second 1 MAC). J.B. VanHoose had 12
the Atlantic Coast Conference during the run and confronted from Williams. But Williams half on an 8-0 run. points and 12 rebounds, hislead al 4-0. North Carolina's 
ollicial Ted Valentine near mid­stole it back from the Gators and That's when Haston and Tom 1Oih double-double of the sea­winning streak is its best since 
co uri as heated words were went down for a layup and a 73-Coverdale went to work. The two son.
starting the 1997-98 season 17 ­exchanged after the Tar Heels 70 lead. combined for 17 of the first 20 Jason Grunkemcyer led Miami 0. 
blocked four shots to turn the Haslem hit two free throws to second-half points for the (6-10, 2-3 MAC} with 22 points.
North Carolina's previous sea­momentum. pull within one and Florida got Hoosiers and sparked their own Mike Ensminger scored 14 and 

son high for 3-pointers was 11 
the ball back with a chance to 8-0 run, which allowed Indiana Alex Shorts had 12.
against Appalachian State on 
take the lead. (11-7, 2-2 Big Ten) to regain Miami shot a season-high 55
Georgia 75, Florida 72

Nov. 17, and it was only the third But after a steal. Hamilton control. percent from the floor. includ­
game this season the Tar lleels No. 7 Florida lost another 
went the length of the floor and The Hoosiers did just what ing 69 percent in the flrst halfhave hit more than nine from game and another key player. 
hung in the air, trying to scoop a they wanted against the Big for a 43-33 halftime lead.
beyond the arc. Ezra Williams scored six points shot beneath a Georgia defend­Ten's leading scorer -Joe Slay scored seven points in aClemson (10-7, 1-3) has lost 21 down the stretch Wednesday er. He never got it off, and land­Crispin -stopping him cold. 21-5 run to start the second halfnight to help Georgia match its
of 24 overall against North 
ed awkwardly, then limped off Crispin, who was averaging 23.0 to give the Thundering Ilerd awin total from last season with aCarolina since the 1990-91 sea­the court on his injured knee. points per game entering 54-48 lead with 12:13 remain­victory over the depleted Gators.
son and fell to 0-16 in the Smith Florida had another chance Wednesday night, managed just ing.
Williams led the Bulldogs (10­Center. 

moments later, but Orion two points and no field goals in Miami tied the score threeWill Solomon scored 15 points 7, 3-1 Southeastern Conference) Greene hit nothing but glass on the first half. He finished with 10 times down the stretch butin the game's opening 11 :39 for with 24 points as they won their an 8-foot pull-up jumper, and points for the Nittany Lions (11-never retook the lead.
third straight and handed

the Tigers, but got just two the 
D.A. Layne made two free 4, 2-3). Grunkemeyer sank two free
Florida (11-3, 1-2) its first leaguerest of the way to finish with 17, throws to put Georgia ahead 75-Gyassi-Cline Heard led Penn throws with 2:15 left to makeloss at home in 14 games.

extending his streak of double­72. State with 23 points, including a the score 68-68. 
digit scoring to 46 straight. And the news got even worse 
After a timeout, Matt Bonner 3-pointer that got Penn State Slay blocked a shot with 52 
North Carolina students greet­for Florida when guard Justin hurled the ball the length of the within 75-67 in the last 20 sec­seconds left to set up his game­

Hamilton went out with what

ed Clemson during introductions court, but it was out of the reach onds. w inning 3-pointer. Ile thenwas initially diagnosed as a torn
with chants of "You can't win 
of Haslem and the Bulldogs had It was the eighth straight victo­blocked a 3-poinl attempt byhere." ACL in his left knee, normally a their third SEC victory, the same ry for Indiana against Penn Grunkemeyer in the closing sec­se'.l.Son-ending injury. 
Once again, it was appropriate. 

as they had all last year. State. onds.
The Tigers fell behind by dou-Hamilton was starting in place 

The Student International Business Council A student organization promoting Peace Through Commerce Congratulations to the 2000 Board of Directors on an outstanding year, and good luck to the incoming Board of 2001! 2000 Board of Directors 2001 Board of Directors Timothy Noonan, President David Willson, President Casey McKeon, COO Molly Fogarty, COO Joseph Ribando, CFO Megan McMullen, CFO Jenifer Hayob, SPC Chair Erik Keener, SPC Chair Anthony Bianco, Director ofAccounting Paul Buser, Director ofAccounting David Willson, Director ofFinance Brad Rager, Director of Finance Akmaral Omarova, Director of Brad Buser, Director of Business Consulting Business Consulting Jaye Parody, Director ofHuman Resources Megan McMullen, Director ofHuman Resources Tara Tomko, Director ofMarketing Stephanie Rosenthal, Director ofMarketing Patrick Dunnigan and Kristen Larsen, Patrick Dunnigan and Molly Fogarty, Directors of Internships Directors of Internships Robert Bankey, Director of Global Robert Bankey, Director ofGlobal Development Development  



------------···­
Thursday, January 18, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
many good looks in the first Also, the Joss drops Saint Mary's half," said Smith. "We were get­below Olivet in the MIM stand­
Hoops 
ting her the ball a little more in ings, as Saint Mary's remains continued from page 24 the second half, getting her in ahead of only Albion. 
position where she could score." "I think this was a big opportu­Blair finL'ihcd with 10 points for The contest was an opportunity nity for us," said Smith. "This is a Saint Mary's, but took zero shots for Saint Mary's to pull their team that was down with us as in tho opnning half'. record over .500 in January for far as the standings in the con­
"I don't think we got her too the first lime in recent memory. ference and we missed it." 

XXX 
COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 

Deadline Extended!!!! Applications Due Sunday, Jan. 21 
Pick up an application at the Student Activities Office at 314 LaFortune and sign up for an interview. 
Check out the website for more info: www.nd.edu/-bkstr/ 


To ensure the greatest degree of success as you participate in the Internship Fair 200 l, The Career Center has scheduled the following programs: 
DATE  EVENI  TIME  LOCATION  
Tue Jan 16  On-call hours•  10-noon  24.8 Flanner Hall  
1 : 30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Tue Jan 16  Workshop*  12:30 p.rn.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Wed Jan 1 7  On-call hours "'"  10-noon  248 Flanner Hall  
1:30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Wed Jan 17  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Thur Jan 18  On-call hours "'  I 0-noon  248 Flanner Hall  
1:30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Thur Jan 18  Workshop*  12:30 pm.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Fri Jan 19  On-call hours "'  10-noon  2 48 Flanner Hall  
I :30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Fri Jan 19  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Mon Jan 22  On-call hours "'  IO-noon  2 48 Flanner Hall  
I :30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
3:00 ­5:00 p.m.  Grand Hall -O'Shaughnessy  
Mon Jan 22  Workshop*  12:30 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.m.  Career Resource Center  
Tue Jan 23  On-call hours ""  10-noon  248 Flanner Hall  
I : 30 ­4:00 p.m.  248 Flanner Hall  
Tue Jan 23  Workshop*  12:30 p.rn.  Career Resource Center  
4:00 p.rn.  Career Resource Center  

•On-call hours: Short ( 15 to 20 mlns.), first come, flrst-served resume/cover fetter reviews 
*Workshop: Topics Include Understanding Go IRISH, Writing an Effective Resume, Making a Job Fair Work for You. ALL of these topics will be covered at each workshop. 


tribute." 
The goaltcnding merry-go­round seen early on contin­continued from page 24 ued over the Christmas holi­day. Sophomore Tony break, both freshman Hon Zasowski, junior Jeremiah Globkc and sophomore Kimento, and senior Kyle 
Hockey 
· Connor Dunlop left Notre Kolquist all got starts over Dame to participate in the break. World Junior Championships "l told the goaltenders at with the U.S. Junior National the beginning of January that Team in Moscow. Globke and they need to work out this Dunlop are fifth and sixth thing !'or themselves," Poulin respectively in scoring for the said. "Whoever got the lirst team, and their firepower was win was going to be the one I missed inlate December and start again. This past week-e a r I y end Tony January. (Zasowski) got a

"You can 't just plug
Their first win and a tie, 
series back in one or two guys and so for right 
was against now he is the
and then win." 
Western starter." Michigan this While Notre past ·week­Dave Poulin Dame is at the 
end. Having Irish hockey coach bottom of' the Globke and CCHA standings, Dunlop back the team has not certainly helped out the team, lost hope of' making the play­by allowing the team to have offs. The top 10 teams in the more depth and play more of COIA standings make the a team game. playoffs and currently the 
"You can't just plug in one Irish sit just one point out of or two guys and then win." the last playoff spot. With 12 Poulin said. "Having them games left against CCII/\ 
back provides depth and bal­teams, Notre Dame hopes to ance to our team which turn it around and make a allows everyone to con-run at the playoffs. 
TUESDAYS 

711.ESVAYS 1/23-3/6 
1/23-3/6

YOGA
12:10-12:50 
7 -8 :15pWI/ $20 $25 
VNESVAYS 

THU'RSVAYS 1/24--3/7 
1/25-3/812:10-12:50 
7-8:lSpWI/$20 $25 
TAI CH.I 
WEVNESVAYS 1/24--3/7 5:30-6:25 or 6:4-5-7:4-0 
$25 
R~~~ 
Registration begins Friday, January 19, 7:30am in the RSRC. 1-6100 with questions. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 2001 
NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S SWIMMING 


Freshman Lisa Garcia was part of an Irish swim squad that defeated the Iowa Hawkeyes 163-73 in Hawaii, then knocked off Illinois 200.5-145.5 in the Wolverine Invitational, during vacation. 
No. 16 Irish say aloha with vacation wins 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spores Writer 
Coasting off a No. 16 national ranking after the beginning of its 2000-2001 campaign, the women's swimming and diving team splashed into warmer waters during break with a training trip to Hawaii. 
"It was a huge success," said freshman Danielle Hulick, who added with a laugh, "We survived." 
The women's team endured long, strenuous practices aimed at increasing yardage and building endurance. The Irish work ethic and impressive team chemistry are two of the primary reasons why they are ranked No. 16 in the nation. 
"If somebody is having a frustrat­ing week, we'll sit down with them and say, "Hey, it's going to be okay'," Hulick said. "We go out there every day in practice thinking, 'Tm going to make myself hurt for the team."' 
During the Hawaii training trip, 
Notre Dame defeated Iowa in a dual sacrificing early-season times for quality championship meet perfor­mances. 
"We may not be swimming our best times, but a part of doing well is tr.aining hard," Hulick said. 
Junior Kelly Hecking continued her dominating performance in the backstroke. Against the Hawkeyes, she took first in the 50 and the 100 backstroke, and against the Illini, she took first place in the 100 back­stroke. 
"She doesn't put that much pres­sure on herself," said Hulick. "I've done some backstroke with her recently and we've talked about going one-two at Big East." 
Freshman Marie Labosky, one of 
the lrish's most versatile swimmers, 
won three individual events over the 
holiday meets. She took first 
in the 200 and 400 individual 
medley against Illinois and 
won the 200 freestyle against 
Iowa. 
The Irish were particular 
dominant against Iowa. They 

the 200 individual medley. Hulick joined Hecking as a double­
. event winner in the Iowa meet as she won the 50 and the 100 freestyle. 
Junior diver Heather Mattingly won both diving events at the Wolverine Invitational. Mattingly joined Labosky as the only two Irish athletes to win multiple events at the Wolverine Invitational. 
Although Michigan and Oakland also competed in the meet, Notre Dame was only scored against Illinois. 
The lrish have a difficult pair of meets next week. Next Thursday, the Irish will travel to Northwestern to take on the No. 20 Wildcats. The next day, the Irish will host No. 13 Michigan. 
SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Belles 01iss both fans, Illeet victory 
strong against a team By JANEL MILLER that beat them in 2000 Spans W rirer by over 60 points. The meet came down to the The Belles swam their final 200-yard l'r.cestyle only regular relay. Saint Mary's
season 

home dual meet over grabbed lirst, however, vacation in front of 
Alma's second and third 
empty stands at Rolfs place finishes put them Aquatic Center. Because ahead or the Belles. of a scheduling glitch "It was a great meet," earlier in the season, said Hildebrandt. "We the Belles were unable swam right with them 
in every event."

to compete in a dual 
The Relics pulled
meet in front of the stu­
dent body. another five first place Matching up against finishes and followed A I m a suit with 
College several sec­on Jan "It was a great ond place 16, the finishes.
meet. We swam 

Maureen
B e I I es 

right with them in
dropped a Palchak tightly every event." captured the 50-yard
contested 

confer­freestyle
Gretchen Hildebrandt 
after finish­ence meet 
Belles' swim coach ing third in
to the the 200­

Scots. narrowly y a r d missing a victory by one freestyle moments 
before. Elizabeth Doro,
point. Regardless of the voiceless stands, howev­joined her by taking er, the Belles were the second place spot. pleased with the perfor­The Belles then would 
mance. go on to finish 1-2-3 in the 100 freestyle with
"They swam really well," said head coach co-captain Colleen Gretchen Hildebrandt. Sullivan taking first "The times accom­
with a time of 57 .63 plished by these women seconds, followed by 
Doro (59.02} and Chloewho were tired and bro­
Lenihan (1 :002.24).
ken down are absolutely Meghan Hamsey helpedremarkable." 
Despite being sore the team with her top finishes in the 100-yard
and fatigued from 
butterfly and 500-yard
intense training over break, the Belles stood freestyle. 

meet, 163-73. A week laier, Notre took 12 of a possible 14 first Dame competed in the Wolverine place finishes. Invitational against Illinois. The Irish Sophomore Amy Deger beat the Illini, 200.5-145.5. turned in one of her best sin­
Although the Irish, already weary gle meet performances of the 

So FREE .
from a series of tough practices, year against the Hawkeyes. didn't swim their best times, team She took first place in the 50 members feel that success means and 100 butterfly as well as 

it comes with agift 
www.springbreak.sopadre.com 



Thursday, January 18, 200 I The Observer . TODAY page 23 

TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 

J'ASON, HOWINSTEAD OF LETTING MY 
IF THE PEACE CORPS 

'YOU
I''VE 
Do 1 TUl!N 
CALLS, I'LL BE uPSTA1RSCLASSMATES' SUCCESSES 

MENTIONED
I SEE DEC•DED To 
ON THE 

woRl(INC:, ON MY r,lo'VEL ! A BRIGHT CoMl>UTER? MOOD HAS BRIGHT SIDE. 
MAKE ME FEEL lNfER10R,

SoMEoNE'S LOOI< ON THE 
I'M v1Ew1N6 THEIR ACCoM­

UNTIL M'f MARINE 810LoGY I S1DE••• 
'-
PLISHMEr·.ffS AS CUES To HoME-STUDY .--.-...... i 

\
WHAT l, Too, CAN DO IF I 
COURSE ARRIVES. i l ONLY MAKE 
THE EFFoRT. " ,, 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


~01.1 Mode 
-the. Dean's \1s+ !
I '3ot (\ fe.w C)':,. 
.:;-,..._,-c..)
( ~)~ 


D' S.I 1 qo+ ~ ' ~ fe.w D'5! 
) 

Oec:.n's l,~t... ) incd's 9reQt! 0 



Sometimes parents only hear what they want to hear. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..,..+.,,+.+,,,.,t 
.,;,+...+-,,+::+.-..t 12 None the worse  
for the ordeal  
.,,,+,;,+,,-t 13 Their nights are  
frequently busy  
18 Lemieux milieu  
22 Cruller coats  
....+--+,,.+,,-+,,,,.,t 26 Temperamental  
I  E  G R E B E  star  
...,.+-,-+,,,,P....,._,S  O P T E D  28 Has a tab  


Visit The Observer on the we·b at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

tl0nt8 DAM• ,_,, Af.llletlc• 
lrlsh Hockay ru. 1n IAT. ,..~, n1 ~ 11 n. · n 'I 
'/}l *First 100 Students receive free '9 NOTRE DAME *First 350 Students Free Admission .. 
FR>UA1 CllfOIT UNION 


Friday: \ft:IIDJs Chili Night -First 500 Fans Rec *First 500 Fans Receive 3 Notre Dame Hockey *Hockey Tuition Shot courtesy of South Send 
US J\IRW1\YS Saturday: "ROCK THE RINK" *first 500 Fans Receive "Rock the Rink" T-S 
~ 'Iii'.Art~1Tmvef ll lU IVI J 

*Win 2 Airline Tickets Anywhere in the Continent
, " 
58 Camera part 60 Roughly 62 Shift start, for 
many 
63 Arenas (Chilean port) 
64 Title heroine on Broadway, 10/31/56 
65 Enthusiastic, and then some 66 Endured 67 Timetable, for short 
DOWN 
1 Koran Creator 2 Sugar providers 3 Stupefy 4 Org. 5 Without thinking 6 Spirit 7 The gamut 8 Bar 9 Brandon_ 
("Boys Don't Cr/ role) 10 "Forgot the lyrics" syllable 
11 So as to deserve admiration 
Puzzla by Hen,y Hook 
30 Refurbished caboose, maybe 
32 Getting up in arms? 33 Stops 34 Antecedent to 35 Deleted 38 Cale enhancer 39 Cause of an icicle 40 It lies ahead, in acliche 45 Maintain meagerly 

55 Film llillain played by Joseph Wiseman 
57 Donations 59 Huge amount 
61 Part of a W.W. II mil.map 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON and don't get involved in other THIS DAY: Cary Grant, Kevin people's affairs. You may find Costner, Mark Messier, Danny your own relationship stifling. Kaye, Jane Horrocks, Christian 00 Fittipaldi, Jonathan Davis VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Happy Birthday: Prepare to You will be able to inspire confi­be busy. Although you won't dence in others. You can make a have much peace in your life this real difference when deaijng with year, you will find yourself in children. Be open and receptive some exciting situations. If you to ideas presented to you. 0000 work hard and are well-prepared, LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl 22): You you will achieve all you set out to will tend to be extravagant. Prob­accomplish. If you try to get by !ems with ears, nose and throat with a minimal amount of work, may limit your activities. Stay you will have Jong-lasting re-away from joint financial ven­grets. Gear up for a fast-paced, tures or dubious fast-cash schemes. rewarding year. Your numbers: 000 19, 21, 25, 32, 36, 44 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can expect your mate to be Your ability to make extra money frazzled if you start to question will help you pay those unex-his or her activities or where­pected bills. Changes in your abouts. You may find yourself position may lead you down new alone if you don't give the benefit avenues that will be more prof-of the doubt. 00 itable than working for someone SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. else. 000 21): Problems with children may 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): leave you bewildered. Don't be You will find it difficult to control tempted by risky ventures or your emotions. Don't put limita-gambling. Stomach problems will tions on yourself. Opportunities occur if you aren't careful about will develop through colleagues. what you consume. 000 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 19): Do something about your You will have the discipline to fin-appearance. A new hairstyle or ish your projects. Take a look at toning up your body will make allyouroptioru;.Youmayfindyour-a vast difference to your self­self in a position to move to an esteem. 0000 area that looks more promising. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 0000 Get everyone you live with 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): involved in home-improvement Opportunities to make moves or projects. You will all feel much to expand your living quarters better about your environment. will be beneficial. You will have Invite friends in to enjoy your to be careful how you handle new surroundings. 000 your emotional partner, who may PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): not like the changes. 000 Get out and mingle with new 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Prob-people. Romantic connections lems at work may affect your can be made. Don't hesitate; act position. Try to keep a low profile on your gut feelings. 00000 
Birthday Baby: You see everything. You have an innate ability to decipher what others cannot even imagine. You are bold, briitht and ready to take on the world. Your competitive nature will leadyou to 
the winner's circle. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2001 Unive15al Pres, Syndicate 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Chiquilita" quartet 5 "Halt, salt!" 10 Jupiter, e.g. 14 Popular 1eans 15 Please, in Potsdam 
16 Alma mater of Jimmy Carter: Abbr. 
17 Mies van der Rohe aphorism 19 Helens 20 Without further ado 21 Animation 23 "E.A." venue 24 lnits. in 1940's 
news 
25 Tackle's teammate 27 Home of the Hale telescope 
29 Course of events 31 Judicial decision 32 Napoleon or Nero: Abbr. 35 Year Plutarch was bom 36 Gridiron ref 37 "60 Minutes" duo 41 Moolah 42 Libido 43 Receiver's gains: Abbr. 44 Receiver 45 Land of fairies 46 Gallipoli victor 48 Drivers' org. 50 Coal holder 53 Red Cross supply 54 Steel-_ 56 Market area 


Carolina keeps winning 
Former Irish men's hoops coach Matt Doherty has North Carolina offto a 14-2 start following a victory over Clemson Wednesday night. 
PORTS 
page 20 

Doherty 

page 24 os~tRVER Thursday, January 18, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles struggle late in gaine, fall to Olivet Comets 60-49 

By NOAH M1STADTER Assistant Sports Editor 

OLIVET, Mich. 
On a night where the theme was "Disco Night Boogie" in the Upton Gymnasium, it was the Lady Comets of Olivet College that had the last dance, topping the Belles 60-49 Wednesday night. 
The Belles (7-8. 1-4 in the MI.AA) tied the game at 30 with 14 min­utes remaining in the game on a to-footer by Elizabeth Linkous, but could nut withstand the strung Olivet offense late in the game. 
Following Linkous' basket, the Lady Comets went on a 19-6 run that built their lead to 49-36 with six minutes remaining. 
Christine May led Olivet with 17 points, while Louisa Grill added 16 for the Lady Comets. 
"I think somewhat we ran out of gas," said Belles coach Suzanne Smith. 
Despite the Olivet surge. the Belles kept fighting. Two baskets by Anne Blair, followed by a put-back by Katie Christiansen and a free­throw by Kelly Roberts pulled Saint Mary's within eight at 51-43 with 
2:39 left in the game. 

But the Comets soared in the final minutes, as forward Louisa Grill torched the Saint Mary's interior defense for 6 points as the Comets finished the Belles off 
"It was a long game, a lot of run­ning up and down," said Christiansen, who led Saint Mary's with 14 points and seven rebounds. "l think we got tired." 
Saint Mary's was playing short­handed, as star post player Kristin Matha nursed a strained hip ncxor muscle. Despite the injury, Matha braved the court for 12 minutes Wednesday night, contributing two points and four rebounds. 
"It really didn't look like she was real comfortable out there," said Smith of her leading rebounder. "You can't tell Kristin Matha to hold back, she's not going to do it.'' 
Stepping up in her teammate's absence was Christiansen, whose tenacity earned her the team high in rebounds despite her 5-foot-5 stature. 
"She has a lot of heart," said Smith. "Katie's done a really good job of stepping up and being that person that gets after it and does all the little things on the court." 
The Belles stayed in the game in the first half with a strong full-court defense. The Belles' post players were able to contain Grill. who scores 17 points per game, to only four points in the opening period. 
"Our post players have really stepped it up and played some good defense," said Smith. "We've got a lot of strong post players in our conference. We've for the most part held them down below their aver­age." 
The Belles looked to be fading late in the first half bc!'ore Matha and Christiansen took over. Down 19-13 in the closing minutes of the half. Matha's 8-footer, followed by two consecutive baskets by Christiansen. pulled the Belles to within 20-19 heading into the lock­er room. 
The key for Saint Mary's in the opening half was their full-court defense. which limited the Lady Comets to only 29.6 percent shoot­ing from the field in the half'. Unfortunately, Saint Mary's matched that woeful statistic exact­ly, hitting only eight of their 27 shots from the lield. Without Matha on the floor, Saint Mary's looked confused on offense. Forward Anne 
see HOOPS/page 21 
HOCKEY 

leers forced to settle for 2-5-1 record during vacation 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sporrs Writer 
The men's hockey team was hoping that Santa might deliver a season turnaround for Christmas. 
Unfortunately, that was one Christmas wish that didn't come true. 
Struggling at the bottom of the CCHA standings when stu­dents went home for the holi­days a month ago, eight sched­uled matches with CCHA foes provided potential for Irish improvement. While there were bright spots. the Irish finished the break with a dismal 2-5-1 record. 
The team split a home series Western Michigan this past weekend, securing one win and dropping another. The Broncos were ranked 5th nationally and were second in the CCHA. Notre Dame took the first game 4-1 at the Joyce Center. Th,e next night the Learn traveled up to Kalamazoo and forced a 3-3 tie. 
"We are going to build off the Western Michigan series, and and a tie at Miami (Ohio). hopefully make a run at the Before the Western Michigan playoffs," series, the Irish head Irish played coach Dave "We are going to build off in the 

Poulin said. the Western Michigan Rensselear T h e Polytechnic
series, and hopefully make
Western Christmas 
Michigan a run at the playoffs." Tournament series was the in Albany, Irish's first NY. Notre
Dave Poulin 

winning Dame lost in
Irish hockey coach

series since the first e a r I y round to St. November Lawrence 6­when Notre Dame got a win 3, and then lost the next day in 
the consolation round to Henssclcar 6-2. 
The Irish then got swept at home by Ferris State on the 5th and 6th of January. Notre Dame played well but still lost 4-2 the first night and 3-2 the second night in overtime. 
The Irish started off their break with a strong showing at Nebraska-Omaha. Notre Dame dropped the lirst game 1-0, but came back to win the next night 7-3. 
During part of Christmas 
see HOCKEY/page 21 
~ 
vs. Ohio State vs. Adrian Thursday and Friday Saturday, 3 p.m. 
'

SPORTS --s 
7:05 p.m. 

at Seton Hall ATA Sunday, 12 p.m.
:k 
Track and Field vs. West Virginia vs. Ball State, Western Michigan Sunday, 12 p.m.
'r--~ ,~ 
Friday, 6 p.m. 
GLANCE 







