
----~--------------­
The Super Fan
RAIN 
Friday 
Whether it be at home or away, senior Sharon Bui hasn't missed a game thls 
year. She gives advice on better ways to enjoy football. 
NOVEMBER 30,
HIGH 48° 
Scene . page 12-13
LOW 40° 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 50 

ND asks for lawsuit dismissal 
. English professor alleges University of age discrimination 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
In a five-page response that chal­lenges professor Thomas Jemielity's standing to sue Notre Dame for age discrimination, the University has asked that a judge dismiss the case. 
The response, filed Nov. 20 in U.S. District Court in South Bend, answers a complaint by 67-year-old Jemielity who alleged in an Oct. 30 suit that 
.......__..,N_o-tre Dame for the p-ast nine· years·•··· has fostered "a culture of discrimina­tion against older professors in its English Department." The suit claims that University offi­cials have paid Jemielity less than younger professors, mistreated him both publicly and in private and forced him to retire three years earli­er than he intended. Administrators have refused to remedy the discrimination, despite Jemielity's calling the issues to the attention of deans and English Department heads throughout the 1990s, the suit alleges. The suit seeks unspecified punitive and compensatory damages. In its response last week from University attorney Jill Bodensteiner, Notre Dame denied allegations that it employed unfair practices and creat­ed a hostile work environment. Some of Jemielity's claims are barred by Indiana statutes of limita­tions, according to Notre Dame's answer, because the professor failed to "seek relief in a timely manner." Jemielity also failed to meet requirements of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, according to the answer. "The idea that there's a pattern of discrimination ... as our filings indi­cate, that hasn't happened," University spokesman Dennis Moore said Thursday. Jemielity could not be reached for comment Thursday. The professor has worked at the University for more than 30 years. Not since former assistant football coach Joe Moore's dismissal has the University faced a high-profile age­bias suit. A federal court in 1998 awarded him more than $100,000 after determining that he was fired in 1996 because of his age. In the summer of 1998, the school settled out of court a gender-bias suit with Beth Kern. The former account­ing professor alleged sex discrimina­tion factored into the University's 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

No job, now service? 

. Less job options and changing career priorities follow terrorist attacks 
By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 
One of the advantages of attending Notre Dame, until recently, has been the availability of high-paying jobs upon graduation. But with the Sept. 11 events and the current economic reces­sion, more seniors may be pursuing service opportunities following their graduation than in past years. 
Andrea Shappell, director of senior transition programs at the Center for Social Concerns, predicts that approxi­mately 10 percent of the graduating seniors will be active in a wide range of public service and social justice activities next year. 
"Usually about 190 graduating seniors do a year or two of service after graduation, and that's been con­sistent even though the economy's been good. I don't have any hard stats, because most programs including ACE aren't accepting applications until January and February," said Shappell. 
"Sept. 11 brought volunteering back into the forefront of my mind," said senior accounting and film and televi­sion major Melissa Rauch. Rauch was offered her dream job at NBC, early in the semester, and signed up to work with NBC. 
But after becoming involved in Foodshare, a community service pro­ject designed to minimize the wasting of food, Rauch had a realization that she wanted to do more than two hours of service a week. 
"I signed the offer but then I had this realization that I hadn't done enough," said Rauch. "I had good intentions to do service when I first came here to Notre Dame, hut then I got busy with other things. Now I'm questioning what was important and I was worried that the same thing would happen when I started my career in Manhattan. I thought I needed to set aside time to do this one thing." 
Rauch admits that she was thankful that NBC allowed her to defer her job commitment for a year. 
"I had these feeling that I needed to do service, but I was worried that NBC might not be agreeable and I was afraid of risking my dream job." 
For Jeremy Bauer, a senior environ­mental geosciences major, Sept. 11 reinforced his decision to join the Peace Corps. 
"That [Sept. 11] kinda reaffirmed my commitment to service," he said. "I feel especially right now we need ambas­sadors to promote good will and soli­darity. But I've wanted to do interna­tional service since doing a sophomore summer service project. I feel now's a great time because it's harder to do these kinds of things once you're set­tled down with ajob." 
Bauer was accepted to the Peace Corps recently and wil1 be in Ecuador next year teaching resource manage­ment and water sanitation. 
Colleen Gilg, a senior government major, will also be involved in service abroad next year and had been plan­ning on doing service even before this year. Gilg is interested in international and human rights law and hopes to go to Latin America next year to gain experience that wiJI help her in the future. 
see SERVICE/page 4 
. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, November 30, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A tribute to the managers 
What were you doing last night? 

Chances are you were probably out exercising your right to a social life. Or, for you unlucky ones, you were studying for that miserable Friday morning exam. 
Not the managers. They 
likely spent around 10 hours of their time helping the football team prepare for its last game of the season against Purdue. 
They likely shivered their way through the last prac­tice of the week, then went immediately over to the 


Stadium to paint the helmets Bryan Kronk and get everything -yes, everything -ready to travel to West Lafayette. Sports Copy 
How do I know all this? Editor 
I was one of them. (And I'm psychic ... but that's another story for another Inside Column.) 
I think it's about time that our managers got some recognition for their hard work and dedi­cation to the athletic teams ofthis outstanding university. They spend countless hours of their time doing their best to make our teams' prac­tices and games go as smoothly as possible. Often these managers go overlooked because their names are not announced on a regular basis at the games, and their presence in the game programs is almost an afterthought. 
The work the managers do for our athletic program is far-reaching, from the miniscule ­picking out coaches' favorite flavors of gum and cola -to the major -making travel reserva­tions for away games. 
I'm sure you all remember the parties on our campus on football weekends. 
Managers don't. On home football weekends, they are in the Stadium on Friday nights, preparing the helmets, the uniforms. the cleats, the pads, etc., sometimes until the sun rises on Saturday -only to return several hours before kickoff, when they prepare the field goal nets, the kicking tees, the footballs, the first down markers, etc. Often the managers return home several hours after the game so tired from the past 36 hours they just go to sleep until Sunday afternoon. 
Think your weekly schedule is rough'? 
Try having three classes a day, then practice until dinnertime or later, then hitting the books for the rest of the night. 
True, this schedule applies for a lot of' athletes as well as managers, but there is one difference between managers and athletes. 
Recognition. 

When I was in the organization, I wouldn't have traded the experiences l had for anything in this world. Yes, the days were arduous, and yes, I did come close to injuring football players -twice -but I still think it is a valuable experi­ence for those who endure. 
That experience is precisely why the man­agers stick with it: well, that and the free clothes. 
Anyway, as our football season comes to a close and our beloved managers go their sepa­rate ways off to the many sports teams, I wanted to wish my fellow juniors good luck. 
So, to Lindsay, Lauren, Molly, Jim, Ellen, Kelly, Dave, Moody, Toby, Ned, Andy, Dawn, Jessi, Nat, Elise, Shannon, Karen, Conte, Chrissy, Hammell and Burgdorf, best of luck with whatever the future (and the athletic department) holds for you. 
In closing, "Has anyone seen my baseball?" 
Go Irish. 

Contact Bryan Kronk at Bryan.M.Kronk.3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recogniz.e that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) irpublishcd Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Hesburgh gets ambassador rank  Student trampled on game day  
Tuesday, November 29, 1977  Friday, November 27, 1992  
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh was  Saint Mary's senior Jill Burdo suffered bruised ribs, a  
confirmed by the Senate for the rank of ambassador for  bruised ligament in her left knee, broken blood vessels  
the tenure of his service as chairman of the U.S.  in her eyes and black eyes after being trampled by  
delegation to the United Nations Conference on Science  students when she fell while rushing onto the field after  
and Technology for Development in 1979.  the Irish victory against Penn State Saturday.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 

Fraternity member expulsions lead to litigation 
AUBURN, Ala. 
While Beta claims the University's 
Ten members of Beta Theta Pi sus­actions were a violation of their pended for wearing racially offensive rights, others said the fraternity Halloween costumes must be rein­members' suspension was the correct stated to Auburn University, Lee action. County Circuit Court Judge Robert "I think the actions taken by this Harper ordered Nov. 21. institution were none less than appro­
The order followed a complaint priate," said SGA President Brandon filed by the Auburn .Chapter of Beta Riddick-Seals at the trustees meeting. against the fraternity's national orga­Beta, however, is not simply n i za ti on, the University and demanding the reinstatement of the University officials, suspended students. 
The Board of Trustees, Vice Harper dismissed an additional President for Student Affairs vVes Sigma Theta. request by the fraternity for a Williams and Interim President At press time, neither fraternity restraining order against the William Walker were named in the could be reached. University to halt all further discipli­suit, which requests $300 million in "I am very concerned that these nary action. compensatory and punitive damages. instances reflect more than igno­In addition to members being sus­
Walker suspended the offending rance," Walker said at a Nov. 14 pended from school, the fraternity members after an investigation into trustees meeting before the suit was was earlier suspended by the actions that took place at two frater­filed. "They reflect a lack of concern University and disbanded by its nity parties, Beta Theta Pi and Delta for humanity." national organization. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Suicide likely cause of prof's death 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Despite no new leads in the investigation, a Memphis Police Department spokesperson said Wednesday suicide is the most likely explanation for Harvard University professor Don Wiley's disappear­ance in Memphis earlier this month. "Indications are that he parked the car on the bridge and took his own life, [but] we can't conclude that," said Lt. Richard True. a department spokesperson. "We're basing this on previous experiences where people park their car and jump off the bridge and leave their keys in the ignition." Police have not found Wiley's body, and have uncovered no new leads in the case that has baffled authorities since the Loeb professor of biophysics and biochemistry disappeared after a Nov. 15 meeting in Memphis. Wiley's empty rental car was found abandoned with a full tank of gas and the keys in the ignition on a bridge at 4 a.m. Nov. 16, with the professor last seen in a Memphis hotel four hours earlier. 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Possible bonfire designs announced 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

Texas A&M University Bonfire 2002 planners unveiled the three potential designs for the stack that could burn next November at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday. One design is a classic teepee, one design stacks logs of equal height against the inte­rior framework and one design holds true to the recent Aggie Bonfires -a stack with logs of three dif­ferent lengths that resemble previous Bonfires' wed­ding-cake structure. All three meet Texas A&M University President Dr. Ray Bowen's parameters of' a single tier in which all logs touch the ground, and each stack will collapse inward as it burns, said Steering Committee Facilitator Dr. Bryan Cole. Each design stands 45 feet tall, is made of wooden logs and topped with an orange "t.u. frathouse" outhouse. Designs are posted on the Bonfire 2002 Web site, at http://studentaffairs.tamu.edu/bonfire02, and at the Memorial Student Center and the Sterling C. Evans Library complex. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 30. 
Saturd+y 
Sunda* Monday Tuesd~y 

0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
,.,....,,,,, 

® © D D a::] D D D 
High Low Shower• Rain T-atorma Flume ¦ Snow Ice Sunny Pl Cloudy Cloudy 
V,a As.soeiltttH.'I Press 
~ 
,},-~/ 

Atlanta 64 45 Las Vegas 55 34 Portland 44 41 Baltimore 68 45 Memphis 49 41 Sacramento 54 37 Boston 63 53 Milwaukee 46 38 St. Louis 51 43
q_~_~Y.QQ (f ~ ~ 
Chicago 47 39 New York 66 49 Tampa 82 63 
Showers T-storms Rain Fi.;rrles S~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 66 55 Philadelphia 71 50 Washington DC 69 49 
Via Assoc111ted Press Graphics/Vet 


30s 

------------------------------······-------------•--~ 
Friday, November 30, 200 l page 3 
The Observer . NEWS 

Recession, post office delays affect admissions 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Writer 
Since the initial -anthrax problems in mid-September, post offices have been taking addPd prncautions against the threat of contamination which has caused postal delays in homes and busi­nesses across the nation. 
College admissions departments, rely­ing heavily on cut-off dates and dead­lines. have been especially aware of the hold-up. 
\t\lith rngular-dl~cision deadlines quick­ly approaching and early-action dates nearly past, it is now prime application season for college students and high school seniors alike. Whether it will become even morn stressful than usual with late arrivals and application antici­pation will rt1ly on the promptness of the 
U.S. Postal Service. 
Many undergraduate and graduate admissions offices at universities across the country have pushed back applica­tion deadlines in an effort to accommo­date the increasingly unpredictable postal service. 
of meeting official deadlines. At both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. the num­ber of applicants utilizing the online option is far ahead of last year's figures. 
But as Mundy pointed out, it is really too early to make assumptions, as only 25-30 percent of prospective students have applied at this point. 
According to those figures, the number of applicants has shown no significant decline, and Undergraduate Admissions is still looking to admit a freshman class of roughly 1,935 students. 
"Things look pretty positive," Mundy said. "Still a lot more that can happen. \Ve never really know until the deadline comes." 
Mary Pat Nolan, director of admissions for Saint Mary's, echoed Mundy's opti­mism. "We have expressed a certain degree of flexibility ... and don't antici­pate any problems," she said in regards to relaxing application deadlines. 
Like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's has not experienced any major waning in the numbers of applications being received thus far, and is actually running ahead of schedule. 
Where Nolan 
has speculated 

Undergraduate admissions "Generally, we'll take that then• might The offices of undergradu­be a deviation
things as long as they're
ate admissions at Notre from the norm is Dame and Saint Mary's, postmarked by the in the fact that while not officially postponing correct date. ,, "some families their Nov. 1 and Nov. 15 have been early action deadlines, have expressing con­
Leah Ashe 
realized the need for a more cerns that their lenient acceptance policy Notre Dame admissions officer students live 
regarding late-arriving appli­cations, and have decided to keep late applications for consideration. 
"Generally. we'II take things as long as they're postmarked by the correct date," Notre Dame admissions officer Leah Ashe said. " ... [Recently], we're aware of the fact that they might take a little longer." 
So much longer. in fact, that the office had even decided to accept any applica­tions received by Nov. 15. a date two weeks later tha11 Notre Dame's official deadline. 
Despite tlrn setback. anxious seniors need not prolong their anticipation, as counselor Bob Mundy insists that the office is "still planning on early action letters going out by mid-December, and regular-action letters going out in mid­April." 
With an increased uncertainty in the efficiency of the postal system, a higher number of students have opted to use online applications in lieu of their paper counterparts to safeguard their chances closer to home," 
which may affect where students ultimately decide to attend. According to Nolan's take on the reactions of college admissions offices on a national level, "the general consensus is that students are applying as they have been. Where we'll see the differ­ence is in where they'll choose to go." 
Graduate admissions 
Notre Dame's graduate and profession­al admissions offices have siniilarly had to deal with the frustrations of delayed mailings and prolonged waiting periods. The graduate school has seen a marked increase in the use of online applications. 
However, staff member Linda Chism said that this may not be solely attrib­uted to the slowed postal service because online applications have proven to be much more accessible in their second year of availability and do still depends on the postal system for sending oflicial documents, such as transcripts and rec­ommendations. 
Because Dec. 1 has remained the ini­of the law school's online application at tial deadline for prospective graduate embark.com has been on the increase as students, the office has already been compared to this time last year, further inundated with mail, particularly from ensuring that the process remains on international candidates who have had schedule. And the office itself is staying to mail applications even earlier than right on track, with i:~arly decisions let­usual. The office has not experienced tc rs b£~ing mailed before Christmas any significant obstacles thus far, and break. Chism is doubtful that 
Beyond campus

then~ will be "any offi­
While Notre Dame

cial action or grace peri­
"We have expressed a and Saint Mary's have
od" to take late applica­
certain degree of encountered minimal
tions into account, even difficulties within their
if mail trends do contin­fl.exibility ... and don't 
own undergraduate 
ue to change. 

anticipate any problems." and graduate admis­
Although applications 
sions offices, it is 

have only just begun to 
rather the seniors

arrive in large quanti­Mary Pat Nolan here that have had to
ties, the graduate director of admissions at 
bear the brunt of poli­

schools have been Saint Mary's cy changes at other 
receiving an increased 
schools. Many have 

number of applications. 
experienced typical

Admissions officials are not surprised. 
application processes, with definite
"We figured it would be a trend any­deadlines and expedient replies.
way, because of the economy in gener­
As "No schools were pushing back 
al," Chism said. 

deadlines," senior Irish Thompson said. 
With more students finding it difficult "My biology advisor told us to put return 
to secure jobs upon graduation, there 
addresses on the applications, but that's
has been a noticeable upsurge in the 
all."

number of students taking the GRE 
Loyola University, one of the top post­across the nation. 
baccalaureate institutions that Notre 
Similarly. the number of law school 
Dame students opt to attend, has pro­applicants has seen a significant rise fessed no need to alter deadlines for 
over last year's figures. Margaret their graduate, law, and medical stu­
Edgington, a senior staff assistant at the dents, while the University of Virginia's University's law school, echoed Chism's law school has agreed to be more lenient sentiment. 
with official deadlines.
"If undergraduate seniors are having 
Unfortunately for many students bound difficulty getting a job, then they apply to for medical school, the resulting waitinggrad school in case they can't find one," periods have been lengthened to extents she said, acknowledging the economy's 
far greater than normal. 
role in the admissions process as well. 
''We are not expected to hear about a Edgington's office has been receiving lot of decisions until mid-to-late second 
applications for the past month or so. As 
semester," senior Karen Ron said. 
they approach their busiest time period, 
Many schools on the East Coast,
from the end of November to March 1, 
according to Ron, have pushed back 
she said that the staff has still not 
their deadlines, and AMCAS, the compa­
encountered any major problems. As a ny that facilitates the initial medical 
result of the decision to take added pre­school application, found it necessary to 
cautions when handling mail, it has 
postpone the initial application schedule
taken slightly longer for letters and 
because they were unable to receive 
applications to be opened, but there have their mail on time.
been no delays thus far. 
Despite postal delays and threats of
"We have been yery lucky up to now. 
anthrax, students and prospective stu­We haven't had any delays with any mail 
dents at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
that we've sent out...I can't say [the post have proven that life has been allowed to
office delays] have really affected us 
go on as usual.
much at all," she said. 
"People aren't letting this frightenThis may be partly because the law them, and that's a good thing," said
school admissions office has seen a rise 
Nolan.

in the use of online applications, as well as UPS and FedEx for sending prioritized mail, as opposed to using the Postal Service. In its third year of operation, use Contact Meghan Martin at 
mmartin@nd.edu 
Protest proposes peaceful alternatives to war strikes 
By JASON McFARLEY News Ediror 
First they prayed for peace. Now they'll march for it. 
Members of Notre Dame's Peace Coalition will sponsor a peace protest Sunday against 
U.S. attacks on Afghanistan. The protest will lead demon­strators through downtown 
South Bend in an effort orga­nizers hope will highlight injustices in America's 
response to the Sept. 11  ter­ 
rorist strikes.  
"We  want  justice,  not  

revenge," said Aaron Kreider of the Peace Coalition. "We're advocating a non-violent solu­tion to terrorism.,. 
Participants will meet about 1 p.m. at St. Joseph's Church 
t,.. t ,.,. 

u As You 'llish') 
--f0...,. LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY ~...... SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS 
IA,\PORTS 
. '-TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE ... 
PURSES, WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES, INCENSE SARONGS 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Thailand • Mexico • India 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry gaurantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. 
LaFortune Room 108 (Near Telephones) Nov. 26 -Dec. 1 (Sat, 10 to 5 m 
at Hill Street and LaSalle Avenue. The 45-minute march will proceed through the city's downtown area and end at the church. 
Transportation to the march will be available beginning at 
12:30 p.m. in the Library Circle. 
The event is co-sponsored by the Michiana Peace and Justice Coalition, a local activist group. 
"We want to stop the attacks that are hurting innocent civil­ians in Afghanistan," Kreider said. 
The protest Sunday is the Peace Coalition's first public demonstration in nearly two months. 
The newly formed student group on Oct. 7 hastily orga­nized a prayer vigil following the first round of U.S. air strikes on Afghanistan. The campus protest attracted more than two dozen students to the Fieldhouse Mall wearing "Pray for Peace" T-shirts and speak­ing aloud prayers for an end to the violence. 


Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. I@nd.edu 

·1[ 7J :St.uJenf e1iamber '7Husic N.('(·ilal 
}'.,,i,.,;..,(j,,J..,J,...t 1(..J...,.J..J. 51,.J..,J,;..tt.('r...l,,. )!{H.;,.(11.,.., 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 30, 200 I 
Learning Tree survives South Bend budget cuts 
Service 
continued from page 1 

"I figure long-term I'll be working on public policy, and it's crucial if you 're doing something like that to have grass roots experience," said Gilg. 
Like Bauer, Gilg had been thinking about service after graduation before Sept. 11. "Sept. 11 strengthened my resolve, but I had been thinking about it previously to that. If anything it makes it more difficult with family and friends who are worried about me going abroad," she said. "However, I felt what happened highlights 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
The Stud·ent Activities Office has immediate openings for : 


use. 
"We do charge a penny or so above cost, but that's because we'd like to see the center support itself," said Doyle. 
The center is full of games and learning activities, which were all made by the Learning Tree staff at some point, which have been geared to children in pre­school through sixth grade and can be purchased at a low price. There is also a laminator available, card stock, poster board, game markers, dice and two Ellison machines to help with scrap booking, bulletin boards and posters. 
"It'll be great, last year I did my methods class and we had to get ofT campus to go to Kinko's. So having it here will be much better because we'll get to do it ourselves. I'm glad they finally got us a resource center like South Bend had," Nicole Sommers said. 
The area currently hous­ing the Learning Tree is Madeleva 325, a much smaller space than the cen­ter is used to having. However, Fogal said the service will still manage to come together in the space provided. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at boyl5460@saintmarys.edu. 

the need to do international services and reaching out to better relations in the world." 
For seniors still contemplating doing ser­vice, Shappell urged them to take advan­tages of the resources that the CSC offers. 
"It's not at all late to do this. A lot of the domestic programs don't start taking applications until the end of January and there are opportunities for engineers, architects, and those interested in the medical field to get experience and also take part in service programs," Shappell said. 
Contact Ally Jay at ajay@nd.edu 
NURTURING THE TREE OF LIFE 

By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's and the South Bend Community School Corporation joined together to keep the Learning Tree alive and open for community use. 
After 26 years, the budget for the Learning Tree, a community workspace for teachers, students, parents and the commu­existing ideas one may have. While this workspace is geared toward education majors and teachers in the community, it is open to all to make projects or posters for clubs. bind books or sim­ply have something laminat­ed. 

"I think it is a wonderful resource for all of our stu­dents, especially for our education students, but I see it as a supply for many clubs 
nity in "[The Learning Tree] will 
general, 

be a community link, 
was cut 

out of the which is a nice SBCSC community partnership 
budget 
and outreach on
I a s t ,, spring. campus. S i n c e t h e n , 
Marie Doyle
S a i n t 

Education Department chair
Mary's 
h a s taken on the program in the form of a permanent loan. 
"Students used us because they didn't have a resource center. A lot of students came down,'' director Jane Fogal said. "\Vhen they cut the program I saw a need for it and here we are." 
The Learning Tree is a designed program where the community can come and make instructional materials or receive ideas on how to implement pre­
on campus. It will be a community link, which is a nice community partnership and out­reach on campus, Education Department chair Marie Doyle said. 
When the 
S B C S C 

loaned the program to Saint Mary's, it also donated most of the equipment needed to run it, and Saint Mary's inherited the salary of the director. However, it is hoped the Learning Tree will start to pay for itself in time because the center will charge for its services and supplies. Fogal insures that the reason for charging the students and community is simply so she can replenish the supplies for everyone to 

Moving to New York this January ... 
... and need an apartment? A 1999 ND grad is looking for a roon1mate for a very nice 2BR apartment in Hoboken, NJ. Full Manhattan view. 15 min. commute (quicker than upper east/west side). Call Michael at 201.386.1212 

ATI 


Friday, November 30, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Argentine stocks tumble: Argentine stocks and bonds tumbled to their lowest lev­els in nearly a decade Thursday, weakened by investor doubts about continued support from the International Monetary Fund. The Merval Index of leading shares fell 5 percent and Argentine bonds also dropped to record lows, overshadowing the government's recent suc­cess in efforts to swap nearly half of the coun­try's $132 billion debt load. 
Philipine rebels free hostages: 
Eighty-nine hostages were freed today by Muslim rebels in a deal with the government to end a two-day standoff. In return, the rebels, loyal to a renegade local governor, were allowed to move to another guerrilla camp 40 miles away and to avoid prosecution, at least for now. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Brothers charged in Fla. murder: 
Two adolescent brothers were charged Wednesday with killing their father soon after the boys returned home after being missing a week. The body of Terry Lee King, 40, was found when firefighters responded to a fire at the family home. Sheriff's officials said he died from head wounds. His sons, Derek, 13, and Alex, 12, surrendered to sheriff's deputies, Chief Deputy Larry Smith said. The boys talked with investigators, but Smith would not disclose what the brothers said. 
Rare butterfly given protection: 
The Carson wandering skipper, a small, tawny-orange butterfly found in only two counties along the northern Nevada­California border. was given emergency pro­tection Thursday by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The action came amid fears that pending water exportation proposals would doom the tiny insect to extinction. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Three charged in charity fraud: 
Three emergency medical service workers were charged Thursday with embezzlement for keeping money they raised for the families of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. A grand jury indicted former Silver Lake EMS workers Kurt Owens, Scott Stephens and Brandon Swindell. The three raised nearly $6,000 for a relief fund that never left the· northern Indiana city, Kosciusko County Sheriff Aaron Hovenstine said. A Crime Stoppers tip alerted authorities to inconsisten­cies in the EMS fund, the sheriff said. 
Market Watch November 29 

Dow 
9,829.42 +I l7.56 

Jones 

CornpositeSame: 

Volume:
212 

1,368,228,224 
AMEX: 8 I 3.39 +9.40 NASDAQ: 1,933.26 +45.29 NYSE: 579.75 +4.55 S&P 500: 1,140.20 +11.68 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ENRON CORP (ENE) -40.98 -0.25 0.36 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) 3.10 +1.20 39.95 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) 5.35 +1.01 19.89 MCLfODUSA INC-A (MCLD) +4.94 +0.65 13. 81 INTEL CORP (INTC) -28.38 -0.21 0.53 
AFGHANISTAN 


...­

-· .,· . ... -~ 
~-­~:%--. . ,.,,,~;-.•·:• ·. -~-,:_ 
'· _w -. ~-~ . -;,,; :· 
~ . ,,,.,,.• ~::: .... ·-. Y-'*~:;.;.;;._f:-­
$ ;..,-, 

. --:·:-.•-•:. ~~. 
!'·-·_,·· ;};i-" 
f. 
~t~:ii~~~{i!l;,, ·. 
•~ -~, •,•'-";<.,, 
~•-~-~­
AFP Photo 

Northern Alliance troops stand guard as convoys transport Alliance supplies and Taliban prisoners from Kunduz to Mazar-e-Sharif on Wednesday. The Pentagon says that the number of Taliban prisoners continues to rise. 
Pentagon tracks defections, deaths 
Thursday. She declined to provide crucial informa­questioned.
Associated Press 

name them. tion that will lead to find­As for the fate of al­
WASHINGTON Among those the ing Taliban and al-Qaida Qaida figures, after nearly 
Two lists are kept at the Pentagon would like to leaders, as well as sites two months of U.S. bomb­
command center for the interrogate are two they may use to hide ing in Afghanistan, seven 
war in Afghanistan -one Taliban ministers, includ­weapons stashes, financial al-Qaida leaders and 
with al-Qaida leaders that ing intelligence chief Qari records and so on. senior aides are believed 
marks them "inj" for Ahmadulla. The Pentagon is just killed. Many from bin 
injured or "kia" for killed. A U.S. official, speaking starting to receive and Laden's top echelons are 
The other is for the on condition of anonymity, evaluate the information alive. 
Taliban. color-coded to said there were credible from such interrogations, The most significant 
show those defecting, reports that Ahmadulla the official said, declining killed so far was 
injured or negotiating to had defected to northern to say who had been ques­Mohammed Atef, one of 
surrender -targets for alliance rebels. tioned. the top two advisers to bin 
questioning by Americans U.S. troops have been Of the more than three Laden, who died in a CIA­
in the hunt for Osama bin allowed by opposition dozen Taliban the assisted U.S. airstrike 
Laden. groups to question other Pentagon has on its list, around Nov. 14. Atef was 
"There have been defec­defectors and prisoners some· 12 have been killed. bin Laden's operational 
tions ... of some of the who have surrendered or injured or have defected, planner and believed to 
more senior people," been captured, a senior said one defense official have supervised planning 
Pentagon spokeswoman defense oflicial said. who has seen it. He didn't for several attacks. includ­
Victoria Clarke said The hope is that they can say how many had been ing the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Crews to clean anthrax from Senate 
building will pull air from the suite of barriers. Some technicians trained
Associated Press 

offices used by Senate Majority with face masks and oxygen tanks. 
WASHINGTON Leader Tom Das1.:hle, D-S.D. It is the first instance in which the 
Two $1 million laboratory buses Once· the air is outside, it will be United States will use the gas to kill parked outside the Senate's Hart mixed with the chlorine gas. The mix anthrax, which showed up in Oflice Building await the go-ahead to will go through hoses back to Daschle's office through a tainted be transformed into mobile air moni­Daschle's office. The goal is to kill letter received Oct 15. tors in an elaborate and unprece­any remaining spores. Since then, the Hart building has dented mission -helping rid the After the fumigation, the chemical remained closed while the EPA and building of deadly anthrax spores. meta bisulfite will be pumped into other federal agencies are satisfied it 
The buses will circle the building the offices to break down the chlo­no longer is dangerous. Fifty of the every 15 minutes Friday night while rine dioxide gas, turning the chlorine 100 senators work in the building. workers inside fumigate it with chlo­into salt. The fumigation will begin with rine dioxide gas. Crews worked to install tanks on Daschle's office and last about eight 
A machine about the size of a 20-the sidewalk and set up chemically hours, said Lt. Dan Nichols of the foot boat trailer stationed outside the resistant plastic pipe and interior Capitol Police. 
--------------------------------------r 
page 6 Friday, November 30, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

LIGHTS ON CAMPUS
A CULTURE FOR LIFE 

Dorms, such as Keough [right] and Dillon are lighting up the night with the holiday spirit. 
. 
photos by: 

SONIA WALLACE 

Na_ncy Cartwri 
the voice of bart simpson 
·Friday December 7, 200 l, 7·00pm
r 

Jordor1 A~udttorium, Mendoza College of Business 
Ticket pre-sale tstudent only}: 1 l /28 -l 2/2 Students $5f Public $8 at the door 

Friday. November 30, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Security Council passes Iraq's oil-for-food deal 
ed in Tunisia and Jordan since the 1991 week, Hussia agreed to approve by May monitoring resumes in Iraq in conjunc­
Associated Press 
Gulf \Var. 30 a new list of goods needing U.N. tion with the suspension and lifting of UNITED NATIONS Hut it dropped the demand after review before shipment to Iraq. A provi­sanctions, and the only way to achieve The SPcuritv Council unanimously behind-the-scenes diplomatic pressure sional list ranging from night vision gog­this is to eliminate ambiguities which approved a r(~solution on Thursdav from VVashington, Wes.tern diplomats gles to radar and telecommunications exist in the [1999J resolution," said said. The oil-for-food program allows equipment was attached to the resolu­Russia's U.N. Ambassador Sergey
extending the U.N. humanitarian pro-­
Iraq to sell unlimited quantities of' oil on tion. Lavrov.
gram in Iraq and setting the stage for 
condition that the proceeds are spent on The United States, in turn, agreed to The United States long has maintained
an overhaul of U.N. sanctions against 
food, medicine and other humanitarian Hussia's long-standing that the resolu­
Baghdad next year. 
goods, and war reparations. deinand for "a comprehen­tion needs no
The resolution was drafted by the 

When the program camn up for sive settlement" of the sanc­"The only way to clarification. and
United States and Hussia, which have 
renewal in June, the United States and tions issue -including radically solve the Iraqi that Baghdad
been feuding over policy toward Iraq for 
Britain trif'd to include a sanctions over­steps leading to lifting the must allow
several years, and marked problem is to ensure that
haul plan tighten­military embargo imposed weapons inspec­
another sign of growing 
international
ing the 11-year-old after Iraq's 1990 invasion of tors back into the
cooperation betwee11 "/ think it means that 
military embargo Kuwait. "I think it means disarmament monitoring country before
Washington and Moscow. 
starting June r, there 
on Saddam that starting on June 1, sanctions are lif't­
especially since the Sept. resumes in Iraq in 
will be a new system in Hussein's regime there will be a new system ed. President
11 attacks on the United 
States. place that will enable us and clamping in place that will enable us conjunction with the Bush said down on Iraqi oil finally to achieve ... a greatly suspension and lifting of Monday Iraq
Disputes over Iraq usual­

finally to achieve ... a 
smuggling while improved oil-for-food pro­must allow
ly left extension of Urn oil­sanctions ..... 
greatly improved easing the flow of gram and greatly facilitated inspectors to
for-food humanitarian pro­
civilian goods into implementation of the sanc­return or face the
gram to the last moment. oil-for-food program. " 
Iraq. tions regime," U.S. deputy Sergey Lavrov consequences.
But the U.S.-Hussian com­
A list of dual-use ambassador James Iraq has been
promise enabled the coun­Russia's U.N. Ambassador
James Cunningham and military-relat­Cunningham said. mentioned by
ril to approve a six-month 
U.S. deputy ambassador ed goods needing Diplomats said the United some congress­
extension one day before 
review was a key States made an important concession in men and Bush administration officials
the current phase expires 
part of the propos­supporting Russia's call to clarify a con­as a possible target of the U.S. war on
at midnight Friday. 
al. But Washington and London shelved troversial December 1999 Security terrorism. Under U.N. resolutions,
U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte 
the plan when the Russians thn•aten(~d Council resolution to ease sanctions in sanctions only can be lifted if inspectors
called it "a vPry important step forward 
a veto. Hussia, Iraq's closest Security return for Baghdad's cooperation with determine that Iraq's programs for
and another example of strong unity 
Council ally and a major beneficiary of weapons inspectors. weapons of mass destruction have been
and consensus within the Security 
contracts to purchase Iraqi oil and to Russia says the steps Iraq must take dismantled. Inspectors left Iraq ahead of
Council." Tunisia had threatened to 
sell Iraq humanitarian supplies, saw the to have the sanctions lifted are not U.S.-British airstrikes in December 1998
block consensus unless the council 
goods review list as a threat to its com­clearly explained. "The only way to and Iraq has barred them from return­
included a provision authorizing the 
mercial interests. radically solve the Iraqi problem is to ing, saying sanctions must be lifted
return to Iraq of civilian aircraft strand-
Under the compromise reached this ensure that international disarmament before it will consider new inspections. 
Administration nixes Cuban concession demand 
make other concessions, a State ing proper compensation. Richard Boucher restated has certified 5,9 J1 property
Associated Press 
Department official said "Cuba recognizes their rights, American support for the claims by U.S. citizens against Thursday. and would be willing to reach an embargo. "The president said the Cuban government. It doesWASHINGTON Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe agreement that also takes into he would oppose any effort to not accept Cuba's demand forThe Bush administration has 
Perez Roque reaffirmed the account the extremely heavy weaken sanctions against the damages resulting from the
turned down a Cuban offer to 
long-standing Cuban proposal economic and human damages Cuban government until it embargo.
compensate Americans whose 
while at the United Nations this and losses inflicted on our coun­respects Cuban's basic human On an unrelated subject, Cubaproperties were confiscated 40 week, saying the embargo pre­try by the blockade," he said. rights and civil rights, frees polit­announced Thursday that theyears ago if the United States vm1ted U.S. citizl-'ns from receiv-State Department spokesman ical prisoners and holds free and next round of migration talks
agreed to lift its embargo and 
democratic elections with with the United States will be 

2002-2003 

Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

international observers," Boucher said. 
Two years ago, a Cuban court demanded payment of $181 bil­lion in compensation for the damages. The United States maintains that the principle of cmnpensation for expropriated properties is embedded in international law. 
It rejects any linkage between the compensation issue and the embargo. The U.S. government 
University Residence Halls. are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
or go to 
www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed Applications must be submitted by February 8, 2002 
wa~mhats
(\:;naves
·\·~--:... ::,4"?11'~0{'.., sol"".r}lo•'
· lG• 0"".:.>1. -... (:-.. ~.!-lJ 
~nlyai . C 
5n1inutes__.,,,,i..illJJ,..
f,·orn CJU'TrlDS I 
Cczmt-1£ts ~ 
r Cold Weather Experts 
December 1st 
Happy 19th Birthday, Beth 
Thinking ofyou 
Love__. Mom, Dad, Meg, 
Uncle Frank, Aunt Joan, 
Uncle Len & Aunt Mary 

held Monday in Havana. The Cuban delegation is likely to renew complaints about an American law that it says claimed the lives of Cuban would-be immigrants who apparently drowned recently while en route the United States. 
The 1966 law allows undocu­mented Cubans who reach American soil to avoid repatria­tion and eventually apply for legal residency. President Fidel Castro said 30 Cubans drowned in the recent incident. 
U.S. oflicials said the number is not known because there is no passenger list. 
The U.S. delegation will be headed by James Carragher, the State Department coordi­nator for Cuban affairs. He is expected to register complaints about what the administration sees as unwarranted delays by Cuba in approving exit visas for Cubans eligible to immi­grate to the United States. 



i; page 8 The Observer . NEWS Friday, November 30, 2001 
ENGLAND

Surveillance under revision 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Just weeks after approv­ing powerful new anti-ter­rorism laws, some lawmak­ers already are considering giving the government new police powers to make it easier to obtain special wiretaps and search war­rants usually reserved for finding foreign spies. 
The new changes would allow government agents to secretly request wiretaps even if details about the tar­get of the surveillance, such as his identity or the loca­tion of his phone, aren't known. They also would allow agents to make broader demands for most business records, as long as the documents were related to an investigation. 
Another change would permit the United States to invoke a powerful anti-espi­on age law even in cases against individual foreign­ers. That law is currently 
reserved for cases against people working as spies f o r foreign govern­ments or other for­eign orga­nizations. 
A fourth change 
would give the government up to three days to seek a judge'·s approval for war­r an ts after investigators conduct a search or wiretap in emergencies. The gov­ernment currently must obtain a judge's permission after 24 hours. 
The changes, under con­sideration by House and Senate members working on the intelligence bill that would set the budget for the CIA, would affect a pow­erful 1978 anti-espionage law. the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Under that law, a secret -U.S. court considers requests for searches or wiretaps, and these gener­ally require a lower stan­dard of proof for approval than in traditional criminal cases. 
The Justice Department characterized the changes being sought as narrow, technical amendments to the surveillance act. But civil liberties groups cau­tioned that the changes were substantive and con­siderably broadened police powers. 
"This is a significant 

expansion of electronic sur­veillance in the United States," said Jerry Berman, head of the Washington­based Center for Democracy and Technology. "It's only been a month or so, and they're already asking for expansions." 
"Subjecting any foreign person to FISA is a 
fundamental "Subjecting any foreign when the 
men, new research suggests.

change to the primary
person to PISA is a 

A study published this week in
statute," focus of 
The Lancet medical journal com­
agreed fundamental change to t h e i r 
pared brain scans of people who
Morton the statute.,. investiga­
had taken 50 or more Ecstasy
Halperin, a tion isn' 
tablets in their lifetimes with
senior fellow t spying 
those of a group who had never
Morton Halperin

at the by a for­
~ak_en the drug. The findings
Council on fellow eign gov­
mdicated women -but not men
Foreign Council of Foreign Relations ernment. 
Helations. "These can by no means be character­ized as technical." 
That change would specify that the surveillance law could be used against "a foreign individual," accord­ing to draft language by the Justice Department, which was obtained 
"This is a significant expansion ofelectronic surveillance in the United States.., 
Jerry Berman head of the Washington-based Center for Democracy and Technology 
Thursday by 
T h e 
Associated Press. 
Justice lawyers wrote that otherwise restricting use of the espionage law "limits the ability of the president to use this 

statute against ... hijackers or other terrorists without affiliation or known affilia­tion with a specific group or foreign state." 
Another change would add the phrase "if known" to the requirement for wire­tap approvals of identifying the location of a target's electronic communications. Justice lawyers said the change would be useful in cases of wireless telephones or e-mail accounts, "where the facility to be monitored is typically not known in advance." 
Reacting to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Congress under the new Patriot Act gave government agents broad new powers to detain 
.....,.;.;,_•l···'n?<J;i~-:,r.::. b."'...• ; -... ,
Co 
um 1a 
Sportswear
!arrest selectiorz c.lt 
i_m~nute~ t.~om OU,.,.CIIIT
CampiLs llllrmEinllllll 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
immigrants, navesdrop on 

Study finds Ecstasytelephone calls and e-mails and share sensitive details of criminal investigations 
harms women more
with the CIA. President 
Bush signed the Patriot Act on Oct. 26. 
Associated Press
Among other things. the law permits U.S. prosecu­

LONDON
tors to invoke the anti-espi­Ecstasy, the increasingly popu­onage law lar party drug, may cause more

C V e n 

brain damage in women than in 
-lost a significant number of
It also 

brain cells, even though the men
makes it 

had taken more Ecstasy over the
legal for investigators to 
years.
pass sensitive information 

Fifty tablets is considered the
about criminal cases to 

threshold for increased risk of
intelligence agencies. 

d,eveloping psychiatric problems. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney 

~xp~rts sa!d the p:eliminary
General Michael Chertoff. in 

fmd!n_g.s raised an mteresting
testimony earlier this week 

possibility but that larger studies
before the Senate 

are needed to confirm the
Judiciary Committee, said 
results.
that information-sharing 

Ecstasy, also known as XTC or
allowed under the Patriot 

E, affects serotonin, a brain
Act "has been indispensable 

chemical that regulates mood
to satisfying our direction to 

emotion, sleep, appetite, memory
protect the American people 

and_ sexua! behavior. The drug
against future acts of ter­

typically mduces feelings of
rorisri1." 

euphoria, increased energy
The intelligence bill, 

and sexual arousal, and makes
which is largely classified, 

people feel a need to be touched
provides funding and some 
or hugged.
policy guidance to the 13 

The illegal drug, known scien­
U.S. intelligence agencies, 

ti_fically as methylene­
including the CIA and the 

d1oxymethamphetamine, or
National Security Agency. 

MDMA, is also said to sup­
Its total amount is secret 

press the need to eat, drink or
but thought to be around 

sleep, making it possible to
$30 billion annually. The 

endure parties for two or three
House and Senate have 
days.
already passed separate 

However, in high doses it can
versions of the bill, which 

cause a sharp increase in body
contain large increases for 

temperature, leading to muscle
the agencies. 

breakdown, kidney and heart 
LAFAYETTE 
SQUARE TOWN HOMES 
"The Best Value Per Student" 
ONLy A FEW LEFT FOR 2002-2003 
RESERVE YOURS TODAY! 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN HOMES OFFER: 
• 4 & 5 Bedroom Town Homes
Amzo, Here's to the ultimate Ho1ne Town Honev' 
., . 

• Fully Equipped Kitchens 

• Washer & Dryer in Each Unit 
• Central Air Conditioning 
Happy 

• 
Assigned Parking Spaces 

• 
ADT Security Systems 


21st! 

• 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 
Professionally Managed by: Real Estate Management Corporation 
P. 0. Box 540 130 South Main Street 
Love, 

South Bend, IN 46624-0540 (219) 234-9923
Erin, Jacqueline, Kathleen & Kristin 
Gr
EQU"-1.. tt0U$!MG 
Ol'l'ORTUIUT'I' 
failure, and death. 

Studies have shown it also kills brain cells that release serotonin. Scientists are now trying to find out how long the brain damage lasts and its long-term conse­quences. So far, studies have found that heavy users have persistent memory prob­lems and preliminary research suggests they also have trouble with verbal reasoning and sus­taining attention. 
In the latest study, Dutch scien­tists compared the brain scans of 69 people, who were divided into four groups. One included peo­ple who used drugs but not Ecstasy, the second comprised those who had taken fewer than 50 tablets during their lives. The third, the heavy users, had taken 50 or more Ecstacy pills and the fourth group included people who used to be heavy users but had given up Ecstasy at least a year before the study. · 
The researchers found that compared to the brains of women who had never taken Ecstasy, ·the brains of heavy Ecstasy female users had weaker concentrations of serotonin transporters, the sites on brain cell surfaces that mop up sero­tonin from the space between cells after it has finished acting on other cells. 
If the chemical is not mopped up, further brain signals are pre­vented from getting through. 
MDMA gets into the brain cell through the serotonin trans­porter. A missing transporter means a dead cell, said the study's leader, Dr. Liesbeth Heneman, prol'essor of' radiology at the Academic Medical Center at the University of Amsterdam. 

Friday, November 30, 200 I 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Ms. Cheney faces new times 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Her husband works and lives at secret sites, an odd life for a vice president and an unusual living arrangement for a Washington power couple. But since Sept. 11, says Lynne Cheney, "w£i all live in a difler­ent time." 
Actually, Vice President Dick Cheney isn't away from her any more than he was when he was running Halliburton Co. or serving as defense secretary, she said. "I don't think our lives are that different now from the way they have been for manv years," she said Thursday in an Associated Press interview. 
"He's in an undisclosed loca­tion from time to time, but 

"We all live in a different she con­
then I go with 
tributed to

him from time time, ... where we have 
the couple'sto time," Mrs. 

things that we still feel 
income in
Cheney said. 

strongly about, but we 2000. She
Occasionally 
won't say

he sneaks out might say them less 
what she
to browse for 

sharply to each other. ·· 
expects to
books or pick 
take in this

up apples at a grocery store, Lynne Cheney year. 
T h e

she disclosed. vice-president's spouse 

Beyond that. she would reveal little about the unusual rhythms of their lives. 
"I really can't talk about it, and I can't even confirm for you that there is 'a' secure loca­tion," she said. "The whole point is, in a dangerous world, not to be too predictable." 
Indeed, for the first vice pres­ident's wife to hold a paying job, no two days are quite alike. 
Book author, speechmaker and corporate director, she dis­misses questions about whether the long work hours take the edge off her husband's sporadic absences. "Your question just doesn't seem to bear on my reality, so I'm having trouble answering it," she said. ''I've always worked, Dick's always been gone a lot." 

She has warmed to her role after first opposing her hus­band's joining George W. · Bush's ticket last year. 
She has been writing two books, often from her office at the American Enterprise Institute. 
Mrs. Cheney, 60, also serves on the boards of American Express Mutual funds and of the Reader's Digest 
Association, traveling six or eight times a year for each. 
She has quit six other corpo­rate boards she served on last year, and expects to earn less than the $956,000 
largest 

share of her income last year, $729,000, came from RME Petroleum Co., one of the biggest oil and gas companies in Texas. 
She never talked to her hus­band about energy as he was developing a national plan, she said. And she answered "no" when asked whether her pay­ing jobs could present a conflict of interest for the vice presi­dent. 
"If he would seek my advice then I certainly would offer it," Mrs. Cheney said. "I just can't imagine that after my dear hus­band has been dealing with these issues all day, were he to 
come home at night and have 
me do it all over again to him, it 
just doesn't seem the right 
thing to do." 
She was an education adviser 
to Bush during his campaign 
last year. but does not 
approach the president now on 
that issue or others. "He has 
wonderful advisers around him 
including my husband," sh~ 
said. 
Although she was once in the middle of the fray as an outspo­ken conservative TV commen­tator, she now declines to speak out publicly on controversial issues such as military tribunals for foreign terrorism suspects. 
"We all live in a different time, when we're perhaps a lit­tle more considerate of each other, where we have things that we still feel strongly about, but we might say them less sharply to each other," she said. 
Mrs. Cheney is stumping these days to improve history education. 
"It did strike me in the after­math of Sept. 11 that it is even more crucial now that we have some sort of sense of the ideas and the ideals that the country was founded on, some sort of notion about how lucky we are that it an turned out the way it did," she said. 
Her message is mirrored in her own bookshelves at the U.S. Naval Observatory, the vice presidential residence. The shelves are filled with hundreds of historical hardcovers, with a scattering of books about the vice president's passion, trout fishing. 
"I've had trouble reading anything but history" recently, she said. She named David McCullough's "John Adams" and Edmund Morris' "Theodore Rex," a study of President Theodore Roosevelt. 

Avalanche danger continues in West 
Associated Press 

DENVER 
Avalanche danger is rising across the West after back-to­back Thanksgiving Day snow• storms left several feet of pow­der atop weak, unstable snow­packs. 
In Colorado, 186 snow•slides were reported in the four days after Thanksgiving, and the state's first avalanche fatality was recorded Thursday. 
Rescue crews recovered the body of Joe Despres, 29, late Wednesday after an avalanche swept Despres and a friend 600 feet down a mountain. 
"I skied down, then he start­ed off and it all broke loose and buried us," his friend, Peter Vaughn, said from the Boulder hospital where he was being treated for hypothermia. 
''I'll never ski again." 

The Utah Avalanche Information Center said a human-triggered avalanche has been reported there every day since the holiday. In Wyoming, the avalanche dan· ger was upgraded from moder­ate to considerable Thursday afternoon because of snowfall and strong wind. 
Considerable danger means human-triggered avalanches are probable and natural avalanches are possible. Most fatalities occur during consid­erable danger periods, said Bob Corney. a forecaster at the Bridger-Teton National Forest Avalanche Center in Wyoming. 
Thirty-three deaths in the United States were caused last year by avalanches -seven each in Wyoming and Montana, six in Utah and four in Colorado. 
Most immigrants die in 70-mile Calif. stretch 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
A 70-mile stretch of the Southern California desert has retained its grim designation as the nation's deadliest transit point for illegal immigrants. 
Ninety deaths occurred in the El Centro area during the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, equaling the record number of deaths there in 1998, even as apprehensions fell, the Border Patrol said Thursday. 
The second-highest, with 78 fatalities, was the Tucson sec­tor, a stretch of border four times as long. 

In El Centro in the southeast­ern corner of California, the desert offers little protection from exposure, and dozens of immigrants drown each year in a network of fast-moving agri­cultural canals. 
Agent Dionicio Delgado, a Border Patrol spokesman, also blames immigrant smugglers who mislead people about how long it takes to walk 

through the desert and who abandon those who fall behind. 
"The smuggler ... has a pace to keep and he doesn't care how many people he leaves behind," Delgado told The Associated Press. "It's just a money game for him." 
Along the nearly 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border, 322 immi­grants died compared to 370 the previous fiscal year, the agency said. 
Immigrant advocates have argued that the U.S. strategy of heavy patrols around urban areas drives people to risk their lives by trying to cross in more remote and perilous regions. 
The Immigration and Naturalization Service has responded with a border safety initiative, including warnings about the hazards and the cre­ation of emergency rescue teams. 
Apprehensions dropped all along the border. Agents in the El Centro area apprehended 172,862 in the past year, a 27 percent drop from 2000. 



O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Friday, November 30, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
~T. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer An DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene.1@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
, 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at http:llobsen,er.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus· coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the edicors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independenc, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial concem, including advenisemems. is nor governed by policies of the adminiscrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to che Editor musr be signed and must include comact informarion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Co1111olly. 
Davie's coaching tenure must end 
Notre Dame must fire Bob Davie. Thus players like Harrison, Weaver 
When Notre Dame hired Davie with­and Hunter work hard every day in out any college head coaching experi­practice, give it their all on the field ence, the University took a chance. It and receive nothing but losses in hoped that Davie would develop from a return. Davie has frequently said that solid defensive coordinator into a great his players give 100 percent effort and head coach. But five years do everything he asks later, Davie has yet to of them.
OiJhe

meet Notre Dame's expec­"These kids continue
userver 

tations by developing into to play as hard as any that great head coach. football team I have Instead, he remains a been a part of," Davie
Editorial 
mediocre coach who con­tinues to make mistakes and to fall short of Notre Dame's standards. 
While Irish players like Javin Hunter, Tyreo Harrison and Anthony Weaver have developed into great players, Davie remains a poor coach. He has yet to develop a consistent offensive philosophy to use his players to the best of their abilities. Although his defense is solid, a football team can't win with defense alone. 
said Tuesday. 

He must be asking them to do the wrong things. The gap between the tal­ent on this team and the results that Davie derives from that talent is daunting. 
Just as the players deserve a coach that can get the most from their abili­ties, Notre Dame students, fans and alumni deserve a charismatic leader who can wake up the echoes. After five years in a pressure-filled job, Davie · has retreated to the security of his office. While coaches like Mike Brey and Muffet McGraw make public appearances and sometimes speak in the dorms, Davie is rarely seen around campus. He isn't speaking with the students. He isn't acting as the ambas­sador of Notre Dame that students, fans and alumni expect of the head football coach. 
The days of Frank Leahy and 39 undefeated games in a row are over. Scholarship limits and greater parity in college football must lower the expectations of Irish fans, but Notre Dame should expect more from its football coach than Davie has deliv­ered. 
Irish players deserve someone who will get the most out of them. 
Irish fans deserve a charismatic leader. 
Notre Dame deserves better. 
Davie should be fired. 
Christmas brings a new challenge 
Each year the abrupt beginning of the Christmas season amazes me. The day after Thanksgiving, the yellow and orange hues of the fall celebration change suddenly to the red and greens of the winter holi­day. 
Radio stations add carols into their daily mix of songs and provide word of Santa's visits to local stores. TV stations show cartoons of Frosty the Snowman and Rudolph the Red Nose Reindeer. Students walk with their trays into the dining hall to find it illu­minated. 
On Wednesday in the University Park Mall. I passed bright signs announcing holiday sales and the vibrant Christmas displays of the department stores. 
Yet. this year, Americans have seemed to embrace holiday season with a desperate intensity. In light of the worsening economy, the financial side of the Christmas season has gained increased significance. On Black Friday, reporters camped out at the malls, seemingly very eager to give the good news of strong consumer spend­ing -as if some central aspect of America depended on the purchase of presents. 
And in fact, during my trip to the mall, I did get the impression that my visit to the shoe store supported the good of my country. Among the holly and snowflake decked advertisements of holiday sales are decorations more suited to the Fourth of July ­American flags, streamers of red, white and blue among the winter hues. 


After the September attacks on the American symbols of free market capi­talism, shopping has become a patriotic duty-an expression of President Bush's plea on a recent TV commercial that Americans "go about their busi­ness." 
In DecHmber, buying and spending have an important role in America's business and as a result, they have come to symbolize both America's· return to normalcy and the country's faith in its way of life. 
The celebration of Christmas has become a representation of the "enduring freedom" 
that soldiers now active-~ ly defend and also gives Americans an opportunity to escape from the news of the war in Afghanistan and the greater concerns of nation~ al security. It allows us to relax within an annual tradition centered in the com­fortable confines of' the home. Yet, despite the efforts of the ·country to enjoy a holiday season as usual, the images of troops abroad will serve to continually remind Americans that just as the country's conception of normalcy has changed, so too must its understanding of the holiday. The presents bought during our trips to the mall and placed in brightly wrapped paper under the tree repre­sent most visibly the central idea of the 
Christmas season -giving. Yet, the true conception of giving rests not in these tangible gifts but in the intangible giving of oneself to relatives, friends and the whole community. 
This year, the increased emphasis on the consumerist aspect of the holiday season threatens to misdirect Americans even further than usual from the true spirit of Christmas season -at a time when the giving of onet.elf to others has become increasingly important. 
And so if the Christmas season has begun -as the suddenly bright£1r din­ing hall suggests -it is time for us, the 
students of this University, to give special attention to those surrounding us, to offer increased support to friends, over­whelmed by final 
paper and tests, and to reach out to the community encir­
cling campus. 
This University has a tremendous service tradition 

and I have never found a more wel­coming or giving group of people than I have here. 1 have no doubt that we will rise to the challenge. It has after all become our duty as Americans. 
Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German major and her column appears every other Friday. She can be reached atjmikulsk@nd.edu 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obser~er. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Maribel Morey Sheila Egts Joe Ackerman 
Sports 
Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint 
Pat Kelly 
Scene 

Amanda Greco 
Graphics 

Andy Devoto 
Production 

Andrew Soukup 
Lab Tech 

Brian Puchevich 
OBSERVER/NDTODAY.COM POLL RESULTS 
. Given Bob Davie's statement that he will resign "under zero circumstances," do you think we will have a new coach next year? 
*711 votes 
Poll counesy of NDToday.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"At Christmas play and make good cheer, for Christmas comes but once a year.,. 
Thomas Tusser 16th century author 

In response to the well-done column by Christine Niles, I would like to point out the sil­ver lining in the dark cloud that is Peter Singer and his odious teachings. Who knew that a man who finds more value and rights in a tree than in an infant (no, he is not Al Gore) could be of use to civilized people? 
Professor Singer does a wonderful rhetorical service to those of us on the Catholic side in the culture wars -he takes the "culture of death"attitude to its logical conclusions. Better than any bishop or pro--life activist could, he shows us exactly where the abortion and euthanasia mentality leads. One of us might argue, if it is all right to destroy a 15-week-old baby in the womb, or even one being born, then why not destroy a baby that has just been horn, or is even a few months old? 
But Peter Singer does this for us. His writings constitute a remarkable reductio ad absurdum. By seeing the horrible conclusions of the abor­tion argument, we see how awful the premises are. Of course, many of us see the premises for what they are already. but the likes of Peter Singer may help sway those who are unsure. 
If I were running a pro-life conference, or wanted to make a public point about the evils of abortion and euthanasia, I would certainly want Peter Singer to speak. Once he was done speak­ing, I would just ask, "Need I add anything?" Peter Singer helps the pro-life movement by revealing the ugly soul of our enemy. Many peo­ple argue that if more people actually witnessed an abortion, and saw it for the gruesome, bar­baric act it is, abortion would be illegal. Hearing Peter Singer is almost as good. 
It is worthwhile to point out that Singer is of Jewish descent, and many of his relatives were tragically wiped out in Nazi Germany. Ironically. he is not allowed into Germany today, because his beliefs too closely resemble those of the Nazis. 
It kind of reminds me of that Arab man who was rescued from the World Trade Center by New York firemen, and then left for Afghanistan to help the Taliban fight against America. 
I call upon Notre Dame to get rid of all the small-time feminists and atheists in the theology department, and bring in a hig gun like Peter Singer. 
Paul Allegra 
class of'00 Nov. 29, 2001 

Good grades do not equal good football 
After reading the article entitled "Davie: Keep nm or fire me." I am further convinced that this man must be let go as our head coach. This is a shame because, in all honesty, it probably couldn't happen to a nicer guy. 
Still, personal feelings aside. Davie's excuses this season have been, for lack of a better term, inexcusable. For his entire career here, he has been recruiting talented high school prospticts and moulding them into seventh round NFL dral't picks. The players just don·1 seem to bl' responding to him any­
more. 
This criticism, however, is nothing new. I believe that Davie's latest atrocity occurred on Tuesday vdien he tried to save his job by citing, among other 

things, a high team GPA. First off, Davie's job is to coach, not teach. Unless he's been moonlighting as a professor, I highly doubt that he is personally responsible for a higher team GPA. Sccondlv. and more importantly, i1m I alone in saying thltl I don't care'? Granted, this 
is Notre Dame, so the answer could be yes. Still, does it really matter at the end of anoth­
er loss to Michigan State that we had the more 
intelligent team on the field'? What kind of an 
attitude is this for a sport in which people spend 60 minutes maiming and crashing into each other? Personally, I don't care if our football recruits aren't smart enough to tie their own shoes before the game as long as they can win. 
Bottom line: GPA doesn't end up on the scoreboard or in the rankings. After all, what does it matter if' 80 people on a campus of 
10,000 don't know their cal­
culus? Loosen up the stan­dards and maybe next year when Irish fans exit the stadium 
on Saturday it won't seem as though somebody just died. 


O
THE 

Friday, November 30, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Decriminalizing mar11uana 
For quite some time now, the debate over the legalization of drugs 
has been going on in this county, and for the past several days, going 
on in The Observer. Rather than focus on drugs in general, it seems 
more effective to focus on one in particular -marijuana -that 
green bud that your D.A.R.E. officer and government officials have 
told you was so awful and would ruin your life. The fact is, it isn't 
that awful and science has the evidence to back it up, yet the govern­
ment still turns a deaf ear to reason. 
In 1998, President Clinton's drug czar, the pompous, narrow-mind­ed Barry McCaffrey authorized one million dollars to be used for research which was to show that marijuana was nothing more than "Cheech and Chong medicine." The results not only showed that the drug is the most effective drug for A.I.D.S. wasting, glaucoma, nausea caused by chemotherapy, etc., but it also disproved the "gateway drug" theory. 
For years, the government has said that marijuana is a gateway drug. When ingested, the drug causes the brain to release a sub­stance that makes the body crave a more powerful high, thus leading user on to harder drugs like cocaine and heroin. Scientists showed the same substance released by marijuana is also released when smoking a cigarette, having sex and even eating a chocolate bar. You had better set down that chocolate bar before you become a smack addict. 
The test also showed that the only thing making marijuana a gate­way drug is the fact that it is illegal. So users have to buy it from drug-dealers who also deal in harder substances. That exposure to those harder substances is what causes people to jump from mari­juana to heroin. 
Last year in this country, almost $50 billion was spent to fight the so-called War on Drugs. A large portion of that money was used to prosecute and incarcerate the 700,000 people arrested each year for possession of marijuana. These people arrested are people in your communities. Many are upstanding citizens, have families, wear suits to work, pay taxes and are contributors to society. Why do we persist in making their lives worse by waging a winless war against them when that money could be used for social programs helping others improve their lives? 
It seems high time for the politicians to get their heads out of the sand, admit they have been wrong and at least decriminalize mari­juana in the United States. After all, how can we criminalize marijua­na when a much more dangerous substance remains legal -alcohol. People die from alcohol consumption all the time. Good luck trying to find even one case of someone smoking himself to death. 
David Fulton 
senior off-campus Nov. 29, 2001 

Rethinking fund-raisers 
Father Ed "Monk" Malloy's greetings have just arrived, graced with the wish that my "Christmas be filled with peace." I appreciate this annual gesture which the President makes to the community; however, his card is again accompanied by a fund-raising appeal for Notre Dame. 
The University's professional fund-raisers work diligently through­out the year, so might it not be more appropriate at Christmas_ for a, wealthy institution to promote giving to the poor or needy -either m this country or overseas? I would put in a word for Oxfam America, whose director is Notre Dame alumnus Ray Offenheiser. Oxfam is doing invaluable work, assisting, inter alia, Sub-Saharan Africa ­particularly countries devastated by the AIDS pandemic. 
Alternatively there is the Houston Catholic Worker, whosf~ Christmas appeal arrived at our house in the same mail as Malloy's. They are on the frontline in offering hospitality to very poor immi­grants from Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America. 
There is something unseemly about Notre Dame using the President's Christmas letter to add to its own coffers -it smacks of institutional idolatry. 
The address for Oxfam America is 26 West Street, Boston MA 02111; for the Houston Catholic Worker, P.O. Box 70113, Houston, TX 77270. 
Peter Walshe 
Professor Dept. of Government Nov. 29, 2001 
Vinnie Zuccaro 
Sophomore Dillon Hall Nov. 29, 2001 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Friday, November 30, 2001 
,:•, 
\ c\ 
. ! 

By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

The Irish play their last game of the sea­son against Purdue Saturday, but they won't be alone in the boiler room. They'll have one of their top fans to cheer them on and show Purdue what it means to be Irish. 
Sharon Bui has attended every single Notre Dame football game this year; now she will prepare to see the Irish in NCAA action for the last time as a student. But Bui is not just another Irish fan, she's a Superfan. 
Bui visited Notre Dame with her uncle on a whim her junior year of high school. As soon as she stepped on the campus she was instantly in love and never wanted to be anywhere else. She turned down a full ride to ·Kansas State University, left her home­town of Overland Park, Kan. and made her way to the Dome for the 1998 fall semester. 
But the spunky 5-foot-2 senior's love affair with Irish football hadn't yet begun. In fact, Bui didn't even like watching foJt­ball until she came to the University. But after she saw the Irish rout the defending National Champion Michigan \Volverines 36­20 her freshman year. she was hooked -so much so that she has gone to every game this season. 
"You can't pull me away from it," Bui said. 
Bui's enthusiasm for the Irish soon began to express itself in a unique fashion. She began to create costumes and characters for the games. At the 1998 Halloween game against Baylor University, she came to the game dressed as an usher. 
Although Bui has always made personal­ized T-shirts for her interests like bands and classes, she wanted to take the costume up a notch. She asked her mother to make a tube top dress out of some Notre Dame cur­tains she had hanging in her room. 

Over time, Bui acquired more costume pieces from friends and family. Soon more characters began to enter Bui's repertoire. 
One of her most well known characters, the Beer Fairy, came to life last year when a student tired of hauling his brew around campus gave it to Bui who began passing it out to forlorn tailgaters. Somebody called her a beer fairy and the name stuck. 
The Beer Fairy proudly wears a personal• ized T-shirt proclaiming her title, shamrock boxer shorts, blue and gold knee-high socks, a shamrock garland, a personalized Beer Fairy bag for her brew and her trademark shamrock tutu. 
The Beer Fairy's mission is to spread the love of the Notre Dame tailgate tradition any way she can: passing out refreshments, cheering for the team and dressing up any fans willing to wear the tutu. 
Bui's favorite and most recent character, the Superfan, wears shamrock boxer shorts with an "ND" logo in the front, shamrock sunglasses, shamrock "blinky" lights, a shamrock top hat and a sparkling gold cape. 
Bui wants to bring her love of the Notre Dame tailgate experience to everyone through her characters. She describes her own tailgating habits as eclectic. 
She starts by tailgating in the RV section of the parking lot early in the morning; she gets revved up there by singing karaoke. Later she goes to tailgates thrown by her professors and friends' parents at Alumni Senior Club, then she moves to the "Moon Towers" in the Blue Lot and finally returns 
O
THE BSERVER 






Friday, November 30, 2001 
page 13 


AMANDA HUGHESfrhe Observer on Bui's reign as a self-proclaimed Notre Dame "Superfan," a 11 sports her Usher costume her freshman year at a Halloween galia. 






zost devoted fans in all her many forms 

to the RVs. 
Bui's interest in costumes and spreading happiness extends beyond South Bend. As the third of three summer service projects, Bui worked for Patch Adams at his Gesundheit! Institute in West Virginia. 
Although Adams does not normally take on short-term help, he made an exception for Bui's bubbly personality and infectious happiness. At the Institute, Bui used cos­tume and laugh therapy daily with Adams' patients. In fact, the Beer Fairy's shamrock tutu was, at one point, part of Bui's daily uniform. 
The 22 year-old anthropology and com­puter applications major hopes to pursue her interest in medicine, but next year she will be participating in the Alliance for a Catholic Education program. 
However, the Beer Fairy will still enchant game-days. Bui plans to pass the mantle on to her 10 year-old sister who she hopes will attend Notre Dame. Bui envisions a whole family of Notre Dame Superfans. 
"My dream is to have kids and throw tail­gates for my kids," Bui said. 'Tm planning on wearing the Beer Fairy [outfit) at those." 
Bui is disheartened by the recent prohibi­tion of Notre Dame students throwing tail­gates, a tradition that she feels is important to Irish spirit and that is, for the most part, safe. But that's why the Beer Fairy spreads spirit wherever she goes. 
Bui has even gained the national spotlight with her love for the Irish. Last summer she gave a "shout-out" to Irish fans on the MTV pop music countdown program "Total Request Live." And earlier this year she made it onto "Live with Regis and Kelly" when he filmed a segment at Notre Dame. 
Such rigorous enthusiasm is not without 
its perils, however. At the last home game, Bui twisted her knee while celebrating; her roommate Sara Rabe tripped and knocked out one of her front teeth. The injuries didn't stop the pair from enjoying the game or one of Hui's sacred tailgating traditions: pre-game meditation. At every game Bui takes a moment to lie on the ground in front of the stadium and absorb the atmosphere for good luck. 
Bui, the daughter of Vietnamese immi­grants, feels that she is the same as any other Irish fan. 
'Tm Asian by birth, but Irish by choice," Bui said. 
Rabe agrees, "She's definitely turned it up a notch this season ... she's light years ahead of us." 
Although it has been hard for Bui to watch the Irish struggle this season, she has faith in the team and is proud that Notre Dame fans stick by their team no matter what. She sees the Notre Dame football tradition as being part of her life and Notre Dame as being part of her family. 
The enthusiastic Bui, the once wide-eyed freshman who rushed the field even after the second home game, is thankful for her experience at Notre Dame and hopes others will continue the tradition she loves. 
In her words, "Don't limit yourself ... it's all about the [Notre Dame] family. Don't be shy to go up to random strangers and meet them ... Soak up the atmosphere. You only have 24 games." 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

With a dress custom made from her dorm room curtains, Sharon Bui proudly shows her spirit for everything Notre Dame. 
Friday, November 30, 200 l 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Croatian Sensation scores season-high 24 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND 
Toni Kukoc scored a season-high 24 points, Shareff Abdur-Hahim added 19 and the Atlanta Hawks won for just the second time on the road this season, 105-96 over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Thursday night. 
Kukoc and Jacques Vaughn rallied the Hawks from a 13-point deficit in the first half and Atlanta held off a late rally by Cleveland to improve to 2-9 on the road. 
Vaughn also provided the game's most comical moment -and one des­tined for the highlight hall of fame ­when he pushed a ball boy to the floor while scoring a basket in the first half. 
Nazre Mohammed added 16 points and 14 rebounds, and Emanual Davis 15 points, including a key 3-pointer with 3:52 left that gave the Hawks a 97-91 lead and put away the Cavs. 
Kukoc, who scored just one point in a loss to New York on Wednesday night, was 8-of-11 from the floor. He had six assists and four steals as Atlanta's bench outscored Cleveland's reserves 43-14. 
Lamond Murray scored 19 points, Wes Person 18 -16 in the first quar­ter -and Jumaine Jones had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Cleveland, which scored 37 points in the opening period but just 39 over the next two. 
Mohammed's three-point play with 
5:33 remaining gave Atlanta a 94-86 lead, but the Cavs scored five straight to close within three on Andre Miller's two free throws. 
Davis then buried a 3-pointer from 
\ the right side and Kukoc scored Atlanta's next two buckets to make it 99-91 with 3:26 left. After Kukoc made two free throws to bring Atlanta within 51-40 in the sec­ond quarter, Vaughn made a steal near midcourt and drove to the basket, where an unsuspecting ball boy was mopping the foul lane. In one motion, Vaughn pushed the scrambling kid out of the way and made a layup. Vaughn quickly checked to make sure the 16-year-old, was OK before heading up court. Vaughn's unlikely basket came early in a 16-3 run that helped the Hawks pull within 60-58 at halftime after trailing by 13. 
Person made seven free throws and scored 16 points as the Cavs scored a season-high 37 in the first quarter to open an 11-point lead. 
Raptors 91, Grizzlies 88 
Vince Carter scored 23 points and Antonio Davis added 20, leading Toronto to a victory against the Memphis Grizzlies on Thursday night, extending the Raptors' \Vinning streak to three games. 
Carter added eight rebounds and seven assists for the Raptors. 
Pau Gasol scored 22 points, and Shane Battier added 20 for the Grizzlies. 
Memphis, which trailed by 15 points late in the third quarter, used an 18-4 run early in the fourth to climb back into contention. Battier scored 10 points in the outburst. 
A 3-pointer by Battier helped Memphis close within a point with 5:55 remaining, and Brevin Knight's jumper gave the Grizzlies a one-point lead. 
Hakeem Olajuwon countered with a jumper, giving Toronto a lead it never relinquished. 
A tip-in by Davis and a free throw by Olajuwon gave Toronto a 87-83 with two minutes left. 
Jason Williams, who shot 3-for-15, hit a jumper that cut the Raptors' lead to two points with 1 :34 remaining, but Morris Peterson countered with a layup. 
Jason Williams converted one of two free throws, cutting the lead to three points with 34 seconds left, but Toronto's Alvin Williams made two free throws with 8.5 seconds, giving Toronto a 91-86 lead. 
Rodney Budford, who had 18 points, then missed a 3-pointer. 
Peterson scored 18 points for the Haptors, who have won six of their last eight. Davis finished with 11 rebounds. 
The Raptors, who entered the game with the fifth worst free throw shooting percentage in the NBA, shot 22-for-24 from the line, including all 16 of their attempts in the third quarter. 
Memphis trailed by 11 in the second quarter, but Gasol helped narrow it to three at halftime by scoring eight points in the period. 
Bulls 78, Heat 72 
Finally. another victory for the Chicago Bulls. 
Ron Mercer scored eight of his 19 points in the final 2:23 as the Bulls beat the Miami Heat Thursday night for their second victory of the season. 
It was Chicago's first win since Nov. 3, snapping a 10-game losing streak. "Pretty for me? Absolutely," Bulls coach Tim Floyd said. "It was beauti­

ful. It was gorgeous." Floyd might have been overreacting, considering the Bulls scored only 10 points in the third quarter on 19 percent shooting. That's only four more points than the record­low six they scored in the third period at New Jersey on Tuesday night. 
But the Bulls got big baskets when they needed them, and Miami didn't have many answers after Alonzo Mourning fouled out with 9:35 left. 
It was the 10th straight loss for the Heat. Miami last lost 10 straight games Dec. 1-21, 1990. 
"I don't know what the heck to say," said Eddie Jones, who led Miami with 15 points. 
Trenton Hassell added 13 for the Bulls, and Greg Anthony had a superb defensive game, finishing with six steals, one off his career high, and five assists with no turnovers. Charles Oakley had 10 rebounds, including a couple of key stops in the final min­utes. 
Mourning and Rod Strickland added 13 for Miami, which gave up 22 points on 21 turnovers. 
''I've never lost 10 games in a row at any level," Mourning said. "This is new to me. But I'm not going to succumb to disappointment or be sorry for myself. I'm going to look at this as a chal­lenge." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South J?ining Hall. Deadline for nexr-~ay cl~ssifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The ch~r$e ts 3 cents per character per day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all class1heds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. WWW .WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO 
M 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica. 
S. Padre. & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels, FREE parties, ,LOW­EST prices! www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985­6789. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your precious baby safe and happy in a loving family, adored by 2 ND Grad parents (a full-time mom and a lawyer dad) and loving playmates in a beautiful home. We promise to give your child the life you dream of for them. Medical. legal. counseling, court approved living expenses pd. Confidential. Please call our attor­ney at (708) 922-4795. 
Wanna lose weight? The JuicePlus Man can help! Call Andrew Laflin 4. 3306 VW 97 Jetta GL, 5spd, red/drkgry, sunroof, CD. pwrlocks. AC. immac­ulate, 29K, $12,000/best. Kimberly or Rich at 631-5368 

WANTED 
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan. and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out more. 
Looking for responsible person to housesit and take care of 2 dogs & cat. from 12/22 to 1/5. House is 7 blocks from campus. $300. 287­3054. 
FOOSBALL-Looking for high level players. Are you good enough? Call D 257-4441 Calling Elvis ... looking for students to work as impersonators at JPW for the 1950s booth. Desperately seeking James Dean, Marilyn Monroe and the KING! Call Jocie Antonelli at 631-0106. 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun. the Bahamas. Jamaica. or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how. call 1­888· 777-4642 or .email: sales@sun· coastvacations.com 
FOR SALE 
2000 Toyota Echo 4dr, red. auto, cd/cass 19,000mt, like new, must sell 10,500 obo 631-5144/234-7741 
FOR SALE: 
2 bdrm limestone ranch, close to campus. 2-car attached garage, hardwood floors, finished base­
ment, C/A. 
Call 219-233-9146 1994 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, 86,000mi, fine cond.. loaded, $2800 or best offer. Call 1 -5233. 

1996 Toyota Camry XLE 75k mi Loaded Excellent Condition $10,995 257-3429 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Kitten outside of Graduate residences. Call 298-1 533. 
Lost Silver Heart Charm with. "November 24th. 2000" inscribed on it. If found. please call Morgan at 634-2449. 
Lost: blue suit jacket at Lewis for­mal. Took wrong one. Call 4-2013 if you have it. 
FOR RENT 

HOMES FOR RENTNEAR CAM­
PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­
rentals@aol.com 

Chicago Apartment in Wrigleyville Owned by ND prof. AvaiUmmed. Large 2 bdrm 1 bath, restored woodwork, bookcases, dining rm, hardwood floor, new kitchen, dish· washer, microwave. Mini blinds, central heaVAC, ceiling fans, pri­vale balcony, laundry, off-street parking incl. $1575 plus 1.5 months security deposit. Owner occupied. Call 773-348-5832 or e-mail bower.1@nd.edu 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­dents. Good area...ADT. washer-dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 
Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr. 2 bth w/new carpet. appl, sec.roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 
blk.N of Club 23. 1-800-731-0043 
TICKETS 

6 tickets for Purdue game for sale. 
Sets of 4 and 2. Best offer. Call Bill 
287-1604. 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations. including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips avail­able. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800· 231-4-FUN 
Sprmg Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus. earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648­4849 
EARN HOLIDAY CASH 257-8129 
Observer reunion information: e-mail obsreunion@hotmail.com 
Say Hi! to your friends for just pen­nies a day. Use The Observer classifieds 

Classifieds deadline is 2 p.m. Monday-Friday one day before pub­licalion 
Friday, November 30, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Patriots' Glenn supsended, locker emptied 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

The nameplate was gone from Terry Glenn's locker. Only an ankle brace was inside -no warmup clothes, no uni­form. 
One day after going to practice with headphones but no helmet, the New England wide recl~iver was suspended Thursday for one game by coach Bill Belichick. His absence could last longer. 

"You have to ask him," Belichick said when asked if Glenn will rejoin the Patriots on Monday after the suspension ends. 
Glenn wasn't available to answer that question and "will be off the premises until next week," Belichick said. It was unclear who emptied his locker. 
Glenn has played in one game this season, missing the first four because of an NFL suspension and the last six with a hamstring injury. 
Thursday's suspension is "not injury-related. It's a disciplinary matter" resulting from developments Wednesday, Belichick said. He gave no other details, although Glenn did not work out with the full squad. 


"It's been six weeks since the injury," Belichick said. "It's gotten better." 
Glenn's first suspension was for violat­ing the league's substance abuse policy by missing a drug test. Later, the Patriots wanted to suspend him for the season for leaving training camp but an arbitrator ruled in his favor. 
l\11\SDINf,'l'()N l).f;. 
,IANUAllf 21, 2002 
Trip Package 1 
Trip Package 2 
Depart ND Fri. Evening Jan.18 Depart ND Sat. Evening Jan. 19 
2Nights Hotel 1Night Hotel 
3Days in Washington 2Days in Washington 
Mass at National Shrine Jan 20 Mass at National Shrine Jan 20 
Return 9M1 for class on Jan 22 Return 9AM for class on Jan 22 
•.Free Long-Sleeve T-shirt 4-Free Long-Sleeve T-shirt 
.____! rice: $85 Price: $60 
Hotel Accommodations: Quality Inn Courthouse in Arlington, VA 3blocks from the Courthouse metro stop 
.y. Join ND/SMC Right to Life in Washington D.C. • Be avoice for the voiceless 
Sign-Up Online Nov 27th -Dec 6th www.nd.edu/Nprolife 
Sign-Up at North or South Dining Hall Monday Dec 3rd -Wednesday Dec 5th 12:00-2:00 &5:00-7:00 P.M. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL T~ust accepting bids for Red Sox 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Prospective owners of the Boston Red Sox submitted bids for controlling interest in the team on Thursday with no indication of when o; how the winner will be selected. 
The Jean H. Yawkey Trust is selling its 53 percent stake of the team, which owns Fenway Park and 80 percent of the New England Sports Network. The price is expected to be $350 million or more. 
"As we have stated from the outset, this is a private auc­tion. and we are now in .the most private phase of the process," said Justin P. Morreale, the trust's lawy<ff. "We do not anticipate further public statements until deci­sions are reached." 
H.ed Sox chief executive offi­cer John Harrington. the head of the trust, said the team and its advisers could spend weeks reviewing the bids. Harrington has said he would pick the highest qualified offer. 
Among those confirming bids on Thursday were South Boston land developer Frank 

0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
., ii~: 

'"Your annual casi~ bonus of a full 1% is paid out annually in January, and is based on your annual purchases. Cash bonus information will appear on each monthly statement. Not applicable to cash advances or balance transfers. Not applicable to account if delinquent or over limit. Independent of the University. 
The latest flareup occurred Wednesday. 
Glenn was upgraded to probable on the team's injury report for the first time in seven weeks. That meant the club felt there was a 75 percent chance he would play Sunday at the New York Jets. 
New England, in playoff contention at 6-5, could use the deep threat. In his only game this year, he had seven receptions for 110 yards and a touch­down in a 29-26 win over San Diego on Oct. 14. 
Mccourt, Cablevision Systems 
Corp. chairman Charles Dolan 
and New England Sports 
Ventures, a group led by for­
mer San Diego Padres owner 
Tom Werner and former ski 
resort developer Les Otten. 
"I feel great," Mccourt said in an interview Thursday from his office, which over­looks the 12-acre site in South Boston where he hopes to build a new ballpark for the team. The group led by Werner and Otten wants to renovate Fenway at its cur­rent location. 
McCourt's investment group includes Boston-area venture capital firms Alta Communications, Great Hill Partners and Halpern, Denny & Co., as well as FleetBoston Financial Corp. 
Among the investors in New England Sports Ventures are former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell and former Padres and Baltimore Orioles president Larry Lucchino. 
New York lawyer Miles Prentice also made an offer. 
"All I can tell you is we have submitted a very compelling bid, one that values the fran­chise at a record level." Prentice said. "We look for­ward to the opportunity to carry on the fine tradition established by the Yawkey Trust in bringing back the World Series trophy to Boston." 
~f:fts°wii~ 
oi . • 

5mint1te~~ fron1 DU.,,.CiS I 
Can1ni1s ~ 
1' Cold Weather Experts 


CoU 259-1000 for more details 
------~ 0 

5 minute~~ 
from DUTPD• I 
Campus~
Cold We•ther Expert• 

CaU 259-1000 for more details 
... 
,... 

· page 16 Friday, November 30, 200 I 
.The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles eager for home opener 


ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After a 1-3 start, the Saint Mary's basketball team is look­ing to record an important win at its home opener against Marian College Friday night. 
Coming off an 80-67 loss at Indiana University-South Bend, the Belles are expecting Marian, a traditionally strong NAIA team, with scholarship athletes, to pose a challenge in the Angela Athletic Facility dur­ing the first round of the Saint Mary's Invitational. 
The Belles are eager to improve upon their record though. 
"They've lost two games in a row, so we 're just hoping they're a little down maybe and we can get on them early," said coach Suzanne Smith. 
The home opener always causes some excitement around the Saint Mary's campus, the Smith hopes this will increase the Belles' chances. 
"Our tournament is always big. We usually get a pretty good crowd," Smith said. "We're really excited about coming out at home. We're ready for a good game." 
Saint Mary's has had some tough opponents so far this sea­son, and Marian is another. Both Smith and the players see this game as a potential "big win," that would be a crucial step forward for Belles basket­ball. 

"We've been talking about how we need a big win. A lot of the wins we got last year, and our one win this year, were games we should have won. This is a game that we're not necessarily favored to win, but I think we can win, and we need to win," Smith said. 
Overall, Smith is pleased with how the team has progressed this season. 
"These women have been working so hard and they deserve to get this win," she said. "I think the women always come back with a fight. We might have our little down moments, but they're dedicated and they're hard workers. They come back every day ready to work hard." 
Senior captain Anne Blair, named MIAA player of the week, thinks that Belles have made great progress this sea­son, but recognizes a few areas where they must improve. 
"This week we had great practices and moved forward. We focusing a lot more on patience on offense and picking up the talk and intensity on defense so I think that we've hit on those this week in practice big time," Blair said. "Our biggest focus is the mental game, focusing on the little things, putting it together." 
Smith has emphasized the importance of the mental game in practice lately. 
"We're really been focusing this week on just staying men­tally focused for the entire two• hour practice or 40 minutes of a game and not having any men­tal lapses," she said. 
"I think there is always room for improvement," senior guard Mary Campione said. "I think with every day, every practice, every game you want to improve, so you're never really pleased. I think we have room to grow and I think this week­end will be a huge step in our program. Friday night's big." 
Campione and Blair have another reason to be excited about Friday. The two seniors will be finishing up the last day of their student teaching, which has taken up a considerable amount of their time. 
"I think it's be a big relief for them, a big lift off their shoul­ders," Smith said. 
"It's going be huge," agreed Campione. 
If the Belles win Friday night, they will play the winner of the Bethel-Dominican game on Saturday. Bethel, with a 7-1 record, is ranked fourth nation­ally in the NAIA. Saint Mary's, though, is completely focused on today. 
"We're taking this one step at a time. We're focused on Marian, and the first 10 minutes of the game, and then the next 10 minutes," Campione said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. . 

l l 

ff 
. ) 
l TONIGHT 
9:30 p.m.

ll ~ 
( } 
~ 
? 
I 
/ J 
, I 
~ , ! ! i 
~ 
' I
{ ( 
, I 
~ . 
; 
~ t 
. , 
l 
J 
( 
FOOTBALL 

Faine, Harrison, Weaver earn honors 
recorded double-digit tack­les and was the eighth time he was the leading tackler in the game for the Irish in 2001. Harrison's 91 tackles are the most for an Irish defensive player since A'Jani Sanders had 91 at the conclusion of the 1999 season. 
Weaver has been the leader of the Irish defense all season. A '01 captain, the defensive end from Saratoga Springs, N. Y., is currently third on the team in tackles with 53, including 17 for loss and six sacks. Weaver also has an inter­ception, three pass deflec­tions and two forced fum­bles on the year, leading an Irish defense that ranks 14th nationally in total defense and 23rd nationally in scoring defense. A Lombardi Award candidate at the beginning of '01, Weaver ranked 29th nation­ally in tackles for loss released by the NCAA for the period ending Oct. 20. 
Faine, Harrison and Weaver, in addition to senior offensive guard Jordan Black, senior out­side linebacker Rocky Boiman and junior place­kicker Nicholas Setta were all named to the Football News All-Independent team. 

Special to The Observer 

Irish junior Jeff Faine and seniors Tyreo Harrison and Anthony Weaver were named Football News hon­
orable  mention  All­ 
Americans  for  the  2001  
season.  
Faine,  a  center  from  
Sanford,  Fla.,  has  been  

Notre Dame's leader in the trenches in 2001 protecting young quarterbacks Carlyle Holiday and Matt LoVecchio. Ranked as the third-best center nationally by Lindy's before the start of the 2001 season, Faine leads the Irish in minutes played with 290:54, head­ing into this weekend's con­test versus Purdue. Starting all 10 games for the Irish in '01, Faine also is the lead blocker for the Irish rush­ing attack, which ranks 27th in the nation this week. 
Harrison, from Sulphur Springs, Texas, has been a force in the middle for the Irish in 2001. The line­backer leads the Irish with 91 tackles in '01, featuring a team-leading and career­high 15 versus Stanford (including 10 solos) last weekend. The Stanford game marked the fourth time this season Harrison 
Cookies

Make a 
& Cider 

Jesse Tree for Advent 
Create ornaments for a tree of your own or hang them on the Campus Ministry tree in the Student Lounge. 
• J 
Friday, November 30, 200 I 

~ -The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

White 
continued from page 24 
changes -and many other dedsions -are all 
designed to raise the level of Notre Dame athletics to 
the highest level, VVhitc said. 

"The things we've been able to do so far, we have 
only been able to do them v\ith the support of Father 
Malloy and th(~ Board of Tru.5tees," he said. "To this 
point. we've done a lot of things that have been out­
lined in the Jones-Day Report ... Clearly the mandate 
from the head of the institution and the Board of 
Trustees was to elevate our programs so they could 
compete at the highest levels." 

But with the current struggles of the football team, attention is firmly focused on VVhite, who will play a .great role in deciding whether or n~>t Davie. will . 
remain r.oach of Notre Dame. While Davie signed a 
five-year contract last December, VVhite made it 
clear that his contract was simply a part on the ath­
letic department's effort to give all head coaches 
written contracL<,. 
"\:\'hen I arrived, we didn't have any coaches on 
what you would characterize as contracl5," he said. 
"We had letters of understanding and all kinds of 
arrangements, but we really tried to put into place, 
across all 26 sports, contracts that would provide 
consistency and continuity." 
Mer Notre Dame beat \,\'est Virginia on Oct. 13, 
the athletic department roleascd a statement that 
said all Notre Dame athletic programs would be 
evaluated at the end of the year, including football. 
VY1lile v\1tite wouldn't comment on when he expect­
(~d to evaluate Davie, he did say that the evaluation 

would be a one-on-one interview. 
"[I'll be looking at) all elcmenls of' the program," 
v\'l1ite said without explaining what specific criteria 
he would use to evaluate Davie. "That's my job. to 
look at all the elcmenl5." 
In the past three weeks, Davie has said that he will 
not resign as head coach. and that the only way he 
will leave is if' Notre Dame publicly fires him. But 
v\'hitP refused to comment on anything related to 
Davie's job or the current status ofthe football team. 
\Vhite does not have the authority to either hire or 
fire a coach -Malloy makes all personnel decisions. 
Instead, he submits recommendations to Malloy 
based on interviews and evaluations -recommen­
dations that Malloy usually follows. vVhite said that 
Malloy typically sits in on any interviews with head 
coaches, and typically will look at resumes for assis­
tant coaches. 
But while decisions involving coaches are difficult. White said he tries to look at the broad spectrum of Notre Dame athletks, and that includes· tackling challenges that affect all sports, not just football. Striking a balance between academics and athletics, maintaining compliance ¼ith NCAA regulations and finding enough f uncling to compete at the highest level are the hardest issues to handle, White said. 
"The challenges haven't changed," said White. "I don't expect that they \vill during my professional tenure." 
But White and the athletic department tackle tlrnse r,hallenges head-on. Last year, eight teams _recorded thqir ltighest cu_mulative. grade-point-aV(Jr­age in the fall semester, and four more reached that mark in tJ1e spring. The Irish have not had a major NCAA infraction under White's tenure. And slowly but surely, with the help of Vice President for University Helations Bill Sexton, Notre Dame is rais­ing money to fund the increased number ofscholar­ships. 
However, what makes all those challenges of being athletic director worthwhile are Notre Dame students, said \Vhite. Ile feels responsible to all stu­dents, not just the student-athletes, to creatf~ a strong athletic program. 
"I have been at a number of great institutions and been around a lot ofgreat students," he said. "I have never been around the kind of student..<.; that are at Notre Dame." 
There's much more \iVhite wants to accomplish. He wanti; to make Notre Dame a top-five contender in tho Sears Cup rankings. He wants to achieve minority representation among athletic administra­tors and coaches to equal the makeup ofthe student body. 
''The University of Notre Dame far exceeded what I expected," White said. "At the front of the experi­ence when I was immediately appointed, I said it was an amazing place. Over the last 18 or 19 months. it has become more than that. It's a magical 
1pace." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame was to play for Bob Davie. 
"I went out (to Notre Darnel and really liked the campus. I liked the coaches and I just felt that it was the best school for me," said Olsen. 'Tm hoping that Coach Davie stays around because he was one of the main reasons I came to Notre Dame because I liked him and the rest of thn coaching staff." 
But if Davie is fired, Olsen will still take his official visit and meet the new coach. Olsen did say that he would have to "rcevaluate" his decision before signing with Notre Dame. 
"Hopefully things will work out," said Olsen. 
Top defensive end Jamie Ryan verbally committed to Notre Dame over the summer and shares the same opinions about Davie as Olsen. 
"I was a fan of Notre Dame and I really liked the campus. the people and the coaches, so it was a pretty good fit for me," said the four-star prospect from Tamaqua, Penn. 
Ryan hopes that Davie is back next year, but plans to fulfill his commitment to Notre Dame's football program no matter what the circumstances. 
"(I have] a strong commit­ment toward Notre Dame," said Ryan. "[The coaching situ­ation] isn't up to me. I'm 100 percent behind Bob Davie, but whatever goes on is out ofmy hands." 
Other prospects, like tight end Eric \iVinston of Midland, Texas, believe a new coach could make a difference in their decisions. 
"[A new coaching change] 
. could affect my decision in a good way or a bad way," said Winston, who is rated third among tight ends in the coun­try. "I want to be in an offense where it's pretty balanced with a good run, but we're also going to pass the ball pretty good too. It just all depends on what kind of coach they bring in." Another recruiting analyst, Tom Lemming, said that as long as the Irish make a coach­ing decision quickly they will have a very strong incoming class for next season. "Believe it or not, Davie's staff was doing a very good job this year," said Lemming. "Notre Dame is going to have a good year if Davie stays, and if a new coach comes in and [the situation] is handled right and promptly, they're still going to have a good year." Bu·t the unstable coaching sit­uation has already changed the mind of one top prospect. James Wilhoit, rated as the 
third best kicker in the country, 
was heavily recruited by many 
top schools. The 
Hendersonville, Tenn. native 
narrowed his choices down to 
two: Notre Dame and 
Tennessee. Recently, \Vilhoit 
chose the Volunteers. But the 
biggest reason Notre Dame was 
so high on Wilhoit's list was a 
direct result of Davie. 
"The tradition and the acade­
mics· really impressed me, and 
I also liked Coach Davie a lot,'' 
said Wilhoit. "I thought he was 
real charismatic, and of all the 
coaches I've met, like 
!Michigan] Coach [Lloyd] Carr 
and lTenm~ssee] Coach [Phillipi 
Fulmer and of all the different 
coaches, I think I was the most 
impressed with coach Davie." 
However. Wilhoit said his 
main reason for not attending 
Notre Dame was the precarious 
coaching situation. 
"One of the main reasons I kind of shied away from Notre Dame was that I didn't know what the coaching [situation] was going to be like," said Wilhoit. "It just kind of made me nervous. I wanted a stable program and with what's hap­pened this season with [Notre Dame] you figure [Davie's] gone. It's a shame because I didn't really know what the sit­uation would be like, and any new coach would have proba­bly changed my mind [if I would have attended Notre Dame]." 
Although the Irish face another losing campaign this year and a coaching controver­sy, Notre Dame coaches have continued to recruit players from around the nation. Offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers had been accused of not contacting top recruits in his recruiting area, an accusation that Lemming emphatically said is only a ni'mor. 
"Kevin Rogers went a couple of weeks without calling his ball players but that's a com­mon occurrence during certain times of the year," said Lemming. "The players were still getting calls, it wasn't that he completely stopped. I almost think [the accusations) are slanderous." 
The decision to keep or fire Davie has serious implications for how many top-caliber play­ers the Irish sign for next sea­son. If Davie stays, players like Winston may not come to Notre Dame because of the current offensive scheme. But if Davie is fired, top recruits like Olsen may change their minds and play for someone else. 
Either way, the decision Notre Dame makes concerning the coaching situation could affect whether or not top recruits arrive on Notre Dame's campus in the fall. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 


Connolly 
continued from page 24 
I can't respond to them," he said. 
I !is words betray nothing but his demeanor on Saturday said a lot. White said his post­season meeting with Davie will be no different from his post-season meeting with women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw. Somehow that's hard to believe. White's tremPndous disappointment in Stanford was never visible in St. Louis as the Irish won 
the National Championship. 
\Vhite is an excellent athlet­ic administrator. lie knows how to hold his cards close to his chest. Any sort of com­ment -or even a "no com­ment" -sparks 1 O times as many rumors and half-truths all over the Interrret. The Notre Dame Nation, while passionate for Irish athletics, is just as passionate about analyzing every little tidbit about the athletic depart­ment. So when \Vhite was asked if there are different criteria for a football coach and other coaches, he couldn't answer. 
"It's just going to drive crazy speculation," he said. 
But as great an athletic director as trn is, he is also human. lh) can say all the right things, but when he is angry, his face will show il. \\Then he is shocked, you can see it in his eyes. And when he is profoundly disappointed, it is impossible to ignore it or the repercussion it will have for this University. 

Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. The opinions in this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The ­Observer. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 30, 2001 
\ 
>, 
\ 
\ \
\ \ \ NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
\ 
~ 
\ 
\ \ Despite 0-3 start, Tar Heels still confident 
\ 
\ 
) 
....
< Associated Press 
\ 
\ '· CHAPEL HILL, N.C. At a school used to winning basketball, the worst start since Babe Ruth was hitting home runs is creating a strange feeling for players. fans, and students. No one at North Carolina is panicking -yet. "Everyone's still pretty posi­tive around campus," freshman Jayme Mitchell said between classes Thursday. "Obviously, it's unexpected, but you can't judge them yet -the season really hasn't even started." The Tar Heels are 0-3 for the first time since 1928 after a 79-66 loss to Indiana on Wednesday night and have lost four in a row at home for just the third time in school history. With the prospect of the first 0-4 start in the program's 92­year history Sunday night against Georgia Tech, some already are writing off the Tar Heels. Most callers to the local sports-radio station Thursday said North Carolina just doesn't have the talent to be competitive. A headline on one local paper read "Hitting a new low" in huge letters, while a colum­nist at another paper said North Carolina coach Matt Doherty has hit a "major crisis period." Despite the concerns outside 

the program. no one on the inside is letting on that any­thing is wrong. 
"Believe it or not, this team gained a lot of confidence with this game," said forward Kris Lang, who scored a career­high 27 points and had eight rebounds against Indiana. "Teams might look at our record and say, 'Ah, they're 0­3, they're nothing.' I am not worried because we know." 
North Carolina. which has been to 27 straight NCAA tour­naments and won 20 or more games a record 31 consecutive seasons, opened the season with stunning home losses to Hampton and Davidson. 
The Tar Heels did play better and harder against Indiana, but still struggled with the same problems that have plagued them all season. 
One is shooting. 
The Tar Heels were third in the Atlantic Coast Conference at 79 points per game last sea­son, but have averaged just 63 this season. North Carolina made just 22 of 60 shots against Indiana and is shooting 35 percent on the season. 
After shoot 36 percent from 3-point range last season, the Tar Heels are just 17-of-73 (23 percent) this season, including 5-of-19 against the Hoosiers. 
"This little slump guys are going through shooting won't last," senior guard Jason Capel said. "We're too good of shoot­ers." 
Capel was expected to become North Carolina's go-to player with the departures of Joseph Forte and Brendan Haywood to the NBA, but hasn't been able to find his shot. 
Capel is 12-for-42 overall and 2-of-22 from 3-point range, including an O-for-7 night against Indiana. He's also averaging five turnovers a game. 
"I just don't think he has had as many open looks as he's had in the past," North Carolina coach Matt Doherty said. "When you have Joe and Brendan, you're going to get open looks -wide-open looks. He's not getting those now because he's the lead story in the scouting report." 
North Carolina has been decent defensively, holding opponents to 40 percent shoot­ing, but offsets that with 18 turnovers per game. Against Indiana, the l 8 turnovers included one pass that went to no one and another that went th rough Jackie Man ue1's hands. 
"Those things, hopefully, won't happen in the course of the next month or so," Doherty said. "That's getting comfort­able with each other and get­ting comfortable on the floor. Some of those turnovers just come from experience." 
North Carolina's schedule 

KRT 
North Carolina head coach Matt Doherty, who coached at Notre Dame for one year, expresses his disgust. 
doesn't get any easier with "Right now, all I can say is games against Georgia Tech that things shall come, things and Kentucky next week, but shall come," Lang said. "I'm the Tar Heels refuse to get not worried. No matter what caught up in what others say y'all say, I'm not worried." they can and can't do. 

Witt. ~Ame "•i~tin , "riwi~. anti "&urnamen+~ Join us at the Alumni Senior Club this Saturday~ De· cember 1st from 10:00pm to 1:00am ,/ ', Bring the gang and ch enge • to a little po·ol, darts, shuffle board" or even trivia ou brainiacs out there. We'll be givin' away s . e prizes like kstore certificates so show up on Saturd ,:nd bring your ttA me. When you get tired of trying t _ Convince your pals whir _quad is the best, then grab your friends and get foot loose on the dance floor. Sponsored by Student Activities. Call 1-7308 for info.  



Friday, November 30, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Pesavento leads Buffalos 
Miami, Florida 
Associated Press 
BOULDEH, Colo. 

Bobby Pesavento never doubted Colorado would make it to the Big 12 title game. He just didn't expt-~ct to be the starting quarter­back when the team got there. 
Filling in for injured starter Craig Ochs, Pesavento has been practi­cally perfect the last four 
college

"ft ·s obvious that Bobby
games -so odyssey at 
much so that has played some great Miami of coach Gary ball. I'm so happy for Ohio. After 
Barnett elect­a coaching
him. He's earned the 
ed to stick change, he w t h opportunity to start the transferred 
Pesavento Texas game. ,, to Fort 
this week. Scott {Kan.) 
Even with Community Ochs almost Craig Ochs College, fully -recov­Colorado backup quarterback where he 
ered from a b a d I y sprained ankle, Pesavento will start Saturday night when the No. 9 Buffaloes meet No. 3 Texas in Dallas for the Big 12 championship. 
"Bobby is just playing about as solid as you could play at quarterback," Barnett said Tuesday. 
In wins over Oklahoma State, Missouri, Iowa State, and Nebraska, Pesavento completed 57 of 83 passes 169 percent) for 869 yards with six touchdowns and two interceptions. 
Three of those were come­f'rom-be hind victories. Against then-No. 2 Nebraska last Friday, the Buffs jumped out to a 35-3 lead and won 62-36 as Chris Brown ran for 198 yards and six touch­downs. 
Pesavento was almost over­looked. He was 9-of-16 for 202 yards and a touchdown. lie also ran for 22 yards, including a TD. And he did it with searing pain in his throwing shoulder, the result of a minor separation he suf­fered in the first quarter. 
On a 49-yard pass to tight end Dan Graham, Pesavento said he "got kind of driven into the ground. There was a lot of pain. They asked if I was OK, but I wasn't going to come out of the game as long as I could throw." 
Pesavento's grit is just one of the qualities that has endeared him to his coaches and teammates. He's poised, he's a leader and he never pouted about not being the starting quarterback. 
Pesavento 
began his 

threw for 2,444 yards and 22 touchdowns in 1999. 
He came to Colorado with the intention of being the No. 1 quarterback last season. 
Zac Colvin started the first two games, but Pesavento ral­lied the Buffs in relief in both g a m e s . Pesavento started the next two games before giving way to Ochs. 
0 c h s 
remained  the  
starter  this  
season,  but  

Pesavento per­severed. 
Ochs had a concussion in the sixth game, then went down with an ankle injury two games later, and Pesavento slipped seamlessly into the starting role. 
"It's obvious that Bobby has played great ball," Ochs said. ''I'm so happy for him. He's earned the opportunity to start the Texas game." 
Pesavento's first start this year came against Texas on 
"/ knew we could make it to the championship game. Whether I was going to be the starting quarterback or not, that was something I wasn't 
if. ,,
sure o . 
Bobby Pesavento Colorado starting quarterback 
Oct. 20. The Buffs were blown out 41-7, but Pesavento played capably, 

not BCS locks completing 15 of 27 passes for 165 yards. His one inter­
wasn't sure of." 
dable. The second-ranked 
The 6­
Gators (9-1, 6-1) play host to 
f o o t -5, 
No. 5 Tennessee (9-1, 6-1 }, 
2 2 5 ­
with the winner advancing to 
po u n d 
the Southeastern Conference 
senior 
title game on Dec. 8. The 
said his 
opponent will be the winner of 
confi­
Saturday's game between No. 
dence has 
25 Auburn {7-3, 5-2) and No. 
grown 
22 LSU {7-3, 4-3) at Baton 
with each 
Rouge.
win. 
Miami and Florida are first 
"Once I 
and second in the BCS stand­
accepted 
ings that determine the teams 
that Craig 
for the Rose Bowl. 
was going 
The Vols-Gators game was 
to be our 
rescheduled from Sept. 15 fol­
starter, I 
lowing the terrorist attacks in 
matchup of these rivals since 
1987. 
The series starts up again 
next year -it's Miami at 
Florida on Sept. 7. 
In other games involving Top 25 teams Saturday, it's No. 3 Texas vs. No. 9 Colorado in the Big 1 2 title game in Irving, Texas; Oregon State at No. 4 Oregon; No. 10 BYU at Mississippi State; No. 12 Stanford at San Jose State; and Houston at No. 16 Georgia. 
Other games of note on the final big weekend of the sea­son include Army vs. Navy in Philadelphia, Notre Dame at Purdue and Georgia Tech at Florida State. 
On Friday, it's No. 20 Marshall at Toledo in the Mid­American Conference title game. 
Miami hasn't won in 
Blacksburg since 1992. Since 
then, the Canes are 0-3 at 
Lane Stadium but that won't 
help the Gator Bowl-bound 
Hokies. 
"They look like a pro team," was Tech safety \Villie Pile's assessment after Miami's 65-7 rout of Washington last week. 
Dorsey, along with several other top quarterbacks, has one more chance to convince voters he's worthy of the Heisman Trophy. Dorsey has thrown for 2,417 yards and 22 touchdowns behind a line anchored by massive tackles Bryant McKinnie and Joaquin Gonzalez. On defense, the Canes are No. 1 in points in allowed at 7.9 per game. Miami is scoring 44.9 points per game. 
The Hokies, 13 1/2-point underdogs, are tied for third nationally in points allowed at 
12.1 per game, but the offense directed by quarterback Grant Noel has sputtered at times. 

Tennessee is trying to win at The Swamp for the first time since 1971, when coach Phillip Fulmer played guard ,. for the Vols. Florida has won sm en uf the last eight meet­ception came off a deflection. 
"We didn't lose that game because of Bobby Pesavento," Barnett said. 
Offensive· tackle Victor Rogers said Pesavento "has had the best attitude I've ever seen as far as a quar­terback, especially having as much talent as he has. He could be starting at a lot of different places." 
As for Texas, Pesavento said the Buffs are "excited that we get a chance to redeem ourselves. We get a chance to show that wasn't us. We (eliminate mistakes) and it'll be a totally different football game this week. Win the one-on-one challenges and we'll be OK. 
"I knew we could make it to the championship game. Whether I was going to be the starting quarterback or not, that was something I 
Associated Press 
One win for Miami, two for Florida -that's the formula for a national championship game in the Rose Bowl featur­ing two fierce rivals. 
Sounds great, but games still have to be played, confor­ence titles must be decided and the Bowl Championship Series computer has to calcu­late the final numbers. 
"We don't have the Rose Bowl until we win one more football game, that's what it has boiled down to," coach Larry Coker said as his top­ranked Hurricanes (10-0) pre­pared to visit No. 14 Virginia Tech {8-2) on Saturday. "The fans can enjoy it and talk about it, but in reality, we're the ones that have to travel and play and get the job done." 
Florida's task is more formi­
just kept working hard and wanted to be a contributor. If I wasn't going to play, I wanted to contribute off the field and on the practice field. I kept working hard, whether it was in the film room or the weight room," Pesavento said. 
"When my opportunity came, ( just felt real calm, real cool and real comfort­able back there." 
New York and Washington. The game usually determines the SEC East winner a lot ear­lier in the season, and now there's a national title involved. 
"It's for everything," Gators wide receiver Jabar Gaffney said. 
Florida and Miami have met 50 times, with the Hurricanes pulling even at 25 wins each with last year's 37-20 Sugar Bowl victory. It was the first ings. 
Led by quarterback Casey Clausen (2,469 yards, 19 TDs), the Vols are coming off a 38-0 win over Vanderbilt last week. Rex Grossman, Florida's Heisman hopeful, is the nation's top passer with 3,534 yards and 32 TDs. Gaffney has 60 catches for 1,090 yards and 12 TDs. On defense, the Gators allow just 12.1 points per game. 
Should Tennessee win, the
•
Vols would have a strong chance to reach the Rose Bowl with a win in the SEC title game on Dec. 8. 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Sel~• 
Sminutes ~ 
/iom CIUTP'C.¦ I 
Campus ~ 
Cold WNU,.r Expert• 

CaU 259-1000 for more details 
... 
' \ n 
I' 
~ ~ \ ( \ ~  \ )  
(  

{ 
l \ 
\ 
\ 
\ \ 
~ 
,; 

'· 
~ 
\ 
\ 
~· 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 30, 2001 
\' \ 
\ ND VOLLEYBALL
t 
~· 
,· 
~' )' 
( Notre Dame, Michigan State meet in NCAA tourney 
I , 
I 
l ) . 
' 
i, 
I 

The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 

April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott 
email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
...,, 
l! 
work pretty hard where she hits on the right side to try and match up." 
That getting the right match-up won't 
,t ~:, 
necessarily be easy. Brown will match wits 
\' 
)\ 
(' \'-• Irish have yet to beat a higher-ranked opponent; Spartans are No. 20 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs Editor 

After struggling during a road trip during :.~ ·, ,'. fall break, the Notre Dame volleyball team
\\ 
)I members sat down and scouted them­selves.
!l Tonight, when the No. 25 Irish (22-6) ~~ begin NCM Tournament play at Wisconsin Field House against the No. 20 Spartans of Michigan State, that experience could prove 
i 
I 
helpful, as the tP.am on the other side of the net is practically a mirror image of Notre 
Dame. 

"lt's kind of interesting because we feel ~ like Michigan State is actually really similar ~\ to us," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. 
I \ "Some of their strengths are the same. They're a pretty good blocking team. They're good offensively. I think that they're a little bit weaker defensively." 
-
The Spartans, who come in with a 20-7 record after topping Indiana in four games last Saturday, are led by senior outside hit­ter Erin Hartley. Hartley, a unanimous
' 
selection to the All-Big Ten team, leads the Spartans with 388 kills on ~ .335 hitting percentage. Like Irish senior Kristy Kreher. 
~ 
Hartley plays opposite the setter. "fHartleyl is definitely the person that we 
§ ~ a.;_ need to stop," Brown said. "If we are able to do that and keep her numbers down, that's going to be a key in the match. We'll with Chuck Erbe, her coach at USC in the late 1970's. But the Irish head coach knows who she wants defending against Hartley. 

"You don't know where they're going to start all the time," Brown said. "We'll try to use our best guess and the match-up that we'd like is to have Marcie [Bombeck) blocking her." 
The Irish, who are coming off a 1-1 show­ing at a tournament in Disney World last weekend, were encouraged by their play in a win over LSU and a loss to perennial top 10 Florida. Senior Malinda Goralski led a balanced attack in both matches. 
After gathering with friends and mem­bers of the media to watch the tournament selection show in the men's basketball offices on Monday, the team got down to business. Senior 
"I don't even know the reaction from everybody on the draw but I think after it all sank in and we·ve had an opportunity to watch tape and prepare, I think every­body's just excited," Brown said. "We're looking forward to Friday and looking for­ward to the competition." 
Should the Irish win friday, they face a possible rematch of the l 997 Sweet 16 match in which the University of Wisconsin topped Notre Dame in four games. This year the Badgers are ranked No. 6 in the USA Today/AVCA poll after losing to Nebraska in the NCAA Championship match last December. 
But the Irish traveled up to Madison for a match in the spring, and took the Badgers to five games with more or less the same team Notre Dame has fielded all season, minus freshman outside hitter Emily Loomis. 
"I think we feel like that they're certainly not a team that's unbeatable," Brown said. "They have their weakness too. Because we know them a little bit, we like our chances going up against them as well." 


What Brown remembers most is the enthusiastic crowds that turn out for Wisconsin volleyball matches, even exhibi­tion contests like last spring's. 
"It's a really fun environment to play in," Brm,vn said. "They draw really well and it gets loud. It's one of those things where there will definitely be a lot of excitement and a lot of adrenaline flowing. It's the kind of atmosphere that can bring out the best in athletes." 
After falling to Ohio State in the second round of the tournament last year, the Irish have their sights set on a return to the Sweet 16 for the first time since l 997. All matches this week are available live via the \,Veb on Wisconsin's web page at www.uwbadgers.com. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter .1@nd.edu. 


Friday, November 30, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish begin tough December at United Center 

BRIAN PUCEVICHffhe Observer Notre Dame's Harold Swanagan clutches onto the ball as an Army player collides with him. The coUfsion prompted a brief shoving match between the two players. 
No more Write .sneaking the 
Sports

alcohol John ­
Call

You're finally 
1-4543
legal! 

Happy 21st Birthday 
Clevel,md and Ironwood Roads/180/ I Cleveland Road/ South Bend. Indiana ./66371 (! /9)272-81 /0 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Sein ester 
*Within minutes ofcampus* 

• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some ,1v·ith lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
For the 6-0 Irish, the easy 

part of their season is over. 
Now it's time to really get down 
to business. And there's no bet­
ter place to do it than at the 
United Center. 
"Playing in an arena that big, 

you sometimes catch yourself 
gazing up to the stands," said 
point guard Chris Thomas. 
"[Michael} Jordan made his 
name and everything there, so 
it's a special place. It's a big 
deal to all of us." 
Saturday will be Notre Dame's first real test of the season. After rolling over opponents in Hawaii during Thanksgiving and dominating Army in the second half Wednesday, the Irish are entering the second phase of their season. They will play their next five games away, beginning with their match-up against DePaul in the second game of the Cla"lsic 4 Kids dou­bleheader. 
"These next few games are going to be tough," said guard Matt Carroll. "They're all great teams, they're all tough to beat, especially on the road. We've got to bring our A-game for all of those games." 
After playing DePaul Saturday, the Irish will travel to Indiana, Miami of Ohio and Canisus before flying to New Orleans to take on Alabama in the Nokia Sugar Bowl Classic. Notre Dame returns home Dec. 30 against Colgate before begin­ning Big East play on Jan. 6 against Villanova. 
"Our scheduling philosophy was to get out of the gate early against some teams that we should have success ... we did take care of our business," said head coach Mike Brey. "But now the month of December is new territory, and we've got to be prepared for that." 
Notre Dame and DePaul will renew a heated rivalry between two teams that haven't played each other since 1994. The rivalry reached its heyday when Digger Phelps coached at Notre 
Dame in the 1980s, and while it 
has been seven years since 
these two teams played each 
other, the Irish aren't having 
any trouble getting fired up for 
this game. 
"[t definitely wakes up some 

memories," said Brey. "I've only 
been here a year and a half, but 
I've heard nothing but com­
ments about '\,\,'hen are we 
going to play DePaul again' and 
we are ... I think it's a great 
next step for us to step into that 
competition at a neutral site." 
"The first six weren't too difli­

cult," Thomas said. "Now we're 
pretty excited to get this kind of 
competition. Non-conference 
games like these are important 
to test ourselves to prepare for 
the Big East." 
The key to shutting down DePaul, Brey said, is to contain point guard Imari Sawyer. The Irish will also see a physical inside game for the first time this season, The Blue Demons have three players a least 6­foot-9, and all are more than 230 pounds. 
"vVe have not played against that kind of bulk in our first six games, and we're going to keep that bulk off the backboard," Brey said. "In a lot of ways, it may be a relief, because our big guys have been chasing around 6-3 guys on the perimeter. Now they'll be able to get down and play some post defense in the post." 
While the Irish said they haven't felt any intense rivalry with DePaul, they have a feeling that the rivalry will blossom in the next few years and reach the level of intensity that existed when Phelps coached. 
"We don't feel any rivalry right now, but I know there is from past tradition," Carroll said. "I have a feeling it's going to start in the future." 
Notre Dame will leave for Chicago immediately after prac­tice tomorrow. The Irish and Blue Demons square off at 2:30 
p.m. following the Stanford­Texas game. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
THERE IS STILL TIME TO SIGN UP FOR 
3-credits 
CALL NUMBER 1470 
Introduction to the fundamentals of modem Japanese with equal emphasis on speaking, listening. reading and writing in hiragana and katakana. This is the first ofa three­semester sequence covering the same material as EALJ 
111-112 but at a less intense pace. Only offered in the spring. Textbook: Nakama, lessons 1-4. No prerequisites. Not open to students who completed EALJ 111 or higher. 
East Asian Languages & Literatures 205 O'Shaughncssy Hall 631-8873 

.. 
... 
\' i \ I I \ I ' 
s \ 
\ \ 
\ 
page 22 Friday, November 30, 2001 
\ 
The Observer . SPORTS 
\ 
< 
) 
' \ 
\ \ \•'\ \ ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
\'
\ 
', Notre Dame-Michigan meet in NCAA rematch 


By KATIE McVOY 
Associare Spores EJiror 
Nine months ago, during the serond round of the NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame dealt Michigan a crushing blow, defeating the Wolverines 88-54, on the way to the National Championship. On Sunday the two teams will face off again in a series which Notre Dame leads 7-3. For a Wolverine team that hasn't beat the Irish since 1984, Sunday may be a chance to get back some respect. 
"I think Michigan has a lot more on their minds then we do," said head coach Muffet McGraw following her team's practice on Wednesday. "For them, I don't know how they're looking at it, but I can guess they're not really happy that we beat them last year. So I would think they would have some revenge on their minds." 
For the Wolverines, revenge is a distinct possibility. Michigan returned four of its starters from a team that went 19-12 last season and defeated West Virginia in overtime in round one of the NCAA Tournament before falling to Notre Dame in round two. 
This season, the \iVolverines have taken control of their shooting game, hitting 50 per­cent from the field as a team. making it difficult for any opponent to pin down one player to stop. 
"I don't think if we say we can't stop [one player] we can win," McGraw said. "They have a great team. The thing wf~ felt last year, they don't beat themselves. They're just a great team. ,1 
Michigan's motivation is coming from revenge. Notre Dame doesn't need revenge. 
"I don't think we really have to motivate [the team] because [Michigan] is ranked higher than we are. So it's an oppor­tunity to finally, to play anoth­er ranked team and just com­pare where we are," McGraw said. "For us, it's a game early in the season to set us up for the Big East Tournament." 
After coming so close to a road victory against Arizona and taking a solid win from Army on Monday, the Irish are ready to take on the Wolverines. The key to an Irish win is to play their game and play it well. During Notre Dame's loss to Arizona on Saturday, the Irish had a chance to win the game with eight seconds left in the game, but turned the ball over. They set themselves up to win, but on ·sunday they know they have to stick to their game plan. 
"We know we've got to go out and play our game," sophomore point guard l.e'Tania Severe said. "We need to do that and not fall 

r 
Cold WNther Expert• 
5minutes from Cam us 





RICO CASARES/The Observer Notre Dame guard Alicia Ratay dribbles upcourt during Notre Dame's win against Army Monday night. The No. 23 Irish take on the No. 16 Wolverines Sunday afternoon. 
team for the first time onWednesday. A stress-relat­ed injury has kept her side­lined. 
"She's still not good, but it's going to be a long recovery because conditioning wise, she hasn't been able to run," McGraw said. "But it's been great to have her back, her leadership." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

. Irish No. 23, Wolverines No. 16 in latest poll 
Associated Press 

Connecticut led a top four 
that stayed the same 
Monday in The Associated 
Press women's basketball 
poll, which had four new­
comers after a week filled 
with losses by Top 25 
teams. 

South Carolina joined the poll for the first time in 11 years at No. 25 after upset­ting Duke. No. 18 LSU, No. 21 Texas and No. 24 North Carolina also made the Top 25 for the first time this season. 
There was no upset involving Connecticut, which beat Rhode Island 84-38 in its only game last week and received 42 of 44 first-place votes from a national media panel. UConn, winner of the pre­season WNIT, took a 5-0 record into Monday night's game. at Wake Forest. 
Tennessee (3-0) received the two other first-place votes after a 90-7 5 victory over Louisiana Tech. which slipped one spot to sixth. Oklahoma (5-0) held at No. 3 and Vanderbilt (6-1), which has lost only to UConn, remained fourth. 
Connecticut had 1,098 
points in the votin_g, 
Tennessee 1,054 arid 
Oklahoma 1,002. 

Iowa State (3-0) moved 
up one spot to fifth, match­
ing its highest ranking 
ev(~r. after beating DePaul 
and Mississippi State to win 
the Coaches vs. Cancer 
Challenge. 

After Louisiana Tech in 
sixth, Stanford, North 
Carolina State, Texas Tech 
and Purdue completed the 
Top Ten. 

Colorado jumped three 
places to 11th after three 
one-sided victories and 
Baylor was 12th. That gave 
the Big 12 five teams 
among the first 12 -­
Oklahoma, Iowa State, 
Texas Tech, Colorado and 
Baylor. 

Georgia was 13th and 
Duke fell five spots to 14th. 
The Blue Devils were fol­
lowed by Colorado State, 
Michigan, Old Dominion, 
LSU, Florida and 
Wisconsin. 

Texas, George 
Washington, Notre Dame, 
North Carolina and South 
Carolina held the final five 
places. 

into their game." Severe has surfaced as a top scorer for the Irish, averaging 
11.8 points a game, joining teammates Alicia Ratay and Jackie Batteast, who are aver­aging 14.5 and 11.3 points per game for the Irish. 
"I want [Severe] to run the team, direct the score and just get everybody in the right position to win the game," McGraw said. "I felt her points were more of a bonus." 
In addition to Severe step­ping up on scoring, McGraw saw a lot of improvement on her team all around following 
the road trip. She said Ratay has been scoring more consis­tently and, in general. her team is in the right place. 
"We are putting ourselves in a position to win, and that's all you can ask for," she said. 
Tip off will follow the Michigan SL-Marquette game in Grand Rapids, Mich. on Sunday. 
Notes: 

Post player Amanda Barksdale practieed with the 
The ND Department of Music Presents 

ND Collegium Musicum 
directed by Daniel Stowe 
Performing works by Isaac 'd? Josquin des Prez 
Friday, Nov. 30, 2001 
8:00 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel Free and open to the public (219) 631-620 I for information 


Friday, November 30, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
HEY, J'ASoN, &T'S SNOWING! 

lT'S SNOWING! 
IT'S SNOWING! 
\ 

WOOHOO! &T'S SNOWING!
\J 

" 
I?' 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
Ht>,1/e. 1o\J ever s~e'l 

So d,vl\.k., yw dl"DJ\t 
yoV r-0«..)'l_ re e '. 

BILL AMEND 



·­
OH, I OoN'T MAKE MEANT IN ME PELT ALASKA. YOU WlTH GRASSBALLS.
\ 

These two people should not be allowed to interact with each other. 

Pume by Joi OIPletro 30 Canvas 32 Filmmaker von 
Trier 34 Nickname for Puente or 
6-Down 35 Went too far 36 One of the Big 
12 
up 43 Capitol Lake 
locale 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Loretta Swit, Yanni, Pauline Trigere, Peter Boynton, Markie Post, Walter Cronkite 
Happy Birthday: To be suc­cessful, you must become moti­vated and focus on projects that entice you. Take tl:ie initiative now to put your plans into motion, and you won't wonder what might have been. Believe in the possibilities. Your numbers: 11, 14, 28, 34, 42, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't be angry, or a loved one may want to retaliate. Use your ingenuity to show kindness and compassion. Sports or overdoing it will lead to exhaustion or minor injury. Take it easy. 000 
TAURUS (April 2()..May 20): You may still feel unsettled. Put your energy into creative hobbies or family get-togethers. Social events wilf provide mental and physical stimulation and help your state of mind. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't sit around sulking, which will lead to outbursts of temper and disagreements. You need to express yourself creatively. Work on redecorating your space or start a new hobby. 000
45 Results 52 Dealing with 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
delivery 
Don't take an unnecessary risk by
46 Check 

55 Olympic efforts getting involved in undemanded
information 
business. Stay away from friends
56 Spot for a

48 Jacket parts who are engaged in a dubious
necklace clasp 
financial matter. Follow your best 

49 Register 59 Take in instincts.000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sort
50 Dinar earner 61 Pedro 
out differences with someone who has controlled some finan. cial investments. If you let your
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
anger take over, you're likely to 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
start a battle. Instead, be prag­1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST 
matic and civil. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
You won't want to have too much idle time on your hands. Channel your energy into solitary creative endeavors to take your mind off your troubles and avoid arguments. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Don't take on something that is 
beyond your means. Problems 
with transportation may result in 
delays or restrictions. Safety must 
be your prime conrern today. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Expect problems with invest­ments and disagreements over financial dealings. Joint ventures will not pay off. Take care of any he~lth problems. If you smoke, qwt.00
SAGIITARIUS CNmt 22-Dec. 21): 
You're likely to say something you'll regret if you are too quick to respond. Think before you speak and try to put yow-self in other people's shoes. You may be the one whois wrong. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will be upset by criticism of yourself or your loved ones. When you're behind the wheel, don't lose your temper. ~ your composure and decide the ~~st way to handle any affront. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money will slip through your fin­gers if you go shopping today. Don't overspend on children or lend to friends. You will lose both the fri.'.mdship and the cash. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need to chill out and relax. If you let things get to you, argu­ments are likely to erupt. Don't let others cause friction between you and a loved one. 00 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Animated speaker? 9 Fitting activity 15 Mass recitation 
16 Symphony completed in 1804 
17 Bordeaux and others 18 Didn't play 19 Period 
20 Like some misguided remarks 
22 No purebred 
23 Way: Abbr. 
25 He claimed 
motion was illusionary 26 Levels off, with "out" 
27 Dynamite constituent 29 Drunken 31 Put in a record 33 Dither 34 Verbal gem 37 A gate may be attached to one 39 Off base? 41 Your, of yore 42 Spirit 44 Some spicy cuisine 
45 Plaza de la Raza location, for short 
47 'Will & Grace" co-star Messing 48 Affair 51 15-Across, e.g. 53 Plot cover-ups? 54 Real lady's man 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
55 Grieve over 57 Purchase for a project 
winner 60 Store up 62 Like curiosity, at 
times 63 Hysterical 64 Attacks 
anonymously 65 On and on 
DOWN 
1 Ball of confusion 2 Completely 3 More than 
tempted 4 Lamborghini 
alternative 5 Retreat 6 See 34-Down 7Theymay 
appear on a tree 8 Places where hits are taken 9 Sport 

contribution 11 Started to steam 12 Red Wing, for 
one 

accents 14 Bulb info 21 Under, in Umbria 
cosmo­
baby 28 Grimalkin 
Birthday Baby: You have a special way of charming everyone. You have a gift of gab and a need to know about everything and anything. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
You are quick to respond and always ready to try something new.
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

(Need advice? Cleek out Eugenia's Web sites at aatroadvice.com, 
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) C 2001 UnivetRI Pre98 Synd.ica~ 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
• 

Name ---------------------------­Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
,,. 

' 
~ 
\ 
~ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
~ 

' 
t ~ 
r 
I 
~ 
t 
:·' 
r 
i 
\f(: -· 
\)\
,\, 
r-~! 
1".i\ 
, t. 
;~1 
'· 
~~ 
\
,I 
,,. 
H 
~\ 
i '" 
! 
J .,. ,i.' 
l[j 
i~ { 
l :\
f' 
:\ ~ 
I 
I I 
) ~ l., 

-
~~ 
I I 
\ \ \ 

it
l, 
. I 
~;-; 
I. 
',' \
I, 
• I
.. 
~. ) 
):'Y,
,,. )\l l. 
'T. I I 
}
'? 
"' 
\ } \ ~ 
I\ 
'\ 
::(\ 
;\\ 
,, -~ \ 
; 
\ \' 
y
\] I' # 
~ 
:i 
i~ 
Campus Sports 
. 
ND Women's Basketball, pg. 22 

. 
Men's Basketball, pg. 21 

. 
ND Volleyball, pg. 20 


. 
SMC Basketball, pg. 16 


Focus on the future 
. White in spotlight of coaching controversy 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 

Every day, his office receives dozens of e-mail'>. Every day, faxes pour in from all over the world from Notre Dame alumni, Holy Cross priests and Irish fans. Every day, he places the needs of Notre Dame ahead of his own self-inter­est. 
Welcome to the world of Kevin White, the Notre Dame athletic director and the man responsible for evaluating head football coach Bob Davie at the end of the sea­son. 
"I wouldn't characterize the feel­ings I feel as pressure," White said. "I feel more responsible than pressure. I have a high degree of responsibility to represent the University in the right way and do things the right way." 
White's responsibilities go far beyond analyzing the status of the football team. He is the first athlet­ic director to report directly to University President Father Edward Malloy and oversees the day-to-day aspects of Notre Dame's athletic department in addition to directly overseeing the football and basketball programs. 
His administrative policy is a combination of his experience as athletic director at Arizona State, Tulane, Maine and Loras College and a desire to achieve many of the goals outlined in the Jones-Day report, a collection of standards complied by studying athletic departments across the nation. Since White was appointed athlet­ic director 19 months ago, he has already implemented drastic changes -changes that have already produced results. 
Last year -White's first year as athletic director -Notre Dame finished 11th in the Sears Cup standings, which evaluate a school's overall athletic achieve­ments, matching its highest rank­ing ever. Four Notre Dame teams ascended to No. 1 rankings and 10 sports rose to their highest rank­ings in school history. 
In the next four years, the department will add 16 scholar­ships each year -a total of 64 scholarships -to give all varsity sports the maximum number of scholarships allowed under NCAA regulations. 
And in just over a year and a half, Notre Dame has hired five new coaches under White's tenure: men's basketball coach Mike Brey, men's soccer coach Bobby Clark, men's golf coach John Jasinski, softball coach Deanna Gumpf and women's golf coach Debby King. These coaching 
see WHITE/page 17 
SPORTS 
AT AGLANCE 
~j ::..::··.:::.'..."\:.;.;;;_'·--iii , 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White is strongly devoted to helping create a strong athletic program, but he is currently in the spotlight for the influence he has over Bob Davie's job. 
White's face says what words don't 
Athletic director Kevin White has said very little about Bob Davie's future at Notre Dame. He hasn't given him a public state­ment of 
confi­dence nor has he said Davie will not return as head coach 

next year. Mike Connolly Since 
October, White Outside has said 
looking in 
very lit­tle about Davie or the football program to the media. 
But his emotions on the sidelines of Irish losses this year have expressed more 

. 
SMC Basketball vs. Marian, Today, 8:00 p.m. 


. 
Men's Basketball vs. DePaul, Saturday, 1:00 p.m. 

. 
Football at Purdue , Saturday, 4:30 p.m. 


. 
Hockey vs. Lake Superior State, Saturday, 7:00 p.m. 


O
THE National Sports
BSERVER 


. 
NCAA Football, pg. 19 


. 
NCAA Men's Basketball, pg. 18 . NFL,pg. 15 

. 
MLB, pg. 15 

. 
NBA, pg. 14 




Friday, November 30, 200 I 
than words ever could. 
After Notre Dame's loss to Nebraska to open the sea­son, White looked shocked. Like most Irish fans, he appeared unable to grasp how a team that was so dis­ciplined and so careful with the ball in 2000 looked so sloppy and turned the ball over so many times in the first game in 2001. 
In College Station, White looked angry. Watching from the sideline as the Irish dropped to 0-2 with a loss to the Aggies, White's face was stern. The lines on his fines were drawn tightly as the final seconds ticked off the clock. 
But Saturday, in the Stanford rain, White was neither shocked nor angry. He was profoundly disap­pointed. His wet hair clung to his forehead. His lower lip protruded slightly. His shoulders visibly sagged. As he watched the Irish slowly file into their locker room, his eyes said what he could not say with his words. White looked even more devastated than his football team. even if he won't say it. 
When asked about his feelings watching this foot­ball season in an interview on Wednesday, White could only respond: "I can't com­ment on that." 
All White would confirm was that he and Davie will sit down at the end of the season and evaluate the "football program as a whole." He won't confirm a timetable. He won't confirm what criteria he will use in his evaluation. There will be a meeting, but White's not revealing much more. 
"You have to ask [the questions about Davie] and 
see CONNOLLY/page 17 
OBSERVER 
o n t i n e ed!Hon 
http://\.\'W\.\'.nd.edu/~observcr 
. Coaching decisions will affect recruiting 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

With the Notre Dame football team sitting on a 4-6 record and only Saturday's game against Purdue left on the schedule, critics and fans alike are questioning the future of Irish football and Bob Davie's job. 
If Davie is fired and the Irish do bring in a new head coach, there is another issue that must be dealt with: how a per­sonnel change could affect next year's top recruits. 
According to recruiting ana­lyst Max Emfinger, prospects are not affected by situations like these as much as people tend to think, especially at a school like Notre Dame. 
"There are a lot of kids out there that want to be· consid­ered for Notre Dame," said Emfinger, who has his own recruiting Web site and has been evaluating high school players for over 25 years. "There are a lot of players that would love to go to Notre Dame. So there's not much dif­ference for who the coach is because there are players that would give almost anything to be a part of the Notre Dame tradition." 
Emfinger also said that the experience of playing Notre Dame football, despite a new coach and a program that has had losing seasons in two of the past three years, is a dream for many top prospects. 
"The answer is pretty simple: You've got players, parents and coaches of these kids that want these players to go to Notre Dame," said Emfinger. "The tradition, academics, national television and just the whole package of being at Notre Dame is just awesome for a kid." 
The only recruits that might go somewhere else are position players that want a specific offense scheme, like quarter­back Chris Olsen for example, said Emfinger. Most other play­ers will still want to be at Notre Dame no matter who the coach. 
Olsen was highly recruited by schools from all across the country, including Miami, Virginia, Michigan State, Tennessee, Auburn and Boston College. Yet this four-star prospect, who is rated 16th among quarterbacks in the country, verbally committed to the Irish in August. Olsen's biggest reason for coming to 
see RECRUITS/page 17 

...__E_ page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 30, 2001 
Seniors want to end with a win in Indiana Bowl 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Forget about his job. 

Bob Davie wants the last game of 2001 to be all about the seniors. And even if Saturday ends up being Davie's last game as Notre Dame's head coach, he's not going to go down without a fight. 
"If you sit around and you spend a bunch of time feeling sorry about your­self, then I think everything starts to crumble around you.'' he said. "It's not what you say, it's what you do, and what rve tried to do since I've been head coach is not worry a whole Jot about myself, but worry about the players and those coaches and try to lead by exam­ple." 
Saturday afternoon, the 4-6 Irish take on the 6-4 Boilermakers in what will be the final college game for 43 Notre Dame seniors. And even though the sea­son hasn't gone how they originally hoped, the Irish aren't going to have any problems getting fired up for Saturday's game. 
"I want to walk off that field the last time know that we played hard and got a victory," said Notre Dame defensive end Anthony Weaver. "They think they're the team in Indiana, and we think they're a team in Indiana." 
"When Purdue and Notre Dame play you can throw out the records," said Purdue's Akin Ayodele. "The game is always played at a high level emotional­ly. It is a rivalry game." 
Notre Dame and Purdue have had sev­eral close games in recent years, caus­ing many current Irish players to call Saturday's match-up the Indiana Bowl. Last year, Gary Godsey drove the Irish down the field and Nicholas Setta hit a game-winning field goal to give the Irish a 23-21 win. Two years ago, Notre Dame lost 28-23 when coaches misman­aged the clock at the end of the game. And in 1998, although Purdue won 28­1 7, the game wasn't decided until the final minutes. 
"Notre Dame is Notre Dame," said Purdue kicker Travis Dorsch. "If we cannot get up for this one, there is something wrong with us. Right now, this is the biggest game of our year. We have a lot to accomplish and a lot to prove this week." 
The biggest question mark for the Irish is whether or not Carlyle Holiday can bounce back from his 1-for-16 pass­ing performance a week ago. Davie said earlier this week that Holiday lost his confidence when he started missing wide-open receivers, but that he never thought about replacing Holiday as the starter. The challenge for him is whether or not he will regain that confi­dence. 
"We have tremendous confidence in him and he should have confidence in himself because he's as good as there is when he's on," Davie said. "It's all part of the learning curve and he's just got to feet through it ... A bunch of coaches can say a bunch of things to make you feel better, but you have to step up do it, and we're going to give him the oppor­tunity to do that again this week." 
Notre Dame could have problems han­dling Purdue's passing game, led by quarterback Brandon Hance. The red­shirt freshman leads a passing offense that has averaged just under 200 pass­ing yards per game. For the Boilermakers, four receivers are aver­aging over 35 receiving yards a game. 
Against Stanford, Notre Dame's sec­ondary made several key mistakes that led to Stanford touchdowns. Midway through the second half, with the Cardinal facing a third-and-10 situation, quarterback Brian Faseli completed a long pass that kept a drive a1ive. The Cardinal would score later that drive. 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Carlyle Holiday avoids a Navy defender during Notre Dame's win against Navy earli­er this season. Holiday looks to bounce back from a 1•for-16 passing performance. 
The Irish running game is decimated by injuries. Tony Fisher and Julius Jones are both listed as doubtful for Saturday's contest, leaving Holiday and Terrance Howard as the only healthy tailbacks. The good news for the Irish is that freshman Ryan Grant, who missed the Stanford game with a hyperextend­ed elbow, will be able to play Saturday. 
Injuries have also hurt the Irish def'en­sively. With Andy Wisne and Ryan Roberts out for the season, Kyle Bundinscak, Grant Irons, Cedric Hilliard Stanford game in the first quarter and did not return, might be able to play against Purdue. 
"Obviously a lot of our goals have come and gone· as a team, but we've got probably the biggest goal still left and that's to simply win a football game," Davie said. "To simply play for pride, and to me, that's an awful lot. It's worthwhile all the hours we spend just to do that, and I really believe right now that we are capable of winning." 
and Anthony Weaver will have to play most of the game. However, Davie Contact Andrew Soukup at thought Darrell Campbell, who left the asoukup@nd.edu 

r------, r ------,
MAKE IT A MEAL I 1 Large,· 1 Topping I I I
1 Large, 1 Topping 

Papa Predicts:
I $8.99 OR I I Breadsticks I I 2 Large, 2 Topping I I 2 Liter I 
L $13.99 .J L -_$:.:_::,_-.J
------NOTRE DAME --35 
r ------, .-------,
Manager's Special I Family Special 
Purdue -31
I 1 Large, 2 Topping and 4 I I 1 Large w/Works I I Cons of I I 7 Large, 2 Topping I I I I I
Coca-Colo Classic $17.99 or Extra Large $2D. 99 .J Notre Dame Saint Mary's
L-_s:_:-: __.J L 
------271-1177 271-7272
r------, r------,
I Lale Night Special I I Grand Papa I 
I 9pm • close I I 1 Extra Large, I 
Friday-all night
I 
Large One Topping I I 2 Toppings I (Only ND store -Limited Delivery 3am -11am) $7.99
L ______.J L $10.99 .J Saturday 11 am -3 am
------Sunday Noon -1 am 
"The ,nost popular # on ca,npus• 

Friday, November 30, 200I The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Finding a bala11ce 
Senior tailback balances college football with wife and 2 children 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
When Terrance Howard fin­
ishes football practice and 
heads home to his apartment. 
he is greeted by the things you 
would expect in a college 
senior's apartment -a couple 
of couches, a TV and VCR, a 
small but comfortable kitchen. 
But when he sits down to his 
laptop to start his economics 
homework, snacking on chicken 
wings, it's obvious that some­
thing is different. 
Howard's economics books 
have to share his attention with 
his 10-month old daughter 
Milan, and his wife Gina. For 
the senior tailback from 
Wilingboro, N.J., what happens 
on the field takes second place 
to what happens off the field. 
"I see that even if I don't have 
an opportunity on the playing 
field, I have an opportunity in 
life that a lot of people don't 
have," Howard said as he 
looked as his daughter. "I don't 
take anything for granted." 
Howard has faced a lot of changes and changed a lot him­self since he first stepped into Notre Dame Stadium as fresh­man .(our ye,ars ago. Then he was single,. impatient an·a· counting on his father. And there wasn't anything else but of football. 
"My freshman and sophomore year football was the only thing I could be happy about," he said. "If I wasn't having a good day in football, or a good week, or a good year, I was sad ... but a football player told me don't let football be the determining point of your happiness." 
Four years later, Howard finally realized football doesn't control his life. 
But Howard didn't change his attitude on his own -he had help. During his sophomore season, Notre Dame wasn't meeting Howard's expectations. The team wasn't offering him the opportunities he wanted and he was very close to turn­ing in the gold helmet for more carries elsewhere. But Howard's father gave him advice that he took to heart. 
"He's probably the reason J stayed at Notre Dame," Howard said. " ... When I was going to leave my sophomore year he kind of convinced me to stay, talked about the education and talked about being patient and stuff and how impatient I was." 
In the end, Howard decided to stay at Notre Dame, but follow­in& his sophomore year, a ch~nge bigger than his choice of school occurred. That sum­met, Howard's father passed away suddenly from lung can­cer. 
"He called me up that night and said he had to have surgery and he died the very next day," Howard said. "J mean, I got home just in time to say farewt•ll." 
Howard was .1,000 miles away from home and he had lost a man who was the n~ason he stayed with the Irish. But fate didn't leave him empty handed. Just a few short months before his father's 
up close & personal 
WITH TERRANCE HOWARD 
Terrance Howard 
birthdate: April 11, 1979 hometown: Willingboro, N.J. major: economics The CD in my player the most: 
Noreaga 

My most stimulating class ever: 
Philosophy with Suu-Joo Shin 
a word to describe me on the field: blade runner favorite kind of baby food: 
smashed pear 
favorite children's television show: Blue's Clues 
death, Howard met the woman who would offer him the sup­port he needed to keep his place in an often-frustrating world. 
With his wife sitting quietly in the background, it's easy to see how big a part of his life she. has become since they first met during his sophomore year. 
"If I didn't ha:ve.~Gina, I'd probably be going crazy righ~ now," he said. ''I'd go AWOL. My life would be totally differ­ent ... it would be like being without a backbone." 
By September of 2000,_ Terrance and Gina were mar-. ried. Four months later, Milan entered their lives. And with that, Howard changed from a football player to a father. 
"I've watched [Howard] grow up," ru_nning backs coach 

Notre Dame senior tailback Terrance Howard carries the ball during Notre Dame's 17-13 loss against I i Stanford last week. Howard is the only player on the Irish team that is manied and has a family. 
I
er for two years an~ Howard has always counted on Fisher's support on and off the field. Fisher flew to New Jersey after Terrance's father passed away and he's a common visitor to Howard!s apartment. ' 
"Basically, he's like my broth­er," Howard said. " ... It's Tony and Terrance. Gina's back there mocking me, but ... he's there for me." 
The support is there off the 

"'Desmond: J{obintt,.on~aid., ''I .,,field-. And after making the 
watched hitn whell" he "ame*-iii here, he was a kid and he's developed into a man." 
That development has brought with it a balancing act. As the only player on the Irish team that has a family, some­times Howard feels like he has more in common with the coaches than with his family. Keeping a college football schedufc and raising Milan and helping with Gina's other son Autry, takes its toll. 
"It's stressful for me; it's stressful for Gina too," Howard said. " ... There's a lot of ups and a lot of downs having a family and being a student." 
Gina laughs when she's asked aboul whetlwr she minds shar­ing him with the team and the fans. 
''As long as he's not going out." she said. 
And if Howard's out, he's out with fellow tailback Tony Fisher. The two roomed togeth­
•'decision to stay at Notre Darnf;'l and losing his father, Howard needs it. 
"I think it's more difficult 
being here and not playing 
[after my father died] because 
he told me to stay here and 
things would get better," 
Howard said. "And things did 
get better but I didn't play as 
much a!;, I wanted to. He made 
a big dP,cisfon in having me stay 
here and I'm proud of that, but · 
we would have wanted me to .. 
play." 
While Gina and Milan have been constants in his life, play­ing time has not. Low playing time was the major influence that rausPd Howard to second'­guess his decision to attend Notre Dame during his sopho­mon' y•~ar and it has contintwd to be a frustration to him. 
In Notre Dame's opener against Nebraska this season, Howard fumbled the ball on the first play of the season. He saw 

one more carry that game and 
then he was in for a dry spell. 
"When you make mistakes, that's what happens," he said. "I had the opportunity and I let it go. Some players get one ~opportunity, some players get plenty. I happen to be one of the players that gets one and then have to wait until another 
one comes along." 
Howard saw minimal playing 
time against Michigan State and 
Texas A&M. For Howard, the 
disappointment was intense. 
During preseason, Howard was 
the only completely healthy tail­
back. Heading into the 
Nebraska game, it looked like 
he was going to take the lead 
for the Irish. 
"He goes into the Nebraska, 
game because of injuries, 
because of him practicing so 
much so well at camp, he starts 
the game, first play of the 
game; he fumbles," head coach 
Bob Davie said. "You talk aQout 
a guy that's done everything 
right, sometimes, bad things 
happen." 
"It's very disappointing to me 
because, you know, it's my 
senior year and I had big aspi­
rations for the season and this 
one fumble ... and the coach<1s 
lose confidence in me for one 
play," Howard said. "Made me 
feel kind of bad towards the 
coaching staff a little bit. like 
they didn't have confidence in 
me because of one play after I'd 
worked so hard in the summer 
and the winter." 
But now Howard has slowly turned things around. He saw the ball more during the Boston College game and by the time Navy rolled around, he was get­ting enough carries to score two touchdowns. When Julius Jones went down in Saturday's loss to Stanford, joining Fisher on the sidelines, Howard was the lrish's man once again. 
"But he's bounced back. He stayed out there, went to the bottom of the depth chart, basi­cally, let's call it what it was," Davie said. "But all of the sud­den there he is, Terrance Howard playing, there he is against Navy playing. So he's a resilient guy and his attitude has been tremendous." 
During the Stanford game, Howard carried the ball 14 times and he has earned him­self the starting spot in this we-ekend's .game. against Purdue. This time, ho won'tclet the opportunity slip away. 
"I have that opportunity now and I'm not going to let that opportunity slip like I did in Nebraska game," Howard said. "Every time I go out on the field I'm going to takP advantage of that one opportunity and I'm looking forward to the next." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 30, 2001 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 4--6 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 

Davie head coach 

Bob Davie fifth season at Notre Dame career record: 
34-25 

at Notre Dame: 
34-25 

against Purdue: 2-2 
No. 
1 2 2 3 4 5 6 
7 
8 9 10 10 11 12 13 14 
15 
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 24 25 26 28 28 
30 
31 32 33 34 35 35 36 37 
38 
38 
39 40 41 42 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 52 53 
55 
56 
56 
57 59 60 61 62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 69 70 72 73 75 76 
77 
78 79 80 80 81 82 82 8.3 
84 
85 86 87 88 
89 
90 91 92 94 
95 
98 
99 
Roster 

Name Pos. HL Wt. YR 
Jared Clark QB 6-4 230 so Carlos Pierre-Antoine !LB 6-3 241 SR DanNovakov QB 6-1 215 JR Amaz Battle FL 6-1 210 SR Justin Smith FS 5-11 197 SR Ron Israel 5.5 6-1 212 SR David Givens FL 6-3 212 SR Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 218 so Lorenzo Crawford FL 5-10 190 so Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 186 JR Matt LoVecchio QB 6-4 205 so Ryan Krueger QB 5-9 186 SR Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 180 FR· Tony Fisher TB 6-2 226 SR Nick Setta KIP 5-11 175 JR Gary Godsey TE 6-6 270 JR Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 176 SR Abram Elam ss 6-0 210 so Joey Hildbold p 5-10 188 JR Ronnie Rodamer SE 6-4 210 so Glenn Earl FS 6-1 210 JR Gerome Sapp ss 6--0 214 JR Javin Hunter SE 6-0 191 SR Julius Jones TB 5-10 210 JR Chris Yura TB 6-0 225 JR Cory Jones RB 6-2 215 FR Chad DeBolt !LB 6-0 202 SR Ryan Grant RB 6-1 198 FR Garron Bible CB 5-10 191 so Donald Dykes FS 5-11 195 SR Cole Laux TB 5-10 225 so Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4 240 SR Dwayne Francis FS 6-0 198 SR Terrance Howard TB 6-1 195 SR Courtney Watson !LB 6-1 232 JR Vontez Duff CB 5-11 192 so David Miller K 5-11 208 SR Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 175 SR Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 249 SR Dwight Ellick CB 5-11 170 FR Preston Jackson CB 5-9 176 so Eric Nelson FB 6-0 225 SR Brandon Hoyte !LB 6-0 219 FR Jason Murray FB 6-1 260 SR Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 240 so Shane Walton CB 5-11 186 SR Grant Irons. DE 6-5 275 SR Matt Sarb ss 5-11 200 SR Corey Mays ILB 6-1 234 FR MikeMcNair FB 6-0 237 SR Justin Tuck OLB 6-5 215 FR Derek Curry !LB 6-3 228 so Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 290 JR Tyreo Harrison !LB 6-2 242 SR Jeff Faine C 6-3 296 JR Mark Mitchell OLB 5-10 200 SR Jason Halvorson DL 6-2 240 JR Zachary Giles OL 6-4 285 FR John Crowther C 6-2 242 SR Pat Ryan ILB 6-3 231 JR Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 245 JR Brian Dierckman ILB 6-1 2..'iO SR Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 2% JR Jesse De.splinter LB 6-1 177 so Casey Robin 0G 6-7 300 SR Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 305 JR Jeffrey Campbell DE 6-1 230 SR Sean Milligan 0G 6-4 295 JR JWJordan C 6-1 275 SR Ryan Gillis 0G 6-3 2% JR Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 285 FR Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 295 JR Ryan Scamla 0G 6-5 308 SR Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 310 FR Kurt Vollers OT 6-7 312 SR John Teasdale OT 6-5 305 SR Greg Pauly DT 6-6 208 so Jordan Black OT 6-6 318 SR Sean Mahan OT 6-3 292 SR Adam Tibble K 5-11 186 SR Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 180 FR Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 242 so Bernard Akatu SE 5-10 190 SR Matt Shelton WR 6-1 170 FR Josh Gentine K/P 5-11 205 JR John Owens TE 6-3 260 SR 
Billy Palmer TE 6-3 265 so Brendan Hart TE 6-2 255 so Jonathan Smith WR 6-4 195 so Carlos Campbell WR 6-1 190 FR Matt Root TE 6-6 225 FR Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 265 FR Jeff Thompson DL 6-5 265 FR Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 265 so AndyWisne DT 6-3 285 SR Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 262 SR Anthony Weaver DE '' 6-3 286 SR Jason Sapp DE 6-3 250 so 
NOTRE DAME 
2001 Schedule 
Sept. 8  at Nebraska -L  
Sept. 22  Michigan St.  -L  
Sept. 29  at Texas A&M -L  
Oct. 6  Pittsburgh ­ W  
Oct. 13  W. VirSJnia-W  
Oct. 20 i~ t;:;;.,,  .'\i..  USC -W  

Oct. 27 at Boston College -L Nov. 3 Tennessee -L Nov. 17 Navy-W Nov. 24 at Stanford -L Dec. 1 at Purdue 
COACHING 
I.LI
:e 
<'C 
C 
LI.I 
ct: 
l­
o 
z 
I.LI
::, 
Q 
ct: 
::, 
a. 
-
ti) ti) 
~ 
<'C 
z 
<C 

NJTFEDME CfF8'6E 
RIGHT ENO 
13-Ayodele 
40-Nesfleld 
, INSIDE 
. . LINEBACKER RIGHTD .·. ...J 1G-G.rdner 
79-Mahan 
QUARTERBACK 57-GiHis 
TACKL.E -) Koutoo
7-Hollday 
98-Mtrlone
10-Lovec;,~-llli 
65-Jolmson 
2 


I 
-1 
RIGHT TACKLE 
75-Vollers 
82-Robin 
Fl.ANKER 
6-Glvene 
3-Battle 
L=EN~ 
53•Phllll~f ·~ 

62-0zolovic OUTSIDE 
UNEBACKER (
ff-Johnson 
88-Loerzel 
QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING 
STRONG 
SAFETY 
8-Tumer 
: , , 48-Upshur
'<') 

PURDUE 4fa... 
DEFENSE -~.: 
IRISH PASSING 
It seems that Davie's departure at the end of the season is imminent. But give him credit -he's not giving up on the season or this team. Davie has a lot invested in the program, and he won't quit now.  Following his 1-for-16 performance last week, Davie said Holiday lost his confidence in his passing. Everyone knows he can run. The key for this young quarterback is to show he can throw the ball early.  Injuries continue to dec­imate the Irish rushing corps. Fisher and Jones have been nursing injuries all season long. Only Holiday and Howard are 100 percent healthy, meaning Grant could see some playing time.  Confidence is the key for Holiday. He has talented receivers, now he has to get them the ball. Givens hurt his ankle and is questionable Saturday, but Hunter will be healthy and looking to make some plays.  
ln just five short seasons, Tiller he's taken Purdue from the bottom of the barrel to a Big Ten power. He is already ranks third on the career win list at Purdue.  Hance, a redshirt fresh­man, has done a decent job filling in for Brees. He averages 169 passing yards per game. However, he has thrown 10 interceptions com­pared to only eight touchdown passes.  Opponents have only been able to muster an average of 126 rushing yards per game against the Boilermaker front seven. Phillips and Ayodele are speedy defensive ends who could complicate Notre Dame's option game.  Purdue's secondary isn't the world's greatest. They give up 214 pass­ing yards a game. However, they have picked off 18 passes and have a strong pass rush.  
Even Irish players admit it's tough to play with Davie. rumors swirling around them. Tiller can sit back and coach. Davie has to defend his every move.  Holiday is by far the bet­ter athlete, but his confi­dence was shaken last JPV:Eatsi! quite had a 1-for-16 performance, so nobody knows how he'll respond.  Since the Irish are having trouble taking pressure off the run game, the ,RoiJ.erpiakers"will be ab,lef'~¥i~~~i should be able to run effectively. If they can't pass, Holiday and Co. will have a long day.  Holiday was just too shaky last week. If he can't throw downfield, Purdue will spend most of its time keying on the rush, and it will be a long day for the Irish.  



In the Bob Davie Pride Bowl, the Irish will Notre Dame's seniors will make the difference do all they can to make Kevin White's deci­in this game. They'll be motivated, frustrated, sion even tougher, waking up the echoes angry and upset, and the only team left to and their offense in an "upset" only a take it out on is the Boilermakers. The game
Hoosier could love. will stay close, but the Irish defense will shut down Purdue late in the game to lock up the win. 
Irish 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Purdue 17 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 Andrew Soukup 
experts 

Purdue 17 associate sports editor 
Noah Amstadter sports editor 
\ 
.--... '>
-'-t I'") 

Friday, November 30, 2001 page 5
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Purdue 
Boilermakers Record: 6-4 AP: Unranked 

Coaches: Unranked 
Joe Tiller fifth year at Purdue career record: 
78-50-1 
at Purdue 
39-20 


PURDUE • 
OFFENSE ~ 
RUNNING BACK 

3-l.owe 
J6.Srown 
RIGHTTACKL 
71-Butler 
75-Moore 
WIDE RECEIVER 
82-Standeford 


BOILERMAKER BOILERMAKER RUSHING PASSING 
QUARTERBACK
4-Hance 
17-Smi!h 

\ 
>, 
OE 
TA 

92-B1udlnsea11i, ~~ 
77.f>al.Jy 

v;
OOTSD<
-' -·> 

UNEBACKERl' 30-Bolmen
.., 
LeFTEN . ·. ' 

81-Cunyi8•Weever ·· '. 
99-Sapp ·~ 

PURDUE 
2001 Schedule 
CORNER8ACK 
34•Duff 
15-Jefferson 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 
33-Watson 
41-Goolsby 
·, 
., 
FREE 
SAFETY 
28-0ykes 
19-Earl 
STRONG 
SAFETY 
20-Sapp 
, , 5-lsrael 
Sept. 2 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 27 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 
at Cincinnati -W Akron-W at Minnesota -W lowa-W at Michigan -L Northwestern -W Illinois -L at Ohio State -L Michigan State -W at Indiana -L 

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-t
:a 
'" 
C 
J> 
i: 
'" 
.,, 
C:
:a 
C 
C: 
'" 


No. 
2 
3 
4 5 6 6 
7 
8 
9 
IO 
11 
12 13 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 
36 
37 38 39 
40 
41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 50 51 52 54 55 56 57 58 59 
60 
61 62 63 64 65 
66 
67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 
79 80 
Bl 82 83 84 85 87 88 
89 
90 92 93 94 95 
96 
97 
98 99 
Tiller

against Notre 
head coach
Dame: 2-2 
Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
WR 6-3 203 so RB 5-8 199 JR QB 6-1 204 so WR 5-10 181 JR CB 5-11 188 so QB 6-4 205 FR CB 6-2 209 SR ss 6-2 210 JR FS 6-3 209 so QB 6-0 224 SR p 6-1 206 SR CB 6-2 170 so DE 6-3 261 SR LB 6-2 234 so QB 6-3 209 SR QB 6-4 208 FR FS 5-7 183 SR FS 5-11 208 so WR 6-1 168 so DE 6-3 259 so WR 6-3 195 FR CB 5-6 162 JR RB 5-10 193 FR RB 5-11 205 so RB 5-11 216 FR CB 6-1 183 so p 5-11 2<Yl so K-P 6-6 222 SR WR 6-2 170 so WR 6-2 181 FR CB 6-0 160 FR LB 6-3 233 so CB 5-9 162 so RB 6-1 227 so 
CB 6-1 185 so FS 6-0 202 SR LB 6-2 217 FR DE 6-3 244 so CB 5-9 170 FR RB 6-0 224 so DE 6-4 224 FR LB 6-3 243 so RB 5-9 233 so LB 6-2 218 FR LB 6-2 210 so ss 6-1 208 SR OT 6-7 286 so LB 6-2 243 JR LB 6-2 209 FR 0G 6-4 294 JR OT 6-2 271 FR OL 6-3 270 FR LB 6-2 223 FR LB 6-4 252 FR DE 6-5 218 so LS 6-1 231 so DT 6-4 268 so DE 6-3 262 so OL 6-6 285 so 0G 6-2 297 JR OT 6-0 288 JR OT 6-5 283 so 0G 6-2 298 so 0G 6-6 294 JR LS 6-6 266 JR 0G 6-2 290 SR OT 6-8 299 so 0G 6-3 284 JR 0G 6-2 282 so C 6-2 273 so OT 6-7 271 FR OT 6-2 257 so OT 6-5 297 JR OT 6-6 297 FR C 6-2 298 JR WR 6-4 232 SR TE b-4 262 SR WR 6-4 190 so TE 6-6 238 FR WR 5-10 181 JR WR 6-3 202 FR TE 6-6 262 FR LB 6-3 224 SR TE 6-4 253 SR TE 6-4 205 FR DT 6-3 289 so DT 6-0 299 FR OT 6-4 267 so DE 6-4 261 JR OT 6-5 283 so DE 6-4 257 FR OT 6-3 293 SR OT 6-1 299 so 
Roster 
Name 
Gary Heaggans Montrell Lowe Brandon Hance Chris James Deaunte Ferrell Kyle Smith Ashante Woodyard Ralph Turner Stuart Schweigert Carl Buergler Scott Kurz Antwaun Rogers Akin Ayodeloe Gilbert Gardner Ben Smith Kyle Orton R'Kes Starling Chuck McQuaid Taylor Stubblefield Sean Phillips Kevin Noel Sean Morris Greg Stevenart Joey Harris Brandon Jones Jacques Reeves Aaron Levin Travis Dorsch Jim Guidos Jerod Void Brian Hickman Niko Koutouvides Korey Mack Sedrick Brown Charles Edwards Brady Doe Bobby Iwuchukwu Kevin Nesfield Chad Dickerson Patrick Schaub Jeff Bennett Jon Goldsberry Jacob owe LaDrelle Bryant Landon Johnson Tim Upshur Tyler Moore 
Joe Odom Jason Leimberger Rob Turner Brandon Villarreal Matt Turner Brent Hawkins Brent Grover Doug Swann Mark Reid Nick Hardwick Vedran Dzoliovic Dave Owen Danny May Brandon Johnson Jason bsele Jason Sulc Kelly Kitchel John Shelboume Sean Rufolo Kelly Butler Max Miller Mike Holle Nick Pilipauskis Brian Wang Willie Bach Pete Lougheed Josh Tomsheck Gene Mroczkowski 
T.A. Simpson Chris Randolph John Standeford Mike Rhinehart Seth Morales Jameson Evans Charles Davis Jason Loerzel Tim Stratton Jamie Petrowski Craig Terrill Antwan Harris Luke Burroughs 
Jarod Ramirez Mike Lawrence Ryan Davis Matt MitriOfle 
Daemeon Grier 

Setta is Setta -he set  
Weaver, Budinscak, Hilliard and Irons will probably play the entire game, but they do a solid job containing the rush. The Irish have only given up 138 rush­ing yards a game.  While Walton and Duff have done a good job covering receivers, the safeties have been ham­pered by injury all sea­son long. Look for Elam and Smith to see quality playing time with Sapp and Earl shaken up.  the record for most con­secutive games with a field goal last week. Hildbold dropped four punts inside the 20 against Stanford. The coverage game has been solid, but the Irish are still waiting for a big  A 4-6 season has plenty of players upset. They won't have any problem getting motivated for this game. All week long, the Irish have talked about how impor­tant it is to send the seniors out with a win.  
return on special teams.  
Lowe is Purdue's lead­ing rusher, but that's not saying much. He only averages 54 rush­ing yards per game on a Boilermaker offense that is decidedly pass-orient­ed.  Tiller brought his spread offense in with Brees, and he hasn't changed it much for Hance. In Stubblefield, Stratton, Morales and Standeford, the Boilermakers have a very capable receiving unit that averages just under 200 yards a game.  Dorsch is a do-it-all man for the Boilermakers. He punts and averages 48.9 yards a kick. He kicks field goals and has made a 50­yarder this year. The Boilermakers haven't done anything special in the return game.  In recent years, the Boilermakers have been underrated, and yet they always manage to play the Irish close. Notre Dame hasn't won in Ross Ade Stadium since 1995.  
Plain and simple, Purdue just doesn'ftun the ball. They only: aver­age 104· rushbigryir.. a game.·. Notre~}.·;:0$ne shouldn't~h~,~nfffou­ble shutting thefitlown.  They're not Florida, but the Boilermakers are still dangerous. And the way the Irish secondary has been playing, the Boilermakers might be able to complete several long passes·-or at least draw a pass interference from Jefferson.  j~~'.fin~llts:H~; his ~,alf~,b~~tmti J~~ 1! ia.0J11.1. ra~. lath. ~ ams are fairly equal across the board.  Weather won't be a.fac­tor, but Notre· Dame's seniors will. They ~·t :ftl1 ~~e~w~~;t1i#s~ record sil!ce 1%1! '4 ;·;· • '·~t,  



You think Notre Dame's offense is terrible? 
Breaking news: Notre Dame's offense is bad; but so is Purdue's is equally as bad. In a match-up of Purdue's. If you like defense, this is a game you will cer­Notre Dame's 110th-ranked offense with tainly enjoy. Weaver, Harrison and company will look to Purdue's 109th-ranked offense, don't expect a finish their Irish carrers with a bang, shutting down the shoot-out. Somehow, Notre Dame's offense will Boiler's offense. Bob Davie will display his only good manage to score while the stout Irish defense coaching of the season, calling for field goals on third­will shut out the Boilermakers. downs, with the consistent Nicholas Setta making the dif­
ference.
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 7 Ernesto Lacayo FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 9
Purdue 0 Purdue 3 
sports photo editor 
Mike Connolly 
editor in chief 
t. 

page6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 30, 2001 
Davie's excuses get more desperate, more pathetic 
On the field, there are no reasons to keep Bob Davie around for another year as head coach. If he loses to Purdue Saturday, he will tie Gerry Faust for 
Davie is right. He doesn't have to defend the reasons for giving him a contract exten­sion. Athletic director Kevin White does. And while he won't talk about Davie's future at Notre Dame, White coaches could basically leave at any time for whatever rea­son. This was far from an ideal situation. Remember that basketball coach who left Notre Dame after just one sea­son so he could go down south 
the sec­
will talk a little about that con­and lose to Hampton? White's ond most tract Davie signed last new contract plan put a stop career December. White confirmed to those types of situations. losses at that is was a five-year con­So basically, this great con­Notre tract that Davie signed last tract that Davie holds up as Dame December. It proof of with 26. was a full five his con­
This great contract that

Only Lou year contract -tinued Holtz lost not a series of Davie holds up really employ­more five one-year ment
Mike Connolly means nothing. The
than contracts as really
contract will play as

Faust and  
Davie­but he coached  Outside Looking In  
for 11  
years.  

Faust and Davie only headed the Irish for five. 
So Davie has resorted to using off the field reasons for not getting canned by the Irish. The biggest reason why Davie seems to believe he will be back is the five-year con­tract he signed in December 2000. Davie touts it around like a magic shield against the big bad firing monster that is waiting for him on Monday. 
"There's a reason the University of Notre Dame came to me and gave me a five year contract. I did not go to the University of Notre Dame and ask for a new con­tract," Davie said at his Tuesday press conference. "So I don't think I'm the one that should have to defend on why that contract was given to me." 
some unreliable means Internet boards much ofa role in his nothing. and rumor If Notre
continued employment as 

mongers have Dame
beating Navy. 

said in the past. fires him, 
But White also said that Davie's contract was nothing special. Since White took over as athletic director, every coach still employed by the University signed a contract. For some reason, before White got here, coaches were bound only to the University by a smile and a handshake. 
"When I arrived, we didn't have any coaches on what I would characterize as a con­tract," White said. "We have letters of understanding and all kinds of agreements. So we tried to put into place across all 26 sports a plan that would provide consistency and conti­nuity." 
Basically, White took over and found an athletic depart­ment in disarray. Under the bozos who ran that athletic department before White, 
he will be well compensated. Beyond that, the contract will play as much of a role in his contin­ued employment as peating Navy. Every Irish coach has a new contract since White arrived. Davie's contract is nothing special or unremark­able. 
Davie also points to his clean NCAA compliance record, the academic achieve­ments of his team and the good people he has on his team. Although White said that balancing academics and athletics and keeping in NCAA compliance were the impor­tant for an entire athletic department, he said those were not necessarily the crite­ria he would use in evaluating a coach. 
So without any good reasons · off the field to keep him either, Davie is forced to 

resort to his old reliable to 
lobby for his job: excuses. 
Davie: There were too many 
injuries this year. 
Davie needs to realize he is 
a football coach, not a golf 
coach. There are going to be 
injuries. 
Davie: The schedule was too 
difficult this year. 
Notre Dame's schedule is 
always difficult. Davie just 
whines because he can't beat 
good teams. 
Davie: People who under­
stand football would not eval­
uate this season as a complete 
failure. 
Apparently Davie doesn't 
think the BCS knows much 
about football because those 
polls are pretty much univer­
sally ranking Notre Dame's 
season as a failure. If the BCS 
awarded points for playing 
hard in spite of the head 
coach, the Irish would rank at 
the top. 
Ever since the Irish started 
0-3, Davie has been practical­
ly begging to keep his job. As 
the speculation about his suc­
cessor grows louder, Davie's 
pleas become more and more 
pathetic. White and the 
University hierarchy should 
have mercy on the man and 
fire him quickly after the sea­
son ends. The longer this 
drags on, the more and more 
painful it becomes to watch. 
Mike Connolly can be 
reached at 
connolly.28@nd.edu. The 
views ofthis column are those . ofthe author and are not nec­
essarily those ofThe Observer. 
game hype 

0 A lot ofour goals have come and gone as a team.,. 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"They think they're the team in Indiana and we think they're a team 


in Indiana.,, Anthony Weaver 
Irish defensive end 


"When Purdue and Notre Dame play. you can throw out the 
Akin Ayodele records." Boilennaker defensive end 
"Notre Dame is Notre Dame ... right now, this is our biggest game ofthe year.·· 

Travis Dorsch 
Boilermaker kicker 


. 

·:.:.:··: :::=:r:=: ):_::; :=} <:-•..-:-<'..::-=_ . :·\_ .-):: t·-:-"::::j­
= -·_ ::·: 

-. . *_t.;:.. _ . . :_;; J,-.:-; . : .. ·. . tff\ 
/: '+ > : :):\:;'.' '.. '::: ::. : •• : > :'. .'. 
...-,, . . . . . -:-. . .· . . ~~.. ;,_:.·.::,_.'_,i,~.-.::,•. 
-. . . .· ..• . -· .. -~ . 
. -.:::::;. 
: : _:_.:,,:··. i.: ::.:ii . ' '·,. ·.+~_-}_ '.:: 
·:, ;:·,-<:..·:_ .. 

. . .. . . ·· · · . . · . ·· ~J":i-.·· · .:lf:·: .· . . : _:. -· .· •. ·' ·· · . . 
Subn1it designs to Student Activities Offit~:@: 3:::15"~ Lafortune•. · Please submit designs by: ·NoY~mb~(30/ 2001 . 
QuestioflS? Please e:mail StottPalko atspalko@nd.edu···· 




Friday, November 30, 2001 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION pa_ge7 
• 
1 2 3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 
25 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 l 11 
I 
¥·:· 12 
13 
,, 
14 
~-. 15 
.
tr 16 
( 
17 . 
. 
18 
. 
19 f 
20 
f' 21
~:. 
J; 22 
r, f 23 24 
25. 
:.~r 

·::~,. ,;:;~->»»::;:;~@;:~::.. ::· .-<,;w....s.-. 
Notre Dame at Purdue 
Armyn. Navy 
Miami at Virginia Tech Georgia Tech at Florida State Tennessee at Florida Auburn at LSU 

AP poll  
team  record  points  
Miami (71)  10-0  1,799  
Florida (1)  9-1  1,716  
Texas  10-1  1,644  
Oregon  9-1  1,540  
Tennessee  9·1  1,511  
Nebraska  11-1  1,318  
Maryland  10-1  1,295  
Illinois  10-1  1,273  
Colorado  9-2  1,261  
BYU  11-0  1,244  
Oklahoma  10-2  1,163  
Stanford  8-2  1,034  
Washington State  9-2  846  
Virginia Tech  8-2  783  
South Carolina  8-3  722  
Georgia  7-3  660  
Michigan  8-3  616  
Syracuse  9-3  528  
Washington  8-3  492  
Marshall  10-1  460  
Fresno State  10-2  404  
LSU  7-3  268  
Ohio Stale  7-4  225  
Louisville  10-2  170  
Auburn  7-3  156  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 
Miami (59) 10-0 1,499 Florida (1) 9-1 1,432 Texas 10-1 1,358 Tennessee 9-1 1,289 Oregon 9-1 1,257 Nebraska 11-1 1,104 BYU 11-0 1,080 Maryland 10-1 1,080 Illinois 10--1 1,065 Colorado 9-2 991 Oklahoma 10--2 915 Stanford 8-2 817 Virginia Tech 8-2 763 Washington State 9-2 699 South Carolina 8-3 596 Michigan lJ;-3 553 Syracuse g..3 458 Marshall 10--1 425 Georgia 7-3 420 Washington 8-3 397 Freuo State 10-2 334 Auburn 7~ 223 Louisville 10-2 205 
LSU 7,.3 164 
OhiaState 7.4 105 
Eye on lrlsh Opponents 
Saturday Missouri at MICHIGAN STATE (5-5) UAB at PRTSBURGH (5•5) 
Flortda It TENNESSEE (l-1J STANFORD (8-2) at San Jon state ARMY vs. NAVY (IJ..9) 
Off 
NE811AS1A {114) 
lWSMM(7..f) 
WEST VIRGINIA (H) USC(M} 
around the dial 

4:30 p.m., ABC 
11:00 a.m., CBS 
1:00 p.m.• ABC 3:30, ESPN 
4:30 p.m., CBS 
7:45 p.m., ESPN 
GAME OF THE WEEK 


KRT 
Florida quarterback Rex Grossman leaps over the top to score a touchdown against South Carolina earlier this 
season. The sophomore leads the Gators into the SEC Championship game against Tennessee 
Gators, Vols battle for BCS berth 
.:.,.. 
ByGREGLADKY 
Sporn Writer 
While the No. 2 Gators have continued to amaze the college football world with blowout victories over South Carolina and Florida State, the No. 5 Volunteers have quietly moved their way back into the Rose Bowl picture. 
This series is one of the highest quality rivalries in college football. This is the seventh straight time both teams enter the game ranked in the top 10. 
With last week's upsets in the Big-12, the winner of this Saturday's game 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Texas vs. Colorado 

The No. 9 Buffaloes will get their cha.nee at revenge against the No. 3 Longhorns this Saturday in the Big 12 championship in Texas Stadium. 
Texas beat Colorado 41-7 in Austin this sea.son. Colorado turned the ball over four times and committed nine penalties in that game. The Buffaloes showed they have improved greatly with their surprising 62-36 blowout of Nebraska last weekend. 
But the Longhorns have improved as well. and now have a shot at the Rose Bowl. 
With all the attention on Texas quarterback Chris SilllillS and their talented young receivers; the Texas defense deserves the glory. They bailed Ouis Simms and the rest of the offense out of a lacklust.er performance in last week's 21-7 victory at Texas A&M. Simms threw for just 138 yards in the game. 
Colorado's offensive line got everyone's player of the week vote last week. They dominated Nebraska like no one has ever seen before, opening gaping holes for running back Orris Brown. Brown rushed for 198 yards and a school record six touchdowns. 
A win for Colorado this weekend will be much more difficult against Texas. "We're probably playing the best, most talent­ed team in the league, .. Colorado coach Gary Barnett said. 
will have the inside track to the national title game, as long as they get past the wild and wacky SEC West champion next week. 
The game features two great sophomore quarter­backs, and a load of tal­ented wide receivers. Five players on these two teams were named as first team All-Americans Wednesday -Florida's defensive end Alex Brown, receiver Ja bar Gaffney, tackle Mike Pearson. and Tennessee's defensive tackle John Henderson and running back Travis Stephens. 
Tennessee quarterback Casey Clausen has played 
in the shadow of Grossman all year. But he ranks 10th nationally in passing efficiency. 
The Gator offensive line has allowed just nine sacks this season. They will be tested to protect Grossman against a strong Tennessee defensive front. 
"It's really on all us," Tennessee defensive tack­le Albert Haynesworth said. "We've got to get after Grossman and make him make decisions on the run." 
Florida will play without starting tailback Earnest Graham, who suffered a controversial 1nJury against Florida State. 
Anny vs. Navy 

College foot.ball will always have more import.ant games in terms of rankings and championships than the Anny-Navy game, but oo rivalry in the cotmtry involves more passion. more effort, and more meaning to the players than this game. 
Th.is game is 1ruJy one of the great traditions in all of sports. ,. ,, But this year's game has obviously taken a back seat to the war on temxism for he players involved. 
'When you lose a foothaJl game. no one loses a lite. It's just football," Anny linebacker Brian Zickafoose said. 'What these guys are going to be doing in six months is much more impor­tant" 
Navy linebacker and team captain Jake Bowen said the team is looking forwanl to the challenge of defending our country... even more than the game. 
Army is 2-8 on the season, notching two victories in the underrated Conference USA this year. Navy is 0-9, but has played tough football ever since their embarr~70-7 ~ to Georgia Tech. The Mids played Air Force and Toledo to the last second. and looked poised to finally knock oft' the Irish for three ..,. quarters. 
1be game will certainly mean much more to fans this year. Most games that involve two teams with bad records could never sell out But as always, this game sold out months ago. 
Steve Spurrier has accused Florida State Darnell Dockett of taking cheap shots at his players after the whistle in their Nov 17 matchup. 
Florida's only loss of the year came against Auburn without Graham. Auburn completely shut down Florida's rushing attack, and forced Grossman to throw four interceptions. 
Tennessee can win this game by shutting down the run, and getting after..,_ Grossman. But the Vols proved vulnerable against the pass in giving up 303 yards passing to Georgia in their only loss of the year. 
-----~-~-------------------­
-
. 
\~ 
1 

\\ii <I , ~'> 
(1 page 8 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 30, 2001 
1 :::::::::::==============================================================================================================
I ' 
!:
)\ 
-
)' 
~ I ., , 
\ 
\ 
~ 

01 
a 
Ill
~ 
\ 
one 
-


ore 
1 
e. 
t',_ I -, 
• . . ,':· .,."\. ~ I 
... 

. . ," , I,,,.. ,,,,.,, 
•~-.-,-:-?"~,-~ ...,•-.•. -­



The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend -Marriott · email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
'fl; • I '-. 

' -I, \ • ". 
-4 I t
' . 
' ..
.. 
-











