
There's no place like home
SUNNY 

Thursday 
Abroad students will get help reajusting to home after 
HIGH 84° 

SEPTEMBER 6,
spending months overseas through a new Notre Dame retreat 
LOW67° 
News . page 3 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 8 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Regis Philbin visits ca01pus 
. Philbin set to tape show "Regis and Kelly Live" today 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistanr News Edico~ 
A Notre Dame alumnus returned to campus Wednesday to tour his old dorm room, say a prayer at the grotto and walk around the lakes. But this wasn't your typical alumnus. He had a team of cameramen follow­ing him and everywhere he went he caused students to turn around and say, "Hey, isn't that Regis?" 
Television personality Regis Philbin arrived at the University Wednesday for today's groundbreaking cere­mony of the Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. He also began prepa­rations for this morning's edi­tion of "Live! With Regis and Kelly." Philbin was scheduled to join the show via satellite and broadcast from Main Quad and the DeBartolo Quad, the site of the perform­ing arts center. 
Philbin spent Wednesday touring campus and shooting segments for this morning's program. 
"He went over to Zahm [Hall] and saw his old room and visited the people there. Ile went to the lake to find his duck. went to the grotto and went to the football field and got someone to throw him a pass. He sang with the glee club and also went out to football practice," said Dennis Moore, director of public relations and information. 
Zahm Hall rector Father Tom Bednar said he learned during the afternoon that Philbin wanted to visit his old dorm. 
"When he came he wanted to know whether the old phonebooth was still there. He said he made several phone calls there during the first weeks of school to his mother when he was home­sick. 
"I didn't talk to him very long, but sent him upstairs where most of the hall was waiting for him," said Bednar. 
Forty years later, the phone booth still stands in Zahm. 
Upstairs, freshmen Victor Panos and Greg Salzler who reside in Philbin's old room, 222, received instructions from Philbin's crew about what would happen in the next five minutes. 
"His crew was outside and they shut the door. He knocked on the door, came in live here,"' said Salzler. "He and introduced himself and climbed up on my roommate's said something like, "Hey, bed because he said that's what's going on? I used to where he used to sleep and 


SMC discusses sexuality 
By JILL MAXBAUER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will launch a new sexuality education pro­gram next week. beginning a series of lectures designed to explore issues of sexuality from a Catholic perspective. 
The series is titled "Understanding and Embracing Our Sexuality," and features monthly lectures that will run through April. 
"We wondered how could we develop an all-inclusive series covering the topics of sexuality and how to have it as a yearly curriculum approach," said Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs. who helped create the lecture series. 
The series will provide dis­cussion on issues such as dat­ing choices, contraception, sexual abuse. sexual orienta­tion, abortion, different levels of human relationships and moral choices. All talks will be based on a Catholic per­spective, but take other views into consideration. 
"Students will be surprised. It will be interesting for them to realize how broad the Church does speak about the beauty of the sexual being and how that impacts spiritu­ality," said Timm. 
Both Timm and Sister Rose Ann Schultz, vice president for Mission, said the series provides students with a unique opportunity. 
"It is truly an understanding of a new and exciting way to look at being a sexual being, which we all are. It will have a very holistic way of approaching this topic, where mind/body/and spirit are regarded as one," said Timm. 
Schultz continued, "We are sexual beings. But it is about more than just sex. As a Catholic institution. we want to bring this up. It is a part of life. This series is interactive and creative and we hope will really engage the students in dialogue." 

This is the first series of its kind to take place at Saint Mary's, which has struggled with intermittent and poorly­attended programming on sexuality. Visiting speakers have typically come twice a year to campus. This program is hoped to appear more visi­ble and consistent. 
"We want to appear consis­tent. The talks are every month ... our hope is that it will continue dialogue," Schultz said. 
The first lecture, entitled "Friendship and Life Choices: A discussion of four forms of human relationships. love, infatuation, friendship and exploitation," will be held on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hal1. 
Contact Jill Maxbaue.r at maxb3 l26@saintmarys.edu. 
he hit his head on the ceiling board. He made a joke about 
see REGIS/page4 

Senate plans more student contact 
By ERIN LaRUFFA Associate News Editor 
In its first meeting of the school year, the Student Senate brought up one con­cept repeatedly: increasing commu­
nication between student govern­ment and stu• dents. 
"We definite­


ly want Moscona to rep• resent everyone," said student body vice president Brian Moscona. "That means not only telling them what we're doing, but also getting their input." 
Dillon senator Jim Ryan suggested that communication might improve if speaking at senate meetings was easier for students and faculty. Ryan explained any non-senator who wishes to speak at a meeting must notify the stu­dent union secretary ahead of time. Ryan said he would con­sider methods of allowing anyone who comes to a meet­ing to address the senate. 
''I'd like to make it more of a public forum," Ryan said. "It could greatly increase the involvement of students in student government." 
Ryan added that he would also like for the senate to pub­lish its upcoming meeting agendas in The Observer. 
"Hopefully, people will see the agenda, and come to the meeting if they have anything 
see SENATE/page 4 

Thursday, September 61 2001
page2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Freshman 
•

innocence 
Two weeks ago I returned to campus to serve on my dorm's freshman orientation committee. As I helped the newest Howard girls set up their rooms, watched the ambi­tious ones exchange numbers with guys they · met while playing Twister at an orienta­
Lauren Beck
tion activity and assured the worriers that they would defi­nitely pass bio 101, I Viewpoint could not help feeling Editor nostalgic and even envious. 
Freshmen possess this blissful innocence and childlike delight that I have lost at some point during the past four months since my freshman year ended. I remember how awestruck I was as l drove up Notre Dame Avenue and saw the Dome gleaming in the sunlight for the first time, how overcome with emotion I was as I cheered at my first football game and how impressed I was to meet friends who shared my values. 
Those solely freshman experiences, too. we will most likely not relive. I remember cram­ming into a tiny, sweat-soaked dorm room and thinking it was the best party ever. Or scouring South Quad for prospective boys with my roommate as we sat outside to '"study." I fondly recall coming in right when parietals ended to rehash the night with my newfound best friends. Or unwinding after a long study session by singing Madonna at the top of our lungs. 
All these activities seem absurd now but they were acceptable then because we were only freshmen. That's the beauty of freshman year. Even if you make mistakes it's OK, because you're experiencing college for the first time and learning from it every step of the way. 
Of course I still have three enjoyable years ahead of me, but watching the freshmen interact with each other makes me realize just how much I already miss about the first quarter of my college experience. l miss the newness of freshman year, the invincible atti­tude that everyone possessed, and the oppor­tunity it offered to explore countless different horizons. 
So freshmen, cherish every moment of your first year, even the more difficult ones, for you can never get them back. You will learn some of the most valuable lessons of your life, in and out of the classroom, will make some of the best friends you will ever encounter and will discover how to love and live. 
Upperclassmen, remember that initial excitement that consumed you when you first arrived at college and try to recreate it. Don't feel too mature to enjoy the activities you did freshman year. Take the time to stroll around campus and delight in its beauty and pretend you're absorbing it all for the first time. When you sing the Alma Mater, put your heart and soul into it, as if you're singing it for the first time. Remember how blessed you felt to come to Notre Dame freshman year and feel that fortunate to still be a part of it. 
Contact Lauren Beck at Beck.13@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recogniu that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have ma.de a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Moncky rhwugh Fricky except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated P,ess. All reproduction riglm arc reserved. 

Thursday Friday 
. 
Movie: "Crouching . Concert: "Kennedy's Tiger, Hidden Dragon" Kitchen featuring Celtic Carey Auditorium music artists, Moreau (Hesburgh) 7p.m. Little Theatre. 7:30 p.m. 

. 
Activities Night: Student . Family swim: Notre activities fair, Angela Dame faculty and staff, Athletic Facility, 7 to Rolfs Aquatic Center 7 to 10p.m. 9p.m. 


Saturday 

. Seminar: "Sojourner in the Promised Land: 40 Years Among the Mormons," Jan Shipps, McKenna Hall, 9 a.m. 
Sunday 
. Music: Faculty recital, Moreau Little Theatre, 
2:30 p.m. 

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Slur used in Libertarian fliers at Penn State 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa.  "When I read it, I was dumbfound­ 
Libertarian Party candidate Julian  ed," said Hasan Amenra, Penn State  
Heicklen stood at Pennsylvania State  Black Caucus president. "It's mali­ 
University's University Gates Tuesday  cious, it's insensitive and it's very  
handing out fliers that contained a  offensive."  
racial slur in the headline.  Amenra said he went to report the  
"I used this word to get attention  flier to the Office of the Vice Provost  
and I got the shock," Heicklen said.  for Educational Equity, where he  
The flier, which Heicklen·was using  asked the university for three things: a  
to get votes for the Llbertarian Party  public apology from IleickJen, an offi­ 
in the upcoming Nov. 6 election, con­ cial statement of the university's  
tained the text "PSU Student as  stance regarding the tlier and recon­ 
Nigger" in capital letters across the  is "committed to ending these prac­ sideration of Heicklen's status as  
top of the paper. Underneath the  tices" and hopes people will under­ Professor Emeritus. Amenra called  
headline the flier listed reasons how  stand why he used the wording he did.  Heicklen to find out what he was  
the State College Borough Council has  "I don't see why it (the racial slur) is  doing and state that he was offended.  
been mistreating students.  offensive, I'm only telling the truth,"  "I did get a phone call from the head  
"This community treats Penn State  he added.  of the Black Caucus to find out what I  
students like blacks were treated in  While Heicklen and the Libertarian  was doing, and was told that I better  
Mississippi in the 1950s," he said.  Party think their approach was the  stop or there would be dire conse­ 
Heicklen said the Llbertarian Party  right approach, others disagreed.  quences," Heicklen said.  

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Race-based admissions questioned 
MADISON, Wis. 
Since 1972, University of Wisconsin-Madison has used race-based preferences in its admissions prac­tices. This system, initially introduced to right past wrongs, has been used in recent years to increase campus diversity. Due to this practice, UW accepts some black and Hispanic students with lower grades and test scores over white and Asian students with higher grades and test scores. Last week, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta struck down the University of Georgia's practice of awarding students bonus points for skin color during admissions procedures. "Racial diversity is not necessarily the hallmark of a diverse student body," the appeals court justices said, and added that the university "did not even come close" to making the case that having students of a variety of different racial groups equals diversity. However. Multicultural Student Coalition member Sarah Wegner said racial diversity is important to making students comfortable on campus. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
,
, 
;;er 


:satil
~)} ..;.;.:.,·.,,:,,.,....;;,:":,:,•· 

4.~,Q99Q~ ~·u 

SIIOwets T-storms Rain Fluffies Snow lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via AsgocialGd Pf9ss GraphicsNot 
TEXAS A&M 

Students create new businesses 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
The number of available workers has increased dramatically with the coming of fall 2001, and com­petition for jobs is fierce. This means there will be new faces scooping up half-eaten pickles at the movie theater, new smiles serving burgers and many disheartened faces of the unemployed seeking jobs within a system of campus-job bureaucracy. Students can be seen filling out job applications and loan forms until their fingers bleed. However. there are other options. Ryan Ewing, a Texas A&M University senior marketing major, and Josh Dayberry, a freshman computer engineering major, have found another method of earning extra cash flow -entrepreneurship. Ewing is the owner, oper­ator, manager and janitor of Northgate Vintage, while Dayberry personally launched www.SKERBLIP.com this fall. Ewing's business is tucked away above Campus Photo on Northgate and specializes in vintage T-shirts. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Thursday, Sept 6. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
.................


~ WARM STATTONARY
C 2001 AccuWeathar Inc. 

@'"""'e0 D High Low Shower ¦ Via Assacia/9d P.ross  D R .. ln  CJ T-storm•  D Fl~n-lea  . GJ Snow lo•  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  63 79 71 82 84  69 60 61 68 74  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  95 85 79 76 81  74 72 66 61 63  Portland 73 Sacramento 92 St Louis 89 Tampa 89 Washington DC 80  54 56 72 76 65  

Thursday, September 6, 200l The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC searches for new HD 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Unable to find a new resi­dence hall director for Holy Cross Hall. Dana North, director of residence life. and housing, 
has served as the hall director for the first weeks of school. As hall director. she is cur­


rently liv-North ing in Holy Cross. 
"Other schools. much larg­er than us, are also having problems finding hall direc­tors," said North. "It's not a life everyone is going to choose." 
This is North's sixth year in her current position at the College. The lack of hall directors is not new to her. 
Two yflars ago, Saint Mary's was down two hall directors when students moved in. 
"There has been a nation­
wide trend in the decline qf residence a hall directors," North said. "It's an educa­tion field and people are finding other jobs." 
Ideally, hall directors have their masters degree and have had some experience 
working with residence life 
while in college. 
"They need to know the 
basics, whether it is the 
lingo or how the building 
functions day in and day 
0 U t , " 
N o r t h 
said. 
At Saint 
Mary's, 
the hall directors live in apart­ments con­nected to the dorm they are advising. 

'There's a certain energy level created with living and seeing the students everyday." 
Dana North director of residence life and housing 
"One thing students don't always realize is the admin­istrator lives on campus and is on call 24 hours a day," North said. 
Last March, North began a search for a new hall direc­tor for Huly Cross because 

last year's hall director, Laura Sobieck moved to Le Mans Hall to serve as hall director. Several people expressed interest in the job but all declined job offers from North. 
"It was not a good fit for them," she said. 
North is currently inter­viewing two applicants this week and may soon hire a new hall director. She admits she will miss living in 
Holy Cross when she hires a new director and moves out. 
"There is a certain energy level created with living and seeing the students every day, rather than 

watching them through the office window on their way to the dining hall," said North. 
Contact Nellie Wiliams at will6l76l@saintmarys.edu. 


Coming home retreat offers readjustment 
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES 
News Writer 
Adjusting to a new environ­ment is difficult for freshmen and transfer students but• readjusting to a familiar envi­ronment can be even more difficult for students who have studied abroad. 
To assist those readjusting to American collegiate cul­ture, tho Internatiunal Study Program Office at Notre Dame, in conj unction with Campus Ministry, is attempt­ing to counteract this period of readjustment and uneasi­ness by sponsoring "2001 Coming Home Retreat." 
"[The retreat] is a part of the services that we feel we can offer to students, and it was developed as a result of the comments and requests that we received from stu­dents," said assistant director of the international study pro­gram Carmen Nanni, who is spearheading the organization of the retreat. 
Students who have come back from studying abroad said the retreat is certainly­needed. 
"It was different studying abroad sophomore year because I did not solidify myself at Notre Dame in the same manner as my class­mates," said Notre Dame junior Molly Herbe. "1 think that sophomore year is the year where students define themselves; such as their col­lege, major and friends." 
Herbe likened the last year to a void in some aspects because she is unaware of the issues and events from last year that her friends discuss. 
"Many of our students spend a year away and come back different people," said Thomas Bogenschild, director of the international study pro­grams. "It is important for them to reconnect with what Notre Dame is about." 
The Sept. 16 retreat will welcome about 80 Notre Dame students who studied abroad for a year in Angers, Paris, Dublin, Innsbruck, Nagoya, Puebla, Shanghai and Toledo. 
The retreat will focus on the social, intellectual, spiritual and emotional aspects of both the experience and the read­justment period. Student lead­ers will facilitate small groups, which will discuss the joys and struggles of return­ing home. 
"[The experience is] a new person looking at the same place and struggling to figure out how to integrate the new you into the old community and friendships," said retreat leader Drew Gawryh. "We are not trying to prescribe a cer­tain path they can follow but hopefully by sharing our experiences with them, they will be able to make a smoother transition and learn from their own experiences." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu. 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 







ce e 
rates 
years 
• 
0 
co 
e 1ate • ourna ism 
-2001 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 6, 2001 
Regis 
continued from page 1 
it and said "These ceilings aren't as high as they used to be."' 
Philbin told the freshmen to enjoy their time at Notre Dame and moved on to his next desti­nation. 
Admissions tour guides who were on a special tour of the University including the 14th floor of the Hesburgh Library, the log cabin and Corby Hall ran into Philbin in the football locker room. 
"We were going in to look at the football locker room. 

Victory March and any other music requested by Lhe produc­ers. 
"We're really excited, this opportunity doesn't come around very often. We feel privileged and think it's impressive that [Philbin] thinks that highly of us_ I expect over 75 percent of the band will show up to play," said drum major Tambre Paster. 
After "Live!" ends, Philbin will join other benefactors of the performing arts center at 10 a.m. for Mass at the Coleman-Morse Center chapel 
presided  by  University  
President  Father  Edward  
Malloy.  
In addition  
to  Philbin,  

He was in major other
"He told us to go out

there with m a j o r 
his film crew there and hit [Nebraska] University looking at hard." donors will footage. We also be pre­heard about sent at the 
Grant Irons 

the locker ground room and we football captain breaking. Ed 
were all try­ing to pre­tend that we don't notice him, but really no one was pay­ing attention to the locker room. When we were about to leave, one girl went up to him and asked if he would be in a picture. He introduced himself and let us take pictures," said tour guide Shawna Monson. 
Philbin also spoke to football players in the locker room. 
"He told us to go out there and hit [Nebraska) hard. He didn't tape anything with us, but told us to hit [Nebraska quarterback) Crouch and hit him hard," said football captain Grant Irons. 
At 8 a.m. this morning, the special edition of "Live!" was scheduled to begin broadcast­ing and include the clips Philbin taped Wednesday. According to assistant band director Larry Dwyer, the band was asked to come to the · groundbreaking site to play the DeBartolo Jr. 

and Denise 
De Bartolo 
York, the children of donor Edward DeBartolo and his wife Marie, after whom the building is named will be present along with Art and Patty Decio and Judd Leighton. The actual groundbreaking ceremony will • occur at 10:45 a.m. at the con­struction site on DeBartolo 
Quad. 

The Marie DeBartolo 
Performing Arts Center will 
contain a studio theater named 
after Philbin, a 900-seat con­
cert hall, a 350-seat main stage 
theater, a 200-seat cinema the­
ater and a 100-seat organ and 
chorale hall. The 123,000­
square-foot building will cost in 
excess of $50 million and was 
underwritten by a $33 million 
gift by the late DeBartolo and a 
$2. 7 5 million gift by Philbin. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer@nd.edu. 

SHE'S EUROPEAN, ENJOYS LONG ROMANTIC WALKS ON SOUTH QYAD AND HEAVY METAL HAIR BANDS. SHE SEEKS A BIRTHDAY KISS FROM ANY MAN WHO CAN HANDLE HER. SHE'S DANIELLA. KNOW HER. LOVE HER. 



Ki Aikido 
Mondays -7:30-8:30 
Thursdays -· 7:45-8:45 

Beginning September 17 

1 _f)'--•. Demonstration ( '\~r jSeptember 10-7:45pm --·--v Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Class Fee is $22 
Call 1-6100 for More Information 

Open to all ND students, faculty, staff, reitrees and spouses 

to comment on," he said. 

Senate committees will be holding meetings in the din­ing halls to give students a chance to approach senators and have discussions on important issues. 
For example, the senate's committee on academic affairs will be holding its next meeting tonight at 6:30 p_m. in North Dining Hall, according to committee chair Pat Hallahan, Sorin Hall sen­ator. 
Senators also plan to work for campus-wide 12:30 a.m. parietals on Sunday nights, according to gender issues committee chair Jeanine Valles, Walsh Hall senator. Senators pushed for rule changes last year, according to Alumni senator Matt Lafratta, but the Campus Life Council (CLC) rejected the proposal. 
"That got shot down at the last CLC meeting of last year. We're hoping to get that through this year." Lafratta said. 
In other senate news: 

. The position of off-campus senator is vacant. The elec­tion for a new senator will be held Monday through Wednesday via e-mail in a process similar to the one followed by students studying abroad. The two highest vote getters from the primary will have a run-off election on Monday, Sept. 17. Off-cam­pus students interested in running for the position must attend a meeting tonight at 
9:30 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortunc. 
. There will be an outdoor 
Nebraska game watch Saturday evening, according to Jonathan Jorissen, chief of staff. Jorissen announced that the event will be begin at 6:15 p.m. and will be held near Stonehenge. 
. Saint Mary's representa­tive Erin Casey announced that Barbara O'Toole, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, will be holding a forum on Sept. 19 at 3 p.m. in Carol Auditorium. O'Toole will be addressing academic free­dom in light of the Vagina Monologue's controversy at the College last year. Saint Mary's will be canceling 3 
p.m. classes on that day, according to Casey. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at Laruffa.l@nd.edu. 


John DeRiso, C.S.C. Mike Floreth, C.S.C. ND '93, '01 ND'95. '01 
Brad Metz. C.S.C. Sam Peters, C.S.C. Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. ND'96, '01 ND'OI ND'94, '01 
2002 Ordination Class 
How ABOUT You? 
ANSWER ~ THECALL \t!)/ 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 




ATION 
Thursday, September 6, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Britain, France OK Condorde flights: The supersonic Concorde got its wings back Wednesday -just over a year after a deadly crash -with French and British officials clearing the fleet of 12 aircraft for flight once safety modifications are made. The announcement came 13 months and 11 days after an Air France Concorde crashed minutes after takeoff from Paris. killing all 109 passen­gers and crew and four people on the ground. 
Mother Teresa had exorcism: 
Mother Teresa had an exorcism performed on her while hospitalized in 1997, thA Archbishop of Calcutta said Wednesday. The disclosure by Archbishop Henry D'Souza came as hundreds of people in this eastern Indian city paid homage to the renowned caregiver on the fourth anniversary of her death. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Sailors honored for USS Cole work: Many of the sailors who fought to save their wounded shipmates and prevent the USS Cole from sinking during the chaotic aftermath of a terrorist bombing were hon­ored Wednesday for their bravery. Awards were presented to 107 sailors among the Cole's 317-member crew during the ceremo­ny at Norfolk Naval Station. In addition, the entire crew received a combat action ribbon and a Navy unit commendation for exception­ally meritorious service. 
Bishops start anti-abortion ads: An anti-abortion advertising campaign sponsored by the nation's Roman Catholic bishops has started in Philadelphia, and is already draw­ing criticism from abortion rights advocates. The $500,000 campaign, targeted at this city and southern New Jersey, began Tuesday and includes two radio ads. plus 500 posters that will go up in commuter trains and buses. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Kidnapper to appear in court: A man accused of holding nine bank employees hostage with a sawed-off shotgun was charged Wednesday with kidnapping and nine counts of confinement. David Allen Potchen, 39, of Lowell is scheduled to appear Thursday in Lake County Superior Court in Crown Point. Police allege that Potchen entered the Centier Bank branch, pointed the shotgun in the air and ordered employees to close the blinds to the bank. He then told the employees to pull the alarms. Relatives of Patchen called his actions at the bank a cry for help. 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Mexican President Vicente Fox, the first state visitor of the Bush presi­dency, challenged the United States on Wednesday to strike an agreement on immigration by year's end. President Bush said "there is no more important relation­ship" than with Mexico but did not embrace Fox's ambitious deadline. 
The public challenge shocked U.S. officials who have been trying to lower expectations for a deal on the complex and political­ly risky issue. Even some Mexican officials said they had no notice that Fox would push for quick action. 
The two-day state visit, 
an important political event to both Bush and Fox, began promptly at 
9: 30 a.m. EDT when a military band struck up a Sousa march and the two presidents strolled shoul­der to shoulder onto the White House back lawn. Military honor guards stood stone-faced as their battle ribbons, jostled atop flag poles by a cool wind, whipped at their faces. 
Bush, hoping to court Hispanic voters for his 2004 re-election bid, said Wednesday's formal wel­coming ceremony, one-on­one Oval Office session, rare joint Cabinet meeting and state dinner -along with his and Fox's joint trip Thursday to Ohio ­amounted to a "recogni­tion that the United States has no more important relationship in the world." 
With all the pageantry a president can muster, Bush welcomed Fox to what he called the "Casa Blanca" and said, "We understand that our two nations must work togeth­er in a spirit of respect and common purpose to seize opportunities and tackle challenges on the issues that affect the lives of our citizens, including migration, the environ­ment, drugs, crime, cor­ruption and education." 
That included just a glancing reference to the issue that dominates U.S.­Mexican relations: What should be done. with the 3 million or so illegal Mexican immigrants who want legal status in America, and millions more in Mexico who want to cross the 2, 000-mile border? The president wants an undetermined number of illegal immi­grants to become legal. 
As guests arrived for Wednesday night's dinner, about a dozen protesters demonstrated against Bush's immigration policy on the sidewalk outside the White House's front gate. Their signs carried slogans that included "Don't reward lawbreak­ers" and "Hey Bush, they won't vote for you." 
Bush's trip to Mexico in February raised hopes in both countries that an agreement would come quickly, but the leaders have sounded more cau­tious in recent weeks as congressional conserva­tives raised objections. 

PERU Market Watch September 5 
Dow 
10033.27 +35.78 

Homicide charges filed on Fujimori 
1k Composite 

killings and "knew in detail the Mariela Barreto, whose dismem­
Same: Volume: 
Associated Press 

operations" of the death squad bered and decapitated body was
t_:j 
199 NIA 

LIMA known as the Colina group, the found in March 1997, the statement Peru's attorney general filed attorney general's office statement said. AMEX: -3.51 
homicide charges against disgraced said. Congress paved the way for the ex-President Alberto Fujimori The Colina group is accused of charges Aug. 27 by lifting the con­
NASDAQ: 1759.07 -11.77 

Wednesday, linking him to two gunning down 15 people in 1991 stitutional immunity of Fujimori,
NYSE: 588.47 -1.00 

killings massacres by paramilitary during a barbecue at a Lima tene­who has been in his parents' native
S&P 500: 1131.74 -1.20 

death squads in the early 1990s, a ment building. Group members Japan since November when his 10­statement said. were also linked to the kidnapping year rule collapsed in a growing
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

Fujimori is in exile in Japan and and murder of nine students and a corruption scandal. 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
Peru hopes that the charges will professor at La Cantuta University The homicide and forced disap­
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5.64 -0.89 14.88 
prompt the Asian nation to extradite in 1992. pearance charges, which Peruvian
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -0.39 -0.14 35.33 
him. Prosecutors are also charging that officials say constitute cr.imes
COMPAQ COMPUTER (CPQ) -6.05 -0.67 10.41 
Prosecutors allege that the now­Fujimori had knowledge of the against humanity, are the most seri­
INTEL CORP (INT() +2.31 +0.62 27.47 
exlled Fujimori "co-authored" the killing of former intelligence agent ous to date against Fujimori.
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.08 -0.01 12.07 
r= 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 6, 2001 
Breastfeeding pushed on new moms 
. New moms in the maternity ward at Boston Medical Center are forced to breast feed 
Associaud Press 
BOSTON 
In the maternity ward at Boston Medical Center, paci­fiers are contraband. The babies are in their mothers arms, not the nursery. And the posters lining the walls extol the virtues of breast­feeding rather than infant formula. 
The environment won BMC a Baby Friendly designation, granted by the United Nations and the World Health Organization to hospi­tals that meet their 
breast-feed­
"Like it take village to 
co-authors
ing stan­
support a child, it takes a credit
dards. Only 32 U.S. hos­hospital to support a 
t h o s e changes
pitals have it, breast-! eeder. ,. 
for a large
largely 
increase
because the 
Dr. Barbara Philipp in the
standards set number of
infant formu­Boston Medical Center 
mothers
la aside as a 
leaving
choice of last BMC withresort. 
breast milk, and infant for­mula and calendars advertis­ing infant formula could be found throughout the mater­nity unit. 
Knowing the health bene­fits of breast-feeding, Philipp launched a crusade. 
"Breast-feeding really hap­pens or doesn't happen in the first week or two weeks,'' Philipp said, meaning new mothers have to get the mes­sage before they leave the hospital. 
Philipp persuaded BMC to discard long-established poli­cies, such as separating new­borns from their mothers and imposing feeding schedules, had special breast-feeding rooms built, retrained staff and provided guidebooks for mothers in English. Spanish and French Creole. 
In an article in the September issue of the journal 
Pediatrics, 
Philipp 
and her percent of its new mothers had tried to breast-feed at least once, compared to a national average of 64 per­cent. 

"The numbers in the study support that our mothers want to breast-feed and Lhe system was obstructing them," Philipp said Tuesday as she strolled through the maternity ward at BMC, where she is director of the breast-feeding program. "Like it takes a village to support a child, it takes a hospital to support a breast-feeder." 
There is good reason to offer that support. Scientific evidence has shown breast milk protects babies from infection, lowers risk of cer­tain chronic diseas·es and seems to foster brain develop­ment. 
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that most babies be breast-fed exclusively for six months, and that mothers try to con­tinue until babies are a year old. 
Sherrice Lewis-Thompson, who delivered her first son, Devon, at BMC on Sunday, said she hadn't considered breast-feeding until the hospi­tal staff talked to her. 
"They're very persistent," Lewis-Thompson, 20, said with a laugh. "I felt I really 
is a medical reason not to; allow mothers and infants to remain together 24 hours a day; and that pacifiers be avoided. 
For many hospitals, though. the big obstacle has been another requirement; that they give up free formula samples to reduce the use, said Cynthia Turner-Maffei, national coordinator of the Baby-Friendly USA initiative, which was started in 1991. 
"When formula is free, it's so plentiful on the unit that it's the first thing you think of to solve a problem," Turner­Maffei said. 
Philipp says BMC, an inner city hospital that delivers about 1,800 babies a year, ini­tially balked at giving up the free formula until it deter­mined it needed only about $20,000 worth. 
Experts say the formula cul­ture remains ingrained in American hospitals, and that change will be difficult. 
According to the Baby­Friendly USA initiative. at least 45 hospitals are working on meeting the designation's requirements. 
"This hospital in Boston did really a very nice turnaround toward becoming supportive after delivery." 
Indiana man accused of saw attack 
Associated Press 
NEW ALBANY 
A New Albany man was charged with attempted mur­der after police said he attacked another man with a chain saw during a fight out­side a pool hall. 
Kenneth Kee, 24, also was charged with battery in con­nection with the attack Friday outside Jack's Pool Hall in New Albany. 
Kee used a chain saw to strike James E. Brown, 27, of Palmyra "numerous times about the body," cutting his arms anc! back, prosecutors alleged in a probable cause affadavit filed Wednesday in floyd Circuit Court. 
Brown told officers he fled to a nearby gas station and called a friend to take him to the hos­pital, where he was treated and released. 
An innocent plea was entered on Kee's behalf Wednesday by Floyd Circuit Judge J. Terrance Kody. Kee remained in the Floyd County Jail Wednesday evening. 

healthy breast-feeding habits. didn't have a choice."
BMC was like most hospi­By 1999, the number of Earning the Baby Friendly

tals when Dr. Barbara 

mothers breast-feeding at the designation requires that hos­Philipp arrived six years ago. 
hospital was up from 6 per­pitals teach new mothers howOnly 6 percent of new moth­
Volunteers Needed
cent to 33 percent. And 87 to breast-feed; feed newborns
ers fed their babies only 


onl breast milk unless there 
The Eady Childhood Devdo;,ment Center located at Saint Mary:s 
College ind the University of Notre Dame 1s looking for volunteers 
who enioy young children. If you would be intere5ted in spending 2 
hOUl"$ per wee,c reading to children and playing with children, ,please 
call: Kari at ECDC-SMC 284-4693 or Sue at ECDC-ND 63l-3344 for 
more inform~tion (Employment opportumties also available.) 
Early Childhood

ATTENTION: '01-'02 CSC VEHICLE DRIVERS 
Development Center, Inc.
ti--ril 


284-4693 
CENTER FOR 


(ECDC-SMC)
SOCIAL 
HI
CONCERNS 


631-3344C (ECDC-ND) 


"Let the rhythm take you over'' 
DANCE CLUB 
Session will be held at 6:30 p.m. in Room 124 at the CSC. (Bring driver's license) 
THIRSTY THURSDAY IS STUDENT 10 NIGHT LADIES GET IN FREE, GUYS COVER ONLY $1.00 REMJNDERS: MUST BE 21 TO ENTER
.!. Anyone wishing to use a CSC vehicle must attend certification each year 
HOURS 
..! Requests must have accurate times and name(s) of person(s) driving (if 
Thurs & Fri 5pm-2:30am 
group leader schedules various vehicles, they must inform coordinator (csc vans@nd.edu) as soon 
Saturday 8pm -2:30am 
as possible ofactual drivers) 

VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
www.clubbailamos.com
..l Direct questions to: cscvans@nd.edu 

Phone: 25-SWING (257-9464)
Vehicle runs begin i'tlonday, September 3 
Located in the 100 Center Complex Please note: *Coordinator is a part time position. E-mail will be checked on Sundays. 
100 Center Street• Mishawaka• Indiana 

' 
Thursday, September 6, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Hitchcock calls for cultural discussion 
. Author of "Unraveling the White Cocoon" raises awareness of white culture 
By LE1YVERDUZCO News Writer 
One of the foremost experts in white culture spoke at Haagar Parlor about appreciating white culture without using a white supremacy point of view. Jeff Hitchcock, co-founder of the Center for the Study of White American Culture. encouraged tions in America. 
"It is not my intent to exclude people of color," Hitchcock said, "but this program is directed towards whites." 
He said there are two tradi­tional approaches to discussing whiteness: the white supremacy approach and the approach of not discussing race relations at all, what he called being "color­blind." 
Hitchcock said his third approach allows people to talk about white culture and race without being racist or ignoring white culture. Hitchcock encour­aged the group to realize that white people are also a specific group of specific cultural and 

whites to realize they have their own distinct culture and appreciate their culture. 
This appre­ciation will lead to better racial rela­tions. 
"Do we 
"It's not my intent to exclude people ofcolor but this programs is directed toward whites." 
Jeff Hitchcock author 
that once that is real­ized, plans can be set into motion. 
Other cul­tural groups have been able to join one another because they have realized 

want a multiracial society? We their own culture and can don't need a revolution," he relate. Hitchcock wants white said. "We have the political also to realize that they too have apparatus we need; we must their own culture and that they develop multiracial values." are not the norm. Hitchcock said "Since 
he never white cul­thought himself "We must develop ture is the an expert on dominant
multiracial values.,, 

racial concerns culture, until he realized we often that he was liv­Jeff Hitchcock hear the 
ing the multira­cial lifestyle. 
Hitchcock has been married for 19 years to a black feminist socialist and is the father of two biracial children. With this background, Hitchcock, along with his wife, decided to start the Center for the Study of White American Culture for the purpose of improving race rela­
positive
author 
view about 
white cul­
ture , " 
Hitchcock said. "I give a more critical view, and often times it is hard for people [ white people ] to hear what I have present­ed." 
Contact Lety Verduzco at verd8852@saintmarys.edu. 

Happy 18th Birthday, Dan! 
Aim your goals high & have a few kicks along the way! 
Love, Mom, Dad, & Brother 
ND Cycling Club 
Informational Meeting 

":JC"'«Jt~I:Ciil-

Armstrong Room in Lafortune Stop by anytime between 
8:00 PM to 10:00 PM 
to have· your questions answered 
Bike.1@nd.edu 

Lumen magazine gets started 
released statement. 
By KEVIN SUHANIC As a Web-based publica­
News Writer tion, Lumen can be easily 
read by alumni, students, 
Now, cutting-edge campus and anvone interested in research has a cutting-edge research at Notre Dame presentation online. • without incurring the high 
During the summer, Notre costs of printing and mail­
Dame launched Lumen, a ing. journal detailing research The first issue has articles done on campus. ranging from defeating 
It features articles on top-drug-resistant bacteria to ics ranging an in-from bio-d e p t h chemistry to "Lumen will provide a study of education. h d if American
ric ynamic view o
The journal education 
isn ·t avail-Notre Dame's extensive issues. able on cam-research endeuors." T h e pus, howev-current 
er: it's an 'E-issue of Zine,' mean-James Merz L u m e n ing it is pub-lumen creator contains lished strict-articles ly online. about the 
"Lumen will provide a realm of rich, dynamic view of Notre academic disciplines, Dame's extensive research including a study by the endeavors," said James assistant professor of mar­Merz, Lumen creator, in a keting. Elizabeth Moore, on 
the effect advertising has on children. 
There is also a featured story concerning John Adams, a member of Notre Dame's Center for Tropical Disease Research and Training, and his ground­breaking advances in identifying malaria para­sites. 
Lumen is not topical unlike many print journals, but rather in keeping with the themes of Notre Dame ­research, scholarship and creativity. 
These three pillars are combined to promote the most important aspect of the E-Zine, a focus on cut­ting edge teaching. 
The second issue is planned for early fall. To read Lumen visit http://lumen.nd.edu. 
Contact Kevin Suhanic at suhanic. l@nd.edu. 
Small surplus threatens farmers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The shrinking surplus has clouded prospects for pas­sage of legislation this year that would provide tens of billions of dollars annually for crop subsidies and other farm programs. 
"It's in serious trouble," said Sen. Kent Conrad, chair­man of the Senate Budget Committee. The North Dakota Democrat wanted Congress to pass a bill this year to replace programs that expire in 2002. 
Rep. Larry Combest, chair­man of the House Agriculture Committee, said he still hopes to begin House debate next week on legislation approved by his panel in June. The Texas Republican acknowledged that the revised budget projections will make it more difficult to move the bill. 
The House committee's senior Democrat, Charles Stenholm of Texas, said the farm bill is dead for the year. 
The legislation would spend $168 billion over the next 10 years, including $73.5 billion of the surplus that was expected in the congressional budget agreement reached in the spring. 
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projected in August that Social Security surpluses would be drained by $9 bil­lion in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 and that lawmakers were within $2 billion of siphoning Social Security funds next year. 
Over the next 10 years, the CBO is forecasting a $3.4 tril­lion surplus, including Social Security, down from $5.6 tril­lion in its May forecast. 
Farm-state lawmakers worry that the smaller fore­cast will force agricultural programs to compete with other spending priorities of Congress and the White House, including education and defense, to avoid being seen as using Social Security funds. 
The chairman of the House Budget Committee, Iowa Republican Jim Nussle, says there still should be plenty of money to go around. 
The Senate is unlikely to move a bill of its own before next year, said Indiana Sen. Richard Lugar, senior Republican on the Senate Agriculture Committee. 

"It doesn't seem to me to be there," Lugar said of the $168 billion needed for the House bill. ''I'm not sure it was ever going to be there." 
To Lugar, the tighter bud­get could be a good thing if it lowers farm spending, which he believes has stimulated excess production and dis­torted markets. "It may bring more of a sense of reason to what should be done," he said. 
Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman would not discuss whether the House should delay or move forward with its bill. 
"We're still trying to get it done," said John Feehery, a spokesman for House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R­
m. "A lot of decisions haven't been made yet. This is one of them." 
The legislation has been criticized by a major farm group, the National Corn Growers Association, which thinks the spending favors other crops. Environmentalists say it puts too much money into subsi­dizing crop production and not enough into conservation programs. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 6, 200 l 
Bishops sponser anti­abortion ad campaign 

Tobacco suit fires on 
ing the government to pursue requested, but it sought help Associated Press a racketeering case to recoup from other agencies to cover billions of dollars allegedly the legal costs. WASHINGTON earned through fraud. Schiffer said he expects
A Justice Department Ashcroft was invited to the costs for 2002 to run some­lawyer said Wednesday the Senate hearing but did not where in the $44 million government is moving for­attend, range, but no decision has ward with its tobacco law­Durbin was highly critical been made on how to get the suit._ even as Democrats of the Justice Department, extra money. accuse the Bush administra­saying, "The Department of Experts disagreed on tion of trying to kill the case. Justice's management of this whether the government 
"The case is proceeding case seems unprofessional at should continue the lawsuit. and it is proceeding well," best. At worst, they are Connecticut Attorney General said Stuart Schiffer. the act­killing this lawsuit and don't Richard Blumenthal, one of ing assistant attorney general have the courage to say it." the state attorneys general
in charge of the civil division. Schiffer denied Justice is who spearheaded their 
But Sen. Richard Durbin, trying to kill the case, and tobacco lawsuit, urged law­D-Ill., says he and other law­said he wouldn't be moving makers to force the Justice makers have been trying to forward with it if he didn't Department to continue liti­
get an official confirmation of think the case was strong. "I gating. that from Attorney General don't do unprofessional and I "The message is com­John Ashcroft, to no avail. don't do incompetent," he pelling: the Department of 
"He has had seven months said. Justice will not tolerate law­to review this case," said Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, breaking companies that pro­Durbin, who called a hearing agreed. "I see no indication mote drug addiction and dis­in the Senate Judiciary of mismanagement here," he ease," Blumenthal said. Co·mmittee to question said. But Jonathan Turley, a Justice Department officials Philip Morris Cos. Inc., the George Washington on the case. "Yet despite nation's largest cigarette University law professor, said repeated congressional manufacturer, hasn't lowered a lawsuit is the wrong way to inquiries, including more its defenses. "We were really go about it. "It is my view than a few from me. the disappointed that this admin­that the federal lawsuit is an administration's official posi­istration has decided to pur­inappropriate means to tion remains that it is still sue the purely political law­achieve a worthy goal," he reviewing the case." suit that was filed in the pre­said. 
Democrats say they fear vious administration," said An independent analyst President Bush's administra­spokeswoman Peggy Roberts. said it doesn't matter either tion will drop or settle the "We continue to believe it is way. government's lawsuit against all about politics, it has no "l do not believe that the the tobacco companies, legal merit and that it really DOJ's tobacco claim repre­which was filed by the ought to be dropped altogeth­sents a significant legal Clinton administration in er," Roberts said. threat to the industry," said 1999. The Justice Department has David Adelman, Morgan 
Justice lawyers sought to budgeted $1.8 million for the Stanley's senior U.S. tobacco recover the $20 billion the tobacco litigation team, hut equity analyst. "I believe that government estimates is has not sought more money the lawsuit will ultimately be spent each year treating for legal work. That was the dismissed or otherwise smoking-related illnesses, but same level of funding the resolved at little financial· a federal judge is only allow-Clinton administration cost to the defendants."' 'l.ll 1 ·' 

, ; l ,;n '·,J, :i hl!•n· 11oin'.l "" ,...r """-· ,w·-_._ 1\liF,.. ~· @ .1it ··~ ;ljp.J. •~· 
0 0 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
An anti-abortion advertising campaign sponsored by the nation's Roman Catholic bish­ops has started in Philadelphia, and is already drawing criti­cism from abortion rights advocates. 
The $500,000 campaign, tar­geted at this city and southern New Jersey, began Tuesday and includes two radio ads, plus 500 posters that will go up in commuter trains and buses. 
"We're trying to speak to people who consider them­selves pro-choice but who would be willing to think again about their views," said Cathy Cleaver, spokeswoman for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. 
"What the campaign is doing is bringing these facts to peo­ple who have been misin­formed." 
But critics say the opposite is true. They claim "The Second Look Project" is inaccurate and attempts to influence future 
U.S. Supreme Court appoint­ments. Cory Richards, senior vice president of the Allan Guttmacher Institute, a non­profit reproductive-health research center that endorses abortion rights, said the ads are "subtly misleading." 
Each of the radio spots use a female narrator. One begins with the sound of a fetal heart­beat and asks, "Hear that?" 
The announcer then says th.at it's the heartbeat of a 
•C 
•
C C 
C 
·C 
,c 
C 
•C 

"child in the womb at six months." 
She goes on to say his chances of survival are better than 50 percent, but the moth-• er could decide to have an abortion. The ad also says that "13,000 babies" are aborted legally each year in the fifth month of pregnancy because "the Supreme Court says you can choose to have an abortion for any reason at any time right up through the ninth month." 
The heart stops, and the announcer then says, "We sim­ply ask the question: Have we gone too far?" 
Abortion rights advocates said the ads exaggerate the frequency of second-and third• trimester abortions, and ignore that the Supreme Court has allowed states to ban abortion after a fetus can survive out­side the womb, except when the abortion is necessary to save the woman's life or health. 
According to the Henry Kaiser Foundation, a reproduc­tive health care research orga­nization that supports abortion rights, 1 percent of legal abor­tions occur at 21 weeks or later, while 88 percent are per­formed in the first 12 weeks. 
Richards suspects the bish­ops will watch to see how the campaign resonates, then take it to the national level in an attempt to influence future Supreme Court appointments. 
"The implication is that if you want to change things,. change the Supreme Court." he said. 
The Alumni-Senior Club Presents 
The Pre-Heartland Party 
Karaoke, 9 -midnight $3.00 Red Bull& $3.50 Pedro Martinez, Randy Johnson, Mike Mussina... 
So bring your friends, your enemies, and your N'Sync wannabes. 
Thursday, September 6, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SOUTH AFRICA 
More walkouts threaten racism talks 
which would mark a fail­Norway had tried unsuc­declaration to include a "For the moment ... it's Associated Press ure. cessfully earlier in the week mechanism for reparations hard to be optimistic," Gama An EU deadline on the to broker a deal between the for the trans-Atlantic slave said. "I think (all sides) will 
DURBAN 

issue set for Wednesday United States, Israel and the trade. have to make concessions 
Under threat of a devastat­night was reached without a Arab states. Throughout the confer­before the end of the confer­ing European walkout. the compromise, said Koen Delegates from the 15 EU ence's planning stages, the ence or there will be no con­World Conference Against Vervaeke, spokesman for countries said they would United States opposed ference." Racism held closed-door Belgian Foreign Minister act as a bloc along with 13 putting reparations on the The con fe re n ce 's draft meetings Wednesday to try Louis Michel. He said a spe­nations that are candidates agenda, and the U.S. depar­document calls for "an to find compromise language cial drafting committee had for EU membership. ture appeared to harden explicit apology by the for­on the Israel-Palestinian finished its work Wednesday In the original draft text, some positions. mer colonial powers," and conflict and reparations for night without an accord. Israel is the only nation sin­African nations that had requires "substantial nation­slavery. Vervaeke said the EU had gled out for condemnation. reportedly promised to drop al and international efforts 
France warned that it and given South African media­Among the sticking points demands for reparations be made for reparations" to the European Union could tors its position and would were references to the suddenly put them back on Africans, African descen­follow the now wait "racist practice of Zionism," the table this week. African­dants and indigenous peo­United to see and description of the move­American groups have lob­ples.States and what kind ment to establish and main­bied hard for reparations to Ivory Coast's justice minis­
"For the moment ... it's hard 

Israel by of text tain a Jewish state as an ide­be included in conference ter. Siene Oulai, said his del­
to be optimistic. I think all 

walking out they come ology "based on racial supe­documents. egation was not interested in on the U.N. sides will have to make up with. It riority." The EU on Wednesday was being paid reparations, but meeting. wasn't Amr Moussa, Arab League in talks with African delega-believed Western nations
concessions before the end

which was immedi­secretary-gener-tions should forgive the huge debt 
meant to ofthe conference . " 
ately clear al, has said if o v e r owed by African nations to
"The racism conference is
highlight if that there were no t h e international financial insti­discrimina­Marcus Gama w o u l d specific refer­in danger ofcompletely issue. tutions. tion around occur dur­ences to Israeli It has "What is necessary is that
assistant to the head of Brazilian breaking down. " 
the world, i n g policies toward offered the slave trade be recog­
delegation

but has Thursday's the Palestinians a limit­nized as a crime against b e e n session. a final declara­Raymond Johansen e d humanity and recognitionmarred by Earlier tion would be Norwegian foreign minister apolo­that Africa suffered a lot discord "meaningless." gy for from the trans-Atlantic slave over efforts Wednesday, in an effort to The United CO l O • trade," Oulai said. "What is to condemn Israel for "racist save the conference, States and Israel nialism important is to create a policies." Norwegian Foreign Minister left the confer-a n d partnership between those 
"If comparisons between Thorbjoern Jagland sent his ence Monday when talks slavery, but does not want who have suffered and those Zionism and racism remain. deputy, Raymond Johansen. with the Arab League over reparations mentioned. who profited from the slave the question of France's and to Durban to take over lead­removing the anti-Israel lan­Africans led by Zimbabwe trade to cooperate better." the European Union delega­ership of the Norwegian del­guage broke down. and Namibia are demanding The conference's final dec­tions' departure would be egation. The dispute over the word­specific apologies from the laration and program of posed immediately," French "The racism conference is ing of the Mideast section countries involved in the action is not legally binding,Prime Minister Lionel Jospin in danger of completely has diverted attention from slave trade and colonialism, but represents a pledge bytold a Cabinet meeting. breaking down. I am going other issues. but the issue of reparations, cancellation of governments to carry it out. according to spokesman to Durban to try to con­how to deal with the legacy African debt and more If a country is opposed to Jean-Jack Queyranne. tribute to it reaching a result of slavery also have been investment in the continent, specific language, they can "France and the European that does not damage the contentious. said Marcus Gama, assistant still sign the documents Union would seek a depar­international battle against Many African delegations to the head of the Brazilian while rejecting specific para­ture from this conference, racism," Johansen said. want the U.N. meeting's final delegation. graphs. 

OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, September 6, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q, Notr~ Dsme. IN 46556 024 South Omrni !·fall. Notre Dome. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smid,  Pat Peccrs  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SrORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Grew SAJNT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN ~"!AGER: Alex Menze SY5TEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRArHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGENEML INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX... . .................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.... ,, .................,.............631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIili'.............................631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME.................... 631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE.... .........................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT. ...........................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE............................•..•..•....•...............•631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.... .....................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.11d.ed11 for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroorts, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
vveekly student reviews 
advertise for pohcies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofpnnt ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet rhe editors and 
Augusr 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse Jdveuisements based on cement. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediroria!s represent rhe opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department edirors. Commentaries. letters and columns present rhe views of the aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q_uesnow regarding Observer policies sho11M be direct­ed co Editor in ChiefMike Con>1olfy. 


Utopian views prove paradoxical 
The First Amendment is a good thing. 
As I was lazing about channel-surf­ing and minding my own business, a video by Rage Against the Machine loudly interrupted my torpor. The Christine Niles 
video contained scenes of the group performing outside the New As/ See ft ... 
York Stock Exchange. One of them bore a Soviet Union sym­bol on his T-shirt. Occasionally ques­tions like, "How many live in pover­ty?" would flash across the screen with the corresponding answer, "one billion." Where they got their figures, it's hard to say. I suppose one billion is a nice. round number. "Sounds about right," I can hear them say in the editing room "Let's put it in there." 
Their display of histrionics was a demonstration against -you guessed it -wealth. Apparently, thrashing about one's dreadlocks, screaming incomprehensible lyrics, gnashing one's teeth and soiling someone else's property is an effective way of letting us know that Rage Against the Machine stands for the people. I won­der how much money they make off their angst-disguised-as-music, any­way? 
What these kids need is an overnighter in one of Stalin's old prison camps. Former inmate Solzhenitsyn would probably put them there himself. After all, if you're in love with the theory that put commu­nists in power, why not experience the means that keep them there? Yes, Soviet prisons would do very nicely indeed. 
But why limit the options? A jail cell in the People's Republic of China would do just as well. The People's Republic stands for the people so much it boasts one of the highest exe­cution rates in the world. Not to men­tion it forces its women to kill off their young because it can't stand any more Chinese than it already has. Hey, whatever works -Stalin murdered 20 million comrades in order to col­lectivize farming. 
Let's not forget Vietnam, due south. Personally, my family fled the country after Mr. Minh seized our possessions in 1975. All my relatives soon fol­lowed suit, by boat. by foot, by plane, by whatever means they had, as long as they got out. 
The Sandanistas in Nicaragua also stood for the people. When the people showed signs of voting them out of power, they behaved very democrati­cally by chopping off dissenters' limbs. And then there is our neighbor Cuba, where young boys learn that "Communist Dictatorship" is not an oxymoron after all. 
Good intentions underlie some eco­nomic theories. But good intentions are not enough. After all. the road to hell. etc. 
· The demonstrations in Genoa over the G8 summit last July are a good example of one great waste of time. Rage Against the Machine would have doled out several thousand capitalist dollars to fly over if they had known about it beforehand. Out for war, hel­meted protesters carrying shields led the fray. Flute-playing girls baring pasty white midriffs, boys brandishing a thousand piercings and waving Che Guevara flags and bandanna-wearing backpacking ragtags on summer break fell in behind. The very sight would have made Abbie Hoffman proud. Except these kids weren't on a mission to levitate the Palazzo Ducale. 
The police endured the bottle-, rock-and bomb-throwing mob for as long as they could. When anarchy butts heads with law and order, one 
side has to give -and it's usually not the side wearing birks. Footage showed the injured with bloody noses moaning about fascist pig police, while reporters flocked around and scribbled madly about the injustice. Protesters crowded around their fall­en and wailed as if they themselves were not to blame. 
He who slaps cat gets scratched. It is a settled rule of law that pelting armed policemen with rocks the size of cabbages does not provoke them into linking arms and singing. "We are the world." Your underlying left­ist, socialist, environmentalist or anti­globalist intentions might be beautiful or even downright gorgeous. But if you are out for war, you will get war -and all the ugly consequences it entails. Needless violence is a tragic thing and much more tragic is need­less death. Parents of the young pro­tester shot as he stormed a police van will no doubt wonder what cause was served by his fight. 
If the kids had only stayed in their dorms and read Hayek like dad said, none of this would have happened. Unfortunately, it happened. and it will happen again as long as we have free nations full of angry idealists more in love with theory than with fact, read­ing "Das Kapital" instead of "The Open Society and Its Enemies." Heck. forget Popper. They should have opened up a plain history textbook. But cold, hard facts won't do for the idealist. It is the height of irony to know that such utopian worlds they dream of can only be initiated -and retained -by force. 
Christine Niles is a law student and her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at niles. 7@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Myra McGriff Van Giles Andrew Thagart Sports Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint 
Lauren Beck 
Scene Amanda Greco Graphics Kristin Krouse Production Andrew Soukup Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Ernesto Lacayo 

POLL QUESTION 
Have you or a friend encountered the date rape drug on campus? Please e-mail viewpoint@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Whenever you have an efficient government you have a dictatorship." 
Harry Truman president 
"1,HE
vnSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 6, 2001 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lies inhibit maturity, social adeptness 
The Notre Dame administration lies to us. 
Thi.s should come as no surprise to anyone: Any organization with a public relations department worth its salt lies to its constituents routine­ly. It's just a necessary evil meant to keep the masses happy. And I believe that we as students have come to expect these lies and even in some cases embrace them. Who among us can forget the warm. tingly feeling that we got the first time we 
Joe Muto 
heard such lies as "parietals are not enforced for the purpose of stopping sex," or "we don't lower our admissions standards for athletes." 
livin' on a
However, the warm tingle stops when lies arc 
Prayer
spread in order to influence our behavior. Case in point: certain dorms (mostly girls' dorms) were told at weekly section meetings by RAs not to attend the annual "Rally in the Alley" party at the Turtle Creek apartments. The reason? ''It will definitely be broken up by police. Plus, undercover cops will be there to arrest any underage drinkers." After witnessing the almosl total absence of police at what turned out to be a very safe and positive event, the aforementioned statement appeared to be not-so-much a warning but a scare tactic designed to steer people away from the fes­tivities. 
It's no secret that the school was trying to dissuade students from attending Rally. Flipstock, a free concert organized by the campus anti­alcohol group Flipside, was planned in direct opposition to the tradition­ally alcohol-soaked rally. Dorm-wide voice mails from rectors and rec­tresses urged students to stick to on-campus events. Could this massive effort also have included rectors telling RAs to spread rumors about the event? If so. that still raises the question of where the rectors got their marching papers from. 
Am I alleging a conspiracy of lies, rumors and half-truths that leads all the way to the Dome? Well, not really. Then I'd be no better than them, stretcbing the truth and speculating without facts to back me. up. However. when the administration presents a solid, unbreakable front that releases little or no information to the students, wild-eyed conspira­cy theorizing becomes the norm. 
Either way. the plan backfired. For every one student who stayed in that night out of fear of being arrested, 20 students came home safe and sound and maybe looked at their RAs with a little less trust, and looked at their rectors and rectresses with a little less respect and looked at the whole administration with a little more awe after seeing the depths it would plumb in order to get students to bend to their will. Add that to the fact that Flipstock fell short of its goal and the weekend was a triumph for rally in the alley, alcohol and all. 
But did Flipstock fall short of its goal? I know I'll be contested on this one. so let me clarify. When kids came drunk to the concert, Flipstock fell short of its goal. When the concert was over and everyone headed from the r.onveniently located JACC straight to Turtle Creek. Flipstock fell short of its goal. When event organizers had to pull the band SR71 early after the band made repeated references to and even requests for oral sex, Flipstock fell short of its goal to provide squeaky clean, sanitized-for­your-protection, alcohol-free fun. 
While there is nothing wrong with this goal once you get beyond your initial feeling of creepiness, Flipside has the wrong idea when they bill themselves as the alternative to drinking. The alternative to drinking is simple: not drinking. 
Most non-drinkers want to go to Rally in the Alley to. meet people and enjoy the absolute craziness of it all. Most non-drinkers want to go to Heartland to dance with their friends. And most non-drinkers would rather not be singled out like lepers and sent off to activities by them­selves. We're in college now. The peer pressure stuff is behind us. Mature adults should be able to hang out with friends who are drinking without feeling pressured to hit a two-story beer bong. 
And even if they do feel peer pressure, so what? Welcome to the real world. What happens after you graduate and get a real job? If the boys in the office want you to go out and grab a drink after work, what will you do? Excuse yourself so you can go pli}.Y paintball or go on a hay ride? No, you go with them. order a club soda and pretend to be a socially adept human being for an hour. 
If Flipside really wants to help non-drinkers, instead of bringing in no­name bands they should set up a tent with free soft drinks and snacks next year at Rally in the Alley. They can breathalyze people at the entrance if they want: only the sober ones get in. Reward people for being sober instead of trying to squirrel them away from the events where alcohol may be present. At the very least they'll have a great time listening to people lie about taking too much cough syrup just to get some free Papa John's breadsticks from the tent. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore film and television major who is thinking about picking up English too. His parents. who believe he's wasting their money, would rather have him be a business major. He can be reached at jmuto@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Community responds to Observer rape coverage 
Answer questions before passing judgment 
I am writing out of concern over the alleged incident that has been reported in The Observer Monday and Wednesday. It seems to me that there are many unanswered questions that need to be answered before any judgment should be made. However. it is too late now. since nearly everyone has already formulated their opinion. 
I realize that this is a difficult situation, but I am imploring you, when the actual facts are made known, please give that the same front-page coverage that you gave the previ­ous two "stories." Whether your assertions be correct or incorrect. telling the truth exactly how it happened is the only way for both sides to bring any sort of closure to this issue. 
Furthermore, land I am truly trying to remain as unbiased as possible) I feel that The Observer was out ofline by mentioning the room numbers. While that may seem like a relatively simple way of adding more facts to the story while preserving the accused's anonymity at the same time, it may not have occurred to the editing staff that anyone on either campus can simply stroll into the accused's dorm, find their residence and discov­er their identity. 
It also has come to my attention that there were many other details surrounding the festivities that evening that were not published due to the fact that it would have all been based on hearsay. Yet The Observer proceeded to print other information. clearly in a biased manner, that led to an argument built upon a veritable house of cards. This, in my opinion. is reckless and irresponsible journalism. 
Yet what is done is done. The only way to proceed would be discontinue printing any­thing aside from pure, factual information. Additionally, when the truth is made known make it just as available to the masses as the initial two reports. That way, all confusion will be eliminated and students of both campuses can proceed from there. 
Cole Bennett 
sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 5. 200 I 

Inform students of crimes after gathering facts 
The Observer's reporting on the alleged rape incident in Keough Hall appalls me. I 
believe that it is important to inform students about crime committed on campus. I do 
not, however, think it is productive to provide vague and factless information about 
alleged crime. It is unfair to anyone involved in the alleged incident to report on alle­
gations, especially using headlines that suggest definite information. 
The article in today's Observer did not provide the readers with any factual infor­
mation about the incident that possibly took place last Friday evening. It did, however, 
state that the alleged incident took place in rooms 419 and 421 of Keough Hall. It 
seems as though the author of the article was doing everything she could to identify 
the men that allegedly were involved, without giving their names. Can we expect The 
Observer to report the room numbers of every alleged incident on campus? I hope 
not. Such reporting would do nothing but spread rumors, cause confusion, raise fears 
and taint reputations, just as the last two articles on the incident last Friday have 
done. 

Hopefully, this incident will be investigated and resolved to the satisfaction of every­
one. As a woman, I think it is very important to address the issue of rape on campus, 
especially when past incidents have received less than adequate attention. The recent 
coverage of the alleged incident, however, seems to play on the fears and emotions of 
the reader as a means to cover up for lack of journalistic integrity and the unavailabil­
itv of facts. 

·1f a rape md occur the offender should be punished accordingly and the University 
should deal with the issue. Maybe. however, there was no rape. Maybe the allegations 
will prove to be false. Unfortunately, in that case, the damage has already been done. 
Eight thousand students, faculty and staff members have already seen the headline 
"rape occurred in Keough." Keough Hall has now been associated with rape. section 
4A has been associated with rape and rooms 419 and 421 (and the people who live in 
those rooms) have also been publicly linked to rape. Parents of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students are concerned. Nobody knows what really happened. People are con­
fused, scared and skeptical. 
Yesterday I was told by one of the co-presidents of Keough Hall that it would be two 
weeks before any facts vvill be made known. Acting in a manor respectful to everyone 
he obviously was not prepared to relay, nor did not have, any factual information that 
would benefit or inform the students of Notre Dame so he decided not to speak on the 
subject. I wish the Observer had the same decency. 
Maura Kelly junior Lyons Hall Sept. 5, 200 l 
" 

r-----­
. 
O
THE BSERVER 


CENE.
movies 
Thursday, September 6, 200l page 12 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Episode V: Attack of the stoned 
Elizabeth and a gang of vinyl clad coeds 
By BILL FUSZ 

trick them into stealing a monkey to cover Scene Movie Critic 
their jewel heist. Monkey in tow, they get chased across the Southwest by a Federal Finally, Jay and Silent Bob have a movie Wildlife Marshall ("SNL's" Will Ferrell),of their own. In writer-director Kevin and encounter, among many others, a nun Smith's "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" (Carrie Fisher) and a seasoned hitchhiker 
lhe dynarn.icly inept duo decide its time lo (George Carlin). leave the Quick Stop convenience store and Rut "Jay and Silent Bob" is much more venture to Hollvwood. all in hopes of stop­than just a road trip comedy. and that's 
ping a movie being due to Smith's always made about their 
clever and witty dia­comic book, logue. The movie does "Bluntman and not have the emotional 
Chronic." They first range of "Chasing learn about the project Amy" or the religious from Brodie Bruce, depth of "Dogma," but
out olfive shamrocks

Jason Lee's slacker it does have a string of comic fan from Smith's Director: Kevin Smith funny one-liners and 
second film, Starring: Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, gags, one atier anoth­"Mallrats," "The 
Shannon Elizabeth and Ben Affleck er for almost two 
Internet buzz is good." hours. they are told by Holden For those who have not seen and loved Caufield (Ben Affleck), the comic book Smith's previous work, however, the film 
artist from Smith's third film, "Chasing could be confusing and unfunny. In manyAmy." ways, he's constructed the ultimate cine­
Indeed. there are a couple actors from matic inside joke, full of self-referential Photo courtesy of Miramax FilmsSmith's previous films in this cross-country humor and asides to the audience that it 
Jason Mewes (left) and Kevin Smith (center) go on a road trip to Hollywood in "Jay
roadtrip, but that's not even the half of it. can actually appreciate instead of grimace 
and Silent Bob Strike Back." Ben Affleck (right) and many others provide cameos.
Practically everyone who has ever been in at. Those who have seen all four Jersey 
a Smith movie reprises their role or, in films will quickly recognize the cameos and some cases, roles (Affleck and Lee portray connections drawn throughout the pro­even ifyou are not a die-hard Smith fan. the weed-dealing Jay (a role he says he two previous characters). "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" is witty, was hoping to play until he was 65). The
ceedings.

As the movie continues, Jay (Jason clever, and delivers on the type of humor audience can just be thankful it got to
With camoes by James Van Der Beek, Smith is known for. But it's Smith's home­enjoy the ride. 
Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith himself) Jason Biggs, Matt Damon and others, there have typical road trip hijinks and run into is enough in terms of pop culture refer­town friend Mewes who seems to be hav­wacky characters. At one point, Shannon ing the most fun, enjoymg his last turn as
ences to tie you in and keep you laughing, Contact Bill Fusz at wfusz@nd.edu. 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

Religion and morality crash in 'Waves' 
ByJOHN DONNELLY Scene Movie Critic 
Do people really believe that God will answer all our prayers? Do they know with absolute certainty that God will grant their petition-does anyone have that much faith? Is it true that if we "ask" we "shall receive?" 
Bess McNeil!, the protagonist of 1996's "Breaking the Waves," believes. Set in a small Scottish village 

--t-! .-\.g';:_it:·.rt Ff,~r CW f\.s::~ut-t f\tr,~~r·· 
;_: ·::--._~:xSJ.· :Ct-f'.;.«-.i 




sometime during the 1970s, the film is the story of Bess (Emily Watson, "Angela's Ashes") and her hus­band, Jan (Stellan Skarsgard. "Good Will Hunting"). Jan works on an oil rig at sea. and is viewed warily in Hess's secluded village because he is an "outsider." The film opens with their wedding, which takes place in Hess's extremely strict church. Bess loves Jan madly. Her face beams with joy. She cannot wait for her wedding night, and meets with Jan in the powder room at the reception because she is so 
bring him home because she misses him terribly. 
Then an accident takes place on the rig, and Jan is brought home, but left bed0 ridden and near death. Bess thinks the injury is her fault. Stuck in bed all day, almost immobile, Jan gives Bess a horrifying order: He asks her to sleep with other men and tell him about her experiences. At first, she is dumb­struck. She begins to think and pray about Jan's request, and what follows is Bess's descent into 
promiscuity. 
eager to give herself over to him. Director Lars von Trier was one of two 
"Breaking the 
A domineering council of church Danish filmmakers to write and sign fathers runs Bess's tiny town. The peo­Waves" Dogma 95, a series of rules that attempt­ple lead harsh lives, with their thoughts Director: Lars von Trier ed to purify film. One goal is to leave turned to the afterworld. Women are not certain decisions to the viewer. While
Starring: Emily Watson 
allowed to speak in church. A priest "Breaking the Waves" does not adhere
and Stelian Skarsgard
condemns the dead to hell, for they are strictly to these rules, many of the guide-
sinners. A guest at the wedding asks why the church bells are not rung to celebrate; an elder with a long white beard replies that their church has no bells. 
A scene at the reception perfectly captures the reli­gious environment. Jan's friend from the rig chugs a can of beer while sitting next to one of the church fathers, mocking his teetotal ways. The elder responds by downing a glass of lemonade. Jan's friend retorts hy crushing the can in his hand. The old man breaks the glass in his bare hand, slicing his hand open. 
Because of her absolute faith; most view Bess as a simpleton. Her best friend Dodo, widow of Bess's dead brother, worries for her because Bess trusts too easilv. Dodo does not trust Jan. She worries that Bess loves him too much; Dodo is concerned that Bess will be weak and too open to Jan's suggestions. Jan tells Dodo that Bess is the strongest of all of them, and she proves this claim throughout the film. 
Watson's most remarkable acting occurs in solitary scenes of prayer in church. Bess speaks her prayers aloud, then shuts her eyes, and answers in a deep voice as God. \Vhether she supplies the answers her­self or is divinely influenced is left to the viewer. Shortly after Jan returns to the rig, Bess begs God to 
lines crop up. Von Trier uses natural light, shot in Scotland, and has little music on the soundtrack. 
A notable exception to the absence of music is the movie's chapter interludes. The film is relatively quiet, and then suddenly the screen is filled with gor­geous nature images and sounds of Jethro Tull and Elton John. The music disorients because the inter­ludes are such a change of pace. The theme von Trier develops-sound from outside the film surprising the audience-pays off in the miraculous conclusion. 
"Breaking the Wave5" is an extremely difficult movie to watch. It runs 150 minutes, but fools much longer. Tho viewer witnnesses tho main character suffer indignity after indignity, and can only question his or her own faith. Watching suffering is not some­thing audiences enjoy. In a time of wishy-washy reli­gion, one is reminded of a quote from author Flannery O'Conner: "What people don't realize is how much religion costs. They think faith is a big electric blanket, when of course it is the cross." Without a doubt, Bess carries her cross. Watching ''Breaking the Waves" makes us realize that we need to work on shouldering ours. 
Contact John Donnelly at jdonnel2@nd.edu. 
r •' 
I ' ( f • • 

,---------------------~--------------~------------­
O
THE BSERVER 


CENE.
movies 
Thursday, September 6, 2001 
page 13 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Film noir gets the Allen treatment 
By JUDE SEYMOUR  pieces from that era, borrowing equally from classics like "Double  ("Cast Away") plays Betty Ann Fitzgerald, whose small-time  se.xy and seemingly innocent ladies who schemed nefarious  ment" element. The film noir movies were  
Scene Movie Critic  Indemnity" to frighteningly corny  affair  with  Briggs'  boss,  plans in hopes of deterring the  shrouded in misery, however,  
B-movies. While this may seem to  Magruder (Dan Aykroyd). has  detective hero.  and the endings always seemed  
Already having scaled his leg­end as one of the past century's great writer-directors, Woody Al.Jen's 33rd film. "The Curse of  neglect audiences unfamiliar with such pictures. those moviegoers should still be entertained by Allen's penchant for good  given her a job and the opportu­nity to initiate the insurance office into a new, efficient way of han­dling cases. Briggs, who follows  In Allen's version, the audience is fed Laura Kensington (Charlize Theron, "Devil's Advocate"), who perfectly imi­ to wallow in the hero's despair and hopelessness. Allen has taken this opportunity to turn all of that on its ear,  
The Jade Scorpion," picks up right where his last three films have left off: exploring Allen's  scriptwriting. Allen plays C.W. Briggs, one of the top insurance investigators in  the "old way of doing things," naturally resists, both on account of being told how to do his job  tates the style of a 1940s sex bomb.  "Curse of the Jade Scorpion"  poking fun at the theme of a man's  
guilty pleasures. After making a film about ja27 /"Sweet and Lowdown") and a comic caper ("Small Time Grooks), "Jade Scorpion" follows  1940s New York. His years of experience cracking cases has evolved into a unique style, not unlike Edward G. Robinson's "lit­tle man" approach in "Double  and having those instructions come from a younger, more intel­ligent woman. While Briggs and "Fitz" are snipping, a hypnotist at a birth­ Allen, how­ever, is not a traditional detective hero; he is  s&11\iihd&1>i!i~4.'sp~ out offive shamrocks Director: Woody Allen  alienation instead of making it his character's emotional  
as a homage to the 1940s detec­ Indemnity."  Then  again,  day party performs a seemingly  the updated  Starring: Woody Allen, Helen Hunt  baggage.  
tive-film noir pictures. The movie unfolds as a lowi letter to all the  Robinson never had an efficiency expert after him Helen Hunt  innocuous gag on the two, con­vincing them that they are in love  version that comes with a  and Charlize Theron  C.W. Briggs may be mold­ 
with each other. The hypnotist,  cynical mouth and one-liners. In  ed after Sam Spade or Philip  
Volton (David Ogden Stiers), uses  a way, that helps justify his cast­ Marlowe, but he is spending more  
the love gag as a cover for his  ing. People who complain that  time crafting comebacks to Fitz's  
plans to steal multiple loads of  Allen, at 66, is too old to be any­ insults than he is worrying about  
diamonds. and needs Briggs'  one's love interest, have missed  his oppressive environment.  
insider knowledge to be success­ the  humor in  the  situation.  Since Allen is able to put out a  
ful. He leaves both subjects in a  Theron is certainly not seeing  movie a year, he seems wholly  
state of hypnotic suggestion, so  Allen's physique as sexy, but her  unconcerned if audiences are  
that he can command them later  part as pseudo-femme fatale  interested in seeing 'The Curse of  
on to steal diamonds for him.  necessitates that she is interested  Jade Scorpion." Much like the old  
After the first robbery, Briggs  in only what is scandalous. Here  Brooklyn Dodgers, if this doesn't  
promises to uncover the insider  is where Allen makes his joke:  work out, there's always next  
who pulled off the heist, com­ what is more scandalous than a  year. However, fans of Allen and  
pletely unaware he is looking for  curvy 20-something taking inter­ classic detective movies should  
himself.  est in an old half-wit insurance  find this effort amusing. Allen­ 
Having 60 years to reinterpret  agent?  the-comedian is up to his usual  
the classic detective story, Allen  It is clear from watching "Jade  standards of writing, a fact which  
has not refrained from putting his  Scorpion" that Allen must have  should make this film appealing  
own spin on a normally struc­ digested hundreds ofold detective  to anyone in need of a good laugh  
tured narrative. In the 1940s,  movies before starting work on  after a long dry summer at the  
Barbara Stanwyck and Joan  his own. He leaves no plot ele­ theater.  
Photo courtesy ol Dream Works SKG  Crawford  molded  into  the  ment untouched, including the  
Writer-director Woody Allen stars in "Curse of the Jade Scorpion," a film noir-style detective story with a few slight twists.  American cinema consciousness the notion of the femme fatale­ "wrongfully accused" angle to the "man alienated by his environ- Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu.  

MOVIE REVlEW 
Shakespeare runs circles around teenage 'O' 
By MAROIO BIRD Scene Movie Critic 
The proliferation of remakes, reduxes. reimaginings and 
recyclings seems to testify to the lack of ingenuity within 
Hollywood. "O," a modem-day retelling of Shakespeare's 
timeless tragedy "Othello." is but the latest in a long line of 
cinematic attempts to instill culture in moviegoers by . spoon-feeding sugar-coated literature. 
One can only guess that screenwriter Brad Kaaya's excessive profanity is intended to approximate reality, but such writing completely negates any sort of character depth. The result is the dissipation of Phifer and Hartnett's underlying motives in a meaningless clamor of expletives. 
Perhaps the character who is most unlike their Shakespearian template is Stiles' Desi. In "Othello," Desdemona is meek and guiltless, but in "O," Desi holds superiority over her father and is racked by guilt and 
uncertainty over a vivid sexual encounter . 

... 
Photo courtesy ot Lions Gate Films 

Josh Hartnett (left) and Mekhi Phifer star In a modern update of Shakespeare's famous tragedy, "Othello." 
fer a racial moral. and a good one at that, the majority of the narrative treats the subject so moderately that the audience is left confused and dissatisfied. 
"O" is not a bad movie, but it falls depressingly short of good, miring itself in pop culture and realism along the way. Shakespeare's plays aren't regarded as immortal just because it sounds nice: the scenarios and morals within the drama transcend both temporal and cultural bound­aries. "0" is too wrapped up in proving that it's hip with modern teenage consciousness to ever consider the scale and profundity of the original tale. 
Contact Mario Bird at mbird@nd.edu. 
Mekhi Phifer ("I Still Know What You Stiles' uncertainty concerning her role in
"0"

Did Last Summer") headlines the title 
the graphic sex scene, an incident that is character, Odin "O" James. the only black absent from and wholly incongruous with student at an elite prep school in the the original play, destroys her character's 
out offive shamrocks 

southern US Ac:; the point guard and otf­standing as a morality figure. Conventional lhe-court leader of the school's nationally Director: Tim Blake Nelson or not, Shakespeare used morality as a ranked basketball team. 0 has won the vehicle in nearly all his work. and the
Starring: Mekhi Phifer,

hearts of the entire school. including the dearth of such morality in "O" is a defect
Josh Hartnett, Julia Stiles and 
Lhat weakens the plot and very premise ofDean's daughter, Desi (Julia Stiles, "Save the Last Dance"). and the fiery Coach Martin Sheen Duke (Martin Sheen. TV's "The West Wing"!. 
½'bile O and Desi enjoy fleeting romance, Lhe narrative follows Josh Hartnett ("Pearl Harbor") as Coach Duke's introverted son Hugo. whoso jealousy towards O unleashes a catastrophic string of events. 
The cast ensemble performs fairly. Sheen is alternately bellicose and tender as the irascible coach, and operates at an energy level that can only be described as dangerous for a man his age, which is exciting and disturbing. Phifer and Hartnett both begin to explore the psychological pre­fixes within their respective characters, but stop short of Lhe depth promised by the irony-laden roles of accepted outcast and introspective fiend. Given the film's departure frqm Shakespeare's original prose, this is somewhat expected, resulting in shallow acting and shabby metaphor". 
the movie. 
Director Tim Blake Nelson, better known for his role as the dim-witted Delmore in the Coen Brothers' "O Brother, Where Art Thou," shows striking range and style in directing his first major motion picture. He makes use of a variety of film stocks, one of which hauntingly recalls the infamous Zapruder film and intro­duces the chilling fmal chapter of "O." 
During the opening scenes, Nelson also applies light and iconic imagery in riveting fashion. especially emphasizing white on black in the midst of an otherwise color film to enhance the message about racial tension and its occa­sional ambiguity. 
Disappointingly, the issue of race is never a driving force in the plot itself. Instead, Nelson changes gears from Spike Lee to David Fincher. forgetting race and delving into the subjectivity of O's tortured mind and Hugo's nefarious scheming. Though the film's final message seems to prof­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 6, 200 I 
US OPEN 
Sampras def eats Agassi, advances to semis 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Full house. Marquee matchup. U.S. Open. And Pete Sampras played like a champ. Taking 
another huge step in his remarkable resurgence, Sampras edged long­time rival A n d r e 

(7), 7-6, (2), 
7-6 (2), 7-6 (5) in a quarterfi­
nal thriller Wednesday night.
" 
The magnificent match lived up to the sort of hype only New York can generate, with both players at the top of their game for 3 1/2 hours and the difference between them thin­ner than racket string. Four sets ended with four tiebreak­ers. In 48 games, neither play­er broke serve. 
If there were any doubts that Sampras shook his yearlong slump with a victory Monday over Pat Rafter, he erased them with another poised, pol­ished performance. And Agassi was nearly his equal in their 32nd meeting. 
"It was a pleasure playing 

tonight,'' Sampras said. "The energy was phenomenal.'' 
"CertaiJ\IY a memory I'll never forget," Agassi said. "Quite a powerful evening in many respects." 
In the end Sampras' serve was just too good and his com­posure too cool. When Agassi hit a forehand into the net on match point, Sampras raised his arms in triumph, The two champions met at the net with smiles, a handshake and warm words to each other. 
"Win the thing," Agassi told Sampras. 
Sampras entered the Open with the No. 10 seeding, his lowest since winning the first of his record 13 Grand Slam championships in 1990. Now he's two victories from his fifth Open title. 
On Saturday, Sampras plays a former Open winner -No. 3-seeded Marat Safin -for the third round in a row. 
It's a rematch of last year's final. which Safin won in a rout, accelerating Sampras' slide into the slump from which he has just now emerged, 
The president's box over­flowed, and even the skyboxes were full. VIPs included Agassi's shy girlfriend, Steffi Graf, who peered from around the corner of a suite. Even a wave couldn't taint the occa­sion. 
There hadn't been a show­down like it in 32 years. Sampras and Agassi have won a combined 20 major titles, the most collective trophies in any Grand Slam men's match since Rov Emerson and Rod Laver ­hoiders of 22 titles -played in tho 1969 Open quarterfinals. 
Sampras ended a three­match losing streak in the rivalry and extended his edge over Agassi to 18-14. including 3-0 at the Open. But the victo­ry didn't come easily. 
Both players dominated on their serve. Sampras served 25 aces and erased three break points. Agassi hit 18 aces and erased six break points. 
"You've got to do more than hold your serve, I guess, 2, 0-40, but Sampras commit­ted errors on the next three points. Those were his only break-point chances until the fourth set. 
They pushed on to the first tiebreaker. Sampras held three set points at 6-3, but Agassi saved them all with a forehand winner, a service winner and a sizzling forehand passing shot. 
On the final point Sampras mis-hit a volley into the net, then hung his head and swat­ted at the ball in frustration. 
But he bounced back In the eighth game of the second set he hit two skyjam overheads, his patented putaway, and after the second slam hopped on his toes as though reinvigo­rated. 
Again the 
rivals went 

huh?" Agassi "It was a pleasure to 6-6. said. "Let Pete
playing tonight. The
During one win this set, 
energy was
stretch the Andre!" a two went 22 phenomenal." f a n 
gamtis with­screamed. out a break Pete did,
Pete Sampras 
point. In one sweeping the g a m e tennis player final four 
Sampras dou­ble -faulted three times. endured an unlucky bounce on a net cord and still held. 
Squandered chances cost Sampras the first set. The No. 2-seeded Agassi fell behind 1­
points of the 

tiebreaker. When he yanked a forehand crosscourt to make it 6-2, he screamed "Yeah!" and punched the air. A deft drop volley on the next point gave him the set. and Sampras 
screamed again and threw an uppercut as he walked to his chair. 
In the third set they dueled again on even terms, Sampras playing serve-and-volley, Agassi hugging the baseline. Again they reached 6-6. 
Agassi committed three of his 19 unforced errors in the third-set tiebreaker, and Sampras delivered aces on the final two points for a 2-set-to-1 lead. 
When Sampras faced a break point in the eighth game of the fourth set, he responded with an ace and two service win­ners. When the fourth tiebreaker started at-12:07 a.m., the capacity crowd gave both players a standing ova­tion. 
Sampras hit consecutive aces for a 4-3 lead, and Agassi blew a volley to make it 6-3. Sampras squandered the first two match points, hitting a vol­ley into the net and double­faulting for the 12th time. But Agassi then blew a short fore­h and, giving Sampras the hard-earned win. 
"It came down to the wire. How much closer can you get?" Agassi said. "When you lose one that close, it's difficult to appreciate much about it except the standard I forced him to play. And that I feel good about." 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day fro;; 8 a.m. rn 3 1.m. ac the Notre Dame office, 024 Souch Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che righc co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

RESPONSIBLE. QUALITY CHILD-ROOMMATE WANTED: Babysitter(s): non-smoker. playful, B&B CARE NEEDED responsible. Needed for various 4 rooms for N.D. football. in my home for 3 year old &7 times: Mon &Th. Fternoons (12-3 miles from N.D. Best location. 
LOST AND FOUND PERSONAL 
month old. Monday thru Thursday 5), Sat. nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In 287-4545 
2:30 pm -5 pm. Campus View Apartments Granger. 273-9476 SENIORS: Senior Portraits taken LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET 1 Saturday a month. Private bedroom & PRIVATE until Sept. 21, Sign up now @ NECKLACE. Own transportation required. BATHROOM!II Large kitchen. Free This terrific one bedroom condo in TICKETS www.Laurenstudios.com while PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL 5 mins from ND. Major in early parking, $282,5/month. Contact me Woodbridge Condominiums is close there is still space available, AT SAINT MARY'S. childhood development or child psy-at quw@nd.edu. enough to walk to ND, Why rent? BUY/SELL GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. chology a plus. References Emergency call: 219-243-2383 Own this for $62,900! Cobntact ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Happy 5-month anniversary, Phil. THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL required. Call 288-6795. Prudential One Realty or Cherie 277-6619 I love you. Thank you tor you. BE PIO IF NOT SURRENDERED. PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal TeRoller at 284-2600, BUT WE WANT IT BACK, LOVE KIDS? shelter just 10 min from campus. GA's 4 use. MSU, TN, WVA 271-Just sending you girls a little roomie PLEASE. WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ urgently needs FOSTERS and LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. 1654 love -all for the low low price of 
BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS VOLUNTEERS for its cats and 12" drivers. $250 obo/pari. Call $114...have a good one, ladies! CALL 765-659-4928. A WEEK? dogs. Mike 4-4695 WANTED-ND TICKETS 289­HANDSOME REWARD. Area family needs individual to care Please e-mail webmaster@petre-9280 OUR WEEKEND PRAYER NO QUESTIONS ASKED for our two daughters Mon-Fri luge.com, visit www.petrefuge.com, Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold God, GRANT us the power to do 
from 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. or call 2S6-0886, Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED BATTLE against those who shuck Lost High School Class Ring Mom attends grad school in DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 corn. Chillicothe High School Chicago. Girls are fun and delight-IN-HOME NANNY needed to care garage. $69.000, "LO"VECCHIO, as you stomp down Jessica inscribed on the inside ful! Transportation needed. for infant. Must have transportation, Call Doris at 254-1772 for more NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX the field, Please return! Girlfriend will kill me Generous pay! Experience with infants and refer-info. FOR SALE YURA WEAVER of our dreams and 
If interested, please call Karen ences required. A.M. 232~2378 a HUNTER of our first win. Please call 634-3580 Stonehill at 272-5013. Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, P,M, 288-2726 However ROCKY, SAPP 'em early. 
or aknoedle@nd.edu. with orthopedic mattress set. All As in times of Ceasar, let JULIUS Lost a silver bracelet possibly in ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. new, never used, still in plastic, ND tickets for sale, Lowest prices. rule the field! South Quad directly outside Dillon NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL Seeking student for part time repre-$235. 219-862-2082. 232-0964 God, thank you for our strengths. Hall's front door. 273-2872. sentation on campus for screen Let us CROUCH on bended knee Bracelet has a gold plate with the print & embroidery company, Flex 60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk ~ office GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 with golden helmets raised in victo­inscription "TJ 1999 LIV." If found, WANTED: hrs and flex pay, Call Dave at 800-chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. ryl please call 4-0951 and leave a Highly organized, experienced legal 813-2113, Buying some/Selling a few extra And, Lord, let us not smile too big message for T J. secretary or assistant to Pl trial Gently used loveseat + chair. N.D. Football Tickets when we DO bea1 them. 
lawyer for new, spacious offices After school care for two chilclren, 3 Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood 219-289-8048 Amen. next to Notre Dame campus; hours pm -5:30 pm. Good payl trim NOBroyhill" $150 674·6150 Good luck Guys! 
REWARD over $50. flexible; competitive pay and bene-Please call Lisa A businessman needs football sea-Love, Card Services fits, 631-9947 or 277-8564. Futon w/solid wood frame $500. son tickets •GAs only' Will buy Call 231-1868 and leave message. Krups cappucino & coffee maker individual games 277-1659 Hello Mod Quad! Yeah, its 2 am 
Looking for someone to care $70. Sony cordless phone & and I'm still here, Please forward 
WANTED 

Sitter wanted by professor for two for/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys answering machine $30. Wanted: 4-6 lickets for USC. Seats my mail to the basement of South boys (7&10) some evenings and while I work In home office. 3-5 277-0666. do not have to be together Dining Halli late afternoons. hours per week ; flexible. Call Nicole 233·8513 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Constable.1@nd.edu or 234-9597 5 miles from campus.Tricia 232-Lauren -Its all about four o'clock on Wanted by elderly couple a respon-1285 For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAs Friday! Yeah, baby!
FOR RENT 

Looking for a male or female sible man or woman graduate stu-654-0168 rommate for house off-<:ampus dent to drive our car for errands or Looking for a female English tutor Ken-Doll -You are great! Thanks al 822 N. Francis St. short drives from our home in ND for Japanese native girl aged 8 In HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-$$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU for cheering me up tonight. I need-Close to campus. neighborhood. Wages per hour Granger. Twice a week $40 (1 hour PUSI 915-241-5999 edit. If interested. call 288-8249 negotiable. ·each some time between 4 to 7 Mmmrentals.com 
288---0074 pm). Email: mmmren1als@ aol,com Looking for 4 Pitt tickets. will buy or Merideth -I meeeeiiiiissss you! Con1act Yoshi at 219-654-1219 trade for 4 WV tickets. 
WANTED: THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Call Chrissy at 634-1203 or A and A -hey -now you finally have Seeking part-time Daycare Assistant to trial layer with desktop Mom's helper. Breakfast Inn has space available email somewhere to hang your clothes. provider tor two childen. Granger publishing skills for new spacious Seek student to help with twins 10-for lootbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms Cmaher@nd.edu You are s00000 lucky! area. Own transportation required, offices next to Notre Dame campus; 20 hrs/moth. Good pay. Full with private ba1hs, $80-$115, References. part-time or flexible hours; com-description available by e-mail Middlebury, 30 miles from campus, Helpll Need 8 West Virginia tickets. 249 Is the place to be to watch the 
petilive hourly wage. Call 231-request: Toll Road Exit lt107. Call Kerry ND/Nebraska game on Saturday. Call 277-1622. 1868 and leave message. J!.l!lOllLW:~ ~ i:IQI r;Qm 1-800-418-9487. 243-0928 Be there or be square! 
Thursday, September 6, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
U.S. 
OPEN 

V. 
Willliams, Capriati to meet in semifinals 




Friday for a spot in the final could have led to a gimme to who would be quickest to 
.Associared Pre~s 
of the other major. return. err, rather than being a con­They are the only two Instead. it dropped in. test filled with glittering
NEW YORK 

women who have not dropped Clijsters, a French Open final­groundstrokes.
Venus Williams and 
a set so far at the U.S. Open. ist, swung mightily -and she The players combined forJennifer Capriati set up a U.S. 
"It's going to be pretty missed mightily, turning her 81 unforced errors and 14
Open semifinal showdown 
tough. She's been playing head to watch the ball settle double-faults in just 65 min­with victories that were nei­well, but J've been playing by the wall at the back of the utes. It was downright sloppy
t h e r 
well," said Capriati, who has court. at times.
nuanced 
a chance at the Open to take She sighed, Williams smiled. They traded breaks of serve 
nor partic­over the top ranking for the And so went the match -in the first two games of the
ularly pret­
first time in her career. keeping alive the possibility match, and each wasted 
ty. 
"Hopefully, I can come out t h a t break oppor­Not a 
and play my best tennis." Williams tunities in the
whole lot 
Williams has won all three could meet "My unforced error count next two 
went right 
of their previous meetings, younger si.s­games.
f O r was just really high. I
including twice this year on te r Serena In the
Williams hardcourts. in a Grand wasn't stringing together fourth game,
o n 
Venus' younger sister, 10th­Slam tour­the points the way I on one of the
Wednesday 
seeded Serena. will play No. 1 nament final 11 break­
-the 43 unforced errors. the would like to exctly. I did 
Martina Hingis in the other for the first point chances
48 percent of first serves that a few good points and
semifinal. time. Williams
missed the mark. the eight 
Both Capriati and M y then I missed a few easy tossed away
double-faults. 
Just enough did go the Mauresmo slugged it out from unforced shots too. But, in general, overall. she the baseline, trading powerful error count sent a fore­
defending champion's way, a win is a win. " 
strokes and rarely resorting was just hand about 5
though. to add up to a 6-3, 6­
to trickery. really high. feet out, then
1 quarterfinal victory over 
Capriati managed to limit I wasn't Venus Williams leaned over,
Kim Clijsters. 
the number of errors better stringing slapped her
Then the No. 2-seeded tennis player
than Mauresmo. together the left hand onCapriati went out and pound­
Williams didn't limit hers, points the her knee anded her wav to a 6-3, 6-4 victo­
but wound up OK. way I would looked up as ry over· No. 8 Amelie 
Case in point: With Williams like to, exactly," the No. 4-if to say, "Why can't I getMauresmo. 
serving for the first set, she seeded Venus said. "I did a going today?"
That means the winners of sent an 88 mph knuckler of a few good points and then I "When she's on top of herthe year's first three Grand 
second serve that was kicked missed a few easy shots, too. game, she doesn't make thatSlam events -Capriati at the 
up by the swirling air at But, in general, a win is a many unforced errors. But
Australian and French Opens, she's always a
Arthur Ashe Stadium. The win." player that
followed by Williams at suddenly wind-wrapped ball More often than not, makes a lot of good pointsWimbledon -will meet 
could have wandered out or it Williams-Clijsters came down and also unforced errors," 
Applications Av,ifabfo .i.t {fie CSC. 
rlential
vice 
Le 

said Clijsters, cheered on from courtside by boyfriend Llcyton Hewitt, who beat Tommy Haas in four sets ear­lier Wednesday to reach the quarterfinals. 
"So that's why it's hard to get in your rhythm and make the chances that you get." 
The difference-makers? Williams managed to find the range often enough to pro­duce 21 winners, compared to just five for the fifth-seeded Belgian. And Williams con­jured up sAven aces to Clijsters' one. 
Williams took control in the seventh game, winning one of the match's longer rallies with a crackling forehand down the line to open a flood that saw her take nine of the last 10 games. 
In a finish as fitting as it was anticlimactic, Clijsters double-faulted to end her career-best U.S. Open show­ing. 
Anticipating a possi·ble encounter for the title Saturday night against her sister, Williams said: "Just one more match to go for each of us, though we're up against some pretty good players. 
'Tm hoping to be in the final -8 o'clock sharp at the dance." 
:.. 

""'"'"'~ 

s O c 1 ~ 0 ~ All seminars offer 
coNCERNs one academic c:redit All Applications due to the CSCby 1. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 6, 2001 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rodriguez ends season early 
After Rodriguez left an Aug.

. I-Rod opts for 
22 game against the Newknee surgery York Yankees when his right ____________ knee locked while in his 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON. Texas 

For the second straight year, the Texas Rangers will be forced to finish the season without catcher Ivan 
Rodriguez. 
The 10­time All­Star decid­e d Wednes­day to h a v e surgery on 


his aching Rodriguez
left knee 
after trav­eling to Los Angeles for an examination by orthopedist 
Dr. Lewis Yocum, the Anaheim Angels' doctor. 
Rodriguez's other option was rest and medication with hope that the patella tendon inflammation would subside. 
"I feel that having the surgery now is the best way for me to prepare for the next six or seven years of my major league career," Rodriguez said. "I look forward to com­ing back strong next season." 
Rodriguez finished the sea­son with a .308 average, 25 homers and 65 RBIs in 111 games. 
"It was strictly Pudge's call based on information from the doctor," Rangers general manager Doug Melvin said. 
Rodriguez hasn't played since he was scratched from the lineup before last Friday's game at Kansas City. 
The surgery is scheduled for next week in Fort Worth by team orthopedist Dr. John Conway, with assistance from Dr. Yocum. 
Club officials said the length of his recovery won't be known until after the surgery. 
Rodriguez missed the final 
~ two months of last season after breaking a thumb and spent May 2-16 of this season on the DL with a bruised heel. The nine-time Gold Glove win­ner has caught more than 1,300 games over his career. 
catcher's crouch, an MRI on both knees initially showed no problems. 
Rodriguez took another night off but then caught 16 innings in an 18-inning win over Boston. 
He was scratched from the lineup Friday after Dr. Conway became concerned about something he saw in the left knee from the earlier test. Another MRI revealed chronic patellar tendinitis ­inflammation of the tendon that connects the kneecap to the leg. 
Rodriguez is eligible for free agency after next season. Agent Jeff Moorad has repeatedly approached the Rangers about a five-to seven-year contract extension worth about $20 million per season. 
Melvin and owner Tom Hicks have put off talks on an extension, opting to wait until a new labor agreement is agreed to between players and owners. 
They also are concerned about Rodriguez's long-term health. 
"We still want to sit down and talk," Melvin said. "But a lot more has to happen before we do that." 
Melvin said he didn't antici­pate any more talks with Moorad until Rodriguez has completed his rehabilitation from surgery. 
"It's going to be tough not having his bat in the lineup, but he's better off getting it done now to be ready for the spring," Rangers left-hander Doug Davis said. 
The Rangers have been out of contention in the AL West since early this season. 
"When you lose a player of that caliber, it's obviously going to hurt your team," said Bill Haselman, who becomes the starting catcher. "But for his sake, I think it's a good thing to do it to get his knee better. We're out of it anyway so he should just get it done." 
Marcus Jensen will be Haselman's backup. 

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Yashin signs for $87.5 million 
Associated Press 
EAST MEADOW, N.Y. 

Alexei Yashin sat out an entire season in a contract dis­pute just two years ago. Now the high-scoring center has agreed to the longest deal in NHL history. 
The New York Islanders and the 27-year-old Russian came to terms Wednesday on a 10­year contract worth $87.5 mil­lion. 
Actual terms were not dis­closed, but the contract is for $6.4 million in the first and the final season. It reaches its pay­out peak in the middle of the contrac1l, and except for incen­tives for finishing first, second or third in the voting for the league's major awards at the end of each season, there are no other bonuses ..:__ personal or team-related -in the con­tract. 
"The contract broke no new barriers in terms of salary," Islanders general manager Mike Milbury said. "It's the length of the deal that will open some eyes." 
One of the biggest barriers regarded insurance. Any con­tract up to five years in length is easily insured, but anything past that has to be worked on creatively. 
"There was some funky stuff that had to be done, but we were able to secure insurance for the length of the contract,t' Milbury said. "We had to do a few things and Alexei and [agent] Mark [Gandler] had to do a few things, and we all agreed to do so." 
Yashin. who spent eight sea~ sons with Ottawa, was happy to become part of the Islanders organization. 
"It feels great, but at the same time there is a lot of responsibility," Yashin -said. "I'm comfortable [with the contract]." 
Yashin sat out the 1999-00 season in a contract dispute, and an arbitrator ruled he had to play out the final year of his deal to become a restricted free agent. Last season, he had 40 goals and 44 assists with the Senators, but only had one assist as Toronto swept the Senators in the first round of the playoffs. 
"I spoke to [Toronto coach] Pat Quinn a few weeks ago and asked about his playoff 

Attention Fulbright Applicants 
Students applying for t~e 2002-2003 Fulbright Scholarship competition should attend a meetmg to learn the process for applying through the campus committee. 
Thursday, September 6th 
4:00 pm room 117, Haggar Hall 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, information may be obtained at the Fellowship Office in room 99 O'Shaughnessy 
performance," Milbury said. "He told me if the wind blew a little differently, it could have been another story complete­ly." 
Milbury had some reserva­tions about the length of com­mitment, but grew to appreci­ate it. He claims he's not wor­ried that Yashin might take issues as he did with the Senators. 
"If you are comfortable with a guy's character and ability, this might be one way to go," Milbury said. "But this is a 10­year deal. and the deal goes for what the contract says it goes for. They're happy with it and expressed happiness with it." 
Yashin played 504 regular season games for the Senators. and picked up 218 goals and 273 assists. In 26 playoff 
hegames, 

'This is a 10-year deal, 
added six terms of per­
goals and and the deal goes for sonnel or in nine assists. what the contract says it terms of the 
The 10-building. I
goes for. They're happy
year offer don't' blame came shortly with it and expressed anyone for after a happiness with it." not showing phone con­up -the last versation few years, it 
Mike MIibury 
between was hard for Yashin and Islanders general manager me to show 
corporation. He was willing to spend some money and make the organization stronger." 
The Islanders have missed the playoffs for seven straight seasons, and Milbury has been the general manager for all but the first half of the first season. For the first time, he's positively ecstatic about the team's chances for success. 
"It's an overwhelming change from where we were," Milbury said. "Hope springs eternal this fall. Two years ago, our payroll was $15 mil­lion -dead last in the league. You can't win in this league with that. It's been a night­mare, and I'm glad it's over. 
"When I got here, it was a mess, and it got messier since I've been here. Until Charles and (co-owner) Sanjay (Kumar}, there was no investment in 
team owner Charles Wang on July 18. The next day, while Milbury and Yashin were having lunch in the Hamptons, Wang called Milbury and said he wanted to offer Yashin the 10-year deal. Milbury said that it was agreed to, and the reason for the delay was solely to work out the tricky insurance issues. 
"I know his history because I know some about computers," Yashin said of Wang, an exec­utive for Computer Associates. "It was great talking with him because he's a real person, even though he's head of a big up. But now, 
this team has a good chance to win, and it's been a good summer." 
Yashin hopes for a good win­ter. 
"We want to bring a special feeling back to Islander fans," Yashin said. "This is a team with a lot of tradition -win­ning four Stanley Cups. We want to bring back a big level of excitement to the communi­ty." 
The Islanders open training camp on Sept. 11, in Lake Placid, and every player on the roster is under contract for this season. 
N®~ IID~ra 1fmtI[1JtIT~ 
SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & .SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshmen students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 10 at 4: 15 p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room 


Thursday, September 6, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


Pachanga'01 
6:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 


Freshmen Intro "The Plunge" Retreat 
Fatima Retreat Center 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 


RCIA Information Session 
for Candidates 
1:00 p.m. 
for Sponsors 
2:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop #1 
2:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lector Workshop #1 
8:15 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart -:1i'1.,. --nf·itit':•~T.. 1n 
Confirmation Info Night 
8:00 p.m. 
l 

3:30 Coleman-Morse Center 
Lector Workshop #2 
8:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop #2 
10:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


Freshmen Intro First Year Partner Reception 
7:00 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 


Freshman Retreat #36 (September 28-29) 
Tuesday, August 28 through September 24 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #67 (September 28-30) 
Monday-Friday, September 3. 7 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
BEGINS THIS FRIDAY, Sept. 7th 
Fridays@ 8:00 pm Student Lounge 
Coleman-Morse Center 
Meet up with Friends for Mass and stay afterward for popcorn and conversation. 
... a great new way to kickoff the weekend. 
--· .,,..J!l~,,~~l .?~~~ 
/e,J b~ "rY. J 5tu;.b, C,5(, 
Begins next Monday 
8:30 p.m. • Rm 331, Coleman-Morse Center . 

Campus Ministry 
Visit us at 

The Coleman Family Center 
for Campus Ministry 
OFFICE HOURS 114 -Retreats Area Mon-Thurs 8:oo a.m. -9:00 p.m. Fri B:oo a.m. -5:00 p.m. 

Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
We all learn from one another The RCIA gives you achance to walk with someone as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure of ~ith. 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 308 Coleman­Morse Center 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Find out more about: 
• The Sacraments of Initiation BAPTISM, EUCHARIST & CONFIRMATION: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become amember of the Catholic Church. 
• FULL COMMUNION: for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the 
Catholic tradition. 
Sunday, Sept. 9th 
RCIA 
• For Cateclmmeus & Ca11didates INFO 
1:00pm -2:00pm SESSIONS 
• For Sponsors 2:00pm -3:00pm 

330 Coleman-Morse Center 
... 

. ' 
' 
.,. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 6, 2001 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Giambi streak hits 11, A's double up Orioles 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Jason Giambi extended his hitting streak to a season-high 11 games with his 33rd home run as the Oakland Athletics routed the Baltimore Orioles 12-6 for their fourth straight win. 
Terrence Long added a solo home run and an RBI single, and Cory Lidie (10-6) allowed two runs and six hits in seven innings. 
Oakland, which began the day with a 9 1/2-game lead in the AL wild card race, has won 10 
of 11.. Baltimore has lost five straight and 13 of 15. Eliminated Monday from play­
off contention, the Orioles are 
already assured of their fourth 
straight losing season. 
Giambi was in the lineup as designated hitter for the A's after leaving Tuesday night's game with a tight left ham­string. But he had walked three times, keeping a 10-game hit­ting streak alive. 
He extended the streak with his two-run homer off Calvin Maduro (3-5) in the fourth, the A's first hit. 
Giambi scored his brother, Jeremy, who had walked. Two outs later, Long hit a solo shot. Jerry Hairston narrowed the gap in the fifth inning with a two-run homer off Lidie, who has won six of seven decisions. 
The A's broke it open in the sixth on consecutive RBI singles by Long, Miguel Tejada, Greg Myers and F.P. Santangelo. Frank Menechino added a run­scoring double and Jermaine Dye hit a sacrifice fly. 
Santangelo hit an RBI double and Menechino added a run­scoring single in the seventh. Dye hit a solo home run in the eighth. 
Baltimore scored two runs on Chris Richard's double off Mike Magnante in the eighth and Luis Matos hit a two-run homer in the ninth off Jim Mecir. 
After throwing three hitless innings, Maduro wound up allowing seven runs and seven hits in five innings. 
Angels 4, Royals 1 
Ismael Valdes became the first Anaheim starter to win since Aug. 19, and Scott Spiezio hit a two-run homer to help the Angels break a four-game los­ing streak against the Kansas City Royals. 
Valdes (9-9) pitched scoreless ball into the seventh inning, leaving after he allowed a home run to Raul Ibanez. Valdes gave up five hits in 6 1-3 innings, striking out four. 
Troy Percival worked the ninth for his 38th save in 40 chances. 

.... Spiczio, who singled in the seventh inning to end Jeff Suppan's no-hit bid Tuesday night, hit his 12th homer of the season to right field in the sec­ond inning with Troy Glaus on base to give Anaheim a 2-0 lead. Garret Anderson added a sac­rifice fly in the third, and Glaus· hit a sacrifice fly in the eighth. Royals starter Chad Durbin (7-14) lost his fifth straight decision. He went six innings. allowing seven hits and striking out two. The right-hander has won only once since July 3. After struggling in the first 
two innings, Valdes settled down and allowed only two hits after the third. 
Ibanez's homer, his 12th of the season, cut the Anaheim lead to 3-1. 
The Royals hurt themselves early on the basepaths, putting five runners aboard in the first two innings without scoring. 
In the first, leadoff hitter Carlos Febles was picked off first base after a single, and No. 2 hitter Neifi Perez was caught stealing. · 
In the second inning, Mike Sweeney was doubled off first base when Joe Randa flied out to right field on a hit-and-run play. The next batter. Ibanez, doubled, and Mark Quinn reached on an error but the Royals did not score. 
Twins 12, Rangers 2 

David Ortiz homered twice and Cristian Guzman got four of 
Minnesota's 20 hits  as  the  
Twins  trounced  the  Texas  
Rangers.  

Guzman homered and tripled. Ortiz drove in three runs and Jacque Jones also homered as the Twins tied their season high for hits. 
Minnesota closed within six games of Cleveland in the AL Central. 
The Rangers learned before the game that All-Star catcher Ivan Rodriguez will be out for the rest of the season with a knee injury that will require surgery next week. 
Joe Mays (14-13) gave up two runs and seven hits in seven innings. He had lost six of his previous seven decisions. 
Ortiz hit a solo homer in the second. In the third, RBI singles by Corey Koskie, Ortiz and Torti Hunter made it 4-0 and chased Aaron Myette (3-3). 
Guzman's RBI triple off Chris Michalak in the fourth made it 5-0. Guzman's major league-
Happy Birthday John! 

Love, Charlie,Joe, Kerry, Andy, Annie, Kevin, Charlie and Patrick 
high 14th triple was his first since July 6. Orltiz added his 16th homer in the fifth for a 6-0 lead. 
Rangers rookie Carlos Pena got his first career RBI in the fifth with a groundout. Michael Young followed with another RBI grounder that made it 6-2. 
Guzman had a two-run homer in the sixth. Hunter dou­bled home a 
run in the seventh and Jones homered. 
White Sox 5, Tigers 3 
Catcher Mark Johnson threw out two baserunners and hit an RBI double to lead the Chicago White Sox over the Detroit Tigers. 
Chicago's 13th \\'in in its last 14 meetings with Detroit pulled the third-place White Sox with­in seven games of division-lead­ing Cleveland in the AL Central. 
The White Sox (72-67) have won 12 of 16 overall to move a season-high five games over .500. 
Rookie Dan Wright (3-2} won for the first time in six starts since Aug. 6, and four relievers held the Tigers to one hit the last 3 1-3 innings. 
Keith Foulke worked the ninth for his 37th save in 40 chances. He got Damion Easley to ground into a game-ending double play with the bases loaded. 
Detroit got solo homers from Randall Simon, Robert Fick and Roger Cedeno for its first multi­homer game in nearly a month, but the Tigers still have scored only five runs in their last five games. 
The Tigers have been outscored 95-39 in their last 15 games, losing 12. 
Simon hit Wright's first pitch of the second inning over the fence in right field for his third homer this season. 
Deivi Cruz and Cedeno reached on singles in the third. but both were erased trying to steal second base against Johnson. 


Cedeno leads the majors with 54 stolen bases. 
Chicago tied it in the bottom half on Johnson's RBI double off Steve Sparks (10-9). 
Simon hit another ball very hard in the fourth. but Wright caught it and turned a double play. 
The pitcher had almost no time to react as the ball came at him, but Wright moved his glove up slightly to snare the chest-high liner, and threw to first to double-up Jose Macias. 
In the Chicago fourth, Chris Singleton hit an RBI single, and Royce Clayton had a sacrifice fly to make it 3-1. 
Fick hit his 19th homer off Wright in the fifth. but in Chicago's half, Jeff Liefer got the run back with an RBI dou­ble to left field, just out of the reach of a diving Bobby Higginson. 
Cedeno got the Tigers closer with his sixth homer off Wright. who was relieved by Bill Pulsipher one out later. 
Wright went 5 2-3 innings, allowing three runs on five hits and two walks. He struck out three. 
Magglio Ordonez drove in Chicago's fifth run with an RBI single off Sparks in the seventh. 
Sparks gave up five runs on seven hits in six innings. 
Yankees 4, Blue Jays 3 
Roger Clemens set a Yankees record with his 15th straight victory, leading New York over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Clemens (19-1) also became just the second player in major league history to win 19 of his first 20 decisions. Rube Marquard of the New York Giants did it in 1912. 
Clemens, the AL's first 19­game winner, passed Jack Chesbro and Whitey Ford for the longest winning streak in Yankee history. Chesbro won 14 straight in 1904, and Ford won 14 in 1961. 
Clemens, seeking his sixth career 20-win season, will make his next start either Monday night against Boston or Tuesday night against the Chicago White Sox. 
The 39-year-old right-hander, who hasn't lost since May 20 at Seattle -a span of 19 starts ­took a five-hit shutout into the eighth before Alex Gonzalez hit a two-run homer. 
Clemens, who doesn't have a complete game this season, allowed two runs on six hits in 7 1-3 innings. He struck out five and walked four. 
The Yankees, who entered with a 9 1/2-game lead over Boston in the AL East, are 26-3 in Clemens' 29 starts. 
Mariano Rivera got five outs for his 44th save in 50 opportu­nities. He allowed an RBI single by pinch-hitter Luis Lopez with two outs in the ninth. 
David Justice homered and drove in three runs for the Yankees, who went 5-1 on their road trip. 
Clemens' 15-game winning streak is the longest in the majors this season. He is 6-0 against Toronto since being traded by the Blue Jays to New York in 1999. 
Clemens is 29-3 since coming off the disabled list in July 2000. 
Kelvim Escobar (6-6) hit Randy Velarde with a pitch in the first, and Bernie Williams singled. Justice then hit an RBI single with two outs, giving New York a 1-0 lead. 
Williams doubled in the sixth, and Justice hit Escobar's first pitch for his 18th homer. 
Tino Martinez added an RBI double off Pedro Borbon in the eighth. 

*
cAnerna 
THURSDAY, SEPT 6 
HESSLiRGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7:00 PM 
F'R1 EE ADMISSION 
PREl!IENTEO BY Tl-11!'. DEP/,FHr•H'.NT OF' F'ILM, TELl!:Vl!!IION AND THEATRE: 
Don l miss the m student fitn short before each NDclnema feature! 
-
Thursday, September 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
League makes offer to officials 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The NFL increased its offer to locked-out officials Wednesday and gave them a day to consider before decid­ing whether to go with replacements in the regular­season openers this weekend. 
The offer includes a Paul Tagliabuo said the NFL didn't want to start the sea­son without a contract, which would allow officials to walk off the field at any time. 
Last week's final exhibitions were worked with replace­ments, most from college or the Arena League, and there were no major gaffes. But the league clearly was concerned that once the g a m e s

60 percent 
"We hope the counted,

increase in 
small mis­

salaries membership will consider 
takes would

this year, it and respond 
be magni­

compared 
favorably." fied.

with the 
T a l k s

40 percent 
res-um e d

jump in Greg Aiello 
Tuesday an.ct

the NFL's 
NFL spokesman went for a

last offer. But the rest of the package remains the .same, with officials' salaries dou­bled by 2003. 
Tom Condon, the negotiator · for the union, was on his way back to his Kansas City office, from where he would present the new offer to the 119 offi­cials. 
League spokesman Greg Aiello said the league had to know by Thursday in order to make plans for the weekend. 
"We hope the membership will consider it and respond favorably," Aiello sa.id. 
Last week, the league locked out its officials. who have been without a contract since March. Commissioner 
half-hour 
Wednesday morning, when the league put its new offer on the table. Over the long term, however, the two sides remain 50-75 percent apart. 
The latest development leaves the NFL with two plans, one of which must be implemented by Thursday. One has a slate of regular officials scheduled for the 15 games on opening week; the other has crews of replace­ments, augmented by NFL supervisors, ready to get to the games. 
Regardless of who works them, the replacement offi­cials have been guaranteed four games at $2,000 per game. 

Brees named backup 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

To no one's surprise, Drew Brees will be the San Diego Chargers' No. 2 quarterback behind Doug Flutie. 
Brees, who led Purdue to the Rose Bowl last season, beat out former CFL star Dave Dickenson even though he missed the first 19 practices of training camp in a contract holdout. 
"We just made that determi­nation based on all the presea­son stuff," coach Mike Riley said Wednesday. 
The Chargers, an NFL-worst 1-15 last season, open at home against the Washington Redskins on Sunday. 
Brees was 42-of-71 for 481 yards and two touchdowns in three exhibition games. Dickenson played in only two of the four exhibition games, and was 20 of 38 for 219 yards and one TD. 
He also threw an interception, San Diego's only turnover. 
"I guess it feels good to lrnow my role now, officially," Brees said, tho first pick in the second round of April's draft. "I think it's no different from the prepa­ration aspect. I'm still going to go prepare as if I have to go in there and play the whole game." 
Brees said he wasn't sur­prised he got the backup job even though he missed so many 
practices. 'Tm still going to go t 0 "I just kind of prepare as ifI have to go improve 
had to get it going myself."
in there and play the 
a little bit faster," A 1 s o Brees said. "I whole game." Wednes­couldn't take my day, the time and learn it Chargers
Drew Brees
bit by bit. There s a i d
quarterback
were times where defensive got to keep up to task." 
Dickenson spent the last four seasons with the Calgary Stampeders. 
"I'm going to try to stay into it and be ready to go if I get the call." Dickenson said. "Drew's a good player and he played well in the preseason. I'm happy to make the team. I'll just try to k e e p working 
I'd come out to practice and I was just in a fog -you know, 'Wait, what was that again?' I'd get certain plays mixed up with oth­ers. 
"I think it's pretty much come together, but we keep installing new things and you've always coordina­·.s 
tor Joe Pascale had another back oper­ation and that it's doubtful he will be at Sunday's game. 
Former Stanford quarterback Todd Husak worked after prac­tice, but the team didn't say what the purpose was. 


VISOR 
better than using your hand. 

Your hand is not a personal organizer. Your hand is not a GPS. Your hand is not ~ cell phone. 
More than just a personal organizer -with optional Springboard modules, you can turn Visor into a phone, an MP3 player or any number of handy devices. 


NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Williams leads Cardinals in 2-0 win against Padres 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Woody Williams threw six perfect innings against his for­mer Padres teammates two nights after rookie Bud Smith pitched a no-hitter, and the St. Louis Cardinals beat San Diego 2-0 Wednesday night for a three-game sweep. 
Williams didn't allow a run­ner until rookie D'Angelo Jimenez lofted a fly ball into the left-center gap that fell in for a single on the first pitch of the seventh. Jimenez tried to stretch it into a double and was thrown out by 10 feet by center fielder Jim Edmonds. 
Williams (12-9). traded bv the Padres to the Cardinals on Aug. 2 for outfielder Ray Lankford, pitched a career-best two-hitter and faced the mini­mum 27 batters. 
The right-hander struck out six and walked none in his sec­ond career shutout and eighth complete game. 
Williams. who gave up a sin­gle in the ninth to Ben Davis, also threw a complete game in his last start, winning 5-1 at Los Angeles on Friday. 
On Monday night, Smith no­hit the Padres in a 4-0 win, the second time this season the Padres have been held hitless. 
The Padres had just nine hits and one run in the three-game series. 
Mark McGwire and rookie Albert Pujols homered for the Cardinals. 
On Sunday night, the New York Yankees' Mike Mussina came within one strike of the 15th perfect game in modern history. 
No team has ever been no-hit three times in one year. 
On May 12, Florida's A.J. Burnett no-hit the Padres despite walking a record nine. 
Two weeks after Burnett's no-no, Arizona's Curt Schilling was perfect through 7 1-3 innings before Davis bunted for a single. 
Alt:ogether. the Padres have been held hitless through seven innings four times this year, and eight times through five. 
Williams was traded for Lankford and more than $2.8 million. The Padres moved the 35-year-old righty because he'll make $7.25 million next year and it opened a spot for one of the organization's young pitchers. 

You can have it all: 
No minimum balance requirement No monthly service fees 
No per-check charge No ATM surcharge 
Plus, eight (8) ATMs on campus! 
Call, stop in, or visit our web site to apply for membership. 
~ 

McGwire homered to left with two outs in the second off Kevin Jarvis (11-10), with the ball staying just inside the left­field foul pole. McGwire took a fow steps and stopped to see if it would go fair, then began his trot. It was his 23rd. 
Pujols homered for the third time in the series, his 33rd. He hit an opposite-field shot to right with two outs in the sixth. 
Jarvis allowed two runs on five hits in six innings, struck out. 
Dodgers 7, Rockies 2 

Eric Karros hit a two-run sin­gle in a seven-run ninth inning, and Paul Lo Duca capped the burst with a three-run homer as the Los Angeles Dodgers ral­lied to beat the Colorado Rockies. 
With the Dodgers trailing 2-0 in the ninth, pinch-hitter Dave Hansen drew a leadoff walk from Colorado starter John Thomson. After pinch-hitter Phil Hiatt struck out, Mark Grudzielanek doubled off the wall in left-center to score pinch-runner Marquis Grissom. 
Mike Myers (1-3) relieved and walked Shawn Green. Jay Powell came on and gave up a single to Gary Sheffield, load­ing the bases. 
Karros' single gave Los Angeles a 3-2 lead and, after Sheffield scored on an error by second baseman Jose Ortiz, Lo Duca's 21st homer made it 7-2. 
It was the first blown save in eight chances for Powell. 
Matt Herges (9-8) got two outs in the eighth for the victo-· ry, and Jeff Shaw worked a scoreless ninth. 
Thomson gave up just two runs and three hits in 8 1-3 innings, but did not get a deci­sion. He struck out five and walked one. 
Thomson has allowed seven earned runs in 28 2-3 innings his last three starts. 
Ortiz hit a solo home run for Colorado. 
Larry Walker went O-for-3 with a walk, dropping his NL­leading batting average to . 346. 
Los Angeles starter Chan Ho Park worked seven innings, allowing one run and three hits. 
The Dodgers began the night throe games behind NL West­leading Arizona and two games behind the Chicago Cubs in the wild card race. 
Diamondbacks 7, Giants 2 
Curt Schilling became base­ball's first 20-game winner, striking out 12 as the Arizona Diamondbacks kept Barry Bonds in check and beat the San Francisco Giants. 
Schilling (20-6) won 20 for the first time in his 14-year career, holding the Giants to one run and five hits over eight innings. He retired his final 14 batters. 
The first 20-game winner in team history helped himself at lhe plate. He had a career-best three hits and scored two runs as Arizona snapped a four­game losing streak. 
After losing the series opener on Tuesday night, Arizona pushed its NL West lead back to 2 1/2 games over the Giants, who remained a half-game behind the Cubs in the wild card race. 
Bonds hit his 59th homer on Tuesday night, but he must wait at least another day to become the. fifth player in base­ball history to hit 60. 
Schilling struck out Bonds in the first inning, walked him in the third and got him on a fly to center in the fifth. 
Craig Counsell matched his career-high with four hits and scored four runs to lead the Diamondbacks' balanced 16-hit attack. Reggie Sanders also had three hits. 
Luis Gonzalez and Steve Finley drove in two runs apiece for the Diamondbacks. 
Following a bit of early trou­ble, Schilling hit his stride by striking out Jeff Kent and John Vander Wal with two runners on in the third. He faced the minimum 15 batters over the next five innings. 
Schilling pitched for most of the night with a slim lead. 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Yo11 can bank on us 
• to be better 219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the University 
Arizona put away the game in the eighth on Finley's two-run single. 
Russ Ortiz (14-9), the Giants' leader in victories and strike­outs, wasn't up to his duel with Schilling. He allowed seven hits and three runs in 4 2-3 innings -his second-shortest start of the season.· 
Marlins 7, Cubs 6 
Preston Wilson hit a three­run homer with two outs in the bottom of the ninth inning, ral­lying the Florida Marlins over the Chicago Cubs. 
The Cubs dropped five games behind Houston in the NL Central race. They began the day with a half-game lead over San Francisco for the wild card. 
Wilson connected off Tom Gordon (1-2) for his 19th home run of the season. 
Pinch-hitter John Mabry sin­gled to start the ninth 'and Derrek Lee was hit by a pitch with one out. After Gordon retired Cliff Floyd on a fly ball, Wilson homered on a 1-2 pitch. 
Keith Millar homered, dou­bled and drove in three runs for Florida, which trailed 5-1 in the eighth. 
The Marlins won consecutive games for the first time sirice July 31-Aug. 1 at Milwaukee. They have won only ·six of 24 overall. 
Armando Almanza (2-2) picked up the victory in relief. 
Chicago's Sammy Sosa went 2-for-5 and failed to hit a home run for the first time in 10 series. Before the three-game set with Florida, Sosa hit 18 home runs in Chicago's nine previous series. 
Ron Coomer hit a two-run homer for the Cubs. Ricky Gutierrez, who had two hits, drove in three runs. 
Making his fourth major league start, Chicago's Juan Cruz allowed one run and seven hits. The 20-year-old right-hander worked six innings for the third time. 
Expos 10, Braves 4 
Vladimir Guerrero hit a run­scori_ng single for his 500th career RBI and added his 33rd homer as the Montreal Expos beat the Atlanta Rraves. 
The Braves remained three games ahead of second-place Philadelphia in the NL East. The Phillies lost 7-4 to the New York Mets. 
The game drew just 3,806 fans. A day earlier, the Expos and Braves attracted only 3,613 -the second-lowest crowd in Olympic Stadium his­tory. 
Guerrero hit an HBI single off John Burkett (11-10) in the third inning to reach his RBI milestone in his 708th career game. 
Guerrero added a solo horner in the fifth as Montreal took a 6-1 lead. 
Orlando Cabrera and Lee Stevens each had three hits of the Expos' 16 hits. 
Burkett allowed nine hits and six runs -five earned -in 4 2-3 innings. His ERA rose from 2.70 to 2.86. 
After the Braves closed with­in 6-4, Tim Raines drove in two runs with a pinch-hit double to key the Expos' four-run sev­enth. 
Atlanta's Julio Franco home­red off Mike Thurman (8-10) with two out in the third for his first major league homer since Sept. 24, 1997. 
Making his first start in left field since July 26, 1997, Chipper Jones doubled to lead off the sixth and Brian Jordan hit an RBI single to make it 6­2. 
Ken Caminiti, who made his first start at third base since July 8, grounded to first base. Lee Stevens was charged with an error -when Cabrera dropped his throw to second, allowing both runners to advance a base. 
Andruw Jones hit a sacrifice fly to draw Atlanta to within three. 
Thurman won his second start in a row. allowing seven hits and three runs in five-plus innings. It was the first time this season he won consecutive decisions . 

Thursday, September 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

We all learn from one another. The RCIA gives you achance to walk with rnmeone as you 
explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this advenrure offaith. 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 308 Coleman­Morse Center 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Find out more about: 
•The Sacraments of Initiation 
BAPTISM, EUCHARIST & CONFIRMATION: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to 
become amember of the Catholic Church. 
• FULL COMMUNION: 

for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
RCIA INFO SESSIONS 

Sunday, Sept. 9th 
• 
For Cateclmmens & Candidates 1 :00pm • 2:00pm 

• 
For Sponsors 


2:00pm -3:00pm 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Football 
continued from page 24 
Not only have they Jost at night, they have frequently been crushed after the sun went down. 
Davie's three worst losses of his career have all come at night including last year's 41­9 Fiesta Bowl loss. 
Although he hasn't had much success at night in the past, Davie doesn't think the late start will make a huge difference in Saturday's out­
come. 
" .. .in the end, I've been in a lot of big games at night and in the afternoon, and I d o n ' t think it's going to make a whole lot of differ­ence , " D a v i e 
noon.

"/n the end, I've been in a 
Weaver planslot ofbig games at night to watch some college football
and in the afternoon, and 
while Harrison

I don't think its going to 
will call his make a whole lot of father for some last might
difference. " 
advice. But he is Bob Davie going to keep head football coach the call brief. 
said. "We've got a pretty mature football team that's played some night games. I don't think that's going to be much different in the end." 
Getting ready for the game is a different concern for Davie, however. 
The usual pregame routine and meal schedule is changed when kickoff is push back to 7 p.m. 
To simulate the mental preparation needed for a later game, Davie has held several later scrimmages. 
"We tried to have a game plan for the scrimmage days just like a game day would be," he said. 

Killing the time from wak­ing up to kickoff will be one of the toughest things for both teams, according to Cornhuskers quarterback Eric Crouch. 
"Obviously the day of the game you want to be thinking about the game as much as possible. I am used to playing at 12 or 12:30," he said. "There is a lot of dead space in there. The best thing you can do is focus on Notre Dame and know your assign­ments." 
Irish players have similar 
plans for 
Saturday after­
Anthony 
"I'll definitely 
call home and 
talk to my dad 

a little," Harrison said. "But just for a little bit because it will get a little too deep. He'll get too into it and he will get me all excited." 
Overall, however, the Irish aren't concerned about play­ing under the lights or under the sun. 
"People forget that we played Rutgers at night too," Weaver said about Rutgers game played mostly after dark last year. The Irish won 40-17. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 


.... 
page 22 The Observer . SPORT$ Thursday, September 6, 2001 
Dasso· 
continued from page 24 
threatening to susp~nd the 
match, Dasso rolled over Mejia, 
6-l, 6-2. It was a monumental 
win for Dasso, who had gotten 
knocked out of the singles tour­
nament in the first round all 
three previous years. 
"After that first win. that took a 
lot of the pressure off," she said. 
"It was a great feeling to get_a 
v.in. 1wa<i feeling the pressure a 
little -and it was kinda hard not 
to because of the history." 
Dasso and Varnum also won their first-round doubles match the next day. and Dasso won her second-round singles matchup 5­7, 6-3, 6-0. But rain forced Dasso's to play both her third­round singles and second-round doubles matches on the same day, something she felt was the reason whv Dasso and Varnum · lost to an· Ohio State tandem they'd already beaten twice earli­
er in the season. 
"Becky and I were much better 
than that." she said. "On that day 
we weren't playing well, and I 
was pretty exhausted." 
"Michelle had a tough, three 
set singles match earlier in the 
day," Louderback said. "She 
played a lot of tennis. By the time 
we played that doubles, she 
played well, but she was physi­
cally worn out." 
Now, Dasso was playing all by 
herself. After knocking off 
Washington's Kristina 
Kraszewski in a close 6-7(7-3), 7­
6 (7-1), 6-4 match, she faced 
Ohio State's Kristy Dascoli for a 
spot in the semifinals. Dascoli 
and partner Monica Rincon 
ended Dasso and Varnum's run 
the day before, but in their sec­
ond meeting, Dasso edged 
Dascoli 6-3, 3-6, 7 -5. In fact, at 
one point in the third set, Dascoli 
was just two points from winning 
the match. 
"She just gutted those matches 
make anything happen. In her semifinal matchup against the defending champion, Stanford's Laura Granville, Dasso made several sloppy errors and couldn't finish points as Granville won, 6-2, 6-3. 
"Michelle played well in the match," said Louderback. "She just didn't finish the points off." 
"Granville doesn't make any errors," Dasso said. "What it crune down to is that I made a lot more unforced errors." 
After the tournament. Dasso was named National Senior Player of the year, but like most of the individual awards she earned, she merely dismissed the honor. She took several weeks off before she began training to compete again -this time profes­sionally. 
Dasso had a respectable pro­fessional run before she severely injured her ankle. In her first tournament, she reached the quarterfinals. In her second, she and Vanderbilt's Julie Ditty won the doubles. In the third, she lost in the first round. In her fourth, she twisted her ankle and bruised a bone -and iajury that will side her for another month. 
These days, Dasso's been sit­ting at her Long Grove, ill. home nursing her injury. She's been reduced to only lifting weights and riding a bike, something that's tough to handle for a someone's who been playing ten­nis since she was six. 
"I haven't hit a ball in two months and it feels weird," she laughed. 
When Dasso recovers, she plans to move to Florida to train outdoors. And when her playing days are over -a day Dasso said she doesn't look forward to ­she said she hoped to coach. 
But Dasso still catches herself thinking back to her playing days at Notre Dame. She maintains regular contact with Louderback, and admits it's hard for her not to be a part ofa team anymore. 
"I think [when Dasso lost in the 


Two Bethel players score against freshman Ellise Rupright during a Saint Mary's loss on 
Monday. The Belles dropped their MIAA opener to Albion Wednesday. 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
Shroeder-Biek said how the Belles' streaks both helped and hurt the team. 
"We had our spurts, but we didn't play consistent volleyball," she said. "We showed good signs and need to maintain that level at all times. However, Albion did a great job of coming back." 
Individually, Meyers led the team in digs and kills with 33 and 14 respectively. Teammate Elizabeth Albert followed up with nine kills and 21 digs. Despite her high numbers, Meyers still felt the pain of defeat. 
"No matter how well l per­form, it's a team and it never really takes the sting out of a loss," she said. 
LeBeau was taken to the hos­pital for X-rays after the match but it is not known when she will be able to return to the team. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mooney.2@nd.edu. 
out," said Louderback. "She had serninfinals], she was more dis­a tough draw. She beat in three appointed her college career was sets a player from Washington over than that she lost," said 
who had beaten her earlier in the Louderback. season. She played Dascoli, who "It was pretty emotional know­was on a roll. She was down in ing I wasn't going to play college 
both of them, and just didn't give tennis again," she said. "It's a big up." adjustment ~ I can tell I already 
E>espite the tough matches, miss the college tennis and the Dasso firmly believed she had the team part." talent to win it all. · Now, she's on her own. 
"Anythlng can happen on any-----------­given day," she said. Contact Andrew Soukup at But it wasn't Dasso's day to asoukup@nd.edu_ 

CJ S 417 N. Michigcln Str. 
1'PARTY ON THE PATIO" 
Wednesday --9/5 
KARAOKE I 10pm -1clm / $2.00 Night 
Thursday -9/6 Ricky Joe LIVE/ 10:30 -1am .Friday -9/7 
LIVE BAND 9pm -1am 
Satu,-.da)' -9/8. 
N.D. I NEBRJ.\SKA GAME 
KICKOFF7pm WATCH THE GAME ON 64" T.V. 
LIVE MVSIC AFTER GAME! 
All 11 0ut on the Patio" 
-Specials Evety Night ­
Thursday, September 6, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
MUCH LIKE 808 DAVIE SIM.Vt.ATES CROWi> NOISE 
TO TEST HIS PLAYBIS, LANDSC.APIN& SIMIJLATES 
TORRENTIAL AAINS TO TEST THE STUDENTS 

FOXTROT 
PAIGE, WRITING MY A TYPICAL NEWB1£ FRESH• CAN I WR11'£ IT ON WHAT MlE LOCICER COM81-MAN MISTAICE. AS SOON AS YOVR SWEATSHIRT, THEN? YOO NATION oN YOO PICIC UP A BAR oF SOAP, DOING? MY HAND. YOU'RE DEAD. YOO NEED 
HA HA. 
I 

\

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
THAT'S WHERE So THAT'S ALL OF MY NOT THE IMPORTANT CHEM LAB INFO GoES. I SMELL? 
J 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 34 Source of ad-69 Bris, e.g. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON make your debut. 0000
free TV 

1 Turf defenders 
THIS DAY: Jane Curtin, Mark VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 36 Quote, part 3 Chesnutt, Swoosie Kurtz, Rosie You'll want to spend some time
5 Wee, in Dundee DOWN 
Perez, Jeff Foxworthy, Michael alone. Stress and worry will cause
40 PC key

8 What you will 1 Hair goop, e.g. Winslow, Foxy Brown fatigue. It's time to kick off those 41 Windmill blade Happy Birthday: It's time to shoes and relax. Don't let anyone 
14 Like many a 2 Sawbones' org. 
start relying on others to help you make you feel guilty. 000
professor 42 Ballantine of 
3 Pince-_ reach your goals. Self-sufficiency LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
Ballantine Books

16 Ovid work is fine, but outside input can Disharmony will be upsetting.
4 Show sorrow

45 Keystone's place often lead to slight! y different Don't let someone you live with 
17 Start of a quote 
48 de Calais 5 Super bargain results. You have the drive, but be ruin your plans. Visit friends; you 18 Prepares for prepared for obstacles. Your need someone to talk to. Don't let further 49 Fully sufficient 6 Juilliard subj. numbers: 6, 13, 22, 25, 39, 46 your mate put the onus on you; it 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): takes two to tango. 00
skirmishes 51 End of the quote 7 Dolt 
Don't become involved in other SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):19 Heathrow fig. 55 For example 8 Countesses' people's secret affairs. Problems Deception and underhandedness husbands with in-laws or relatives will at work are likely. Stay alert for 
20 Off one's feed 56 Just discovered 
cause friction with your mate. disconcerting news. Those you
21 40's agcy. 9 Something in a
57 Go for the gold You will have to be extremely least expect may be behind the
trash heap

22 Quote, part 2 58Ham open about your feelings. 000 rumors spreading like wildfire. 10_man TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 000
28 Suez sight 60 Source of the 
(everyone) Your moneymaking ideas will be SAGrrrARIUS (Nmt 22-Dec. 21): 29 Kind of cross quote lucrative. Talk to relatives and You're full of energy, so you'd 65 Keep 11 Roadway friends about your intentions. better find something to do. Out­
30 Makes a 
markings Travel will be beneficial but cost­door activities will be favored. If
cat's-paw of 66 Ballerina 
ly. Protect ideas legally before you can spend a little time in the 
12 Part of the head 

31 To boot 67 Amplifier setting presenting them. 0000 country, you'll be ready to con­13 Bacon bits GEMINI (May 21-June 20): quer the world. 00000
32 "Va-va-va-_!" 68 Aphid milker 
Involvement in joint ventures or CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
15 Minor third or 

financial or contractual matters Don't let someone you live with 
flatted fifth 

will end in disaster. Read the fine ruin your day or twist thingsANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 20 Letters of print and check into the back­around. Be honest. You can only 
..............A.....R,.. credit? Puzzle by Rlc:llllrd HughN ground of those urging you to do so much, and after that, you'll 
$WI 
invest. 00 have to see what happens. 00 
__......,..,...

L I N T H 22 Aug rat 38 Like the Great 52 Newsman 60 AZr approver CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Plains Roger Travel for business or pleasure Look into a way to implement
T Y 23 Carnival city 61 Did a 10K, e.g. 
will be to your advantage. Get some of your innovative ideas.
39 Pound's sounds 53 Phileas Fogg's 
24 Heaps 62 Him, to Henri involved in mentally stimulating Talk to those who may be inter­­43 The Lion of God creator events. Your talents will surface, ested in backing your plans or
25 Station 

63 Believer and hobbies can be taken to high­becoming a partner. 0000 26 Russian urn 44 Bottom line 54 _-gardism er levels. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
64 Alumna bio 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Orga­Moneymaking inventions will be
45 Defend, as

27 Bounce word
59 Slot filler nize your day well. An ability to good, but untrustworthy
one's rights 

-+....+,,......,.....,,.... 33 Giant Giant delegate jobs will help you com­acquaintances may be quick to 46 Gadabout plete everything on time. Here is steal your ideas if you are too
34 Warm-up spot, Answers to any three clues in this puzzle your chance to shine. You belong open about them. Mum's the
for short 47 Rancher's 

are available by touch-tone phone: in the limelight, so be prepared to word.000
nuisance 

...,...................... 35 Watergate and 1·900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 48 Nave bench Birthday Baby: You're highly energized and will be into everything 
others Annual subscriptions are available for the 
and eager to conquer your world. You are motivated, challenging and 
--+-=+~:+.i:--1 37 Nuclear fission 50 Ralph of "Kiss best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
programmed to be successful, outgoing and in the spotlight. discoverer Otto Me Deadly" years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Pi:ess Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

,---------~----­
O
THE National Sports
' -National Sports BSERVER 
. National league, p.20 
. Rodriguez, p. 16 
. 
American League, p. 18 . NHL, p. 16 

. 
NFL Referees, p. 17 . Williams, p. 15 

. 
Brees, p. 17 . Sampras, p. 14


PORTS 
Thursday, September 6, 2001 
• Michelle Dasso makes semifinals at NCAA championships 
Editor's note: After the most success­
_ful spring sports season in Notre Dame 
history. The Observer recaps what happened after the spring academic semester ended. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
It was rather ironic that Michelle Dasso advanced as far as she did in the singles tournament at the 2001 NCAA Outdoor Tennis Championships. 
The team effort she said was respon­sible for Notre Dame's success ended in the Sweet Sixteen. Becky Varnum, the doubles partner she praised time and time again, was left watching her partner advance through the NCAA tournament after Varnum and Dasso lost in the second round of the doubles tournament. 
And so Dasso -the staunchest sup­porter of the team-first mentality ­found herself advancing through NCAA finals by herself. 
But it wasn't easy. She had to play two matches in one day. Twice, she found herself trailing in the deciding third set. And as if her competition wasn't challenging enough, she found herself battling torrential downpours that suspended play. 
Then again, Dasso's never been one to back down from a challenge. "Her tournament there was just like 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Singularly spectacular 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Michelle Dasso returns a serve during the Big East Championship in Coral Gables, Fla. last April. Dasso advanced to the semifinals In the NCAA singles tournament. 
her career was," Irish head coach Jay Louderback said. "She lost to the best kid in the nation and beat everyone else." 
Dasso's run in the NCM tournament began when the 13th-seeded lrish lost to third-seeded Florida, 4-1. But Louderback said the match was much closer than it appeared. 
"It was a really tight match the whole way through," he said. "If we could have pulled out the doubles point, 1think we could have won." 
After the Irish lost the doubles point, Lindsey Green was the only hish play­er to win her singles match. Dasso, Caylan Leslie, and Nina Vaughan all lost to give Florida the edge they need­ed. However, Dasso felt the Irish were seeded much lower than they deserved tobe. 
"We were all really surprised [by the seeding]," she said. "We were ranked much higher and felt like we put our­selves in a better position. We were really disappointed." 
"For us to have to play Florida in the round of 16, the kids felt like it was a slap in the face because we had had such a good seed," Louderback added. 
With the Irish out of the team com­petition, Dasso turned her attention towards the individual competition. She was seeded fourth in the singles tournament and, along with Varnum, in.the fifth-eighth group in the doubl.es tourney. 
Dasso's first round singles opponent, North Carolina's Marliene Mejia, didn't pose much of a threat. With rain 
see DASSO/page 21 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

-
Belles lose game, player 
By MATT MOONEY Spores Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team lost one of its few seniors to injury and its conference opener to Albion Wednesday night at Angela Athletic Facility. 
ln the third game of Albion's four game win, senior middle blocker Jolie LeBeau landed on the foot of one Albion's players and wrenched her ankle. 
"She's tough to replace as we don't have much depth at that position," head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said after the game. 
After LeBeau's injury, the Belles hit a hot streak to win their only game of the match. Trailing 27-23 when LeBeau went down, the Belles won eight of the next nine points to win the game 30-28. Freshman Angie Osmanski delivered big serves and captain Angela Meyers coming through with timely kills, as the Belles won five straight points to take the game. 

The game three win brought the Belles within one game of Albion before the Bulldogs won game four 30-18 to win the match. 
In every game the Belles lost they jumped out to early leads only to allow the Bulldogs to make late runs to win. 
ln the first game, they quickly jumped out to a 7-2 lead. After expanding the margin to 18-12, Albion began to show some life. They slowly and methodically trimmed the lead, getting back into the game. By winning nine 
of the last 12 points, Albion won the game 30-26. Long rallies dominated game two. 
After the Belles had estab­lished a 13-11 lead, Albion again made an extended run surging to take a 23-14 advan­tage. Saint Mary's failed to counter and dropped the game 30-19. 
Looking to tie the match up in game fuur, Saint Mary's again jumped out to a quick lead, tak­ing a 10-4 lead. Albion recov­ered quickly. The Bulldogs went on a tear, winning 12 straight points, turning a six point deficit into a six point lead. Sa.int Mary's could muster little else after the decisive blow, eventually falling 30-18. 
see IRISH/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Night games humble Irish 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
When the lights go out, the Irish nightmares begin. 
Since Bob Davie became head coach in 1997, Notre Dame is only 1-6 in night games. 
With kickoff sot for 7:07 
p.m. Saturday in Lincoln, Neb. the Irish must change their nighttime fortune or face another long night. 
But Irish players said they relish the chance to play at night, regardless of past suc­cess or failure. 
"I think the night atmos­phere is going to be great. I remember the Tennessee game [in 1999] and the atmosphere was great," line­backer Tyreo Harrison said. "Things went the way they went in the game but I wouldn't say they wouldn't go that way if it was a day game. I would say there is an extra bit of excitement just to play at night. It's like back in high school when everyone was a superstar." 
The Irish have been far from superstars at night. 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 

. SMC VolleylJall at Lake Michigan, Friday, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. ND Women's Soccer vs. Indiana, Friday, 7 p.m.
SP 
TS 

online classifieds 
. ND Volleyball vs. Michigan, Sep. 12, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Men's Soccer vs. Rhode Island, Sep. 14, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 





