
Fleck's new album flows with solo talent
CLOUDY 
Tuesday
This live album strengthens Bela Fleck's already influential name in music and is another feat for the world's greatest banjo player. 
MARCH 19,
HIGH 48° 
LOW36° 
2002
Scene . page 14 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 106 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Poorman unveils new alcohol policy 
. Policy prohibits hard liquor, dances in dorms and outlines new tailgating rules 
By JASON McFARLEY News Writer 
The U~1iversity's top student life 
official unveiled Monday b r o a d changes to the school's alcohol poli­cy, challeng­ing students 


to seek out Poorman non-drinking activities and heading off his mm 
ND grad 
dies in 
Hancock scaffolding 

accident 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
During the mid-semester break, some members of the Notre Dame community gath­ered in Merrillville, Ind. to remember 1994 Notre Dame graduate Melissa Cook who died after scaffolding from Chicago's John Hancock Center fell to the ground in high winds, killing three people. 
On March 9, the day of the accident, Cook was driving with her cousin, Jill Nelson. and their mothers to her 30th birthday celebration at a restaurant in the city. She stopped at the traf­fic light in front of Hancock Center to let a pedestrian pass when the scaffolding gave way, killing both Cook and Nelson, a Purdue graduate, who were in the front of the car. Cook's mother and her aunt, Nelson's mother, were in the backseat and survived with injuries. 
The Chicago Tribune reported that police are investigating the cause of the accident. which some have attributed to high winds and others to poor regula­tion of the scaffolding. Both Cook's parents and the family of the third victim, Nanatta Cameron, have filed wrongful-
see ACCIDENT/page 8 concerns about an alcohol-centered campus climate. 

Father Mark Poom1an, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs. announr:ed three landmark changes that target drinking among undergraduate stu­dents: 
. 
a ban on "hard" alcohol in resi­dence halls, 

. 
a barring of in-hall dances 


. 
and a rewriting of the tailgating policy to permit of-age students to drink in designated parking lots on home football weekends 


The changes -the first major revisions since 1988 -may prove a watershed moment. 
"I felt like we needed some change two years ago," Poorman said. "We looked hard at what we think would have the greatest impact on campus. The changes are grounded in what we've heard over the past two years." 
Poorman announced the changes Monday to the alcohol task force of the Campus Life Council. He'll for­mally introduce the·measures to the CLC on March 25. 
Poorman sent word of the changes swiftly to campus in an e­mail Monday. The text of that mes­sage also appears in a full-page advertisement in today's Observer. 
Announcement of the changes would have come later, Poorman said, but he wanted to end specula­tion about the impending action. For nearly two weeks, visitors to the student-run Web site NDToday.com have fueled the rumor mill, posting messages about the University tightening the alcohol policy. 
In the letter to students, Poorman said a study of alcohol use and abuse that began in 2000 yielded both "encouraging and alarming" results. He said data collected through focus groups and surveys found that many students either don't drink or do so in moderation, but officials "cannot overlook or excuse abusive drinking." 
"I want a campus culture that is creative, that finds lot'> of alterna­tives [to drinking] and that isn't completely rooted in alco-See Also ho! use," he 
told The "Student leaders Observer. react to new Barring any 
policy"

challenges f r o m page3 Poorman's col­leagues, the policy amendments will t.ake effect in the fall. Poorman said the changes already have the sup­port of University officers, who will likely approve them in July. 
Notre Dame adopted an alcohol policy in 1984, and it underwent revision four years later. The University banned kegs in residence halls in the late 1970s. 


Starbucks opens in Lafortune 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 

Notre Dame's first Starbucks opened for busi­ness in Lafortune Student Center last Thursday during the mid-semester break and has been steadily filling with customers thirsty for its brewed beverages. 
"We've been busy since we've opened the doors," said Jim Labella, general manager of the Huddie in LaFortune. The store lead is Kim McComb, a former employee of the Huddle. 
Starbucks, a national chain, sells coffees, teas, and other items such as mugs and thermoses, all of which are available at Notre Dame's shop. All of the employees who prepare the beverages, called "baris­tas," become skilled at mix­ing the numerous drinks on the menu. 
Labella said students were eager to apply for jobs with Starbucks once they heard it was ope1.iing a shop on campus. 
"We filled up our shifts immedialely," said Labella. adding that he had to turn many applicants away. 
Labella said he predicts success for the University's Starbuck~ because students arc already familiar with the coffee shop from their hometowns. 
"Students really seem to recognize the brand names," said Labella. 
Freshman Brian Ahrt said he made his first visit to the campus Starbucks Monday 

Labor secretary selected as SMC speaker 
By SHEILA EGTS 
Saint Mary's Edi tor 
U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao will deliver the commence­ment address at Saint Mary's on May 18. 
Chao, a native of Taiwan, is the 
first Asian­American woman appointed to a presi­dent's cabi­net in United States histo­


ry. She was Chao 
confirmed by the U.S. Senate in January 2001. 
According to Susan Dampeer, assistant to Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred, Chao was an appropriate choice for Saint Mary's because she received her undergraduate degree in economics from Mount Holyoke College, an all-women's college. ·Dampeer will host Chao on campus and hopes that the selection for the speaker will be welcomed bv students. 
"We look to student<; for lots of input and ask them to submit 
see CHAO/page 6 


because he had frequented the place in his Cincinnati, Ohio hometown. 
"This place reminds me of it," said Ahrt who ordered a 
tall chai tea.  
Sophomores  Meghan  
O'Donnell  and  Leslie  
Devereaux  also  visited  

Starbucks Monday after a morning class to catch up on spring break gossip. A tall caramel macchiato and a grande steam cider sat on their table as O'Donnell commented on the wood and colors that makes the campus Starbucks like· oth­ers she has visited. 
"I think everyone's really happy that it's open," said O'Donnell, who i.s from Michigan. "They did a really good job representing [Starbucks]." 
Deveraux added that she was an avid Starbucks drinker and thought the business would be a good addition to campus. 
"I think it's more unique than any place on campus;'' Devereaux said. 
Although Starbucks might have name recognition with students, there are still other businesses on campus that sell coffee, including Reckers and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. These shops, especially Reckers, have contributed to a southward and west­ward migration during 
see STARBUCKS/page 6 

Poorman acknowledged that the current policy is disjointed and doesn't clearly spell out rules gov­erning on-campus drinking an1ong undergraduates. A more "user­friendly" policy in the fall will pro­vide clearer guidelines, he said. 
"In general, it's a good policy," Poorman said. "It just needed improvements to lead to a healthier, safor environment." 
It's an environment that will pro­hibit hard liquor in dorms. 
Poorman believes the move will curb cases of intoxication, alcohol poisoning and hospitalization which usually involve students consuming drinks with high alcohol conten..t. 
He offered no clear-cut definition for "hard liquor," saying officials would base that determination on proof, or alc_ohol, content. 
On a mostly residential campus 
see ALCOHOL/page 8 


Tuesday, March 19, 2002

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Come sail away 
Oh captain, my captain. Oh, no. 
I checked my email late on Monday night and was flung into a fit ofshocked clisbelief over some changes to the alcohol policy. I know that the vague statL-;tics ·will be attacked, the pros and cons and more cons ofthe policy will be debated vehemently, Katie Hughes and the "to drink or not to drink, wait, no, college kids always drink" tendencies will Copy Editor be intricately examined in the pages ofThe Observer in the next few weeks. 
It will get ugly and maybe a bit redundant, no doubt. 
But before the Viewpoint e-mail box is overrun, before we get a follow-up e-mail saying what the policy "really" means, I'm just a little emotional. If these policies are for real, then I thlnk some mourning is in order. No more Crush in the Lewis courtyard? No more Wake-it-shake-it in the sweaty bastment of Alumni or what would you do for some beads at Mardi Gras'? Rest in peace rum and coke? See ya screwdrivers? Adios mis mar­garitas? Denied for daquris? Ta-ta tequila? 
It's a lot to hit a girl with in one e-mail. 
I think I fall somewhere in between the "signifi­cant number" ofstudents who never drink or drink "very moderately" and hardcore falling down weirdos who do disgusting things to the bathrooms. I've said some pretty st1;i.pid things that I thought were brilliant and witty because of alco­hol, have woken up feeling like a train was driving through my head and my saliva glands had stopped functioning on a few Sunday mornings, but have never suffered any "serious and harmful behavioral problems almost always [involving] alcohol." 
In response to my own rampant emotion and the little voice in my head that just keeps saying "why. oh why. ohhhh why does the man keep us down?" I decided to do some ofmy own informal research on the subject of alcohol. 
One hundred percent of college students will drink if they want to no matter what the policy is. 
Some 89.2 percent ofgirls say that beer tastes like bubbly, bitter shlznit, and 45 percent of guys said they had found girls prefer 'yummy drinks' made with hard alcohol. 
Ninety-eight percent of Natural Llght distribu­tors said they "fully support" a ban on hard alco­hol in dorms, purely for the safety of the students, of course. 
Twelve percent of people who have done a body shot in the last year say it is the only form of con­tact with the opposite sex that they had experi­enced in that time period and they will "sure miss them." 
Ninety-six percent of off-campus housing land­lords said that they "fully support" a ban on hard alcohol. purely for the safety ofthe students, of course. 
Eighty-six percent of students agreed with the statement "they just don't want us being able to make a drink called 'sex on the beach' because it has the word 'sex' in it." 
Fifty-three percent of math professors agreed with this math equation: "not drinking in dorms=drinking off campus=messing with one of the coolest things about living here." 
Ninety-four percent of English professors agreed that W.B. Yeats was a "pretty famous guy," and he said, "The problem with some people is that when they aren't drunk, they're sober." 
About 97.3 percent of people who claimed power hours were their "favorite recreational activity" were relieved that the new policy would not affect them. 
Seventy-nine percent ofstudents who were "moderate drinkers" said they were "so upset by the new policy that they would have to get extra super blasted this weekend." 
After giving myself ample time to move through the stages of grief over the loss of the old alcohol policy, and as I move into the final stage of dealing with griefand acceptance, I will have already 
Contact Katie Hughes at Hughes.39@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
fn the March 7 issue ofThe Observer, a fronr-page arrickabour the Faculty Senate incorrectly reported that this year's senate rescinded last year's vote to d.isband the group. The senators only considered a resolution ro overturn the vote. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation perio<ls. The Observer ii a member of the Associated Pre,s. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
"J expected them to give us a game. They played with nothing to lose. Aly hat goes offto them. " 
Head basketball coach Mike Brey on his team's final home game, a 76-68 win against Providence 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Arizona student charged with killing her infant 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

A University of Arizona student is facing a first-degree murder charge after allegedly killing her newborn baby and burying it in the backyard of her parents' eastside home, police officials said. 
Heather M. Porzel, an agriculture sophomore, was arrested March 9 on the charge of kHling her new­born daughter just after birth, Tucson Police Department Sgt. Marco Borboa said. 
Borboa said Porzel gave birth to the baby in the bathroom of the home and buried it a week later in the backyard. 
Borboa said on the night of March 
9. Porzel's mother called 911 after her 18-year-old brother found the 

FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Lender cancels student loans 
TALl.AHASSEE, Fla. 
For students who depend solely on financial aid to pay their college expenses, the cancellation of a loan could be devastating. Such was the case for Florida State grad­uate student Kristina Goodwin when she learned the Sallie Mae/American Express lender she had chosen to service her spring financial aid is no longer in the loan business. "I called to find out about my loans and when my money would be coming," Goodwin said in an e-mail to fellow classmates. "To my shock, I found out that my lender, Sallie Mae/American Express, was no longer in 
• the loan business and was canceling its business with Florida State University." Goodwin, a former admissions adviser, said she is familiar with the financial aid process and sent an e-mail to warn her classmates of the situation. She and at least 50 other students were affect­ed, according to Financial Aid Director Darryl Marshall. American Express announced its departure from the student loan business on its official Web site. 
FSView & Florida Flambeau 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather@forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

"I can't say, 'Put your faith in ResLife anymore."' 
Former peer advocate Nikki DePersis following her resignation after a controversial sexual assualt case 

family dog had dug up the newborn infant in the backyard of their home. Borboa said an autopsy revealed the baby was a healthy female with blond hair and 3 inches of umbilical cord attached to her belly. 
Police said although the baby 


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Regent blasts affirmative action 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Supporters of the two lawsuits challenging the use of race in admissions said they were shocked and disap­pointed by University of Michigan Regent Dan Homing's remarks in a letter to a fellow regent, but they believe his statement will not affect the outcome of the cases. In a letter written by Horning to Regent Kathy White, which was sent anonymously to The Michigan Daily. Horning expressed anti-affirmative action sentiments and attacked White for her alleged views on the racial composition of the board. "I have openly defended the importance of a diverse student body, yet privately I have held to my chest that I don't think our admissions policies will withstand this legal challenge and I certainly don't feel they are based on merit," Horning said in the letter. Horning went on to say he believes the University's admissions policies keep qualified students out while admitting less quali­fied minority students. 
Michigan Daily 


NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, March 19. 
"The bummer about driving for 30 hours after a cruise is that we will be very tired when we come back. We're hoping the adrenaline will kick in and that we'll make it." 
Saint Mary's senior Alissa Blair on her spring break plans 
appeared to have been born healthy, they didn't know whether she was buried alive. 
"Although r~sults from the autop­sy didn't reveal how she died, it has been confirmed as a homicide," Borboa said. 
Porzel was booked into Pima County Jail in lieu of an $800,000 bond. On Friday morning, Pima County Jail officials said Porzel declined interviews from all news reporters. 
Porzel's mother declined com­ment over the phone Sunday after­noon. 
Borboa said Porzel was arraigned last week. 
Arizona Daily Wildcat 
FRONTS: 
,....... 
-----....-,,..
COLD WARM STATIONARY
C 2002 AccuWeather Inc. 
Pr~u/Jfe: 

® High  © Low  W,j.Show•r• Rain  [TI] T~storm•  .m:J Flurrlal  rn SnoW'  ~ Ice  {) ~t~i~: Sunny Pt. Cloudy  \~JKi~: Cloudy  
Via kkJnclat9U Pre.9S  
Atlanta  74  55  Las Vegas  65  43  Portland  38  25  
Baltimore  51  40  Memphis  66  51  Sacramento  68  42  
Boston  39  32  Milwaukee  43  33  St Louis  50  41  
Chicago  47  36  New York  48  37  Tampa  86  65  
Houston  79  60  Philadelphia  52  40  Washington  51  43  

Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . NEWS 

Student leaders react to new policy 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Displeased with sweeping changes to 1.he University alcohol policy, student leaders decried the modifications Monday and vowed to 
organize a campus movement against the decision. 
Student government officials expect 


today to Norton contact the Student Activities Office to reserve space on the Fieldhouse Mall. They plan to hold an all­campus town hall meeting there Wednesday to voice their con­cerns about University decision­making and to garner student feedback on the alcohol policy changes. 
"It's really hard for _me to accept that these three things are the solution to the drinking problem," said Brooke Norton, student body president, refer­ring to the trio of changes ofli­cials unveiled Monday. 
The changes, which will affect only undergraduates, include: 
. 
a ban on hard liquor in resi­dence halls, 

. 
a ban on dances in residence halls 

. 
and a new tailgating policy that allows drinking-age stu­dents to register to host tail­gaters in a cordoned-off parking lot on home football weekends 


"They present it as holding the community to a higher stan­dard," said Judicial Council President Tim Jarotkiewicz. "However, students are going to look at it as punishment." 
A sticking point for seniors Norton and Jarotkiewkz is that students were frozen out of the drafting of the changes. While Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, said his of1ice collected student input through focus groups and surveys, Norton claims the changes Monday were another 
"Thats the main issue 
instance of behind the University here. It's another thing changes. officials lock­"If you're
where students weren't 
ing students not a part of
involved in the process. 
out ofthe pol­it, you can't icy-rn akin g No students were really support 
process. involved in the creation something 
"That's the that you
of the solution." 
main issue didn't help hem," she make," said said. "It's Brooke Norton sophomore another thing Pat Hallahan,
Student Body President 
where stu­dents weren't included in the process. No students were involved in the creation of the solution." 
Norton recalled that since she's been a student here, she's witnessed administrators shut down several tradition-rich events -Sophomore Siblings weekend, campouts for football tickets ahd the freshman Graffiti Dance. 
And now dorm dances. 

"[The changes] are going to hurt the dorm system," Jarotkiewicz said of the majori­ty-residential campus. "The dances are about being together in thA dorm and having a good time together." 
Peter Rossmann, senior class president, said the changes also prompt safety concerns. He sug­gested that more students would travel off campus to drink and put themselves in danger walk­ing or driving back to campus. 
"This is certainly going to result in more people going off campus," Rossmann said. 
Rossmann and other student 
leaders ques­
tioned the 
reasoning 
a sophomore 
Sorin Hall 

senator and chief of staff for the student body president-and vice president­elect. 
Norton expected to e-mail undergraduates today, alerting them to plans for the Wednesday meeting. She also hoped to draw a large student turnout to March 25 Campus Life Council meeting where Poorman will formally introduce the changes. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
page 3 



PBS anchor will speak on-campus tonight 
Special to the Observer 
Jim Lehrer. executive editor and anchor of "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" on PBS. will deliver the Red Smith Lecture in Journalism at 8 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Library's Carey Auditorium. The lecture is free and open to the public, with a discussion period to follow. 
Lehrer, a correspondent and anchor at PBS for the past three decades, was teamed with Robert MacNeil on ''The MacNeil/Lchrer Report" and "The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour" for 20 years. During the 1995-96 season, Lehrer became sole anchor of "The NewsHour.'' 
A winner or two Emmys and a member of the Television Hall of Fame, Lehrer received the · National Humanities Medal in 1999. He also has won the Fred Friendly First Amendment Award, the George Foster Peabody Award and the William Allen White Foundation Award for Journalistic Merit In 1991, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
During the last four presiden­tial elections, Lehrer served as moderator for nine of the nationally televised debates among the candidates, presid­ing exclusively over all of the debates in both 1996 and 2000. 
A former newspaper reporter, columnist and city editor in Dallas. Lehrer is the author of 

Jim Lehrer will speak at 8 p.m. 
today in the library auditorium. 
13 novels, two memoirs and three plays. His novels include six about a fictional lieutenant governor of Oklahoma as well as "The Last Debate," which is about journalism. 
The Red Smith Lecture in Journalism was established in 1983 to honor the sportswriter and 1927 Notre Dame alumnus Walter W. "Red" Smith, who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for distinguished criticism. At the time of his death in 1982, Smith was a columnist for The New York Times. 
The Smith Lectureship, which is administered by Notre Dame's John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics & Democracy, is made possible by a gift from John and Susan McMeel and Universal Press Syndicate. 

This 
Weel< in 



Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 


Edav 
RCIA-Study Session 
6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation-Session #12 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. At D' Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. -11 :oo· p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Sant' Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Log Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 



~----1 dav 
Bible Study (in Chinese and English) 
8:00-9:00 p.m. Wilson Commons Ben Fisher, bfishcer@nd.edu Heidi Oberholtzer, oberholtzer.1 @nd.edu 


Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Stations of the Cross 
7:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Cati 631-5653 for information. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #70 
March 23-24 Fatima Retreat Center 

• 
av 

Palm Sunday 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Morning of Reflection 
1.0:30 a.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 

Campus Ministry Retreats 114 Coleman-Morse Center• 637-6633 
Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #71 
Retreat Date: Apr. 19-21 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Mar. 18 -Friday, Mar. 22 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 


MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m. . Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

Tuesday, March 19, 2002 

page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Center of your Digital Lifestyle. 


Apple offers discounts for Notre Dame Students. 
1---~ -~ 
..,.,, , 


---·--· ·-··----·-·r.--..,
---.~.•---··'"" \
.,. ,.,.,...,: .......,_,,n l 

,.-,--,-,-,.-,-.,...,....,--------~~ '~ I 
~1

• • • • I d·
:r, i 
-~ 

·..i 

i ': 1 
~..., 

I ,..-~·.;1 
·,..;..,
-





it~ i 



• 


iMac 
From $1,249 
Jbe neu· iJh1( L, the l.'11i!1odirne111 u.ftbe Digital L(fes~)'le: G4po1ce1; optional S11pa1Jriue, a 15" i'1at Panel Di.\f!ltiy. and !hejzdl cwnplimeut <J/'jiorts. for al! c!f your d(~ital de/!ices. 




iBook 
From $1,149 
Jlaf.d11g tbe d/r.;lfal bfes1vle purlah!e is simple wilb lb<! i!Jook'. Fect/11ri11g ail tbe pouer c4' ii's de.&top t'.01mte11iar/s. lhe iBook conies with eitber a I]'' · ur .U" scrwn. 
i\L, 

"~­
• 
~ 

Great technology, priced for Students. 
Apple offers discounts to Higher Education Faculty, Staff, & Students. Why? Because we know that once you go Macintosh, you'll never want to use anything else. The Mac is engineered to be the simplest, fastest way for you to get your work done (and also allow you to have alittle fun once the work is over!), 
The Mac is designed to be more than just a tool. With digital devices becoming more and more popular, you'll find that the Mac will grow with you and become the Hub of your Digital Lifestyle. This means taking your devices, hooking them up to your Mac, and doing things they could never do alone, like building aweb page from your digital photos using iPhoto and iTools, editing your digital camcorder footage in iMovie, or ripping, mixing, and burning your favorite music in iTunes. These Digital Lifestyle applications help you get more out of your Mac. 

Your discount, now available. 
The Solutions Center and The Apple Store for Education are the places to be when it comes to getting your Student Discount. They offer great prices on computers, software, and everything else Apple, just for students. And there are two easy ways to see what Apple has to offer you: 
1. 
Visit The Solutions Center and speak with the friendly sales staff. Find The Solutions Center at: 


~olutto>i> c~ntttr 
Notre Dame•s Computer Products Store 
Room 112 Computing Center/Math Building (CCMB) Phone: 219-631-7477 

or-------------------­
2. 
Visit The Apple Store for Education at: 
http://www.apple.com/ education/ store/ 
J. Th' kd'f'C I All prices reflect Educa1io11al pricing as offered by Apple Computer, f,u;. Prices are -}0 11Cfefl(. .-;ubjecllo cbarl/le without notice. Please visit wwwapple.com for more informa1ion 






Power Mac G4 
From $1,252 
Bringin).!. rall' purrer 10 lbe masses. the elf:'!!,ant Potcer .llac G4features up-to Uual 1mh proccss1m;, nVidia c;eForce4 graphics. fice e.\pan.,ion sf< 1ls. and lbt! of)limtal S1tpe11)ri1'e. f1/Jp/e's JJ\f[) Burner. . 




PowerBook G4 
From $2,161 
NI tbe pot/'er of!he c;4 in a 5.3 po1md. 'filcmi1mH·lc1d enclosure 1/Jat femures an exprmsive 15.l" screen, G.J /MlW, and a slot-loading DVD­ROJ1/C1).RW' Comho Driue. 






ATION 
Tuesday, March 19, 2002 COMPILED FR0'1 THE OBSERVER WfRE SERVICES page 5 

Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Andrea Yates was formal­ly sentenced to life in prison Monday for drowning her children as some of her rel­atives went on television and accused her husband of not doing enough to help her. 
Wearing an orange jail jumpsuit, Yates walked into court and looked toward the bench where her family had sat during the four-week trial. The only familiar faces were a pair of jail psychia­trists who treated Yates last June after she confessed to drowning her live children in the bathtub. 
Asked by state District Judge Belinda Hill if she had anything to say, Yates shook her head no. The judge then told Yates she was going to prison for two concurrent life terms for drowning three of her chil­dren. 
"Good luck to you, Mrs. Yates," Hill said as she dis­missed the 37-year-old for­mer nurse, who will be eli­gible for parole in 2041. 
Defense attorney George Parnham asked that Yates stay at the Harris County Jail for as long as possible to continue receiving care for. her mental illness. She will be closely watched for at least 30 days and then remain in protective cus­tody, prison officials said. 
Jurors last week rejected an insanity defense and convicted Yates of capital murder in the drnwnings of Noah, 7, John, 5, and 6­month-old Mary. Evidence also was presented about the drownings of Paul, 3, and Luke, 2. 
The same jury rejected lethal injection as a punish­ment Friday, meaning Monday's life sentence was automatic. 
"She wants to know what all this means and it's very difficult to explain," defense attorney Wendell Odom said. "She wants to know what's happening. 
"I think Andrea right now thrives on solitude and being quiet and being away from it all." 
Her family, however, was far from quiet. 
Brian Kennedy, her brother, in an interview broadcast on ABC's "Good Morning America," called Russell Yates an "unemo­tional" husband who was inattentive to his sister's needs. 
••1 think that any man and woman whose spouse was that severely down, con­fused, that sick, that I would do whatever it would take to make sure my other half would get the help that was necessary," Kennedy said. 

Explorers find Incan ruins in Peru 
monial platforms and a five-mile­the very end, undisturbed by

Aosociated Press 
long irrigation channel. European contact -an unparalleled 
LIMA British author Peter Frost, who led opportunity." 

Explorers have found the exten­an eight-member expedition to the The Incas ruled Peru from the sive ruins of an Inca town, complete area last year. said it is the largest 1430s until the arrival of the with human remains: sprawled Inca site found since 1964 when Spaniards in 15 32, constructing 
spectacularly across a mountain in American explorer Gene Savoy dis­stone-block cities and roads and southern Peru, the expedition lead­covered Vilcabamba, considered the developing a highly organized and ers said Monday. capital of the empire's jungle refuge. militarized society. 
The ancient setllement clings to "Few, if any, Spanish conquista­The settlement is 290 miles south­the slopes of a rugged peak in a dors ever reached the southern part east or Lima and about 24 miles region of the Andes Mountains of Vilcabamba," Frost said in an southwest of Machu Picchu. where the Incas hid after the interview, referring to the region ''The site turned out to be far more Spanish conquest. It consists of more around Vilcabamba. "This site may extensive than we expected," said than 100 structures, including a ultimately yield a recocd of Inca civi­Alfredo Valencia, a Peruvian archae­ridge-top truncated pyramid, cere-lization from the very beginning to ologist. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cuba arrests drug trafficker: Cuba announced Monday it was holding an alleged Colombian drug trafficker and chalJenged the 
U.S. to join Cuba in the fight against narcotics smuggling. The Cuban government did not say whether it would hand over Rafael Miguel Bustamante Bolanos to the U.S. if such an agreement was signed, but suggested it would be more cooperative if accords existed. 
Four killed in Kyrgyzstan riot: 
Supporters of a jailed opposition lawmaker battled police in southern Kyrgyzstan, leaving four dead and dozens injured. The president urged calm after the rare clash and blamed his political foes for the violence. Opposition grpups said riot police initiated the violence, while officials insisted demonstrators started the rampage. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush focuses on economic recovery: 
While some experts say the recession is already over, President Bush has decided to focus on restoring economic health until the last report confirms a recovery. He brought a job-growth message on Monday to Missouri, where he was raising money for the White House's hand-picked Senate candidate. 
Hoods ravage Kentucky, Tenne~ee: 
A second day of heavy rain in the hills of Kentucky and Tennessee triggered floods and mudslides Monday that destroyed dozens of homes and forced some to flee by boat as water lapped at the rooftops. Tennessee authorities blamed at least five deaths on the storm, which dumped as much as 6 inches of rain on the region Sunday. Throughout Kentucky, at least 250 homes were damaged or destroyed. Officials called the flooding in eastern Kentucky the worst in the region in 25 years. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Woman finds body in alley: A 
woman walking her child to school Monday morning discovered a man's body in an alley on the city's south side. Investigators Monday afternoon still were trying to determine a cause of death for the victim, identified as Bradley A. Swabb, 26. Police said his injuries were not consistent with a motor vehicle acci­dent. "There is a lot of trauma to the head and face," Capt. Robert Weller told The Star Press. "I can't tell you that's the cause of. death or how that occurred." 
Market Watch March 18 
Dow 

10,577.75 -29.48 
Jones 

Composite 
Volume: 1,157,216,768

%s~r; 
AMEX: 897.43 +5.78 NASDAQ: 1,877.06 +8.76 NYSE: 607.24 +0.11 S&P 500: 1,165.55 -0.59 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
'1ETR01EDIA FIBE (MFNX) -67. 21 -0.18 0.09 NASOP{)-100 INDEX (w:J.) +0. 56 +0.21 37.44 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUIIM) -1.10 -0.10 8.96 JRACLE CORP (ORCL) 12.60 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.12 -0.02 16.52 
page 6 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
fortable atmosphere that is not only for sobering up.
Starbucks 
"We're hoping the students continued from page 1 respect the place," said 

#15 Notre Dame
Labella. nights. Rather than taking Starbucks will be open from away business from the other Monday through Wednesday, places, Labella said Starbucks 7:30 a.m. to 2 a.m., Thursday could be a complement to and Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4 

Women's Lacrosse
them. a.m., Saturday 9:30 a.m. to 4 
"Starbucks is really more a.m. and Sunday, 9:30 a.m. to than a coffee shop," said 2 a.m. In addition to cash, the Labella. "We want to create a store accepts Flex Points and 

vs. Cornell cool place to hang out --sort Domer Dollars. of like Reckers. Our hope is to create the late night space on uesday, March 19th @ 4:OOp
the north side of campus." At the same time, Labella Contact Helena Payne at 

(Played Inside Loftus Sports Center) 
said he wants it to be a com-Payne.30@nd.edu. 
Heritage Foundation, a Washington-based public policy 
Chao 
think tank. continued from page 1 Previously she served as presi­
dent and chief executive officer of suggestions of who they would United Way of America tUWA), like to see at commencement," where she restored public trust said Dampeer. "We hope that the and confidence in the nation's students are excited to have largest charitable-giving institu­Secretary Chao on campus." tion after it0 was tarnished by mis­
Dampeer said she will suggest management. to the commencement planning Prior to joining UWA, Chao was committee director of the that a Saint Peace Corps. the 

Come out and watch 
Mary's stu­world's largest
"We hope that the 
d e n t international
students are excited to 
accompany volunteer urga­
your undefeated 
Chao for have Secretary Chao on nization. She the day to also served as
campus. 
Fighting Irish
represent deputy secretary the College. of transportation 
Susan Dampeer 
try to improve on
Chao will under former 
also deliver Assistant to Saint Mary's President the . com­President Marilou Eldred George Bush. 
their 4-0 start! 
mencement "Secretary address at Chao is an excel­Depauw University in lent example of what women can Greencastle, Ind., following her achieve with hard work and a visit to Saint Mary's. solid education," said Eldred. 
As the head of the Department "Her story will inspire our gradu­of Labor, Chao manages issues ates as they begin life beyond col­such as wages and work hours. lege." workplace safety and pension and health benefits. 
Before coming to the 




Department of Labor, Chao was a Contact Sheila Egts at distinguished fellow at The egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 


START HERE. GO PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. 
As SENIOR VP OF FINANCIAL PLANNING AT A 
Because the skills
MA.J . R MOVIE STUDIO YOU COULD: 
you learn in business -strategic and
0.K. A $93 MILLION BUDGET 
analytical thinking, communication,

HIRE 7,500 EXTRAS and leadership ­
are always in demand.
RENT 273 PALM TREES 
In some of the coolest 

(AND 1 BIG F"AN TO MAKE THEM SWAY) industries in the world. 
Even in the movies . 
. How DO YOU GET A JOB LIKE THIS? 
www.5TARTHEREGDPLACES.COM/BIZ7 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 


t 
I_ 
Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 7 
~,DC,. 
~ -~ ., 
t~~~\ ':.:P S.B. C.2VI.E. 
~ 
~ ~ presents the 8th annual 
. --.:~...,,,,. -'• 
b/f-tL ~~ 
Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors, professionals and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free ofcharge and open to the general public. 
Session 1, Tuesdav, J\,forch 19, 2002 Allergy and Asthma, James Harris, MD 
Session 2, Tuesday, l\,fnrch 26, 2002 ADHD: Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, William Kronenberger, PhD, HSPP 
Session 3, Tuesday, April 2, 2002 Cholesterol and You -What to Do?, Paul Howard, MD, FACC 
Sesdon 4, Tuesday, April 9, 2002 Chest Pain in tlie ER -How and Wliy We Decide to Admit Patiellts, !\'lark Walsh, MD 
Session 5, Tuesday. April 16, 2002 Sleep Disorders, Brian Foresman, DO. FCCP, FACSM 
Session 6, Tuesday, April 23, 2002 Impact ofSports 1Wedicine on Everyday Life, Doug McKeag, MD 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. Place: 102 DeBartolo Hall (westofstadium) University of Notre Dame 
To register or for more Information, call Stephanie at 631-7908 


College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites Nominations for the Father Sheedy Award 

Each year, the Sheedy A-ward, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this year's award. Please send your letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Greg Dowd, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Thursday, March 21st, 2002 

HP -Compaq proxy fight nears an end 

Associated P rcss 

CUPERTINO, Calif. 
The proxy fight over the $21 billion acquisition of Compaq Computer Corp. by Hewlett­Packard Co. gave individual investors a rare chance to direct­ly influence the fate of two com­panies -and perhaps an entire industry. 
HP's shareholder vote on the deal Tuesday shaped up as one of the closest corporate elections ever. The company and oppo­nent Walter Hewlett both claimed to have momentum over the other. 
Although both sides left open the possibility they would announce Tuesday that they had won, the otlicial results wont' be known for weeks. Independent proxy counters must verify each vote, and each side can chal­lenge whether the proper people 
, signed certain ballots. HP and Compaq say the deal is essential for their long-term sur­vival in the consolidating com­puting industry, and HP chief Carly Fiorina has staked her reputation on seeing the acquisi­tion through. Hewlett, the son of one of HP's late co-founders, says HP is overpaying for Compaq, would get bogged down selling low­margin personal computers and services and can't afford to risk the complex integration of the companies' massive organiza­tions. Coming into Tuesday, about 22 percent of HP stock -including the 18 percent held by the Hewlett and Packard families and foundations -had come out against the acquisition. About 9 percent was publicly in favor. That gave an unusual amount 
of power to individual investors, who control one-fourth of HP stock. 
Consequently, the company and Hewlett swamped HP's 900,000 shareholders with let­ters, advertisements, telemar­keters' phone calls and multiple ballots, since investors can change their votes as many times as they want. 
"This company has a lot of investors, and every one of them is going to count," said Hewlett spokesman Todd Glass. 
Most investors mailed their proxies, but at least 1,000 share­holders were expected to cast their votes in person at HP's meeting Tuesday in Cupertino. 
Former HP engineer Jane G. Evans, 75, already voted her shares for the deal but said she would attend the meeting to try to persuade fellow retirees to approve the acquisition too. 
"I think it will revitalize our company and drive it into the future," she said. 
llarely do proxy fights turn into such cliffhangers, said Charles Elson, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. 
"Usually you get a pretty good sense of how it's going to go one or two days out. The fact that neither side is claiming victory shows that this ranks up there as one of the closer ones," Elson said. "It's going to go down to the wire." 
The most recent proxy fight this close, he said, was last year's banking merger of Wachovia Corp. and First Union Corp., which was approved by 60 percent of Wachovia shares after rival SunTrust Banks Inc. made an unsolicited takeover bid for Wachovia. 
Too close to call 
The merger between Hewlett-Packard Co. and Compaq Computer Corp., the computer industry's biggest merger, is being decided Tuesday as shareholders vote in one of the closest corporate elections ever. 
HP's stock performance, daily closings per share 
$27--------------------­
Sept. 4 Nov. 16 
HP Key opponent to the merger, Walter B. Hewlett, 
announces lays the groundwork for a potential proxy fight. 1t pans to buy Compaq 
24 
for $25 I IOn. 
21 

18-\,.----,~~--¾..::_---i......---i-ii----u,.,.r.....-...---i-....--.-..-J 


U.S. federal Stock closes regulators at $19.25 on 
1s--v--'--------,,t=,,rffll,,-f::t!):--,,,"""'rrm,.rn....--i?rl'mzr,,r 
Compaq HP-Compaq shareholder merger. merger. vote.

12-----~-------'=-------':..______ 
Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. 
SOURCES: Yahoo.com; Commody Systems Inc.; Quote.com AP 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
Boulac said. 

THE l\·1ATHEMATICS DEPARTl\.'IENT PRESENTS:
Cook, called "Mo" by her
Accident 
continued from page 1 
death lawsuit-;. 
Cook, an accounting major, played softball for her first two years at Notre Dame under the team's then-hoad coach Brian Boula1:. now an assistant athletic director for the Joyce Center. 
"She always gave her best," said Boulac, who recruited Cook from Merrillville Iligh School in Indiana where she played short­stop. 
Boulac said Cook often smiled and joked with her teammates to lift their spirits. 
"She put everybody at ease," 
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
where dorms are central to sLudem 
life. thA long-standing tradition of 
dances in residence halls will go the 
same way as potent akohul. 
Poorman said the in-hall dance ban 
springs from a pattern of students 
ditching the dance to drink. 
"Some of the most problematic behavior occurs at dances where the focus is on individual gather­ings," he said. ''Rectors say that outside dances are more successful in limiting intoxication." 
The ban doesn't hurt tradition. according to Poorman. Dances can still can be held off campus or at non-dom1 on-campus venues. It fol­lows a trend. too, of halls holding their dances at off-campus locales such as the College Football Hall of Fame and Coveleski Stadium. 
It comes at a time when student life officials are expanding on-cam­pus social space options, announc­ing in the past several months plans for a revamped Alumni-Senior Oub, purchase of an off-campus house for event programming and dedication of space on the second floor of South Dining Hall for meet­ings, dances and other functions. 
But it also means that some hall signature events -O'Neill Hall's Mardi Gras and Alumni Hall's Wake, for examples -will be can­celled. Signature events that aren't dances or alcohol-centered -such as McGlinn Hall's Casino Night or the Fisher Hall's Regatta -will continue or be looked at on a case­by-case basis, Poorman said. 
"I believe the halls can have great signature events that don't depend on hosting a large, alcohol-based 
close-knit group of' friends in her dorm, Lyons Hall, remained in contact with many of those friends over the years. 
"They still come back for foot­ball weekends and they're always together." said Joe H.usso, director of financial aid and the father of one of Cook's close fri.ends. 
The funeral of Cook and Nelson was Saturday at Saints Paul and Peter Church in Merrillville, Indiana. The two were buried side-by-side. 
Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu. 
dance," he said. 
Officials vvill enforce the new tail­gating policy with the same eye toward cracking down on alcohol­laden partying. 
The revised policy allows stu­dents 21 and older to register to host tc1.ilgaters in a designated park­ing lot before home football games. It clears up confusion surrounding enforcement of tailgating rules from last fall. 
"It's a much better policy because now it rniITors Indiana state law," Poorman said. 
The policy allows all graduate students to tailgate freely. 
Poorman was enthusiastic that the changes would better serve the University's academic and Catholic mission and empower students. 
"A big part of this effort was i.o empower students who don't want to organize their social lives around the use and abuse of alcohol." Poorman said. 
He noted that the policy could have called for an outright ban of all alcohol -a so-called dry cam­pus -but said that wasn't the type of environment he wanted to cre­ate. 
The new policy will be flexible in that students who now want to move off-campus can arrange through the Office of Residence Life and Housing to have their on-cam­pus hous\ng deposits refunded, Poorman said. 
The actual language of the alco­hol policy that v.ill appear in duLac won't be written until this summer. Poorman said student government officials would have input in the rewiite. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
TURTLE CREEK APART.MENTS STUDENTS # l CHOlCE IN OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 

AVAILABILIT\': 
3-4 PERSON TOWNHOMES 1-2 PERSON !-BEDROOMS l PERSON FURNISHED STUDIOS 
ADV Ai\TAGES; 
YOU CAN PICK YQl JR APARTMENT LOCATION! NEED 2 APART!v'£1'ffSry WE CA.."-1 ASSIGN YOU NEXT DOOR! 
5 M/Nl!TES WALK TO C4MPUS 
THE GREATEST OFF CAMPUS UVING EXPERIENCE, PER!ODI 
VISIT lJS ON TH£ IVEB fQR AJ..L THE INFORMA.TlON YOU C.',N TAK£ J~! 
WWW.HIRTLf.CREEKNl).COM 
OR YOU CAN CALL ANO ASK ALL THE QUESTJ.ONS YOU CAN THINK OF! 272-8124 

Mel Slugbate 

Real Estate in Hyperbolic Space: Invesbnent Opportunities for the N e~v l\1illeniun1 
Have vou found the new investment climate a bir on the <:h1lly si~k-? Ncrvou~ about stvcks, bonds and mutual funds? Afraid of ri.sky investments m Euclidean space! Then real es1ate in hypt;rbohc space is for you. 

Tuesday .tv·r arch 1 9 8:00pm Haves Healv 11 7 
Visit the Observer Online. http://observer.nd.edu 
. We 1)0 Mondays Like No f lace Else! 

Enjoy a (enoueh 


double order of fajifas for fwo) for jusf $11*! 
& BAR Mi.shawaka 


4810 Grape Road 574-271-1330 

Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
GET A TASTE OF LIFE AT THE TOP. 
·If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
A Marine Corps pilot is coming to campus 
who can take you up for trial flights. We're looking for a few college students who have the brains and skill -as well as the desire -to become Marine pilots. 
If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civil­ian flight training, maybe even $300 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you 
could be flying a Harrier, Cobra 
or F/A-18. Get a taste of what life is like at the top. The flight's on us. 
~ 
~;'t'i''°'~
!=::... ,'f'':1
# "1 ,__l~l~y
,,; a...-s;.'•,,,}~ 
'/"'--"' 
~ ,,,._.,,.,,
'.-1:!---­
~~--­
'';i;1_:;;­

SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
The Marine Officer Selection Officer will be giving free orientation flights at the Corporate Wings terminal at the South Bend Airport on Wednesday, March 20. No obligation incurred. Call to reserve your seat for a free plane ride over Notre Dame. 
CAPTAIN WILLIAMS 1-877-299-9397 OSOLAF@9MCD.USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
2001
www. Marines .t·om 


Notre Dame Center 
ifor Ethics andReligious Values in Business 
PROUDLY PRESENTS 
John B. Caron 
(Ret.) President/CEO of Caron International who will be honored with the Hesburgh Award for Business Ethics 
and 
Professor Robert Jackall 
Professor. of Sociology and Social Thought, Williams College, Massachusetts 
Speaking on 
''Take the .A,foney EnRon,, 
Part of the Frank Cahill Lecture Series 
Thursday, March 21st Jordan Auditorium~ Mendoza College of Business 4:00 p.m. -5:30 p.m. 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board grants more money to campaign 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI News Writer 

In the last week for the cur­rent Saint Mary's Board of Governance, members voted to increase the amount of money given to the Senior Leadership Committee's cam­paign after conferences with representatives from the com­mittee and discussion. Combined with a previous grant, the BOG has donated a total of $595 to the campaign. 
"We re-evaluated what they were doing and decided that we needed to help _them out more," said Michelle Nagle, Saint Mary's student body president, "Originally, we weren't quite sure where all of the money was going. With 
"We re-evaluated what 
a clear are planning understand­they were doing and a charter 
meeting, and

ing it was decided that we needed 
easier to the district
to help them out more." 
decide what governor of we needed Toastmasters 
to give." Michelle Nagle is coming Prior to f r o m
Student Body President
spring break, BOG granted the committee $145 to help edu­cate the student body on the group's mission to encourage seniors to donate to the col­lege in their final year as stu­dents and also after they graduate. · 
This week, BOG agreed to allocate an additional $450 to assist the campaign with mail­ings and publicity. 
The Board also approved two co-sponsorships in Monday's meeting. Erin Schenz and Julia Fletcher represented themselves and three other students who will be traveling down to Clifty Falls State Park to attend a conference sponsored by the Indiana Branch of the American Society of Microbiology. Schenz, Fletcher and one other Saint Mary's senior will be presenting the research they completed for their senior comprehensives. 
"It will be a great chance for us to network and get feed­back on our research," Schenz said. "The two juniors will benefit from the exposure. ft is also a really good chance for professors to walk around and get a feel of the graduates that are out there." 
Fletcher and Schenz asked for $498 to cover the costs of a car rental. lodgings and food for their trip. 
"There will be lots of under­grad ua tes and graduates there," Fletcher said. "We will represent our department. We found some new information in our comps, we would like the chance to present it to people." 
Schenz also stated the group plans to present their experi­ences to the biology club at Saint Mary's, the parent orga­nization to the microbiology club on campus. 
Brigid Buhrfiend, the presi­dent of Saint Mary's chapter of Toastmasters International I, asked BOG for a co-sponsor­ship to cover the costs of a reception to reintroduce the chapter to the campus. Toastmasters International is an organization devoted to helping students improve their public speaking skills. 
"We lost our chartership during the 1999-2000 school year," Buhrfiend said. "We still ran as a club on campus, but we rechartered the club this year. On April 7 we 
Indianapolis 
to  present  
our  charter  
to the club."  
According  to  Buhrfiend.  

costs would include trans­portation for the district gov­ernor, food and advertising for the event. The club plans to invite members of the administration, including Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred and all the deans. 
"We've all worked very hard to make it get this far," Buhrfiend said. "But we can't do any fundraising through Toastmasters -it is not allowed in the bylaws." 
Toastmaster lnternational's rules do allow for clubs to col­lect dues, but most of that, Buhrfiend said, had to go towards the charter this year. 
Before it lapsed two years ago, Toastmasters International I had been a presence on campus since 1980. It now boasts 20 mem­bers, Burfiend said. BOG approved $250 to assist the club in its preparations for the reception. 
In other BOG news: 
. Tiffany Mayerhofer. Student Activities Board coordinator, announced that "How Well Do You Know Your Roommate" will take place in Dalloways coffeehouse on Wednesday, March 30, at 7 p.m. Also according to Mayerhofcr, "Ocean's 11" will be shown at 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 

AlortlI118500· Desiga• IBRmtiBDS •Marketing, Cansultam's SBmlnar·· Learn The Methods OfAProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements r .An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
AOn11 DavSeminar, ABoot dfOllllt TBn Years Ofln11alualJIB lxIJBrllJBCB;~ 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must ~ave in business to move forward in high level business. f · The class rs_ taught by a man whose work, on£!! Fortune 500 Company 
, V. P. sa~s will, •change the course ofan entire industry.· · 
~rA.11111:~~ 
~S_OAB  Fore/ass dates, private classes& rr:ore information, go to our web  ·  
!  Eall:IIIINIBl...,_'11,,_C/mm  site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104  
_Wlflllff.USBSlaffll.COffl ·-­-­'·­ E-mail• lnventor@usastand.com . ·---··. " -----­ 

page 10 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
NMCP protests S.C. flag during ND games 
By TYLER ROSEN and 
CRAIG SAPERSTEIN 
The Duke Univecsii:y Chronicle 
GREENVILLE. S.C. 
While the Duke University 
basketball team battled 
Winthrop ·and Notre Dame 
inside Greenville, S.C.'s Bi-Lo 
Center this weekend. a different 
battle raged outside the arena. 
During two of the three NCAA 
Tournament sessions over the 
weekend, representatives from 
the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People 
protested the Confederate flag's 
presence on the grounds of the 
state Capitol building in 
Columbia, S.C. 
"We want to remind America 
that economic sanctions will 
continue against South Carolina 
because the state insists on dis­
respecting African-Americans 
and all those who cherish free­
dom," Nelson Rivers. director of 
the NAACP's branch and field 
division, said in a statement. 
"The NAACP demands that the 
Confederate battle flag be 
removed from a place of sover­
eignty." 
Before Saturday's Duke-Notre Dame tip-off, pro-flag demon­strators, who held up large Confederate flags and signs, waited for the NAACP, which had conducted a mile-long march to the arena earlier in the morning. 
Winston McCuen. one of about 25 pro-flag protesters that turned out Saturday afternoon, said the Confederate flag, moved from atop the Capitol dome in July 2000 to a special memorial on the Capitol grounds, deserves a location befitting honor. 
"(The flag is] something to he held as one of our jewels, one of the things we're most proud of," McCuen said. "It's a symbol rec­ognized around the world of independence, self-government [and] secession from tyranny." 
The Greenville native also 
blasted the NAACP. "This is part 
of their ongoing campaign to 
culturally cleanse the South," 
McCuen said. "They're not set­
ting their focus on the real prob, 
Iems of the black community." 
The NAACP has picketed wel­
come centers throughout South 
Carolina since the beginning of 
the month and has imposed an 
economic boycott on the 
Palmetto State since January 
2000. 
While the opposing sides were 
publicly unabashed in their 
views, Duke participants in the 
NCAA Tournament gave a more 
muted response. Duke coach 
Mike K.rzyzewski said that given 
his team's obligations as a 
member of the NCAA, he would 
not comment until after the sea­
son. 
Duke guard Matt Christensen 
gave a similar response Friday 
as the Blue Devils prepared for 
their second-round duel against 
Notre Dame. 
"Most of the people on the team have some pretty strong personal views about that." the team's eldest member said. "But none of us want to say anything that would detract -or distract -from what we 're trying to do." 
Duke guard Dahntay Jones expressed his dislike of the flag. 
"The state shouldn't have flown any people's way of thought or way of living," Jones said. "I think that situation is wrong." 
Teammate Mike Dunleavy, Duke tri-captain, expressed his unease with the !lag, but said he understood the feelings of pro• flag activists. 
"State-wise, country-wise, there are a lot of things our country takes pride in," Dunleavy said. "Certainly, I'm not someone who supports the Confederate flag because of what it does represent. I think to each his own -everybody has his own opinion on it, so I don't really want to get into it further than that." 
Okla. telemarketers ordered to pay $39M 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A federal judge has ordered an Oklahoma City telemarketing group to pay $39 million to cus­tomers who allegedly were deceived into paying huge sums for magazine subscriptions. 
The judge granted the Federal Trade Commission's request that the companies be charged with contempt for violating the terms of a 1996 settlement with the government. The resulting fine is the largest ever involving federal telemarketing rules. the FTC said Monday. 
The companies are Diversified Marketing Services Corp.. National Marketing Service Inc., NPC Corporation of the Midwest Inc. and Magazine Club Billing Service Inc. Officers of the com­panies were also named in the government complaint. 
Messages left for several attorneys identified by the FTC as representing the companies were not immediately returned. 
Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma found the companies in con­tempt on March 4 and ordered them to give the money to the FTC within 30 days, the agency said. She also required the FTC to submit a plan for how con­sumers will be repaid. 
The FTC had first accused the telemarketers in 1996, alleging they lied to customers about the cost of magazine subscriptions, billed their accounts without permission, refused to then can­cel subscriptions and threat­ened consumers' credit ratings. The companies settled the charges by agreeing to refund $1.5 million to consumers and to not continue the alleged prac­tices. 
The FTC sought the contempt order in January, alleging in a complaint that the telemar­keters had not changed their ways as agreed and instead acted as if they had "erased from their minds that they had been sued." 
Isaura Whitesides. 28, of Laredo, Texas, said she agreed a year and a half ago to pay about $40 to the telemarketers to enter a sweepstakes and get 20 free magazine subscriptions. She said she was shocked when a bill arrived for nearly $900. 


Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Ariuma 
SJ>JllNG 2003 
Contact Donmt Fecher Center for Environmental Science & Technology 152A Fitzpatrick Ban Jfr,cher@nd,i;~du or xl-8376 
zi.:,( ~-~2;::N l"l.~H ,.·ii:.>H . 
E11.vtronn-1ental

·•-· · Science& , Technology 
{if fY;t-U~iJ/tlfif:: 1-:?fr:tn-t¼~«. 
Visit the Observer Online. http://observer.nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
San Francisco OKs instant runoffs 
Instant winner, no runoff required 
San Francisco is the only large city in the nation to approve instant runoffs for local elections, With instant runoffs, separate runoff elections are not needed when no candidate wins a majority of first choice votes. 
Instant Runoff Ballot Third Chciice
Second Choice
First Choice 
candidate A D

candidate A D
candidate A 
r1J, 
candidate B D

candidate B ~ 
candidate B D 
Ff;
Candidate C

candidateC D
candidate C D 

How the votes are tabulated 
1 

INITIAL COUNT 
Candidates 

Voters' first choices are counted. Here, Candidate A leads Candidate B but doesn't hold a majority. Candidate C is -­eliminated, and there's an instant runoff. 
----
Second 
choice
INSTANT RUNOFF 

votes Ballots for Candidate C have their ,· 
·'l;;•';··••ii''·*•;-.,;., 

second choice votes tallied and distri­...-c.-·~:i" buted. Candidate A gets enough second choice votes for a majority, and wins. ..... .... ~,,.~,{ 
If there were additional candidates and no majority holder after the first runoff, additional counts would be held with second and third choices of eliminated candidates going to the remaining candidates until a majority holder emerges. 
SOURCE: City of San Francisco; Center for Voting San Francisco Chronicle/AP and Democracy 
FAA probes dead 
passenger case 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO This city became the first major 
U.S. city to adopt instam runoUs for nearly all municipal races, a move that is encouraging fringe candidates -always a boister­ous voice here -to think they may actually have a chance on Election Day. 
Currently, if no candidate for a city office gets more than 50 per­cent of the vote, a runoff is held weeks or months later between the top two vote-getters. 
The new instant system would avoid this second round of ballot­ing by allowing the voters to rank candidates as their first, second and third choice. Those prefer­ences would be used to pick a winner. 
The idea won 55 percent approval from San Francisco vot­ers on March 5. 
Opponents• have criticized it as undemocratic and confusing. Proponents have said it will open the political process to more out­siders and save money, since runoffs cost taxpayers about $1.6 million each. 
"It will benefit the city in terms of the millions of dollars it will save and also the wear and tear on the department of elections," said Mark Leno, a member of the city Board of Supervisors. "It will encourage greater voter partic­ipation." 
The concept has been used for decades in Ireland and Australia. London recently elected its mayor using the system, and Cambridge, Mass., has been electing City Council members through instant runoffs since 1941. 
In Vermont, where the Legislature steps in and picks the winner if no one gets a majority for governor, lieutenant governor and treasurer, 51 communities recently approved nonbinding resolutions in favor of instant runofJ:s. Alaska will have a refer­endum on the ballot this fall. 
The San Francisco system will be different from the one in Cambridge, where voters pick from a slate of candidates to fill multiple slots -a method that makes it possible to win with only 10 percent of the vote. 
In San Francisco, the process will be used for most major city offices, including mayor, sheriff, treasurer. district attorney, pub-lie defender and Board of Supervisors. The counting method will kick in whenever a candidate fails to get a majority. 
Under the system, the candi­date with the least number of votes is eliminated. and the sec­ond choices of voters who select­ed this loser are added to the tal­lies of the remaining candidates. If this does not create a majority winner, the process is repeated: The third choices of voters whose first and second choices have been eliminated are applied to the remaining candidates, and so on, until someone gets a majori­ty. 
Chris Bowman, a Republican political consultant and former member of the San Francisco cit­izens advisory committee on elec­tions, said the process goes against the "one man, one vote" principle. 
"I see it as undemocratic. There may be challenges made in court," he said. 
While Democrats have long dominated city politics, San Francisco voters also have a soft spot for fringe candidates, giving Green Party presidential candi­date Ralph Nader half as many votes as George W. Bush in 2000. 


RECOMMENDS 
~·0:~1.. 
i.""'fJl~-;:'f-­

The Stone Boudoir is a rernarkable collection of t·... stories about the unknown villages ofSicily, f frorn the acclain1ed author ofMat.tan.za. t 

A provocative combination of fiction and reflection by an award~winning writer that explores the question of why wo1nen love the way they do. 


A bittersweet mernoir of falling in love with books, ideas, and the fight for social justice-frotn the sixties tu the present-by one of the 1nosr hrilliant fe1ninist thinkers of our tin1e. 

Associated Press 

DES MOINES, Iowa 
An 80-year-old passenger was 
pronounced dead at the end of 
an airline flight, and authorities 
say it is.possible he had already 
died when he was taken on 
board in his wheelchair. 

James Walsh was found dead 
Saturday after arriving at Des 
Moines International Airport on 
the America West Express flight 
from Phoenix. He had a history 
of heart and kidney-related 
problems. 

A report by the Polk County 
medical examiner's office said 
members of the flight crew 
reported that he looked "kind of 
stiff' and didn't move during the 
trip. 
The report also said Walsh's daughter-in-law told investiga­tors his fingertips were turning purple and she couldn't find his pulse, but when a flight atten­dant checked on Walsh the daughter-in-law told her he was "just sedated, sleeping and had a pulse." 
After they landed at Des Moines, Walsh's son. Mark Walsh of Green Valley, Ariz., wheeled his father into the ter­minal and was met by his sister, a registered nurse. The sister said he was dead at that time, and he was later declared dead at a hospital. 
The medical examiner's office report said Mark Walsh told investigators he was "pretty much convinced he died in the airport terminal in PhoPnix." 


HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
Earn Free Books!
BOOKSTORE 
See store for details 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
O
THE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIH Jason Mcfarley 
MANAGING EDITOR Bu~INESS MANAGER Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nel.lie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mau Lucz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lcwalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER; Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
0Fl'ICF. MANAGER/GENERAL INFO... ......631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................63I-4'.>42 M&"lAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.spores. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. ......................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.eclu 
SAINT MA.Ri"'s............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB J\DMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly studenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and ra.es ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial concenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported a< accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the a,uhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is avai!ab!e to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Le11ers to the Editor must be signed and must include concac1 informacion. 
Quatiom rqf;ardmg Observer policie; sho,Jd be dir«ted to Editor in Chiif]asml McFarlry. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Scott Mike Schmuhl Brodfuehrer Sam Derheimcr Elizabeth Lee Graphics­
Sports Andy Devoto Katie Hughes Production Viewpoint Chris Federico Kristin Yemm Lab Tech Amanda Greco 

Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
Policies hurt residential communities 
This editorial is first in a series com­and social activies and unnecessarily dis­menting on the proposed alcohol policy rupt the residential campus community. changes at Notre Dame. While stricter enforcement of laws per­
taining to underage drinkers certainly 
From the day students an-ive on cam­falls under University jurisdiction. the pus as freshmen, they live together, grow proposed ban on "hard" alcohol prevenl~ up together, learn together, have fun students of legal drinking age from together. choosing what type of alco­
OJhe

And drink together. hol they may consume. The
L,server

Unlike so many other loss of this freedom will universities where students almosL certainly drive more typically move off campus students, especially upper­
Editorial 
after their first or second year, Notre Dame has preserved a resi­dential community where seniors com­monly live next door to freshmen. The upperclassmen's presence promotes pride in the residence halls and provides underclassmen with convenient access to mentors close to their age. 
However, by imposing an alcohol policy more stringent than Indiana state law and forcing student dances out of the res­idence halls, the University will motivate more students to find off-campus housing 

classmen oflegal drinking age, to riskier off-campus social situa­tions and destroy the traditional bond between upper-and underclassmen that is essential for the preservation of resi­dence hall community life. 
The University has also shown a dis­turbing trend toward cancelling alcohol­related even1S in recent years. Events that were once considered unchangeable Notre IJame traditions, such as the Gralliti Dance, Sophomore Siblings Weekend and campouts for football tick­ets, have been eliminated by an adminis­tration fearful of alcohol-related conse­quences. Each decision caused the can­cellation of a campus tradition with no replacement event planned to maintain the sense of community. If in-hall dances are abolished, SYRs will be the latest campus event to transform from tradition to memory. This means signature hall events such as Alumni's Wake, O'Neill's Mardi Gras and Lev,ris' Crush would be eliminated. 
Alcohol is undeniably a major part of residence life at Notre Uame. Although the University is attempting to improve student life by shifting the focus away from a practice detrimental to student health, the proposed policies will harm the community itself during the transi­tion. By removing the privilege of stu­dents of legal drinking age to choose what they drink and by eliminating in­hall dances, the residential community Notre Dame takes such great pride in will be irrevocably and negatively affected. 
Pedophilia was overlooked 
One point still needs to be made on "The Vagina myself pleasure so I'll never need to rely on a man. In the Monologues." A lot of things could be said. But I offer here no morning ram worried ... because I'm so in love with her. She criticism of the students who participated in the play or laughs, but I never see her again. I realized later she was my attended it nor of the author and promoters. And if the play surprising, unexpected, politically incorrect salvation. She had been done for a class in a course and n~t opened to oth­transformed my sorry-ass coochi snorcher and raised it up ers, including non-students, and publi-into a kind of heaven." cized, there would be no objection. The student director ofV-Day 2002 at Notre Dame said in 
Charles Rice 

The only issue I raise here is the judg­the Feb. 18 Observer. "This monologue is neither an endorse­ment of the administration in permitting ment of underage sex or any kind nor is that act meant to be academic units to sponsor a public play judged in any manner itself. ... That monologue is meant to which presents an act of pedophilia as a Right or reveal one woman's journey from a time when she thought of benefit to the child-victim. "Pedophilia," as Wrong? her vagina as a dark, horrible 'bad luck zone,' to referring to commonly used today, includes adult-child it as 'a kind of heaven."' sex, whether heterosexual, man-boy or That the monologue. however. encouraged a tolerant atti­woman-girl and whether or not the child is pre-pubescent. tude toward the activity is seen in the comment of a woman Each is an objective moral wrong because it is contrary to Notre Dame student in the Feb. 15 Observer: "[T]he story of nature and the divine law of the author of that nature. the young girl and the 24-year-old woman ... is a little scan­
The sexual exploitation of male and female children is a dalous. However, nothing about it is 'violent,' and after one problem in many countries. The Department of Justice reports hears the story from the girl first-hand through the mono­that 67 percent of all U.S. victims of sexual assault are under logue, the age difference question is lost in the beauty of her the age of 18, 34 percent are under age 12 and most perpetra­own self-realization." tors are adults. As seen recently in Boston, the scandal caused Why did our leaders offer Notre Dame -"the University of by relatively few homosexual, pedophile priests. facilitated by Our Lady" -as a forum for a public portrayal of an act of negligent bishops, has rocked the Catholic Church in many pedophilia as a "salvation" for the child-victim? Perhaps our countries. Against this background. one would think that the leaders did not know what was in "the Monologues." If so. administrators of any institution that claims to be Catholic they were negligent. The George O'Leary experience could would avoid any equivocation on pedophilia of any sort. Yet raise that as a possibility. Or maybe our leaders knew the play our leaders allowed Notre Dame to be used for a public play contained this favorable portrayal of child sexual abuse as a which presented pedophilia -child abuse -as a benefit to benefit to the victim and still approved its public presentation. the victim. Our leaders acted here, as elsewhere, in what they If so. their misjudgment rose to a new level beyond ordinary saw as the best interest of Notre Dame and its students. The stupidity. Or maybe our leaders knew it was wrong but were problem is a failure of prudential judgment. To put it in con­unwilling to risk the ire of various activists. If so, one might text let us consider the monologue in question. understandably suspect that we are governed by anatomical 
In "The Little Coochi Snorcher That Could," an adult wonders with neither brains nor guts. In any event, no amount "Southern woman of color" describes, among other childhood of academic double-talk can justify this public presentation at sexual memories, her encounters at age 16 with a "gorgeous" a Catholic university, which is what Notre Dame claims to be. 24-year-old woman in the neighborhood. The child's mother This misjudgment by our leaders is very serious as well as agrees to the woman's request that the child spend the night inexcusable, especially in light of the pedophilia crisis in the with her. (I omit explicit details.) 'Tm scared but I really can't Church and elsewhere. The University has a duty to rectify wait. Her apartment's fantastic ... the beads, the fluffy pillows, this blunder. That rectification would be advanced by the res­the mood lights ... She makes a vodka for herself and then ... ignation of all those responsible from their administrative the pretty lady makes me a drink ... The alcohol has gone to positions. my head and I'm loose and ready ... as she gently and slowly lays me out on the bed ... Then she does everything to me ... Professor Emeritus Charles Hice is on the law School faculty. that I always thought was nasty before, and wow, I'm so hot, His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contacted so wild ... I get crazy wild ... Afterward the gorgeous lady at lois.a.plawecki.1@nd.edu. teaches me ... all the diITerent ways to give myself pleasure. The views expressed in lhis column are those ofthe author She's very thorough. She tells me to always know how to give and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame make the propo.sed changes to the alcohol policy? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Alcohol. The cause of -and solution to ­all of life's problems." 
Homer Simpson cartoon character 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 19, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning 'grave disorder' 
In response to Professor Charles Rice's Feb. 26 .com­ments about homosexuality, I ask him to tell us what he (speaking for himself as a man, a father and a grandfather) con­siders the "grave disorder" at the core of homosexuality. Is he familiar with or does he have reasoned objections to the approach of the Notre Dame Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs to this topic'? 
Since he thinks the American Academy of Pediatrics is wrong to endorse adoption by sam-sex couples, perhaps he thinks of homosexual behavior as a sort of savagery. a sort of psy­chopathology inherently incom­patible with parenthood. But interpersonal manipulation and exploitation and child abuse are forms of savagery not unknown among heterosexual married couples. 
Are homosexual couples inherently selfish, likely to avoid all obligations to their own and future generations? Neither Professor Rice nor the Vatican has evidence supporting such a claim. Professor Rice's objection to adoption by same-sex couples is, ifanything, a religiously­bac;ed imposition ofselfishness on persons he does not know and is in no position to judge. 
Obedience to authority has a place in the life of any Roman Catholic. Nevertheless, to make repeated accusations that a group of people, no more likely to treat others as tools or objects of contempt than anyone else, are gravely disordered, simply because some ecclesiastical doc­uments assert this to be the case, is to make a tool of oneself. and to mock the parable of the Good Samaritan. 
Edward Manier 
philosophy professor March 18, 2002 

Open minds, not dead dogmas, will lead to real truth 
When I first set foot on Notre Dame's cam­pus as a freshman, I thought I had all the answers and that my beliefs and values were set in stone. Nearly four years later, I now see not onlv how those answers, beliefs and values have changed, but also immature and wrong I had been. This makes it easy to understand how Vincent Mata could throw off such arro­gant and insulting remarks in his letter "Truth is not relative" in The Observer on Mar. 7. 
Catholic doctrine is in fact opinion. It is just as much an opinion as Buddhist doctrine, Jewish doctrine or any of the countless others. While Catholic doctrine "flows from the truths God has revealed to man," it is based on the belief that God exists. As there has never been any concrete evidence that can clearly prove the existence of God, this completely becomes a matter of personal opinion or faith. If Mata ch0oses to believe in the existence of God and in Catholic doctrine, good for him, but that is only his opinion and is not then made into a universal for all of us "scandalous, anti­Catholic sinners." 
Secondly, how offensive, closed-minded and arrogant of Mata to assume that Catholic doc­trine is the only correct one. Out of the thou­sands and thousands of religions and sects of the past and present, he has the audacity to claim that his is the only one to come from truth. That isn't strength in faith, that is igno­rance and disrespect to the beliefs of others. 

The great philosopher John Stuart Mill believed that as soon as we refuse to question our values and_ beliefs we are left with nothing more than "dead dogmas." These "dead dog­mas" are hollow and without substance as they are never challenged or tested and thus never forced to be compared with other values or beliefs. Maybe Mata would like to transform Catholic doctrine into a "dead dogma." That way he can be rid of us "open-minded types" and become a follower, unquestionably believ­ing anything the Vatican cares to dish out to him. Or maybe four more years of education and life experiences will open his mind and soul and allow him to see real truth, not youthful arrogance masquerading as truth. 
David Fulton 
sen10r 
off-campus March 18, 2002 

Ignoring terror is a dangerous gamble 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

This past weekend, you probably heard a lot about the luck of the Irish. In fact, I'm willing to bet that beer­soaked festivities this Saint Patrick's Day resulted in a 
Joshua

lot of luck for Irish 
Skolnick

people this week­end. But despite their potential sex­Brown Dailyual fortunes. the 
Herald 

Irish simply don't compare to the Americans. 
Despite everything that has hap­pened to this country in the past six months, we continue to enjoy a string of luck that is virtually unprecedented in history. 
For a while during the '90s, we gam­bled on the fact that luck, rather than sacrifice, would keep the peace. On Sept. 11, we lost big. But we still refused to leave the table. We contin­ued to rely on luck, rather than target­ed military action. to ensure our safe­ty. By fearing the necessary expansion of the war on terror, we forgot what Kenny Rogers so wisely told us in "The Gambler": "You gotta know when to hold 'em, know when to fold 'em, know when to walk away. know when to run." Put simply, if we do not take action against potential threats, we are, again, relying on a lucky roll of the dice to keep us protected. 
Sure, we had a good streak going. But as President Bush and few others recognize, it's time to stop gambling with our future. It's time to stop trust­ing that this mysterious "luck of the Americans" is going to protect us from Saddam Hussein. It may be the case that only bombs and sacrifice can accomplish this. 
Today in Iraq. we have a vicious 
murderer of thousands of his own peo­
ple ruling the country. Hussein's 
regime has been in contact with ter­
rorists in the past. And he is fast build­
ing a program that will produce 
weapons of mass destruction. 
But who cares? We're 
America -nothing so 
terrible as Sept. 11 
can happen again. 
The fact that 
we've never had a nuclear 
device explod­
ed in a major 
city of ours 
isn't simply 
luck­
we're 
above the cruel dice rolling 
that has 
ruled the 
fate of 
every previous 
civiliza­
tion. 
We've had 
so many 
good 
hands, that 
we've for­
gotten that 
we're gam­
bling. Our for­
tune has 
become almost 
matter of who we 
are; it's inherent in 
our citizenship. I guarantee that if we do indeed use physical force to dismantle Iraq's nuclear arsenal there will be an immediate and 
unthinking outcry against this action 
by the majority of students at Brown. 

Why is this? Because much of the left­wing politics in this country assumes that we need not take proactive action against terrorism. We need not worry if a cruel dictator whose stated enemy is the United States gains access to nuclear weapons. They fail to realize that without action, it's luck, and nothing more, that protects us. And as we all realized six months ago, that luck can run out all too easily. I do not necessarily advocate immediate military action against Iraq. The P.Oli­tics surround­ing the issue are complex. and the inherent dangers of such actions are great. But while the country falls back into its 
reassuring sleep in the com­ing months, we continue to dance dangerously on the thin line of luck. 
We will never completely take away the threat of terrorism. In the end, life comes down to chances. But what we can do is put the odds in our favor. Sure, the horse with the gimpy leg and the crazy look in his eyes might win, but would you put your week's check on him? 
Throughout the late 20th century, we couldn't lase. We kept rolling the dice, and kept sneaking past Park Place and Broadway, landing in the safe, warm bosom of "Go." When Sept. 11 came along, we should have been smart enough to get out of the betting game and actually start to earn our money. Instead, I fear we are beginning to scoff at this momentary lapse. The fact that we've avoided a further major ter­rorist incidence in the subsequent months only emboldened our gam­bler's heart. 
We've failed to notice that in the cor­ner there's a husky, mustachioed pit boss with a penchant for biological warfare. Saddam Hussein is watching us gamble, knowing that eventually, we're going to start pulling some bad hands. We can either take our money off the table and stop relying on luck to pay the rent, or keep going this way. In the end, the house always wins. The luck of the Americans will not contin­ue. Every few generations, we are forced to earn our fortune. Let us not instinctively fear the prospect of work­ing for a living. 
This column first appeared in the March 15. 2002 edition of the Brown Daily Herald, the student newspaper ofBrown University. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily The Observer. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.

music 
page 14 Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Fleck's new live album flows with solo talent 
By MIKE SCHMUHL 
Scene Music Critic 
Bela Fleck is a musical chameleon. Constantly experimenting with unortho­dox instruments and toying with differ­ent styles of music, Fleck is a very influ­ential name in music and even consid­ered "the world's greatest banjo play­er." 
OK, you're thinking a banjo? Your instincts would probably hint at a dirty hillbilly with missing teeth wailing on his banjo his Uncle Cletus gave him for Christmas when he was eight. However, listening to Fleck's playing is a little more advanced. 
Plucking away at his electronic synth banjo, Fleck performs a type of music that can't be labeled. From progressive jazz and traditional bluegrass to funk and world influences. Fleck and his "flecktones" have either tried a certain approach to music or will try it in the very near future. With the help of some accomplished guest musicians, Bela fleck and the Flecktones continue to experiment with various musical tastes and attempt to capture the essence of one of their live shows through their latest release, Live At The Quick. 
The set starts off strong with a short intro and ''Earth Jam." An impressive bass line and a smooth sax play behind Fleck's incredible banjoing. As the other instruments slow, Fleck continues to play at a rapid pace for the rest of the 

.. .. . . . . ......... ~-. 
song. Varying tem­pos and beats with­in a song is difficult to do, but Fleck makes it seem easy. 
The song, "Zona Mona" is a relaxing track that includes two saxes and Fleck's banjo. A Caribbean feel is added to the mix with the addition of steel pan percus­sion. "Scratch & Sniff," the best song on the album, revolves around a funky bass line and teases from the sax and banjo. 
Fleck's skill shines through when he performs the classical piece, "Prelude from Bach violin partite #3." A six-minute act on acoustic banjo, Fleck tests the lim­its of his musical scope. 

Live At the Quick 

Warner Bros. Records 
Rating 

....~!li!ilt::: 


simplicity of the American hymn. 
The guest musi• cian Congar ol' Ondar, a Tuvan throat singer, gives an interesting per­
formance  with  
"Alash  Khem  
(A lash  River  

Song)." Able to play two notes at once and hold the notes for a while. ol'Ondar is a good example of the diversity of Fleck's musical experi­mentations. 
Other jams such as " Big Country," "A Moment So Close" and "Hoedown" are all solid songs with a Jot of potential. However, each song runs around eight minutes long and becomes very repetitive. The 
The next few songs showcase the tal­ent of the Wooten brothers, two mem­bers of the Flecktones. On "Ovombo Summit," ~oy "Future Man" Wooten solos on his own invention, the synth axe Drumitar. The percussion device is essentially an electronic drum in the shape of aguitar. With African chanting in the background, Future Man pounds away at his instrument to create a bizarre interlude in the show. 
"Improv/ Amazing Grace" is a five­minute solo by one of the best bassists in the world, Victor Wooten. Starting off with only a few notes, Wooten builds the song into a mass of complex lines and structures before returning to the individual talent of the musicians is unbelievable, but the improvisation on some of the tracks becomes crowded and annoying. 
In general, Bela Fleck proves that he can still experiment with a range of genres and instrumentations. The album has a couple solid songs and some great soloing, but the length of most of the songs and dull jams bring down the overall experience. In com­parison to Fleck's earlier work, Live At the Quick falls short of expectation and quickly fails in being a great live album. 
Contact Mike Schmuhl at mschmuhl@nd.edu. 





O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
page 15 

CAMPUS BAND 
Senior John Heieck brings a fresh sound to town 
John Heieck is not what you'd call a stereotypical Notre Dame senior. That's probably due to the fact that few of his classmates have real aspira­tions of rock stardom. In a move that would probably wouldn't go over too well with most Notre Dame parents, Heieck is about to forgo his four years of education at Notre Dame to make a run at the rough and tumble world of the music industry. While most seniors are apply­ing for nice, comfy desk jobs with Accenture, Heieck is rehearsing and dreaming of the stage. Music has always been important to Heieck, but after gradua­tion, he hopes to make music his life. In a continuing trend to further the Notre Dame community's knowledge of its own campus bands, The Observer sat down with the senior English major to talk about his borderline obsession with U2, life at Notre Dame as a rocker and the future career of a "nameless wonderband." 
Observer: For those who don't know you, give the story of your band -kind of a brief general history of the band's existence. Heieck: The band is comprised of Brandon Bodammer on drums, Andrew Penke on bass and background vocals and me on lead vocals and gui­tar. Andy and I have been in and out of bands since high school, but the three of us have been together for about a year and a half now. Our trip to ND is the band's first appearance outside of our home­town of Omaha. Neb. 
Observer: Describe your musical style. Heieck: The question every original band dreads to answer ... Well, I would describe our present musi­cal style as rhythmically-driven pop-rock, with a definite emphasis on serious song writing; some­thing I believe, in my humble opinion, is lacking in today's "Godchildren of Grunge" rock resurgance. 
Observer: What are your biggest musical influ­ences? Heieck: U2, The Beatles, Radiohead, The Smashing Pumpkins, Stone Temple Pilots, Bob Dylan, The Doors, Neil Young, Fleetwood Mac, The Beach Boys, Beethoven, Captain Geech and the Shrimp Shack Shooters ... 
Observer: What can ND students expect from one -of your live performances? Heieck: Lots of cross-dressing. No wait, that was last weekend at Heartland ... Just kidding: I think 

ND students can expect a moving and ener­getic live pcrfor­man ce. Basically. and I hate to pigeon­hole us in this way, but if you like U2 and the Beatles, you are probably going to enjoy our two-hour show. 
Observer: 
So, what's up with the name of your band? 
Heieck: 
That's a great ques­

Bandmates (left to right) Brandon Bodammer, John Heieck and Andrew Penke will be 
t i o n . 

bringing their special blend of musical influences, creative song writing and pop-rock 


Originally 
rhythm to South Bend this week. 
we were W i d e Awake, but I recently discovered a well-travelled West Coast band with the same name. Normally, that wouldn't be a big deal, but they have a reason­able following in Seattle. So right now, we're kind of in limbo. Personally, I'm pushing for Drunk in Public, but I don't think Andy or Brandon will go for that. 
Observer: How has going to Notre Dame affected your life in a band? · Heieck: It has been both a blessing and a curse. Andy and Brandon both went to college in Omaha, which have made rehearsals quite rare, but pre­cious. It also forced Andy and I to develop individu­ally as song writers, which has, in the long run, greatly benefitted the band. When we have song­swapping sessions, he and I begin in two totally dif­ferent places both literally, as in our different expe­
riences at home and abroad, and metaphori­c ally, as in our different mindsets at the time. Somehow, during those sessions the songs come into focus. at which point Brandon has to lay down some kind of groove to make sense of it all. It's actually quite miraculous that anything comes out at all. 
Observer: Why should Notre Dame take notice of this band? Heieck: Notre Dame should take notice of this band now because someday soon we will be an international sensation. That may sound crazy, but you have to be a little nuts to join a band in the first place. 
Observer: When did you know that being in a band was right choice for you? Heieck: I think I knew I wanted to be in a band after I saw U2 at Arrowhead stadium five years ago. I know a lot of U2 fans didn't like the PopMart Tour, but I thought it was amazing -it was like seeing a rock concert on a space station. After that, I was hooked. I formed a really awful grunge band and began playing gigs in Omaha. I've been writ­ing and playing ever since, refining my style as I mature. 
Observer: Do you have any advice for college students who want to start their own band? Heieck: Well, for bands to really work, two things have to exist. First, everyone has to be on the same page in terms of musical direc­tion, or want the same things. Second thing is that people in the band are people you 

Senior English major John Heieck can be seen with his band have to get along with. The guys in my band Wednesday from 9 to 11 p.m. at BW-3's and then again on are my best friends. You need that to get Friday from 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. at Benchwanner's. through the bad times. If you don't have that 
· 

... well that's why a lot of bands break up. 
Observer: When and where can Notre Dame kids find you guys playing live? Heieck: We're playing two nights this week: Wednesday at BW-3's from 9 to 11 p.m., and Friday at Benchwarmer's from 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. The first show I believe is all ages, and both shows will have drink specials. 
Observer: Do you plan on playing in the South Bend area again or is this a one time offer? Heieck· We will definately come back in the future, but have no immediate plans on coming back next year. It depends on how well received we are. We hope to come back during the fall or so, but it's a long trip from Omaha. 
Observer: What does the future hold for the band? Heieck: Well, I graduate from Notre Dame in May. Afterwards, our nameless band (apart from having a 
name by then) will begin playing full time across the country. We hope to be signed to a major label shortly thereafter, at which point we will take over 
the world. 

Observer: What else should Notre Dame know about this nameless wonderband? Heieck: HA! That's a great way of describing us. I think I will call us "The Nameless Wonderband" until we get a real name. I guess I want people to know, that if you are looking for something fresh. melodic and original, come check us out. You won't be disappointed. 
This story was compiled by Sam Derheimer. who can be contacted at sderheim@nd.edu. For more . information on John Heieck's band. contact John at IIeieck.3@n d. edu. 
This column is part of series of collaborations between the Observer and WVF!. ifyou would like to have your band featured in the Observer, please contact the Scene Deptartment at Scene@nd.edu. 
Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 16 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish drop shocker to Aztecs 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Spores Writer 

For most people, a trip to San Diego during spring break would probably sound like a; pretty nice idea. But for the Notre Dame women's tennis team, the visit turned sour in a hurry. 
The Irish capped off a two-match road trip in San Diego against No. 48 San Diego State and suffered a surprising 5-2 loss. 
The defeat dropped the team's season record to 11-6 and took some of the luster off an impressive 5-2 victory over Air Force earlier in the week. 
"I thought we played awful," said head coach Jay Louderback. "We were really strong in doubles but we just Int it get away for some rea­son in singles." 
Things looked good for the Irish when Becky Varnum and Lindsey Green won their doubles match bv the score of 8-4. Sarah Jane Connelly and Alicia Salas followed with an 8-5 win to clinch the impor­tant doubles point. 
But the Irish could not capitalize on that momentum and the result was a disastrous singles perfor­mance. 
At singles spots two through five, the Aztecs were able to sweep the Irish without much difficulty. The only Irish players that were even able to push their matches to three sets Varnum at No. 1 singles and Connelly at No. 6. · 
Varnum eventually ended up falling in a third set tie-breaker to Silvia Tornier, while Connelly was able to grind out a 4-6, 7 -5, 6-4 vic­tory over Julia Ana Chidley. 
But by that point, the damage had already been done. 
It was the two California natives on the squad who seemed to strug­gle the most on their home turf. Both Green and Nina Vaughan played in Southern California dur­ing high school, but lost in 6-3, 6-0 and 6-3, 6-2 decisions respectively. 
"Both Green and Vaughan did fine in doubles, but for one reason or another, no one was really able to put it all together," said Louderback. 
Nonetheless, the Irish still fin­ished the trip west with a 1-1 record that was bal·anced by a Monday victory over Air Force. 
In a stark contrast from Friday's match, the Irish actually lost the doubles point but were able to rebound in singles and take the match 5-2. 
Katie Cunha got the ball rolling on the singles side when she posted an impressive 6-2, 6-2 victory over the Falcons' Ashley Gee 
Air Force then took a brief lead when their No. 1 player Brooke Parsons topped Becky Varnum 6-4, 6-3, but the Irish rebounded nicely with wins from Salas, Connelly and Vaughan to clinch the win. 
After Vaughan's victory, sopho­more Emily Neighbours followed with a 6-7, 6-2, 
1-0 win at the No. 6 singles spot for her first victory of the year. 
"Lindsey had to sit the Air Force match out, so we needed Emily to play well and she really came through for us," said Louderback. "I thought she came out kind of 
nervous, but she played through it and ended up with a win against a very tough opponent." 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish prepare for Big Red test 

By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 15 Irish women's lacrosse team, coming off strong wins over Boston College and George Mason, looks to build on it.s undefeated start when meeting the tenth-seeded Cornell Big Red today at 4 p.m. 
This i-s the first ever meeting between the two programs, both of which are building a reputation in lacrosse. Cornell is the first of many ranked teams that the Irish will face this spring. 
"This is the first game to really show what we are about," captain Alissa Moser said. 
Cornell, unbeaten in its first three games this season, will be a big test for the Irish. Both teams beat Stanford earlier in the season, and that result seems to favor the higher seed Big Red, as Cornell beat them 20-5 while the Irish beat Stanford 10-5. 
The Irish defense looks up to the task to handle the scoring prowess of the Big Red, lead by defensive Big East player of the week, goalkeeper Jen White. White has a season save percentage of .611 and caused 3 turnovers in each of the last two games. But to stop a deep team like Cornell the Irish will have to be thinking defensively. 
"Cornell has a lot of seniors and anyone on their team can handle the ball and be a threat to score," said Moser. "Everybody is going to have to be on their game defensively." 
Offensively the Irish have yet to score less than 10 goals in a game on their way to the first 4-0 start in the six-year history of the team. 
Danielle Shearer has stepped up as a leader on the field and received the Big East offensive player of the week for her efforts. She recorded six goals and five assists in the wins against George Mason and Boston College, while leading the team in both goals 
(9) and points (17). 
"She has found she can use her speed to take on any defender one­on-one," said Moser. "Dani can real­ly get the team started (scoring)." 
Moser and Natalie Loftus, both seniors, have nine and seven goals respectively. 
The Irish will need to continue to put up numbers on the scoreboard to compete with Cornell, which scores an average of 15 goals a game. 
The Irish hope to carry with them the momentum they gained from eas­ily defeating Big East opponent Boston College at home on Saint Patrick's Day. The Irish won 14-5 and the closest the Eagles came to challenging was early in the game when they made it 4-2. 
The Irish !axers made it clear which team was greener by scoring five more goals before the half to increase the lead.to 9-4. The Irish never looked back, winning easily and moving them to 1-0 in confer­ence play. 
Contact Chris Coleman at cc~lemal@nd.edu. 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish seniors excel at NCAAs 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track and field teams capped off the indoor season last weekend with the NCAA Indoor Championships. The Irish had shown their depth and young talent throughout the indoor season, but it was the seniors who shined in the national spotlight. 
Seniors Ryan Shay, Luke Watson and Liz Grow capped off their coUegiate indoor careers with top ten finishes in each of their respective races, earning each of the three runners All­American honors. 
Shay became the most decorated track and field athlete at Notre Dame, earning All­American honors for the ninth time in his col­legiate career with a sixth in the 5000-meter run. Shay finished in 14:02.97 
·"I just go out there and try to win every race I'm in. I don't pay attention to racking up All­American certificates. If it happens, it hap­pens. But I don't really think much of it," said Shay. "But, I hope at Stanford [outdoor invita­tional] that I can qualify for nationals in the 10,000-meter run." 
Watson was the only ·other men's athlete to represent the Irish at nationals, finishing in third place in the 3000-meter run with a time of 8 :02 .18. It marked the second time in his career that Watson was named an All­American, his first being in 2000 when he was All-American in the distance.medley relay. Shay also ran in the 3000, finishing in 18th place with a time of 8:18.75. 
Watson's third place finish was also the high­est place that any track and field athlete has finished at nationals since Heisman Trophy runner-up Raghib "Rocket" Ismail finished sec­ond in the 55 meters in 1991. 
The efforts of Watson and Shay earned the men's team a 21st place overall at nationals with nine points. Tennessee won the men's title with 62.50 points. 
Grow finished fourth place in. the 400-meter dash with a time of 52.88 seconds. Her fourth place finish is the best result ever by a female track and field athlete at Notre Dame. 
Grow was also a part of the mile relay team that had been ranked third going in to the meet. They did not do as well as they had hoped and finished in ninth place. 
Other competitors for the women at nationals were junior Tamiesha King in the long jump and freshman Lauren King in the mile. King finished. 13th with a jump of 6.02 meters. Lauren King took 11th place in the mile with a time of 4:45.09 in the preliminary race. Her time was less than a tenth of a second from qualifying for the mile finals. 
Overall, the women finished tied for 34th place with five points. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES 
4-7 BDRM HOMES.WALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. 272-6306 
$250 a day potenlial/bartending Training provided 
1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Fraternities•sororilies'Clubs*Stude nt Groups Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 with the easy Campustundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. Does not involve credit card applications. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today' 
Contact Campustundraiser.com at (888)-923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com_ 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left tor 2002-2003 
Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­
TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3 NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 
2773097 
B & B for ND grad 4 rooms 3 miles ND (574)287-4545 
LOST AND FOUND 
SMC class ring lost in or around Senior Bar Wednesday, Feb. 28. Gold with diamond. "Noreen C Gillespie" engraved. Please call 284-4417 if you find it. 
WANTED 
Camp Counselor for children w/ dis­abilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child 
$7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only_ 6 sites in Summit County. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Call 800-CYO-CAMP for an appli· cation. 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com 
MMMRentals.com 
Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) Sale neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1 /2 miles from Tacoma Metro, 
$390/month + 1/4 utilties, 
call Michelle 202/829-3725, or krup78@hotmail.com 

4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available after 6/1. 3 block from campus. 
Call (773)-486-8862. 
5 tastefully decorated rooms for rent tor Graduation/ND Football weekends in private home, less than 2 miles north of campus. 
Continental breakfast included, many happy repeat cus­tomersl 
Call Kim 277-8340 
HOUSES FOR RENT; 
1)Iarge (6-9) people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call Bill at 532-1896.. 
Summer Rent 2-bdrm Castle Point part.turn 243-0195 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude. CSC, at 1•7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
want to work at The Observer? Call Helena at 1-5323 for News. 
Call Chris at 1-4543 for Sports. 

Call Spencer at 1-4540 for Scene. 
Call Nellie at 1-8767 for Photo. 

Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish win 1, drop pair during spring break 

By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team experienced a wide range of emotions over spring break. On March 9. the Irish won their first game of the season against Rutgers by a score of 11-6, but the exhila­rating thrill of victory would not last long as the Irish dropped their next two con­tests in heartbreaking fashion. 
On March 12. the Irish dropped their third game of the season 7-5 to host No. 4 Virginia. Four days later, the Irish lost a dramatic double­overtime thriller to visiting No. 3 Loyola 7-6. The emotional loss marked the second over­time defeat this season for the Irish. 
In the win against Rutgers, freshman midfielder Brian Gordiano led the way with two goals and two assists for the first points of his collegiate career. Fellow freshman Matt Malakoff also added a goal in 
TEACH DAKOTA 

the contest, while sophomore
We need good people with bachelor degrees in 

Dan Berger continued his
math, music, or science to learn the teaching 

strong offensive play, netting profession in rural, western South Dakota. The 
two more goals against the Scarlet Knights. 
population served will largely be Native American, 

The team's trip to
middle or high school age. TEACH DAKOTA 

Charlottesville, Va. marked the participants earn a salary with benefits, plus a full­
return of Irish coach Kevin Corrigan to his alma mater,
tuition scholarship, as they simultaneously work 
Virginia.
and earn a fully accredited teaching degree. 

Defense was the key to Notre second overtime, Loyola's Michael Sullivan ended the game with a shot that got just past the reach of junior goalie Nick Antol giving the Greyhounds a 7-6 victory. 
Senior captain Devin Ryan led the Irish with a hat trick for his sixth, seventh, and eighth goals of the season. Sophomore Dan Berger also scored registering his team­high tenth goal of the season. 
Although Notre Dame's record currently sits at 1-4, the Irish have played remark­ably well for an extremely young team that has battled­against the toughest competi­tion in the nation. 
"We lost our four games this season by only a combined five goals. It's tough to lose like that," said Brian Giordano, "but we're proving to our­selves that we can compete against the top teams in the country." 
Notre Dame's post-season hopes are still very much alive. The Irish have yet to open up play in the Great Western Lacrosse League. Notre Dame's standing in the GWLL will determine whether the Irish qualify for the playoffs. All of the experience against top teams outside the GWLL should serve many of the younger Irish players well when they begin division play in a few weeks. 
"We just need to take one game at a time," said Giordano. "I sense no letting down at all. We have a really great group of seniors who are really helping us come along. We will learn from these losses and continue to improve." 
Before the Irish worry about division play and their post­season prospects, they will look to avenge their only regu­lar season loss of last year when they host Hofstra this Saturday at 3:30. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro.l@nd.edu. 
Applications m due April 19. The program begins in July. Learn more a!: www.leachdako!a.oro 
2112 
r111 11,1 


Dame's strong showing against the Cavaliers. The game was tied with only 1:45 remaining in the game when Virginia's Billy Glading scored the game­winning goal. 
Junior goalie Nick Antol made 17 saves against the potent Cavalier attack. Brian Giordano continued his stellar play leading the Irish with two goals in a losing effort. 
Against Loyola, the Irish defense rose to the occasion and held the undefeated Greyhounds to only six goals in regulation. After Notre Dame won the face-off to open the 

llRO"~
5tD 
XXXI
11111 II II Ill Ill 

Early Sign Ups?!!
Wednesday, March 20 

When: March 20th • 2:ith Wliere: J.t Floor LaFortune
4:30 •6:00 p.m. 

What You Need: creative team name, name and phone # ofcaptain and $17
Library Concourse 

This year's tournament proceeds to be donatL-d 
to ND Club of.JamicaJmupball Programme 
Questions? 


Email us at bkstr.l@nd.edu
Advisors from every Major, Minor and 
Visit our sponsor
Area Studies Program will be available 
a6a
to provide information and answer 
questions for all students. 




page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
FENCING 
Fencers capture 12 spots 
undefeated in the round­fine-tuning will be necessary

. Irish qualify 
robin matches. to win the national title.maximum number Freshman Derek Snyder, "You know when vou have visibly affected by his compli­a car running well," and you
of competitors to 
cations from tonsillitis, took want the car to run a little bitNational third place and qualified for better, so you make an Championships nationals. Coach Yves Auriol adjustment, we want to do 
was impressed by the fresh­that [with the team]," the man's efforts. coach said.

By l\1ATT LOZA.R 
"Derek Snyder showed a lot Starting Thursday, the Irish

Sports Wrirer 
of guts today," Auriol said. "It will attempt to win their first was really a challenge for national championship since 

At the Midwest Regional him. This morning we 1994 at the national champi­Championships on March 9. weren't sure if he could onships at Drew University in the Notre Dame fencing team fence." New Jersey. had one goal in mind: qualify Senior Steve Mautone fin­the maximum 12 fencers for ished fourth in men's epee. 
Note:

the National Championships. Stnce a school can only quali­
. Penn State, national

They took care of 11 of those fy two fencers per weapon, 
champions from 1995-2000,

spots themselves, but needed Mautone will not qualify for was the only other school io a little help to get the twelfth. his first national competition. 
qualify 12 fencers. Defending

In men's sabre, the Irish Freshman Michal Sobieraj 
national champion St. John'sonly officially qualified Andre returned from his foot injury 

qualified 11. Ohio State was 

... Crompton for nationals. By to claim the men's foil title. 
the only other school to quali­

finishing in the top four, a Junior captain Jan Viviani f'y double-digit fencers with
fencer automatically qualifies finished second in claiming 
10.

for the national champi­the other spot for nationals. onship. Crompton finished Senior Brian Casas finished fourth and qualified for the sixth and will not return to Contact Matt Lozar at second straight year. the NCAAs. mlozar@nd.edu. 
But for the Irish to qualify On the women's side, fresh­their other men's sabre man Alicja Kryczalo contin­fencer, they had to· wait five ued her impressive debut days before the NCAA selec­season in winning the foil tion committee gave junior title. In a fence-off for the Matt Fabricant the at-large title, Kryczalo defeated Ohio bid. State's 
Fabricant Hannah
"/ was just trying to go 

matched his Thompson
out andfence hard. I

seed by finish­5 -3 . ing fifth at the dropped three today, but Fellow regional com­freshman
I beat some good people.,, 

petition. His Andrea day was high­Ament lighted with a Matt Fabricant finished 5-4 comeback third to
Irish sabre fencer 

victory over qualify for Wayne Sta:te t h e senior Jakub Krochmalski. national championships. 
"I was just trying to go out Other qualifiers for the and fence hard," said women were sophomore Fabricant. "I dropped three Kerry Walton also qualified today but I beat some good for nationals with a third in people. I thought I fenced women's epee, and junior well." epee captain Anna Carnick 
Fifth-year senior Andrzej was fourth. Sophomore Bednarski finished sixth and Destanie Milo qualified with a will not qualify for his fourth second in women's sabre, NCAA Championship. and senior sabre captain 
Three Irish fencers took Carianne McCullough took first place at the regional third to qualify. Walton is the competition. Junior epeeist only new qualifier in that Ozren Debic won his third group. regional title by dominating Auriol feels his confident in the competition and going his team but knows some 
r-----------, 
I  I  
II  __  ......,..__  ....____  II  
I  ,_ ====:'  €A'i'T Of  I  
1  .....___......  CHICAGO  1  
: L-Pl:-z:_zA_C_O_M_PA_N_v_·  :  
1pizzadoneright:aniflr~;~ ~= , ~I  1  

Tuesday, March 19, 2002 



page 19

Tue~Jay, March 19, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Center for Social Concerns 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 



Welcome back from spring break to all! The Center for Social Concerns would like to extend a special "Welcome Back", Thank and Celebrate the over 160 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who participated in the following spring break service and experiential learning opportunities: Appalachia, Washington, D.C., L'Arche, Migrant, and Coachella Valley one-credit, experiential learning seminars, and those who traveled to El Salvador and Immokalee, Florida through the three-credit courses, Church and Society in El Salvador: Transforming Realities and From Field To Table. 
And Many Thanks to the 22 professors, staff, graduate and undergraduate students who served as educators, Seminar coordinators and task force members, providing good organization and leadership for these programs: Veronica Trevino, Luly Gomez, Colleen Knight Santoni, 
and Felipe Morel, C.S.C. (Coachella Valley); Carl Loesch and Dr. Lincoln Johnson (Migrant Seminar/Field To Table); Ricky Klee and Jonathon Alvarez (Washington Seminar); Dr. Matthew Ashley, Michael Lee, Dr. Jay Brandenberger (El Salvador); Marissa Runkle (L'Arche); Ben Powers, Lauren Zajac, Coneen O'Connor, Derek Vollmer, Maura Cenedella, Terry Fitzgibbons, Daphne Zeringue, Cara 
Spicer, Mary Beth Holzmer, Mike Mansour and Carl Loesch (Appalachia). 
chili? NDfor Animals is sponsoring a vegan dinner on Sunday, March 24th, 6:30pm at the CSC. NutritionistJocieAntonelli will be there to answer all of you questions. 
ND for Animals is a student group that seeks to 

Thursday, March 21 * 7 p.m. in the CSC Library 
create awareness about issues involving animals 

Jay has experience as a Community Organizer in the Southwest U.S. and in 
and to expand our circle ofcompassion to include 

Chicago. He was Director of Urban Programming and Justice Education at
all creatures. 

the Center for Social Concerns and now is the Director of the Robinson Com Please visit our website: munity Learning Center, a collaborative effort between the Northeast Neighbor http://www.nd.edu/~animaJs 
hood and Notre Dame. Come to speak with Jay about career opportunities in commu­nity organizing and community development. 
II II 
Current Volunteer Needs: 
McKinley Elementary after school program -Tom Werge -631~7679 Starting an after school program that will take place on Wednesdays from 2:30-3:30 and looking for some students to assist the kids with their homework, especially in Math and Reading. Transportation from Notre Dame to the 
Conversations
elementary school can be provided. 
Tutor for 7th grader -Loise Treft -256-5070 An opportunity to Reflect and Integrate Looking for a tutor to help her 7t1i grade son Raymond w/ science & english skills, including sentence structure. 
Faith and Justice Issues Can come to campus if tutor prefers. 
Comejoinus in reflecting on social 
Tutor to help with study skills for 7th grader -Katie Mnichowski -251-9870 
conems, peace, and faith issues! 


She would like a tutor to assist her daughter with homework and most importantLy help her develop better study 
"Simple Lives, Simple Choices"
skills -including tips on memorizing material or reading textbooks. Please be available once or twice a week (Thursday-Sunday) for one hour. Algebra/Geometry tutor for Junior in HS -Vanessa Kosanovich -289-4330 She would like an algebra/geometry tutor to work with her son one-two times a week for 1-2 hours, preferably beginning around 6:00 or 7:00 P.M. Tutor would need transportation to her home in South Bend. Big Sister for 12 yr old softball pitcher -Carol Gropp -237-4007 (w) 234-3395 (h) Do you like to throw a softball around? If so, a 12 year old girl, Nikki, would love to spend some time with you. She is a good student in school, but needs a role model in her life to give her some encouragement and improve her self-esteem. 
Male Mentor for 8-yr old boy -Deb Isakeb -631-8844 Do you enjoy sports, cars, videogames and long for the days of childhood? If so, become a mentor for an 8-year old boy whose father is absent from his life. Please be available to spend time with him about once a week. Library Program at St. Joseph County Jail -Jane Ragle -245-6578 Trying to improve their library program for inmates and need help with computerized entry of reading material, physical help arranging books, and distribution and pick­up of reading materials. Volunteers wouldn't have to have inmate contact; they will work with the comfort level of the students. 
Newly Opened Safe House for Elderly-Mary-246-0144 
OASIS, a newly opened safe house which provides short-term emergency shelter for elderly at risk for abuse or neglect, is one of only 18 in the nation and is in need of volunteers for overnight (11 pm-7am) and weekend shifts (7am-7pm & 7pm-7am). Volunteer must be able to become alert if needed during the night and 2 volunteers may sign up together for one time slot. LOGAN Camp Amigo Trip -Marissa Runkle -(574) 289-4831 x.1043 -marissar@logancenter.org Several students are needed to accompany adults with disabilities on the annual camping trip to Michigan, leaving the morning of Saturday, April 6th and returning the afternoon on Sunday, April 7th. Transportation, meals, and lodging are provided free. Volunteers will assist the Logan campers in basketball and volleyball games as well as games using the pool table, ping pong, and foozball tables. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu.*** 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
.... 

Soukup 
continued from page 28 
thanks the class bully as he receives a swirly. "It's an honor to be crushed by you," the Irish said as the Blue Devils' water­boys tossed in alley-oop after alley-oop. 
Fast-forward three years. Then pick your jaw up from the floor when you realize how far Notre Dame has come. 
Instead of being wowed by the Blue Devils, Notre Dame was sick of hearing about them. Instead of rolling over and accepting defeat, the Irish fought back with an underdog spirit that Humphrey sent virtually every Blue Devil shot into the next area code, he cracked a smile. When Torn Timmermans threw up a lay-up and got fouled, the bench leapt to its feet. 
Teams don't celebrate when they play Duke. Never. 
That's how far Notre Dame has come from the days when losses came in bunches and Irish basketball was a synonym for doormat. Now, they believe they should win. Every game. 
But the Irish still lost. And that shows they have a ways to go, too. 
Notre Dame outplayed Duke for 34 minutes but still fell six minutes short. Top-notch teams don't let the opponent 

score 20 of 

would have made Rocky proud.  "We don't accept moral victories. Deep down  the last 26 points, like Notre Dame  
And, after the  inside. we'd rather see it  let Duke do.  
game, instead of saying they  than believe it. ,,  And most of all, top  
could have  teams ­ like  
won, the Irish  Chris Thomas  Duke-play  
said they  Irish point guard  like it's their  

should have won. 
As freshmen, Graves and Swanagan welcomed those moral victories three years ago. After all, you have to learn to walk before you can run. 
Now, Irish players scorn the verythoughtofthem.Perhaps that's because they're sprinting after the nation's top programs. 
"We don't accept moral victo­ries," Chris Thomas said. "Deep down inside, we'd rather see it than believe it." 
Why, when weary Irish play­ers straggled toward the bench during every time-out, did Brey look each one in the eye and yell, "Don't give me that friggin' tired look." And when Matt Carroll hit a long jumper early in the second half, why did Brey pump his fist and shout, "Oh yeah, oh yeah!" 
Because the Irish didn't know they were supposed to lose. And even if they did know, they didn't care. 
When Graves hit shot after shot. he ran down the court with his arms elevated. When Ryan right to win. 
"There's a fearlessness about them, and there's a belief it's their des­tiny to win," Brey said. "When they put the jersey on, you don't think you're supposed to lose." 
But the Notre Dame uniform is starting to make a name for itself, too, and the Irish are slowly adopting Duke's aura of invincibility. When Humphrey talks about playing Notre Dame's style of basketball, everybody knows what he is referring to. When Matt Carroll says the Irish just have to play like themselves, teams start quaking in fear. 
"This," Graves said, pointing right at the word 'Irish' emblazed across his chest, "this is pride. This means something now. 
"It didn't before." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily The Observer. 


LibQUAL 
Tell Us -we are listening! Answer the Library Survey 
Coming March 25, 2002 
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 
Undergraduate members of the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for membership on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site: 
http://www.nd.edu/r-.Jscglsn/applications .htm 
Applications are due by 5 :00 p.m. on Thursday, April 4, 2002, and can be submitted at the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 

Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
two field goals in the last six and Duke's Mike Dunleavy made a a half minutes of the game. 3-pointer, the Irish reeled off a

Men 
Duke scored 20 of the game's 14-0 run to take a 53-49 lead. 
final 26 points. Notre Dame led for most of the 

continued from page 28 
Although the Irish trailed 45-second half, and when Irish nity for an upset slip through 39 at halftime, thev came roar­point guard Chris Thomas hit a their lingers as they struggled ing out of the locker room at the mid-range jumper with 6:24 to down the stretch, making only start of the second half. After play to put the Irish on top 71­
senior Thank You Picture Frame 

Don't miss this unique opportunity to give something back to those who have made your ND education possible! Sold tonight from 7:30-9:30 p.m. in 
Lafortune 

The 2-sided, 4x6 frame 
Also available is a 4x6 album includes a picture of the holding 24 pictures in navy with Dome, a quote by Monk, a a gold ND emblem on the 
brief thank-you message, and cover. A great gift for friends one line of name and even yourself! personalization. Cost: $7. 
Cost: $25. 
+ Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! + 
. 


Name (first and last only, please): 
School Address: 
Phone: Email: I want to order frame(s) for $25 each __ album(s) for $7 each 
__ both the frame and album for $30 
. 
Please make checks payable to: ND Management Club, 

. 
You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/ ~mgtclub or send in this article with your order information to 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Offering: 
• A transfe~intent curriculum 
• 
The shared resources of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 

• 
A residence life program 


Call (574} 239-8400 or visit www.hcc-nd.edu for more information. 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE~ 
Ill Nam Dame. lndiona ~ 

64, the Irish held their largest lead of the afternoon. 
But Duke refused to quit. The Blue Devils slowly chipped away at the Irish lead and tied the score at 71 on a pair of Chris Duhon free throws nearly two minutes later. Notre !Jame wouldn't retake the lead for the rest of the game. 
"When they were down seven, and their life was flashing before their eyes, [Duke] really locked in," Brey said. "And they have the ability to do that." 
Duke's Jason Williams, the national player of the year. gave the Blue Devils the lead for good when he hit a pair of free throws to give Duke a 77-75 lead with 1 :04 to play. 
After Duke's Carlos Boozer hit another free throw. Tom Timmermans was fouled going for a lay-up. The sophomore center made both free throws to close the gap to 78-77, but it was the closest the Irish would get the rest of the way. Williams made two more free throws to give the Blue Devils a three­point lead. 
The Irish had one final chance to draw even, but Thomas, who finished with just four points and had trouble scoring against one of the best backcourts in the nation, took a difficult 3-point shot that rattled off the rim. Carroll grabbed the rebound, but was called for an offensive foul as he drove to the basket. 
The Blue Devils, who only made 3-of-9 free throws during the first 19 minutes of the sec­ond half, shot l 1-for-12 from the line in the final minute to preserve the Blue Devil victory. 
"Every game we've played, we've had a chance to win it." Graves said. "It was two great teams playing and throwing heavyweight punches at each other, and both teams respond­ing. Unfortunately, time ran out on us:" 
Notre Dame dominated the inside, outscoring the Blue Devils 36-22 in the paint. Matt Carroll and Ryan Humphrey grabbed 12 rebounds, and Humphrey and Harold 
Women 
continued from page 28 

"We got a lead and we played a lot of players. In postseason we'd never intentionally run the score up on anyone -I've been on the receiving end of that," Summitt said. "We tried to set within our team a certain level of expectation." 
Although Summitt claimed she wasn't trying to show up the defending national champi­ons, Snow -who has dunked in a game three times already this season -clearly was look­ing to make the SportsCenter highlight reel late in the second half. 
As the crowd of 5,799 went nuts each time she got the ball, Snow dribbled down court on a fast break with just over two minutes remaining and jumped into the air where it appeared she was ready to put down a two-hand slam before she was fouled by Wicks. 
"When I saw Michelle leaking out and l heard the crowd start to roar I was like 'Oh, I better get my springing legs on,"' Wicks said with a laugh. "1 think that may have been the best play of the game for me, the positive for the night, that I didn't have someone dunk on me, as sad as that is." 
McGraw didn't take the moment so lightly. 
"You're down 37 and there's Swanagan added 15 and 13 points apiece respectively. 
But the Irish only made 4-of­18 3-point shots and had trouble shutting down Duke's potent offense. While Notre Dame con­centrated on limiting shots by Carlos Boozer, Mike Dunleavy and Jason Williams, the Irish didn't have an answer for Duke backup guard Daniel Ewing, who finished with 18 points. 
"I take my hat off to Daniel Ewing," Brey said. "I can live with him making big shots instead of Williams, Dunleavy or Boozer just crushing us. We had to give up something." 
The game, which was extremely physical at times, boiled over at the end of the first half. With 16.3 seconds left in the half. Humphrey and Duke's Mike Dunleavy got tangled up battling for an offensive rebound under Notre Dame's basket. Humphrey was called for both a technical and a personal foul, and Dunleavy made all four free throws to give Duke a six-point lead heading into the half. 
"I know Mike. it wasn't inten­tional, it was just two people wanting to win," Humphrey said. "When you're aggressive, sometimes emotions get the best of you. I wouldn't do anything to hurt Mike. just like I wouldn't want anybody doing anything to hurt me. It was just two people being aggressive who got tan­gled up, that was it." 
Saturday's game marked the end of the college careers of Graves, Humphrey and Swanagan. The trio played an instrumental role in taking Notre Dame from a Big East doormat to back-to-back appearances in the NCAA Tournament. 
"There's nothing negative coming out of our locker room," Graves said. "We went out there and proved we belonged in this tournament. We pushed the best team in the country to the brink, and unfortunately the ball didn't come our way." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
a lot of pressure and you 're just trying to let the game end I think," McGraw said. "To see something like that, 1 would have been really disappointed if she had dunked on us." 
According to Lawson, Tennessee isn't satisfied just to have ended the season for the defending national champions. but they did use Notre Dame's experience as motivation going in. 
"I think it really gives us more focus in our preparation for them. knowing that they did have veteran players that have been through battles and have won a championship," Lawson said. "Our focus was not to overlook them and realize that this is a good basketball team." 
Despite the lopsided score, McGraw said that the experi­ence of playing in an environ­ment such as Tennessee's was a positive experience for her team. a group graduating just one senior, forward Ericka Haney, to build on. 
"Our team is young, this is a learning experience for us," McGraw said. "This is how you grow as a team, to go through something like this. You go back, watch the film and figure out what you have to do to get better and how to get to where we want to be. That's what we're going to work on." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 

-------------~--­page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Golfers grab 2nd in best finish this year 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing perfor­mance two weeks ago, the Notre Dame women's golf team spent a week practicing in Tampa, Fla. that culminated in its best finish of the 2001-02 season_ 
The Irish finished second out of 22 teams at the Snowbird couple days prior to the tourna­ment to practice," she said. "Everyone was just feeling a lot better mentally about playing." 
Because of the South Bend weather, the Irish have not had many opportunities play out­side, so the week in Florida was important to give them the chance to play outdoors every day. 
The practice rounds went 
well, giving 
the Irish
"We are really pleased 
Invitational, increased sponsored by about how we finished, confidence 
Northern especially coming offof heading in to 
Illinois the tourna­
[the Tulane Green Wave 
University, ment. last Thursday Invitational]. We did a lot "We were 
and Friday. better this time. " expecting to 
Notre Dame go down there was led by with a good 
freshman Terri Taibl 
chance to win. golfer Karen junior golfer We were 
Lotta. who finished in fifth place with her rounds of 77-73. 
"We are really pleased about how we finished, especially coming off of [the Tulane Green Wave Invitational]. We did a lot better this time," said junior Terri Taibl, who shot a 36-hole total of 155 to tie for 13th place. 
Notre Dame. with a 36-hole team total of 617, finished 17 strokes behind tournament champion Arkansas State. The Indians, with a total of 600, set both a 36-hole tournament record and a single round record after Friday's team score of 295. 
Arkansas State's Shellie Wenzel won the tournament with a record-setting total of 139 strokes for 36 holes. Wenzel finished 11 strokes ahead of Lotta_ 
The Irish were disappointed in their play two weeks ago when they finished 14th at the Tulane invitational in New Orleans. Over spring break, the team focused their efforts on preventing a disappointing per­formance from occurring again. While the team was in Florida last week, coach Debbie King had the team playing rounds every morning and practicing every afternoon. 
"We were on the course pret­ty much the whole week," Lotta said. 
The opportunity to practice and play in warmer weather benefited the team during the tournament, according to Taibl. 
"I think everyone had a better mindset coming into the tour­nament. It also helped having a 
pumped up to play well," Lotta said. 
Although Notre Dame fin­ished second, and not first, the lrish were still very pleased with their performance. 
"We all put in good perfor­mances as a team. Instead of just one or two people playing well, we all stepped up," said Lotta_ 
In past tournaments, the Irish have had trouble getting all of the players to perform at the top of their games, but last week, everyone seemed to achieve their potential. 
"We were just trying to do the best that we can, and have everyone play as well as they could on the same day so we could get a nice low team score. and fortunately it hap­pened for us," Taibl said. 
Senior Kristen McMurtrie tied for ninth place with a 36-hole total of 153 on the par-72, 5,940 yard Pebblecreek Golf Course. Sophomore Shannon Byrne finished third for the Irish with her rounds of 83 and 76 that put her in 25th place. Sophomore Rebecca Rogers shot 170 to finish tied for 75th place and senior Lauren Fuchs tied for 4 7th place after shoot­ing two rounds of 82. 
"Everyone basically played like how we know that every­one can. Finally everyone put it together at the same time," Taibl said. "This has been our best finish in awhile." 
The Irish do not compete again until the Indiana Invitational on April 6. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
Visit the English Department 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall March 19-22 
Or Call 1.6618 for an Appointment 
http://www.nd.edu/~english/ Undergrad Info.html 

Each year the Irish Clover Award is given to two members of the Notre Dame community who demonstrate outstanding service to the student body. Students, as well as faculty and staff members, are eligible for consideration. 

Each year, the Frank O'Malley Award is given to a member ofthe Notre Dame faculty who demonstrates outstanding service to the student body through their teaching. Any faculty member is eligible for consideration. 
Nominations for both awards are due by 3:00 p.m. of Friday, March 22, 2002 in the Student Government Office I203 LafortuneJ. Applications can be picked up in the Student Government Office. 
Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
HOCKEY 
Irish end season on high note in CCHA playoffs 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spores Editor 
The Irish entered the CCIIA playoffs over spring break rid­ing a five-game winning streak and hoped to keep the momen­tum going for the final leg of their season-ending run. 
The Irish used that momen­tum to steal two of three games from fifth-seeded Nebraska­Omaha and advance to the Super Six round of the tourna­ment at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. 
But that would be as far as the Irish would get as they dropped a close 3-1 loss to third-seeded and No. 12 Northern Michigan. 
Coach Dave Poulin was pleased with the play of his team during the last six weeks of the season. which included a live-game winning streak and an upset of No. 3 Michigan State on its home ice. 
"They played very, very well," Poulin said. "I think it has been the best I've seen our teams play in my seven years here." 
In the opening game of the playoffs, the Irish dropped a tough 3-2 loss in double over­time when first-team All-CCHA forward JefT Hoggan knocked in his 24th goal of the season just 40 seconds into play to break Lhe tie. 
Defender Tom Galvin record­ed the first goal for the Irish and Brad Wanchulak would be credited with the game-tying goal in the third period on an apparent own-goal by the Maverick center Hoggan as he drew the puck back from a face-off and past Ellis into his own net. 
"I really think that we won the series with the post-game Friday and the way we handled Saturday," Poulin said. "I could already tell by the way Lour players] were reacting that there was going to be no feeling sorry for themselves." 
The Irish returned to the ice with poise the following night and notched their own overtime victory by a 2-1 margin. 
Notre Dame got on the score­board first by way of junior Evan Nielsen's pnwer play goal at 8:52 of the first period. 
Freshman goaltender Morgan Ccy fought o!T the brunt of the Maverick attack until 6:07 of the third period when Anthony Adams tied the game on a Nebraska-Omaha power play. 
Senior David Inman would record the game-winner for the Irish, however, eight minutes into overtime play when he knocked in a Galvin rebound for his 18th goal ofthe season. 
With the series tied at one game each for the two teams, the Irish returned to the ice Sunday night for the final game of the series and came away with their second 2-1 victory to advance to the next round. 
After falling behind early, the Irish tied the game with just four seconds left in the first period on John Maruk's third goal of the season off of a rebound from junior John Wroblewski during the Irish power play. 
Then at the 18:03 mark of the second, the Irish took the lead for good on a wrist shot from Nielsen that slid past Ellis. 
"With the way that overtime works in the playoffs, the peri­ods are a full 20 minutes, so it was as if we played four games in three nights," Poulin said. "We came back Friday against Northern Michigan, and we played very well." 
Notre Dame took the early lead against the Mavericks when senior David Inman knocked home his 19th goal at the end of the first period. 
"Against Northern Michigan, we went up early, but we just couldn't get that 2-0 lead," Poulin said. 
Instead, the Wildcats tied the game at 17:37 of the second when Chris Gobert scored his first of three goals on the night. 
At 7:30 of the final period, Northern Michigan took the lead for good when Gobert stripped the puck away from an Irish defender at the blue line and skirted the puck behind Cey for the go-ahead goal. Gobert added an empty-netter with 16 seconds left in regulation for the 


RICO CASARES/The Observer 

An Irish player attempts to corral the puck in a Jan. 19 game with Nebraska-Omaha. Notre Dame took two of three games from the Mavericks last week to advance in the CCHA playoffs. 
final tally of 3-1. Poulin seems excited about the 
The Irish finished their season future for his young club that withanoverallrecordof16-17-includes 12 freshmen and 5, but Poulin was proud about sophomores from this year's his team's performance at the squad. end of the season. 'Tm excited already," Poulin 
"You get experience in these said. 'Tm here in the office on games by playing in this game. the Monday after the season One of our goals this season was ends getting ready for next to make it to Joe Louis Arena, year." and we accomplished that," said Poulin. 
Contact Chris Federico at 

With only three seniors cfederic@nd.edu. departing after this season, 
WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
Many career opportunities are available to students with degrees in mathematics. The training and analytical skills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools look for. Here are some of the careers pursued by recent Notre Dame graduates in mathematics: 
• 
Actuarial Positions in the Insurance Industry 

• 
Computer Programming and Systems Analysis 

• 
Management Consulting 

• 
Teaching at All levels 


• 
Post-graduate Study in Business Administration, Computer Science, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Music 


For information about majoring in mathematics contact Prof. Juan Migliore (migliore.1@nd.edu), Department of Mathematics, Room 236 Hayes Healy Center, or come to the 
First Year Information Session for Mathematics Tuesday, March 19, 7-8 P.M. Room 129 Hayes Healy Center 


page 24 Tuesday, March 19, 2002
The Obser11er . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


;_ :.";t,M.:"; ~-:.:~, 

~~ 
. ' 
·, -·~ 
----~--4 
....,'(; ,i«, 
~~-~~ 
·.,~~~ 
,,.
' ~·-._.,,, 
.. ~~--" 

Real. Opportunity. 



How do you choose an employer in today's economy? Do you seek an organization who has been successful for nearly a century? A culture that promotes learning and a "think straight, talk straight" philosophy? Or, do you want to be part of an organization that's committed to creating tangible, positive results for clients? 
If you've replied "yes" to all of the above, then Andersen may be right for you. 
Attention University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Freshmen and Sophomores: Want to find out more about a career in professional services? Don't miss Andersen's workshop "Defining Your Aspirations" focused on uncovering your interests and career goals: 
The University Club Tuesday, April 9 
6:00 PM -9:00 PM 

Share dinner and learn more from our professionals about life in professional services and today's business world. Pre-register by Monday, April 1. Registration forms are available at The Career Center on the 2nd floor of Flanner Hall or email Andersen at chi-campus.recruiting@us.andersen.com. 
>
ANDERSEN 

www.andersen.com/careers 
©2002 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 
Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


De.ar Notre Dame Students: 
As you may know, the Office ofStudent Affaim has spent the last two years looking closely at alcohol use and abuse at Notre Dame. During the 200()..()l academic year, we gathered 30 focus groups from both the campus and the local community, including students, filculty, administrators, hall staff, parents, alumni, law enforcement aud cily officials, landlords, and tavern owners. Their varied perspectives provided insight into the many effects ofalcohol use and abuse both on our canp.is and beyond. This year the process has continued as we have talked at greater length with rectors and the University's officers and trustees. We also have closely analyzed the incidence ofalcohol abuse at Notre Dame and compared our experience both with that ofother institutions and with canpis trends nationally. 
The picture that has emerged from our study ofthis issue is both encouraging and alarming. A significant number ofNotre Dame students either do not consume alcohol or consume very moderate amounts. Alcohol is not central to the social lives ofthese students, and many students are making responsible decisions about alcohol. 
At the same time, our study also confirmed the perception that a significant percentage ofNotre Dame students engase in abusive drinkins. The health consequences of alcohol abuse have been well-documented; the academic and social rosts are perhaps less evident. but n.o less real. A third ofNotre Dame students report missing classes because of drinking. Serious and harmful behavioral probl~ almost always involve alcohol. Students' lives are often disrupted by intoxicated friends or roommates. Hall staffs spend a disproportionate amount oftime and energy addressing behavior related to alcohol. Local residents are disturbed by intoxicated students in their neighbomoo<:ls. 
Abusive drinking is not unique to Notre Dame, nor is it a "new" problem. &: that as it may, we at Notre Dame cannot overlook or excuse abusive drinking because it is typical among college-age students, is part ofa ''tradition" o.r somehow constitutes a "rite ofpassage." With national studies showing that nearly half ofcollege students engage in binge drinking, many in higher education consider alcohol abuse to be the single most itrl)Ortant health and safety issue on c-0llege c~today. 
Over the past 15 years, the University has addressed. this issue with some su~. The progress we have made in terms ofresponding to the educational and therapeutic needs ofstudents with regard to alcohol is partiwla.rly noteworthy. The Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education offCIS many programs that help students examine their choices about alcohol and wucate them oa the dangg-s ofalcohol abuS(;. Through the Counseling Center and Jcx;al agenci.Q, confidential treatment is available for students concerned about their drinking or who have a serious drinking problem. Our commitment to providing these educational and therapeutic resources is stronger than ever, and we encourage students to talce full advantage oftbe.m. 
We also have ad<lressed the alcohol issue at Notre Dame through the behavioral expectations articulated in the Alcohol Policy. Created in I 984, the Alcohol Policy was based on the report ofthe University Committee on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol. Some modifications were made in 1988 through the work: ofthe University Committee on Whole Health, and the Use and Abuse ofAlcohol. The Alcohol Policy has remained hugely unchanged since then. 
When we began this study and consultation process two years ago, we wanted to know ifthe campus community supported the Alcohol Policy as currently written, especially since fourteen years had passed since the last major revision. While the consensus from the focus groups basically supported the current policy, a strong sense emerged that modifications were needed to address the most serious and dangerous abuses. With this in mind, we have carefully reviewed the policy and identified specific areas ofchange. 
Today I met with the Alcohol Task Force ofthe Campus Life Council to outline for them th.-0se areas of the Alcohol Policy we intend to modify, and next week I will meet with the entire CLC to discuss these modifications. Because I know that any change to the Alcohol Policy is ofgreat concern to students, I would like to share with you wh.at I told the Alcohol Task Force. Effective in the fall of2002, the Alcohol Policy will be modified in the following ways: 
• Students, regardless of age, will not be allowed to possess or consume "bard" alcohol ia undergraduate residence halls. 
While one obviously may become intoxicated by consuming any alcoholic beverage, we heard credible evidence that the most serious incidents ofintoxication occur when students consume hard alcohol. In general, the students involved in these most serious incidents ofintoxication seemed to fall into two categories: those who were inexperienced with hard alcohol, and those who deliberately consumed large quantities in a short period oftime, usually in the form of'~hots". Because of the high alcohol content in relation to volume, the abuse of hard alcohol is particularly dangerous. 
RHiden1:e hall daace, will be held outside of the lu1U, either at on-or off-campus venues. 

The Office ofStudent Affairs is working with other University departments to give students ac~ to a variety ofvenues on-campus where halls can host dances. 
Dances are an impottant part ofhall life, playing a critical role in building hall unity and spirit. While we hope to preserve the rich traditions associated with these dances, we also wish to eliminate unhealthy patterns that have become part ofthese events over the years. Many halls across campus sill1)ly do not have a common room huge enough to host a dance for hall residents and their dates. In part because oftbese space constraints, the focus ofthe in-hall event has become not the dance itself but the gatherings in individual rooms. Hall staffs have reported many incidents ofproblematic behavior during in-hall dances as students traveled back and forth between the dance floor and the private gatherings. 
To a certain extent, this change reflects a trend in hall dances that already has begun. According to a recent survey by Student Activities, the nunt>er ofdances held outside the halls over the past three years has increased steadily; ofthe 47 hall dances held during the 2001 Fall Semester, 29 took place outside the halls. 
• Uadergraduate students wlto are 21 years of age may host t2ilgate gatherings .ia a designated parktag lot on home football Saturdays, provided that these 
gatherings are properly registered. 

Graduate students may host tailgate gatherings without registering. Rules regarding consumption at tailgate gatherings hosted by alumn~ family and friends will follow Indiana law. Students who are not 2 I may not host tailgate gatherings where alcohol is serve<), nor may they possess or consume alcohol at tailgate gatherings hosted by others. In accordance with Indiana law. those who provide alcohol to minorn at tailgate gatherings will be penalized, and abusive drinking by anyone, n;ga.rdless ofagl:, wiU result in sanctions. 
Some confusion has existed in the past about our tailgating policy. By adopting apolicy that mirrors Indiana law, with its accompanying privileges and responstbilities, we hope that our expectations ofstudents will be clearer, both for those who are ofmajority age and those who are underage. 
l know that many ofyou will have questions about these changes. The details of1he new policy wiU be finalized as it is formally drafted, a process that wiU happen over the next several months. While we anticipate no other substantive changes, during the drafting process we also intend to streamline and reorganize the Alcohol Policy so as to make it easier to read and understand. As in years past, Student Government will have the opportunity to be included in the du I.ac revision process. 
The issues associated with alcohol abuse are oorq,lex, and there are no sil11)1e answers. I welcome continued dialogue about this itl1)0rtant topic, and I look fotward to contim.ring to work with students, faculty and administrators to create a healthier cruq:ius environment. In this, as in all things, Notre Datne' s goal must be "the formation ofan authentic lmman comm.mity graced by the Spirit ofChrist.'' 
Yours in Notre Dame. 


(Rev.) Mark L. Pooanan, C.S.C. Vice President for Student-Affairs 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Leadership needed for return to prominence 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. consequently dismantled 89-50 just four three-pointers, none they're not getting as many and this year's group of fresh­
All right, let's start this off by No. 6-ranked Tennessee by Alicia Ratay, after the game open looks as they're used to," man. Of this core, only Ratay with an apology and a dis­Sunday night. was out of reach. Lady Vols' guard Kara Lawson and Joyce among the upper­claimer. Now McGraw's team didn't So speed may have been a said. "It creates a lot more classmen will have the opportu­
To compare women's basket­face the same expectations problem Sunday. More than a emotion when you get a defen­nity and ability to turn a game ball to foot-Davie's squad did in the BCS few times Tennessee had taken sive stop, when you get a shot around. ball is a bowl that year, despite the fact two shots on their end before I clock violation when all five Joyce has been hurt much or stretch at that the 2001 Irish won the was done writing do"vn which players are really bumping the last two seasons and has best, in NCAA Tournament. With six Notre Dame player put up a down and playing hard togeth-led from the bench. Ratay many ways freshmen, the team was expect­brick to give them the ball. er." proved her ability against the two ed to struggle. Going out in the But Notre Dame has fast Su while Tennessee came Syracuse, but seemed silent and sports Round of 32 is respectable. defenders. Ericka Haney, together and used their attitude more willing to pass the ball off couldn't be But falling by 39 points, a LeTania Severe and even a to their advantage, Notre Dame than shoot. more dif­margin Notre Dame hadn't lost knee braced Jacqueline fell right into their plan. Just as So next fall, the Irish will ferent. Su by since before freshmen Batteast could run with the best in their Big East tournament have a talented core of sopho­I'm sorry in Jacqueline Batteast and Kelsey of' them. Amanda Barksdale upset loss to the Orangewomen mores with a full college season advance. Wicks were born, is inexcus­was in excellent defensive posi­of Syracuse, the Irish failed to under their belt. And they will 
And l able, regardless of the oppo­tion all night. Where the Irish adjust when the shots didn't fall have a first-team All Big East think nent. lacked, and where Tennessee on their end. But while Ratay selection in Ratay entering her Muffet The Irish have brought worse built an advantage that at one stepped up at the end of that senior year. McGraw is teams in to play even better point reached 42 points, was in game and made it close, none But to make sure all that one of the Connecticut and Tennessee composure in leadership. of Notre Dame's veterans came potential isn't just energy at greatest squads in the past, and have "We could never get anything forward to stop the bleeding rest, the Irish need a leader coaches never lost quite this badly. going offensively and that really Sunday night. who can instill an attitude like ever to grace this campus -Unranked and rebuilding after hurt us defensively. In fact, only Wicks -the Lawson did for Tennessee her face doesn't line the same a Final Four appearance in Emotionally, we were spent same freshman who led the Sunday night. Maybe it'll be wall in LaFortune as Lou 1997, an Irish squad featuring because we were just so frus­Irish in scoring against Ratay. Maybe it'll be Joyce. Holtz's for nothing. a freshman Huth Riley twice trated that we couldn't score Connecticut earlier this season Maybe a sophomore like Wicks 
But on Sunday night McGraw managed to stay within 20 of and then they were scoring so -seemed unfazcd by the envi­can assume the prominent role. said something that scared me. No. 2-ranked Connecticut. easilv," McGraw said. "That ronment. But somebody must step up It reminded me of Bob Davie. Even in 1993, when the Irish just ieally hurt us that we McGraw looked at Sunday's and this team must refuse to And it reminded me of some­went just 15-12 and went out in couldn't convert. We had some game a positive experience for play at any level except full thing Davie said after the 2001 the first round of the NCAA open 3's, we had a lot of open her team, something they can speed, using Sunday night as Fiesta Bowl, or should I sav, the Tournament, they stayed within looks but we couldn't make learn from. But this means a motivation. Otherwise, it'll be Oregon State Night at the " 31 aftop-ranked Tennessee. anything and we just felt a little leader must step up From with­just another rebuilding year. Races. On Sunday night, Tennessee bit down." in and not allow the team to 
"We don't have the same out-rebounded Notre Dame 51-Meanwhile, on the other end give up. The opinions expressed in team speed as they do and 37. They forced 25 Irish of the floor, Tennessee was Coming back next year, the this column are those of the that's something we need to turnovers while turning the ball working the right mindset to Irish have three rising seniors author and not necessarily The work on in the future," McGraw over 17 times themselves. They advantage. -Karen Swanson, Ratay and Observer. Contact Noah · said, explaining why her team took away Notre Dame's out­"You can feed off the frustra­Amanda Barksdale; two juniors Amstadter at was woefully unprepared and side shot, holding the Irish to tion of the other team when -Severe and Jeneka Joyce; namstadt@nd. edu. 



-
here is life leading you? 

Visit our website at www.maristsociety.org and 
give Rev. Bill Rowland, S.M. 
a call at 510.486.1232. email: wrowland@aol.com 
I-


Marist Fathers and Brothers Atlanta Province PO Box 81 144 Atlanta, GA 30366-1 144 


Tuesday, March 19, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
J"ESUS VISITS THE CAREER CENTER ] 

FOXTROT 
ACCORDINt; TO YOUR CAREER TEST, YOU'D BE BEST SUITED AS EITHER A CARPENTER, THE SON OF MAN OR A GANSSTA RAPPER. BUT LET'S 
f1'URE OUT WHAT'S BEST FOR YOU. DO OWN ANY OVERSIZED 
CHAlNS? 
BILL AMEND 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Web address 67 Indicator of 1 Tel 
ender freshness, 36 Destination from perhaps
5 Sired, biblically Dover 68 June celebrant 1 O Hits with phaser 39 Press 69 BO's rock band fire from Australia 40 Harbor personal 14 Ankle-showing 70 Ed Norton'smotivesskirt workplace43 Extent

15 Play_ in (be 
71 Beatty and44 Covetous
involved with) Buntline
45 Actress TIiiy 

16 Quod faciendum 
46 Hardly modem 
DOWN
411 "_ Miniver"

17 Folk singer Burt 1 In the thick of
49 "Touched By an

18 Suppress 2 In _ (type of 
Angel" star Della fertilization)19 Indian music 51 Unruly head of 3 Inspiration20 Critique roughly hair 4 The Preserver,and unfairly 53 German name in Hinduism23 Cryptologic grp. starter 5 "Enough,24'Fatchance1' 54 Gulf war weapon Enrico!" 

25 Increase the 63 Five-star Bradley 6 Speedskaterprice of at 64 Run on a bank Heiden auction 
65 Aparty to 7 Early Black Sea 28 $$$ provider settler
66 Like some 31 Ideal for dieters amateurs 8 Bum healer 9 Metric portion 10 Blastoff time 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Resident of 55-Down Pwzle by Alan J. Welti 
12 When repeated, 29 Internal Revenue 52 Dads 57 Ending with 
a Samoan city Service, e.g. hard or sol!
53 "The_ of
13 "South Park" kid 
30 Small arachnids Wakefield" 58 Be wise to 21 Org. that 
32 Fic1ion genre 54 3-D figures 59 Quiet type? 
shelters strays 33' of God" 55 Muscat is its 60 Concerning22 Feb.'s 
(1985 lilm) 
predecessor capital 61 Amount of work 
34 Precarious 

;..;...;...;;;~ 25 "The View" 56 Kind of cat 62 Goes no further
perch
co-host Joy 37 "The Ice Storm" 
26 ·oo ?" 
director Lee 38 Outfield surf ace available by touch-tone phone: 
~~;;.a..;;..;;;.a.;..;.i (words of Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 
indecision) 41 Sets aside (for) 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute).
27 Comforter 42 Spinning toys Annual subscriptions are available for the
--......-28 It might scream alter being 47 "How exciting!" best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 tripped 50 Naval standard years: 1-888-7-AGROSS. 
-
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester :.• Name _______________________ Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, MARCH 19, 2002 CELEBRITIES BORN ON will be enthusiastic and inspirational THIS DAY: Bruce Willis, Glenn today, sparking interest in anyone Gose, Ursula Andress, Phyllis New­you talk to. Your confidence level man 
should be up and your ability to 

Happy Birthday: All you have present your ideas with gusto will to do is make a few changes this help you move in a positive direc­year and everything else will fall tion. 00000 into place. Take the initiative and LIBRA (Sept. 2.3-0cl 22): You 
make your dreams come true have everything going for you so instead of just hoping that they will don't get dragged into joint ventures all by themselves. The time to take with someone who needs you more responsibility for yourself and your than you need rum or hei: Focus on 
future is now. Your number.; are 2, 8, yourself, your direction and your 14, 26, 31, 45 goals.000 ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

Your ability to make extra money Emotional is.sues will be difficult to will help you pay those unpaid bills handle today. Keep a rool head and that have been hanging over your 
let other.; do the talking for now. You 

head. Starting your own small busi­will have a mud-t better assessment ness on the side could lead to greater of the situation if you listen and profits inthe future. 000 
observe.00 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGIITARIUS (Nm: 22..IJec. 21): 
Don't react too quickly to what oth­Your ability to get things done will ers have to say. You will be overly put you in a good position at work. sensitive and this could cause you to If you aren't employed. you should take things the wrong way. Llsten, be able to find employment or observe and stay cahn. 000 accomplish a lot doing the chores 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You that you have to complete today. will be bound and determined to 000 oomplete whatever you start today. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): If 

You will have many opportunities you aren't happy with the way you available to you and ifyou are quick 
look or your rurren.t style, today is to take advantage of what's going 
the time to make a mange. You will on around you. profits can be made. have some great ideas that won't be 
that expensive. 00000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

not volunteer your services today. This may not be the best day to get Too many other important issues 
along with family members but if will arise that you have to deal with. you make plans for everyone to get Focus on your home and making involved in a joint effort, tluiw;5 will the necessary alterations. 0000 run relatively smoothly. Much can LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be accomplished if you are well­trust those you work with today. organized. 00 You may find yourself in an awk­
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 

ward position if a colleague asks You'll be in the mood to get together you to cover for rum or hei: Work on with good friends or relatives. This your own projects and_ avoid getting is a good day to let others know 
how you feel and what your inten­

involved. 00 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): You tions are. 0000 
Birthday Baby: You will tend to stick to convention_al beliefu and atti­tudes and will be dedicated to any group or orgaruzation you 10m. Your interest inphilosophy and ineducation will lead you to distant lands. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaat.com, astromate,com.) · <Ii 2002 Universal Press Symlicale 


Campus Sports ~HE Campus Sports
vnSERVER 

. Men's Lacrosse, p. 17 
. ND Women's Basketball, 
. 
ND Women's Tennis, p. 16 p.26 

. Hockey, p. 23


. 
Track and Field, p. 16 


. ND Women's Golf, p. 22

. 
Women's Lacrosse, p. 16 



PORTS
...: . Fencing, p. 18 
Tuesday, March 19, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Luck of the Irish runs out 
By ANDREW SOUKUI? Sports Writer 
GHEENVILLE, S.C. 
If Notre Dame was to knock off top-seeded Duke in the sec­ond round of the NCAA, Tournament, Irish coach Mike Brey knew the Irish would have trouble keeping Duke's point total low. 
So he wanted his team to score points. And he wanted a lot of them. 
"We were not going to stop them," Brey said. "That's why I said, 'Can we get 85 to 90?"' 
Eighth-seeded Notre Dame played one of its best games this season, but they couldn't keep up with top-seeded Duke down the stretch as the Blue Devils advanced to the Sweet 16 with an 84-77 win over the Irish. 
"This was one of the tougher games I've been involved in the NCAA as far as two teams going after each other, and I've been in a lot of them," Duke coach Mike Krzyzwski said. "That's a credit to Mike's team and his stall We feel fortunate to win." 
Neither team had trouble scoring, as nine players scored in the double-digits. Notre Dame matched Duke shot for shot, basket for basket from the open­ing tip and refused to be intimi­dated by the Blue Devils. 
"You have to be aggressive with them," said David Graves, who along with Matt Carroll, fin­ished with a game-high 20 points. "You can't step back, and if you do, they're going to kiil you." 
The Irish let a golden opportu­
see MEN/page 21 


• Underdog Irish put up hearty fight against Duke 
GREENVILLE, S.C. Those poor Irish basketball players. 
Didn't they know they were supposed to roll over and bow down to mighty Duke? That 

they should only jump Andrew Soukup around dur­
ing the pre­game Sports Writer warm-ups because the Blue Devils wanted to jump over them during the game? 
Pardon Notre Dame for not rolling over and accepting Duke's invulnerable status. They already did that three years ago. And they had quite enough ofit then, thank you very much. 
When David Graves and Harold Swanagan played basket­ball for the Irish as mere fresh­men, back in what may come to be known as the Dark Age of Notre Dame basketball, a small charter plane from South Bend, Ind. flew across the United States and landed on the frozen Alaskan tundra for the Great Alaska Shootout. 
During that tournament, Notre Dame played Duke and lost. Big time. The final score was 111­
82. Graves said they lost by 50. Swanagan thought it was closer to 90. 
In Alaska, Notre Dame played like the scrawny little kid who 
see SOUKUP/page 20 
Above, Irish players Charles Thomas, Tom Timmermans, Harold Swanagan and Torrian Jones look an in disbeliefas the Irish fall just short ofan unlikely upset of top-seeded Duke. At right, Chris Thomas dribbles around a Blue Devil defender. 
. 
photos by 
DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT 


ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tennessee overpowers-Irish in 89-50 defeat 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Senior Staff Wrir~r 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
The Irish came out green Sunday night -in more ways than just the special uniforms they put on for St. Patrick's Uay. 
In their NCAA Midwest Regional second round contest against No. 6-ranked Tennessee, Notre Dame's young team was overmatched in virtu­ally every aspect of the game, falling 89-50. The loss was the most lopsided for the Irish ever under head coach Muffct McGraw. Only a Karen Swanson three-pointer with three sec­onds remaining prevented the team's first 40-point loss since 1983. 
"We could never get anything going offensively and that really hurt us defensively. Emotionally, we were spent because we were just so frus­trated that we couldn't score and then they were scoring so easily," McGraw said of Tennessee's 45.3 field goal per­centage compared to Notre Dame's 28.8 percent clip. "That just really hurt us that we couldn't convert." 
After the Irish came out aggressively on both ends of the floor and built a 4-2 lead, Tennessee reclaimed the lead when freshman Britney Jackson hit the first of her two three­pointers on the night. By the midpoint of the first half, Tennessee had built a 25-14 lead, which they increased to a 53-27 halftime advantage. 

"Our five starters got us off to a quick start," Lady Vols coach Pat Summitt said. "I thought the defensive intensity in the first few minutes was just terrif­
ic. It certainly gave us a lot of momentum and really ignited our offense the whole way." 
Tennessee saw eleven players score, led by junior guard Kara Lawson's 16 points. Jackson added 10 while Michelle Snow came off the bench to score 11 points for the Lady Vols. Freshman Kelsey Wicks. who also led the Irish with 16 points against No. 1 Connecticut earli­er this season, came off the bench to pace the Irish with 10 points. 
Even as Summitt removed her starters in the second half, Tennessee's bench continued its aggressive offensive attack, building a 42-point lead before Swanson's last-second shot. 
see WOMEN/page 21 

. Women's Lacrosse vs. Cornell, today, 4p.m. 

OBSERVER 
. ND Women's Tennis at Purdue, Thursday, 1:30 p.m. 

online 
. ND Women's Swimming at NCAA Championships,AT AGLANCE Thursday -Saturday, All Day http://www.nd.edu/~observer 

