
VOL XXXVII NO. 39 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Fonner ND players' trials postponed 
court on Feb. 24, Lenyo said. duct and sexual battery. about the reasons for the new lawyer, Tony Zappia, were
By HELENA PAYNE 

"There's still an additional Lenyo said he was certain of trial dates, saying rather that available to answer questions
News Editor 

discovery that needs to be the changes for Elam and they are Thursday con­completed in the case," Lenyo Crawford's trials, but he could related to cerning their 
Attorney Mark Lenyo con­clients' trial
said, adding that he was "still not confirm any changes to the vol-firmed that at least two of waiting for the trial ume of "fl am} still waiting for dates. 
four trials for the alleged rape 
information dates of cases in information that hasn ·t In a separate 
on March 28 involving four that hasn't Donald the coun­decision. the
been turned over from 
former Notre Dame football been turned "This isn't the only case Dykes and ty. Universityplayers and a female student over from that the judge has to Justin Smith "This the prosecutor. •· expelled all were delayed. 
the prosecu­who were isn't the four of the men
consider..,
Former students, Abram tor." b o t h only case from the
Mark Lenyo
Elam, Lenyo's client, and Crawford's charged that the University last
Attorney
Lorenzo Crawford, represent­trial date Mark Lenyo with rape judge has May following
ed by attorney Ken Cotter, was moved Attorney and the con• to consid­were scheduled to go before 
to March, spiracy to er," Lenyo the court on Oct. 21. 
Lenyo said, commit said. 
Their new trial dates are set although he rape. Dykes' trial has alreadyfor early next year. 
did not have In addition been rescheduled from Sept.
Elam, charged with criminal 
the exact date available. to those two felonies, Smith 16 to Nov. 12. The original
deviant conduct, conspiracy 
Crawford was charged with was also charged with sexual date for Smith's trial is Oct. 
to commit rape and sexual rape, conspiracy to commit battery. 28, but neither Dykes' lawyer,battery, is scheduled to go to rape, criminal deviant con-Lenyo dismisseµ rumors William Stanley, or Smith's 
Reed speaks about Indiana education 
. Indiana superin­tendent discusses standardized tests at Saint Mary's 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Siinc Mary's News Editor 

At a town hall meeting on education held Thursday evening at Saint Mary's, edu­cators, students and local school administrators came together to question and com­ment on the Indiana educa­tion system. Dr. Suellen Reed, Indiana's superintendent of public instruction, presided over the town hall meeting. 
The audience questioned Reed about Indiana's educa­tion policies regarding child development, professional development of teachers, standardized testing and school budgets. 
"Locals make the best deci­sions regarding their school districts, the state can only go so far," Reed said. 
Several audience members expressed their concerns about the exacting standards placed on teachers and their students and the pressure on schools to constantly improve test scores. Others raised questions about material not being taught to students because of pressure to meet these testing standards. 
"There is an emphasis on language arts and math because they are the basic to discover what topics stu­said. "It is up to our new gen­re-elected to a third four-year skills but it allows teachers to dents have completely mas­eration of teachers and our tC'rm in Nov. 2000. When use science, art, music and tered and what material they best teachers to change the Reed was re-elected in 2000 social studies to reinforce the have learned at the last skill, drill and kill mentality. she made a promise to visit basics so that students really minute, Reed said. To help The standards are not the all 92 Indiana counties, giving learn," Reed said. students prepare for the curriculum but are encom­her a chance to meet with 
Reed also addressed the exams, teachers are expected passed in the curriculum." local educators and hold town fact that in Indiana standard­to review material in their Reed is Indiana's Chief State meetings in the community. ized testing is conducted in classes but do not simply just School Officer and serves as the fall, when students are teach the topics that will the Chairperson of the State just returning from summer appear on the tests. Board of Education and CEO vacation. One of the reasons "There is an art and science of the Indiana Department of why the tests are conducted to teaching, it is not just the Education. She was first 
Contact Sarah Nestor at 

early in the academic year is skill, drill and kill," Reed elected in Nov. 1992 and was 
nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


a disciplinary 
hearing in  the  
Office of Residence  Life  and  
Housing.  

Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

SMC appoints White 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's has named 
Dr. Patrick White to be the 
interim vice president of 
academic affairs and dean 
of faculty. White fills the 
position left vacant by the 
unexpected resignation of 
Dean Karen Ristau at the 
Oct. 2 Faculty Assembly 
meeting. 
''I'm very excited, it's an honor to be the interim vice president and dean of facul­ty," White said. "I love the College, I love the students and I love the faculty." 
White came to Saint Mary's in 1988 and has served as the associate dean of faculty and the director of the Center for Academic Innovation. In addition to working in the College's administration, White has been instrumental in devel­oping such programs as the student independent study and research (SISTAR) grants and implementing the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). 
In order to fill the posi­tions left vacant by White's appointment, Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred will appoint an acting asso­ciate dean of faculty who will also act as the director of the Center for Academic Innovation next week. 
As interim dean, White plans to continue to address concerns important to stu­
see DFAN/page 3 
Friday, October 18, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Meet me in 
St. Louis 

Even though the St. Louis Cardinals lost in the second round of the play­offs, there is no question that St. Louis is still the best baseball city ever. 
Loyalty. Where else are fans going to stick with their hometown team through thick and thin, through the Courtney Boyle good seasons and the bad? Only in 
Assistant
St. Louis does a 
News Editor 
death to the club bring out the pour­ing support from the community. It is St. Louis where these players feel like they are part of a family, a family that 
reaches out further than blood. 
Respect. It has been said time and time again that players deserve respect even when their performance is below average. However, most fans jump on the bandwagon when the team is good, something that does not happen in St. Louis. 
Cardinals' fans share in a dominant presence both in and out of the stadi­um. This presence and attitude is one that delivers nothing but respect for both teams taking the field. I will even go as far to say that you will not see a true St. Louis baseball fan booing a member of the opposing team, unless he has first injured a member of our beloved Cardinals or if he has done something to disrespect our team. 
Players long to come to St. Louis to be a part of this atmosphere. Players like J.D. Drew, who was drafted by the Phillies, but opted to sign with the Cardinals. 
The first time Drew met the Phillies in Philadelphia umpires had to stop the game because the hometown crow was throwing batteries at Drew every time he took the field, something that would never happen in St. Louis. 
When Jack Buck died earlier in the season, the baseball club had to unify themselves and stay on track, and just as they said goodbye to Buck, they then had to say goodbye to teammate Darryl Kile. This team has done noth­ing but feed off the love and the sup­port of the community and each other, they rely on one another to keep going. The Cardinals have taken in Kile's family as one of their own. Kile's son spent the playoffs traveling with his late dad's co-workers and sporting a Cardinal's uniform, some­thing unique to the Cardinal's organi­zation. Buck and Kile have remained with the team and the community throughout the season. 
This team has produced nothing but spirit and there is no question that they are constantly giving back to the St. Louis community the love and sup­port they have received. 
While Cardinals had an amazingly incredible season this year, they have suffered many injuries, losses and have done nothing but persevere and in the end the Cardinals are No. 1 in all St. Louis fans' hearts. The Cardinal organization and their fans deserve props for having the most class in baseball. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at boyl5460@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the 0cc. 11 article, "Irish Guard won't march Saturday," and the Cx..'t. 17 article, "Administration rein­states the Irish Guard," The Obseiver reported that the Irish GUMd was disbanded in 1992 for alcohol viola­tions and improper orientation activities. However, five Guardsmen were still permitted to march despite the exclusion ofthe ocher five members. In the Oct. 17 article, "Offic.ers dected to freshman council," Dave Baron, Kate Disder and Anna Skoien were misidentified. Baron is council president, Distler is vice president and Skoien is sccrctary. The Obseiver regrets choe errors. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& 
NEWS NATION 
Police say Commerce to 
Secretary of 

witness gave speak at Notre 
false facts in 
.

sniper caseDame today 
Virginia police Secretary Donald 
U.S. Commerce 

say that false wit­Evans will speak at 
ness information the Mendoza 
calls into question College of Business 
most of what inves­about the impor­
tigators thought tance of exporting. 
they knew about the recent sniper attacks. 
page 3 page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. "The Politics of Democratic Inclusion," All Day at Mc Kenna llall 
. 807 Mass, 8 p.1n., Coleman­. Morse. Ilammes Student Lounge 
. 
Latino Theology and Spirituality Seminar. Hooms 210-214, McKcnna Ila1l 

. 
Midwest economic theory and international trade meetings, all day, Mendoza College of Business 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Jean Hitchie: The American folk 1nusician, 7:30 p.m., Little Theatre 

. 
Confidential AA Meeting, 9:30 a.m., llavican #20 


WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 

No dining hall menus available for today. 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Former Enron trader pleads guilty to conspiracy 

Timothy Belden, former head of trading in Enron's Portland, Ore. office pleaded guilty Thursday to conspiracy to com­mit wire fraud. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Students must actively create awareness of social issues 
The Observer editorial encour­ages students to make their voices heard on contro­versial issues. 
pages 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Waffle iron stolen from 
North Dining Hall 
A food services employee reported Wednesday the theft of a waffle iron from North Dining Hall on Sunday. The case is being further investigated by NDSP. 
Vandalism reported in 
visitor lot 

NDSP received a report of vandal­ism to a car parked in the Notre Dame Avenue visitor lot on Wednesday between 8 a.m. and 5:30 
p.m. The case is pending and there are no suspects. 
Speeding citation issued 
NDSP issued a state citation for exceeding the posted speed limit early Thursday morning on Edison Road. 
Credit card fraud reported 
A Notre Dame student reported the fraudulent use of his credit card Wednesday at an off-campus loca­tion. 
Car towed from Bulla lot 
NDSP towed a student's car Wednesday morning from the Bulla Road lot for a parking violation. 
SCENE 
Take a map and don't forget your ticket 
Play the Florida State road trip game and make sure not to get food poisoning, pulled over by the police or lose your ticket. 
page 10 
SPORTS 
Irish womens soccer defeats Michigan on the road 
The Notre Dame womens soccer team defeats a top­15 ranked rival for the second consec­utive game. 
page 20 

Locked bike taken from 
O'Neill Hall 
A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his locked bike from O'Neill Hall Wednesday morning. The case is pending and there are no suspects. 
Vandalism reported in 
visitor lot · 
NDSP received a report Wednesday of a vehicle parked in lot D6 being broken into between Oct. 10 at 1 a.m. and Wednesday at 1 :15 p.m. The case is pending. 
complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
South Dining Hall 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No dining hall menus available for 
No dining hall menus available for 
today. 
today. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
ct: 
LLI 
:i: 
ti 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
Cl: 



CJ ...0 HIGH 57 HIGH 45 HIGH 55 HIGH 50 HIGH 45 HIGH 
LOW 45 LOW 36 LOW 37 LOW 31 LOW 36 LOW 
Atlanta 70 / 52 Boston 57 I 43 Chicago 59 / 44 Denver 66 / 36 Houston 80 / 68 Los Angeles 70 / 56 Minneapolis 48 / 35 New York 59 / 46 Philadelphia 61 / 46 Phoenix 78 / 62 Seattle 63 / 49 St. Louis 68 / 52 Tampa 79 / 62 Washington 60 / 50 
-
Friday, October 18, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . NEWS 
Dean 



Secretary of 


Ira Einhorn found 
continued from page I 
dents and faculty such as the strategic plan, campus diversity and curriculum and faculty development. 
"We've already diversi­fied our curriculum in diverse ways over the past five to six years," White said. "There are new pos­sibilities to study and learn more about diversity through CWIL. I'm excited about helping [CWIL direc­tor] Meredith Sarkees make that program thrive... 
White will officially take over the position of inter­im vice president and dean of faculty Monday. 
"I expect to encounter great opportunities and challenges," White said. "It's a tough job, but I'm very excited about it." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest 9877@saintmarys.edu 

Special to The Observer 
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans will speak in Mendoza College of Business today at 3 p.m. on the impor­tance of exporting. 
Evans will 

join finance and busi­ness eco­nomics pro­fessor Jeffrey Bergstrand in a 30­


m i n u t e Evans 
panel pre­sentation and question-and-answer ses­sion. 
The 34th commerce secre­tary, Evans oversees a Cabinet agency with 40,000 workers and a $5 billion budget focused on promoting and advocating 
Commerce to speak 


guilty of murder 
for American business at home 
.--------------------------------------7 uninformed, unsuspecting and 
and abroad. He had served for the last 16 
Associated Press 
years as chief executive officer of Tom Brown, Inc., a large PHILADELPHIA 
independent energy company. 
Ira Einhorn, the '70s hippie
Bergstrand joined the Notre guru who fled to Europe and Dame faculty in 1986 and spe­lived like a country squire after cializes in international finance being charged with murder. wasand exchange rates, interna­convicted Thursday of killing his tional trade, macroeconomics girlfriend and stuffing her corpseand the U.S. economy. 
in his closet a quarter-century
The forum will conclude 
ago.
with Evans' presentation of the 
The 62-year-old Einhorn 
Export Achievement Award to showed no emotion upon hearingRichard Lundin, chairman and the first-degree murder verdict,chief executive officer of Da­which brought an automatic sen­Lite Screen Company, a tence of life without parole andWarsaw, Ind., a finn that pro­smiles to the family of his victim,duces projection screens and 30-year-old Holly Maddux. 
presentation products. 
After the verdict, the district The award recognizes small attorney and the judge himselfand medium-size enterprises mocked Einhorn and his role as 
that have successfully entered an Age of Aquarius wise man. 
the international market place Judge William J. Mazzola called for the first time or that have him "an intellectual dilettante 
successfully entered markets. 
who preyed on the uninitiated, 
Conaratulations to the entire Saint Marv's Varsity GolfTeam for defeatlnq DePauw and wlnnlny the MlJl.;t Championship!! 



Congratulations to Julia Adams, ]\lico/e Bellino, Jc_achel Benkert, Chrissy Dunham, Xim Dunham, Xirsten f antom, Elizabeth }{anion, Xara ]{arms,. Mo/Iv Cee, Meqan Mattia,Xristina Maurer, Erin McQueen, Stefanie Simmerman, Jaclyn Thompson, Jillian Waters. You're under par in our eves!! 
-Student Government Association L______________________________________. 

inexperienced people." 
One juror, Tracy Garett, said he 

was angry that Einhorn couldn't 
get the death penalty. "He had a 
warped mind," Garett said. "Even 
on the stand, it was like he 
thought he was God." 
Defense attorney William 

Cannon said Einhorn would 
appeal. 
The verdict, reached after 2 1/2 

hours of deliberations, capped a 
stunning fall for the countercul­
ture figure who once held "be-in" 
events and counted Yippie Jerry 
Rubin and rock star Peter Gabriel 
among his acquaintances. After 
fleeing the country. Einhorn lived 
in the south of France for years, 
appearing on television shows as 
he fought extradition and posing 
naked in his garden for Esquire 
magazine. 
Einhorn insisted he was inno­

cent and maintained he was 
framed by the CIA because of his 
knowledge of secret mind-control 
experiments. He said he last saw 
Maddux in 1977 as she left to 
make a phone call. He said he 
had no idea how her body turned 
up in a locked steamer trunk in 
his Philadelphia apartment. 
Prosecutors, however. said Einhorn was a loutish womanizer who turned violent whenever a girlfriend wanted to leave him. They had him read to jurors from his poems and diary entries, in which he wrote "to kill what you love when you can't have it seems so natural" and "violence always marks the end of a rela­tionship." 
Einhorn said prosecutors were twisting his words. "It's litera­ture; it's metaphorical," he said. 
After the verdict, District 
Attorney Lynne Abraham said: "Metaphorically speaking, Ira Einhorn and his Virgo moon are toast." 
Maddux's three sisters and one brother sat in the front row every day of the 2 1/2 -week trial. 
"Her murder basically killed our parents, too," said one sister, Meg Wakeman, a nurse and mother who lives in Seattle. "We miss Holly very much. . . . I think she and mom and daddy are all pretty happy right now." 

Einhorn vanished in 1981 just before he was supposed to go on trial. In 1993, he was convicted in absentia and sentenced to life in prison. 
While on the run, he lived in England, Ireland and Sweden under assumed names, and was finally caught in 1997 at a con­verted windmill in France, where he lived with his Swedish-born wife. 
Einhorn was returned to the United States in the summer of 2001 only after the French gov­ernment was given assurances that he would be given a new trial and would not face the death penalty. 
During the trial, friends and acquaintances of Maddux described seeing her bruised and intimidated during her tumul­tuous five-year relationship with Einhorn. 
A former girlfriend testified that Einhorn hit her over the head with a bottle and tried to choke her when she tried to end their relationship in 1966. 
Former friend Michael Hoffman told jurors he later discussed that incident with Einhorn, and his friend told him "at the base of all human interaction was violence." Hoffman said Einhorn drew his ideas from the writings of the Marquis de Sade, among others. 
Prosecutors also called a for­mer bookstore owner who testi­fied that Einhorn once asked for a how-to book on mummification that included instructions on the use of herbs and other sub­stances. 
Einhorn, the final witness. con­ceded that Maddux had trouble with his womanizing, but he denied abusing or killing her. He suggested that someone could have gotten into his apartment while he was away. And he said he was surprised when Maddux's remains were found in his closet. 
"When I finally found out it was Holly, I broke up for days. It ripped me to pieces," he said. 
Cannon said Einhorn felt he had no choice but to testify. 
"We wanted to put ourselves in a position where we could neu­tralize what they put on and win or lose with Ira. Ira has been mesmerizing and charming peo­ple his whole life," the attorney said. 
Jury forewoman Diane Green called the evidence against Einhorn "overwhelming" and said Einhorn did not help himself by taking the stand. "We felt he conflicted some of his own state­ments," she said. 
Einhorn was a ponytailed, charismatic figure who once hob­nobbed with influential players in Philadelphia's moneyed estab­lishment, as well as countercul­ture figures. He demonstrated against the Vietnam War a~d for civil rights and took part m the first Earth Day in 1970. His New Age philosophy got him jobs as a consultant and speaker for big companies, which asked Einhorn to explain how they could tap into the counterculture. 
Represented by soon-to-be Sen. Arlen Specter at a 1979 hearing in the murder case, Einhorn was released on an unusually low $40,000 bail after prominent Philadelphians attested to his excellent character. 
He has been ordered by a civil jury to pay Maddux's family more than $900 million. 
Friday, October 18, 2002 

page4 The Observer . NEWS 
UNITED NATIONS 


U.S. offers deal on Iraq resolution 
• U.S. backs off demands for lan­guage threatening military action 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Seeking to win a new U.N. resolution on Iraq, the United States has removed language explicitly threatening military action, while making clear Baghdad will face conse­quences if it fails to cooperate with weapons inspectors, diplomats and U.S. officials said Thursday. 
The latest compromise appeared tailored to win sup­port from powerful Security Council members including France and Russia, which want to give Iraq a chance to cooperate before authorizing force. 
A senior White House offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the proposed resolution wouldn't spell out the consequences but says Iraq's President Saddam Hussein will be in 
noncompli­

"material "We believe that there 
ance with

breach" if are favorable conditions council reso­
he vio­

now to preserve the unity lutions.
lates any 
But French

U.N. reso­ofthe global community. ,. 
Ambassador
lution. 
Jean-David
T h a t 

Igor Ivanov Levitte told 
t e r m , 
the Security

Russian Foreign Minister
material breach, allowed for military action to be taken in Kosovo in 1999. The official said that since no measures would be ruled out in the text. the White House believes President Bush would have "maximum flexibility" to mete out consequences should Saddam fail to comply. 
Moreover, the official said the new U.S. proposal doesn't require a second resolution before Bush acts. 
But diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that if the Iraqis obstructed inspections, the United States would be required to consult with the Security Council before taking any action. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, who met with chief 
U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix in New York Thursday, said a U.S.-drafted resolution would leave "no opportunity for the Iraqis to deter the inspectors from their work or to defeat their efforts. 

..There must be a threat," Powell said. "There must be consequences for their contin­ued failure." 
The five permanent veto­wielding council members have been badly divided on the next move toward Iraq following its announcement last month that U.N. inspec­tors could return uncondition­ally after nearly four years. 
Earlier this month, the United States, supported by Britain, circulated a draft res­olution that would beef up the inspections regime and autho­rize military action if Iraq fails to cooperate. 
France, backed by Russia and China, agreed that inspections needed to be overhauled but wanted a two­stage approach which would give Iraq the opportunity to comply without threats. If Iraq refused to cooperate, a second resolution would authorize force. 
U.S. officials argue the French approach leaves Saddam with too much wiggle room and isn't tough enough 
to reverse 11 years of Iraqi 
Council on 
Thursday 

that France was sticking to its demand. Only if a first resolution fails would the 15-member council meet to consider "the appro­priate measures to take with­out ruling out anything," he said. 
Powell spoke by telephone with his French counterpart, and officials in Paris were studying the latest U.S. offer amid a flurry of diplomatic activity aimed at solving the impasse among the Security Council powers. 
In Moscow, Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov wel­comed the new U.S. proposal and said Powell told him it would be formally presented to the council within days. 
"We believe that there are favorable conditions now to preserve the unity of the glob­al community and ensure the return of international inspec­tors and their efficient work in Iraq," Ivanov said in Moscow. 
PIZZA & STICKS -NO SALES TAX 
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Breadsticks Only $9.00!1 
Delivered to your Door! We Pay the Taxi 

NOT GOOD WITH OTHER OFFERS. EXPIRES 10/27/02.
•NO SALES TAX• OFFER GOOD WITH ABOVE PROMOTION ONLY. • 
VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. WE WATCH COMPETITOR'S COi.JPONS. 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD
~IC«iO 

(Next ,o Subway)
l PIZZA COl'1Mrtr

rt•ndonerlgl,tl 271-1277 
Sharon heads home from visit 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon wound up a three-day visit laden with U.S. pledges to make a maximum effort to neu­tralize Iraqi missiles in the event of war and with a ringing endorsement of Israel's right to defend itself. 
In meetings with Bush and other U.S. officials, Sharon got assurances that the United States would give Israel advance warning in the event it attacks Iraq, and he heard U.S. plans to 
"If Iraq were to attack Israel tomorrow, I'm sure there would be appropriate response," Bush said at a joint news conference with Sharon. "I would assume the prime minister would respond. He's got a desire to defend himself." 
Signing the White House visi­tors' book on Wednesday, Sharon paraphrased the U.S. Declaration of Independence to praise Bush's campaign against terror and his efforts to make the world "a place where life, liberty and the pursuit of happi­ness become once again self-evi­people. But Bush said there must be assurances the funds are not used to promote terror. 
prevent Iraq from launching  dent to all."  
rockets at Israel, said a senior  Although the  
Israeli official, speaking on con­ Bush adminis­ 
dition of anonymity.  tration  has  
The official said Bush made no  taken Israel to  
request for Israeli restraint if  task  for  not  
Iraq did, nevertheless, attack  doing enough  
Israel, as it did during the 1991  to ease restric­ 
GulfWar  tions  on  the  
But another Israeli official said  Palestinians,  
Sharon  goes  home  with  a  the official said  
promise from the administration  no  criticism  
that it would make a maximum  was  raised  
effort to neutralize Iraqi missiles  during  
George W. Bush 


The Israeli official said the money, hundreds of millions of dollars, would not be turned over in a lump sum and that dis­bursement would be contingent on monitoring of its use. 
Bush and American diplomats are trying to line up Arab and other nations to support the United States in the event of war against Iraq. 
Only a few Arab nations are prepared to make that commit­ment, and their support might melt away if Israel retaliated 
against an 
Iraqi attack. 

"IfIraq were to attack Aware of that risk,
Israel tomorrow, I'm sure 
administra­

there would be 
tion officials 

appropriate response.·· quickly fol­lowed Bush's remarks by
trying to

U. S. President 
draw a line 
between an 

unprovoked Iraqi attack on Israel and an attack in the event of war. 
Bush's assertion of Israel's right to self-defense applies to an unprovoked attack, they said. If there is war, the United States and Israel would consult. 
Former President George H.W. Bush, Bush's father, took a dif­ferent approach to Israel as he prepared for war with Iraq in 1991 to reverse its annexation of Kuwait. 
Bush decided it was essential that Israel remain on the side­lines. He sent then-Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger and Paul Wolfowitz, now deputy secretary of defense, to Jerusalem to reinforce his message. Despite the 39 Scud missiles Iraq fired at Israel, then-Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir did not strike back. 
before they could hit Israel. 
The official, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said this could mean either provi_ding weapons to shoot down the mis­siles or attacking Iraqi missile bases in the event of war. 
This could spare Israel the dilemma of retaliating, the offi­cial said. 
Before heading for home, Sharon met on Capitol Hill Thursday with Senate Majority leader Thomas A. Daschle of South Dakota and Minority leader Trent Lott of Mississippi after meeting for nearly an hour with Secretary of State Colin Powell. 
At the end of Sharon's 40­minute meeting Wednesday with Bush at the White House, the president publicly endorsed Israel's right to hit back. 
Sharon's meeting with Bush and there was no request for Israel to pull its army out of Palestinian towns. 
Israeli Defense Minister Binyamin Ben Eliezer said Tuesday that Israeli troops could pull out of the West Bank town of Hebron by the end of the week if the situation there remained calm. However, the official said Sharon had ordered a cabinet debate on the subject for next week and no action would be taken before that. 
The official said Sharon told his hosts that he wished to improve conditions for the Palestinians, but he was con­strained by security concerns. 
Bush said Sharon had assured him he will turn over tax rev­enues withheld from the Palestinians to the Palestinian 
You Can Have It All! 






Free 
Checking 

0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent at lh&1.Jnlversity 



Friday, October 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Witness leads police astray with false description 
Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
A witness who says he saw a sniper fire with an assault rifle and flee in a cream colored van gave a phony story. inves­tigators said Thursday in a set­back that casts doubt on much of what the public thought it knew about the roving killer. 
Prosecutors are investigating the witness, whose name wasn't released, to determine whether he should be charged with filing a false statement. 
Fairfax County police Lt. Amy Lubas said the inaccurate account was exposed by check­ing it against that of other wit­nesses to Monday night's killing of an FBI cyberterror­ism analyst in a crowded Virginia parking lot outside a Home Depot. It was the only shooting so far that people actually saw. 
Asked if the witness may have intentionally misled investigators, Montgomery County Police Chief Charles Moose, who is heading the investigation, said simply, "Yes." 
Investigators had showed a certain optimism after the lat­est attack seemed to yield the best details yet about the killer. But that gave way to anger Thursday. 
Moose said there was no cre­dence to the witness' descrip­tion of the cream colored van with a burned out rear tail­light. And while Moose did not give the witness' exact descrip­tion of the shooter, he chas­tised reporters for running reports that variously described the gunman as dark­skinned, olive-skinned, Middle Eastern or Hispanic. 
"When we have people from the media interviewing wit­nesses and publishing reports, we get confusion," Moose said. 
"We get this noise ... out there that gives people tunnel vision and makes them focus in on things that are not appro­priate.... We would like to be able to do our job." 
Similar witness accounts of a sniper in a cream-colored van were published this week in both The Washington Post and The New York Times. based on an interview with an Arlington, Va., man who said he met a man at the Falls Church, Va., Home Depot. 
Glen Guymon said he and the witness started talking when police ordered them inside after the shooting. Guymon said the witness told him he saw a man in the parking lot standing behind a cream col­ored Chevy Astra van. 
"There was a woman walk­ing out to her car, he said she was with a guy," Guymon told drove off. He was probably Press: "I'm shocked he was the Times of the man's about 50 feet away from where lying because he had a very account. "The guy behind the he shot her." detailed story. The guy sound­van lifted up a rifle and shot Reached at home Thursday, ed credible. He didn't sound her. then got in the car and Guymon told The Associated like he was making it up." 


CIA: al-Qaida set to strike at home or abroad 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
New al-Qaida strikes may be imminent on U.S. soil or overseas, CIA Director George J. Tenet warned Thursday as he defended his agency's counterterrorism effort5 to lawmakers. 
"You must make the assumption that al­Qaida is in an execution phase and intends to strike us both here and over­seas," Tenet said. noting recent attacks in Kuwait, Indonesia and off Yemen. "That's unambiguous as far as I'm concerned." 
Tenet's comments came during an extraordinary session as he joined FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III and National Security Agency chief Lt. Gen. Michael Hayden to answer sharp ques­tions from the House and Senate intelli­gence committees, in the culmination of five weeks of public hearings on missed warnings of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The hearing also led to new revelations regarding al-Qaida's planning for the Sept. 11 attacks. In a written report declassified Thursday. Tenet suggests that Osama bin Laden himself may have sug­gested the hijackers use large planes to strike the World Trade Center. 
He also said al-Qaida will try to attack again. 
"Based on what we have learned about the 11 September, an attempt to conduct another attack on U.S. soil is certain," he said. 
Tenet said he was meeting later Thursday with Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge. He said Ridge has already taken defensive measures "in spe­cific areas where the intelligence was most credible and in sectors where we're most worried about." He didn't identify them. 
But he said the current situation is com­parable with what existed in the United States in the summer before the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"You must make the analytical judg­ment that the possibility exist5 that people are planning to attack you inside the United States multiple simultaneous attacks. We are the enemy, we're the peo­
pie they want to hurt inside this country," he said. 
The nationwide alert level remains code yellow "significant risk of terrorist attacks" because officials do not have spe­cific details on where and when an attack may occur, Homeland Security spokesman Gordon Johndroe said. Yellow is the third highest of five threat levels. 
Animated and sometimes annoyed. Tenet offered his most detailed public accounting to date of what the CIA did to stop bin Laden's terrorist network before the Sept. 11 attacks. He said his agency has saved thousands of lives by success­fully stopping terrorist attacks. But he also admitted some mistakes were made before Sept. 11. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

N. Korea nuclear news evokes alert: 
From Beijing to Manila, the specter of a new nuclear threat seized Asia on Thursday as the region learned that it could be first in the firing line of North Korea's atomic weapons program. The North's startling admission particularly alarmed rival South Korea, with which it shares a tense, heavily armed border, and neighbor Japan, the only country that has suffered atomic attacks. 
Blair calls for IRA commibnent for peace: 
The Irish Republican Army must make a "real. total and permanent" commitment to peace for Northern Ireland power sharing to resume between Protestants and the outlawed group's Sinn Fein party, Prime Minister Tony Blair declared Thursday. Blairs bluntly worded speech in Belfast came three days after Britain stripped the local Catholic­Protestant administration of power and resumed sole authority in the province. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Gov. Jeb Bush's daughter sentenced: 
Gov. Jeb Bush's daughter was sentenced to 10 days in jail and led away in handcuffs Thursday after being accused of having crack cocaine in her shoe while in drug rehab. Noelle Bush. 25. kissed her aunt Dorothy Koch as a sheriff's deputy cuffed her behind the back. Koch is the sister of President Bush and the governor, who was not in court. 
Pentagon memorial finalists unveiled: 
Dewey glass walls and the infinite sky could be com­ponents of a memorial to victims of the Sept. 11 attack on the Pentagon, according to a panel that unveiled six finalists Thursday in the competition to design the monument. Inspired by the ripple effect of the tragedy and the location of the site it5elf across the Potomac River in Arlington, Va. under the flight path of American Airlines Flight 77 the finalists used metaphor that evoked war images. 
Some schools received recalled meat: 
Some of the 27 million pounds of meat linked to a lis­teria outbreak ended up in the federal lunch program, the Agriculture Department said Thursday. The department purchased nearly 1.8 million pounds of Wampler Foods' turkey meat for distribution to schools and other agencies. Wampler is recalling its ready-to-eat chicken and turkey meat5 produced since May because its plant tested positive for listeria. 
Senate confirms FDA commissioner: 
The Senate on Thursday approved President Bush's nominee to head the Food and Drug Administration. Dr. Mark McClellan, a physician-economist who is one of Bush's top advisers on health policy, was approved by senators on a voice vote. "Dr. McClellan has the training, the experience and the stature to serve as the head of the country's most important public health regulatory agency," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass. 
'.l, 
> 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 18, 2002 



PR9JECT 
Give away your coat ... and SHARE THE WARMTH. 


WARMTH 
Facts and Figures on Poverty and America's Working Poor 
The poverty rate in 2001 was 11.7 percent, up from 11.3 percent in 2000. 
In 2001, there were 6.8 million poor families, up from 6.4 million poor families in 2000. 
36% of persons li~ing ln poverty are children-the 2001 poverty rate of 16.3% for children is is over 1.5 times 
' . 
as high as the poverty rate for any other age group. 
Two trends appear in the rise in homelessness in the past 15-20 years: a growing shortage of affordable , rental housing and a simultaneous increase in poverty. 
Two prime factors account for the increase in poverty: eroding employment opportunities for large seg­ments of the workforce and declining value and availability of public assistance. 
Things are heating up again! 
The Center for Social Concerns is gearing up for another successful run of Project Warmth. Last year, over 2000 coats were received and distributed to sites all across the country, including the Appalachia region, Indian reserva­tions in the Dakotas, and outreach facilities around the South Bend area. 
EVERYONE can participate! Starting October 28, immedi­
ately after fall break, collection sites spread all over 
campus will be eager to accept your coat donations. 
These sites include: 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore * 
LaFortune Information Desk * RecSports *Grace Hall * 
North Dining Hall *South Dining Hall *Campus Ministry/ 
Hesburgh Library *All Residence Halls * College of 
Business Administration * St. Michael's Laundry Distribu­
tion Center * 

Other sites will soon be announced! 
In return for your coat donation, you will receive acoupon for 25°/o Off Of any new Coat of your choice from the Notre Dame Bookstore. Keep that Fighting lrtsh spirit and generosity alive while fighting for the rights and dignity of the poor. 
Hall Competition 
As Project Warmth heats up again, so do the prizes for the two dorms with the highest percentage ofparticipa­
tion. The first place dorm will receive $1000 and the second place dorm will win $500. Start energizing hall 
spirit for this great cause! 
Sponsored by: 

ST. MICHAEL'S BUILDING STIJDENT
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
LAUNDRY SERVICES ACTIVITIES
HAMMES BOOKSTORE STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, October 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Former Enron trader pleads guilty
Market Watch October 17 
Dow Jones 
. Enron gets hit with more
8,275.04 * +239.01 
scandal 
NASDAQ 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO
1,272.29 * +39.87 
* 
A former Enron trader accused of masterminding a scheme to drive up energy
S&P5(X) 

prices during California's power crisis pleaded guilty Thursday to conspiracy and 
879.20 +19.18 
agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.
AMFX 

Timothy Belden, the for­mer head of trading in Enron 's Portland, Ore.,
816.32 +15.99
* 

office, admitted to one count of conspiracy to com­
NYSE* 

mit wire fraud. He faces up to five years in prison and must forfeit $2.1 million . 
472.42 +10.11 
..I did it because I was try­ing to maximize profit for Enron," Belden told U.S.
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
District Judge Martin Jenkins.
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
U.S. Attorney Kevin Ryan 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.67+0.36 10.17 
said the plea demonstrates once and for all that the
i1~11:i1111¦iillil~llilill:llil!:/1!\l!llllll~:l~llllll!lllillll!llli!J,l~~,11 
rolling blackouts and huge price increases that rocked
NASDAQ-100 INDX (QQQ) +3. 38 +0. 77 23. 55 
California in 2000 and last 
year were the result of ille­gal conduct. 
ffl!,~ffli~lli11!:llllll'.l:lllll1lflilllll!ll!1lli!:1111111
i:1:1 

SPDR TRUST SER (NDAF) +6. 79 +0 .19 24. 22 
''These charges answer the question that has long troubled California con­sumers: whether the energy crisis was spurred in part by criminal activity. The
IN BRIEF 
answer is a resounding yes," Ryan said. 
Belden, 35, who now lives in Houston, was released on 
Delta to cut up to 8,000 more jobs 
Empty seats and a sluggish economy forced $500,000 bail. He will beDelta Air Lines to cut another 7,000 to 8,000 sentenced in April.
jobs amid mounting losses, the airline 
Belden's plea is the firstannounced Thursday. 
prosecution of anyone inDelta, the nation's third-largest airline, has connection with the West's slashed 21,000 jobs, or about 25 percent of its energy crisis. It is also the work force, since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
first public acknowledgment The job cuts come two days after the Atlanta­
by the government that based carrier posted a third-quarter loss of 
criminal activity helped $326 million and said it did not see any 
drive up power prices a point California Gov. Gray
improvement coming soon. Davis and other lawmakers 
"Traffic continues to be stimulated primarily have been making since the by fare sales that have driven revenue down to crisis began two years ago.
levels last seen in 1995," chairman and CEO 
The case represents a
Leo F. Mullin said in a memo to employees. 
remarkable evolution in the"Until demand returns and business conditions Bush administration's atti­
otherwise improve, Delta's survival and our 
tude about the energy crisis. potential for future success requires that we 
In May 2001, Vice President maintain tight control of all facets of the busi­
Dick Cheney said California ness." 
was to blame for power shortages and soaring
"Delta can't afford to raise ticket prices at the 
prices. "They caused it
risk of becoming uncompetitive, and as debt mounts, its only choice is to cut labor costs," 

AFP Phot? 

Christina Arguedas, attorney for former Enron Chief Trader Timothy Belden, speaks with reporters before Belden pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud. 
themselves," Cheney said then. 
Prosecutor Matthew Jacobs said Belden will help build a case against higher­ranking officials at Houston­based Enron, the energy giant whose collapse last year has roiled the energy industry. 
Belden's attorney, Cristina Arguedas, said her client was following Enron's instructions when he han­dled his trades and will "make amends for that by cooperating with the gov­ernment." 
Belden is the third Enron figure to be prosecuted. Andrew Fastow, Enron's former chief financial offi­cer, is charged with of devising the off-the-books partnerships that were used to hide some $1 billion in 
debt. Fastow aide Michael 
Kopper pleaded guilty in 
August to money laundering 
and conspiracy. 

"Tim Belden is not a high­level executive who was lin­ing his pockets out of greed," Arguedas said. "He did his job. Tim was always honest with others at Enron about his actions, and was never disciplined by Enron." 
"He now realizes that what he was taught to do was wrong," she said. 
Belden was the master­mind behind the strategies described in memos spelling out how Enron manipulated the California energy mar­ket, said Chris Schreiber, an attorney working with a California Senate committee investigating the crisis. 
"He's been on our radar for a long time," Schreiber said. 
Federal investigators have worked for months with the state Senate panel, and a federal grand jury in San Francisco weighed criminal charges. 
Internal company memos, first released in May, describe how Enron took power out of California at a time of rolling blackouts and shortages and sold it out of state to elude price caps. 
Enron bought California power at cheap, capped prices, routed it outside the state and then sold it back into California at vastly inflated prices, authorities said. The so-called "rico­chet'' deals were designed to circumvent California's price caps on wholesale energy. 

said Ray Neidl. an analyst with Blaylock & Partners. 
Conseco's short term debt is eased 


Sears' credit woes cause shortfall 
. Conseco Inc. 's major lenders agreed Thursday to ease the struggling insurance­and-finance company's short-term debt 
Associated Press 
pressures by granting more time to repay. 
CHICAGO

Conseco said banks had agreed to extend Worsening problems with credit•until Nov. 26 the deadline for the company card debt prompted Sears, Roebuck to make payments on a $1.5 billion line of and Co. to report a surprise drop in credit. 
quarterly profits Thursday and Lenders involved include Bank of 
warn of a fourth-quarter shortfall America and J.P. Morgan Chase and Co. 
as well, sending its stock plunging The agreement follows a deal announced 
32 percent to a 12-year low. The warning and 26 percentSept. 9 in which lenders granted the com­decline in third quarter earnings
pany temporary waivers. The waivers 
came just 10 days after the retailerexpired Thursday. 
said it expected to break even forConseco has sought to avoid a bankruptcy the third quarter and was on trackfiling but has warned that course is possi­to meet fourth quarter targets.
ble unless the company can restructure Shares fell $10.80 to close at 
debt. 
$23.15 in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange their lowest level since October 1990. They have lost more than 60 percent of their value since reaching $59.90 in June, after Sears annom~ced the acquisition of casual clothing mar­keter Lands' End. 
It was a stunning setback for a company that's already saddled with sluggish retail sales in a shaky economy and is in the midst of a complete overhaul of its full line stores. 
"It's particularly significant because their sales have been under pressure for so long, and the credit and financial group has pro­vided the profit to replace the lost sales on the store side," said retail consultant Burt Flickinger III. 
"Now the stores are under much more pressure from Kohl's, Target. Wal-Mart and TJX," which includes 
T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores, said Flickinger, managing director of the New York based Strategic Resource Group. 
CEO Alan Lacy told analysts that additional problems were discov­ered in the credit card unit, already under pressure from the weakening economy, after he fired credit chief Kevin Keleghan early this month for a "loss of credibility" about what was going on in the business. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
r.o. Box Q, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Ha.II, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Man Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTR0ll.ER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINI MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WE~ ADMINISTRAT0RS.................63I-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES. 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and mw;t include contact information. 
Questions ,.ega,-ding Observ"po/icier shouki be di,-«t­ed to Edito,-in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The °"'4:rvc, (USPS 599 240) i, publi..t.ed Monday ,hro•gh hiday """P' d•ring ,um and v....;.,n p<riod,. A ,ub..:rip<ion IU Th< ObKm:r i, SI00 fut one academic yc:.v: 155 foroncinncsrc:r. 
The.-0rucf"YC1' i1 publi,ik-J ar: ll24 Sourh Dining H.U Smd adJn.-s:1 comxrion, ro: 
Notn: o...,..,, IN 46556 The Oboa-v.r 
r.o. Box Q Pcriodic.J pm.ugi: p,a,id .it Notrt' Dam<" Nom Darn., IN 46556-07?9 an4 ~itloo.:J m¥hng offK-n. 
llw-Obxrvn" .a manbcr of the-Auor..1..rni rrcu. AU rc'productlOfl righu are raav~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Teresa Fralish Matt Lozar Bill Puckett Chris Federico Shannon Nelligan Joe Hettler 
Viewpoint Scene 
Kurt Bogaard C. Spencer Beggs Lauren Beck Lab Tech Graphics Nellie Williams Jimmy Atkinson 
Friday, October 18, 2002 
Project opinions actively 
The presence of a socially active forum on campus is neces• Dame is so far removed from many world events, and student sary for students to voice opinions and concerns about issues activists are doing their best to increase awareness of them. pertaining to the campus, the nation and the world. Whether they inscribe messages or hold signs, these students 
Yet, many students have opined that the Notre Dame social are at least trying to encourage discussion. activist scene does not appeal to them. Groups Notre Dame students and faculty should take like the Pray for Peace coalition, Pax Christi, OJhe advantage of the academic setting around them, 
userver
Right to Life and the Progressive Student should follow the leadership of activist groups, and Alliance have tended to exist on the fringes of should debate international issues inside and out­Notre Dame culture. On a campus as conserva­side of the classroom.


Editorial
tive as Notre Dame's, these groups often seem If students possess opinions, they should voice extreme in their views and actions. them. If they want to be heard, they must speak up. 
But these groups, for those who are interested, could offer the But all students do not have to join the existing social justice forums that are necessary to discuss issues like the war in Iraq, groups to make a difference. If students disagree with the status domestic policies and even issues pertaining to campus life like quo, they do not need to be part of a club. They do not need to the Catholic Church, gender relations and student apathy. start their own protest group. 
Notre Dame students do have an active social voice on cam­Rather, being educated and informed is enough. If students pus, but it is not the voice of the majority of Notre Dame stu• care about the world around them, take the time to learn about dents. Activist groups have started the dialogue at Notre Dame current events, and make an effort to analyze their own position by promoting debate and raising new ideas. Now, students must on world affairs, they should use their knowledgeable opinions respond to their mobilizing words. to enhance campus debate. 
Though writing with chalk on the sidewalks may seem futile, Continue the dialogue campus groups have begun. And add to at times it is the only response available to students. Notre their insights the diversity of all students' opinions. 
GUEST COLUMN 
English meets an unlikely enemy 
STANFORD, Calif. 

The status of the English language in the United States has become increasing­ly precarious since the advent of multi­culturalism, bilingual education and immigration from non-Anglophone nations. 
English propo­
Craig Albrecht 

nents have argued that, like it or not, it is the lingua franca 
The Stanford 

of American busi­
Daily

ness and law, and to some degree, global trade. 
Personally, while I studied Spanish for six years and have a genuine respect for the language, I remain an unabashed devotee of English. No other language has proven so versatile and adaptive ­consider the wealth of borrowings, not only from classic and modern European languages, but from languages as dis­parate as Tongan and Narraganset. English has clearly proven its ability to weather centuries of political and social change. 
However, it is not merely the rise of Spanish and other formerly marginal languages that imperils the hegemony of English; an almost imperceptible assault is being waged from the most unlikely of sources: American sports. 
The color commentators of American sports, but principally baseball, basket­ball and football, are mangling and bas­tardizing English perhaps more than any single group. While many play-by-play broadcasters began their careers in jour­nalism and exhibit, by necessity, a con­siderable degree of verbal dexterity. their counterparts -generally ex-athletes ­are often terminally tongue-tied. They scour their oft-concussed brains for a · germane anecdote or a sagacious Lombardi quote, but more often than not their brains refuse to cooperate. 
A speech pathology common to both color and play-by-play commentators, however, is their highly liberal approach to grammatical rules. Consider: 
"Rumbles ahead for the first down, does Jon Ritchie;" "And so, to their sophomore tailback the ball goes;" 
"Quality person, Tony LaRussa." 
Is their mixed-up syntax -postpone­ment of the verb -a function of sports 
commentators' love of German or Latin 
(or Yoda)? Is their awkward verbiage evidence that English is their second lan­
guage? Or. as I am inclined to believe, 
have they not quite grasped their first 
language? 

I regret to report that the problem is not merely the commentators. however. The sports establishment's subtle assault on the English language is being fought on another front as well: the chronic inarticulacy of the players and coaches themselves. Considering the popularity of the communication major among prof es­sional athletes, they certainly have a dif­ficult time communicating. It is nearly impossible to extract a single nugget of meaningful commentary from the trite, aphoristic babble of players and coaches. To this day I cannot comprehend how a player performs at "110 percent." 
Have you noticed the trend toward overly literal explanations as well? In a post-game interview, you may have heard the losing coach remark, "We just didn't get the football in the end zone." What's wrong with "We just didn't score?" 
Do athletes and their coaches have so little faith in their fans' knowledge of the game that they need to insert superflu­ous exposition of how the game is played -indeed. with which ball the game is played? 
It was not always so. A man by the name of Howard Cosell once endowed sports commentary with erudition and eloquence. More than a mere intellectu­al, though. the former lawyer possessed a tremendous love for and an encyclope­dic knowledge of sports. Cosell became the boxing announcer for Muhammad AJi throughout his career; the two colorful personalities formed a lasting friendship. 
During his career with ABC Sports. and particularly Monday Night Football. Cosell infused sports commentary with intelligence and wit. His manner of "telling it like it is" often caused contro• versy. A TV Guide from the 1970s lists Cosell as both the most liked and most disliked sportscaster in America. When he left Monday Night Football in 1983. he remarked that football had become a "stagnant bore." 
A few years ago, when ABC hired Dennis Miller for its Monday Night Football booth, I thought that sports commentary might be approaching a renaissance. But while Miller provided an undeniable intellectual spark, his eso­teric allusions, pompous egotism and insufferable smarm simply did not lend themselves to the all-American game. 
Furthermore, he lacked Cosell's sin­cere love of sports. The show's Nielsen ratings floundered, and Miller was canned. 
The prospects seem dire for those of us who love both English and sports. We desperately need an articulate voice among the din of seemingly illiterate has­beens. Is this too much to ask? Would it be such a bad thing to hold the beer­drinking armchair quarterbacks of the nation to a higher standard? 
This column first appeared in the Oct. 17 edition ofthe Stanford Daily. and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Was Notre Dame justified in suspending the Irish Guard from last Saturday's game? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 329 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Non-violence is a flop. The only bigger flop is violence.,. 
Joan Baez musician 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, October 18, 2002 page 9 

Workers have one right 
The right to quit. That's right -over the course of your time here at Notre Dame, you'll hear from many, many persons claiming that workers have the right to "a living wage," or "better working condi­tions," or that the "rich capitalists are oppressing the common man." 
Their argument sounds great. After all, who doesn't want to side with the little man against the big bad companies? The truth is, however, that the money the workers' rights activists want to give to the oppressed simply isn't theirs to allocate. 
To explain what is common business sense to the mostly non-business activists, I guess I'll rehash some simple business principles that guide our coun­try. 
Let's say I'm starting a business. In order to do this, I will have to come up with my own money, and at the risk of my own financial security (that is, if I fail I lose not only my living wage, but all of my wage) and I start my business with this. If I find success, I might hire someone to say, do my math for me, 

since I hate math, or maybe direct my 
sales. 
As times go on, I hire more and more people, with each one taking a financial risk that my investment might falter or prosper due to their contribution. All my employees bring to work however, is their performance, for which they are paid a fair market rate. They do not take a risk to work with me; if my com­pany fails, they lose none of their own wealth. 
This is typically where your unions and workers' rights activists come in. They claim simply because workers work for me, they should also have a say about how I spend my money, which I have invested and I have risked. This is simply not their place. In fact, if the worker does not like their pay or benefits or hours, they are free to quit at any time. That's what we call "at will" employment. 
That said, business owners have a responsibility to treat their employees fairly and a responsibility to provide a safe environment in which they can work. Employees do not have a right to this; employers have a responsibility to provide it. Employers have the respon­sibility to provide their employees with a fair market wage, that is, a wage that fairly compensates them for their con­tribution to the company and society as a whole. Employers do not have a responsibility to provide for an employ­ee's family and dog. The truth is, any successful employer will realize that in order to survive in the long run, safe conditions and adequate pay for employees will be necessary. Otherwise, employees will simply quit, and the company will flounder. 
Now let's take a look at the living wage argument. People tell me that you can't provide for a wife, and children with a minim um wage job -this is absolutely correct. But the real question most pass up is, why, if you are married and have children, are you still working a minimum wage position. In almost every case, you'll find a person who has moved from job to job, quitting or get­ting fired, is the one in this perpetual state of minimum wage. Persons who have kept the same job over time (read: capable of holding down a job) do get compensated for their loyalty. 
I can go further. Take tomato pickers, those poor, oppressed souls you'll hear the workers' rights folk drone on and on about so much. They get paid about $8,000 a year for their nomadic labor -their contribution to society is worth what they're paid. This is harsh, but the unskilled labor they provide simply is not worth more than $8,000 a year in the market. 
Little do activists realize, money is made on the margin in businesses, that is, the tiny top percentage of sales rev­enue. The two cents more the activists demand per bushel of tomatoes comes directly out of Taco Bell's profit, and thus is an irresponsible stewardship of the funds Taco Bell's investors have trusted in its management. Truth be told, they could probably buy the toma­toes from overseas for less than the extra two cents per bushel the pickers demand. If they did that the tomato pickers would have no job at all (and no wage). 
If you don't like what you're getting paid, quit. Start your own company. Set your own wage. But don't whine about it like you have some "right" to some­one else's money. They took the risk, you didn't. This is their reward. You don't steal someone's birthday present just because you didn't get anything too. Whether you like it or not, it is fair. Don't like that? Move to Cuba or China, I'm sure you'll find your idea of "living wage" is a bit off the mark. 
John Litle is a senior MIS major who is sick and tired ofjealous whining from tormented rebellious socialists. He urges them to move to France with the rest ofthe militarily, economically and intellectually fainthearted. His column runs every other Friday and he can be reached at jlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Opposition to war in Iraq based on deeper values 
Patriotism is alive and well among Notre Dame students 
The accusation that those organi­zations promoting peace here at Notre Dame are unpatriotic is com­pletely unjustified. By attempting to understand the plight of Afghani refugees, no one was accusing America of bringing terror upon itself. The fight against terrorism must begin with a fight against igno­rance. These groups realize that America can only preserve its ideals of "life. liberty and the pursuit of happiness" by continually re-evaluat­ing its structure and its practices, both domestic and international. 
When my grandfathers fought the battles against Germany, Japan and Italy, they did indeed fight to pre­serve the flag and "the ideals upon which America was founded." Many young men of that great generation fought and died so that we would not have to live under the oppression of a regime that murders those who ques­tion its actions. The chalk on the walkway to Debartolo calling for "No War in Iraq" is not there to destroy American values: it is there to strengthen them. True patriotism is not found in blind agreement with each and every statement that President Bush, or any leader, makes. 
No, true patriotism is found through exercising our right to open­ly debate and discuss the values that many previous generations of Americans fought to defend. 
The "greatest generation" fought a war with guns, tanks and ultimately, nuclear bombs. The war that this generation will fight does not have to involve violence. As a proud grand­child of two World War II veterans, I am not afraid to defend my country. However, my prayer is that this fight will not be one of death and destruc­tion, but. that it will be a fight of intelligence and will. 
As John F. Kennedy once said, "Today, we need a nation of Minutemen. citizens who are not only prepared to take arms, but citizens who regard the preservation of free­dom as the basic purpose of their daily life and who are willing to con­sciously work and sacrifice for that freedom." 
As part of a world community, the freedom that we must preserve might not always be our own. Those organi­zations here at Notre Dame that attempt to bring to light this nation's mistakes are merely trying to prevent another Sept. 11 from occurring. This, to me, is true patriotism. We are not "living in an America increasingly un-American," but we are living in an America striving to become a better America. 
In a world that becomes smaller and smaller with each passing day, we cannot take our "superpower" status and use it as a shield that jus­tifies ignorance. 
Jennifer Fitzsimmons 
sophomore Breen-Phillips Hall Oct. 17 

Consider Catholic principles when discussing war and peace 
I'm disappointed. This latest round of war-hawk Viewpoint let­ters and rebuttals to these letters, while they have said a lot about whether we should unswervingly line up behind the President or oppose the evil imperial Leviathan in which we live, have not talked about Catholicism's place in this argument. In fact, Tom Seabaugh goes so far in his Oct. 16 letter as to call religious objections no more than a wimpy response to our goose-stepping populace. 
Religion, Catholicism in particu­lar, has been forced into a rather perverse position at this school. Our biggest Catholic debate cen­ters on sexual morality, as can be seen from the Notre Dame vs. Saint Mary's jokes and the con­stant complaints, in Viewpoint and elsewhere, about parietals and Notre Dame's "no nookie" rule. "The Vagina Monologues" gener­ate quite a stir here, but we go for days on end arguing about the looming war on Iraq talking only about power politics and our state interests. 
As Catholic as we sometimes claim to be, discussion of this con­flict in terms of just war theory and pacifist theory is conspicuous­ly absent -I think we can all agree that sidewalk chalk doesn't count. In fact, it often seems that at Notre Dame, the pacifists and their arguments are brushed aside as nonsense, without a second 
thought. 

Catholicism is more than a sexu­al purity code with some stuff about God and love on its fringe. It is certainly important enough that it should not be shoved in the closet during our discussions of war. Sexual purity, for how much we all focus on it, is possibly the least important area of Catholicism. Peace, forgiveness and non-violence, for how under­stated they may often be, are of much greater importance (in fact, they are of primary importance, if you look at the issues that Christ actually discusses in the Gospels). 
Let us not forget in these discus­sions that our shared faith (for those of us who are Catholic) demands that we examine these issues in light of conscience and faith. Saying things like, "Religion may be well and good during peace-time, but how can it solve our security problem," misses the point. I do not claim to be better than others at living my faith, but if our religion, whatever our reli­gion, is held during fair weather and then shunted off for the sake of more pressing issues, it is no religion at all. 
Mike Romano 
junior Dillon Hall Oct. 16 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Friday, October 18, 2002 
Get searchE Tennessee-Ale stateline, lo! beveragE 


1·········i1iti·····..·········~·········j 
: Cut these out ~---: 
. . 
:
.
.
. 
•
•
. 
•
. 

•
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
. 
•
. 
•
. 
•
. 
•
.
•
• '
.
.
•
.
•
. 
.. 
Escape South Bend's evil gravitational pull. Gain two beverages. 
Rural radio sucks. Stop and buy CDs. Lose a turn. 
Return to real timezones. Lose a turn. 
Game and graphics by C. Spencer Beggs 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


us 
Friday, October 18, 2002 page 11 
Run out of gas in 
Nebraska. Lose turn. Wonder what the hell you're doing in Nebraska. 
Name that roadkill. Players take turns nam­ing kinds of roadkill. If a player hesitates more than five seconds he or she gives all his or her beverages to the other players. 
...•.......................................•......... 



l . flay~~ 
Cut these out. 
•
•
•
•
• 
• 

••..•..••••••...............................•..• 
Roadmate has to go. Lose a turn or lose a beverage. 
Forgot tickets, go bac~ to start. 
ed at labama 
•se alI es 
Friday, October 18, 2002 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS INTERHALL 
Dillon rumbles over Keough in 12-0 victory 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
"We're runnin' it!" 

You could see the breath of assistant coach Joe "Crackhead" Parker on the Dillon sideline. 
"We're runnin' it!,. 

Players hopped up and down to keep warm. It was snowing. The lights were on. 
"\Ve're runnin' it!" 

The Dillon Big Red wanted the Keough Kangaroos to know their play calls. They were dar­ing the defense to stop them. 
Keough stood up the Dillon backs on a number of plays, helped by the solid performance of linebacker Kyle LeClere, but the Kangaroos simply could not plug the holes the entire game. The Big Red stormed into the playoffs with a 12-0 victory at Riehle fields Thursday night. 
Running backs Ben Butwin ran for 78 yards and Dom Eck ran for 48 in leading the attack that pounded the Kangaroo defense for 158 total yards rushing. 
''Running is what we do," Eck said. "We're not going to change the game plan for other teams." 
"Dillon's offense, with the Wing-T and the split backs, is pretty deceptive," Keough cap­tain Andy Hess said. "They had some big plays that put them on top at the end." 
Keough gained just over 50 yards on the evening. Their offense had a few big plays but finished with no points to show for their efforts. 
"It was a little hard to get things going on offense," Hess said. "If we could have put some highlights of our different drives together, we may have gotten something going. But we're dis­appointed because if we had won tonight we would have made the playoffs." 
In Thursday's previous game, Morrissey had eliminated Keenan from the playoff race and opened a playoff spot for the Kangaroos to pounce into. 
"It was a good season, though, and we've had fun this year," Hess said. 
Dillon quarterback Mark Zepf finished with 45 yards passing. Cornerback John Kelly had an interception. The Big Red finish­es the regular season with a record of 3-1 and feel confident after winning their third game in a row. 
"We go at 'em every time," Eck said. "The line had a good game today and we're confi­dent. After the first game [a loss to Alumni}. we got a feel for each other arid started to come together as a team. We are get­ting better every game." 
Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Terps topple Yellow Jackets 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
In the first half, Chris Downs couldn't take more than a step or two before running into a white jersey. After that, the 5­foot-8 running back zipped through holes that could have accomodated someone twice his size. 
Downs ran for a career-high 212 yards and three touch­downs as Maryland cruised to its fourth straight victory, 34­10 over Georgia Tech. 
Held to 29 yards on seven carries in the first half, Downs ran for 109 yards and two scores in the third quarter as the defending Atlantic Coast Conference champions turned a 6-3 lead into a 20-3 advan­tage. • 
"The offensive line came up huge in the second half. Thank God for them," Downs said. "During the third quarter, I saw creases and holes open up. There were more cracks in their defense, and I got through them as quickly as possible." 
Maryland coach Ralph Friedgen said his staff made several adjustments in the blocking scheme at halftime, and Downs did the rest. 
"I think our offensive line stepped up, and Chris Downs ... well, what can I tell you? He had a phenominal game," Friedgen said. 
After digging a huge hole for the Yellow Jackets in the third quarter, Downs buried them with 7:40 remaining, running 64 yards down the right side­line for a touchdown to make it 27-3. 
Downs is playing in place of 2001 ACC offensive player of the year Bruce Perry, who has yet to suit up this season because of a torn groin. Before this year, Downs. a senior, had 14 yards on four carries. 
"I'm very thankful to the coaches for finally giving me the chance," he said. 
Scooter Monroe had five catches for 105 yards for Maryland (5-2, 1-1). which needed to go to overtime to beat the Yellow Jackets last year. 
"It was big, because it gets us in the win column in the league," Friedgen said. "From here on out, we just need to take care of business each and every week. We'll be in this thing in the end, if we can do that." 
Monroe is the first Terrapin 
with a 100-yard receiving game since Jason Hatala in 
1997. 
A.J. Suggs went 28-for-45 for 272 yards, and Kerry Watkins had nine receptions for 127 yards to lead Georgia Tech (4-3, 1-3). 
The Yellow Jackets, in their first season under coach Chan Gailey, endured their most lopsided loss since a 34-7 defeat against Florida State in 1998. 
"The third quarter was obvi­ously our undoing," Gailey said. "I don't really know what happened. I think we had guys in the right spots, but we just weren't tackling." 
The Yellow Jackets were also without linebacker Keyaron Fox, who leads the team in tackles but sprained an ankle in the first half and did not return. 
"He's one of our best play­ers. Obviously, that hurts," Gailey said. 
Georgia Tech also played the second half without running back Ajenavi Eziemefe, who sprained an ankle after gain­ing 16 yards on five carries. He's been filling in for stand­out Tony Hollings. whose sea­son ended with a knee injury on Sept. 21. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
No agreements met in battle for Piniella 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
The Seattle Mariners failed to reach a deal with any of the suit­ors for manager Lou Piniella, and Oakland's Art Howe emerged as another possible candidate for the New York Mets. 
Seattle president Chuck Armstrong spoke Wednesday with Mets owner Fred Wilpon and Tampa Bay managing gen­eral partner Vince Naimoli, but made no deals involving com­pensation for Piniella. 
"No agreements were reached," Mariners spokesman Tim Hevly said. 
The New York Daily News and Newsday reported the Mets also have received permission from Oakland to speak to Howe. 
Howe has a year left on his contract, but the A's have told the Mets they would not seek compensation for releasing him. Oakland bench coach Ken Macha could be in line to replace Howe and also is a candidate for the Chicago Cubs' job. 
The Mets have interviewed Macha, Willie Randolph, Terry Francona and Chris Chambliss in their bid to replace the fired Bobby Valentine. 
The Mets, Devils Rays and a third team have expressed inter­est in interviewing Piniella, according to the Mariners. They haven't identified the third club, at that team's request, and Hevly declined to say if there have been talks with that organiza­tion. 
The New York Post said Boston also might be in the mix, bringing the total to four teams. 
The Post, calling Mariners general manager Pat Gillick's comments semi-serious, quoted him as saying, "I don't know if it would hurt George [Yankees owner Steinbrenner] more if the Mets or Boston got Lou." 
The newspaper said Gillick was more serious when he said, "Ther.e might be a club that's going to fire a manager to hire Lou." 
Grady Little is currently Boston's manager. 
"Things could be happening above me," Red Sox interim gen­eral manager Mike Port told the Post. "But ... I have heard noth­ing from [inside the organization about it]." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
That pretty place, Bed & Breakfast DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) has space available for football/par• LEASING FOR 2003-2004 bringing family, friends & girlfriend ent weekends. 5 rooms/private SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN-to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck 
NOTICES WANTED FOR SALE 
baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM· at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal-Middlebury, 30 miles from campus, PUS-4-5-8-9 & 10 BEDROOM ley@global.t-bird.edu Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. HOUSES· STUDENT NEIGHBOR­
$250 a day potentiat/bartending #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEM· Training provided Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. Nice 3-bdrm home in East Race MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL • Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-near Corby's avail. now. W/0 incl. WASHER/DRYERS· CALL TODAY 
PERSONAL 

1-800-293-3985 ext 556 Free Parties & Meals! ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. • HOUSES GOING FAST -CON­$99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 679-2010. TACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 • 
1996 Red 0-evy Lunina 124K miles. 1 ·800-234-7007 (574)274-9955 -(574)674-2471 Good oordtion. $3500. 1988 Grey endlesssummertours.com 1995 Mazda MPV (minivan) $7,500 Large updated duplex avail. now. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Honda Acmld. 160< mies. $&:Xl obo. Excellent condition. 1 owner -Unit 1 ·2 bdrms. Unit 2-3-4 bdrms or not go it alone. If you or someone 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 all repair records. 272-3651 rent both units for large group close you love needs confidential support Boin 4-ooa. 574-246-0159 per day. No experience necessary. to campus. TICKETS or assistance, please call Sr. Mary PROFESSORS & STAFF • Live in Call 679-2010. Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. Lovely Wooded Estates in a home more information, see our bi-weekly with 40 years of ND History. Walk ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please ad in THE OBSERVER. 
LOST & FOUND Tutor to assist high school girl or Bike to work • 3 bedrooms 1.5 RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. check our prices. 273-3911. w/homework especially English. baths with beautiful FLORIDA CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Spanish helpful but not required. ROOM and partially finished base-WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST Americas #1 Student Tour Operator 
Lost, dog. Chow Chow Must have transportation to stu• ment on large comer tot. Can 234-Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from PRICES PAID 251-1570 Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Brown/cream Fli.;tty. Small black dents home. 8858 to see. Notre Dame • Perfect for Football Information/Reservations 1-800­mole on his snout Name is Bettis. Weekend Resort in Union Pier on ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST 648-4849 or www.ststravet.com 
574-243-2623. Lake Michigan. Most units PRICES 289-9280 Call with any information rehabbed in 2002 • 269-469-0245 We're getting out of here early. We are. Looking for a playful, kind and FOR RENT ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 273-9683. responsible person to watch my 2 HOUSES FOR RENT FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Laundry...packing...cigars in the cold. 
children (5 & 1 1/2 yrs) in my home 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532·1896 Digital Camera Lost Nikon CootPix 2-8 hrs. per week .. Flex hours. All size homes available for 2003· ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Maybe even snow • thank God I'm 775 Before Pitt Game Lost near 2004. mmmrentals@aoLcom. 5 & 6 bdrm. houses. Close. Fall WANTED going home to 75 degrees...and stadium Call Destanie at 4-4283 Call Jill at 288•7118. www.mmmrentats.com. 2003. Call Fronse 574-220-8403. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Soukup's mom. 
------------------------------------------------------------· 
page 13

Friday, October 18, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERtISEMENT 





@eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
e e 
e ~--I
e ~ ~--~ e e ~~~ ~ 1==,,...,.... e 
e r~~-...~~,..:~ ~,..,.._:3.ffltl•--~ e 
e ~°'::::::~,n,w,.,,,,--___ ~~-e 

e ;::-=--.. ~~~-.,___ e
e ~~-e e

e 

e e 
e e e e But if you don't get it in e e 

e e

e Monday, October 28th• · e 
e e 
e e 
e e e Apply at ee e e 
e e 
@ www.nd.edu/~londonp_r 153 HURLEY HALL e 
e e 




eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
Friday, October 18, 2002 

Friday, October 18, 2002 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 

MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Former tennis player almost leads Keenan to victory 
receptions gave the Knights find an open spot in the end Morrissey showed no let­Morrissey began on their 25 By JUSTIN SCHUVER field position in the red zone, zone, but the pass was just down after an emotional last­and scored in only five plays. Sr.arts Writer but both attempts to score late and the receiver was hit minute loss to Stanford The scoring play was an 18­
failed. as he tried to Sunday. yard pass from Ysasi to wide Timmy Giattina is used to On the first catch the "I think we responded well receiver Matt Werger.
"We did not capitalize on
hitting lobs, not catching drive, which ball. Even [to the Stanford loss]." Because the game was them. went all the our opportunities. We then, he Morrissey captain John Caver played on the west Stepan The former varsity tennis way to the almost man­said. "Our intensity level field, which does not have
had drives inside the 20 
player almost single-handedly Morrissey 4-aged to get a tonight was higher than it's goalposts, the Manorites had
but couldn ·t put them in 
won the game for his team, yard line hand on it been all season." to go for two points. The con­but the rest of the Keenan before being the end zone ... while being The Manorites had an excel­version failed. Knights came up just short in stopped, tackled to the lent position to take the lead After Giattina wasn't able to Thursday's 6-0 loss to ended on a ground. early, when a play-action fake make the game-winning catch,
Brent Morlok 
Morrissey. turnover on "Our inside left wide receiver John the Knights saw their playoff 
With the win, the Manorites downs. The Keenan captain runs weren't Mulligan wide open. But the hopes officially ended as the (3-1) are guaranteed a posi­second drive working," throw from Rick Ysasi was too Manorites kneeled down to tion in the playoffs, while the also ended with a turnover on Keenan captain Brent Morlok long. run out the clock. Knights' (1-3) season is over. downs, but in heartbreaking said. "The only option was to Morrissey didn't focus on its "We did not capitalize on our 
Giattina had two receptions fashion. go to the air. [Giattina] had missed opportunity for long. opportunities," Morlok said. in the half on separate drives, With the fourth-down play never played football before Just before the end of the first "We had drives inside the 20 the first for 38 yards and the starting on the Morrissey 20-this year and he really stepped half, the Manorites were able but couldn't put them in the second for 37 yards. Both yard line, Giattina was able to up." to get on the board. end zone." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

pO't'C..;pl•M ._,T.,,,,,_, 
'-• .......,..... 
C, 

11111v11:s 
ca111pus shoppes .. town & countrv 



Interested in ..... . 
News Broadcasting Begin a DJ ofClassical Music DJing SYR's and Other Events 
with a 

REAL FM RADIO STATION?!?! 
Contact Aggie Noble for news: anoble@nd.edu Molly Walsh for Classical DJ: mwalsh2@nd.edu Ferrell Datcher for Dance DJ: fdatcher@nd.edu 

Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 


Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
Gll£A'T\YALL 
' 

----B-ar-an_d_R_e_st_a_u_ra_n_t_o_p_e__n_7_d_a_y_s_a_w_e_e_k____li
lJO Dixie Way N., South Bend {next to Howard Johnson) 
.... 


..... 

page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, October 18, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 



Associated Press week," Washburn said, up the ball and throw the games. 
"and watch the Packers on first pitch himself. "Usually, I'd fall asleep 
ANAHEIM Sunday." "I can't wait for Saturday before the end," he said. 
Instead of hunting big He loves to take his bow to come," he said Anaheim manager Mike game this October, Jarrod and arrow out during the Wednesday, standing by his Scioscia and San Francisco Washburn is pitching in offseason and go after deer, locker. manager Dusty Baker have one. even goes to North Dakota Teammate Kevin Appier, announced only their Game 
The 28-year-old left-han­to hunt with his dad. Even if listening in from the next 1 starters, preferring to der will start the World the temperature is 40 stall over, didn't believe wait on setting their full Series opener for Anaheim degrees below zero. Washburn's story about rotations. on Saturday night against "As long as there's no having to buy a satellite Washburn, 1-0 with a San Francisco's Jason wind," he said. dish to watch Arizona's 2.84 ERA in three postsea­Schmidt, far different from Last year, he had a big seven-game win over the son starts, never had more Washburn's usual autumn decision to make after the New York Yankees last than 11 wins in parts of haunts. season. year. Appier insisted four major league seasons. 
He's from Danbury, Wis., "I finally got a dish so I Washburn was focused on When Anaheim played a town so small that its could watch the World deer, not Fox. Cleveland in the major1,855 residents could fit Series," he said. "We don't "Your elbows are drip­league season openerinto Edison International have Fox where I'm from." ping down blood," Appier March 31, the left-hander Field's left-field bleachers Nothing to think about said, laughing. became the Angels' sixth with room to spare. this year. All he has to do is Washburn admitted he different opening-day
"You hunt six days a walk out to the mound, pick didn't watch all of the starter in six seasons. 
IN BRIEF 
Pace wants to play Sunday 
An injury to his backup is motivat­ing offensive tackle Orlando Pace to suit up for the St. Louis Rams two weeks ahead of schedule. 
Pace, the first overall pick of the 1997 draft, is getting over a leg injury and wasn't supposed to return until Nov. 3. 
But backup Grant Williams is out for the season with a broken leg, so the team needs Pace now. After play­ing the Seattle Seahawks on Sunday, the Rams have a bye, so Pace would have two weeks to continue his own recovery. 
"That kind of accelerated things," Pace said Thursday after practice. "There's so much shuffling you want to get back in there and help your teammates out. In my mind, hopeful­ly I'll be out there playing." 
At the least, Pace wants to be avail­able for emergency duty on what could be a makeshift alignment. 
After Williams was hurt, right tack­le John St. Clair moved to the left side, guard Tom Nutten moved to right tackle and reserve guard Heath Irwin moved into Nutten's spot. Coach Mike Martz said if Pace doesn't play. that will be his line again Sunday. 
"Obviously if we felt like that was a real issue he would not play," Martz said. "Orlando is the only guy who can really tell you how that feels. He's had some scar tissue break loose, which is a good sign." 
Pace injured his leg in practice Sept. 25. Before the injury, the All­Pro tackle made 78 consecutive reg­ular-season and postseason starts. 
The team is worried that coming back too soon could set him back again. That's what they're weighing heading into the Seattle game. 
Owens fined ~5,000 for 
untucked shirttail 
Terrell Owens was fined $5,000 by the NFL -for an untucked shirttail, not for his autograph touchdown cel­ebration. 
Owens wasn't punished for pulling a pen from his sock to sign the foot­ball after a touchdown catch in the San Francisco 49ers' 28-21 victory over Seattle on Monday night. 
Instead, the league sent him a let­ter containing a much more com­mon, minor fine for equipment viola­tions. 
Owens called it "nonsense ... a very nit-picky thing." 
"It states on the notice that I specif­ically wore my shirt out during the game," Owens said. "I constantly tucked it in throughout the course of the game, and people were tugging on me. and it just came out." 
After beating cornerback Shawn Springs for the winning touchdown in the fourth quarter, Owens pro­duced a pen, signed the football and presented it to his financial adviser in the front row. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said Owens won ·t be fined or suspended for the move, but similar displays will be punished. 
around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Fresno State vs Boise State 8 p.m., ESPN 
BOXING 

Friday Night Fights, 9 p.m, ESPN2 
-
Friday, October 18, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Aloha 
continued from page 20 
ry. This year Willoughby is averaging 6.15 kills per game, good enough for fourth in the nation. She also leads Hawaii Kahumoku sat out the 2001 season after her 2000 All­American season when Kahumoku was named the Western Athletic Conference player of the year in 2000. Her five kills per game average is 20th in the country. 
"[Hawaii has] two All­American outside hitters that play opposite each other. Those two are very. very good. They have high kills per game and are very efficient," Brown said. 
"Opponents know those two are going to get most of those balls. I think definitely those hitters are key and along with that they play good defense and their ball control is very good. They always have a good option to go to, even on a bad pass." 
As a team, Hawaii is best in the nation with a .339 team hit­ting percentage. Willoughby is 21st with a percentage of .381. 
While totally stopping these outside hitters is an impossible task, Notre Dame's strength this season has been its block­ing. The Irish still lead the country with a 3.81 blocks per game average. 
"We have to be able to at least slow down their outside hitters with our blocking which has been a strength this year." 
Brown said. "It is going to be difficult to stop them complete­ly, but we want to hold them below their hitting percent­ages." 
With the defense trying to contain the Rainbows' offense. a big key for the Irish will be its passing. If the Irish pass well, they usually play well. 
"I think our passing is going to be key," Brown said. "That allows us to run a balanced attack." 
Hawaii is the highest-ranked opponent Notre Dame has played since a match last September against top-ranked Nebraska. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 



ND SWIMMING 
Young squads to face first test of the season 
Bauman feels he has per­
ByJOE HETTLER 
formed well thus far this sea­
Associate Sports Editor 
son. "I feel I've been doing prettySwimming against well so far this year the biggest
Kalamazoo College isn •t quite adjustment is making the com­the same as swimming against mitment to the team," he said. 
the Air Force "I enjoyAcademy. 
"/ don't think you feel swimming
The Notre 
here so it's 

Dame mens any pressure. but it does 
not a prob­swimming get you very excited . ., lem. I think 
team will see 
the rest of the 

the difference freshmen are
Doug Bauman
in competition just as excit· first hand this Irish Freshman ed as I am for weekend as swimmingthe Irish travel to Colorado this year and we're looking for­
Springs to face the Falcons. ward to make an impact as a Freshman Doug Bauman said freshmen class." CHIP MARKS/Tne Ooserver the team is ready and excited Bauman also said the fresh­to race against Air Force and
A Notre Dame swimmer competes In the Notre Dame relays earlier this season. The Irish face men aren't feeling the pressure
thinks the competition will be of facing stiffer competition: 
some tougher competition this week at Air Force. 
much tougher. ..I don't think you feel any
"It's our first big meet of the pressure, but it does get you year so we're going in there pretty excited," Bauman said. looking to pull off a meaningful "It gets the adrenaline going so 
victory," Bauman said. "We've I think it's a positive."been practicing hard all the The womens team will race way through the week so a against Air Force • on bunch of good times would be Wednesday in Colorado encouraging to us." Springs.
The younger swimmers on the team are also looking for­ward to their first big match of Contact Joe Hettler at the season. Personally• jhettler@nd.edu 
•

University ofNotre Dame : University Resources • • International Study Program in • 
• 
•• for Gay, Lesbian, & •• 
• Bisexual Students • • liiifiiillliJlli,illlllaMlil • 
• THE STANDING 
•

PARIS, FRANCE • • • • 
• COMMITTEE ON 
• 

• GAY AND 1.rSWIAN 
• 

• STUDl!NT Nl!l!OS 
• 
• 

Study Political Science, International Relations, ·•• • ••
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Sociology, Economics, and Modem History in the Heart • •
• Lesbian Student Needs • 
of Paris at Science Po, one ofEurope's most • •
• (Confidential information, education, and resources) • 
Prestigious Institutions • Contact: Sr. M.l. Gude, CSC, l-5550, or student • • members (see web site for student contact info.) • 
Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director • •
• Office of Campus Ministry • • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students •
•

INFORMATION MEETING • and their friends; pertinent library resources in
•

• 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
October 30, 2002 •
• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 
•

6:00 PM •
• 

116 DeBartolo •• University Counseling Center 
• 
(Individual counseling) 

Dec. 1, 2002 deadline for Academic Year 2003-2004 •• • Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 
Application available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud • Lafferty at Latlerty.3@nd.edu
• 

for more information, cht-:k out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' 
•
•
• 

Friday, October 18, 2002 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish again face tough field in Pre-National 

ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

With all of the home meets for the season behind them, the Notre Dame mens and womens cross country teams will encounter their toughest competition yet Saturday at the Asics/Pace-setter Pre­National meet in Terre Haute, Ind. 
The No. 13 women, who dropped in the rankings after their fourth place finish at the Notre Dame Invitational two weeks ago, will try to challenge No. 2 Stanford and No. 6 North Carolina State for the second time this sea­son. Some other top squads competing at the meet include No. 3 Michigan State, No. 8 Arizona State and eight other top 30 teams. 
The Irish men, currently ranked No. 24 in the country, will face No. 1 Stanford for the second time this season. Two weeks ago at the Notre Dame Invitational, the Cardinal's top two runners, Ryan Hall and Donald Sage, took first and second place and beat out Irish junior Todd Mobley who finished third. The Cardinal finished with five more runners in the top 20, as they went on to a commanding win at the Burke Memorial. 
In additional to the chal­lenge posed by the Cardinal. the Irish men will also face No. 10 BYU, No. 14 NC State, and several other top 30 teams. 
The Pre-National meet, which is always held at the site of the national champi­onship meet -at Terre Haute this year -will give the Irish an opportunity to show how they stack up against the nation's best, as well as an opportunity to acquaint themselves with the national championship course. If the Irish squads can do well Saturday; they will increase their chances of qualifying for nationals. 
Last year, Mobley finished 14th in the mens race, while then-freshman Lauren King claimed 15th. Mobley and King. who both were named All-Americans last season, are looking to lead the Irish 
on Saturday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindse@nd.edu 

HOCKEY 
Broncos gallop into Joyce for Irish opener 
Special to The Observer 
The Irish open their home and CCHA schedule tonight when they play host to the Western Michigan Broncos. The follow­ing night, Oct. 19, the Irish trav­el to Kalamazoo, Mich.• to face the Broncos in the second game of the home-and-home series. 
The Irish enter the weekend with a 1-0-1 record after open­ing the season last week at Minnesota-Duluth. Western Michigan brings a 2-0-0 overall record and a 2-0-0 CCHA record into the weekend after knocking off Bowling Green twice last weekend. 
The Irish opened their season with a 2-2 tie last Friday at Minnesota-Duluth. That tie gives Notre Dame an 18-16-1 record in season openers. The tie broke a streak of three con­secutive season-opening losses for the Irish. The last opening­day win for Notre Dame came on Oct.2.1998 at Wisconsin. 
In home openers, the Irish are 19-15 in their first 34 seasons. Dave Poulin is 4-3-0 in home openers since taking over as coach prior to the 1995-96 sea­son. 
/ 
Western Michigan got its sea­son off to a fast start with a pair of CCHA wins last weekend ver­sus Bowling Green. Freshman Vince Bellissimo led the Broncos with three goals and one assist on the weekend with two of the goals being game winners. 
Also collecting four points on the weekend were defenseman Dave Cousineau with two goals and two assists and forward Dana Lattery who had a goal and three assists. 
Bellissimo was named the CCHA's rookie-of-the-week while Lattery was the offensive player-of-the-week for his per­formance. Freshman goaltender Scott Foster picked up the wins in both games and has a 3.49 goals against average and a .841 save percentage. 
The two teams will meet again on Feb. 28-Mar. 1 in a home-and~home series. Western Michigan, Ferris State and Bowling Green join the Irish in the same four-team cluster this season. All four teams will play each other four times this sea­son. 
Friday's opening faceoff at the Joyce Center is scheduled for 
7:05 p.m. 

IR/PS has established itself as a leader In training people to compete in the global arena. Program 
graduates are employed In media, telecommunlcatlons, International trade, manufacturing 
technology, financial services, consulting, government and nonprofit organizations. 
The M.P.I.A. and Ph.D. are graduate degrees that focus on business and policy issues facing the regions of rhe Pacific Rim, specifically the countries of Latin America, China, Japan, Korea, and Soi,theast Asia. 
The M.P.I.A. degree offers career tracks in: International Management International Development & Nonprofit Management International Politics International Economics International Environmental Policy Public Policy Country & Regional Studies 
I
I I
I I
I I I
I I
I 
l 
I I I I I I I I I I 


"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
We carry American Crew & Bed Head 10°/o off both $2.00 off Shampoo & Cut 
1811 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 4663 7 574-271-7674 
Expires 10/18/02 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~--------------------------· 

_ ________. 

Friday, October 18, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 .... 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
Now you won't one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
STUMY 
02002 Tri>une Media S&Nicea, Inc. All Rlghta Reaerved. 
MALFE 

± 
I I r J

tSERVTY I WHE:N Hf= 5KIPPE=D 
A Gl<ADE:, HIS TE=ACHE:F< SAID IT WAS A --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) ...... 
Yesterday' I Jumbles: SANDY PRINT JESTER ASSURE 
s Answer: What an eye doctor does during office hours -"SEES" PATIENTS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 20 • To order, send your name, address and $5.45 and mak• check payable to Tribune Media ServlcN, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 30 Ones providing 53 Kind of rent control? refrigerator or
1 Port vessel closet33 Cuts and runs
7 Dirt farmer 
55 Draft choice34 Site of April 13 Puzzle 
1865 Civil War 56 Further on 14 Handling action 57 Not socapably 40 "My Fair Lady" concentrated 
16 Got in on the 
composer 58 Online business deal 41 "Fairies'
17 Long 
midwife" in 
DOWN

established "Romeo and 1 Classic novel18 Fingers, for Julier that ends "Wellshort 42 Government said, but we 19 Swung tools issue 
must cultivate 21 soda 43 Moonshiner's our garden" 22 Musical 2 Low-cost oil 
sackful kingdom 44 Lugs venue? 24 Run 46 Apra Harbor is 3 Arctic explorer 
John
its main

25 "Cease and anchorage 4 Contributes
desisr 47 Compass 5 Hard pushes,
26 Wing it 
course? maybe28 Word repeated 48 Jewish 6 One who mayin a basketball communities be rushed to achant hospital
29 "Married lady" in 5010% of MDX Puzzle by Manny Notowtky
7 Incredible
a "Funny Girl" 51 Molding 29 Team member's 35 Welfare act of 45 Was out 
song medium 8 Buzzards Bay, need old 
e.g. 48 Wind Cave Natl. 36 Sheet material Park locale 
31 Diamond stat.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Old Fords 10 Good deal 37 Supported, with 
49 European coal 

32 Common 
ior"
11 Happening area
add•on 38 And other12 Modern home 52 Vote for 34 Cartoonist who womenof ancient 
Walachia helped start an 54 Syllable often 
39 Prompt
amusement park said three times 13 Pal, in slang 
in Arkansas 44 Pin of a sort in a row 
table cushion Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone
20 Like New York
City, e.g. phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
23 Centrally crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
located 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00025 Dear past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 27 "_ in Love" Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, (1973 film) nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jean-Claude Van Damme, Chuck ­Berry, Wynton Marsalis, Pam Dawber 
Happy Birthday: As long as you aren't impulsive, you will be lucky in love 1nd wise with your investments this year. Hasty decisions will be your :lownfall. If you bide your time and let things unfold naturally, you will find yourself in a much better PQSition. This is a year to relax, enjoy and ,lowly but surely move toward your goals. Your numbers are 7, 18, 25, 34, 37,39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You should get out and mingle as much as possible either at social events or in groups that share similar interests. Lectures will open up doors as well as bring you information. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Watch your health and take care of your physical rieeds. Do not overspend. Use more imagination and ingenuity to beautify your living quarters. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Educational courses will tum into a form of .:!ntertainment for you. Learning will be stimulating and inspiring. You are likely to meet someone very special through students you befriend. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): The work you put into your house will help to increase its value. Try to do the labor yourself and save money. You may be undergoing some uncertainties regarding your mate. Talk about it. 0 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time for a new image. You can make physical improvements that will be recognized and admired by friends. You will make ,uccessful purchases if you go shopping. 5 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend time sorting out the mess at home. Set yourself some priorities. You may want to check over your personal papers and make whatever changes are required. 2 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your communication skills will bring you popularity and attract someone with whom you may be interested emotionally. fake your time and enjoy. Go out on the town or visit others as opposed to .:!ntertaining at home. 4 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your thoughts will be on work and ways to make ;xtra cash. Consider the possibility of your own small business. Talk to romeone with experience in this area. 3 stars SAGrITARWS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may find it difficult to deal with your ;motions. All of a sudden you are in the mood to settle down, but you find it unnerving. You are a bit of a wanderer and you value your freedom, but give the relationship a chance. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't mix business with pleasure. Intimacies with clients or co-workers will only work against you in the long run. Don't reveal your private affairs to others. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Join groups that are concerned with self­improvement and physical enhancement. This way you create a support system for yourself that will make it easier. You should consider a club that will expand your circle of friends. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should be careful not to disclose personal information or there could be consequences. You may find yourself isolated if you have not been compassionate toward a friend who trusted you. Be understanding. 2 stars Birthday Baby: You will be a bit of a risk-taker and although you will usually land on your feet, it is certain that there will be times that you won't. Caution must be instilled in you right from day one. Dleck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugeriialast.com, astromate.com COPYRIGITT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in .the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the _ two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying f orn1 and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 

Friday, October 18, 2002 

ND WOMENS SOCCER 
Getting back in winning form 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 

Two top-15 opponents. Two straight wins. 
Building off the momentum from Sunday's 3-1 victory over No. 8 Connecticut, Notre Dame snapped a three-game losing streak on the road with a 1-0 victory over No. 13 Michigan Thursday. 
After a scoreless first half, the Irish offense broke through midway through the second half. In the game's 58th minute, forward Amanda Guertin scored the decisive goal with a 16-yard shot into the lower right corner of the net. 
Throughout her career, Guertin typically delivers with the clutch play when the Irish need it the most. With her goal against the Wolverines, the junior recorded her 13th career game-winning goal. 
Defender Kim Carpenter set the goal in motion with a pass down the right side of the field to forward Katie Thorlakson. Thorlakson's cross to the left side of the field landed at the feet of Guertin, who promptly buried her sixth goal of the season to give the Irish the vic­tory. 
Notre Dame freshman goalie Erika Bohn made three saves en route to recording the fourth shutout of her young career. 
For the second straight game, the Notre Dame defense looked com­fortable with their new starters. Former forward Melissa Tancredi had another strong game at the central defensive back position in place of injured starter Gudrun Gunnarsdottir. Gunnarsdottir along with fellow starting defender Vanessa Pruzinsky will be out the remainder of the season. 
With the victory, Notre Dame improved its record to 9-6 on the season. While the Irish failed to qualify for the Big East Tournament, they dramatically improved their resume for a possi­ble at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
Prior to Thursday's game, Notre Dame was ranked third in the Great Lakes Region, while Michigan was tied with Purdue for first place. With three games remaining left on the schedule, the Irish could easily earn the top ranking in the region by the end of the regular season. 
This late season surge has put the Irish right back in the mix of the national scene. If Notre Dame can win its last three games, they will be in position to return to the NCAA Tournament. 
After a string of four straight games against ranked opponents, the Irish will finish the season fac­ing three unranked teams. Saturday, Notre Dame returns home to host Brigham Young. Next Friday, the Irish will. return to action against Syracuse. Two days later, the Irish will finish the regu­lar season on the road against Boston College. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu 

A Notre Dame player kicks the ball In a soccer match against Rutgers earlier this season. The Irish have defeated the last two top-15 teams they have faced. 
f'· 
! ? 
I 
~ 
I ( 
I. 
/ 
} 
[ 
t 
~ 
q 
I,'L ' 
l. 
~. 
ft 
!!f, :f 
. 
( 

.i 


i 
ti 
~~ 
.. 
. . . 
t 
. .. 
. 
\ 

. 
~ 


.• 




ADAM MIGLORE/The Observer From left, Notre Dame's Kristen Kinder, Lauren Brewster and Emily Loomis go up for a block in a match earlier this season. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY Pre-National Meet 
Saturday, all day 
The Irish will compete on the same course that will hold the 2002 National Championship. 
page 18 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish say 'aloha' for fall break in Hawaii 
ByMATILOZAR Sports Writer 
A trip to the sunny beaches of Hawaii seems to be a nice way to spend fall break. But two matches against the University of Hawaii, the No. 2 team in the country, make the trip seem less appealing. 
Not to mention, the Rainbows lead the country in attendance averaging 7,000 to 8,000 fans per match. Now the trip is even less attractive. 
But the Notre Dame volleyball team is ready for the challenge. 
"I think it is a fun, exciting atmos­phere to play in, .. Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "From my experiences in the past, there is a lot of people, very loud, but appreciate good vol­leyball. They aren't a heckling crowd. It is a fun atmosphere to play in. I think it is a win-win situation. Hopefully we get caught up in it and have a good time." 
The Irish (15-3) have won seven in a row, four straight on the road, and 12 of their last 13 matches. While the Irish are on a roll, the Rainbows have been unstoppable. winning all 13 of their matches so far this season. They will play on Monday and Tuesday. 
Hawaii is led by All-American out­side hitters Kim Willoughby and Lily Kahumoku. In 2001, Willoughby recorded 850 kills and averaged 7 .20 kills per game. Those numbers were the fourth best totals in NCAA histo­
see ALOHA/page 17 
HOCKEY 

Western Michigan at Notre Dame 
Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
The Irish open their home and CCHA sched­ule against the Broncos. 
page 18 
ND SWIMMING 
Notre Dame at Air Force 
Friday, 6 p.m. 
The Irish will face their first test of the sea­son against the Falcons. 
page 17 

MENS INTERHALL 
Morrissey 6, Keenan o 
The Manorites hang on to a close match to win their way into the playoffs. 
page 15 

MENS INTERHALL 
Dillon 12_, Keough u 
The Big Red uses a powerful rushing attack to earn a playoff bid with the shutout. 
page 12 
FOOTBALL 

Notre Dame at Air Force 
Saturday, 9 p.m. 
The Irish and Falcons square off in a grudge match of unbeatens. 
Irish Insider 

I • •
' ' 
I t ; 


.I"
\.E z... '> 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 18, 2002 
ND clause is cause for alarm 
The best thing to happen to Notre Dame this weekend would be to walk out of Colorado Springs with a win against Air Force. The sec­ond-best thing to happen to them would be walk out of Colorado Springs with a loss to Air Force. 
In fact, if Notre Dame could pick a game it had to lose this sea­son, that game would be Air force. 
That's because of a little­known clause built into the Bowl Championship Series contract commonly referred to as the "Notre Dame" clause. Or, more appropri­ately, the "Notre Dame is special and you're not" clause. 
The way the BCS works is that the winners of the six major conferences -ACC. Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-10 and SEC -automati­cally advance to one of the four biggest bowls, where the payout per team is $10 million. The other two teams are usually at-large selec­tions, and to be eligible for an at-large selection, a school must be ranked in the top 12 of the final BCS stand­ings. 


There's also wording built into the BCS contract that says any team which finishes in the top six but doesn't win their conference automati­cally earns an at-large selec­tion. And here's where a shrewd Notre Dame adminis­trator stepped in. 
Ifa team from outside one of the six major conferences finishes in the top six, like Air Force, for example, they still get a free ride into a BCS bowl. And if that hap­pens, and if Notre Dame has nine wins or finishes in the top 12 of the final BCS stand­ings, the Irish are automati­cally in, too. 
That's a load of ifs that have to happen. But the whole "Notre Dame" clause is basically a load in itself. 
And that brings us back to Saturday's game against Air Force. A Notre Dame win will undoubtedly help them. A Notre Dame loss will turn every Irish fan into a Falcons fans. Because if Air Force finishes in the top six, and Notre Dame manages to win just three of its five remain­ing games, the Irish get to sneak into the BCS through the back door. 
If you're a Notre Dame fan, you love this fine print. If you're not, then you've got one more reason to boycott NBC on Saturdays. 
Admittedly, the chance of such a scenario developing seems highly unlikely. Air Force has to run the table and count on top teams in the six major conferences to start losing badly if it wants to crack the top six. 
The fact that such a chance exists is ridiculous. And the only thing that bene­fits from such an arrange­ment is Notre Dame's cof­fers. 
Sure, Notre Dame can creep in even with one loss, but they still have to face a pair of ranked teams in Florida State and USC. And Boston College isn't a guar­anteed win, either. But the Irish could conceivably lose two of those games -finish­ing the season with a mighty .750 winning percentage ­loses yet again. No. 1 Miami and No. 3 Virginia Tech are slated to play each other the final game of the season in a game that will probably determine the Big East champion. Whoever loses will have the privilege of playing in a second-tier bowl on New Year's Day and will get back to their hotels in time lo watch Notre Dame play in a BCS bowl. 
Granted, a Vegas bookie would love the odds against such a scenario developing. A lot has to happen before Notre Dame gets its special clause invoked and more deserving schools watch their bids get revoked. And 
and qualify for a bowl game:>-with a win Saturday, the 
If that happens, Tyrone Willingham will be the first loser. For a man who pushes his team to win every game, every Saturday, getting into a BCS bowl with three losses would be a slap in the face. He'd have to field questions about whether Notre Dame really deserved the slot. And deep down inside, he might wonder if his team deserved the bid, too. 
Notre Dame would lose next. For the players who spent the entire season restoring prestige to a long-dormant football program, they'd watch it slip away as soon as the Irish signed a contract to play in a BCS bowl. Then again, the play­ers are on scholarship, so one more free ride might not hurt them that much. 
Finally, college football Irish can put the whole debate to rest, sending the Notre Dame clause back into the corner with alien sight­ings, Kennedy rumors and other conspiracy theories. 
But if they lose, watch for the Irish to start paying dos-er attention to a military school in the Rocky Mountains. 
Many laughed at the possi­bility of Notre Dame and Air Force playing each other with perfect records on the line. Imagine what they'll do if Notre Dame gets into the BCS by holding onto Air Force's jet. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup a asoukup@nd.edu. 
game hype 


"We have our own motivation within, we don 't need to listen to guys in Vegas for motivation.,, 
Courtney Watson Irish linebacker 
"Almost everybody [Air Force] beats has to be more talented than 

they are ... Kent Baer defensive coordinator 


..I have no concern where we are ranked right now. I'll be very concerned where we are ranked in
Fisher DeBerry Falcons head November. ,, coach 
'1Air Force] has established a tradition and a history. ,, 



Study Political Science, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, and Modem History in the Heart of Paris at Science Po, one of Europe's most Prestigious Institutions 
Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director 
INFORMATION MEETING October 30, 2002 
6:00 PM 116 DeBartolo 
Dec. 1, 2002 deadline for Academic Year 2003-2004 Application available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 

' ' . 
' 
.. 
. 

Friday, October 18, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The politics of football 
The decision to run for Zahm senator is the latest challenge Irish linebacker Courtney Watson has overcome 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spores Writer 
A couple of Courtney Watson's 
friends approached him last 
spring with what seemed like a 
wild idea. Why, they asked the 
Irish linebacker, don't you run 
for Zahm Hall senator? 
Watson scoffed at the idea. 
Believed his friends were play­
ing a joke on him. Figured 
nobody would vote for him. 
Didn't have time with football. 
Then he looked at the chance 
to be a senator as a challenge. 
"Why can't I be a senator?" 
Watson remembered asking 
himself. "I started checking into 
it more and looking into the 
responsibilities of it and there 
was no reason I couldn't do it. It 
turned from me being a joke to 
me taking hold of it." 
If there's one thing Watson 
loves more than football, it's a 
challenge that nobody thinks he 
can overcome. So he ran for hall 
senator even though he had no 
idea how his dormmates would 
feel about him. 
All Zahm Hall did was cast 
some 75 percent of the ballots in 
Watson's favor, and Student 
Senate had an Irish football 
player in its ranks. 
Dispelling the myth 
Watson makes it very clear, very early, that he's not a stereotypical football player. Extend your hand, and he responds with a firm handshake and a confident smile. Start talk­ing to him, and the jovial line­backer spits out words a mile a minute. 
Question Notre Dame, and run 
for cover. 
As a first-year starter last fall, Watson staunchly defended the Irish team and its coaching staff, challenging the younger players to keep their heads up. When four former Notre Dame football players were expelled from school and subsequently arrest­ed on rape charges last spring, Watson was angry because the incident tainted Notre Dame's reputation. 
He breaks the dumb jock men­tality Watson says people associ­ate with football players. And he prefers things that way. 
"I try to leave a person so that they don't think of me as a stu­dent-athlete, or as a jock, or as a football player, or as a line­backer, or as the guy they saw on TV," Watson said, his mouth struggling to keep up with his brain. "I try to separate myself as much with being knowledge­able and knowing how to speak to people and being as friendly as possible so that I can sepa­rate myself from all the stereo­types that people give football players and athletes in general." 
The latest incident in Watson's quest to carve his own personal­ity came at the Pittsburgh pep rally. When he approached the 
podium to give a brief speech, 
Zahm Hall residents held up 8­
by-11 pieces of paper with 
Watson's likeness printed on 
them. 

Watson smiled, waved to his 
dorm, and took it as another 
sign that he was making a posi­
tive impact. 

"I try to break the stereotypes 
that people have of football in 
general, and we get the same 
stereotypes here that people 
would get at University of 
Whatever," he said. "Maybe not 
as bad because people have a lot 
of respect for Notre Dame, but 
we still get stereotyped." 
Freshman woes 
Although Watson counters 
most stereotypes, he couldn't 
escape fitting right into the typi­
cal freshman model when he 
first arrived at Notre Dame. For 
a player who had thrived on 
offense in Florida and barely 
played a down on defense, 
Watson didn't take it too well 
when coaches said they wanted 
to move him to linebacker. 
"As a freshman, I couldn't 
envision anything happy, any 
happy ending just because I was 
going through a tumultuous sea­
son," he said. "I was miserable 
about not playing, and then 
there was the cold weather. You 
know freshman years are hard, 
but mine was tough." 
The rationale for the Irish 
coaching staff moving Watson to 
linebacker was that behind All­
American Anthony Denman, 
Notre Dame had no real backup. 
They picked Watson, who had 
always been told he had the 
body of a defender, to make the 
switch. Meanwhile, Watson still 
believed he could make an 
impact at running back. 
It didn't end there. Notre Dame struggled through its first losing season in over a decade as Watson watched helplessly from the sideline. At times, he wondered what he was doing on a football field. Usually, he won­dered why he wasn't getting a chance to play. 
"It was a situation where you were pissed off because you weren't playing," he said. "You're losing, people are talk­ing bad about you and all you can do is just take it because you're not a part of it." 
Watson's situation didn't improve much over the winter. In between trekking through snow to Loftus to add more mus­cle mass, he struggled to learn a new defensive scheme the Irish were trying to implement. By the time spring football ended, Watson was thoroughly con­fused. 
But on his way to confusion, Watson saw a light at the end of the tunnel. Convinced he could be a great linebacker, Watson started looking at the position change as a surmountable cha)­lenge, not a peakless mountain. 

"It was a challenge, but I real­ly felt it was something I could pull off and be good at," he said. "It was a challenge I took on at full speed." 
Watson's sophomore spring was significantly better than his freshman season. As a fresh­man, he entered spring practice not knowing a thing. As a sopho­more, he left spring practice knowing he was a starter. 
Stepping forward 
Before Notre Dame's 2001 season opener against Nebraska, Watson admitted he was a little nervous. He didn't know what would happen, and he was worried about disrupting a veteran defense with rookie mistakes. 
"I just didn't want to screw up," he said. "We had better guys on the defensive line, we had better linebackers. We had a veteran team last year and I was kind of the new guy if you will." 
Watson's fears were erased in a hurry. He recorded a team­leading 15 tackles and was one of the few highlights in an other­wise embarrassing loss to Nebraska. The strong outing gave him confidence that he could both survive and thrive as a linebacker. 
As the season wore on and the 
Irish spun out of control, Watson 
emerged as a more vocal leader 
off the field. He challenged 
freshmen stuck on the sidelines 
to keep their heads up -after 
all, he knew exactly what they 
were going through. 
But for all his talking off the field, Wat.son was surprisingly quiet on the field. He preferred to lead by example and save his talking on for the sidelines. While he's not afraid to mix it up, Watson would rather make the big play than flap his mouth. 
"He's a veteran and he's so well-prepared," fellow line­backer Mike Goolsby said. "He knows what's coming before the snap. I don't know what he does, but it works." 
After Tyrone Willingham took over, Watson emerged as a key leader on the defense. He was the only linebacker with signifi­cant playing time and his team­mates respected his fiery inten­sity. 
Just like that, Watson found himself leading the Irish defense a year after he worried about screwing it up. 
Leading the way 
It didn't take Watson long to establish his torrid pace again 
this season. Despite missing the 
first two games with a flu-like 
virus, Watson leads the team in 
tackles and scored a touchdown 
against Stanford. 
"It's not that we challenge him to make plays, but he knows he's counted on to be in that role," linebackers coach Bob Simmons said. "You want guys to accept that responsibility without being challenged, and he does that." 
Watson keeps his personal goals well shielded, and while he has aspirations of reaching the NFL, he'd much rather talk about what he wants to accom­plish with the Irish. He may have individual aspirations, but the only thing says is that he wants to return for a fifth year next season. 
Of course, that means Watson could run for Student Senate again. And he's not shy about saying he seriously contemplates the possibility of running for off­campus senator. Nor is he above joking that he's turning into a politician. 
"But a good one," he said adamantly. There he goes again, trying to shatter another stereotype. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 



lt: L1') 
page 4 Friday, October 18, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 


Willingham and his coaching staff have proved that no matter what the obstacles, they will lead their team to victory. However, they have a disadvantage because they haven't coached against the option before.  Holiday has been incon­sistent this season, throw­ing anywhere from 50 to 229 yards a game. His versatility is decreased due to the shoulder injury, preventing him from risking injury to himself on the run. He has had to be more patient in the pocket.  The Notre Dame rushing attack is coming off its worst performance of the season. It reverted to its early-season blocking prob­lems and found a total of no holes in the Pittsburgh line. However, if Irish blocking comes through, the run game can be remarkably effective.  The Irish receivers are starting to look a little more solid, but the Irish pass game still leaves something to be desired. Battle picked up a good game last weekend and Stovall and Jenkins con­tinue to be threats if Holiday can send accurate passes their direction.  
DeBerry has been at Air  Harridge is the best  The Air Force rush  The Falcons secondary  
Force for 19 seasons and  option quarterback in  defense has been solid  has put up some good  
has coached a consistently  the game and arguably  this season. The Falcons  numbers this season. As  
good football team. He has  the best option quarter­ are giving up an average  part of the best scoring  
coached against Notre  back Notre Dame has  of 121 yards a game and  defense in the Mountain  
Dame before and, although  ever faced. He averages  preventing opponents  West, the Air Force  
he may not be completely  100 rushing yards a  from picking up big plays.  defensive backs have  
familiar with their new  game, keeps the ball on  This defense will make  grabbed nine intercep­ 
offense, i5 at least familiar  a third of all Air Force  Notre Dame earn every  tions and allowed an  
with some of the Irish play­ downs and has 15 touch­ offensive yard it gets,  average of 188 passing  
ers.  downs this season.  especially on the run.  yards a game.  
DeBerry has the years of  Harridge is tbe better  Notre Dame's rush game  The Falcons were able  
experience with his  quarterback, The option  could find the holes in Air  to shut down BYU last  
team and an option that~tl~tfa;  offense appears to have been · tailored for Harridge's skills. Unlike Holiday, he is consistent as a scorer and a consis­ Force's defense and break gBf4  weekend and BYU pass­~!i~~;~ •IJ improvement"'and is still  
tory no matter what  tent le'ader on the field.  stay strong, they will pre­ looking for that break­ 
obstacles they faced.  He ha.'i more touchdowns  sent problems for the Irish  out game. If the Falcons  
The option should be no  than the entire Notre  and may keep them out of  are off guard, the Irish  
different.  Dame team combined.  the end zone.  could break through.  

Chris Federico sports editor 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 6-0 AP: No. 7 Coaches: No. 7 

Tyrone Willingham first season at 
NOTRE DAME 
Notre Dame 
2002 Schedule 
career record: 
Aug. 31 at Notre Dame: 
83-52-1 
Sept. 7
6-0 

Willingham against Air Force: 
Sept. 14
head coach 0-0 
Sept. 21 Roster 
Oct. s···•· 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 228 JR 
Oct. l2 · 
2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB 6-3 245 SR 2 DanNovakov QB 6-1 218 SR 3 Arnaz Battle WR 6-1 213 SR 

atAir Force 
4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 so 
Maryland -W PURDUE -W MICHIGAN-W atMSU-W ,~TANFORD1-W 
·4 

.JJ PITTSBURGH -W 
at Florida State BOSTON COLLEGE at Navy RUTGERS at USC 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS 

EADT 
RIGHT FALCON 
47•Marsh 
34-Rodoers 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 
44-Hlghtowtr 
58-Graddy 
INSJOE LINEBACKER 
51-Scllteget 
49-HodQe 
LEFT FALCON 
21-&ulow 
32-Cole 
Airforce V DEFENSE ~. 

IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
5 6 
7 
8 
9 
9 
11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 19 20 21 23 25 26 26 27 27 28 29 
30 
31 32 
33 
34 35 35 36 37 38 39 39 40 41 42 43 44 46 47 
48 
49 50 51 52 
53 
54 55 56 57 58 60 61 62 
63 
64 65 
66 
67 68 69 70 
71 
71 72 73 74 75 76 
77 
78 79 80 82 82 83 85 86 87 87 88 90 91 92 93 94 95 97 99 190 194 214 180 188 209 199 220 177 259 176 182 191 206 
Rhema McKnight  WR  6-2  
Carlos Campbell  WR  5-11  
Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-3  
Matt Krueger  QB  5-10  
Jason Beckstrom  CB  5-10  
Pat Dillingham  QB  6-1  
Marcus Wilson  RB  5-11  
Chris Olsen  QB  6-4  
Nick Setta  KIP  5-11  
Gary Godsey  TE  6-6  
Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  
Stan Revelle  QB  5-11  
Joey Hildbold  p  5-10  
Ronnie Rodamer  WR  6-4  
Glenn Earl  FS  6-1  
D.J. Fitzpatrick  KIP  6-1  
Gerome Sapp  ss  6--0  

205 
192 218 
FR 
so 
JR JR SR 
so 
so 
FR SR SR JR 
so 
SR JR SR 
so 
SR 

Oct. 26 Nov.2 Nov.9 Nov. 23 Nov. 30 
Maurice Stovall WR 6-3 Chris Yura FB 6--0 Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 Garron Bible FS 5-10 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 Lionel Bolen ss 6--0 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 Cole Laux FB 5-10 Quentin Burrell CB 6--0 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 Jake Carney DB 6--0 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 Courtney Watson !LB 6-1 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 David Miller K 5-11 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 Torn Lopienski FB 6-1 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 Brandon Hoyte ILB 6-0 David Bernenderfer ss 5-11 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 Shane Walton CB 5-11 Rashon Powers-Neal TB 6-2 Justin Tuck DE 6-5 Corey Mays ILB 6-1 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 Jeff Faine C 6-3 John Crowther C 6-2 Jason Halverson DL 6-1 Zachary Giles C 6-3 Pat Ryan ILB 6-3 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 Chad DeBolt ILB 6-0 Darrell Campbel! OT 6-4 Charles Hedman LB 6-1 Scott Raridon OT 6-7 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 Scan Milligan 0G 6-4 Derek Landri NG 6-2 Ryan Gillis ex; 6-3 Ed O'Connell LB 6-3 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 David Kowalski 0G 6-2 James Bonelli OGIOT 6-6 Ryan Scarola CIOG 6-5 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 Dan Stevenson 0G 6-5 Chris Frome DE 6-5 Bob Morton C 6-4 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 Jordan Black OT 6-6 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 Bernard Akatu WR 5-10 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 Matt Root TE 6-6 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 Jeff Thompson NG/DT 6-4 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 Brian Mattes DE 6-6 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 
205 FR 220 SR 220 FR 197 JR 207 so 195 so 208 so 236 JR 178 so 180 FR 180 FR 195 FR 232 SR 194 JR 210 SR 172 SR 245 SR 179 so 176 so 226 so 195 JR 
LLI 
160 FR 243 JR 
:IE 
c:(
185 SR 
224 so 
C

238 so 235 so 
LLI
230 SR 
a:
256 JR 
l­
233 JR 290 SR 
o 

285 FR 
z

298 SR 239 SR 246 SR 281 so 231 SR 243 SR 202 SR 288 SR 215 SR 
285 FR 
LLI

305 SR 
()
255 so 300 SR 
a: 275 FR 305 SR 
af
212 JR 280 so 
a:

297 SR 249 JR 
ci:

285 FR 310 SR 309 so 292 so 240 FR 305 FR 280 JR 305 SR 285 SR 204 so 193 SR 172 so 
ti)
258 so 251 JR 
-
ti)
240 JR 240 FR 
~ 
246 so 
C(
237 FR 269 so 
z 

273 so 
er:
269 JR 250 FR 250 FR 258 SR 250 FR 249 JR 


Put Notre Dame's fifth-ranked rushing Air Force is going to be able to move the ball ­period. The IrLi;h defense just ha.c;; to be persL'itent 
defense on the field against Air Force's top-ranked rushing offense and a classic and try to avoid giving up the big play. Notre
Irish 

game will unfold. Field position will dic­Dame needs to use its size advantage on the tate the winner of this game, and while offensive line and run the ball to keep the chains Air Force is motivated by losing two moving.
experts straight games to the Irish in overtime, Notre Dame will squeak out a win. 
FlNAL SCORE: Notre Dame 17 Andrew Soukup 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 Air Force 14 assistant managing editor Air Force 17 
--------------------------------------------------------------....----------------------------. 
\ 
. 


Friday, October 18, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
-

) 
EAD 
LEFT WINGBACK 
9-Palmer 
15-Stepllens 
CORNERBACK 

LEFT TACKLE 42-WllHan 
61-Naufeld 37-Enick 
78-Thompsoo 
RIGHTEND 
95-Roberts 
44-Tuck 
SAFETY 
19-Earl 
29-Burrell


Aug. 31 NORTHWESTERN -W 

Sept. 7  NEW MEXICO -W  
Sept. 21  at California -W  
Sept. 28  at Utah -W  
Oct. 5  NAVY-W  
Oct. 12  BYU -W  
Oct. 19  NOTRE DAME  
Oct. 26  at Wyoming  
Oct. 31  COLORADO STATE  
Nov. 9  at Army  
Nov. 16  at UNLV  
Nov. 23  SAN DIEGO STATE  


AIR FORCE 
INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-I
:u 
m 
C 
s:),, "' 
:u 
6' 
:u 
(') 
"' 

Air Force 
Falcons Record: 6-0 AP: No. 15 Coaches: No. 18 

Fisher DeBerry 19th season at Air Force career record: 
147-78-1 
at Air Force 
147-78-1 
against Notre Dame: 3-9 

Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Paul Mayo LC 5-10 180 SR 2 Bryan Blew WR 5-11 190 SR 3 Adam Larson LF 6-2 205 JR 4 Travis Thurmond QB 5-10 185 JR 5 Charles Akinyemi RC 5-8 178 SO 6 Joe Schieffer HB 5-10 185 JR 7 Nate Allen LC 5-10 180 SO 8 Wes Crawley RC 6-0 190 SR . I 9 Leotis Palmer HB 5-8 175 SR 
' 

10 Jake Honevcutt WR 5-9 175 JR I 
11 Chance Harridge QB 5-11 185 JR I 
12 Tyler Vincent HB 6-0 205 SO l 
13 Brad Bacca QB 5-11 195 SO 
14 Anthony Pack WR 5-11 170 JR 
15 Darnell Stephens HB 6-2 200 SO 
16 John Welsh P 6-3 195 SR 
Airfo,ce V OFFENSE -'{: 
FULLBACK 
40-Manle 
27-Gole 

RIGHT WINGBACK 26-Clarl( 24-Heier 
~ 
RIGHT GUARD 63-Huyser 
60-Crossetti 


WIDE RECIEVER 
811-Amlzql
14-Par'I( DEFENSIVE 

TACKLE 
60-Campbell
TT-Pauly OUTSIDE ~ \ 
LINEBACKER , 
49-CUrry
57-Thomas 

CORNERBAC1<! 
34-Dufl 
15-Jacksoo 
FALCON RUSHING FALCON PASSING 

STRONG 
f::: , , I 

SAFETY 
20-Sapp 
26-Blble 
NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
17 18 19 20 21 22 
23 
24 
25 
26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 
34 
35 
36 
41 42 
44 
45 46 47 48 49 50 51 53 
54 
55 
56 
58 59 60 61 62 
63 64 
65 
66 
67 
68 69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 
76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 
84 
85 
86 
87 89 
90 
91 
92 
93 94 95 
96 
97 98 
99 
Adrian Wright Eric Elsener Jordan Wilkes Dan Schaffer Joel Buelow Jeff Overstreet Cedric Adams Tom Heier Anthony Butler Don Clark Adam Cole David Conley Larry Duncan Kenny Smith John Tabai Felix Cole Kris Holstege Sean Rodgers Garrett Houck Tyler Hess Lou Tinucci Monty Coleman Trevor Hightower Chase Weist Jason Sikorski Mark Marsh John Rudzinski Cameron Hodge John Peel Anthony Schlegel Ryan Carter Justin Eulberg Brian Lemay Tyler Terrazone Marchello Graddy Matt McCraney Corey Crossetti Blane Neufeld Vance Shaffer Bretl Huvser Ramon Young 
Scott Meyer Stephen Maddox Brock Shepard Wayne Southam Abe Leigh Brian Jarratt Jacob Anderson Nathan OL,;cn Matt Pontes Howard Turner Jess Underbakke Leslie Collins Brett Waller Matt Thompson Scott Diehl Ricky Amezaga Robert Barkers Alec Messerall 
James Waller Chris Carron Zach Sasser Adam Strecker Brock Predovitch John Schwartz Charles Bueker Eric Thompson Michael Greenway Aaron Bandy Ricky Fry Nicholas Taylor Brandon Conyers Joey Ashcroft TodJollly Nathan Terrazone 


The Irish can win this game only if they can shut down Air Force's option. The Irish have struggled offensively all season and the Falcons run defense will continue to be a problem. But the Irish will score at least one defensive touchdown and the defense will eventually shut Harridge down. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21 Air Force 17 

Joe Hettler 
associate sports editor 
Notre Dame will need its best game of the season to stay perfect another week. The Irish must use their size advantage to overpower the smaller Falcons and the offense will need to have its best week to win. If the defense can contain Chance Harridge, Notre Dame should be okay. Look for a close game that could come down to a Nicholas Setta field goal. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 14 Air Force 13 
RF QB RC FB RF S FB HB HB HB FB LC S !LB RF RF HB LF !LB S !LB LE !LB !LB !LB LF !LB !LB LG !LB LE NG 
QC 
LT !LB !LB LG RT RG LG RT RT 
QC 
LG 
QC 
LG RG RG LG LT RT RG LT LT RT RT WR P WR Wr Wr PK TE TE TE RE RE PK RE NG NG NG PK TE LE 
6-0 6-2 5-11 5-11 6-1 5-10 6-0 5-9 5-9 6-0 
6-0 
5-11 5-10 6-2 6-2 6-1 5-9 5-11 6-2 5-11 6-3 6-2 6-0 6-3 6-3 5-11 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-3 6-1 
6-4 
6-1 6-2 6-3 6-5 6-3 
6-4 
6-2 
6-3 
6-0 
6-1 6-2 6-5 6-5 6-55 
Mi Mi 6-4 
6-3 6-3 6-7 6-5 
Mi 
5-11 6-3 5-11 6-1 6-2 6-1 
Mi 
6-2 6-2 6-5 6-3 5-10 
6-4 
6-3 
6-4 
6-0 6-0 
6-4 
6-3 

The Irish run defense con­tinues to be one of the best parts of Notre Dame's defense. But this defense has never faced an option team like Air Force before. The team has been work­ing against a scout team but they will not have good practice against the Falcons' speed.  Despite a subpar perfor­mance last weekend, the Irish secondary is still a force to be reckoned with. The corps of defensive backs the Irish have are always looking to make the big play and, for the most part, have succeeded in doing just that.  The Irish special teams have both good and bad. Setta is still in a slump when it comes to field goals but Hildbold has had solid punts for Notre Dame, leaving their oppo­nents with bad field posi­tion. Duffis always a tlireat on the return and Setta is consistent with PATs.  The Irish seem to be finding ways to win. They are 6-0 and look­ing for win No. 7. Air Force has only beat the Irish five times in series history. Game time is 8 p.m. local time and the Irish do not have a good history playing at night.  
The Falcons running  Air Force does not rely  The Falcons special  The Falcons are playing  
game is good. With the  heavily on its pass game.  teams defense has been  at home at night. They  
triple option, they pose a  The Falcons are only  good -blocking two  are 6-0 and see Notre  
threat at the fullback posi­ averaging 75 yards a  punts and one field goal  Dame as a big rival.  
tion in Massie and at the  game in the air.  already this season.  They are going to be  
halfback position in Clark,  Harridge is 26-for-61  Palmer is a threat on the  pumped up for this  
Palmer and Stephens.  with two interceptions  return game. Ashcroft is  game. In addition, the  
Any Irish defender miss­ this season, not very  7-of-8 in field goal  Falcons are used to  
ing an assignment opens  impressive numbers.  attempts and was this  playing at the high alti­ 
up an opportunity for Air  However, the pass is  week's Mountain West  tude of Colorado  
Force to gain big.  always an option.  Player of the Week.  Springs.  
The Falcons get the edge here. Notre Dame has not faced an option before and that alone gives Air Force and advantage. In addition, Air Force runs the option very well. The Falcons lead the country in rushing with an aver­age of more than 339 yards a game.  The Irish secondary should be able to handle the Falcon passing game. Harridge has a decent arm, but nothing like some of the quarterbacks the Irish have seen this sea­son. Walton, Duft Earl and Sapp will still be looking for the big plays, which may restrict the Falcons.  Both teams bring strengths to special teams. Notre Dame has E:V.E~a be counted on for field goals and Palmer is a threat similar to the one Duff poses.  The Falcons are going to be focused on this game. They know the stadium, they can play in the mountain air and they're used to playing night games. With the home crowd behind them, the Falcons will be ready to use their option to take down the Irish.  

215 JR 195 SO 170 SO 230 JR 210 SR 185 JR 225 SO 180 SR 195 SO 195 SR 215 SO 185 SO 200 JR 225 SO 210 SO 210 JR 175 SO 195 SO 206 SO 230 JR 225 SO 245 JR 230 JR 235 SO 220 SO 205 SO 230 SO 225 SO 255 SO 245 SO 245 JR 255 JR 260 SO 255 JR 235 JR 220 SR 275 JR 280 JR 280 SO 295 JR 270 SO 275 SR 260 JR 
251 SO 255 SR 275 SO 270 SO 275 SO 290 SR 285 JR 250 JR 280 JR 245 SO 270 JR 276 SO 270 JR 185 SR 212 SO 185 SO 175 SO 185 SO 180 SO 240 JR 230 SO 235 JR 260 JR 260 SR 175 SO 230 SO 255 SO 265 JR 245 SO 210 JR 270 JR 23-SO 

• • I 
..,.

: •. ,; ,' <' • \ ' ' 
•. fi ,

• • ~ I .. • 
.i !' ,•
'. : 
' 1 .
' ' 
• • I 


The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 18, 2002 
I 

Sizing up the Irish and the Falcons 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored points allowed 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE A1R FoRcl~ DEFENSE 
NOTRE DAME 293 Al R.• FORCE .i~ii.iit;": ;;:\;w,:t~b .309.8 


150.3 
88.3 


•*tt#~;\\i<;'] ;( 2 3. 2 22.2 
pt•lldi•MIIMN¥N 
t AIR FORCE 2 

2.7 57.7 22.8 


AIR FORCE'S OFFENSE 
vs 

NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

295 

1;i~lr1il,!s~i~2 NOTRE DAME 76.2 
218.8 

-


NOTRE DAME 0 


3.2 


57.8 40.5 

KEY MATCHUP 

CHANCE NOTRE DAME'S HARRIDGE DEFENSE 

Chance Harridge is arguably the best option quarterback Notre Dame will face this season. He rushes for 102 yards a game, carries the ball on a third of all Falcon plays and has scored 15 touchdowns -more than the entire Notre Dame team combined. 
The only way the Irish are going to shut down Falcon scoring is by shutting down Harridge and forcing Air Force turnovers. 
by the numbers 
number of kickers on Air Force who are nephews of 
I 
Attorney General John Ashcroft number of teams that are undefeated at this point in
10the season, the most since the inception of the BCS 
number of touchdowns Harridge has scored, } 
5 
more than the entire Notre Dame team combined 

Interested in ..... . 
News Broadcasting Begin a DJ of Classical Music DJing SYR's and Other Events 
with a 
REAL FM RADIO STATION?!?! 
Contact Aggie Noble for news: anoble@nd.edu Molly Walsh for Classical DJ: mwalsh2@nd.edu Ferrell Datcher for Dance DJ: fdatcher@nd.edu 

..... 
' .. 
. \ . 

.' ' 
Friday, October I 8, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Falcons defense rising from the shadows 
challenges to Notre Dame's
By KATIE McVOY 
offense. The Falcons don't give
Associate Sports Editor 
up .big yardage. If Notre Dame 
There has been endless talk wants to score, they will have about the Air Force offense. to do it on short gains. The rare triple option attack "They're not probably going 
has caught everyone's atten­to give you the big plays," said tion, leaving something over­offensive coordinator Bill lo0ked -the defense. Diedrick. "They'll give you a Although often overshad­lot of things, but they're going owed by an offense that leads to make you earn it." the nation in rushing yards, In addition, the Falcons the Air Force defense is a force turnovers. They have 
force to be reckoned with. In forced 11 fumbles. recovered six games, Falcons' opponents eight, and their secondary has have been limited to an aver­grabbed nine interceptions. age of only 16 points a game. Fourteen of those turnovers 
The 3-3-5 have come in the last three defense the games. Falcons play "They play
"/ think that what 
trimmed 20 well, they 
points from happens is everyone gets don't make the average caught looking at their mistakes," 
they allowed Irish quar­
offense . . . This is a good 
opponents terback 
last year, solid defense. ,, Carlyle ranking them Holiday first in the said. "They
Tyrone Willingham 
Mountain really force 
Irish head coach
West in scor­turnovers, ing defense. w h i C h "Their allows them 
defense is very solid," Irish to win ballgames." coach Tyrone Willingham Air Force has limited oppo­said. "I think what happens is nents to an average of 121 everyone gets caught looking rushing yards a game and 188 at their offense and worrying passing yards. Although those 
about that scheme; but they numbers are solid but not phe­have done a great job.... This nomenal. the Falcons have scored on one field goal and is a good solid defense that managed to stop opponents Navy found the end zone just 
plays disciplined football and when it counts. once. plays very aggressive." In last week's game against "I think it's their overall dis­
Although the Falcons Brigham Young, Air Force cipline and their will to be defenders are smaller than prevented any BYU touch­successful," Willingham said. past Irish opponents like downs, allowing only three "I think that's ingrained in Pittsburgh, they offer several field goals. Northwestern only most of our academies. It's just something about the per­sonalities of those teams that they never quit." 

Size aside, the Falcons are quick, they play as a team and they are ready to keep the Irish out of the end zone. 
"They play well together as 
-.. 
a team," Holiday said. "They may not be as big, but they're a smart team.... So it will be a tough challenge for us." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

Holiday leads still struggling offense to 6-0 record 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's offense was ranked 110th in total offense in 2001. This year the Irish are ranked 113th, averaging 
293.0 yards per game through six games. The major difference, however, is their record. 
Instead a struggling sub-.500 team, No. 7 Notre Dame has tallied a perfect 6-0 mark heading into its game against No.15 Air Force Saturday. 
While the defense has dominated, the Irish offense has been criticized all sea­son for failing to move the ball consis­tently and putting points on the board. Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said the offense has improved from the start of the season, but still has a ways to go. 
"I definitely don't think that we're where we would like to be or where we feel we need to be," Diedrick said. "I think we've done good thing running the football as w(,ll as throwing the football. I think what we need to do as an offense is really get that consistency and really be able to do both on the same given day." 
Consistency is also the key for Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday, who knows he has struggled to put together a com­plete game. 
"I don't think I've been as consistent as l wanted to be, especially in the pass­ing game," Holiday said. "There's been games where the short game wasn't coming for me. But I think I'm really starting to learn how the short game opens up the long game. So right now I need to get much more consistent and continue -to work on my short game." 
Diedrick knew Holiday and the rest of the offense would struggle, to some extent this season, because they were learning the west coast offense. 

'I think [Holiday's] made good progress," Diedrick said. "I think he's a lot further ahead than he was at the beginning of the season. As I expected at the beginning, he would make progress each game and be quite a bit further ahead at the end of this season than he was at the beginning." 
Diedrick also said the injury to Holiday's shoulder may have actually helped the quarterback in developing his mental skills. 
"I think the injury and the layoff for two weeks were actually very beneficial to him," Diedrick said. "I think it gave him an opportunity to stand back and really look at it morn through a coaches eyes an opposed to going up there and doing it. Ile got an opportunity to be an observer and watch it being done. and it was great benefit. I think the other thing, it helped him be a little bit more patience in the pocket." 
Despite the offensive struggles, includ­ing Holiday's inconsistency, Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham said he likes what Holiday brings to the offense and has seen significant improvement from him. 
''I've been pleased with what Carlyle has done and I think he can improve and get better and better each week," Willingham said. "As you watch modern day football, the one thing you notice is that every team is looking for that young man that has the ability to express his athletic skill at that position. Therefore if you have that young man that has that kind of ability, he can make some great plays. 
"Now what has to happen though, even with that athletic skill, you have to get comfortable running the offense and if you're not doing that then you're rely­ing totally on your offensive skill," Willingham continued. "What you've seen from Carlyle is a great mix of that because he has been very steadfast in the pocket and been able to express that athletic ability we need." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


r
t. A Z QI:£•-~. ·'""T, US~ "'•===3 Qt u c T 
' • • • • • ' • • , , • t ', .., , ~ •; ; I , • 
~ , 1 I , t' p , <t ,. 1 \ r , 
0 


O
THE ,, Notre Dame vs. Air Force BSERVER Friday, October 18, 2002 
!·~ 
i 
' 
•: 
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
' 
e e 
@· ~~~, e
-e ~ ~~ e 
e '-~. ~~-~~~ -,.....___ e 
@ ~~-· ~~=~-e· 
e ~~ ~--e 
e ......-..~~,, e
e ----iY~~ e
.,<_·-­

e e 
I
l . 

; · ee LONDON PROG M ee 
@ APPLICATION TODAY? e 
e e e e 
e e 




today, be sure to turn it in e no later than e 



e e 
l e e 

e e 
ee Apply at ee 
e e 
e e
e www.nd.edu/~londonpr 153 HURLEY HALL e
1 
! 
•i ,­
e e
' 
i 
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 





