
Petition failed to unify student body
HOT 
Tuesday
In a lett<'r to the Editor, a sPnior argues that because only half the student body signed the student government alcohol petition that was widely avail­
HTGH 88° 
APRIL~ LJ~j
able. half of the student body is actually in favor of the changes. 
LOW 63° 
2002
Viewpoint . page 10 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XX.XV NO. 125 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



More than 4,000 sign petition 
uatns. according lo organiz­ahroad. When you think about what a and
. Student leaders 
Prs ol' a p<'tition that cin:ulat­Bishop and Vice Prnsidont short time period it was col­. University officials towill give signatures Pd last wc•Pk. Trip Foley expect this wf'ek lPcting [thP signatures], we're guarantee undergraduates to Poorman, other As or Monday night, 4.0(d to forward the signatures and r-eally happy." direct input in the creation of 
undnrgrad-an explana­Foley, who attributed the student life policy.
University officers 
uaLos had tion of the petition's success to the Hall The third goal will be a key
"We want to give the 
s i g IH' cl t h (' petition to Presidents Council and issue for the Bishop-Foley p (\ t j t i O 11 , officers an accurate University Student Senate publicizing ad ministration.
Ry JASON McFARLFY 
S L u d C\ n t ol'ficers, the campaign, said it was "It's part of an ongoing
picture ofstudents still
N,ws \Vrirci 
B o cl y including more productive than recent issue of student. voice," said
wanting a voice ... When
l'rPsid1111t Father Mark student protests. Pat Jlallahan. Bishop and 
,\n P!Tort to rPvPrS(' planrwd L i b b v you think about what a Poorman, "The petition really focused Foley's chief of staff. "We'll ("hangPs to Bishop said. short time period it was vice president on student voices. It was continue to revisit this issue tlw all"ohol The' sign a -for Student more of a constructive way to until we believe that students
collecting [the 
policy and turns re pre­Affairs. include students in policy­are able to contribute to poli­to gi\'P stu­sc n t auto­signatures] we're really "We want to making of the University," he cy at Notre Dame." dnnls morP 
graphs c:ol-give the offi­said. Any student who still wants
happy."

voic·.(' in 1 Pct c d cers an accu­The petition calls for: to sign the petition can do so ram pus betwPcn rate picture . Poorman to repeal his own today and Wednesday in the dnc.ision­April <J and Libby Bishop of students decision to outlaw in-hall student government office, m akin g 11 from on­student body president still wanting dances effective this fall Room 203 LaFortune Student 
has t IH' a n·d off-
a voice," . Notre Dame to use educa­Center. backing of campus stu-Bishop said. tion in lieu of imposing nnarlv half d(\11 ts and <'-mail confirma­"The petition was a tangible restrictions to address alco­Contact Jason McFarley at 
or all.Notr(' Danw unc!Prgrad­
tions from students studying object of student opinion. hol abuse among students mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Poorman lauds group for fee action 
By JASON McFARLEY 
New~ \X1ntl'r 
Campus LifP Council nwm­bc\rs mad a lnttt>r \'londay rrom Fatlwr Mark Poorman. thank­ing tlwm for rPs1\arch on and support of' thP rnt:(mt studnnt activity l'l'P incrnasn. 
In 1111• !\1arrh 21 lntter, Poorman. 

vic1• JHPsi­clent f'or Student 
Al"l'airs. ('on gr at u ­latPd thP Council for approving a 1· n s o Iu ti o n 

in favor of Poorman l h r­irnTnasc, calling tlw rn<msurn a ··worthy inilialivn." 
liniwrsilv ()fl1rnrs last lllt)n(h unanimous-ly approvr.d tlw pro­posNI $1:i hik1•. 
"ThP ol'!'i("<'rs agnic•d with your findings that tlw proposPd funding inrrnasp would bnnnlit tlw studP11t b()dv in a numb(\r of the year in order to coincidP petition last week and have important w:;ys." Poorman with !lw University's budget unofficially collocied morn than 
wrotn to thnn-Studcn t Body cycle. 4.000 signatures. l'rnsid,,nl Brooke l\orton, who In other news at Monday's The CLC's last regular meet.­('hairs ilw C:I.C thrnugh \1ay 1. brief mo<'ling, 111embcrs ing is April 29. On that date, 
Tim incn,asc raisns tlw cur­rPl'nived in tlwir agenda packet members expr<'.t to finish task rPn l $6:i fo,, for nndnrgradu­a Student Senate resolution l'orce work by presenting either at('s t11 $80 annually. supporting the petition calling reports or resolutions. Task 
Poorman said !wcausn of' thn !"or Notrn name to rPv!lrSf\ l'orccs this ji(~ar have focused on importan<'.P ol' tlrn issun, he was planned changes to the alcohol f'our issues: alcohol use and able' t,1 rush passag<, ol' tht\ policy. Tlw Senate on J\µril 15 abuse, off-campus living, stu­mPasurP h11l th:it stucl<'nl go\·­pnssccl the rns()lution and l'or­dent-administrator communica­
Prnnwnt officials would have to wardNI it to the CLC, who took Lion and campus community. P!lsllrP in tlw l'uturP that pro­no action on tlrn nieasu1·r, posals inv()hing f'inancial mat­M11nday. 
Contact Jason Mcfarlcy at tt'l'S rPac-11 his desk t'arliPr in Stud cnt h•adns !Jf'ga n the\ mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Students organize forum for elderly 
which receives little funding.
By SARAH NESTOR 

"The cost of caring for the News Wrirer 
elderly is only going to become worse," Zaseck said. In order to raise awareness "The care is more expensive of issues facing the elderly in and people live longer, so Indiana, Saint Mary's stu­both as a nation and a state dents from the Social Work we are not prepared to meet 
Department organized a costs." community forum to discuss The Indiana General social security, prescription Assembly appropriates all drugs, home-based and nurs­money for the CHOICE ing home care. Program and because it is 
The featured panelists not a legal entitlement for were: Dr. JoAnn Burke, asso­citizens to receive home care ciate professor and board many are forced into nursing member of CHOICE Program; homes because it is a legal 
Sen. John Broden; Beth entitlement funded by Morlock, senior director of Medicaid. programs at the Center of the Broden, Notre Dame gradu­Homeless; J-im Kizer, son of a ate representing District 10 
CHOICE patient; Becky in the Indiana General Zaseck, HEAL services Assembly, spoke about what employee who focuses on legislation has been passed providing information for and what can be done in the 
srrnior citizens; and Jerry future. Black, employee of Memorial "The largest Medicaid Hospital's home care unil. expense to Indiana is pre­
"There needs to lrn an scription drugs and a way to intergeneration effort to support thrs is a higher work together on elderly increase in taxes," Broden care," Burke said. "We have said. "Indiana has always to stop thinking or people at been a low tax state, there 65 as being done and then has not been a general tax becoming a burden." increase since 1988 and a 
Community and Jlome sales tax incrnasn from the Options to Institutional Care 3.2 percent to 3.4 percent for the Elderly, CHOICE, will raise money for the offers home care services for elderly." any citizen that is at risk of Broden emphasized the losing his or her inckpe11-importance of becoming a dt1ncc as a result of disnasn, rrgister<'d voter and to con­injury, aging or any othc•r ta ct statr. legislatures ongoing disabling conditions. because through involvement Thousands of Indiana citi­zens are currc~ntlv on a wait­
see FORUM/page 4 
ing list for the· program, 

_
__,...,....,... 
r page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
COLUMBUS, Ohio  fine, as long as they know where they  
About 50 protesters accused the  are going," she said.  
Pregnancy Decision Health Center of  PDHC Executive Director Joyce  
misrepresenting itself as a legitimate  Wilson said her organization is very  
pregnancy counseling service  open and honest about who they are  
Saturday afternoon. With more than  and what they do.  
the occasional honk from passing  "Our goal is to help women make  
vehicles, the protesters, who were  an informed decision and then pro­ 
organized by the Ohio State  vide all the referrals to all the ser­ 
University Association of Women  vices they need if they decide to  
Students and Students for Choice,  any decision beside keeping their  choose life," Wilson said. "If they  
gathered outside the center.  babies, protesters said.  decide to choose abortion, we tell  
Led by the OSU Radical  "They confuse women," said Libby  them they can find abortion without  
Cheerleaders and joined by a student  Bruce, a sophomore in English and  us."  
dressed as a uterus, the crowd shout­ women's studies. PDHC's advertise­ PDHC offers the most complete and  
ed cheers such as "We have a right to  ments are ambiguous and mislead­ accurate information by providing all  
be informed about our choices with­ ing, she said. Women think PDHC  the facts about abortion, the different  
out moral judgment."  provides "legitimate abortion infor­ methods of contraception and infor­ 
Protesters claimed the PDHC does  mation and counseling when it is  mation on sexually transmitted dis­ 
not provide all pregnancy options as  biased and religious-based," Bruce  eases, Wilson said.  
their moniker insinuates. They scare  said.  
and advise women against making  "If women want to go there that is  The Lantern  


~-~-~~~~(f ~~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Prass Graph/OlJNat 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Childhood wisdom applied 
Thanks to a lucky combination of instinct and soci­
ety, when acting as parents we know how to teach 
our children about fighting and violence. Even ifyou 
have no kids of your own. you can imagine how to 
instruct them correctly in some 

genern.1 situations. Pat McElwee 
Consider the following: You 
have two boys, Michael and 

Associate 
Tommy, who share a bed­

Viewpoint
room. Originally, Tommy had 
Editor
the whole room to himself, but 
baby Susie displaced Michael, 

forcing his migration into Tommy's territory. 
As a perceptive parent. you notice that Michael has 
become dominant over Tommy. He has taken over 
most of the toys, space, and other resources in the 
room, including a b1gstick. IfMichael catches Tommy 
playing with one of the toys, reclaiming an area of the 
rug, or otherwise threatening Michael's dominance, 
he hits him with the bat, as.5uming that Tommy will 
get the mes.5age and go play someplace else. 
Perhaps to Michael's surprise, Tommy grows bit­
ter and resentful. Ile feels dispossessed. Unable to 
directly confront Michael and his baseball bat, 
Tommy fights back with a form of childhood "terror­
ism." He breaks Michael's G.I. Joes, throws rocks at 
him from around comers and, indeed, succeeds in 
hurting him very badly. 

Faced with such systematic attacks by his brother, Michael decides to teach Tommy a really big les.'ion this time and smacks him upside the face with a new, heavier bat given to him by George, his rich best friend down the street. This is the situation into which you, as parent, peacemaker, negotiator and enforcer, enter. 
Would you yell at Tommy, blaming him exclusive­ly for the fight, while sympathizing with Michael? Of course not, you would hold them both responsible for resorting to violence to solve their problems. Why do we, as Americans and supposedly just nego­tiators, fail to do this in the ongoing fight between Israelis and Palestinians? 
Mom wouldn't be swayed by the fact that Michael's attacks are more "official" because he has a bat and beats up Tommy face-to-face -in a con­ventional manner -while Tommy resorts to "terror­ism." Any loving parent would reprimand both boys and their violent acts while demanding concessions from both allowing a fair coexistence in the room. 
Why do so many of us react differently to the vio­lence in Israel and Palestine? Everywhere, politi­cians, journalists, friends and neighbors are harshly criticizing Palestinians and Yasscr Arafat for their "terrorist" tactics -and rightfully so, such attacks are horrifying. But where is the equally harsh criti­cism of Israel's campaign of violence and terror? 
Ifthe suspicion is lurking that somehow Israel's offi­cial and conventional violence is not as bad as that employed by Palestinians. appreciate that Palestinians have roughly three times the number of corpses that the Israelis do in this conflict. The truth is that the Israeli anny is an amazingly efficient killing machine -innocent women and children (and men) have been killed in large numbers. The current vio­lence pervades entire Palestinian cities, touching each and every resident -prisoners in their own homes. 
I do not intend to justify suicide bombers. Violence is reprehensible on both sides ofthis bloody conflict. Secretary of State Colin Powell cannot consistently demand Arafat to denounce terrorism (which he did -in Arabic) while refusing to demand that Sharon condemn the illegal occupation of Palestinian territory and terror it creates. 
The Israeli people are a people undergoing attack. But so are the Palestinians -and their situation is in many ways worse. 
My mother taught me that two wrongs don't make a right and that it takes two to fight. Those truths are tin1eless; hopefully this violence won't be. 
Contact Pat McElwee at pmcelwee@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Wireless technology hits campus 
EVANSTON.Ill. 
The university is slowly increasing the number of places on campus where students can connect to the internet without being tethered to wall sockets. Although the administration has not officially recog­nized the plan to roll out wireless Internet technolo­gy across campus, several administrators acknowl­edge the entire campus is moving in a wireless direction. Several wireless locations have been added since Norris Universitv Center went wireless a year ago, and schemes for· new wireless locations are in the works. Information Technology workers have installed wireless access points in several buildings across campus. It's hard to gauge whether students think the cards are cost effective. Despite all the wireless locations added over the past year, only about 1 or 2 percent of the undergraduate pop­ulation are using the wireless network. 
Daily Northwestern 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"I know they can all physically execute the offense, but the guy who can do it  "We're in a good position right now. We know that our team is one that is going to contin­ "Crime prevention is a community effort, not just on the part of law  
mentally and  ue to get better and better."  enforcement  and security."  
consistently will probably be  
the guy who gets the job."  
Bill Diedrick  Steve Stanley  Rex Rakow  
football offensive coordinator on the  senior captain of the baseball team  director of Notre Dame  
quarterback he will choose to run the offense  on the improvement he has seen in the players on the team  Security/Police on the recent increase in vandalism on  
campus  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 


Angry protesters demand honesty from health center 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, April 16. /
I 

c 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Preuure: ~ 
@ (b) EJ~c::;J[2]~EJ {)~0ti@.@ 
High Low Shower• R•ln T·•lorm• Flurrle ¦ Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via AssocuJted Pt88S 


CAL STATE-LONG BEACH 
Student dies after jumping off bridge 
LONG BEACH. Calif. 
The body of an Anaheim, Calif., resident, Ryan Quintrell, was recovered shortly after 5:30 a.m. Authorities were notified at about 1 a.m. three men jumped off the Davies Bridge near Pacific Coast Highway, and only two surfaced. Authorities said alcohol may have been a factor and do not believe the men, all in their 20s, were suicidal. Jumping off the bridge has been considered a "historic rite of passage" for teens and young adults. Quintrell and his friends had gone out to dinner in Belmont Shores after taking a calculus test, said Michael Quintrell, Ryan's father. Ryan, a known surfer and snowboard­er, was very close to his family. He would often spend time with his cousins and friends from his church, said Michael Quintrell, a manager at Raytheon technical services. A commuter to campus, Ryan Quintrell worked at a Costco in Garden Grove, Calif., reported the Long Beach Press-Telegram. 
Daily Forty-Niner 






-.:7 
Tuesday, April l (i, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3
:=:::::=-==-==========:=:::::=~================================================ ; 
Cro~ing borders artists play 
By SARAH NESTOR New, Writer 

l'rnscnti11g thP third Win cl ow on Mus ir· at Sa i nt Marv's Collqi-c,. "Crossing llonll·rs: Mc.xican and AmPrican \VomPn Com posers" Dani<'! Vnlga­Albnla µrnsenwd two solos anrl llw stl'ing quartnt. La Catrina. playnd 01w pincn. 
"P!1rmutacinnns" by Hilda l'arndns \Vas pr•rforrnc·d f'irsL. Tlw pinf'P is hasPd upon a novPI Hayunla by .Julio Corttizar. Tl!(' pic•cc~. like th<1 novnl. has Sl'vnral plat'.<'s wlwrn musil'ians can choos!' which phrasP to play nnxt. or as in llw novP! \vhich t·.hapt<'r to rn1Hl 111,xl. Tlrnrd'orP th<> pi1irn can bn playnd s<~veral dilTcm•nl wavs. 
"It scPms to 111!' that slrn was thinking or thn novel whil<' slw ,1-rotr• this," Vnga­_\llwla said "This pin1·r, is pretty out them and the v~ri­ations arn based on the Lone collr,ction shn is using." 
Vcga-Albnla then performed l'lutinum Spirals lJy .Joan Towc\r. Thn id<'a of the piere c:amn from her father who was an nngineer and worked with a lot of' mPtals. The piece is basPd on tlrn !'act that an ounce or pl·atinum can bP str ntch(' cl i n to a m i Ie lon g strip. 
"I am particular to the Tower pi11cP. It plays a lot with 1ri tones. stretr,hing a f'ourth into a fifth,'! Vcga­AlbPlu said. 
Finally. V1•ga-.\lhola and thn othnr members of' La Catrina, Alfrndo llnrmindez-Cadena. .Jorge\ Martfnnz-Rfos and Alan Daowz-M6ndPz performed Maetro Chabacano by Javier Alvarnz. 
"~fotro Chabar,ano is a sub­way station in Mexico City," Vega-Albela said. "I used to livn right by the station and 
there used to be this man who would stand outside and play this melody over and over again on a violin, this is Javier's way of making sense of the mrlody." 
Vcga-Albela also spoke about the importance of con­temporary music_ and why he clrnoses to focus on contem­porary composers. stating that he rnally did not always enjoy contemporary music but that he has come to appreciate and listen to the musif'. that is being composed today. 
Velga-Albela is a Mexican born violinist and brgan studying the violin at the age or nine and by the age of 16 traveled to '.'Jew York where he received his bachelor of music degree in violin perfor­mance at tho Mannes College of Music. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

=-=-=-=--=--=--=---~~==---=-----=-=---:===================================== 
BOG approves Flipstock funds 
By SARAH NESTOR N~w, \X'rnt'r 

Shannon Malont>y, Saint ~1ary·s Flipstork rPprnsPnlu­tivP. madP a prnsPntation to tlw Board of Cov1!rlHtnc1• about budgr•t !'osls from last v<' a r · s 111 us ic r on(' l' rt. \!alonPV l"C'QUl'sled from tlw Buarcl s"upport in tlw f'orm of' vol untel'rs or a llHl11!'Y contri­bution. 
"Wl' arc• looking into ('orpo­ratP sponsorship. but W<' arP curTPntly working olT a sknle­ton budgPt and will Pxpand," Maloncv said. "We do not assume how much money any group will givi-;." 
Last vear. the BOG gave $3,000 towards Flipstock. but organizl'rs want the event to UP an all-day music festival with well-known bands, which will cost more money. 
".lust bt'causP we give monPy now d()(is not mean we ran't givP morr lat(~r." Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, student body vice-president. said. 
BOG then passed a motion to give $4,500 towards thr, nvent without a stipulation as to what the money will go towards. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
Next week the BOG will have the figures for their 2002-03 budget and will review those numbers. 

. 
Katie Best will also be working on a unified T-shirt design ror all students involved in student govern­ment. 

. 
Hall Council elections will take place April 26 in the din­ing hall. 


Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 


USEUM OF ART AND THE DEPARTMENT OF 
ART AR ISTORY, AND DESIGN CONGRATULATE
' :JiiITOLLOWI •. TUDENTS WHO RECEIVED AWARDS 
-i>" 

. AT THE A , UAL STUDENT SHOW 
The Emil Jacques Gold Medal of Fine Arts The Emil Jacques Silver Medal of Fine Arts Radwan and Allan Riley Pdze in Art History 
Graduate Level 1st prize Undergraduate Level 1st prize Honorable Mention (Graduate) 
Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Studio Art Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Design Eugene M. Rfley Photography Prize Walter Beardsley Award Fr. Lauck Award (Best of BA Show) 
Mabel Mountain Memorial Award 
JUNIOR BFA 

Judith Wrappe Memorial Prize (given in Fall) 
Lindsey Kosinski Kristin Gleason 
Elizabeth Davis Chris Nygren 
L. Evan Gillespie James Schuyler Jeremy Renteria Duffy-Marie Arnoult Kate Robinson 
Kathleen Annis Kate Robinson 
Stephanie Hanna 

Professor honored in architecture book 
By JOHN FANNING News Writer 

Architecture Professor Thomas Gordon Smith. who has been with the University since 1989, had his work and achieve­ments fealurnd in a book enti­tled, "Thomas Gordon Smith and the Rebirth of Classical Architecture." 
The book, written by follow architect Richard John, a pro­fessor at the University of "vliami. presents a monograph of Smith's support of the Classical revival in architecture, and his lifetime achievcmPnts in the field. 
Growing up in the San Francisco area, which is well know for its inspiring architef'.­ture, Smith became interested in the field very early on, and by the age of 12 had already set his sights on becoming an architect. Further, after traveling all over Mexico and Europe with his family and spending his first year of college in Paris, Smith had the opportunity to expose himself to many different cul­tures and types of architecture. 
After graduating from the University of California-Berkeley with a liberal arts degree, Smith went on to study architecture at Berkeley graduate school. where he completed his masters degree in architecture after three years. Smith graduated in 1975. and then worked for an architectural firm for several years in order to qualify himself to become a licensed practition­er in the field. 
Since becoming a certified architect, Smith has won many awards and his career has been filled with many noteworthy achievements. In 1979, his work was displayed in New York City and then later in Venice, as part of an exhibit entitled, "The Presence of the Past." In 1980, Smith was awarded the presti­gious Rome Prize, which gave him the opportunity to study in Rome for an entire year. 
'That was an invaluable time for me because it was when I made the decision to make clas­sical architecture my focus," said Smith. "That was a critical year." 
·Moving to Chicago? 
Contact Ben @ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bb1schmanr@hotmail.com 
Though Smith had always been most fascinated with clas­skal work. there was a strong modernist trend at the time, which had pushed more tradi­tional work out of the spotlight. 
Since that time, Smith served as a visiting professor at both Yale and UCLA and as an asso­ciate professor at the University of' Illinois at Chicago before becoming a chairman of the Notre Dame School of Architecture in 1989. Upon corning to Notre Dame he insist­ed upon maintaining his classi­cal focus, and actually started the classical school of Architecture at Notre Damo. 
"Notre Dame was the first school to'reestablish a Classical focus after the post-world war European Modernism move­ment took over," Smith said. 
Throughout his career at Notre Dame. Smith spent nine years as the chair of the classi­cal school and five years as a professor. in addition to dP.sign­ing Bond Ilall, which currently houses the school of Architecture. 
Moreover, since stepping down from his chair position, Smith has dedicated much more time to his professional work, with his company Thomas Gordon Smith Architects, which is based in South Bend. With the company Smith has focused pri­marily on residential work as well as work for the Catholic Church. In fact, one of Smith's proudest accomplishments is the design of a Benedictine monastery in Oklahoma. which was completed very recently. 
In addition to numerous other awards, projects and achieve­ments. Smith's own home was actually featured as part of a three-part series clone by Bob Villa entitled, "Bob Villa's Guide to Historic Homes." 
The book highlights all of these accomplishments as well as many others that have occurred throughout Smith's long and impressive career as a Classical architect, and became available in print last December. 
When asked if he had any advice for those going into architecture, or any field for that matter. Smith said. "Love your profession, love your work and that will supply the motiva­tion that you need." 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu. 


17~ r,·1_ Ob.. " ·.• ,N,EWS Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
f ~~a-~ge=4~============================-==-=============o=-e===se=r=~ve=r====-===========-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-= 



· Milestone in Condor program 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Biologists cnifibrated a miln­stone in the rPcovery of the once nearlv extinct California condor -·the survival of a chick conceivPd and hatched in thf' \vild. 
The rhick in the Los l'adrcs National Forest aboul 40 mitr.s nortlnwst of Los Angeles is the l'i rst roncP ivc d. ha tchnd and raised in tlw wild to sunivc more than a day. It was 4 days old on Monday. 
"Tlw pan'nts are feeding it. and it seems to be doing really \VPII." said Bronwyn Davey, spokoswoman for tlrn U.S. Fish and Wildlife ServicP. 
Biologists had triPd to removP the egg from the nest last month out or concPrn that the parents wer~ady to care for it. But the father pro­tected tlw egg so aggressiwly that tlw plan was scrapped. Davey said. 
ThP birds. the largest in North America. nearly disap­pearnd in the 1980s because of habitat loss and toxins. Captive bre<·ding programs have helped its numbers rebound to 
Condor comeback 
A 4-day-old condor chick in Los Padres National Forest is being celebrated by biologists because it was conceived, hatched and raised in the wild. Condors nearly became extinct in the 1980s, but captive breeding programs gC;ALIFORNIA 
have helped their 1,: ;,,,•• 
number rebound. ¦ •ffl@."~~eles tf~ . 
o/ 3Qffii \,. --_-_:_:-· -----fr 
G;, 30 km 
/~ 


.J'.•Lompoc ...:••·••·•••••··•··•··•.•~2;:,~~,~r~i~•··•···•••

ht*,~=~~:!"l~~i;;~iti~!l 
•=::::t,

Oxnard,\
·::::=~+~~'*-v. 


Pcicific Ocl!U/1 
Length: 46inches Wingspan: 114 inches 

SOURCES: ESRI: Kaufman Focus Guides Birds of North America A 
185, and about 60 of those since the U.S. Fish and Wildlife birds are in the wild in Service began n·leasi11g cap­Southern California and north­tive-bred condors in 1992. ern Arizona. Two of the eggs never hatched 
Three other condor eggs and the other chick quickly have been laid in tlrn wild died. 
Court to rule on Victoria Secret case 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Supreme Court chose an unlikely cas(~ r-.fonclay to settle a trademark fight: Victor's Little Secret v. Victoria's Secret. 
On the line is tlw name of the family-owned lingerie store in central K!mtucky. 
JusticPs will use the store's four-year-old disputP with tlw giant lingerie chain to settle a contested area of trademark law. At issue is whether a com­pany with a famous trademark has tu prove actual damages under a law designed to stop copycat business ventures. 
The court said it will review Victor MoscJpy's claims that he has a right to s<'ll c1dult toys and men·s and ladil's' lingPriP under the name "Victor's Little Secret." 
Victor and Cathy Moseley 

opened their store in a strip mall in Elizabethtown, Ky., in 1998 with the name "Victor's Secret." They contend they chose the name because Victor wanted to keep his new store a secret from a previous employ­er. 
After the chain complained, the rouple addPd a small "little" over the name, court records show. 
The change didn't satisfy Victoria's Secret Catalogue Inc., which has had a trademark on its name since 1981, or the courts. The Moseleys were ordered to rename their store. 
The case has the makings of a good fight, with arguments that Victoria's Secret's image could be tarnished because of the racy offorings of Victor's Little Secret. The store's motto is "Everything for romantic encounters." 
Victoria's Secret sued in 


Sheriff candidate charged in Ky. slaying 
Associated Press 
SOMEHSET, Ky. 

A candidate l'or shnriff was charged Monday in connnction with th<\ sniper-stylP assassi­nation or thn incumbent -his chief rival in next month's pri­marv and his former hoss. 
ThP canclidal!1, kff Morris, 34, and a campaign workPr Wf'n' r:hargnd with complicity to murd<'r. A third rnan, also tincl to tlw :-.!orris campaign, has lwPn rhargPd with actual­ly shooting Slwriff Sam Catron at a WPnkt'tHI fish fry and political rally in front of more than 300 ptiople. 
ThP thrP1' suspects worn !wing hdd without bond. All could face tlw death penalty, prosecutor t-:cldy \1ontgomr.ry 
said. 
"Complicity to commit mur­dN carril~S tlw sanrn pnnalty as thn murdnr itsnlf'." lw said. 
Stall\ l'olicn Capt. Paul Ilays said Im doesn't expect any more arrnsts, but refused to discuss an alleged motive. He said only that the campaign tied the three men together. 

Morris was Catron's deputy until last summer. Iktails about why Im left were not disclosed Monday by authori­ties. 
TherP was no answ1u at Morris' homti Monday and it wasn't immediatnly known if he had an attornoy. 
Catron, 48, was shot in tlrn head Saturday shortly artor lw finished a campaign spn!~Ch in Shopville, a tiny town 70 miles :-;outh of Lexingto11. He was running f'or a firth tPrm and faced Morris and others in the May 28 open primary. Ile and Morris were both Hl~publicans. 
The man charged with capi­tal murder. Danny Shelley, 30, was caught after thl) shunting after wrncking a motorcyrlc l"l)gistnn!d to Morris. Ile plead­ed innocent narli<1r Monday. 
1998, and has won two rounds in court. The Moseleys were ordered to rename their store. which is now called Cathy's Little Secret. 
The Moseley's lawyer, James 
H. Higgins Jr., told the Supreme Court that the judges who hawi considered the case so far "clearly were uncomfortable with lthe Moseley's] business. legitimate though it is." 
And Higgins said Victoria's Secret is no angel either. They sell alluring women's lingerie modeled by attractive, scantily clad rnocteis in fashion shows, he told the court. 
Thn 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati said that the Federal Trademark Dilution Act of' 1995 protectnd Victoria's Sr,crnt. The chain proved that it had a famous name and that llrn similarly named store would likely tarnish its image, th(; court ruled. 



Foru01 
continued from page I 
the legislaturns will listen to voters. 
Kizer discussml tlrn lrnne­f'i ts of tlrn program to not only his mother but to him­self' in caring for his mot.h­er. 
"The CIIOICE program allows the p]derly to stay independent and live at home as long as possible," Kizer said. "Taxpayer monny is not being wasted on a shoddily-run pro­gram." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu, 
got news? 631-5323. 





Svete honored by Arts and Letters 
By JUSTIN KRIVlCKAS 
News Writer 

Lne Svete, director of the 
Univnrsity or Not.re Dame Carel~r 
Cm1ter, rect1ivPd he Co.fltige of 
ArL<; and Lnttnrs' Annual Award 
of Appreciation. 

This is the award's inaugural ynar and will bn given on an annual basis to a faculty nwm­lrnr or staff m1~m bnr ouL'iidn of the Collngo of Arts and Letters who has contribul!\d to the Coll<'ge. Its purpwm is to recog­nize and cmcourage work that contributes to tlin College but is undertaken by pnrsons whose primary responsibilities lin out­side of the Collegci. 
"We i11troduc1)d tlrn award to recognize some of the extraordi­nary contributions made to the Collogn by p(irsons who work primarily outside or the College of' Arts and Letters," said Dean Mark Hoclw. "It is a wonderful way to recognize others throughout the University who contribute tu the mission of the College." 
During tlrn nomination process, Svete was shown to have improved job prospects for undergraduates and graduates in all arnas of the Univ1~rsity, but exceptionally w,!ll for students in the College of Arts and I .otter. 
"Lee Svete has dune a remark­able job ensuring that the Career Centt. r reaches out to arts and sciences students in meaningful and creative ways," said Roche. 
Svetn and his staff hav<1 con­tacted recruiters from firms !.hat appreciate a liberal arts bark­ground and invited t.lwm to campus to find prospcctivu employees. 
Svete has brought n10r11 Arts and Letters-orionted firms and organizations to the Arts and Letters Job Fair. For nxampln. he and his staff contacted and obtained scouts f'rom the National Academy of' TeJevision Arts and Sciences, the Chicago I.aw f<"irrn, Kirkland & Ellis, Simon & Schuster and Urn U.S. Department of .Justic1! to attl'nd the fair. 
"Ile has suc!:essl'ully 1wt­worked to bring Notre Dame into the Big Ten Plus Career 
Wednesday-Saturday 
April 17-20, 7:30 p.m. 


Sunday 
April 21, 2:30 p.m. Post-performance discussion on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
Reserved seats $ I 0, $9 senior citizens, $7 students 
Tickets are available at the !..aFortune Student Center Box Office or by calling S7 4-63 l -8128. 

Consortium, and he has made spocial trips to alumni organiza­tions to help find opportunities for Arts and LPtters students." said Rocho. 
Umli~r Svete's leadership, Lim CareN CPntPr has madn it a pri­ority incniasn lhr• number of i11ternships available to stu­dents. Svnt!! l·redits his staff l'or tlrn success th(i CarePr Cm1ter has s1Hin inrluding: Assistant Director Anita Be<is, Associate Director Boso Kopec, Internship Coordi1wtor Hobin Sullivan and Can)Pr Counselor Allison Keller. 
"Without Anita's leadership and hard work, and the support of' Hose, Hobin and Allison. this 
would  not hP possiblt1," said  
SV<~tn.  
The  CarePr  Center  has  

allowed Notr<' Dame students to be a part of Intern Cenl!ir. which is a national database of 19,000 internships f'or students. Some new accomplishments for Arts and Lntters students include out­roach prngramrning and on-call advising in ()'Shaughnessy Hall, Government Careers l\ight, and participate in the Metro Link Job Fair in New York for students interested in pni-law, advC'rtis­ing, publishing. fashion and entertainment. 
The Career Center has com­pleted and will periodically update a new Website at carnm­center.nd.edu li>r students look­ing for information to enhance their ability to attain their dreams after graduation. 
Futurn goals 1hr Svnte and his tnam includ1) creating an endowment lo allow students to have a chance take unpaid or nominal paying intnnships around tho country that will b(i very beneficial to them. Svete hopes to have the project fully functioning in till"<'<! ynars, with live to ten million dollars to sus­tain the program. 
"l.ee counsels individual stu­dents to lrnlp tlwm pursue their drnams," said Hoche. "Jin fully undnrstands both the intrinsic value or a libnral arts (~ducation and tlw ways in which such an education prnparns students for a variety of opportunitins bnyond Notre Dame." 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
by BERTOLT BRECHT 

TRANSLATION BY DAVID HARE DIRECTED BY GUEST ARTIST HOLGERTESCHKE 
For more information, please visit www.nd.edu/-ftt/mainscage.html 

. ' 
''' 






W0RL 
ATION 
Tuesday, April 16, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Democracy triumphs in Venezuela: 
l;rom M1•xico to Brazil. Latin /\mnrican n;itions llll .r-.lonuay hailt\d Llw l'nturn Lo pow1\r or v('l1t'/.Ul'lan !'r(•sid<•nt llugn Chav11/ as a virtor) l"or tlw rPgi.on·s chimo<Tadi·s artnr yPars nl' military ov<•rtllrows. Chav1)Z. a pop­ulist r·ornwr parntr,ioJH'r who was (·i<)<'Li\d in 1')1)8. r<'rlainwd p11\wr Sunday 11rtPr a popu­lar rPvolt that undid his ousler by tlw military on Friday. 

A-bomb guide available in Britain: 
Britain's \linistry of l)pfrns<' has madP publir a stl'µ-by-stqi guidP on ho1,\' to build an atom­i(· born b. a rH·WS]HlP('r r·pport(•d \!Inn day. Arrnnling to tlw 1wwspapf'I'. IIH' lilPs contain ,·ornpll'lP 1·.ross-s1•ctions, prncisP m,~asurn­llH'nts and l'ull dPtails of Llw nrnkrials usPd to 111ak1· tlH· lwrnli. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Astronauts ready for spacewalk: 
Astronauts ).(<'ar(•d up !'or llw l"ourth and l'inal sp,1rP1\'illk or Lh<'ir span• station ron­stnwlion mission. ai"l<'r tPsting a ,ww train al IIH' orbiting outpost. Tlw dPbut ol' tlH' first pnma111•111 railroad in orbit quickly ran into a sna).( 011 \londa:v' artPr t1vo crn\\'s st•nt a raikar rollin).( slowly down a short str<>trh of' track on tlH' station's rwwly i11stall1•d 44-fool gircln. :\.\S.\ blanwcl L111• problPm on \\'l'ightl1•ssn r•ss. 
Pesticide causes frog mutations: 
i\lal<· rrogs Pxpos<'d to Pv1•n V<'ry low dost1s or atra,in<'. ;i rommon WPPd killt!r. can dPvclop mulliplP S<'X organs -somPtimcs both mall' and l'Pmal<' -rPsParchPrs in Calil'orni,I haw discm'Pr<'d. As th<• amount of' atrazinP in1:rt•asPd, as many as 20 pcr­n•nt or frogsprodurPd multiplP sex organs or had both malP and l°<'ma!I' organs. 'v1any had small. f'Pminiz1•d larnynxt>s. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Fort Wayne has high hate crime rate: 
Tlw Fort \\'ayrni l'oliu• Dt\partnwnt reportml mon• hat<' ninws than any otlwr Indiana law Pnl'nrr11111Pnt agency last yl'ar. But that doPsn·1 ll<'rPssarily nwan lh<'n' arP moni hall' ninws tlwn'. 'Torl Wayn1• is just doing a bPt­L<•r job of clorunwnting it.·· said Maj. Karen Butt. •·omrnandPr of' tlw StntP i>o(irP HP.cords Division. "I don't think Fort Wayn<\ has any 11101"1' than oth1•rs l'or an ag<'ncy of its sizr." Assaults larg<'l<'d blacks. whites. a Hispanic n1sidPnt and homosPxuals. Fort Waynn Polic11 also handlPd n•porls of intimidation and van­clalis1n. .. 
Market Watch April 15 
Dow 
I 0.093.67 -97.15 
Jones 

CompositeSame: 

Volume:
209 

I.I 10.747.008 
AMEX?•· 90$;0(). )' }¥4)f4@'' NASDAQ: 1,753.76 -2.41 NYSE: 583.•85·.·."•r~4tt5•·•·t~~ 
S&P 500: I, I 02.36 -8.65 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +0.81 +0. 27 33. 79 GEN ELECTRIC (GE) -5.07 -1. 70 31.85 SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) -2.26 -0 .18 7. 79 WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) +1.20 +0.06 5.07 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.90 -0.29 15.01 
WEST BANK 


Associated Press 
RAMALLAII 
Prime 1\Iinister Ariel Sharon said Monday that Israeli troops would press ahead with a campaign against Palestinian mili­tants in two major West Bank towns despite U.S. pleas for a full withdrawal. Israel also grabbed a senior aide to Yasser Arafat whom Sharon says was behind suicide bombings. 
In an interview with CNN, Sharon said Israel would pull back from Jenin. Nablus and other areas within a week, the first indication of a time frame for ending the large-scale 
campaign against Palestinian militants that began March 29. 
"Altogether, we are on our way out." Sharon said. 
But the withdrawal was far from the complete roll­back that the American government is seeking. The two exceptions to the pull­back Sharon gave were Bethlehem, where Israeli forces are engaged in a standoff with more than 200 armed men in the Church of the Nativity, and Ramallah, where Israeli troops surround Palestinian leader Arafat's office. 
Sharon said Israeli forces will not leave Bethlehem until the standoff is over and will not leave Ramallah until those behind the October assassi­nation of Tourism Minister Rehavam Zeevi are handed over. 

In response, Palestinian Information Minister Yasser Abed Rabbo said, "We don't plan to deal with these conditions. He must leave every city that has been reoccupied without any conditions. We are not going to bargain with the Israelis over every town and village." 
In Ramallah, elite Israeli troops seized Marwan Barghouti. a popular figure in the West Bank who Israel says is the leader of the Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, which was behind the latest suicide bombing, an attack in a .Jerusalem market Friday that killed six people plus the woman bomber. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, meanwhile, contin­ued his efforts to calm regional violence, visiting Lebanon and Syria. 
In the Jenin refugee camp in the northern West Bank, medics began retrieving bodies, but it might be days until it becomes clear how many Palestinians died in the fiercest battle of Israel's offensive. 
Bush promotes permanent tax cut 
-when old income tax raks would ing signs in the economy." House
Associated Pres. 

go back into effect and the supposed­leaders plan to bring the !Jill that 
WASHINGTON ly repealed estate tax would be res­would make the cuts permanent to a 
Using \1onday's tax filing deadlinP urrected fu II force. vote Thursday. as a backdrop, President Bush and The tax deadline also l.Jrought a If the cuts were to expire because his Hcpublican congressional allies new tax simplification proposal from of "a quirk in the law," Bush said, Houghl to build support for legisla­Bush's Treasury Department aimPd "It's going. to be hard to plan your tion making permanent the 10-year, at removing confusion over the defi­future if you think all of a sudden $1.35 trillion tax cut enacted last nition of a child for tax purposes, these things get kicked in full time, yPar. and a House hearing on the perfor­and then go away. They need to 
Because of an arcane Senate bud­mance of the Internal Revenue make these tax cuts p,~rmanent." get rnle, the entire package of cuts Service. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, will ('Xpire or "sunseC at the end of Bush, appearing Monday at a addressing the Economic (!ub of 2010 under current law. That could General Mills plant in CAdar Rapids, Grand Rapids, Mich .. urged club trigger tax chaos ·in 20] 1 -and Iowa, said the tax cut was "one or members lo lobby Congress in favor would bn seen as a big tax i11crcasP the reasons we're seeing encourag-of the bill. 
, .' 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
AFGHANISTAN 
Michigan oil spill 
Troops killed in accident 
shuts down river 
KANDAHAH 

At least four U.S. soldiers W!'rn killed Monday and a fifth was injured when rock­ets they were trying to destroy accirlentally blew up. The casualty toll could rise because some soldiers were missing aftn the noontimr explosion. U.S. officials said. 
The accident, coming at a time of increased combat activity as the winter snows melt in the rugged Afghan mountains. highlights the dangrrs troops facr even v.·hen not under hostile fire, Pentagon officials said. 
The blast orc-urrf'd at a demolition range next to the compound that once housed former Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar. according to local government spokesman Yusuf Pashtun. Several U.S. special 
forces troops "We certainly want to 1973. ment of a man, identified on 
The cleanup could last three live in the express our sorrow and A C-l 30 the video as a Sept. 11 
to six weoks and cost more compound. military hijacker, speaking to the 
than $2 million, officials esti­
grief to the.families of 
An Afghan aircraft camera in a style similar to 
mated.
those that have been 
guard, who OU tfittcd to videotapes made by 
Authorities belinved the oil gave his killed and injured. And respond to Palestinian suicide bombers 
was industrial-grade waste name only m is s i I e before attacks. 
oil. Samples from oil at
we salute the brave men 
a s attacks will Rumsfold said he had been 
Detroit-area f'acilitins were
and women in uniform
Ramatullah. carry the told the tape "very likely was 
being tested to soc i(' they said l!.S. who do, in fact, put their 87-year-old using a patchwork of' clips 
matched the oil in Lim rivnr. troops had ousted from previous periods along 
lives on the line every 
been collect­monarch with some dialogue of more 
round with oil on their feath­
day to defend their
ing confis­back to his rcc<mt periods." c a t e cl country." homeland, weapons Italian offi­and ammu­cials said.
Donald Rumsfeld
nition and Interim 
Defense Secretary 
storing them Afghan 
130 airborne gunship, which killed five of the attackers, he 
U.S. Troops Killed 

said. 

Associated Prc.ss There were no U.S. or 
At least four American soldiers 

coalition fatalities in the 
DETHOIT 
were killed Monday and one was

weekend attacks, but Afghan A mysterious spill of more
injured in an accidental

authorities said three 
than 10,000 gallons of oil 
explosion. A team of about 10

Afghans were wounded in the closed the Rouge River for the 
Americans was handling Soviet­

incident Saturday near the 
third straight day Monday as Khost airstrip. 
era missiles or artillery rounds 

officials tried to determine the Humsfeld said military 
when the explosion occurred. 

source. planners had expected more 
At its worst last week, the activity with the end of win­
spill spread to about 27 miles tc r, making it easier for 
of coastline on the Rouge, as Taliban and al-Qaida fighters 
well as the U.S. and Canadian to move out of mountain 
sides of the Detroit River. hide-outs. 
About two miles of Houge Despitc security uncertain­
Hiver coastline still needed to t if' s, authorities pressed 
be cleaned. ahead with plans to return 
"All the oil that has been the country's deposed former 
spilled has been contained in king. Mohammad Zaher 
the Houge Hiver," Coast Guard Shah, to Afghanistan this 
spokesman Paul Hoszkowski week.· Zaher Shah has lived 
said. "Anything that made it in Rome since he was ousted United States a "great victo­
out into the Detroit River has by his ry." 
been cleaned up or flushed out cousin in The tape included a seg­
naturally." 
at thr com­pound for disposal. He said he heald a series of six explosions about noon Monday. 
"We certainly want to express our sorrow and grief to the families of those that hav11 been killed and injured," Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told a Pentagon briefing. "And wr. salute thP brave men and women in uniform who do, in fact, pu l their liv<~s on the lim! every day to defond their country." 
Gen. Hichard \1yers, chair­man of tlw Joint Chir,f's of Staff. said the accident shows "'our servic<'men and womPn rnmain at risk." 
At Bagram air base north of' Kabul. tlrn Afghan capital. 
U.S. military spokesman Maj. Bryan llilfertv said about 10 soldiers were·cl isposing of the rockets when thn accident happe1wd. Ill! said the injured soldier was flown to the L.S. military bas11 just south of Kandahar, whnrn ;\merican authorities said his injurirs wen' not lif'e-thrnat­ening. 
On Man.:h 28, a Navy SEAL. Chinf' Pr.tty Ol"firnr l\1attlww .I. Bourgeois. 35. of TallahasseP, Fla., was killed whnn lw stc)ppi'd on a land mine during a training mis­sion near Kandahar. Anothor serviceman was wounded. 
Tlw crnPlll\' firnd two rnck­C'l-prop<dlc)d grc)nades at a U.S.-controlled airfield in the southr•aslerr1 rity of Khost, noar thci Pakistan bordnr, on Sunday night, officials at Bagram said. Two other l'O('ket-propelled grPnadPs cxplod11d in tho same area tlw night berorn. 
Also Saturday, U.S. and Afghan troops cam<~ under f'irn clming a night pati·ol, llilforty said. The troops called in ,;unnort from an AC-
leader 

H a m i d Karzai leaves for Rome on Tuesday to accompany Zaher Shah home. either Wednesday or Thursday, offi­cials said. The fornwr king is expectnd to convene a grand council. or loya jirga, in Jwrn to choose a new Afghan gov­ernment. 
In advance of his arrival, security forces blocked off three streets Monday in the capital to rehearse measures to protect Zaher Shah. Four armored personnel carriers belonging to the international peacekf1eping i'orce were sta­tioned near the refurbished house where tlw former king will live. 
In other developments: 
. The head of the U.N. refugee agency said he will rely on Ismael Khan. a key power broker in western Afghanistan, to providn sncu­rity for thousands ol' ref'ugces streaming home from Iran. 
"l think a pnrson like Ismael Khan. lih the othnr governors elsewhere, arc key in provirling security," said Huud Lubbers, the U.N. lligh Commissioner !'or llefugees. 
Morr than 231,000 Afghans havr, returned from Iran, Pakistan and other neighbor­ing nations in th<> pas! six weeks, according lo the United Nations. Iran and Pakistan have been homo to about 3.5 million Afghan refugees. 
. Al-Jazeera, tlw ()atar­basnd Arab satdlitn nl'twork. broadcast parts of' anotlrnr · Osama bin Laden vidootape. It was unclear when the tape was made. It showed bin Laden, his top deputy and another man. Tim <lep u ty. Ayman al-Zawahri, was claimed on tho tape that the S<1pt. 11 terror attacks on the 

SOURCES: Associated Press; ESRI 
AP 

ers, said Dan Sheill, spncial 
About 70 birds have bnnn

agnnt  with  the  U.S  
Dnpartnrnnt  ol'  Fish  and  
WildlifP.  


Tuesday, April J6, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
SOUTH KOREA 
Plane crashes into mountain, killing 116 
Associated Pres_.,, 
KIMIIAE 

Its passnngnrs screaming in LPrror, a ChinnsP jnt plowml int11 a f"og-shroudPd mountain in South Korpa on Monday, killing at IPasl I 18 pnopl<'. Tl11! pla11n caught f'ir1· and skidcll'd 100 vards but sonwhov,· :~CJ ol' thos,: aboard survived. 
Thi' Air China B!ltiing 7(17­
200. on n nonstop flight f"rom B1'i,ji ng. \.\' as approach i11 g Kimhac Airport outsick Busan. South Korea's s1•rond la,·gcst ritv, whon it hit a 1,000-l'oot m,;unlain noar a rPsidnntial ar1•a. poli1·p said. Tlw1·1• wnr1i no 1·asualti<'s on tlw ground. 
Survivors said 1:light C/\-129 l'raslwd shorLly al't1•r pnssl111­gPrs \\'Pl'«' told to burklP 11wir SPat bl-Its and prPparP f'or landing. 
"Thi• pla1w sudd1•nly clippt•d. tlrnn ros1• 1111d tlwn w,•nt down ugain. S<·<·onds latPr, thPrt• was a big hang and I was knocknd unconscious." said .Jin WPnXU<'. a :-J:i-yPar-old K1, r" an -C: hin () s I' 111 an rr om C:hina·s .lilin provincl'. 
Tlw plan<• hit on<' side or tlw mountain and tlwn plow<•d toward tlw 1.wak. catching lirP a 11 cl c· LI l l i11 g a [ r a i) 0 f' fa 11 I' 11 tr<'<'S 100 yards long and :rn vards wid<•. · "llocliPs \\'C'I"<' burning in thP mud. Survivors W<'rP rrying in pain." said Bal' flan-sol, 15. who ruslwd lo tlw sill' af't1·r tlw planr' skimmPd ovt•r his villag,, with a roar. 
"WP sPldom SP<' plarws f'lying ovN our \'illagP, so I thought it 
was strang<' that thP plane, both civilian and military tr<'m h Ii ng. f11!w toward tlrn planr.s, and air force personnel mountain in fog," Ban said. staff' the control tower. Air 
Doz,:ns of pnople were res­force Col. Kim Sung-hwi said cued alivP, but sevnrnl diHd in tho plane was given prrmis­hospitals. l'olice said 118 peo­sion to land because weather pl1i w1;re confirmed dead, nine conditions were good enough. 
missing  Po lice  said  
and  :19  light rain,  low  
a I i v ri . Most ol' th<' pas­ "The pilot appears to haue made a wrong  clouds and dense fog reduced visibility  
s ,in g I' rs W I' r C  reading of the lerrain."  at the time the crash.  of  
South  Aviation offi­ 
Kor<·ans.  Kim Jong-hwi  cials said  con­ 
Aviation  Transport Ministry official  trollers  had  
Height: 52 ft. Wing span: 156 ft. 1 in. 


officials said many of' tlrn survivors WPrn in the f'ronl part of tlw aircraft. indi­cating tlw jPt's tail and fuse­lag<' hit tlw ground first. They also s,ticl the plarw slownd as it skiddPd through tlw tr11ns 
/\ South Kornan travel agnncy nx"rutivn said he rnr·civnd a call around tlw time ol' the rl'ash from a passenger aboard tlrn plan11 who said it appnarnd to bn in troubln. 
"Tlw caller said, 'The planfl s<'<'ITIS to have problems, maybe, an accident,"' Kim Yu­snok said. "After a brief s iIrm r· P. I h <) a rd p no p I c s1·.rnaming ovpr the phone. 
"Then llrn phone got discon­rwctecl," Kirn said. l!P said the call lasted 15 to 20 seconds and that h<' at first dismissed it as prank, but then realized the caller was Lee Kang-dae, an adviser to his company who was on tlw flight from Beijing. l!P said Ltil' was among the survivors. 
Kimhat: Airport is used for 
askPd the pilot 
to change direc­tion bcf'uro landing due to a strong headwind, and that it hit the mountain while circling around to other side of the air­port. 
Kim Jong-hwi. a Transportation Ministry offi­cial, said it J'lr.w l .6 miles bPyond a rlnsignaterl point to change _its direction. 
"Tl1e pilot appears to have made a wrong reading of the terrain," Kim said on South Korea's YTN television. 
Ham Dae-young, a South Korean air traffic official, also said the cause appeared to be pilot error. 
"We believe this is a classic case of CF[T [controlled Oight into terrain I," Ham said. sug­gesting the pilot new into the mountainside bv mistake. He said the pilot is io blanw in 95 percent of such crashes. 
The plane's wreckage looked like shredded pieces of paper. Burned plane parts were scat­tered for 300 yards in all 

Air China Flight CA-129 
A look at the Boeing 767-200, the plane that crashed Monday in South Korea. 
Accommodation: up to 255 Length: 159 ft. 2 in. 
Range: 6,600 nautical miles 
SOURCES: The Boeing Company, AP Associated Press 

directions, and the broken tail and nose rested near the mountaintop. The air rnoked of burning oil. 
After the crash. hundreds of police, military and civilian workers combed through smoking wreckage, using shovels and electric torches, but their work was hampered by rain. Bad roads also slowed rescue efforts. 
Quoting survivors, police said there was no explosion on the plane before the crash, an indication that it was an acci­dent, not an act of terrorism. 
The plane was carrying 11 Chinese crew members, 135 Koreans, 19 Chinese and one Uzbek passenger, Air China's Seoul office said. It said the pilot. Wu Xing Lu, survived. 
Air China is the country's national flag carrier and one of three major international carriers based in China. The airline had not suffered a fatal crash since it was established in 1988. 

Busan. 200 miles southeast of Seoul, used to be called Pusan. It is one of several South Korean cities whose spelling in English has been changed under a system adopted in 2000 to help for­eigners pronounce names bet­ter. 

Rumsf eld comments on nuclear inspections 
Andon Tuesday, 
Provide Hope bv Becoming a 

TODAY, April 16th, from 9am-4pm laFonune Ballroom. 
Please sign up lor the Bone Marrow Drive: www.nd.edu/----class02/donor/ 
Or walk-ins welcome! 
Associated Press 
WASHI:'JGTON 

Defense Secretary Donald 1-1. Rumsfeld said Monday he cannot imagine a formula for l.N. weapons inspections that would be both acceptable to Iraq and successful in uncovering nuclear weapons. 
His remarks contrasted sharply with comments made separately by State Department spokesman Philip Reeker, who told reporters it is the Bush administration's policy to insist that Iraq permit unfettered inspections. 
"Iraq has to comply fully and unconditionally with all applica­ble United Nations Security f:ouncil resolutions, including tlrn return of U.N. weapons inspec­tors, and cooperate fully with them," Rer.ker said. He gavP no indication the State Department shares Rumsfeld's view that inspections cannot succef'd. 
Rumsfeld did not sav what should be done if eft'ective inspections should prove impos­sib I e. In the past he has endorsed the view that if the goal is to stop Iraqi President Saddam Hussein from threaten­ing to use a weapon of mass destruction, then military action would be more effective than diplomacy. 
"Everyone knows" Iraqi President Saddam llussein is 
pressing ahead with a nuclear program and striving to improve and expand his chemical and biological weapons arsenal. Rumsfeld told a Pentagon news conference. 
In a related development, two 
U.S. Air Force F-16s dropped laser-guided bombs on an air defense radar complex in south­ern Iraq on Monday. Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the F­16s attacked after one of the Iraqi radars "illuminated" one of the planes. 
It was the first U.S. airstrike in southern Iraq since Jan. 21. 
In Baghdad. the state-run .Iraqi News Agency quoted an uniden­tified army spokesman as saying "enemy warplanes bombed civil and service installations in southern Iraq." The report gave no other details. 
To lift the veil of sr.crccy from Saddam's work on weapons of mass destruction would require an inspection system that is "enormously intrusive" -more so than anything tried in the past, Rumsfeld said. 
''I just can't quite pictur11 how intrusive something would have to be that it could offset the ease with which they have previously been able to deny and deceive, and which today one would think they would be vastly more skill­ful, having had all this time with­out inspectors there," Rumsfcld said. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BuSINE.SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne YIEWPOIIVf EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egrs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mm Lur-L Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTF.MS ADMINI~1RATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. .....................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT, ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......,, ..............................631-5313 NEWS......................................................... .631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu · YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.nd.edu far daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as carcoons, reviews and breaking neYts from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 
movieslmwic for 

minute forecasrs 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the edicors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advercisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qw,rion, regarding Oburver p"licies should be direct­ed to Editor in C'hiejfason McFarky. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Petition failed to unify student body 
In her April 15 letter, Libby Bishop claimed the triumph of a 4,000-signature petition as "strong support received [demonstratingj the power of a unified student voice." 
One might venture to do a little mathematics here. There are approximately 8,500 undergraduates at Notre Dame. Four thousand signatures is less than half of that number. Everyone had more than a good opportunity to sign this peti­tion, with it being pushed at dorm masses, on dorm-wide voicernail, with broad email advertisements and with random posters for signatures spread at central locations throughout dormitories. 
With such a wide distribution of opportunity to sign the petition, the fact that less than half of the Notre Dame stu­dent body chose to do so is quite striking. It portrays anything but a "unified student voice." 

It indicates that over half of the student body is actually in favor of the administration's proposed rules changes. You might even say that the famous "silent majority" at Notre Dame has spoken quite loudly by not signing on the dotted line. It would therefore seem clear that student government does not represent a majority of the student body on these issues, or at least does not represent the views of a significant chunk. Notre Dame administration, take note, 
Nathaniel Hannan sen10r Dillon Hall April 15, 2002 

Shakespeare in Africa 
Yesterday I felt like I traveled back in time to see the premiere of "Romeo and Juliet" in Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. My friend in the closest village to me recreated this play for a girls' confer­ence. Listening to 
the process of the Maite Uranga project and watch­ing the perfor­
mance gave me a glimpse of what the Life in Africa original actors, 
director and audi­ence went through for the premiere. 
My friend started by slowly going through the play scene by scene. Each day the girls came to rehearsal with no idea what was going to happen in the next scene. Of course, variations arose as they translated the play into Pulaar and into a different cultural context. Romeo became Samba. Juliet became Kadja. The Catholic priest became an imam. The overall storyline was similar. Samba and Kadja both going against their fami­lies' wishes. They rushed to get married before Kadja was forced into a marriage with someone else. 
As the night of the performance neared everyone in the village began talking about the upcoming theatre. The "stage" was a soccer field goal under a moonless light. There was one light bulb hung from the goal post and a portable tape player for the music. Originally the audi­ence was supposed to sit in a somewhat organized fashion with everyone facing the stage. The reality of Mauritania changed this as the crowd circled the stage and remained this way throughout the performance. 
It was chaos as I imagine the Globe Theatre to have been. The kids squirmed to the front. The people in the back on the outer edges of the circle did not come to watch the play in the center and instead came mainly to socialize. Every time there is a large group of people in Mauritani, people come with coolers to sell drinks and food. Throughout the play people were buying, selling, eating and drinking. When they were finished they would drop their garbage or throw it on stage. 

During the beginning of the perfor­mance, the actresses would have to stop for minutes at a time to let the crowd quiet down. Any time the actresses entered the stage, their friends would cry out in support. After all the fight scenes, the continu­ous dull roar of the audience increased. On top of all this, the standard sounds of an African vil­lage in the back­ground added to the mix. Donkeys braying. Children laughing. The Call to the Mosque. Periodic winds from the desert. 
With my basic understanding of both Pulaar and Shakespeare, I man­aged to follow the play· fairly well. Hearing some of Shakespeare's most famous lines and watching famous scenes was hysterical. "Homeo, Romeo, where­fore art thou Homeo?" translated to "Samba, Samba, ho! to Samba woni?" At the same time I came to appreciate even more the universality of stories and on this particular night Shakespeare. 
I eagerly anticipated each scene and even more the audience's reaction to each scene. Shakespeare is so ingrained in Western audiences that even before seeing a play people generally have an understanding of the plot especially for "Romeo and Juliet." This play pervades American culture in all different forms. 
When "Samba and Kadja" was per­formed none of these preconceived notions existed. 
The audience reacted in ways I imag­ined the first audience did. They watched in excitement the secret marriage of Samba and Kadja by the imam. Perhaps 
they anticipated a happy ending. They watched in horror as the ending changed dramatically. They saw Kadja take a drug to simulate death in the hopes she would awaken to a life with Samba. Samba found Kadja and the audience tried to tell him that she was not dead. 
After Samba killed himself and Kadja woke up, a hush set­tled over the crowd. The girl who played Kadja did an amaz­
ing job feeling the silence and dragging it out to create even 
more emphasis. The 
audience gasped as Kadja committed sui­cide and waited for the 

next scene. Hoping the next scene would make it better. The next scene never came. 
The audience walked away with a sense of betrayal and disbelief. I walked away with the realization that Africa had provided me a personal history lesson on Shakespeare's England. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in ?,00 I as an anthropology and government major She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. "Life in Africa" appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Scott Brodfuehrer Justin Krivickas Elizabeth Lee Sports Matt Lozar Viewpoint Kristin Yemm 
Scene Mike Schmuhl Graphics Andy Devoto Production Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Lisa Velte 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Should Student Activities censor the names of 

"He [Shakespeare] was the man who of all 
Bookstore Basketball teams? 

modern, and perhaps ancient poets, had the largest and most comprehensive soul." 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

John Dryden 
poet 
_·----__J 


THE 
OBSERVER 

-VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 16, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Where is the outrage? 
Thursday it was reported on Lhe front page of The Observer that one former and three current Notre Dame football players were accused of gang raping a 20-year-old student. In the days follow­ing. I noticed that there was not one letter regarding the alleged horrible and uncon­scionable incident. I find it very sad that Notre Dame students are more concerned about their drinking "rights" and SYRs than they are about the alleged violation of one of their sisters. 
After the proposed policy changes were announced, there were three pages in Viewpoint devoted to the issue. but when the crime of rape may have been commit­ted upon a young woman, there are no letters, let alone an extra Viewpoint page. What kind of message does this.send to the silent women who have suffered rape or sexual assault? 
Students are suddenly con­cerned about having a voice in the decisions and policies that affect them and have come out in droves to protest the rewriting of the alcohol code. Students claim that they have been ignored and silenced. But what about the voices of those who suffered rape or sexual assault and feel that they cannot come forward without being blamed for it in some way? 
This doesn't say much about about the students who attend the University. Perhaps a re-evaluation of priorities should be iri order. 
Sarah Edwards freshman Regina Hall April 15, 2002 

Support equal pay for both women and minorities 
The median earnings of women in Indiana are only 61.1 percent of Indiana men's median earnings. Across the country today, workers' rights advocates will take part in a day of action to end unfair pay practices -a top con­cern for women and people of color nationally and in Indiana. 
Nationally, the U.S. Census Bureau reports that the average woman earns just 73 cents for every dollar earned by the average man. Women of color are worse off. African­American women make just 65 cents on the dollar compared with the highest earners (white men), while Hispanic women make only 52 cents. Men of color also experience wage disparities. African-American men earn only 81 cents on the dollar, while Hispanic men earn just 62 cents. 
The Women. Work. and Economics group of the Women's Studies 207 class at Saint Mary's College is joining the National Committee on Pay Equity and hundreds of organizations nationwide to observe Equal Pay Day today ­Tuesday. Tuesday symbolizes the day when women's wages catch up to men's wages from the previous week. In other words, because women earn less, on average, they must work nearly seven days to earn what the average man would earn in only five. 
Economic equity is. an issue that affects all of us. You can help women and people of color to achieve economic equity by contacting your state representative and letting him or her know that you support legislation that works to guarantee pay equity. Working together, we can insure that all Americans get the respect that comes with a fair paycheck. 
Brooke Warner Jessica Domingo Esther O'Connell Emily Hall Stella Barrutia Members ofWomen, Work, & Economics Group Saine Mary's College April 15, 2002 
Terrorists give free countries no options 
I don't negotiate with terrorists. I don't support their causes, no matter what they are, and I do sup­port the systematic discovery and destruction of all groups and political bodies that would use terrorism worldwide. Rarely are issues so black and white, but in this day in age. we're left with no choice. In order to combat the threat that has been leveled against ourselves and our society as a whole, we, John Litle as citizens of the United States and as members of the Notre Dame community, have a duty to 
Frankly
look above the reasons terrorists 
Obnoxious
are upset to see the truth: that their course of action to remedy their problem nullifies their political concerns. 
Here we sit as members of an Irish Catholic institu­tion. Some of us no doubt have sympathies with the causes of the Irish Republican Army, a group that for years used terrorism as a way to achieve a political end. It is up to us, in a world where we must unques­tionably announce that terrorism will never succeed in producing one single political change, to renounce any support we might have had for such groups. I'm sure you can see where I'm going with this. 
The Palestinians and everyone who has supported their cause have completely forgone any right to any cooperation from Israel by choosing to use the tactics of terrorism. The deliberate attacks against Israeli citizens have placed all of us in the uncomfortable position of having to say, "Yes, I do support terror­ism under certain circumstances." Or, "Terrorism can never be allowed to succeed regardless of the legitimacy of the political complaints." Those are the only choices. To say I support the Palestinian cause is necessarily a promotion of terrorism because that is the only method the Palestinians have used to pro­mote their political ends. 
Some would argue that Israelis have killed Palestinian civilians. This is true, but there are two overlooked aspects in this simplification. First, Palestinian civilians are the ones who are attacking Israel, not the uniformed men that Israel sends. All a Palestinian needs to do to convince a bleeding heart media type that an innocent civilian was killed is remove the AK-47 from the hand of the slain terror­ist. Click, a picture is taken and another "innocent civilian" dies. This is not to say that some true inno­cents do not die and suffer. As in all war, there are 
casualties. The second issue is that countries have a 
right to defend themselves and soldiers have a right 
to kill their enemies. Civilians do not have a right to 
kill other civilians or foreign civilians. Let me try an analogy on you. A couple hundred years ago, the land on which your house was built was owned by a Native American. The land was stolen from him. It passed hands following that theft legally. Different per­sons bought, sold and gave the land away until your family received the land and moved in. One night, the 
grandchild of 
this man who 
once had the land stolen 
from him 
comes to 
your home 
and kills 
your 
daughter 
because he 
wants his land back. Is he justi• 
fled in 
doing this? 
No, absolute­
ly not. 
Though at one 
time he had a 
claim to the 
land, that time 
has long since 
passed. It is just the 
same with the Palestinians. There was a 
time they did have a claim, 
but sadly, their land was taken 
from them. They didn't get it back. 
Palestinians should be happy with what they 

have. They don't ha,ve a right to more, and they cer­
tainly don't have a right to the destruction of all of 
Israel which is their goal. My final point is this. Arafat had on the table everything he "supposedly" wanted when he was negotiating with Barak at Camp David. Arafat passed it all up, because the truth is, he wants all of Israel and won't stop until he gets it. Had he accepted the peace and then continued in his attacks, he wouldn't have the outpouring of worldwide sympathy he-needs 

in order to persist. So when you're thinking of the poor, oppressed Palestinians, remember, they could have had all they claim to want and passed it up in order to manipulate you 
into supporting them. We're dealing with a man who made an agreement 
with Iran stating, "If you send me a boat full of illegal mis­siles and weapons, I promise never to 
make peace with Israel." And you're support­
ing his side, as if he's in the right. 
Wake up. Arafat is a ter­rorist, and the Palestinian 
cause is one that is supported solely by terror­ism and lack of respect for human 
life. And while 1 don't propose we send U.S. troops over 

to kill off the Palestinian terrorists, I also don't propose we arrogantly sit here and tell Israel when they can and can­not defend themselves. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major. He can 
be contacted at jlitle@nd.edu and appreciates e• mails from enraged liberals. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
.---__.;;::,_....____________..,..,,.........__..,.,________________________,,....,..,..
r---.-.~......-.-... ----------~----------,........... . _____ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Pete Yorn delivers great debut album 
Popular singer/songwriter brings melodic mastery to South Bend 
By DAVE FULTON 
Scene Music Critic 
In a music world that is quickly sacrificing artis­tic integrity for factory made, commercial groups, Pete Yorn is a breath of fresh air. His music is inspired by various influences, ranging from life experiences. books, movie characters and people. As he puts it, "This is music a lot of people of all generations can relate to." His debut, musicforthe­morningafter, is an album that possesses radio-. fi:iendly songs without giving up any artistic credi­bility. The album was listed on countless Top 10 of 2001 lists and continues to gain sales and radio play. Yorn will bring his artistic credibility to South Bend this Friday night, when he takes the stage at Heartland. 
Yorn, a graduate from the University of Syracuse, first started playing the drums when he was nine and picked up the guitar three years later. He began writing his own songs in 1990, admitting, "When I first started writing, I didn't know how to do anything other than sing with a fake English accent." 
After graduating from college, he headed to Los Angeles and grabbed a regular gig at Cafe Largo. It was there that the producer of such Farrelly Brothers' movies "Kingpin" and "Something About Mary" saw him perform and asked him to donate several songs for their new film, "Me, Myself and Irene." 
Impressed with his songs, the Farrellys asked Yorn to do the score for the entire film. Shortly after, Yarn's songs were appearing in television shows like "Felicity" and "Dawson's Creek." From this, Yorn managed to score a record deal with Columbia Records and recorded musicforthe­morningafter. 
Yarn's sound is a cross section of various influ­ences. His voice could easily be mistaken for that of former Dinosaur Jr. front man, J Mascis with a slight hint of Bruce Springsteen. Songs like "Life on a Chain" and "Just Another" possess a slight country flavor a la Son Volt or Ryan Adams, where songs like "Black" and "For Nancy ('Cos it Already Is)" come from a more rock oriented direction rem­iniscent of the 70s New York underground bands (Velvet Underground, New York Dolls). The songs all have a musical simplicity about them making them easy to listen to, while lyrically painting pic­tures of beauty, loss and wonder. 
Despite the vast musical influences present on musicforthemorningafter, the album maintains continuity through the song's excellent craftsman­ship. Yorn played the majority of the instruments on the album and wrote all of the songs. His cre­
ative process 
is an unusual 
one to say 
PETE YORN the least. Where most artists either come up with lyrics· or gui­tar riffs first, 
all of the songs on the album start­ed out as drum beats with guitars and lyrics following afterward. Thus. it is not surprising that the drums have such a strong presence on the album. 
What sets musicforthe­morningafter apart from albums by other artists 


Yarn's voice takes on a sort of muf­normally peppers his live shows with fled beauty flowing over the delicate Pete Yorn in concert with covers of his influences ranging from strumming of his acoustic guitar. The The Smiths, to Iggy Pop. to Bruce
special guest Elbow 
song is based on the legend of Jack Springsteen. His rather throaty voice 
. Heartland,
the Ripper as a "romance piece," does justice to Springsteen covers like according to Yorn. "It was inspired by downtown South Bend the dark ballad, "Atlantic City'' or the this whole image of Jack the Hipper more pop-friendly "Dancing in the
. Friday, April 19, 8:00
luring these women and trying to Dark." 
take them  to a  greater place. I just  p.m.  For Yorn, the rise from  a  dimc-a­ 
try to make it hopeful." The song def- dozen  singer/songwriter  in  Los  
initely achieves that sense of hope as  Angeles to  an acclaimed headlining  
Yorn pleads, "We were passers on the  act came  very quickly, yet he still  
streeV I never thought we'd meet/ Until I said, 'how  maintains the same drive he had before. "I want to  
do you do, my love?'"  be able to keep doing this and consider it a career.  
"For Nancy ('Cos it Already Is)" is a slow-building  I don't want to be obscure. The more  people who  
rock number that builds itself from an acoustic gui­ can hear my music, take something from it and feel  
tar into an  explosion of chunky, distorted guitar  good about themselves, the better."  
chords, thunderous drum blasts and a  driving bass  
line while Yorn commands: "Convince yourselr'that  
everything is all right/ 'Cos it already is."  
Then there is the Smashing Pumpkins-like, space­ 
rock ballad "On Your Side." The reverb of Yorn's  
voice and E-bowed guitar riff gives the song a rich, atmospheric sound very similar to some of the  --------------------­ i%$  
Pumpkins' work  on  their groundbreaking Siamese  Contact Dave Fulton at dfulton@nd.edu.  


is that there is pretty much something there for everyone. "Strange Condition," one of the songs featured in "Me, Myself and Irene," is pop-rock at its finest. The song is laden with catchy hooks, solid lyrics and great harmonies, all of which driven by a timely drum beat. 
"Simonize," possibly the best track on the album, is a ballad that would impress even the ballad master himself. Bob Dylan. 
Dream album. Lyrically, the song is rather simplis­tic, yet its reassuring and comforting message transforms it into a moving piece. 
Despite the great variations in music on the album, Yorn manages to maintain the necessary intimacy on songs like "Simonize" and "EZ," while still switching into overdrive on songs like "For Nancy," in concert. With only one album of material to work from, he 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, April 16, 2002 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Midnight Oil makes a leaky comeback 
By TOM O'CONNELL Scene Mu~ic Criric 
Capricornia, the 14th studio album from veteran Australian rock band Midnight Oil is a composite of loose, upbeat melodies, socially conscious lyrics and powerful vocals. Best known for their late l 980s hit "Beds Are Burning," Midnight Oil has been making quality music since their formation in 19i6. Over their 25-year existence. they have sold millions of albums both in the U.S. and throughout the world. Like most aging bands, Midnight Oil's popularity has steadily dwindled since the height of their fame, but they have still made several well-received albums that have sold respectable numbers. 
When not making music, Midnight Oil lead singer Peter Garrett, guitarists Martin Rotscy and Jim Moginie, bassist Bones Hillman and drummer Rob Hirst are deeply involved in social and political activism. Lead singer Peter Garrett ran for the Australian Senate in the mid 1980s, losing by only a small margin. In the early 1990s, Midnight Oil held a benefit concert in front of the Exxon headquarters in Manhattan to protests the environmental damage done by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. They also have campaigned extensively for nuclear disarmament and a solution to the problem of global warming. 
For many years, Midnight Oil's biggest focus has been to raise money and gain support to combat abuses that the Australian government has perpetrated against the Australian aboriginal population. They have tried to use 

Cornershop -. Elvis Cos 
-~l(;;<Di 
G 
Jethro TUI. WHco­


their fame and money for many good causes, and still had time to produce an album every few years. 
This album. however, is a bit disappointing. Given the quality and critical acclaim of much of their earlier music, Capricornia does not seem to live up to the level of songwriting of which Midnight Oil are capable. 
Much of the album is comprised of optimistic melodies driven by simple chord progressions and no frills drumbeats. There arc a few slow and moody ballads that bal­ance with the more positive fast­paced songs. Some songs are bet­ter than others. but the album is missing a clear hit. No one emerges as a near m·asterpiece, and it leaves the album feeling only slightly more than mediocre. A good guitar riff can make or break a song,' and Capricornia lacks one that stands out. It is hard to find a melody on Capricornia that stays in your 

head after the music has stopped. Photo courtesy of www.midnightoil.com Lead singer Peter Garrett's easi­The Australian group Midnight Oil has sold millions of albums over the ly recognizable voice is one of the past 25 years. With Capricornia, their newest release, they struggle to 
better elements of this album. His regain their former fame. 
voice can be a hard rock roar in one song and a smooth carrier of a higher­pitched melody the next. His vocals often travel well outside of the original melody, bringing 11, little more depth to each song. 
Some of Capricornia's lyrics are about the problems between aboriginal Australians and white Australians, and the government's inability to find a way for both groups to peacefully coexist. The song "Tone Poem" speaks about this issue. After years of violence against the aborigines, many Australians believe it is nearly impossible to find a way to allow them to live as they did before white set­tlers, and many lyrics point directly to the guilt that is felt because of this. "We can fade away or start over again/ Where will you live when the fields are falling?/ A willing victim, I don't think so/ We won't be pinned against the wall/ There is no slogan that can feed you." 

While Midnight Oil may not have produced an album that is a stage for a major comeback, Capricornia will hit a good note with their large existing fanbase. Though they are probably no longer destined for multi­platinum sales, the album is an assertion that Midnight Oil will not fade into obscurity while they still have a message to send. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 
Trey Anas1aslio -Trey Anas1aslio 
n•a Tym~~~,,,;,,"~·''9 ••~tt.,::..:/1!~;,,:,.h:~;;,~j¼;,-_
e1ackaltc11011s----·~ ~•azl11a _~rrow>,··-· ;}( Chomsky • On1'ar-Qullrky ~c>ld rs,.; . 
· _i:()~\Jl,.._.·:~~:.. ,:·)"i'r,, ;~·;:··-:-<; .; A.· _:re-.."iW .:.; : ::::: .•:1t.f 
,<~p,,., . 

page 12 Tuesday, April 16, 2002
The Ob:ierver . SPORTS 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Lowe locks up another Boston victory 
Associated Press 
srn,-roN 
It took a win over the New 
York Yankees to convince former 
All-Star closer Derek Lowe that 
he belongs as a starter for the 
Red Sox, even though he came 
within six outs of a no-hitter two 
weeks ago. 
"This is probably the best game I've pitched," Lowe said after Boston's 4-3 victory over the Yankees on. "lt was a test for me." 
Lowe, who entered the game 2-5 with a 7.34 ERA career against the Yankees, struck out a career-high nine, allowing one run on two hits and one walk in seven innings. 
He improved to 2-1 with a 1.29 ERA in three starts this season. In addition to his trademark sinker, Lowe used a cut fastball for the first time against the Yankees. 
By holding on in a tense ninth inning to win their annual Patriots Day game, the Red Sox took three of four from the four­time defending AL champions and finished their series leading the East by a half-game over New York. 
Yankees starter Andy Pettitte (1-1) left after three innings with a tender left elbow, which has bothered him since the start of spring training. He said it's the same pain from the spring and felt it on a fastball to Tony Clark in the third. 
"I finally felt like I was ready to let go. I guess I wasn't," Pettitte said. "I let one go, and· I'm back to where I was." 
White Sox 13, Orioles 4 
Jon Garland, facing a big start, got an early lead and set down Baltimore with ease. 
Paul Konerko hit a three-run homer and matched his career high with five RBI, and Garland rebounded from two poor starts to pitch seven strong innings and lead the Chicago White Sox over the Orioles. 
"I wanted to show my team­mates that I belong here," said Garland. who had allowed 16 hits and six walks in 9 1/3 innings coming in. "The only pressure I had was on myself." 
Chicago leadoff hitter Kenny Lofton went 2-for-2 with three runs scored, two RBIs and a stolen base, and Ray Durham had two hits and drove in three runs for Chicago, which built a 13-0 lead as it won for the fifth time in six games. 
Garland (1-1} allowed only two hits -both didn't get out of the infield -in the first six innings and didn't look like the pitcher who had an 8.68 ERA in his pre­vious two starts. 
"It relaxed me, but I was look­ing at it like an 0-0 game," Garland said. 
He retired his first eight bat­ters and 17 of his first 18, allow­ing few balls to be hit hard. Garland wound up allowing three runs -two earned -and five hits with five strikeouts and no walks. 
"I hope Jon's past the stage where he's inconsistent," White Sox manager Jerry Manuel said. "Anytime he has success at the major league level, he gets more confidence." 
Mets 7, Braves 6 
Mike Piazza homered twice and Edgardo Alfonzo hit a game­winning single in the 12th inning as the New York Mets rallied from a five-run deficit to beat the Atlanta Braves. 
One day after Roberto Alomar homered twice with one of Piazza's bats, the Mets slugger did the same. Piazza hit solo shots in the second and seventh innings as the Mets rallied from a 6-1 deficit to tie it with five runs in the seventh. 
New York won it in the 12th. Jay Payton, hitless in his first five at-bats, singled with one out against Chris Hammond (0-1). 
After Piazza walked with two outs, Alfonzo hit a soft single to right-center off Kevin Gryboski, scoring Payton. 
The Mets poured out of the dugout to mob Alfonzo between first and second base as New York fans did a mock tomahawk chop. 
Scott Strickland (1-1} pitched a perfect 12th inning, and the Mets won for the fifth time in six games. 
Chipper Jones and Gary Sheffield each went O-for-6 for the Braves, who lost their third straight and fifth in seven games. Andruw Jones had three hits, including a home run. Vinny Castilla also homered for Atlanta. 
Damian Moss took a 6-1 lead into the seventh inning and was in line f'or his first career win before the Mets broke through for live runs. 
Piazza led off with his second homer of the game and Moss was knocked out after doubles by Alfonzo and Jeromy Burnitz made it 6-3. 
Burnitz scored on Rey Ordonez's perfectly placed squeeze bunt single off Darren Holmes. Mike Remlinger came in and allowed a tw-o-run homer to pinch-hitter John Valentin that tied the game and woke up a tame crowd. 
Dodgers 5, Rockies 2 
Odalis Perez pitched a five-hit­ter and Eric Karros had a three­run homer as the Los Angeles Dodgers handed the Colorado Rockies their fifth straight loss. 
Perez (1-1) walked one and struck out five for his first com­plete game in 36 career starts. Adrian Beltre hit a solo homer in the Dodgers' five-run first inning off Shawn Chacon. 
Todd Helton hit his first homer of the season in his 47th at-bat for Colorado. Helton had 49 homers last season. 
The crowd of 29,763 was just more than the Coors Field record low of 29,522 set April 10. 
Los Angeles scored all its runs in the first, aided by a critical error on Colorado shortstop Juan Uribe. 
With one out and a runner on first, Paul Lo Duca hit a potential double-play grounder to second. The Rockies got the lead runner. but Uribe's relay to first was high, and Lo Duca took second on the error. 

Shawn Green followed with an HBI single. and Brian .Jordan also singled. Karras then hit a three-run homer down the left­field line, his 19th home run at Coors Field -most among visit­ing players. 
Beltre capped the inning with the Dodgers' fourth straight hit, a 433-foot homer. 
After struggling to get through the first inning, Chacon (l-2) blanked the Dodgers on three hits over the next six innings. Helton homered leading off the second. 
Colorado threatened in the fourth am.I fifth. The Rockies had runners on first and second with two outs in the fourth, but Jose Ortiz lined out to left. field. In the fifth, Juan Pierre singled with two outs and stole second, but Perez retired Uribe on a ground­out. 
Cubs 6, Expos 4 
Sammy Sosa and Fred McGriff hit consecutive home runs and Kerry Wood pitched six scoreless innings to lead the Chicago Cubs over the Montreal Expos. 
Sosa hit his sixth homer of the season in the fifth inning off Carl Pavano (1-2), a drive that struck a cable 120 feet above the left­field wall, and added an RBI double that chased the starter in the seventh. 
The home run rose above the 160-foot-high concrete rim that surrounds Olympic Stadium before descending and striking midway up one of two cables from which hang a pair of speak­ers above the left-field wall. 
McGriff drew a bases-loaded walk in the third and follo"wed Sosa in the fifth with his first homer of the season, putting Chicago ahead 3-0. 
Moises Alou, who missed the first two weeks of the season because of a strained right calf, 
was O-for-4 in his Cubs' debut. 
He struck out twice and ground­
ed into an inning-ending double 
play with the bases loaded in the 
third. 
On the 25th anniversary of the Expos' first game at Olympic Stadium, Montreal drew 4,917. The Expos. who played their first eight seasons at Jarry Park, lost to Philadelphia 7-2 on April 15, 1977, before a crowd of 57,592. 
Wood (2-0) scattered three hits to lower his ERA to 1.50 as the Cubs won consecutive games for the first time this season. 
The 24-year-old right-hander left after pitching a perfect sixth inning. He was strtltk on the left elbow by Peter Bergeron's one­hop infield single with two outs in the fifth. 
Antonio Alfonseca hit a two­run single with two out and the bases loaded in the ninth, his first hit and RBIs in 10 career al­bats. Alfonseca, who entered with runners at first and third and no outs in the eighth, fin­ished for his second save. allow­ing an RBI double to Lee Stevens in the ninth. 
Pirates 6, Brewers 1 
Adrian Brown drove in three runs as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Milwaukee Brewers before the smallest crowd ever at Miller Park. 
The game drew 14,090 to the retractable-roof stadium, which opened last year. The previous low was 23,311 on April 7 for the Brewers' previous home game, the finale of a three-game series against Arizona. 
Milwaukee dropped to 3-10 for the first time since 1972. 
Kip Wells (2-1), who lowered his ERA from 11.37 to 6.94, allowed one run and seven hits in 5 1/3 innings. 
Glendon Rusch (1-1) gave up three runs and eight hits in seven innings, and struck out five. Rusch, who had six career RBI in 82 at-bats entering the season, has four in eight at-bats this season, fourth-highest on the Brewers. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer re,;erves rhe right to edit all classifieds for ~onrem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Reliable businessman looking to  SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5  3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE  
NOTICES  rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home for 9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP.  THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND  bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bed- WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, AND A DECK, WASHER & DRYER. CORNER OF EDDY AND  PERSONAL  
Call Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. mes•  WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER·  room cottage..cute..  HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
Mexico/Caribbean or Central  sage if necessary.  ENCES REQD CALL LYNN @ 616­ LOGAN CENTER. FREE KEG  alone. If you or someone you love  
America $250 round trip. Other  849-7022  DAVE 291-2209  WITH RENTAL.  needs confidential support or assis­ 
worldwide destinations cheap. Book  Looking for single Castle Point  Call Gary or Lynne  lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
tickets online www.airtech.com or  roommate coming summer and/or  Need 1 or 2 Grad tix Call Dave @  3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002.  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
(212) 219-7000.  fall. Free high-speed DSL internet.  247-1148 Greatly Appreciated  CIA Security system. Close lo  616-699-5841  information, see our weekly ad in  
currently $323 per month + utils.  campus.  THE OBSERVER.  
98 Honda Civic EX. 2-dr., auto, 49k  616-699-5841  HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03,  
miles. All power, air, cassette + 6 CD changer. $10,900 obo. Call  Call 574.2n.9322 if interested.  FOR SALE  Lrg lux 1-bdrm aptin historic home.  5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2 bath, central ale, washer & dryer,  AREA CODE CHANGES Update business cards letterhead &  
Mark 631-7716 or email mshaw- FREE 1 BEDROOM APT FOR THE  Garage. Must ·see! Call  alarm system,  envelopes at THE COPY SHOP  
cro@nd.edu  RIGHT GRAD STUDENT IN  Couch. loveseat, and recliner. $450  Tammy(616)684-1049  LaFortune Student Center 574-631­ 
EXCHANGE FOR 21 HRS/WK  or best ofler. Less than a year old.  call 773-486-8822.  COPY  
LEASING APTS AND OFFICE  Perfect condition. 233-0360  4&5 Bdrm, W&D, CLOSE. ND  
WORK. SOME WEEKENDS  Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE  Here this summer? Law students  FAX IT FAST! Sending & Receiving  
LOST AND FOUND  IMMEDIATE OPENING YEAR ROUND. GEORGETOWN APART- Gently used Thomas A. Peterson doctoral gown for sale. Fits 5 fl. 8"  LOOKING FOR.  wish to sublet house. Furnished with AC.  at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center FAX# 574·631 •  
MENTS 272-7286  female. $1 oo. Call 234-8607  Call Karey 255-6403.  FAX1  
Lost: Necklace w/ gold+diamond  Terms VERY negotiable.  
cross in West Quad area  Dependable caregiver for Sunday  Toshiba Laptop 300Mhz 13.3"  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES·  GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS &  
Call 4-1640  mornings infant & toddler nursery  screen, 98MB, 4Gig HD, Modem,  TIONABLE AREA. NICE HOME  CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by  
Must have references & transportn.  Cd. Superb condition. $430 OBO.  NORTH OF ND  Call 289-5651.  local PGA professional Call Dick at  
Resume to Secretary,FPC,333  E-mail dtlynchy@yahoo.com  2773097  276-9670.  
WANTED  W.Colfax, So.Bend 46601  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9  Two bedroom cottage 5 min from campus $325.  I wish to thank all of you tor your  
Employment tor College Student.  99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt.  FOR RENT  people) 2) medium (3-5 people) Call Bill al 532-1896.  Dave 291-2209  thoughfulness and your prayers I miss all of you. Hope lo see you in  
Care for 11 and 9 year old. Fun,  for 3-9 months. Great location & fur- the fall. Sincerely. Mary  
,  relaxing summer. GoOd pay. Hours 9am-5pm.  nished Call George Carr at (773) 975-0563  MMMRentals com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol com  Upstairs apt., single person, no smoking/pets. All util.paid Avail  5-Bedroom.5 min from campus. All the goodies .dancing-OKI  Write Observer Sports.  
or e-mail at  now or Fall 02. For info, call 574­ Call Chris at 1-4543  
Please call Lisa 631-9947.  George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com  MMMRentals.com  255-1738. Close to ND.  Dave 291-2209  

7  
I,.  
Tuesday, April 16, 2002  The Observer . SPORTS  page 13  

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Indians own baseball's best start 
Associated Prcss 
Mark Shapiro looked out at an audience of excited Indians fans, some of the same ones who called him crazy for trading Roberto Alornar. 
But before beginning his lun­cheon speech, Cleveland's rook­ie general manager joked about his rough winter. 
"It's sure nice not having to stand behind chicken wire up here," he said. 
Or wear a flak jacket. 
The Indians are 11-1, and Shapiro is enjoying his team's blistering start as much as any­one. This•wa5 supposed to be the year Cleveland fell back in the pack, remember? Third­place in the AL Central, here we come. 
Well. it hasn't happened. Not yet anyway. After sweeping four straight from Minnesota and going 6-0 
. on a season-opening homestand, the Indians own baseball's best record and are off to their fastest start since opening the 1966 season at 14-1. 
"I don't think anybody expect­ed a start like this," first base­man Jim Thome said. "With all the new faces, it was important for us to get it going early." 
The Indians are 9-0 in their division. The starting pitchers are 10-0 with a 3.88 ERA. The bullpen has a 1.80 ERA, and will carry a 15-inning scoreless streak into a three-game series at Chicago on Tuesday. 
Ellis Burks is leading the AL with a .419 average. Thome, a notoriously slow starter, has homered in four straight games and is on pace to drive in more than 150 runs. 
Matt Lawton, one of the new­comers, has scored 15 runs and is having so much fun that he joined Cleveland fans in doing the wave as he· stood in right field during a game last week. 
And the offense, expected to have trouble, is averaging 6.6 runs per game. With a more patient approach at the plate, I.he Indians aren't as free-swing­ing as usual and are near the top in walks. 
''Well, I guess we're not as bad as people thought," shortstop Omar Vizquel said. "We have the best record in baseball. Who's going to believe that?" 
Even skeptical Indians fans are coming around. 
Last week, only 23,760, the smallest crowd at Jacobs Field since it opened in 1994, came to see the Indians beat the Twins. The empty seats were a strange sight in a ballpark that was sold out for 455 straight games and has packed in more than 3 mil­lion the past six seasons. 
The winning streak, however, has resulted in a box-office boon, and the club said that it has sold 60,000 single-game tickets since April 1. 
"I anticipate seeing several crowds of 40,000 here this sum­mer," Shapiro said. "We were spoiled. The fact is, the better we play, the more they will come." 
Off the field, the Indians are different, too. 
Cleveland always had one of baseball's edgiest clubhouses, but these days there are wall-to­wall good vibrations. 
And although none of the cur­rent players will name names, the departures of Alomar and Juan Gonzalez have helped chemistry. 
Even the clubhouse stereo, which used to blare before and after games, sits silently on top of a cabinet as dust builds on some unplayed CDs. 
"This team has the best cama­raderie of any team we've had," said Thome, in his 10th year with the Indians. "We're close. There's a special feeling here already. Bottom line. Nobody worries about their stats. The only thing we care about are wins." 
Shapiro's remodeling started last September. About to take over for John Hart, Shapiro met with manager Charlie Manuel to talk about the type of team he wanted to have. 
Instead of discussing stats, though, the two shared their beliefs on what kind of players they wanted to be around -win or lose. Talent was only part of it. They wanted a club filled with players of character, who put team goals first and didn't quit. 
So far, that's exactly what the Indians have done. 

Labor talks to resume today 
Associated Pres• 
When baseball's labor talks resume today after a one•month break, owners will have a larger delegation on their side of the table but no greater idea if the 2002 season will be played to a conclusion. 
It's still too early to deter­mine if players will strike in what would be baseball's ninth work stoppage since 1972. 
While owners have pledged not to lock out play­ers or change work rules through the World Series, the union maintains the option of a late-season walkout to preempt the pos­sibility of a lockout or work rule changes during the off­season -when most con­tracts are negotiated. 
"We've got four months left between now and Labor Day, five months between now and the playoffs," base­ball chief operating officer Bob DuPuy said. "We've been bargaining for five months now. It's critical we press ahead. It's our goal to press as hard as we can as rapidly as we can." 
The sides, looking for an agreement to replace the deal that expired Nov. 7. tentatively have scheduled two days of talks in each of the next three weeks. 

Union head Donald Fehr has said a strike is always a last resort, and in 1994 players waited until July 28 to set a strike date. Players walked out Aug. 12 and stayed out for 232 days, causing the World Series to be canceled for the first time in 90 years. 
"I think this is still a man­ageable group," said DuPuy. Selig's longtime lawyer. "At one of our sessions in Florida, the players' associ­ation indicated they wel­comed whatever additions we made. We're hopeful that by bringing new per­spectives to the arrange­ment, it will help us reach an agreement." 
During the last session, players responded to the proposals owners made on Jan. 9 and Feb. 26. Players declined to accept the own­ers' luxury-tax proposal and proposed only a small increase in revenue-sharing system, and the teams are expected to say this week that the union's offer was unacceptable. 
ffitff~d-a-,-------­
The Way Bible Study 

8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 

Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 

r 

This Weel< in 

Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 
•-da-,------­
campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D' Alonzo, csc, Director 
Faith and Femininity 
7:30 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Enesdav 
Sant' Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. 
Log Chapel 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 
Freshman Retreat Reunion 

Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Senior Retreat #7 
April 19-20 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
NDE Retreat #71 

RCIA-Mystagogia 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Spanish Mass 1:30 p.m. 
Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

8:00 p.m. 
Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
• I
Music. Prayer. Fellowship.
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer • Wednesday Nights • t O pm • Morrisey Chapel Morrissey Chapel 
r 
[ 
t 
t 
I 
' 
page 14 

t
,~· 
I 
I NHL 
f 
! I I Rangers fire Low 
! 
I I 
I 
I I t for losing seasons 
I 
I I I I 
Associated Press 

I I I 
I NEW YORK I The New York Rangers' NHL­
I 
I high payroll no longer includes 
I head coach Ron Low. The Rangers fired Low after
I 
two losing seasons and zero
I I postseason appearances despite base salaries totalingl about $70 million in 2001-02. The team went 36-38-4-3 this season and finished 11th in the Eastern Conference. It was the fifth consecutive year New York failed to make the playoffs. "I don't think it's just the coach's responsibility in a situ­ation like this. We all share equally in this," Rangers presi­dent and general manager Glen Sather said. "But in every situa­tion, someone ends up taking the blame and it's generally the coach. It's unfortunate, but it's the way it has to be." Sather would not say what, specifically, Low did wrong. 'Tm not going to get into any­thing negative," the GM said. "Ron is a hard-working guy." Sather is holding a position in the organization for Low in case he's not hired by another team before next season. "There's a job for him if he's looking for one," he said. The Rangers led the confer­ence standings in early December and were atop the Atlantic Division as late as Jan. 5. But the team went 3-11-1 from Dec. 31-Feb. 6, sinking its season. 
The roster featured seven players who were at the Salt Lake City Olympics, including stars such as goaltender Mike Richter, defenseman Brian Leetch and forward Eric Lindros. 
Sather added high-scoring forward Pavel Bure at the trad­ing deadline, hut the Rangers still fell short of the playoffs despite his late t1urry of goals. 
Low's record in New York was 69-81-9-4. He missed one game this season to attend the funeral of his brother, who died of cancer. 
In seven NHL seasons, faclud­ing five with the Edmonton Oilers, Low is 208-243-49-4. 
"We had to do something," Sather said. "We wanted to go into next year with a fresh start and fresh ideas. That's what we're doing." Ken Hitchcock, who coached the Dallas Stars to the 1999 Stanley Cup title, is a candidate to replace Low, Sather said. The Stars fired Hitchcock in January and didn't qualify for the playoffs. 
"I've spoken to Dallas and I've received permission" to talk to Hitchcock, Sather said. 
Asked what he likes about Hitchcock, Sather said: "Just his history." 
When the Rangers were elim­inated from playoff contention, Low said he thought the Rangers had played hard for him. He blamed the team's problems on injuries to Lindros and Messier and poor special teams play. 
.l!l 
<: .!'l 
<:: 
::, 
0 
:i <) 
2 '.2i 
::, 0.. 
-0 
<l> 
~ 
<l> 
(.') 
0 
:a<ll

, 
,:; "' 
Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
BOSTON MARATHON 

Kenyans reclaim tradition 
.Associated Press 

Kenyans are back on top of the BfJston Marathon, reclaim­ing a winning tradition that's now as much a part of the race as Heartbreak Hill. 
Rodgers Rop won the men's event by three seconds over Christopher Cheboiboch, and Margaret Okayo set a course record for women in beating two-time defending champion Catherine Ndereba. 
All are from Kenya, whose 10-year winning streak among men was broken last year by Lee Bong-ju of South Korea, who was fifth and the first non­Kenyan to cross the finish line. 
"The Kenyans arc very happy. Last year, I was not happy," Rop said. "Before run­ning, I said, 'We have to reclaim our title.' It's become a tradition in Kenya to win Boston, so l had to try my level best to win." 
As he crossed the finish line, Cheboiboch embraced Rop. 
At that same spot about 2 1/2 hours earlier, four American flags -each 45-by-90 feet ­were held horizontally by vol­unteers in the first Boston Marathon since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Just before the 26.2-mile race that is held each year on Patriots Day, about 17,000 run­ners gathered near the red, white and blue starting line in overcast Hopkinton west of Boston. A state trooper sang the "Star-Spangled Banner," then ran the race. 
The race began in cooler temperatures than expected and it became clear there was an excellent chance the Kenyan national anthem would be played at the end. 
"J just feel proud when J hear that national anthem being played," Ndereba said after she embraced Okayo. "And if it was not for me, it's for Margaret." 
Rop finished third in his only other marathon. in New York last November. Okayo won the women's race there. 
Her winning time was 2 hours, 20 minutes, 43 seconds. beating Uta Pippig's course record of 2:21:45 set in 1994. Ndereba finished in 2:21 :12. Elfenesh Alemu of Ethiopia was third in 2:26:01. It was Ndcreba's first marathon since she won the Chicago race last year in a world-best 2:18:47 on a flatter course. 
Rop won in 2:09:02. Cheboiboch's time was 2:09:05. They were followed by Kenyans Fred Kiprop and Mbarak Hussein. Both finished in 
2:09:45 with Kiprop getting third. 
The winner on the hilly Boston course was almost 3 1/2 minutes behind the world record of 2:05:38 set on a flat­ter and faster London course Sunday by Khalid Khannouchi. 
Hussein is the brother of Ibrahim Hussein, who started Kenyan's dominant decade by winning in 1991. He repeated the next year. 
"I thought if I won, it's 10 years and I'll start a tradition of my own," Hussein said, "but the lucky one was Rodgers." 
The top American finisher, Keith Dowling of Reston, Va., finished 15th in 2:13:28. Jill Gaitenby of Northampton, Mass., was the first U.S. 
woman across the finish line, finishing 13th in 2:38:55 
"I was not happy with my time," said Gaitenby, who had trouble with her heel and her breathing. "I almost dropped out at mile 24, but the fans kept yelling my name and yelling 'U-S-A' and that really helped me out." 
Rop and Okayo each won $80,000 for finishing first, while Okayo's course record was worth $25,000. 
Ernst Van Dyk of South Africa was moving at a record pace in the men's wheelchair division but fell short and won in 1 :23:19. Krige Schabort of Cedartown, Ga., was second in 
1:26:04. The women's winner was Edith Hunkeler of Switzerland in 1:45:57, fol­lowed by Christina Ripp of Urbana, III., in 1:49:32. 
An unusually large pack of men stayed together for much of the race, with 14 in the group at 17 miles, and eight ­all Kenyans -were separated by four seconds at 19 miles. 
Three miles later, it was a two-man race between Rop and Cheboiboch. When Rop pulled away, he gestured to his countryman to join him. 
"Running alone is a bit tir­ing," Rop said. "I had to tell him to come so we could push together." 
The field of about 17,000 included about 600 law enforcement officials who sup­plemented the unprecedented force that provided security. 
There was "no suspicious activity whatseoever," said David Goggin, assistant secre­tary of public safety for Massachusetts. 



START HERE. 
G . PLACES ¦ 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in fashion. 
£ 

www.STARTHEREC:iOFlLACES.C . M/B1Z7
.,<: 
0 

·~ Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
E 
<( 

Tuesday, April 16, 2002 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 

ROWING 
Tailwind blows Irish to victory at Indiana Crew Classic 
almost 15 seconds. The Irish varsity four rowers just didn't have the horsepower end's race was at the site where 
ByMATf ZAVODNYIK 
The second-place team in the consisting of Kati Sedun, at the end." the NCAA Championships will 
Sports Writer 
first varsity eight race was Notre Elizabeth Specht, Maureen Carr, The Irish third varsity crew take place. After dominating the Dame's "B" crew. They had an Kolleen Myers and coxswain had some trouble. regatta, Notre Dame has a week The Notre Dame rowing team outstanding race, edging out Kacy McCaffery absolutely blew "They were down from the off to prepare for future races. is the champion oflndiana. Purdue's first varsity by .8 sec­away the competition. They fin­start. The rowers pulled really "The intensity of practice will 
The Irish crew team dominat­onds and dominating Indiana's ished 20 seconds in front of sec­hard, but they didn't race an go up," said Besson. ed the Indiana Crew Classic this first eight by almost 10 seconds. ond-place Indiana and 36 sec­intelligent race," Stone said. "It The Big East Rowing Challenge weekend with great perfor­"This was a great race for our onds ahead of third-place was one of those times when is in Worcester. Massachusetts mances over Indiana and second varsity eight to be in," Purdue. they just tried too hard." on April 28. However. the Irish Purdue. said Irish coach Martin Stone. "It "The varsity four consistently Stone knows that the team's are mainly focused on the 
With the help of a prevailing was great for them to beat that rode away from the competi­recent success cannot allow the Central Region Championships tailwind. the first varsity eight Purdue crew." tion," Stone said. team to lose their focus. -the race that determines who dominated with a time of 6 min­The. second varsity eight row­The Irish fourth varsity eight "We can row with anyone in advances to the NCAA utes, 13.2 seconds. Rowers ers were Danielle Protasewich, also had an electrifying perfor­the country, but we have to stay Championships.
Katherine Burnett, Katie Besson, 
Kathleen Welsh, Melissa mance when they beat Notre focused on our goals," Stone "We are going to train hard,"Natalie Ladine, Diane Price, Alberding. Jacqueline Hazen. Dame's third varsity and just got said. "We have to stay poised." Stone said. "Everything is Becky Luckett. Ashlee Warren, Courtney Mercer, Erica edged out by Purdue's second The goal for the crew team this focused at Central Regions." Michelle Olsgard. Jayme Szefc Drennen, Kerri Murphy, Meg varsity crew. season is to receive a bid to com­and coxswain Cassie Feely and coxswain Kathryn "The fourth eight did an out­pete in the NCAA Contact Matt Zavodnyik at Markstahler won the race by Long. standing job," Stone said. "They Championships. This past week-mzavodny@nd.edu. 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Cadets march past Irish in 11-8 victory 

ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
Before the Notre Dame men's lacrosse game against Army. Irish captain Devin Ryan said the key to victory was holding the Cadets to under 10 goals. Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said the Irish must stop all-time Cadet leading scorer Tim Pearson. 
Notre Dame found out the hard way that both tasks are easier said than done. 
The host Cadets, led by Pearson, defeated the visiting Irish 11-8 Sunday. Pearson finished with one goal and two assists on the afternoon. 

Drumbeats and Dia1ogue 
Creating New Rhythms for Diversity in Higher­Education A Symposium convened by the African & African American Studies Program University of Notre Dame 16-17 Apri1 2002 Keynote Speaker and Workshop Facilitator Roland Smith, Ed.D. Associate Provost• Rice University• Houston, Texas Schedule of Events Tuesday• 16 Apri1 2002 7: 00 PM-Keynote Address: 
Strategic Pl.annirrg for Diversity: Some Refl.ections on Best Practices 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium Reception immediately following in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall 
Wednesday• 17 Apri1 2002 9: 00 AM -workshop #1 
Diversity and Curriculum: Values, Ide~ls, and Object:ives 
Hesburgh Center Rooms Cl04-105 
10: 45 AM -workshop #2 
Defining Outreach and Its Implications for Diversity 
Hesburgh Center Rooms C104-1D5 
2: 00 PM -Workshop #3
: 
Rethinking Facul..ty and Staff Recruitment and Retention
I 
Hesburgh Center Room Cl03 
5: 00 PM-Fireside Chat
: 
Building Friendships and Maintaining Community
l 
Morris Inn• Notre Dame Room 
Event coord~nators 
Gina V. Shropshire, Ph.D. • Mendoza College of Business 
i 1 
Hugh R. Page Jr. Ph.D. • Theology Department/Director of African and African American Studies Program 
Co-Sponsors 
Dean's Office, College of Arts and Letters• Graduate School• Hesburgh 
Center ~endoza College of Business• Office of Institutional Equity• President's Office• Provost's Office 
With the loss, the lrish's fell to 4-6 while the Cadets improved to 6-4. Corrigan attributed the loss to a lack of preparation and focus. 
"We didn't prepare our­selves during the week very well," Corrigan said. ''I'm very frustrated with that. This has been a problem for us all season. We ought to know by now that you can't just show up and expect to win. If you don't execute in practice, you won't execute in the games." 
Unlike their past losses this season, Notre Dame jumped out to a quick lead against 
Army. Goals by attack­men Travis Wells and 0 w e n Asplundh gave the Irish a 2-0 advantage I only 3 min­utes into the contest. The 
'Cadets would come storming back scor­ing three straight unanswered goals to round out the first quarter. The Irish started the 
"We didn't prepare Kensington, 
Maryland

ourselves during the 
now leads

week very well. I'm very the Irish frustrated with that. This with 21 goals 
on the sea­

has ben a problem for us 
son. Berger

all season. We ought to has now know by now that you scored at 
least one

can'tjust show up and 
goal in every

expect to win. Ifyou 
game this don't execute in practice, season. Although
you won't execute in 
the loss
games." 
against Army snapped N o t r e

Kevin Corrigan 
Dame's
Irish coach 

second quarter much like they began the first. Notre Dame regained the lead 5-3 on consecutive goals by Devin Ryan. John Flandina and Dan Berger. 
The lead proved to be short­lived. Army responded by scoring five straight goals in the final 5:13 of the second quarter to take a command­ing 8-5 lead heading into half­time. 
five minutes into the third quarter, Berger cut the Cadet lead to 8-6 with his second goal of the game. 
Just when it seemed Notre Dame had worked its way back into the contest. their hopes flickered away as Army reeled off three straight unanswered goals. At the end of the third quarter, the Irish trailed the Cadets by a score ofll-6. 
In the fourth quarter, 
Corrigan replaced starting goalie junior Nick Antol with sophomore Stewart Crosland. 
Sparked by the play of Crosland in net, the Irish held the Cadets scoreless in the fourth. Unfortunately, it was too little too late as the Notre Dame offense simply could not overcome the five-goal deficit. Berger added two more goals making the final score 11-8 in favor of the Cadets. 
With four goals in the con­test, Berger tied his previous career-high he set earlier this year against Pennsyl-vania. The sopho­more from 
three-game 
winning 
streak, the 

Irish can take comfort in the fact the loss was to a non-division opponent. 
Notre Dame still sits atop the Great Western Lacrosse League with a 3-0 division record. 
Corrigan knows his team must learn from the loss against Army and come back with a much better effort next weekend against Fairfield. 
"We didn't play hard enough [against Army)." Corrigan said. "We're going to find out this week who loves to compete. We haven't showed that we know how to do that yet. We've got to be mentally tougher." 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu. 

•I
• 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
'­
Center or Socia{Concerns 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
ttM ~oo.[n£~ Mtt 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: M-F 8AM-1 OPM Sat. 1OAM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Experiential Learnin2 Council (ELC) Applications Available! 
The ELC is looking for past seminar participants and coordinators, dorm commissioners, and anyone else who has a strong background in 
service learning. The ELC is an organization that, through the CSC, is primarily responsible for distributing CCC-allocated money to various 
service-initiatives and spring/fall break seminars. The ELC also helps to foster new initiatives and serves as a resource for seminar leaders. 
Roles on the ELC vary from planning new seminars to organizing retreats and feed-back services based on existing seminars. A new area of 
focus for the 2002-2003 year is academic integration, involving developing links between seminar participation and other academic endeavors. 
"The Experiential Leaming Council is des(f?ned to de1·elop and e11ha11ce experiential learning and service /earing opportunities for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's studellfs, particularly through the stude11t-jacilitated experie11tial learning Seminars offered by the Center for Social Concerns. The organization brings together student leaders of each ofthe seminars to create a forum for ideas, to coordinate planing and to share resources. " _...1::.t• 
The due date for the application is this Friday April 19th. Applications are available at the CSC. 


Current Volunteer Needs 
Tutor for 9 yr. old -Tina Johnson -233-7665 She is looking for a tutor to assist her 9 year old with her homework in reading, english, and social srudies. She can bring her daughter to ND if the tutor would like to meet with her on campus. Geometry Tutor -Brenda Madison -233-3997 She is looking for a tutor for her 16 yr old son for geometry. Time commitment would be 2 hours a week max, preferably after 5pm. Transportation to ND can be provided. Tutor for 12 yr old -Reading Help Ken Stacy -287-2316 x 334 -ken@tirerack.com He is looking for a tutor to help his son Joshua with his reading skills. Time commitment would be about 3 hours a week. He can bring Joshua to campus if the tutor would like. Tutor for 6 yr old & 10 yr old-Need Help in Reading -Wendy -254-7652 She would like a tutor for her children who are struggling with reading. She can bring the chil­dren to ND on Tues &/or Thurs after 5 pm. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu.*** 
Post-Grad Services 
Loan Deferment and the Educational Award for Post-grad Service: Information Session -Wednesday, April 17, 5:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns 
Opportunity for a Premed Senior 
For over 10 years, a Notre Dame graduate has served with the Chapin Street 
Clinic as a Tom Dooley Volunteer, sponsored by the ND Club of St. Joe Valley. The Tom Dooley Volunteer has the opportunity to interact and assist doctors as well as learn valuable skills in health care. 
Applications are available at the CSC. For more info, call the current Tom Dooley Volunteer, Luke Schloegel at 232-4070. The Application Deadline is April 19th. 
Attention Seniors Participating in Post-Grad Service Please Be Sure To Register For Senior Service Send-Off! 
You are invited to this event hosted by the CSC during commencement weekend to honor all seniors who are planning to commit to service/social awareness programs and intern­ships. The event is a wonderful opportunity for students and families to meet and support each other and to be honored by the Center's staff and Fr. Monk Malloy. REGISTRATION BY APRIL 19 ENSURES THAT 
* INVITATIONS are sent to you and your family *Your name is included in the EVENT PROGRAM 
Sign up at the CSC or email shappell.l@nd.edu. (Late registrations will be accepted until May 8.) 
"Domer Donors" Bone Marrow Drive ~bCSC Multicultural Picnic 
TODAY, April 16th -9am to 4pm ~ Music, food, and fun at the CSC 
Thursday, April 18th 5-6:30 PM
L F rt B 11

a o une a room . .. . · All 
1 1

-.....,...,........ are we come.
H dB
oste y: 


the Class of 2002, the Minority Pre-Medical Club, and Howard Hall* 
Register to be a new potential donor in the National Bone Marrow Bank Anyone from age 18-60 is eligible to join. Reminder to all 
Walk-ins welcome today, but interested donors may save time by pre-registering on-line. 
Summer Service 
To schedule an appointment or for more information, visit www.nd.edu/~class02/donor 
Students: 

The drive came together in response to the growing awareness of the necessity of 
Orientation is 

bone marrow donors in the Notre Dame community. 
TODAY OR TOMORROW 



Today, over 3,000 patients await a bone m'arrow transplant. 
(4/16 OR 4/17) 
6:00 to 9:00 PM at the 
For more information regarding the National Bone Marrow 
Center for Social 
Donor Program visit www.rnarrow.orK 
Concerns 

*•·The senior da~s seeks to remember three classmates who died of illnesses that could have been cured with a successful bone marrow tran,plant. Because matclles are often consiscent with ethnic backgrounds, the Minority Pre-med club seeks to recruit minorities to the drive, hy far the most underrepresented population in the national bank. Howard Hall became involved when junior resident, Ann Gurucharri's, father was diagnosed with Myelodysplasia in January." 
• Taken from ND 4/10 Press Release 


Coming Soon! 
The Fall 2002 edition ofthe booklet "Social Concerns Courses with Experiential and Community-Based Learning" will be available at the end of this week for all interested students, staff and faculty at the Center for Social Concerns and several other locations on campus. 
LAURA LIFSHITZ  
f  I I  1 0  
r  
I  p  
d  m  
a  
y  t  
0  
a  
p  m  
r  I  
d  
n  
2  
0  .,,..,,.,. :  
'~ from  i mtv's "say what karaoke11  
free  "w & anna be a vj too contest11  free  

Tuesday, April 16, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FOOTBALL 
Defense makes changes in the background 

Matsey 
continued from page 20 
hard work. According to Matsey, he had to break up a tense situa­tion between two teams in the preliminary round of the tourna­ment. 
"They were threatening to fight and so I got in the middle," Matsey said. "I told them it was a technical foul and if they did it one more time they'd have to for­feit the tournament." 
Maisey earned the job when he started showing up at all the games last week, Clemency said. 
He takes his job so seriously that he brought an apprentice, one of his friends, to the tourna­ment on Sunday. 
"He showed up with his friend and told me he was training him," Clemency said. 
For all his hard work, the 12­year old earns one can of soda a day -unless he can finagle more out of the commissioners, a feat he has been known to accomplish. 
comedian comedian 
"He's figured it out that if he times it right he can go to the dif­ferent executives and get more than one every day," Clemency said. Turning to Matsey, he joked: "We're on to you, buddy." 
Matsey enjoys the perks of the jobs, naming "free Coke and Burger King" as the top benefits. 
After hanging around the courts for several days, Matsey thinks he knows who is poised to take the tournament champi­onship. 
"S.P. Shockers II. Definitely them. They're ranked." he said. 
But Matsey wasn't able to watch all of his favorite team's game Monday. He was too busy watching Cuidad Piso Mojado, waiting for a souvenir from the game. 
After the team finished, Matsey once again smooth-talked the team into letting him keep one of the large cardboard signs he tried on before the game started. 
'Tm just like a regular com­missioner," Matsey said. "They need me out here." 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 
Cuidado 
continued from page 20 
about having fun, and this was a fun first-round game." 
Joining Heinlein on the All Stars was Adam Dell, Matt Knust, Drew DeWalt and Kevin O'Connor 
De la Rosa thought the out­come could have been different. 
"I would have won the whole thing by myself, except I got caught in the headlights," he said. "I was in a comatose state the whole game." 
Harris' chain-smoking didn't help the team either as he had to stop play to light up a ciga­rette several times. 
The one highlight for Cuidado Piso Mojado turned out to be their ability to box out the All Stars on defense with their huge signs, which tended to double as shields. 
Despite their efforts, Cuidado Piso Mojado made a quick exit from the tournament. 
"We were expecting big 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Boat Club may have to forfeit 
things," Keeley said. "No one likes to go home early." 
Cuidad Piso Mojado was not the only non-conventional team to make an appearance on the courts Monday. Team 107: Three She-Bears, A Hoopoe and an Asian showed up with more than just basketball on its mind. The team, with players Kevin McGirr, Tim Ruggaber, Kevin Haley, John Sengenberger and Jim Ree, sported outfits ranging from hot pink shorts to tennis skirts, Baby-Ts and Depends under­garments. 
But the team had a serious message to go along with its less-than-standard outfits. 
Praying before the game and again at halftime, the team's members and fans were b0und by a common love. 
"We like to read the Bible and we love Jesus," Haley said. 
Even the team's name, which ironically was censored by the Office of Student Affairs, has its roots in the Bible. 
The reference to she-bears comes from 2 Kings and a Hoopoe is a bird mentioned in Leviticus. 
"We all like searching the Bible for weird strange pas­sages," said team coach Josh "Baldhead" Stagni. 
The team squared off against a short-handed squad, Colonel Puberty and his Band of Anglophiles with players John English, John Dicello, Dave Lubnik and Clete Willems. The team only had four players for the first half because the fifth player failed to show. In the second half the team picked up a fifth player in Jenny Chan, but the extra body was not enough and Colonel Puberty fell to Team 107, 21-16. 
The winners were surprised by their victory. 
"We're not very good," McGirr said. "By the Grace of God we won." 
First round action continues today and will continue until Thursday on courts throughout campus. 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 
members can make arrange­ments for an alternate time. 
"That is the ideal situa­tion," Clemency said. " ... I reiterated to [both teams) that although Team 469 had no responsibility to resched­ule, it was my hope they would play. It's in the best interest of Bookstore to play." 
If Team Boat Club is forced to forfeit, all players are still eligible to play for another team, said Clemency. 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
During the first 20 minutes of the typical Notre Dame football practice -the only time the media can watch the Irish practice -dozens of eyes focus on receivers running long pass patterns or quarterbacks practicing three-step drops. · 
If Kent Baer notices all the attention the offense gets, he doesn't care. He's too busy coaching the defense. 
"It doesn't matter to me," the defensive coordinator said about the relative lack of media attention devoted to the defense this spring. "I don't care who gets the cred­it. As long as we win." 
With most of the attention this spring swirling around who's going to run the West Coast-type offense, Baer has quietly stressed aggressive­ness. intensity and funda­mentals to a defense that fin­ished No. 14 in the nation in yards allowed last season. 
While many elements of last year's defense will still remain in place, Baer said there will be some changes -changes he's working on getting into place this spring. 
"They'll need to learn the language, and there's a lot of new things we're doing," Baer said. "There is some carryover, but there's still some things they've got to learn." 
"It's weird," linebacker Courtney Watson said. "You could be calling something the same thing for two years and now all of a sudden you 're basically doing the same thing and calling it something different. You gotta make decisions fast. but you get out there and think so much and then you play slower." 
But the Irish are slowly making progress from the first day of spring practice. On day one, they missed reads and botched assign­ments. Now, six practices and a scrimmage later, things are beginning to fall into place. 
"[Our mistakes were] very evident in the first couple of practices," Watson said. "But now, we're starting to get our checks down." 
Baer doesn't plan to make too many changes to Notre Dame's defense. The Irish will still rely on linebackers to make reads and execute blitzes. 
If anything, the new defen­sive staff will have to adjust to the various styles of offense used by teams on Notre Dame's schedule. Baer already cringes at the thought of preparing for Air Force's option attack one week and then adjusting to Florida State's speedy o!Tense the next. 
"We faced a wide diversity of offenses [at Stanford]," Baer said. "The biggest dif­ference is we're going to see some option and wishbone teams, and that's what I'm concerned with." 

Head coach Ty Willingham and Baer only have one deadline on when they want the defense to be running full speed -Notre Dame's season opener on Aug. 31 against Maryland. For now, they understand that the players have a lot to learn. 
"We've got guys that are doing some good things, the energy level is very high," Willingham said. "At the same time, the execution at all times is not where you want it to be." 
"I just hope we continue to make progress," Baer said. "I'm not setting a standard, as long as we continue to make progress on a daily basis, then by Aug. 31 we should be where we want to be. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
By KERRY SMITH 
Senior Staff Writer 
Due to what team member 
Matt Lovecchio called a "mis­
c om mun icatio n," No. 12 
Team Boat Club may be 
forced to forfeit its first­
round tournament game. 
According to Bookstore 
commissioner Brian 
Clemency. Team 469 and 
Team Boat Club were slated 
to play at Stepan courts at 4 
p.m. Monday. Team 469 showed up for the game, while Team Boat Club did not because three members were at football practice. 

In accordance with tourna­ment rules, if a team does not show up for its scheduled time slot without making alternate arrangements with its opposition, it must forfeit its place in the tournament. 
Clemency talked to both team captains Monday night and his assessment of the sit­u a ti on was that Team 469 was not immediately willing to reschedule the game. 
But according to team member Jay Veraldi, Team 469 may reschedule if all its 
page 18 The Observer .'SPORTS Tuesday, April 16, 2002 
Finally catching The Rocket 
September 16th, 1989. Notre Dame at Michigan. Where were you that afternoon? 
I was in the car, coming home from Meijer with my mom, and we started listening to the game. I lived half an hour away from Ann Arbor, so I know the rainy weather outside the car window must also have been hanging over that stadium I heard being described on the radio. 
We turned right onto a street about two miles from my house. Michigan had just scored, so they, of course, had to kick it off. 
On any other day, that would've been a simple task. 
"Ismail down around the 5­yard line, the kick will come down, and Haghib will take it, 

takes it at the 12. 15, 20, 25. He's at the 30! Afterburners are on! He's gone! 
"40, 45, 50! Down the sideline, at the 35, a right side goal line! At the 10! The 5! A touchdown, Irish! 
That was the Westwood One radio call of one of Raghib "The Rocket" lsmail's two kickoff returns for touchdowns that day. 
Sitting down to write this, I can't say that I remembered the date, or even the season, when he brought the Big House to its knees twice in one game, leading Notre Dame to a 24-19 win. 
l just remember the moment. 
Like so many other Irish fans at this school, my consciousness of Notre Dame football hadn't fully developed by the 1988 National Championship. Sure, I had made my construction paper Fiesta Bowl sign to cheer from my living room, but I don't think I really got it then. 
But then there was that day in September of 1989. 
Flash-forward 12 1/2 years to last Wednesday and a slow­forming line at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
After that game against the Wolverines, the Rocket stayed at Notre Dame for about two more years. 
He went on to play two years in the Canadian Football League before spending the last eight seasons in the NFL, catching 363 passes for 5,295 yards. 
Now, everyone was in line waiting for him to show up for an autograph session promoting his new CD, "The Reign Cometh''.. 
Yes, I did say new CD. The sign said that if you wanted Rocket's autograph, it had to be signed on a copy of the first single ofT the album entitled "Bounce". 
Those of' us in line were defi­nitely skeptical of having to buy music to get an autograph, but it didn't matter. We were going to meet the Rocket. 
One of the guys behind me in line said exactly what I had been thinking: Notre Dame football hadn't become Notre Dame foot­ball until we saw, or heard, number 25 tearing down the sidelines. 
Someone else came up to the line and asked that guy what everyone was waiting for. He said, "The Rocket." His friend replied: "Who?" 

We shook our heads in disbe­lief. 
To a generation of Notre Dame fans, our generation, this was the one player talked about almost as if he was a myth, no one quite sure if he had really done everything we thought he did. 
Once he started signing, I noticed that Ismail himself didn't heed the sign that said he would only sign his CD. One person asked, with a little hesitation, if he could sign a helmet. 
The man who etched Notre Dame football in all our minds put that hesitation at ease by acting like there was nothing he'd rather do than autograph a Notre Dame mini-helmet. 
When my turn came, I had to ask him about my second main memory of Irish football, the 10­9 loss to Colorado in the 1991 Orange Bowl. 
I told him I remembered think­ing, as the Buffaloes punting unit came on the field. the only way the Irish could win in those wan­ing moments would be if he took the punt all the way to the house. 
But who returns a punt in the last minute to win the Orange Bowl? The Rocket would have. had it not been for a clip the entire Notre Dame nation still can't believe. 
"The Phantom Call," he said to me, almost laughing now at what must have been the worst way to end your final game in blue and gold. 
He shook everyone's hand before and after he signed, looked each person in the eyes, smiled, and said how much he appr.-eciated you coming out to support him. 
Some might say that's just a way to sell more CDs, but I don't think so. 
And wasn't that strange-the Rocket appreciating us? All we did was buy a si.x~aollar CD. · 
He brought us to Notre Dame. 
Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Billmaier was then hit by a pitch, which loaded the bases for Sanchez. Sanchez came through with a two-run single that cut the Chippewas' lead to 7-6. 
First baseman Joe Thaman then sacrificed the runners to second and third and set up cen­ter fielder Steve Stanley's RBI single that tied the game at 7-7. Two batters later, left fielder Brian Stavisky singled in Stanley to give the Irish the lead. 
Notre Dame would add two 

more runs in the bottom of the sixth to give them the 10-7 advantage heading into the final few innings. 
In the top of the eighth, lrish relief pitcher Drew Duff had trouble finding his groove, giving up a solo home run to second baseman David Latour, a double to shortstop Steve Sanifilippo and an RBI single to Bullinger. However, Duff settled down and finished the game with no other problems. 
Despite giving up nine runs and struggling at the beginning, Mainieri feels his team played well overall. 
"Some nights your pitching is great and there's no hitting and some days your hitting is good, but your pitching struggles but that's what makes you a team," Maineri said. "You have to find a way to win whichever part of the game is on." 
The Irish will do battle against two more Mid-American confer­ence foes this week when they face Ball State tonight and Toledo on Wednesday before heading to New Jersey to face Big East rival Seton Hall this weekend. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
RICO CASARES/The Observer 

Sophomore Javier Sanchez smacks a home run during a 10-9 Notre Dame victory on Monday against Central Michigan. 
Best Pizza East or-Anywhere! 
Monaay-TuesaaySuper Oeal! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Order of Breadsticks w/ Sause 
7.99! 
(Monday & Tuesday Only) 

271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood
Pl ZZA COMPANY$ 
plzzadonartght 

(Next to Subway) 
The Center for Asian Studies presents 
Jiangnan Silk & Bamboo Quartet 
7:30 p.m. Thursday, April 18 
Eck Center auditorium FREE and OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
Named after the ancient tradition of silk strings and bamboo winds, the Jiangnan Silk and Bamboo Quartet is made up of four nationally renowned Chinese musicians from three different cities of Jiangnan (the Yangtze River Delta), where silk and bamboo are in abundance and silk and bamboo music was originated. 
The Quartet will play some ensemble music, including such silk and bamboo music classics as A Night ofFlowers and Moon on the Spring River, Trifling with Plum Blossom, and Spring of liangnan. In addition, each musician will play several solo pieces to demonstrate the characteristics and possibilities of each instrument. The solo repertoire includes: (Erhu) Moon Reflected on the Second Fountain, Mongolian Horse Race, Drums and Gongs 
for Celebration; (dizi) Encounter at the Broken Bridge, Lotus in the Rain, The Sky Lark (Romanian folk song); (pipa) Besieged from Ten Sides, Yi-minority Dance; (yangqin) Fishman,s Evening Song, and, The Liuyang River. 
' 


.. 
:,:-.-~ ~·,.V,t.,t ... -. ''\ . '' 

Tuesday, April 16, 2002 The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
ON DAYS LIKE TODAY, WH~E 
THE TEMPERATURE IS NINETY DEGREES OUTSIDE 
FOXTROT 
TOM KEELEY  
ITS NICE TO KNOW THAT WE CAN ALWAYS GO BAO:. TO OUR DOAM ROOMS...  WHERE THE TEMPERATURE IS 110° AND THE HEAT IS STILL ON!II  I THI~ THE BURGERS  
BILL AMEND  

'.' 
' 
page 19 RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

~. wkt.,\ y 
t 'fov.­k~u? "'-le-· 
"'t-re .\-, 
-

THEY MUST  I CHECl<ED  
Dlt> YOU l<NOW THAT  THEN WHAT  oVERCLOCI(  THE WORLD  
IN E.NGI.ANO THEY  ARE CHIPS  "cRISPS."  1NTEREST1N&.  THEIR  ALMANAC.  
CAI.L FRENCH FRIES  CALI.ED?  PE.NTIVMS  IT 01DN'T  
,;!Q-l1PS"?  MORE  SAY.  
•  j  1HA~ US•  

,_____________, ,___________......, ,___________~_·"-_. ""l'flfll'-""'O;.__________. 
30 Horse picker's hangout, for short 
32 Flowed back 33 Cliched 34 Too snug 35 Zip, to Zapata 36 Suffix with expert 37 San Francisco 
transport 39 Shrubby land 40 Keyboard key 45 Outcome 46 Patty Hearst's 
kidnap grp. 

48 From the Orient 53 Stretching (out) 49 Imitating 55 mater 
50 Buzzes, say 56 Jockey strap 51 Director Brian 
57 Abrupt thrust 
De 58 Wrath
52 Suffix with beaut-59_culpa 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gabriela Sabatini, Henry Mancini, Bobby Vinton, Charlie Chaplin 
Happy Birthday: You will be actively seeking love relationships and business par1nerships. You will have a great need to help the underdog this year and will con­tribute willingly to organizations you believe in The connections you make through the groups you join will be beneficial to you. Your mrrn­bers are 6, 17, 21, 25, 32, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 

You will be talkative, charming and ce'rtainly know how to work a crowd today. Travel and social gatherings will be conducive to meeting new friends and you'll be quick-witted and mentally agile. 
0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your focus will be on work and money. Professional changes that take place today will have favor­able effects on your future. Your ability to get things done will lead to greater responsibility. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may find it difficult to express your­self at an emotional level. You will have some wonderful creative ideas that should help you accom­plish something that you have a passion for. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may feel a little restricted today if you haven't done all the neces­sary paperwork. Don't allow some­one to become a burden. Give him or her suggestions and move on. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be intent on doing something to better mankind. You can form new partnerships or ask for favors today. The future looks bright as long as you take advantage of the 
EUGENIA LAST 

options available to you. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): You may have opportunities at work but if you are too wrapped up in a personal dilemma you will miss out. Try to separate your job from your home life today for best results. 00 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): The more you interact with others the better equipped you will become to deal with anything and anyone. You will be a quick learner today so take advantage of your keen mind and do a lot of reading or listening to those with experience. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
You should be checking out any investment opportunity that comes your way. You may be feeling a lit­tle sluggish but if you get enough rest and eat properly it shouldn't slow you down that much. 000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You will experience sudden changes regarding friendships and relationships today. Your changing attitude may not sit well with oth­ers, however, keep in mind that it's you that you have to please. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be experiencing a change of heart regarding your profession­al direction due to unsettling occur­rences. Don't despair; as long as you work hard you will be in a secure position. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You may feel limited due to chil­
dren or older relatives today. Don't 
let your frustrations lead you to 
overspend. Instead, put your cre­
ative talent to work. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Difficulties at a personal level are 
evident. Try to handle the situation 
with compassion. An older relative 
may need to lean on you a little. 
Your help will be rewarded. 00 
Birthday Baby: You will have all sorts of great ideas and will be eager to share your thoughts with others. Your genuine desire to interact with others will lead to your popularity. You will be dynamic, outgoing and interested in a vast array ofsubjects. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
0 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Nav. officers 5 Muscle 
contraction 10 Madcap 14 Con 
(vigorously} 15 Nametag word 16 Soothing plant 
extract 17 China/Korea border river 18 Disney's _ 
Center 19 Church seating 20 Brainy 23 Kind of orange 24 Tex-Mex 
restaurant dip 28 Surgery locales: Abbr. 29 Gridiron great Groza 
31 "You've got mail" co. 32 Words from Caesar 35 "Beyond Good and Evil" author 38 Brainy 41 Egotistical 42 Mindless repetition 43 Biblical verb ending 44 Attorneys' org. 45 Bring to bear 47Coup_ 49 Symbol of Americanism 54 Brainy 
57 Guitarist Hendrix 60 "Secrets & lies" director Mike 
61 Roman 152 
62 Vicinity 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s c 
0 H 
-.-1'7"-r.*,.t..-:-t=-1'~N:i =1-,..,.._;;;..J111-..;..+D~O;..i 

63 "Exodus• actor Sal 
64 " in Full" (Tom Wolfe novel) 
65 Succotash tidbit 66 Uneasy feeling 67 Summoned 
help, maybe 
DOWN 
1 Vast gulf 2 "law & Order," e.g. 3 Where to see 'Toe last Supper" 4 San Francisco 
bread 5 Clippers 6 Coke competitor 7 Highway to 
Fairbanks 8 Gradual 
9 Sweater eater 10 Inventor of the Mothers of Invention 
11 Ginger_ 12 Right away 13 "You bet!" 21 Roofer's supply 
-=+.,............,,,......-4 22 Rodeo producer -=+-=-+--:+.eRe-4 25 Milk: Prefix ~=t-,:-t 26 Not A (mediocre) 27 Coeur d'_,
0 

Idaho 
..,.,...-,.+:N,,.-t-,D,-1 29 One of two N A ballroom A Y dancers 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://ohserver.nd.ed11/ 

..... 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Column: Fox, p. 18 
. NHL, p. 14 
. 
Football, p. 17 . Boston Marathon, p. 14 

. 
Rowing, p. 15 . MLB, p. 12-13 

. 
Men's Lacrosse, p. 15 


PORTS 
Tuesday, April 16, 2002 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Crazy costumes take the court 
. All Stars drive through road signs on way to victory 
By KERRY SMITH 
Senior Staff Writer 
When the Bootney League All Stars showed up Monday for their first-round Bookstore Basketball XXXI game at Stepan Courts, they had no idea what team they were matching up against. 
But they sure didn't expect what their opponents. Cuidado Piso Mojado, wore on the court. 
Inspired by the See Also abundance of "Boat Club may 
wet floor signs around campus, have to forfeit." seniors Tom p. 17 
Keeley, Mike De la Rosa, Mike Harris and Jay Newman stepped onto the court with body-size bright yellow cardboard road signs. 
Keeley sported the team's moniker with his Cuidad Piso Mojado sign. De La Rosa pranced up and down the court as a deer and shouldered a deer crossing sign. With a cigarette in one hand and a cigar in the other, Harris wore a no smoking sign while a quiet Newman displayed a Slow Deaf Child sign. 
But with only four players, the team needed a fifth. So, the seniors looked to their original inspiration: a bright yellow cone. But the cone and the signs weren't enough to pull out a win, as the All Stars rolled to an easy 21-1 win. 
"We thought they were interest­ing uniforms," All Stars' player Andrew Heinlein said. "It was a pretty easy matchup. But it's all
.. 
see CUIDADO/page 17 

. 12-year old regulates Bookstore 
By KERRY SMITH 
Senior Staff Writer 
When the members of Cuidado Piso Mojado arrived at Stepan r,ourts dressed with large card­board signs on their backs, a book­sto re commissioner promptly stopped them, declaring they could not play in the tournament with their cumbersome outfits. 
The commissioner had on this year's Bookstore Basketball XXXI official shirt. 
He sported a Walkie-Talkie. 

But the players knew he wasn't a typical Bookstore official -he was 12 years old and 4 feet tall. 
But Chris Matsey, a home­schooled, basketball aficionado from Clay Township talked a good game.
12-year old Chris Matsey 
And Cuidad Piso Mojado listened. (above), this year's Matsey convinced the players to let him try on one of the outfits toyoungest bookstore com­see if it was safe and if head com­missioner Brian Clemency would
missioner, rides his bike 

allow it on the court. 
as he patrols Stepan Clemency did, but that did not deter Matsey from his patrol as theCourts Monday. Tom youngest commissioner in this 
year's tournament.
Keeley (right), captain of 
"I handle games, keep score, make sure no drugs or alcohol is
Cuidado Pisa Mojado, 

used and make sure there's no uses his wet-floor sign as fighting," Matsey said. 
Sometimes he gets strange looks a shield against the from players when he tries to enforce rules. But Matsey knows
Bootney League All Stars. 
just how to handle such problems. 
Despite the blocking-out "I just put my hand on my Walkie Talkie and they listen." he said.advantage, Keeley's team "Then I go get commissioner Brian [Clemency]. commissioner Brad
lost 21-1. 

[Fritsche] or commissioner Andrew 
. [Dayton]." So far, the job has been full of
Photos by 
NELLIE WILLIAMS 
see MATSEY/page 17 


BASEBALL 
Irish overcome 5 run deficit in 10-9 victory 
By JOE HETTLER Assistant Spores Editor 
When Notre Dame played Central Michigan 1ast year, the Irish had four straight runners reach base with two outs and two strikes on each, only to have the last one, Ken Meyers, blast a game-winning grand slam in one of the most dramatic comebacks in Irish baseball history. 
This year against the 
Chippewas, the Irish needed a comeback to win, but one that was not quite as dramatic. Down 7-2 early, Notre Dame fought back and hung on for a 10-9 vic­tory to improve to 22-12 overall on the season. 
"The credit all goes to our players," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "They came back and they fought and I.hey got hils when we needed them. We knew that if we went up there and kept battling and made tough outs we had a chance to rnlly to win this game." 
With the score tied in the bot­tom of the second inning. short­stop Javier Sanchez blasted his second home run of the season to give the Irish the early 2-1 advantage. 
However, Central Michigan roared back to score six straight runs, knocking Irish starter Martin Vergara out of the game in the third inning. 
The Chippewas scored four 

runs in the top of the third when third baseman Tim Bullinger walked, center fielder Tommy Grubb singled and right fielder Danny Gibbons crushed a two­run double. Three batters later. left fielder Tim Grove hit an RBI single that scored Gibbons and sent Vergara out of the game. 
Scott Bickford came in and pitched three solid innings. with his only blemish being a two-run home run by Gibbons in the fourth inning. Bickford also went on to pick up the win in relief. 
Notre Dame started their comeback in the bottom of the fourth by scoring two runs and then took command of the game for good in the firth. 
Third baseman Andrew Bushy walked to start the inning and was followed by second baseman Steve Sollman's perfect bunt sin­gle down the third base line. 
Irish right fielder Kris 
see BASEBALL/page 18 


. Baseball vs. Ball State, today, 6:05 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Softball vs. Indiana State, Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
on!lne 

. SMC Softball at Olivet, Wednesday, 3 p.m. 
http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 






