
VOL. XXXVII NO. 58 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
NDTV hits the air-waves and gets in line for club status 

By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
NDTV, Notre Dame students' latest media venture. continues to seek club status as it works to put out a biweekly variety show. 
The organization is now more aware of just how diffi­cult the process of obtaining formal University recognition is -a process that has recently stalled, according to NDTV executive producers Lance Johnson and Liam Dacey. 
Getting Started 
Johnson, Dacy, sophomore Chris Chamberland and senior Alex Grunewald first proposed the concept of a student-pro­duced television program last semester. The four approached Film, Television and Theatre assistant professor Christine Becker with the idea and received her support. 
"We sent out this e-mail to [the FTT listserv] and we put 



Diversity board develops harassment proposal 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
N=sWricer 
Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board is developing a proposal to incorporate a discrimination and harassment clause into campus poli­cy. 
The decision to work on a proposal for the clause was based on student complaints about the lack of specific details regarding the current policy. 
The policy highlighting harass­ment, sexual harassment and 
ment and warns that any student or employee found to have harassed another will be subject to appropri­ate disciplinary action. 
The current policy further details the victim's rights, reporting proce­dures and suggestions for preven­tion. 
Nila Ahmad, vice president of SDB. heads the proposal's development. She began by researching the poli­cies of other colleges to obtain a bet­ter understanding of what is com­monly included in discrimination and harassment clauses. 
Ahmad then looked at the frame­work of Saint Mary's current policy and proposed the addition of specific factors on which discrimination can­not be based. She also proposed a common definition of harassment and a procedure to handle violations of the clause. 
"The clause is still in the beginning of its process in working and revis­ing it, so it's still too early to tell much of anything about it," Ahmad said. 
Last Monday, Ahmad presented the proposal to Saint Mary's Board of Governance in hopes of their endorsing the clause as student ini­tiative. BOG responded with sugges­tions to improve the proposal and gave it one week for further review. 
sexual assault 'The clause is still in the currently includ­
beginning ofits process 
ed in Saint Mary's 
student handbook in working and revising 
depicts the it, so it's still too early to College's stance 
tell much ofanything
that no incidents 
about it." 

of any form of harassment will be tolerated. It 
NIia Ahmad 

lists examples of 
vice president of Student
incidents that 
Diversity Board

constitute harass­
"BOG reviewed the proposal and seemed to agree that a harassment clause was necessary for Saint Mary's. However. we were unable to take a vote because we lost quo­rum as people left for other meetings and rehearsals," said Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl, vice-president of BOG. 
A vote for BOG to 

endorse the idea of the harassment clause will be taken Monday. The proposal will then move on to Linda Timm. vice president for Student Affairs, for further analysis before BOG places an official vote. It must then be presented to the Student Affairs Committee, the Council of Student Affairs and the Board of Trustees for final approval. 
"Student Diversity Board have put a lot of work into the clause and are hoping to get it implemented as soon as possible. It is an important step in increasing diversity and awareness on this campus," said Jablonski­Diehl. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool83.38@saintmarys.edu 
up signs," Dacey said. "We had this big meeting and got a large turnout. We saw then the inter­est." 
That perceived interest, Dacey said, led the group to begin for­matting a potential show. They decided to organize the pro­gram into news and entertain­ment segments and allotted time for an interview and a "random" category as well. 
With a plan in mind, the four students -now executive pro­ducers of the show -decided to apply for club status at the end of last semester. Johnson spear­headed the application process, working with Amy Geist, coordi­nator for student groups at Student Activities. 
Becoming recognized and sponsored by the University has been a goal of the student orga­nization since its inception, Johnson said. The producers quickly realized that club status would aid in promoting the show and University support 
see NDTV/page 9 
. Clubs approved last year establish themselves 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
Although no new clubs have emerged this current semester, many have gained approval within the last year. For the most part. approved clubs have remained sta­ble. 


Wabruda 
Meaning 'brotherhood' in Swahili, Wabruda is concerned with social awareness, profossional development and brotherhood enlightenment, said club President Justin Wilson. Wilson said the club strives to promote brotherhood amongst African-Americans and strengthen gender relations through a semi-annual event, Karamu. in which each member invites an African-American woman to dinner. 
see CLUBS/page 8 


Recruitment abroad rises 
By TERESA FRA.LISH 
Assistant News Editor 
While over 1,000 international students are currently studying at Notre Dame, only 266 of these students are undergraduates. according to the International Student Services and Activities (ISSA) office, a num­ber which is somewhat lower than other national universities like Notre Dame. 
Despite the small number, several University initiatives have attempted to increase the percentage of international undergraduates to Notre Dame's target enrollment of 5 percent. 
Currently the percentage of enrolled undergraduates stands at about 4.8 per­cent, said Matthew Potts, undergraduate admissions counselor for international stu­dents. 
Beginning in the 2000-2001 fiscal year, the University has been able to offer limited financial assistance to international under­graduates in an attempt to increase the per­centage of foreign students on campus, said Sue Brandt, financial aid officer. 
"It's been a priority for the University," said Potts. "[Financial aid] is one of the big attractions." 
Prior to this new policy, international stu­dents were expected to provide the full cost of a Notre Dame education and were required to sign a statement on their admis­sion application agreeing to this fact. 
Over the past few years. statistics for international undergraduate students tripled, said Potts, likely due in large part to the financial aid now available. 
At Georgetown University, financial aid has correlated with high numbers of inter­national students. Georgetown currently has about 2,000 international students enrolled, a figure double that of Notre Dame's. 
The newly available financial aid has allowed the University to expand its recruit­ment and increase options for students from third-world countries. 
"As a Catholic University, our commit­ment is to international student'> overall. but especially to students from developing nations," Potts said. In particular, the University has focused recruitment elforls on students from Latin American countries who may have previously been unable to find the necessary funds to attend Notre Dame, Potts said. 
The admissions office currently employs three counselors who focus on international recruitment and travel abroad to increase awareness about Notre Dame and the expe­rience it offers. 
"We try to give them a sense of the oppor­tunities available in the U.S.," Potts said. Admissions counselors also work with for­eign alumni clubs in their international recruitment efforts, Potts said. 
In another attempt to make the University more accessible to foreign students. repre­sentatives from ISSA have worked with stu­dent government in addition to developing their own programs. 
"We're here to support, orient, advise and refer [students]. The interest is to provide for a culturally diverse experience for all students, whether American or internation­al," said Connie Peterson-Miller, assistant director of ISSA 
The office works to develop a wide variety of programs and services for foreign stu­dents, including conversation circles to develop informal language, housing options during breaks and shopping trips for winter clothing. 
"We're here to help them express their perspective," said Peterson-Miller. 
Recently Peterson-Miller spoke at Student Senate in late October to raise awareness within student government about interna­tional students and the unique perspective they bring to campus. As a result, Libby Bishop, student body president, discussed the possibility of adding a representative for international students to the Campus Life Council at its Nov. 4 meeting. However, because ofthe structW"e ofCLC. the possibil­ity of adding a member was small and stu­dent government would instead focus on other ways to increase awareness about for­eign students. Bishop said. 
"The discussion went towards bridging the gap between student government and Lforeign student'>]," she said. 
Overall, international undergraduates said their experiences and transitions to the University were positive and they were excited to see the addition of financial aid 
see INTERNATIONAL/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Friday, November 15, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Dancing to the death 

When most people think about compet­itive childhood sports and activities, a few stand out. They see hockey dads fighting, cheerleading moms murdering the com­petition and Llttle League baseball coach­es starting mud­slinging campaigns 
Sheila Flynn
against opposing teams. But there is 
Assistant
another, less obvi­

News Editor 
ous cutthroat sub­culture which would pop into the minds of very few people: Irish step danc­ing. 
As members of the community of the Fighting Irish, we are all familiar with Irish dancing, as we try to do the Irish jig at home games, watch the Irish Guard perform the victory clog and attend the annual Farley Feis. 
But the real world of Irish dancers is a highly-structured realm of vast ambition and unbridled competition, one which takes dancers all over the globe and embroils them in countless petty rival­ries. 
Irish dancing teachers must be certified by an international board of instructors in order to establish schools which will be allowed to compete in all the mainstream feis tournaments. A ridiculous number of these teachers hate each other, and they purposely foster hardened rivalries between their respective schools. 
My own Irish dancing teacher (I danced until I was 13) encouraged an elitist, condescending attitude in her dancers, who were consequently hated by other schools. I couldn't stand half of them myself. and I despised Mrs. Glade (name changed to protect the guilty) most of all. Glade habitually stood in the cor­ner of the studio, banging a black wood­en stick on the floor in time to the music as she barked out criticisms and boasted that she used to lock students in the clos­et. She pushed her two daughters so hard that one now has severe tendirutis and the other has broken or sprained every toe and both ankles at least once. 
And for some reason, the Glade Academy parents bought into her warped win-or-die, Irish-dancing-is-life attitude. They drove their children hours each weekend to every single feis and spent hundreds of dollars on intricate velvet costumes imported from Ireland. I actually know one family who converted a bedroom in their home into a practice studio for their 12-year-old daughter, complete with finished wooden floors and mirrored walls. 
And all of this existed before the Riverdance phenomenon. The show had not yet hit Broadway, and Michael Flatley had not yet stunned the world with his Rambo-like headdress, baby-oiled chest and "Feet of Flames." There was really no professional outlet for Irish dancers, yet their parents and teachers still pushed them ridiculously hard. And I can only imagine how much the situation has worsened since I left and the mainstream shows appeared. 
So the next time you hear a jig played or sec one performed, don't just associate it with a flippant, merry dance done by leprechauns. The Irish dancing pastime is an all-encompassing subculture, and it is surprisingly structured, demanding and ruthless. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. lfwe have made a mistake, please concacc us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 


WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Women in sports discuss gender issues through forum 
Female athletes and sports writers participate in a forum about women and their place in the world of sports. 
page3 

America warns against more political games in Iraqi situation 
U.S. government challenges Iraq's response to U.N. and demands that Hussein avoid manipulation of weapons inspec­tors. 
page 5 
BUSINESS NEWS 

Former executive at Adelphia pleads guilty to fraud 
The trend of cor­porate scandal con­tinues as ex-vice president admits involvement in securities fraud. 
page'7 

VIEWPOINT 
Continued fiascos with Saint Mary's security must stop 
The Observer Editorial exam­ines the string of scandals involv­ing SMC securi­ty and argues that the turmoil must be stopped. 
page 10 
SCENE 
Saint Mary's puts an Odd Couple of women on stage 
Scene reports on the SMC adapta­tion of Neil Simon's play "The Odd Couple," directed by Katie Sullivan. 
page 12-13 

SPORTS 
Courtney Watson named finalist for national award 
Courtney Watson has been named a finalist for the Dick Butkus award, pre­sented annually to the best linebacker in the country. 
page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Parking decal stolen 
A University employee reported his parking decal was taken from his vehicle while parked in the 801 lot between 1 
p.m. Monday and 5:30 p.m. Tuesday. There are no suspects. 
Driving violation cited 
NDSP issued a state citation Wednesday for disregarding an automatic signal on Juniper Road. 
Employee taken to hospital 
A University employee was transported by ambulance to Memorial Hospital Wednesday for treatment of an illness. 
Suspicious activity reported 
NDSP received a complain Wednesday about suspicious activity outside of the University football stadium. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture with Sean O'Brien "Public Aesthetics: Nineteenth Century Irish Prison Narratives." 3 p.m. in Hoom 424, Flanner IIall 

. 
Play with John C. Chalbcrg "An Evening with C.K. Chesterton." 


7:30 p.m. in Ilesburgh Library Auditorium 
. Faculty Artist Series/~oncert "The Wanderer: The Song Cycle in Migration." 2 p.m.. Sunday in Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Neil Simon's "The Odd Couple," direct~d by Katie Sullivan 8 p.m. in Little Theatre, Moreau Center, today and Saturday 
2:30 p.m. on Sunday 
WHAT'S COOKING 



North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Meatless Baked Ziti, Supreme Pizza, Smoked Creole Flank Steak, Roasted Poupon Potatoes, Corn, Apple Cobbler, Pasta Primavera, Baked Swiss Spinach, Oriental Vegetables, Cream of Wheat, Sausage Links, Apple Pancakes, O'Brien Potatoes, Philly Steak Sandwich, Steakhouse Fries, Sweet & Sour Chicken, California Rancho Rice 
Today Dinner: Meatless Baked Ziti, Meatball Stroganoff Sauce, Supreme Pizza, Pork Loin with Apples, Hot Applesauce, Peas, Apple Cobbler, Baked Haddock Jardiniere, Seasoned Lemon Couscous, Noodles Romanoff, Hot & Spicy Sea Nuggets, Steakhouse 
TODAY TONIGHT 
~ 
w 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..J 
c:t 
0 



0 

HIGH 39 HIGH
..J 
LOW 27 LOW 

39 27 
. 
Concert with Notre Dame Collcgiuin Musicum 8 p.m. in Moreau Seminary Chapel 

. 
Concert with Notre 


Dame Brass Ensemble. Sunday 8 p.m. in Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta Shells Primavera, Fettuccine, Gorgonzola Sauce, French Bread Pizza, Collard Greens, Turkey Turnovers, London Broil with Wine Marinade, Cheddar­Baked Pollock, Shrimp Creole, Potatoes au Gratin, Grilled Turkey Sandwich, Crinkle Fries, Soft Pretzel, Chicken Teriyaki, Fiesta Chicken Flatbread 
Today Dinner: Chicken Cacciatore, Fettuccine, Gorgonzola Sauce, French Bread Pizza, Roast Top Round, Oven­Fried Chicken, Grilled Polish Sausage, Rotini with Vegetables, Polish-Style Kluski Noodles Cabbage 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH 37 LOW 26 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu is available. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH 47 LOW 37 
Atlanta 62 / 52 Boston 62 I 39 Chicago 41 / 31 Denver 43 / 25 Houston 67 / 42 Los Angeles 82 / 53 Minneapolis 31 / 16 New York 61 / 44 Philadelphia 62 / 45 Phoenix 80 / 55 Seattle 55 / 44 St. Louis 44 / 31 Tampa 79 / 66 Washington 62 / 48 
~ 

Friday, November 15, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Fetnale sports professionals discuss w-onten in athletics 
look at how they arc spending the money. Title IX has been a conve­nient [excuse] for people who ani not balancing the budget," she said. 
Brennan particularly criticized the large number of' scholarships that universities provide to football players and said that most football programs cannot even cover their own expenses. She found particu­lar problems with athletic direc­tors who deny that Title IX regu­lates their football programs and she then challenged these direc­tors to cut the nwnber of football scholarships from 85 to 75. 
"Title IX is a law for superceding sports issues," she said. 'There are two genders, men and women, not men, women and football players, What if they [football) went down to 75 [scholarships]? Wouldn't that create parity anyway? Wouldn't that make college football more competitive?" 
Although all four panelists stressed the far-reaching effects that Title IX has had in advancing gender equality and increasing opportunities for women athletes, each participant commented that much work remains to be done, particularly with respect to media coverage of women's sports. 
Brennan described the typical sports editor of many professional newspapers as a white 50-to 60­year-old male. Because of these demographics, she said, editors either choose not to emphasize women's sports or attempt to iso­late women's athletics by creating separate pages or publications specifically for women's sports. 
"The reality is that we [the media] are doing a terrible job of covering women's sports. The sports section should be covering women's sports every day-don't ghettoize women's sports and make it less than the official thing," she said. 
Washington stressed the impor­tance that media coverage has on shaping public perceptions and creating a generation of young girls who want to play sports. She said young girls now have role models in female athletes that did not exist before. 
"Just the fact that there is cover­age, that [women's] leagues exist, has a huge impact on women's sports. With more coverage, you'll have more women who will feel empowered playing women's sports," she said. 
The "Women in Sports" panel was presented by The South Bend Tribune and the Northern Indiana Center for History, which is cur­rently showing a nationally-exclu­sive exhibition that highlights turn­ing points and superstars in women's athletics. The audience included four members of the All American Girls Professional Baseball League, highlighted in the movie "A League of Their Own." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Funny Shirts 
www.catholicshirts.com 

By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
A panel discussion held 

Thursday night in McKenna I I all, entitled "Women in Sports Through the Media's Eyes," fea­tured four prominent females in the world of sports and their opin-
Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
MONDAY,NOVEMBER18,2002 
5:00 PM 
245 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fail semester for Pre­Professional Students; pre-medical internships available Engineering courses available in Monterrey 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DEC. 1, 2002 FOR F'2003, AY 2003-2004 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 

FINE ARTS LECTURE SERIES presents... 
Native American Film and Television Actress 
Elaine Miles 

Friday November 15, 2002 7:00 p.m. South Dining Hall Oak Room (Upstairs) 
Please join us in celebrating 
Native American Heritage Month. FOOD will be provided, so bring a friend!! 
"Dreaming, Investing, and Giving" 
Sponsored By: Multicultural Student Programs and Services and St. Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs 
ions on topics ranging from Title IX and gender equity in sports to media representation and cover­age of women's athletics. 
David Haugh, sports columnist for The South Bend Tribune, mod­erated the forum, which included Coquese Washington, assistant Notre Dame women's basketball coach and WNBA athlete; Nancy Armour, Associated Press sports­writer; Christine Brennan, USA Today columnist; and Nan Tulchinsky, South Bend Community School Corporation director of athletics. 



Panelistc; illustrated the opportu­
nities available to young women 
now as a result of Title IX that did 
not exist in their childhood. 

"I would have been one of those girls who would have probably played on three soccer teams a week and be fighting boys for playing time in little League base­ball," Brennan said, "I kept my [high school] letter jacket in the closet; I was personally proud [of my athletic accomplishments) but rdidn't want anyone else to know it. Look how far we have come." 
Tulchinsky, a Saint Mary's alumna, spoke about the opportu­nities that did not exist in her gen­eration with respect to women's athletics. 
"As a youngster, there were no athletics. I was never allowed to play against buys in the gymnasi­um or the playground -only in my driveway. I felt the same kind of desire to play [as women ath­letes do now] but I couldn't," she said. 
Washington, a current member of the Indiana Fever WNBA team and former member of the cham­pionship-winning Houston Comets, commented on the expe­riences available to her because of Title IX. In addition to coaching and playing professionally, Washington is also an attorney, having earned her law degree from Notre Dame in 1997. 
"Without Title IX, my adult life would be dillerent. I'd probably be wearing pumps and a power suit to work Instead, I get the pleasure to do something [as a career) I'd probably do anyway [for recre­ation)," she said. 
The panelists also addressed the recent criticisms of Title IX with respect to concerns that mens col­1ege sports programs like wrestling or gymnastics have been cut as a result of the legislation, 
Brennan said 80 percent of American universities are not yet in compliance with Title IX legisla­tion. She said individuals blaming Title IX for mens program cuts are presenting a "ridiculous" argu­ment, while Armour instead said university athletic directors are responsible for the poor allocation of resources. 
"The idea [of Title IX] was to create opportunities for women, not cut them for men. Athletic directors have to take a real hard 





Pataronia 
excltlsively 
at-.~ 
Sminute~ 
{!om OUTPOST 
Camnus s ors 
1' Cold Weather Experts 

Call159-1000 for more details 

4 X-mas 




GREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan • Cantonese • American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m_ $8,95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(574) 272-7376 -222 Ofxleway South 


!-~-­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 15, 2002 
Rickard appointed to interim position 
By LAURA CORISTIN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College president Marilou Eldred appointed Marcia Rickard as interim associate dean of faculty and director of the Center for Academic Innovation at the College late last month. 
Rickard's appointment came after Patrick White assumed the duties of interim vice president and dean of faculty when Karen Ristau resigned. 
Rickard joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1978 as an associate professor in the art department. As interim associate dean, it is Rickard's responsibility to advise the vice president and dean. She will serve on a number of commit­tees, including committees for cur­riculum assessment, rank and tenure, and faculty grants and the general education task force. 
International 
continued from page 1 
for international students. 
Guillermo Munoz. a junior from Spain, said Notre Dame admis­sions counselors were one of the main factors in his decision to study at the University, adding that financial aid would significantly improve the opportunities for for­eign students to attend Notre Dame. 
"[The counselor] really got me intrigued with Notre Dame," Munoz said. "There would be a greater pool of applicants [wi1h the aid]." 
Senior Grace Augustina, from Indonesia, said she was excited about University initiatives to increase awareness of the school abroad. 
"Notre Dame is not well-known 
abroad. I think financial aid would 
be really helpful for international 
students," she said. Augustina said 
that many Indonesian students 
she knows were interested in 
attending the University. but sim­
ply unable to consider it because 
financial aid was previously 
nonexistent. In addition. she said 
she would like to see Notre Dame 

-~;-~ . . 
~­

~acuity Artist Series Con~ert 
'" Georgine Resick, soprano Warren Jones, piano 
"The Wanderer": The Song Cycle in Migration 
Works by Paladilhe, Cui, Szymanowski, Rangstrom, Malipiero, and Honegger 
Sunday, Novem 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art Tickets ($3-10): Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128 
This concert made possible through support from the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, College of Arts &Letters, University of Notre DAme; and by the Boehnen Fund for Excellence In the Arts 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMENT OP MUSIC 
Rickard's responsibilities as director of the Center for; Academic Innovation deal not only with faculty but with students as well. 
"As director of the Center for Academic Innovation I am basical­ly trying to create a place where intellectual ideas can take shape and form for both students and faculty," Rickard said. 
She referred to the Department for Academic Innovation as one of three centers of distinction at the College. The other two centers are the Women's Center for Intercultural Leadership and the Center for Spirituality, she said. 
"We are trying to create a kind of intellectual 'incubator' of ideas and collaborate them in a way that enriches the whole academic com­munity." 
Contact Laura Coristin at cori0333@saintmarys.edu 
develop additional support pro­grams for foreign students. 
She said. "The support for inter­national students here is not as great as other schools." 
Despite limitations, current international support programs are helpful in transitioning stu­dents to the United States, said freshman Mary Catherine Magee, from Canada. "It was ... nice because they had a special orienta­tion for international students," Magee said. "Knowing other inter­national students [through special programs) is helpful because you can go talk to them." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 



We have ordered over 6000 beads.. so the possibilities are endless! Also you can cre­ate jewelry with the beads inake in Crafting Corner the previous -week. 
Friday~ November 15~ 2002 9:00pm. 11:00pm ID -the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
For more information call 631-7308 or visit 1/'fWw.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
Do you like solv1ng crimes and mysteries? Did you play CLUE when you were little? Then come to the production of 
························~ 
: ~AY~TFRY 
And find out "whodunit?" Saturday, November 16th LaFortune Ballroom 9:30pm-11:30pm Cost=$2.00 
(f5)sponsored by Flipside * Questions? Call Margaret 4-3199 
"7
---------------------------------"----­-"-­
I I 
WORLD & NATION 
Friday, November l 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
'No more games' American officials tell Iraq 
from Iraq." Associated Pre•• Bush called Spanish Prime 
Minister Jose Maria Aznar on 
WASHINGTON Thursday and the two leaders 
In another warning to Saddam "expressed full solidarity in Hussein, U.S. officials said demanding that the Iraqi regime Thursday lhat Iraq must not disarm," McClellan said. "play games" with U.N" weapons The president has said repeat­inspeclors and Lhey disputed edly thai if Iraq does not disarm, Iraq's claim not to have nuclear, the United States would lead "a chemical or biological weapons. coalition of the willing" to dis­
"I'll simply say that they do arm Iraq by force. have weapons of mass destruc­The weapons inspectors are tion and the purpose of the U.N. to resume their search for illegal resolution, of course, is for them caches by Dec. 23 and are to to agree to allow inspectors in report to the Security Council 60 and to allow tho inspectors to days after they start looking. make some conclusions.· Iraq has until Dec. 8 to give a Dcl"cnse Secretary Donald H. full accounting of all its banned Humsfeld said at a Pentagon weapons programs as well as news conf'crcncc. programs to develop long-range 
Iraq on Wednesday accepted a missiles and remote-controlled tough new U.N. Security Council aircraft to deliver them. resolution demanding it disarm At any point, inspectors are to and allow inspectors unfettered report to the Security Council in access anywhere in Iraq. But tho event of failure by Iraq to Iraq's acceptance letter was comply with its obligations com­filled with anti-American invec­bined with any false statements tive and repeatedly claimed or omissions in the list. Saddam's government did not Administration officials have have any banned weapons or said the resolution also prohibits programs to make them. Iraq from firing on U.S. and 
"I've never tried to predict British planes patrolling no-fly what [Saddam! might do, but zones over northern and south­one thing I know he better not ern Iraq. The United States set do. and that is play games," up the zones after the 1991 whether they would view any do that" and that Iraq must absolutely no confusion or mis­White Ilouse spokesman Scott Persian Gulf War. saying they Iraqi firings as a breach of the understand the threat of mili­understanding. McClellan said. were in support of U.N. resolu­latest U.N. resolution and there­tary action is real. "The United "If the Iraqis do not comply," 
Added Secretary of State Colin tions demanding that Saddam fore an automatic trigger for States has demonstrated con­Powell continued, "there will be Powell, during a trip to Canada: not attack Kurds in the north war. Powell said Iraq's reactions siderable patience over the last consequences. Those conse­"l think what we're interested in and Shiite Muslims in the south. to enforcement of no-fly zones two months," Powell said. That quences will involve use of mili­seeing is a new spirit of coopera­But U.S. officials have been would be looked at "with all patience will continue. But at tary force to disarm them. to tion, if there's going to be one, deliberately vague about seriousness if they continue to the same time, there should be change the regime." 

Key nations consider oil regulations on North Korea 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Key countries met Thursday to consid­er a U.S.-demand to suspend oil assis­tance to North Korea for violating a pledge not to develop nuclear weapons. and the United States said it expects support. 
There has been little support in the Bush administration or in Congress for continuing the 8-year-old oil assistance program following North Korea's acknowledgment last month that it was secretly developing a uranium-based bomb. 
The fate of the shipments is in the 
hands of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, known as KEDO, whose members are the United States, Japan, South Korea and the European Union. 
U.S. 
officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said American diplomats have been assured the EU and Japan would back President Bush's plan at the New York meeting and that South Korea will go along with some version of it. 

At the start of Thursday's meeting at KEDO's offices in midtown Manhattan, 

U.S. 
Ambassador Charles Pritchard, Ambassador Jean-Pierre Leng of the EU, Japanese Ambassador Katsunari Suzuki. and South Korean Ambassador Sun-Sup Chang, who chairs KEDO's 



executive board, posed for photogra­phers. 
Pritchard told the other representa­tives he was "looking forward" to pro­viding them with a firsthand account of his trip last month to the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, and his discussions last week in Tokyo "and hope that we will be able come to, as we always have in the past. a consensus decision on the best next steps to take." 
KEDO officials later confirmed the meeting was under way. 
Bush made the decision to suspend oil shipments during a session with his national security team Wednesday night ahead of Thursday's meeting of KEDO, which was founded after North Korea signed an agreement with the United States in 1994 pledging to become a nuclear weapons-free state. 
As part of the 1994 agreement. tho United States promised to provide more than 500,000 tons of heavy oil per year. In addition, South Korea and Japan offered to pay most of the cost for two light water nuclear reactors that are of limited use for a country intent on developing nuclear weapons. 
The fate of that project is up in the air. 
Bush's only concession was to agree to allow a vessel already en route to North Korea to deliver what would be the last 
U.S. oil shipment unless Pyongyang decides to dismantle its nuclear weapons program. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
4 killed in Nigerian naval attack The Nigerian navy raided a village in the swamps of lhc Niger Delta killing five people after attackers from the village robbed a ChevronTexaco oil boat, witnesses said Thursday. Two children, apparently burned to death as they hid inside their homes. were among the victims of the retaliatory raid, vil­lagers said. 
Wildlife experts decry ivory sales 
Wildlife experts Wednesday condemned a decision allowing three southern African nations to sell more than 60 tons of stockpiled elephant ivory, arguing that it will increase poaching throughout the conti­nent. On Tuesday, Botswana, Namibia and South l\frica narrowly won a two-thirds majority of the votes at the U.N. Convention oflntcrnational Trade in Endangered Species. or CITES, for a one-off sale of their stockpiles ofelephant tusks worth about $5 mil­lion. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Gun distributor to pay widow $1.2 million 
A jury ordered a gun distributor Thursday to pay $1.2 million to the widow of a teacher gunned down by a 13-year-old student in a landmark case target­ing inexpensive handguns. The jury, however, pinned most of the fault for the 2000 slaying of Barry Grunow on the gun's owner and school officials. Widow Pam Grunow sued distributor Valor Corp., claiming the small, cheap pistol of the kind used by the student killer often fall into the hands ofjuveniles and criminals. It was the first case to address both the absence of a gun lock and the flaws associated with a cheap. easily concealable weapon. But the jury said 45 percent of the fault for Grunow·s death lies with the school board for allowing Nathaniel Brazill onto campus that day and 50 percent with the family friend who kept the gun unlocked in a dresser drawer. where Brazill found it. Brazill was sentenced to 28 years behind bars for killing his teacher with the .25-caliber Raven handgun. 
'Bushism' makes Oxford quote dictionary 
"Bushisms" in the second edition of the "Oxford Dictionary of Phrase, Saying and Quotation," include the president's declaration: "We are ready for any unforeseen event which may or may not happen." The other "Bushisms" include the president's words of wisdom at the 2001 Yale University commence­ment: "To those of you who received honors, awards and distinctions, I say well done. And to the 'C' stu­dents, I say you, too, can be president of the United States." 
Ford to pay $I billion in pension payements Ford Motor Co. said Thursday it will contribute $1 billion to its underfunded pension plans over the next two years. expenses the company said should not hamper its ongoing restructuring. Ford vice president and treasurer Malcolm Macdonald said the company will provide $500 million in 2003 and $500 million in 2004 to the plans, which arc expected to be underfunded by $6.2 billion by year's end. 

Friday, November 15, 2002
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Health, Cultural Competence seminar to be held 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will host a Health and Cultural Competence Community Leader's Seminar Saturday, one of 11 workshops designed to explore contemporary health issues in terms of gender and culture. 
The event was organized by Marcia Good-Maust, a fellow in anthropology with The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. The idea for this event originated from this summer's Community Leader's Seminar, "Tapping the Wellsprings of Wisdom," in which over 100 local women participated. 
"There was such interest and enthusiasm that generated out of that experience that we made a commitment to continue provid­ing four opportunities throughout the year to continue exploring women's leadership and intercul­tural issues together," said Bonnie Bazata, director of com­munity connections with CWIL. "Health and wellness was a key focus from the summer and so we continued that theme here within an intercultural focus." 
Mayadene Paysoure, a commu­nity member who volunteers at Memorial Hospital's Sage-ing Center, said she is looking for­ward to offering insight into health as part of the aging process. 
"I want to inform people about a spiritual eldering tool called life review and life repair that helps us to reframe our past experi­ences, to achieve a more con­scious and fuller living," Paysoure said. 
What will make this weekend's 

seminar such an innovative dis­
cussion, according to CWlL's Web 
site, is that it will veer away from 
the standard stigmas assigned to 
health. Often, the word "health" 
is associated with illness, treat-
enormous 
FLEECE 
Selecti:, 

~  
from  CUTPC!ir  
Campus  :J.Z.tif  

Cof!I Weafl,er Experts 

-Call 259-iooo for more details 

Notre Dame f'ilm, Television, and Theatre PRESENTS 
wRnTEN BY paula vogel • DIRECTED RY wendy arons 
Washington Hall 

WED, NOVEMBER 20, 7:30 l:M. 
THU, NOVEMBER 21, 7:30 PM. FRI. NOVEMBER 22, 7:30 P.M. SAT, NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 1'.M. 
SUN, NOVEMBER 24, 2:30 PM. 
Tickets 

RESERVED SEATS $10 SENIOR CITIZENS $9 ALL STUDENTS $7 Available at the Lafortune Student Center ticker office. Mastercard and Visa orders call 574-631-8128. 
This rroduction is sctpported hy rhe lnsciturc for Scholarship in the Lihcral Am. 
ment and physical symptoms. But in a cultural context, "health" denotes the certain medical condi­tions or healing approaches of dif­ferent ethnicities. 
This seminar aims to take a more holistic approach to health. defining it as simply "well being." 
Participants will be asked to question how they can achieve well-being in a conflict-ridden work environment, how to encour­age people to tend to their inner and social energy and other health topics. 
The second hall of the day will deal with how these forces physi­cally manifest themselves in terms of body language and verbal 
MARY KAY 
Girls' 
night 
out 
Get together with friends and indulge in your favorite beauty secrets. Like facials, pedicures, makeovers and skin-smoothing 
treatments. To plan your own beauty bash and try Mary Kay products, call me today. 
Kelly McLeod Class of 2000 

Independent Beauty Consultant 
(574) 674-8774 www.marykay.com/kellymcleod Student Discounts 
Available. Great for Hall Parties. 

theclogstore.com 
l•800-948•CLOG 
2002-2003 Mainstage Season 
expression. 

"The morning is more talking, but lots of discussion," Bazata said. "The afternoon is really experiential with lots of move­ment." 
Bazata said this workshop will be valuable because of th.e diversi­ty of the participants, including students, staff and community members working in various fields. 
Mary Lauck, CEO of Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Council, Inc., will be one of the community members participating in the workshop. 
She is also currently a member of the Women's Wisdom for Community Change, a develop­ment initiated at a previous CWlL retreat. 
"The reason why I'm going to be participating is because ... I've been actively involved in many, many areas at the campus level," Lauck said. "But also because the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership has just been a won­derful new innovative program there at the college and I partici­pated in the retreat-workshop that was held several months ago. It was a wonderful opportunity for women leaders to come together. It was a learning experience, a sharing experience." 
Bazata also said that these workshops provide the conunwlity with a chance to learn not only about health and well being, but to communicate with different cul­tures as well. 

"One of the things that makes these experiences so dynamic is the mix of age, race, cultw·e and experience," Bazata said. "So this is a unique and powerful opportu­nity for students to not only learn about a given topic, but also devel­op confidence, develop new rela­tionships, learn more about the community and possibly even find a mentor." 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saintmarys.edu 


~ ill1ec1r !Vllc1z,ei J 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
Busi~NEss 
Friday, November 15, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 14 
DowJones  
8,542.13  ~  +143.64  
NASDAQ  
1,411.52  ~  +50.18  
S&P500  
904.27  ~  +21.74  
AMFX  
819.09  ~  +8.62  
NYSE  
478.70  ~  +9.80  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:rsco SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.27 +0.55 13.42 
~MQ::::1~~::::1~1::J!~Ri!~iiili!ili!~IJii!lifll!l:Jiilli!llli 
5UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +4. 27 +0. 14 3. 42 
~J.~~RN@.Jigi~9~R11f:'''''''''''''''' 
fNTEL CORP (INTC) +1.47 +0.47 18.47 
IN BRIEF 
Lebman Brothers lays off500 employees 
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. cut its ranks by 500 employees on Thursday. including its chief investment strategist Je!Trey Applegate, a person familiar with the matter said. 
The companywide cuts at the New York­based investment bank, one of Wall Street's biggest, amounted to 4 percent of its total work force of 12,980 as of Sept. 30. "We have made small adjustments across all divisions and regions lo reflect the challenging environment" said Hannah Burns, a Lehman Brothers spokeswoman. "Still, the number is not signifi­cant relative to the overall size of the firm." Burns declined to confirm specifics about Thursday's cuts, and would not comment on Applegate's status. 
Since the end of 2000, more than 32,000 securities workers have lost their jobs as the bear market has severely curtailed financial deals and profits. 
Dollar climbs vs. major currencies 
Decreased risk aversion, rising equities, cheery economic data and reduced geopoliti­cal tensions helped the dollar climb Thursday against most of its major rivals. 
The spate or economic releases helped refo­cus the currency market's attention on eco­nomic fundamentals after recent domination by global interest-rate differentials. "We're in one of these moments here where everything is status quo for the moment," said Jason Bonanca. foreign exchange analyst for Credit Suisse First Boston. 
Bankruptcy bill stopped in House 
l.tigL-;lation intended to make it harder for people to erase their debts in bankruptcy court died in the I louse Thursday, scuttled by a disput.e over how the law would apply to fines against abortion protesters. 
Conservative Hepublicans turned against their Ilouse leaders. President Bush and their business and banking contributors in rejecting the legisla­tion., which they feared would curtail abortion protesting. 
&:-Adelphiaexecutivepleadsguilty 
. Another U.S. company falls to corporate fraud 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Members of the Rigas family conspired to lie to the public and plunder the cable TV system owner Adelphia Communications Corp., a former executive said Thursday as he pleaded guilty to securities fraud. 
As part of his guilty plea in Manhattan feder­al court, James Brown, the former vice presi­dent of finance at Adelphia, has promised to testify against the family members about the scandal which cost investors billions of dol­lars. 
Adelphia, based in Coudersport, Pa., sought bankruptcy court protec­tion from its creditors on June 25. 
"With the assistance and agreement of others, I helped to manipulate and overstate earnings," he said during the pro­ceeding in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. 

As part of the scheme, he and other executives lied to Moody's Investors by Brown have been sources familiar with the pany money and used Service about the com­charged in the case, and probe. corporate jets for per­pany's massive off-the­all have pleaded inno­Brown also admitted to sonal business. while books debts during a cent. bank fraud and conspir­saddling the company January 2002 meeting, John Rigas' lawyer did acy to commit securities with massive debts and Brown said. The decep­not have an immediate fraud. The bank fraud lying to investors. tion convinced Moody's comment on the plea. charge carries up to 30 Officials believe the not to downgrade The 78-year-old patri­years in prison, but executives secretly Adelphia's credit rating. arch founded Adelphia Brown hopes his cooper­transferred hundreds of 
The 40-year-old for­and ran it with his sons ation will earn him a far millions of dollars mer executive also told Timothy and Michael more lenient sentence, belonging to the firm Judge Leonard Sand he until the accounting which is scheduled for into accounts controlled knew Adelphia's fabri­scandal erupted. April 14. by the Rigas family. cated figures for cable Mulcahey's lawyer The company issued a Prosecutors are seek­subscribers "would mis­Mark Mahoney said he statement saying the ing forfeiture from the lead analysts who fol­and his client would plea proves "the Rigases five men of more than lowed the cable industry "wait and see what real­and their accomplices $2.5 billion for the and investors." ly are the details" of engaged in massive self­alleged fraud and corpo­
Brown added, "The Brown's statements to dealing and other rate looting. others involved in the investigators. wrongful conduct that The Securities and conduct and agreement I Brown had a close per­severely damaged Exchange Commission have referred to include sonal and professional Adelphia." also announced John Rigas, Tim Rigas, relationship with Tim A 102-page indictment Thursday that Brown Michael Rigas, and Rigas and worked on charges the five execu­had consented to an Michael Mulcahey. much of the financial tives allegedly looted entry of partial judgment among others." reporting now at issue in corporate accounts, built against him in the 
All of the men named the criminal case, said a golf course with com-agency's civil lawsuit. 

Hormone therapy sales plunge 
A.ssocia.ted Press 
NEW YORK 
Sales of hormone replacement drugs have plunged dramatically in the four months since a study found unexpect­edly high risks of heart disease and cancer in women taking the pills to block menopause symptoms and pre­vent age-related diseases. 
Sales of Prempro, the Wyeth combi­nation estrogen -progestin pill used in the Women's Health Initiative study announced in July. are down 52 per­cent from a year ago. Sales of all estrogen -progestin pills are down 40 percent, based on prescriptions dispensed in October. 

Sales of Wyeth's estrogen-only pill Premarin -once one of the most widely prescribed drugs in this coun­try -and of all estrogen-only hor­mones have fallen about half as much, according to IMS Health. a health-care information company. Researchers are still studying whether estrogen­only pills, only used for women who have had hysterectomies, are safe. 
IMS monthly data on U.S. revenues from Prempro, Premarin and com­bined sales of all hormone replace­ment pills show the decline has been accelerating since July, after a slight increase in June. 
"We had originally expected them to be down 50 percent once a full year rolled around, and they're there already.'' J.P. Morgan pharmaceuti­cals analyst Carl Seiden said Thursday, referring to Wyeth's pills. 
Seiden noted that in the two years before the study came out in July, ris­ing concern about the pills' long-term risks and increased competition had been cutting the number of Wyeth prescriptions dispensed about 6 per­cent a year. 
The Madison-based company's new competitors -Novartis' estrogen-only pill Vivelle, along with the estrogen­progestin pills Ativella from Pharmacia and Femhrt from Pfizer ­have been selling more since July. even as the overall market shrinks. 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 15, 2002 
Clubs 
continued from page 1 
"Through intellectual elevation, commWial int.craction, and faith in God, we will strive to achieve social awareness and personal enlighten­ment," he said. 
Caribbean Student Organization of the University of Notre Dame (CSOUND) 
CSOUND President Habibah Bell said members have plans to increase diversity on campus through the recruitment of Caribbean students. 
"The purpose of this club is to educate the Notre Dame communi­ty about the many rich cultures and traditions found in the Caribbean," he said. "And [we] have a little fun at the same time." The most recent event was an "Island Jam" dance party. 
All the other regions of the world have representation on campus, Bell said. She added, "It was about time Lto] bring a taste of the Caribbean." 
Notre Dame Fly-Fishing Club 
"Our mi$ion is to bring together people who share an interest. a passion, in a place that you wouldn't really expect to find some­thing like this," said President Johnny Burns. 
"We've set up plans for discount gear purchases, we've had private casting lessons, we have fly-tying workshops and cast demonstra­tions and of course we take trips out to the rivers," he said. 
Notre Dame Gaelic Society 
President Padraic McDermott said the club's mission is "to bring Irish and Scottish culture to the campus through music, sports, fes­tivals and academic events." The club is soon to host a night oflrish music and dance in Coleman­Morse, as well as popularize and instruct on the field sport, hurling. 
Notre Dame Green Party (ND 
s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 

Call 259-1000 for more details 

Thursday, November 14 l!I 8:00 pm Friday, November 15 WI _s:00 pm
______ I <;,,~THE !f!..­
Saturday, November 16 ~ 8:00 pm ~NOTREDAME, ,H Sunday, November 17 IM 2:30 pm LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 574/284-4626 
Green) 
"Our goals are to make people aware of an alternative, to distrib­ute information about the Green Party, to support Green Party can­didates when possible." said facili­tator Andrew Casad. 
"What made me go ahead with the idea was the dearth of progres­sive activity taking place on cam­pus," Casad said. "Students seem so concemed with other issues like football. that true progressive reform seems to elude most peo­ple," he said. 
Notre Dame League of Attemate Historians (ND-l.AH) 
'The purpose of the ND-IAH will be to foster and conduct scholarly discussion on the subject of pos.5ible divergence where events in history might have transpired differently and their after effects," according to the club's constitution. In keeping with the spirit ofthe club, President Matthew Alderman said, they plan to keep students from all disciplines informed on events geared to pro­mote both history and alternate hic;­tory through discussions, movies and tours of historical sites. 
Mystery Science Theater 3000 
Club 
The Mystery Science Theater 3000 Club is geared toward humor and relaxation. said club President Geoff Matteson. 
"It's a place where one can take a break, meet new people, and learn how not to make a movie," he said. The club meets two days a week, Tuesdays and Sundays, in O'Neill Hall. 
Ifyou are ready for something different... rbados is waiting for you/ Legendary beaches and fantastic nightlife makes Spring Break in Barbados 
• '--: unforgettable 
Mo~D 

Notre Dame Anime Club 
Co-Presidents Johnny Leitner and Hino Lam said the club attempts to promote interest in and access to anime, a genre of animation made in Japan. They hope to "build a strong foundation of members who share an enthttc;ia.sm for anime and an interest in Japanese culture." 
Women's Ice Hockey Club 
Allison Ricci heads the Women's Ice Hockey Club and also serves as an assistant captain. She said the club is concerned with putting women's hockey on the map and having fun while plajing and win­ninggames. 

"Our long term goals would be to eventually see our sport become varsity," Ricci said. 
Contact Natasha Grant at grant.20@nd.edu 





.151 
; /·ir'C 
0-l '\ j..;·•' 
',;JJi;:11\•· 

lntroductotvRate lowRauularRate ­
Friday, November 15, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
launched a campaign to recruit Hitting a roadblock longer than we anticipated. We average, Coughlin said. 
two students to anchor the Club status, however, proved want all the clubs to be success­"NDTV is a bit unique because
NDTV 
continued from page I 
would likely pique the curiosity 
of the South Bend community. 
"The biggest reason for us to 
seek club status is that I think 
Studont Activities has the 
resources needed to promote 
the show," Johnson said. "They 
can help us get the word out. 
Activities night would be huge." 
The group also said club sta­tus would help to relieve some of' the financial burden of pro­ducing the program, a burden that has fallen mainly on the executive producers so far. Additional funding, however, was one of the reasons for pur­suing University recognition. according to Johnson. 
"I realized that we wouldn't get a lot of money," he said. "The funding we would be get­ting would be nominal com­pared to what it costs to run the show." 
Seeking University approval 
The producers began the olTI­cial process of pursuing club status last April when Johnson submitted a form of intnnt to Student Activities. Over the sum­mer, Johnson also drafted a club constitution and completed the additional paperwork required. 
"The review process was scheduled to begin on Aug. 1," he said. "We were hoping to be approved before Student Activities night." 
Meanwhile, the organization finalized plans to begin taping the show. The four producers received approval from the South Bend cable access chan­nel to broadcast their program on Thursday afternoons and 
show. After completing tryouts, more elusive than the executive ful and we want to determine of the public nature of their 
Breen Phillips junior Cheryl producers bargained for, they what all the clubs can do to gain appearance on television in the 
Turski and Keenan Hall sopho­said. a better foothold." St. Joseph County region," he 
more Tony Easterlin were cho­Student activities night passed said. "We're working with them
Rolling again?

sen. without the go-ahead from the [the executive producers] to
In an effort to speed up the

The first installment of NDTV University. The delay -which assure that the leadership will
process for student organiza­

aired at the end of last month. It currently affects all prospective be as solid now as it is in the
tions already actively seeking

featured coverage on the recent clubs involved in the application future. We need assurances that
club status, Student Activities

elections. an interview with process -was due in part to the University's good name will
will resume reviewing those

Notre Dame football coach restructuring within Student not be tarnished on TV. We just
applications· that have already

Tyrone Willingham, a spotlight Activities and the Club haven't nailed down the rela­
been submitted, Coughlin said. 

on a student band and a seg­Coordination Council (CCC), said tionship yet." 
Geist is already in the process

ment in which a reporter ques• Geist and Brian Coughlin. direc­
of contacting all applicants to The waiting game 

tioned tailgaters. tor of Student Activities. The 
determine if they're still inter­For now, NDTV and the other
Executive producers said the University also needed addition­
ested and if so, she said, com­student organizations seeking
show was a success, although al time to review NDTV's appli­
plete the reviews by the end of club status will have to wait.

t h e y cation because of the 
t h i s Not having club
a r e unique nature of the 
semes­status at this time
unsure student organiza­
"We were hoping to be t e r . "/ think we've been able does not bother
h o w tion, Coughlin said. 
many approved before Student G e is t to show that we can do Johnson, as the
At the beginning of 
e s t i -organization is cur-
people Activities Night." the school year, it ... 
mates rently focusing on
tuned Coughlin and 
t h a t establishing a qual­
in. The Student Activities
Lance Johnson the re Lance Johnson ity program.
cab I e challenged all stu­
are cur­University recogni­
r. ha n -executive producer dent leaders to for­executive producer
rent Iy tion. he believes,
n e I mulate strategic 
between will come in time. 

which plans as part of a 
15 and "I think we've
airs the University-wide 
20 stu-been able to show
program does not track ratings, analysis on Notre Dame's future. 
dent organizations pending club that we can do it," he said. "I
and even if it did, Johnson said, Student Activities and the CCC 
status. hope that the University will sec
the televisions on campus are planned to hold off on approval 
All the organizations, includ­that we just want to make the
not equipped to record viewer of new clubs until after the 
ing NDTV, will be judged on a show. We don't want to rip on
activity. plans were completed in order 
series of criteria including the University."

"I've had numerous people tell to determine how they would 
uniqueness, a presence of a con­Johnson. however, said he
me they saw the show and were affect prospective clubs, accord­
stitution and advisor as well as a was somewhat frustrated by the
looking forward to seeing the ing to Coughlin. 
mission that is in line with that delays.

next one," Johnson said. "My Drafting the strategic plans 
of the University. "Initially it seemed that things

guess is that viewership is quite was a longer. more involved 
All prospective clubs must also were going really well but come
small. though." process than Student Activities 
fit within the five categories that mid-September it seemed like
Freshman Christina Chapman originally anticipated. he said. 
divide current clubs including things were going downhill," he

tuned into the first episode. The interrelated aspects of the 
service and social action, diver­said. "They (Student ActiviliesJ

"I liked how it was really CCC also made it difficult to 
sity. athletic, academic and spe­are just doing their job and I
informal," Chapman said. "I simultaneously approve new 
cial interest. The process, can't really complain because

remember watching and think­clubs and draft the strategic 
Coughlin said, can take any­we're an exceptional situation." 

ing that if they had school fund­plans. Geist added. 
where from two weeks to two

ing it (the show] could be 10 "We discovered that the differ­
months or more.

times better than it is and it is ent pieces of the CCC are linked 
Making a final decision on Contact Andrew Thagard at 

already interesting." to each other," she said. "One 
NDTV will also take longer than athagard@nd.edu

impacted six others. It took us 


Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way (574) 272-1441 





THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 

Asst, MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
YIEWl'OINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR• Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EotT0iu Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
SAIN"r MAR¥'s EDITOR, Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Man Luiz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLU::R: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GEN.ER.AL INF0..............631-7471 FAx.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF...•................•.........••..••....631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME....................631-454I 
BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 63l-S313 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......... , ... ,.........................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE..................... , .......... , ........................ 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINI" MAfly's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ............................. , .......................... 63 J-8767 SYSTEMSIWER ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visir our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as car1oons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Noire Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instiru1ion. The Observer reserves the righ1 to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and noc necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters 10 the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
QUt!stiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to &Iitor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1kOhx-m:t (USl'S j99 .Z4U> U publ.)hcJ MofUay d1ruugh FuJiy cnq, Ju11ng rum and v;ao.:a[ion p,:'rioch. A, 1u.b...riprion to The Ob~,:r h $100 (or OM ~Jemie ye¥: 15~ for one J("l11pi<;'f. 
The Ob1.cl'\l'cr i• puhlisb.::d .i: PO!ffMASTER {)24 5o"'ch Dining Hal! .'»md .aJdrm1.vrm·!ron1 tq; 
Nom Dun.f, iN 4t~5r, Thc-ot__,.,..~ 
l'.O.llo,Q 

Pieriodl.:.al Po~•• paid •1 N,n" Da.me Notte Dame, IN 465';6--0m 
md .:ld.irion~I mailiflg off.ct-1. 

·rnt' Ohw::rvcr is~ rncmbt:r uftbr Al~i3t.:d t'rcs,. AU rqroduuwn ,igbu :.titC" rc,n-vcd. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, November 15, 2002 
Saint Mary's security is problematic 
Rampant staff turnover this year and a federal investi­the incident was an innocent discussion among fellow gation last year into misreporting of crime statistics officers about workplace violence. were bad enough for Saint Mary's Security Department. If Saint Mary's actions against Rathert had come at a The College's controversial suspension this month of a different time, maybe the College would deserve the female security officer now sounds the death knell for benefit of the doubt. But the sanctions come convenient· public trust in the embattled department. ly after Rathert alleged a disparity exists 
Sgt. Belinda Rathert remains suspended OJhe between male and female officers' pay, not 
oserver

from her job in campus security after the when she was initially hired or at any other College's human resources director elaimed time during the three years she was Rathert's college transcript was missing employed by Saint Mary's.
Editorial
from her personnel tile. Rathert was sus­The sanctions come at a time when public 
pended Nov. 7. On Tuesday, she received a letter barring her from campus. 
Both the suspension and campus ban are problematic. 
Rathert claimed the suspension followed her recent request for backpay. In an Oct. 24 letter to human resources, Rathert fiJcd for lost wages. alleging that the College paid female security officers $.50 less per hour than male officers who performed the same duties. 
Saint Mary's spokeswoman Melanie Engler said Rathert. who has worked at the College for three years. was suspended until she submitted the academic creden­tials. 
''Officer Rathert's suspension is legal and completely appropriate," Engler said. 
Officials banned Rathert from campus because of a conversation in which she allegedly made threatening remarks against the College, Rathert said. She claimed faith in the security department is already shaken. A year ago, the Department of Education investigated the way Saint Mary's reported its sexual assault statistics. The department's problems have continued this year with the appointment of three different directors since April. 
Now, the controversy surrounding Rathert is strike three in a year marked by turmoil. Saint Mary's students deserve better than a security department that engages in as much. if not more. questionable action as it safe­guards the public against. 
Saint Mary's Security Department isn't protecting or serving anyone if it allows dubious decisions and gross injustices to occur within its own department. To restore public trust, the department would do well to resolve controversies surrounding its officers with expedience and more importantly, with fairness. 
Some people say that marriage is something sacred between men and women. Others may say that marriage is something anyone can enter into, just as long as they truly love each other. No person can argue over the moral merits of this topic, but when many things in society depend upon a person's marital status, this is some­thing that must be considered. Homosexuals should be allowed to enter into marriage or some other type of civil union. This will allow them to have several rights bestowed on heterosexuals who marry. 
Who is to decide whether being homosexual is right or wrong? That question depends upon what you believe in. This does not mean that the government has the right to decide whether it is right or wrong. 
There is even the view that mar­riage should stay the way it has been forever. Well let me correct some of the misconceptions. Marriage hasn't always been what you may have thought it was. Take for example the Christian church that for its first 500 to a 1,000 years considered marriage as tainted. Protestant denominations were roiled by the question of whether it was sinful to remarry divorced people whose ex-spouses were still alive. 
The Bible says marriage is between one man and one woman. Churchgoers say that marriage is a religious institution. Well, to contra­dict this, civil marriage is a govern­ment institution that grants hundreds of state legal rights and responsibili­ties and over a thousand federal legal rights and responsibilities. When peo­ple go to a county clerk's office and pay a fee for a marriage license, reli­gion plays no role whatsoever. The country in which we reside in is not a theocracy. 

The U.S. Constitution makes no mention of the Bible or any other reli­gious text. The idea of allowing homo­sexuals to enter into marriage is not to make religions accept same-sex couples, but to protect homosex­
uals under the legislative given the same marriage con-establishments offered to tract everyone else gets. others. To take a step further, 
Many people may say many of the rights that that the Ten accompany marriage Commandments are have nothing to do the basis of our soci­with children. ety. They can not Coining a phrase relate the Ten that is so often used, Commandments "It takes a village to with anything about raise a child." Then homosexuality. If one must believe you really think that a village about it, eight of believes in full the Ten equality for all of its Commandments are people. legal to break in The whole issue America. Only the that I am arguing is commandments not the fact that peo­against killing and ple should accept the stealing are backed up marriage between peo­by law and they are ple of the same sex. What backed by law all over the is trying to be reached is world. If you would like to that the government should 
take this concept even further, you may go to say that the first three commandments are actually unconsti­tutional. Now this in no way means that the Ten Commandments are wrong, but they are of no legal or con­stitutional standing. So how can peo­ple argue the meaning of the Ten Commandments with marriage? 
One remark by people against homosexual marriage is that because marriage is set up for raising chil­dren, gay people cannot have children so they don't need to get married. Well, why is it that a civil marriage contract is given to heterosexuals regardless of their ability to raise chil­dren? Sterile heterosexual couples 
and post-menopausal women are 
reconsider situations where het­erosexuals who are married receive incentives over homosexual couples. 
James Mangrum 
freshman Zahm hall Nov. 13 
Defending same sex marriages 
TODAY'S STAFF NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

QUOTE OF THE DAY News Sports 
Sheila Flynn Matt Lozar 
Has the recent lawsuit against

Will Puckett Joe Hettler 
Lafayette Apartments made 
"Quotation, n: The act ofrepeating

Himanshu Pat Leonard you reconsider your plans 
erroneously the words of another.··
Kothari Scene 

to move off-campus?Viewpoint Maria Smith 
Kurt Bogaard Lab Tech 
Ambrose Bierce
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com

Graphics Brian Pucevich 
writer
and is based on 191 responses. 

Jimmy Atkinson Illustrator Patrick Quill 
rJ..~F.

~IDERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, November 15, 2002 page 11 
Midterm election brings era of civility 
Last week's midterm election frnally ended the Clinton era for those who have obsessed over the fonncr presi­dent to the degree that they misread this column and voice objections ~ith 
nasty, personal e-mail mes­sagc>s. Now they can proudly point to 
President Hush who has led a successful elec­tion that was not 


tainted with 
voting snafw;, Gary J. Caruso 
one which 
returns 
Hepublican Capitol
control to both 
Comments 

houses of 
Congress. 
Democrats 
should not consider the 2002 
midterm election as much of a loss as 
the 2000 presidential election. On the 
other hand, Republicans should not 
celebrate as much as 2000 either. 
The 2002 midterm election was one 
of the most over-interpreted, yet per­
haps most misinterpreted election 
since World War II. In 1998, Bill 
Clinton did not lose congressional 
scats because the American public 
opposed the highhanded efforts to 
impeach him. This year, Americans 
are not rejecting anything as much as 
lhe cohesion and civility in govern­
ment. 
The so-caUed impressive win by the president and his party translates into a net gain of two Senate seats, one of which Paul Wellstone (D-Minn.) would have retained had he not per­ished in a plane crash. On the other side ofthe coin, had Tim Hutchinson (H-Ark.) not been such a holy roller by preaching his brand of family values while divorcing his wife to marry one of his young staff assistants, he would have retained his Republican seat. Hegardless, Republicans controlled the Senate after Bush entered office, lost it when Jim Jeffords left their party and now retain the chamber by just one more seat. 
Presidents lose midterm elections because they usually sweep in many congressional candidates on their coattails. With Bush not garnering a majority of the popular vote, he had no coattails or weak freshmen enter oflice two years ago. The 2000 Census redistricting shuflled congressional districl'l to the extent of protecting most incumbents of both parties. Yet Bush must be given credit for main­taining a constant theme throughout the election cycle that helped him buck traditional midterm results. 
This election docs not historically comparn to the 1974 Watergate midterm election. when Dcmocratc; gained 49 Ilouse and four Senate seats. It dons not compare to 1980, when Honald Hcagan's coattails led Hepublicans lo a sweep, netting 12 Senate seats. control of the Senate for Lhc first time since 1955 and 34 Ilouse seals. Nor docs it compare to 1982, when a recession and unem­ployment rate of 10 percent caused Democrats to recapture more than two-thirds of their losses in the prcvi­m1s election, numbering 26 of Heagan's coattail scats, and coming wilhin 34,000 votes of capturing five Senate sealr; and control of the Senate. It certainly does not compare to 1994 when Republicans took 52 
House seats and control of the House 
for the first time in 40 years, along 
with eight Senate seat<i. 
These previous elections featured a winning party that not only virtually won all of the races expected to be dose, but also pulled off impressive upselc;. Some of their own incum­bents, who seemed destined for defeat, actually survived. while long­shot challengers and open-seat candi­dates, facing enom10us odds in very difficult districts, won. 
None of those situations happened this year. Not one House seat in the country that had been rated leaning, likely or solidly Democratic in mid­October went Republican. Hepublicans simply won seven out of 11 of the toss-up races. Only one Senate seat that was leaning, likely or solidly Democratic went Republican, and that was freshman Georgia Sen. Max Clcland's whose challenger, GOP Rep. Saxby Chambliss, began to surge in the final week. 
Of course, our war on terror has placed an unusual circumstance that would benefit any incumbent presi­dent. This nation is completely in the Republican's hands for the next two years. Republicans should imagine what this year's election might have been like ifAI Gore were the incum­bent using our uncertain security, possible war with Iraq and the coun­try's willingness to speak as one as issues throughout the campaign. Shutter as they may, he was not our sitting president, so this election serves as an end to blaming the Clinton Administration and a return to political civility. 
One promising sign for the future came during the post-election appear­ances of candidates and party officials from both the Democrats and Republicans. They spoke with more civility and graciousness for each other than during the past decade. Democrats may need communica­tions revisions for their next cam­paign messages, but the bitterness of the 2000 election and the Gingrich years has vanished. Republicans, especially Newt Gingrich on post-elec­tion interviews, explained how they interpreted their victory without the nasty tones of the past. 
Perhaps this nation's political fig­ures have finally outgrown the petty bickering that began in 1995 and returned 1.o being the loyal opposition. Perhaps the "I am right and you are wrong" attitudes that began with Gingrich have once-and-for-all been buried in favor of demanding compro­mise that prevailed when Republicans Bob Dole and Bob Michel worked as minority members with a Democratic majority lead by Tip O'Neill and George Mitchell. It is now George W. 13ush's government to lead. Right or wrong, the nation will have nobody other than Bush to praise or blame in the 2004 presidential election. How well his party uses political civility may determine his success or failure. 
Gary J. Camso. Notre Dame class of 1973. served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. I[is col­umn appears every other Friday. fie can be reached at /Iottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those o/The Obseroer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Asking for stop to chalk amendments 
Some confusion exists about the anti­
war messages that began to be chalked 
on the sidewalks around cam­
pus earlier this semester 
and the more recent 
cases of pro-war or 
sarcastic counter­
messages we've 
seen. The Notre Dame Peace Coalition launched the chalking cam­paign earlier this semester prior to one of the football weekends, and we've continued the tradition before each home game. Our goal has been to stir people to think about the moral, ethical. legal, logical and even economic aspects of plans 
way of reaching a wide audience with what our meager resources allow. We're exercising our free speech rights. We encourage others to do like­wise, whether they oppose the war or support it or just want to ridicule our efforts. As far as I know, no member of our group 
has amended anyone else's chalk mes­sages. If they have, 

-1......~:1 or if anyone who is not a member of our group has, thinking they're helping our cause, we ask that 
you please show respect for others and stop. If you'd like to learn more about the Peace Coalition and possibly join in our consciousness-rais­ing efforts, come to a meet­ing. 
to launch a preemptive attack against a perceived potential attack-Ed Cohen er. Notre Dame Peace Coalition 
The sidewalk messages have been our Nov. 14 

Republicans must stop global warming 
Regarding the letter, "What would Democrats do differently?" by Ty De Long in the Nov. 12 issue of The Observer, I am astonished Mr. De Long sees no difference between the Republicans and the Democrats on global warming. The voting records on environmental issues clearly show that Republicans by and large vote against environmental protection while Democrats vote for it. You can see for yourself their respective voting records on the League or Conservation Voters' website (http//www.lcv.org/scorecard/indcx.asp). 
Incredibly, Mr. De Long asserts that "It makes no difference what ... one country does." He obviously is unaware that as the consumer of some 25 percent of the earth's energy resources and as the most polluting nation, what the United States docs makes a big, big difference. By refusing to be a partner in the international Kyoto Accords, which are designed to reduce emissions of the gases that cause global warming, President Bush has taken a major step backwards. During the presidential campaign, his Democratic oppo­nent, Al Gorn (author of a perceptive book titled "Earth in the Balance") made it clear he would champion the Kyoto Accords. 
President Bush and many other Republicans are so busy worrying about the Accords' possible effects on our economy they cannot see the disastrous consequences that global warming will have on our climate. on our environment and probably on our economy as well. The irony is that our economy is one of the strongest in the world, yet other coun­tries are leading the way to progress in environmental protection while we skulk on the sidelines. 
Indeed, Mr. De Long, the differences are enormous. 
Laura Fuderer 
Conservation Chair 
South Bend-Elkhart Audubon Society 
Assistant Librarian, Hesburgh Libniry 
Nov. 13 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

us 
page 12 Friday, November 15, 2002 


Above, Maria Conticelli plays Florence, recently broken up with her husband of 14 years . To the left, Heather Muth plays Olive, who takes Florence in as a roommate . Below, Olive and the girls play trivial pursuit. 
. 
Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 


'The Odd (The Femal 
Scene Editor 
Neil Simon's 1966 smash hit, "The Odd Couple," is one of the most recognized farces of the writer's career. In 1980, Simon reworked the show and recast the leads as women and updated a lot of the humor. The result: "The Odd Couple (The Female Version)." 
It was only a matter of time until Saint M a r y s Communications, Dance and Theatre Department took up the challenge. 
The play follows Olive (Heather Muth), a successful television news anchor who lives in a bachelorette pad in New York. When her friend Florence (Maria Conticelli), arrives in hysterics to the weekly girls' night out Trivial Pursuit party, the girls come to calm her down as she reveals that she and her husband of 14 years have broken up. Olive takes Florence in as a roommate until she can reconcile with her husband. 
Unfortunately, the brash and messy Olive and passive aggres­sive and anal retentively tidy Florence are not exactly a match made in heaven. Cabin fever sets in and the two are at each others' throats, culminating with a date Olive has set up with two Spanish brothers from upstairs, played by Vmce DeDario and Curtis Bittle. 
To get the New York accents in the show together, Director and Associate Professor of Theatre Katie Sullivan called in Modern Languages professor Nancy D'Antauno to teach the girls a Brooklyn accent. Spanish profes­sors Jennifer Zachman and Jose Anotnio Rico-Ferrer helped the men put the lisp into word "espafiol." 
Getting the cast to perform as an ensemble in character was vital to the show. Sullivan felt that it was essential for the cast to get to the same energy level for the fast­paced banter to work. 
"I have seen [Simon plays per­formed] where anything for a joke rules, where the actors aren't viewing thls person as a real life 3­D person that they have to let come through," Sullivan said. 
Simon plays can often feel like they have nothing to do with reali­ty and yet be very poignant to audiences. Nobody is quite as witty as Olive or Florence, but Simon's script speaks to what everyone wishes they said. Sullivan secs it as a challenge for the cast to relate such a n over-inflat­ed sense of urgency to an audi­ence. 

"This seemed to me to require [the cast] to work boldly and broadly and yet still try to base everything in truth or believability ... it's easy to play the punch "The Odd,line, but I hoped that we (The Femal could discover 
relationships and human foibles that we all share," Sullivan said. Saint Mary's C 
To ward off 

Dance and The 
unbelievability and prevent 

Director: Katie Sullivan
the cast from 

Playwright: Neil Simon
become one­

Starring: Heather Muth,
I i n e r 

DeDario, Curtis Bittle, Laura
machines, 

Linda Janke, Meredith Piere
Sullivan threw two Trivial 

Saturday night at 8:00 p.m. a
Pursuit parties 

the Little Theatre. $16.50 Ge
for the cast. 

seniors and students, $8.50 t
Each member 

Dame and Saint Mary's comm
of the ensem ­
students.

ble was required to improvise in character during the 90-minuto party. More importantly, they had to engage in banter with each other. 
O
THF 

BSERVER 

Friday, November 15, 2002 page 13 
Couple Version)' 
While the cast has worked hard on their accents, Sullivan chose to not use the Jewish New Yorker attitude for the show. Attempting to perform a Simon show without this comedy staple is usually cer­
tain death for any ensemble. Couple Still, Sullivan's cast manages to
Version)" 
get big laughs 


without it, though there are a number of punch lines that 
fall t1aL on their

mmunications, 
faces in its 

tre Department absence. The cast muscles through this error mar­velously, but it
aria Conticelli, Vince 
still feels like

lasurdo, Megan Gamble, 
tlrnrp,'s an elfl­mcnt missing to the repartee.

d Sunday af 7:30 p.m. In 
The cast of' this

ral admssion, $14.50 for 
show rnallv

members of the Notre 
shines as a~

nltles and $7.50 tor 
ensemble. Muth and Conticelli rnl,i the ,;how. The clrnmislry hetwtien them is electric: and they munagn to kncp making the show fool morP and more urgent as their 1wtty arf.{urnnnts boil over. Muth has gotten into her character so much, in fact, that she seems to be a completely different person than her pleasant and soft-spoken real life personality. Conticelli plays a strong straight woman for Muth's sharp jibes. She expertly plays with the contrast between Florence's strict demure deco­
rum and ternpestuous rage. 
Bittle and DeDario rise 
splendidly to match to Muth 
and Concticelli. The men's 
Spanish accents tend to 
rove from the Iberian 
Peninsula and throw in a 
Mexican dialect and 
even a bit of Italian. 
Though technically 
incorrect, it's hysteri­
cally funny on stage 
and entirely forgiv­
able. 
Not only are Muth 
and Concticelli bicker­
ing roommates Olive 
and Florence on stage, 
the pair actually lives 
together in Annunciata 
&) Hall. Muth pointed out 
. . . that their offstage rela­, tionship was, in some 
part, similar to their on­
stage one, 
"It's sort of funny because 
in real life, Maria is the neater 
roommate and I'm the messier roommate, so it worked out per­fectly. It was helpful that we were roommates in real life because we already had a good chemistry together," Muth said. 
Of course, the pair actually gets along famously in real life. Muth added that the show will speak to college students who have had the experience of having a difficult roommate. 
"I definitely think this is an appropriate choice in a college atmosphere, because Ithink we all can relate to having a roommate that we all couldn't necessarily get along with and having to put up with their bizarre quirks and ten­dencies," Muth said. "I think this show is a good way to look at how those little disagreements can get blown out of proportion and get out of hand." 
"The Odd Couple (The Female Version)" opened Thursday in the Little Theatre. General Admisison is $16.50, $14.50 for students and seniors, $8.50 for members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities and $7 .50 for students. The show runs tonight and Saturday night at 8 p.m. and on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Call Special Events to reserv<' tkkflts at (574) 284-4(,26. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 


Above, Florence is on a date with Jesus, the Spanish man from the apartment above. To the right, Olive complains about her increasing irri­tation with her roommate. Below, Olive presents dinner to Manolo and Jesus, the two Spanish brothers. 
. 
Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 

... 

, .. 
> 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 15, 2002 
NBA 
Oakley's 2 blocks in final seconds preserve win 
.,. twice knocked the ball out of Philadelphia 99,
Associated Press 
Stevenson's hands at the 3-San Antonio 94 
point arc. Stevenson never got 
oIT the shot. With a big hand WASHINGTON 
"He brings toughness, and from BrianIn a game that already had 

he's got the quickest hands in Skinner, Allen
three players 39 or older, 
the NBA. Still," Collins said. Iverson won his
Washington Wizards coach 
"Did you see the last two plays stretch duel withDoug Collins dusted off one he made? Like a cat." Tim Duncan. 
more fossil for the rough-and­Jordan called Oakley his Iverson scoredtumble stretch run. 
"Breakfast Club workout guy." 13 of his 37Charles Oakley, who hadn't "He's there in the morning," points afterplayed since a brief appear­
Jordan said. "He's been returning from a ance in the season opener. 
patiently waiting his chance. fourth-quarter
entered the game in the fourth Tonight we needed him." ankle injury andquarter and became a defen­Oakley's big finish overshad­Skinner blocked asive enforcer right up to the owed Bryon Russell's revenge potential tyingfinal buzzer, twice disrupting 
night. Russell, who played drive by DuncanDeShawn Stevenson's poten­
nine seasons for the Jazz 
with 25 seconds

tial game-tying shot in the 
before leaving as a free agent left, lifting theWashington Wizards' 105-102 this summer, scored 10 of his Philadelphiavictory over the Utah Jau on 
16 points in his first game 
76ers to a 99-94

Thursday night. 
against his old team. He and victory over the'Tm old," said Oakley, who Matt Harpring had one of the San Antonioturns 39 next month. "but I double technicals. Spurs.
still have a feel for the game. 
"Every time we play them, 
The last two

I'm a warrior. I want to play, 
we're going to whip 'em," 
NBA Most

and I just wait for my turn." 
Russell said. "We're going to 
Valuable Players
Michael Jordan (age 39) 

play hard. I'm going to make 
staged a thrilling

scored 19 points, including 
sure of that." 
back-and-forth

back-to-back layups that gave Malone (also 39) scored 26 
battle over the

the Wizards the lead for good. 
points, and Stockton had 17 
last six minutes.

Jerry Stackhouse scored 25 points and 11 assists before 
Four times,


points and went 14-for-14 
fouling out in the final minute. 
Philadelphia

from the free-throw line. 
"We didn't have a lot of 
snapped a tie,
But it was Oakley who made enthusiasm," Utah coach Jerry 

only to have San

the difference after the 
Sloan said. "Just give me the 
Antonio even

Wizards had blown a 21-point ball and I'll do that instead of 
things once

first-half lead. Utah led by five getting after people.... Some again.
when Oakley got off the bench guys look like they're trying to 
With the score

with 6:56 left -to huge 
do us a favor if we ask them to 
tied at 93,

cheers from the crowd. 
run." 
Iverson dribbled
"I wanted somebody who Jordan made just 7 of 17 
into the lane,

was going to keep Karl Malone at home. San Antonio has lost first season sweep of Orlando
shots in 34 minutes. The
from just laying the ball in the twisted between defenders consecutive regular-season since 1991-92 but didn't come
Wizards went 36-for-39 from
basket, because he was having and launched a rainbow shot games for the first time since close.
the free-throw line, although
his way," Collins said. "I knew that banked in with 43 sec­dropping three in a row from McGrady had a lot to do with
Tyronn Lue's two misses with 
the minute Oak stood up it onds remaining. March 27-31 of last season. that, making 14-of-26 shots.
18.1 seconds were almost
would rev up the crowd. I just The Spurs went to Duncan, The NBA's scoring leader
costly.
hoped we would get good who scored eight of his 29 Orlando 101, Los Angeles attacked the basket in the
The Wizards built a big lead 

results. Sometimes you've got points in the last six minutes. Clippers 80 third quarter, when the Magic
in a turnover-filled first half,
to gamble as a coach, and we He drove left on Skinner, a Tracy McGrady wasn't going extended a six-point halftime
but the Jazz closed the second 
were going south fast." reserve forward who was to lose to the Los Angeles lead to 78-58.
quarter with a 19-6 run to 
There were two double tech­stepping for foul-plagued Clippers twice in a week. By drawing double-teams,
trail 48-40. Washington had 
nicals after Oakley entered. 11 turnovers at halftime, Keith Van Horn. Skinner McGrady scored 35 points McGrady opened the floor for He didn't get either. but his while Utah had 12, matching blocked Duncan's shot, and and thoroughly dominated the teammates like Pat Garrity, presence had turned up the the number it had for the the Sixers grabbed the loose game as the Orlando Magic who made four 3-pointers in intensity. He also stole the ball entire game in a victory at ball. rolled to a 101-80 victory over the third period and finished from John Stockton (41 in New York on Tuesday. Iverson was fouled and the Clippers in the opener of a with 14 points. March) to set up a layup for Stockton and Malone scored made both free throws for a six-game road trip. Grant Hill added 17 points Jordan that put the Wizards 16 of Utah's first 18 points to 97-93 lead with 21 seconds to On Sunday, McGrady scored and nine rebounds for up by five with two minutes start the second half, and the go. Aaron McKie added a 32 points, but the Magic stum­Orlando, which snapped a left. Jazz took their first lead, 56-breakaway layup after bled down the stretch and suf­two-game slide and improved 
The Jazz cut it to three and 55, on Stockton's pull-up Stephen Jackson missed a des­fered a 120-117 home loss to to 3-1 on the road. The Magic had a chance to tie on their jumper with 6:29 left in the peration 3-pointer. the Clippers. Back at home, do not return to Orlando until final possession, but Oakley third. Philadelphia improved to 5-0 Los Angeles was looking for its November 24. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
"At Last Spring Break" Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash­tours com 18004267710 
Charming home in beautiful safe neighborhood. 1 mile from ND. 3­bdrm, 1 112 bath.Ir, dr, family room, eat in kitchen, finished basement Beautiful hardwoods; new carpet throughout. Built in gas grill in large private backyard. All new appli­ances. References required. 950/mo. 288-5118 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, JOR­DAN LOVE, MOM & DAD 
PRAYER TO THE BLESSED VIA• GIN (never known to fail) Oh most beautiful flower of Mt. Carmel, fruit­ful vine, splendor of heaven, blessed Mother of the Son ot God, Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my necessity. Oh Star of the Sea, help me and show me here you are my Mother. Oh Holy Mary, Mother of God. Queen of Heaven and Earth. I humbly beseech you from the bot­tom of my heart to succor me in my necessity... (MAKE REQUEST)...There are none that can withstand your power. Oh Mary, conceived without sin, pray for us who have recourse to thee. (repeat)(repeat)Holy Mary, I place this prayer in your hands (repeat) (repeat) Say this prayer for three consecutive days, publish will be granted. GRATEFUL THANKS! 
Buy/Sell N D Football Tickets.Student discount available. 
289-8048 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break VacationslMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals' 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1 296 Be your own boss with the flexibility to work when you want You can earn extra cash working only a few hours a week. Call today about the opportunity. 574-674-8774 Kelly 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMODELED. 
FULLY EQUIPPED $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
Woodbridge condo (Ironwood N. of Douglas) OPEN HOUSE Sun. 11/17/021-3 pm Over 900 sq fl. completely updated. REDUCED to $81,900. See at reedburrer.com 
FOR RENT 

All size homes available tor 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmm­rentals.com 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perteet for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 
Nice 3-bdrm home in East Race near Cort.Jys avail. now. W/D incl. 679-2010. 
Large updated duplex avail. now. Unit 1 • 2-bdrms Unit 2 -3-4 bdrms Or rent both units for large group. Close to campus. 
Call 679-2010. 
----------3­
Bedroom Home 1 mile from NO. Garage, alarm system, A/C Avail.immed., $650/mo. Call 220­0499. 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. 
Furnished-2 BR Til 9/01/03 Near ND. Furnished 2BR in Spring 03 near Airport. Cell 508-524-9761, Fax 508-457-5202 nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288-9673 Avail now. 
bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.ft house. Close to ND. All appliances.big yard,garage,CIA. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 243·9901. 
bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq ft house. Close to ND. All appliances.big yard.garage.CIA. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 243·9901. 
TICKETS 
N. D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. 
WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST 
PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 NEED 2 TIX FOR RUTGERS. 
PLEASE CALL 674-6593. 

BCS BOWL TICKETS FOR SALE . (ALL LOCATIONS) Local/574)654· 0168 TOLL FREE(800) 272-8553 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude. CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, MY 
SWEET BABOO LOVE, MOM 
Future of The Observer sports 
department running the show 
My life is in shambles 

r-------------~-----------------------­
Friday, November 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
High-priced Hampton could be headed to the Marlins 
Associa1cd P rcss 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Mike Hampton will rethink blocking a proposed six-player deal that would send him from Colorado to the Florida Marlins, the pitcher's agent said. 
The Marlins and Hockies agreed to a tentative trade that would move Hampton and outfioldor Juan Pierre to the Marlins for catcher Charles Johnson, outfielder Preston Wilson, lel'l-hander Vic Darensbourg and infielder Pablo Ozuna. Hampton and Johnson both have no-trade clauses and have until midday Saturday to decide whether to waive them. Before the deal was agreed to by the teams, Hampton said he would block it. 
"It was probably prcma-· ture," Jlampton's agent, Mark .'Odgers, said Thursday. "We uwc it to the Marlins to at l!~ast let them make their best sales pitch lo Mike. I think they'll have that opportunity. 
"Mike is not going to sum­marily dismiss it and say no way to the Florida Marlins. He might as well take advantage of this time to do what he needs to do to make a good, thoughtful decision." 
Johnson. who signed with the Marlins to live close to his home. also is "deliberating," according to his agent, Scott 
Bor,i~ 
"We'Jl look into it. It's a big change," Boras said. "He went to Florida for a reason. He knows there's an opportunity in Colorado. It's just some­thing he's beginning to think about." 
Rockies general manager Dan O'Dowd would not specu­late on whether the deal would go through, saying, 'Tm in a holding pattern on that." 
Florida general manager Larrv Beinfest refused to com­ment on specifics but did say, 'Tm hopeful that the work we did here can culminate in something happening." 
"We'll see what happens," he said. 'Tm optimistic about the work we did and the way that we moved through on a couple of different areas." 
Hampton. a :10-year-old left­hander, was 7-15 with a 6.15 ERA this year -the highest in the major leagues among pitchers who qualified for the EHA title. 
lie is 21-28 with a 5.75 EHA since leaving the New York Mets to sign a $121 million, eight-year contract with the Rockies in December 2000, the richest deal for a pitcher. Following a 9-2 start in 2001, he is 12-26 with a 6.62 ERA. 
Johnson, a 31-year-old catcher, hit .217 this season with six homers and 36 RBIs in 244 at-bats. 
The tentative trade was first reported Thursday by the Hocky Mountain News, Palm Beach Post and South Florida 
S u n • Sentinel. Hampton was quoted i 11 Thursday's editions of the Denver Post as say­ing he would not approve a trade to Florida. 
"It's not going to happen," Ilampton told the p a p c r when told a deal was possible. 
"They're pretty much in the same situation we're in," Hampton s a i d . "They've 

been in  a  
c  y  c  l  e  
w  h  e  r  e  

they've been trad­ing good players and going young. If [ am going to be traded, I want­ed to go to a team that could win right away." 
Rodgers said Hampton was open to reconsidering. "Mike was caught off guard," 

the agent said. "Mike said to me this morning that this says a lot about the Marlins. They're trying to make their team better. 
Hampton is owed $84.5 mil­lion in salary through 2009. 


pl us $19 million in deferred money from his $21 million signing bonus. 
Johnson is due $25 million over the next three years ­plus $1 million extra in 2005 if he is traded. 
.. 
-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 15, 2002 
TENNIS 

Agassi loses twice in Masters Cup, loses grip on No. 1 
,,. 
Associated Press 

SHANGHAI, China 
Andre Agassi's second loss in the season­ending Masters Cup means Lleyton Hewitt will finish the year with ihe world No. 1 ranking. 
Agassi double-faulted on match point, hand­ing Juan Carlos Ferrero a 7-5, 2-6, 7-6 (6) vic­tory. Shortly after the match, Agassi withdrew from the tournament with a hip injury. Thomas Johansson of Sweden will replace Agassi. 
Agassi came into the eight-player tourna­ment with a chance to overtake Hewitt in the rankings and finish the year No. 1. But he failed to reach the semifinals after his second straight loss. 
Hewitt then celebrated his top ranking by handing Marat Safin his third straight loss, 6­
4, 2-6, 6-4. 

"I think Lleyton obviously has had a great year," Agassi said. "He's again proven himself to be the best out there. and that's not easy to 
..
d
0. 

Agassi's second straight defeat also clinched a semifinal berth for Switzerland's Roger Federer, who ran his record to 2-0 by stopping Jiri Novak 6-0. 4-6, 6-2. 
The round-robin portion of the tournament ends Friday when Carlos Moya takes on fellow Spaniard Albert Costa, Ferrero plays Novak and Federer meets Johansson. 
Safin cruised through the second set, when Hewitt served a miserable 28 percent, and had an early break in the final set. Hewitt, howev­er, broke back. 
In the ninth game, Safin won the first two points before eventually losing his serve. It was the opening Hewitt needed, and he held serve in the next game to close out the victory. 
Safin said Hewitt's main strength is "just dedication and consistency. Nothing else." Now Hewitt must wait until the Moya-Costa 
match to see if he plays in the semifinals or if his year is over. 
"I think I've got better and better every match that I've played this week," Hewitt said. "I knew I had to get a win on the board tonight. and I did that and now it's out of my control." 
Agassi battled F'errero evenly, unlike his dis­appointing performance against Novak in his first match Wednesday. But mistakes once again buried any chance Agassi had to pull out a victory. 
"I didn't expect to come out and play a bad match," Agassi said. "It was just a tough match. I expected it to be tough and it was tough, and I'm not sure it's any consolation when you lose it." 
Ferrero, one of three Spaniards in the field, lost his serve only twice in the match -and both came in the second set when Agassi raced out to a 4-0 lead. 
In the third set tiebreaker, Ferrero had triple match point at 6-3. But Agassi won the next three points before Ferrero held for a 7 -6 advantage and his fifth match point. 
This time, Ferrero clinched the win. "Right now I'm playing with a lot of confi­dence," Ferrero said. 
Federer, the first Swiss player to qualify for the season-ending championships since Jakob Hlasek in 1988, played well against Novak. 
Federer took the first three games of the final set, then easily held serve the rest of the way to become the only undefeated player in his Gold Group. 
Hewitt, Safin, Moya and Costa are in the Red Group. Moya, at 2-0, clinched a semifinal berth on Wednesday. 
After three round-robin matches, the top two players in each group advance to Saturday's semifinals. Hewitt is trying to become the first player since Pete Sampras in 1996-97 to win this event in consecutive years. 


Friday, November 15, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
page 17 


A CO-SPONSORED EVENT.• 

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT, Saint Mary's College THE CAREER CENTER, University of Notre Dame 
MONDAY,NOVEMBER18 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 

1ST SESSION •••••••••••••• 6:00 -7:00 PM For FIRST AND SECOND YEAR STUDENTS interested in EDUCATION as a Major 
PRESENTATIONS & PANEL DISCUSSION: Tradidonal Elementary Educadon 
Nancy Turner, Associate Professor, Saint Mary's College 
Secondary Education 
Kitty Green, Assistant Professor, Saint Mary's College Special Guest: Michael Rampolla '03, University of Notre Dame, will speak about his experience in the Secondary Education program. 
rd SESSION •·•··•···•••·• 7:30 -a:30 PM For THIRD AND FOURTH YEAR STUDENTS interested in TEACHING CAREERS 
PRESENTATIONS & PANEL DISCUSSION: 
Transition to Teaching Program 
Dale Banks, Associate Professor, Saint Mary's College 
Teach for America 
Amanda Jonas, Director of Recruitment Support 
Alliance for Catholic Education 
Mary Jo Adams Kocovski, Senior Associate Director 
Culver Military Academy 
Candace Koehn, Intern Coordinator Special Guest: Cari McCullough '02, University of Notre Dame. Cari is presently teaching Music Theory and Music History. She is also co-director of the CMA Orchestra and coach for the CMA fencing team. 
•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


NFL 
Peppers suspended 4 games, will appeal ... 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Carolina Panthers rookie 

defensive end Julius Peppers 
was suspended for four games 
by the NFL for violating the 
league's substance-abuse poli­
cy, his agent said. 
Agent Marvin Demoff said the 

league office told him that 
Peppers had tested positive for 
a banned substance in a dietary 
supplement. A source close to 
Peppers, speaking on condition 
of anonymity, said Peppers did 
not test positive for steroids 
Demoff said Peppers would 

appeal the suspension, meaning 
he can play in Sunday's game 
against Tampa Bay. 
In a statement released 

together with one from his 
agent, Peppers said he couldn't 
discuss the suspension until 
there's a ruling on his appeal. 
"While I would like to provide the fans with more information due to the legal ramifications I cannot comment on the situa­tion and I will not be able to until the appeal process is com­plete," he said. 
Peppers practiced with the Panthers (3-6) on Thursday, but did not make himself available to reporters. 
The 22-year-old player was 
an All-American at North 
Carolina, and after he decided 
to leave after his junior year, 
the Panthers kept him in his 
home state and made him the 
No. 2 overall pick in the draft. 
The 6-foot-6, 283-pound player 
has made an immediate impact, 
leading the NFL with 10 sacks. 
He also has one interception. 
Peppers can keep playing 
while his appeal is heard. 
"My understanding is, he will 
be our starting left defensive 
end this Sunday," said coach 
John Fox. "And all of my focus 
-and his, too -is on the 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers." 
If the suspension is not over­
turned, Peppers would begin 
serving it immediately. 
Normally, appeals are heard on 
a Tuesdays, the regular day olT 
for NFL players. 
Panthers linebacker Mark Fields said the situation did not create a distraction for the team Thursday. 
"It's not that serious, so we 're not looking at it like it's that serious," Fields said. "We're playing Tampa Bay on Sunday, and he's playing." 
If Peppers is suspended for all four games, he would lose $235,000 in salary. lie signed a seven-year, $62 million contract in July, the richest deal in team history. 

,,, 
,.. 
No Coopon Ner.emry Plus Ta, FREE DELIVERY. S7 00 Minimum Filr Delivery Not Valid With Any Olh!r Ofli!r Valid On~ Al lislad Marco's P,ua Locallons Exp1res 12·15-02 
~E'~ 
ACCEPT[O HERE
Large Pizza 
Musi proviikl md1l card 111lor,m11oa ~~r1 01d€ri11Q lor de1Nery
Cheese & 1Topping C"ECH OU1 OUR OR\LY SPECtnLS 
10m 


52750 IN 633 .......574-243•1122 
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday! 
serving 326 N. lronwood...574-243•1111 
BelhBI College Corner of Ironwood &McKinley 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, November 15, 2002 
,.. 
... 

around the dial 
NBA 

Dallas Mavericks at Boston Celtics, 8 p.m., ESPN
... 
Chicago Bulls at New Orleans Hornets, 
8:30 p.m., FOXCH 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL COACHES VS. CANCER CLASSIC 
Marquette vs. Villanova, 6:30 p.m., ESPN2 Georgia vs. Texas, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA 


utes. half, missing six shots and Alabama's defense let it 
Associated Press 

Kenny Walker added 14 committing three take a 33-25 lead after 20 points for Alabama and turnovers as they fell minutes. Price was never 
NEW YORK 

preseason All-America behind by 18 points. able to get it going on Mo Williams scored 25 Erwin Dudley had 12 Price finally started to offense and Ere picked uppoints and No. 8 Alabama points and eight rebounds. shoot -he was 1-for-2 in the slack with 12 first-half beat No. 3 Oklahoma 68­
But it was Williams, a the first half -and the points.
62 Thursday night in the sophomore guard, who Sooners were able to chip This was Alabama's first season's first matchup of came up big when the away, getting within 60-55 victory against Oklahoma Top Ten teams. 

Sooners made their late with 1: 30 left on a steal in four meetings. 
Both schools had four 

run. and layup by Jabahri And it might've provided 
starters back from teams 

Ebi Ere had 24 points for Brown. just a little measure of that won their conference Oklahoma, while Hollis Williams then made two revenge for Crimson Tide 
tournaments last season 

Price had all but four of free throws to restore the fans -on Sept. 7, in a and Oklahoma was coming his 19 in the second half. seven-point lead and he rare matchup of their foot­
off an appearance in the 

The Crimson Tide answered the next two ball teams, then-No. 2 
Final Four. 

opened the second half times Oklahoma scored as Oklahoma rallied in the It looked like the season 
with a 10-0 run that gave well, never letting the fourth quarter past 
opener for both. especially them a 43-25 lead with Sooners closer than five Alabama 37 -27. 

Oklahoma, which didn't 15:24 left in the game. points. Memphis beat Syracuse 

get its offense going until Oklahoma went 5:24 with­Neither team looked 70-63 in the opening game the game's final two min-out scoring to start the smooth in the first half but of the two-day event. 

IN BRIEF 

Memphis downs Syracuse "I'm not used to playing 40 minutes. Mike Cragg, an assistant athletic 
For openers, Memphis and I've got to work on it." director, said Krzyzewski was taken Syracuse put a couple of hotshot John Calipari, who coached to Duke Medical Center for X-rays. freshmen in the Madison Square Memphis to the NIT championship at Cragg said Krzyzewski had a check­Garden spotlight in the first major the Garden in the final game of last up on his hip last week, and doctors 
college basketball game of the sea­season, knew his team would be said he was doing fine. son Thursday night, and Jeremy nervous on this floor to open the It was unclear whether 
season.
Hunt and Carmelo Anthony Krzyzewski would be admitted to the shrugged off the pressure. ''I've been beating on my guys for hospital, a school spokesman said. 
Hunt and Memphis won the fresh­25 days," he said. "I wanted them to The sixth-ranked Blue Devils won man showdown 70-63 after letting a compete at Madison Square Garden, 102-74, with top assistant Johnny 17-point lead melt away when not be afraid." Dawkins taking over for Krzyzewski. Anthony put on a one-man show, "I know Coach, and he's in terrific scoring 15 straight first-half points. Krzyzewski leaves game shape," Dawkins said. "I think he's 
"Once we blew the lead, we looked Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski going to be great, but that's just my at each other and said 'Wow, we lost didn't return to the Blue Devils' instinct. I do know him, and he's a the lead,"' Hunt remembered. "We bench for the second half of heck of a fighter, and if there is any regrouped and that got us going." Thursday night's exhibition game chance he'll be out there, he will." 
Hunt and Anthony Rice were the because of pa.in in his right leg. Duke opens the regular season main men in a 12-0 Memphis run The 55-year-old Hall of Fame Nov. 23 against Army. that put the Tigers back in front to coach had his right hip replaced Krzyzewski's hip appeared to lock stay. Meanwhile, Anthony, who March 24, his second hip replace­up as he moved off the bench when scored 21 points in the first half, fin­ment operation. He was limping point guard Chris Duhon was fouled ished with 27 and 11 rebounds. But badly as he made his way to the hard and tumbled to tho floor with he missed five free throws down the locker room at halftime of his team's 8:05 left in the half. Duhon sprained stretch that hurt Syracuse. game against the EA Sports All­his left wrist on the play and missed "I got a little fatigued," he said. Stars. most of the second half. 


~ --­
Friday, November 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

~-·-·1 
I I 
A new fitness and taekwondo school has opened close to campus 
(!jlflJTIJ 
'!Tiff 
&11eifiJfNO/ANA 
Join us for our Open House 
::,.
Saturday, November 16th, 9am -2pm 
.. 

• 
Taekwondo and fitness demonstrations 

• 
Free Food 

• 
Stop by and mention this add for a FREE 2week pass! 


4609 Grape Rd., Suite A7 (across from Barnes and Noble) 247-2555 
Watson 
continued from page 24 
senior linebacker. Watson missed the first two games of the season with an illness. However, when he returned to the field. he made it clear that he would be a leader on the Notre Dame defense. 
"I said earlier in the year that when he stepped back into the lineup, it had a very calm­ing effect on our football team and not just a defensive state­rncn t," Willingham said. "It was a team statement because of his discipline, because of his knowledge and because of his will to be successful." 
Watson said that his will to be successful despite his ill­ness. is just another example of the Irish football team's return to national prominence. 
"I think it just exemplifies our entire program this year, how everything has just turned around in a new direction and a new commitment by the players on the team," he said. 
Although Willingham may be disappointed, the Irish coach probably won't see the award renamed anytime soon. 
"Now please understand, it is very appropriate for [the award to be named] for Dick Butkus," he said. "But I feel so strongly about what Courtney has brought to our football team and just our community. that I think in a kind of loose or lighthearted manner, it would be out of great honor and respect for him to win this award." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Runners 
continued from page 24 
considerably tougher field, and they will have to challenge No. 4 Wisconsin, No. 7 Eastern Michigan. No. 9 Central Michigan, No. 17 Ohio State and others in order to keep their national championship qualifying hopes alive. 
"It's do or die," Irish junior and top runner Todd Mobley said. "There are no excuses. If we don't get it done, then our sea­son's ended. I think everyone knows it." 
Mobley will be running compet­itively with the team for the first time in weeks, after missing the Big Ea.st championships due to an injury. His absence at that event, held two weeks ago in Boston, considerably impaired the team's 
strength, and the Irish finished in fourth place. The team expects things to run more smoothly Saturday. 
"Now I'm back to normal," Mobley said. "I don't know if I'm in top form, but I know I'll be able to contribute enough to help our team." 
Having Mobley better should have a positive trickle-down effect for the other runners. 
"I think their mindsets will be a little better, knowing that we're all together, all in the race, 100 percent healthy," Mobley said. 
The men have finished in the top five in nine out of the past 10 years. 
The Irish womens squad, led by 2001 All American Lauren King and potential 2002 All Americans Molly Huddle and Jen Handley. is experiencing the best season in the program's history. 
King, a sophomore, won the Big East individual title and I luddle. King's counterpart on the course, took second. Senior Bandley has much experience leading the Irish in important races and fin­ished 12th in the Big East Championships. 
Even if they do not finish in one of the top two places, the Irish have made a strong case for an at-large bid. 
Last year, the Irish finished in second place at the regional meet, their highest finish since they began running in the Great Lakes region. Having finished in the top six during the last nine out of ten years. the Irish have always been solid in the district championship, but they never before have entered the race coming off such a successful season. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlind.sle@nd.edu 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Tournament Selection Committee named Notre Dame a host site for first-and second­round games. Friday's action opens with Purdue facing Eastern Illinois at 4:30 p.m. The Irish will then take on the Big Ten Tournament Champion Ohio State at approximately 7 
p.m. or at the conclusion of the earlier game. The winners of the opening round will square off in the second round sched­uled for 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
"To be honest. I was a little surprised," said Irish coach Handy Waldrum. "There are so many good teams in our region this year. I really thought Purdue would host since they defeated us this year in head to head competition. but I think the committee recognized the strength of our schedule. Playing at home in the tourna­ment is a definite advantage because it allows the kids to stay in a routine and not have to worry about traveling. We real­ly need the home crowd to come out ~nd support us this we.ek­end. 
Notre Dame finished the regu­lar season ranked No. 19 in the country with a record of 11-7. After a midseason loss to Purdue, in which Notre Dame saw its record drop to a modest 7-6, the Irish rebounded emphatically at the end of the season with four wins in their 
final five games. 

Even more impressive, three of these wins were against top 15 teams. The Irish hope to carrv their late-season momen­tum ·into this weekend's action. 
"We're really playing our best at the right time of the season," said Warner. "Practice has been really good the last few weeks. Everyone's really eager to play this Friday." 
Just like Notre Dame, the Buckeyes saved their best soc­cer for the end of the season. While Ohio State holds a record of only 10-10-1, they are com­ing off the heels of a surprising Big Ten Tournament Championship run. Last week, the Buckeyes claimed the Big Ten's automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament after defeat­ing both No. 12 Penn State and No. 14 Purdue in games that ended in penalty kick shootouts. 
'Tm very impressed with them. They're much better than their record indicates," said Waldrum. "They're a real big, physical team like most other Big Ten teams. But where most Big Ten teams play a direct brand of soccer, Ohio State real­ly plays an attractive style of soccer. We've always had trou­ble with Big Ten teams because of their size. I expect a really tough game." 
"Just like us, they are really peaking at the right time," added Warner. "We're certainly not taking them lightly because of their record." 
Last year, the top-10 ranked Notre Dame womens soccer team entered the tournament with high expectation, but was upset by upstart Cincinnati in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. Even though last year's team had a more impres­sive regular season record, the Irish didn't seem to play to their capabilities all season. 
"Coach really didn't have to say much about [last year's loss]." said Scheller. "Last year's loss is definitely still in the back of our minds. Everyone knows that we don't want that to happen again. We've already experienced so much during this season that I think this year we are prepared and ready to go." 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 15, 2002 
MENS SWIMMING 
Swimming ventures southwest for meet 
ByJOE HETTLER 

Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's men swimming team Jost to Air Force earlier this season. So did Texas Christian University, the Irish opponent this weekend. 
However, some members of the Notre Dame swimming team don't think that's a good com­parison of the two teams. 
"When we lost to Air Force, it wasn't really comparable to when [Texas Christian] lost to them," freshman Patrick Davis said. "We lost to them at Air Force, which is 7,000 feet above sea level and [Texas Christian] lost to Air Force at home. It kind of makes a difference because of the differences in sea level." 
Losing to Air Force may be the only thing that the Irish and Horned Frogs have in common. The teams have opposite strengths and both will look to take advantage of these. Notre Dame should dominate the dis­tance meets, while Texas Christian has the edge in the sprint meets. 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion (574) 674-0022 Fax (574) 674-0033 ::m themed baskets our specialM 

"They are very strong in sprints, but we're strong in dis­tance," Davis said. "We expect to get a lot of points in distance." 
Davis also added that the team is very excited to make another trip this early in the season. Davis said the freshman are especially excited. 
"I'm not used to making these big trips," Davis said. "It's really cool to go across the country and swim against these other teams." 
Notre Dame is also hoping to gain some momentum after beating Michigan State Nov. 8 at home. The Irish have been led by strong performances from the 400-medley team of Jason Fitzpatrick, Frank Krakowski, Doug Hauman and Tim Randolph. The team's depth in the 1000-meter freestyle was noticed against Michigan State, when Notre Dame's Patrick Davis, Matt Bertke and J.R. Teddy took second, third and fourth, respectively. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Sportswear
largest selectio~ at 
5minute~~ from CUTPD5T' 
Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 far more details 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Irish anxious for first real game 
ByANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Now it's for real. 
After a summer spent sweat­ing in the Joyce Center, three weeks of practice, countless scrimmages and a pair of exhi­bitions, Notre Dame finally takes the court Sunday for its first regular-season game. 
"We can't wait," senior Matt Carroll said. "We've been working so hard to get to this team's general reserved atti­tude on the court. But in a defense where players routine­ly switch on screens, the Irish say they have to start being a little more vocal. 
"It's just a matter of having a bunch of new faces," Dan Miller said. "We're getting used to playing with each other, and as weeks go on, we'll know where our guys are. Right now, we still have to work on it." 
The Irish are also searching 
for an 
estab­

point. It's time to "We can't wait. We've lished start playing the been working so hard to rotation 
real thing." in the
get to this point. It's time 
The Irish will low-post. 
square off against to start playing the real B r e y Belmont at 4 p.m. thin_q." played Sunday in the first f'ive big round of 1.he men in 
Matt Carroll

Guardians N o tr e 
Classic. If Notre Dame wins. the Irish face the win­ner of the Brown-IUPUI game Monday night and automatical­ly advance to the tournament's semifinals next week. 
Notre Dame initially decided to hop into the Guardians Classic as a way to add a pair of home games early in the sea­son before the Irish begin a rig­orous non-conference schedule. 
But the tournament gives the Irish a chance to start address­ing a pair of problems that sur­faced in their first two exhibi­tion games -finding rotation in the post and communicating on defense. 
Irish coach Mike Brey attrib­utes the relative lack of defen­sive communication to his 
Irish guard Dame's f i n a l exhibi­tion -Torin Francis, Tom Timmermans, Jordan Cornette, Rick Cornette and Jere Macura -a number the Irish coach said might have been a little too many. Francis and Cornette, both of whom have played major min­utes in the exhibition, will play significant roles this season. But how the other three flt in is still a mystery. "We're still searching a little bit," Brey said. "We're going to have to do that as best we can and still go after wins early. We'll be looking at some differ­ent things and who steps for­ward." While the Irish wait for their 

big men to develop, the perime­ter will help the Irish in the early part of the season. However, a rules change for this weekend might affect Notre Dame's long-range shooters. 
The Guardians Classic is played under international rules, meaning the lanes are wider and the 3-point arc is pushed back a little further. But that won't stop the Irish from hoisting treys Sunday. 
"That's something we're not going to think about," Carroll grinned. "For most of our guys, we've got deep range. we're not going to worry about it." 
The eight-team Guardians Classic counts as an exempted event. Four teams -Notre Dame, Belmont, Brown and !UPI -play at the Joyce Center while the other four ­Creighton. Texas Arlington, Furman and Alabama State ­compete at Creighton's gym. The four winners of Sunday's games advance to the semifi­nals, held next week in Kansas City. The four losers of Sunday's games play a consola­tion game Monday before the four winners play to determine seeding in the semifinals. 
The way the bracket is designed, the Irish could poten­tially face Creighton, who upset Florida last season in the NCAA Tournament. 
"If you run into a Creighton, it would be a good match-up for us," Brey said. "It would be like a Big East game." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
tcrvieWS
l

Job n Student Photos lfoliday Gift 
ONE HOUR WHITENING 
$100 OFF REG $490 (WITH THIS AD) 
Dr. Doug Bateman 

Call 232-8888 General Denlistry 
Close to Campus 



Friday, November 15th lOpm-lam 1st floor Study Lounge CoMo 
Take a break! Play games with friends! Pizza, pop, and breadsticks will be served 
(f 5) Sponsored by Flipside * Questions? Call Annie 284-8330 
® 


Friday, November 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
VOLLEYBALL 
Fourth straight conference title not enough for the Irish 
10, 8-3) Sunday. wins. With only the top four
. Two wins this 
To complete the fourth con­teams in the Big East qualify­weekend will give secutive and seventh unde­ing for next weekend's post­feated conference season jn season tournament, the Irish
Irish perfect 
eight years. recognize
season in Big East 
the Irish will their oppo­have to defeat "Jt is the goal, probably nents this 
By MATT LOZAR the second­one ofour highest goals weekend Spores Writer place Hokies are playing
right now." 

and first-year for more volleyball con­than usual.
The Big East regular season ference mem­Lauren Kelbley "[Miamititle is in their possession for 
ber Miami. a n d
the fourth straight year, but Irish middle blcoker 
"It is the Virginia
that isn't enough. 
goal, probably Tech] needThe Jrish want to run the one of our to win these
table. highest goals games to
Facing its toughest confer­right now." middle blocker make the Big East
ence road trip of the season, the Notre Dame volleyball 
Lauren Kelbley said. Tournament, so it is do-or-die Virginia Tech, Miami, for them," Kelblcy said. "We
team (21-5, 11-0 in the Big East) plays Miami (22-4, 8-3) Connecticut and Pittsburgh know that and have to play at Friday nnd Virginia Tech (18-each have eight conference a high level." 
, 

l\~t 
~ AMou0<e• the following lntrnductm, often of••. 
·------· P------• ·------· ·------· ·------· 
I I I I I I I
$59

$15 I I I I I I I $69 I
$26 $68
I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I I
Highlights,
I Mens Cut I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I I I
Cut & Style
.. ______ .. ..I.. ______ ..I I I One Process I 1. I I I 
~------.. ·------" .. ______ 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-. 
Mus be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Mdissa-Connie-Serge'-Kristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Elena -Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2ATRIA SALON 
Not valid funpir.i.l p.'11m. Long or rinrcd lnir add$ to. No odicrdismunu ;1pply. Op:nSOIOC evenings, ATIUA 
Martin', Shopping Center 
1357 N, Ironwood Dr. S.don rt.'5L"l'Vc.S d'IC right CCl refuse: scrvkc.• to ,iny client whno;c hair condu:ion is umrcarablc. 
Next to SprintComer of Edison 
271-8804 
28?-5080 

OFFER EXPIRES 11-30-02 Less than I mile from campus 


Notre Dame and Miami have blocks per game average. never met before tonight's After falling to second in the match mainly because Miami's country in blocks per game. volleyball program wasn't the Irish reclaimed the top restored until the 2000 sea-spot with 16 blocks in last son. weekend's sweep over 
T h e Syracuse. Hurricanes Freshman lead the Big middle block­
"[Miami and Virginia 
East in hit­er Lauren
Tech] need to win these 
ting percent­Brewster led age (.271). games to make the Big the Irish with 
assists per East Tournament so it is six blocks 
game (14.89) and is ranked
do-or-die for them."
and kills per sixth nation­g a m e ally with a (16.58). Lauren Kelbley 1.64 blocks Miami start­per game
Irish middle blocker 
ed the sea­average. son on a 15-Having game win-wrapped up a ning streak. berth in the poslseason tour­
The Irish defeated the nament, the Irish know they Hokies last year in the first could be facing these two matchup between the teams. teams next weekend in Outside hitter Ana Lang leads Pittsburgh. Dropping a match Virginia Tech, averaging 3.77 to the Hurricanes or Hokies kills per game. Middle blocker could damage the lrish's aura Cheryl Stinson ranks fifth in of invincibility. the Big East with a 1.25 "The road trip is not neces­
sarily our hardest, but proba­bly the most important. If we win, it shows that we deserve to win Big East," Kelbley said. "Nothing is more important especially going into the Big East Tournament." 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
mlozar@nd.edu 
Two Internationally Acclaimed Bands Live & Up Close this Weekend at Ffbbleu""s Heaueb 
Baeele.,=felb Banb 
Friday. Nov 15 -9pm... Tickets $20.00 
"llle Battlefield&Indis tuming into a nationaltrea.su~. and eremplifies the ongoing nature oF Scottish musicaltradition. Not seen themyet? Shame on you." Edinbu,yh ~ning flews, Scotland 
Seven Naefone 
Saturday, Nov 16-9:00 pm ... Tickets $18.00 
"Seven Nations, wit/cit melds /Jagpipes and.iddles with hlazing electricguitar and droms. .. exitedtheirtour bus andwalkedin to a standing ovation. " San Francisco Chronicle 

Ffl>l>leR'& Heaacb 
Your Local Public House 
127North Hain Stret:t (US Bus 31) South Bend, Indiana 46601 
.. 
1.-· 
:,. ' ..a,-' ', .:~ 
-....,~~----~·­
Call (574) 232-2853 for Tickets 
The Road lo PerJiifon 
Playin9 in 10I [)eHm,~oJo, $3 Tlmrs<lau Nov. 14-, 10 pm Fd<lnu Nov.15, 7:30 & 10 Jun Sahmlay Nov. Hi, 7:30 & JO f>m 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 15, 2002 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 

McGraw announces signings of top 20 recruiting class 
Erwin will be joining the physical style of play would forward. when everybody gets along so
. Guard and 

Irish from St. Paul High School add a lot to an Irish team that "Susie Powers is a great well," McGraw said, citingforward headline in Santa Fe Springs, Calif. The does not play very physical passer," McGraw said. "She's Erwin's successful recruiting2003 class senior forward averaged 22.6 basketball. Erwin, who is going to help us at the guard visit. "Susie's the same kind of points per game and 14.5 expected to play right away spot with passing. shooting. person. She's somebody that is rebounds last season. She for the Irish, She's very unselfish and that's what it
By KATIE McVOY 

holds school records in career could add a intense and takes sometimes to be a team
Associate Sports Editor 

points and rebounds. new dimen­"lfwe want to be in the she works player. We're excited about sion of hard. I think both of them in terms of team
For the seventh consecutive But what McGraw likes best top 20, we have to 
about Erwin is not her 14th aggressive­she gives us chemistry."
year. the Irish announced a continue to recruit good
national ranking by Blue Star ness. some versa­
top 20 recruiting class. On Thursday, coach Muffet Basketball nor her third "I don't con­players." tility." Note: 
national 

sider us a Powers . McGraw was named as one
McGraw 

ranking by physical attended the of seven people to be inducted
announced Muffet McGraw 
that Crystal ''It's good for u.s to All-Star t e a m , " same high into the Saint Joseph's
Irish coach

G i r l s McGraw said. school as University Athletics Hall of
Erwin and continue to have top 20 
"I think she's current Fame in Philadelphia this
Susie Powers Report.
recruiting classes Instead, the somebody Irish sopho­weekend. McGraw played
committed to 

the Irish pro­because that's where we Irish coach that's going to really come more Katy Flecky. The two point guard for Saint Joseph's down and bodies are going to played together at Highlands for four years and was team
gram. want to be" i s 
be flying. That kind of physical Ranch in 2000. captain in her last two sea­
Erwin, a 6-impressed 
is really a good thing.'' McGraw is comfortable that sons. She set the Hawks' sin­
foot-2 for-by the 
Muffet McGraw Powers could also add some both women will not only gle-season record for steals
ward, and d e p t h 
versatility to the Irish game. bring physical skill to the with 102 in 1976-77.
Powers, a 5-Irish coach Erwin will 
The Denver, Colo. native from floor, but will fit in well with
foot-11 guard, add to the 
Highlands Ranch High School the Irish team chemistry.
signed letters current 
is a point guar, but can also "It was just a great fit ... Contact Katie McVoy at
of intent to attend Notre Dame Irish team. 
play shooting guard or small That makes it a lot easier mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu
in the fall of 2003. "Crystal [Erwin] brings a lot 
"It's good for us to continue of things that we really need," to have top 20 recruiting McGraw said. "She's a very classes, because that's where aggressive player, someone we want to be," McGraw said. who doesn't back down from "If we want to be in the top anyone. She's physical. she 
@NCAA TOURNAMENT SOCCER@20, we have to continue to likes a physical game." recruit good players." McGraw noted that Erwin's 



.4pplications are now being accepted 
for the President of the Student 
Campus Orientation Committee 
Responsibilities of the SCOC President include: 
*
To help promote ND's orientation ministry among the hall orientation commissioners, campus orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. 

*
To role model University expectations for orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. To assist with the hall and campus orientation committees. 

*
To serve as peer educators to hall orientation commissioners and committee members. 

*
To plan campus-wide orientation events for students and parents. 

*
To assist in facilitating the hall orientation programs (i.e., ice breakers at mixers) during the fall semester. 


If you are interested in applying as SCOC President, please stop by the Student Activities Office at 315 LaFortune Student Center to pick up an application. The application deadline is November 22nd. Interviews will be held the week of 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum 
Daniel Stowe, director 

cmusic oftfje<tounter 9Refonnation 
q:)a(estrina: Cffiissa 1:)apae Cffiarceffi Cffiotets 6y cpa(estrina ant> ,£assus 
Friday, November 15, 2002 
8:00 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel 
University ofNotre Dame Free and open to the publie 
UNIVERSITY Of 
NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
Hair Salon "Specializing in Highlighting)) 54053 North Ironwood 
(574) 277-1174 

STUDENT DISCOUNT SPECIAL --~ 

r. . ' I

Make your Haircut or Highlight Appointment Early With Emily & Receive l 0% off 

Friday, November 15, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 ­

CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 
Well... Idon't think we'll be needing quite so many sandwich artists... 

JACK MONAHAN 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 1983 film based on a Jean 
1 They're Shepherd book lifesavers 
38 Began 16 Degree 
39 Assuagingrequirement. 
agentmaybe 
40 Shake ott 17 Point out 
41 Game show 18 Suit to_ V.1.P.'s 42 It produces 
19 Start of a wrinkles
German series 44 Repeat
20 Source of 48 "A shrewd being, it's said 
pickpurse": 21 ~eyerbeer's Howell 
51 Herbert of "War Huguenots" 
and Peace" 22 Some poles 52 Help 24 Amalgamate 53 Reticulation 25 Discourag111g 
54 Brief time? word 59 Smash-up 26 "Promised 
60 Restlessness Land" author 28 Shot lhe breeze 
DOWN 
1 Cen1rally located
31 Old colonial region 2 Uncontrollable 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

-=-------33Japanese
honorilic 

35 Firth ot Clyde port 37 Percolate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
3 Chest sounds 4 Marie Claire competitor s Busl specialists. for short 
6 Compass 
7 Place lo sun 
8 Better 9 Dentist's direction 10 Rock blaster 
11 Spring lime in Paris 12 1940's arena: Abbr. 
13 Home entertainment systems 
14 Thoroughgoing 
15 Hair holder 
22 Reviews, as books 
23 Salon specialties 24 Tropical rays 25 Brat 
27 Split 
28 Madison, for one: Abbr. 
29 It separales two breaks 30 Part of an Eskimo diet 31 LAX posting 32 • Blue?" (1929 hit) 

Puzzle by Martin Ashwood•Smilh 
41 4-Down 48 Moscow's_ features Museum 
42 Top dog 49 Track founded 43 "Bridge in 1711 Complete" 50 nmes author 45 Exxon rival 53 Blue ­
Reservoir 46 Became (Colorado's wearisome largest body of 47 Biathlon need water) 

For answers call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a 
minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nyt1mes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Nelwork, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name -----------------------------­
Address ----------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
WILLSHORTZ 
55 Old protest grp. 
56 • Married an AY.e Murderer" (Mike Myers comedy) 
57 Media inits. since 1980 
SB It may be written in stone 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

... 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ed Asner, Beverly D'Angeio, Peiula Clark, Georgia O'Keeffe Happy Birthday: You're starting to get it togeIher. Things are turning around and you will begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel. You will have greal vision and you must be willing to take the time lo develop your ideas. Don't let your need for securi1y stand in the way of your goals. Your numbers are 8. 14. 22,27,34,39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Property investments or changes in your home will be progressive. Take time to do things with family members who don'I get out much. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can get help from those who have more knowledge or experience than you. Don't be afraid to ask. Romantic connections can be made, however, make sure that this person isn't involved with someone else.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): High energy at work will aid you in getting projects finished. You can use your added discipline to learn new skills or complete courses. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your intellect, wit and charm will shine, and many will be impressed by your talents. Games of mental agility will be exciting and help you attract romantic partners. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone you live with may be frustrated and upset. Ease the pain by offering assistance. Get out and socialize with friends. 
***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social events will lead 10 new romantic connections. Don't jump too quickly. This new relationship should be based on becoming friends first, and then lovers. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Difficulties with family or lovers may prevail if you have been too busy wiIh friends and co-workers. Accept any changes that occur in your domestic scene if it improves the situation. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take drastic measures if you aren't happy with the actions of your mate. Do a little soul-searching first and see if you can't work together to make things belier. Have an honcsl discussion with each other. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Problems with loved ones will erupl if you have been keeping secrets or have been evasive about your intentions. Be forthright with loved ones so they feel comfortable. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Communications with your lover will be enlightening. Don't get involved in the personal affairs of colleagues. You don't have the complete picture. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do not discuss your goals or intentions with colleagues. It may be premature, and some may usurp your ideas for Ihemselves. Opponunities to travel are likely. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Go with the now and enjoy your lover. Passionate encounters are your besl outlet. Don't hold back; just let Ihings unfold naturally.*** Birthday Baby: You will always want to be where the acIion is and will learn from what you observe. You will be a master at the art of persuasion and determined 10 do something great. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites al astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com. astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
JUMBLE 
JlJJroom&rE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BYNAD 

b
Q!002 Tribune Media Ser;lcos, Inc. All Righte Resarvad 
KHYAS 
j
I rI 
VERYUP 
I rJ b
www.Jumble.com 
tTHROYP I 
Answerhere: 
rn 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 
(III I I]
A 
(Answers tomorrow) 

-. 
Jumbles: FELON THINK ZODIAC LOUNGE
Yesterday's I 
Answer: What the phone solicitor considered his job ­A "CALLING" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 30 • To order. send your name, addreaa end SS.46 and make check payab .. to Tribune Medill Service•, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680--4330. 




PORTS 
Friday, November 15, 2002 
Second season begins 
The Irish womens soccer team hosts the first two rounds ofthe NCAA Tournament while the mens and womens cross country teams try to qualify for the NCMs. 


By JOE LICA.NDRO 
Sports Writer 
The time is now for the Notre Dame womens soccer team. 
After a roller coaster, injury-plagued regular season, the Irish are eager to begin their second season against Ohio State this Friday night in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
With a three-week layoff since their last game as a result of not qualifying for the Big East tournament, the Irish players feel the extra time off was exactly what they needed to rejuvenate themselves before the tournament. 
"I think not playing in the Big East Tournament was the best thing that could have happened for us," starting forward Amy Warner said. "We've had so many injuries that it was good for us to get everyone healthy and ready to go for the NCAA Tournament." 
The Irish received some great news earlier this week when the NCAA 
see SOCCER/page 19 

By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
For both the Notre Dame mens and womens cross country teams, Saturday's Great Lakes Regional is the race they have been preparing for all season. 
The top two teams in both the mens and womens races will automatically qualify for the NCAA Championships, which will be held in Terre Haute, Ind. 
The Irish womens squad, ranked fifth nationally and coming off their first ever victory at the Big East Championship, has a shot at automatically qualifying for the NCAA Championships. 
The men, on the other hand, are hoping to finish high enough to warrant one of 13 at-large bids to the NCAA Championship, chosen by an NCAA committee. 
Both squads have to contend with one of the most competitive regional fields in the nation, with teams such as No. 12 Michigan and No. 19 Michigan State in the womens race. The men will have a 
see RUNNERS/page 19 
FOOTBALL 
Courtney Watson named finalist for Dick Butkus award
-
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
Tyrone Willingham made it very clear that he believed Courtney Watson deserved to be a finalist for the Dick Butkus award. 
In fact, he felt so strongly about it that during a teleconfer­ence on Thursday when Watson was named one of three fmalists for the prestigious award, Willingham even suggested renaming the award. 
"It would be really kind of appropriate in a sense for me to make the request I'm going to make," Willingham said. "Because I think it would be in Courtney's honor to almost name the award after him." 
Watson joined Maryland's E.J. Henderson and Oklahoma's Teddy Lehman as a finalist for the award, which is presented annually to college football's best linebacker. The winner of the award will be announced Dec. 13 in Orlando. 
While Willingham was busy praising Watson's talent at the linebacker position, Watson was tightly focused on giving credit where he thought credit was due. 
"It's just a credit to my team­mates," Watson said. "You can't be a good player without the guys around you. It's the rededi­cation of the players and the phi­losophy of the coaches." 
Watson has been an integral part of a successful Irish defense that is holding its opponents to only 14.5 points per game. The Sarasota, Fla. native leads the team with 81 tackles, eight tack­les for a loss and three sacks. He's also recorded three inter­ceptions, including an intercep­tion that he returned 34 yards for a touchdown against Stanford. 

"I think Courtney, first of all, has placed a great deal of respect on his teammates, but I think so much of that should be credited to him because of his leadership," Willingham said. 
Being named a finalist for the Butkus award comes near the end of a season that had any­thing but a pleasant start for the 
see WATSON/page 19 



VOLLEYBAU 
MENS BASKETBALL 
MENS SWIMMING 
Notre Dame at Miami 

Notre Dame vs. Belmont in 
Notre Dame at 

Head coach Muffet McGraw 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
Texas Christian 

Guardians Classic 
announces the signings of two 
Sunday at 4 p.m.
recruits for her 2003 class. 
Notre Dame at Virginia Tech 
Friday, 7 p.m.
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 p.m.

Irish are eager to begin their season 
in a tournament at the Joyce Center. 
page 22 

page 21 
Page 20 

page 20 






