
Aday for dreaming
CLOUDY 
Monday 

In commeration of Matin Luther King, the Notre Dame community plans a 
week of activities that stress understanding, unity and reflection. 
JANUARY 21, 

HIGH 38° 
Scene . page 10-11
LOW28° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
VOL. XXXV NO. 61 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



SMC/ND honor Martin Luther King 
bn!ak and Christmas break. It's committee of six students and people." or 16 from the residence halls By SARAH RYKOWSKI an option that we get as a pri­five staff members chose this .Johnson, Sorrell and three at the University. Nt'wsWrircr 
vatf' school," Johnson said. "We theme hecaus<' of tho continu­other students and staff mem­··susan Good, a technology just save up those days." ing situation in Afghanistan, bers also dedded to include the specialist in the law school, WhilP stud1rnts at many pub­E V (' 11 and the nPed South Hend community in the offered to sew [the patches! lic and prirntr> univnrsities will though tlH, for peace project. together over the Christmas takP todav oil from school lO studnnts at "/ think this quilt is a around the "I invited 40 odd South Bend holidays," .Johnson said. "Her honor \fartin 1.utlH•r King. Ir.. both schools world. elementary schools, Catholic uncle, a Holy Cross priest, con­
very strong reminder of
students al \'otrP DamP and will rnmain Jourdan and private. and all Notre structed a stand for it." Saint \larv·s will remain in in class how far we ·ve come." Sorrell. a Dame residence halls and According to Johnson. the dass. · today, sophomore at dorms to participate," Johnson quilt will be unveiled Tuesday, 
.\('cording to Chandra events are Notre Dame, said. "They have kits for quilts and members or all the partic­
Jourdan Sorrell

.Johnson. assistant to tlw presi­plannnd on suggested and I got a quilt packet with all ipating schools are invited to
sophomore

dnnt. and assistant director for both cam-using a quilt to the colors of the rainbow. We the unveiling and will receive a Campus Ministry at NntrP puses to illustrate the mailed a patch to all the ele­certificate of appreciation for Dame. the policy is to save up mark the theme. mentarv schools and residence their participation. 
tlw davs from \fondav holidavs holidav and "I thought a halls with instructions." "I think this quilt is a very such ,i:s todav and ailO\•\' for" a remember King and his legacy. good segueway into [our theme] After three-and-a-half-strong reminder of how far longer semestPr brPak and a At Notre Dame, the activities would be a peace quilt," Sorrell weeks, Johnson stated that they we've come as people," Sorrell \VPc>klong fall break. cnnlor around the theme said. "The different squares had received half of the patch­said. "The quilt is a reminder of 
"Notre Danw nPvt'r takes the "Operation Love: Making a represented what Dr. King and es. completed, from the ele­\fonday holidays bncausP of fall Diff,mmce Piece by Peace." A his legacy meant to different mentary schools and about 15 see MLK/page 4 
Panel: Symbols 
illustrate beliefs 
. Interfaith celebration unites community 
By SARAH NESTOR 
~t'WS \X'ri [l"f 
Hoping tn bring tlw community togcthn. tlw Saint \1ary's students and farultv lwld tlw sp(·ond annual intPrf'aith c·d<:brntion Sunday. 
FivP difftn-Pnt spPakPrs discussPd tlw importan1•p of symbols in Judaism. ( :hristianitv. Islam. 
"ft reminds us that we
Budclhisn; and said. "In Buddhism Baha'i as part ol' cannot understand the you depend on tlw tlwnw: "SacrPc! Pxperience and not
mind ofGod."
Symbols. Sacred on what is taught." ObjPcts." Symbols Professor Alexis such as Sabbath Alexis Brooks DeVita Brooks De Vita rnndlPs, rolrns and English professor shared the Baha'i's 
calligraphy WPrl' displayPd during tlw talk. 
HhPI Hartky spoke lirst on the rt>la­tionship of syrnbob in the Jewish faith. 
".Judaism uses lots of objects and lots ol' svmbolism," she said. "The llQjccts thf'msdws arl' not sacred but tlw use of the object, an~ so that we become closer in our mind to God." 
Imam Waliyyuddin Beyah spoke about the Muslim faith. He explaineJ that tlwre am not objef'ts used in Muslim. but what is most sacred is tlm writtrn word or the Qu'ran. 
IIP further explainPd that as a !\.Iuslim there are certain exµecta­lions. such as a pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia. 
Beyah also touched on the subject of th1\ war in /\l'ghanistan and the concept of jihad in Islam. Beyali said that Osma bin Laden was not con­ducting a jihad. 
"Jihad or ijtihad, is not fighting with guns, it is an internal f'ight within ones self to become closer to God. l.Jmmah is the term for war and fight­ing with others." Beyah said. 
Tnm Brown explained Buddhism and what it is to be a Buddhist. As a Buddhist there are three goals. to avoid eviL do only good and purify your mind. Any objPct can be scared bncause Buddhists believe that every­thing is, and of. God. 
"You can be a Buddhist and still 
attend Catholic 
Church," Brown 
believes with the 
panel. There is no dPrgy but each pnrson takes it upon himself or herself to study and attend to their own belief' in God. 
Symbols in the faith are tlrn live­pointed and nine-pointed star and an object called the ring stone. The ring stone consists of three different verti­cal bars, the top bar represents God. tho middle is manifestation and the third represents the human world. 
"It reminds us that we cannot understand the mind of' God," De Vita said. 
Professor Reth Newman finished the discussion with an interpretation of Christianity and jthe use of icons and the idea of idolatry, which goes against the Commandments. 
Those> who did not want to use 
see SYMBOL/page 4 

REMEMBERING A HISTORY 


-·· -----­
--------------------------.----------­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, January 21, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Rams prove to amuse 
With the start of the new semester, I like most have been more engaged in the NFL playoffs than in academir. work. After follow­ing the St. Louis Rams, the Green Bay 
Packers and the Chicago Bt>ars all season, this year's playoffs have been more ent>rgt>tic and enter­taining than they have been in awhile. 
Everyone knows the Rams are good, have been good and have the poten­tial and talent to remain good, however, who would have though the Bears would have made it to the playoffs and gotten a first round byr1? Who would have lhought the Packers would have received home field 
advantage in the first round and been paired with the unstoppable Rams in the second round back when the season started? 
While it was only a matter of time before the Bears were dropped out they proved to have earned their trip to the playoffs and their homefield advantage. But maybe next year will be their year. 
For me, after the first round of playoffs the excitement only began to rise. After following the Rams and the Packers throughout the season it was bittersweet to be able to watch these two teams finally have a chance to play each other. 
The Packers have talent, even though they did not show much of it on Sunday. The last two weeks were looking a little brighter and less intimidating for Green Bay with Kurt Warner's throat injury and his recent case of the stomach nu last week the Packers had a chance to prevail and prepare their strategy in hopes of Warner not returning for the game. However, it was obvious Sunday that the Parkers were not prepared to meet the unpredictable Rams in their house_ 
Sunday's game was an incredible site to watch. After a slow first quarter by both teams the sec­ond while improving a little bit was still a disap­pointing show, but the third quarter was a time to shine for the Rams. 
For those who don't follow the Hams and who haven't seen them play-literally with all their tricks -the third quarter was amusing to say the least. While Warner did not shine to his abil­ity, the defense did and Warner left the showing off to them this ,.-veek 
Watching this team it is hard to believe just four years ago they were one of the laughing stocks of the NFL 
ri"'.e years ago with little to no talent, the Rams were the black sheep of football who really never got to shine or prove themselves. However, since winning the Superbowl in 2000 they have done nothing but control the spotlight in St. Louis and around the country. 
For those Titans fans who still have a bitter taste in their mouths wait until this year when the Rams reappear as Superbowl Champions. 
If one thing is for sure no one is able to stop Marshall Faulk, Warner and the tricks the Rams have up their sleeves. So you might as well sit back, relax and enjoy the show with the rest of St. Louis. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at 
boyl5460@saintmarys.edu 

Views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The ObsPrver. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Ohserva reg.,rds itself as a profossion,1! puhlication ,rnd s1rives for 1he highest st:u1d.mls of journalism ,ll ;ill rim~,. We do, however. recognize rbat we will make mistakes, If we have made a mist.,kc, pk,,se contact us at 63 l-4541 sow, ,.\n (.:Olfti,,':t our t:nor. 
The Ohse":edl!~l'.~ '>9'! ~.-4000) i, puhlished M<>11d.1)' 1hmu~h Frid,1r ~x1,:c-p{ <lurin~ ex,1111 cmd vac.1rio11 periods. The Ohsi:-rvrr 1s .;1 member of 1he Assn1.:i:ued Pres>. AH reprfl(.lucrt":"n righr~ ,He' rt•~t"rvt'd. 
. 
. 
-. 
. 
. 
. 

-;~~?+~:·. ~ .. 

Courtney Boyle 
Copy Editur 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Prayer Service:Stapletun  . Lecture: "Science as  
Lounge 4:30 p.m.  Cod," Auditorium,  
. Event: "Frum the Inside  Hcsburgh Center 4 p.m.  
Out" LaFortune Ballroom,  . Film: "Mon Oncle,  
6:30 p.m.  Antoine," Montgomery  
. Event: Networking conti­ Theatrn, Lafortune  
nental breakfast Haggar  Student Center 7 p.m. and  
303, 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.  9 p.m.  

Cumpi/etl Imm U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 

Harvard's may restore ROTC funding 
CAi\1BRIDGE, Mass. 
University President Lawrt>nce Summers raised questions about Harvard's "uncomfortable" and "unorthodox" fonding support for stu­dents in the Resr-rve Officers Training Corps IHOTC) .in a study break at Winthrop !louse on Wednesday night. 
Although Harvard aUows students to travel to Massachusetts Institute or Technology, which provides an HOTC unit for Tuft<; and WPllesley Universities as well, it does not ofticially fund the costs associated with the program because of a faculty decision regarding the military's "don't ask, don't tell" poli­cy, a policy Summers said many might consider dis<:riminatory. Instead, the University requested that alumni fund the program without going through oi1i­dal chamrnls, 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY 
Online essay services spark concern 
The increasingly competitive college admissions process is driving high school students to new lengths, such as high-priced personal counselors and schedules packed with extracurriculars. But one trend, in particu­lar, is sparking worries among admissions officials at Stanford University and nationwide -the use ol' online essay editing services. According to Dean of Undergraduate Admission and Financial Aid ltobin Mamlet, although the admissions ofllce does not "keep count of the number of applications !they! feel have been 'supported' by others. we are becoming increasingly concerned about this." Students at Stanford vary in their opinions about whether or not the use of such s11rvices, such as EssayAdvice.com, MyEssay.com, lvyEssays.corn and EssayEdge.com, is fair. Some students, like fresh­man Tiancheng Zhu, said hiring a servicn to help with an admissions essay is "outrageous; it's morally and eth­ically wrong." Others, like freshman Cicely Smith, simply said they think using an editing service is "pathetic." 
The Stanford Daily 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWcalher~ forccasl for daytime cnndilinns and high temperatures 
_..,.., ...................... p.,............ ,, .. . 
t-.,'-'d'~,, 
Tuesday !)­Wedne13day ~ Thursday u+././ 

,,.... · 



4,~,~qQ.Q (f ~ u 
Showors T-siorms Ram F/u({i.. Snow Jee Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy Via Associa'6d Press Graph1csN@1 


Yet Summers ha..'i come out in favor of patriotism and specifically HOTC, writing in a Veterans Day letter to "Harvard Cadets and Midshipmen" that he "and many others deeply admire those of you who choose to serve society in this way," 
VI ore recently, Summers asked IIarvard's yearbook staff to make HOTC 
·' 

21 
:281! 
:::i\.;:. :.:,.-::·,...-·.•,; ·.~-•I!).-_·_·•· ·o.· 
~-a _­
,'§:.':,_­

Board requires increase in funding 
University of California must increase support for graduate studenL,; and enroll an additional 11,000 graduatt) studenl<; systemwide by 2010 to stay competitive with other top uni­versities, a university commi<;sion reported Wednesday. The initiative prnsentnd to the UC Board of Hegents at UC-Los Angeles will rnquirn a 50 percer1t increase in funding ­$215 million oi' additional financial support annually. Tlw money will be used to provide alfordable graduate student housing for first-yr,ar [ellowship studenl'i, expand graduate student outreach and make competitive oflers of financial support in order to attract the best studenl'i. GraduatP Pdu­cation has been a long-neglected and incre;L<;ingly important issue for the University, and it is finally being addressed by the commission's findings, UC President Bi.chard Atkinson said. Although tho state's currnnt budgrt crunch raisPs quPs­lions about where the money will conrn from, the Commission on the Growth and Support of' Graduate Education h,L'i rnmmmr.ndr.d an action plan that tak<~s into account these reservations. 
Daily Californian 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast tor noon, Monday, Jan. 21 _ 
20s Lmes separate high temperature zones for the day 

~Os" 20s. 30s 70s. FRONTS, 
....,......... ........ 
............. 

© 2002 A-eouWeathor, Irie. CO!..D WARM STATIONARY 
Prf1/15Un, ----_---------­
@©DD DD CJD 
I-Hgt, low V..ll Assoc~Jtll'd P1t;i8s  Showor:11  Rain  l"~•lnrrna  Fiurrlea  Snow  ke  Sunny  P-t. Cloudy Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  54 43 40 39 68  37 29 32 28 48  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  56 55 36 42 43  41 35 28 32 33  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Washington  41 52 47 77 DC 45  36 44 33 59 33  

Wednesday 
. Lecture: ''President Bush and the War against Terrorism," Richard Neustadt. author of "Presidential Power and the Modern PresidenLc;," Student Loungf', Coleman Morse Center, 4:30 p.m. 
an exception to their policy of excluding activities that are not official studPnt groups from mention in the book. Summers met with yearbook editors Dec. 13 and made a "personal request" to honor studenls by recording their participation in HOTC, yearbook pn~si­dent Kyna Fong said. 
At the study break Summers attended WednPsday night, he polled students in the audience and asked if they would support Harvard changing il'l policy to fund HOTC through oflicial channels. 
Harvard's current polir.y stems from a Faculty Council vote in 1994 that Harvard money should not be used to support students who participate in HOTC at MIT, former vice president for alumni affairs and development Fred Glimp said_ 
llarvard Crimson 
Thursday 
. Film: Notre Dame Student Film Festival 2002, Carey Auditorium, first Door, Hesburgh Library. 7:30 p.m. and 
9:45 p.m. 
page 3

Monday, January 21, 2002 The Observer . NEWS 







Treatment of terrorists stirs global concern 
piclurcs show ww ol' sensory dnprivation to soft<Hl suspncLi-; !'or inwrrogation.·· 
lluman rights groups and some British politicians h11v1! Cr il ici Z I'd trI! a LIIW 11 l Of' l hC prism11ws. Hlair has sought to balance dof"Pnding U.S. auUwritins with insisting I.Im prisoners' human rights be guarant,iml. lie has calhid Lim prisonnrs "vnry dangerous pnopk," but insistnd tlwy b1! trnatml in accordance with tlw (;o,wva Conv1\nlions. 
A Blair spok1isman said Sunday that tlw govnrnm_m,l was awailing :t rPport from British of'(kials who visited the Cuantanamo (:amp. 
"I would suggost that pnopln should await th1iir assessmm1l ralhnr than rushing to judg­mnnl, as people havfl tcndod to do today," the spoknsman 
said. 

Speaking or lh1i co11trov1\r­
sial photographs, Im said pno­
plfi should bnar in mind "that 
tlwse arc p1iopln who allcgndly 
belong to an organization 
which has bnnn prnparnd lo ... 
use plarws to ,·ommil sukicfo 
attacks. That will obviously 
havn colored thn way in which 
tlwy Wl!ft) rnstrainnd during 
transit." "Of r.ours•i the prison­
ers have human rights, and 
thos1: we bdinvn should bc1 
rnspnded. Wn havn had assur­
a ncns l'rom thn l\mnrican 
authorili!\S on that," hn addnd. 
Thn 1rnw prisoners who 
arrived Sunday worn the sarnn 
hlacknd-out goggl,is, as wdl as 
bright orange jumpsuits, blun 
rlPnim jaf'kl'ts. knit caps and 
turquoisf1 surgical masks. Tho 
goggles wern blackod out t'or wanted assuran1:Ps l'rom s11curity reasons. Ambassador William Farish Orm d11tairwn, who might that tlrn dPtairwPs wen\ co11­
have  h1rn11  sid1~ri1d  pris­ 
su ff11ri ng a  orrnrs of war.  
war in_jury. was carried off tlrn bus.  "OJ course the prisoners have human rights. and  "It's limn we had a r.lnar s ta t f\ Ill I' ll l . "  
Off'icials  those we believe should  sh,~ said. "W1!  
s a y 1111 a r Iy orrn third ol' t h C  be respected. We have had assurances from the  fought tlw war shouldPr to shoulder. now  
d P ta in 1i n s  ,1mericans on that. "  it  s n nm s  tlrn I  
al LIHi camp  WI'  arn  lwing  
hav,1 tainnd  su s­bat­ Tony Blair  froznn tho  out of af"lnr­ 
Lio wounds,  Prime Minster  rnalh."  
mainly  On  Sunday.  
gunshots in  sht\  told  
th1\  arm  or  British  

log. Broackasting Corp. TV, "thnrn 
Tim nnw arrivals wnrn dri­shouldn't bn any doubt al all" vn n to Cam p X-Hay, w lwr P about th1\ terrorist sus1wcts olTicials said they would be being priso1wrs ol' war. "If procoss11d and givnn a basic thnrn is an argumnnt. lhal is physical nxam and chost X-ray l"or tlw courts to rl11dcl11, not a an cl hav n b Io o d drawn f"o r matlN l'or 111w individual likn tnsts. Tlwy also are giv,•n a Donald llums1'11ld lo say sheet ol' p,Lpcr lo inform a rd­Lhny'n~ not prisorrnrs of war." ativ,i or l'rinnd ol' their whnrn­In Washington. rnsponding abouts. to a qu11stion about Europnan 
Thn U.S. govnr1111rn11l calls criticism ol' the dctainn11s' th<~ prisoners "unlawful 1'.om­tr•\atm,~nt, Humsfold balanls" or "ddaincns'' rathnr said,"Tlwrn's no doubt in my than prison1irs or war with mind that il is humann and assignnd lcigal rights undnr Urn appropriat1i and consistnnt G1rn•wa Conv,intions, but with tlH1 Cm11wa f'.011Vf\t1lion insists limy am b,iing trnatml l"or tlrn most part." humannly. "Tlrny arP g<itting nxc11ll1!11t 
/\ group of British parlia­rrnidical cani, llwy·ri, rncniving nrnntarians asked on Saturday culturally approprialt! nrnals to tnPd thn U.S. ambassador thrnci tim,is a day, tlrny'rn to 1ixpross their conc1irns b1!ing allowcd to practic,1 tlrnir about lhe trnatrnenl or llrn rnligion, which is not sonw­prison!!rs. thing that tlwy 11111:mirag1\d on 
Ann Clwyd, chairwoman of thn part of ollrnrs. Tlrny am Parlianrnnt's lluman Bights clothnd cl11anly and tlrny am Committen, said members dry and safo," lw said. 
Associa1ed Press 
LONDON 

Photos publishnd Sunday showing al-()aida and Taliban susp11cls on th(\ ir k1rnns and WParing 
black1\d­011t gog­glns, con­tribult!d to mounting 
CO ll Cf'. r fl S in Britain a b o u t tr1iat11w II l o I' thP p ri soncrs IH\ld by Llw Unit1\rl Stat,•s in Cuba. · 
M<ianwllilP, :{4 more dntairrnns from t\f"ghanislan ,trrivnd al tlw U.S. uas1' on Sunday. bringing tlrn total numlwr lo 144. Mari1ws in ynllow ruu­bnr glov11s 


The photos. released by the U.S. D,1f'1•nse Department bdorc thn arrival of the latest detai n,rns, shownd the men with masks ovnr tlwir mouths and noses, hats, and mitfrns on tlwir hands. 
td'Lcr µrominnnl display in many Hrilish nnwspapnrs ­
and onn tabloid a(·1·usation of torturn -Fornign Secretary .Jack Straw said hn had told 
British rnprescntativos at (;uantanamo to ask l\nrnrican officials for an 1•xplanalion. 
Dol'Hnsn S11crclary Donald Humsfold said in Washington latnr that hn had "no doubt" that tlw dHtairwns wnrn b1!ing l.r(1at<'d huma,wly. 
U.S. military spoknsman Hobcrt N11lson, at t;uantanamo Bay on Sunday. said llrn pie­turns wnro taken shortly af"l<\f llw prismrnrs arrivnd from llH\ 8.000-milc l'liglit from 
/\l'g-hanistan on a C-141

"They are gelling excel­
Ind tlrn pris-cargo plan11. 01w rs. who lent medical care. they're "It gnts pmt­wen! hund­ty mid on a C-
receiving cullurally 
cul'fod and 14I. hnncn tlw
appropriate meals three
sha1,kl«•d at hat and mil­thn ankles, tim.es a day . " tnns, l'or com­from a l"o rt." N1dson cargo plan,~ said. Thn
Donald Rumsfield
to a waiting t a p n d -o v ,i r 
secretary of defense
school bus. gogglns wnre 
U.S. treat­
mnnt of al-Qaida and Taliban suspncls imprisorrnd at Cuantanamo 
Bay has posNI a sPrious l"or­<iign policy clrnll1ing1! for l'rimP Ministnr Tony Blair sinrn lw put Britain shouldnr­to-should1\r with Washington 
in tlw war against terrorism. 
a sncurily 

mnasurll to prnvmil prisonnrs snning dur­ing thn pro1:1!ssing procndurn and mmlical scr1Hmings artnr arrival. Im addnd. 
Thn Mail on Sunday had put orw of tlw photos on pag!i onn undnr the headline' "Torturnd." and wrote "First 
Baroness Shirley Williams, the Catholic intellectual who helped to reshape the landscape ofBritish politics, leader and foreign-policy spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats in the House ofLords 
ERASMUESTITUTE 
The Second Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
Shirley WiII ian1s 
The Morality ofGlobalization 
January 15, 2002  Global Inequality and the Gospel to the Poor  
January 17, 2002  The New Horsemen ofthe Apocalypse  
January 22, 2002  Science as God  
January 24, 2002  The Kingdom of God  

All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the auditorium ofthe Hes burgh Center for International Studies and begin at 4 p.m. 
Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity ofindividual contributors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William]. Carey Endowtnent, and the University of Notre Dame. 
Monday, January 21, 2002
The Observer . NEWS
page 4 
MLK 
continued from page 1 
Dr. King's legacy, and illus­trates how we can come together to work for a common cause. It rcflecls what strug­gles we have endured as human beings." 
As to the future of the quill, Johnson stated that the quilt may travel around the University. and that no con­crete decision regarding its linal location has been made. 
"'The Snite has offered to hang it. or it may travel," Johnson said. "We are still in the process to decide." 
Other Pvcnts at Notre Dame 
will include "From the Inside 
Out," an artistic showcase of 
student talent, with poetry 
readings. singing, and music. 
"This event will show how 
students feel about themselves 
and Dr. King's legacy," 
Johnson said."IIt would also] 
allow them to show from 
inside themselves what thev 
contribute to ttrn communitv .'' • 
"From the Inside Out" \viii 
take place on Tuesday at 6:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Junior Kat Walsh has coordinated "Speaking the Truth." a fireside chat between students and student leaders taking place on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Coleman-Mores Center. 
Finally, observance of the holiday will end with a prayer service, "The Peace Quilt: Tied Together In the Single Garment of Destiny." Johnson will facilitate the service. which will take place in Keenan-Stanford Chapel at 7 
p.m. Thursday. 
"Voice of Faith and Celebration will sing, and Pasquerilla East Musical Company will also sing." Johnson said. 
At Saint Mary's, students can celebrate Martin Luther King Day at a Networking continen­tal breakfast from 8:30 a.m. to 
11:30 a.m. today in 303 Haggar. Free "We arc ALL Special" buttons will be avail-
FILE TAX RETURN 
ONLINE 
Refund in about t4 days 
with direct deposit 
I040EZ -$9.95 
1040A -$14.95 
Log onto www.1040.com/ctstax 

JPW JPW JPW 
lfflffflONJUNIOI!!! 
MANDATORY SEATING REGISTRATION: WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23 1:00 -6:00 PM CCE, MCKENNA HALL THURSDAY, JANUARY 24 12:00 -4:00 PM CCE, MCKENNA HALL ROOMS 102-104 IN THE CCE, MCKENNA HALL 
ANY QUESTIONS? E-MAIL THE JPW OFFICE AT: jpw@nd.edu 
JPW JPW JPW 
9-BALL BILLIARD 


TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY., JAN. 25 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: $225 worth of gift cErtlflcatEs from BEST BUY. 
Sign up at ND Express. Limited space so sign up NOW! (Must present I.D. when registering.) 
Sponsored by thE StudEnt Actlvitias Office. 
able to wear in honor of the holiday. Campus Ministry will also hold its annual Interfaith Prayer Service at 4:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. The Sisters of Nefertiti cosponsor the event. 
"It is a day of service, a day on, not a day off," said Terri Johnson director of the Oflice uf Multicultural Affairs. "The important part about the cele­bration of this holiday is all of the events scheduled through­out the community and the [many! opportunities for every­body to make a difference. All of the events that OMA has scheduled are so that the stu­dents can attend and schedule them around their classes." 
Contact Sarah Rvkowski at ryko2948@saint~arys.edu. 
t 

SyIDbol 
continued from page 1 
icons believed that since no one knows what God looks there cannot be prayer to drawn icons. others believed that since God allowed himself to become man and can be drawn in the symbol of Jesus that icons can be used. "God cannot be pictured. cannot be understood but we all as humans reach out," Newman said. 
To bring tho faith together there was then an interfaith payer ser­vice in which all the religions took part. Readings were taken from the Baha'i faith. the Qur'an, in Arabic, the Prophet Isaiah from Judaism in llobrcw and from 1 John from Christianity. 
The service included music from the First AME Zion choir. Students from Saint Mary's also participated in leading a number of songs and incorporating dance into the program. 
"We are bringing the community together to educate and share our faiths," said Mana Derkashani, a co-planner. "What we [the Saint Mary's community] have in common is a faith. A belief in God, and so humanly we are the same," Beyah said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877l@saintmarys.edu 
Ott Campus 

}Ut1Jor1'armtWeekfflb SpedA1 fcbrua"f t4·17, 1002 
Come early; stay Iate, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $60.00 per parent, Whether yru stay Two, three, orfour nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Slllday. 
For reservations caU 574-631 ..7512 or 
574-631-9436 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Wednesday, January 23 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 
Light refreshments served 
For Information Call: Office of Student Affairs -631-5550 

ATION 
Monday, January 21, 2002 COMPILEU FROM THE OBSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China releases Tibetan: In a gr:sturn ainwd at improving rdations with ~Vashinglon, China on Sunday !'reed a Tibntan music scholar who had taught in thr United Stuttis and was serving a11 1S-yeur prison trrrn on spying rhargP-s, a human rights acLivist said. Th,· rclrasti of' i\gawang Chor:ph<'I. :~4. camf' 0111\ month before PrnsidPnt Bush is w visit Beijiug. 
Irish mobs clash with police: Hival mobs of Catholics and Protestants dashed with riot policl' Sunday night un tlw clivid11u stn,cts ol' north Bdf'ast, tossing gasulinc-fillrd bottlPs and sf'tting hijal'kod t:ars on firo. l'olir" reported con!'ronting groups of men and tPl'n-ugc•rs in at ]past thrnn arnus '1-VhPrc Catholic and Protestant nl'ighborbood:,; sit unmmfonably bPsidc~ Pa!·h othPr. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Flight arrives after threat: 
PassPngPrs l'Jying from Britain to Florida aboa.rd a Virgin Atlantic Airways 11ight said Sunday they werr' askrd to give handwriting samples after a bomb thn~at scrawled on a bathroom mirror diverted thPm to lcf'land. Police found no explosives on .the Boeing 747 and conl"luded that the threat had been a hoax. said Jonas Jonasson. police section IPad11r in Kl'l'lavik. 30 miles southwest uf Reykjavik. lrnland's capital. 
First lady donates gown: First lady Laura Bush's inaugural gown became a his­torical artifact Sunday whPn she donated it to th<' Smithson ian· s Nali on a 1 ~ usou m of Anwrican IIi story. ExacLly one year after her husband took tlw oath of office', leading her to ninP inaugural balls and into the White llousP. :'v1rs. Bnsh turiwd the S<'quinrd red drPss ov<'r to thP museum. Sim kPpt up a. tra­dition d,tting bark lo llcden Taft in 1909. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Theives target recycling: Over the p,tst live months. a group of thieves have tar­geted rural rncyding drop-off sites f'ull of' alu­minum cans ownnd by thli Northeast lndi,rna Solid WastP Managrnwnt District. This has n•sulted in at least $50.000 in quick cash. 
Teacher receives threats: A teacher has rpc·piwcl lhrnats from gun rights activists J'oliowing an editorial written by her students that arguncl against the) right to bear arms. Julie AkPrs said slw received lrtters that rallPd her un-Anwrican and a brainwasher. 
Market Watch January 18 

Dow 9,77 I .85 -78.19 Composite/~ s;;9e: Volume: IJ 17,202.048 AMEX: 830.64 -4.58 NASDAQ: 1,930.34 -55.48 NYSE: 576.19 -3.07 S&P 500: 1,127.57 -l 1.3 l  
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS  
:OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE  
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -2.67 -1.06 38. 59 TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) +3.05 +1.38 46.45 )UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.02 -0.25 12.12 KMART CORP (KM) +11. 54 +0.18 1. 74 ~ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.23 -0.63 18.85  

AFGHANISTAN 



AFP Photo 

A CH-53E Super Stallion helicopter, like the one shown here, crashed in Afghanistan on Sunday, killing two marines. The crash has been attributed to mechanical failure. There were no initial indications of enemy fire. 
Two Marines die in Afghan crash 
Associated Press 

AFGHANISTAN 
A U.S. helicopter crashed in the rugged mountains of Afghanistan on Sunday. killing two Marines and injuring the other five on board. It was the third fatal crash of a U.S. mili­tary aircraft in the cam­paign. 
The CH-53E Super Stallion crashed about 40 miles south of Bagram air base after taking off from the fornrnr Soviet base out­side the capital. Kabul. It was flying with another helicopter to resupply American forces, militarv oftkials said. · 
Marine spokesman 1st Lt. James Jarvis said there was no initial indication of hostile file, and Defens~ Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said the cause of the crash appeared to be a mechanical failure. 
In Washington, the Pentagon identified the dead as Staff Sgt. Walter F. Cohee III, 26, from Wicomico, Md.. a commu­nications navigations sys­tems technician, and Sgt. Dwight J . .Morgan, 24, from Mendocino, Calif., a helicopter mechanic. 
The injured were: Cpl. David. J. Lynne, 23, from Mecklenburg, N.C.; Cpl. Ivan A. Montanez, 22, trom Hayes, Texas; Cpl. Stephen A. Sullivan, 24, from Pickens, S.C.; Capt. William J. Cody, 30, from Middlesex, N.J.. and Capt. Douglas V. Glasgow, 33. from Wayne, Ohio. 
Also Sunday, the leader of Afghanistan's interim government arrived in Tokvo for an international aid ·conference to gather funds for the massive task of rebuilding after more than two decades of war. 
'Tm hoping very much that I'll go back to my country, my people with full hands," Prime Minister Hamid Karzai said. 
The United Nations says it could cost $1. 7 billion for the first year and possi­bly $15 billion over 10 years to repair the Afghan infrastructure and to get the new government mov­ing. 
The U.N.'s top priorities are filling the govern­ment's coffers. getting farmers back in the fields for spring planting and establishing an Afghan police force. 
Armed men backing regional warlords are the nearest thing to a police force in most towns and there are complaints of abuses. The poor security raises concern that Taliban and al-Qaida fig­ures are not being rnught. 

Officer speaks about Columbine suit 
KIPbold. On Thursday, the Jefferson the Jefferson County Sheriff's Office. 
Associated Press 

County coroner denied a request to "It wasn't a single shot. it was 
DENVER call an inquest, saying the evidence every single one of thorn that I fired 
An officer acrusf'd by parnnts of supports the official finding that into that school that concerned me," accidentally killing their son during Klebold killed Rohrbough. said O'Shea, a 16-year Denver police the Columbin<' High School massacre Rut Rohrbough's parents claim he veteran and former SWAT member. says ho is disappointed a coroner's was accidentally killed by a police He said he fired his 9rnm subma­inquP-st won·t be held because he officer during tho massacre. chine gun into the school's library to believes it would exonerate him. Two days after the shooting, provide cover for rcsr,uc workers 
"I want this in the public eye. I'm O'Shea told former school adminis­removing injured students from out­sick and tired of this conspiracy trator Celine Marquez about fears he side tlrn school. label," Police Sgt. Dan O'Shea said in may have shol a student. Marquez's O'Shea said that his fears were an iniflfvicw published Sunday in statements were included in a eased whim he learned that investi­The Denver Post. motion filed by the family Dec. 26 gators discovered that students killed 
A slrnriff's report said Hohrbough seeking to reinstate their wrongful­in the library whom shot at close was kilh'd by student gunman Dylan death and negligfmcc lawsuit against range. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, January 21, 2002 
U.S. sends financial aid to Afghanistan 
A<•ociaLed P r~ss 
TOKYO 
The United States will plPdge $290 million in recon• struction assistance for Afghanistan. a Dush adminis­tration official said Monday. 
The figure was tu be announced at an internation­al conference on rebuilding thf' war-torn nation. 
•!\fore than 60 countries arc gathered in Tokyo for two days of' talks on ways to rebuild Afghanistan after 23 years of devastating warfare. 
The United Nations, the World Bank and the Asian Developmf'nt Dank have said $1.7 billion would be needed for the first year. 

The U.S. pledge represents about I 7 percent of that total .. 
Among those attending is Afghanistan's interim learfor Hamid Karzai, \.Vho along with Secretarv or State Colin Powe11 was to addrnss the gathering. 
At a brit>fing Sunday. U.S. officials, speaking on the con• dition they not be identified, said the American l'\l'forts in AI'ghanisLan would focus on rural developnrnnt, education and removing land mines. 
Afghanistan is one of the most heavily minml countrh~s in the world. 
While U.S. officials said the $290 million figure may not seem generous given Afghanistan's nef'd, they 
pointed out that the United 
States has spent $4.5 biHion 
on the war effort in the coun­
try since early October. 
Powell is on the f'inal leg of a five-nation tour that includ­ed a fivfl-hour stop in Kabul. Afghanistan, wh<'re he promised Karzi that · AmMica's commitment to thP 
country is longterm. 
Powell's diplomacy also 
included a major pffort at 
easing tensions between 
Pakistan and India, nuclear 
powers on the brink of war. 
He also made a stop in 
Nepal before trav~ling to 
Japan. 
The United Nation says thP cost of rebuilding Afghanistan's infrastructure and getting the government 
COLOMBIA 

Rebels resolve cease-fire talks 
Associated I'ress 
LOS POZOS 
Hours before a crucial deadline. rebel and govern­ment negotiators on Sunday agreed to a timetable for cease-fire talks, the first sig­nificant accomplishment in Colombia's rancorous peace process. 
The agreement was signed by the rebels and the govern­m en t chief negotiator less than four hours before President Andres Pastrana was to decide whether to can­cel a safe haven he ceded to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. three years ago. 
Pastrana, who spent Sunday in his presidential palace in Bogota with his ministers 
awaiting  the  results  of  
Sunday's meeting, had  no  
immediate comment.  

However, he had been in constant touch with his nego­tiators, who met the rebels deep in their sanctuary in southern Colombia, and a continuation of the rebel zone was all but assured. Cancellation of the zone would likely have resulted in a bloodier war in this South American country. 
Foreign diplomats helped facilitate talks, held under an open-air thatched-roof hut. After the agreement was finally reached, chief govern­ment negotiator Camilo Gomez and the envoys toast­ed the accord with a drink of rum. Cuba's ambassador handed out dgars to govern­ment officials, gun-toting rebels and diplomats. 
''This is good news for Colombia," declared U.N. spe­cial envoy James LeMoync. 
Tht' accord signed hy Gomez and rebel negotiators calls for immediate opPning of cease-fire talks, with the goal of setting cease-fire terms hy April 7. It also calls for the participation of an in tern ation a I verification commission, which would also "overcome complica­tions." 
The agreement also said talks aimed at ending vio• 

Jenee by a brutal right-wing paramilitary group would be part anu parcef of the cease· fire negotiations. 
The accord raised hopes that Colombia's peace process, which began three years ago but has produced few results, was finally on track. However. a 1984 cease-fire agreement between the FARC and the administration of then­President Belisario Betancur broke down three vears later when the rebels anibushed an army patrol. The government then suspended peace talks. 
Pastrana revived the peace process after taking office in 1998, taking the novel step of giving the government's ene• mies a huge safe haven as a site for the talks and as an incentive to the highly suspi­cious rebels. 
However Pastrana, now in his last year of office, has become impatient with the lack of results. Last week, he sent troops to the borders of the huge rebel zone and threatened to retake it unless the rebels returned to the negotiating table, which they had abandoned in October. 
He then said that if negotia­tors failed to agree by mid­night Sunday on a timeline for cease-fire talks, he would revoke the guerrilla safe haven. 
If the safe haven had been canceled, the rebels would then have had 48 hours to evacuate the five main towns in the zone, which is twice the size of New Jersey. 
While talking peace, the FARC has waged an offensive during the past few days, killing 12 government sol• diers on Saturday. The presi­dent of Congress, Carlos Garcia, said Saturday night that the rebel attacks appeared aimed at pressuring the government and weaken­ing its negotiating position. 
Critics of the peace process say the rebels are participat­ing only to buy time and strengthen their forces, cur­rently estimated at 16,000 combatants. 
Gen. Fernando Tapias, the commander of Colombia's 
armed forces, said the mili­tary was trying to pn•ven! rebel atLacks that lwvc downed power lines in ] 5 places and heavily damaged a bridge outside tho safe haven. 
Government troops had been poised to retake the zone if peacP talks collapsed and Pastrana ordered them to move in. Army troops have been posted near the border of the zone since the coun­try's peace process reached the point or unraveling last week. 
Colombia's civil war kills roughly 3,500 people every year, pitting U.S.-backcd gov­ernment forces and the out­lawed right-wing paramili­tary group against the FAH.C and a smaller rebel army. 

Job market got you down? 
up and running could rnach as much as 515 billion over the next 10 years. 
Top priorities including returning law anrt order to the largely lawless country and getting farmers back into their lields. 
Health cam, cducatiou, infrastructurn and clearing land mines are also expected to head the ag1inda at the conference, organized by Japan, the United States, 
Saudi  Arabia  and  the  
European Union.  
The meeting is  seen  as  a  

test of the world community's commitment to helping ·in Afghanistan's ·recovery. 


Here's an idea! 
Try a Summer Service Project Internship 
Find out how you can ... 
;:.. Spend eight week5 in one of 120 sites nation":"ide . ;;. Benefit from hands-on learning and leadership ex~enence 
. Earn a $2900+ tuition credit (with Americorps funding) :;;. .A ND give eight weeks of service to people in need 
Come to the Center for Social Concerns to find out how you can be involved ... 
(LAST INFO SESSION!) 
Tuesday, January 22 2002 at 6:30p.m. 
Campus Bible Srudy (CBS) Pa1tr II 
Eve1~y Tuesoay ar 7:00 p.m. 1 I 4 CoLeman-MoRse ConpeRence Room 
All students are invited to attend Bible Study every Tuesday through the semester beginning January 22, 2002. 
All sessions last one hour. 
Bring your own Bible and a friend. 
For further information contact: Fr. Al D' Alonzo, csc 631-4616 or Campus Ministry 
631-7800. 
~-­
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Looking for a Summer Internship? 
;> 



Monday, January 21, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
Citizens vote on new constitution 
Delays distributing voting
Associated Press 
materials were also rnport­e d, causing some polling
BRAZZAVILLE 

stations to open several 
l{esidflnts of this war­hours late. 
scarred central African President Denis Sassuu­
country voted Sunday on a 
Nguesso, however,
nl'w constitution. paving the 
expressed satisfaction with 
way for the first elections 
the vote's progress when he 
since fighting ended two 
cast his ballot in 
VPars ago. 
Brazzaville. 
· Stal!i-run radio reported a "Everything is taking place
livelv lllrnout at some 
peacefully, without trouble 
polling stations in the capi­
and without disorder," he 
tal. Brazzaville, but confu­said on the radio. 
sion rPi.gned at others. Some 
The draft constitution 
voters complained they did 
would do away with the 
not recr,ivc 
prime min­

their iden­
ister and 

ti f'i cation 
"Et,erything is taking existing
cards in Parliament.
place peacefully, without
timn, while 
providing

others said trouble and wilhoul 
for an elect­

c r
t h i disorder." ed president 
names did and a 
not appear 
bicameral 

on of'ficial Dennis Sassou-Nguesso 
assembly

lists. president with a 
If 
constitu­tion is approvod, proporrnnts say it would set the stage for the rnturn of democratic rule al'ter two devastating civil wars. Prnsidential, lcg­islatiVP and municipal clnc­tions are scheduled for March 10. May 12 and June 9 rcspPctively. 
Critics, however, argue the proposed document would only bolster an already powerful and auto­cratic president. Some oppo­sition leaders called for a 
boycott.  but  it  was  not  
im~nediatcly clear  how  suc­ 
cessful il was.  

!louse  of  
Hepresen tatives  and  a  
Senate.  

The new legislature would not have the power to remove the president from office as the current Parliament does. The presi­dent would serve seven-year terms, but could run only twice. 
A constitutional court and a national human rights commission would also be established. 
Republic of Congo has had only a provisional constitu­tion since Sassou-Nguesso seized power in 1997, oust­
ing elected President Pascal 
Lissouba in fighting just 
weeks before a presidential 
vote in which hoth men 
were to have run. 
Sassou-Nguesso in turn 
faced a rebellion in 1998 
launched by militias loyal to 
Lissouba and Bernard 
Kolclas, a former prime 
minister. Cease-fire agree­
ments were signed by all 
sides at the end of 1999, 
and the country has been 
mostly calm since. 
A draft of the new consti­
tution was approved by del­
egates to a national peace 
conference in April called 
by Sassou-Nguesso. 
Neither Kolelas nor 
Lissouba -who have both 
been convictfld in absentia 
for crimes committed during 
the 1997 war -were pre­
sent, and both men say they 
oppose any elections orga­
nizE>d by Sassou-Ngnesso's 
regime. 

Kolelas called on his sup­·porters to hoycott the vote 
altogether. Other opposition 
figures called cm their back­
ers to vote against the new 
constitution. 
Sassou-Nguesso and his 
supporters, however, say 
the referendum heralds a 
new era of peace and devel­
opment. 

Voting took place at 3,224 
polling stations across the 
oil-rich nation, which bor­
ders the much larger Congo. 
Some 1.6 million of the 
country's 3 million people 
were registered to cast bal­
lots. 


Breen-Phillips 
PHILIPPINES 

U.S. troops face Muslim protest 
Associated Press 

ZAMBOANGA 
U.S. military cargo planes brought more t"rnops and equipment to the southern Philippines on Sunday amid growing protests against American involvement in the government's efforts tu quash Muslim guerrillas. 
Three U.S. Air Force C-130s arrived at an air base in the southern port city of Zamboanga carrying several soldiers, a forklift, a power generator, engineering equip­ment and a truck and trailer loaded with communications gear. 
Capt. Noel Dctoyato, spokesman for the Philippine militarv's Southern Command, said the Americans were part of a contingent that would train Filipinri special forces battling Abu Sayyaf guerrillas in the jungles of nearby Basilan island, 540 miles south of Manila. 
U.S. and Philippine officials say the Abu Sayyaf have been linked with Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida terror net­work. 
Journalists were barred from interviewing the Americans, who were dressed in camouflage and carried no visible firearms. 
The gradual U.S. military buildup in Zamboanga and Basilan is part of preparations for a six-month training exer­cise in which small teams of armed U.S. Army Special Forces are expected to enter combat zones to assess their Filipino counterparts and their needs. 
Some 660 U.S. soldiers, including 160 Special Forces, are to take part in the training exercise. The U.S. troops can­not engage guerrillas but can defend themselves. 
Welcomed by the ill­equipped Philippine military, the U.S. involvement has raised concerns over legal restrictions on foreign troops and rekindled anti•American sentiment in the former U.S. colony. 
The growing opposition to the U.S. military presence prompted President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo to call for a meeting this week of the !\!ational Security Council. an advisory group that includes opposition politicians and for­mer presidents. Officials said last week it was possible that the number of U.S. soldiers could be reduced. 
Hundreds of leftist activists userl protests on the first anniversary Sunday of Arroyo's rise to power to demand American troops leave the country. 
Outside the presidential palace in Manila, protesters hurled tomatoes at a giant efli­gy of Arroyo on a mock throne adorned with American flags and a sign that read "Traitor." Another placard read "U.S. terrorist troops, go home!" 
Arroyo has come under fire from leftist groups for allowing the U.S. military to get involved in operations against the Abu Sayyaf, who have been holding an American couple since May and killed another American hostage last year. 
"It's a slap on our sovereign­ty," protest leader Teodoro Casino said. 
In the predominantly Muslim city of Marawi in the south, about 500 students yelled "Allahu Akbar!" -God is great -while burning a U.S. flag. 
"If Americans would end up as casualties, they would retal­iate," said Mahoud Gaima, a leader of a Muslim group called the Bangsa Moro Youth Assembly. 


f" Protect Your Asset & Privacy  A FREE SPRING BREAK!  
With an affordable International Trust  Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Pnces Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels!  
and build wealth at the same time.  Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales.  
plus help St. Johns Center  Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com  
Call l-888-437-0077  1-800-426-771 0  
NOTRE DAME 't,RGStudentAlumniRE.IATlONsGR<>L'I'.. Does your new schedule allow you more ti?1e to get involved this semester? Why not give the Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) a try? SARG's focus is to sponsor events and programs that provide ND students interaction with ND alumni. Attend the first general meeting ofthe semester tonight, and find out what is planned for the semester. Date: Monday, January 21, 2002 Time: 5:00 pm -6:00 pm Place: Alumni Association Office, Eck Center (located across from the bookstore) ***If you can't make the meeting, but are interested in participating this semester, please call the SARG line at 631-3938.  


O
THF 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Myra McGriff Amanda Greco Courtney Boyle Graphics Joe Ackerman Andy D1woto 
Sports Production Matt Lozar Chris Federico Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kristin Yemm Peter Richardson 
POLL QUESTION 

Do you plan to participate in activities celebrating Martin Luther King, Jr. day? 
Vote at NDToday.com by 5 p.m Thursday. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Knowledge must come through action; you can have no test which is not Janc{!itl, 
save hy trial.'' 
Sophocles 
playwright 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 

T/,e /,ulrp,,.,.Atmr, D,,ilJ .'vru•1p,rprr Srrving Notu D,,me ,..,,Is,,;,., Mn,y's 
l'.0. !lox Q. Norre Dome. IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall. Notre D~mc. IN /4G556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
l'loreen Gille,pie  Bob Wood,  
Assr. MANAGING EorroR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason 1\1ch1dey VlhWl'OINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Mvra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimherly Springer AD DESIGN M.\NAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTR-\TOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAP!llC5 EOJTOR: Andy Devoro 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MA.NAGF.R/GENERAL INF0..............631-747 l Fu............................. . .. ......................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 I-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmTOR/AssT. ME .... , ............... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................63!-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu S!'ORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................63 l-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMl:-!ISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observn11d.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features a11d opi11ion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-chc 

weekly smdenc reviews
minute forecasts 

online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and races of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

about The Observer
archives to search for 

to meet the editors and
articles published after 
sraff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the indepe11dent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on contem. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and depattment editors. Commencaries, leners and columns presem rhe views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Obsef\·er. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expres.sion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcttrn, co the Editor must be signed and must include contacc information. 
Ques1io11s regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed 10 Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
Monday, January 21, 2002 
Make resolutions you don't mind breaking 
New year, new disappointments. 
It's January again. The time wh,m we willingly make New Year's Resolutions that we know we can't keep, setting our• selves up for failurn and depression. 
Personally, I have a very dilli­Amy Schill cult time accept­ing failure, so I'm making resolu­Dazed and tions that will Amused actually cause me happiness if I break them. l plan to weaken my faith life, drink more, start smoking. eat babies and gain weight lbabies have a wicked caloric counO. 
I would also like to fail out of school and live off my Enron stock. · 
So. I'm set. but others still might be having trouble deciding on their resolu­tions. or course. not everyone is like me, and some actually think that their attempts to improve themselves will not end in abject failure. For those people, I've provided some slightly more realistic resolutions. However, I think they have as much of a chance of keeping these goals as I do offinding my AbSlide underneath my pile of Dorritos and Dorritos Schnapps. Enjoy. 
First off, let's talk about airport security personnel. Your resolution is to stop searching me and all my bags at every possible check point al every airport ever. These supposedly "random" security 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
SATs do not answer cloning question 
Recently, the U.S. Federal government has begun dis­cussing legislation regarding cloning. A bill outlawing human cloning, which has already passed in the House, currently occupies the attention of the Senate. Concurrently, a presidential council has been assembled to discuss the pertinent issues regarding the delicate topic. According to the New York Times, on the first day of debate "the conversation ran the gamut, from debate over whether parents seek­ing egg donors should take the donors' SAT tests into account, to whether making babies the old-fashioned way -by sexual intercourse between a man and a woman -has any intrinsic worth." 
Now, I took the SATs once and apparently did well enough to slip by the Notre Dame admissions depart­ment. In fact, the life of a student in this country is inundated with standard­ized tests. After having experienced them first hand, I can say confidently that they mean nothing. They simply act as an arbitary way of assigning a numbnr to tlrn millions of peop]c applying for collcgn each year. All until now. 
Now, the SATs may determine your ability to live for-checks are obviously just completely dis­criminatory practices against pale. timid girls from Texas who rna.lly enjoy Fear Factor. Every time I travel. despite my T­shirt that says "I am not a terrorist. I promise. Please don't search me," I get everything searched, from my CD case to my make-up bag. 
On the last such occasion, Rufus, who brokP his 1991 resolution to graduate from high school, asked me absurd ques­tions like "Where did you get this tooth­brush?" "llas your lipstick been with you at all times?" and "Are you the white ninja''" I finally convinced him that my Clinique bag and I were not in fact threats to l'rnedom and democracy itself, but I was still imprisonnd for my appar­ently tnrrible taste in music. In short, air­port security people must resolve to leave me alone. 
Next, there are these girls watching Making the Band in Lafortune as l write this column. They know the names ol' everyone in 0-Town and are singing along. I guess they're freshmen but they look and act like high schoolers. Ono of them keeps staring at me. Their resolu­tion is to be less terrible. 
The film industry. The film industry must in the new year stop parodying "The Matrix" immediately. Cute the first time. not so much the next five times. Now tlrnre are cows imitating that scene and -no; just stop. 
Ok, after watching this show for a while 
ever. Yes, that's right. If' you scorn a 1600 on Urn SAT's you too may be able to clone yourself. ensuring your genetic code will exist in perpetuity. And, Vanna. what do wc have for those runners up who score below an 800? Well, we will clone them too, using their "stupid" clones for organ and tissue donars. Everybody wins. This talk is ridiculous and only acts to characterize our complete ignorance about our own human existence. Before wn 
begin discussing the pragmatics of cloning, we have some other issuos to solve: like abortion. When docs human 
life begin? Whose rights are more important: the parent's or child's, th1~ original's or the copy's? Drws respecting human life mean protecting unborn babies or harvesting T-cells to treat the 
sick? I know that life starts at conception. I know that abortion is evil. l also know that clones am human lif'e. I scored a 1450 on the SATs. 
Andrew Henrick gr"duate srudc111 January 18. 2002 
I've determined that 0-Town must 
resolve to cease existenrc. It's all about 
Justin Timberlake. 

I'm almost done with my ranting, but just a fow morn suggestions: .Jay Leno, if he must continue to b11 on the air. has to at least trim his horrible monologue to under :rn minutes. Pop-up adds must stop being larger than the actual internet page anrl must st.op arlvmtising cameras that allow you to spy on your random attrac­tive nude female neighbor. Finally. progress must be made on whatever it is going on in front of StonelrnngP before I graduate. 
But at least I'm not judgmental. Iseri­ously doubt any of my suggestions will be taken seriously. once again proving my theory that people should purposely make horrible resolutions like torturing kittens and joining the Republican party. But, you might not all agree with me, so while I'm out buying cigs and babies, you should think about what you need to do to improve yourself' this new year. And rnmembcr, it doesn't matter what it is, as long as it involves sending large amounts of money to your favorite columnist named Amy Schill. 
Amy Schill is a junior linglish major. She can be reached at schill.2@ncl.edu. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily the Obseruer. · 
O
TIIE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 9

Monday, J:rnuary 2l, 2002 
GUEST COLUMN 
Senate's delays cheat Americans 
of judges 
GIV\'\/D RAPIDS, Mich. 
When President George W. Bush took office one year ago, he vowed to reme­dy a serious crisis in the U.S. justice system: the lack of federal judges. Few denv it is a crisis: Thtl 6th circuit 
Rob Nederhood 
court o!' appeals. which has jurisdic­tion over I.he stal.e 
Calvin College 

of Michigan, has 
Chimes

live vacancies on what is supposed to be a 16-member panel. The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, which has jurisdiction over the Western United States and has seen its caseload rise 95 percent in the last 15 years, also has five vacancies. 
During tlrn Clinton years the federal courts had, at any one time. between 80 and 100 vacan..ies, resulting in a massiV<) backlog of cases. Yet despite his good intentions, at the end of Bush's first year in ufflcc, the number of vacancies on thn federal bench has risen to 110. So what gives? The Presidrinl has -as we have come to expccl f'rom him -held up his end of the bargain, nominating 80 judges dur­ing the past yi,ar, ,rnough to seriously ,dleviatc the crisis. 
Tlw problem is this: only 28 of those nomirwes have gairrnd the requisite con firm ntion by the Dcmrncrat-con­lrol!Pd Se1rntP. Bush handed clown mosl of' Lim nominations last spring, yet rwarly a y<'ar lat<'r. tlrn SPnate has l'ailNI to acl on them. In facl. of Uw PrcsidPnt's first batch of 11 nominees, only two have, even been granted a hearing in tlrn Senate Judiciary C:ommittne. whir.h must approve the nomimrns before the full Senate can ('()nfirm them. 
S,rnate Democrats have effectively stonewalled 13 ush · s slate of norn inees. placing political grudges above the wdfarn of the nation's court system. and by extension, tlw American peo­ple. The main culprits behind this trav­nsty ofjustice are Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschlc (D-SD) -respon­sib]p, for deciding vvhat business gets taken up when -and Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Chairman of the Judiciary C.ommittee. responsible for holding hearings. 
If" ideological differences or a lack of qualified nominees were the motiva­tion for the DPmocrats' dilatory tactics, one could consider giving them a break. Unfortunately, the reason for the "confirmation gap" seems to be political spite -partisanship for the sake of partisanship. 
Case in point: Bush's nomination of Eugene Scalia to serve as the top lawyer at the Labor Department. Scalia is eminently qualified: he graduated from the University of Chicago Law School, where he was oditor of the law review, worked under former Education Secretary William Bennet and practiced employ­ment law in D.C. while serving as a consultant to the Labor Department. He has been praised by 
Sen.Ted 
Kennedy (D­MA) as "a great lawyer," and bv lib­eral lii.w professor Cass Sunstein of the Cniversi.ty of Chicago as "as good a choice as can be imagined." 

So why did Daschle and company refuse even to bring his nomi­nation up for a vote? He is the son of conserva­tive Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scali.a, who sided with Bush in the Bush vs. Gore decision, which effec­tively granted Bush the presi­dency last fall. Political paybacks are an established part of our system, of course, but they should never be dealt out at the expense of the American people. 
Fortunately, Bush used his power of recess appointment to go around Daschle and grant Scalia and a few other nominees temporary, one year appointments, at the end of which they will again require Senate confirmation. Predictably, Daschle called the move "regrettable," though it seems not half as regrettable as the actions of his own party. 
Unfortunately, Rush's troubles get­ting his nominees confirmed have noi been limited to the judicial and law enforcement sectors. Of the 508 gov­
ernment positions requiring Senate confirmation, only about 300 have been filled. Many of these unfilled posi­tions are crucial to the successful execution of the nation's war on 
terrorism. Some are foreign policy posi­tions, a situation 
that White House 
Spokesman Ari Fleisher calls "particularly dis­
turbing." Some are even more important to the 
battle against terrorism, such as the voids at the head of the Food and Drug Administration -which is responsible for approving medi­cines and vac­
cines necessary as preventive measures against 
bioterrorism ­
and the National Institutes of Health, as well as 

vacancies in impor­·. tant deputy positions at the Federal Aviation Administration and Department of Defense. 
After criticizing the resident for moving too lowly to secure the nation's 
irports, Senate De·mocrats 
ave refused to confirm the nomi­nee to head the newly created Transportation Security Administration, highly qualified former Secret Service director John Magaw. Bush's Cabinet stood incomplete for nearlv 10 months until the December confi;mation of John Walters as drug czar. 
Daschle and other Democratic lead­ers have offered several excuses for their refusal to consider President Bush's nominees. In the case of Scalia, for example, Daschle claimed that there were not 60 votes "required" to confirm Scalia. The only reason that 60 votes would be necessary, of course. would be to block a filibuster. If Daschlc was so convinced that Scalia was a "very controversial" nominee who didn't have the simple majority needed for confirmation, he could have merely called a vote and defeated the 
nomination. 
However, he chose to continue to stonewall by announcing an extraordi­nary standard for Scalia's confirma­tion. 
With some truth, Leahy has pointed out that the events of Sept. 11 have also delayed confirmations. However, several of these confirmations have been made even more urgent by the country's war on terrorism. It is instructive to note that since the attacks, Senate Democrats have found time to honor Barry Bonds for his "spectacular record-breaking season," and to pass the pork-filled Hailroad Retirement Act, while Leahy himself has found time to secure $1.5 million for the revitalization of the tiny town of Winooski, Ver. It certainly doe·sn't seem as if filling the epidemic of vacancies in the judiciary and upper reaches of government was ever on their list of priorities. 
Perhaps the most effective argument for Democrats has been to point out that the Republicans did the same thing to President Clinton's nominees throughout his tenure. Though true, that certainly doesn't make the Democrat's inactions good for the country. The hypocrisy of Democratic leaders is evident when one considers that when Clinton was trying to push his nominees through the Senate when there were only 75 vacancies, Daschle claimed that "there is a dire shortage -we have a judicial emergency right now," and Leahy declared that "Any week in which the Senate does not confirm three judges is a week in which the Senate is failing to address the vacancy crisis." 
Presumably, Leahy has abandoned the three-judges-per-week standard. 
This column first appeared in the January 18, 2002 issue of the Calvin College Chimes. Calvin College's cam­pus newspaper. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Protect sense of community in University Village 
Though the University could do better for its families and probably ought. the peopln calling for change rarely consider what could be lost in the process. 
If_ the University built a larger place, there's no guarantee that the same sense uf community that prevails at the Village would survive. If the Village wore demolished and replaced by something like Fisher Graduate Residences, it would be a much different place. And even if they kept the same enlightened format of apartments surrounding an enclosed playground, the rent would almost certainly be higher. 
In shorL. those who are asking l'or major changes assume that the administra­tion is smart enough to redo the Village without ruining those things that make it great: the relatively cheap rent and the extraordinary seuse of community. That is a big assumption. 
Aaron Potter 
Notre Dame Law School '01 Village Resident '98 ro 'O I January I8, 2002 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE 
cam-pus
page 10 

Monday, January 21, 2002 
A day for 
This week on campus, Notre Dames MLK committee will present a serie 

opinions and relate experiences.By CHRISTIE BOLSEN The week's activities will commence with "From the Scene Writer Inside Out: An Expression of Self through Dance, Poetry 
and Music." Martin Luther King committee members 
Almost 40 years befort> the collapse of the World Trade sought out performers by going to venues in the commu­Center. Martin Luther King, Jr. had already predicted the nity and asking about talent, as well as through word of remedy for America's distress. mouth from students. 
"Nonviolence is the answer to the crucial political and Tlw nisult was a widn variety of' responses from cre­moral questions of our time ... Man must evolve for all a live musicians. poets an<l dancers. Junior Santiago human connict a method whir,h rejects nwenge, aggnis­Gurule. who is a first. year mernb,w of' the committee. will sion and retaliation. The foundation of such a method is be the emcee. love," 1'-ing said. "We've been ~oing through somn pretty hard tinrns as 
His words, spoken as he acceptP.d his Nobel Prize in of late, and we really wantHd to allow poople to reflect in 1964, ring as true today during America's time of sorrow whatever form they wished to. So rnally it's going to be a as thPy did decades ago. mix ... We wanted to do something to commemoratP 
In honor of this illustrious activist for peace, acceptance !King's! legacy, to bring in the community and get people and love. Notre Dame will be celebrating with its annual thinking," Gurule said. series of events aimed at promoting King's values, espe­The goal of this particular event is to allow the partici­cially in the wake of recent tragedies. pants. both performers and audience mRmbers. to convey 
The theme. "Operation Love: Making A Difference Piece tlrnir personal emotions and reach out. Just as King Bv Peace," alludes not onlv to the current war situation strove to promote understanding among people, "From bi1t also to King's outlook on life. More personal and the Inside Out" hopes to achieve the same. introspective topics will be addressed this year as com­"I think wlrnn you see somebody express themselves. it parnd to the past. i\11 three events welcome community really evokes a sort of passion in people ... our main goal attendance. as well as th1;1 student body. is we really·want peoph-i to come with open hearts and 
The events. which are unique every year, provide an connect with the perl'ormm-s. It's so important that we opportunity for students and faculty togc,ther to voice communicate our thoughts and our foelings with each other." Gurule said. 
Continuing with tlw tlwnw of communication, the next pvr,nt will bt• "Spoaking the Truth: A FirPsid1• Chat with StudPnt Leaders and Others." 
As oppost1d tu pannl dis­l'USsions usuallv lwld on vnar's campus, the for~m will be discus­morP casual and open sion. than a formal discussion Thn goal so everyone can feel com­is to have fortable speaking. Instead evnrvonc of' having the panel on a fool r11laxnd stage, this ynar's will bf' nnough to join seatnd with the listeners tlw convnrsat.ion. 
so there can be more so tlw pa,wlists will audience participation. not bn singlnd out until Joyce Doi.eon, head of the they arn inlroducPd at the diversity division of stu­end. 
dent government and a The emphasis of' the fireside member of last year's chat topics will be Gn how to apply panel. will be the modera­King's drnams and morals to present-day tor for the discussion. life. Shamus Rohn. a junior who became involved 
Photo courtesy of Paul Rakestraw/The South Bend Tribune Junior Kat Walsh, who with the MIX committee this year, will be one of the stu­dent panelists.
Students protest a KKK rally held in South Bend on May 5, 2001. Some of the became involved with the 
committee her freshman "I hope that people are going to leave the chat with
students who attended the protest helped with this year's presentation and 
year, is in charge of this both a better understanding of different perspectives on
shared their experiences with the MLK committee. 
Making dreams reality -the chron 
1951 
By C. Spencer Beggs 

. King graduates from Crozcr. Enters Boston University for graduate studies in the-9 ·:w" Scene Edimr 
ology. 
Jan. i5, 1929 Martin Luther King is born Michael Luther King to parents "Daddy" King and .1953 King marries Corretta Scott.
Alberta Christine King. "Daddy" King changed his name in 1935 to Martin Luther King; although the name change was never official. his son followed suit. 
1954 
King is appointed to Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, Ala.
1944 

King enrolls at Morehouse College in Atlanta. Ga. after he passes the entrance exam. King leaves Booker T. Washington High School without graduating at the age 1955 of 15. Graduates with a Ph. D. in Systematic Theology from Boston University. King is 
elei:ted to the president of the Montgomery Improvement Association on Dec. 5 aft(~r the Dec. 1st arrest of Rosa Parks for refusing to give her seat to a white man.
1947 King receives his license to preach. 1956 The United States Supreme Court declares bus segregation unconstitutional. Busses are integrated on Dec., 20. 
1948 

King graduates from Morehouse College with a bachelor degree in Sociology. The 
1957
same year, he is ordained a Baptist minister and appointed as a pastor at Ebenezt)r The Southern Christen Leadership Conference is founded in February.
Baptist Church in Atlanta. lie begins Divinity school at Crozer Theological Seminary in Chester, Pa. He begins to study the writings of Gandhi. 
--------------~--­
OTHE BSERVER 

Monday, January 21, 2002 page 11 
reaming 
f events honoring the life and acheivements ofDr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
The finale of "Operation Love" is the focal point of the played on campus so that everyone who views it will see entire celebration. the importance of looking at not only each singular patch, "The Peace Quilt: Tied Together in the Single Garment with its solitary model of love and peace, but also step­
what's going on right now in the world with issues of race, prejudice, etc. and also I hope they can come away with a better under­anding of how they per­sonally can affect this situation in a positive way," Rohn said. 
=-Anot-her student panelist, sophomore Joshiekka Outlaw, believes that the celebratory aspect of King's words is valuable to remember in these times. "His message transcends any generation ... [the chat} is welcome to everybody and diversity is appreciat­ed," Outlaw said. 
of Destiny" began with an idea from a sophomore committee member to make a quilt, an old African-American tradition that symbolized history. 
Quilts were sacred ite·ms in the home because of the stories and sentimental value sewn into the finished product. 
The Peace Quilt required the time, effort and coordination of not only the MLK committee, but also the rest of 
Notre Dame and the surrounding community. The process began with a kit to 
make a rainbow quilt The committee approved of the colorful pattern, which was ideal for a week about har­
mony and diversity, The next part of the quilt-making procedure involved the residence halls and more than 40 South Bend elementary schools. All dorms and schools were asked to design their ov.n patch. Susan Good. a technology consul­tant at the law school. sewed the dec­
"Operation Love" . Tues., 6:30 -8:30 p.m. 
. LaFortune Ballroom 
"From the Inside Out" 
. 
Wed., 7 • 8:30 p.rn. 

. 
LaFortune Ballroom 


"Speaking the Truth" 
. Wed., 7. 8:30 p.m. 
. Coleman-Morse center student lounge 
"The Peace Quilt" 
. 
Prayer service . Thurs. 7 -8 p.m. 

. 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 


ping back and seeing how each distinct square connects on all sides with the others to become even more impressive. Johnson emphasizes the importance of joining together in the midst of incredible changes in our world. 
"We've been trained to see an aesthetic reality of a person and to immediately put them into a category," Johnson said. 
The Peace Quilt was crafted in memory of King's ideals of accep­tance and tolerance, to discourage that judging of people based on appearance and the pushing away of those who are different. 
Just like in African-American tradition, the Peace Quilt is indeed a sacred item -for its meaning, its stories, and its beauty. 
Ken Seifert is the chairperson of this year's MLK committee, which is hand selected by the adminis­trative co-chairs. The committee 
orated patches together. Although there was plenty of money in the budget. Good voluntarily gave her time and skill to the creation of the Peace Quilt without payment. Her uncle, Holy Cross priest Steve Gibson, constructed a stand to display the final quilt. Chandra Johnson, a com­mittee administrative co-chair, watched the development of the quilt from pieces of cloth to a work of art. 
"I saw it, and it is the most beautiful thing I've ever seen," Johnson said. 
She sees the quilt as a symbol of coming together, of progressing from squares with glitter or doves or a big Zahm Z to a breathtaking representation of an entire community's interpretation of peace. 
As orie of the leaders of the MLK committee, Johnson admits that she was uncertain about the quilt idea at first because of the amount of organization and work involved. All the components eventually came together, however ­especially when the patches began returning to her with vibrant and special pictures of peace. · 
'Tm going to explain the process of the quilt-making spiritual1y and theologically at the prayer service on Thursday, so that the community who comes can under­stand how something that looks very, very difficult to do in the beginning actually becomes a divine work of art ­it's the process of putting forth the effort," Johnson said. 
The quilt, not easy to make but spectacular to see, is an appropriate way of honoring King and the adversity he overcame to realize his famous dream. 
The committee hopes the quilt can be prominently dis-is comprised of students and faculty from a diverse array of departments and backgrounds. . 
The result is a group of individuals who bring varied perspectives to the weekly meetings. For example, Notn· Dame students Jourdan Sorrell, Darius Stewart and Habibah Bell even witnessed last spring's KKK rally first­hand as they and many others staged an opposing rally. They brought this experience with them to meeting dis­cussions. 
Seifert, who is heading the committee for the second year in a row, stresses the importance of self-analysis. Participants will be encouraged to assess their own responsibilities in seeking answers to the problems of society through King's message of tolerance and non-vio­lence. He hopes that the events will help individuals look at their personal behaviors and prejudices, which is the first step to impro,.,ing race relations. 
Most importantly, Seifert wants every single participant to walk away with a positive feeling. According to administrative co-chair Priscilla Wong, the focus will be on inspiring kindness. 
"Our goal is to challenge the Notre Dame community, especially in light of the Sept. 11 incident, to examine our role and response to uplifting humanity," Wong said. Each MLK committee member has been working since fall to achieve this goal, hoping to elevate spirits in South Bend. 
Contact Christie Boisen at bolsen.I@nd.edu. 
logy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 

1958 "'" ,.• »••:I:''!)'' o>r,p~fl";.' ·101 ·1t!;,·1••·rrrrl _! c•r.• -lH ?TlJn:I "!"'\''••!] rrrwn P.'ltJmJrn,g ;l!li.>l1964 
King's first book "Stride Toward Freedom: the Montgomery Story" is published in September. Three days after the release, King is stabbed in the chest by a deranged woman; he survives the serious injury. 
King relocates to Atlanta where he is a pastor at the Ebenezer Baptist Church. The first lunch counter sit-in held by up and coming student Civil Rights movements. King meets with a campaigning John F. Kennedy. 
1962 
King helps lead the Birmingham protests. 
1963 
King meets with the now President Kennedy. During further protest, King is jailed in Birmingham. He writes his famous "Letter From A Birmingham Jail" during his incarceration. King's second book "Strength to Love" is released and King leads the March on Washington; he delivers the famous "I Have a Dream" speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. 
King and other SCLC leaders are jailed in Florida. Later in the year, King travels to divided Berlin and has a meeting with Pope Paul VI at the Vatican. King receives the Nobel Peace Prize on Dec. 10. 
1965 
King addresses marchers from Selma, Ala. in Montgomery. The Voting Rights Act is sign by President Johnson, 
1966 
Poll taxes are declared unconstitutional. King's book, "Where do We Go from Here; Chaos or Community?" published. King also begins anti-Vietnam War lecture circuit. 
1968 
King goes to Memphis to aide striking sanitation workers. King delivers his last speech, "I've Been to the Mountain Top." On April 4, King is shot in the neck by James Earl Ray as he stood on the balcony of the second floor of the Larraine Motel. 
1986 ·I• 
President Ronald Regan signs Public Law 98-144 making the third Monday of January a Federal Holiday in honor of King. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 21, 2002 
Basketball 
continued from page 20 
its 2-3 zone, but once the Irish set­tled into thoir defense on Saturday, they dominated. 
"They played a 2-3 zone very well,'' said Providence head coach Jim Jabir. ''In the second half we really couldn't. put the ball in the hole and it's hard to compete when they're that big, that physical and they're going to limit you to one look." 
The Irish held the Friars to 17. 9 percent shooting in the second half and allowed only one :{-point shot in the entire 40 minutes. Although Providence managed to hold Notre Dame's leading 3-point shooter, Alicia Ratay. to only six points, none of which came from a 3-point shot, the bench stepped it up from the outside. 
Wicks hit three shots from out­side the arc in the second half. wrapping up the outside effort Bustamante began in the first half. 

"I was really trying to say 'be patient and if you build it they will come,"' Wicks laughed after the game. "Wait [or the three and it will come." 
Severe also added some help off the bench. After coming in at point guard for starter Jeneka Joyce, who is sufforing from an injury, Severe added 13 points for the Irish. scoring just one less than leading scorer Jackie Batteast. She also grabbed four rebounds and three steals. 
Joyce was hampered by pain most of the game and asked to come out in the first half. 
"She's hurting and she's limited at practice," McGraw said, "She's playing in a lot of pain and she's playing hard, but you can tell." 
Borton came off the bench with her first double-double of the sea­son, grabbing lO rebounds and hit­ting 11 points. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
tie. The Wildcats then scored on two consecutivP­plays with a quick fast break and a midcourt steal, increasing their lead to five with less than a minute left. A Tayshaun Prince 3-pointcr after a Humphrny lay-up sent the Wildcats to the locker room with a six point 41­35 edge. 
"We missed a free throw and then they picked our pockets at half court," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. "rt was deflating." 
The Irish were unable to come up with a lead in the second half. Humphrey struggled under the stiff defense of Wildcat center Jules Camara and forward Marquis Estill, scoring under his average with 14 points. 
"I felt like every time I got the ball. there were two or throe guys on me," Humphrey said. "But that's OK. When they do that, it gives my guys some looks and I can keep pass­ing it." 
But no one on the Irish squad could come up with any consistent points. 
freshman point guard Chris Thomas continued to struggle, scoring 13 and going 2-11 from 3-point range. 
"It's been tough since the Big East started," Thomas said. "But good shooters always go through strnaks like this." 
The home loss drops the Irish to 12-5 on the season. But despite five notches in the loss column. Brey's squad has only lost by a combined total of 18 points. Three of those have come at the hands of 
ranked teams. 

The Irish do not have any time to mull over Saturday's loss. as they play host to conference rival Georgetown tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joycn Center. 
"We don't have any time to feel sorry," Brey said. "We have Georgetown coming in here on Monday and we need to be ready." 
The Hoyas arc 11-6 over­all and 2-3 in the Big East, but have dropped four games in their last six out­ings. The squad is coming off a one-point home loss to Pittsburgh. a team that Notre Damp, dcf'eatnd last weekend. 
Tonight's game will be the first of two regular­season meetings for the team. 
Contact Kerry Smith at smith.387@nd.edu. 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish hope to hold their own against UConn 
defensively or what we run on manner not much different said. "With this team, we real­veteran players such as By NOAH AMSTADTER 
offense," McGraw said Sunday than that employed by the ly don't have any good Haney, Ratay and Jeneka Sports Editor 
after practice. "It's just about Irish last season. Notre matchups. Even in the zone, Joyce -all of whom saw sig­facing up against the best Dame's Riley, Siemon and Ivey it's going to be hard for us to nificant court time against HARTFORD, Conn. team in the nation and not used the experience of playing play them." Connecticut last season -can 
The Connecticut Huskies backing down. That's what we together for four years to their While the IluskiPs have been step up today. enter this afternoon's game want to do. We could play a advantage. Connecticut led by the veterans all season "I think this is a game for against Notre Dame with a great game and lose by 15 and seniors Sue Bird, Tamika long, the Irish have rebounded the upperclassmen," McGraw perfect 20-0 record, a 6-0 that's the way it is. We just Williams, Swin Cash and Asjha from a 2-4 start to win ,1ight of said. "This is a game wher11 mark in the Big East and the want to leave the game feeling Jones join sophomore Diana their last JO games behind the we rrned our upperclassnwn to No. 1 ranking in both the that we did our best." Taurasi in a starting five efforts of' an improving fresh­really come out and play wPII Associated Press and McGraw makes a good point. where every player averages man class. Forward and play their best game. ESPN/USA Today polls. Connecticut's list of victims at least 10.9 points 1wr con­Jacqueline Batteast has They've got to lead us. This is 
The Huskies haven't just reads like a who's who of the test. emerged as a national not a game where we're beaten all their opponents, nation's top teams. UConn "I don't think anybody com­Freshman of the Year candi­expecting the frcshnrnn to they've annihilated them -beat No. 7 Vanderbilt 69-50 on pares to them just because date, leading the team in scor­carry the team." winning by an average margin Nov. 18, No. 3 Oklahoma 86-they have five people who arc ing eight times already this Haney agrees, and is quick of 38.65 points, including a 72 on Dec. 22. and No. 2 so versatile and do so many season. to point out which team has 112-43 drubbing of Pittsburgh Tennessee 86-72 on Jan. 5. So things well," McGraw said. "I While the Irish faltered the rings from 2000-01. on Jan. 2. if the Irish can stay within 20 think their transition game is against ranked Purdue and "For a team like this, coming 
The Irish, on the other hand, points of the Huskies today, the best in the country. I think Michigan in December, off of a national championship may be the defending NCAA they'll be in pretty good com­they have the best backcourt Batteast points out that the and beating them in the semi­Champions, but vvithout Ruth pany. in the country and it'll come team taking the Hartford Civic finals last year it's important Riley, Kelley Siemon and Niele "When the No. 1 team beats down to who's the best player Center floor today is a more that we don't go out there and Ivey, have proved to be mor­the No. 2 team by 20 [actually in the country -Sue Bird or mature one. show that we're scared and tals. Notre Dame comes into 14] on their home floor, you Diana Taurasi." "The same people are more afraid," she said. "l think its only nationaily televised kind of think this team is the What makes the Huskies confident," Batteast said. what's important is that we go regular-season game best in the country," McGraw particularly hard to guard is "We're starting to understand out play like we're capable of unranked, with a 10-6 record said. "I think peopie are prob­their balance on offense. what we should be doing. playing and give them a real {4-1 in the Big East). So when ably starting to compare scor­"With every other team you We're not as confused as we game." head coach Muffet McGraw ing margins." play, there's usually someone were. It's good that we're looks at today's game, she is Connecticut has put together that you can sort of lay off and learning from our mistakes." realistic. its perfect record with an not worry about and matchup While the freshmen have Contact Noah Amstadter at 
"It's not about what we do experienced starting five -a with everybody else," McGraw improved, McGraw hopes that amstadter, l@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \,.m. at the Notre Dame otfice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Do you miss your family pet?  Why live in crowded houses? Have  GET CHEAP TEXTBOOKS! Search  Want the best seat in the stadium?  
your own space, privacy & security.  MMMRentals .com 272-1525  16 bookstores with 1 click! S&H and  
NOTICES  ..  Consider becoming a FOSTER or  Mar-Main  taxes are also calculated.  Call Noah at 1-4543 to write Sports.  
VOLUNTEER for the  Apartments 233-2098  mmmrentals@aol.com  
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica,  cats and dogs at PET REFUGE. a  http://www.bookhq.com/  
S Padre. & all Florida destinations.  no-kill animal shelter just 1 Omin- 
BEST  utes from campus.  3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, sale  Would you rather watch CNN or  
Hotels, FREE parties. LOWEST  neighborhood. new appliances, 2­ 3 Bedroom House Close to  Unplanned Pregnancy?  MSNBC than do your accounting  
prices!  Please 11is1r www.petrefuge.com,  car garage,  Campus $595.00 per month  homework?  
www.breakerstravel.com  e-mail webmaster@petreluge.com,  fenced yard, NC, gas heat, W/D.  Do not go it alone. If you or some­ 
(800) 985-6789  or call  Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo  Call 233-1440  one you love needs  Call Jason at 1 ·5323 to write News.  
256-0886.  confidential support or assistance,  
232-4527 or 616-683-5038.  please call  
LOST AND FOUND  FOR SALE  New 3·4 bdrms, 3 bath homes tea-luring fireplace. skylights, cathedral  PERSONAL  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1· 7819.  . Do you love to critique movies, books, new CD's and concerts?  
ceilings,  For more information. see our  
FOUND: Watch outside of South  family room, 10x20 deck. 2-car  Spring Break with STS, Americas  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  Want to write about life on campus?  
Dining Hall on Monday, Jan. 14.  GET CHEAP TEXTBOOKS! Search  garage. $1500/mo.  #1 Student Tour Operator.  
Call Claire  16 bookstores with 1 click!  Promote trips on-campus  Call Spencer at 1-4540 to write  
S&H and taxes are also calculated.  Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038.  earn cash and free trips.  Damn Yankees opens Jan 7!  Scene.  
634-3677 to identify.  Tix on sale TODAY.  
http://www.bookhq.com/  nice homes north of ND [close) for  Into/Reservations  LaFun Into Desk!  
next school year ideal for 3·8 stu·  1 ·800-648-4849  
dents  Please remember to recycle The  
WANTED  FOR RENT  great area 2773097  www.ststravel.com  Mike Lanes lonely hearts club band  Observer.  

Monday, January 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas, Irish will overcome recent struggles 
more triples, finishing 2-of-11 expectations placed on him by times, like Saturday, that cre­he can dish off to Ryan
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
from behind the arc and 4-of-15 his coach, his teammates, his ativity can hurt the Irish. Humphrey for a rim-rocking
Associate Spons Edi tor 
overall. He had open looks on fans and himself. Maybe he He caused problems all after­dunk or kick it out for a 3-point­the perimeter and humiliated didn't know that freshmen noon for Kentucky's Cliff cr. The frustration on Chris defenders as he drove to the weren't supposed to handle the Hawkins by driving right past Basically, when Thomas Thomas' face revealed more basket, but rarely finished what ball lih a three-year veteran, the Wildcat point guard at will. clicks, the Irish click. 
about the young point guard that freshman ·
he started. But when "We still have to keep him in than the black-and-white mun­That pretty much sums up the weren't sup­he released an attack frame of mind," 13rey
"You do [take him for
bers on tlrn 
way January has been going for posed to hit the ball, his said. "There'll be times where stat sheet. 
the talented 1'otre Dame rookie. clutch shots at granted] because he does s h o t s we'll say, 'Chris, make some­
Midway 
"It's been tough since the Big key points in the himself like an older bounced off thing happen.' Most of the time 
through the ,,
East started," said Thomas. "My game. Or maybe the rim it's been good, sometimes he's 
guy.
second half, 
shots am going to fall. I've been Im knew, and rather than thrown it away, but we're goingNotre 
through stuff like this before. just didn'.t care. floating to keep doing that." 
Dame's 
Good shooters always go When he start­Mike Brey through the A month and a half ago, when 
prize fresh­
through streaks like this." ed embarrassing net. So he the Irish lost their first game of
head coach
man stood 
But it doesn't matter whether opposing point resorted to the season to Indiana, Thomas 
clutching 
Thomas' shooting slumps last guards with outside scored his 22nd, 23rd and 24th the basket-Soukup 
the length of a Bun Run or five ankle-breaking crossovers, the shooting. And as everyone in points on a shot taken five feet 
ball behind 
games. When Thomas struggles, freshman seemed to be playing the Joyce Center saw, that behind the 3-point line with two 
thi1 a-point arc without a 
Notre Dame struggles. like a junior. Now, with his didn't work either. defenders hanging over him. 
K<>ntucky defender in the sam~ 
In the 12 games before Big recent struggles, the freshman "I just don't want him down," "You knew I was going to 
zip code. Although he had 
East play started, Thomas was is playing, well, like a freshman. Brey said. 'Tm not down on shoot that," the freshman missed six shots from down­nearly unstoppable, making half "You do [take him for grant­him. I love him. He's the great­smiled after the game. "And you 
town already, Thomas didn't 
of his 3-point shots and 45 per­ed] because he does himself like est thing that happened around knew it was going in, too." 
hesitate to µu1I the trigger 
cent of all his an older here in a long time. If he needs Thomas needs to get that again. 
field goals. guy," 13rey a massage, I'll give it to him." swagger back, and he will. 
Clang. Miss No. 7. "'It's been tough since the
During that peri­said. "Our Brey can't afford to take the He'll get it back by staying in Tippnd around by several od, when Big East started. My expectations ball out of Thomas' hands. He the game and playing 40 min­
playiirs. the ball l1ew through Thomas made are high for can't even afford to take him utes a night. Something from
shots are going to fall. 
the air and returned to Thomas' defenses look him. His out of the game. When Thomas his game might be missing now,
hands. This time, he took a step rve been through stuff
uglier than Lou expecta­headed toward the bench with but he can't keep missing shots 
to the left, hesitated for an 
Holtz, the Irish liek this before. " tions, I 2:37 left in the first half, the forever. 
instant and launched another 3­went 10-2. thirlk, are Irish trailed by one point. When And when -not if -his pointer. 
Since the Irish higher." he returned a minute later, the shots stop rolling off the rim,
Airball. Miss No. 8. Chris Thomas
began Big East Thom as' Wildcat lead had stretched to then the Irish will -not mightAnd as Thomas ran in t.be play on Jan. 6, Irish point guard greatest five points. Notre Dame would -roll right into the NCM tour­
same direction his shots were 
they have gone asset is his never get within one point nament. 
going -away from the basket 
2-3. In those creativity. again. 
-his gaze fell to the floor, his 
five games, Thomas bas shot 27 When Notre Dame falls behind, Thomas is the heart and soul 
!wad shook from side to side 
percent from the field and 26 Thomas tends to bring the Irish of the Irish offense. When he's Contact Andrew Soukup at and Im si,emed to be looking for 
percent from 3-point range. back in the game himself. hitting jumpers, David Graves asoukup@nd.edu. The views of 
a hole to crawl into. 
From the day Thomas record­Usually, he damages opposing and Matt Carroll find them­this column are those of the 
By the time the game was 
ed a triple-double, he has spent teams with his flashy moves and selves a lot more open. When author and are not necessarily over, Thomas had missed three 
his college career living up to pinpoint shooting. But some-he's driving through the lane, those ofThe Observer. 

is currently accepting applications for the 2002-03 term of 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cro~1}~u•i eligible to apply. Applicants should have a strong foundation in print journalism and skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop. 
Applicants should submit an eight or more page statement detailing what he or she wishes to accomplish in the term. Applications are due to Mike Connolly by Thursday, Jan. 24 at 5 p.11). Any questions about the application or application procedure should be directed to Mike Connolly at 631-4542. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 21, 2002 
SMC BASKETBALL 

By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Saint Mary's was on the verge of an upset until the final min­utes of their game Saturday afternoon against Adrian College. ThP Belles lost to the Bulldogs 81-76. 
Coming off a home win over points and seven boards. 
The missed free throws, com­bined with weak rebounding ­the Belles had 20 boards to the Bulldog's 44 -gave Adrian the t1dge. 
"In past games, we've been hitting all our free throws and then this game we let it drop off a little," Linkous said. 
Despite their 
weaknesses, 

Olivet.  the  "We were just thinking  the Belles are  
Belles  were  upset."  pleased with  
expecting the  their  overall  
short,  but  performance.  
physically  Elizabeth Linkous  'Tm  not  
strong Adrian  Saint Mary's senior  upset  at  all  


Law Nigtit 0b7mpies XVI 
Than~& to a\\ of the&e \ola\ bu&ine&f>e& for 
l 
i I I I 
I ­
f 
..... 
Belles' upset of Adrian falls short 
squad to pre­sent a formi­dable challenge. 
And for the most part, the Belles rose to meet that chal­lenge. 
The Bulldogs and the Belles were neck and neck for most of the first half, and the Belles led 44-41 at the half. They proceed­ed to hold the lead for the first 14 minutes of the second half. 
It was then that the Bulldogs increased their shooting accura­cy, while Saint Mary's got into foul trouble, and was hurt 
donating item& to the 
LNO \2-affleB!!
t,'IJ3'S 
Doc Pierce s Hacienda ~ 0v0 
L. <$),t ~
P

Empo . apa John~ Subway Qo"' 0+ 
num Nccrltr~ [Dai m@ (G(Q)~1 Sfrn(Q)!D) 
ij\(9 
C 

Between the 
Culligan s East.of Chicago 
Buns 
Pizza Company 

Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore 
Notre Dame Varsity Shop 
Tippecanoe Place 
Barnaby~ Martins 
Friday, January 25, 2002 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM 
Joyce Center• 631-6100 • recsports.nd.edu 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
R~~ 
by missed free ''I'm not upset at all past that and 
throws. because I thought we we know that "We were the team we
played really well. It
just thinking have now we upset. We would have been. better if are going to 
knew they 
we had won obviously. " have to work were a good with," Linkous team from last said. "Coach year. Last year Katie Miller Smith thought they beat us by Saint Mary's sophomore we played 
a considerable amount." said 
Belles senior Elizabeth Linkous. "We just decided if we went in there and played our game we would beat them. And we played our game, but I think if we would have made our foul shots 
we would have won." 
Saint Mary's shot 46.7 percent from thP line, a drastic change from its 87 .5 percent shooting Wednesday night versus Olivet. Adrian sunk 20 free throws out of 23 attempts, and thP Bulldogs' Ra'Slwicta Ed·wards. the MIA.A Player of the Week, went 5-5 from the line, adding to her 19 
because we 

played really well." said Katie Miller. "It would have been better if we had won obviously." 
'Tm pretty happy. Last year we won eight games," Linkous said. "This year we've already won six. We're not all the way through the first round of con­ference play." 
The Belles have also overcome another weakness. the loss of four key players. 
"I think it affected us at first, 
but now, 
we've gotten 
s Rt 


XXXI 
COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 
Applications Due Friday, Jan. 26 
Pickup an application at the StudentActivities Office at 314 LaFo.rtu.ne and sign up for an interview. 
Check out the website for more info: www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ or Emailu.s atbkstr.l@nd.edu 
excellent. It 

was a really big step up from the past games we've played." 
Emily Creachbaum had 15 points for the Belles. Miller, with her four assists and 14 points, that included four three point­ers, had an impressive after­noon. 
The Belles will take on Kalamazoo on WBdnesday at 
7:30 p.m. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
Keenan Revue 
2002: APalindrome Revue 
Show Dates: January 31, February 1 and 2 
No lines more than an hour ahead of time. Two tickets per ID, one ID per person. 
Tickets are FREE! 

Ticket Distribution 
Saint Mary's College 
Wednesday, January 23 3:30-4:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Lobby 
Notre Dame 

Thursday,January 24 
3:00-4:00 p.m. 
JACC-Gate 10 

Monday, January 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Women win, men take third 

By DAVID COOK Spom Writer 
Just how strong is Liz Grow this year? 
Liz Grow, a senior. was suf­fering from a stress fracture in her right foot right before win­ter break berause of a string of intense workouts. 
Then she came back for the first Notre Dame home meet and won both the 500-meter run and the 200-meter dash, 

the department of film, television, and theatre 
festival 2002 
thursday • friday • saturday • monday january 24 • 25 • 26 • 28 @ 7:30 & 9:45pm • tix $4.00 hesburgh library auditorium • tix on sale at LaFortune {wviU.e tvie1:1 tcist) 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITY 
at aWORLD-CLASS/GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FACILITY 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award summer internship opportunities at Argonne National Laboratory (Argonne, IL) for 2002 with a follow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the l0-week program at Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (illD/. field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2002, and registered to return for Fall semester o/2002. 
For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants required to complete an application and submit transcripts. Deadline is February 22, 2002 
leading the Irish to a victory 1:54.29 provl~d to be better with a total of 136 points than any runner in the first Friday night. 13all State finished heat. second with 109.5 points and "The 800 has always been Western Michigan was third my strongest race," said with 86.5 points. Morrisson. "It's a relief to final­
If that's not impressive ly have a good race. I feel like enough, consider that before I've had a pretty disappointing this race Grow cross coun­had never run in try season,
"/ knew I could win. 
anything above so this is 
400 meters. There was one other girl my first 
Irish assistant from Western Michigan, I race that I coach John consider to
knew ifI could cut her
Millar put her in be a good 
the 500-meter off. I knew that I could race." 
run so that she win ifI just maintained Fellow could take it freshman
[my pace].··
easy on the foot. S e I i m But Grow had Nurudeen different expec­Liz Grow a I s o tations from claimed his
Irish runner 
herself. 

"I knew could win," said Grow. "There was onP other girl from Western Michigan, I knew if I could cut her off, I knew that I could win if I just maintained [my pace]." 
Last year in the NCAA out­door championships, Grow had taken 13th place overall in the 400-meter dash. This year, she has set her expectations even higher.' 
"I wasn't happy with last year at all actually," said Grow. "It was just a long season for me. But this year, every year obviously, I expect myself to win." 
Grow was not the only one with success for the women's track and field team. The team posted an impressive 11 first place finishes in 16 total events. 
In other sprinting events, Ayesha Boyd and Kristen~ Dodd enjoyed considerable success. Boyd took first in the 60 meter dash with a time of 7.58 sec­onds and third in the 400 meter dash, while Dodd took third place in the 60-meter and second in the 200-meter dash. 
In the women's pole vault, Notre Dame took the top three places. Jill Vanweelden took first with a height 11-6. Jaime Volkmer vaulted the same height, but she had more faults. Natalie Hallett was in third with a height of 10-6. 
The men's team was led to a third place by the surprising leadership of two freshmen. Eric Morrisson, who took first place in the 800-meter run even though he was running in the second heat. His time of 
first home 
co Ilegi ate victory Friday night, taking first place in the 60-meter hur­dles. Nurude1rn finished in a time ol' 8.11 seconds. Sophomore Napoleon Suarez, running in the second IH\at of the race, took second with a time of 8.:30 seconds. 
Western Michigan won the meet (123.5 points) with Ball State finishing second ( l 11 ). Notre Dame earned 103.5 points. 
Senior Luke Watson also claimed a first place finish in the 3000 meter run with a per­sonal best 8:14.52, less than 4 seconds off the NCAA provi­sional qualifying time. Unfortunately for Watson, he had to run the final three laps with no competition. 
The fourth victory was claimed by the men's 4x440 relay team. The team won the race with a time of 3:18.70, a commanding two-second lead in front of second place Western Michigan. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, they were without several top performers in high jumper Quill Redwine and distance runners Mark Striowski and Pat Conway. Junior sprinter and jumper Tom Gilbert was also not in action Friday night. 
The men's and women's track and field team will be in action again this Friday night in a dual meet against Michigan State. Events start at 6 p.m. on Meyo Field. 
Contact David Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Saturday, January 26 • 10:00am 
Deadline-January 24 Saturday, February 8 • 4:30pm Deadline-February 6 
Clinics held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $9.00 Includes Rental 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warn1 Golves 
R""~ 
page lG The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 21, 2002 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Butterflies help carry Irish over Oakland 
-
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Spans \X'riLet 
Oakland head coacl1 Pete lloveland is starting to think that his team should swim Notre Dame in its own pool. 
After all. he's lost the last three meets he's had al Holfs Aquatfrs CentRr. And after '.'Jotre Dame beat the Golden Grizzlies 162.5-133.5 Saturdav in Irish waters. 1-lovelan;l thought u change of scenery might <lo his team somP good. 
"You love that horn(' pool advantage.·· Hove land said. ;<That cliche -that old adage -that it's tough to win on the road in the NCAA is true." 
But the Irish are content in keeping the series where il is -in their home pool. Arter defeating Oakland for the sec­ond time this sP-ason. Irish head coach Tim Welsh seemed tu think the Oakland squad coulrl rompete in h.is pool any­time. 
"We definitely want them to koep coming hare evory year," said Welsh. 
The match-up -Notre Dame's toughest dual meet competition of the season ­was a battle for points from the beginning. Oakland cap­tured the 200-vard medley relay, while Notre Dame team.ed for a 2-3 finish in the first event of the meet. 
In fact, Oakland swimmers captured first place finishes in 
___;;.;;;;;;,;;;;;;;; 

three of the first five events of the meet. Oakland victories in the relay. the 200-yard freestyle and 100-yard brcas­truke had l'\otre Dame just a little nervous their depth couldn't ovcrcorno Oakland's headliners. 
But mid-s«:'ssion. Notrn Dame answered with swimmP.rs SWPt>ping the top See tomorrow's 
t h r e e 
Observer lor

placPs in the 200-coverage of NO vard but­
Women's

terfly. 
Swimming victory

Sophomore 
J .R. TPddy over Illinois, Iowa led the Irish but.­terf1y squad finishing first in 1 minute, 54.97 seconds, fol­lowed by sophomore Lucas Wymore in second and sopho­more Brian Coughlan in third. "That was a critical turning point for us." Welsh said. "That ·wasn't something ­looking at it. before the meet ­you'd have said was going to happen." Butterfly continued to be a strong event fur the Irish, when swimmers swept the top four places in the 100-yard butterfly later in the meet. Freshm~n Frank Krakowski won the event in 51.24, fol­lowed bv senior David Horak, Coughlaii and Wymore. Depth proved to be the 
Irish's strong point, with sev­eral Irish swimmers teaming 
.. 
·•:­
;:~ 
•
-
:~'. 


for top finishes or two-three sweeps. Capturing enough of' thl~ runner-up finishes when Oakland swimmers grabbed first belpl~d put the Irish ahc>ad on the poiut sprnad. 
"We wanted to break up their power, which we did," Welsh said. "And when we were able to win an event, we could back it up." 
Junior divers Andy Maggio and Tony Xie combined to sweep the 1-meter diving, and Maggio also grabbed first in the 1-meter event. 
Teddy combined with senior 

Jonathan Pierce for a claim on the top two spots in the 500­yard freestylA. llorak. junior Jason Colettis and junior John Hudson combinod for second, third and fourth placfls i11 thfl 200-yard backstroke. 
Junior Jason Fitzpatrick and senior Mike Koss teamed for second and third place f1nishes in the 100-yard breastroke, and Horak and freshman Dean Wolf earned the top two posi­tions in the 100-yard back­stroke. 
Pierce won the 1,650-yard freestyle, and Moisan won the 
400-yard individual mPd!Py. 
"We capitalized on all the places whero they had holes," Pierce said. ''This is definitely a big confidence booster." 
Tbe Irish, who improve to 9­3 on the season with the win against Oakland, return to the pool on Saturday against Villanova. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil1843@saintmarys.edu. 

OPERATION 

MAKING A DIFFERENCE PIECE BY PEACE 
FROM THE INSIDE OUT An Expression of Self through Dance, Poetry and Music Tuesday, January 22 La Fortune Ballroom 6:30-8:30pm 

Monday, January 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 
Irish unable to solve Maverick goaltender 
By CHRIS FEDERICO As.ista111 Sports Editor 
The Irish dropped two home games to conference rival Nrbraska-0maha -3-2 on Friday and 4-2 on Saturday ­and missed an opportunity to pick up points in a vrry tight CCIIA race. 
The losses were quite tough for the team. because in both games the Irish played well 1!nough to win. but on both nights Irish shooters wen~ con­stantly l'oilHd by '.\faverick goal­tender Dan Ellis. 
"It wus frustrating. We played wnll over the last two games and outshot them." Irish centor Connor Dunlop said. "We gut 40­pl us shots each night. hut we couldn't solve !Ellis I." 
Thn Irish outshut their oppo­nents 90-45 in the two games. I lowever. Ellis managed to turn away 86 of those 90 shots in leading his team to victory. In addition. the Irish !'ailed to take advantage nl' snveral key oppor­tunities to scorn, while llrnir opponents made the most of tlrnir opportunities. 
"It's interesting because we had our chancns to ,,in," head coach Davn Poulin said. "It comes down to them making plays and us not making plays. We had great chances, but il's not good ,rnough because they didn't go in." 
The Mavericks came out !iring at tlw bPginning of the game Saturday. taking thP role ol' the early aggressor against tlrn Irish. .Just I 0:48 into the contest, the '.\1avcrirks grabbed tlw load wlwn right wing Scotty Turner put back a rnbound from a shot by center Andrew Wong. Irish goaltender Morgan Cey made a lunging kick save to stop Wong's shot. but was unable to do any­thing about the Turner follow. 

Nebraska-Omaha added to its l!~:i.d thrne minutes later when Maverick captain David Brisson burned most or the Irish defend­ers down the rink and took a shot on Cey. The freshman goalie stopped the first attack, but Maverick Anthony Adams quickly followed with a rebound that got by Cey. 
"Both the first and the second goals were rebound goals, and those were clearing opportuni­tiP-s !'or us," Poulin said. 
The Irish got one goal back just 1 3 seconds latPr when cen­ter Hob Globke blasted a shot past Ellis. Defenscmen Evan Nielsen and Neil Komadoski were credited with assists on the play. 
The best scoring opportunity in the second period came about eight minutes into the period during an Irish power pla:i-. Irish defenseman Brett Lebda fired a shot from the blue line that got past Ellis. but bounced off the cross bar. The puck then got back to Lebda who blasted another shot that was stopped this time by Ellis. Dunlop, how­ever. had an opportunity to put in the rebound with Ellis flat on the ice, but bis shot also struck the bar and bounced awav. 
"We moved it around· pretty well tonight [on the power plays!." Dunlop said. "We ended up getting one power play goal, but we've got to make sure we get those chances and take advantage of them because that's really the dilforence in this league." 
Over the course of the two games, Notre Dame was 2 for 17 in power play opportunities, whereas Nebraska-Omaha was 3 for 8. 
In the third period, penaltfes again hurt the Irish when Wong took a pass from left wing Jeff Hoggan and slapped a one-timer past Cey during the Maverick power play to build a 3-1 advan­tage. 
Late in the third period, the Irish chipped away at the Maverick lead. During an Irish power play, Lebda slipped a pass from behind the net to left wing David Inman, who knocked a one-timer by Ellis. 
The nail in the coffin for the Irish came at the 17:37 mark when Shane Glover took a cross­ing pass from Hoggan and shot it past Cey for the Mavericks' fourth and final goal. 
In the contest Friday night, it was the Irish who came out fir­ing, but many of their bullets mi.ssed the mark. In that first period, the Irish outshot the \-Iavericks 17-2, but only man­aged one goal for their efforts. 
With 4:50 left in the first peri­od, center John Wroblewski snuck one past Ellis with assists from Nielsen and left wing Brad Wanchulak to give the Irish the early lead. 
Just two minutes into the sec­ond period, it appeared that the Irish would add to their lead, but with the Maverick goalie down, right wing Michael Chin misfired on his shot from close range. 
Instead, Nebraska-Omaha would tic the game at the 5:31 mark of the second period when Irish defender Tom Galvin lost the puck right in front of the net. Brisson was able to put the puck 
Late Ni~t 0Jympies XVI Who can Win a War with PENNIES??? 
PENNY WARS!!! 
Pennies are POSITIVE points. Silver are NEGATIVE points. Bills are POSITIVE points. 
Buckets will be set up at the RSRC. Teams can collect money in their halls. 
Penny wars begin 6:00 AM, Monday, January 21 Penny wars will end at 3:00 AM, Saturday, January 26. 
Friday, January 25, 2002 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM Joyce Center • 631-6100 • recsports.nd.edu All LNO Medafs Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni A~sociation 
R~~ 

past Cey on the easy breakaway. 
Midway through the period, Nebraska-Omaha got its first lead of the night on a power play. Defender Greg Zanon took a one-timer from the blue line and fired it into the net. 
The Irish defense locked down on the Mavericks after those two early second period goals and prevented the Mavericks from opening up their lead. 
At the 13:02 mark of the third period. Dunlop managed to tie the game for Notre Dame by knocking in a rebound after shots from Lebda and Inman, who were both credited with assists. 
With just over a minute left in regulation, it appeared the teams were headed for overtime. After a couple of Irish defenders got entangled in front of the not, Maverick wing Shane Glover was able to shoot the puck past Cey for the game-\-\inning goal. 
The weekend proved to be the first this year that the Irish wern shutout in earning points towards the conference stand­ings. 
"It's frustrating because it's the first COIA weekend that we failed to take away points," Poulin said. "At this point in the year. every point is going to be absolutely critical." 
The two losses drop Notre Dame to 6-8-4 in conference play, but with only seven points separating third place from ninth place, anything can happen over the next five weeks. Next week­end the Irish will travel to Miami (OH) for another pair of confer­ence games. 
"Each game the rest of the way is, as far·as I'm concerned, there for the taking," Poulin said. •·we have to go take them. We've put ourselves in a very diflicult posi­tion and we have to go take those games." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


"JOYOUS ...THOROUGHLY ENGAGING!" 
The New York Times 

Limited Seating! For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4626 
'M8ffti0
c~ THE ARTS 
~NOTRE DAME, IN 

Monday, January 21, 2002 The Ohserver . SPORTS page 18 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish outman opposition in season opener 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spom Writer 
Responding positively to the news of its No. 7 prescason ranking, the men's tennis team opened its season on Saturday by blanking both No. 75 UC­Irvine and No. 64 Furman, posting 7 -0 victories against each squad. 
With support from the entire lineup. Notre Dame starts the season 2-0 for the sixth time in the last seven seasons. Twelve different players notched victo­ries for lhe Irish in doubles and singles action. 
"We had a good week of prac­tice here before everybody got back to school," senior Casey Smith said. "By the way I've seen everybody playing, I was kind of expecting everybody to come out strong like we did." 
In their first match-up of lhe day against UC-Irvine, Notre Dame sped to an early opening lead with wins from 83rd­
95th-ranked Javier Taborga clinched the Irish win by defeating his UC-Irvine oppo­nent at No. 1 singles. 
Wins by Matt Scott and Andrew Laflin at the respective Nos. 4 and 6 positions secured the singles sweflp for Notre Dame. 
Evidenced bv wins from each level of the Irish lineup, depth is a key attribute in recognizing Notre Dame as a national con­tender, leading to iLs early suc­cess and an optimistic outlook on the unfolding season. 
"We think we have a very solid team." Taborga said. "We have so many guys lhat can play at the bottom of the lineup. I think all of the guys are start­ing to realize that every match is going to be tough, and we have to play really well in every position to win. I just hope that we can hold it up and keep on building as the year goes by, because the goal is the NCMs." 
The Irish had no difficulties keeping the wins coming Raju won handily at No. 1, upsetting UC-Irvine's 27th­ranked team of .Jonathan Endrikat and Brian Morton. The duo of Brent D'Amico and Brian Farrell and tho team of Ben Hatten and Paul McNaughton won at th£' second and third positions respectively. 
The easy wins for Orn Irish came to a dead halt in the opening doubles action against Furman .in the second dual­match of the day. 
Furman's John Chesworth and James Cameron, ranked 14th, stunned Notre Dame's sixth ranked Taborga and Smith at No. 1 doubles, beating the Irish duo 8-3. However, the Irish came back to clinch the doubles point and secure a 1-0 lead with wins from the team of Haddock-Morales and Talarico at No. 2 and the pairing of D'Amico and Malhamc at No. 3. 
D1-1spite the early setback, the Irish proved to be an experi­enced squad -a characteristic Taborga identifies as a reason for their No. 7 ranking. 
"I think the experience is one [reason for the No. 7 ranking]," Taborga said. "So if you take all tho six guys that havn played last yea.r, we am rnore oxpnri­encod than what we were. l\nd if' we got to be No. 10 with lhat team, than I think now wo are a top 10 team, because we have built on what we had last year. 
"It's a big challenge because if people think we are thal high that means they am going to comn after us harder than prior years. We just have to bn ready to take that challenge," Taborga continued. 
Notre Dame accepted such a challenge in thn singles play against Furman, as each Irish playr,r came off the cnurt with a win. Farrell increased Notre Dame's lead to 2-0 with a win at No. 6, followed by Scott who downed his opponent at No. :i. Taborga clinched the second dual-match victory for the Irish ol' the day, winning at No'. 2. while Smith triumphod at No. I and lladdock-Morales at No. 3. 
Standing at 2-0 at the begin­ning of the much anticipatnd spring season, tlw Irish already know this toam stands apart from teams in th<1 past. 
"I lhink lhcrc ar<~ u couple things that makn us special," Smith said. "First, thn fact that we haw; a lot of' s(1niors on tho team. We've been playing with nach other f'or a long time, and there's a good chemistry tlrnrn. Also, evnrybody is very hungry. We haven't bonn able to havn some of th0 success that we've envisioned in thP pusl, and because or that we arc v<1ry hungry to rnalizc our goals. 
"And with Lhn talnnt, the clrnmistry, and t.h<1 cl!1sirn ­thut makes us prntty strong." 
Contact Rachel Biber at rbiber@nd.edu. 

rankcd Luis Haddock-Morales at No. 3 singles and 88th­ranked Smith at No. 2 singles. Aaron Talarico then notched a victory at No. 5 singles, while against UC-Irvine, taking all three ·doubles matches to win the doubles point and complete the 7-0 win. The pairing of James Malhame and Ashok 
THE 

f\DER'S CHol 
~ ,"-C 
. .
. . 
. 
-::~-·--~~~ . .
. ••••••••••••••••••••
·················••· 
RECOMMENDS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Green advances to consolation finals 
the consolation bracket by Special to The Observer defeating Ashley Robards of Tennessee 3-6, 6-1, 6-1. 
Irish senior Lindsey Green was 
Green, the only Notre Dame 

victorious Saturday in the conso­
player to compete in the first 
lation semifinals of the National event of the Irish spring sched­Collegiate Tennis Classic. 
ule, has won four of her last five 
Green defeated UNLV's 

matches dating back to the fall Agnieszka Abram 7-5, 6-4. She season. 
did not compete in the consola­tion finals originally scheduled for Sunday due to their cancella­'SPRING BREAI< tion. 
On Friday, Green lost her first­

+CIIHcuM. kMJ1.ro, MAzllruw + Mr.A. BrMMs. &: s. PADRE
round singles match to UNLV's Tracy Chong 6-3, 3-6, 6-2. She www.studentexpress.com then came back for a victory in call Now: !~(;>~7~7-3787 
r---------~--------------, 
"The Shipping News is alive in every sense of the word." 
-The Boston Globe 


"A remarkable look into the arcane world of mathematics and the tragedy of madness.,, 
-Simon Singh, New York Times 
Nothing Like It in the World gives the account of an unprecedented feat of engineering, vision, and courage. 
HAMMES 



January Super Special! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza $7 .99 (with coupon) Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1.49! 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 2/2/02 
NOTRE DAME 
e'; ~ -' 
Earn Free Books! 

BOOKSTORE 
See store for details 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 


Monday, January 21, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
,1-U:'. R\JG()'i 
FOXTROT 
WliERE'S MOM Tool< JASON? HIM To SEE. I AN ORTHO­


APPARENTlY, OUR TWERPY 
LITTLE SRoTHER MIC;,HT HAVE. TO <:,ET BRACES. 
wow. THAT'D SE AWFUL. NO k'IDD11'1C",,. 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND WOULD ANYONE ELSE 
CARE. FoR SoME FRE.SHLY &RATED PARMESAN? 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 "It's a Wonderful 58 Henry Vlll's 1 Lean-tos Life" studio second or fourth 6 Lackluster 33 Girl watcher, 59 First, second or 
perhaps reverse10 Not much 35 Word with first 60 Pizazz14 Man with morals or foreign 62 Tabloid twosome15 •tt all comes 36 Minnesota 63 Jazz singerclear" ballplayer James16 London subway, 37 Out of gas 64 Blottowith "the" 41 Kittens' cries 65 Rogers and17 William and 

42 Born: Fr. Clark

Harry's mum 43 ·_Doone" 66 Poison ivy woe18 Prefix with 44 Volcano output 67 Cracks the 
1 second 
45 "Much_ books 

19 Ready tor About Nothing" business 
46 Meth. or Gath. DOWN 
20 Out of gas 48 Mind reader's 1 Jerry Lewis 
23 Evangelist_ movie "The 
specialty, forSemple short Sack" 

McPherson 
49_Mujeres 2 One named in a 24 Church recess will
(neighbor of 25 Fawn's mother Cancun) 3 One of Isaac's 
28 Showery month: 51 "Stompin' at the twins Abbr. _" (1934 hit) 4 Former H.H.S. 
29 Thurs. follower 53 Out of gas Secretary Shalala 5 Picasso or El 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Cid 

A R I O L E 6 Supper Punla by Nancy S.lomon and Karen Rlellen 7 Grammar topic 
29 In shape 50 Apple supports 54 Engrossed by8 Jay of NBC 31 Pottery ovens 51 Box score 55 "_ lite!"
9 Kate's "Titanic" A T T co-star 56ln_land
32 Like draft beer numbers 34 Coast Guard
R O S -........i 10 ltsy-bitsy bits (spacy)
officer: Abbr. 52 George Bush, ~~,... 11 Burpable as a collegian 57 Served up a
35 "Act your _!"

C S T T E containers whopper36 Even if, casual_ly 53 Hit 1968 
1 
L A E s 12 Help in a holdup musical 61 Country rtes.
38 At risk

A L ..,.._~;..;,~-i-;. E s r 13 Naysay 1 21 Mischief-maker 39 Prefix with classic Answers to any three dues in this puzzle 
22 Prefix with 40 Factor in are available by touch-tone phone:
center 

25 Ism 45 Longtime ring 1·900·420-5656 (95e per minute). 26 Grimm meanies champ Annual subscr1ptions are available for the 27 Cotton gin 46 Enthusiastic best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 inventor 47 Apple eater years: 1·888•7-ACAOSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON ers. You should consider getting THIS DAY: Crystal Gayle, Joan involved in activities that will Baez, Jimmy Page, A J. McLean help you meet new people. 
Happy Birthday: You must be 0000 prepared to do whatever is neces­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You sary in order to move forward in can reach your goals if you are a positive manner. If you think quick to respond and willing to that everything will drop in your work with others. Your ability to lap, think again. You can achieve see all sides of a situation should plenty if you make your resources give you the edge over any com• work for you. Your numbers are petition that you face. 0000 9,11,14,22,25,39 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Plan a quiet relaxin~ day. You It's time to take a proactive posi­owe it to vomself to sit back and tion when it comes to your finan­catch up 'on what's happening cial situation. If you want to make with the ones you love. 000 an investment, consider investing SAGIITARIUS (Nm: 22·Dec 21): 
in yourself and your home. Put your best foot forward and 00000 ' you will receive satisfaction. The 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20)): pleasure you get from helping If you've been feeling a little lone­those in need will be well worth ly you may need to push yourself your effort. 000 out the door and into a group set• CAPRICORN !Dec 22-Jan. 19): ting. Join in and become a partid­Do something worthwhile for an pant and you will find yourself organization you believe in. Yom feeling alive once again. 000 positive action will put you in 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): good standing with prominent You will have a hard time dealing · people who can further your per­with emotional issues today. This sonal goals. 0000 is not the time to make a decision AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): regarding your personal life. 00 You may not get along with 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): everyone at work today, but don't 
You should make plans to get out let your job get fo you. If you and have some fun. You've been think !:hat you are being ill-treated working too hard and it's time to you might want to consider look­reward yourself. 00000 ing for a new position. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): careful not to upset the ones you You are open and receptive today. love. A friend may need to lean Join in and attend events that will on you; be compassionate but teach you about the cultural dif. honest.GO ferences in your community. A 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's changing attitude will lead you in time to step into a new phase that interesting new directions. offers greater interaction with oth-00000 
Birthday Baby: You are curtous and you like to wander. You love excitement and adventure and will go out of your way to discover new' and unusual ways to entertain yourself. You are fun loving and popular. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) l&l 2002 Universal Press Syndi<ate 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. Men's Tennis, p. 18 
. SMC Basketball, p. 14 
. 
Hockey, p. 17 . Men's Basketball, p. 13 

. 
Men's Swimming and . Women's Basketball, p. 12 Diving, p. 16 


PORTS
. Track and Field, p. 15 

Monday, January 21, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Wildcats claw past Irish 

• Depth of Kentucky roster proves too much for Notre Dame 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
In the end, tho Wildcats were just too deep for the ldsh. Downing Notre Dame 72-65 at tlrn Joyce Center Saturday afternoon, tho No. 12 Wildcats played on rested 11\gs l'or most of tho game. while tho unranked Irish struggled to kenp up. 
"Depth is a plus for them," sonior forward David Graves said. "Tlrnv know their roles. They will rotate in f'ive guys just as good as the five starters." 
Nine Kentucky players logged dou­ble-digit minutes on the court, as guard Keith Hogans led the squad with a game-and snason-high 2:1 points. No other Kentucky player scored more than nine. 
Bogans, who had been hurting all season, showed no sign of struggle, shooting 8-12 overall and 5-8 from behind the arc. 
"lle's the type of player that can just pull games like this," Irish for­ward David Graves said. "That's why they're so good. Someone unexpected can just pull up with a 20-point night." 
But as usual this season, the Irish did not let thflir opponent go home with an easy win. Paced by guard Matt Carroll's deadly first-half shoot­ing behind the arc. the Irish hpt the scorn close. 
Midway through the first half', Carroll took control of' the offense, scoring 13-straight Irish points. Tho junior hit a jumper in tlw lane to give tlrn Irish a one-point 12-11 lead and then followed through with two :{­pointers to give tlw Irish their largnst lead of'th(! ganw. 18-14. 
But tlrn Wildcats soon stiffenPd their defnnse on Carroll. as hn fin­islwd thP game with only f'ive morn points. 
"llis arm was probably tirnd," Kentucky head coach Tubby Smith joknd about Carroll's strnaky shoot­ing. 
But in reality, the Wildcat dP!'PnsP honnd in on their biggest threat. Wildcat def'enders kept a closP eye on Carroll tlw rest of' tlw night. 
"They didn't hop off at all." Carroll said. 
With the help of Carroll's first-half' performance, the Irish had a chance to head into halftime with some momentum, but f'ailnd to capitalize on key opportunities. 
Trailing by three with less than two minutns to play. rnsPrve Irish for­ward .Jordan Cornette scored and drew a foul, but failed to convprt on Lim frne throw attempt to bring the Notre Dame within 01111 instead of a 
see IRISH/page 12 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish overcome slow start to def eat Friars 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sporn EJiror 

While most of the country was focusing on what the Irish could do against the top­ranked Connecticut Huskies today, the Irish were focused on taking care of business on Saturday. A strong Notre Dame bench came out against Providence and took home a solid 69-41 victory, marking just the seconcl t.ime the team 
has  won  a  road game this  
season.  
"l  think  the  bench  just  

played a great. great game," said Irish head coach Yluffet McGraw. "We had five people ofT the bench just play a great game. T~!at's obviously what we nend. 
Six minutes into the first period, things were not look­ing good for the Irish. The Friars jumped out to an early 12-4 lead as the Irish were shooting just 2-10 from tlrn field. 

But that wouldn't last !'or long. Following a time out. freshman Allison Bustamante, who arguably had her best game of' the season. turned things around with a 3-point­er that began a 19-2 Irish run. 
"It's always great to start off with a 3-point shot," said the l'orward, who totaled a season high 12 points and five rebounds during her 31 min­utes of play. "Whenever you hit a big thrne Ii~~ that. it pumps up the team. 
"I think she's really been getting ready and today was maybe her break-out game." McGraw said. 
The 19-2 run gave the Irish a 23-14 lead, a lead that they never relinquished. With lrnlp from b('nch playPrs Le'Tania Severe. Kelsey Wicks. Teresa Borton and Katy Hccky, Notre Dame headed into the locker room with a fivn-point lnad at halftime. Arter trailing early, the Irish found the inspiration they needed to step up play. 
"Coach McGraw has bPfln talking about a sensn of urgency," Wicks said. "Finally today, maybe it clicked a little bit more. We were down. wo were just like, 'Liston, we have to pull out of this."' 
In the second half of play, the Irish did more than just pull out of it. Providence scored only 14 points in the second half as comparnd to Notre Dame's :H. 
Although the Friars, who hit seven or 10 :-!-pointers the last time they faced the Irish, this time they couldn't seem to hit a shot from the outside. The strong Irish 2-3 zone shut down the Providence offense. The last time these two teams faced off, Provid11ncn man­aged to pull Notre Dame out 
see BASKETBALl./page 12 


. Women's Basketball at Connecticut, Today, 3 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Basketball vs. Georgetown, Today, 7 p.m. 
on!ioe dossifieds
SPUR 

. SMC Basketball at Kalamazoo, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Hockey at Miami (OH), Friday, 7:30 p.m. http ://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 






