
VOL XXXVII NO. 46 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Students react to Washington-area sniper 

By MEGHANN£ DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
While most watched the Washington, D.C.-area sniper investigation unfold in the media, 20 Notre Dame stu­dents participating in the Washington Program learned and worked amid the sniper investigation. 
Vivian Cepero said she felt safe within Washington, because the sniper attacked in the suburbs and near express­ways where he could easily escape. 
"I think that everyone knew that it would be hard for the sniper to shoot someone in 
D.C. and to get out of here without getting caught," said Cepero. 
The attitude of some stu­dents that the sniper would not strike in the heart of the dis­trict surprised Laura Hoffman. 
"I bet all of the people who were killed also never thought their lives would be unexpect­edly taken while they went about their daily routines such as getting gas and going shop­ping," said Hoffman. 
Students received warnings from their friends and family. 
Brandi Gill said it was once safer to live in the city instead of the suburbs. Her feeling of security did not stop her dad from telling her to walk in zig zags. 
Students became more apprehensive as the investiga­tion and shootings dragged on. wondering if the sniper would ever be caught. Kristen Quigley did not become alarmed until the fifth shooting, when police still had not caught a suspect. Quigley began to heed the warnings issued by police and media and cautiously checked her surroundings. When dri­ving, she quickly entered her car and exited the parking lot. She said while at a gas station she had to pump the gas by hand and she felt scared as she watched white vans pass the station. 
"It was a little scary, but you just have to talk yourself out of the fear. It was all mental," said Quigley. 
For Hoffman, her fear mate­rialized after talking with a male student who said he was scared. 
"When I heard that coming from a guy in the program it only more greatly emphasized 
see SNIPER/page 6 
Ex-players' trials are rescheduled 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The trial dates for former Notre Dame football players Donald Dykes and Justin Smith were recently delayed in the case of an alleged March 28 rape as defense lawyers continue to wait for materials to further their cases. 
In the spring, a female Notre Dame student told police she was sexually assaulted by Dykes. Smith, Lorenzo Crawford and Abram Elam. all former stu­dents and teammates. The report resulted in charges from the St. Joseph County prosecutor and the University's expulsion of the four men in May. 
For the second time, Dykes' trial date will be rescheduled following a Jan. 9 status date when Dykes and his lawyer, William Stanley, go to court to determine if they have enough information to pre­sent their arguments. The previous trial date was Nov. 12, which was moved from an original September date. 
Stanley said the trial delay, which was announced 
see TRIALS/page 6 
Labor leaders lecture on business ethics 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 

Executive directors from Fair Labor Association and Worker Rights Consortium spoke at the Hesburgh Center Tuesday about their goals for worldwide improve­ment in workers' rights, and specifically emphasized Notre Drune's leadership role in this ini­tiative. 
Notre Dame's pursuit of anti­sweatshop efforts has been promi­nent since 1997, when it was the first U.S. university to establish an official code of conduct regulating the manufacturing of its licensed products. This leadership position arises in large part from the University's dedication to Catholic values, said Bill Hoye, chair of the Notre Dame Task Force on Anti­Sweatshop Initiatives. 
In contrast to colleges where a mere declaration of membership is considered sufficient, he praised Notre Dame's exceptional individ­ual focus and said, "We were con­cerned primarily with developing our own code of conduct accord­ing our standards as a Catholic university." 
As a result, the Task Force was formed in 1999, and in partner­ship with the FlA and WRC has made significant strides toward enforcement of respectful, safe working conditions in apparel and other factories. Th.is partnership is crucial because "there is a huge coalescing of forces here. it is a huge issue, a global issue, a com­plex L-,sue that will take all parties involved to enact change," Hoye said. 

Scott Nova, executive director of the WRC, agreed, saying, "ND has been a key leader in this compli­cated process.... That kind of leadership has been critical in turning the idea of college cam­puses making a difference in labor standards into a reality." 
Nova also expressed gratitude that third-world laborers feel toward U.S. colleges and universi­ties that support the WRC, calling the students an "unexpected ally" that can be "drastically instrumen­tal in the fight for respect and fair conditions." Students and adminis­trators are "changing the thinking of U.S. brands -by redefining the relationships between brands and universities, brands are in turn forced to redefine their relation­ships with the suppliers," he said. 
This outside involvement is even more crucial in situations where workers are threatened and intim­idated when they attempt to take any power into their own hands, Nova said. He described one colle­giate baseball cap factory in Jakarta, Indonesia, in which workers were prohibited from tak­ing sick leave. from working fewer than 10 to 12 hours per day, 
see IABOR/page 6 
a

.¥ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
He got the hook up 
Halloween makes for an exceptional themed party and with Halloween around the corner, invitations to festive, costumed and spooky parties are abun­dant. Themed parties are always a good time. Who wouldn't enjoy a good ole Meghanne themed party Downes involving stop lights, dirty money or sexy 
Assistant
legs? 
News Editor 
Last night while dining with friends, I received a rather intriguing invitation to a party Friday night that combined costwnes and mugging. Yes that's right I was invited to a make out party-now this was a first for me and I didn't know how to respond at first. 
As Ilistened attentively to this guy who is the mastermind behind what he believes to be an ingenious plan (appar­ently he also is God's gift to women) out­line the details to his party, a moral debate took place in my head. Should I be offended or just let it go straight over my head and overlook it as I do many things? I mean this is college so by all means go and have fun. But then again the idea of a party that is designed solely for making out, where guys and girls convene for the expressed reason of knowing that there will be guaranteed randomness and physical activity with members ofthe opposite sex was a little unsettling to my moralistic mind. But then again this isjust myself and I could see how others would be lining up out­side the door. 
I mean this party could be beneficial. Quite possibly even a phone number for another fun time or long-term commit­ment with this random individual could be obtained, but wait, oh no, that cannot happen because this was one of those meaningless moments in the life ofhook­ing up. And hopefully in an ideal world where everything is exactly in place where it should be, individuals will depart from the evening with that glow­ing smile or devilish grin that can only be mistaken for one iliing and one iliing only. 
Now at first I thought to myself this is rather offensive because the sole intent ofthe party seemed to be usage and then abusage. But then I thought no, this guy is just being honest and quite frankly I think I have a greater respect for him. The reason is because in the back of your mind whether you like to admit it or not there is this little burning desire for the evening to include something along the lines of making out. I feel as though I can make this statement because after polling the guys who worked at The Observer I learned that although it is not always a goal, a party presents the opportunity for hooking up and that it is a "hope." 
Now back to the reason why I respect this guy. Well, it is because of the straightforwardness. I mean what girl doesn't like honesty? They have a hope and they are not ashamed to admit, and they constructed a party in order for everyone to join them in realizing their hopes and dreams. Let's look at the facts, ifit's a "hope" then there will be an attempt and why not just simplify things and bring it down to the heart of the matter and cut out what is mweces­sary? In the end, you might even consid­er him a humanitarian for helping indi­viduals find a little bit ofloving for the evening. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes l@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  
Lecturer talks  Sniper suspect  MBA program  
about dangers  faces additional  ascends in  
of ecstacy  charges  rankings  

VIEWPOINT 
Columnist questions US foreign policy 
Joe Muto offers

Paul Ulrich, a The federal gov-Two national 
his opinion on the

Drug Enforcement ernment filed fed-organizations 
current situation in 

Agent, warned stu-era! charges against ranked the Notre 
Iraq and questions

dents about club suspect John Allen Dame MBA pro-
the president. 

drugs. Muhammad. gram in the top 20. 
page 10

page 7

page 8 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Blood Drive. Holfs Sports Hccrcation Center, 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 2 p.m. at I Icsburgh Library Auditorium 

. 
Lecture; "Pluralism and Tolerance in Classical Islamic Law: Negotiating the Tradition Post 9/11," Law School, 4:30 p.m. 

. 
Student Senate: Connie Peterson-Miller, assistant director for International Student Services, will speak on support services for international students. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Shaheen Discovery Series: Kim & Heggie Barris "Music & Stories of the Underground Railroad," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 7:30 p.m. 

. 
SAB Talent Show Auditions, Carroll Auditorium, 7:30 to 9 p.m. 

. 
Student Diversity Board-Breast Cancer Panel, HCJ#303, 7 to 9 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta alla carbonara, oil and garlic sauce, chicken fajita pizza breadsticks, mushroom stroganoff. kluski noodles, green beans, apple cob­bler, baked chicken with herbs, roasted vegetables, barley greens and risotto, grits, blueberry pancakes, gyros, potato skins, pork-fried rice, chili crispitos 
Today Dinner: Pasta alla carbonara, oil and garlic sauce, chicken fajita pizza breadsticks, roast pork loin, wild pecan rice, broccoli cuts. apple cobbler, gar­den quiche, lemon couscous, fresh car­rots, vegetable moussaka, cannellini vegetables, corn dogs, seasoned fries. Szechuan shrimp stir-fry, chili frito 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, calzones, pretzel sticks. gar­den quiche, baby lima beans, baked potato Neptune, beef tips and mush­rooms. kluski noodles, roast top sirloin of beef. Italian chicken sandwich, crin­kle fries, Szechuan chicken stir-fry 
Today Dinner: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, calzones, pretzel sticks, egg­plant parmesan, Swiss steak, grilled salmon fillet, rotisserie chicken, roast­ed herb-garlic russet potatoes, shrimp poppers, crinkle fries 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
I.I.I 
::c 
t:i 
I.I.I 
3: 
-' 
ct 
u 
0
..I HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW LOW LOW LOW 





Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
SCENE SPORTS 
ND students 

SMC soccer gear up for 
wins over Halloween 
break 

The Saint Mary's Howard halls vol-
Alumni and 

soccer team beat unteer their time to 
Alma, Olivet and provide a spooky 
Kalamazoo. good time for local student. 
page 10 

page 22 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Suspi~ious individual issued 
warnmg 

NDSP responded to suspicious activity outside of the bookstore and the individual was found on Notre Dame Avenue Monday. A no trespass warning was issued. 
Theft reported in Stadium 
A visitor reported a theft from a concession stand in the stadium. 
Forgery case sent to review 
NDSP further investigated a forgery case and that occurred Thursday. NDSP referred the case for adminis­trative review. 
Bike found 

A bike that was initially reported missing on Feb. 3 was recovered at an off-campus location Tuesday. 
compiled from NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: French onion soup with cheese, cream of chicken soup, spicy thai chicken pizza. cool ranch turkey loafer, hot dog, french fries, taco salad.Mexican rice, stewed toma­toes, grilled vegetables and quinoa wrap, macaroni and cheese, angel hair pasta, white bean tomato salad, apple walnut caesar salad, rocky road cookie 
Today Dinner: Potato bacon ched­dar. southern style chicken and dumplings, hawaiian pizza. caesar chicken breast, BBQ pork riblets. grilled cheese sandwich, breaded fried pollock with dill sauce, falafels. tumer­ic rice, fusilli, red potato vinaigarette 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH 35 LOW LOW 26 
Atlanta 72 / 52 Boston 41 / 34 Chicago 47 / 40 Denver 33 / 24 Houston 81 / 61 Los Angeles 69 / 55 Minneapolis 38 / 25 New York 43 / 39 Philadelphia 44 / 38 Phoenix 79 / 58 Seattle 67 / 42 St. Louis 47 / 32 Tampa 85 / 71 Washington 46 / 34 


Wednesday, October 30, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


UNIVERSITY OF 



NOTRE DAME 
WHAT'S AFTER YOUR POST-GRAD SERVICE EXPERIEENCE? 
HAVE YOU THOUGHT OF PROFESSIONAL MINISTRY? 
Earn the Master of Divinity degree at Notre Dame, with a full-tuition scholarship for three years. 
Come talk to us at the Notre Dame Graduate Fair on October 30, 4-8 pm in Heritage Hall, Joyce Center or call 631-5682. 

• 

®~ ~~@ ® IJJ)w 0°~@w (]@(( 

Our HUGE Annual 
fjf];jJflfL@i)ff/I/IfM 


Party!! 
Costume Contest, Door Prizes; and Tons of 
Free Giveaways 
ALL NIGHT LONG. 
Partv s-+ar+s a+ 9 anrJ goer un+i( 2.. 


Visit www nd.edu/.:..asc for more info. Must be 21 with valid ID to enter. 
So dress up, bring your friends, and party like it's going out of style. 

Johnson discusses black Catholicism 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 

At Tuesday's brown bag lec­ture at Saint Mary's, Chandra Johnson, assistant to Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy, s p o k e about her experience as a black Catholic in the United States. 
Johnson opened the lecture with Johnson an African song of prayer to bless her words and to introduce the audience to the ever-present ancestors in her life. She drew on her African ancestry to explain what it means to be Catholic and black. 


"Black Catholics provoke their ancestors by going back to African traditions," Johnson said. 
The root of black Catholic tradition can be traced back to the many leaders in the Church who were of African decent, she said. Johnson based this idea on the research found in Cyprian Davis book "The History of Black Catholics in the United States." 
"It is this resurrection of a history that was demolished when my people were brought to the Americas that empowers me," Johnson said. 
Johnson addressed the importance of the role of past black American Catholics by explaining the struggles and hard work it took to become a part of the established Church. It was these struggles that demonstrated the strength, 

Nations adopt strict immigration policies 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

More and more countries are limiting immigration as the number of people on the move increases dramatically, the U.N. Population Division said Tuesday. 
Many countries are adopting policies to cut immigration because the influx is causing or adds to rising unemployment and social conflict, said Joseph Chamie, the division's director. 
He said governments eager for workers with specialized skills are putting out two con­flicting messages: "Help Wanted" and "Keep Out." 
"Increasingly, you 'II see this double message: We want immigrants but we want certain types and we don't want other types," he said. Some countries are looking for computer pro­gramers but frown on unskilled laborers. 
The threat of terrorism poses new challenges as well. 
"Since the terrorist attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, 2001, a growing number of countries are also focusing on security concerns and are try­ing to keep people who might commit terrorist acts out," he said. 
According to the Population Division, the number of migrants in the world has more than doubled since 1975, with about 17 5 million people living outside the country of their birth. Chamie said this figure includes legal and illegal immi­grants. 
The United States attracts more migrants than any other country in the world, he said. In 2000, about 35 million migrants were living in the United States. 
In the United States 30 years ago, 5 percent of the population was foreign born while today it's closer to 12 percent, Chamie said. 
In 1976, a small fraction of the world's nations had policies to restrict immigration, but today 40 percent of the coun­tries have restrictive policies, Chamie said. 
Europe is the top draw for immigrants -attracting 56 million people, with Germany, France and Britain the favorite destinations. Asia is next, attracting 50 million migrants drawn to India, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Hong Kong, Iran and Israel. 
empowerment and the spirit of God working within the people, Johnson said. 
The present struggles within the church provide an opportu­nity for black Catholics to take on a robust role despite the hardship that is occurring in the institution, said Johnson. 
"I stay in because the Church is struggling," Johnson said. "African decent is what the church needs beside the American social construct. People of color give us a pres­ence of a universal God." 
Johnson asked, "What have you done for God lately?" to provoke thoughts on how to promote diversity on campus. 
She challenged Saint Mary's to look around at the campus and look for diversity and then to look at how the College mar­kets itself to prospective stu­dents. 
"To keep America competi­tive, higher education has to be diverse because without 
it, young adults will be sti­fled," Johnson said. "We owe them an education that will prepare them to live in the world we created. This educa­tion will show what it means to be human." 
Later, she said, "We need to have better physical visuals of leaders who are of African decent represented in our halls of higher learning," said Johnson . 
Johnson's principal activities are working with Campus Ministry by focusing on the inclusion of black students in the community. She is active in the coordination of faith-build­ing activities, retreats and social events. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, October 30, 2002 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC lecturer promotes peace -with Iraq and al-Qaeda 
By KATE DOOLEY 
News Writer 
Robert Johansen, professor of political science at Notre Dame and director of graduate studies at the Peace Institute, spoke Monday at Saint Mary's on the United States' policy responses with regard to Iraq and al-Qaeda. 
With 

"Military power does not ance. If
regard to U.S. responses to deal with the root causes schools taught Iraq and al­religious toler­
ofterrorism " 
Qaeda, ance and Johansen said acceptance, the use of mil­Robert Johansen people would 
itary force will director of graduate studies at be more likely neither get rid to be tolerant. 
the Peace Institute 
In terms of 
what the United States can do, he said officials can stop supporting countries that oppress their own people, thus helping them to 
being culturally excluded from decision-making. In order to 
make progress, we  have to  
address  these  feelings,"  
Johansen said.  

Johansen said the United States should address these feel­ings and support of educational facilities are important. Many schools in these countries that cultivate terrorists teach preju­dice and reli­gious intoler­


of terrorism nor dismantle weapons of mass destruction. He suggested a more peaceful approach. which includes strengthening international law and working globally to stop the development of weapons of mass destruction. 
The U.S. must understand the motivations that cause ter­rorism, he said. Most terrorist acts come from people who feel that they are being victimized. Most terrorists feel that they do not have a voice in their society. 
Johansen said they think their dignity and identity are being threatened. Some also can feel that they have a "divine sanction" from their religious beliefs that causes them to per­form terrorist acts, as was the case with al-Qaeda. But most of the feelings that lead to terror­ism are ones of powerlessness. 
"If you reflect on these rea­sons, most of them have to do with feeling threatened and maintain a voice in their society. By not support­ing the oppressors, the United States can help to empower the weak. The United States can reduce the access terrorists have that ranking al-Qaeda members that were apprehended were arrest­ed by police action, not military force. In those cases, they had good police forces that were able to apprehend the terrorists without use of force. Legally, Johansen said that better arms control policies would help stop the spread of destructive weapons. 
Johansen said there is no moral or legal justification for war against Iraq. Using force in Iraq is not justifiable unless it is an absolute last resort. Johansen said this is not a last­resort situation and can be dealt with in other ways. 
Many people have made con­nections between al-Qaeda ";l.nd Iraq as a way of justifying a legal right to attack Iraq, he said. Johansen refuted this jus­tification by saying there is little evidence that supports the con­nection between al-Quaeda. Iraq 

"Before war is employed, inspectors should be sent in, especially now that it appears that we can go back and inspect" 
Robert Johansen director of graduate studies at the Peace Institute 
and the Sept. 11, 2001, ter­rorist attacks. 
If the United States decides to go ahead with the use of force without a justifiable rea­son, he said, the country would be going against 
the United Nations Security Council. which 

enables them to perform terror­has to approve all declarations ist acts. of war. 
Johansen said the country If the United States did go to needs better intelligence forces war, Johansen said it would not so that they could catch some of make peace. these people and prevent them · "Military power does not deal early on. He said the most high-with the root causes of terror-

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPAKTMENT Of Music PRESENTS 



~benb::::MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XIX: RESPONSORIES & GREGORIAN CHANT 
Q{t~ (j?cfjofa Q:Ylusicorum 

WED., OCT. 30, 2002 
9:30 PM, BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
FREE AND OPEN 
TO THE PUBLIC 

CALL (574) 631-6201 FOR MORE INFORMATION 

HAU.OWUN Nlt',J/T 
ULTl~Alt fRl~Btt 
TOURNA~tNT 
1nu~, Ottober 31 
(,:30pm • IZ-ieh\t fit\d, 
-Simplified Rules 
-Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and spouses -Co-Rec 5 on 5, min. of 2 females on the field at all times -Space limited -Register a team in advance at RecSports -Deadline to register: Wednesday, October 30 at 5:00pm -All teams guaranteed at least 2 games 
for more information la\\ 1-(,100 or vi$it reu,port$.nd.edu 
ism." He gave the example of Israel's use of force to show that its military action has only led to more violence and not peace. 
Johansen proposed a different approach to using immediate force in Iraq. 
"Before war is employed, inspectors should be sent in, especially now that it appears that we can go back and inspect," said Johansen. 
Johansen said weapons inspections and other diplomatic options should be tried before the United States responds with force. Johansen said all peaceful options should be explored before the United States uses force against Iraq and terror­ism. 
The United Nations Association's local chapter, Saint Mary's Justice Education Program, and Saint Mary's College Peacemakers sponsored the lecture. · 
Contact Kate Dooley at dool61 IO@saintmarys.edu. 
DAY OF THE DEAD CELEBRATION FEATURING GUEST ARTISTS MARGARET ALARCON AND CLAUDIA MERCADO 




s~~ C-M
"'"""'m ~rART 
Campus Ministry 

Sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies, the Snlte Museum of Art, Campus Ministry of Notre Dame, and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 




WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Sniper suspect Muhammad faces federal charges 
Associated Press 
GHEENBELT, Md. 

The federal government filed churges Tuesday against sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad under a 1946 extortion law that could bring the death penalty, accusing him of a murderous plot to get $10 million. 
Muhammad, 41, and John Lee Malva, 17. are already charged with murder in Maryland and Virginia in the attacks that left 10 people dead and three others critically wounded. They are also charged with an Alabama slaying last month and are sus­pected in a February slaying in Washington slate. 
The federal case could take precedence, though Attorney General John Ashcroft said negotiations over where the two men will first stand trial are continuing. 
Muhammad was charged under the Hobbs Act, a union corruption law that allows the government to seek a death sen­tence against killers who try to extort money or disrupt inter­state commerce. The charge was based on a note, found at the scene of one of the shoot­ings, demanding $10 million. 
"I believe the ultimate sanc­tion ought to be available here," Ashcroft said, adding that the sniper slayings are "an atroci­ty." 
Malva was not charged in the 20-counl criminal complaint, but he is identified as a John Doe in the supporting affidavit that describes some of the pros­ecution's evidence for the first time. 
A judge must agree that Malva can stand trial as an adult before he can be identified. The federal death penalty does not apply to juveniles, but Malvo could face the death penalty if he is convicted in Virginia or Alabama. 
U.S. Attorney Paul McNulty of Virginia said it was undecided whether the government will move to the next step and obtain an indictment. But he said the complaint outlined "some of the grounds for a federal case." 
The complaint names only seven victims -six killed in Montgomery County and a man gunned down in Washington, D.C. 
A senior Justice Department of1icial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Virginia cases were omitted because of that state's laws regarding dou­ble jeopardy -that is, being tried twice for the same crime. Federal charges covering those cases could be added later, the official said. 
During an appearance in fed­eral court here, Muhammad said, "Yes. sir," when asked if he understood the counts against him. Another hearing was set for Nov. 5. 
Outside the courthouse, feder­al public defender Jim Wyda said Muhammad "stands 

Getty Photo 
Attorney General John Ashcroft announces with Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson that federal charges will be filed against accused sniper John Allen Muhammad Tuesday at the Justice Department in Washington. 
accused of an incomprehensible has never been convicted of any Muhammad needs it very crime, one that has had a pro­other crimes, is innocent until badly," Wyda said. "This is a sit­found impact on our community proven guilty and has the right uation with so much emotion and has destroyed the lives of to a fair trial. and so much passion, that it good people." "What we're asking the pubHc breeds the chance for errors, for 
However, he said Muhammad to do is respect that process. Mr. mistakes." 
JORDAN 
Officials question Islamic militants in U.S. envoy death 
Associated Press 
AMMAN 
Jordanian officials rounded up dozens of known Islamic extremists for ques­tioning Tuesday in the assassination of American diplomat Laurence Foley as suspicion for the attack fell on al-Qaida or the terrorist movement's sympathiz­ers. 
A Jordanian official, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said most of those detained were Jordanians of Palestinian origin who belonged to militant Islamic cells. Some were released but others were held for further questioning; none had been charged. 
One militant, sought in an attack on a police station last year, was apprehend­ed Tuesday after a shootout with police near the southern town of Maan. He later escaped from a hospital but was not a suspect in Foley's assassination, offi­cials said. 
Foley, 60, an administrator at the U.S. Agency for International Development, was shot by a lone gunman at close range as he walked to his car in front of his home in Amman. The gunman escaped. 
King Abdullah II and his wife, Queen Rania, visited the U.S. Embassy on Tuesday to sign a condolence book and meet briefly with Foley's widow, Virginia. In an interview with CNN, the king described the killers as "evil extremists" bent on harming Jordan and promised to bring them to justice. 
Foley's slaying -the first such target­ed shooting of an American diplomat in decades -stunned Amman's diplomatic and expatriate community, which had generally felt safe despite rising tensions in the Middle East. 
The U.S. Embassy advised Americans to "exercise caution" and vary their trav­el routes. Jordanian officials said addi­tional guards and plainclothes police would be provided to Western diplomats. 
Police and paramilitary units planned roadblocks on major thoroughfares. especially at night, a Jordanian security official said. 
Neither U.S. nor Jordanian officials would publicly link the killing to al­Qaida, despite indications the terror net­work was planning attacks here long before Sept. 11 and the U.S.-led war against terrorism. 
"We continue to have excellent cooper­ation from the Jordanians but at this time we do not have any information about who is responsible," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arafat gets approval of new cabinet; 
Vasser Arafat won a tough political battle Tuesday as the Palestinian parliament approved his new 19­member Cabinet despite dissenters demanding more sweeping reforms and limits on the authority of the Palestinian leader. Just a few miles away in Jerusalem, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was working to head olT the potential collapse of his rul­ing coalition as the moderate Labor Party threat­ened to pull out. 
N. Korea shuns nuke program demand: 
Blaming the United States for pushing it inlo a cor­ner. North Korea rejected demands it give up its nuclear weapons prograni during an acrimonious opening round or talks Tuesday with Japan on estab­lishing diplomatic ties, Japanese officials said. The talks were the first the two countries have held in two years on establishing ties, and hopes were high North Korea would offer some sort of concession. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush signs bill to revamp elections: 
President Bush signed legislation Tuesday that Congress approved overwhelmingly to correct the sort of voter registration mix-ups and confusing ballots that threw his own election into bitter dis­pute two years ago. Critics branded the signing ceremony little more than "a White House photo­op." The "Help America Vote Act of 2002" will give states $3.9 billion to replace -in time for the 2004 presidential election that will likely include Bush's bid for a second term -outdated punch-card and lever voting machines, and to improve voter education and poll-worker training. 
U.S. defends use of secret evidence: 
The government Tuesday defended its use of secret evidence against a Muslim charity accused of helping terrorists, arguing that laying out its case could cause "grave damage to the national security." 
Powell sees path to Iraq compromise: 
Signaling compromise, Secretary of State Colin Powell said Tuesday "there may be a way" to bridge remaining differences with France and Russia on a 
U.N. resolution designed to force Iraq to disarm. "That's what we are working on, doing intensively today," Powell said as American diplomats at the United Nations privately noated marginal revisions of the tough resolution sought by the United States and Britain six difficult weeks. 
Man convicted in barrel bodies case: A man with a taste for sadomasochistic sex was con­victed Tuesday of murdering three women and stuff­ing the bodies of two of them into 85-gallon barrels on his rural property. John E. Robinson Sr., 58, could get the death penalty. A jury convicted him capital mur­der in the slayings of Suzette Trouten, 27, of Newport, Mich .. and Izabela Lewicka, 21, a former Purdue University student from West Lafayette, Ind. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
Sniper 
continued from page 1 
to me the extent of anxiety and fear the sniper had created by shooting so randomly," said Hoffman. 
Hoffman restricted the amount of time she spent out­side and went only to her internship at the U.S. Justice Department and to the store for groceries. She stopped going to Thursday night choir practice at her church because the sniper was known to strike at night. 
Students said they could see the fear the sniper instilled in people when they went to their internships. Cepero worked at the White House and said manv staffers live in the suburbs and said they were scared to leave their houses to walk to the store and would become more alert when a white van passed. 
When the a victim was shot outside a Home Depot, the ter­ror began to resonate for many in Washington. Quigley interned at political talk show "Meet the Press" and said one of the producers was supposed to shop at the Home Depot the night of the shooting but refused because she thought it was a predictable spot. 
After the Home Depot shoot­ing, many made minor adjust­ments to their lives, said Hoffman. 

Cepero flew out of Dulles International Airport, located in the suburbs. and arranged to take a shuttle to the airport instead of public transporta­tion. 
The University's Washington Program issued warnings to students and told them to exer­cise caution, once it became apparent that a sniper was ter­rorizing the Washington. met­ropolitan area, said John Eriksen, Notre Dame director of the Washington Program. Eriksen did not believe the stu­dents were at greater risk than the rest of the community, and restrictions on their movement or internships were not imple­mented. 
Program officials' reaction to the attacks surprised Hoffman because the warnings came in the form of an e-mail that never mentioned the sniper. 
"I found it a little strange that more caution was addressed to us when the IMF protests were going on here and less when a sniper was terrorizing the area," said Hoffman. 
Several students said they believed the program did not emphasize greater caution because the director did not want to cause greater fear while the entire Washington area concentrated on the shootings. 
When students returned from fall break, police apprehended 
two suspects and the program Quigley said she at first ques­thank god, that hasn't hap­dropped the warning on tioned whether authorities pened," said Quigley. Monday, said Eriksen. Many arrested and charged the cor­students said they were rect suspects, but then relief s_et relieved when they went back in. to Washington and welcomed "If anything, I was more wor­Contact Meghanne Downes at 
mdownesl@nd.edu.

the return to normalcy. ried about a copvcat sniper, but 
Thinking About Home Improvements? WeCanHelpl 
.90~ 
.15~ 


lntroductorvRate LowRagularRate 
Check Out our PRIMEaunv line-O1-ereditloan 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
~ 

'Annual Percenlage Rate. Property lnsuranoe Isrequired. Notvalid With any other offer. Rates sut;ect to charge. Consultatax advisor ___ 
G:r 
regarding the deductibilllyofinterastAballoon paymentwlll result atmaturity After the six-month lntroducuxy period the rateWil revert to 1-NCUA-1 theh,ghesl prime loodlng rateofthe pnwiOU$ quarter, Mlnimumamounlis $5,000. Maximum amountis$100,000:l~tofthe University. ""'--=-l0~~Rc~; 
Halloween Scavenger Hunt 
Date: Thursday October 31, 2~0.2 _ ..___ '\,-. 


Sign up f/Sc_avenger Hunt at Pumpk~·Painting in Fieldhouse Mall. 
Time: , ·"-/ 2 -5 pm -_ ___,,--\




-----.·-•­

students only. No zombies, blood suckers, or werewolves. Place: ,/,, , \ · . 
Meet your crew J 1 ~~


<' 0 

@ Fieldhouse Mall . \\..) ', (\::1 
Find things.all ov,e~ampus and win cool prizes!!!! 
f 
I I 

\ 1st prize:DVD layer with Halloween movies. \ 2nd prize:$ 50 gift card to Best Buy 3rd prize: $15 gift certificate to Hammes Bookstore. \ 
AND ALL filNISHERS GET PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA!!! 

In case of ra in/·s· now/Va mpires/zombie~/~tc: / forget about the hunt and run for your life! ~ -but seriously it'll be@ La Fun ballroom. .r 
• • >' ~ 

Claim your prize at Pumpkin painting at Fieldhouse Mall. 
contact: www.nd.edu/~sub/ or aol sn: ndsubinfo 


Trials 
continued from page 1 

Monday in Dykes' case, is not unusual to cases of alleged rape. He added that he was uncertain of what the new trial date would be. 
"That's really dependent on the judge's calendar," Stanley said. 
Smith, originally scheduled to begin his trial Oct. 28, will begin instead on March 31, according to Smith's attorney, Tony Zappia. The decision for a delay was made Oct. 17. 
"We got a late start on tak­ing the deposition of the alleged victim," Zappia said. 
Dykes and Smith were charged with rape and con­spiracy to commit rape, which are Class B felonies carrying a possible sentence of six to 

Labor 
continued from page I 
wearing shoes while in the facto­ry, and especially from trying to change these cruelties by joining labor unions. which the manage­ment referred to as "terrorist organizations." However, a sum­mer of WRC investigation and documentation combined with support from its member univer­sities resulted in acceptance of and real negotiation with these unions, as well as rights to sick leave. footwear, clean drinking water, and even air conditioning. 
FLA executive director Auret van Heerdeen said student responsibility can drive change. He told the audience to "stop turning a blind eye to the system -let the realization hit you ... ask yourself the question, 'Where did this fleece or T-shirt come from? Who cut it and sewed it? How did it get to this campus?' You may realize that this con­sumer act is not as innocent as it 20 years and up to a $10,000 fine. Smith was also charged with sexual battery, a Class D felony that carries a maxi­mum sentence of three years and up to a $10,000 fine. 
In the cases of all four men, lawyers have said they were still waiting for additional materials, though they declined to comment further. 
The trial dates of Elam and Crawford were also moved to next year. Elam will begin his trial Feb. 24 and Crawford is scheduled for a March trial date. 
They were both charged with criminal deviant con­duct, conspiracy to commit rape and sexual battery. Crawford was also charged with rape. 
Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu. 
seems." 
Making a purchase has more serious consequences than most people realize, said van Heerdeen. People may in fact may be "justifying the lack of freedom of association as well as the potential health and safety risks involved in making this product," he said. 
His comments stressed the potential world½ide implications of students' knowledge and will­ingness to hold brand names accountable for workers' rights. He expressed hope for an eventu­al "race to the top" between man­ufacturers of collegiate produc1S. Notre Dame's steps to the fore­front of this issue have been a successful start, he said. 
Nova said, "This university is a prime example of college codes of conduct truly bringing about fun­damental changes. At first, our organizations were asking, 'Will colleges work?' The answer is a definite yes." 
Contact Claire Heininger at Cheining@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, October 30, 2002 COMPILED FROM nrn OBSERVER WIRE SF.RVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch October 29 
DowJones 

8,368.94 +0.90 

NASDAQ 

1,300.54 • -15.29 
S&P500 

882.15 
-8.08 


M1E¥ 

805.65 
-1.64 
NYSE 

471.49 -4.08
•

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.75-0.30 10.60 
NASDA,qja:~~ii:~&t111:1~.1i11t1111i1J!ii!iilii11i111 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.44-0.4116.40 
sre~[illt1~:l:l:~11::::~t11~1:······:. :. :~lltrtijt 

SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -5. 61-0.16 2. 69 

IN BRIEF 
Baush and Lomb denies CEO bonus 
Bausch & Lomb Inc. is withholding a $1.1 mil­lion bonus it had promised chief executive Hon Zarrella rather than accept his offer to resign for falsely claiming he graduated from business school. 
The eye-care products maker's board of directors said in a letter to Zarrella on Tuesday that "this lapse in judgment with regard to your biography is a serious matter and cannot pass without consequence." 
Citing its responsibilities to the company's shareholders and 12,000 employees, the board said Zarrella would forfeit an incentive hon us of at least $1.1 million that it had agreed to pay him for 2002 when he was hired last November. 

Vail ski resorts plan to cut I00 jobs 
Vail Resorts on Tuesday said it would cut 100 jobs in case the travel industry suffers a setback this winter because of the slowing economy and possibility of war. 
The unusual move prior to the start of ski season came as the Avon-based company said its fourth-quarter loss widened to $35 million from $19 million in the fourth quarter of 2001. 
The cuts include 50 layoffs and 50 vacant positions that will not be filled, the company said. Some top positions were included. Last week. the job of president was eliminated. 
Vail employs 3,100 people full-time and has 
15.500 seasonal workers. 

Fuel economy takes sharp decline 
The 2003 model cars and trucks now rcach­ing showrooms get poorer gas mileage on average than last year's models, reflecting what automakers and many buyers say is a higher priority on comfort and family needs. 
The average fuel economy for all 2003 model cars and passenger trucks is 20.8 miles per gallon. according to the Environmental Protection Agency's annual gas mileage sta­tistics. released Tuesday. 







MBA program improves rank 
. Mendoza MBA program places 18th 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
The MBA program of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business placed 18th in two recent studies of MBA programs. 
The Economist Intelligence Unit said, "University of Notre Dame's Mendoza Business College has emerged from comparative obscurity to become one of the hottest business schools in North America." 
The study done by the affiliate of the Economist placed the University's program as 18th world­wide. The Mendoza College of Business along with 17 other U.S. schools ranked in the top 20. 
Notre Dame's business school held the 18th posi­tion among small schools in the Wall Street Journal's Guide to the Top Business Schools 2003. 
Both studies site the moral aspect of Notre Dame as giving it a very unique flavor. The Wall Street Journal study said, "Ethics. That's one of the most distinctive elements of Notre Dame's business school, which incorporates ethics issues throughout its curriculum." 
The Economist Intelligence Unit said, "Like its parent university, Mendoza is a Catholic institution with a strong ethical foundation." 
The Wall Street Journal Guide said the implication 

Prosecutor opens Vivendi probe 
Associated Press 

PARIS 
Prosecutors opened an investiga­tion Tuesday into whether Vivendi Universal under former chairman Jean-Marie Messier misled investors with falsified financial reports to but­tress the media giant's beleaguered shares. 
Paris prosecutors are trying to determine whether the company pub­lished false balance sheets for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 and issued deceptive information about its fore­casts for this year and last, judicial officials said on condition of anonymity. 
The investigation was prompted by a complaint filed by shareholders who allege the company under Messier's leadership deliberately mis­led investors into buying or holding Vivendi's stock. 
Officials from Vivendi in Paris declined to comment Tuesday. But a lawyer for Messier denied any wrongdoing. 
In July, an association of more than 1,000 French shareholders, known as APPAC, filed a complaint that accused Vivendi of issuing "untruth­ful and fraudulent information" and "presenting an incorrect balance sheet and financial situation." American stockholders later filed a complaint as well. 
The media group is still struggling under billions of dollars in debt, racked up during a whirlwind of cost­ly acquisitions under Messier as he worked to turn a waste utility compa­ny into a media and entertainment behemoth to rival AOL Time Warner Inc. of the United States. 
Once excited by Messier's vision, investors punished Vivendi's stock amid doubts about his ability to mesh the company's diverse businesses together and reduce its borrowings. Shares lost more than 70 percent of their value under his leadership in 2001. 
After a protracted boardroom bat­tle, Messier was replaced in July by Jean-Rene Fourtou, then a vice­chairman at French-German phar­maceutical giant Aventis. 
Shareholders applauded the deci­sion to open the inquiry. 
"This is a victory, even an achieve­ment, because we didn't have the financial means to settle this com­plaint." said Frederik-Karel Canoy, a lawyer for APPAC. 
But Olivier Metzner, an attorney representing Messier, said the probe will clear the much-maligned former chairman of any wrongdoing. 
"This investigation will show that not only were the accounts exact but that the financial information was complete and transparent." Metzner said. 
Prosecutors' rejected for lack of evidence a separate shareholders' complaint alleging misuse of compa­ny funds related to Messier's salary and his company-financed New York apartment, which reportedly cost Vivendi $17. 5 million. 
Vivendi already faces legal entan­glements on several other fronts. 
Last week, the company took action to delay a bid by Britain's Vodafone PLC for Vivendi's telecommunications arm, Cegetel. A Paris court granted Vivendi's request Monday for an extra month to make a bid for Cegetel. 
Vivendi had sued Vodafone in a Paris commercial court to extend the Nov. 10 deadline set by the British company. The court ruled that Vivendi should be given until Dec. 10, agreeing with its claims that Vodafone had not respected the terms of a shareholders' pact. 


The Mendoza College MBA program was recently ranked 18th In two seperate 
studies regarding masters programs. 
of this ethical training in ethical base but also "a that, "some first-year programme of personal MBA students forgo sum-development and commu­mer internships with nications that parallels the investment banks and main curriculum," said consulting firms for 'social the Economist Intelligence entrepreneurship,' helping Unit. people in developing coun-The MBA program tries in Africa start micro accepts students with businesses." average GMAT scores of 
The business school 625 and only admits 196 boasts not only to have an students per year. 
Recruiters questioned during the Wall Street Journal Interactive survey said the first thing that came to their minds about Notre Dame was. "experi­enced, personable stu­dents." 
Contact Jessica D alsing at 
jdalsing@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
Haitians rush to shore in Miami 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
More than 200 illegal Haitian immigrants jumped overboard, waded ashore and rushed onto a major highway Tuesday after their 50-foot wooden freighter ran aground off Miami. 
There were no known fatalities and no injuries other than dehydration, Detective Delrish Moss said. Miami police counted 206 immigrants, the youngest about 18 months old. 
The migrants departed from Port-au-Prince and picked up three Cubans on a raft along the way, said North Miami Mayor Joe Celestin, a Haitian-American who went to the scene and spoke to some of the migrants. Moss said they had been at sea for eight days. 
The Coast Guard spotted the vessel about 2 p.m. and followed it for about two hours, said Guard spokesman Luis Diaz. The boat ran aground and the immigrants began coming ashore near Hobie Beach on Virginia Key, just southeast of Miami's downtown. 
"They were all over the front of the boat, the top of the boat, the back of the boat. They were all over it," said windsurfer Ovidio DeLeon, who witnessed the scene. "Then they started jumping." 
Some of the Haitians jumped from the deck; oth­ers were lowered into the water. They ran into the streets, causing the six-lane Rickenbacker Causeway to be shut down. 
Coast Guard personnel were seen pulling people from the water and throwing them life preservers; chil­dren were transferred from the boat to people in the water. 
Border Patrol agents had begun interviewing the migrants, said spokesman Carlos Roches. "If they claim political asylum, we will process them accordingly," he said. 
Unlike Cubans who reach dry land, Haitian immigrants usually are denied asylum in the United States and sent back to their homeland, which is in an economic and political crisis. 
"It's very sad to see the way human beings who are fleeing their country for a better way of life are treat­ed," Celestin said. "The Cubans that were on the same boat will be released. The Haitians will probably be deported. It's a double standard." 


theclogstore.com 
1-800-948-CLOG 
DEA agent warns of dangers of club drugs 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Security invited Drug Enforcement Agent Paul Ulrich to speak to students Tuesday about the growing number of teenagers and young adults who are taking club drugs. Ulrich focused on the dan­gers of ecstasy, which has become popular in the past few years. 
"This is an increasingly important issue for young people, because in a few years it will be you who will be making the decisions and as people discuss legaliza­tion issues," Ulrich said. "There are people who believe it is their God-given right to take all the dope they want. These people say they want to legalize mari­juana, remember they don't only want to legalize mari­juana but to legalize every drug." 
Developed in 1914 by a German pharmaceutical company and popularized in the 1970s, Ecstasy, or MOMA -which stands for the drug's chemical struc­ture 3-4 methylene­dioxymethamphetamine ­enjoyed a brief stint as a mainstream drug in the early 1980s before being made illegal in the United States in 1985. Originally used as an appetite suppres­sant. "E" was extensively experimented with, before doctors understood its haz­ards. In the 1950s the U.S. military experimented with using Ecstasy in chemical warfare, and in the 1970s many psychiatrists pre­scribed the drug to married couples. 
Ecstasy is widely consid­ered by users to be a safe drug, as MDMA is not physi­cally addictive and overdos­es are rarely fatal. But Ecstasy-induced exertions can result in severe, some­times fatal dehydration or heat stroke, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Ecstasy­related seizures have risen from 3.5 million in 1999 to 9 million in 2000. 
Taken orally, usually in pill form, MDMA is a psy­chedelic amphetamine that combines the effects of speed and hallucinogens, producing positive feelings, empathy for others and extreme relaxation in users. Ecstasy also suppresses the need to eat, drink or sleep, which explains its populari­ty at clubs and with ravers who have made the drug famous, taking it to keep them dancing all night long. 
'Tm a firm believer that they shouldn't even be able to have raves. Haves are equivalent to crack houses," Ulrich said. "This is not a street drug; kids go to the raves primarily to buy their ecstasy." 
The DEA is now finding counterfeit ecstasy pills, which are made from cough syrup or caffeine, but can have as serious, if not more, effects as Ecstasy. 

"I can go to Wal-Mart and buy all the products to make Ecstasy: I can make it in your dorm room." Ulrich said. "Ecstasy is mass-pro­duced in the Netherlands, but there is no legitimate manufacture of Ecstasy in the world." 
Recently Congress began to hold hearings on the Ecstasy Anti-Proliferation Act, a bill calling for stiffer prison terms for offenses related to distribution and use of the popular club drug. They are also consid­ering giving law enforce­ment the authority to shut down raves. 
The lecture was held in O'Laughlin Auditorium and was co-sponsored by Holy 
Cross  College  and Saint  
Mary's  Board  of  
Governance.  

Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

You Are Invited! 
•1y



e1~5~h/z~I 


ISSUES 

Metjefflmmelt, 
Chairman and CEO of the Most Admired Company in America and hear him talk about the New GE. 
Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business, featuring the introduction by Dean Carolyn Woo. 

GAME DAY ATTIRE 
We bring good things to life. 
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Thousands mourn loss of Minn. Sen. Wellstone 
Associated Press service, thick with flowers left by in a plane crash with their mourners. daughter and five other people. 
MINNEAPOLIS Hours before the service Several people cried; others The famed green bus that car­began, people climbed on the crossed themselves. ried Paul Wcllslone on his pop­bus to view photos of the "He represented the regular ulist campaigns turned into a Minnesota Democrat and his people," said Irv Rosenblum of shrine at the senator's memorial wife, Sheila, who died last week St. Paul. "He didn't represent the 

T
799 


THURSDAY 
Five Stories Falling 

,_________,,,.-·•~···..····, 


DANA GLOVER Testimony 




T 
1099 



T 
1599 


MEDIN'PLAY® 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1·888·60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and special offers may vary by store and oniine. 
www.mediaploy.com
Sale ends November 9, 2002.
s24o~n 14232 
high and the mighty." 
An hour before the service was to begin, an estimated 15,000 people filled the University of Minnesota's Williams Arena for a memorial to be broadcast live on statewide television and radio. Many wore green ribbons and Wellstone stickers and but­tons. 
Some 100 members of Congress were expected to attend. including Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, a close friend of Wellstone's who was asked by the family to speak. Former Vice President Al Gore was to attend, as were Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., and Minority Leader Trent Lott, R­Miss. 
Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson, former governor of neighboring Wisconsin, was to represent the Bush administra­tion after initial reports had Vice President Dick Cheney attending. The Wellstone family asked Cheney to stay away, in part out of concern that his presence might overshadow the event. 
"This is a day for Paul Wellstone and a day to find a way to carry on Paul Wellstone's vision and his energy," campaign spokesman Jim Farrell said. 
Elizabeth Jacobson, of St. Paul, cried as she waited for the ser­vice. 
"I think he might have been the greatest politician who ever came from here," she said. "I feel a lot of comfort being here." 
At the memorial, folk and gospel singers were to lead musicians in "Stand Up, Keep Fighting," written a few months ago for the campaign. Political analysts said the evening would be heavy with such sentiments, which could boost Wellstone's replacement without being over­ly political. 
"Anything else is a little inap­propriate or would be perceived as inappropriate and in poor taste," said Lilly Goren, a politi­cal scientist at the College of St. Catherine in St. Paul. 
Walter Mondale is widely expected to replace Wellstone in the race against Republican Norm Coleman, a former St. Paul mayor. A party committee is expected to nominate him Wednesday evening. 
Any mention of Mondale at the memorial service probably would only note that Wellstone shared views consistent with Minnesota's Humphrey-Mondale political tradition, Goren said. 
Besides Wellstone, 58, the ser­vice was to honor his wife, Sheila, also 58; their daughter, Marcia Wellstone Markuson, 33; and campaign aides Will McLaughlin, 23, Tom Lapic, 59, and Mary Mc Evoy, 49. Pilots Richard Conry, 55, and Michael Guess, 30, also died in Friday's plane crash near Eveleth. 


OTHE BSERVER 






IEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. llox Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHI.El' Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDJTOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
K:ire Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPOllTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE Emroa. C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO ED!l'OR: Nelli" Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR.I Kacie McKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGI.R: Marr Lua. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangcrc 
WEB ADMINISTllATOR, Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER, Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS Omcr........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS.........................·····•··· ..... , ................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE..•..•..•.• , ............................................. 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS...j.........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ....... , .................. , ......................., , .... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTllAl'ORS.................631-88:,9 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobserotr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinl and online by rhe srudents ofthe UniversicyofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not.g_overned by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available 10 all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leuers to me Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tiom regarding Ohsero,rpolicies should be direct­ed tu Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob1oerv-er (USPS 599 240} is p11bfubcd Mooday through Friday except during exam and wacarion pc'ri~. A ,umcripcion to The 0b5Cf'Va i1 SJ 00 for one a.cadcmic yc-ar; SS5 foTonc iancua. 
The Qb5e-rve-ri1 publllheci ac: POSTMASTER CZ4 Soqd, Dining Hall Send addratccrru;rioru to: N0tr< D.m<. IN 46556 The Oboaver P.O.BoxQ reri.odic.11.I Po.11:lgC paid ~t Notre D:mic Nonrc Dam~. lN 46S56-0779 and ,dditionl\l mailing nffias. 
The Ob,mcr i• • member ofdie: Auociu.cd Pra,. AD rcprodu«ion n,ht5 ac """"1. 

Questioning president's leadership on action in Iraq 
We love sequels here in America. Just look to Hollywood for proof. The "Rocky" series survived to No. 5. "Friday the 13th" released No. 10 last spring. Even "Police Academy" made 
it to No. 7: "Mission to Moscow," where the guy who makes the funny noises single­handedly annoyed everyone into giv­ing up 

Communism. 
With this in Joe Muto mind, it comes as no surprise that we like our wars to have sequels.· Muto Time Or in this case, the mother of all sequels. ~Gulf War 2: So Long, Saddam," coming soon to a desert near you. 
Actually, our love of sequels isn't what's driving the march toward war as much as what appears to be our love of blowing up stuff to solve our problems. And can you blame us? Sure, forging an international coali­tion in the United Nations Security Council is a big accomplishment, but nothing beats the pure visceral excite­ment of watching CNN smart-bomb footage where the bomb gets close enough to clearly make out the stitch pattern on some guy's turban. 
And Saddam could not have devel­oped weapons of mass destruction at a better time for us. We've got some problems at home. For one, it's easier for terrorists to get into the country than it is for Los Angeles Lakers to get into Christina Aguilera's dressing room. And the threats are coming from closer to home than we thought. Just this past week we found out that Jamaica had a little surprise for us, and it was a little deadlier than their traditional exports: lovable bobsled teams, Bob Marley cover bands and golf-cart-sized bales of pot. And it doesn't help anyone that the economy is tanking. I read the other day that Pamela Anderson's show, "V.I.P.," got cancelled. God help us all when large­breasted bodyguard ninjas can't find work. 

All of these problems at home can be very frustrating, mostly because we can't blow them up or buy oil from them. I don't know if you've tried, but it's incredibly hard to carpet bomb the consumer price index. Iraq will have to do. 
In case you couldn't tell by now, I'm against the war, but not because I'm some Kumbaya-spouting peacenik. I think that the peace movement has a marked lack of credibility, stemming perhaps from its wholesale rejection of modern hygiene products, most notably, deodorant. Furthermore, peace is not for me, as I'm a firm believer in the fact that once in a while we have to get out there and kick some arse. Rather, my objection to the war stems from the frightening realization that this country will be led into battle by none other than George W. Bush. 
Now, I should pause here to explain my position on our 43rd president. I don't think he is a bad person. or even that bad of a president. The way his administration pushed the entire country away from real issues and toward Baghdad was nothing short of politically brilliant. He currently has three-fourths of the Democratic Party eating out of the palm of his hand and asking for seconds. I don't necessarily agree with his politics. although that isn't what's causing my misgivings either. 
My confidence buster is watching Bush in public. Readers, you too can do this from the comfort of your living room. Watch him speak, or better yet, watch him answer a question that he doesn't have a scripted answer for. Is this a man who was born to lead, or is this a man who awakens each day to find himself trapped in a Kafka-esque nightmare where he is inexplicably the leader of the free world? I don't want a president commanding troops while he is constantly distracted by wondering when the dream is going to end, returning him to continue loung­ing naked in the inflatable kiddie-pool on the front lawn of his dad's Kennebunkport mansion. 
Dubya does have one step right in this war so far. Borrowing a move from his father, and with a mischie­vous, schoolboy-like grin, he likes to pronounce "Saddam" as if it were the word "Sodom." That's my kind of for­eign policy, baby. If you want to pro­liferate, we're gonna make your name a homonym for uncomfortable sexual acts. 
Finally, on a personal note, I have one last argument against the war. l have trouble accepting the fact that Saddam is evil. How can he be as evil as they say he is when he's just so darn ... huggable. There, I said it. Out of all the despots of the 20th century, you've gotta admit that Saddam is probably the most adorable. That devil-may-care attitude, that rakish mustache, that "What, me worry?" grin. If Clark Gable had ever gassed his own people, we'd have a perfect match. 
Joe Muto is a junior FIT and English major who would recommend a Jamaican vacation for anyone ­not for the obvious reasons, but because Jamaican women turned out to be very, very friendly. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Meghanne Chris Federico 
Downes Bryan Kronk Laura Coristin Mark Zavodnyik John Fanning Scene 
Viewpoint Sarah Vabulas Teresa Fralish Lab Tech Graphics Tim Kacmar Mike Harkins 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
In which bowl game will Notre Dame play? Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.rn. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..In America any boy may become president and I suppose it's just one ofthe risks he takes." 
Adlai Stevenson politician 

O
THE 
BSERVER 





VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student leaders must respect diversity issues 
The 2002-2003 student government has largely failed to follow through on its promises to promote diversity (and implicitly to fight racism) on campus by neglecting to commit to thnir presence at the Student Leader Learning to Talk About Race retreat (LTH) this fall. 
Student government allocated some of the monoy to fund this special diversity/anti-racism edu­cation opportunity to stu­dent leaders, but despite the distribution of over 100 invitations to Hall !'residents Council, Student Senate and the Office of the President, of those student governance bodies combined, no more than four members have accepted the invitation. 
We question whether such a student govern­ment can be considered committed to diversity issues when its members arc not even willing to attend the very diversity/anti-racism retreat they chose to par­tially fund. 
Even more disturbing is the absence of Libby Bishop and Trip Foley. One of their campaign promises last year was to support multi-cultural diversity issues and educa­tion on campus. 
Bishop and Foley not only received invitations to this Student Leader LTR, but both were personally approached and invited face-to-face to participate. Neither has committed to attending, nor has either taken the time to let us know why. We find this omission of both care and courtesy especially pecu­liar since during the last year's campaign many stu­dent leaders involved in diversity and multi-cultur­al groups felt their cam­paign promises were hol­low. Their failure thus far seems to support suspi­cions that their platform diversity issues were lack­ing and self-serving at best. 
Still, we would like to offer Bishop and Foley one more chance to respond to our invitation. Once more we extend them an invita­tion to attend the Learning to Talk About Race retreat for student leaders this Nov. 8 and 9 as an oppor­tunity to begin following through on their campaign promise. We are only a phone call away. 
Shamus Rohn 
Jen Guintu 
Penny Wolf 
Son Nguyen 
LTR retre.it te.im Oct. 29 


Students find path 
•

to success 1n different schools 
In response to Mary Anne Kennedy Reilly's letter Tuesday, she is right. Notre Dame has had talented women over the last 30 years, just as Saint Mary's had had for almost 160 years. There is a distinction between Saint Mary's women and Notre Dame women. Reilly's selection of universities such as Notre Dame and Duke were a roprnsentation of her desire to attend a hirger, coed school that olTered particular programs. 1 applied to small women's colleges for their liberal arts pro­grams. Hcilly and I simply desired different social environ­ments and educational programs. 
In the turbulent times of the 1970s, Saint Mary's and other women's institutions did not offer many programs that were male-oriented. Since 1972, the College has adopted many new programs to keep up with the times and today offers majors, such as education and nursing, that Notre Dame doesn't. 
There arc different reasons why women choose a school, be it Saint Mary's, Notre Dame or a public university. All ofer dif­ferrent foundations to success, molded to our diverse needs. 


Melanie Becker 
senior LcMaru Hall Oct.29 


Offering a different perspective on workers' rights 
I am writing in response to John Litle's Oct. 18 column about labor rights. Though I know poverty well, I have never worked in the fields. My mother and most of my family cannot say the same. My mom began life as one of these "poor oppressed souls" that Litle refers to. As an infant, she was taken into the fields where my grandparents, aunts, uncles and other rela­tives picked onions, tomatoes, cotton and some­times fruit in the fields, orchards and vineyards of Arizona and California. She began working in the fields at the age of four. The age that most kids are playing outside with dolls or toys, she was filling bags of produce that weighed more than she did at the time. I might not have lived this migrant life, but I know it well. I am one generation away from it and if circum­stances had been different, could have easily lived it. 
I venture to guess that you've proba­bly read quite a few business and management textbooks. Let me tell you life is not a textbook. Real life is far from being based on "simple business principles." But, you want to talk investment and risk, so let's talk invest­ment and risk. 

Why are people who are married, with children working minimum wage jobs? Well, not everyone has the luxury of an adequate education. We have seen statis­tically that the more education you receive, the better your wages will more than likely be. We've seen that stat every­where. A migrant worker often has had no investment in an edu­cation. Often because of sheer necessity, an educa­tion was sacrificed. You, Litle, are the proud recipient of a Notre Dame education. I am a very proud recipient of a Saint Mary's education. I have been blessed and very fortunate and so have you. People have invested money and time into our education and our futures. 
Not everyone is so lucky. I can truthfully say my mother is not stupid or lazy. As a matter of fact, she is one of the hardest and smartest workers you will ever meet. She is fully capable of holding down a job. She is efficient and cheerful, despite the rigors of her work. My mom just didn't have the same opportunities, or "investments" in education that I was blessed with. This is not her fault. This "at will employ­ment" isn't a luxury she's had. She couldn't just quit and get another job. What would she do that is much better off than the job she has now? Many people face this dilemma. In the minds of many, a low paying job that you are good at is better than a job you don't know how to do and will probably be fired from -espe­cially if you have four mouths to feed. 
According to the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a farm worker advocacy group based in lmmokalee, Fla., Immokalee's farm workers are actually paid 40 cents for every 32-pound bucket of tomatoes they pick. This is the same rate they were paid in 1978. At that rate, the Coalition claims a worker must pick and haul 125 buckets, or two tons of tomatoes to make 50 dollars in a day. That is about 16 buckets or a little over 500 pounds of tomatoes an hour. For eight hours a day. You try it. Then tell me you don't deserve a measly 2 cents per bushel more. This 40 cents per 32-pound bucket is same wage these workers earned before I was born. I'm almost 23 now. 
Now let's talk risk. Most people probably don't know about them. 
Let me enlighten you. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC): 
1. 
Pesticide exposure is a significant hazard for migrant and seasonal farm workers. Given the general nature of symptoms of pesticide exposure, many cases are either incorrectly diagnosed or not identified. 

2. 
The CDC compiled tuberculosis related sta­tistics in 1992 which illustrated that farm work­ers are six times more likely to develop TB than the general population of employed adults. 

3. 
Many workers don't drink enough water in the fields for fear of losing work time by having to urinate frequently. Not only docs this predis­pose them to heat stress or stroke, but also to urinary tract infections. 


4. Dermatitis is common among farm workers. Common causative agents are plants such as poison oak, dog fennel, hops, cel­ery and latex gloves. However, 
pesticides can also result in der­matitis. 
5. In the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Surveillance Report of Work-Related Lung Diseases in 1994, the following have been 
identified as also occurring among farm workers: 
hyper-sensitivity pneumonitis, occu­pational dust dis­eases of the lung, occupational asth­ma, occupational 
respiratory condi­tions due to toxic agents, bronchitis, 
emphysema and unspecified pneumo­coniosis. 
So not only does a migrant worker risk his or her health so that they, 

the "poor oppressed souls" may have a wage, but he or 
she also risks his or her health for the sake of your 99-cent taco. God forbid you go without tomatoes, 
onions or the lettuce. 
Until you are out breaking your back and risk­ing your health in the hot sun picking produce please don't preach that these "poor, oppressed souls" are earning what they deserve because I guarantee that until you have lived it or seen it, you cannot possibly understand. Be grateful for that fact. I know I am. 
I'd like Litle to talk to a woman I am very proud of, a woman I love with all my heart. A woman who was practically raised in the fields and has known only menial, low-paying jobs that require almost no skill, but yet prides her­self on doing her best at what she does and cheerfully at that -whether it be cleaning toi­lets, scrubbing floors, picking cotton, picking produce or being a cafeteria lunch lady. E-mail me. I'll put you in touch with my mom. 
I'm sure you are probably upset by this liber­al, jealous, whining, tormented. Mexican­American Socialist, who should move to France because she is too intellectually, economically and militarily fainthearted, so I'll wrap it up. In the meantime, I'd like to encourage Litle and everyone else for that matter to once in their life, just to attempt to work in the fields for a week, even a day. I think you will be more thankful for what you have and maybe a bit more compassionate. When I go home to Phoenix for the next break, I may try it. I should understand and have a taste of what my family had to do so that I could get to Saint Mary's, 
Melissa C. Gamez-Alvarez 
senior Annunciata Hall Oct. 29 
O
TI-IE 
BSERVER 



Students volunteer on Halloween 
Students from Howard Hall and Alumni Hall put together a haunting event for local students 
By EMILY HOWALD 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Sweets. costumes and pumpkins. What more could the children of the Robinson Community Learning Center ask for? Well, to start with, they are getting a full dinner and a night of fun and scary sto­ries hosted by Alumni and Howard halls. 
Abot 50 kids who are involved in the center's tutoring program are invited to the Notre Dame campus to participate in an evening of Halloween entertainment Thursday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
The dorms are introducing the event this year, hoping to make it an annual occurrence on South Quad. 
"We hope to make it a South Quad counter to Keenan's Great Pumpkin," organizer Courtney Schuster said. 
The event is headed by Howard Hall presidents Schuster, Mary-Kate Radelet and Kristin Steckbeck, as well as Alumni Hall presidents Mike Bott and Nick Gaeke. 
The evening begins with trick-or-treat­ing at a much-decorated Howard Hall. All the women were asked to have candy accessible for the children and 


r 
some are planning to dress up. Additionally, they decorated all the halls of Howard in hopes of creating a more pleasant atmosphere for the children. The presidents of Howard are also pro­viding full candy bars for any residents who were unable to make the trip to the store for Halloween candy. 
After the trick-or-treating Howard Hall plans to have other Halloween-ori­ented activities for the children. There will be face-painting and other activities that were decided upon by the hall council. 
At 7 p.m. the kids are expected to 
Illustration by Veronica Kelleher/The Observer 
move on to Alumni Hall, where festivi­ties will take place in the dorm's base­ment. Each student will have to take the decorated elevator down to the base­ment. Incidentally, the elevator appears to be scary to Alumni Hall residents at all times of the year due to the age and state of the elevator. They will then have a lasagna dinner. 
"We wanted to serve ghoulish food for the kids so we are serving grapes with the skin cut off, like eyes, and we will probably have a hand floating in the punch," Bott said. 
Following dinner, there are 65 pump­
kins awaiting the children and are 
ready to be painted or designed howev­
er the students prefer. The men of 
Alumni are also planning to spice the 
evening up a bit with storytelling and 
other Halloween activities, such as 
showing a Halloween film. 
Members of both Howard and Alumni 
halls are hoping to begin a respected 
annual event. 
"We would like to expand this event 
to a Haunted House in addition to what 
we are doing now. We would also like to 
get other dorms involved," Schuster 
said. 
Bott said organizers planned on mak­
ing the event a haunted house this year, 
but there was too much to do in too lit­
tle time. They decided on something 
smaller so that they hopefully could 
expand on it in years to come. 
Steckbeck added that she hoped the 
children would find the campus enjoy­
able and secure and that it was a good 
idea to expand the hall's service. 
"I think that this is a great opportuni­
ty for Howard to get involved in the 
community outside of Notre Dame. 1 
also think that it is important for chil­
dren to have a safe place to go on 
Halloween, and we are providing them 
with that opportunity," Steckbeck said. 
They also view it is a positive oppor­
tunity for the Notre Dame community to 
get involved. 
"We really wanted to make the cam­
pus a part of this because Halloween is 
pretty dead around here and we need­
ed something to give it a little life," Bott 
said. 
Both Howard and Alumni are excited 
to add yet another service event to their 
array of activities. 
"We have a lot of girls in Howard who 
love service, and combining that with 
Halloween festivities makes it fun for 
all ofus," Schuster said. 
"We have been trying to push more 
community service this year as a dorm 
and doing a Halloween type of event is 
a good way to do service and scare a 
bunch of kids at the same time," Bott 
said. 
Contact Emily Howald at Howald.2@nd.edu 
OTHE BSERVER 


Wednesday, October 30, 2002 page 13 


Hurling: the fastest sport on Earth 
The Gaelic Society introduces hurling to the Notre Dame community 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Scene Writer 
Stand out on one of the quads of Notre Dame's campus on a warm fall day, and you're liable to see all sorts of people hanging out and enjoying the unusually pleasant weather. 
Often these activities center around 
sports: people throwing a football, play­
ing catch with a baseball, kicking a soc­
cer ball, flinging a frisbee or tossing a 
ball back and forth with lacrosse sticks. 
But these days there are a few people starting up a new craze for the campus sports scene. The Gaelic Society is attempting to introduce the Irish sport of hurling to the Notre Dame Community. 
For a university where one of the longest sections of the student directory is "O" and whose mascot is the Fighting Irish, it would seem a more-than-appro­priate place for the sport to catch. 
"llurling is a brilliant game, but most visitors to Ireland, plus the many mi11ions of people of Irish descent living abroad and here on campus only have a rudi­mentary understanding of the game of hurling," said Gerry Quinn, a Notre Dame grad student and native of Ireland. "Some simply have never heard of this sport at all." 
Heccntly receiving sponsorship from the Gaelic Society, Quinn and Notre Dame junior Matt Connolly have brought the ancient Irish sport to campus. They have sel up regular demonstrations for stu­dents who want to participate and learn more about the sport. 
The two have brought a love of the Irish tradition and knowledge of the game of hurling to South Bend. Quinn, a native of Ireland, and Connolly, a former member of the Milwaukee Hurling Club. both have solid experience in the sport. 
"This gives 1.he students an opportuni­ty to see how fast and skillful the Gaelic games really are, and how they are intertwined with Irish culture," Quinn said. "Americans who have never seen the sports are blown away." 
The fastest field sp9rt on earth 
Hurling, which bears resemblances to lacrosse and field hockey, has often been called the fastest field sport on Earth. 
The game is played on a large field or "pitch" that generally measures 137 meters in length and 82 meters in width. Fifteen players on a team carry "hur­leys," or meter-long wooden sticks that are curved at the end. The hurleys are used to hit a "sliotar," a ball with a cork center and leather cover. 
Points are scored by knocking the slio­tar through the "H-shaped" goalposts for one point or under the posts and into a net for three. 
The speed and agility needed to play the game comes in moving the ball up the field. Players are only allowed to pick the ball off the ground with the burley -not their hands. They can then carry it in their hands for four steps before having to return it to the stick. 
The true challenge of hurling arises in playing the game without getting injured. The game is played at a frantic pace with full contact, but there is generally no padding worn by the players. Only recently have hurlers begun to wear hel­mets in action. 
Europe's oldest field sport 
The roots of the sport of hurling go back to truly ancient tiems in Celtic histo­ry. As the Ice Age came to a close in Northen Europe, and the Celts settled 


LAUREN FORBES/The Observer 


Photo courtesy of Gerry Quinn 

Gerry Quinn swings a hurley with the Dome and Basilica In the backdrop. 

into Ireland, they brought with them their culture, language, customs and pastimes, one of which was hurling. 
In fact, much of Irish history and mythology is filled with stories related to the ancient sport. For instance, the leg­endary Gaelic warrior Cu Chulainn was considered an expert hurler. Myths such as these reveal a hurling history that is thousands of years old and demonstarte the importance of the sport in Irish tradi­tion. 
In recent centuries, hurling has enjoyed a revival juxtaposed with the boom in Irish culture and nationalism that occurred in the late 19th century. Spurring from Irish opposition to British rule, a group of Irish nationalists met in County Galway to establish an organiza­tion for Irish athletes in 1884. Thus the Gaelic Athletic Association was organ­ized. To this day, it remains the govern­ing body of hurling and Gaelic football. 
The Notre Dame community has expe­rienced brushes with the sport of hurling in recent years, likely without even understanding the significance. 
In 1996, Notre Dame defeated Navy 54-27 in a football game in Dublin. The two teams played in Croke Park, which is the National Gaelic games stadium of Ireland and one of 1.he biggest arenas in Europe. 
Croke park is considered to be some­what sacred in Gaelic games circles. Soccer and rugby are banned from com­petition in the stadium, while American football was one of the only foreign sports to have been played on its soil when Notre Dame and Navy battled there. 
Bringing hurling to the lrlsh, sort of 
Quinn and Connolly have begun to see the results of their goal to introduce hurling to Notre Dame. Weekly training sessions have been packed with students eager to take up the new sport and ros­ters for competitive squads are filling rapidly. 
Photo courtesy of Gerry Quinn 

Irish football coach Tyrone Willingham poses with a hurley recently. 
to complete the formation of an athletic club and hold a hurling exhibition in the spring semester. This year, Saint Patrick's Day will fall just after spring break, and the heads of the newly-formed Gaelic Society see the Irish holliday as a brilliant opportunity to get the sport off and run­ning. 
Recently the Gaelic Society aq uired hurleys direct from Ireland with help from the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. In addition to the demostrations. Fiddlers Hearth, a new public house downtown, is used by members for socializing, and on Sundays they open their doors for the Gaelic Society, where members and newcomers alike can eat, watch Gaelic sports and view Irish cul­tural documentaries to learn more about Irish tradition. 
"We wanted to set about informing people about hurling and getting more people involved in actually picking up the game at an informal level," Quinn said. "Notre Dame is surely one of the most appropriate places to start, and the level of enthusiasm amongst students here has proved this." 
Contact Chris Federico at 
A Notre Dame student prepares to hit a sllotar during a recent game of hurling. The goal right now of the organizers is cfederico@nd.edu 
-

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
NHL 

Flyers avenge playoff loss to Senators, 2-1 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

The Philadelphia Flyers are finding a way to put the heart­breaking past behind them. 
"It doesn't avenge anything, but I guess it allows us to move on with our season," Keith Primeau said after the Flyers defeated the Ottawa Senators 2­1 Tuesday night. 
Primeau scored both goals ­equaling Philadelphia's entire scoring output in a shocking, five-game loss to the Senators in the opening round of last year's playoffs. 
"\Ve needed to have a win here tonight." Primeau said after the first meeting with the Senators, the fourth team to eliminate Philadelphia in the rrrst round in the last five years. 
Roman Cechmanek stopped 29 shots, including several key saves in the final minutes, as the Flyers remained unbeaten at home (3-0-1). 
Jason Spezza scored his first NHL goal for the Senators, who are winless in their last three games (0-2-1). 
Primeau scored 23 seconds in, tipping in a pass from Simon Gagne. Primeau added the game-winner with 1 :43 left in the second period after taking a pass at center ice from Kim Johnsson and outskating a defenseman to put the puck under the crossbar. 
Primeau said it's important for the Flyers to get off to quick starts, especially at home. 
"We let that slide for a couple of games," the Flyers' center explained. "We are back to it now and we are a better hockey club when we come hard at the start and follow through." 
Primeau missed the first two games of the season with a bruised ·ankle and appears determined to make up for lost time. 
"Keith's on a mission." said teammate Jeremy Roenick. "You can tell by his attitude. He has put a lot of things out of his life and is focusing on hockey." 
Spezza, the second overall pick in the 2001 draft, tied it with a power-play goal at 4:00 of the second period. Playing in only his third NHL game, Spezza took a pass high in the slot from Daniel Alfredsson and flipped the puck high over Cechmanek. 
"l was happy with my goal but obviously it would be nice to get it in a win," Spezza said. "But I think the team is doing well. We're getting better every game. We just need to figure out a way to get the puck in the net." 
Alfredsson, who leads the Senators in scoring with nine points.has scored in all seven Ottawa games. 
Hurricanes 2, Devils 1 
The Carolina Hurricanes are playing so well against New Jersey, they don't even need shots in the third period to win. 
Jeff O'Neill had a goal and an assist and Kevin Weekes made 34 saves Tuesday night as the Hurricanes beat the Devils 2-1 despite failing to get a shot on goal in the final 20 minutes. 
"I think we have such a healthy respect for the Devils that we play about as hard as we can," Carolina coach Paul Maurice said. "lt's not always pretty, but we remember some pretty good beatings at their hands over the years that we come mentally well prepared." 
Since the playoffs last season, the Hurricanes seemingly have the Devils' number. They elimi­nated New Jersey in six games in the opening round and now have won the first two regular-season meetings this year. 
"We were almost kind of jok­ing around, saying it's kind of like when we had the Rangers' number," Devils center Scott Gomez said. "A little bounce here or there, and that's all it takes. But you have to give them credit, they are the Eastern Conference champs. 
"We had our chances to win the game, so yeah, right now they can say they've got our number," Gomez added. 
Carolina also had Weekes. The big goaltender stopped about a dozen good scoring chances, including one on a second-period breakaway by Patrik Elias. 
"We're more familiar with them than other teams based on the fact we have played them as often as we have," said Weekes, who is 3-0-1 in his last four starts. "The rivalrv was born in the playoffs. It staited two years ago, and in last year's playoffs it intensified." 


Kings 4, Thrashers 0 
The Los Angeles Kings kept Atlanta winless. but not without taking a major loss of their own. 
Lubomir Visnovsky and Mikko Eloranta scored two goals apiece to lead Los Angeles to a 4-0 vic­tory Tuesday night, handing the Thrashers their ninth straight loss. 
The Kings' victory was over­shadowed by the loss of Jason Allison, their leading scorer. He went down in the first period with a knee injury that could keep him out two months or longer. 
"It's very serious," coach Andy Murray said. "I don't know if it's sea.son ending, but it's serious." 
Allison will have an MRI on Wednesday to determine the extent of the damage. 
"It's tough anytime you lose your best player," goaltender Felix Potvin said. "We knew it was bad when he didn't get up. He's the kind of player who will get up if he can." 
Potvin was hardly tested in his first shutout of the season and 26th of his career. The Kings outshot the Thrashers 41-25. 
Atlanta spent much of the game trying to kill off 12 Los Angeles power plays. 
The game was slowed by 26 penalties, turning especially chippy after Allison went down with about eight minutes left in the first period on a collision with Atlanta's Andy Sutton. 

Visnovsky, a third-year defenseman, had the first multi­goal game of his career. He scored the first of two goals by the Kings in the final minute of the first period, assisting on the other by Eloranta. 
Visnovsky scored again in the second period, while Eloranta tacked on another in the third to send the Thrashers to their most dismal loss of a dismal season. 
Atlanta. which got its only point with an overtime defeat, played before a sparse Philips Arena crowd of 11,440 but still heard plenty of boos. 

Wild 3, Avalanche 2 

Lubomir Sekeras' first goal of the season propelled the Minnesota Wild to the top of the NHL. 
Sekeras scored 3:43 into over­time Tuesday night to lift the Wild to a 3-2 victory over the Colorado Avalanche, giving the third-year franchise an NHL-best 16 points. 
Skating in front of the net, Sekeras, who hadn't scored a goal in 44 games, took a back­handed pass from Sergei Zholtok from the left side and wristed the puck past David Aebischer to send the sellout crowd into a frenzy. 
"It was a nice play by Zholtok and a nice finish by Sekeras," Wild toach Jacques Lemaire said. "That line had a lot of intensity tonight." 
The Wild, who on Sunday ral­lied from two goals down to earn a 3-3 tie at Colorado, are 7-1-2. 
"We weren't happy with the game that we played over there, we wanted more than just a tie and we came here and basically took it to them," said Manny Fernandez, who finished with 21 saves. 
Early on, it was Colorado tak­ing it to the Wild, outshooting Minnesota 14-1 in the first peri­od. Tho Avalanche had three power play opportunities in the period, but only scored once on Fernandez. 
"I definitely would've liked, the way we came out, to get a couple by them," Joe Sakic said. "But it didn't work out that way." 
The Wild outshot the Avs 22-9 the rest of the way and again got strong goaltending from Fernandez, who improved to 6­0-0. 
"The momentum shifted, and we didn't let go of it," Fernandez said. 
Red Wings 3, Sharks 2 
Sergei Fedorov is in a groove. 
Fedorov scored two power­play goals, including the game­winner in the third period, as the Detroit Red Wings beat the San Jose Sharks 3-2 on Tuesday night. 
Fedorov scored a 5-on-3 goal 
2:12 into the third to break a 2­all tie. His one-timer from the top of the right circle beat Sharks goalie Evgeni Nabokov between the pads. 
Fedorov has eight goals this season, and five in his last three games. 
"Playing with the great players out there, that was a help," he said. "Both goals on the power play. I guess I was in the right place at the right time." 
Red Wings goaltender Curtis Joseph got his 350th career win with the victory. 
"He's having a great year and he's an incredible talent," Joseph said of Fedorov. "It's hard to know how great a player he is until you play with him." 
Jason Williams also scored and Luc Robitaille added two assists for the defending Stanley Cup champions, who improved to 6­3-1-0. 
Owen Nolan scored both goals for San Jose, which dropped to a disappointing 3-6-0-0. Niklas Sundstrom had two assists. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The chacge is 3 cents per chacacter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES  -NOW  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ 
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  FOR SALE  FOR RENT  LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­ ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  
TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­ NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96)  
PUS-4-5-8-9  & 10 BEDROOM  bringing family, friends & girlfriend  
...ACT NOW1 Guarantee the best  Digital Camera Lost Nikon CoolPix  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  All size homes available for 2003­ HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBOR- to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck  
spring break prices! South Padre,  775 Before Pitt Game Lost near  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  HOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM ·  at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal- 
Cancun,  Jamaica,  Bahamas,  stadiumCallDestanieat4-4283  NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ­ ley@global.t-bird.edu  
Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras.  ===================  ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  www.mmmrentals.com  WASHER/DRYERS -CALL TODAY  
TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578  W ANTED  $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd edu  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  -HOUSES GOING FAST -CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 · (574)274-9955 -(574)674-2471  Wanted: 1 single ticket GA, BC Jim 234-7228  
dept 2626)/www.springbreakdis- NEED BC TIX 312-925-8961  
counts.com  Just listed Woodbridge condo close  CALL 243·0658 OR 298-0223.  3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND.  
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico,  to ND. Great location. NE corner­ Garage,  alarm  system,  A/C.  John Mellencamp tickets(2) -Call 4­ 
$250 a day potential/bartending  Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas!  end unit-new kitchen-furnace &  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  Avail.immed., $650/mo. Call 220­ 1814  
Training provided 1-800-293·3985  Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices.  water heater-windows.  has space available for football/par­ 0499.  
ext. 556  Free Parties & Meals! 1·800·234·  Over 900 sq.ft.  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  
7007 endlesssummertours.com  $85,000. OPEN HOUSE  hot  breakfast,  $80-$115,  
..At Last Spring Break.. Book now  Sun. 11/3 1 pm..Jpm.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  TICKETS  PERSONAL  
Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free  Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300  Toll Road, Exit 107,  
Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash·  per day. No experience necessary.  See at reedburrer.com or  800-418-9487  
tours.com  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
...  Call 1.866.291.1884 ex1 U187.  call Reed 574-235-3659.  Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from  check our prices. 273-3911.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
18004267710  Notre Dame -Perteet for Football  you love needs confidential support  
INVESTORS NEEDED. WILL PAY  Futons! Great selection and ser- Weekend Resort in Union Pier on  WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
SPRING  BREAK  INSANITY!  10% INTEREST $100,000 INCRE- vice. Minutes from campus. Call  Lake  Michigan.  Most  units  PRICES PAID 251-1570  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
WWW.INTEA·CAMPUS.COM OR  MENTS. 100% SECURED WITH  Mary@ Futon Factory, Grape Rd.,  rehabbed in 2002 •  more information, see our bi-weekly  
CALL 1-800-327-6013. GUARAN­ REAL ESTATE. CALL 574-675•  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE  0960 OR email al  273-2660.  269-469-0245  PRICES  
MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN,  investors@surtbest.net  289-9280  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
JAMAICA,  FLORIDA  AND  2 GA BC The. Best otter, yarl cell:  HOUSES  FOR  RENT  FOR  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! OUR  Need layout person for projects in  661-714-6174  2003/2004'  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  
SEVENTEENTH  YEARI  REPS  PageMaker. Photoshop, etc. Good  SALE.  Intormation/Reservations 1-800­ 
WANTED!  pay. Call 273-8857 (M-F 8-5)  email: sanders2@nd.edu  Call Bill at 532-1896  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  

-
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
One of our job requirements includes Hbeing yourse~f:'  
How can you grow as an individual if you're being forced into amold? At Ernst & Young, we empower you to push the boundaries. We offer the chance to generate creative ideas that really count. On our teams everyone has a role to play and something to contribute, so not only do you have avoice but you can make adifference with clients and co-workers alike. Break the mold.  
FORTUNE' 100 BEST COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~  

NBA 

Hornets to retire ­
•

Jersey 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 

Hornets coach Paul Silas 
started chuckling when asked 
how he remembered "Pistol 
Pete" Maravich, whose num­
ber will be retired before the 
Hornets' inaugural New 
Orleans home opener against 
the Utah Jazz on Wednesday 
night. 
"For him to come along and 
do some of the things he did 
for a white boy was kind of 
shocking," said Silas, who 
played against Maravich dur­
ing the 1970s, when Maravich 
was with the old New Orleans 
Jazz. "Ile kind of played like 
he was on a playground all 
the time. He was so great. the 
ball seemed to be on a string 
every time he had it. Ile was a 
great shooter." 
Among Silas' favorite memo­
ries of Maravich was a shot 
from the corner of the court at 
the end of a half. 
"He let go of a hook, ran to 
the locker room and didn't 
even look -and the ball 
swished right through the 
basket," Silas recalled. 
Silas said Maravich's ball 
handling and flamboyant 
court presence was ahead of 
its time and more more akin 
to today's style of play. 
"Guys back then did not dribble the ball behind their back, between their legs ... they could not dribble the ball with each hand equally as well," Silas says. "He had that flair about him which was at that time not really acceptable in certain circles." 
In addition to the Maravich ceremony, the Hornets have planned a host of pregame activities in New Orleans' fes­tive and musical tradition. 
Mayor Ray Nagin has pro­claimed Wednesday "Teal Day" -teal is the Hornets predominant uniform color ­to commemorate the return of the NBA after 23 years. 
A Halloween-themed "Spooktacular" begins about two hours before tipoff out­side the arena, with fortune tellers, fire performers, face painters, costumed perform­ers and a best-costume con­test. 
The band Rockin' Dopsie Jr. and the Zydeco Twisters will play outside before the game, then homegrown celebrity Aaron Neville will sing the national anthem and perform at halftime. 

page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 30, 2002 
I 



2002-FAIR 
I
a 

-





uate 

wednesday SC
october30·4-8pm

sports heritage ha 11, joyce center (enter gate 1 or 2) 
all students regardless of degree, major,college, or year 


American University 
School of International Service 
Argosy University 
Admissions 
Ball State University 
Graduate School 
Bastyr University 
Admissions 
Boston University 
College of Communication 
Brandeis University 
The Heller School of Social Policy and Management 
Case Western Reserve University 
Mandel School of Applied Social Science School of Nursing 
The catholic University of America 
Graduate Admissions 
Central Michigan University 
College of Health Professions 
Columbia University/Ben Gurion 
M.D. Program in International Health 
Concordia University 
Graduate Admissions 
Cornell University 
Graduate School 
Creighton University 
School of Pharmacy & Health Professions 
DePaul University 
Graduate Admissions 
Duke University 
School of Medicine Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy 
Earlham College 
Master of Arts in Teaching 
Eastern Illinois University 
Graduate School 
Eastern Michigan University 
Enrollment Services 
Franciscan University of Steubenville 
Graduate Admissions 
GEM Fellowship Programs 
Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science 
Georgetown University 
Graduate School of Arts & Sciences 
Graduate Theological Union 
Admissions 
Grand Valley State University 
School of Health Professionals 
Indiana State University 
School of Graduate Studies 
Indiana University 
School of Optometry School of Public and Environmental Affairs 
IUPUI 

Purdue School of Engineering and Technology 
Indiana University South Bend 
Graduate Business Programs 
John Carroll University 
Boler School of Business 
Johns Hopkins University 
School of Nursing 
Logan College 
Chiropractic Admissions 
Loyola University Chicago 
Graduate School Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Social Work 
Marquette University 
Graduate School 

Methodist Theological School in Ohio 
Admissions 
Midwestern University 
Admissions 

Minnesota Paralegal Institute 
Admissions 
National College of Naturopathic Medicine 
Naturopathic Medicine, Classical Chinese Medicine 
The New England College of Optometry 
Optometry 
New School University 
Political and Social Science 

New York Institute ofTechnology 
Admissions 
New York University 
School of Social Work Steinhardt School of Education 
Northwestern University 
Medill School of Journalism 

Pittsburgh Theological Seminary 
Divinity 
Purdue University 
Graduate School Administration 

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
Admissions 
Rice University 

Professional Science Master's Program 
Rollins College 

(rummer Graduate School of Business 
Roosevelt University 
Graduate Admissions 
Rush University 
College Admission Services 

Saint Mary's College 
Department of Nursing 
Saint Xavier University 
Admissions 
Samuel Merritt College 
Admissions 
St. Louis University 
School of Public Health 
Texas Tech University 
Graduate Admissions 
Tulane University 
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine 
U.T. Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas 
Southwestern Graduate School 
University of California, San Diego 
Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies 
University of Detroit 
Mercy School of Dentistry 
University of Florida 
Graduate Minority Programs 
University of Health Sciences 
College of Osteopathic Medicine 
University of Indianapolis 
School of Occupational Therapy School of Physical Therapy 
·University of Kentucky 
School ofPublic Health 
University of Michigan 
School of Social Work 
University of North Texas 
Graduate School 
University of Notre Dame 
Graduate School MBA 
M.S. in Accountancy Program 
University of Pennsylvania 
Graduate School of Education School of Social Work 
University of Southern California 
Leventhal School of Accounting 
University ofTulsa 
Graduate School 
Washington University 
Biological and Biomedical Sciences 
Wayne State University 
Graduate Admissions School of Medicine Anatomy and Cell Biology 
Western Michigan University 
The Graduate College 
Weston Jesuit School ofTheology 
Admissions 
Xavier University 
Health Services Administration 
sponsored by also plan toattend: 
THE 

Successfully Applying to Graduate School:
CAREER 

Panel Discussion with Faculty and Current Graduate Students
CENTER 

tuesday, october 29, 7:00-8:30 pm • 126 debartolo hall 
r------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
-

NHL 


Allison could miss 2 months 
Associa.tcd Pres• 
ATLANTA 

Jason Allison. the leading scorer for the Los Angeles Kings, could be out for two months after injuring his right 
knee in a collision with Atlanta's Andy Sutton on Tuesday night. 
Allison was skating across the red line when he cut sharply to the left, his knee striking Sutton's left knee. 
Alli<:on rlrnnnPrl in ihP i~P 


RESERVED COURT TIME SCHEDULING MEETING 


Any organization wishing to request weekly 
BASKETBALL or VOLLEYBALL court time at Stepan Center for the 2002-2003 academic year must attend-


WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER~30 4:30pm Montgomery Theatre 
1st Floor Lafortune Student Center 

You must have a representative present at the meeting to request your times. 
Weekly court lime will run November 2002 through April 2003. Coordinated by the Student Activities Office. For more information, contact 631-6912. 
writhing in pain, and had to be 
helped to the locker room. 
He didn't return to the game, and team officials said he would have tests on Wednesday to determine the extent of the injury. 
"He could be out for two months," coach Andy Murray said. "It's very serious. I don't know if it's season ending, but it's serious." 
Murray was clearly upset by the hit on Allison, feeling that Sutton intentionally stuck out his knee. 
"It was a vicious play." Murray said. "(The officials) said it was a great shoulder check. That's my concern. It's the responsibility of officials to make the call." 
Thrashers coach Curt Fraser said he didn't think the play was flagrant, and several· Kings players agreed. Even so, Los Angeles seemed inspired by the injury and went on to a 4-0 victory. 
"It was an accident," Kings captain Mattias Norstrom said. "I don't think anyone would do something like that intention­ally. But it's a tough loss for us if he's going to be out a while." 
Sutton received a penalty for roughing. As soon as he stepped from the penalty box, he was confronted by Ian Laperriere of the Kings, who received a two-minute instigat­ing penalty as well as a 10­minute misconduct. 
NFL 

Giants' Hilliard to sit out rest of season 
Associated. Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
New York Giants receiver Ike Hilliard will miss the rest of the season with a dislocated right shoulder suffered on a hit by All-Pro safety Brian Dawkins of the Philadelphia Eagles. 
An MRI on Tuesday disclosed a tear in both Hilliard's labrum and pectoralis muscle. He will undergo surgery in about a month and will at some point be placed on injured reserve. 
The normal rehabilitation period for the surgery Hilliard will undergo is three months. 
"fke's been a playmaker for us," coach Jim Passel said. "He does an outstanding job on third down. He's been a guy that has been one of our con­sistent players. 
"He has continually played well in all the games. We're going to miss him." 
Fassel said that he asked ref­eree Bill Carollo whether Dawkins should have been ejected following the hit near deep in Philadelphia territory Monday night. Fassel said Carollo told him that the offi­cial who made the call didn't believe it warranted a disquali­fication. Dawkins was called for a personal foul. 
"That type of hit is covered under the rules," Fassel said. "Guys get penalized. Whether the league does anything else or not, I don't know. You hate to see players get hurt, period, especially on a play that could have been avoidable." 
Hilliard said it would be up to the NFL to say whether the hit was dirty. 
''It's not for me to determine whether or not it was a dirty hit," Hilliard said. "It was late. Dawkins is a good, aggressive player. I'm not one to shy away from contact, so I'm not going to cry about it. That wouldn't do my shoulder any good." 
"l know he's an aggressive player, but I think there is a line that he crossed. lie really did," Giants quarterback Kerry Collins said of Dawkins. "He knew that (llilliard) was defenseless. I know it's foot­ball, it's part of the game, and I'm not saying he intentionally tried to hurt him because I don't think he did.... You're not going to hear Ike say any­thing bad about it, but it could have and should have been avoided." 
Amani Toomer, the Giants' No. 1 wide receiver who will certainly feel the loss of Hilliard on the field, told the Philadelphia Inquirer the hit was a "cheap shot." 

Bobby Petrocelli 
One of the top motivational speakers in America, Bobby uses his riveting personal story -of how one decision can change your life forever. To inspire and motivate audiences, Bobby has used his story of how one can triumph over tragedy to encourage and empower over 1 million students in overt 1,000 colleges and high schools. 



Date: October 30, 2002 Time: 7:00 p.m. Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium Sponsored by: PILLARS and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
Discover the power of one decision. Learn how EACH choice· either strengthens or weakens your foundation. Things don't just happen. The habits, patterns, and decision of everyone impact our entire world! Learn how to build a strong foundation one brick, one decision at a time! 

r 
.
' 
' 
' ­





. AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEH WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, October 30, 2002 

around the dial 
NBA 
Wizards at Raptors 7 p.m., ESPN Bulls at Celtics 7 p.m., FOXCH 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Southern Mississippi at TCU 7:30 p.m, 
ESPN2 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Associated Press mination for this opportuni­included Brewers bench month. 
ty," general manager Doug coach Cecil Cooper, Arizona ''I'd never been in situa­
MILWAUKEE Melvin said. "He has enthu­Diamondbacks bench coach tions that were pressure 
Atlanta Braves coach Ned siasm for the organization Bob Melvin (no relation) situations. But when you Yost was hired as manager and brings a great desire to and New York Yankees become a third-base coach of the Milwaukee Brewers help us to return to winning third-base coach Willie for a championship-caliber on Tuesday, returning to baseball.'' Randolph. team, it's almost like you the team where he was a Yost will replace the Yost interviewed for a become a player. Your backup catcher in the Jerry Royster, whq was major league managerial decisions have direct 1980s. fired after the Brewers fin­job for the first time with impact on a game, and you 
"This is needless to say a ished with a franchise­the Brewers. better make them correctly very special day in my life," worst 56-106 record this The 47-year-old Yost has and you better make them Yost said during a news season. been the Braves' third-base quickly," he said. conference at Miller Park. Royster replaced Davey coach the last four seasons, Yost was a backup catch­"To be able to come back Lopes in April. a position he believes has er on the 1982 Milwaukee here ... it's just like being a Oakland bench coach Ken groomed him to become a team that won the AL pen­4-year-old at Christmas Macha turned down an manager. nant. He said he would love time." offer from the Brewers last 'Tm not sure I was ready a chance to try to turn 
Yost agreed to a two-year week. The A's will intro­four years ago because l'd around the Brewers, who contract that includes a duce Macha as their new never been tested," Yost haven't been to the playoffs club option for 2005. manager Tuesday. said after interviewing with since losing to St. Louis in 
"Ned showed great deter-Melvin's other candidates the Brewers earlier this the '82 World Series. 
IN BRIEF  
Angels celebrate victory With Jackie Autry riding alongside Mickey Mouse, tens of thousands of Angels fans cheered the team's first World Series championship on at a Disneyland parade and later at a huge rally at Edison Field. "For all the Angels fans who have been here from the beginning, and all the Angels we had above, this championship is for you," manager Mike Sciascia said at Tuesday's rally. Two hours earlier, Scioscia held the World Series trophy aloft at Disneyland, which was awash in Angels red, with shirts, hats and faces painted with halos. Fans there had paid as much as $45 for a ticket to the park, where the parade was held along Main Street. Jackie Autry is the widow of Gene Autry, who formed the expansion team in 1961. The Walt Disney Co. bought the Angels after Gene Autry died in 1998. The hard-luck team had never  won a playoff series before beating the New York Yankees earlier this month in an American League divi­sion series. They then beat the Minnesota Twins to win the American League pennant and capped it off by winning the World Series over the San Francisco Giants in seven games. Knicks coach gets contract Don Chaney received some added job security Tuesday, getting a one­year contract extension from the New York Knicks. The extension is the second Chaney has received in less than a year since taking over after Jeff Van Gundy's unexpected resignation in December. ''We have great confidence that Don is the right person to lead the Knicks," said James Dolan, chair­man of Cablevision, the Knicks' cor­porate owner. "We appreciated his willingness to step into a challenging position last December and believe  that he has shown all the qualities that the Knicks need to succeed." With a career record of 276-409, Chaney will be entering his 11th season as a head coach. The outlook for the Knicks is not a good one, but Tuesday's news sig­naled that the Knicks will not make Chaney a fall guy if the season begins poorly. Antonio McDyess went down for the season with a broken kneecap in the team's third exhibition game, and Latrell Sprewell has been side­lined throughout the preseason after arriving for training camp with a broken hand. Chaney had spoken throughout October about the various disap­pointments that have struck the Knicks -from injuries to the team's inability to swing a major trade for a center or point guard during the off­season -and would have begun the season considered somewhat of a lame duck since he had only one year remaining on his contract.  

Wednesday, October 30, 2002 Thf! Obsf!rVf!r . SPORTS page 19 
PGA 
Woods thinks Augusta will allow women 
Associated l'r,,ss 
ATLANTA 

Tiger Woods expects Augusta National to have a female member by the next Masters because "it's the right thing to do," and he believes golf won't be hurt by the controversy. 
"It's an organization's mem­bership," Woods said Tuesday at the season-ending Tour Championship. "It's not the players' fault it's happening." 
While the PCA Tour season officially ends Sunday, the debate over the all-male mem­bership at Augusta National doesn't figure to wane. 
rt began in July, when club chairman Hootie Johnson issued a scathing, three-page statement that he would not let a national women's group force him to admit a female. 
Since then, Johnson has dropped corporate television sponsors, while the head of the National Council of Women's 
Organizations has put pressure on prominent Augusta National members. 
Martha Burk also said this week she wanted PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem to take a stand by no longer counting the Masters as an official event. 
Asked if the controversy would reflect poorly on golf if it is not resolved by the Masters in April, Woods said, 'Tm sure Hootic will probably have a female member by then." 

The club has not issued a comment since Johnson said in late August he was dropping TV sponsors to keep them out of the fray. 
"It's the right thing to do," Woods said. "He would have done it anyway over time. He might be forced to have to do it, which is a. shame because it's not how you want to do things. I'm sure he would have done it the right way, but now it's not going to be a good situ­ation." 
-

Finchcm was to givo his "State of the Tour" speech Wednesday at East Lake. 
Already, some players have declined to comment on the all-male mombership at Augusta National, home of one of the four major champi­onships and the most popular event in golf. 
Woods has said he supports both causes -there should be a female member, but the pri­vate club has a right to set its own membership policies. 


NFL 
League upholds Harrison's suspension 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
The NFL upheld San Diego Chargers safety Rodney Harrison's one-game suspen­sion for a helmet-to-helmet hit he laid on Oakland's Jerry Rice. 
Harrison will miss Sunday's home game. against the New York Jets and lose 
league's executive vice presi­dent and general counsel, upheld the suspension imposed on Thursday by NFL disciplinarian Gene Washington. 
"Essentially, they felt like Rodney committed a foul," coach Marty Schottenheimer said. "We continue to contend that he did not." 
Harrison wasn't immediately 
available for 
comment.

$111,764. 
"Essentially. they felt like The hit hap­
Counting 
the loss of Rodney committed a foul. pened in the first quarter of
his one­We continue to contend 
San Diego'sgame pay­

that he did not." 27-27 over-
check, 
time win at

Harrison 
Oakland on

has been Marty Schottenheimer 
Oct. 20. Nofined more 

Chargers coach 
penalty was

t h a n $200,000 for several infractions during his nine­year career. 
Harrison, a two-time Pro Bowler, formally appealed Monday at the NFL offices in New York, bringing with him video clips that he said proved that he didn't hit Rice helmet­first. 
But the Chargers got word Tuesday that Jeff Pash, the 
called. 

Harrison said Sunday that the team's video of the play shows he used his right forearm and shoulder to hit Rice's left shoulder. The impact knocked Rice's head back, Harrison said. 
Washington disagreed. In a letter to Harrison last week, Washington wrote: "On the play in question, which I have carefully reviewed, you made 
no effort to tackle the player or break up the pass (as did one of your teammates on the same play). and instead engaged in what appears to be a simply gratuitous effort to punish your opponent after the pass to him has been deflected by your teammate." 
The hit on Rice was Harrison's third serious rules violation in 18 games. A week earlier, he was fined $12,500 for spearing Kansas City run­ning back Priest Holmes while he was down. 


Wednesday, October 30, 2002

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
-
Strong Belles effort falls short in three-set loss to Calvin 
By CHRIS FEDERICO
-
Sports Ediror 
Saint Mary's gave the second place Calvin Knights a run for their money Tuesday night at Angela Athletic Facility, but the effort was not enough as the Comets pulled away with a 30-23, 30-27, 30-21 victory. 
"I thought we played very well against Calvin tonight," Saint Mary's head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said after the game Tuesday. "We were right with them in every game, espe­cially the second. lt was back-and­forth, back-and-forth the whole time." 
The Belles outplayed their oppo­nents in nearly every statistic except score. Saint Mary's led Calvin in kills 40-33, assists 37-33 and digs 52-36. 
In the end, the young Saint Mary's squad fell victim to some errors that cost the team in the close sets. 
"We actually were better than them in many stats, including kill<;, digs and assists," Schroeder­Biek said. "What hurt us were some service errors, especially there in the second game. We had some critical errors that basically just come down to a lack of expe­rience. We didn't do the little things well." 
The hard-fought loss to Calvin. who now stands 24-6 on the sea­son and 11-2 in MIAA play, should give the Belles some momentum heading into the season-ending MIAA Conference Tournament, which begins Tuesday, Nov. 5. 
"The improvement I've seen in thls team has been phenomenal," Schroeder-Biek said. "Making progress as a team and getting some experience was one of our goals coming into this season, and we've done well \\ith that. As long as we play consistently, we have the potential to do very well, because the talent is there now." 
Senior outside attacker Elizabeth Albert and sophomore middle hitter Elise Rupright fin­ished the match with nine kills apiece to pace the team. 
Junior outside attacker Alison Shevik and sophomore libero Jenny Wilkins finished in double­digits for digs, with 14 and 10, respectively. 
Sophomore Setter Bridget Wakaruk led the team in assists with 20. 
The Belles got some valuable experience against Calvin, howev­er, as they may face the Knights again in the first round of the MIAA Tournament. 
"Calvin is No. 2 in the confer­ence, and I think we will see them again in the conference tourna­ment," Schroeder-Biek said. "But we played incredibly well tonight." 
With the loss, the Belles fell to 7 ­20 on the season and 1-13 in MIMplay. 
Notes: 
. The Belles got their first con­ference win in the MIAA the Wednesday before fall break with a 28-30, 30-24, 30-18, 30-19 vic­tory over Olivet College. Saint Mary's also got a victory over Rochester College during fall break, 30-22, 30-19, 30-16. In their other three matches that took place over break, the Belles lost to conference opponents Albion, Hope and Alma. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


WOMENS SOCCER 
Guertin garners conference player of the week award 
Special to the Observer 

Notre Dame junior forward Am and a Guertin has been named the Big East Conference women's soccer offensive player of the week for the second time in her career, after playing a key role in wins over Syracuse (6­0; Oct. 25) and at Boston College (1-0; Oct. 27). 
Guertin provided her sixth and seventh corner-kick assists of the season in the win over Syracuse, including the kick that led to Randi Scheller's header for an early 1-0 lead (another Guertin cor­ner kick set up Mary Boland's header for a 3-0 lead midway through the first half). She then became the first Notre Dame women's soccer player ever to score three overtime goals in her career, after tak­ing a pass from classmate Amy Warner and scoring on a six-yard crossing shot into the right side for the 1-0 win at 

B.C. (with just 47 seconds left in the first OT). Guertin also has posted two OT assists in her three seasons with the Irish and already held the Notre Dame record for career overtime points (now 8). 
Sunday's score marked Guertin's fourth game win­ning goal of the season (third­most among Big East players) and was the 14th game win­ner of her career -good for seventh in Notre Dame histo­ry. Seven of Guertin's game winning goals have come in one-goal games, including the recent 1-0 win at then-No. 13 Michigan. 
Guertin ranks second among all Big East players with 10 assists in 2002, equaling her combined total from the previous two sea­sons. 
Her career totals now include 33 goals (six in '02) and 20 assists, in 64 games played. 
·~ Chinese -American Restaurant lrMQ;ll and Cocktail Lounge -·,, 
~ Authentic Szechuan, Mandann and . Hunan Cuisin~ · I 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 
1' 
Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 1 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
lJO Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 


University ofNotre Dame 

Interested in 

International Study Program in Changing lhe World? 
PARIS, FRANCE 

Study Political Science, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, and Modern History in the Heart ofParis at Science Po, one ofEurope's most Prestigious Institutions 
Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director 
1)1
1)1

INFORMATION MEETING 
1)1

October 30, 2002 
1)1

6:00 PM 
)I

116 DeBartolo 
)I 

Dec. 1, 2002 deadline for Academic Year 2003-2004 
1)1

Application available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
1)1


1)1
-_...tl""-.....-l'[Q] 

Wednesday, October 30, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
-

Battle's celebration could lead to ratnifications in practice 
15-yard celebration penalty and what Battle will do. 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
a punishment from the Irish "We're negotiating," 

Sports Writer 
coaches. Willingham smirked. 

Arnaz Battle knew he had a "I would have loved to get it It was an action decidedly out stifTpunishment coming when he over with Saturday," Battle of character for Battle, who typi­saw a yellow flag flutter from a laughed. "I know it will come cally stays low-key after making 
referee's belt. this next Saturday." big plays. 
Batlle had just scored a 65-Battle doesn't know what his "When I was in high school, I yard touchdown. giving the Irish punishment will be, but Carlyle always threw the ball to the ref a 7-0 lead en route to a 34-24 Holiday joked after the game and ran to the sideline. I shocked victory over Florida State that the Irish receiver "probably myself," Battle said. "I've always Saturday, when he promptly imi­had 100 yards of up-downs com­wanted to do something, and tated the Tomahawk Chop and ing." that seemed like the perfect then waved his hands across his Irish coach Tyrone opportunity." chest, as if he was saying it Willingham, who strongly oppos­According to Battle, after he wasn't a factor. es actions that are disrespectful gestured, one official called for 
His antics earned the Irish a to opponents, wouldn't let on the ball, warned Battle and told 
International Study Programs 
152 Hurley Building 
T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
2003-2004 Academic Year 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Giirtler, Director of the Innsbruck Program 
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 213 DEBARTOLO 7:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd-edu/~intlstud 

Questions? -Weber.l5@nd.edu Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 
him to run to the sideline. The receiver complied, but another official came in and threw a flag to give him the celebration penalty. 
"I almost got away with it," Battle smiled. 
Injury update 
Defensive tackle Cedric Hilliard. who started against Florida State but left midway through the game with a knee sprain, is listed as uncertain for Saturday. 
If Hilliard can't play, the Irish would probably rotate Kyle Budinscak, who normally starts at defensive end, into the start­ing lineup. 
Tailback Rashon Powers-Neal, who missed both the Air Force and Florida State games with a leg injury, practiced Tuesday, but his status is unknown for Saturday's game against Boston College. 
Cornerback Shane Walton did not practice Tuesday with what Willingham called an illness. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Wide receiver Arnaz Battle scrambles with the ball during Notre Dame's 21-14 victory over Air Force. 
Eagles 
continued from page 24 
led by senior captain and line­backer Vinny Ciurciu and junior linebacker Josh Ott. Ott leads the team with 58 tackles, while Ciurciu is second with 56. The defense as a unit has allowed an average of only 20 points per game this season. 
Although the Eagles enter the game with six key players injured, Willingham said he expects Boston College to still present problems for the Irish. 
"I think it's a good enough football team even with some of the injuries that they faced and that the nature of the rivalry and the nature of this game and what it means to both schools kind of defies that wounded animal theory," Willingham said. "They will come in here to play great football, and we have 

to be prepared to play great football to match and exceed 
-

their energy level." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Wednesday, October 30, 2002
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles win three straight last week, face Calvin today 
By LAURA CORISTIN 
Sports Wrirer 
After losing three straight games, the Saint Mary's soc­cer team is back on the win­ning track. 
The Belles won all three of their matches over fall break, two of them shutouts. 
The Belles defeated Alma Oct. 19 in overtime 3-2. The Scots' Angel Bushor scored an unassisted goal at the 56:10 mark of the second half to put Alma in front 1-0. 
Megan Karchon added to that margin, giving Alma a 2­0 lead when she redirected a throw-in into the net. 
It was Saint Mary's Jen Concannon who would pro­vide the offensive spark for the match. 
The sophomore forward made two penalty kicks -at 
75:48 and 88:35 -to send the game into overtime. 
Belles forward Wendy Irvin then scored the game-winning goal at 6:49 of the first over­time session. 
Three days later, the Belles went on the road to Olivet, where they shutout the Comets for the second time this season, this time by a score of 7-0. 
Concannon scored twice, while Shannon Artnak, Lauren Cortese, Shannon Greenwell, Emily Wagoner and Irvin all added one goal apiece for the Belles in the lop-sided victory. 
Saint Mary's recorded its second consecutive shutout Saturday, beating Kalamazoo College 4-0. 
Concannon again scored two goals for the Belles, while Irvin and freshman Carrie Orr each scored once. 
The Belles lost to 

Kalamazoo 3-1  earlier this  MIAA.  
season.  The Belles  will travel to  
"The  4-0  G  r  a  n  d  
win was because  big I  'Today's game will be a  Rapids today for a 3 p.m.  
don't think we've beaten Kalamazoo since our cap­tain Lynn [Taylor] has been here," Concannon  big one . ... We definitely need to step up like we did against Kalamazoo." Jen Concannon Belles forward  matchup with Calvin College. Their only other match with the Knights this s e a s o n  
said.  resulted in  a  
After  the  1-1 tie,  

wins this week the Belles are Calvin is ranked third in the now 7-8-2 and 5-5-2 in the MIAA with a conference 

record of 7-3-2 and an overall record of 10-6-2. 
"Today's game will be a big one," Concannon said. "We tied Calvin 1-1 the last time we played them. We definitely need to step up like we did against Kalamazoo." 
Notes: 

. Saint Mary's forward Jen Concannon was named MIAA Offensive Player of the Week for her efforts in the Belles pair of shutouts. Concannon had four goals and two assists in the Belles two victories 
over Olivet and Kalamazoo. The honor marks the first time this season a Saint Mary's player has been named Player of the Week. 
. With her six goals over her last three games, Concannon is tied with Hope's Dawn Gillam for second place in goals scored in the MIAA con­ference with 11. The leader is Calvin's Tricia Dyk, who has 16 goals on the season. 
Contact Laura Coristin at cori0333@saintmarys.edu 

OP£NHOUS£ 
THU$AY, OCTOB£1l31 11:DIAN 2:DDPN 
The $t1~dentJlc-tivities c::>ffice invites ~oH tocjoin the stt~clents ancl staff ofthe entire L«Forlw1e ~tt~clent Center for a Halloween c::>pen Hot~Se. There will be trecrts,Witches' ~rew(so1~p) ctncl swrprises! For more information c<tll €>:31-7:3(:)8. 
-

Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
Start going places with a Summer Dream Internship. Register online today and complete your application by 2/01/03 to 
i: "' 

compete for one of two $5,000 paid
:! 
.. "' 
=., 

internships. Eight other students will receive 
u 
c:[ 

cash value awards of up to $1,000.* ,g 
,Q 
= 
Q. 
......
..,, 

·c Rent 273 palm trees (and 1 big fan to make them sway)
.. 
r.:l 
0 
i How do you get a job fikc this? Start today.
-~ 
-= Apply for a Summer Dream Internship at: 
..."' 
-~ www.StartHereGoPlaces.con1/biz2
., 
E 
~ 
.. 

~contest Rules: complete. rules _can be found on the Co!legeC_lub.wm Web site. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. Con_~~st entry period runs 10/0i/02 -2/01/03 and is open only to legal residents of the 50 United States. eighteen (18) or older at time o1-= entry. enrolled 1n a full/part-time .accredited co!lege or un1vers1ty, and 1s subJect to the complete Contest Dmc1al Rules. Entries may be submitted on the StartHereGoPlaces.com Web site located at www.StartHereGoPlaces.com or on the
>

.,:, CollegeClub.com Web site locate . at www.CollegeClub.com. Al! entries become the property of Spunsor. as defined in the complete Contest Official Rules. Empioy_ees and family members of Sponsor not eligible to participate. Sponsor is not
.,,, 

respons1~le for techn;_cal or other malfunctions, l~~l or unavailable network connect;ons•.or failed electronic commu111cat1ons th_a_t may occUt 1n the proce_ss1ng of_the entries. The_authors of the two (2) Grand Prize winning essays wil! each rece1.ve their 
~ 

., choice o, one of the Summer Dream Internships provided_ by_ Sponsor, wh:ch 1nc1udes nve thousand dollars ($5,000) to be pa10 over the course 01 the 1nternsh1p. The Grand Prtze 1s not transferable, except by Sponsor. who may substitute prize with a prize of equal va'ue or opportunity._No _cash or prize subslitut1on 1s_al!owed and _other restrictions apply. The authors of the three (3) winning Runners-Up essays will receive one thousand dollar ($1,000) g1h checks. The authors of the five (5) winning
"'C

., Honorable Mention essays will rece11/€ 11ve hundred_ dollar ($500) gm checks. Vo,d where prohibited. Winners will be responsible for any and all taxes. Sponsor· The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 1211 Avenue of the Americas.
"'­
rn New York, NY 10036-8775; Col!egeClub.corn. a d1v1s1on of Student Aavantage, Inc.. 2035 Corte Del NogaI. Suite 200, Carlsbad. CA 92009. 



Wednesday, October 30, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 27 Straws 53 Seventh-century date
1 "The, uh, stuff 30" Me, 0 that dreams are Lord" (spiritual} 54 Luxury home made or features
31 Obsidian, oncespeaker 

57Yom_
32 Banded rock 

9 Some Desi (Jewish holiday) 
Amaz offerings 34 Certain gang 58 Part of a horsemember
15 Nuts, raisins, 
60 Sk)gan of '56dried fruit, etc. 35 Getting the point 

38 Romeo and Juliet, e.g. 63 Source of a 

16 East 
17 Operator's need couch potato's 40 Flat sign
18 Red Jacket's potatoes?tribe 41 Dwell (on) 
64 Wheel of 19 _ Ben Canaan 43 Like some Fortune et al. of "Exodus" outlets 
65 Precedent setter 20 Opposite sides 44 _-Prest Levi's 
22 Tour Eiffel 45 Sharpshooters' 
DOWN

material needs 1 Big pieces of
23Will_ol 49 Org. for Lord "High Noon" Robertson tuna 
2 Famous

25 Active 50 Marbles game 
debarking locale 26 Refuse 52 Narthex 
3 Place for slips transportation neighbor 

4 Several drops 5 Knee bend 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Grace period? Puu19 by Peter GOl'don
7 Cubes 24 "Apostolados" 42 Novel set in the 51 Unguent
8 Gives immunity artist fictional town of 54 Bank
to 26 Gets into quickly Zenith 
55 Relieves 44 Refines9 Wanders about 28 Furrow 56 Child's play,
10 Harmonia's father 29 One in 100: 46 Film perhaps Abbr. 47 Calls up 59 Red Army chief 
--+.,,,+.......-.,.. 11 Compass meas. 33 Catch phrase? 48 Stern 61 Letter abbr.
--:-+.,,,+::+::::-1 12 Pictures in a Mr. Universe 
34 Pear type 
calendar 35 Not draw Answers to any three clues in this puzzle ~.;,;+~.;+...--...-11111 13 Glance 36 "The global high are available by touch-tone phone: -,-+.........+-,......,_ 14 1977 Best sign" sloganeer, 1-900-420-5656 {$1.20 per minute). once
I L A Picture nominee Annual subscriptions are available for the --+--+R.,.._E.....,D-1 21 Official blooms 37 Veteran best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 E GS of Tennessee 39 "_Girls" years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to; 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address City ______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Grace Slick, Henry Winkler, Kathleen Cody, Diego Armando Maradona 
Happy Birthday: Opportunities will be all around you, but if you don't acl fast you may miss out. You have the right idea and the know-how to put your plans into play. Your charm and grace will be hard for anyone to resist, so pul 11 to good use. Love, romance and being emotionally settled should be your personal goals this year. Your numbers are 9, 17, 25, 27, 31, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can do very well in speculative money matters. Take some time to spend with children. It's important for you to look after your health and well-bemg. Don't sign documents without proper advice. 
***** 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Home or work will be emotionally draining for you. Steer clear of those who are likely to upset the apple cart. Take time to think things through and regroup. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone you work with may not be totally honest with you. Do a little investigating and expect some surprises. Drastic alterations in your work environment are likely. Look into lucrative but safe investments. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't spend too much on children or entertainment. You may find that situations at work may get blown out ol proportion. Don't get involved in gossip or risky money deals. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes in your living quarters may appear to be alarming at first glance. Don't jump to conclusions. Give things a chance to settle down and you may find that the end result is to your advantage. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Stay away from joint financial extravaganzas. Expect problems with deals that appear to be too easy. Don't sign any documents until you have the legal OK. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't start disputes at work. If you disagree with your boss, swallow it. This is not the time to raise controversial issues. Your best efforts will come through family outings and pleasure trips. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can work well with others if you help those who are in lower positions. The work you do will benefit all. Your energy should be directed into meeting your deadline. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel and involvement in large groups will bring knowledge. Beware that someone may be out to get revenge. Use your keen sense of perception when interacting. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Limitations with women are likely. Do as much as you can on your own. This is a good time to use discretion where diel and activities are concerned.*** AQUARilJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You're ready to jump on anyone who gets in your way. New partnerships can be formulated now that you're in a position to set the rules. Be decisive and proceed. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get to the bottom of things at work and don'I count on anything that hasn't been put down in writing. As long as you gel good solid advice, you should be able to proceed successfully. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be eager for adventure and excitement. You will be quick to take advantage of any opportunity that comes your way and therefore should achieve the success you dream about. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HUGAL 
I I I 


"'2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc, AH Flights Reserved. 
HEWIG 

t 
I I IIJtRITHEH j 
WWW ,i mble COni 



Ans: (II I JON (II)rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday·s j  Jumbles:  RUSTY  TULIP  FEDORA  PICNIC  
Answer:  What the ice fisherman ended up with when  
he filleted his catch ­ COLD CUTS  

JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 18 · To orr:ter, tend your n ¦ me, addr111 ¦ nd S5.•!5 ¦ nd m ¦ke checlic: payable to Tribune Medlt Servlc:a1, P.O. Box ,t3J0, Chicago, IL 60680 ..330, 


PORTS 
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 

.. 
FOOTBALL 
Irish hope past doesn't become present 
By JOE HETTLER Associate Spons Editor 
Tyrone Willingham wasn't Notre Dame's head coach in 1993, but he's quite aware of the outcome of the Boston College game that season. 
Coming off an emotional upset of Florida State, Notre Dame struggled early, then fought back to regain the lead before watching Boston College kicker David Gordon boot a game-win­ning field goal to give the Eagles a 39-37 victory and ruin the Irish hopes of a national title. 
After dominating Florida State on the road last weekend, many Notre Dame fans can't help but worry about this year's game against Boston College. 
Willingham agrees and said he thinks this year's team has plenty of reasons to not let up against the 4-3 Eagles. 
"I think we have some won­derful things working for us," Willingham said. "If I'm correct I think we did lose to Boston College last year. That will help our guys focus. I think having the opportunities in front of us should help our guys focus. Simply, if we're competitors and really love to compete, then that in itself should be enough. But history has said that's not always the case. so we'll contin­ue to work and make sure we create the right mindset with this football team." 
Boston College head coach Tom O'Brien said his team isn't looking at their past upsets against Notre Dame as motiva­tion for Saturday's game. 
"For our kids, it's exciting to go play them," O'Brien said. "I don't think we have to recall what we've done in the past. I think they'll be excited to go play a great football team." 
The Eagles arc used to play­ing great football teams at this point in their season. Two of their three losses are to No. 1 Miami and No. 3 Virginia Tech, with their third loss coming against Pittsburgh in overtime. 
"We know that two [of their losses] are considered probably two of the best teams in the country -and having faced Pittsburgh, I think Pittsburgh is an excellent, excellent football team," Willingham said. "So if you go by all of that, Boston College is a heck of a football team and with the quarterback and the running back, which you thought there would be some fall off in the running back after they lost a [first round draft pick] ... but they have not. So it's a group that presents a lot of challenges and on top of that, they are one that has an intense rivalry for Notre Dame. So it will be more than just a little challenge in playing this football team." 
Senior quarterback Brian St. Pierre and running back Derrick Knight lead a Boston College offense that averages nearly 400 yards of offense and 27 points per game. St. Pierre is second in the Big East confer­ence in passing, throwing for 
233.7 yards per game. Knight's 105 yards per game have him fourth in the conference in rushing. He is also on pace for a 1000-yard season, marking the fourth straight year the Eagles have had a running back accomplish that milestone. 
The Boston College defense is 
see EAGLES/page 21 


WOMENS TENNIS
.. Salas leads Irish to solid finish at Omni Championships 
the start. unable to advance further. round match to top-seeded Gumuscu of Illinois-Chicago in
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 
Piriou, a lefty with a devas­The Irish also saw good per­Karie Schlukebir and Linda straight sets, 6-0, 6-3. Nelson
Sports Writer 
tating slice serve, kept Salas formances in the doubles Tran of Indiana. then topped Karrie Tyloran of off-balance throughout the bracket by the duo of senior The duo of Freshmen Liz Northern Illinois, 6-2. 4-6, 6-2. 
In the second to last tourna­match. Salas said that she captain Katie Cunha and fresh­Donohue and Kelly Nelson -as Jennifer Smith also won two 

ment of the fall season, the 
over-committed herself to early man Kristina Stastny. well as the team of sophomore matches win in the qualifying
Notre Dame women's tennis 
sometimes which allowed Cunha and Stastny started Sarah Jane Connelly and fresh­tournament. Smith defeated team descended upon Michigan Piriou to win easy points. the tournament with an 8-4 man Jennifer Smith -all lost Kristi Roemer of Northwestern State University for the Omni "She [Piriou] was the best win over a squad from Xavier. first round matches in the main 7-5, 6-2, and then topped VeroHotels Midwest Championships. 
player I've faced all season," In the second round, they tournament. Brisnero of Marquette 6-3, 6-2.
Junior Alicia Salas paced the said Salas. topped Ohio State 8-5 to While the Irish had few suc­Both Smith and Nelson cameIrish by qualifying to the round Salas, ranked the 86th singles advance to the round of 16, cesses over the weekend. the within one victory of reachingof 16 in the main singles com­player in the nation, has a where they lost to Eastern qualifying rounds on Thursday the main tournament.

petition. 
record of 7-4 this fall season. Michigan. gave some newcomers to the The Irish have two weeks off
Salas· good play continued 

Freshmen Lauren Connelly There were three other dou­Irish squad a chance to show before hosting the Eck Classic,until she lost to Marine Piriou and Kristina Stastny also par­bles teams who participated for how they have improved. Nov. 8-10.
of Northwestern 6-2. 6-3. 
ticipated in Saturday's main the Irish in the main tourna­The Irish got a great upset
Piriou, the 23rd ranked play­

singles tournament. ment. victory from Kelly Nelson in 
er in the country, presented Contact Mark Zavodnyik at
Both players earned first Salas and freshman Lauren Thursday's qualifying bracket.
problems for Salas right from round victories, but were Connelly lost a close second Nelson beat eighth-seeded Ayca mzavodny@nd.edu 
-
en 
SMC VOLLEYBAU. 
FOOTBALL 
SMC SOCCER
w 

Arnaz Battle speculates about his punishment as 
Calvin 3 

Belles at Calvin
~ ~ 
a result of his mockery of Florida State's
Saint Mary's 0 

Today 
Despite an all-around solid performance, the 

Tomahawk Chop during Notre Dame's victory 
After winning three straight games last week, the
--a:s Belles fell to Calvin Tuesday in straight sets. 
Belles travel to Grand Rapids today. 
over the Seminoles Saturday. 

c,: 
page 21

"-page 20 
page 22

V. = 




