
Happy Holidays! 
We'll resume publisl1ing January 15, 2003 
HTTP:// . . 

Move over Kelly: Here comes Renee 
Students: TCEs could be more resourceful 
. Evaluations help university and teachers, but work needed to aid students 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
As the semester draws to a close, students will fill bubbles and answer questions for over 40,000 teacher-course evalua­tion surveys. 
While some students till out the scan sheet to make a pat­tern or scribble phrase responses to the short answers, the University uses TCEs in several ways to evalu­ate the professor and course. 
"It's a measure of a profes­sor's classroom performance. It's a measure of how well stu­dents feel they were taught," said Carol Mooney, vice presi­

dent and associate provost. "It's designed not simply to measure the professor's per­formance for tenure purposes but to help them analyze how the professor-can improve his teaching style." 
lnstitutional Research administers the TCEs and ana­lyzes results. Copies of the analysis from the scan sheet are sent to the instructor, department chair, college dean and Provost's Office in January after grades are released. The short answer sheets are sent only to the instructor. 
Mooney said the Office of the Provost uses TCEs when a pro-
see TCE/page 3 

a spot 
senior 
liminary set of auditions held in October in major cities throughout the U.S. She left for Los Angeles Monday for the second phase in which the 
CHRISTMAS ON CAMPUS 
group of 200 young adults will be narrowed down to 32 dur­ing a week of intensive try­outs. 
"It was crazy," Tem said of the auditions held in Detroit over fall break. "They said between 10,000 and 12 .000 people came. God gave me a little place." 
Tern, however. is not the stereotypical "American Idol" contender. The Chicago native. in fact, did not watch the first run of the show nor does she listen to pop music. Tern is unassuming at first glance and her speaking voice has a raspy sound to it. She never had voice lessons and waited until last year to join the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Voices of 
see IDOL/page 4 


CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Holiday spirit can be found all over campus in the form of festive decorations. Above, the Carroll Hall Christmas tree after its ceremonial lighting. 



Gator Bowl tickets go on sale 
By lAURAN WILLIAMSON 
News Writer 
It's official -the Irish are Gator Bowl bound. The only question now is how will students get tickets? 
Junior John Dee plans on attending the bowl game. "Although I'm very confi­dent we'll be going to another bowl next year, you can never be too sure." the Colorado native said. "I want to make sure that I go while we've got the chance. I'd hate to graduate without ever having been to a bowl." 

On Jan. 1, the Irish will face North Carolina State in Jacksonville, Florida's Alltel Stadium at 12:30 p.rn. A student ticket sale will take 
place Thursday at Gate 10 of the Joyce Center between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
Student tickets are for personal use and there is a limit of one ticket per stu­dent. Each student may bring up to six student IDs, including their own. when purchasing tickets at Gate 
see TICKETS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The big 0 

I was pretty excited a few weeks ago when I signed up for the last Inside Column of the semester. It was almost as exciting as when l got a gorgeous date for my formal. Oww!! I figure I just can't lose. 
But then I quickly realized that no one reads this article. Ever. 
However, what I can promise you is that I'll spare you any sob sto­ries of my years 

here at Notre  Matt Lutz  
Dame or why my  
fall break was  
better than yours.  Ad Manager  
Even though it  
was. I even won't  

talk about the alcohol policy which I can guarantee you will continue to change and parietals which I can guarantee you will continue to not 
change. 
For lack of space I'll get to the point. There is a negative reputa­tion associated with The Observer for a good number of people. Believe it or not, The Observer is not run by gremlins late into the night. Only part of that statement is true. 
Editors, writers, and people that can't figure out which door really leads to the men's room spend their time in the basement of South Dining Hall into the early morning. A majority of these people spend six hours or more doing their jobs which often pay nothing. The point is the amount of work poured into every.paper is amazing. I have the fortune of escaping hours before some people get to leave the office at 3 or 4 in the morning. These people usually have the paper as their first priority with classes and parties a distant second. I don't mean to say there aren't a large number of peo­ple on this campus that don't sacri­fice for us, especially all those that represent Notre Dame in sports. Maybe it's just my point to say there is another group that is sometimes overlooked for their sacrifices of a different sort. 
Sure, at the same time, there's a good amount of errors in the paper day in and day out. A lot of the things in the paper might appear to suck, including this article. On a completely different note, we all still lament the fact that there is no more Fourth & Inches or Befuddled and Bemused for that matter. 
Maybe something you didn't know about The Observer is that it's com­pletely student-run and won National Collegiate Newspaper of the year in 2001 and second place in 1999. We get to see a lot of other newspapers from other colleges, and they struggle sometimes to put out weekly editions. The overwhelming majority of people on campus proba­bly don't complain about the paper as much as what we hear, but it just might be a good thing the next time you pick up an Observer to remem­ber the pride a lot of people associ­ate with every edition. And if we don't have a period somewhere, or if the Phillies weren't covered in the paper (talk to the sports guy) maybe try and let it go. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Lutz at mlutz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer rcganls i1Selfas a professional publica­tion and scrives for che highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-454 l so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  VIEWPOINT  

Students Iraq angered Banker picked 
Can we just 
donate toys 
be friends?

by U.S. control as new SEC 
and tales 
of U.N. report leader 
Circle K and the 

Iraq accused the President Bush 
Viewpoint 
Management Club 

U.S. of taking the chose William 
columnist 
are sponsoring the 

U.N. copy of Donaldson as the 
Jacqueline Browder 
annual Toys and 

Baghdad's arms new leader of the 
ponders whether 
Tales drive to aid 
declaration to lam-SEC. 

friendship can 
local children. 
per with it. 

occur after dating. 
page 10 
page 3 

page 7

page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. Wednesday: UNICEF card and gift sale, Hesburgh Library Concourse, 
9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 

. 
Wednesday: National City Bank Excel Awards, McKenna Hall Auditorium, aJI day. 

. 
Thursday: Remax Continuing Education Seminar.Mckenna Hall 210­214, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 0 

. 
Thursday: Arts and Letters Holiday Party, ~vlcKenna Hall Auditorium, 4 to 7 p.m. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Wednesday: Recital Forum-Non-Major Student Recital, ·Little Theatre, 12 to 1 p.m. 

. 
Thursday: Residence Life Brown Bag Luncheon, Welsh Parlor 12 to 1 p.m. 

. 
Saturday: ND Glee Club Holiday Concert, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 


5:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. 

. Monday: Conservatory of Dance, Regina Dance Studio, 4 to 9 p.m. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, cioppino sauce, bianco pizza, breadsticks, honey-glazed pork chops, white beans with ham. collard greens, cherry crisp, baked lemon perch. vegetable rice pilaf, scrambled eggs, breakfast ham, buttermilk pan­cakes, chicken nuggets, seasoned fries 
Today Dinner: Buffalo chicken wings, macaroni and cheese, green beans, cherry crisp, cheddar-baked Pollock, tofu jerk, lentil and barley stew, Oriental vegetables, whole beets, BBQ rib sandwich, seasoned fries, pork fried rice, chicken tamale, fiesta corn and black beans 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Manicotti, cacciatore sauce, chicken fajita pizza, quiche Lorraine, chicken cordon bleu, baked cod, delmonico potatoes, honey-glazed baked ham. Italian risotto, cut green beans, grilled vegetable plate, Szechuan beef and vegetable stir-fry, flame-roasted corn and black beans 
Today Dinner: Chicken fajita pizza, rice and black olives, baked chicken parmesan, roast pork tenderloin, sesame-baked pollock , corn cobbettes, Italian beef sandwich, potato skins, onion rings, Oriental shrimp with noo­dles, wet beef burrito 
TODAY TONlGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
L&J 

::i: 
ti 

::L&J 
....t <C 
(.) 





0

.... HIGH 41 38 45 HIGH LOW 26 30 30 LOW 
HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
43 28 
SCENE  SPORTS  
Rocking it  Irish to meet  
out!  Blue Demons  
Garage  rock  Womens basket- 
returns  to  the  ball will meet the  
music scene.  DePaul  Blue  
Demons tonight.  

page 12 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Suspicious signs removed 
Unapproved signs posted in DcBartolo Hall were removed and given to NDSP on Thursday. 
Liquor law violated in 
Fisber 
NDSP identified and transported an intoxicated female student to her hall where she was released to her rector Saturday. The case was referred for administrative review. 
Drugs found in Keough 
NDSP confiscated marijuana from a room in Keough Hall on Saturday. The case was referred for adminis­trntive review. 
Driver stopped for DUI 
NDSP arrested a visitor for driving while intoxicated and a suspended driver's license Saturday. 
Compiled from the NDSP Crime Blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Italian loafer, mush­room and garlic pizza, potato bacon chowder, french dip sandwich, risotto with mushrooms, whole green beans, cilantro rice salad, bow tie pasta, broiled herb tomato, Japanese cucum­ber salad, marinated vegetable salad, chocolate chunk cookie 
Today Dinner: French onion soup with cheese, savory shepherd's pie, Caesar chicken breast, Italian meat­balls, breaded fried pollock with dill sauce, macaroni and cheese, falafels. tumeric rice, yellow cake with mocha icing, sweet potato pie, chocolate chunk cookie, basic omelet 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH LOW 
37 HIGH 44 28 LOW 27 

Atlanta 50 / 37 Bost_on 39 I ~4 Chicago 44 / ~2 Denver 49 I 24 Houston 61 / 49 Los Angeles 68 / 50 Minneapolis 42 / 28 New York 39 / 33 Ph1ladelph1a 38 / 31 Phoenix 66 / 44 Seattle 49 I 46 St. Louis 49 / 34 Tampa 70 / 51 Washington 37 / 32 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






Circle K collects tales and toys 
By JESSICA DALSING 
N~w, Wri.1er 
Circle K and the Marketing Club arc co-sponsC1ring the fourth annual Toys and Tales Drive. The drive will be going on from now until Dec. 18. 
The aim of the drive is to promoto reading within under­privileged children between lhc ages of two and 13. 
"I can't imagine what it would be like to be a child on Christmas and not get any pre­scnts," senior Jackie Jaskcl said. "This is a small thing that we can do to make some-
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
10. Only cash and checks will be accepted. 
Along with the current stu­d en ts, many alumni will attend the game to support the Irish, said Chuck Lennon, the Executive Director ol' the Alumni. 
Lennon, who went with the Alumni Association to every bowl game Notre Dame has played in over the last 22 years, said, "My favorite part of the trip is meeting alumni from all over the world, including Italy, Ireland and Saudi Arabia. It's fun to see the wide­spread support of' the team and the coaches. especially this year being Coach Willingham's first year. He and the team have done a great job representing Notre Damn." 
Contact Lauran Williamson at lwill ia3@nd.edu 
one else's Christmas a little said Elaine Ellis, vice presi­
better." T h e 
"This is a small thing 

Marketing 
that we can do to make

Club is co­sponsoring a someone else's Christmas contest 
a little better. " 

which will award a prize to the Jackie Jasko! academic 
student 

class that brings in the 
dent of service for the Marketing Club. 
/\II the dona­tions go to local charities such as the Center for the Homeless and the Rescue Mission. Toys 

most toys and books. and books are collected in 
"You know that your dona­boxes located in all of the 27 tion is going to a local pro­dorms on campus. gram possibly helping one of' the children Lhal many of us Contact Jessica Dalsing at volunteer with every week," jdalsing@nd.edu. 



Professors warn of bio-terrorism 
. More investment needed to prevent biological attacks 
Special lo The Observu 
The Dec. 7 edition of the scientific journal The Proceedings of the Royal Society of London contains a paper in which a team of University of Notre Dame biologists offer a framework that merges ecology and eco­nomics to identify optimal strategies, acceptable risks and the economic conse­quences of invasive species. 
David Lodge and Gary Lamberti, professors of bio­logical sciences, and Brian Leung, research associate professor in the Department of Biological Sciences, write that invasive species, which are increasing rapidly world­wide, are a major cause of extinctions and arc economi­cally expensive, costing the United States alone $137 bil­lion annually. Yet rigorous quantitative risk analysis frameworks for invasive species are lacking. 
The researchers present a quantitative bio-economic modeling framework to ana­lyze risks from invasive species to economic activity and the environment. 
Lodge coauthored an article in October in the journal Science that suggested a method of identifying invasive species that are likely to become nuisances if intro­duced in the Great Lakes. 
The Royal Society, founded in 1660, is the independent scientific academy of the United Kingdom and is dedi­cated to promoting excellence in science. 


acknowledges the following businesses which 
support our student caller incentive program. 
All Star Comics & Games  Hanayori of Japan  
Bai-Ju's Express  Hair Cuttery  
Barnaby's  Honkers  
Beacon Bowl  IHOP in Mishawaka  
Between the Buns  JC Penney  

Blue Lantern Steak & Seafood House KFC 
The Development Phone Center gratefully 

Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Corporation Brewsters Italian Cafe Bruno's Piua Burger King Buffalo Wild Wings Gfill & Bar The Carriage House Dining Room 
College Football Hall of Fame Cosimo & Susie's "A Bit of Italy" Emporium/Doc Pierce's/Matterhorn Famous Dave's Bar-B-Que Fiesta Hair & Tanning Salons Flowerama of America Francesco's Restaurant Fun Tan, Inc. Garden City Cleaners, Inc. Garfield's 
Granger Tap & Grill, Inc. 
Grecian Delights, Inc. 
Logan's Roadhouse Luigi's Pizza Lula's Cafe Mastercuts Family Haircutters Outback Steak House Papa John's Pizza Perkins Family Restaurant Rocco's Restaurant Salon Artistry Say "Cheesecake" Coffee & Wine Shear Phazes Siam Thai Restaurant Skip's Other Place South Bend Museum of Art Studebagels Bagel Bakery & Deli Studebaker National Museum Tippencanoe Place Restaurant Walmart SuperCenter Mishawaka Wings, Etc. Restaurant & Pub 


Frank Rzeszutek, a former machinist for the Notre Dame physics department, died of a heart attack on Nov. 26. 
Physics machinist remembered 
By CAITLYN EARLY 
News Writer 

Prank Hzeszutek, a former machinist from the Notre Dame Physics department, died on Nov. 26 at Memorial Hospital after suffering a heart attack. 
Rzeszutek joined the Physics Department in 1969 after he emigrated from Poland, and retired in 1997. 
He worked as an instrument maker for 28 years at the University and designed techni­cal equipment for the Physics, Chemistry, and Engineering departments. He created machinery for Brookhaven and Argon National Laboratories. 
"Frank was an interesting man, there wasn't much he couldn't fix," said Don Gard, Rzeszutek's co-worker. "I've been in this business for over 30 years and worked with lots of different people, and I've never seen a man quite as meticulous and as skilled as 

• .~~ ~ OREAT WALL 
,t Voted #1 Onental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row 
"'•llhP";;till.,.: 1 Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American ,. , Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days
) 

; Sunday Buffet Brunch ~ Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 

(574) 272-7376 · 222 Olxleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) South Bend, IN 
Frank." 
When Rzeszutek was not in Niewland Science I lall, he fixed the ovens and coolers at his family's bakery, Baker's Dozen Bake Shop in South Bend. He was also an active l'undraiser and organizer for a Catholic radio program broadcast out of Poland, known as Radio Marya. 
"My dad was a very dedicat­ed and generous man. He was even known to fix professors' cars in his free time," said his daughter, Lucy Rzcszutek, a junior FTT major at Notre Dame. 
The memorial service for Rzeszutck was held Nov. 29 at St. Adalbert's Church, South Bend and he was buried at St. Joseph's Cemetery. 
Rzeszutek is survived by his wife, Maria and their six chil­dren, Tony, Lisa. Margaret, Christopher, Donna and Lucy. 
Contact Caitlyn Early at cearly@nd.edu. 


Wednesday, December 11, 2002
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
PRESENTED 
BY 
JAMBASE.COM 




Idol 

continued from page 1 
Faith Gospel Choir. 
But Tern has a secret weapon -a rich, captivating singing voice. She sings both alto and soprano. 
"It's like ... perfect," said Dawn Hogue, Tern's best friend of 10 years. 
That voice, in fact, brought a fellow contender to tears dur­ing the preliminary tryouts in Detroit. While Tern was warm­ing up by singing "O Holy Night," the girl next to her began to cry, amazed at the sound of her voice. 
"You should have seen her face," Tern said. "I've never had anything like that happen to me in my life. When I sing it's like God gives me a whole new voice. You don't realize how huge your blessings are until they're laid out before you.'' 
Despite her talent, Tern is humble. Deeply religious, she regards her voice as a gift from God and plans to practice in a corner by herself to avoid a similar incident. 
When Tern started college, the girl who had been singing since she could talk stopped performing in public, afraid that people wouldn't be impressed. 
"I lost my confidence," she said. "I don't know why. I was too worried of what people would think of me. [ couldn't hide it for very long. I think it's because God didn't want me to hide it." 
Tern reentered the spotlight last year when she joined Voices of Faith. She said she enjoys the opportunity to per­form and the friendships that the choir provides. 
'Tm doing it; I'm loving it. It's like going to Church," Tom said. "They're really excited [about American Idol]. They're encouraging me to go and be a witness. 

Pop star Paula Abdul, BMG Record Executive Simon Cowell and former music company executive and industry expert Randv Jackson, the show's three· judges, were also impressed during her tryout, Tern said. 
"My voice was almost gone. I just prayed and got my song out," Tern recalled. "Randy and Paula were sitting there looking at me with these big similes on their faces. They both threw their hands up in the air when I was finished." 
Cowell, notorious for the bluntness of his criticism dur­ing the first season, had his arms crossed throughout the audition, Tern said. When she was finished. Tern said he said, "Fabulous," but warned the Saint Mary's student that her voice had a 1940s sound and her image "sucked." 
Since October, Tern has been working on improving her image, shopping for a new style. Iler love of God, howev­er, is unchanging, she said. 
"My faith in myself is zero, but my faith in God is 100," Tern said. 
She described her feelings about the competition in Los Angeles as a mixture of happi­ness and nervousness. Tern isn't overly concerned about Lhe selection process, however, because she knows the out­come will be part of God's plan, she said. 
Tern attributes her success to God and to the support of her family and the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's communities. 
It was Tern's mom who first suggested she try out for the show, and her mother and grandmother are more excited about the process than she is. she said. 
Tern said that her professors have been very understanding 
and that she thrives on the Christian atmosphere that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer. 
"I love being surrounded by Christians," she said. "It makes it easier for me to pray." 
If Tern is selected among the top 32, she will return to California and advance to the next level. She plans to put school on hold if this happens. If she doesn't make the cut, it's not the end of the world either. she said. 
"It's just like last time, I'm going on faith," Tern said. 
The two-part season pre­miere of "American Idol", based on the hit British T.V. series "Pop Idol" will air on J-iox on Jan. 21 and 22. The show's winner will receive a record contract that could, according to Fox, be worth millions of dollars. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
TCE 
continued from page 1 
fessor applies for renewal, pro­motion or tenure, while other departments use them to evalu­ate the professor's ability. 
A professor can use the TCE results to improve teaching styles and evaluate their course material. Spanish professor Kristine Ibsen said TCE's were useful because they allow every student to provide feedback. 
When asked how TCE's were beneficial, political science pro­fessor Barbara Connolly said, "It depends how much time students take but when they give specific suggestions then they are helpful." 
In spring 2002, the enroll­ment in TCE-evaluated sec­tions for the University was 40,988 response rate was 75 percent, according University of Notre Dame Fact Book. The overall response rates for the College of Arts and Architecture, Business College of Engineering and College of Science were 69, 78, 72 and 64 percents respectively. 


Some students wonder how effective the TCEs are. 
"I think thev are worthless," junior Danielle Davis said. "Everyone rushes through them and everyone wants to get out of class. I think maybe two peo­ple out of every class take them seriously." 
Student Senate's Academic Affairs committee submitted a letter to Facultv Senate earlier in the semester suggesting improvements for TCEs. Trip Foley, student body vice presi­dent, said making the TCE scantron results available to the public on a database would benefit students when register­ing for classes. · 
"Currently, there is some misinformation about profes­sors out there and the current systems -word of mouth and 


ticketmaster outlets ticketmaster.com or 574-272-7979 
NDToday -are incomplete," said Foley. J-ioley said a databasfl would~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
reflect the varied views of stu-­
dents and not just the positive or negative opinions that seem to be posted on NDToday, an independent student-run Web site. 
Foley said Harvard, Northwestern and Stanford make their equivalent to TCEs public, and the trend in higher education seems to be moving to making information avail­able to help people. 
When Faculty Senate meets in January, Foley said the Student Senate will push to have the TCE issue on their agenda. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes@nd.edu 

unch and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, December 12 1 :00 -3:00 pm 
16 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing 
;::.:;':;~
·.-~··. .:.:..\,.

Comiffee 
for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites Gay,Lesbian, 
and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an 
informal lunch andstudy break at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Lunch will be served* 
Attention Students: Need A 300-Level Literature Course Next Spring? English 328 B, Comedy, TH 3:30-4:45 by Thomas Jemielity, Is Now Open For All Students!!! A complete course description can be found at http://www.nd.edu/~eng I ish/Cou rses-Spri ng2003-300. htmI 







WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.S. takeover of U.N. arms declaration angers Iraq 
Associated Prcss 
BAGHDAD 

The Iraqi government accused Washington on Tuesday of taking control of a 
U.N. master copy of Baghdad's arms decla~ation in order to tamper with il and create a pretext for war. 
In the United Slates, special­ists at the CIA and other U.S. agencies began pouring over the 12,000-page declaration, in which Baghdad is supposed to "tell a.II" about its chemical. biological and nuclear pro­grams. American officials said much or the material appeared to be recycled ver­sions of earlier documents. 
U.N. inspectors have said Iraq's earlier declarations w1irc incomplete. The United Nations was beginning its own analysis of the mammoth dec­laration. a process officials say could take weeks. 
Inspectors stepped up their search Tuesday, fanning across Iraq on surprise mis­sions to 13 sites -the largest number of inspections since the U.N. operation resumed two weeks ago. One team moved in on a uranium min­ing site 250 miles west of Baghdad. 
President Saddam Hussein, meanwhile, spoke of war and sacrilice in a meeting with top lieutenants, men U.S. strate­gists hope will abandon the Iraqi strongman in the event of war. If war comes, Saddam told them, "your heads will remain high with honor. God willing." 
The U.S.-lraqi tensions flared again in the southern "no-fly zone" Tuesday, when the U.S. command said its warplanes bombed an Iraqi anti-aircraft missile site 165 miles southeast of Baghdad. Just across Iraq's southeast­ern border in Kuwait, U.S. Army units were conducting desert exercises. 
Iraq insists it no longer has weapons of mass destruction or programs to make them. The Bush administration says it's sure Baghdad does and has threatened war if. in the 
U.S. view. Saddam's govern­ment doesn't comply with U.N. disarmament demands. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell denounced Saddam's claims, saying, "He's a liar." 
"We'll see now whether he decides that the cost of lying is too great. The cost of lying now might result in his regime being destroyed by the armed forces of the international community," he said during a Dec. 5 interview with the French television station France 2. The State 

United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan and chief arms inspector Hans Bllx speak to the media after a luncheon meeting with the members of the Security Council at U.N. headquarters In New York on Tuesday about the Iraqi arms declaration. 
Department released the tran­ful" in order to "understand headquarters in New York script Tuesday. what it is that Iraq is purport­late Sunday, one to the 
White House spokesman Ari ing to declare, as well as what Security Council and the other Fleischer said the U.S. analy­they have failed to declare." to the U.N. Monitoring, sis of Iraq's declaration would Two copies of the Iraqi doc­Verification and Inspection be "deliberative" and "care-uments were delivered to U.N. Commission. 
Federal court opposes ruling against death penalty 
As-Iodated Pres• 
NEW YORK 
A federal appeals court upheld the federal death penalty Tuesday, firmly rejecting a lower court's conclusion that it was unconstitutional and declar­ing that only the Supreme Court can change "well-settled" law. 
The three-judge panel of the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reached deep into history to show that Judge Jed Rakoff found no new legal territory when he ruled the death penalty amounted to the "state-sponsored mur­der of innocent human beings" because so many death row inmates are later exonerated. 
llakoffs July ruling w<1s issued in a case involving two men charged in a 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Venezuelan Court protests pressure: 
Nearly hair the judges on Venezuela's Supreme Court suspended work Tuesday to protest what they called political harassment from the government during a violent opposition general strike against President llugo Chavez. Eight of 20 magistrates plan to work only on urgent cases of national interest, said Magistrate Alberto Martinez. The protest ­which would disrupt most court work -came after the pro-Chavez Congress fired court vice president Franklin Arricchi, saying he wasn't qualified. 
Sunken tanker in Spain leaking oil daily: 
A tanker that spilled 5 million gallons of oil off northwestern Spain before it split. in two and sank is leaking about 33,000 gallons of oil every day, offi­cials said Tuesday. The leaks from lhe tanker Prestige could continue into 2006, said Emilio Lora Tamayo, who led a scientific commission studying the disaster. 
• .-...• _.,,, ... _.... ,II, .,, -,. ..... ,, " • .-· • • • • • 
drug-murder conspiracy. 

The appeals court noted that European nations from which the United States derived its laws recog­nized in the 1700s that capital punish­ment carries the risk that innocent peo­ple will be executed, which abolitionists have argued since the 1800s was area­son to shelve the death penalty. 
Since then. the appeals court said, the Supreme Court has recognized that risk but repeatedly left the death penalty intact "because our judicial system -indeed, any judicial system -is fallible." 
In its 35-page ruling, the appeals panel in New York said there was "no fundamental right to a continued opportunity for exoneration throughout the course of one's natural life." 
Defense lawyer Kevin McN ally promised to appeal. 
"All the court said is that this is an old debate and while there is new evi­dence, the only court that can look at the new evidence is the Supreme Court. which is fine," he said. "If we were going to lose, then this is what you'd want them to say." 
Prosecutors had no comment on the ruling, said Marvin Smilon, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney James Corney. 
The ruling does not apply to state death penalty laws. Thirty-eight states allow capital punishment, although some have not executed anyone for many years. The governors of Illinois and Maryland have placed moratori­ums on executions in their states. 
In his ruling, Rakoff had said he based his findings on studies of state death penalty cases, because the num­ber of federal death sentences -31 ­was too small to draw any conclusions. 
Only two people, Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh and drug killer Juan Garza, have been executed under the federal law, enacted in 1994. Of the remaining 29, five were reversed. The government said none of the 31 defendants was later found to be innocent. 
Rakoffs ruling came during the pre­trial phase of the case of Alan Quinones and Diego Rodriguez, alleged partners in a heroin ring. They are accused of torturing and killing informant Edwin Santiago in 1999 and have pleaded innocent. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Ship with N. Korean missiles stopped: 
A ship carrying a dozen Scud-type missiles from North Korea was intercepted in the Arabian Sea on Tuesday, U.S. officials said. They said the mis­siles were believed to be headed for Yemen. The ship was stopped and boarded about 600 miles east of the Horn of Africa, the officials said. U.S. intelligence had been trncking the vessel closely, said U.S. officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
Fed oversight blamed in Alaska crash: 
Lax government oversight and shoddy maintenance practices by Alaska Airlines led to the crash of an airliner off the California coast that killed all 88 people aboard, federal investigators ruled Tuesday. The National Transportation Safety Board said insufficient lubrication led to excessive wear and the eventual failure of the jet's jackscrew, a tail component that helps move the plane's stabilizer. 

4 adults, 3 year-old shot dead in Arizona: 
Five family members were shot to death Tuesday, and a victim's husband who said he was also attacked blamed the killings on one of the dead, authorities said. Police were interviewing tho man, Kemp Crowley, who reported that his wife, her 3­ycar-old son and three other relatives had been killed. Crowley, 43, suffered a gash to the head. lie was coming out of the house in this Phoenix suburb when deputies arrived and told police one of the dead people was responsible, said Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. 

Gang bloodshed surging in some cities: 
With law enforcement focused on terrorism, gang­related bloodshed on America's streets is rising to levels not seen since the mid-1990s, when the crack epidemic was still raging, authorities say. Homicides are up sharply this year in cities such as Los Angeles, Oakland, Calif., and Little Rock, Ark. 
·------·--·--------­
page6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
NORWAY 




Former President Jimmy Carter accepts Nobel Prize 
Associa.ted Press 
OSLO 

Former President Jimmy Carter, in Oslo to colleci his Nobel Peace Prize. said Monday that his support of President Bush is solid, provided he keeps working through the United Nations and weapons inspectors for a solution in Iraq. 
The former president will accept his Nobel diploma and modal, and give a traditional lec­ture, at a gala ceremony Tuesday in the Oslo City Hall. The prize also includes a $1 million cash award. 
Carter said at a news confer­ence he supports the stance of President Bush so long as he con­tinues to work for a solution on Iraq through the United Nations. 
The debate over Iraq is even more pertinent because Gunnar Berge, chairman of Peace Prize committee. said that singling out Carter for the honor should be considered a "kick in the log'' to Bush. 
Carter is being honored "for his decades of untiring effort to find peaceful solutions to internation­al conflicts, to advance democra­cy and human rights, and to pro­mote economic and social devel­opment." 
Carter, a Democrat who said he gets along well with the Republican president, urged Bush to support the efforts of international inspectors now searching for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. He also urged Iraq to comply with U.N. demands. 
"If Iraq does comply completely with the mandate of the United Nations Security Council ... I sec no need for a conflict," Carter 
SWEDEN 
Three receive Nobel prizes for chemistry 
understand how they function in
Associated Press 
the cells." 
STOCKHOLM 

American, Japanese and Swiss scientists won the Nobel Prize in chemistry Wednesday for inventing techniques used to identify and analyze proteins, advances that revolutionized the hunt for new medicines. 
The techniques are also proving useful for diagnosing some cancers. 
John B. Fenn, 85, of Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, and Koichi Tanaka, 43, of Shimadzu Corp. in Kyoto, Japan, will share half of the $1 million prize. The other half of the prize goes to Kurt Wuethrich, 64, a sci­entist with the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich and the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego. 
Because of their work, "chemists can now rapidly and reliably identi­fy what proteins a sample con­
Fenn and Tanaka produced their breakthroughs in the latter half of the 1980s, transforming an analy­sis technique called mass spec­trometry, which lets scientists rapidly identify a substance. Mass spectrometry is used in tests for doping and illegal drugs, for exam­ple. 

said at the Norwegian Nobel citizen, certainly not our leaders, Institute. "Otherwise, I think it is would have that as a pre-eminent quite likely there will be an consideration, just getting oil. We armed conflict." can buy oil ... at a cost must loss 
Carter said he wasn't surprised than invading a country," by concern in Europe and else­Carter said the United Nations where over possible military is the right forum for countries to action in Iraq. solve their differences and called 
But he dismissed as "foolish" on the United States to work with the sentiment that the main U.S. the body to find a solution in goal is to gain control of Iraq's Iraq. vast oil reserves. Carter. president from 1977­
"There are many sources of oil 1981, was selected for this year's in the world," he said. "l don't prize for his efforts to promote think any reasonable American peace during more than two decades, including the 1978 Camp David Agreement for which he narrowly missed win­ning the prize because he wasn't nominated in time. 
"I consider that the Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to me primarily because of the last 20 years of effort by the Carter Center," he said, referring to the Atlanta, Goorgia-bascd center he founded in 1982 that is active in issues involving peace, human rights and health projects in 65 countries. 
A holiday invitation to the University ofNotre Dame Press's 




7J;;:~6agYlooi0% 
For all Faculty ,rnd 5itajf 
• December 11th and 12th 
10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
@310 Flanner Hall 
for sweets and coffee, AND take 
advantage ofthe great 
.
savings on 
all our titles at 


40%off. 

tains," the Royal Swedish Academy ofSciences said. "They can also produce three­dimensional images of protein mol­
Need Christmas presents for family members or friends? 
ecules in solution. Hence, scientists 
can both ·see' the proteins and 

CHRISTMAS TRADITIONS is a collection of holiday favorites creatively arranged for piano, and Ifyou areieady for 
played by senior music theory and MIS major MARK SCOZZAFAVE
something different... 

rbadosiswai!ing for you! 
Legendary beaches and 
CDs are $10.00 each or 3 for $20.00
fantastic nig~tlife makes 
Spring Breakin Barbados For more information l!llllllllllillllllllill1111111111111111111111l111111111111111illllllllllllll11111111111llilllllllllllllillllllll!llllillllllllillillillllli111111111111111111111111111111111111!1111111111111111111111!1111i11111111llilllllllllllllllilllllllllllllJlll!llill11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111IIIIIJlll!llilllllllJlll!llillllllillllllllllllillllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllll 
-__. unforgetta 

www.nd.edu/ mscozzaf/ music mscozzaf@nd.edu 574-634-1663 
Ll\'i1\tL 

Wednesday, December 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEU WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



Bush selects new SEC leader 
Market Watch December 10 
DowJones 

8,574.26 +100.85 
1,390.76  NASDAQ•c'.1  +23.62  
S&P500  
904.45  ~  +12.45  
AMEX  
824.95  
 +6.70  
NYSE  
482.77  +6.05 

~ 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (OCQ) +1.51 +0.38 25.60 
INTEL cw•··(INK) 1:::I!i 1·:;~i!~illi!lli1!1ii:!~i 
NORTEL NETWORKS (NT) +18. 95 +0. 29 1. 82 
LUCENT.·•·rECHr~c ct~i~l:l;t!':ili!l1\llll!1\ii:[;i1111 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SU/\lW) +1 .76 +0. 06 3 . 46 
IN BRIEF 
WorldCom CEO payment criticized 
A federal judge on Tuesday criticized WorldCom lnc.'s proposed compensation plan for incoming CEO Michael Capellas, warning that he could still hand down a multibillion dollar fine if the company doesn't show it is truly "committed to reform." 
Manhattan federal court Judge Jed Rakoff issued a four-page memorandum order call­ing on representatives of the company to come to his court on Dec. 16 to discuss the compensation package. 
A WorldCom filing in bankruptcy court said Capellas would be paid a signing bonus of $2 million, an annual salary of $1.5 million and a $1.5 million bonus guaranteed in 2003. 

Kmart launches new, sexier image 
Kmart Corp., known for basic apparel, showed off its next celebrity brand -Latina pop singer Thalia -Tuesday, in a bid to woo trendier customers with sexier, flirtier looks. 
The line of clothes. lingerie, accessories and shoes for girls and women, bearing the Thalia label, will make its debut in 800 stores in July 2003. Eventually, the collection will expand to such categories as perfume, jewelry and cos­metics, she said. 
"This represents an endless door of options," said Thalia. flanked by Kmart's chairman and chief executive James B. Adamson. at a media briefing. 

Northrop Grumman deal approved 
Uet'ense giant Northrop Grumman Corp. said Tuesday the Justice Department has given the go-ahead for it to complete its $7 .8 billion acquisition of TRW Inc. 
Shareholders of Los Angeles-based Northrop Grumman and THW vote Wednesday on the deal, which would mean an end to the 101-year-old Cleveland compa­ny and bring its space electronics business into its former competitor. 
On July 1, Northrop announced its plan to buy THW. 
. Investment banker chosen for the job 
Associa.ted Pre•• 

WASHINGON 
William H. Donaldson, an investment banker with tics to Wall Street and the Bush familv. was chosen by President Bush on Tuesday as the new chair­man of the besieged Securities and Exchange Commission. He pledged to work to restore confi­dence in the markets and corporate America. 
At a White House cere­mony. Bush said Donaldson's mission would be •·to vigorously enforce our nation's laws against corporate corrup­tion and to uphold the highest standards of integrity in the securities markets." 
Bush said restoring con­fidence in the markets was essential to the country's economic well-being. Donaldson said. "It's time for all of us to pull up our socks." 
He noted the numerous cases of corporate wrong­doing over the past year and said he would deal 
, with them swiftly. Amid uncertain markets and a shaky economy, Bush is moving to revamp over 10 years, as the investment banking firms. Barbara Hoper, director his economic team in White House tries to con­His appointment to the of investor protection for advance of the 2004 elec­trol political damage from SEC requires Senate con­Consumer Federation of tion campaign. On the ailing economy. firmation. America, said Donaldson's Monday. he named rail­Democrats criticized Democrats and con­background isn't in itself' a road executive John Snow Bush's economic team as sumer advocates appeared problem. She noted that to succeed Treasury well as his policies, and to be keeping an open Arthur Levitt, the SEC Secretary Paul O'Neill. called for SEC Chairman mind on the question of chairman during the Still to be named is a Harvey Pitt's resignation. whether a Wall Street fig­Clinton years, had come to replacement for White Pitt quit under pressure ure should be named to the agency from Wall House economic chief last month over his han­police investment firms Street and became an Larry Lindsey who, like dling of the SEC's and corporate America. activist chairman in push­O'Neill, was forced out. response to financial Senate Banking ing for investor protection. Wall Street investment debacles at Enron and Committee Chairman Paul Donaldson's Wall Street banker Stephen Friedman other big companies that Sarbanes. D-Md., who will background is potentially was said to be the leading wiped out investors' lose that position next helpful, suggested candidate, but a final deci­retirement savings, cost month when the Georgetown University sion by Bush is awaiting thousands of jobs and Republicans regain control securities law professor the resolution of unspeci­socked pension funds of the Senate, said he Donald Langevoort, a for­fied personal and profes­across the country. looked forward to "a thor­mer special counsel at the 
sional issues that recently Donaldson was chair­ough confirmation process SEC. "The question is, is cropped up for Friedman. man of the New York in which Mr. Donaldson's he going to distance him­
Bush also is promising a Stock Exchange from record will be carefully self from it?" Langevoort new tax-cut package, 1990-95 and a co-founder examined and his views on said. "Otherwise. he's which aides say could cost of Donaldson, Lufkin & the challenges facing the going to be tarred with the 
as much as $300 billion Jenrette, a well-known SEC fully reviewed." insider label." 



United holds prepartatory talks 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

A day into its bankruptcy reorga­nization, United Airlines held preparatory talks with its unions Tuesday on concessions while its CEO began a tour of United's U.S. hubs as part of a campaign to reas­sure passengers and employees. 
The world's No. 2 airline stressed that it was business as usual for its daily flight operations in the wake of the largest bankruptcy filing in aviation history. 
But its financial emergency, including daily losses as high as $22 million, continues despite the protection of U.S. Bankruptcy Court. United moved quickly to start addressing top priorities in bankruptcy: customers and cost cuts. 
A team of United executives met with financial advisers for its unions in Boston. Company repre­sentatives said the meetings were intended to set the stage for broad­er talks with unions in the coming days about management's plans in bankruptcy. Union officials did not immediately comment. 
United needs to make steep labor and other cutbacks soon to emerge healthy from bankruptcy sometime in 2004 as planned and to keep its $1.5 billion interim financing intact by meeting creditors' periodic benchmarks. But it also needs employees· support for the reduc­tions. since labor turmoil could fatally damage its plans. 
"We're trying to continue the con­sensual and collaborative approach that has been displayed over the last several months," United spokesman Joe Hopkins said of the preparatory talks. 
Meanwhile, chief executive Glenn Tilton headed west on a tour of United's network at the same time as the airline ran full-page ads in major U.S. newspapers, urging pas­sengers not to give up on United. 
page 8 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
Over 12.5 million watch 'The Sopranos' season finale show-
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The season finale of "The Sopranos" was the second most-watched episode of HBO's mob drama, with 
12.5 million viewers tuning in as Carmela and Tony Soprano split. 
The episode, which aired Sunday, drew a larger audi­ence than any broadcast network show airing at the same time, according 
"This is a huge 
to Nielsen the latter M e d i a number by anyone's decision Research leaving fel­
standards. " 
figures. low co-con­"This is a s pi rat or 
David Baldwin
huge num­Johnny ber by any­HBO's executive assistant Sack very 
compared to last season. 
In the finale, mob boss Tony (James Gandolfini) crossed the marital infideli­ty line once too often. 
Carmela (Edie Falco) threw him and his golf clubs out of their New Jersey home after hearing of a new indiscretion. 
On the business front, Tony backed out of both a deal to buy a waterfront home and a plot to kill New 
York boss 
Carmine ­

one's stan­dards," David Baldwin. HBO's exec­utive vice president for pro­gram planning, said Tuesday. 
As last year. the finale proved a runner-up in rat­ings to the season premiere: "The Sopranos" drew its biggest-ever audience, 13.4 million, when it returned Sept. 15 for the fourth sea­son. 
Overall, the series was up 22 percent in viewership unhappy. 
T h e episode, which included high-volume blasts of Dean Martin's crooning used as a weapon, ended to the bit­tersweet strains of "I Have Dreamed," the Richard Rodgers' tune. 
Series creator David Chase has said he intends to do just one more season of "The Sopranos," but noted that HBO holds the series' rights. HBO's Baldwin had no comment on its future. 


Complexity stalls CNN-ABC deal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The complexity of merging two news operations has stalled any CNN/ABC deal. AOL Time Warner Inc. chief execu­tive Richard Parsons said Tuesday. 
Parsons, in a speech before the annual UBS Warburg Media Week conference, said such a merger would make good business sense because it would allow ABC to benefit from CNN's international reporting expertise, while CNN could expand its audience via ABC's stations and generally broad reach. CNN is owned by AOL Time Warner; ABC is owned by Disney. 
But figuring out the logistics has been challenging. 
"We've hit a pause ... because it's very, very com­plex," Parsons said, adding that both news organizations would want to maintain full control of what appears on their airwaves. 
ABC and CNN have been in discussions for months now about a possible merger. Last week, The Atlanta Journal­Constitution quoted CNN chair­man Walter Isaacson as saying he and ABC News President David Westin had already worked out how to run their operations if they are merged. Isaacson said the deal had been delayed as AOL Time Warner takes care of other issues. 
Indeed. Parsons indicated that the media conglomerate's plate remains quite full, as it sorts out problems at its America Online unit ranging from questions about the via• bility of its business to govern­ment investigations into its accounting practices. 
But Parsons reiterated that the company is committed to restoring investor confidence and improving the health of its balance sheet. 
He said the company is look­ing into the possible sale of some assets as a way to simpli­fy and focus the business, although no final decisions have been reached. 
"We have looked at some assets like our sports teams" and assets that don't con­tribute to earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization, because they are owned jointly, he said. But "we haven't come to any kind of formalized decision." 
There are also no plans for what he called "transforming deals" saying the company will instead work to extract value out of its current holdings, including the America Online division. 

$59.00 

Returning to campus early after Christmas break? The Morris Inn will be offering a special rate for returning students on Saturday, January 11. $59.00/ single or double occupancy. Please call to reserve aroom with us. 
The Morris Inn "On The Campus" "Notre Dame, IN (574) 631-2000 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
--=--=--=-==========================================================-=-=--=-=--=--=--=--=--~-::-===:....=...:::..=::==== 
Celebrities -write letter urging President to avoid w-ar 
AsrndateJ I' rcss 
LOS ANGELES 

Cclobritios mobilized against a possible war in Iraq on Tuesday, gathering to pub­lici..:e a letter urging President Bush to avoid military action. 
More than 100 entertainers signed the missive, which says a war with Iraq will "increase the likelihood or terrorist attacks, damage the economy and undermine our moral standing in the world." 
"This notion or pre-emptive war ls setting a precedent ... and we must ask ourselves, 
where does this end'?" said Tony Shalhoub, star of the ABC detective show "Monk." "Where is the next pre-emp­tive strike?" 
Shalhoub, Martin Sheen and Mike Farrell were among nearly a dozen performers who got together to draw attention to their cause. 
Farrell, who's co-starred in the television series "M-A-S­H" and "Providence," said llollywood was speaking out to show average citizens that it's OK to voice dissent. He also said he did not believe that Bush has proven Iraq is a danger to America. 
"It is inappropriate for the administration to trump up a case in which we are bally­hooed into war," Farrell said. 
Among those signing the let­ter were Academy Award win­ners Kim Basinger, Helen llunL, Olympia Dukakis, Susan Sarn.ndon and director Jonathan Demme. 
Other names included for­mer "X-Filcs" stars Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny; "The West Wing" cast members Sheen, Janel Moloney, Bradley Whitford and Lily Tomlin; "CS!: Crime Scene lnvestigation"actors Marg Hclgenberger and 
Hobert David Hall; and "Ocean's Eleven" 
co-stars Matt Damon, Don Cheadle, Elliott Gould and Carl Reiner. 
R.E.M.'s Michael Stipe, Peter Buck and Mike Mills joined fellow musicians Peter Yarrow and Bonnie Raitt. 
Bush has threatened mili­tary force against Saddam, saying the dictator has amassed weapons of mass destruction that pose a dan­ger to the United States. U.N. weapons inspectors are searching the Middle Eastern country for such devices but have turned up little so far. 
Sheen. who plays thp, presi­dent on "The West Wing." said he believed Bush was eager lo go to war with Iraq because he wanted Lo settle a personal score with Saddam lfussein. 
When Bush's father was president, he ended Saddam's invasion of Kuwait but did not eliminate him in the Gulf War. 
"I think he'd like to hand his father Saddam Hussein's head and win his approval for what happened after the Gulf War. That's my own personal opin­ion -I don't know if that's true. I hope it's not, but I sus­pect it is," Sheen said. 


Houston back in the spotlight, faces big career test 
NEW YORK 

Whitney Houston, who released her first album in four years this week, has suc­ceeded in getting the public's attention -but not for her music. 
Instead, the buzz is about llouston's admissions of drug use, her erratic behavior and her frail appearance. 
"f think Whitney's lost it a lit­tle bit," says Delia Pena, of Bayonne, N.J., one of thou­sands of fans who waited out­side Lincoln Centcu on Sunday to see the Grammy-winning star in a mini-concert that aired on Good Morning America on Tuesday. 
"I like her music. I hope she's doing better." 
"Just Whitney" comes a little more than a year after Houston, now 39, signed a reported $100 million contract to stay at Arista Records. When she was 22, she released her self-titled debut album, which has sold more than 13 million copies in the United States; she went on to have hits like "Saving All My Love for You," "The Greatest Love of All" and "I Will Always Love You," and starred in movies 




ANNOUNCING 

o,ENSTUDJ, 
DeBartolo Hall: Dec 12 10pm to 3:00am Dec 13 10pm to 3:00am Dec 14 8am to 3:00am Dec 15 8am to 3:00am 
Midnight Snacks! Midnight Snacks! Midnight Snacks! Midnight Snacks! 
Dec 16, 17, 18, 19: 8am to 3:00am 36 Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person for assistance. Room 104, 105. 
Mendoza: Dec 12 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 13 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 14 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 15 1:00pm to 3:00am Dec 16, 17, 18, 19 5:30pm to 1:00am Rooms: 121, 122, 203B, 266, 369. 
Coleman-l\'lorse: 1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Always Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 1:00am. Monday-Thursday 7:00am-1 :00am. Rooms: 108, 109, 203, 203A, 204, 206, 207, 208, 209. 
such as "The Bodyguard" and "Waiting to Exhale." 
Those glory days, however, seem far away. Over the past few years, the singer has been dogged by controversy, from her tumultuous 10-year mar­riaga to bad boy singer Bobby Brown to her missed concert appearances. 
She looked so emaciated at a concert for Michael Jackson last year that there were rumors she was dying. And in 2000, Houston was charged with marijuana possession 
when an airport security guard found the drug in her purse; the misdemeanor count was dismissed when a counselor said llouston did not need treatment for drug abuse. 
Brown has a history of drug and alcohol arrests, including an arrest last month in Atlanta on drug and traffic charges. 
After years denying drug use, Houston conf1rmed in an inter­view last week with Diane Sawyer on ABC's "Primetime Live" that she had used cocaine, marijuana and pills. 

WE1LL GIVE You 10 WEEKS. 
Ten weeks may not seem like much time to prove you're capable of being a leader. But if you're tough, smart and determined, ten weeks and a lot of hard work could make you an Officer of Marines. And Officer Candidates School (OCS) is where you'll get the chance to prove you've got what it takes to lead a life full of excitement. full of challenge, full of honor. Anyone can say they've got what it takes to be a leader, we'll give you ten weeks to prove it. 
SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
if you're looking for a unique challenge, contact CAPTAIN JOHN WIILIAMS 
1-877-299-9397 
OSOLAF@MCD. USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS MarineOfficer.com 
2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nucre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. No[(c Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarlcy 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUS!NFSS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OrF.l!ATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR; Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR; Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lun 
AD DESIGN MANAGE!\: Meghan Goran 
5"s'TEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..............................·······..····..····.........631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. J@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENF.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. J@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR.¥'s...... .......................................631-43 24 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ...........................................•.•....•.•..•631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............. ....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at bttp:l!observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions rrgarding Obseroer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObK'f'\/LT (US!l.S 599 240) ll-r,ulilishcd Monday dtrou,gh friday cxccpr during nun ;inJ vai.:atiou pci-io,fr An.bscriprion w TM OhM.·rver is JI 00 for on,e ac~dcmic year, S55 f-or one smu:m·r. 
The ObloCFVer i1 publiih.nf ar: l'OSfMASTER 02'4 Sni.rl, Ulning H1.U Send ~Jdren cor~tioni rn: 
No(!(' Daft1t•. IN 465'56 n~or...f"'/er 
~.o. il<mQ 

l'aioJic~ rm2gc p,111d ;u N~nc D•me Nouc 0.1mc, IN 46-556-077') ~rn.J 11Jdiiiun.J m..Uliag off~h 
Tlie Obkrw-r ha m,nnhc, d the A.,.w.;iuc.J Pn-u. All rcproducri"n rights Ut' """""d. 
Make TCE responses public 
As the semester ends, the University will allow students piled from scan sheets, as well as the written responses, to share their suggestions, complaints, and praises about which paint a more accurate and complete picture or the professors and classes through Teacher Course course and professor. Evaluations. Furthermore, making evaluations public would benefit 
Many students, though, will rush through · professors by rewarding outstanding teaching. the TCEs to get out of class early, failing to O Th At the same time, less favorable evaluations
Bserver
seriously evaluate their instructors and thus would bring about improvements to those either allowing poor teaching practices to courses by holding professors more account­continue or neglecting to commend profes­able to their students.

Editorial 
sors for a job well done. 

Students, however, are not entirely to blame. They can­not be expected to take TCEs seriously when they do not see significant benefits to completing them. 
Students are in the best position to judge the fairness of exams, the professor's ability to communicate with their class, the usefulness of texts and the overall quality of the professor and class. 
But it is evident that the TCEs are not used appropriate­ly. The evaluations may not be perfect, but their imperfec­tions fail to rationalize the University's refusal to release the results. 
Students should be allowed access to the statistics com-
TCEs could be much more valuable tools. If the University made the information they received public, students would be better informed when selecting classes. Students could seek out popular courses and professors and avoid those rated poorly by their peers. 
Once the University begins to make students' opinions avaiable to other students, it will generate more thoughtful and honest responses. Once it shares information about the merits and downfalls of certain classes and professors, it will prompt students to give careful evaluations that will aid their peers in choosing courses. And once it makes TCE results public, it will improve the quality of a Notre Dame education for all. 
Can you ever really be 'just friends?' 
After a breakup, once the relation­ship has officially ended, when the tears are dried and the issue discussed to an eye-rolling death, can we ever maintain a normal relationship with the person we've shared much more than chemistry notes with? 
This really is the eternal question, one that has never had a simple black and white answer. It's not as if we can click our heels together three times and make the transition from dating to friends in a few short minutes. It's often as complicated and circumstantial a situation as the break up itself and involves a great deal of communication and effort by both parties to even attempt to make it work. However, sometimes, even if the effort is made, it's not always an easy trip down the yellow brick road to friendship. 
Attempting a friendship after dating can be as different a transition as black-and-white Kansas was to Technicolor Oz. And depending on the circumstances of the actual dissolution of the relationship, whether it be a complete annihilation of romantic asso­ciation or a resigned parting of ways, the first meeting post-breakup is always unavoidably awkward. 
Of course, the easiest path to take in this initial ex-change is complete and utter denial of the situation. This usu­ally involves avoidance of eye contact, recognition and in general, our ex's entire existence. For some people this can go on forever, to the point where. as far as we're concerned, they fall off the face of the earth (or at least are permanently deleted from our cell phone books). However, as most rela­tionships end with the classic, "Let's be friends" approach, it's not so easy to just call it a day and move on. Rather, we are brought into a strange, complex arrangement known as post-dating friendship. 

The initial problem with post-dating friendship is where we draw the line. When is it OK to call? If we've gone to lunch every Tuesday and Thursday with our ex, are we still obligated to go and make small talk over pasta and a panini? Or, is it better to make a clean break and only give our exes a tight, contrived smile when we run into them in between classes, rather than wading through the murky waters of post-dat­ing friendship? 
Being friends after a breakup involves a great deal of mutual commu­nication and understanding and requires honesty and candor from one ex to another. There's also a difference between being friends and being on good terms. Simply tolerating our ex and not wishing that a house falls directly on top of them doesn't exactly make for friendship, although it can be a start. 
Often one person is faking the initial friendship in hopes of getting his or her ex back, while that same ex is faking friendship to simply make nice and avoid the tension and unease that accompanies a breakup. This isn't friendship, it's fake-ship and this type of relationship is more doomed than the Wicked Witch of the East. 
Unfortunately, being friends with an ex can hurt, especially when one per­son moves on and begins a relationship with someone else. Sometimes we feel like we're more likely to go over the rainbow than get over an ex. We think, "If only they had a brain," or "If only we didn't have the heart." Of course, letting go can be the best relief. It frees that same heart for much more satisfy­ing pursuits than an ex. 
If there was no initial friendship pre­dating, it's a little easier. We don't know what it's like to have our ex as a buddy and there's no comparison to pre-1'elationship behavior. However, if we were friends first, things can be tricky, as that friendship usually involves mutual friends made along the way. Sharing the same circle of friends means that sooner or later we're forced to hang out with our ex, which can certainly be a lesson in grace. However, it's important not to let our social circle run circles around our relationships, even when our own world feels like it's caught up in a cyclone. 
Our exes are people who we've shared meals, conversations and an amazing amount offree time with. Getting over them isn't always easy and feelings aren't as easily changed as accepting to the terms that the "Let's be friends" agreement sets for us. 
Maybe we can never really just "be friends," although it is possible to maintain a good terms relationship with an ex, if we really make an effort and are honest with them. Things are never going to be the same as they were when we were dating that person and the definition of normal often takes on a different meaning in a post-dating friendship. However, we may not be in Kansas anymore post-dating, but Oz isn't so bad -and the shoes are fabu­lous. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American studies major andjournal­ism minor. Her column appears every other Wednesday. Contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Mcghanne 
Downes Laura Coristin Sheila Flynn 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish Graphics Mike Harkins 
Sports 

Bryan Kronk Katie McVoy Mark Zavodynik Scene Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Is Notre Dame going to the right bowl game? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 266 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Friendship is the hardest thing in the world to explain. It's not something you learn in school. But ifyou haven't learned the meaning of friendship, you really haven't teamed anything. " 
Muhammed Ali boxer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 






VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 page 11 
Makes a great gift? 
'Tis the season once again: time for annoying holiday commercials! 
I won't use this space to protost the over­commercialism of"Xmas" -not "Christ," just "X." Though "X" knows I could; depart­
ment stores rou- 
Lincly put up "Xmas" decora­ Mike Marchand  
tions when they  
take down their  
1lalloween stulT  Un distinguished  
and start pump­ Alumnus  
ing in "Xmas"  
music {no  
"Christ" allowed  

there, either) by Nov. 15 at the latac;t. 
But at tl1e same time, I realize that busi­nesses and retailers depend on holiday spending dollars and a.c; such have a right to purchasr. advertising time for that pur­pose. Heally, only two kinds of holiday com­mercials grate on my nerves any more than that God-awful "Feliz Navidad" song. 
The first group is car companies. Buy a ~ar for Chri,;tmas? Yeah. right, whatever. And it's always a luxury car company, like Ja1,ruar. Even if I could buy a Jaguar as a gift, I'd get two Chcvys instead, one being for me. Rip,ht now, I drive a 1990 Honda Accord with no right turn signal, shoddy brakes and an exhaust system that would make Al Gore froth at the mouth. I couldn't afford a Jaguar hood ornament to put on my Christmas tree (I'm too poor for a tree). The only way I'd get $60,000 for a Jag is to sell two or three internal organs, or get my own reality show. "X" only knows which would be more invasive. 
But the real fly in my eggnog is all the commercials that get slapped with the slo­gan "Makes a great gift!" They're all for worthless junk. Things that actually are great gifts don't need such a ridiculous tagline, but the overpriced doohickeys nobody would be caught dead buying for themselves always have "Makes a great gift!" at the end of their commercials. 
I honestly don't know who would be dumb enough to fall for this. Have you ever been watching TV, seen a commercial for a Garden Weasel, ignored it at first, but then heard "Makes a great gift!" and I.bought. "Wow, you know, that would make a great gift for my roommatf.VSYR date/grandma!"? But somebody buys them or else the corporations that made them would be out of business. 

On second thought, the fact that nobody buys them is probably why the commercials are still on. Somewhere there's a warehouse with six million of those hamsters that sing "Kung Fu Fighting," and they advertise just so people will take the damn things off their hands. 
Luckily, I've never been the recipient of a gift so inane. Mostly this is because people who know me realize that if they get me a Ch-Ch-Ch-Chia, I'll ch-ch-ch-choke them. Call me a Grinch all vou want, but if some­one even tries to get.me the Clapper, I'll grab the first secular holiday decoration I can find and cram it into their nearest con­venient orifice. 
I don't include infomercial prod­
ucts because some of them actu­ally have practical uses and also require spending at 
least more than the sum total of pocket change in the fountains at the mall. I got a George 
Foreman Lean Mean Fat-Burning Grilling Machine last year. It 
cost $40 or $50, and I use it fairly often. But if you buy me a Flowbee, I don't care how easy the pay­
ments are -Frosty is going somewhere where he'll melt real 

quick. Get me some­thing good or Rudolph's 
next, and those antlers will sting a little. I'm being facetious here, 
of course; despite my lack of chintzy novelty gifts, I've been hit 
with some real goober presents. And I've smiled, suppressed the urge to blud­geon the giver to death with a plastic Santa and worked up the most honest-looking expression of surprised gratitude I could muster. 
Once, some members ofmy extended 
family bought me jumbo packs of microwave popcorn and flavored peanuts. I understand that since I don't see them very often, they were probably clueless as to what to get me. But popcorn and peanul'i signal that the only thought they put into those gifts was "Iley. Mike likes food. Let's buy him that. I have a coupon." They knew I was an English major at Notre Dame; they could have walked into Barnes & Noble and bought the first random thing they saw, and I would have at least appreciated the effort. 
Ifyou've suffered from meaningless trash gifts, might I suggest this gem of wisdom from a song called "Stop Giving Me Crap For Christmas" by comedian Bobby Gaylor: "They say it's the thought that counlc;. So instead of making me cringe every year with what you bought, let's call it even for­ever and stop at tile thought." If you don't know what to get me, a simple heartfelt card will do with possibly a gift certificate from Borders or McdiaPlay inside. 
A Jaguar would be nice. though. Just no more popcorn. for the love of "X." 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, is achoo­choo with square wheels on his caboose who lives on the Island ofMisfit Toys. He wants to remind everyone that the ''.X" standsfor "Christ." lie scrapped yet anoth­er political column at the last minute and went with this instead. You may thank him by email at Marchand.3@alumni.nd.edu. His column normally appears every other Monday. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
GOP gains do not suggest 
dissatifaction with Democrats 
Michael Derocher's Dec. 3 letter, "Democrats act like sore losers," is filled with so many errors that it will be impossible to stick to The Observer's 350-word limit for let­
ters. 
First of all, the media is not liberally biased as Derocher states. He is correct in his com­ment that "[p)olls reveal that 89 percent of Lhe media voted for Bill Clinton in 1992, and upwards of 93 percent voted for him in 1996, Need Isay mo,·e?" 
Yes, you need to say more Mike. For starters, how docs this translate to a liberal bias? Just because someone has a more liber­al stance on the issues, as most journalists do, does not mean their coverage will reflect this. In 2000, nore negative publicity was given to Al Gore han to George W. Bush. Also, news­paper e·1dorsements have almost always gone disprop >rtionally to the Republicans. The truth is Lhat the media will print whoever has the jui1 :er stories. If a candidate is scandalous (Clin'.on) or docs something dumb (can't spell potatoe), it will get headlines. 
The funniest part about Derocher's article was how he pushed his conservative senli­mcnls -by using quotes from Tom Daschle and Gore about how terrible the llepublicans are. BuL all candidates bash each other, not just Democrats. This is how our political sys­tem works. Mrs. Soandso says something bad about Mr. WhaL'ihisface in order to sway the public. Negative press has a greater impact on the populace than anything positive. A candidate can volunteer for the homeless every day, donate money to various founda­tions and adopt 15 whales and it still wouldn't have as great of an effect on people as he or she smoking up in the girls or boys room in 
high school. It's absurd, but that's how it works. And why are we using Alec Baldwin as the poster child for the Democratic party? 
A couple more points I would like to make: Election of more Republicans does not neces­sarily translate to action. Republicans gaining a few seats in the House or the Senate will not pass bills that would have otherwise been rejected in a bipartisan Congress. If a repre­sentative wants to keep his or herjob, his or her voting had better reflect the constituency. 
When the country is in an economic rut, people are looking for a change. This means out with the old and in with the new. The rea­son more Republicans were elected is because they are more likely to support a war effort. And one of the reasons Bush is con­stantly looking for a reason to go to war is because he knows it will help pull us out of a hole. The loss of Democratic seats has nothing to do with "the state oflcadership (or lack thereof) currently within the party." Good Lord, use your brain. 
And finally, in response to Derocher's "Why is Rush Umbaugh so popular with 20 million listeners daily," in addition to his incredible talent "on loan from God" (his words), it is because radio is the one news outlet that lib­erals have not conquered? By God, you're right. I don't know how many times I've picked tip a paper and read "The Indianapolis Colts lost to the Tennessee (abortion is good!) Titans this weekend 27 to (gun control, gun control!) 17? Those liberal newspapers ... ha! 
Shane Hudnall 
graduate student Dec. 10 


Supporting 
affirinative action 


implies racism 
Like many of you, I've been keeping up with the debate that has been going on in The Observer for the past several days about race and dis­crimination. There have been suggestions for a redefinition of the term "racism" and a wave of indignant dictionary-waving responses. Most of the articles have been highly opinionated, and expend large amounts of energy trying to sound authoritative, so I think I'll break the trend. 
I am not at all sure about the proper way to think about racism and I have no authority to lay down the law regarding such a complex and sensitive issue, but what I do have are questions that no article has yet answered for me. For instance, what is the ultimate goal in striving for a new definition of the term "racism" if we still acknowledge, as Tona Boyd and Shamus Rohn do, that "all racial discrimination is wrong?" I would be interested to know the views of both authors regarding affir­mative action, because if discrimination based on race is wrong under all circumstances, then doesn't it follow that all forms of' af'lirmative action are wrong? 
It seems to me that if someone supports af'lirmative action, he or she must believe that discrimination based on race is in fact permissible under certain circumstances, but Boyd and Hohn apparently do not believe this. If "racism" were redefined to account for social factors, it would become impossible to label admissions committees who use race as a factor for discriminating between college applicants as "racist" groups, but it would not stop anyone from labeling their actions as wrong. 
If we all agree, as surprisingly it seems we all do, that racial discrim­ination is always wrong, then would it really make a difference if peo­ple were forced to stop applying the word "racist" to affirmative action programs and other institutions and individuals who discriminate based on race, and substitute "racially discriminatory" in its place? This debate would seem a waste of paper if it ultimately boils down to the substitution of a two-word label for a one-word label. Of course, I would be happy to hear any suggestions from anyone who can clarify this matter for me. 
Zack Burkhart 
senior Alumni Hall Dec. 10 
THE OBSERVER 



page 12 Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
A rash ofnew bands compe 
ily fit in with The Kinks, The Doors or 
Br MARIA SMITH 
The Rolling Stones. 

A,,i,ranr Scene Editor 
As novel as the whining amps and rough-edged drum beats sound in the On December 15, VH1's Big in 2002 midst of synthesizers and teen pop a ward show will hand out prizes for the divas, garage rock has a long and b1·st groups, artists and shows in a sometimes illustrious history. Garage v;, riety of creatively named categories, rock was first performed in the '60s by including the "I Believe I Can Spy" younger people with a lot of energy, if award for best movie spy and the not always a lot of talent. The genre "Hockin' and Hulin"' award for rock could include a lot of different sounds, artists who have gone on the longest but all the bands had a certain .i 11(1 the strongest, The more unusual straightforward energy in common. "Carage Sale Award" will take a look at Garage rock became popular because a musical movement that has been it was widely accessible and easy to 11:,ilcd as a revival of the dying art of play. The chords weren't too hard, the r k and roll. The Hives, The Vines, lyrics were down to Earth and musi­
"J , ; Strokes. and The White Stripes will cians could be good or bad and still c,. ,npete to be the biggest name in the play together. 
n, ,1' to 2002 category of Garage Rock. Though garage rock bands were :1tely, MTV and hit radio stations numerous, few got significant popular I ·e been playing a lot of this new exposure at the time. The Kingsmen ~ nd -or is it an old one? The gritty were the first to introduce garage rock ~-tar riffs, rough vocals and unpol-to the popular scene, scoring a hit with ,:d recordings of tte new revivalist their still famous "Louie Louie." Some 
r. k bands are reminiscent of classic garage rock groups did gain more last­r, k sounds from the '60s and '70s. All ing fame -The Kinks, The Ramones ,, ,•rging around the same time, with and The Velvet Underground remain ~ .ilar sounds and similar names, the Hailed by Spin Magazine as Band of the Year, The Strokes are really too sophistical
famous today. Bands still use garage 
i:• .ups are easy to confuse not only sound that's more cosmopolitan than most groups that lay clalm to the tltle of garage 
rock as a meeting point -"Louie 
, ·, each other but with older bands. Louie" is played by more cover bands 
l :, names used to be simple and plu-than almost any other song. movement, they have a better shot at more talented, the music is more -The Hives, The Vines, The While the new garage rock bands wide popularity and fame than many of sophisticated, and their fame has 
~ ,kcs or The White Stripes could eas-have much in common with the original their predecessors. The musicians are already spread wider and faster than the bands of the '60s and '70s. If the groups are willing to work for a follow­ing. they can do big things. 
Some rock fans are offended not only by the hype surrounding the garage­rock revival, but by the insinuation that rock could be or needed to be revived at all. But as popular music styles have diversified and sometimes disintegrat­ed in the '80s and '90s, rock and roll has lost its power and drive. Perhaps for loyal fans of old rock movements the groups are merely an imitation of their predecessors. But for many listen­ers, new or old, garage rock is a breath of fresh air. The sounds may be classic, but certainly not stagnant, and howev­er far back they go are still far ahead of some of today's ranker music trends. A period of Lifehouse, Christina Aguilera and Backstreet Boys could use an infusion of real back-to-basics rock. 
With names and sounds so easily con­fused, are the bands riding to fame on each other's shoulders? Certainly they are more unique than their pop peers, who are more distinctive for what trashy outfits they wore to the last awards show than for the quality of their music. To discriminating listeners, the bands are clearly not copycats. They come from different backgrounds and opposite ends of the world, with The Hives and The Vines earning their fame outside U.S. borders before ven­turing into the states. As The Strokes. The White Stripes, The Vines and The Hives compete for the VHl award, their particular strengths will come to the foreground. 
The Strokes 
Hailed by Spin Magazine as Band of the Year, The Strokes are really too sophisticated for a garage. Products of 
· .:it,1,,,~s have been the most active of the new bands to emerge on the music scene, and have played numer-
New York City's club scene, The Strokes 
.: ~1. ~ I the country, lncludlng a special free concert sponsored by Nissan in n v York. have a smooth sound that's more cos­






THE 

OBSERVER 




... 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 page 13 

, 
¦ 

on VHJ sBig in 2002 Awards 
abroad. The Beatles, The Sex Pistols Dangerous. as they are known onstage, and more modern groups like U2 have played together since 1993. 
..
began their careers abroad before Though their first two albums, Barely coming to the U.S. This rock ranges Legal and a.k.a. 1.0.1.0.T. failed to from even farther afield. Vocalist and break into the international scene, the guitarist Craig Nichols, guitarist Ryan group gained attention with their 2000 Griffiths, vuralist and bassist Patrick release "Veni Vidi Vicious." Matthews and drummer Harnish "Main Offender" and "Hate to Say I Rosser first hailed from down under, Told You So," two of the group's earli­and were popular in their native est releases off' the new album. arc Australia long before making it big in fairly typical of the group's music. the states. Though The Hives would fit in with 
Though The Vines are undeniably their '70s predecessors, they show the talented, thuy have not yet gained as influence of intervening years. Their much popularity in the United States music caters to the louder and rougher as many of their peers. Although "Get tastes of '90s rock fans who might put Free" won them the award for Best up with mellow rock in their oldies but Single in Australia's Aria Awards, they not in their new releases. "Knock have heen bl'ltind in the Vl-11 polls. Knock" is almost frantically fast. 
Though The Hives are talented. they can lapse too far into the gritty sound
The Hives 


of their genre. The howling of Pelle
En1" rging !'rnm Sweden in impecca­Almqvist is refreshing at first. but can
ble b:ack su:.s with shiny white ties become tuneless and grating after too
and shoes, Tile Hives sound like a rau­
long. Still. the group has done well
cous party in full swing. They are best abroad and is gaining popularity in the
when they ure upbeat, rocking at a 
United States as well. Walking away as 
Photo courtesy of www.thestrokes.com high tempo with all the energy of old 
the top band in VI-11 's poll could boost 
or a garage. Products of New York City's club scene, The Strokes have a smooth garage rorl, but more complicated 
them even higher in the music world. 
melodies an harmonies.
k. 
Vocalist Il11wlin' Pelle Almqvist, gui­tarist Vigi1;1 :1 Le Carlstrem, guitarist
mopolitan lhan most groups that lay Whites have a darker sound than The 
Nicholaus i. lmqvist, bassist Matt
claim to the title of garage rock. At Strokes. Their music video for Dead 
Destruction and drummer Chris Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu
limes. their sound is almost suited to Leaves and the Dirty Ground is char­swing dancing. acteristically haunting. with ghostly 
Vocalist Julian Casablancas, gui­images behind the lyrics: "Soft hair tarists Albert Hammond Jr. and Nick and a velvet tongue, I want to give you Valensi, bassist Nikolai Fraiture and what you give to me, and every breath drummer Fabrizio Morelli met and that is in your lungs is a tiny little gift began playing together in 1998. They to me." Whatever else they might be. call their fast paced music "the result The White Stripes are not music for of frantic living, and the late nights and the upbeat. early mornings they're spent making While The White Stripes sound origi­lhuir music in New York City." nal at their best, their numbers can Whatever this is supposed to mean. sometimes drag. Keeping drums and a their fast beats and forward energy are single electric guitar rocking instead rem inisccnt of busy city streets. of grating at a slow tempo proves too 
Tile Strokes hit the national music difficult on some of the songs off their scene with their 2001 release Is This 2002 release White Blood Cells. rt? Their signature single "Last Nite" is The White Stripes fared well at the characteristic of much of their music. MTV Video Music Awards, taking away While the group is talented, they occa­the awards for Breakthrough Video, sionally risk becoming mundane by not Best Editing and Best Special Effects 
-
creating enough variety in their sound. for Fell in Love With a Girl. The duo 
This may or may not put off listeners. has been ahead in the VI--11 polls, and may soon be hailed as the top band in garage rock.
The White Stripes 
f.i..,ten closely when you hear a gritty si·1:;lc -if all you can hear are power­The Vines ful guitar riffs and straightforward _Where The Strokes are smooth and drum beats behind the vocalist, you're The White Stripes are simple, The lisl•· ning to The White Stripes. Guitarist Vines are dark and complex. The and vocalist John White and drummer group released Highly Evolved, their l\l {·;.; White don't need a bassist to give first album, in July 2002. Fast tempos, their music definition or another gui­complicated instrumentals and half­tari,t to flesh it out. They are as mini­tuneless shouting vocals characterize m.dist as the red and white striped their higher energy numbers like "Get p1~ppPrmint candy motif of their clothes Free" and "Outtatheway," but they're a11d ;dlrnm artwork. more diverse than that. The mellow 
Thu White Stripes have been the most "Maryjane" is reminiscent of the active of the new bands to emerge on Grateful Dead's "Rosemary," well thf' 1111tsic scene by playing numerous other songs seem to have a bit of sli "' around the country and a special Nirvana or even the Beatles thrown in. fr,· · rnnccrt sponsored by Nissan in The title of the album is more than N, York. Their popularity is largely appropriate for such a complicated 
d 
. · { 1 their sheer originality and sim­group. While music that is too basic or 

p. 
·v. Few rock guitarists attempt to too stereotypical can quickly become p, orlll with nothing but drums to boring, The Vines remain engaging 


h:1 , them up and Jack White needs all with time. 
1i,, alnnt to make the effort work. Rock may thrive in America, but Erner; 11 Sweden In Impeccable black suits with shiny white ties and ·1 rs or Detroit's rock scene, the some of the best sounds come from shoes 'es sound llke a raucous party In full swing. 

-----------------------------------------------------,­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
NHL 





Prusek makes 26 saves as Senators slash Sabres 
Associated pCCS5 
BUFFALO 

Martin Prusek made 26 saves in only his fifth career start. and Marian Hossa scored twice to lead the Ottawa Senators to a 4-2 victory Tuesday night over the Buffalo Sabres. 
Todd White and Brad Smyth also scored for Ottawa, which won for the first time in Buffalo since Dec. 30, 1998 and snapped an eight-game winless streak (0-7-1) at HSBC Arena. 
Prusek is 4-0 this season as a backup for the Senators, who are 10-1-3 since Nov. 12. Hossa, with 18 goals, tied Minnesota's Marian Gaborik for the league lead. 
Henrik Tallinder and Ales Kotalik scored for Buffalo, whose season-best three-game winning streak was halted. 
Martin Biron made 26 stops for the Sabres. 
White put Ottawa ahead 9:02 into the game with his seventh goal. He was parked in the slot and converted a feed from Martin Havlat. 
Tallinder scored the first goal of his NHL career on the power play to tie the game with 5:26 remaining in the period. He pinched into the slot and one-timed a pass from Curtis Brown. 
Smyth regained the lead for Ottawa on the power play four minutes later, deflecting a slap shot by Anton Volchenkov. 
Hossa made it 3-1 with 8:03 left in the second period. He went in alone on Biron after Tallinder mishandled the puck near the Buffalo blue line. 
With 7:59 to go in the game, Hossa took the puck at his own blue line and slipped it between the legs of Buffalo defenseman Brian Campbell on his way to Biron. Hossa has six goals in the last six games. 
Kotalik drew Buffalo within 4-2 with 5:42 to play. He scooped up a loose puck in the high slot and wristed a shot past Prusek. 
Canadlens 4, Bruins 2 
Goalie Jeff Hackett stopped the NHL's top team as the Montreal Canadians beat Boston Tuesday night and ended the Bruins' three-game winning streak. 
The Canadiens took a 4-0 lead on goals by Jan Bulis in the first period and Yanic Perreault, Oleg Petrov and Randy McKay in the second. Boston cut it to 4-2 when Joe Thornton scored his 15th goal at 10:53 of the second and Mike Knuble got his fifth at 19:16. 
Hackett, 3-1 in his last four games, stopped 31 shots, including all 14 he faced in the third period. 
Montreal also knocked off a strong Boston team in last sea­son's playoffs. The Bruins had the best record in the Eastern Conference but lost in the first round to the eighth-seeded Canadiens. 
Tuesday's win was the Canadiens' second straight after a four-game losing streak. They heat Phoenix 4-2 on Saturday. Despite the loss, the Bruins are 8-2 in their last 10 games and have the league's best record. 
John Grahame, who played every game of Boston's three-game winning streak, allowed Bulis' fifth goal just 5:10 into the game. It came on a pass from Andreas Dackell from behind the net. 
Perreault scored his 12th at 
3:06 of the second on an unas­sisted breakaway, and Petrov added his fifth at 6:42 when Grahame dived to the ice too soon, leaving half the net unguarded. 
Montreal made it 4-0 on a power play at 10:18 when McKay scored his fifth, pushing a 10-footer through a crowd and past Grahame. 
Boston's comeback began less than a minute later as Thornton, the NHL's second leading scorer, knocked a pass from Knuble out of the air and bounced it into the net. 
Then it was Knuble's turn as he scored on a deflection of Bryan Berard's shot from 45 feet. 
The loss dropped the Bruins' record against Eastern Conference teams to 14-2-2-0 and ended their five-game win­ning streak against Montreal in Boston, including a 4-2 victory Nov. 29. 

Blackhawks 3, Islanders 2 
Tyler Amason scored the go­ahead goal and also assisted on the tying score in the third period as the Chicago Blackhawks beat the New York Islanders Tuesday night. 
Arnason picked off a pass from Islanders forward Jason Wiemer at the Islanders blue line, moved to the high slot, and heat goalie Chris Osgood with a slap shot. 
Chicago is 11-1-5 in its last 17 meetings with the Islanders. 
The Blackhawks' only loss was the night New York honored former coach Al Arbour on Jan.25.1997. 
Steve Sullivan and Eric Daze also scored for Chicago, which got 29 saves from Jocelyn Thibault. 
Roman Hamrlik and Dave Scatchard scored for New York. Osgood made 31 saves, but it wasn't enough to keep the Islanders from having their three-game winning streak snapped. 
The teams skated to a score­less first period, as the Islanders wasted a two-man advantage that lasted 1:38. Thibault made two of his seven saves of the period during that stretch. Osgood made a nice stick save on Phil Housley in the first minute of the game, and then -along with defenseman Kenny Jonsson ­managed to snuff a breakaway by Theo Fleury at 15:15. 
The Blackhawks took the lead at 7:52 of the middle peri­od when Sullivan, at the top of the crease, managed to tip Daze's centering pass past Osgood. 
Hamrlik tied it off a faceoff at 
12:51. He cut in from the left point, accepted a cross-ice feed from Jason Wiemer in the left circle, and wristed a short side shot past Thibault. 
Scatchard put the Islanders ahead 3:52 into the final peri­od. Wiemer's clear-in took a strange bounce off the back boards. and Scatchard, by the left post, put a backhander in off Thibault's pad. 
Daze made it 2-2 at 7:49 when his slap shot from the top of the left circle trickled past Osgood. 

Devils 2, Blues 0 
Jim McKenzie and Turner Stevenson scored, and Martin Brodeur made 28 saves for his third shutout this season as the New Jersey Devils beat the depleted St. Louis Blues on Tuesday night. 
Brodeur earned his 58th career shutout for the Atlantic Division-leading Devils. who have lost in regulation only once in eight games (5-1-0-2). 
Brodeur preserved the shutout with a great glove save on Barret Jackman with just under nine minutes remaining. He also survived a hard slam when Blues forward Tyson Nash was checked into him by Devils defenseman Colin White. 
The Blues played two men short as they dressed only 18. The team was hit by wide­spread food poisoning which affected Dallas Drake and Scott Mellanby. 
McKenzie scored the only goal of the first period at 
13:14. Brian Gionta set the score in motion when he inter­cepted the puck just inside the St. Louis blue line. Gionta car­ried wide down the right wing deep into the Blues zone. He fed a centering pass back to the slot where McKenzie tipped it in for his first goal of the season. 
Stevenson made it 2-0 at 
10:52 of the second period. Joe Nieuwendyk dug the puck out of the corner and fed it to the slot where Sergei Brylin and Stevenson had cracks at it. Stevenson got the score as he put in his own rebound. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME EXECUTIVE HOME Extra room in the car? ND grad 
YEARBOOKS. Executive 4 bedroom home in moving -will pay you to take stuff NOTICES FOR RENT Springwood Estates. 3.5 miles from TICKETS to NYC, Philly or DC. 
campus, 2FS, 2HB, Jacuzzi tub,  Call 514-7407.  
-- ..At Last Spring Break.. Book now, Free meals, Parties, drinks, 2 free trips. Lowest prices. Sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426­7710 ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only company exclusive to Acapulco! That's why we're the BEST. "Go Loco in Acapulco" with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco tor 16 years! Call 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi-rossi.com. Be a rep, travel FREE ­ask how! SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS .COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND  CALL 233·1296. Males roommate for Spring semes­ter, Turtle Creek Town Home. Call Leonard 272-8582. EARN MONEY OVER WINTER BREAK The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College has employment opportunities over Winter Break (January 6-10, 2003) for individuals who enjoy young children. II you are available to work either 7:30­1 : 15 or 11 :30-5: 30 (Monday through Friday) and are inieresied in spending time reading chifdren'sbooks, building with blocks, and singing songs with chil­dren. please contact Thayer Kramer  Graduate Students and Professors Clean, affordable houses and apart­ments. Prices range from $345· $450.Call 272-1265 for more infor­mation or see Notre Dame Off-cam­pus housing list. 3-bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm system, NC. Avail. tmmed. $650/mo. Call 220-0499 or 614-262-5880 Turtle Creek Townhouse available at discounted rate for Spring 2003. Maximum 3 people, 2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, AC, dishwasher. Call 277-0900 for details. All sizes homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 2 & 4-bdrm houses tor 2003  outside hot tub, 3 car garage, security system, flexible lease terms. $2,350 per month. Call 232· 1242 LOST & FOUND Found: Nomination Bracelet @ ND Stadium@ BC game. Call 271­0462. Keys and wallet. Wallet is red, keys with pine swiss army knife and 3 monkeys on chain. If found please call Sofia Ballon. 634-3560 FOR SALE 1987 Bu1ckleSabre, runs-well $1000. Call 239-8406 or 232-7667  Gator Bowl Tix. Call 800-272-8553 or 654-0168 (local). BCS COWL TICKETS FOR SALE (ALL LOCATIONS) Local (574)654­0168. TOLL FREE(800)272-8553 PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGANCY? Do not go it atone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC. at 1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER  Do not be jealous of our night staff's efficiency. Sincerely, The News Department Proof that accidents can happen. Sincerely, Everyone else You wanna know why? Cause you're not fun Happy 21st Lori from your friends at The Observer Thanks to Flexerol, Ambien, black lace, hairdryers, random swearing, tickle fights, peace song, the 80s, the triangle and maracas Quote night at 113 St.Pete's Street with the fire ho's and their hand- 
BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! 17  at 631-3344 or Kari Alford at 284­ Close to NO. 616·699-5841.  SPRING BREAK 2003 wiih STS  some chief.  
YEARS EXP.! REPS WANTED!  4693 as soon as possibla.  Immediate Occupancy.  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
- HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Anlan Properties, LLC. 532-1896 Call Bill. WANTED Bartenders needed\ Earn up to $300 Per day. No expenence nee­essary. Call 1.866 291 1884 ext U187. #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Free Parties & MealsI 1-800-234­7001 endtesssummertours com  Have fun and get paid too! EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID OPPORTU­NITIES Earn money and build resume experience_ The Early Childhood Development Center at the University of Notre Dame is current­ly accepting applications from col­lege students for part time employ­ment opportunities for the spring semester. If you are interested in applying, please contact Thayer Kramer, Program Director, at 631· 3344 to learn more about the posi­lions avallable and for an applica• lion.  House for Rent: 2BR, 1 bath, 1/2mile ND, completely remodeled, very quiet/safe neighborhood, includes stove, refrig., washer & dryer. $620 per month. Call 273-1717 3-6 BDRM. HOMES Now &2003. 272-6306 ATTENTION PROFESSORS AND GRAD STUDENTS Fully furnished 1 and 2 bedroom condos next to campus immediate­ly available for spring semester, ulil­ities included, $900.00 per month. Call 232-1242  Newly remodeled 4 Bedroom house 6 blocks from campus. Central air, security system.Call 289-4071. Juday Lake 3 bdrm ranch on lake. Walk/bike to campus. Broker owned 272-6306, 329-0241. LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELEO. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd edu Notre Dame insignia medium black men's leather coat ­brand new ­Sacrifice ... $200 Call Diana at 631-6234 or (269) 684-6692.  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Powertul prayer to the Holy Spirit. You who solve all my problems, who lights all roads so that I can obtain my goals. You wno give me the Divine gift to forgive and forget all evil against me and in all instances of my live, You are with me. I want in this short prayer to thank you for all things and to con­firm that I never want to be separat· ed from you, even In spite of all material illusions. I wish to be with you in eternal glory. Thank you for your mercy toward me and mine. E.J.P.  Merry Christmas Chris, Caitlin, Dorothy, and Patrick. Hey, you're kinda cute Random notes in philosophy books make it VERY difficult to concen-Irate in classl Hey Lauren, did ya? Karen. I just wanted to tell you that, well, I love youl What do you think? By the way, you can't help being a winner with all those losers! Yeah Corby's!  

--,._ ---· . 

-------------··---· 
.. 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
-


Bengal Bouts! 
Mandatory meeting for those planning to box in the spring. 
Thursday 4PM Boxing Room 
(Enter Gate 2 JACC) 

PGA 
Snow to resign from Augusta 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Treasury Secretary nomi­nee John W. Snow will resign his membership in Augusta National Golf Club, which has been under fire for not allow­ing women to join. 
Snow, chairman of the transportation and railroad conglomerate CSX, was nom­inated Monday by President Bush and must be confirmed by the Senate. 
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters Monday morning before Bush's announcement that such a membership would not be a "disqualification" for a nominee. 
Three hours later, Fleischer announced Snow is leaving the club. But, he added: "The president does not judge that to be a dis­qualifying factor." 
White House spokesman Claire Buchan said Snow "is in the process of resigning. It's all part of the process of filling out papers and making courtesy calls." 
Augusta National spokesman Glenn Greenspan said the club would have no comment. 
"Mr. Snow has done exactly what he should do. No one in the public eye ... should be willing to be identified with sex discrimination." said Martha Burk, head of the National Council of Women's Organizations. which has been leading the fight against Augusta National. "I think he's done exactly the right thing." 
She added that Bush should consider potential nominees' club memberships as a fac­tor. 
"They would never put for­ward a candidate of an all­white club and they should never put forward a member of an all-male club," she said. 
Last month, former CBS chief executive Thomas H. Wyman resigned from Augusta National after 25 years, calling the club's stand on female members "pigheaded" and saying up to a quarter of its 300 members feel the same way he does. He was the first member to resign in protest. 
Augusta National officials took Wyman's resignation in stride and said it would not change the club's position that it will decide when to admit women on its own and that there will be none by the Masters in April. 

-
. -·--------------------. 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
-
I
I .... ! 
I I I I 
t 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
t ­
i 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
-
-
I 
I 
I 
I I 
'I 
I .. I I 
I 
I 
I . I I I 
' 
I I 
' 
' 

I \. 
' 
I 
I 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rose may get second chance at glory 
August 1989 following an inves­permartently ineligible list. permanently banned list. prompted some conversations, I
Associated Press 
tigation of his gambling but has Baseball officials already have "But it all starts with Pete," don't know." maintained he never bet on held meetings to discuss the Morgan had said. "He's got to Luken wrote to Selig on Nov.
NEW YORK 

baseball. None of the 14 men implications of a possible rein­come clean. I'm sure he liked 13 and Nov. 20. asking for aPete Rose may finally be get­previously banned for life by statement, the executive said. hearing the fans cheering for meeting on Rose. Luken wantsting his second chance. 
the commissioner's office was Selig did not return a tele­him. But that ovation isn't going Hose reinstated in time for theBaseball's career hits leader ever reinstated. phone call seeking comment to get him into the Hall of April opening of The Greatcould know by the end of the "It's a first hopeful sign," said and DuPuy, baseball's chief Fame. He's got to make it right. American Ball Park, the Reds'year if baseball will agree to 
Cincinnati Mayor Charlie operating officer. issued a It's up to him." new home.
end his lifetime ban -which Luken. who wrote twice to Selig statement that did not confirm The executive said Selig "Whatever the crime, timewould make him eligible for the last month urging reinstate­or deny the meeting. wanted a resolution "sooner has been served," Luken wrote.
llall of Fame. 
ment. Luken said he spoke lo Hose's lawyers. S. Gary Spicer rather than later." Rose recent­"Whatever agreements werel{ose and commissioner Bud Bob DuPuy, Selig's top aide, on and Roger Makley, did not ly approached a person signed years ago are irrelevantSelig met secretly in Milwaukee 
Nov. 27 and DuPuy said he immediately comment. involved in baseball's investiga­today."
on Nov. 25 and their lawyers would get back to him in about Hose took a Delta flight to tion and said, "Give me a sec­Asked about his letters
have been exchanging draft 
30 days. Milwaukee from Cincinnati on ond chance," another baseball Tuesday, Luken said, "Itproposals that could end the Baseball wants Rose to admit Nov. 24 and chatted with mem­executive said, also on the con­seemed unfair that Pete Roseban, a baseball executive said misdeeds as part of any agree­bers of Marquette's women's dition of anonymity. was allowed to participate inTuesday on the condition he not ment ending the ban. lhe exec­basketball team, which was Rose applied for reinstate­the World Series but not tobe identified. 
utive said. Rose cannot appear returning home from a game in ment in September 1997 but come to his home town to par­A 17-Lime All-Star and former on the ballot for the Hall of Dayton, Ohio, according to the Selig hasn't ruled on it, saying ticipate in ballpark activities." 
National League MVP. Rose Fame as long as he is on the school. he hasn't seen a reason to alter Rose was investigated by
agreed to the lifetime ban in 
For the Holidays, You Can't Beat Home, Sweet Home. 
Get There Safely. ~ 
For information and tips on how /£ to safely drive home, email ~ VBWell2@nd.edu. UBWELL2@~p 

LargePizza 

Cheese & 1Topping 
ESPN.com and WXIX-TV in the ban. Still, he has twice baseball starting in February Cincinnati reported Monday allowed Rose to participate in 1989 while manager of the night that Selig and Rose had prcgame on-field promotions at Reds. John Dowd, who headed met two weeks ago. World Series games. Other than the inquiry for commissioner A. 
Joe Morgan, a Hall of Fame that, Rose may not be in areas Bartlett Giamatti, wrote a second baseman who was not accessible to fans. report that detailed 412 base­Rose's teammate on the Big When the Reds asked for per­ball wagers between April 8 Red Machine teams of the mission this year to allow him and July 5, 1987, including 52 1970s, has pushed for Selig and to appear in the final game at on Cincinnati to win. Dowd Rose to compromise, the execu­Cinergy Field. Selig turned cited evidence that included tive said. them down. betting slips alleged to be in 
Morgan spoke about the situ­"I knew there's been conver­Rose's handwriting, and tele­ation at the World Series, after sations going on"' John Allen, phone and bank records. Rose was given the longest ova­the team's chief operating After a legal challenge, Rose ti on among the stars who office, said Tuesday. "It was a agreed to the lifetime ban Aug. appeared in a promotion before difficult situation for the Reds 23. Game 4. Morgan said he detect­to be put in when we requested "One of the game's greatest ed increasing support for allow­permission for the final game at players has engaged in a vari­ing Rose into the Hall of Fame. Cinergy. We were denied, then ety of acts which have stained The Hall adopted a rule in two weeks later at the World the game, and he must now live February 1991 that excludes Series -that was a very diffi­with the consequences of those membership to those on the cult situation. Whether that acts," Giamatti said. 
-


No Coupon Necessary Plus Tax. FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 
Minimum For Delivery Not Valid With Any Other Of!er. Valid 
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's Serving Bethel College
Only At Listed Marco's Pizza Locations. Expires 12-15·02 
52750 IN 633 326 N. Ironwood
~:E[Gl ACCEPTEDHERE 

Must pro111de credit card inlormation when ordering lor delivery 

574-243-1122 574-243-1111 
Now Open Until 3:00am Fri. & Sat.! Corner of Ironwood & McKinley 
Visit uo on lh-. Web 111 www.marco,.com 02002 M1uco'a, Inc. 2ee2t 1a),eo2 
-
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
NFL 
Maddox won't be wanning Steelers' bench 

Allsport Photos 

Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Tommy Maddox throws a pass past the Texans' Jamie Sharper during the Steelers 24-6 loss on Saturday. 
Associated Press 
PITfSBURGH 
Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill Cowher held class Tuesday on the subject of what separates good NFL quarterbacks from mediocre ones and, just as sig­nificantly, those who play from those who sit. 
He can only hope Tommy Maddox was sitting at home on his day off, listening intently and taking notes. Cowher won't bench Maddox despite one of the most peculiar days ever· by an NFL quarterback during the Steelers' baffling 24-6 loss Sunday to Houston. Maddox effectively drove the offense to a 422-yard day, only to hand the Texans' defense three touch­downs with two interceptions and a fumble. 
"It's hard to explain a game like that ... in my 23 years in the league as a player and a coach, I've never experienced a game like that," Cowher said. 
Still, Cowher made iL clear Maddox won't stav on the field Sunday against Carolina (5-8) if he keeps turning the ball over. The Steelers (7-5-1) have eight turnovers in Maddox's last two starts, and are 0-2-1 in his last three starts. 
"How do you explain Tommy running and the ball falls out of his hands ... the ball falling out of Antwaan Randle El's hands?" Cowher said. "It's not a lack of effort, but you can't do it. J'm not going to tolerate a continu­ing of that and they understand that." 
Perhaps that's why Maddox will start Sunday, but hasn't been assured he will finish. Kordell Stewart won his two 
most recent starts while replac­off Maddox-thrown intercep­ing an injured Maddox. "It will tions. be monitored, and we'll go from Those were the kind of mis­there," Cowher said. takes that a quarterback can get 
Cowher seems concerned one away with in the high-scoring of the most bizarre losses in Arena League, where Maddox team history might adversely rebuilt his game a couple of affect the Steelers' confidence years ago, but not in the NFL. and state of mind going into "You don't want to take away their final three games. They from a guy's decisiveness or a lead Cleveland (7-6) by a half guy's confidence, but at tho game and Baltimore (6-7) by 1 same time you've got to be '1/2 games in an AFC North race smart." Cowher said. "That's they figured to have wrapped up what separates the good ones by now. from guys who keep making the 
"Oh, there's no doubt," said same mistakes over and over. 
Cowher, who  "The  other  
didn't watch the game  "It's hard to explain a  day. where the ball falls out of  
tape with his players Monday. "This was a  game like that ... in my 23 years as a player and a coach, I've never  his hands? Just put the ball away and rec­ognize on  
game that can affect your mind­ experienced a game like that."  (third-and-15) you're going to punt. It's not a  
set.  That's  problem.  
why I didn't  Bill Cowher  You're going to  
want to look at it, and we  Steelers coach  have intercep­tions, but you  
didn't look at  can't continue  
it. It would  to  make  bad  

just make you madder and mad­decisions that put your team in der, as it did me. situations they can't overcome. "We've got to get it out of our "The more he plays, the more minds." experience he gathers and, 
Getting rid of the turnovers hopefully, he'll learn from it." might be more ditncult. Maddox Meanwhile, left tackle Wayne may have become too willing to Gandy is wearing a protection gamble during his recent run of boot on his injured calf and is big-yardage games and, Cowher listed as questionable. as are said, might be pressing to get big wide receiver Hines Ward (ham­yardage when he should accept string) and linebacker James an incompletion or a short gain. Farrior (sternum). 
"You feel like you can get the Suddenly thin at tight end with ball in there, but there's a fine Mark Bruener (knee) and John line and you have to be smart Allred (concussion) injured, the and know whom you're playing Steelers signed former Tampa against," Cowher said in a refer­Bay tight end Marco Battaglia. ence to Texans cornerback They also released center Jeff Aaron Glenn, who scored twice Smith. 
-

relievers 
study break before finals 
SUNDAY DECEMBER l S 

t§~.~~~­ a to Midnight  
Lafortune Ballroom  
massages8-11  food  
crafts  

Ifyou're a Windows 2000 or Windows XP user who logs on to a Notre Dame net­work domain and you plan to take your computer home to use over the holidays, please follow the steps listed here before you take off for Christmas break. Else, you may not be able to use your computer while away from :-· .. << ''""'" •..;''I"""'~~''""'·~'·' · ~ '"·'~:>r>· ;;,­
. , . 
campus. It 1sn t necessary for Macintosh users to take these precautions. 

When you get home 

Use exactly the same log-on procedure in Step #2 for logging on to your computer when you get home. 
If you don't follow this procedure If you don't follow this procedure, your 
f!J.. :;~::1~!y~cally con_:tc~fvt~·~,IJ!, "".1rtz 

,.'.i"J~'t'"!hi'Wlreless) the computeryo~,!l,.i,':~?). 
":""".,...:i-i~ri~-:>~• ~ ·.--·· -¢";"" ·_ · -· !....__. ,,:,., ,r);·lT-: 
~?J::::£.;'''.take home to the Notre Dame·.:~f2i~ir:;~tl~~,,,~ '' 11 ii 
_, A;'.?~ l'' usingyour"AFSm;/0"Butuse 
,,•...'6•,.:.1\1'~.-f:f...:,", ;.t,,........_,•.. · .,... . ·:.•. ·.: .•• -.. ,,;-(.. -,.~."h•'•· .,.1t .. h·. ,·. ·· ·.Y,... , , ,,, , • 
. theformtztjdoe@ND.EDU 
(ND.EDf!J!IUSt ~e iiiuppercase) instead ofthe fonnat you usualiy use, such asjdoe. . · :;.· 
(3) ·Enter your password, and log o.n, 
computer may lock you out, and you won't ._________________~ 
have access to your files and applications  For more information, go to the OIT  
until you return to campus and log on to  home page, www.nd.edu/-ndoit, or call  
the network again.  the Help Desk at 1-81I 1.  

BlOffice of Information Technologies 
,Call 259-1000.for more detpil$ 
theclogstore.com 

l-800-948 CLO.G 
.... 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Police allegedly toasted Iverson felony 
Associated Press 
Pl Ill.ADELPHIA 

;\ former hotel security guard says he overheard a police detec­tive make a toast to Allen lvcrson's "next felony" last sum­mer. days before the NBA star was charged with threatening two men with a gun. 
Wesley Gregg told Iverson's lawyers ho was working a lato­evening shift at a Philadelphia hotel July 8 when he spotted the hmd detective in the invesliga.tion dining with other ollicers at the hotel's bar and heard him boast "he is going down" when a news story about the 76ers player appeared on TV. 
When the detectives got up to leave, Lt. Michael Chitwood made a toast: "This is for lverson's next felony," Gregg said in a signed statement he gave lverson's attorneys on July 24. 
The lawyers never used the statement in court. Prosecutors dropped all charges against Iverson after the 
two  men  he  was  accused of  
threatening said  they  were  
unwilling to testify.  

But the tale was passed along to Iverson. and his attorneys said Tuesday it formed the basis for comments the star made about Philadelphia police last month. 
"I've heard about police offi­cers toasting to Allen Iverson 's next felony conviction," Iverson said during an interview with The Philadelphia Inquirer and the Daily News. 'Tm hearing about them saying I'm involved with one thing or another, and it scares me. I know that if there's a crooked cop out there. they could do anything to me. He could do anything. Allen Iverson could wind up dead tomorrow if a crooked cop wants him dead." 
After the interview. police commanders said such behavior by officers would not be 
Chitwood, a decorated officer well known in the city for his involvement jn high-profile cases, did not immediately return a phone call Tuesday. 
He told the Daily News he was at a steak house in the Sheraton on the night in question, but denied making a toast involving Iverson. 
"It's positively, undeniably false," he said. Attempts to locate Gregg, 
tolerated. Some ''I've heard about police who no longer officers said works at the
officers toasting to Allen 
they were hotel, were offended by Iverson:-, next felony not immedi­!verso n's ately success­
conviction. " 
remarks and ful. Iverson, considered one of the them baseless. Allen Iverson league's most Several dozen 76ers guard popular play­
said they would boycott a 76ers law enforcement appreciation night unless Iverson apologized. 
Later, Iverson said he had intended to direct his criticisms at "just a very few individuals" on the force. 
One of his attorneys, Larry Woodward. said Tuesday the guard's signed statement proves that "Allen didn't just go out and make this thing up." 
"There was skepticism, or peo­ple were wondering where all that came from. Well, now they know," he said. He declined to provide Gregg's statement to The Associated Press. but a copy was printed in Tuesday's editions of the Daily News. 
ers. was 

unavailable after the 76ers' practice Tuesday. 
Police Commissioner Sylvester Johnson defended the depart­ment's handling of the case and said any suggestion that officers may have been overzealous is false. 
"As far as I am concerned, it is over. lam not going to do anoth­er investigation on Chitwood or anyone," he said. 
"Hypothetically, even if true, it didn't involve any sort of viola­tion of the law, or police rules or procedure," Johnson said. "He is off duty. He has First Amendment rights, just like any­one else has." 

Al\sport A hotel security guard alleged that a police detective proposed a toast to 76ers guard Allen Iverson, pictured above, after he was charged with threatening two men with a gun. 


Infortnation Session 
for those interested in the position of 


Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Tuesday, January 14, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 
OR 

Wednesday, January 22, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit 
www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html 
WINTER & SPRING

IREIK 

Panama City Ceach • South Padre Island• Vail 
Steamboat-Dayton:, Be:,ch• Breckenridge 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
-
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Franck joins 15 hall of fame inductees 
Assodated Pius • 
NEWYORK 

George "Sonny" Franck never thought he'd live to see this day. 
The former All-America tail­back at Minnesota from 1938-40 didn't know whether he would ever make the College Football Hall of Fame -despite his accomplishments with the Golden Gophers. 
"I thought maybe I'd die first," 
Franck said. He was wrong. The 84-year-old Franck is one 
of 15 former greats set to be inducted into the Hall of Fame on Tuesday night. The other players are Auburn split end Terry Beasley, Princeton running back Cosmo Iacavazzi. Arizona State receiver John Jefferson, Southern California safety Ronnie Lott. Pittsburgh quarter­back Dan Marino, Navy tailback Napoleon McCallum, Michigan offensive guard Reggie McKenzie, Georgia Tech defen­sive back Randy Rhino, Texas offensive tackle Jerry Sisemore, Kansas State linebacker Gary Spani, Tennessee defensive tack­le Reggie White and Missouri tight end Kellen Winslow. 
The coaches to be inducted are Carmen Cozza, who spent 32 seasons at Yale, and Earle Bruce, who coached at Tampa, Iowa State, Ohio State, Northern Iowa and Colorado State. 
"For the class of 2000, thank you very much," said Marino, who made the acceptance speech for the inductees. "This is something we will cherish for the rest of our lives. 
"I had the opportunity to play on great teams for four years for the Pitt Panthers and I could walk from my front door to Pitt Stadium in 10 minutes," Marino said. "To be here with my family and to be inducted into the Hall of Fame, this is just a great honor." 
Franck, the oldest of this year's inductees, also played quarter­back, safety, and was a punt and kickoff returner. In 1940, he fin­ished third in voting for the Heisman Trophy, was an All­American and helped the Golden Gophers win the national cham­pionship with an 8-0 record. 
He played alongside Bruce Smith, another College Hall of Fame member, and the two 
-
combined for more than 60 per­cent of Minnesota's touchdowns. Franck said he never worried about making the Hall of Fame. 
"I thought, if they miss me, they miss me," Franck said. "Maybe I'm too old to worry about those types of things.... Sometimes when you're in your 80s, people forget about you." 
One of the games he remem­bers most vividly was in the sea­son finale against Wisconsin in 1940. He returned an intercep­tion for a touchdown in Minnesota's 22-13 win, which sealed the national champi­onship. 
After college, Franck signed up with the Navy and served time as a World War II captain USMCR/Fighter Pilot. He won nine battle stars and survived his plane being shot down in the South Pacific in 1945. 
He returned to the United ­States after the war and spent a few seasons with the New York Giants. Franck went on to coach high school football and is retired and living in Rock Island, 
Ill. 
"I'm so happy to be here," Franck said. "The guys worked so hard to get me in. They pushed and pushed and pulled the right buttons." 
Another player surprised with his selection was Spani, the first player to be honored from Kansas State. Spani was the school's first consensus All­America in 1977 and is the Wildcats' career leader in tack­les (543) and assists (343), play­ing during a time when Kansas State was not nearly as good as it is now. 
Spani credits Kansas State's turnaround to coach Bill Snyder. He was on the hiring committee when the job came open and knew Snyder was the perfect fit. 
"Kansas State has done a lot in the last 10 years," Spani said. "It's an honor to represent the old-timers. Kansas State strug­gled so much prior to me getting there and after I left. It's a mira­cle what coach Snyder pulled off." 
McCallum is hoping for a mira­cle for Navy. The Midshipmen have struggled recently, going 2­10 this season, and Mccallum said it's been frustrating to see what has happened to the pro­gram. 
"They have a very unique situ­ation, they can be as good as they want to be," said Mccallum. who played from 1981-85 and set 26 school rushing and return records. "I get mad. They have potential. I know it. Because of the standards the administration set for themselves, it's difficult." 
Also honored Tuesday were the National Scholar Athletes, selected from all NCM divisions. The Division I-A winners are offensive tackle Kyle Eaton of Oklahoma State, linebacker Hunter Hillenmeyer of Vanderbilt, linebacker Bradie James of LSU, end Chris Kelsay of Nebraska, quarterback Kliff Kingsbury of Texas Tech and offensive tackle Jon Stinchcomb of Georgia. 

NBA 



Webber trial set after season 
Ass<><;iated Press 
DETROIT 
Sacramento Kings star Chris Webber's federal perjury trial can wait until after the NBA season ends, a federal judge ruled. 
Webber. father M a y c e Webber Jr. and aunt Charlene Johnson a r e charged w i t h obstruction of justice and perjury. They are accused of lying to a federal grand jury about their dealings with ex­University of Michigan basket­ball booster Eddie Martin. 
Martin says he gave $616,000 to Webber and four other Wolverines players while they were amateurs. Martin, who pleaded guilty to illegal gambling, said he gave Webber and his family $280,000. 
On Monday, U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds set the Webber family's trial for July 8. 
Edmunds initially suggested the trial be held in May or June, before agreeing to a request from Webber's lawyer, Steven Fishman, to set it after the NBA playoffs end in June. 
"There is no reason I can think of," said Fishman, to hold the trial in the middle of the season. He said that would be a hardship on the NBA, the Sacramento Kings and their 


s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 

Sminutes -from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
fans. A federal prosecutor strong­ly objected to the delay. 
"Frankly, it is obscene," Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Convertino said. He said Martin's age of 68 could present a problem and said a delay might indefinitely post­pone the trial. 
Edmunds said the court often agrees to work around the schedule of "seasonal" employees, like Webber. 
'Tm surprised you would use the word obscene," Edmunds replied. "We 

'Tm suprised you would 
accommo­the Webber date people, use the word obscene. We case is Feb. in the court, 5 for
accomodate people, in
for all kinds defense
court, for all kinds of
of reasons ... motions and we reasons ... and we would seeking the would be dismissal of
be hard pressed to hold 
h a r d -the indict­
this trial before July." 
pressed to ment on a hold this variety of trial before Nancy G. Edmunds grounds. 
July." On Nov. 7,
U.S. District Judge
Webber the univer­
issue a subpoena ordering the University of Michigan to turn over an edited copy of its report into Martin's associa­tions with its players that it supplied to the NCAA, along with interviews with former Wolverines players. 
The subpoena is being requested by Johnson's attor­ney, Steven Levy. 
Michigan refused to turn over the documents in a Nov. 20 letter to Levy, citing a fed­eral law that bars the disclo­sure of student records. 
The next 
hearing in 
has denied taking all but pocket money from Martin. He told the grand jury in August 2000 that he took money from Martin in high school, but could not remem­ber if he took money in col­lege. 
His father also admitted tak­ing gifts from Martin when he testified before the grand jury. 
Edmunds seemed inclined to 
sity pun­

ished its men's basketball program for the NCAA rule violations linked to Martin. It said it would prohibit the team from playing in either the NCAA tournament or the NIT after the upcoming season. 
The team also forfeited 112 regular-season and tourna­ment victories from five sea­sons. 
Give your car aChristmas present 
Store your automobile indoors during vacation. 
Avoid theft, vandalism, and weather damage. 
To reserve callAbe,"The Dorm Storage Man" 
574-239-1310 or email storage@sbwd.com. Free ride from storage facility to campus or airport! 
Donate a TOY and TALE to 
the Toys and 





Tales 
Boxes are downstairs in all 27 dormitories and in 102 COBA 
Pair an age and gender appropriate toy and book to help encourage children to read. Proceeds will go to local South Bend children. 
Presented by the Marketing Club and Circle K 

Drive 
WHERE THE WIID THINGS 1\RE 

STORY AND PICTURES 'BY MAURICE SENDAI< 
• J' _, 

-. ---_J 



AROUND THE NATION 
page 21 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, December 12, 2002 
·'®"•:~''.··w: :W·· ,w::wooc:•::::m::r:mr :JM:rnw.n:::,:wr:::w:::::;w:::•::: 
\y•;J;;:t,IEL:i:=m\•· . 

·•••>'A1=c·.•~a~t 

Ufam···•· record ·····•·p:.. if tiJG:i@!!iw,dre;{:
:~:,,....... ; :,:fil~11'.ry~~ 
Buffalo •··••· •·6~1 .4&2/it dfijlj( ttifW:lWJI

·.· NFC••East/ . ...§}:;@} 
team.. record P¢tti.1::: P-F/G ::::::wDII'.Ir 
Plllladelpbla .··•.. 10·3 G6!l ? t'ui{) c·: 15;9mrnr
NY Giants •·•···•·7;&•· ··:::::C'-':1538::-:-""" ·••'lfijI-" .......,,.•.'li\f'•···•·"-'-•·· Dallas ·.·.•.·~"J,: .. t•••;:m.+ a,r,: ::;:;jjJj'ji:;j;:[)f Wasklngton 5;8 ..•. \38!,. ... 18;5? ./~.fi (.. J 
·NFC No~~ ;;;;ilJli;;;:; 
team·. ,.,··.•. •record ,.... P~t¢L RF/G{ {[f~G ,:J? 
1

:~~o~tBay ~01: : t~;:-f ..:.•.,...... .!·······•·,·..••····:·1·•.:.:.···•··.•.1...·.•··!•.·.•.•.:·•·.·.•.·.•..·.•··:.•.·.•··:••.••.•.:.:.••.•.'.••.•••.•.·.••..1..··.••·.••.t.~2·.•.:···77•.•·•.:.··.•.:....•.•·;.:.:·.••.·:.•.:.•.···•.·.l··.i•.•.i..:....:•.;·l..,::•.r.•.::•.·..:.·.i..·.:.•..1..i:·•:.•..:.;··•.:•.:·•·.

~~~c~~:ta :i10 :l~li::~:~t::'I! L~ 7 ~ 
, 


Eye on~ii•ll¦ 
..·Motor.CityfipWc{•• 1¥,pigti'iiI')l!:~::;mi::;::im;!li::j

e=~o~:::c•11
PITTSBURGH ·(~-,)yf/Qregq!J:§~~ (f"'!}Jlii 
. -----.. -.-=??:\::::::::::::::::: -;t\i~fl~~~ 
.w~~~f9J~1e1tl&i1~--,,~~~1:1:Ii:::r1! 
•··•·c~lat~r-Jze1a~,t~4::::n ::t 
•... , ·.. T.M.!~,t~;~}:j~;:t45(L 


:ti~-fl~~J'fj 
··•··F~ri::ri-!lt:.f~i:r,~1~~1,::::i!li::J:iw,;::1::.~1:1•1~11~ 
around the dial 
NBA BASKETBALL Trail Blazers at Nets 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL HOCKEY Blackhawks at Rangers 8 p.m., FOXCH 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Notre Dame at DePaul 8:30 p.m, 11 WHME 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

KRT 

Alabama head coach Dennis Franchlone left the Crimson Tide last week to coach the Texas A&M Aggies. In 
reaction to this decision Alabama fans have been buying up bobbleheads of Franchlone and breaking them. 


Alabama fans abuse bobbleheads 
to get a little rope and hang leave. promote.
Associated Press 

it down from the side of her Paul Isom, director of the "And it might come across 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. balcony with a sign that university's Office of Student as being too mean-spirited," 
Coach Fran·s bobbling says. 'Sell out."' Media, said the office was Isom said. head may be rolling for Eleven thousand Coach offered 4.000 of the dolls at One thousand of the dolls some Alabama fans. Fran bobblehead dolls with $3 apiece, but the university are being auctioned on one 
More than 4,000 bobble• a white shirt were given out withdrew the idea and the of the university's Web sites, head dolls of former and sold as part of a fast­office decided against it, too. www.rolltideauction.com. Alabama coach Dennis food restaurant promotion. "We considered all sorts but interest has been mini­Franchione, who left abupt· Another 5,000 dolls, with of things, like giving people mal. Alabama officials have ly for Texas A&\1 last week. Crimson Tide red shirts, a driver, yelling 'fore!' and even asked Texas A&M's remain unsold. Joseph were bought by the univer­letting them tee off on them marketing department Turner. president of Yell sity this fall for sale as part for five bucks a pop, but we about buying some of the Crew. the Crimson Tide's of a limited edition series. had a couple of reservations dolls, but eventually any football fan association. says Only a couple hundred about it." he told the dolls still around will proba· some students are getting sold, leaving university offi­Birmingham Post-Herald in bly be destroyed. the little statues and break• cials looking for new options a story Tuesday. Daniel Hopper. director of ingthem. now that Franchione has He said the student news­the university's athletic 
"They don't have a lot of left and is viewed by some paper. The Crimson-White. marketing department, said sentimental value any fans in a negative light for has finished publishing for that might make a winner of more," said Turner, 21. "Me not telling his players in the semester. making bob­those who got a red·shirted and my girlfriend are going person about his decision to ble he ad bashing hard to Fran bobblehead. 
IN BRIEF 

Bulger to start for the Martin lost a fumble that was night in the second quarter with the Rams on Sunday returned for a touchdown and injury and didn't return. He missed Marc Bulger received medical threw two interceptions in his third Sunday's game against Portland. clearance to play Tuesday as the St. career start. Coach Mike Martz indi­The Raptors, who have lost nine 
Louis Rams' quarterback carousel cated some of Martin's problems of their last 12 games, have been turned again. were due to inactivity. undermanned all season, and arc 
Bulger, who has been at quarter­still without Lamond Murray, Eric back for all five !lams victories this Vince Carter out two weeks Montross and Mamadou N.diaye. season,· has been out since Nov. 18 with knee injury Lindsey Hunter is expected to 
Vince Carter of the Toronto return on Wednesday night afterwith a sprained ligament between 
his index and third finger. He's Raptors will miss two weeks with a missing 11 games with an injured made progress the last several days strained right knee after colliding right knee. 
and will replace Jamie Martin. who with a teammate during practice on was ineffective in Sunday's 49-10 Tuesday. Playstatioo named new loss at Kansas Cily, for this woek·s Carter missed 10 games earlier sponsor of Rose Bowl 
game against the Cardinals. this season because of an injured Sony Playstation has replaced 
Bulger has a 106.0 passer rating, left knee. The latest injury was AT&T as the sponsor of the Rose which would lead the NFL by a wide diagnosed as a mild strain of his Bowl. margin if he had enough attempts patella tendon. Monday's announcement came 
to qualify. He has 12 touchdown The All-Star guard has averaged nearly eight months after AT&T passes and four interceptions and 19.2 points in 10 games. said it would not be renewing its 
played well in Lhe first game against Forward Antonio Dav:s also didn't contract, leaving the nation's oldest the Cardinals. make the trip to Cleveland for bowl •without a major corporate 
In a 27-14 victory Nov. 3 in Wednesday's game because of a backer. Phoenix, Bulger was 20-for-29 for swollen right knee. Davis, averaging Washington State will play 245 yards with two touchdown 13.5 points and 8.3 rebounds, left a Oklahoma at the Hose Bowl on New passes and two interceptions. game against Chicago on Friday Year's Day. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS ,Wednesday, December 11, 2002 
DeIDons 
continued from page 24 
victory. 

The road wins have been a vast improvement from a year a go when it took Notre Dame until Feb. 3 to get their third road win. McGraw said the team has already gotten over that hump this season , 
"I think we're over the hur­dle of winning on the road," McGraw said. "I think we've proven that and we've played well on the road. So I think now its just going to be a question of just looking at each game and come out and play hard. That's all were worried about. It's not the wins or losses at this time, its whether or not we're improv­ing." 
After DePaul. Notre Dame will play its second home game of the regular season when they face Temple Dec. 14 at 1p.m. 
The Irish then have two more home games before traveling to Tennessee Dec. 28. 
The Vols beat Notre Dame in the second round of the NCM tournament last season.~ 
Note: 

With their 4-0 start, the womens basketball team is ranked eighth in the Associated Press poll, joining the Irish mens team in the Top 10. That makes Notre Dame one of only three schools with two basketball teams ranked in the Top 10. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 




Nakamura meets with Mets' Phillips 
Associate.! Press 
NEW YORK 
Free-agent third baseman Norihiro Nakamura met Tuesday wlth New York Mets general manager Steve Phillips, who is seeking a replacement for Edgardo Alfonzo.. 
"We had a good meeting. We got to know each other," Phillips said after the session at Shea Stadium. 
"I told him we'd be back to him in a couple of days. The player is going back to Japan tomorrow. He's got to assess what he wants to do. He has decisions to make." 
Nakamura hit .294 with 42 homers and 115 RBI last season for Kintetsu of the Pacific League. In Japan, he has been courted by the Buffaloes, Yomiuri Giants and Hanshin Tigers. 
Nakamura visited Los Angeles and New York during his trip to the United States. 
He brought along Masami Shigeta, his Japanese agent. 
Greg McAleenan, 


Nakamura's American "We were quite pleased agent, also was at with the homework the Tuesday's meeting, as Mets' organization had was Mets senior assis­done on him." tant general manager McAleenan will get in 
·Jim.Duquette. touch with the Mets 
"It· was a good and other teams at the exchange of informa­\Vinter meetings, which tion,•· McA1eenan said. start Friday in Nashville, Tenn. 
"I think the timing certainly is becoming an issue." McAleenan said. 
"What we talked about today was putting Mr. Nakamura in a position in the very near future to decide his options." 
New York severed ties with Alfonzo on Saturday when the Mets didn't offer salary arbitration. Alfonzo cannot re-sign the Mets until May 1. 

How would you like to get 1% 

With our Visa® Platinum Card, you can get a fu/11% cash back on purchases~ 



ro,. 

NOTRE DAME 

FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/239-6611 · 800/567-6328 www.ndfcu.org 
'Your annual cash bonus of a full 1% IS paid outanriually m January. and is based on your annual purchases. Cash bonus information will appear ._ . -·-· Gr on each monlilly Slat""'811I. Nol app,,cable Jo account ndeunquent or over limit Notapphcable to cash advances or balancerranslers. CaU or s/Dp NCUA '"'·""~'-·"' by yourneareslNotra Dame Federal Cradil Umon braflch for full disclosure inlormauon. Certain reslflcUons apply Independentof University. I-,.,=-II.ENDER 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 
You IN-mm l3UPVY? 
CLARE O'BRIEN 


HAPPY TOWN 
JACK MONAHAN 

JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

KYMIL 

I I 
02002 Tribune Madia Se,v6cea, Inc. 
All Righi• Rooorvod. 
HIRMT 




DMAAMN 
I rJ 
www.Jumble.com 
WEALEY


[ l J I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

HOW HE FEL.T 
WH!:=N HE WAL.KE:D 
IN ON HIS WIFl:='5 SEWING C.IRCU:, 

Now arrange the circled letters to 

form the surprise answer, as -----~----___, suggested by the above cartoon. 
AnS¼>er here: 


'·r I I I I I J' rn ... 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: BATHE JOKER CAMPER HYBRID Answer; What the sweaty cowboy did on a hot day ­RODE "BAREBACK" 
Sturrped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  34 Air agcy.  58 December air  
1 _  II (razor  35 "Ya ready and  59 One of the  
brand)  able?" in Accra?  Simpsons  
5 A tusker  39A.A.R.P.  60 Clerics' council  
9 Guts  members  61 Some receivers  
14 Sling 15 "Anything_?" 16 Sociologist Durkheim  40 Professorship, e.g. 41 Actress Skye 42 II may be naked  62 Part of a lobster pot DOWN  
17 Where Sikkim is 18 What's left 19 Fingered  43 Broadway debut of 10/7/82 44 Wimple wearer 46 Down in the  1 Microwave option 2 First name in talk  
20 "Why're you acting strange?" in Delhi?  dumps 47 Opportunity  3 Mezzo's tune 4 like a bucket of  
23 They bind 24 Diez x diez 25 Abaft  48 "Don't even try" in Vientiane? 53 Like traditional hospital fare  bolts 5 Norway's second-largest city  
28 Jemima, e.g.  55 Ottumwa's  6 Dairy section  
29 Invoice fig.  locale  selections  
32 1922 Nobelist in  56 Elders'  7_ prol.  
physics  teachings  8 Netlike  
33 "It's all _r  57 Intrude, with "in"  9 Family feud  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 At full speed 
quarry 21 Poitier role 
22 Sheer fabric l-r-4....+=+..-.11-=+-:-1-::-1111111...-:-t-:::-r.::"t";,r.:1 25 Take down a peg 26 Classic board game 27 This and this =+..+..+:..-i 28 Sap-sucker's ·genus 


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kumar llalanl  
29 In progress 30 Down East  38 Makes mountain dew  49 Wacko 50 Work like Tillie?  
44 Schools of fish  
31 30-Down product 33 Classified ad measure  45 Cyclades island 48 Abeatnik beats it  51 Bear that comes out at night? 52 Vegetable fuel  
36 Blocked off  47 Lumbered, in a way  53 Some ammo  
37 Mover's rental  48 Tall tale  54 Put down  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords lrom the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaminl}'xwords. 
Visit The Otserver on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Teri Garr, Jermaine Jackson, Brenda Lee, Rita Moreno, Carlo Ponti 
-
Happy Birthday: You will be light years ahead of everyone else this year, so don't expect anyone to realize your goals or recognize your potential. This is your year to soar, so don't hold back or wait for others to catch up. It's time for you to break new ground and lead everyone else around you into the future. Your numbers are 5, 17, 22, 31, 38, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Unreliable individuals may give you false hopes. Do not make promises or depend on others. Be observant if you must sign contracts. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are likely to be tempted to impress someone who interests you by spending big bucks. Don't do it. Use your patient, stable nature to impress. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Concentrate on getting your work done. You will have a problemwith an older family member if you don't cater 10 his or her whims. Don't let your emotions stand in the way of progress. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get busy finishing those creative projects. Get children or friends to help. The time spent together preparing will help you form a closer relationship. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Dead-end projects are likely to plague you. Think twice before you pursue an unrealistic endeavor. Discuss your plans with someone you trust who has practical experience. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need to spend time with those who are dependent on you for advice. Open and honest group communication will solve a lot of the problems being faced. You will gain respect and self-confidence. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You'll have a problem with one of your peers today. Don't let your emotions interfere with your efficiency. Stay focused on the task at hand. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social events will lead to new and exciting relationships. You will be creative in all that you do today. Shopping will be fun and you will find a lot of good buys. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have a problem with family members who don't feel that you are being fair regarding the decisions that affect the household. Try to talk things over before you take action. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Communication will be the only answer today. You may have to get away to a quiet place to make it happen. Pleasure trips will result in a better understanding of yourself and the ones you love. 
**** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Sudden changes in your financial situation should make you happy. Luck is with you. Look into the possibility of starting a joint business venture. Make sure your partners also invest money in this 
plan.***PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your outgoing, charming ways will get to the one you love. Be creative in all that you do. Everyone will appreciate the results that you get. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be a do-or-die individual who will not back down or accept defeat.You will show your strength and courage throughout life and will enjoy great popularity . 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 














PORTS 
Wednesday, December 11, 2002 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish try to freeze out Blue Demons tonight 
SMC BASKETBALL

.. Belles look to deck the halls of Angela with a win 
Calumet in the championship ment to the college game. They Shaun Russell. Both were Creachbaum leads the BellesBy HEATHER VAN game. The Leafs have started have had more games than the named to the all-tournament in scoring, with 16.2 points perHOEGARDEN
., 
strong thus far, as they have Saint Mary's freshmen to learn team in the SMC Roundball game and freshman guard
Sports Wmer 

already played eight games. the college game and look to Classic over the weekend. Bridget Boyce is averaging 9.2 
The Belles of Saint Mary's They are a new team with a take advantage of this experi­Russell is the only senior on a points. These two lead a bal­have been playing well this sea­first-year coach in Steve ence. relatively young squad and she anced scoring attack that con­son despite a record of 2-3. Wiktorowski. Goshen has had Saint Mary's enters is the true leader of the team, fuses defenses, as there is no They took second place last to adjust this season after los­Wednesday's game hungry for contributing not only points, one player to key on. Boyce weekend in their own tourna­ing a four-year starting point a win. The Belles would love to rebounds, assists and steals, leads a corps of 3-point shoot­ment, losing in overtime to the guard and a NAIA All-American avenge last season's 73-54 loss but invaluable leadership as ers, and Creachbaum is joined University of Chicago. However, forward. However. they look to to the Leafs. It is their last well. by Anne Hogan and Maureen the Belles have had some time present 1.1. challenge for the home game until Jan. 11 and "I feel as though it is my job Bush underneath. off are ready to bounce back Belles. they would like a win before to make sure that everyone, The Belles face the Leafs against Goshen College (5-3). Goshen is an experienced they go on the road for two especially the freshman, is very tonight at 7 at the Angela 
Goshen, meanwhile, comes team with three seniors and weeks. confident. We need them just Athletic Facility. off a championship weekend, as four juniors. These players Leading the Belles is sopho­as much as everyone else. On they won their own tourna­have looked to help their four more forward Emily this team. everyone is very Contact Heather Van Hoegarden ment, defeating Purdne freshmen through the adjust-Creachbaum and senior guard important," said Russell. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
To say DePaul likes to shoot 3-pointers is more than a slight understatement -espe­cially considering that Blue Demon guard Ashley Luke has shot 55 herself, while Notre Dame has only attempted 30 3-pointers as a team. 
Stopping the DePaul's out­side shoot­ing will be 
the major "They're a very good 3­challenge 
point shooting team. It's
for the Irish 

Wednesday going to be a real 
night at tho challenge for our defense. DePaul 
We haven't faced a team
Athletic 

with this talented a
Center when thev perimeter game." 
face the 5-2 B I u e 

Muffet McGraw 
Demons. Notre Dame Irish coach 
(4-0) will be going for its fourth straight road victory of the season. 
"They're a very good 3-point shooting team," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "It's going to be a real challenge for our defense. We haven't faced a team with this talent­ed a perimeter game." 
Luke leads DePaul with a 
41.8 3-point percentage, while teammate Sarah Kustok has drilled 40. 9 percent. 
Sophomore guard Jenni Dant leads the Blue Demons in scoring and minutes played averaging 13.1 points per game and clocking 28 minutes per contest. She was also named to the All-Tournament team when DePaul played in the Rainbow Wahine Classic. 

However, the Irish counter with an array of scorers. Notre Dame has all five starters, including three sophomores averaging double figures in scoring, led by Jacqueline 13atieasl's 17 .5 points per game. The Irish have also shot 50 percent or better from the field in all four games this season. 
"We have great balance," 
Flecky, who's 14.5 points per game is nearly three times her production last year. Additionally, fellow sopho­more Teresa Borton has aver­aged 12,8 points, while last year's leading scorer, Alicia Ratay has added 12.5 points per outing. 
Notre Dame is also finishing np a four-game road trip that saw the Irish defeat USC, Valparaiso and Arizona State. The Irish defense completely shut down the high-powered Sun Devil offense Saturday, as Notre Dame held Arizona State to only 16 first half points, en route to an 81-52 
see DEMONS/page 22 McGraw said. "I think seven 
people  are  
capable  of  
leading  the  

team in scor­ing, SO WC really expect at least five of them in dou­ble figures every game." 
Another pleasant sur­prise for Notre Dame has been the play of Katy 


,JAVA
AVE 
ADAM MIGLORE/The Observer Notre Dame forward Jacqueline Batteast gets ready to pass the ball during last week's Irish vic­tory over Valparaiso. The Irish close out its four-game road trip at DePaul tonight. 

U) FOOTBAU.. 

MENS BASKETBALL 
w

tam c., Gator Bowl 
Irish vs. DePaul 
Lawyers for both Pete Rose and Major League 

=s Jan. 1, 12:30 p.m. 

Saturday, 5:00 p.m. 
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig are exchanging 
The time of Saturday's game is different from the

..... c:s The Observer will publish a special 12-page issue 
drafts that could possibly end Rose's lifetime ban 

on Monday previewing Notre Dame's first trip to 
time listed on the tickets for the game. The correct
from the sport, thus making him eligible for entry 
c:c 

the Gator Bowl since 1998. 
time (5:00 p.m., rather than 7:30 p.m.) is published 
into the Hall of Fame. 


D. ~ 
above. 
U) 
page 17 




