
Fishing in the lake
PARTLY 
Friday
The 16th annual Fisher Regatta officially begins Saturday at 1 p.m. 


CLOUDY 
on Saint Mary's Lake. 

APRIL 12,
HIGH 62° 
Scene . page 12
LOW40° 
2002 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 123 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Bookstore teams find their names censored 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Senior Scaff Writer 
Junior Brandon Griffith was very surprised to learn the name for his Bookstore Basketball team had been censored by Student Activities. 
His team's name wasn't pro­
fane. 
His team's name wasn't sexually explicit. 
His team's name wasn't racist, sexist or anti-homosexu­al. 
Nevertheless, Student Activities struck Poor Man's Blanket from 
"There is no policy to 
person cross­

eliminate names that es out any had 'Father Poorman' in name he or 
she deems
them." 

offensive. Coughlin Brian Coughlin couldn't give director of Student Activities specific rea­
the list of 

Bookstore Basketball team names and replaced it with Team 22. 
"We made the name with the intention that even Father [Mark] Poorman [vice president for Student Affairs] would get a laugh out of it," Griffith said. 
Poor Man's Blanket was one of about 70 teams that were cen­sored by Student Activities this year. All references to Poorman were removed from the list as well as other names deemed too sexually explicit, insulting or profane. 
Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, said that there are no set guidelines for deter­mining what teams will and will not be censored. The list of team names is passed through three people -Bookstore adviser Melvin Adams, Coughlin and Peggy Hnatusko, assistant direc­tor of programming for Student 
Activities ­
and each 
sons for why 
certain 

names were banned since he had to look at so many different teams. There was, however, no specific bias against team names containing "Poorman." 
"There is no policy to eliminate names that had 'Father Poorman' in them," Coughlin said. 
He said the "Poorman" names were removed because there is a general policy that Bookstore Basketball team names should not contain the name of another person without that person's 
see BOOKSTORE/page 4 


Intercom founder speaks on N. Ireland experiences 
Murphy detailed the personalBy MEGAN MARTIN tragedies that Maskey, one of 

News Writer 
seven children, endured dur­
ing his years in North Belfast. 

Imprisoned at 17 without confronting enmity and vio­trial for being a Catholic lence with every corner he youth in a section of Belfast turned. "Despite that, he where it was an unofficial chose a path of peace," crime, Liam Maskey visited Murphy said. the Law School yesterday to In response to what he saw share his experiences of living as an escalation of the deep­in the Northern Irish town of seeded antagonism between North Belfast, one of the most Protestant and Catholic neigh­explosive and violent locales bors in his community,of the clash between Catholics Maskey founded, in coopera­and Protestants in that coun­tion with Billy Mitchell, his try. Protestant counterpart,
Co-sponsored by the Law Intercomm, an inter-commu­
School's Irish Law Society and nity development project. the University's Keough "An intercom is a mode of Center for Irish Studies, dialogue," Maskey said, 
Maskey's talk centered on the stressing the significance of current state of affairs in his the program's nomenclature. native Northern Ireland, as Established in 1995 in the well his recent efforts to rem­context of the peace process, edy the intense hostility in Intercomm is, according to local neighborhoods through Maskey, the result of an his collaborative Intercomrn absence of a grassroots com­initiative. munity communications cam­
While introducing the paign. speaker, outgoing Irish Law Society president John see MASKEY/page 4 

Clark, Kroener design memorial 
synchronize our ideas and Sept. 11, 2002, and use the 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER enter the competition," said area surrounding the flagpole 
Assistant News Editor 
Kroener. on South Quad, the location of A design jury consisting of the campus-wide Sept. 11 
Four hours before the dead­six members, including Mass that more than 6,000 line for the deadline for the Indiana Lt. Gov. Joe Kernan, people attended. School of Architecture's. Sept. chose on April 5 Clark and According to Clark, his 11 Memorial Design Kroener's design would Competition, the winners had submission be set into the 
not yet decided to enter the as the best "'Instead ofjust having a ground sever­contest. of 20 al feet and
pure base for the flag­
Over Easter break, winners entries. could be Kevin Clark and Meg Kroener, Michael pole, our design creates entered by both fifth-year architecture Harris, a sort ofa room on the walking down students, conceived ideas to fourth-year stairs..The
quad, where you will be 
create a circular space on architecture design itself is
sitting two feet below the 
South Quad below ground student, a circle, with level, accentuating the flag­won second ground level and can the flagpole in pole and providing space for place, and quietly reflect. " the middle of quiet reflection. They decided Aaron Cook a reflecting to formalize this idea into a and Eric pool approxi­design only after hearing vari­Saul, fifth­Kevin Clark mately 10 feet ous professors' concerns that year archi­architecture student in diameter. A there would not be enough tecture stu-circular bench entries to the competition. dents, won would be 
"I am really glad that Kevin third place. Honorable men­located on the outer circum­said something about entering tions were awarded to Alan ference of the memorial. the competition. The night Ahles, Colette Arrendonto and "The design is circular so before, professors had been the team of John Griffin, Neil that it doesn't give importance concerned about getting Hoyt, Ariane Risto and Brian to anything except the flag­enough entries. Once we Zant. pole," said Clark. decided to enter, we had two The competition asked In the middle of the reflec­ideas in seconds. It was nice entrants to create a design we could work together to that could be constructed by see MEMORIAL/page 3 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, April 12, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME HISTORY 
Entertaining angels 
Angels. 
They're mentioned in our prayers. They're mentioned in the Bible. They bring messages to about good and bad news. They help us and guide us on the road of life. They protect us and make sure that we 
are safe. One picture of angels that comes to mind is of two children walking across a bridge, followed by an angel. arms spread, making sure they are safe on their journey. It shows us what ever-present life they are and how they are 

constantly around us. Angela Campos 
In the song "Entertaining Angels" by Newsboys, a Christian Lab Tech alternative group. they tell of how the angels are all around, in all the big and little things that happen, "24-7 you wait for me." 
Oh great, you're probably thinking, she's going to get all religious on us, and tell us tqat they are everywhere all the time. Well, since angels are a religious subject, it would be hard not to bring in religion when talking about them. 
Think about it. They pervade our thought, our art and the way we conceive of the super­natural. There are statues and pictures of them in our art museums. They are in the movies we watch, for example "Michael," "City of Angels," "Dogma" and "The Preacher's Wife." There are even shows that have angels in them, like "Touched by an Angel." They have been made a part of our culture. Why should discussing this make us uncomfortable? Why do we deny their real presence? 
I'm not trying to push religion on anyone, or make them believe in something they can­not see. Why do I bring it up? I would like to show you how there are angels that we can see. in our everyday lives. I want to show just how many angels are out there in our lives, making things better, making things work, helping us along. 
I'm not crazy. If you think about it, when was the last time you ha.d someone in one of your classes help you with an assignment because you just couldn't get it? Or were you one of those people who helped your class­mates to understand? Have you had someone you didn't know give you directions or help you pick up something you'd dropped? Was there ever someone who-just listened to you when you needed to vent? Someone who helped you get through a tough time? Believe it or not, those are our angels in disguise. 
If you look back at my first definition of an angel, they help, guide, and protect us. They are our friends, knowing our troubles and our happy times. We all entertain angels ... we eat dinner with them, sing with them, talk with them. We listen to them, and reach out to grasp at the truth they present us. They are very real. 
I know that I have several angels out there watching over me. You all know who you are. You help me speak into the night, face my terrors, open my heart and live more fully. Are you listening tonight, you are wonderful. The things that I have seen through you have helped me so much; I won't let go of all you've taught me. 
Contact Angela Campos at Campos.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
In che April 10 anicle, "Police rule ND prof Cushing's deach sui­cide," The Observer reported chat South Bend police investiga­tors found a note after the suicide. However, Nimbilasha Cushing, the !arc profcsso,'s wife, told The Obsecver char she did not see such a note. The Obsc.cver regrecs chis error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond2y through Frid2y except during exam_ and va~tion _pc~iods. The Ob~er.,is a ~~~l of th~ Associated Press. All reproduction right.s uc reserved. 

University refuses to comply with subpoena 
Tuesday, April 11, 1978 

Notre Dame's refusal to comply with a subpoena yesterday has sent the hearing concerning unfair labor practices against the University to the Federal Courts. The hearing, held at the Country-City Building in South Bend, will not continue until the issue of the subpoena is resolved. 
Election sparks controversy 
Monday, April 8, 1974 
The invalidation of an election held the week before to elect the Board of Directors for the campus chapter of Indiana public Interest Research Group [InPIRGJ became the subject of a controversy over the weekend. The election was supposed to be publicized, howver, it was not. The InPIRG Structural Proposal stipulated that elections must be well publicized in order to be valid. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Harvard admissions unswayed by roses, gifts 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Faced with the daunting task of standing out in a crowd of nearly 20,000 Harvard University applicants, some students each year resort to gim­micks -a dozen roses sent along with their application. for example -to win over admissions officials. 
Over the years the admissions office has collected "a colorful set of items" from applicants, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William Fitzsimmons said -including various desserts, a size 17 athletic shoe and a photo of one applicant's bedroom wall, painted crimson to show school spirit. 
This year's round of admissions, which concluded last week and saw a record 19,605 applicants. brought in equally memorable items, some verg­ing on the ridiculous. 
According to Fitzsimmons, there are 
· 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~,~-~~~~ (f ffll 4 
Showers T-slom,s Rain Rvrriss S,-/c9 Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
1o1o-,oc1-. Gn,ph/DoNel 


now guide books that instruct students on how to get noticed in the applica­tion process. which is often viewed as impersonal. 
But these instruction manuals often inspire students to go over the top to catch the attention of the Harvard admissions committee, Fitzsimmons said. . 
"Maybe people think we don't read the folders," Fitzsimmons said. 
Some familiar with the admissions process attribute the gimmicks to media attention paid to applicants who employ such marketing strate­gies to catch the eye of the admis­sions office. 
"Whenever someone does a crazy stunt, it gets press (coverage)." said Connie Cooper, founder of College Foundation Planners Inc., a college counseling service based in Calif­ornia. "But these games don't work." 
According to Cooper. reputable college counseling services are not likely to advise applicants to resort to such tactics. 
Nevertheless, some applicants still feel compelled to mount a campaign to win the admission committee's vote. 
Harvard Crimson 
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
Religion holds back Nebraska coach 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
In early January, shortly after Miami crushed Nebraska in the Rose Bowl, Nebraska assistant football coach Ron Brown journeyed to a Los Angeles hotel to interview for the coaching job at Stanford. But he didn't get any further than the initial interview. The reason: his religious views, among other things, were incompatible with Stanford's liberal student body and active gay community. "[His reli­gion] was definitely something that had to be considered," said Alan Glenn, Stanford's assistant athletic director of human resources. "We're a very diverse community with a diverse alumni. Anything that would stand out that much is something that has to be looked at ... It was one of many variables that was considered." But Stanford's gay student leaders were more blunt in voicing their opposition. "Wow, it would be really hard for him here," said Courtney Wooten, sophomore and social director of Stanford's Queer Straight Social and Political Alliance. "He would be poorly received by the student body in general." 
Daily Nebraskan 
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 

Budget cuts affect nursing program 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 
A state legislative shortfall which compound the already severe nursing shortage in Utah, ranks third in the nation behind Nevada and California in the severity of its nurse shortage. With only 592 nurses per 100,000 residents, the number of nurses in Utah has declined by 
6.3 percent since 1996. Nationally, the decline has been 2 percent. to 782 nurses per 100,000 population, accord­ing to the GAO Report, Nursing Workforce. July 2001. "We have plenty of qualified students who want to be nurses," said Maureen Keefe, dean of the College of Nursing, "but we don't have enough space, faculty or funding to train them." The College of Nursing asked the state Legislature for an additional $2.2 million this year so it could expand its ability to train more nurses and nursing instructors to meet the growing need. The Legislature turned down the request, and the college was forced to cut 4. 7 percent from its budget, like most other academic entities at Utah. 
Daily Utah Chronicle 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, April 12. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 


30a 8 0 70• 0 2002 ACCUWNther, tnc. COLD WA.RM STATIONARY
............ ~ 



®-© B 
High Low Bhawu ¦ 
.,,.,,._,_,.,,,,,,.. 
Atlanta  68  
Baltimore  65  
Boston  61  
Chicago  59  
Houston  80  


t'.z?2I [TI] ~ ~ ~ 0 W• ~~ 
Rain T-ato,ma. FlurrlNi Snow ~ Sunny Pt, Ck>udy Ooudy 
56  Las Vegas  91  66  
53  Memphis  76  56  
49  Milwaukee  52  37  
39  New York  63  50  
60  Philadelphia  67  54  
. ..............  

Portland 63 51 Sacramento 73 52 St. Louis 67 46 Tampa 81 65 Washington 67 54 
-..... -......... 

Friday, April 12, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND grads inpsire black filmmakers 
Campus vandalism 
the hurdle of finding a cast finance major and eventually
By T. MUSETTE JOHNSON 

that would be able to carry the switched to a communications 
increases recently
News Writer film and make it more mar­and theatre major. • ketable. "I was initially intimidated by Christine and Michael "Many actors will often bring all of the male students in my 
By JOHN FANNING

Swanson, a married couple their audiences with them, film classes. I would always 
News Wrir~r 

and 1994 Notre Dame gradu­which, sometimes will make pray that the class would run ates, returned to campus them more desirable when out. of time before any of my 
There has been an

Thursday to casting work could be screened," she discuss their r o I e s , ·• said. 
increase in reported cases of 
"We want to pave the 
vandalism around campus

work in inde­Christine However, she said a guest 
during the last few weeks,

pendent cine­way for other African Swanson speaker on campus, noted 
according to the Rex Rakow,ma. said. director Spike Lee, inspired

American filmmakers." 
director of Notre Dame

T h e She added her. 
Security/Police.

Swansons that Debbie "Hearing Spike Lee inspired 
However. Rakow is not

head the Los Michael Swanson Allen decided me to attend New York 
alarmed by the recent

Angeles-based filmmaker to help the University for graduate 
prod_uction studio Faith Filmworks. Inc .. directed and produced the 2001 short film "All About You," which recent­ly was named the grand jury prize winner at the Hollywood Black Film Festival. The short, low-budget film features many well-known actors, most notably actresses Debbie Allen and Renee Goldsberry. 
As young filmmakers, the Swansons discussed the trials and tribulations of producing their first feature film as well as stressing the irnportance of helping other filmmakers in the future. 
"We want to pave the way for other African American filmmakers," said Michael Swanson. 
In the summer of 1999, Christine Swanson started writing the screenplay for "All About You," while her husband worked on finding funding for the film. 
"Many investors are weary of investing in independent films because they want to be sure of making a profit," Michael Swanson said. 
With the help of one major investor, the film was pro­duced on just under a $2 mil­lion budget. 
The Swansons had to jump young couple, school," she said. "If Spike Lee 

telling them went there, l was going there." she would be more than happy Michael Swanson had intend­to play a role in their film, but ed to go to seminary school. she only accepted small pay­Upon his graduation, however, ment in exchange for her he soon found that he wanted work. to do something else. Taking a 
The Swansons said they also job at NBC in New York, he face the problem of distribut­was able to help his wife pro­ing their film. duce her 
"Distributors short films at
"Many actors will often 
feel that there NYU.
bring their audiences 
is not a mar­"He often ket for African with them, which, some­would come 
American love 

times will make them
stories and 

more desirable when 
dramas." Christine casting roles." Swanson said. "They say that 
Christine Swanson
it is hard to 

filmmaker
market such films because it is out of the 

to Rakow are both rarities at 
Notre Dame. 
However, Rakow believed that the crimes were most likely the result of a few youths from the South Bend area, and does not envision the problem escalating any further. "Coming out of win­ter. a small crime increase is typical. It's just part of the general rambunctiousness of the spring." 
However. Rakow said that campus police officers are aware of the recent occur­rences, and have begun to monitor certain areas more closely while on their patrol. 
He also added that aware­ness of the problem on cam­pus is one of the best resources that his depart­ment has. 
"Crime prevention is a community effort, not just on the part of law enforcement and security," Rakow said. 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu. 
events and attributes the jump mostly to the aware­ness of students and faculty on campus. 
"Our numbers are deceiv­ing because we have over­reporting here, which is good." 
The most evidence of the increase occurred over Easter break, when there were several cases of auto­mobile vandalism reported in the D2 and D6 parking 
lots. In addition, there have
to my night been several instances ofclasses with 
illegal spray-painting in theme, and he last week, which according
was always there for 
continued from page 1 

norm of the usual African tions for the price of one," American film and television Christine Swanson said. 
tion pool will be a walkwayprograms that commonly Michael Swanson is currently that will serve as a sundial.

depict the use of drugs and vio­negotiating a deal with HBO to Clark and Kroener strategi­lence." produce a film that his wife is cally placed the walkway soAs a result. the Swansons finishing. The husband and 
that at 9:08 a.m.. the time

have decided to distribute wife said they intend to contin­when the first plane hit theindependently, initially opening ue expanding their production 
World Trade Center, the

the film in Chicago theaters studio while opening doors for shadow of the flagpole will be and possibly branching out other young black filmmakers. 
on the walkway. 
from there later in the year. 
"It will be a daily reminder
Christine Swanson, as a 
of the tragedy," Clark said. 
young undergraduate, was not "In the daily procession of

Contact T. Musette Johnson at 
planning on going into the film putting up and taking down

tjohnso3@nd.edu.
business. She started out as a the flag, the person will have to stand on that walkway." 

guest speak­ers. It was almost as if 
Me01orial
we got two film educa­


Clark said he believes that his design won because, along with the other winners. 
it established a unique space for reflection. 
"Instead of just having a pure base for the flagpole, our design creates sort of a 

a fiction reading 
& publ_i shing 
room on the quad, where you will be sitting two feet below the ground level and can qui­etly reflect," said Clark. 
WORKSHOP 

FRIDAY, APRIL 12; 3:30 pm 
C f. 't T t ff f O R 
SOCIAL 
-
CONCERNS 

DO YOU KNOW... 
someone on the Faculty who has completed one or more research projects that address a need or concern of a local non-profit or community based organization? 
If so, pl!rns\Z, nominat(l that p(lrson for thiZ 

Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. Faculty Community-Based N.D. 




Research Award 
LaFortune featuring: • • • 
For more info on this monetary award , see the CSC's website at http:f/centerforsocjalconcerns.nd.edu/ganeyaward.html
novelists TOM COYNE & 
Nominations should be sent (emails are accepted) to
JAMES ELLIS THO:MAS 

Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Center for Social Concerns (beckman.9@nd.edu), by no later than .April 15th at 5pm.
& literary agent . , , . .YREE le :)i·E:N DAN MANDEL 
:o :UE PUDLIC ..... 

Rod11ey Ganey, Ph.D., who is funding this award, served as Associale Direcror of Nor re Dame j Laboratory for Social Research and in 1/!e Department ofSociology
ii
from 1980 10 I 996. lie is now President ofPress. Ganey Associares, rhe narion:,
~p~n~~=~d by: Lh~ ~sul M. & a~rb~=~ R~:kel~ 
leading research Jinn specializing in patienl-satisfacion mea.mrem.,111.
Vleilltg G~hcl~== S~Li~~-.,,,,,,,,, , •••.• ,,, 

Although Clark and Kroener are satisfied with their design, they said they are going to create a version of the design in watercolor that could be used in print media and for other official purposes. 
According to Kara Kelly, director of communications for the School of Architecture, all of the winners' designs have been given to the Office of the University Architect to determine if the design will actually be constructed. 
"The University Architect's office took the designs and will present them to Executive Vice President Father Timothy Scully and explore the feasibility of con­structing the design." said Kelly. 
Kelly said the University architect does not have a timetable for determining if the memorial will actually be constructed. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 
---~---------------------------------------------, 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 12, 2002 
Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
specific permission. 
"It's not Father Poorman spe­cific," Coughlin said. "It's a rule for any person. Any person will be highlighted [to be further questioned.] If they want to con­tact the person specifically, they can do that." 
Griffith said he was never informed of this policy or given the chance to contact Poorman to ask his permission. 
"They never asked if we had gotten permission, and it wasn't even his name," Griffith said. "It's 'Poor' and then 'Man' with a capital M." 
This general policy does not seem to apply to names besides Poorman's or other University administrators. Uncensored team names include references to, among others, former Irish quarterback Ron Powlus, former Irish football coach Bob Davie, pop singer Britney Spears, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Minnesota Vikings assistant coach George O'Leary. 
Out Faster Than George O'Leary captain Jeff Simko said he was unaware of any rule about requesting permission from O'Leary. 
"What do you think? Of course not. We definitely didn't call him," Simko said. 
Coughlin claims he questioned names with O'Leary and Davie in them but did not censor them. 
"I highlighted both those names so if they are in there, I don't know what to tell you," Coughlin said. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

bers of opposing viewpoints, Maskey emphasized, not to
Maskey 

convert Catholics and Protestants to opposite sides
continued from page 1 

of the issue. He stressed the 
"The goal is to forge fruitful importance of neighbors links between Catholics and accepting the fact that their Protestants in North Belfast," "enemies" are entitled to the he said. "We must live side by same right to conviction as side with people we mistrust they are. and fear ... we need both Although there have been strong partners and strong countless success stories 
partnerships." throughout Intercomm's 
Due to the seven years complexities of existence, of the con­"Local people creating Maskey men­
flict, Maskey relationships with tions that 
admits that there are still
local people is the only 
peace is not_ those commu­
easily way to build local nity members found, and peace. " who refuse to recognizes cooperate in that North the peace
Liam Maskey
Belfast's process. 
large num­lntercomm founder Maskey refers 
ber of "interface areas" -those zones where relations between religious factions are most inflamed ­have been increasingly entrenched by fear, displace­ment, and continuous vio­lence. "In fact, for many years, political insecurities and conflict has been a fea­ture of North Belfast life," he said. 
Maskey summed his and Mitchell's v1s1on for lntercomrn by emphasizing their dedication to exacting a tangible change in the atti­tudes and activities of com­munity members toward each other. "Only by addressing [it] ... can we reach the peace-building process," he said. 
Intercomm exists to empower local communities in forging bonds with mem­

to them as 
"spoilers," and insists on the necessity of collaborating with them. 
"Spoilers are people who don't want the peace process to work for one reason or another ... it's a challenge for us -a prerequeisite in the peace process is that we work with spoilers. 
This. quite often, has required some imagination," he said. 
"Local people creating rela­tionships with local people is the only way to build local peace." 
The community develop­ment projects implemented by Maskey's organization have targeted those local people who need the inter­vention most. He describes North Belfast as "a patch­work quilt," with pockets of Catholics and Protestants dis­persed throughout the com­munity. e's goal in that situa­tion is to rejuvenate interface areas, with housing improve­ments, youth groups, and economic renewal. 
All of this has required not only the support of local com­munity members, but addi­tionally the willingness of various paramilitary groups to cooperate on various pro­jects. 
In terms of expanding Intercomm's volunteer base, Maskey sees this necessary contact as a slight problem. 
"Some people like to help when things are rosy," he said, "but when it comes to working with paramilitary groups, they walk away." 
One of the most promising programs 

stereotypes that permeate the air. 
"It's amazing to sBe some of the misconceptions our youth have about the other side ... and even about their own political backgrounds," he said. Because of that, much of the peace process that has targeted the younger genera­tions has dealt with education and a common understand­ing. 
Maskey calls it a "holistic approach to peacehuilding," and, while confident that his efforts will effect unquestion­able change, remains realis­tic in light of the current situ­ation. 
"In many ways, [my work] is just beginning," he said, adding, "I believe we are fac­
ing possibly 

t h a t the darkest
"When peace was 
Intercomm day in our
announced in
has estab­p e a c e lished is the 1984 in Belfast, we process," a Breakwater fact which
cried,
Y o u t h serves to 
we laughed, we jumped
Initiative, underscore w h e r e for joy ... and we the impor­
Catholic and messed it up." tance of 
Protestant establishing youth groups a strong
Liam Maskey
merged to foundation of promote lntercomm Founder understand-
understand­ing and col­laboration. Maskey remains a firm believer in the power of youth to change the current situation in which their par­ents are embroiled. 
"If you're living in North Belfast and you're 40 years of age or older, you're not pre­pared to move on," he said, adding that the cooperation of the youth lies at the heart of the hope for North Belfast, erasing prejudices and 

ing upon which to build. 
"When peace was announced in 1984 in Belfast, we cried, we laughed, we jumped for joy ... and we messed it up," he said. "It's important; indeed, it's imper­ative that we can carry this work into the long term." 
Contact Megan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 

The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com.,, for more information 
W0RL
............. ATION 
Friday, April 12, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush meets Chinese Vice President: 
Chinese Vice President Hu Jintao, the heir apparent to President .Jiang Zemin, will meet with PresidenL Bush and Vice President Di.ck Cheney on May 1. Hues trip was announced when Bush went to Beijing in February. The White I-louse formally said Thursday that Hu will meeL his counterpart, Cheney, to discuss an array of issues. 
Venezuelan troops invade airport: 
Army troops seized key installations and the airport in Caracas late Thursday to keep President Hugo Chavez from leaving the country. Earlier in the day, National Guard troops clashed with pro-Chavez gunmen and parlicipants in a 150,000-strong opposition march. At least 12 people were killed and as many as 110 wounded, officials said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
L.A. police clear Calif. cardinal: 
Police dismissed a mentally ill woman's claim Thursday in Fresno that she was molested 32 years ago by Los Angeles Cardinal Roger Mahony. Lt. Dwayne Johnson said there was no physical evidence or witnesses to ,support the allegation made last month by Flora Mae Hickman. who said she had been diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic. Hickman, 51, of Fresno, said Mahony sexually assaulted her when she was a student at San Joaquin Memorial Catholic High School in 1969. 
Chicago court asks for disclosure: 
A federal judge has given the Justice Department until Tuesday to explain why it must use secret evidence, so far shown only to the judge, against an Islamic charity accused of having terrorist links. The govern­ment has maintained in a similar case that revealing such evidence in open court could jeopardize national security. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Hospital opens after abuse claims: 
The Evansville State Hospital has reopened an internal investigation into allegations of abuse by hospital workers. Superintendent Ralph Nichols reopened the case this week after a psychiatric attendant claimed he wit­nessed abuse by a co-worker. Nichols had previously said that an internal investigation determined there was no merit to the alle­gation. An investigation by the Indiana State Police had been expected to be completed this week and a report sent to the Vanderburgh County prosecutor's office. 
Market Watch April 11 
Dow 10,176.08 -205.65 Jones 

COMPANY/SECURITY "kCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) 0.00 UNCH 4. 77 
NASDAQ-100 (QQQ) -2.48 -0.84 33.00 GEN ELECTRIC (GE) -9.27 -3.45 33.75 SUN MICRO (SUNW) -4.20 -0.34 7.76 CISCO SYS (CSCO) -4.37 -0.68 14.87 
ISRAEL 


Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
Israel pulled out of two dozen small West Bank towns and villages Thursday, but swept into others and rounded up more Palestinian men despite U.S. calls and inter­national pressure to end the 2-week-old campaign to root out militants. 
Israel's army says 4,185 Palestinians have been detained in the operation -nearly half of them in the past two days as fight­ers in the key northern West Bank cities of Jenin and Nablus, their numbers depleted in battle, ran out of ammunition and surren­dered. 
Among those in custody were 121 Palestinians who had been on Israel's want­ed list, the army said. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell arrived in Israel in the evening and was expected to meet with both Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, who has been kept a virtual prisoner by Israel in his besieged compound in Ramallah. 
On Thursday, Sharon acknowledged the fighting was causing the United States difficulties, but refused to call a halt to the incursion. 
In Gaza, an armed Palestinian went through the Erez crossing in to Israel early Friday and opened fire, wounding four Israelis -one seriously ­and three Palestinians before he was shot and killed, Israel Radio and Army Radio reported. The military had no immediate comment. 
There has been rising anti-American sentiment throughout the Arab world in response to Israel's offensive, launched two weeks ago to crush Palestinian militias after a series of deadly attacks on Israeli civilians. 

"They (the Americans) have problems in the region, that's true, but I informed them that our activity will continue -and it will continue," Sharon said. 
The United States, along with the United Nations and European leaders, has demanded an immediate Israeli pullout from the West Bank. 
Powell was visiting the region in an attempt to secure a cease-fire and restart peace talks. 
ln what appeared to be a gesture ahead of Powell's arrival, Israeli forces with­drew from about two dozen towns and villages. 
U.S. boycotts war crimes tribunal 
chamber was empty. The United court to fill a gap first noticed in 1948,
Associated Press 

States boycotted the ceremony, just as after the Nuremberg and Tokyo trials UNITED NATIONS it has not attended meetings prepar­of German and Japanese war crimes Despite vehement U.S. opposition, ing for the court's operations since last during World War II. Since then, laws the world's first permanent war year. and treaties have outlawed genocide, crimes tribunal will come into force on "Those who commit war crimes, poison gas and chemical weapons, July 1, after receiving more than the genocide or other crimes against among other things -but no mecha­60 needed ratifications Thursday from humanity will no longer be beyond the nism has held individuals criminally 
U.S. allies and nations around the reach of justice," U .N. Secretary­responsible. globe. General Kofi Annan said in a video The United States has been the only 
Hundreds of supporters of the court statement from Rome. "Humanity will vocal opponent of the permanent rose to their feet in a standing ovation be able to defend itself -responding court, fearing its citizens would be after 10 nations deposited Lheir ratifi­to the worst of human nature with one subject to frivolous or politically moti­cations of the Rome treaty, which of the greatest human achievements: vated prosecutions. Washington has establishes the International Criminal the rule of law." campaigned unsuccessfully to exempt Court. Many countries and organizations U.S. soldiers and officials from the 
But the U.S. seat in the crowded have campaigned for years for the court. 
page 6 The Obseroer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 12, 2002 

House approves pension reform bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Legislative efforts to give workers greater control over their employer-sponsored retire­ment plans are turning to the Democratic-controlled Senate, where broader changes in pen­sion law are being considered. 
That sets up a potential battle later this year with House Republicans, who pushed through more modest protec­tions in a bill Thursday on a 255-163 vote. Forty-six Democrats joined Republicans to pass the House bill that contains much of President Bush's retire­ment savings protection plan designed to prevent another Enron Corp. debacle. 
"Employees need more infor­mation about their pension plans and more control over them," Bush said Thursday. "The reforms will give employ­ees better access to investment advice, additional notice of blackouts and increased ability to diversify." 
About 42 million Americans hold 401(k) accounts, with $2 trillion in assets. 
The Senate isn't moving as quickly on its retirement savings bills, and likely will not begin full debate until summer. 
Senate Democrats are press­ing for tighter limits on how much company stock workers may have in their 401(k) accounts. Thousands of workers at Enron, the Houston-based energy trader, who were heavily invested in company stock lost their retirement savings when the company collapsed in December. 
Labor law limits to 10 percent the assets of a traditional pen­sion plan that may be held in employer stock or property. But Congress years ago exempted 401 (k)s from that provision, hop­ing to encourage employers to offer the plans. Employers get tax breaks for matching contri­butions. 
A bill by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., which nar­rowly passed the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee last month, would limit company stock investments by requiring a choice: An 
employer that offers a 401(k) 
plan could make matching con­
tributions in company stock or 
offer the stock as a separate 
investment option, but not both. 
Republicans oppose that plan 
because they say it will cause 
companies to stop making 
matching contributions or cease 
offering retirement packages 
altogether. 
"The administration wiII 
oppose legislation that discour­
ages employers from sponsoring 
and making contributions to 
retirement plans for American 
workers and their families," the 
White House said in a statement 
Thursday. 
Business groups traditionally allied with Republicans urged lawmakers to act with caution, especially in the Senate. 
"We continue to urge Congress and the Bush administration to avoid a 'ready, fire, aim' response and to carefully con­sider all the facts before rushing into potentially detrimental, nearsighted action," said Dorothy Coleman, a vice presi­dent of the National Association of Manufacturers. 
A retirement law overhaul bill hasn't emerged yet from the Senate Finance Committee. 
Republicans took a far differ­ent approach in the House bill, which does not require invest­ment diversification and instead encourages education. 
One hotly contested provision allows workers to receive invest­ment advice from the same com­panies that manage their 401 (k) retirement accounts. 
Democrats oppose that idea because they say the advice would be. tainted by financial conflicts of interest. 
"What employees do not need in the wake of Enron is an open door for conflicts of interest," said Rep. George Miller, D-Calif. "The Enron tragedy was one giant conflict of interest that robbed hardworking employees of their savings." 
Republicans said the legisla, tion would provide much-needed investment advice to workers and require disclosure of any potential conflicts. The House bill also would let workers pay for their own investment advice with pretax dollars deducted from their paychecks. 
The Notre Dame Department of Film.Television, and Theatre presents 
Wednesday-Saturday 
April 17-20, 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday 
April 21, 2:30 p.m. 
Post-performance 
discussion on 
Wednesday, Tilursday, 
Friday and Saturday. 
Reserved seats: $10 Senior citizens: $9 Students: $7 
Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office or by <;ailing 574-631-8128. 
by BERTOLT BRECHT TRANSLATION BY DAVID HARE DIRECTED BY GUEST ARTIST HOLGER TESCHKE 
For more irJformation, please visit www.nd.edu/~ftt/mainstage.html 

GOP building alliances with unions 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON 
The U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce and the AFL-CIO 
each built their headquarters 
within a few blocks of the 
White House, but the nation's 
largest business lobby and its 
biggest union seemed to work 
miles apart politically. 

Their new neighbor just might be bringing them closer together. 
From steel tariffs to Alaskan oil drilling, Hepublicans and business interests are building alliances with union workers that could affect where and how organized labor provides support in the fall congression­al elections. 
The latest example came Thursday when the Chamber and AFL-CIO, traditional rivals, joined to lobby for an overhaul of immigration laws. Both want to win legal status for millions of illegal immi­grants now working in the United States. 
AFL-CIO President John Sweeney and Chamber President Thomas Donohue stood side by side to announce their coalition. 
"A few years ago people would have said those people will never be on a platform together unless they're arguing with one another," Donohue said. 
Immigration is one of several issues bringing together the Republican-leaning Chamber and the AFL-CIO, one of the Democratic Party's key con­stituents. 
They also want Congress and President Bush to provide health care coverage for the uninsured. On Wednesday, they jointly filed court argu­ments against new campaign finance restrictions. 
Bush and labor unions also 
are finding more common 
ground. 
A solid majority of union members backed Democrat Al Gore in the 2000 presidential election that Bush narrowly won. 
Since then, Bush and unions have pushed to expand coal mining and open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, and have supported safety standards for Mexican trucks entering the United States in addition to tariffs to protect the U.S. steel industry. 
Bush this week stood beside business executives and labor leaders to urge Congress to approve government-backed terrorism insurance to get con­struction projects rolling again. 
The Bush administration has relaxed financial oversight of the Teamsters union that had been prompted by a corruption investigation. In a symbolic gesture,· Bush reserved a seat for Teamsters President James 
P. Hoffa at the State of the Union address in January. 
The efforts could have impli­cations for the fall election for control of Congress and beyond, analysts said. 
Unions, which have run mil­lions of dollars in issue ads since 1996 aimed at unseating Republicans, may find their members less inspired tt'J cam­paign for Democrats or against Republicans. 
"What it mostly means is they don't have a strong moti­vation to go out there and pun­ish the Republicans because of the president," said Charles Jones, a University of Wisconsin political science professor. 
Some blue-collar workers, a constituency Ronald Reagan successfully courted two decades ago, agree. 

United Auto Workers Local 
228 member Marvin Montpetit 
of Warren, Mich., voted for 
Bush in 2000 and plans to vote 
for his re-election. While he 
backs the UAW leadership, 
Montpetit said the union and 
organized labor in general 
"blindly" support Democrats in 
most elections. 

"If it's a Democrat they vote for him no matter what he believes," said Montpetit, a maintenance welder who sup­ports Bush's efforts to combat terrorism and who, like Bush. opposes abortion. 
Chicago road-construction worker Brendan Gardiner. a member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 134 and a life­long Democrat, said he voted for Gore and doubts he will back Bush in 2004; he is unim­pressed by Bush's overtures to labor leaders. 
"It's just window dressing and an attempt to take the wind out of our sails," said Gardiner, who likes the way Bush has handled the war on terrorism but is more con­cerned about what he will do for unions. 
An AFL-CIO survey after the 2000 election found 60 percent of members polled considered themselves Democratic, 22 percent Republican and 18 percent independent. 
"The Democrats could do themselves some damage by allowing the president to usurp the party's post-New Deal commitment to labor," said Mark Petracca of the University of California, Irvine. "The one thing about labor is two things: A, people vote, and B, there's money." 
Democrats scoff at the notion they'll lose masses of union workers. 
Drumbeats and Dia1ogue New Rhythms for Diversity in Education 
Symposium convened by the African and African Studies Program University of Notre Dame 16-17 Apri1 2002 Keynote Speaker and Workshop Facilitator Roland Smith, Ed.D. Associate Provost• Rice University• Houston, Texas Schedule of Events Tuesday• 16 April 2002 

7 : 0 O PM -Keynote Address: 
Planning for Diversity: Some Reflections on Best Practices 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium irrnnediately following in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall 
Wednesday• 17 April 2002 9:00 AM-Workshop #1 
Diversity and Curriculum: Values, Ideals, and Objectives 
Hesburgh Center Rooms Cl04-105 
10:45 AM -workshop #2 

Defining Outreach and Its Implications for Diversity 
Hesburgh Center Rooms C104-105 
2: 00 PM -Workshop #3 

Rethinking Faculty and Staff Recruitment and Retention 
Hesburgh Center Room C103 
5:00 PM-Fireside Chat 

Building Friendships and Maintaining Community 
Morris Inn• Notre Dame Room 
Event Coordinators 

Gina v. Shropshire, Ph.D. • Mendoza College of Business Hugh R. Page Jr. Ph.D. • Theology Department/Director of African and African American Studies Program 
co-Sponsors 




Friday, April 12, 2002 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Women leaders promote social change 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
Joann Kane, CEO of McAuley Institute, and Sylvia Puente, of the Latino Studies Department at Notre Dame. spoke together Thursday in a forum about the importance of women as com• munity leaders. 
The forum, "Women as Catalysts for Social Change: Women's Leadership and Community Development." allowed the women to share their ideas about how commu• nities can work together to fulfill their needs. 
A grant has allowed Puente to work with community mem­bers, especially immigrants, so that everyone is involved in building the kind of communi• ty they would like and still be able to afford it. Puente does Institute was formed by the this through surveys of what Sisters of Marcy of the the community needs. Americas in 1984 and has 

"The community can decide since made affordable housing for itself what it needs for 10,000 people nationwide. 
through  "We  are  
assessments," Puente said. "For the past year I have  "We work in public policy for not only the immediate needs ofthe  consultants and coun­selors," Kane said.  
worked in Mexican immigrant  community but for the future.,.  "We work in public policy for not only  
communities  the immedi•  
outside  Joann Kane  ate needs of  
Chicago. Their first  CEO, McAuley Institute  the commu­nity but for  
priority  was  the future."  

education, not surprisingly, as The Institute has also .it is in most cases." formed a peer support group 
The McAuley Institute also for women across America, works in developing communi· known as The National ties by focusing on homeless­Network of Women in ness among low-income Community Development. It is women and their families. The open to all women working in communities who share a commitment to their commu­nity's goals and missions. 
"Women leaders are essen­tial to operate outside the bounds," Kane said. "A lot of people say women are moti­vated by children and family, but that is only one entity of their identity." 
Joann Kane and Sister Jean Forkin of the McAuley Institute will be discussing opportunities for internships and how students can-become involved in the new collegiate level of the National Network for Women in Community Development today at noon in the Wedge Room of the dining hall. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
ND opts not to formally affirm workers' rights 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has rejected a proposal by the Progressive Student Alliance for the University to make a formal statement affirming the rights of workers in the Catholic tradi• tion. 
Since its inception. the PSA has been working on labor issues. "There was the sweat• shop campaign, fair trade cof• fee and taco-bell boycotts ... but throughout this year, we have been talking to labor and taking in their concerns. It just seemed that the logical next step would be on campus," said Paul Graham, PSA co-presi­dent. 
On March 20, the PSA sent the proposal to University President Father Edward Malloy's office and requested that the school consider the proposition and act by April 4. The letter stated that in keep­ing with Catholic teachings, the University should make a state• ment that adheres to Catholic social teaching on the rights of labor and also that it won't hin· der or help the workers of Notre Dame in forming unions. Thus, the University will have a firm basis in order to respect the dignity of all labor on cam• pus. 
"If they make a statement, especially one that could be legally binding, there is a base on which the labor and those sympathetic to their con~itions could start," said Graham. 
On April 4 University spokesman Dennis Moore sent a letter to the PSA rejecting their request. The letter assert­ed that the University does rec• ognize the dignity of each of its employees to organize and form unions and said the University did not agree with the PSA's proposal. 
"If the University were to believe that organizing was in the best interest of a group of workers, why would we not seek to help in that? On the other hand, if we did not believe that such a move was in the workers' interests, why would we [the University} not say so, consistent with the law?" Moore wrote. 

Charles Wilber, professor of economics said, "I thought the University's statement issued by Dennis Moore was reason­able. It confirms the University's acceptance of Catholic social thought but, of course, doesn't pledge to help its workers organize or raise their pay. I think asking the University to make a public statement was not an appropri• ate tactic." 
Graham and other members of the PSA are not discouraged by Notre Dame's response but will seek to get clarification of the letter they received. 
"We are trying to get a hold of the University to clarify their statement," said Graham. "What we need to do is work on organizing the labor on campus for support." 
Currently the University requires that all its suppliers and vendors give workers the right to organize into unions but it currently does not extend this right to its own workers. The PSA proposal requests that 
Notre Dame guarantee its employees the right to orga­nize. 
In the late 1970s. Notre Dame agreed to contract out only to organized labor. Other than contracted labor, no workers on the Notre Dame campus are unionized, not even faculty. 
Notre Dame in 1997 became the first university to establish a code of conduct for its licensees and in 1999 it became the first to begin monitoring overseas factories that manu• facture its licensed products. The requirement of the right to organize, which will be added to the University's code of con• duct and become part of its contractual agreement with licensees, will require that all countries where Notre Dame licensed products are made be signatories to the relevant International Labor Organization treaties and/or have national laws guarantee· ing the legal rights of free asso• ciation and union organizing. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
fee-(;."l'cie.-C4e-06-je,,t,ve,,t,. , 
NATIONALALCOHOL SCREENING DAY 
DRINKING MORE AND ENJOYING IT LESS? 
Today, from 10:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education (OADE) will provide brief, confidential alcohol screenings for students. 
Screenings will take about 15 minutes, no appointment necessary. the office is located at 311 LaFortune Student Center. 
Students may also participate in an on-line confidential drinking survey at www.fau.edu/student/aod. Immediate feedback provided. 
SMC frosh 
elected vice president of 
Flipside 
By JILL MAX.BAVER 
News Writer 
For the first time in its his­tory, FlipSide has elected a Saint Mary's student as co­president to the alcohol-free campus club. 
Saint Mary's freshman Liesl Yost snd Notre Dame freshman Margaret Dois were elected co-presidents of Flipside. 
While a Saint Mary's stu­dent is not allowed to run for president of a Notre Dame club, she is allowed to run with a Notre Dame student to hold a joint leadership posi­tion. 
"Thankfully, one of m:y friends [Doig] had already spoken to me about running with her, and we wanted tu run as co-presidents because it worked so well this past year," Yost said. 
Doig said, "It may sound unusual to have two fresh­men as presidents, but everyone encourages the younger members to get as involved as they can. It works out really well ... and we now have multiple ex­presidents and many other knowledgeable upper class­men to help us out. 
"As for Lies! herself: she is very hard-working and intel­ligent ... I'm lucky to have the opportunity to work with her this way. We've only been in office a very short time, but we have already found various goals to tack• 
..
l

e. 
The club was founded to provide non-alcoholic alter­natives to students. 
"Our main goal obviously is to show that drinking isn't necessary to have fun, and we continue to offer a posi­tive social environment for those students who choose not to drink," Yost said. 
Yost believes FlipSide has more of a presence at Saint Mary's this year because of the housing of several events, including a Hollywood dance and a toga party. 
"BOG [Saint Mary's student government}. has also been 
,involved in making FlipSide's presence known by co-spon­soring some of the events, which obviously plays a big role," Yost said. "But that is not to undercut the roles that SMC women have taken in the club itself. It makes sense that as we start to get more SMC students working with FlipSide that the role will be a bigger one. 
"FlipSide moved one of its main events to another day because it would have con­flicted with our all-school formal. If we didn't have SMC students, I doubt it would have been addressed at all." 
FlipSide sponsors alcohol­free events every weekend. This weekend the improv group "Comedy Sportz" from Chicago will be performing. 
Contact Jill Maxbauer at ma:xb3 l 26@saintmarys.edu. 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Friday, April 12, 2002 
Cuban diplomat and his family vanish in Panama 
Asso~atcd Press 
PANAMA CITY 
A Cuban diplomat once expelled from Canada for espi­onage has vanished in Panama, and Cuban Embassy officials are calling him a turncoat. 
Orlando Brito Pestana, the Cuban Embassy's commercial attache, disappeared along with his wife and family, embassy spokesman Alexis Fruto said. 
It wasn't clear if Brito had lert Panama. Cuban officials have asked that his diplomatic status be removed. 
Asked about allegations that Brito had been a spy, Fruto replied, "Really, I don't know. Like all traitors, he is going to say things." 
The Miami Herald reported on Thursday that U.S. and Panamanian officials said Brito had defected and had been brought to the United States. 
Neither the Panamanian Foreign Ministry nor Panamanian security officials would confirm that report. 
Foreign Minister Jose Miguel Aleman said last week that Brito had disappeared. He added that there are no indi­cations he was a crime victim. 

In 1994, Canada expelled Brito, then a vice consul, for alleged espionage. 
The Herald reported that 
U.S. officials later blocked an attempt to have him stationed 
. at the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, which serves as a quasi-embassy. 
The Herald quoted a Panamanian security adviser as saying Brito approached Panamanian officials on March 2 7 and was flown to the United States two days later using false documents. 
It quoted U.S. government 
,t\mericans hostage in Philippines 
Ac.,,,cia1ed Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration is monitoring negotiations aimed at winning the release of two :\merican missionaries who have been held hostage by rebels in the Philippines for nearly a year, senior U.S. offi­cials said Thursday night. 
The officials said that the negotiations were being con­ducted by a group known to the rebels and that the talks were at a delicate stage. The negotia­tors were not identified. 
The discussions involved pos­sible payments of several hun­dred tho.usand dollars and other considerations, the offi­cials said, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. One official said the negotiations were being monitored by the highest levels at the White House, intel­ligence, and law enforcement agencies. 
"There has been some 
progress and activity as recent as todav," the official said late Thursday. 
The officials also said they were encouraged by evidence that the two missionaries were still alive. 
Abu Sayyaf, a Muslim extrem­ist group with links to Sept. 11 suspect Osama bin Lad en. is holding Martin and Gracia Burnham of Wichita, Kan., and Ediborah Yap, a nurse from the Philippines. 
The negotiations, first report­ed by The Washington Times, come less than a month after the State Department acknowl­edged a growing threat of kid­nappings across the world and announced a change in the United States' decade-s old hostage negotiation policy. 
The Bush administration shifted the policy by pledging to "make every effort" to gain the release of any American kid­napped overseas. 
Previously, the U.S. govern­ment focused on protecting its 
Write for Observer News Call Helena at 1-5323 
The ND Department of Music Presents 
ND Collegium Musicum 
directed by Daniel Stowe 
Performing Bach's Singet dem Herrn, BWV 225, and motets by Gabrieli and Schutz Friday, April 12, 2002 
8:00 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel Free and open to the public (574) 631-6201 for information 
BIG T ~§T{E 


16 Inch 2 Topping "Big E" Pizza $8.99! 
Hurry........Limited time only! 

Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood [Next to SUBWAY] 

diplomats and workers around the world and didn't review every private kidnapping case "to the extent to which it would be examined now," State Department Hichard Boucher said. 
But the State Department also reaffirmed its commitment to some parts of the original poli­cy, ruling out paying ransom or making other concessions. It advised corporations with kid­napped employees to do the same. 
Abu Sayyaf gunmen raided the Dos Palmas resort last May 27 and abducted three Americans and 17 Filipinos. All of the hostages were taken to Abu Sayyaf strongholds on Basilan Island near Zamboanga. 
Abu Sayyaf seized other cap­tives on Basilan last year. Most of the hostages escaped or were released for ransom. Others were killed, including Guillermo Sobero of Corona, Calif. 
officials as saying he was being debriefed by U.S. intelli­gence agencies. 
Cuba has extensive dealings with Panama-based companies that export food, cars, machin­ery and other goods to the communist island. 

Helations between the two governments have been strained since November 2000, when Cuban President Fidel Castro attended an Ibero-American summit here and announced that a Cuban exile, Luis Posada Carriles, had infiltrated the country in a plot to kill him. 
Panama arrested Posada 

and several alleged accom­plices. but it' has refused Cuban demands to extradite him to the island and has said it lacks enough evidence to try him for attempted murder. He is being held on weapons and other charges. 
Ravmond Molina, the lead~r of a· Cuban dissident group based in Panama, Cuban Unity, said Thursday that "trustworthy sources" had reported that Brito was in Washington, D.C. 
Recycle the Observer 


Odd Jobs keeping you do'NI)? 
I 

The Career Center is Now Hiring ... 
The Career Center is searching for students to work as Career Assistants in the 2002-2003 school year. 
For more information please contact: Kara Urschel, Career Assistant Manager 114 Flanner Hall • 631-4061 urschel.2@nd.edu 
Applications are available in 114 Flanner Application deadline is April 17 
ti:~ http://careercenter.nd.edu 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applications for the position of Admission Counselor 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions sraff, the Counselor is expect.Cd to make an important contribution IO the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include ex.tensive planning, travel, communications within the 
geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual 
information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities, including the possibility 
of diversity recruitment, will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm. 
diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday 
mornings. 
Preferred start date is July I. 2002. 
Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference information by Wednesday, April 17, 2002 to: 
Admissions Counselor Job# 2007-077 Department of Human Resources University or Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Friday, April 12, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Military uses NASA images in combat missions Oregon teen 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
The Navy has been using NASA satellite data to help guide ships and planes in the war in Afghanistan. 
This marks the first time the military has employed the space agency's up-to-date information in combat, Navv officials said on Thursday. · 
Some in Congress have expressed concerns that NASA risks overstepping its 44-year-old civilian charter. though military planners say the images they have been using are unclassified. 
That information is avail­able to "anyone and every­one," including a host of fed­eral agencies and foreign governments, said NASA spokesman David Steitz. 
He said NASA has no qualms about the military's use of the images, which was first reported this week in Aviation Week & Space Technology magazine. 
"Our nation's at war. We're part of the federal govern­ment," Steitz said. "If that helps save American lives, great." 
The military used NASA satellite images in the Gulf War, but that information was archived, not recent. 
In Afghanistan, the images have been especially helpful in spotting swirling clouds of dust that cause hazardous conditions for U.S. pilots and ships involved in the battle, Navy officials said. 
In October, the imagery helped commanders steer 

carrier battle groups out of dust storms in the Arabian Sea that had limited visibility to lhree feet. 
The satellite data is also being used to study weather conditions that could hamper laser-or optically guided weapons. 
Sean O'Keefe, NASA's new administrator, appointed by President Bush, has called for closer ties with the Pentagon since he took over the post earlier this year. 
Sen. Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat who chairs the committee that funds NASA, has expressed reservations about the grow­ing cooperation between the military and the space agency. 
"We've got to be very care­ful about the historic firewall between military space and civilian space," she told O'Kcefe during a joint visit at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland earlier this year. 
She added, however, that she does not have a problem with the Pentagon's use of NASA's unclassified data. 
Others in Congress support­ed the project. 
"All Americans and civilian agencies are being asked to do their part to help in the war effort," said Rep. Dave Weldon, whose district includes the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Fla. 
"1 commend the adminis­tration in employing NASA and any and all capabilities of the federal government to win this war on terrorism." 
Wrestling With Career Choices! 
There are so many choices out there-tor you. Which career will win? Life is more than a career. 
You could be happy doing so many things. But, what would make you the happiest? Ten years from now, when you look back, will you tell yourself you made the very best choice? 
Maybe you have never considered religious life. Maybe you should ... 
To find out more aboutreligious life, contact: 
Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP, Vocation Director DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 
Phone 217.787.0481 • FAX 217.787-8169 1237 West Monroe • Springfield, IL 62704 e-mail: SEMRamirez@spdom.org website: www.springfieldop.org 


arraigned in psychologist death 
Associated Press 
BANDON, Orr.. 

A 14-year-old boy was arraigned on charges of rapi.ng and clubbing to death a 52­year-old psychologist whose body was found on a beach. 
The suspect lived several· miles from the spot where the body of Judith Elman was dis­covered Sunday, said R. Paul Frasier, chief deputy district attorney for Coos County. 
Raymond Perkins, is charged with aggravated murder, rape. sexual abuse and unauthorized use of a motor vehicle. The last charge stems from a joy ride police say he took in Elman's car after she was killed. 
The boy was arraigned in juvenile court. He is too young for his case to be automatically remanded to an adult court under Oregon's mandatory sen­tencing guidelines. 
Outside the courtroom, the boy's mother, Patricia Perkins, said her son "obviously needs medical care." 
"1 will not accept what my son has done. Neither should any­J?ody else. But he's a 14-year-old child and we love him," he said. 
Elman's body was found just north of Bandon. She had been walking or jogging on the beach. 
The boy was taken into cus­tody Wednesday after two peo­ple called police to say they had seen him and Elman on the beach, authorities said. 
Elman, a clinical psychologist who specialized in the relation­ship between physical fitness and mental health. 

START HERE. GO PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
www.5TARTHEREG . PLACES.C . M/BIZ7 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, April 12, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q_, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dini.ng Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
l\,IANAGlNG EDITOR  BusINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OrERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Hdeua Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SA.INT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egrs PHOTO EDITOR, Ndlie William, 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Seo rt Brodfuehrer 
CoNTROU.ER: Lori Lewalski 
DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: l,manda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENERAI. INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-{,900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4 542 MANAGING EDIToRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OmcE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS............ ..............................................631-5323 
observer.o bsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPO!Nf.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS.........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA.llv'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS....... .........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online featur.s for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campl!S coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du kc and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department .~ditors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lercers is encouraged. Letters to ,he Editor musr be signed and mw;t indude contact information. 
Qutstions regarding Observerpolicies rhould be direct­ed to Editor in Ch,,fjasou McFarlcy. 

Turbulent times on campus 

These are turbulent times on the Notre bring the unique du Lac experience to tive recommendations and ask for clari­Dame campus. the table. fication. Rather, students expect that 
Students have been reacting to newly The study's numbers are impressive. their first review of the policy will be the announced restrictions on alcohol con­The task force estimated that drinking final draft. sumption, dormitory functions and social by college students contributes to 1,400 Will rectors and graduate students be galherings. deaths each year, 500,000 injuries and permitted to possess so-called "hard" Following several 70,000 cases of sexual assault or date alcohol in the dormitories? Is there a protest demonstra­rape. Also, 400.000 students between 18 possibility that a ban on dormitory tions, student gov­and 24 years old reported having had dances can be changed or is it the ernment leaders unprotected sex as a result of drinking. University's way of limiting their liabili­have attempted to The more interesting statistics are the ty'? During football weekends will the seek a place at the top categories of abusers. Freshmen, University finally crack down on rowdy table when the new sorority sisters, fraternity brothers and visitors who walk unhindered with open policies are written athletes are the worst abusers of alcohol containers of beer across the campus 
i.n detail this sum­consumption and presumably the dead, quads? mer. Thus far, it injured, aggressors and rape victims. College students like to drink. My gen­appears that Notre Dame. with no fraternities or eration was no exception. Neither is University officials sororities, could have opted to use that President Bush's children's generation. will offer lip service fact to focus its new policy on the alcohol Addressing the problems associated with to the students and aspect. Hather, it chose to customize its drinking is a difficult task. But until our turn a deaf car on policy to limit dormitory functions such society takes a more European attitude them. as the time-honored SYR traditional towards the matter so that young per­
Just as it seemed dance. sons do not feel compelled to enhance that the administration would wiggle Rather than focus on actual campus their relaxation time aft.er a tough acad­away from the student wrath as exami­situations. Malloy was quoted referring emic regimen, the neutron bomb nation period approaches. the University to students on spring break vacation by approach will continue for liability pur­must now circle the wagons to address a saying, "All you have to do is look at a poses. potential scandal involving student ath­couple of cable television channels who Notre Dame is a wonderful place to letes. The deaf ears will soon turn to cover spring break where endless visit and for most a wonderful place to mute tongues. groups of drunken students get up and attend college. The disheartening com­
Student government leaders should say Tm having the greatest time here' ments by the frustrated student leader closely follow the schedule of University and then you recognize on the basis of about attending another university is a President Father Edward Malloy. If they these statistics what the fallout of the tragic commentary about campus life. had, they could have foreseen that great time is." With national attention about to focus on Malloy, co-chairman of a study by the As it has in the past during my under­student athletes, the University vice can nationally constituted Task Force on graduate years and as has been its usual only be expected to further tighten. College Drinking, was forced to institute practice afterward, University officials changes on his campus before suggest­tend to take a neutron approach to regu­Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame class of ing changes for others. latory policies. In a recent phone conver­'73, served in President Clinton's admin­
The task force of researchers, college sation at half past midnight last night, istration as a Congressional and Public presidents and students was convened in one student leader sounded utterly Affairs Director. His column appears 1998 by the National Institute on Alcohol exhausted and frustrated. The student every other Friday, and his Internet Abuse and Alcoholism, part of the wondered if attending Notre Dame was address is Hottline@aol.com. National Institutes of Health. It would the right decision. The student said that The views expressed in this column have been nice for Malloy, as co-chair, to all the student government leaders want are those ofthe author and not neces­have included a Notre Dame student to is a place at the table to contribute posi-sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Israel encouraging terrorism 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Meghanne Amanda Greco Downes Graphics Courtney Boyle Jimmy Atkinson 
John Fanning Production Sports Chris Federico Bryan Kronk Joe Hettler 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kurt Bogaard Kylie Carter 

This letter is written in response to Luke Burke's April 11 letter. 
Ariel Sharon and his government have systematically undermined the authority ofYasser Arafat through military strikes and incursions into the territories to the point where his grip over Palestinian affairs virtually no longer exists. Sharon has all but eliminated that ability of the only Palestinian leader who has ever voiced any desire for a last­ing peace with Israel to govern his own people and in the process set the stage for the ascension of militant organiza­tions such as Hamas to fill the power vacuum as the new representatives and voice of the Palestinian people. 
Sharon has ordered attacks on the entire security and gov­erning institutions that maintain what little stability existed in the region and destroyed Arafat's ability to comply with any Israeli demands to reign in terror. The Palestinian terri­tories have become fertile grounds for the development and growth of true terrorist organizations. These organizations do not even pretend to negotiate. These organizations will never understand peaceful coexistence. but simply blood­shed and bombs. With their leader Arafat recently blockaded in his Ramallah office and under constant siege by the Israeli 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church? 
*Poll courtesy of NDToday.com 

military, the Palestinians will soon begin accepting resumes in their search for new leaders. These organizations are the prospective candidates. 
While Sharon is busy dealing with Arafat and the power structures of his government. the dozen main terrorists groups that operate inside of Israel who have taken a back seat in the past decade to the peace process find their popu­larity rising. They have the opportunity to increase their legitimacy in the eyes of the entire Palestinian people. Sharon can keep pressuring Arafat to crack down on terror­ism, but if Arafat needs to ask the Israelis' permission to leave his own house to go down the street and buy a. news­paper, his words cannot be expected to have any major effect. With Arafat out of the way, the Palestinians will turn to these true terrorist groups for guidance and leadership. The violence will continue and only exponentially increase in scope and magnitude. 
Clayton Swope 
junior Sorin Hall April 11, 2002 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"An idea that is not dangerous is unworthy ofbeing called an idea at all. " 
Oscar Wilde writer 
O
THE 

VIEWPROINT 
Friday, April I 2, 2002 page l l 

Catholics can't condone contraception 
The 19th century laws restricting contraceptives were passed by Protestant-dominated legislatures. No Christian denomination had ever held that contraception could be justified until the Anglican Lambeth Conference of 1930. The seismic effect of that rejection of millennia of moral teaching came in the 1960s with the advent of the pill. Does it make sense for the Catholic Church still to insist on that formerly unbro­ken teaching? Three questions are relevant: 
Why is contraception wrong? First, it breaks, in the words of Pope Paul VI, "the ... connection -which is willed by God and which man cannot lawfully break on his own initiative -between the two meanings of the conjugal act: the unitive and the procreative." 
Second. the contracepting couple makes themselves the arbiters of whether and when human life shall begin. They confer on themselves, as Pope John Paul II put it, "a power which belongs solely to God; the power to decide in a final analysis, the com­ing into existence of a human person." 
And, third, in contraception, instead of what John Paul II called the "total recipro­cal self-giving of husband and wife," there is a withholding: I give you myself except for my fertility, I will accept you only if you are altered to cancel your fertility. 
In his 1994 Letter to Families, which could be read with profit by every engaged or married couple, whether Catholic or not, John Paul II explained that God, who is love. "wills" that each human person ought to come into existence through a loving act ofself-gift between spouses united in a "communion of persons" modeled on the self-giving relation of the persons of the Trinity. Thus he noted the "similarity between the union of the divine per­sons" in the Trinity and the marital union, (LF, no. 8). 
We, however, have free will. The contracepting couple. in effect, say to God, "For all we know, it may be your will that through this act of ours a new person, who will live forever, will come into existence. But we won't let you do it." In this light, we can see why John Paul said that, "Contraception is ... so ... unlawful as never to be ... justified. To think ... the contrary is equal to maintaining that ... it is lawful not to recognize God as God." 
What about natural family planning (NFP)? In NFP the couple refrain from sexual relations during the fertile period. When they engage in relations during the rest of the month they may prefer not to have a child. But they have an accepting intent, in that they do nothing to destroy the integrity of the act and they are willing to accept the responsibility for a child. The contracepting couple, by drugs or plugs, take measures to destroy the integrity of the act to prevent a child. The privilege of procreation, however, is so important that NFP can be used only for "serious motives," which may include health, financial or other reasons. "In destroying the power of giving life through contraception." said Mother Teresa at the 1994 National Prayer Breakfast. "a husband or wife ... turns the attention to self and so destroys the gift of love ... The husband and wife must turn the attention to each other, as ... in natural family planning and not to self, as ... in contraception. Once that living love is destroyed by contraception, abortion follows very easily." 
What are the social consequences of contraception? If man (of both sexes) makes himself the arbiter of when life shall begin, he will predictably make himself the arbiter of when it shall end, in abortion and euthanasia. The contraceptive society needs abor­tion as a back-up. It cannot say that homosexual activity is wrong without condemning its own premise that man is the arbiter of whether and when sex will have any relation to procreation. As Paul VI predicted, the acceptance of contraception puts "a dan­gerous weapon ... in the hands of ... public authorities" to reduce births among minorities. Promiscuity, divorce and cloning also fol­low from the contraceptive ethic. The growth of pornography, too, validates Paul Vi's warning that contraception would cause women to be viewed as objects. 
As Francis Fukuyama observed in "The Great Disruption," the pill and abortion liberated men from responsibility and put the burden on women, allo'W:ing "many ... ordinary men ... to live out fantasy lives of hedonism and serial polygamy formerly reserved only for a tiny group of men at the very top of society," (121). Women tend to pay the price for the sexual revolution. 
The authentic Christian teaching on contraception does make sense. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His col­umn appears every other Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
International court protects human rights 
Todav. the world is a little bit safer. After rights abuses, and it could not come at a more years of campaigning and hard work, the appropriate time. unprecedented International Criminal Court "There's been so little holding to account on 
(ICC) is now a reality. Despite the United so many horrific offenses and crimes commit­States' persistent opposition to the ICC, ted around the world -in Cambodia, 
over-60 countries have officially rati­fied the treaty, including Great Britain; this number continues to grow literally ever hour. Hundreds of staff members at the New York-based Human Rights Watch celebrated on Thursday as cheers from other branch offices around the world as well as the United Nations could be heard. 
The ICC, sanctioned with the legal mandate to pros­ecute human rights abuses worldwide, may undertake cases against world leaders, army officers and anyone thought to be responsible for crimes against humanity and war related crimes. These crimes range from rape to genocide. The court, based in the Hague, will offi­
cially come into existence on July 1, 2002, marking a monumental day in human history. Not since the creation of the United Nations has the world seen such a powerful. perma­nent global body designed to protect human 
Iraq, Chechnya," said Richard Dicker. international criminal justice director for Human Rights Watch. "This changes all that." With most of the industri­alized world supporting 
the treaty, the United States must ratify the ICC to preserve its role as a global leader in the fight to protect human rights. Rather than reconsider­ing the actual signing of the treaty, Congress must 

approve immediate ratifi­cation, forcing United States military practices to face the same scrutiny as IV other world militaries. ~'t •,' The world has changed forev­e,;',,,. er and a new chapter in the fight 
to protect human rights has begun. 
Ken Seifert 
junior intern in New York City April 11, 2002 

Stand up for the Church 
I'll dare to disagree with Tom Haight and his April 10 Inside Column. 
That child molestation, where it is actually committed, is a despicable crime, no one can deny. That certain depraved men who hap­pened to be priests have fallen to this basest of behaviors seems to be evident. That other men within the Church hierarchy made poor decisions regarding these alleged behaviors is arguable. The fact is, that many people, pea-• pie even here at Notre Dame, hate the Catholic Church. I shall not try to venture any opinions as to why this is the case, but unfor­tunately it is the truth. 
Now, these people, be they misguided or vindictive, realize that there is little they can do to hurt the rock of salvation that is the Church. But one thing they can do, have done and continue to do, is defame the Church through lies and false accusations. Now. in no way do I mean to discredit those few unfortu­nate victims who truly have been abused by someone, whether by a man posed as a man of God, or not. The fact is, though, that people can lie. In cases of a sexual crime. where only two people are involved, it is very easy to lie. Whose story should the authorities believe? Remember, in our court system, you are inno­cent until proven guilty. 
How many of these accusations against priests are valid? Perhaps all of them, per­haps not. Perhaps the real cases of abuse were dealt with in an unsatisfactory manner. But even so, attacking the Roman Catholic Church does not do anything but harm. The media has exaggerated and distorted the facts to such an extent that here we are, having to defend the Church at a Catholic school. 
How many people have been turned away from the Catholic faith because of this · uproar? Does anyone see droves of people rushing into the only ark of salvation that is the Catholic Church because of this scandal? I certainly have not. 
I have seen questioning of unquestionable doctrines, a general mistrust of the hierarchy who serves us and a general chaos. The very terminology used by those discussing this issue leads to further untruths. The Church has not covered things up. We are all a part of the Church. The Church is comprised of the Church triumphant in heaven, the Church suf­fering in purgatory and the Church militant, that is, we the laity, served by the clergy and bishops and led by our Holy Father, the Pope. If individuals in the Church have made any mistakes, those are not mistakes of the Church. 
I think it is obvious that the "covering up" of scandal is wise, as the results of this exposed scandal demonstrate. Mistakes of letting cer­tain accused priests remain in their ministry were individual errors, likely the result of a lack of knowledge about the nature of these sick men. This was corrected before this pub­lic scandal. If you recall, Mr. Geoghan was long since laicized at the outbreak of this scandal. Dredging up mistakes made in the past and since corrected does no further good. 
That new names of accused priests are being turned in to civil authorities, and that others are being suspended from priestly duties, are results of this public frenzy. Many ofthese men are the victims of false accusa­tions, innocent men who are now being defamed and tarnished. Is it a good thing that innocent and holy men are being ruined for life? Even if some of these men have in fact abused children, that fact will remain. This dredging that will only cause more victimiza­tion and harm in the end will not lessen the damage done to these victims. If we truly care about human dignity, we should not care whether we are dealing with a man called by God to the clergy or a member of the faithful. 
Justice is a good thing, but in the end, God will sort this out, I assure you. As good Catholics, we should stand up for our Church and for our faith, which is constantly guarded by her. Let's not add to the hurt already caused by the sin that we are trying to fight. 
Vincent Mata 
freshman Zahm Hall April IO, 2002 



us 
page 12 Friday, April 12, 2002 


By EMILY HOWALD Assistant Scene Editor 
The 16th annual Fisher Hegatta is back once again and the title is up for grabs from returning champi­ons Carroll Hall in the men's division and Walsh Hall in the women's division. 
Carroll Hall won the Regatta for the past two years and the members of crew are not about to give it up this year. Their boat "Wood 'N' Caulk" is primed for the race and will be led by creator and two-year champion, senior Steven Bomeli. 
Two seniors, two juniors and one sophomore will be leading the "Wood 'N' Caulk." Bomeli wants to prime the underclass­

"I think that Fisher is going to he putting out a valiant effort. With all our returning rowers and our pirate ship, we should be in a position to take that tro­phy home," Flynn said. 
Flynn, along with the creator of the "Jolly Piggot," Matt Piggot, is in charge of the actual Regatta this Saturday. According to Plynn, at least 50 hours have gone inlo preparing for the event, so it should be worthwhile. The chair­men ordered the food, ordered T-shirts, looked into all the safety regulations and held the captains' meeting Wednesday. Fisher Hall Assistant Hector Tony DeSapio has also put a great deal of time into ensur­
"Since Fisher is such a small
men so that when he leaves ing that the Regatta is a next vear, there will be some­dorm, this week is geared success. one to take over in his place. The activities will
towards getting the guys 
"I would like someone to give begin around 11 a.m.
fired up and showing the 
us a challenge this year, but I Saturday when people will bet on the fact that we rest ofthe campus our dorm begin to bring their win," Bomeli said. boats out to the lake.
spirit."

The race is broken into two Flynn, Piggot and their separate tournaments, one crew members will be from the women's dorms and Nick Williams out at the site around the other for the men's. It is Fisher Hall sophomore 8:30 a.m. to begin set­
run in an NCAA style, where two teams go head-to-head with the victor proceeding to the next bracket. In the past, nearly every dorm participated, so the event tends to last five hours. 
Bomeli's main pearl of advice to all those partici­pating in the Regatta is to go out there and give it the best shot. Fisher Hall sophomore Nick Williams relays the same message, however he feels that 2001 second-place finisher Fisher Hall stands a chance. 
"If we have talented rowers, Fisher Hall can win this thing. Our "Jolly Piggot" was by far the co()lest boat last year. Although it tipped, we have guys working on it this yea.r to work out the kinks, and so I think Fisher stands a chance," Williams said. 
Junior Jim Flynn agreed with Williams that Fisher is in prime position to steal the title from the return­ing champs of Carroll Hall. 

up. They will set up the 
grills for the free food 
and drink and set up 
the course for the tour­nament. The tournament will be spon­sored by Coca-Cola and free soft drinks will be provided as well. 
The tournament begins at 1 p.m. and the heats usually go until 4 p.m. Last year. there were 16 teams on each side and the heats shrank from eight teams to four teams before the two championship races. Last year, Carroll Hall defeated Fisher and Walsh Hall defeated Badin. 
In years past, the "boats" raced ranged from miniature golfing ships to garbage bins taped together. Various pieces of dorm furniture and pieces of Styrofoam have also commonly been seen on the race course. According to Williams, peo­ple put whatev­er they want out there -just as 

long as it slight­ly floats and is handcrafted by the dorms. 
In addition to winning the race, one lucky boat will be awarded the honor of "best in show." This award goes to the most creative and entertaining boat that is seen in the tournament. Although the boat may not exactly sail, it will at least maintain the possibility of winning a creativity award. 
Williams and Greg Celio are in charge of Fred and Sally Week in Fisher Hall. The week of events, named after Pisher Hall benefac­tors Sally and Fnid Fisher. began Saturday, April 6, and continue through April 
13. The week of events has grown from merely serving food to events scheduled every night. 
"In the past it hasn't been this huge, but now we are doing a lot more with the 
dorms. Since Fisher is such a small dorm, this week is geared towards getting the guys fired up and showing the rest of the campus our dorm spirit," Williams said. 
The week began last Saturday with a trip to a Chicago Cubs game. About 50 guys took the bus trip and spent the day in Chicago and at the game. On Sunday, there was a dorm picture and free food throughout the dorm. 
One of the most novel and popular events of the week took place on Monday -the Section Wars. Two-thirds of the dorm was involved in these "male­bonding" events of arm-wrestling, pie eating con­tests and the "roommate game." 
The roommate game is focused on finding out how much you know about your roommate. It is reminis­cent of the ''Newlyweds Garno" and the pair that scores the highest, or knows the most about one another, wins on behalf' of the section. 
There are heavy-and light-weight divisions and representatives from each section take part in the events. 
Tuesday night, the Fisher residents attended a talk by Father Theodore Hesburgh in the Main Building, followed by a Mass in the Log Cabin Chapel. This event also had a large turnout from the members of the dorm. 
Wednesday is called the "Red Mock Awards" and 
,----------------------------­
us 

Friday, April 12, 2002 page 13 
--~------·­
O
THE 
BSERVER 




The "Kinky Bootbeasts" will be perform­ing first. They are an acoustic act featuring Dave Lodewyck and Joe Andrukaitis on acoustic guitars. 
Performing next is "Rex Ladado," and according to freshman Brian Cullen (Bucket), this is the premier concert of a band which promises to start a worldwide musical revolution. Bucket is on bass, Dave Lodowyck is on guitar and lead vocals, Matt Morgan is on drums and Pete Balogh is on guitar. 
The headliner is the "Skamunists," a well­known campus ska band. Bucket will again be on bass, Pete Balogh is on guitar, Matt Morgan is on drums, Omar Arizpe is on the trombone, Mike Zodda and Chris Giese are on the trumpets and Sean Brooks is on the saxophone. All three bands are scheduled to play throughout the duration of the event. 
Also, beginning on Thursday, the men wore their sailor caps to promote the events happening at Fisher Hall. 
Today, a Fisher 3-on-3 basketball tourna­ment will occupy the men's day and a dorm-wide party will fill the men's evening. Every section has a social gathering, and the Fishermen unite to show spirit in their dorm. 
Williams sums the evening up in two words: "It's huge." 
The week is concluded with the race on Saturday. The tradition behind the race is also a large part of the week because it all began as an attempt to incorporate Fisher in the Notre Dame community. 
Because Fisher was the only dorm that did not have a signature event on campus, a young man from Boston thought it would be unique for Fisher to have a Regatta race to salute his dorm. It began in April of 1987 as a small event that few dorms participated in and has grown into the biggest dorm event on campus. 
"Our whole dorm year is centered on this one event." Flynn said. 
The event will be monitored by five police­men out on the water 
is for the dubious characters of the dorm. The night consists of cigars, poker and chicken wings. The award ceremony was hosted by Williams and awards were given to the deserving men of Fisher. 
The men voted days ago and selected the most deserving dorm mates for the honorable and not-so­a ppealing awards. Freshman Thomas Patrick Callaghan was awarded the "Prodigal Son Award" (the man most wanted back in Fisher Hall) and Freshman Tony De Vito was awarded the "Ball and Chain Award" (the man most seen with his girl­friendl. Freshman Tom Gorman received a muzzle and a shovel (for his roommate to use) after receiv­ing the "Legend in bis Own Mind Award." 
Additional, not-so-nice awards were the dorm drunk, the smelliest, the Chewbacca award (hairiest guy) and the future seminarian award. They also recognize tho guy with the hottest girlfriend and the laziest man in the dorm. 
Many other awards were given out, mostly to freshmen and sophomores, honoring or dishonoring positions they hold within the dorm. According to Williams, the "Red Mock Awards" is one of the most traditional aspects of Fred and Sally Week. 
Because it is also Breen-Phillips dorm spirit week, the men of Fisher will be co-hosting a lu'au on North Quad, complete with a pig-roast and three campus bands, with Fisher men in each band. 
enforc­
ing reg­ulations and pro­viding for the safety of the par­ticipants. Safety regulations need to be followed at all times, and the captains are responsible for their ships. 
The event should last all day long and admission is free. There will be free food, a DJ playing all day and Regatta T-shirts on sale for $10. 
According to Williams, this is a day of entire Notre Dame unity that can't be found any­where else. 

ANGELA CAMPOSfThe Observer The days of Regatta festivities continued with entertainment at the parade. Saturday's celebration will include live bands, a OJ and free food. 
"It's the biggest dorm event on campus. You don't want to miss it," Flynn said. "Come enjoy our fine cooking as you watch dorms compete against each other for pride and prizes." 
Contact Emily Howald at Howald.2@nd.edu. 

Friday, April 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 14 
Siblings 
continued from page 24 
NCAA Tournament. 
"The last three games have been really good for us," Eric said. "I'll be back soon. I think we can win our last four games and make some noise in the tournament." 
Although she does not play the same position as her brother, Meredith Simon's stellar play at midfield is a big reason why the women's team is enjoying its best sea­son in Notre Dame history. As a freshman, Meredith made an immediate impact, start­ing 13 games for the Irish. This year, Meredith is tied for the third on the team in scoring with 15 goals. 
"We have a really special team this year," Meredith said. "We all have fun, and we all work hard. We can definitely compete for the NCAA Championship." 
Meet the Shearers 
If there is anyone who can relate to Eric Simon having a younger sibling attend Notre Dame to play lacrosse, it is junior Danielle Shearer. 
After watching her younger brother, Will, fall in love with lacrosse at the age of five, Danielle finally decided to pick up a lacrosse stick when she was 14. 
She has not put it down since. 
"Our Dad played lacrosse in college," said Danielle. "Will and he kept telling me to play, so I finally played for the first time in eighth grade." 
Last year. as a sophomore, the midfielder from Hampstead, Md., led the Irish in scor­ing with 35 goals. As if that is not impres­sive enough, Danielle set a Notre Dame record with six goals in one half against the Syracuse Orangemen last year. 
Through ten games this year, Shearer leads the Irish with 36 points on a team­high 25 goals and 11 assists. Danielle is quick to give her brother credit for her suc­cess. 
"He helped me out a lot," Danielle said. "He really helped me learn the game. We have a goal in my backyard and we used to practice together all the time." 
Unfortunately, Will has not played yet for the men's team because he suffered a sea­son-ending shoulder injury before the start of the season. Will is currently rehabbing his shoulder from surgery and hopes to contribute to the Irish over the next few years. 
'Tm really excited about the future," Will said. "I hope to help the team in any way I can. I really want to help us do more than last year's team that made it to the Final Four." 

A Special Bond 

Even though the brother-sister tandems do not have the opportunity to see each other play very often because of conflicting lacrosse schedules, they are never afraid to give each other advice. 
"My sister knows my game better than anyone else," Eric Simon said. "She will be the first person to tell me if I could have played better. Every now and then, I'll give her a pointer, too." 
Danielle Shearer said having her brother watch her play helps her tremendously. 
"I love it when my brother watches me play," Danielle said. "He always gives me negative reinforcement. No, I'm just kid­ding. He usually has something positive to say." 
Will did have something positive to say about his sister's career at Notre Dame. 
"My sister is so quick on the field," said Will. "She is just an incredible offensive player." 
Sometimes playing in the shadow of a sib­ling can be difficult, but the Simons and the Shearers would not have it any other way. Both brother-sister tandems are extremely close off the field and very happy to be at Notre Dame together. 
'Tm absolutely thrilled my brother is here at Notre Dame," Danielle said. "We are so tight. We did not go to the same high school so it is really great that we are going to college together." 
Will credits Danielle for helping him get accepted into Notre Dame and making his transition to college life much easier. 
"She helped me a lot with the admissions process," he said. 'Tm really glad we both go to Notre Dame." 
Like the Shearers, the Simons know that it is a special opportunity to attend and play lacrosse at the same school as their sibling. 
"Off the field, we have really different schedules," Eric said. "I live off-campus and she lives on campus, but we still see each other as much as possible. I go·over to visit her a few times a week. We go to movies together a lot." 
"We're best friends," Meredith said with a big smile when describing her relation­ship with her brother. "He's the number one role model in my life. I wouldn't be at Notre Dame ifit weren't for him." 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 
TRACK 
New Irish faces look to win at Tom Botts Invite 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Wrirer 
New events are not the only changes that come along with the transition from the indoor track and field season to the outdoor season. Along with these new events comes a new group of emerging stars who are making a name for themselves, both in the Big East Conference and, more importantly, the nation. 
As Notre Dame continues its out­door season at the Tom Botts Invitational in Columbia. Mo. this weekend, these standouts look to con­tinue the success that they have seen. 
The most impressive of these stars has been sophomore Todd Mobley. who is currently ranked 18th in the nation in the 10,000-meter run. He posted a 29 minute, 11.35 second time in the 10,000 at the Stanford Invitational two weekends ago. Mobley, whose best performance dur­ing the indoor season was a 14:14.33 5000-meter run at Notre Dame's Alex Wilson Invitational. has improved dramatically since the outdoor season began. 
"I feel stronger," said Mobley. "I felt like I trained just as hard [for] indoors. but the training is finally tak­ing effect because my times are more impressive than anything I've done indoors." 
The men's team has also seen an impressive performance in senior Pat Conway this outdoor season. Conway, is finally in top form again after bat­tling sickness during the indoor sea­son. 
"I was a little bit sick during cross country and indoor track, [and] that dragged me down a little bit," Conway said. "But I've gotten healthi­er, and my breathing has been a lot better, so that has helped." 
Conway is looking to defend his 1500 title at the Tom Botts Invitational, where last year he ran a season-best 3:50.09. 
The women's track and field team has found much of its outdoor season success from a dorm room in Welsh Hall. Freshmen roommates Christi Arnerich and Kate Duman have immediately found themselves as top Irish competitors in events exclusive to the outdoor season: the 3000­meter steeplechase run and the javelin throw. 
In the first steeplechase run of her collegiate career, Arnerich ran a Big East qualifying time of 11:16.55 at Notre Dame's Spring Opener last weekend. She had the fourth-best time in the mile during the indoor season, but in the outdoor season has found herself as Notre Dame's top steeplechase runner. 
"I was pretty surprised that I was able to run that time at the beginning of the season,'' Arnerich said. "Hopefully I'll run about 10 to 15 sec­onds faster [this weekend]." 
Duman made an impact on the record books in her first collegiate meet. Her personal-best throw of 126 feet, 7 inches at the Purdue Invitational is the top throw for the Irish this season. Despite her success. the freshman says it comes as some­what of a surprise. 
"I hadn't planned on doing track in college, but I came here to do it," Duman said. "I wasn't expecting to come out so well in my first meet, because that was a personal best for me. And this was the first time that I've thrown the javelin, so that was exciting." 
Duman and the rest of the Notre Dame track and field team are hoping to get more Big East qualifying and NCAA qualifying times this weekend at the Tom Botts Invitational. For many, this meet serves as an opportu­nity to get ready for the more compet­itive meets to come, and ultimately, the Big East Championship. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip. Other worldwide destinations cheap. Book tickets online www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
TONIGHT-Comedy Spartz in Hesburgh Library Auditorium! Starting at 9, $2 at the door. Sponsored by FlipSide 
LOST & FOUND 
Los!: Necklace w/ gold+diamond cross in West Quad area. Ca114-1640 
WANTED 
Summer Employment for College Student Care tor 11 and 9 year old. Fun, relaxing summer. Good pay. Hours 9am-5pm. Please call Lisa 631-9947. 
Reliable businessman looking to rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home for 9 to 12 months or loni;ier. ASAP. Call Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. mes­sage if necessary. 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming summer and/or tall. Free high-speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month+ utils. 
Call 574.277.9322 if interested. 
FREE 1 BEDROOM APT FOR THE RIGHT GRAD STUDENT IN EXCHANGE FOR 21 HRS/WK LEASING APTS AND OFFICE WORK. SOME WEEKENDS. IMMEDIATE OPENING YEAR ROUND. GEORGETOWN APART­MENTS 272-7286. 
Dependable caregiver for Sunday mornings infant & toddler nursery. 
Must have references & transportn. Resume to Secrelary,FPC,333 W.Coltax, So.Bend 46601 
99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. !or 3-9 months. Great location & fur­nished. 
Call George Carr at {TT3) 975-0563 or e-mail at George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com 
Do you like being outside? Do you enjoy being your own boss? Do you like working your own hours? Do \'OU want to make $10 an hour? We are looking for dedicated people to go out and give our non-customers in our service area estimates Training is paid and you can start immediately until you go back to school. Call Tara Wagoner @ 574­233-9700 for. more information. TruGreen -Chemlawn 

FOR SALE 
Couch, loveseat, and recliner. $450 or best offer. Less than a year old. Perfect condition. 233-0360 
HONDA, 92, VG cond. 126K miles. Red 2-dr htchbk. 41 mpg. $2900. 
1-4906 day, 233-6581 eve. 
98 Honda Civic EX, 2-dr., auto, 49k miles. All power, air, cassette+ 6 CD changer. $10,900 obo. 
Call Mark 631-7716 or email mshawcro@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol com 
MMMRentals com 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshrldryr/sec sys/prking.,. Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air,sec sys/parking 2-bed­room cottage..cute.. 
DAVE 291-2209 

3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM• PUS. FURN.,LOWAATES 272­6306,292-6717 
3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. CIA. Security system. Close to campus. 616-699-5841 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, CIA, gas heat, W&D, fenced backyard across from park, VERY SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD, fireplace, 2 car garage $1050/mo+dep. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038 
Have a job in Chicago this sum­mer? Rent my furnished bdr in awe­some 3 bdr apt w/ ND grad. Close to El & Wrigley. M/F. Call Kristin @ 773-388-2704 
1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath hOuse with lots of updates. OW/wash/dryer inc. Walking distance to campus. Spacious yard for tailgating, recre­ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec or $325 ea for 5+ Call 277-8450 or email house@newwebtech.com 
Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must Seel Call Tammy(616)684-1049. 
4&5 Bdrm. W&D, CLOSE. ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255-8403. 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? 1999 ND Alum has 2-2BR/1 BA Apt for rent in BUCKTOWN, ALL NEW, Hwdll, Exp Brk Wis, Fplc, AC, New Apl, Dishwshr, Lndry, Jacuzzi, Deck, Gar Spee Av!, No Pets, $1,395, 
773-791-5810 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA. NICE HOME NORTH OF ND 

2TT3097 HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 people) 2) medium (3-5 people) 
Call Bill at 532-1896. Room for Rent in Private Home Shared kitchen.living room.bath­

room $250/month [616)684-8877 Angela Bennet APT. 2 bedrooms, 2 full baths. Lots 
of furniture included. Close to campus. $800/month; min. one-year lease, 

starting in August. Grad student(s) preferred 243-2TT0. 
3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, AND A DECK. WASHER & DRYER. 

CORNER OF EDDY AND HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF LOGAN CENTER. FREE KEG WITH RENTAL 
Call Gary or Lynne 616-699-5841 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential suppor1 or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
AREA CODE CHANGES Update business cards letterhead & envelopes at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 574-631-COPY 
GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by local PGA professional. 
Call Dick at 276-9670. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY COLLEEN BARRETT. We love you. 
Your friends at The 0. 
Like Sports? Want to have the inside scoop on campus sports sto­ries? Write Observer Sports. 
Call Chris at 1-4543 
Want to write about all types of campus stories and events? Write Observer News. 
Call Helena 1 ·5323. 
Please recycle The Observer 

Friday, April 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Softball 
continued from page 24 
Wisen (8-4) also walked two and struck out six. 
"l thought she did great and she wasn't perfect," Gumpf said. "She foughi, and I'll take that any day." 
Wisen ran into trouble in the top of ihe third inning. Purdue's Laura Martin hit a one-out dou­ble to left. After a groundout gave Wisen two outs, Angi Roembkc's bunt single put run­ners at the corners. Roembke then stole second to place two Boilermakers in scoring position. 
However, Wisen recovered to strike out Andrea Hillsey and get out of the jam. third baseman. 
The Irish offense got started in Gumpf believes getting three the bottom of the fourth inning runs on a wild pitch and three by capitalizing on Boilermaker Purdue errors shows how Notre year, but they are going to fight like heck against us and we have to play great ball to beat them." 
mistakes.  Dame  takes  
Andrea Loman led off the inning with a single and  "UConn ·s been our rival since the day we came  advantage of its opponent's mistakes.  
moved to second on a wild pitch  into the Big East."  "We have talked about  
and then third on a throwing  Deanna Gumpf  that since day one. We knew  
error.  Catcher  Irish coach  we  were  


Syracuse is a surprising 4-0 on the year in the Big East. Last year they were only 6-14, but Gumpf knows this year's team reflects its good start. 
"Syracuse is a very young team and they're very energetic and they are just going to go after us," Gumpf said. "Both teams are very good teams and we need to play our 'A' ball to beat them." 
Friday's doubleheader against Connecticut starts at 4:00 and the doubleheader against Syracuse starts at 11 :00 on Sunday. All four games are at Ivy Field. 
Notes: 

. 
Thursday's victory over Purdue extends Notre Dame's home winning streak at Ivy Field to 24 games. 

. 
After being held out of Thursday's game, pitcher Steffany Stenglein is healthy and will pitch for the Irish in this weekend. 


Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
' 
I I 
l I 
~
Happy 
21st, 
Mike! 

Love, Lindsday 
Jarrah Myers brought her home with a single. 
After an Andria Bledsoe single, Lisa Mattison reached on an error. and Bledsoe advanced to third and Myers scored. Liz Hartmann's single to left scored Bledsoe after an error by the going to have 

young pitch­ing going in, and our older girls know what it takes," Gumpfsaid. "We have to generate runs. We have to make things happen, like on a bobbled ball. That's how you manufacture runs." 
Purdue came right back in the top of the fifth inning when shortstop Katie Crabtree hit her 11th home run of the year to center field, making the score 3­
2. Roembke singled to continue the Boilermaker rally, but Wisen got a fielder's choice and strike­out to end ihe threat. 
The Irish took advantage of more Boilermaker mistakes to add an insurance run in the bot­tom of the inning, when Myers singled with two outs. A passed ball allowed her to take second, and she scored the fourth Notre Dame run on an error by Purdue's left fielder on Bledsoe's single. 
Purdue brought the go-ahead run to the plate in the top of sev­enth with one out, but Wisen got two groundball outs to end the game. 
This weekend, the Irish return to Big East action against Connecticut and Syracuse. The Huskies are 1-7 in the Big East, but are a traditional power in the conference. They are the defending Big East Tournament champions and have won seven titles since 1990. 
"UConn's been our rival since the day we came into the Big East," Gumpf said. "On paper, they look like they are down this 
Organized by Law Prufossor Ttresa Phelps' Gender bsuts and the Law 
Womyn With Wings 
A play of skit~ and son,,YS promoting genJer ,rnd multicultural awarenc,s. 
Monday April 15th 7:00 -8:00 pm 
LaFortune Ballroom 
~~ .··~·~~} •,L~~\\ 
Free 
t:wi;j~;~·!Iit'.
Admission 
71iankj to tne generous <Donations of 
·;UumniHaff · <B(ac/i..Law Student.< of:Notre ,Dame 
{'BLS%D) · Cm•arwugF. 1faff .'Foney j{Jff · q,tuferStudies 

On Sunday, 
· '.MuCticuCtura{Stutfeni 'Programs.,[ sm,;ces (:MS<PS) · Watit't )lmerican Law Student 
.Jt,ssociation (:NLS;;/) · :Notre ,Dame Law ScF.oo{('N'D[S) · •Pangborn '}[a[[ · ·11''omen :S Lega{'Forum ('?VL•F) 

Come run or walk in honor of Brianne Clarv, Coner Muruhv and Miranda Thomas, three members olthe Class of 2002 who have passed awav tram leukemia. 
S10 donation gets vou agreat t-shin and tood at the end ol the race. 
And on Tuesday, 
Provide Hope bv Becoming a
:~' -

Tuesdav, April 16th, trom 9am­4pm laFonune Ballroom. Please sign up tor the Bone Marrow Drive: www.nd.edu/---class02/donor/ 



WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

No. 7 Blue Devils will test Irish 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 
It's tournament time for the _women's lacrosse team. 
While it may not be the NCAA tournament that the Irish are ultimately playing to reach, this weekend ·s three-team round robin hosted by the Irish has some perennial powers match­ing up. Today the Irish face the sixth ranked Duke Blue Devils, and on Sunday challenge the 12th-ranked Yale Bulldogs. The two visiting teams play each other on Saturday. 
This is this first time the Irish have hosted this yearly event. 
"We are excited about the home games," said captain Kathryn Lam. "They [Duke and Yale] are a both aggressive tal­ented squads. We are ready to compete." 
Duke, who Notre Dame plays today at 4 p.m. at Moose Krause Field, is the highest ranked team the Irish have faced. They are also one of the more consis­tentl.y successful programs in the country. 
"These guys have been in the top five for the past four years," Irish offensive assistant Danielle Gallagher said. "They've got a couple big threats on attack, and on top of that, their goal­keeper is outstanding. That's going to pose a very big prob­lem." 
The Notre Dame-Duke game will be a match up of the stingy Irish defense versus a potent Blue Devil attack. The Irish defense, the best in the nation in goals allowed (6.44 per game) going into this week, will need to deal with an offense that has serious scoring threats. 

The offensive-defensive battle will include two high school teammates facing off against each other. Notre Dame's Kelly Mccardell played four years defending. behind Duke's second leading scorer, Lauren Gallagher, at W.C. Henderson in West Chester, Pa. 
"We know about their key players.... Lauren, she's awe­some." Mccardell said. "We are going to look more towards communication and team defense: not worrying about who is covering who, just stop the ball." 
Jen White, Notre Dame's keeper, said she wouldn't be approaching this game any dif­ferently. Her mechanics stay the same. 
"It's just like any other game," said White, who has won Big East Defensive Player of the Week twice. "The routine is the same. Any given day any team can be awesome, or not great." 
On the offensive end the Irish look to sustain their multifac­eted scoring attack where five girls have scored in the double digits. The Irish look to use this diversity when the attention is focused on Danielle Shearer, Alissa Moser and Natalie Loftus. 
"We have to have a great team effort," said Gallagher. "In games like this you're looking for the players th at haven't been as much of an impact to play more of a role. Somebody else has to step it up other than Dani [Shearer]. Alissa [Moser], and Nats [Loftus]." 
Fortunately for the Irish, Anne Riley and Meredith Simon have been contributing on offense more in the last few games, and Lauren Fischer has been scoring consistently 
Ot1Campw, . GrAbu~ff°"Wet~ Special MA\f 16-11. 2001 
Need a pfae& fer your family to day, try Saaed Heart'• P•Mh center (St. Joseph Hall on csmpus). 
We sat a $80.IO per penon donl11on for the weekend. 
·coME EARt-'f(ThursdayJ-STAV LATE (Tuesd&yf-same low price 
f!>I' rescervations please can Mi:. PaMl.Eddy tit ~74.:!P__'H§.1~ Mary Fonferko at 57-4-631-9436 
i~J·1·--. 
,.·-.::•~:::::;::;::·:dF::;:;I@;::; ~ii:t::i;.;:~H;~:i:i~'.1ij;~;~;; :;~::::·?:::· .. :f 

. -c-n lulay,. _DauC:es -,,e,:. · . · ...·....... 
_J 
---._!.,;__ . 

1•n1J-.st! 
.:·.~:..,•.•:•:-:-.:.•,•.. ··,·~·· 

Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 274-9955 Voicemail: 674-2571 
throughout the year. 

The No. 7 Blue Devils started the season ranked third. but lost games to tough ACC compe­tition, to make their overall record 6-4. They go into this weekend knowing the impor­tance of these out-of-conference games. 
"Our kids know that every weekend, every game for us, is critical," Duke coach Kerstin Kimel said. "We are looking for­ward to tomorrow and Saturday." 
The 12th-ranked Yale squad comes to Notre Dame with an 8­2 record and is also looking to make a national statement before returning to Ivy League play. 
Notre Dame goes into this w~ekend coming off an emo­tional one-goal loss to Ohio State. But they are not down on themselves. 
''Its good we get to come back so quickly from a game like Ohio State," said head coach Tracy Coyne. "Our ultimate goal is to win the Big East and get to the tournament. If we can gain some valuable learning experi­ences from a loss, that's good. 
"We know we haven't been playing our best game since we won over Syracuse," McCardell said. "As a team we know its time to turn it around and get back on track." 
The Irish get that chance today. 
The game starts at 4:00 p.m. and Sunday's game vs. Yale starts at 1:00 p.m. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 

Want to sample ethnic foocl?? t~ooking for a home-cooked n1eal?? 
McGlinnHall Meal of Nations 

Sunday, April 14, 2002 
7:00 PM McGlinn 24 Hour Lounge 

2nd Annual Notre Datne Chess Tournam.ent 
When: THIS SUNDAY (14th) From NOON -5PM Where: Notre Dame Room 
2 nd Floor LaFun Who: Anyone Affiliated with Notre Dame is welcome to play! 
Separate Prize Categories for Beginners, Casual Players, and Advanced Players! (So everyone can win!) Everyone will play 4 games!! 
Email NDChess@nd.edu or Mfailor@nd.edu to pre-register, or just show up! 
( Registration fees are two dollars in advance, or three dollars at the 
door on Sunday.) 

Sponsored by the ND Chess Club 


------------------. 
Friday, April 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Dead Kennedys pound World Class Fishermen 
today," sophomore Justin

. Four teams 
Golbabai said. "We had class

advance in first 
until 4:45 so we didn't have time 

day of tourney to change. We were hoping to win by intimidation since we weren't going to win by skill." 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Only three other games were

Senior Staff Writer 
played Thursday, as most of the games were rescheduled. 

Five skilled anglers could not In the closest game of the overcome the political power afternoon. the all-freshmen and basketball skills of a family team Bly and the Family Stone from Massachusetts as Dead defeated Off: The Team You Kennedys beat World Class Beat In The Shower But Not On Fishermen, Master Baiters 21-The Court, 24 -22. 11 on the first day 0 f f 
of Bookstore Basketball XXXI on  "We actually expected to  built a 2 0 -1 8  
Stepan Courts. The Dead Kcnnedys. made up of four law student<;  play better. We made it to the round of64 last year. "  lead late in the game but could not  
and an engineering  get  the  
graduate student, controlled the game from start to finish.  Eric Nadell Dead Kennedys  winning basket to fall as Bly  
They jumped out to  battled  
an early 8-2 lead on  back  to  

the World Class Fishermen, a tie the game and send it into team made up of an Alumni Hall overtime. Paul Sifuentes scored HA and four students from his the last three baskets for Bly to section. take a 23-22 lead before David 
"We actually expected to play Goett hit a shot in the lane to better. We made it to the round win the game. of 64 last year," said Dead Sifuentes said he was happy to Kennedys' Eric Nadell. have faced such a tough oppo­
World Class Fishermen were nent in the opening round. the only teams wearing any sort "I am glad we got that hard of costume on Thursday. Each game out of the way," Sifuentes player had his face painted and said. "We don't want to think one wore former Celtic Larry these early games will be easy." Bird's uniform. Off's fans from Zahm got into 
"We had to wear this to class the heads of Bly throughout the game with taunting and jeering. At times they even elicited full sentence replies from Bly's play­ers. 


"A lot of the guys let them get into their heads but this is Bookstore and you have to be able to ignore that," Sifuentes said. 
Yup, It's The Lug Nut: Fixed It won bragging rights in its Alumni dorm section by defeat­ing Tenacious STD 21-15. The all-sophomore Lug Nut squad controlled the game early and built a 6-1 lead. The junior and seniors on STD got as close as 18-15 late in the game but never took the lead. 
"When we found out we were playing each other we started joking around a lot," Lug Nut's Tom Kerestes said. "It was pret­ty serfous out there on the court today but hopefully it will go back to just being joking around again." 
The all-female Booty Call team defeated another all-female team. Maybe If U Beg, 21-12 in the last game of the afternoon. 
Booty Call scored the first 
seven points of the game and never looked back. 
"We haven't even practiced together before today," Booty Cali's Brigid McHugh said. "But we are going to the Elite Eight, and then we will probably lose." 
First and preliminary round Bookstore action continues today from 4-7 p.m. with games on Lyons Courts and Stepan Courts. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 
II. WSBT 'JiBJYtfF1it1 ~B60~ fng Into Spri with Notre Dame Athl Friday, April 12 Softball vs. Connecticut 4:00/6:00pm (Ivy Field) a'9 Women's Lacrosse vs. Duke 4:00pm men's Tennis us. #9 Kentucky~U~N~ (Moose Krause Stadium) saturday, ftprll 13 ®2pmRENT-ALL INC. (Courtney Tennis Center] *1st100 fans will receive an Irish tennis t-shirt no Softball us. SyracuseBaseball vs. Virginia Tech Sunday, ftpril 14®11 am/1 pm (luy field)5:00/7:30pm *1st1OD receiue acoupon for afree sundae from IAI *1st 300 fans receiue amin-helmet filled with peanuts from S(Frank Eck Stadium) ................. Women's lacrosse us. Yale Sunday, flpril 14 ®2pmAt All Friaay Three Events: (moose Krause Stadium) *1 st 1DO receive acoupon for afree sundae from ll'!I*1st 200 fans receive a free Swing Into Spring t-shirt from *1st 100 fans receive afree frlsbee *1st 200 fans receive akey lanyard courtesy of.,,;.~,McDonald Physical Therapy *Bill Camp's flying Frisbee Dogs to perform at halftime*1st 100 fans receive a free chicken sandwich from Nelson's  

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 12, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

Fullback position has promising possibilties 
weapons that you can at the By KATIE McVOY perimeter-type positions," Associate Sports Editor Preston said. "To be one-dimen­
sional in those positions, I think 
While questions swirl around really limits you in college foot­who will play key positions on ball because of all the things the the Notre Dame offense -defense can do to you." quarterback and running back. Eliminating that one-dimen­for example -running backs sional quality will be key on coach Buzz Preston seems con­Preston's list for his fullbacks, fident about who will be playing right after getting them intro­fullback for him. duced to a whole new offense. 
Even though seniors Mike In order to make real weapons McNair and Tom Lopienski are at the fullbac](l position, Preston officially in a "try-out" period needs his players expand their for a fifth year of eligibility, versatility. Preston is hoping to make them "They have to be up and able a key part of the 2002 offense. to do all things," Preston said. 
"I plan on them coming back," "Not just block but run, catch, Preston said. "And Chris Yura they have to be mult-dimension­has a chance as soon as he gets al, and they have to be flexible." himself healthy. We've got some That new role will come as a other young men who are work­bonus to the two seniors who ing there. too." have spent their time blocking 
The two seniors, who have and expect to keep blocking. seen significant time in the According to Lopienski, a touch­
2001 season,  down  scored  
should get a ch~nce to play a fourth year with the Irish. But if  "I'm just trying to go out and get better and see where it goes from there.,,  by a running back is just as rewarding for him as if he crossed the  
you ask them,  goal line him­ 
they're keep­ing their expectations  Mike McNair fullback  self. But with this new offense, the  
in check.  bonus possibil­ 
"Whatever  ity of a  carry  
C  o a  c  h  doesn't hurt.  

Preston said," Lopienski said. "Really, [at] the fullback posi­"Whatever he said, I can't argue tion, you're basically going to be with that." a blocker most of the time, so 
"I don't have any pre-con­I'm pretty happy with that," he ceived expectations," McNair said. "To get a couple of passes said. 'Tm just trying to go out or to get to run the ball is a little and get better and see where it plus." goes from there." "I just want to do whatever I 
If they return in the fall, the can to help the team and go playing time they will see could from there," McNair said. be very different from their last Despite the fact that Lopienski three years at Notre Dame. and McNair rushed for a total of After playing a significant role 78 yards for the Irish during the blocking on the option-heavy entire course of the 2001 season offense last season, the fullback and Lopienski had only two position will become a signifi­receptions, Preston has no cant part of a versatile offense, doubt that the fullbacks can Preston said. step up to their new role. 
Whether it involves blocking, 'Tm not worried about that," running or receiving, Preston Preston said. "That'll come and plans to take full advantage of it'll all work out." his fullbacks. The fullbacks have a lot to 
"I think if you're going to be deal with this spring: an successful in college football unidentified starter at the quar­today, you need to utilize all terback position, increased 
Featuring: 
When: Friday, April 12th, 9pm-midnight 
Where: Stonehenge 
Come enjoy some great music and free ethnic food! 


responsibility to receive and carry and a new coach. On the fourth day of practice, it's early to expect the fullbacks to fully comprehend their new role, but Preston sees potential. With the summer to digest their new role, the fullbacks should be ready to take part in the offen­sive scheme. 
"They're young but coming along," Preston said. "It's all new to all of them, but after they get through this spring and get all this heaved on them, I find that in the fall after work­ing the summer on it and get­ting the terminology, then they'll be all right in the fall." 

"I think we're all coming together," Lopienski said. "It takes time. Everything takes time." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Friday, April 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
his heart out. He pitched clearly good enough to win

Baseball 
today. It's heartbreaking for Johnson."

continued from page 24 
The Irish added another run Sanchez. However, the Irish in the bottom of the sixth, but left two men on base in each the Panthers answered with of the third, fourth and fifth their own run in the top of the innings, heading into the deci­seventh. sive sixth. Mainieri felt 
In the sixth, bad for his
"/just know that we are

Johnson freshman seemed to better than we 're playing pitcher. who tire, as he he thinks had a
right now. We just need 

allowed a strong perfor­
to be a better team in the 

leadoff single mance despite 
I. 0 clutch.,, picking up the Pittsburgh's loss. B r y a n "It was really
Paul Mainieri

Spam er a shame,
Irish coach

before giving because I 
up a two-run home run to third baseman Holando Bello, which cut the Notre Dame lead in half to 4­
2. The next batter, left fielder Stuart Hyaceski, singled. while the following two batters made outs. 
But Johnson walked center fielder Tony railing and allowed a base hit to right fielder Michael Bell before being pulled in favor of relief pitcher Matt Buchmeier. The first batter Buchmeier faced was Brant Colamarino. who drilled a three-run home run down the right field line, com­pleting the six-run sixth inning to make the score 6-4. 
Mainieri believes this situa­tion should never have occurred in the first place, if the Irish had collected a few more clutch hits. 
"That game should not have been a 4-0 game in the sixth inning," Mainieri said. "We should have had least another four runs if we would have rose to the occasion and come through in the clutch. So what happens is we put pressure on the freshman pitchers to go out and pitch these low run games. Grant Johnson pitched 
thought Grant Johnson just pitched his heart out out there," Mainieri said. "Unfortunately, he had to throw a lot of pitches to strike out as many batters as he did, and he just kind of ran out of gas there in the sixth inning." 
In the second game of the doubleheader, the Irish took the early lead after center fielder Steve Stanley singled and O'Toole crushed a two­run home run in the first inning. Both Stanley and O'Toole came with in a hit of hitting for the cycle, each missing the feat by a triple and a single, respectively. 
With the four hits, O'Toole is now batting .432 in his career in Big Eat play with 17 RBI and a .886 slugging percent­age. 
Pittsburgh added a run of it's own off of Irish starter John Axford when Joe Thaman hooted a hard grounder, allowing lead off man Bello on base in the sec­ond inning. Bello scored three batters later on a Roh Beahn ground out. The Panthers tied the game in the when Bell doubled in Beahn. 
Axford settled down to get out of that inning and keep the game tied. 


The Irish busted the game wide open in the sixth by bat­ting around and scoring seven runs to take a 9-2 lead. Stavisky walked to start the inning, O'Toole doubled him in, third baseman Andrew Bushey sacrificed O'Toole over to third and second baseman Steve Sollmann got him home on a fielder's choice via the suicide squeeze. 
Sanchez followed with a 



% 

APR* AslowAs 
¦ 
Financing On New & Used Vehicles 

It'll Get Your Motor Bonnin'! 
I J '§a 
r NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You ccn bank an us to be better 
800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 
•Annual Percentage Rate. As Iowas 6.25%APR is available for various financing terms Rates subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union toansapply. Independent Of the University. 


double before designated hit­ter Mike Holba ripped another double down the left line to score both Sollmann and Sanchez and give Notre Dame a 6-2 lead. Thaman then walked to put two men on base for Stanley. The All­American then deposited a three-run homer over the right field wall for his second career round-tripper to end the scoring in the inning. 
The Irish went on to add three more runs before the final out and improved to 19­12 overall and 6-6 in Big East play. 
Despite the impressive win, Mainieri knows his team must play better if they hope to make a run in the Big East tournament as well as the NCAA tournament. 
"I just know that we are bet­ter than we're playing right now," Mainieri said. "We just need to be a better team in the clutch. Guys that have been great clutch hitters with us their whole careers just aren't rising to the occasion." 
The Irish will face two more Big East games today when they take on Virginia Tech. First pitch of the first game of the doubleheader is set for 5 
p.m. 

Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 12, 2002 
I I 
' 
I • 
' 
I 
t 
l I 
! 
! 
I 
I 
I 
'I ~. I I I I 
! 
I 
~s1un~\ Student International Business Council Presents Js1UDf.vr~ u ~ & ~ 
~~ ~~z 
~,sna ~ 7sns ~ ­
April 13th, 155 DeBartolo 
11:00 Paul Shinn, Sr. Assoc. ofWilson Sonsoni Goodrich 


&Rosati 

0 .11:40 Christine Cumming, VP ofFederalReserveBank 0 ~ ~~ 8 
Q 2:10 Mark Brown, Exec. VP and CFO ofWhirlpool 0 
and 


3:00 Dick Ebersol, Presilknt ofNBC Sports and News Hear these speakers talk about different impacts 

I 
__.... 
I 
' 
I 

~ on business 
s~un~, .,, 
Q A, 

v ~ ~tsnal COME FOR ONE SPEAKER OR STAY ALL DAY! 

l It r,
t . . . . .. -. 
I I I 
Friday, April 12, 2002 The Obierver . SPORTS page 21 
SMC ROUNDUP 
Belles sports have busy weekend ahead 
By NATALIE BAILEY and 
DONNA LUBBERS 
Sports Wri,ers 
Saint Mary's softball hosts Alma for a doubleheader Saturday at 1 p.m. Wrapping up a week filled with rescheduled games and cancellations, the opportunity to play a game will be a welcome change, even if it is against the highest ranked team in the MIM conference. 
Senior co-captain and first baseman, Rachel Deer found the cancellation and rescheduling of their game against Calvin to be frustrating. 
"We haven't played games on a consistent basis this season," she said. "We are looking for­
ward to playing on Saturday." the outfield and hits in the gap Alma is going to be a tough Returning players know the gave them a lot of their runs." competitor. 
challenge that awaits them. she said. "We need to step up our play "Every year Alma is a very With a consistently strong considerably from our last two 
skilled batting team," Deer said. Her strate­gy is to shut their offense down. "They are very good at manipulating their offense by bunting and slapping so our defense has to 

'We haven't played games on a consistent basis this season." 
Rachel Deer first baseman 
be good on Saturday," said Deer. Junior outfielder Jill Clark agreed. • "Last year Alma had very good hitters. The line shots to 

defense this conference games. Alma is not a year. Clark team that can be taken lightly," sees a need Deer said. to be ready to step up to Saint Mary' Golf Alma offen­This Saturday, the Saint sively. Mary's golf team will be compet­
"A very ing in their first meet of the s t r o. n g Spring season at Brookwood offense is Golf Course in Buchanan. going to be Michigan at 10 a.m. Under head key," Clark coach Theresa Pekarek, the at the tournament -six main players and four at an exhibi­tion level. Freshman Julia Adams will be one of those con­tending. "We just have two tour­naments this spring," she said. "I hope we can all play as well as we can and prove to every­one that we're a good team." 
Coach Pekarek believes that Saint Mary's has definite advan­tages for Saturday. "We're playing on our home course. We've played on this course many times, and we know it well," she said. 
Pekarek also has high expec­tations for the tournament. "Our underclassmen have tour­nament experience under their belts now," she said. "I expect everyone will play well." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill l 407@saintmarys.edu and Donna Lubbers at lubb 7272@saintmarys.edu. 
said. "We need to walk up to the plate with a lot of confidence and make sure we match them hit for hit." 
In light of their current 0-4 league record, the Belles realize team had an impressive third place finish in the fall confer­ence championship, behind the first place team by only three strokes. 
Ten women will be competing 

~ 

Moving to Chicago? 
Contact Ben @ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmann@hotmail.com 



The Asian Indian Classical Music Society 
Concert Announcement 

A concert of Carnatic instrumental classical music: Chitraveena 
N. Ravikiran 

accompanied by Rohan Krishnamurthy on the mridangam 
SUNDAY, APRIL 14, 2002, 6:30 p.m. 
At the Auditorium, Hesburgh Centerfor International Studies University of Notre Dame 
Tickets available at gate 

General Admission: $10 AICMS Members and ND/SMC faculty: $5 Students: FREE 
Sponsored by: The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classici-1 Music Society ofMichiana The Kroc Institute International Student Services and Activities, Notre Dame 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine fromCalabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Tuesday-Thursday 
Make your reservations now for 
5:ooto 9:00 

graduation!
Friday & Saturday 5:00 to 10:00 
Full bar available 
I OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. 
Free bruschetta with ad,
AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! 
except for graduation weekend I 272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I 256-9656 Comar of Grape and Md<inley 291-2000 SouthJand Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 
I 
Francesco's needs servers 
'------. ...s ----..... -~ ..... --.... ------......... --J 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 12, 2002 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

.,, 
I 
f 
I I I I 
f 
l 
Women battle two ranked opponents 
. Team not looking ahead to Big East touney yet 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Sports Writer 
As its season winds down, the Notre Dame women's ten­nis team might be tempted to start looking ahead to the Big East Tournament in Miami, Fla. 
However, two tough matches remain before 
right now. I'm confident in that aspect of our team," he said. 
On the singles side, the Irish have experimented by playing people at different positions, with only marginal degrees of success. The one constant this season has been Alicia Salas, who has anchored the team this season from the fourth singles spot with a stellar 21-2 record. 
On the other side of the court, William and Mary heads into the match with a 15-6 record, while the Longhorns 
boast a 14­
the Irish can 5 mark. 
"William and Mary and
focus their And while 
attention on Texas are both very good both teams 
Miami's sunny teams, but they are both s p o r t beaches. records
beatable. " 
This weekend, superior to the Irish will the Irish head south to Jay Louderback 11-11, the Williamsburg, head coach Longhorns 
Virginia to take on 14th-ranked William and Mary before trav­eling to Austin, Texas for a Monday match against the 10th-ranked Longhorns. 
The two matches represent the seventh consecutive time the Irish have had to play a top-30 opponent and will be a fitting end to a brutal late sea­son schedule. 
"We expect both matches to be very tough," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "William and Mary and Texas are both very good teams, but they both very beatable." 
As always, the key for the Irish will be to gain early momentum by winning the doubles point. Since Louderback shifted the doubles lineup several weeks ago, he has been pleased by his team's play and expects that part of the lineup to be solidified. 
"Our doubles looks good are reeling 
from a 7-0 thumping at the hands of Vanderbilt, while the Tribe is coming off a tight 4-3 loss to Texas. 
lt would seem as if the door were open for the Irish to gain some last-minute preparation heading into season-ending tournaments and perhaps even squeak out a victory or two. 
The Irish hope their match against Texas helps the team develop more outdoor playing experience that will come in handy during the Big East Tournament, especially against rival Miami. 
"We know Miami is going to be tough wherever we play them, but they're probably going to be even better out­doors," said Katie Cunha. "We want to be ready for that." 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 
Quality DiaIUonds 
~ 
John M.. Marshall's 
Incorporated 
1965 
Jewelers / Gemologist.sGoldsmiths / Platinumsmiths 
K~y Bank Building, Suite # 101 
South Bend, Indiana 46601 
287-1427 

GREAT WALL 
Voted lt1 Oriental Restaurant tor Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11 :30 -3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM -10:00 PM Friday -Saturday 11 :30 AM -11 :00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8. 95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219)2n-7376 

Irish seek perfection 
. Men's team aim for perfect home record 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

The seventh-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team is just one match away from achieving an unblemished record at home this season. 
A win over 16th-ranked Kentucky on Saturday would make this season's Irish squad the first to go undefeat­ed at the Eck Tennis Pavilion since the 1992 team accom­plished that same feat as they advanced to the NCAA final. 
Kentucky poses a hurdle to that potentially perfect home record, though. 
The Wildcats. who were ranked as high as fourth ear­lier in the season, own a 16-8 record and have defeated top 10 teams such as Tennessee and Mississippi. 
But they have struggled recently, losing four of their past five matches. 
"I have a lot of respect for them," Irish senior Javier Taborga said. "I think they have one of the best teams in the nation, they just under­achieved this year big time. I think it is going to be a war because they need to win to stay in the top 16 and we need to win to host the region." 
"We both need to win real bad for what we want to do," he said. 
Fellow senior and doubles teammate Casey Smith agreed 
"Kentucky is a very talented team," Smith said. "They've been down a little bit lately. Whenever your back is against the wall, you're going to come out fighting." 
The Irish were down a little bit earlier in the season, but after going through that brief slump, the team has come out stronger and more cognizant of their vulnerabilities. 
"l think the team has been playing a lot better. I have seen the level improving, and in practice we are all aware that we cannot have any more Michigan matches." said Taborga, in reference to Notre Dame's upset loss to No. 46 !\lichigan. 
Notre Dame's main weak­ness has been its doubles play, but with a new lineup on Saturday and after successful practices this week, the Irish are not worried. 
"For awhile, we kind of got down," Smith said. "Practices weren't as intense as they should have been. It is tough to keep that level up competi­tion up the entire season. We just went through a little val­ley and I think we're ready to peak again." 
Taborga feels the Irish have the potential to exploit some key disadvantages Kentucky bears. The key for Notre Dame is to capitalize on those opportunities. 
"We want to play them out­doors," he said. "We are in better shape than they are and outdoors you get more of a work-out than indoors." 
Additionally, Kentucky's. travel schedule could aid the Irish. The Wildcats will be getting into South Bend the same day as the match and only a day after hosting Vanderbilt. 

"We have to take advantage of that," Taborga said. 
Notre Dame hopes that the home court advantage will play a role also. 
"In the past years, we've struggled at home," Taborga said. "It's nice to know that finally we are realizing that we have to [maximize] the home court advantage. Not many people come out [to cheer on the team]. but the people that do come have been great supporters." 
The Irish are forcing them­sHlves not to think about undefeated home records and rankings though. 
"If we did think about it, then it might jinx us," sopho­more Matt Scott said. 
Taborga agreed that it is better not to think about rankings. 
"It can affect you," he said. "That's not the best thing to do right now. I think we need to keep on concentrating." 
Notre Dame's No. 1 player does not apply that advice to himself though. 
"I am the only one that is really, really concerned about rankings," Taborga said. "Anyone on the team will tell you that I am a freak because I am on the computer check­ing out all the other schools and telling people. 'If we win this match, we will move ahead.'" 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 

Sponso,e,1 /.Jy 


Fisher Regatta 
Saturday, April 13_,.., 
1:00 PM St. Mary's Lake 
Come for Free Food, Drinks, and Fine. Entertainmentl 


Friday, April 12, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
SHE 'iiAY5 I SPEND Too MUCH TIME EACH DAY LoITERtNG ARouND THE 
MOM THINk'S 


4  
15  
17  

signature 
7 Doorframes 

22 Play assisters 48 Clothes line? 
8 Game room 

24 Assault and 49 Clicker 
batter 9 Has capacity for 25 Animal's natural 51 Pie 10 Natural hideout habitat 52 "Way to go!" 11 Leading club? 12 Lady-killers 

PUZZie by Manny Noa-•ky 
32 Peterson, Judy Holliday's role in "Bells Are Ringing" 
33 Wing-tip tip 
34 Rhona's capital 
38 They come in droves 
30 Matter of union 39 Japanese­bargaining 
American 
___...,....,_ ...... "' 31 Hoi pclloi 40 Elephant or scorners walrus 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
l ---­
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q·  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
.'

........... " .... _.... ..,. 
..·-•-•·.,. ., ..... 

-:rim Ar 
41 Food brand 45 The merry named after two widow in MGM's states "The Merry 
Widow" 42 Didn't just 
47 Plum variety, forcriticize short 
43 Author Leonard 50 Do lacework 
Answers to any clues in this puzzJe are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2002 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: David Letterman, 
Shannen Doherty, David Cassidy 
Happy Birthday: You mustn't let personal problems interfere with your productivity this year. Day­dreaming on the job will only get you into trouble. A problem with medication is likely so don't take any chances. Intellectual activity with friends, family and peers will be stimulating and rewarding. This is a great year to negotiate contracts. Your numbers are 5, 13, 26, 32, 41, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your fast re.-ponse may get you into trouble especially if you don't have all the necessary information to answer properly. Do things by yourself if you want to avoid con­frontations. You need to slow down and think. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Although you can prosper today financially you are also likely to give your money away to a group or to someone who may not be worthy. Don't trust the people you work 
with.000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20), 
Your involvement in a political party or an organization that deals with intellectual matters will entice you today. Your superb ideas cou· pied with your smooth way of pre­senting yourself will bring you pop­ularity and a place amongst your 
peers.0000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be 
prepared to accommodate whatev­er changes are required and you'll discover that others will be indebt­ed to you for your courtesy. You may take on too much but help will only be an arm's length away. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be looking for something spectacular to occupy your time today. Travel 

Birthday Baby: You are clisciplined in your approach to life. Y~u ~ ter­rific at doing things in a secretive manner, These little ones are qUite willing to help those in need, but you are abo p1octical when it comes to giving to others. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
e2002 Universol Pre:;'j Syndicate 

~:c S~ ~ se~J ~ill ~ tc. ~u r<.J 
EUGENIA LAST 

opportunities will be enticing. You'll be very changeable and difficult for others to guess what you11 do next. This will only add to your charm. 
00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22}: You can expect to have problems with colleagues as well as friends today if you aren't willing to budge a little. If you compromise you will find yourself sitting in the perfect posi• tion to move forward. 000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0cL 22): Tum any tension you may be feeling into a romantic encounter. If you are already in a relationship plan some­thing special for two. If you aren't, get out and have some fun. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

Follow your gut feelings. Matters pertaining to work will tum out in your favor. Your spirit of adventure coupled with your ability to work hard will bring terrific results. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. ZU: 
You will be in a fun-loving mood. Romance is evident ifyou are span· taneous but u,se discrimination. Concentrate on friendships, not courtships. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

You may not be too easy to deal 
with at an emotional level today. 
You may try to lose yowself in the 
crowd by attending large events. lt' s 
best to face any issues head on. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): ­Good conversation coupled with a little adventure will be satisfying. Travel should be on your agenda even if you only have time for a short trip. Watch your spending habits. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 

Over-indulgence may be fun initial­
ly but you will have regrets. Do not 
take on too much or pmrnise things 
that are next to impossible. Think 
before you make offers. 000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Sharp-clawed critter
Cook (up) 27 Affairs
7 Mt. Rainier's group 28 Sawbuck 15 Off course 

29 Liking 16 Opening 34 Makes contacts 
number 35 Fat

17 Mock 36 Game room?
18 Behave like Jackals 37 Quick 
19 Guiding stars, to 38 Last place'? use a metaphor 44 Cheese variety 20 "Must be something _. 45 Skinny comic 
21 Part of an early 46 Night "Dallas" president's was on: Abbr. 47 Leaves 
53 Sowing machine 54 "Don't worry about a thing" 
55 Rant 
DOWN 1 Salad slice 2 Did, once 3 Fishing spot 4 Some Red 
Cross work 
5 Punch deliverer? 
6 Compact material 





Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Tennis, p. 22 
. Football, p. 18 
. 
ND Women's Tennis, p. 22 . Bookstore Basketball, 


. SMC Softball, p. 21 p.17 
. SMC Golf, p. 21 . Women's Lacrosse, p. 16
PORTS 
. Track, p. 14 
Friday, April 12, 2002 
LACROSSE 
ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
If you take a quick glance at this year's media guides for the Notre Dame men's and women's lacrosse teams, you will notice that the last names Simon and Shearer appear on each team's roster. 
This is no coincidence. 
For Eric Simon and his younger sister Meredith and for Danielle Shearer and her younger brother Will, Notre Dame lacrosse is truly a family 
affair. 
Meet the Simons 
Sophomore Meredith Simon has been following in her broth­er's footsteps ever since she was a kid growing up in Flemington, 
N.J. After excelling at softball and soccer in grade school, she wanted to add another sport to her resume in high school. 
"I was looking to do something different," Meredith said with a laugh. "Eric had been playing lacrosse for a few years, and he encouraged me to give it a try. We used to play in the backyard a lot. He played defense on me. I never scored." 
Just like his little sister. Eric Simon was also a three-sport star at Hunterdon Central High School. Eric's athletic talent shined the most on the lacrosse field, where he was named a second-team all-state selection in New Jersey during his senior year. 
After being recruited by sever-

It's all in the family 
al colleges, Eric decided to attend Notre Dame because he wanted to help build a lacrosse tradition here. 
Little did he know one year later his sister would be follow­ing him to South Bend for the same reason. 
"After my first couple of months at Notre Dame, I knew that she would fit in here really well," Eric said. "Every time I called home, I wanted to know if she got in. Meredith is just per­fect for Notre Dame." 
Both of the Simons have been fixtures in the starting lineups for their respective teams over the last two years. As a sopho­more. Eric cracked the starting lineup as a defenseman for the best men's lacrosse team in Notre Dame history. His strong defensive play helped the Irish advance all the way to the Final Four. 
This season has been a bit more challenging for both Eric and the Irish. Eric has been out of action for the last three weeks with a broken left hand, but hopes to possibly return this Saturday against Army and help Notre Dame extend its current winning streak to four games. 
Although their overall record is only 4-5, the Irish look to be in excellent shape to return to the NCAA Tournament. 
Notre Dame currently sits atop the Great Western Lacrosse League with an unblemished 3-0 record. The winner of the league earns ,an automatic bid to the 
see SIBLINGS/page 14 


-BASEBALL 
Pitt rallies for win in split 
. Panthers' 6-run inning sparks comeback in first game of Big East doubleheader 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
For a head coach whose team had just beaten a con­ference rival by 10 runs, Paul Mainieri was surprising­ly frustrated. 
The Notre Dame coach's aggravation stemmed from his teams missed opportuni­ties in the first game of a double header against 
Pittsburgh on Thursday, when the Irish let a 4-0 lead vanish and left 11 players on base, en route to a 7-5 loss. 
Despite bouncing back with a 12-2 pounding of the Panthers in the second game, Mainieri knows his team must start playing more con­sistently in the Big East con­ference. 
"We need to play better than a .500 team to get over the hump," Mainieri said. 
"Today we had one nice win, but it was a lost oppor­tunity in the first game, and we're going to have to, soon­er or later, win a couple of games in a day." 
In the first contest, fresh­man right-handed pitcher 

Grant Johnson took the hill for the Irish and was nearly untouchable in the first three innings, striking out seven batters. 
Johnson continued to cruise through Pittsburgh's lineup through five innings, but Notre Dame's offense strug­gled to break the game open. 
Left fielder Brian Stavisky led the Irish with three hits, including an RBI single in the first inning. He also added his fourth home run of the sea­son, a solo shot, in the fifth inning. Catcher Paul O'Toole then smacked a double to center field and was knocked in by shortstop Javier 
see BASEBALL/page 15 

ND SOFTBALL 
Streaking Irish grab 11th straight victory 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Purdue came to Ivy Field on Thursday and met a hot Notre Dame softball team, and the Irish sent the Boilermakers home just like their previous 10 opponents -losers. 
Using timely hitting and anoth­er great pitching performance, Notre Dame beat Purdue 4-2 and extended their winning streak to 11 games. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf was very pleased with her team. "I think we did great. I think 
we fought," Gumpfsaid. "Purdue is one of the scrappiest teams in the nation. They are the kind of team that can beat anybody on a good day. Purdue loves to beat us. It's like bragging rights in Indiana. Purdue would have liked nothing better than to beat us, so today was a great day for us." 
Carrie Wisen got the start for the Irish and went the distance for her second complete game victory in as many starts. The . freshman pitcher gave up two runs, one earned, on seven hits. 
see SOFfBALL/page 19 

. 
ND Softball vs. Connecticut, today, 4 p.m. 

. 
Women's Lacrosse vs. Duke, today, 4 p.m.


SPORTS 

. Baseball vs. Virginia Tech, today, 5:05 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis vs. Kentucky, Saturday, 1 p.m. 








