
NSRSC bringing Shakespeare to atheater near you
SNOW 

Wednesday
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company's presents "The History of King Henry IV. part I"
HIGH 26° FEBRUARY 27,
Scene page 12 and 13

1ow11° 
2002 


VOL. XXXV NO. 98 

College begins new transfer system 
. Saint Mary's improves system for Holy Cross transfer students 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
In an effort to provide coopera­tion between Saint Mary's and Holy Cross Colleges, an agree­ment has been signed that allows students who receive an associ­ates degree to make an easier transfer into Saint Mary's. 
"This articulation agreement has been the d~sire of the two institutions and their presidents for many years," said Saint Mary's Dean of Faculty Karen Ristau. 
"It has taken careful review during the development stage and is now finalized. It may result in a small increase in our enrollment but actually since it is a benefit to Holy Cross students, they may see it as a positive mar­keting strategy for their college." 
Students at Holy Cross who wish to transfer to Saint Mary's for a bachelor's degree will be able to do so with a minimal loss of credit. The agreement notes that Saint Mary's does not accept courses from two-year colleges to substitute for 300 and 400 level courses and that this holds true for Holy Cross. 
Students who wish to transfer must assume that courses beyond the introductory level will count as general electives. A grade point average of 3.0 is also required of Holy Cross transfer students and applicants must submit an official transcript, a recommendation from an advisor and an essay. 
"It was our intention to make the transfer process a bit smoother by giving prospective transfer students from Holy Cross, a clearer understanding of the admission process, which courses would transfer and what grade point average would be required," said Saint Mary's admission director Mary Pat Nolan. 
This articulation agreement does not affect the Saint Mary's­II o ly Cross College Linkage Program. The Linkage Program is for one year only and during this year students take four courses at Holy Cross and one course at Saint Mary's, while residing on Saint Mary's campus. To be admitted as a full-time Saint Marv's student a GPA of 
3.0 i.s required. 
"If students in the Linkage Program wish to continue their 
see TRANSFERJpage 9 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Protestors attempt to deter play-goers 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
A,sociatc News Editor 
Two members of the Pro-Life Action League of Chicago were removed from the lobby of DeBartolo Hall by Notre Dame Security/Police Tuesday night for distributing fliers to people about to enter a performance of the "Vagina Monologues.'' 
Joe Scheidler, a 1950 Notre Dame alumnus and his com­panion, Monica Miller drove from Chicago despite snow­storms to represent a group of "concerned Catholics [who believe] the Vagina Monologues promotes a false view of wom­anhood and human sexuality. " according to their press release. 
Scheidler and Miller attempt­ed to dispense two fliers to hundreds of people waiting to be admitted to the Monologues performance in Room 101 DeBartolo Hall. One flier fea­tured the word "Integrity" and described how thev believe the Monologues is steeped in vile sexual language, denigrates heterosexual love and mar­riage and is verbal pornogra­phy that donates its proceeds to pro-abortion groups. 
The other flier read, "Is THIS What You Want?" beneath a picture of the Golden Dome with the Virgin Mary erased from the Dome's peak. 
"It's unthinkable to have something like this at an insti­tution that claims to be Catholic," said Scheidler, the uncle of David Scheidler, for­mer rector of St. Edward's Hall. "It's dirty. It's promoting lesbianism, masturbation and pedophilia." Miller pleaded with ticket holders to "stop wasting the money you've spent on a Catholic education" as she was escorted out of the building. 
"[The Monologues] degrade human dignity," ·Miller said. "I don't care how good the cause is, this is verbal pornography. 
It denigrates everything a Catholic university should stand for." 
Scheidler and Miller also con­tacted members of the Knights of Columbus. including Grand Knight and Notre Dame senior Nathaniel Hannan to request support. Hannan and fellow Knights of Columbus member. Kevin Haley, a Notre Dame junior, prayed the Rosary while Scheidler and Miller distributed fliers. 
"We consider this equivalent to a play sponsored by the Arian nation at a Jewish uni­versity," Hannan said. Hannan has read the Monologues script four times and opposes the play as a violation of the core teachings of the Catholic Church, he said. Hannan also denied rumors that the Knights of Columbus had purchased tickets to the Monologues in an attempt to keep people from viewing the production. However. the Knights of Columbus is considering future programming, such as public speakers to combat the Monologues message. 
"I saw the show in London and feel like [these protesters) are distorting a lot of what is in it," said Becky Luckett. a Notre Dame junior who saw tho show again Tuesday. 
"It's really funny, but it's also very serious and it causes you to think about a lot of things women are afraid, or at least have been taught not to think about." Kerry Walsh, director of the Monologues, opened the show with a reference to Scheidler and Miller's flier. 
"Is this what you want for Notre Dame? Hell yeah," she said to a packed audience. Walsh's "V-Day" programming continues through Wednesday with a Talk-Back session from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomery Theater. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu. 
PLAYING IN THE SNOW 

The never-ending precipitation does not daunt these students taking a break from their studies to play football on South Quad Tuesday night. 
page 2 The Observa . INSIDE Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 


D. H. Memoirs 
The dining halls at this University are a social 
blender. After seeing each other in the class­
room, at the athletic facilities, in church, and 
walking through the quad, the cafeteria is the 
one place where we learn most about each other. 
You can find out what a per­

V. Van Buren
son eat.s, how much of it 

they consume, who they're Giles 
friends with, and whether 
they sit in a noticeable area, 

News Copy
or in one of the more lonely, 

Editor
single tables to the side. 

Aside from being open later and having a greater variety of food, South is obviously better than North. To fully under­stand the dining halls we must first examine the people who spend the most time there: the work­ers. Even more important than hours of opera­tion and quality of food, South Dining Hall work­ers arc far more bizarre and in effect more entertaining than the 'Northies.' However, there is that one young feller at North with the obnox­ious face piercings who walks around like there is nothing odd about his appearance. He's my favorite. 
When South employees eat they are out in the open with their clique for all student.s to witness. The 'Northies' always hide out in those intimate little rooms immediately to the right and left of the card scanners. 
The people who scan the ID cards are also an enclosed community predominantly made up of the more ... how can I phrase this non-offensive­ly... "Senior" employees. These people always bring a smile to my face because there are some that won't even look at you, and others who always give me a warm "How are you?" whenev­er I give them my card. I always return with, "Fine thanks," or my more saccharin, "Boy, it's cold out there!" They smile at my response, even though they make the same query of every stu­dent and hear basically the same response every time. 
I don't really see much interaction between the scanners and the more disgruntled workers who put the food out. The food attendees give you dirty looks when you spend too much time at the condiment table when they are about to replenish it. 
The students that frequent the dining hall are as diverse as the staff that works in them. There's the, "early bird" that shows up right at 
4:30 p.m. for dinner in order to beat the evening rush. This particular group should own stock in Papa John's because they are the one's who are always ordering breadsticks at 11 at night because they can't go to sleep hungry. 
Next is the dining hall "celebrity" who walks in an entourage of five to ten at the most con ­gested dinner hour. They're usually overdressed and love to take up the most visible table that the North and South eateries have 'to offer. Half the time they are not even hungry. They're main goal is to be seen by others and socialize in pub­
lic. They're travel from the front table to the food line is a runway walk where they stop and chit ­chat with other dining hall socialites. When they eventually do get back to the table, they do not sit down but rather stand there cackling and pre­tending like this particular dinner outing was better than last night.s. 
I am a member of the group of dining hall patrons known as the "closers." We stumble in after 8:30 p. m. and we usually don't leave until the clean up crew turns on the stereo to rock out as they clear the tables of debris. 
I know many ofyou will be eating lunch or dinner when you read this. The dining hall is a melting pot ofthe different personalities that make up this great institution. Some of the more eccentric and colorful characters stand out more than others, but who in the hell wants to go to a school where everyone looks exactly alike. Take a look around. Remember the various dining hall faces because I am sure that they point and talk about you just as much as you talk about them. 
Contact Van Giles at vgiles.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfa.s a professional publication and mives for rhe highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we wil.l make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please wnract u.s at 631-4541 sow,: can correct our error. 
__rhe O_bse,vfr, (!]~PS i99 .2;4.f)?'l).Js,Ru~l!>!,,e;-f)Aonday through. Friday excep, during exam and v•cation perio~. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pre:,s. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: College  . Concert: Notre Dame  
Symposiumon on Catholic  Symphony Orchestra,  
Identity, Dr. Monika  Washington Hall, no tick- 
Hellwig, Carroll  ets required, 8 p.m.  
Auditorium, 3 to 5 p.m.  

Friday 
. Theater: Henry IV, Part I, performed by the Not­So-Royal Shakespeare Co. Hesburgh Center Auditorium, tickets avail­able at LaFortune Box Office, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday 
. Conference: 
"Hollywood, A'iian Media and the Global Market," McKenna Hall, all day 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 
University of Illinois initiates action after hate crimes 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

A Muslim student was attacked Dec. 16 at the corner of Fifth and John streets; the weekend before, sev~ral men attacked an Asian-American stu­dent at Third and Green streets. Both victims claim their attackers used racial slurs. 
"We don't know if the assault was a hate crime because it's still under investigation," said Kush Bambrah, National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium staff attorney, in regards to the incident at Third and Green. "In light of the backlash fol­lowing the terrorist attacks and in light of the fact that the victim was South Asian, you can't be too care­
ful." 

These are the latest in a string of attacks that have been tagged hate crimes, including an incident earlier 

last semester in which a University of Illinois student started a fight at a campus bar when he allegedly called a 19-year-old Hindu student a "ter­rorist" and assaulted him. 
The most recent alleged hate crimes seem tied to racial tensions following the Sept. 11 attacks, but 
hate violence crimes committed 
because of someone's ethnicity, reli­
gion. sexual orientation or gender -is 
nothing new to campus. 
Racially motivated crimes of the 
past few years have motivated stu­
dent groups, University administra­
tors and campus police to educate 
students about tolerance and to work 
toward preventing hate violence. 
State legislation on hate crimes also 
has become more stringent in recent 
years. 
Although no campus hate crimes 

•were reported in 2000, according to University police statistics, three were reported in 1998 and 1999. One of the three was racially motivated; the other two were based on sexual ori­entation. 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Summer internships more scarce 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

When McCormick junior Sai Krishna went to the Chicago Universities Bioengineering Industry Conference Career Fair, he said he found about five companies there. But only one was looking for sum­mer interns. Disappointed that there weren't more internship opportunities, Krishna said he decided to apply for several campus research positions instead. "I know that an internship is different from a job, but the state of hiring scared me and made me more interested in research," Krishna said. Northwestern University has seen a 25 to 30 percent decrease in the number of summer internship recruiters this year. Particularly hard hit have been consulting, finance, information technology and engineering, said Thy Nguyen, an internship coordinator for University Career Services. On-campus recruiting also has decreased at Stanford and Princeton uni­versities, according to career services staff at both schools. 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 

Funds not affected by Sept. 11 
PHIIADELPHIA 

Although last fall's struggling economy forced many schools into a tailspin, administrators say University of Pennsylvania has come out relatively unscathed. Speculations the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks might impact fund raising at universities nation­wide were confirmed earlier this month in a report released by the Association of Fundraising Professionals. According to the study, educational orga­nizations saw a 37 percent decrease in fund-raising efforts last October compared to the previous year's fig­ures. Penn saw a similar drop in returns from its fund­raising campaign in October; however, administrators said this was due largely to the University's decision to postpone sending out fund-raising solicitations immedi­ately following the attacks. "On the annual fund, it dipped immediately after Sept. 11 because we didn't think that it was appropriate to be making phone calls," said Virginia Clark, vice president for development and alumni relations. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather ® forecast for daytime conditions and h.igh temperatures 


~ 
~ 

-• Showers T-storms Rain Rurries Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy Via A9Sil0ciated Pr6BS GraphicsNet 
Prl!!tl9Uf~: ® © r2J.High Low Shower• R ¦ ln v,a A$SOQIJtsd Press  fl:] T-•torm¦  ffij, Flurrlea  COLD ~ -cm Snow lco  WARM STATIONARY z'", ,,:;:;?;":;:;:,).,,s.,J :f&J;&, ;;~¥ji,re·: Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston  46 41 49  27 21 26  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee  71 37 29  42 18 16  Portland Sacramento St. Louis  50 68 27  32 39 20  
Chicago Houston  26 53  14 33  New York Philadelphia  44 42  25 26  Tampa 54 Washington, DC 45  50 26  

-----------~-­
Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Huddle thefts prompt installation of security cameras 
theft, a new state of the art secu­measures were not enough, as By JOHN FANNING rity system has been installed to theft in the store was having an News Writer combat the problem. Though extremely negative affect on the 
The Huddle has always used business' profits. As a result of large losses cameras and plain-clothes secu­"The loss of product in the incurred at The Huddle due to rity to catch shoplifters, these store has been at an all-time 
high during the last year," said 
James LaBella, general manager 
of food services at The Huddle. 
"The honest people are having to 
pay more because of the dishon­
est people," LaBella said. Cameras have been installed in the Huddle, granting visu­al access to areas previously obstructed under the former svstem. · LaBclla, who is extremely pleased with the new system, and who is responsible for first confronting the stu­dents, says that he will never approach anyone unless he is sure. However, he maintains, "We've always had theft in the Huddle. and we've always caught people, but now (with the new system) it is just a lot easier." Though there has been no specific trend to the theft in terms of items stolen, or the time of day at which the theft occurs, offenders are obvi­ously more likely to steal higher priced items such as cough and cold medicines. After many students have 
been caught, their common response is that these items are high cost items towards which they did not want to use their Flex points, said LaBeHa. 
However, an interesting trend that was also acknowledged by the head of Campus Security, Rex Rakow, is that "people that take things almost always have funds on them to pay for the goods." 
This trend seems to indicate that the theft is often done for the thrill of the act, or simply because people feel that they can get away with it. which is most often the case in an open envi­ronment such as the Huddle, according to Rakow. 
The policy of The Huddle, according to LaBella, is to prose­cute offenders. If a student is caught stealing, campus security is immediately contacted to come and arrest the student. From there, the offender is inter­viewed by security and then sent on to the office of Residence Life. 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu. 


RICO CASARES/The Observer 

A student makes a purchase at the Huddle under the watchful lens of the newly installed camera system. 
lJr,iversit, ofNotre Dame 

A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
Fri., March 1 • Sat., March 2 • Sun., March 3 Call Broadway Theatre League Box Office for tickets. 234-4044 or toll free 1-877-315-1234 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
. '. 

--,------------------·------------~-------------------.... 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
Enron executive denies misleading Congress 
former Enron Chairman Enron officials have invoked Congress. MiUions of investors their retirement savings -in
Associated Press 
Kenneth Lay, who recently their Fifth Amendment right nationwide lost money, and accounts loaded with Enron WASHINGTON resigned. against potential self-incrimina­thousands of current and former stock -when the company 
Senators said they didn't believe him. Former coHeagues continued to contradict him. Yet, ever the salesman. former Enron Corp. chief executive Jeffrey Skilling defended himself at length and combatively before Congress. 
Putting himself at potential legal risk for the second time this month, Skilling testified Tuesday at a Senate hearing and domi­nated the scene during a five­hour appearance with an Enron vice president, Sherron Watkins, and President-Chief Operating Officer Jeffrey McMahon. 
McMahon acknowledged that, with massive shredding of fman­cial documents said to have occurred at Enron's Houston headquarters, "I don't believe we know what records are destroyed." 
Watkins, separated from Skilling at the witness table by his lawyer, told the Senate Commerce Committee she had no doubt Skilling was aware of the problems posed by Enron's use of partnerships that were largely buttressed by company stock, contrary to normal accounting practices. 
Sharply disputing Watkins, Skilling denied he had misled 
"I never duped Ken Lay," Skilling declared, using Watkins' wording. 
Watkins characterized Lay in harsher terms than she had at a House hearing earlier this month, saying Tuesday that he missed an opportunity to "sal­vage" the company when she warned him of problems last summer. 
Skilling maintained he was unaware of improper financial transactions with a web of out­side partnerships that kept more than $1 billion in debt off the energy-trading company's bal­ance sheet and eventually brought it down. 
Skilling, who cashed in $66 million of company stock, resigned abruptly in August around the time that Watkins was warning Lay of potentially serious accounting problems. The company. which was ranked the seventh-largest in the coun­try, crumbled Dec. 2 in the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. histo­ry. 
Watkins says Skilling; along with Huron's auditor, Arthur Andersen LLP, and its outside legal advisers, misled Lay and Enron's board of directors. 
Lay and several other former 
Collegiate jazz festival comes to campus 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival will return for its 44th year Wednesday, Feb. 27 and Friday-Saturday (March 1-2) featuring 10 collegiate bands competing before a panel of distinguished judges. 
Jazz bands performing in this year's festival represent the University of Missouri, Kansas City; Western Michigan University; the University of Hawaii; the University of Alaska, Fairbanks; Middle Tennessee State University; Oberlin Conservatory; Western Illinois University; and Virginia Commonwealth University. The Notre Dame Big Band, under the direction of Larry Dwyer, also will appear. Sponsored by Notre Dame's Student Union Board, the festival officially begins Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Lafortune Student Center Ballroom with Preview Night, featuring a performance by Notre Dame Jazz Band II and Jazz Combo.The perfor­mances by the bands selected to this year's festival begin Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The session will end with the traditional Judge's Jam, featuring saxo­phonist James Carter, trum­peter Cecil Bridgewater, pianist Jim McNeely, bassist Rodney Whitaker and percus­sionist John Robinson. The Saturday night session will begin at 7 :30 in Washington Hall, to be followed by the awards ceremony. Tickets will be sold at the door. For Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College stu­dents and faculty, and for senior citizens, tickets are $4 for the Friday night session and $2 for the Saturday night session. An all-session pass may be purchased for $5. Admission for the general pub­lic is $8 for the Friday night session and $5 for the Saturday night session. An all-session pass may be purchased for $12. Children under 12 are admitted free to all festival activities. 

Hesburgh Center 
for International Studies 
Wednesday 
Feb. 27th and Thursday Feb. 28th 

tion and refused to testify to Enron employees lost the bulk of failed. 
Interested in . Student Government? 

Summer 2002 
Internships with NGOs in Washington, DC. 
If you have studied Spanish, are interested in public policy, are motivated to work hard and want a great experience contact Jean Olson, 207 Hesburgh Center, 631-6023 or see our web­site at www.nd.edu/-kellogg. 
Applications accepted until March 9 or until posi­tions are filled-whichever comes first! 

ATION 
Wednesday, February 27, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Warplanes eclipse airliners at show: 
At the giant Asian Aerospace 2002 air show in Singapore this week, military aircraft mak­ers appeared to be leading the recovery. Singapore and South Korea were openly shopping for new combat jets. with European and American companies swearing their war­planes are the stealthiest, the most agile and the best value. 
Europe's national curriencies vanish: 
Well ahead of their official expiration, Europe's national curnmcies have vanished into history -traded in for euros, Josi in couches. taken home by foreigners. or hoard­ed as mementos. Thursday is the final day that old cash ·will still buy something, as the remaining nine of the 12 countries using the euro phase out their national currencies. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Regulators approve AOL competitors: 
Federal regulators approved allowing another national Internet service provider to use AOL Time Warner's high-speed cable lines Tuesday, giving more options to consumers wanting to go online and allowing the compa­ny to meet government competition require­ments. Big Net Holdings Inc. will be allowed to compete with AOL on the cable lines nation­wide, the Federal Trade Commission said. 
U.S. to decide fate of prisoners: u.s. 
interrogations of al-Qaida and Taliban prison­ers from the war in Afghanistan have begun focusing on which of the nearly 500 in custody may be tried by a U.S. military tribunal. The next step is to determine whether and how to prosecute, Rumsfeld said. Those not tried by a military tribunal would either be prosecuted in a U.S. civilian or military court; returned to their home country for prosecution; released outright, or held in U.S. custody indefinitely. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Dockside casino bill passes House: 
The Indiana House voted Tuesday to expand legalized gambling by relaxing the rules govern­ing riverboat casinos and allowing pull-tab machines at horse racing tracks and some off­track betting parlors. Lawmakers voted 55-43 to approve the bill, sending it to a conference com­mittee where House and Senate members will try to work out differences during the final weeks of the legislative session. The proposal would authorize riverboat casinos on Lake Michigan and the Ohio River to remain docked, rather than making regularly scheduled cruises. 
Market \,Vatch February 26 
Dow 10,115.26 -30.45 
Composite
J~ sf~s° 
Volume; 
1,291.469.947 AMEX: 864.41 +2.24 NASDAQ: 1,766.86 -0.37 NYSE: 577.34 +0.98 S&P 500: 1,109.38 -0.06 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASD,AQ-100 INDEX (00)) -0. 37 -0.13 34. 88 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNI/) +1.58 +0.14 9.01 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.64 -0.10 15. 50 INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.22 -1.00 30.02 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.16 +0.19 16. 53 
VENEZUELA 


Associated Press 

CARACAS 
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, in an inter­view published Tuesday, dismissed growing calls by military officers for his resignation. But a U.S. official said Venezuelan officers have raised the possibility of a coup. 
Chavez told the French daily Le Monde that the dissident officers "are dis­satisfied for personal rea­sons" and that risks of a military coup are "zero." 
"Venezuela has a gov­ernment that was legiti­mately elected and enjoys popular support. I might even say that it enjoys more popular support than any other country in the American continent," he said. He claimed the news media were "putting on a show" with the offi­cers. 
Adding weight to the dis­s id ents' argument that they speak for a silent majority in the ranks, a Bush administration offi­cial said Tuesday that some Venezuelan officers have sounded out U.S. diplomats about how Washington would react to a coup. They were told the 
U.S. stridently opposes any s.,ubversion of Venezuela's democratic process, the official said on condition he not be identified. 

In Washington. a State Department spokesman said the United States has made no secret of its con­cerns that Chavez has tried to stifle dissent. 
"We believe that all par­ties should respect democ­ratic institutions," said the spokesman. Richard Boucher. 
"That applies to whatev­er direction the attacks on democracy might be com­ing from," he added. 
Chavez, a former army paratrooper who led a failed coup in 1992, was overwhelmingly elected president in 1998 on an anti-poverty, anti-corrup­tion platform. His current term expires in 2007. 
Already locked in a ver­b al war with business, labor, the news media and the Roman Catholic Church, Chavez has strug­gled for weeks to play down perceptions of mili­tary discontent. Those efforts suffered another blow Monday when a fourth military officer demanded that he resign. 
Air Force Gen. Roman Gomez Ruiz urged other colleagues to speak out, citing alleged government corruption and what he called Chavez's politiciza­tion of the armed forces. 
BRAZIL 

Dengue epidemic transforms Rio 
Federal University, said in a tele­nal bleeding and can be fatal. 
Associated Press 

vised interview Tuesday. "With the "I felt like my eyeballs would 
RIO DE JANEIRO recent rains and the concentration of explode. It was the worst pain I ever 
Nine-hour waiting lines at hospi­infected people, we will see a big felt," said Roberto Pereira, a musi­tals, blood banks running dry. army increase." cian. troops summoned to swat disease­State health authorities report The disease was common in colo­spreading mosquitos -an epidemic nearly 44,000 cases of dengue since nial times but widely thought to be of dengue fever is gripping this city. January, about one-third of them in eradicated here until two decades 
At least 18 people have died and greater Rio. But many cases go unre­ago. Cuba, Peru and El Salvador also tens of thousands are sick in Rio de ported, and some unofficial estimates have recently reported outbreaks. Janeiro slate -and experts say the put the number as high as 130,000. Combating dengue has been ham­worst is still to come as Brazilians Also known as breakbone fever. pered by politics. During a 1991 out­cringe whenever they hear a mosqui­the most common form of dengue break that killed 24 people. Rio resi­to's drone. causes severe headaches and joint dents joked that authorities were 
"March and April will be worse," pains but is usually not deadly. A arguing whether mosquitos were Alexandre Adler, a biologist at Rio's rarer strain of the virus causes inter-federal, state or municipal insects. 

page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
EGYPT 
Civilians mourn after building collapses killing 22 
MTV2 HANDPICKED 
Variou• Artt•ts 
--~.r-£~-~-tj!~~~-~-~~;~~~j1~'~'.;;1 
Associated Press 
DAMIETIA 

Multicolored party lights were still hanging from Heba Maamoun Orabi's balconv Tuesday, strung out for what was meant to have bMn a wed­ding celebration. Instead, they were a macabre backdrop for a funeral. 
Orabi was one of 22 people killed Monday in the collapse of an aging, Nile-front building that housed. among other things, a hair salon that was popular with brides. At least five women preparing for their weddings died in the four-story building. 
Hundreds of people converged on mosques around the town of Damietta, 105 miles north of Cairo, to pray over coffins. All but one of the 22 dead were women; 25 other people were injured. A mother of one victim screamed wildly and beat her fists on the door of an ambu­lance covered with flowers. The vehicle bore the coffin holding her daughter-17-year-old jour­nalism student Basma el-Efny. 
"She was an angel, she prayed all the time, she used to kiss me all the time. Who is going to kiss me now?" said the woman, who only identified herself as Manal. 
Mana} said her daughter had been at the salon ·with bride-to­be Shireen Said el-Sarta and el­Sarta's sister, Rasha, when the building collapsed. All three died, the mother said. 
At another funeral procession, the coffin of 18-year-old :Vlarwah el-Khouli was draped with a white satin sheet. A relative said that was a sign both.of a wed­ding and of a bride-to-be who dies prematurely. 
"We were preparing for a wedding. now we are having a funeral." said Orabi's uncle, who identified himself only as Ahmed. 
Angry residents said ambu-

IRELAND 
Government shifts international positions 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN 

Ireland's ambassadors to the United States and Germany will switch jobs as part of a wider batch of transfers and promo­tions in the diplomatic corps. the government · announced Tuesday. 
Sean O Huiginn, who has been ambassador in Washington since 1997. will change jobs with Noel Fahey, Ireland's man in Germany since 1998, Foreign Minister Brian Cowen announced as part of 14 ambas­sadorial appointments world­wide. Ile said the timing of the job switch was uncertain. 
The move reflected shifting international priorities for Ireland, which has to balance its close economic and cultural ties with the United States and its increasing involvement in the 15-member European Union, of which Germany is the largest member. 0 Huiginn. 57. is con­sidered among the Irish diplo­matic corps' most influential and respected members. 
A specialist in British-Irish relations, he went to 
Washington at a moment when the Clinton administration was becoming closely involved in efforts to broker a peace accord for Northern Ireland. Clinton's envoy, former Sen. George Mitchell, led the Belfast negotia­tions that produced the British province's Good Friday peace accord of 1998. 
The Dush administration has demonstrated much less interest in Northern Ireland. and the Irish government has increas­ingly found its foreign affairs focused on mending frayed rela­tions with its European partners. 
European Union finance chiefs formally reprimanded Ireland last February for allegedly flout­ing the union's anti-inflationary economic policies. Last June, Ireland further aggravated its EU partners when voters reject­ed the union's latest treaty on expansion. The verdict has threatened painstakingly negoti­ated EU plans to admit up to a dozen new members from cen­tral and eastern Europe. 
Ireland. which is one of 12 EU nations participating in the ·new euro common currency, plans to stage a second referendum on the treaty later this year. 
lance and rescue crews took more than an hour to arrive at the scene, by which time locals had found bulldozers and begun their own rescue operation. 
"Where were our Egyptian emergency experts?" said Emad Said Hiszk, a 36-year-old car­penter. "'The bulldozers brought in (by the locals) were just killing the people underneath." 
While pinned under the rub­ble, medical student Rashia Mohammed Sarhan said she spoke to an emergency police operator in Cairo by cellphone, who told her to call from a land­line. 
"How can I do this?" the 22­year-old told the operator. "I'm calling from under the debris." 
She said the operator put her on hold. After several minutes she hung up and called her 

Damietta Governor Abdel Azim Wazir denied there were anv delays in the rescue. · 
"The rescue effort could not have been any better. I followed it myself." 

father. fiance and brother, who all went to the building to help. 
Police officials speaking on condition of anonymity later con­f'irm ed Sarhan's account and were questioning the operator. 
"Rescue efforts were primitive, the whole operation was primi­tive. There was no expertise, and this caused the high number of casualties," said a local coun­cil official. Sameer Abu Hussein. 

T 
1099 


LOSTPROPHETS 
The Fake Sound Of Progress 






T T 
1399 1a99 
MEDINPLAY" 
Your Entertainment .superstore For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and special offers may vury by store and online, 
802522 11165 Sule ends February 23, 2002. www.mediaplay.com 
Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
ZIMBABWE 
Treason claim condemned 
. Government charges opposition candidate in plot to kill president 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBUHG 

Foreign governments and human rights groups on Tuesday condemned Zimbabwe's decision to charge the opposition presi­dential candidate with trea­son as an attempt to disrupt the March 9-10 elections. 
Zimbabwe's government on Monday charged Morgan Tsvangirai, leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, in connection with an alleged plot to kill President Robert Mugabe. On Tuesday, party secretary-general Welshman Ncube and law• maker Henson Gasela were also charged, said their lawyer, Innocent Chagonda. 
Tsvangirai was held for two hours and then released. The two others also were released after being charged. 
U.S. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said government officials have yet to provide proof that Tsvangirai and his two aides engaged in treasonous activi­ties. 
"This appears to be another blatant example of President Mugabe's increasingly authoritarian rule and his government's apparent deter­mination to discredit, intimi­date and repress the opposi­tion in the approach to the presidential election," Boucher said in Washington. 
Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Tuesday that the charges "lack credibility." He threat­ened to ask the Commonwealth, an associa­tion of Britain and its former colonies, to withdraw its elec­tion observers if Tsvangirai is imprisoned before the elec­tions. 
"They are not real charges. I don't think in the real world you can charge people with treason and then let them go free," said Lovemore Madhuku, head of the National Constitutional Assembly, a civic group that helped defeat a government­backed constitutional referen­dum in 2000. 
The charges "are an act of desperation," Madhuku said. "If they were convinced of winning the election. they would not do this." 
The charges against Tsvangirai stemmed from several meetings he had with a Canadian consulting firm that was secretly working for the government. 
In a videotaped meeting, repeatedly broadcast on Zimbabwean state television, Tsvangirai and the consul­tants discussed Mugabe's "elimination." 
Police say Ncube and Gasela accompanied Tsvangirai to earlier meetings with the consultants. Tsvangirai denied plotting Mugabe's assassination and said he had only planned to hire the firm as lobbyists. He said the snippets of video shown on television had been taken out of context. 
The charges came amid a bitter and violent election campaign that poses the greatest threat to Mugabe's rule since he led the nation to independence in 1980. 
Even before the charges, many Zimbabweans had given up hope for a fair poll after nearly two years of vio• lence and intimidation, main­ly blamed on ruling party mil­itants. 
Police have banned most opposition rallies, government employees have been appoint­ed election monitors, and army officers have been named to the body supervis­ing the elections. 
State-controlled television and radio, the only sources of news for Zimbabwe's mainly rural population, have pre­sented Mugabe as a liberation hero and Tsvangirai as a ''ter­rorist"and a "tea boy," or ser­vant, for the country's whites and for European powers. 
The state media have given nearly nonstop coverage to the assassination claims since they first surfaced iwo weeks ago. Andrew Moyse, project coordinator of Zimbabwe's Media Monitoring Project, called the coverage a "tidal wave of propaganda." 
"For people who don't have alternative sources of infor­mation, like the rural folk, they are likely to tend to think there is some grain of truth in (the charges)," he said. 
The United States and Britain have condemned the treason allegations. 
"Coming just days before the presidential elections, it looks like yet another attempt by the Mugabe regime to obstruct the conduct of the election and the ability of the people of Zimbabwe to choose, freely and fairly, who should lead them," British Foreign Minister Jack Straw said Monday. 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT OPEN HOUSE 

''J kudt ilie /uiwi,e. J leach. " e~a/Wcllu4i,e 
Are you wondering where your future lies? Still pondering your major? Look to v.herc there arc ample jobs and ex(;ellent opportunities. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents can become licensed to kach. 
Come to an Informational Session/Open.House in the Education Department at Saint Mary's on March 5, 2002 from 6:30-7:30 p.m. lfyou're interested in Elementary Education, meet in Room 315 Madeleva; those interested in Secondary Education, come to Room 316 Madeleva. Meet faculty from the Education Department who will answer your questions and share information on course requirements, department admission procedures, future job opportunities, etc. Enjoy refreshments and a chance to meet other students in the Education Department. Hope to see you there! 
ITALY 

Tunnel under U.S. embassy inspected 
Associated Press 

ROME 
U.S. security experts descended into a tunnel under a street flank­ing the American Embassy on Tuesday to inspect a stretch of 
underground Rome marked on a 
map found during a probe of sus­pected terrorists. 
Flashlights in hand and wearing white baggy protective jumpsuits, the experts-two from the State Department and a third from the 
U.S. Embassy-climbed down a manhole on Via Boncompagni, just off the fashionable Via Veneto. 
With police deployed in the street, Italian paramilitary Carabinieri police joined the American inspectors in the tun­nel, which carries electricity and telephone lines to the embassy compound and other nearby buildings. 
In raids this month on the out­skirts in Rome, Italian police picked up eight Moroccans, most of them illegal immigrants, and seized nearly nine pounds of a chemical compound containing cyanide. 
Also found were a tourist map of Rome with the embassy circled and a map of utility lines running through tunnels under streets near the embassy, U.S. officials said. 
Also circled on the utility-line maps were the locations of pipes carrying water to the embassy, although these pipes lie several yards from the tunnel inspected Tuesday. 
Of particular interest was near­ly 2-foot-high breach someone had made in the top-of a thick concrete wall that divides the tun­nel from the next stretch of tun­nel. 
Italian news reports have said the hole is suspicious because it was chiseled out after the last regular inspection by city work­ers. But embassy officials have said it is possible the hole simply wasn't noticed previously. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Tuesday that the experts "found nothing that would lead them to believe the hole was connected to terrorism." 
Any link to terrorism was "very speculative," Boucher said. While the inspection found "nothing sig­nificant," he added that "we are at the early stage of looking at this and we should not speculate." 
Earlier, an embassy statement said: "It would be premature at this time to draw any conclusions about this matter, which is still under investigatfon." 
~Q!P~:~~s~~.fll't:/1~~,a/~rii 

Carabinieri Col. Gianfranco Cavallo said Italian police would continue to study the tunnel for the next few days. He said it was too soon to say when the hole was made. U.S. officials have also described the Italian investigation as so far coming up with only "circumstantial evidence" that a plot was being hatched to attack the embassy. Italian news reports have said the purported plotters might have been trying to poison the Americans' water supply. 
The State Department experts came to Rome last weekend after news of the hole came out. They made no comment as they headed back inside the embassy. On Tuesday, a judge in Reggio Calabria, in southern Italy, ruled that a ninth Moroccan suspect should remain under arrest there while the probe continues. 
In the ruling, Judge Angelina Bandiera said Mohamed Ikbal was suspected of participating in a "terrorism association specifi­cally constituted to carry out acts of violence. even indiscriminate violence," the Italian news agency ANSA reported. 
Italian news reports have said the Moroccans are believed to be part of an Algerian-based group linked to Osama bin Laden's ter­rorist network. 
Seven Tunisians arrested last year in Milan are also allegedly members of the same organiza­tion, the Salafist Group for Call and Combat. 
Four of the Tunisians were con­victed this month of being part of a criminal association that tried to obtain explosives. chemicals and arms. The trial of the other three continued Tuesday in Milan. 

page 8 The Observer .NATlONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 27, 2002 

Army training game turns deadly 
. Police deputy mistaken, shoots green beret 
Associated Prcss 
ELDORADO, N.C. 

The Special Forces troops are led blindfolded into a forest cave. Their eyes are uncovered, and they see a flickering candle jutting from a human skull. 
Standing before them is Col. 

Tomcat, the deposed ruler of 
war torn Pineland. The troops 
have been told he is a mean 
alcoholic, a soldier who takes 
no prisoners. He is the man they 
have been sent in to restore to 
power. 
But "Pineland" is really a swath of North Carolina back­woods, and some of the forces Tomcat and his men will face are just local farmers, librarians and forklift operators playing assigned roles. 
The game, called Robin Sage, is the 19-day final exam stand­ing between Army soldiers and the coveted green beret. 
The Army strives mightily for realism, with soldiers trained to treat every person they encounter as part of the maneu­ver. 
And that is apparently what got a soldier killed last week­end. The soldier was shot to death after tangling with a deputy sheriff who apparently did not realize it was all a game. 
"Everybody was taking it seri­ously," says the colonel, aka Tommie Cato, a former Marine and one of the soldiers' trainers. "It was supposed to have been." 
Moore County Deputy Randall Butler was patrolling a country road Saturday when he spotted a pickup truck with three men in it. All three were wearing civilian clothes; Butler was sus­picious because one of the men was riding in the truck bed in 40-degree weather. 
Butler pulled the truck over and noticed a duffel bag with a disassembled M-4 rifle inside. 
When one of the three men in the truck came at him, Butler tried pepper spray. When the attack continued, Butler opened fire. 
First Lt. Tallas Tomeny was killed. Sgt. Stephen Phelps is listed in fair condition. The civil­ian driver, who has not been identified, was unharmed. 
Local and Army officials call it a tragic breakdown in commu­nications and say no charges will be filed. 
Military officials from Fort Bragg say they did not notify Moore County officials of the exercise because they figured they would not be involved. 
But locals are having a hard time understanding how the deputy couldn't have known the exercise was going on -and why the soldiers let things get so out of hand. 
In "Pineland," the 4,500­square-mile staging area that covers much of eastern North Carolina's rural sandhills, Confederate flags compete with American ones and camouflage seems the unofficial native dress. 
It is not uncommon to round a curve and find men with M-16s blocking a bridge. 
Area police have been known to take part in the Green Beret training exercise, setting up roadblocks so commandos can stage running gun battles and 
even offer their homes as "safe 
houses" or targets. 
Melinda Cagle, who owns a general store where officers do a lot of their planning, says she is informed by Fort Bragg months in advance of Robin Sage. The origin of the name is unclear, but the area lore is that it is the name of a daughter of a former Special Forces comman­der. 
Locals have become almost inured to the sound of automat­ic weapons fire and small explo­sions from nearby ridges. Raymond Lucas. 85, did not even flinch when a plainclothes soldier walked out of the woods and asked if he could hide out in his basement for an hour or so. 
"We fed him his supper," Lucas says nonchalantly. 
Bruce Reeves remembers doing reconnaissance work for the soldiers as a teenager, scouting dams and other "tar­gets" on his four-wheel­
er. "Everybody was taking continue to its The sol­{the training game] conclusion 
diers would this weekend. 
seriously. It was
pay $10, $15, But in the $25 for locals supposed to have been." future, sol­to ferry them diers in Robin around; a Sage exercises
Tommie Cato
friend once will not wear 
fonner Marine
traded the civilian 
men some deer meat for a bayonet. 
"They called us indigenous troops," says Reeves, 31. 
But the soldiers also know that every local contact is a potential trap. 
Once, Cato had his daughter and a girlfriend dress in shorts and stand by the side of a road he knew the soldiers would be using. Cato and his troops had pushed the girls' car into a ditch and were hoping the opposing force would take the bait. 
They did. 
"We confiscated everything and drove off and left them," says Cato, who has played the role of area commander for 11 years. 
Such a lapse, or a combina­tion of them, on the part of a trainee can lead to failing the exercise and being forced to take it again. 
Retired Green Beret Master Sgt. Thomas Broken Bear Squier went through Robin Sage 
-
ca 
> 
..,¦­
Cl) CL) 
LI. N 
N 
m 
-:, 
in 1977 and has since taken part in two dozen exercises as an instructor. 

As realistic as things could seem sometimes, Squier says a stark line was drawn at causing actual physical injury. Soldiers received in-depth training on how to know things were out of control, he says, and pepper spray in the face should have been a warning to the soldiers that the line had been crossed. 
"I would have put my hands on my head and told him, '"Look, let's stop right here,"' says Squier, a veterans services officer. "Thev had to realize that he was a real deputy." 
In all the years he took part in Robin Sage, Squier says, the worst incidents were honor code violations: wives trying to sneak food to their husbands, soldiers stealing food off peo­ple's porches or trying to bum a hot shower and warm bed for the night. 
For now, the 
training will 
clothes, and 

civilian law officers will not take part in role-playing exercises. 
Also, military officials will have face-to-face meetings with local law enforcement in areas where training is going to occur. 
An Army internal investiga­tion of last weekend's shooting could suggest more changes, officials say. 
At the country store down in Eldorado, Reeves can already imagine the clamor to end the exercises. 
He hopes it doesn't come to that: He and others take pride in knowing that they helped prepare some of the soldiers who are fighting terrorism in Afghanistan. 
"This is real important for these guys. It's important to all ofus, actually," he says. 
"Because they're the ones going out there and putting themselves in harm's way, and it's pretty serious business if you ask me. I took it serious." 
Witness testifies Yates was insane 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON 
Andrea Yates suffered from schizophrenia and didn't know right from wrong when she drowned her five children in the bathtub in June, a psycholo­gist testified Tuesday at her capital murder trial. 
"Mrs. Yates was severely ill and in the course of an acute psychotic episode," Dr. George Ringholz said in his second day on the wit­ness stand. "She did not know the actions she took on that day were wrong." 
Ringholz, a neuropsychol­ogist from Baylor College of Medicine testifying for the defense, said his determina­tion was based on research culled from her medical and family history and tests he conducted on the 37-year­old woman. 
The testimony of Ringholz is key to the defense, which must convince jurors Yates was insane when her chil­dren were drowned one by one on June 20. Prosecutors argue Yates was sane at the time of the killings. 
Yates is on trial for two counts of capital murder. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty in the deaths of 7-year-old Noah, 5-year­old John and 6-month-old Mary. Charges eventually could be filed in the deaths of Paul, 3, and Luke, 2. 
On Monday, Ringholz said Yates's schizophrenia began during childhood and sur­faced initially after giving birth to her first son, Noah, in 1994 when she consid­ered grabbing a knife and stabbing the child. 
Yates told him she felt Satan's presence shortly after Noah's birth and "heard Satan's voice tell her to pick up the knife and stab the child," Ringholz said. 
The symptoms of the schizophrenia didn't resur­face until Yates' fourth son. Luke, was born in 1999. Medical records show that Yates attempted suicide twice that year. 
Jurors were told the men­tal illness is characterized by a significant impairment in functioning and symp­toms like delusions, halluci­nations. incoherence and isolation. 
Defense attorney Wendell Odom asked Ringholz if Yates had ever been diag­nosed with schizophrenia before. 
"Not that I'm aware of," Ringholz testified. 
Earlier Monday, Dr. Melissa Ferguson, who interviewed the Houston mother in jail the day after her children were drowned, said Yates considered stab­bing her five children but decided it was too bloody and that drowning was a bette,r way to end their lives. 

Join the dream team of College newspapers. call 1-5323 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Preview 
Wednesday, February 27th 7pm LaFortune Ballroom free admission 

Food & Performance by the University of Notre Dame Jazz Band II & Jazz Combo 
Q)
.., 
ca ¦-en 
CL)
-
-
0 
c.) 

4tC co 
:::i 
C 
co ..c 
+-' 


"blow up" targets. ~ Farmers open their fields and ~ 
woods to the maneuvers; some -=-=-==-======::--::-_----------------------------------------_J
•• ---• -·-. ---• -.• ---• -~ .•. , -,=--,,--... -~~.,....,.-~_.,,.,.,._.,,_,_.,~ 
~­

____________________ 1191.,. ____ 
c-.::_________________________________.......,_____ Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Sharon willing to meet with Saudi officials 
. Saudi plan calls for full peace, full withdrawl 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Prime Minister Ariel Sharon told an EU envoy Tuesday he was willing to meet Saudi offi­cials, publicly or behind the scenes, to explore their propos­als for an overall Mideast peace, the European diplomat said. 
•-The proposals floated by Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah have gotten a warm response from the Palestinians, some Arab nations and some Israeli otlicials -including the foreign and defense ministers. Sharon's aides, however, say they want more details. 
Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign affairs chief. announced that he was making a previously unscheduled trip to Riyadh on Wednesday to hear details of the Saudi peace plan firsthand from Abdullah. 
President Bush "praised the idea," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said Tuesday, but he said the Saudi prince's pro­posal was not a breakthrough. 
Israeli officials said at this point, the initiative had not for­mally been placed on the table by the Saudis. The outlines of the plan were first disclosed in a column in The New York Times by Thomas Friedman after an interview with Abdullah in Saudi Arabia. 
According to the Friedman report, the entire Arab world would make peace with the Jewish state if it withdrew from the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem -land captured leader George Mitchell. in the 1967 Mideast War. "It doesn't, in and of itself, 
Palestinians have endorsed the change anything on the ground Saudi initiative, saying that it fits in the Middle East," rlcischer their policy of offering Israel full said of Abdullah's land-for­peace for full withdrawal. peace proposition. 
Solana said Sharon told him "The situation remains a very he "would be willing to meet complicated situation and a very anybody from Saudi Arabia, for­violent one." mally, informally, publicly, dis­In an attempt to address the creetly, whatever, to get better more immediate concern ­information about the signifi~ bringing calm a~er 17 months of cance of this idea." violence Israeli and 
Saudi Arabia has not com­Palestinian security chiefs mented on the reaction to the resumed talks Tuesday on mea­proposals. The state-run news­sures to stop violence and ease paper Al-Watan, which usually Israeli restrictions over reflects government thinking, Palestinian territory. said no [sraeli-Saudi visits could Late Tuesday, Israeli troops take place until a Mideast peace moved into the West Bank vil­agreement had been reached. lage of Yatta, south of Hebron, 
Bush telephoned the Saudi Palestinians said. The Israeli crown prince Tuesday to express military had no immediate com­
U.S. hopes of working with him ment. Palestinian gunmen shot 
"in the pursuit  and wound­ 
of Middle East  ed an Israeli  
peace," said Fleischer. However, Fleischer  "It's important to have a vision of what peace should look like at the  teen-ager near Yatta on Monday. The secu­ 
appeared question  to the  end ofthe day."  rity m  chiefs e t  
plan's bottom line. "It's  Ari Fleischer  Thursday after an  
important to have a vision of  White House spokesman  especially violent week  
what  peace  0  f  

should look like at the end of the Palestinian attacks and Israeli day," he said, "but it's a long reprisals. Palestinian officials, time until the end of the day in insisting on anonymity, said the the Middle East." meeting lasted about four hours 
The Bush administration also but gave no details. Israeli offi­stood by its own formula for cials refused to comment. reopening Mideast peace talks, However, the Palestinians which includes a hoped-for called off a meeting set for cease-fire between Israel and Sunday, expressing anger over the Palestinians to be followed Israel's refusal to lift restrictions by peacemaking efforts recom­on Palestinian leader Yasser mended by a panel headed by Arafat, who has been confined to former Senate Democratic the West Bank town of Ramallah for nearly three months. contrast, Sharon has talked of 
Arafat said he ordered the offering the Palestinians a state talks restarted after a plea from in about 40 percent of the West Solana. "This is a request from Bank and much of Gaza. without our friend, Javier Solana, and to removing settlements. that I cannot say no," Arafat told However, up to now even reporters. Labor has rejected withdrawal 
Solana said he had more from all the territories Israel details about the Saudi plan than captured in the 1967 war, as the appeared in Saudi and U.S. Palestinians have demanded. media, but he would not disclose Foreign Minister Shimon Peres them. of Labor told Israel TV Tuesday 
Russian Foreign Minister Igor that unlike the Arab interpreta­Ivanov voiced his country's sup­tion. rsrael does not believe that port for the U.N. Security plan. Egypt Council resolu­
'There is a disagreement
and Jordan, tions require a the only between us and the pullback to the Arab states pre-1967 war
Palestinians on this 
with peace line.
issue, and there is no
treaties with "There is a Israel, were reason to deny it." disagreement among sev­between us and eral Arab the Palestinians 
Vasser Arafat
states to on this issue. 
Palestinian leader
welcome and there is no Abdullah's reason to deny comments. it," Peres said 
Egyptian President Hosni during a visit to Paris. Mubarak and Jordanian King Expressing qualified interest in Abdullah discussed the Saudi the Saudi proposal, Sharon aides proposal during a meeting in have been careful to praise the Cairo Tuesday. initiative while disagreeing with 
Israeli Defense Minister Ben­its contents. Sharon adviser Eliezer said Tuesday that Saudi Daniel Ayalon said he expected plan "contains positive elements Solana's trip to Riyadh to pro­and should be encouraged." vide much-needed clarification 
Ben-Eliezer heads the moder­of the Saudi plan. ate Labor party, partner with "We still expect to hear Sharon's hawkish Likud in a whether there is actually an ini­broad-based coalition govern­tiative," he said. "We can't rely ment. just on media reports." 
It is unlikely that the coalition After two Palestinians and would survive dealing directly three Israelis were killed in vio­with the issue of borders lent incidents Monday, Tuesday between Israel and a Palestinian was relatively calm, with the state. Labor favors giving up Israeli military reporting a few most of the territory for peace, Palestinian gunfire attacks on including the dismantling of West Bank roads but no serious many Jewish settlements. In injuries. 

Transfer 
continued from page I 
Linkage year, they become Holy Cross students," Nolan said. "As such, when they apply for transfer admission to Saint Mary's, they will be evaluated by the Saint Mary's Admission Committee under the terms of the articulation agreement." 
The agreement is a help to admission counselors because it lists what Holy Cross course may be transferred and gives a clearer direction to students who wish to transfer. The Saint Mary's admission office will provide materials such as the college bulletin and will schedule meetings with prospective students and with faculty to provide information regarding transfer opportuni­ties. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 


-----------------.----.-----------------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bax Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No<rc Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS M.\NAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Kerry Smith Pat Peters 

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: l'arrid McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .............631-7471 FAX........................ .................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHTEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS........................................................ .631-5323 
observer.obsnews.J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631 · 5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS ........................................................631-4543 observer.sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE.....................................................631-4540 observer.scene. J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY°s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.I@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!lobm·ver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion colwnns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news &om the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

arch.ives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is chc independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the admmisrration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leuers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu,:1tio,u regarding Ob1-,nKr policia fhould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Homosexuality a categorical good 
What a sterile exercise it has become to trot out the tired, when he describes homosexuality and its burgeoning equality nonsensical arguments against the alleged "intrinsic moral movement as a "moral evil, deviation, a kind of slavery." evil" of homosexuality. It is something of a religious ritual for Forget about the sex slave industry, which exploits the bodies Professor Emeritus Charles Rice in his biweekly column, evi­and souls of millions of women worldwide. Forget about denced again Tuesday with his column entitled, "Homosexual forced labor (slavery), widespread mistreatment of prisoners, acts are categorically wrong." rampant abuse of human rights -all these horrors happen­
I am continually astounded by the zeal with which bigots ing at this very moment in all parts of the world; these defend the defenseless argument of the exclusive righteous­instances of real evil that are so destructive of anything ness of heterosexuality. It is quite easy to spot the transparent approaching peace and justice on God's earth. No, let us cry attempt to disguise a deep-seated heterosexism when Rice out instead about the horrors of all those fags out there, ".cijs­writes. "to choose someone of the same sex for one's sexual torting the true meaning of the family" and afflicting "grave activity is to annul the rich symbolism and meaning, not to harm" on impressionable children. And of course, in the same mention the goals, of the Creator's sexual design." l would breath, offer a flippant reminder that even us gay people ­posit that homosexuality has at least as rich a trove of sym­we dangerous agents of moral evil -"are called to fulfill bolism and meaning as heterosexuality and possibly more so, God's will." given the many embedded layers ofviolence, prejudice and Hice insists that students at this university are "entitled" to derogation in which homosexuality is both experienced by gay truth "without omission or equivocation." Indeed, we are. So persons such as myself and perceived by sanctimonious let the truth be stated unequivocally: Homosexuality is a cate­straight folk. The point is not so important whether an orien­gorical good. and acts resulting from such orientation are as tation is more or less symbolically significant than another. much a part of God's "sexual design" as anything a male and The important thing is to acknowledge in the open -in soci­female do in bed. ety, in the Church. in our personal lives -the deep meaning of minority homo-"sexual design" and to affirm its dignity and Paul Ranogajec equal status with the majority. senior 
Pope John Paul II does a disservice to the legitimacy of the Morrissey Manor Church to speak out on pressing issues of moral concern Feb. 26, 2002 
End the corrupt regime of Grab 'n' Go 
I've held ouL for a long time, but I want to incite a food revolution. 
When Iwalk into South Dining Hall's Grab 'n' Go room. I feel like a weary nomad stumbling upon a bountiful oasis after years of wan­dering the desert. 
Eric Long
Every variety of 
nutrient-packed Vitner's brand 

Fitter,
snack food lines the shelves. Is today a Happier ... 
Sour Cream n' Onion day, or a Tangy Cheese day? Either way, I can't lose. 
At North, however, I face a limited number of snacks. I bitterly remember days when, trying to instill a new consci­entiousness for my health, I wanted pret­zels but had to go with greasy corn chips or cheese popcorn. Beware ofthe cheese popcorn -it's a veritable heart attack in a bag. 
At South, the coolers are stocked with dozens of fine sandwiches, which I am allowed to browse with impunity. If upon hefting the roast beef and cheddar I decide that turkey on wheat is more my taste, r can replace the sandwich and choose a new one. I can even select the choicest turkey sandwich of the bunch, opting for one without that weird lun­cheon meat slime, if I can find one, that is. 
Compared to South, the sandwich sys­tem at North represents nothing less than outright tyranny.ram required to select the name of my entree from a sometimes barely legible menu on a marker board, often under pressure from my fellow stu­
dents and the lunchroom attendant. 

If Iorder peanut butter and jelly and the attendant snatches the sloppiest sand­wich in the cooler for me -I trust you know what r mean -the sandwiches with goopy peanut butter oozing out of the bun and moreover you just know the jelly is going to slime out when you take a bite -what should I do? Tell them I want a sandwich with less nastiness? I hardly think so. The attendants work hard, and they probably dislike the system a.c; much as rdo. 
Perhaps the most startling aspect of Grab 'n' Go at South is the fresh fruit and pastry section. What wild and exotic fruits appear before me! Plwns, pears and kiwis are established regulars in South's fruit stand, while over at North a meager, dusty pear occasionally makes a cameo showing. 
At South, bagels, cookies and delicious fresh-baked pastries spill out of the rustic bins. But look closer. I have seen up to four varieties of bagel, rice crispics treats and cookie bars while North's tiny bagel bowl and shelf of hockey puck cookies pale in comparison. 
From this briefsummary ofgrievances. anyone can see the woeful inequality between North and South Grab 'n' Go. I have often imagined that South Dining Hall is better stocked with food and drink because it is the food service's mother ship, while North has become a mere satellite cafeteria. What is to be done? Why not simply transport more goods to North? I will personally volunteer to carry a box of potato chips or a crate of fruit from South to North, if that's what it 
takes. 
But I've got bigger fish to fry. I wonder who established the magic number of four sides and one sandwich for Grab 'n' Go. Why four? Four was a very important number for ancient Mediterranean cul­tures. but r seriously doubt that explana­tion. ls it some kind of sick reference to the food groups? "Let's see, a milk for dairy, a juice box for fruit, a cereal con­tainer for grains, a bag of nacho cheese chips for a second dairy and a turkey wrap for meat and, hey, there's even some lettuce in here." The Grab 'n' Go diet is not healthy, and I don't recom­mend supporting oneself on it for extend­ed time periods. 
Now imagine the same meal supple­mented with extra pieces of fruit. a bagel or a yogurt and one of those midget water bottles. Sounds good. right? Maybe not, but it certainly represents a leap in the right direction. Maybe sometime in the distant future, when the historical condi­tions align themselves, the great unwashed mass of Grab 'n' Go regulars will rise up and overthrow the corrupt regime. So keep shrinking the juice boxes. capitalist swine. You sow the seeds of your own doom. 
Eric long is a junior PLS major. He can be contacted at long.31@nd.edu. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. ·"" 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kiflin Turner C. Spencer Beggs Van Giles Graphics Justin Krivickas • Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production Katie McVoy Noah Amstadter Viewpoint Lah Tech Teresa Fralish Angela Campos 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should the dining halls serve meat on Fridays during Lent? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Our minds possess by nature an insatiable desire to know the truth. " 
Cicero Roman orator 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 27, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The price of my dream, and yours 
Carl Brashear had to wait outside the gate of Navy Diving School quite a while. The sentry had refused him an entry. 
An African-American by birth, Brashear had grown up in a very poor background in the rural South. But right from his childhood he cherished his dream of pursuing a career in the 
U.S. Navv. His dream did become a reali­ty, but he had to face a lot of hurdles because racism was pretty widespread then. 
It was not the Navy he had dreamt of ... until the day he saw Chief Billy Sunday diving into the sea during an underwater operation and ended up attempting to save the lives of a few of 
Sebastian Abraham 
What's My 
Shade? 

his drowning compatriots. Brashear knew then that deep-sea salvage diving was "the call" of his life. He decided to ask for a transfer to the Navy Diving School. Though his commanding officer was pretty sure that an African-American wouldn't be permitted inside the school in spite of his recommendation, Brashear was determined. And permission was granted. 
At the school, the sentry wouldn't let him in, so the predic­tion of the officer came true. As he was standing outside the gate, an alert Brashear saw a car approaching from the school. Envisaging a senior officer, he readied himself to salute. 
To his surprise he was saluting Chief Billy Sunday. The chief was serving a term as an instructor in the school. He stopped to inquire what brought Brashear to the school. Brashear expressed his desire to become a diver. Chief was more than amused. No African-American had ever gone beyond a particular rank in the Navy, let alone become a diver. 
The chief asked him to return from where he came. While the chief thought that he had given his piece of advice to the young man and had gone his way, Brashear stood there. He couldn't feel the sweat trickling from his brow; his knee wouldn't tire of standing. All he knew was that he wanted to become a diver and that only joining the school would take him to his goal. 
The day was done but he stood. The chief returned to the gate after his long trip. Brashear showed no sign of fatigue as he saluted him cheerfully -and he continued to stand. Seeing a determination of rare kind, Chief was left with no choice but to ask the sentry to let Brashear in. 
Like Brashear, my goals cannot be redirected, controlled or altered by circumstances or people -unless I let them do so. In that sense the control of my destiny lies in my hands. While most people think that a lot of things in our lives depend on others and circumstances and some even go to the extent of believing in fate, in actuality a huge amount depends on me. While I am approaching my goal the key question to ask myself is: Do I lose focus when I encounter hurdles? 
While l face obstacles, can I maintain the same spirit (to achieve the goal) as when I began? If need be, am I ready to re-charge myself? 
If a hindrance can stop you from pursuing your goals then perhaps you didn't want to achieve it badly enough. Criticizing the circumstances, fate or people involved would be the cheapest and least effective resort to reach the goal. It is in my hand not to let anyone's remark or action direct my move. I know my path and I will walk it come what may. 
The primary criteria to achieve anything in this world is whether you want it badly enough and whether you are pre­pared to pay the price. 
I was inspired to write this article after seeing the movie "Men Of Honor" directed by George Tillman Jr. It presents the real~life story of Carl Brashear, the first African­American, deep-sea salvage diver in the history of the U.S. Navy. Amidst racism, military bureaucracy and losing his leg Brashear braved his way to show that you can achieve your dream if you want it badly enough and if you are ready to pay the price. 
This column was written by Sebastian Abraham. "What's My Shade?" is a biweekly column organized by Multicultural Student Programs and Services. Abraham can be contacted at seb_an@yahoo.co.uk. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Unilateralism handicaps 
U. S. foreign policy 
In his Monday column, Mike Marchand assaults Europeans for their concern over President Bush's "axis of evil" statement during his State of the Union address. The statement resonated with the American public because of the obviousness of the repressive regimes that currently control those nations. 
The complaints of the United States' European allies stem not from a disagreement over the relative nature of evil but over the approach to be taken in ending that evil. While certainly ~ 
guilty of ere-. ..n.'~ 
1

ating and ; ~ i _ 
leaving ).r -~ 
tragic mess-' es in Africa, \ 
Asia and the ! \ 
Balkans, the . ,.,., · .. · 
1

;;i:l~i=~~=t *.'~
·~.l\

long-term 1''.,,-··1 C; 
integrated i~;,:,• "'1 strategies are the only means of securing ~ peace and stabili-~ ty throughout the ":--.. g~be. ~· 
Their complaints about American unilat­eralism and oversimplifi­cation of foreign policy not only are justified, but also should be reiterated and reviewed by Americans. The failure to integrate our efforts and policies with allies across the globe can lead to failure not only in Afghanistan but also in our efforts to reduce the "axis of evil." It is impossible for the United States to implement its long-term policy goals without the support of our allies in Asia and Europe. 
This was all too evident in the president's visit to Asia. During his visit, Bush assured Koreans that his statements did not forecast war and that he supported the engagement or "sunshine" policy of Kim Dae Jung. Shortly after these statements. Bush arrived in Beijing, 
which surprisingly escaped participa­tion in the "axis of evil" despite its record of human rights 
abuses. political and reli­gious oppression and aggressive mili­
tarism. Marchand and Bush have seemingly for­gotten the downing of an American surveillance aircraft less than one year ago. 
By mocking and belit­tling the contribu­tion of the 
Japanese, Koreans, Filipinos 
and Europeans in the global 
fight against terrorism and evil, Marchand 
and other propo­nents of prideful American unilateral­ism utterly fail to under­stand the reality of global politics and history. We have 

won few wars without allies and have lost a few when our allies failed to support us. Evil exists far beyond the axis that bears its name and United States foreign policy requires allies to defeat it. 
Daniel Byrne 
class of '92 Feb. 26, 2002 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Seek a truly open mind 
Have you ever had the feeling that you're being discriminated against by a person who is pro­claiming his or her open-mindedness? 
Jesse Daniel Schomer in his letter Friday enti­tled, "Agree to disagree," implies that all Catholics are closed-minded in his statement. "What I would like to see is Catholics trying to understand those other viewpoints before they start into the dogmat­ic criticism." I will gladly call myself a Catholic and in fact am a theology major. I am also a feminist and I do not find these two aspects of myself oxy­moronic. 
I too gave up cootie shots and ghost stories as a child, and quite frankly I am proud to state that I will never cease to have fun on a swing set -and I question its relevance to Sclwmer's argument. 
My faith neither suggests that I am superstitious, nor does it entail that I have the intellectual devel­opment of a child. l feel extremely insulted by these assertions. In Mr. Schomer's broad general­izations, he has excluded while he proclaims to include. He also clutters his argument with affronts that anger more than they provoke thought. 
Before Schomer labels me a "knee-jerk conserv­ative," however, I would also like to respond to Peter Zavodnyik's letter on Friday entitled, '"Free speech limited."' I reject the notion that "The Vagina Monologues" are a "carnival act" and have purchased tickets for one of the performances. Like Schomer, whom he appears to contrast, Zavodnyik implies that all who will attend are chil­dren, although he does so in a slightly subtler manner. 
That the University can with any certainty deter­mine what will "expose students only to paths that lead them to understand themselves, their world and their maker" seems dubious at best. In addi­tion, I would argue that the Monologues do aid in an increased self-understanding, both for men and for women. Scripture states that God created man and woman in God's image and likeness. In an increased sensitivity toward what it is to be a woman, one can gain a greater understanding of the divine and who God created all of us to be. 
Kathryn Ball 
jwiior McGlinn Hall Feb. 22,2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE 
page 12 Wednesday, February 27, 2002 



Scene from The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company perfor­mance of "The History ofKing Henry N, part l" Above: sopho­more Mike Federico (sitting) as Falstaff holds court in the tavern. To the left: King Henry IV (senior JJ Marler) confronts Worcester (freshman Ellen Kennedy) and Vernon (freshman Chris Scaperlanda). Below: Junior Chris Nygren as Prince Hal sits on the lap ofhis friend Ned Poins (senior Kathleen lane) leading the life ofvice. 
Photos by C Spencer Beggs 
By BILL RINNER 
Scene Writer 

The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company's production of "The History of King Henry IV, part I," will change the mind of anyone who believes that Notre Dame lacks cul­ture. The entirely student-run play offers a welcome interpretation of Shakespeare's classic history. 
Re-founded in 1993 as an effort to bring Shakespeare to the Notre Dame student body, the NSRSC has built strong support and appeal, regularly selling out its shows and gaining support from student gov­ernment. 
"We want to be as loyal to Shakespeare as possible in the text," stage manager Lindsay Updike said. "But Not-So-Royal is also intent on giving its shows a lot of energy and attitude." 
The play follows two plots: one concerning the strained relation­ship between King Henry IV and his son Prince Hal (the future Henry V) and the other concerning the rebellion spear­

he ade d by the "We want to be as loyal to 
also focuses the noble Percy Shakespeare as possible sense of mod­family that is ernism on the
in the text, but Not-So-Royal 
rebuked by the play. The pieces
is also intent on giving its 
king. Both plots each reflect the eventually con­shows a lot ofenergy and tone of the verge in one of scene, from a
attitude"
Shakespeare's guitar and vocal most dramatic piece to canned battle Lindsay Updike scene-change 
sequences. stage manager music. The 
In the begin­ning of the show, Prince Hal has taken up a lifestyle of vice hardly befitting his royal status. Ile drinks in a mangy tavern filled with highway robbers and criminals. Falstaff. one of the regulars, evolves into a father figure for Hal; he also provides a great deal of the play' s comic relief, often making light of his obesity. FalstafT's lifestyle, how­ever, appalls Hal's real father. 
King I lenry IV wants to reform his son so he can follow in the path of his ancestors. Ilis desire strength­ens as a new crisis forms with the Percy f'amily that was largely responsible !'or King Henry IV's ascension to the throne. The king refuses to ransom one of' his lords captured in battle, Mortimer, whom he believes is a traitor for marrying into the family of' the Welsh rebel leader, Owen Glendower (played by sophomore Justin Williams). 
Mortimer's cousin, the youthful and up-and-coming Henry Percy, who is also called "Harry" or "Hotspur," is beguiled by his uncle, the treacherous Worcester (played by freshman Ellen Kennedy) into joining forces with Glendower in opposition to the king. 
Hotspur's quick temper provides a daunting and powerful challenge to the throne. He attacks the king's forces and a final confrontation between Hotspur and Hal ensues. 
The stand-out technical side of the production provides a sense of renewal to the timeless play. The characters adorn contemporary costumes that break from the grandiosity of the period in which Shakespeare initially wrote the play, but they connect the audience to the story surprisingly well. The set design also follows this trend. 
"We were going for something simple but effective, wanting the set to bring out the intensity of each individual scene," Updike said. 
A single throne is present for vir­tually every scene, drawing atten­tion to the power struggle that tran­
scends both 
plotlines. 
The music 
audience is on 

the edge of its seats as the battle unfolds to the pacing rhythm and intensity of live drumming. 
The true source of delight in "Henry IV," is the splendid acting from both the principle and sup­porting cast members. The four most complex characters, King Henry, Prince Hal, Falstaff and Iiotspur. function to tie the text into a masterpiece on stage. 
King Henry IV (played by senior JJ Marler) is a static force that is torn between the conflicts facing his kingdom and his relationship between himself and Prince Hal. At times, he can retain his composure and provide a firm but rational response or course of action to his visitors. However, his son pushes him to the edge as the reign of his dynasty is at stake. 
"The King wants to show Hal the nature of a leader," Marler said. "His biggest problem isn't llotspur. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, February 27, 2002 page 13 


"The History ofKing Henry N, part I" relies on strong charac­ters. Above: sophomore Mike Federico playing the portly and comical Jack Falstaft Above right: junior JJ Marler as King Henry IV in battle gear. Marler's character wants to reform his son, Prince Hal, from the life ofvice and make him a proper king. To the right: sopho­more Adel Hanash as Hotspur and freshman Molly Topper as Lady Percy. Hotspur must decide whether he will join the Welsh rebels to oppose the king or stay with the woman he loves. Below: junior Chris Nygren (left) as Prince Hal faces offwith the gal­lant Hotspur; the two characters parallel one another. 
Photos by C. Spencer Beggs 


but his strained relationship with his son." 
Marler keenly plays up the harsh confrontation between the king and the prince. The powerful scene rips at the audience's emotions as the two forces struggle to coexist. 
Prince Hal (played by junior Chris Nygren) is the young man strug­gling between his inevitable reign and youthful urge to enjoy life to its fullest. 
"Hal is the paradigm of any 20­something," Nygren said. "He's going through the process of matu­ration, struggling to assert himself, but because he's royalty, the strug­gle is even more intense." 
Truly, Hal knows where he is and where he will be, so his only outlet is rebellion and the domain of the tavern. Nygren has other opinions regarding the character, particular­ly when he realizes the gravity of his unruly behavior. 
"A lot of people try to present Hal as heroic, but he feels as much anguish as anyone because of his lifestyle," Nygren said. 
Jack Falstaff (played by sopho­more Mike 
Federico), com­'Tve fallen in love with ing colors. plete with fat­the character [of However, perhaps 
pads, is the mos.t the greatest mea­
Hotspur] because he's so
delightful stage sure of a play is 
presence in the real, so human." the thought and play. In an early self-reflection it scene, he and his provokes. In this
Adel Hanash
bumbling criminal case, the show 
actor
companions are duped into robbing three wealthy travelers, but ultimately lose their bounty to Hal and Pains (played by senior Kathleen Lane). another companion of the prince. I<'ederico performs Falstaff's ensuing expla­nation of the events with a twisted rendition of the story. The charac­ter also competes as the father fig­ure of Hal, who requires a guiding force in whichever lifestyle he chooses. Falstaff remains true to the prince through the last battle. 
"He's lovable hut also keeps a lot of vices," Federico said. 
Hotspur {played by sophomore Adel Ilanash) is perhaps the most complex character in the play. He initially appears to be hot-tempered and a clear antagonist in the story, but his nature is wider. His view of the world is terribly idealistic, but he recognizes his fault. 
''I've fallen in love with the char­acter because he's so real. so essentially human," 1-lanash said. "I vvanted to bring out his innocence because i1 's very easy to play him as fiery, but that takes away from his essence." 
Bringing every element together was the show's director, junior Dan Fisher. His intricate vision for the play was fully understood by every cast member. 
"A good director knows what he wants but lets it evolve and get bet­ter and that's what Fisher did," Hanash said. 
Fisher had equal praise for the cast. 
"They're all young, but they offer a degree of professionalism that is very reassuring and helpful for the creative process," Fisher said. 
With an immense understanding of the text, Fisher sought out to rep­resent the central ideas of the play. 
"The lines between good and evil are nebulous and virtue is defined by each of the individual charac­ters, so there's an element of ambi­guity that speaks of all humanity," Fisher said. "If you hold a mirror up to nature, as this play does, you will see that idealism doesn't always win in the end." 
Entertainment 
value in the show 
is present with fly­
also succeeds as a 
combination of 
acting, directing and technical effort. The show astounds and enlightens from beginning to end as the NSRSC once again produces a success for the stage. 
"The History of King Henry TV, part I" opens tonight and runs until Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies auditorium. General admis­sion is $7 and $5 for students. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center box office and standby seating will be available at the door. Due to limited seating capacity, ticket holders not in the theater at the scheduled showtime may have their tickets resold to standby seating. Visit or call the box office at (57 4) 6 31­8128 to make reservations. 
Contact Bill Rinner at rinner.2@nd.edu. 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
is one of the strongest fighters in the Bengal Bouts this year
Boxer 

and has earned his position as captain, the other side thatcontinued from page 24 often goes overlooked is the 
work put in to the raise the Center wild last year, those in money that goes towards the the stands will not be treated missions in Bangladesh. In to a rematch. Matassa has that arena too, Heckmann and moved up to the 165-pound the other captains have division this year. employed motivational tactics Nevertheless, Heckmann sees among the boxers outside the that fight as one of his great­ring. est Bengal Bouts memories; to "We've kind of been pushing win a title in such dramatic the kids really hard that our fashion, with so many changes main goal this year was to in momentum and both fight­make $100,000," Heckmann ers exhausted at the end. explained. "Everyday we'd tell 
"That Matassa fight, that them before practice 'go out, was perhaps the greatest sell some advertisements.' We moment of my life," Heckmann even made it mandatory if you said. "Just going out, all out wanted to spar more than two brawl, even if I didn't win the times, that you had to have an 
fight it advertise­would've been ment in. So just as cool. I "That Matassafight. that a lot of 
didn't remem­people that
was perhaps the greatest 
ber it at all wouldn't 
until I watched moment ofmy life. Just normally 
it on tape, and going out, all out brawl, h a v e then it started brought
even ifI didn't win the
coming back. It ads in, had 
was pretty fight it would've beenjust to bring much a six­as cool." ads in. minute blur, Every­you know? We body's
Brock Heckmann 
must have been good thrown a hun­Bengal Bouts captain about it. dred punches [Bengal each, every B o u t s minute." chaplain] Father [Bill] Seetch 
Although his adversary from comes down, everybody loves last year fights in another hearing him talk about the bracket, Heckmann faces new Bengal Bouts' missions, how 
obstacles on the road to great it is. He talks about how defend his title. As he looks to a dollar here is a hundred dol­refine his skills, and "box" as lars in Bangladesh, and they 
well as "brawl," the other really don't have very much fighters in the 155-pound divi­out there and we really help sion semifinals all have indi­them out." vidual characteristics that will With a championship make it a challenge to repeat. already under his belt, 
"I've got a lefty Heckmann will take away [Wednesday], a good fighter, more than just the tourney Chris Pettit, it'll be a chal­wins. Bengal Bouts is unique lenge. Nobody likes fighting in that fighters work side by lefties, they should have their side with teammates for six own weight bracket," weeks, and go at it in the ring Heckmann joked. "They're so for six minutes. While it might tough, you just never fight left­sound cliche to talk about the ies. Like 90 percent of people cohesiveness of the boxing 
are righty, turns out I have team, the experience makes it 
two guys in my bracket left inevitable. that are both lefties. [John] ''I'd say there's your handful Nowak, he's a lefty, hard hit­of guys who really love boxing, ting lefty, he's got to fight· all it is to them is boxing," 
Mike Melby, a taller guy with Heckmann said. "I really think reach. So there's a good the vast majority of the people chance I could have two lefties down here really enjoy being from here on out." part of the Bengal Bouts pro­While Heckmann proved he gram. This year I've really 

gotten to know just about every kid in here, I've had a random conversation with just about everybody down here. The caliber of guys here is amazing, all really willing to give their efforts for charity, and just tough kids. I like hanging out with tough kids. 

While Bengal Bouts provided him with great times to look back on, there still is one more week in Heckmann's Bengal Bouts career to look forward to, and one more opportunity for a title. 
''I've gotten calls from guys I didn't even know too well, seniors from last year, just telling me, 'make the best of this last week of Bengal Bouts, it's the coolest thing you'll ever do in your life."' 
Contact Brian Burke at bburkel@nd.edu. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrent without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 
4-7 BDRM HOMESWALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. 272-6306 
Fraternifies*Sororities*Clubs·stude nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. Does not involve credit card applications. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today' Contact Campustundraiser.com at (888)· 923-3238, or visit www.campus­fundraiser.com. 
WANTED 
-TestMaster is looking tor responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1­800-929-7724 TestMasters is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1­800-929-7724 

FOR SALE 
2-story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining & living rooms. All appliances good. carpeting & drapes throughout Many closets. Gas heat & upper and lower air conditioners. Finished basement w/pool table. can 574-234-9782. 
---..------------------------------------------­
For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N. Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN RemOdled in 1998 new insulated windows hot water heater & plumbing 200 amp electric update newer furnace & roof basement laundry room privacy fenced backyard w/ deck 10x12 utlity garage excellent area $59500 Jim-Day 574-233-253 Eve 574­259-6843 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mrnm­rentals@aolcom
................__________________.,________________ 
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 
-----------------·-..·---------­
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291­2209 
_................... 

MMMRentals.com 
Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) Safe neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown 1­1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call Michelle 202/829· 3725, or krup78@hotmail.com 
____________,.___________________________ 
4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available after 6/1. 3 block from campus. 
Call (773)-486-8862. 
Shared Living Opportunity Enjoy the benefits of a luxurious private home without the expense and upkeep. Private bath and room which you may furnish to your own taste (sizes ranging from 340 to 400 square feet) Common areas (over 2000 square feet) are maintained by a professional staff and include spacious living room, dining room, library, fully equipped shared modern kitchen, laundry and parking facilities. Within walking distance to Tippecanoe, the library, St. Joseph River, Memorial Health and Lifestyle Center and medical facilities. 800 per month includes utilities and hosting by a congenial couple with professional backgrounds. Call 234-1002 for information and appointment THE BEST OFF CAMPUS HOUSE IDEAL FOR 4-5 STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES WASHER DRYER FRIDGE STOVE ETC GREAT AREA 2773097 

River Condo For Rent $1050 MO Mishawaka 219-532-1537. 
TICKETS 
· 3 GAs for ND-Providence BBALL game Saturday. Call Pat at 243· 2873 or email ppeters@nd.edu if you can help 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800~48-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at1­7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
.................................................................................... 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Pricesl Space is Limitedlll 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
Try The Observer classifieds. Open daily at 9 a.m. in th basement of South Dining Hall. Place an ad for lost and found, search for tickets or find a place to live. 
If you know more about the Olympics than Bob Costas, then write Observer sports. 
Call Noah or Chris at 1-4543. 
--------·-·---------------­
Is CNN your favorite channel? Write Observer news. Call 1-5323. 

Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS · page 15 
Irish added six points from the game came down to a 3-point minute," McGraw said. "The bench. attempt in the final 1.3 sec­whole game we just never
Chances 
"You get one shot and you've onds of the game, Villanova were in sync offensively." continued from page 24 got to make it," McGraw said. watched Notre Dame set up Junior guard Alicia Ratay After the Wildcats made sure for the loss. put it a little more succinctly. the Irish had only one shot, "I don't think we necessarily "It was a tough game. That's
come in and give the team a 
they waited. Although the lost the game in the last all I can say."
second chance either. The 

You want a personal life, but you also want a career that challenges you. At Ernst & Young, you can have both. True, we have high expectations. And some tasks will no doubt rack your brain. But rest assured. We help our people face assignments with some remarkably handy tools, such as the most advanced technology, information, and resources, bar none. And with a talented pool of colleagues and mentors by your side, success is closer than you think. And so are the rewards. 
F(JRTUNE"
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg
TOWORKFORN 

ey.com/us/careers 
§1/ f RNST&YOUNG 


FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.TM 
Notre Dame was out of its offense early in the first half, dropping to a seven-point lead after three consecutive Irish turnovers. They went into the locker-rooms at halftime with a one-point lead and they waited. 
"They're incredibly patient and they're smart," McGraw said after the game. "They don't beat themselves ... They shoot the ball extremely well from the three-point line ... They're just really disci­plined." 
In the second half, the Irish had their chance. 
They took an early lead in the second half but in the final minutes of the game, Villanova snuck op and took that lead away. It was Riley again who gave Villanova the chances it needed to get ahead, hitting four shots in the last four min­
_,..

utes. 
The Irish didn't take advan­tage of their chances. The Irish missed five shots and only hit two of the six shots they had from the foul line. 
Then, in the final seconds, Villanova made gave itself one more chance and Notre Dame watched its final chance blow away. 
With 13 seconds left, just as the shot-clock ran out, Riley grabbed a key rebound to give the Wildcats one more chance to win the game. After she missed a one-and-one, Flecky grabbed the rebound for the Irish and they had their last chance. 
And they only got one. 
The seconds ticked away and the Irish couldn't get the ball to their 3-point shooters. With 
1.3 seconds left McGraw called a time-out and stopped the clock. But it was too late for her team to take more than one shot. ­
They had one chance at a 3­pointer to tie the game and they missed. 
"I thought they key at the end was the rebound they got," McGraw said. "They have one second to get a shot and they get the offensive rebound." 
The Wildcats got a second chance on that rebound and made sure the Irish did not. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
IF YOU 

REMEMBER EVERY PLAY OF THE LAST 
WORLD 
SERIES, THE OBSERVER 

WANTSYOU 
FOR SPORTS. 
CALL 1-4543 

Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 16 
Irish 
continued from page 24 

thing and it was too much for her. She didn't get any help." 
Although McGraw said that the team never discussed the home win streak, she thought that it weighed heavily on all the players' minds. 
Of the 12 players on the Irish roster only senior for­ward Ericka Haney -who was honored before the game in Senior Night festivities ­had ever experienced a home loss. 
"I think it had to be playing on their minds," 
Allison Bustamante as the clock ran out clanked off the rim. 
Riley led Villanova with 15 points while teammate Nicole Druckenmiller added 10, including two 3-pointers. Villanova's 48 points were the fewest ever by an opposing team in a victory against Notre Dame. 
"We don't have a real great offensive team," Paretta said. "I thought we played good enough defense to give us a chance to win." 
Paretta also said that his team was not concentrating on ending Notre Dame's win streak -they had more important goals in 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Sophomore point guard Le'Tania Severe tries to organize her team during a 48-45 loss to the WIidcats on Tuesday. The loss marks the second time this season Villanova defeated the Irish. 
,.. 
Well maintained houses near campus 
• 
Washers and dryers provided 

• 
Security systems 

• 
24-hour maintainance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-) 4-) 5-) & 8-bedroom houses 


Only 4 left for the 2002,2003 school year 
Also leasing for the 2003,2004 school year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 
mind.

McGraw "/ think it had been 
"We were a
said. "I playing on their minds. I little worried
thought that 

thought that they played about trying
they played 

to win to try
like it. They like it. They played very, 
to get into
played very, very tense. None ofthem 
the NCAA 
very tense. 

played the game that tournament,"
None of 

Paretta said.
them played they've played all year 
"I think
the game long. I think that was 
we're proba­
that they've 

disappointing, probably bly on the
played all 

bubble,
year long. I more than anything." 
they're not.
think that 

The game I 
was disap­

Muffet McGraw think meant
pointing, 

head coach a little more
probably more than anything." 

In a game that featured nine lead changes and six ties, Notre Dame looked like it could pull it out until the game's final minutes. A Ratay lay-in with 5:24 remaining put the home team up 43-40, before Riley's lay-in pulled the Wildcats within one. 
Notre Dame freshman for­ward Katy Flecky was then fouled, but missed both free­throws. 
Riley followed with three unanswered baskets in the next two minutes. The final dagger was a rebound basket of her own miss with 62 sec­onds left that put the Irish down five. 
"A smaller guard couldn't do that," Villanova coach Harry Paretta said. "Her strength enabled her to make that shot. We try to take advantage of that as much as we can." 
Ratay hit two free-throws with 48.9 seconds remaining to pull the Irish within three, but Notre Dame couldn't pull any closer. An off-balance 3­point attempt by freshman to us. I think 
they talked a little about the win streak but I didn't really think about it. We're trying to get into the NCM tournament." 
Notes: 

. 
Notre Dame, who clinched second place in the Big East regular season standings with a win against Georgetown on Saturday, will play either Syracuse or West Virginia Sunday evening at 6 p.m. The Mountaineers take on the Orangewomen at 6 p.m. Saturday. 

. 
Play was stopped for approximately 10 minutes in the first half as junior cheer­leader Hilary Thomas lay still at center court after a fall. Irish trainers as well as ath­letic director Kevin White examined Thomas, who com­plained of neck pain. 


She was transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center, where x-rays indicated no serious injuries. 
ContactNoah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 


"Yee Haw! Splash one...Jesters dead!" 
.­

HAPPY BIRTHDAY JAKE -the gang 

Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
BASEBALL 
Bushey earns honors 
Giambi, White 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Da.me senior tri-cap­tain Andrew Bushey has been honored as the Big East Conference baseball player of the week, after bat­ting 6-for-9 in last weekend's action at t h e University of New Orleans Classic. 
Bushey, who start­ed at both catcher and third base during the tournament, collected his six hits against Missouri and hosL UNO before missing the Southern Illinois game due to an injury. His many stellar defensive plays included a strong throw to nail an attempted basestealer in the UNO game. 


Bushey became the eighth Notre Dame player in the eight-year Paul Mainieri era to post five-plus hits in a game, batting 5-for-5 in the heart­breaking 8-7 loss to the host Privateers . He hit a first-pitch double to right-center in the 2nd inning of that game before stroking an RBI single up the middle in the 4th for a 3-3 tie. Bushey then greeted reliever Brandon Migues in the 6th with a leadoff home run, tying the game at 4-4 by driving a 1-1 pitch over the rightfield fence his first home run since 2000 and the sixth of his career (he also homered in a game at UNO in 1999, as part of ND's record-tying seven-HR output). 
His big game versus UNO also included a leadoff single through the left side in the 8th and a 1-1 single to left-center in the 9th. plating Kris Billmaier for a 7-5 lead. 
The 5-10, 190-pound left-
handed hitter is one of four current members of the Notre Dame baseball program who 
nurse injuries
have been named Big East 
player of the week during the past three seasons, with the others including: senior cen­terfielder Steve Stanley jl!nior leftfielder Brian Stavisky and senior catcher Paul O'Toole. 
Bushey's breakthrough 2001 season saw him earn 1st team all-Big East honors as a third baseman, after batting .335 with 36 RBI and 17 doubles. He also ranked second among all 2001 Big East players with 
a .425 conference batting average and 27 RBI in confer­ence games. 
Bushey has appeared in 162 career games as a four-year starter with the Irish. with his career stats including 169 hits, 36 doubles, 73 RBI and 51 walks. He averaged 17.58 at-bats per strikeout as a sophomore in 2000, represent­ing the 10th-best ratio at Notre Dame since 1969. 
Associated Press 

The New York Yankees welcomed back one expensive free agent on Tuesday and 
almost  immediately  lost  
another.  
First  baseman  Jason  

Giambi, nursing a sore left hamstring, missed his second straight intrasquad game but took part in pregame drills. He is expected to play in an exhibition game either Friday or Saturday. 
"It feels a lot better today," said Giambi, who signed a seven-year, $120 million con­tract in the offseason. 'Tm trying to be on the safe side and not overdo it. We just want to keep it getting bet­ter." 
Just as Giambi returned to work, Yankees outfielder Rondell White strained his left Halladay to start the first four games of the spring. 
"You can read anything you want into it," Martinez said. "It just sets up that way, that's the way we're going to start the spring. These guys have all thrown well and we 're anxious to see them on the mound against other teams." 
The Atlanta Braves are try­ing to sort out a crowd at first base. The incumbent is Julio Franco but Wes Helms is bid­ding for playing time wtth 
B.J. Surhoff. 
"I'm going to show the Braves I can start at first base, and they will feel com­fortable with me there," said Helms, who hit only .222 in his rookie season last year with the Braves. "That's what I'm going to do." 
Franco, acquired 


rib cage swing­'Tm trying to be on the last Aug. ing a bat. 31 for
safe side and not overdo 
Manager Joe t h e
it. We just want to keep it stretch
Torre said WhHe could getting better." run, hit miss 10 days or .300 with more. t h r e e
Jason Giambi
"I think we'll homers know tomor­Yankees first baseman and 11 
row," Torre said. "A rib cage [injury]. it really shuts you down. It eliminates throwing and swinging." 
White, who signed a $10 million, two-year deal, has been on the disabled list eight times during his major league career. and has played in just 189 games the past three sea­sons. 
In Haines City, Fla., the Royals said outfielder Mark Quinn probably will open the season on the disabled list because of a cracked rib that will sideline him for 4-to-6 weeks. 
"He told me he fell back up against an edge of a chair," general manager Allard Baird said. "Obviously, it is very frustrating for the kid." 
Spring training has barely begun but new Houston Astros manager Jimy Williams already has set his pitching rotation. 
Williams picked 16-game winner Wade Miller as his opening day pitcher against the Milwaukee Brewers on April 2. Miller led the Astros in victories, starts (32). innings (212) and strikeouts 
(183) last season. He finished with a 3.40 ERA and pitched six or more innings in 28 of his 32 starts. 
Behind Miller, the Astros will use right-handers Roy Oswalt, Shane Reynolds and Dave Mlicki. Carlos Hernandez and Tim Redding will compete for the fifth spot with Hernandez set to start the exhibition opener Friday. 
Toronto manager Buck Martinez won't commit to a rotation yet except to say Roy Halladay will get the start against the Yankees on Friday with Chris Peters, Scott Eyre and Bob File fol­lowing him. 
Right-handers Brandon Lyon, Chris Carpenter and Luke Prokopec with follow RBIs in 
2 5 games. Surhoff, playing left field, batted .271 last season with 10 homers and 58 RBIs. He has been shunted to a backup role after the Braves acquired Gary Sheffield and Vinny Castilla and moved Chipper Jones from third to left. 
Helms had only two at-bats in September -a walk and a strikeout. 
"I don't look at numbers," he said. "I go out there to play hard and help the team win. Hitting 10 home runs with 36 RBIs in 200 (216 to be exact) at bats, you can't complain with that. Average­wise, I don't look at the aver­age because I didn't play every day. I know when I do 
play every day and get in a groove, I'll do better than that." . 
The Los Angeles Dodgers are looking forward to the arrival ofstandout Texas run­ning back Cedric Benson, who is ready for some baseball. 
Benson, the Big 12 Conference offensive fresh­man of the year last season when he gained 1,053 yards and scored 12 touchdowns, will play in the Los Angeles Dodgers' minor league orga­nization this summer. 
"He'll come in here mid­March, whenever spring break is, just spend a couple days, maybe suit up," Bill Bavasi, the Dodgers' director of player development, said Tuesday. "He'll be back to play in mid-May, whenever school's out. He'll be with us until early August, when he reports to Texas' football training camp." 
Benson batted .361 with four home runs and 14 RBIs in his senior year of high school. The Dodgers drafted him in the 12th round ­
., ' 
370th overall -in last June's amateur draft. 
I ,f I 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Underdog Miami tops Boston College 
Associaced Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 

Miami's Sheila James blocked a 3-point attempt by Amber Jacobs with six sec­onds remaining, and the Hurricanes held on to upset No. 18 Boston College 60-57 Tuesday night. 
James, who scored only five points, made two free throws with 4. 9 seconds left after Jacobs made one of two foul shots to bring the Eagles within 58-57. 
Clare Droesch missed a desperation 30-footer for Boston College. 
Kathryn Fowler had 11 points and nine rebounds for Miami (.17-10, 10-6 Bi.I{ East) Meghan Saake added 10 points and five steals, giving her a school-record 110 for the season. 
Jacobs had 15 points and Kim Mackie 13 points and 10 rebounds for Boston College (21-6. 12-4). 
The win was Miami's third over a ranked opponent this season. 
Rachel Byars hit a layup with 17:08 left to start a 15-5 Boston College run to a 43­38 lead. But the Hurricanes countered with a 6-0 run to take the lead with 12 :02 remaining. 
Then there were five ties and eight more lead changes. 
No. 1 Connecticut 89 West Virginia 60 
Asjha Jones scored 17 points as No. 1 Connecticut secured its third unbeaten regular season in eight years with a victory over West Virginia. 
Swin Cash had 16 points and 13 rebounds for Connecticut (30-0, 16-0 Big East), which put the Mountaineers away with an 18-0 run midway through the second half. 
Maria Conlon added 14 points for Connecticut. Diana Taurasi and Jessica Moore each scored 11 points, and Sue Bird added 10. 
Sherell Sowho scored 22 points and Yolanda Paige had 18 for West Virginia (14-13, 6-10), which has dropped 11 straight games to Connecticut. 
The last time the Huskies came to Morgantown two years ago, West Virginia absorbed the second-worst defeat in league history, 100­28. 
Things were different this time. The pregame rifle shot by the Mountaineer mascot that rattled the UConn play­ers wasn't the only surpr.ise. 
Having tucked away its ninth straight Big East title and owning the top seed in next week's league tourna­ment, Connecticut allowed West Virginia to keep the score respectable for much of the game. 
The Mountaineers, who had been outscored by a 3-1 mar­gin in its three previous meetings with Connecticut, became the first team in six games to score more than 50 points against the Huskies. 
But West Virginia went scoreless for more than 7 minutes in the second half while ~,mlin hit a pair of 3­pointers and a layup during the decisive run for a 78-48 lead with 6:56 remaining. 
Connecticut didn't take the lead for good until Conlin made a 3-pointer with 12:32 left in the first half, giving the Huskies a 17-14 lcad. 
West Virginia kept the score close until it began to force shots, and Connecticut used a 14-3 run late in the first half to build a lead that didn't fall below double dig­its again. 
The Mountaineers scored as many points in the first half as they did in a 97-34 loss to Connecticut last sea­son. 
No. 13 Texas 61 
Kansas 46 
Stacy Stephens had 16 points and 10 rebounds as No. 13 Texas beat Kansas, making the Jayhawks the first Big 12 team to go win­less in the conference. 
The most recent victory by Kansas (5-24, 0-16) was Dec. 29 against Morgan State. Marion Washington, 15th all­time among women coaches with 540 wins, is having her worst season in 29 years with the Jayhawks, who have lost 16 straight games. 
Texas (19-8, 10-6). which lost four straight games at midseason, has won five of its last six. Included were victories over third-ranked Tennessee and No. 5 Oklahoma. 
Tia Dillard had 12 of her career-high 15 points in the first half, but Texas led only 28-26 at the break. But the Longhorns wasted little time establishing dominance in the second half, posting an early 13-2 run. 
Stephens recorded her 13th double-double of the season, and her league-leading 10th double-double in Big 12 play. 
The last Big 12 team to go winless in conference play was Iowa State which went 0-14 in 1983-84 in the defunct Big Eight. 
No. 11 Colorado 84 Nebraska 60 
Jenny Roulier scored 17 points, and No. 11 Colorado hit eight of its first nine shots for a 22-4 start in a victory over Nebraska in the final regular-season Big 12 game for both. · 
Colorado (21-8, 11-5) also got 16 points from Mandy Nightingale, 13 points and 10 rebounds from Tera Bjorkland and 10 points from Eisha Bohman. 
Nebraska (12-13, 4-12) put together an 8-0 run to cut the Colorado lead to 2 2-16 on Greichaly Cepero's jumper with 11 :05 left in the half. But the Buffs held the Cornhuskers to just one more basket the rest of the half and led 46-18 at the break. 
Colorado shot 68 percent in the first half to just 26 per­cent for Nebraska. The Buffaloes outrebounded the Huskers 23-7 during the half. The Buffaloes cooled off a lit­tle in the second half, but Nebraska got no closer than 19 points. 
Keasha Cannon led Nebraska with 13 points. Shannon Howell added 12 
and Margaret Richards 11. take a 66-61 lead. Allen con­free throws down the stretch. verted a three-point play and Seton Hall missed two No. 10 Pittsburgh 73 Greg Morton scored under­shots, two free throws and neath on an assist from had two turnovers in the final
Seton Hall 66 
Andre Barrett. who had 17 1:47.
Brandin Knight scored 19 

points. Seton Hall, which had givenpoints and No. 10 Pittsburgh The Pirates even got the away an eight-point lead and
· scored the final 12 points in 
ball back, but Darius Lane fallen behind 58-54 with 1:35
overtime to beat Seton Hall 
made a major error, fouling to play, scored the next sevenand clinch first place in the Zavack as after Morton points to take a 61-58 lead.
West Division of the Big East. 
missed a shot in the lane with Lane started the comebackDonatas Zavackas added 15 3:40 to go. with a shot in the lane, Afterpoints, including a 3-pointer Zavackas, who hit only two Knight missed a layup,with 3.4 seconds to go in reg­of his first 12 shots from the Damion Fray, who had 11ulation that forced the over­field, made both free throws points and 12 rebounds, put
time, in helping the Panthers 
to cut the deficit to 66-63. Seton Hall ahead 59-58 with
(24-4. 12-3) win their sixth 
Knight, whose mother works 35 seconds left by converting
straight game. 
at Seton Hall, then took over. a three-point play.
Julius Page also had 16 points as Pittsburgh, which The point guard, who After Chad Johnson missed 
played at nearby Seton Hall a 3-pointer with about 20
has rallied for wins in its lead 
Prep, hit a 3-pointer to tie seconds to play, Seton Hall
three road games. 
the game with 1:47 to go. appeared ready for the upset
John Allen had 18 points 

After a turnover his former when Morton hit two free
for Seton Hall (12-16, 5-10). 
Seton Hall Prep teammate. throws with 15 seconds to go
which lost its fifth straight 
Marcus Toney-El, Knight hit to make it 61-58.
and seventh of eight. 
a floater dowri the lane for a However, two Pirates
Seton Hall, which was 

68-66 lead with 53 seconds defenders went after Knightstunned by Zavackas' game­
left. He added a free throw coming off a screen, leavingtying 3-pointer from the top with 48 seconds left and Page Zavackas open for his game­
of the key, scored the first 
iced the game by making four tying 3-pointer.
five points of the overtime to 
11, 
~ 

. 
. 
r~'b­;.·~JJ....:
h.¾1
,,,.
' 

It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful services, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654...2250 
,-,,, 

31869 Chicago Trail 
~ 

New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836
HAMILTON 

Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org
COMMUNITIES
i 

~ A Rich Tradition of Caring for Older Adults Since 1922 ~ 
hi To find out more, clip and mail the following information to: 
i 
.,. 
! 
r-.

</1..·· ..· ~::~ro• Comm,.,ue,, 31869 Chia,go haU, N-Cadl,le, IN 46"2 
i:::,I 

.,_., . 3-:° Address: _____________________ 
i',, 

:~ City; __________State: _____ Zip: ___ · 
l@

: ·~ .!:~~.~~~~.~: ..(..................................................................................................0/F .. l::. 
Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
East Carolina topples No. 46 Marquette 
Associated Press 
GREENVILLE, N.C. It looks like March Madness is starting a few weeks early. 
Ea.st Carolina pulled off one of the biggest upsets of the col­lege basketball season Tuesday night, holding No. 9 Marquette to six points over the final 12 1/2 minutes to stun the Golden Eagles 51-46. 
Marquette (23-5, 12-3 Conference USA) had won 12 straight prior to a last-second loss four days ago to No. 4 Cincinnati. But the heavy underdog Pirates (12-16, 5-10) used a 2-3 zone defense to turn the Golden Eagles' offense into a bunch of jump shooters. 
The East Carolina students stormed the floor after the final buzzer sounded on Senior Day in the first win over a Top Ten team since the program began in 1960. 
Travis Holcomb-Faye was the hero for East Carolina, scoring 12 of his 15 points in the sec­ond half as the Pirates held Marquette to 35 percent shoot­ing in the final 20 minutes. 
Dwyane Wade led the Golden Eagles with 19 points, but he was held to just four in the sec­ond half. Fellow guard Cordell Henry. who was averaging 
19.8 points over his last four games, was 1-for-11 from the field for two points. 
East Carolina never led and fell behind by 12 points with 
12:37 to go before going on an 11-0 run to throw a scare into Marquette. 
Jon Harris then scored on a layup and Odartey Blankson hit a 14-footer on Marquette's next two possessions for some breathing room and it appeared the Golden Eagles would be on their way to a win. 
But Holcomb-Faye hit a 3­pointer and then a runner on the baseline with 4 :29 left to tie it at 44-44 to set the stage for the final few tense minutes. 
The Pirates, who beat Louisville here and played Cincinnati to a 10-point game, didn't back off after the final media timeout. 
Moussa Badiane made a layup and his block of a shot in the lane by Henry led to a fast­break hoop by Kenyatta Brown and the Pirates went up by four. 
Marquette closed to 48-46 with 36 seconds left, but Holcomb-Faye hit a free throw and Badiane pulled down a key rebound after Scott Merritt missed the front end of a 1­and-1 to set up a dunk by Brown to seal it. 
l\farquette hit seven of its first 10 shots over the opening 9:08, but didn't do much the rest of the first half as East Carolina switched to the zone. 
While good on defense. the Pirates managed just nine points in the opening 13 1/2 minutes to fall behind by dou­ble digits before pulling within 27-20 at halftime. 
Wade was 7-for-12 from the field for 15 points while the rest of the Golden Eagles were 5-for-16. 
No. 22 Miami 81 Providence 65 
Darius Rice scored 21 of his 30 points in the second half to lead No. 22 Miami to a victory over Providence. 
Providence point guard John Linehan became the NCAA's career steals leader. His fourth of the game gave him 377, one more than Eric Murdock, who played for the Friars from 1987-91. 
In the final home game of his career, Linehan had all four of his steals in the first half. He finished with 10 points on 2-of­8 shooting. 
James Jones had 15 points for the Hurricanes (22-6, 9-6 Big East), while Marcus Barnes had 10. 
Abdul Mills had 21 points to lead Providence (15-14, 6-9), while freshman Ryan Gomes added 18. 
Miami extended a 45-27 half­time to 23 points eariy in the second half. Providence staged a mild rally to pull within 10 points with three minutes left. but got no closer. 
Linehan's record-breaking steal came with 1:37 to play in the first half when he broke up a Miami fast break by tipping the ball to Mills. 
Rice had 10 rebounds as Miami finished with a 28-24 advantage on the boards. 
No. 15 Illinois 70 No. 25 Indiana 62 
Frank Williams had 24 points in his final home game and No. 15 Illinois beat No. 25 Indiana for its seventh straight victory. 
Williams, who has announced he is leaving col• lege a year early to enter the NBA draft, scored 15 of his 24 points in the first half and had six rebounds. 
Brian Cook added 15 points. going 7-of-8 from the free throw line, and senior Cory Bradford had 13 points and was 3-of-4 from 3-point range for Illinois (22-7, 10-5 Big Ten). 
Kyle Hornsby had 14 points and Tom Coverdale added 13 for the Hoosiers (18-10, 10-5), who have lost two straight and three of five. 
Williams was guarded most of the game by Dane Fife, who had trouble keeping up with the quicker Williams and was repeatedly beaten off the drib­ble. Williams was 8-of-19 from the field and 7-of-9 from the line. 
Michigan State 81 No. 18 Ohio State 76 
Marcus Taylor scored a career-high 32 points and Michigan State rallied to beat No. 18 Ohio State 81-76 Tuesday night, creating a four­way tie for first place in the Big Ten. 
With No. 15 Illinois beating No. 25 Indiana 70-62 on Tuesday night, Ohio State, Indiana, Wisconsin and the Illini are all 10-5 in the confer­ence with one game remaining. 
Michigan State (18-10, 9-6), which hit 63 percent of its shots in the second half against the Buckeyes (19-7), is one game back. 
Wisconsin closes the regular season Wednesday night at home against Michigan. On Saturday, Ohio State is at 
I.NilBBACI: 

Michigan, Indiana plays host to Northwestern. Illinois travels to Minnesota on Sunday. Michigan State plays Iowa at home Saturday. 
The victory was the fourth straight for the Spartans, who won for the first time in three trips to Value City Arena. 
Taylor's previous career-high was 21 points earlier this sea­son in a loss to Stanford. 
Adam Ballinger added 12 points for the Spartans, who shot 59 percent for the game. 
Brian Brown· scored 24 points, Boban Savovic had 17 and reservi:i Sean Connolly added 11 for Ohio State, which 
had won its first seven Big Ten home games. 
Down by five points at half­time, Michigan State regained the lead on Taylor's 3-pointer with 15:38 left. 
Neither team was able to pull away as they traded baskets for the next 13 minutes. 
There were six ties and six 

lead  changes  until  the  
Spartans  worked  the  ball  
around  the  perimeter  and  

found Chris Hill for an open 3­pointer with 2:44 left to take a 68-65 lead. 
After Savovic missed the front end of a 1-and-1, Taylor made two free throws with 
1:42 left for a five-point lead. 
Ohio State never got closer than four points again as the Spartans scored their final 13 points at the line, going 6-of-8 over the final 25 seconds. 


• 
N&IQhbornooo Grlll & Bar 
HIRING STARTS
-
March 4th 
FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
Servers Bartenders Hosts/Hostesses 
Kitchen Help Cooks 
Pt.fASE Al'Pt.Y IN P£RSON: 
Applebee's 
3703 Por109e Rd.,Souih Bend, IN 46526 Tel: 1219) 277-2640 
www.applesauceinc.com 

·-· ...... --------------------.&. "'-_,. ...• ---. -----------> --... ---• -.• .. ... ·----.!... '-· 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
BENGAL BOUTS 155 POUNDS -160 POUNDS 
Middleweights move to North Dome 
I • 
I 
t 
I 
I
i ... 
I 
By PAUL CAMARATA 
Sports Writer 
On the eve of the Bengal Bout semifinals, roughly a dozen members of the Notre Dame Boxing Club were scattered across the workout room in the basement of the Joyce Center. .lumping rope, shadow boxing and attacking the heavy bags hanging throughout the room, they all tried to polish their technique before their next match-up. 
Of the 133 fighters that began the tournament, only 40 still vie for the championships of their respective weight classes. The semifinal round will again cut that number in half, and send two boxers from each division to the finals Friday night, as the Bouts move from the Joyce Center Fieldhouse to the Arena in the north dome. 
155 Pounds 
The semifinal bracket in the 155-pound division includes the top four seeds in the weight class. Senior captain Brock "Landers" Heckmann will look to keep the momentum he gained over the weekend, when he won two unanimous deci­sions to advance. Heckmann is in search of his second· consec­utive Bengal Bouts champi­onship after winning the 150­pound title last year. 
Wednesday he will face Chris "Third Time's a Charm" Pettit, who is in the midst of the most successful tournament in his three year's of boxing. 
"At this point I feel like I've got nothing to lose. I actually felt less nervous in the quarter finals then I did last Friday," he said Tuesday. "Hopefully [tonight] I'll be even more calm." 
Pettit used an aggressive left hand in his early round victo­ries, both unanimous decisions, but said he hopes to use a more even tempo on Wednesday. 
"When I go in there I have to stay back a little bit more than I have been so I don't get gassed at the end of the third round," Pettit said. " ... Other than that I just have to take advantage when he leaves himself open." 
Heckmann hasn't looked vul­nerable in early rounds, using f1uid footwork to control the pace and movement of his fights. By working his oppo­nents onto the ropes and into the corners, Heckmann has combined mastery of the ring space with strong straight punches to dictate the rhythm of his two fights. 
Sophomore John "The L­Dizzle" Nowak, the second seed in the 155 pound class, used a variety of strong left­handed punches to pound his way through two unanimous decisions into the semifinals over the weekend, Nowak found success in both the pre­liminary and quarterfinals by keeping his shoulders square and utilizing fast hands. His arsenal of lefts includes both a quick hook and a powerful overhand. 
A second-year boxer fighting in the semifinals for the first time, Nowak said he is both excited and anxious about Wednesday night's match up, 
'Tm definitely a bit nervous, because it's farther into the tournament and now I'm fac­ing a better fighter than the last two guys," he said. 
That fighter is Mike "The Militia Man" Melby, a junior second-year boxer who uses his height and long reach to remain on the offensive during his fights. His preliminary round fight was stopped by the referee, who had to issue Melhy's opponent four stand­ing-8 counts. In the quarterfi­nals, Melby threw his long, quick jab in speedy combina­tion with his right hand to score a unanimous decision. 
''I've seen Melby fight, just before me in the prelims and the quarter finals," Nowak said. ''I've never sparred with him before so I just have to go out there and see how it goes. He's a lot taller than me and looks good, but we'll just see what happens." 
160 Pounds 

Chris "Can't We All .Just" Kitalong is a skilled. athletic fighter and the top seed in the 160-pound weight class. Kitalong throws a variety of punches. from a crisp jab to a strong overhand right, and depends on combinations to drive his opponent backwards. 
His barrage of punches in the preliminaries prompted the official to stop the contest 18 seconds into the second round. On Sunday, he scored a unani­mu us decision. Although Kitalong has shown a tendency to fight with his hands lower than it is typically prescribed, his speed and ability to shake off punches have helped him dominate each of his two matches. 
While Kitalong has the rare combination of speed and power that every boxer wants, his opponent, John "The Chris fleid Shamrock Express" Murphy attacks with the fervor that every fighter needs. Murphy, a third-year law stu­dent and native of New Ross, Ireland, says that his nickname is a tribute to his friend Maureen's brother, a former light middleweight who died of cancer last year. 
A fighter without quit, Murphy has disrupted oppo­nents by forcing them to con­tend with his brawling style. Murphy persists in fighting the match along the ropes and on the other boxer's body. a strat­egy that helped him score a unanimous decision in the first round and a split decision in the quarterfinals against a fighter who was bigger but unable to deter his attacks, 
In the other semifinal match up, the second seed and local product Pat "The Beast from the Bend" Dillon, takes on star freshman Mark "Donkey Punch" De Splinter. After watching De Splinter fight, Dillon, who has already won two unanimous decisions. praised his physical condition and speed. 
"He looked really impressive, he's got a good strong jab," Dillon said. "He throws it quick out there, is in great shape and he can throw a lot of punches." 
De Splinter scored a unani­mous decision in the prelimi­naries and won a split decision victory in the second round. He said he has seen video tape of Dillon's fights, and from that viewing knows he'll have to use his jab to fend off the sopho­more's charge. 
"He's a strong fighter, throws real hard punches," De Splinter said. "l just have to stay away from his 1-2 combinations and try to use my long jab to stay in control of the ring." 
Contact Paul Camarata at camarata.2@nd.edu. 

BENGAL BOUTS 165 POUNDS -170 POUNDS 
Technique will be key as Co~/Yost bout 
mina, the semifinals of the 170-. The other 170-pound bout Hernandez said. "I don· t see and exposing his head in the
By BRIAN BURKE 
pound division will be a strug­between Ryan "The Rhino" any point in changing [my style] quarterfinals. While he will 
Spores Writer 
gle of athletic ability. The fight Hernandez and Matt "The with so little time before the likely not get the same number 
between Domingo "Lunes" Booster" Knust is one of more next fight. You can't turn a of shots this time, his strategy
Clay "The Mouth of the 

Maynes and Evan conflicting styles. Hernandez brawler into a boxer in two will be to capitalize on openingsSouth" Cosse faces Mark "The 
"Dysfunctional" Oliver pits two will want to fight in close. while days." when Hernandez throws hooks Holy Ghost" Yost in the semifi­competitors of similar build and Knust will try to stick and "I haven't sparred with in close. Hernandez, mean­nals, and judging from their style. Both dictated the pace of · move. Hernandez realizes that [Hernandez] but he seems while, wants to physically over­
quarterfinal victories, tech­
their quarterfinal bout, chasing Knust is prepared for him to tough," Knust said. "He bull whelm his opponent as he did nique should come into play. down their opponents and trap­charge, but will stick to his rushes, has a similar style [to in his last fight. 
Both fighters picked their spots 
ping them in the ropes. Maynes plan. my last opponent] but a lot and looked to score with jabs in and Oliver appear to be fairly ''I've heard [Knust's] a tough more in shape."the quarterfinals. Cosse had an even athletically, and both will kid, his fight got stopped so he Knust was able to make Chris Contact Brian Burke at easier time with his opponent, want to slug it out. must have some power," Oliver pay for fighting in close burke.68@nd.edu. 
scoring a standing eight and winning by unanimous decision against Mike MacRitchie. Yost won by split decision over Matthew Klobucher in a fairly even fight. 
In the other 165-pound semi­final. Matt "The Meat Hook" Seidler will take on Chris "Stay Out Of My Business" Matassa. Seidler was impressive in his quarterfinal bout, rallying from a tough first round to win a TKO. Seidler was able to over­power Nick Nanovic inside, but Matassa is exceptional at coun­tering a charge. If Seidler tries to simply out punch his foe again, Matassa has the boxing skill to make him pay. 
170 Pounds 
While the quarterfinals were a study in contrast, with one boxer overcoming the other with physical strength and sta-
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed' Best Airlines/Hotels' Free Food' 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. 
f 
Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-onlirre. www.•unspla•htours.com 
.
I
1 ·800-426-771 0 
. . 
; 
;, ·' 



Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BENGAL BOUTS 125 POUNDS • 145 POUNDS 
Fighters look to prove they're not lightweights 
BENGAL BOUTS 180 POUNDS • HEAVYWEIGHTS 
The missile warns opponents to watch their ribs 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Spons Writer 
Shawn Ncwberg's got some reclaiming to do. 
"I just can't wait," said Newburg. who took the title his freshman year, and lost last year in the finals. "I haven't gotten to tight yet this year." 
O'Neill junior Newburg will fight for the first time in the Bouts against St. Edward's Hall senior Derrick Bravo, who defeated Mike Feduska in the quarterfinals. 
"[Bravo) is more of a brawler. He hits pretty hard," said Newburg. 
Bravo's left hooks and quick 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Spores Wrircr 
Matt "Missile" Sarb has a few words of advice for his oppo­nents: watch your ribs. 
The senior football walk-on faces sophomore Tommy "Gun" Demko in the semifinals of the 180-pound weight class tonight. The taller Demko has a better jab and a more refined form but Sarb has blasted his way to the semifinals by pounding oppo­nents' midsections. 
"I was thinking about going for my nickname 'watch your ribs' because I cracked a guys ribs at the beginning of the season and he can't fight any more-," Sarb 
meets Joshua "The Flyin'
vote for tttel~cfi:a~ts fram their re,IC 
...:·; e classes. 
Hawaiian" Kaakua in the other 
::?•::\~::-::::::•::::::f:::::r:•e;,z::::~ 

190-pound semifinal. Kaakua 
orms. 
::=::::::;::;::::::=::?:::::;:::;:fi:f.:fj:~(/;i:::ii{'.::::::-::::::):~}\Sit:2:/::i:ifj; has one of the most unique fight­ing styles in the entire tourna­ment. The short, stocky fight stays far away from his oppo­
1 i/%)\i\i'.fa/%; ~ -.. ~.• .-., : ...... ;v .•~-·' : .... nent. He uses his quick hands to
Voting!ll!llr111 be posted i 1.:..:_..f.t.l.i.:.•_•.•.~.i_:_i.:.•. ···•·•·l·;,:..:_:.·.;_._;.i.:.:.•__;_;_._:.•.:.•.~.:.1.:.•
·.:.•_:_:_r_:•;• 

AFartune 500· Qes/1111 •/namtions •MarteUng, Consultanrs Seminar 
Learn The Methods Of AProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
A0111 Da,S11111Jna1,ABaot DIOm 1,n Ycan otJnvaluallle EXJ11rlance.. 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. The class is taught by a man whose work. one Fortune 500 Company 
V. P. says will, "change the course ofan entire industry. • 
~~r..lJBJIII:.~For class dares, private classes & 
· TBSOAB more information, go to our web
fillaifNltr__,,_..__. site. or cafl Mr. Adams at 277-8104 "l/lf/llW.USIISlaDtl.t:Om E-mail • lnventor@ussstand.com 
jabs helped him earn a unani­mous victory over Feduska. but this tune he will have to get past Newburg's experienced defense. 
'Tm more of a technical boxer. I'm more defensive than he is," said Newburg. 
In other 125 pound action tonight, O'Neill junior Lance Hedron will face Morrissey senior Jason McMahon. Hendron also earned a unanimous win in the quarterfinals, defeating Sung Hoon Kim. 
135 pounds 
Stanford sophomore Tony Hollowell will take on T.J. D'Agostino tonight. Hollowell made a surprise nm to the finals last year and is focused on 
said. "But I didn't want to give away my strategy." 
After his first two wins, Sarh's strategy is well known. He charges right into an opponent jab, taking hard shots to the face but he also slides underneath that punch to throw several shots to his opponents' body. 
Demko said he will use a slight­ly more defensive style to coun­teract Sarb's charges. 
"You've got to keep your hands in closer together," Demko said. "You have to keep your elbows tight to your body and see the punches and react." 
Demko also plans to be a little more active in the ring so that Sarb will not be able to charge a stationary target. 
that, as well as his footwork to
_._-nator for the 2(.111,::•·· ?.;::·;03 school 

avoid Lynk's powerful punches. 
"What you are going to see is a lot of dancing around the ring. It's not me running away from him," Zizic said. "I am a different style boxer than he is. I really have to use my length to win this fight." 

Kevin "Hardcore" Brandl 
advancing all the way to the title in this year's bouts. 
"[ D'AgostinoJ is definitely a lit­tle taller than me," Hollowell said. "He's got some reach. I know he's in shape and will be ready for a good fight." 
Dillon's D'Agostino took a TKO victory against junior Chris Hoffinan in the quarterfinals. and Hollowell defeated Dillon fresh­man Jon Valenzuela in a unani­mous decision after coming out stronger in the second round. 
'Tm stronger than most guys in my weight class, but T.J,'s [D'Agostino] pretty strong him­self," said Hollowell. "He will be an awesome opponent, and it will be a test for both of us." 
Bengal Bouts captain Matt 
Fumagalli will continue his quest to reclaim his sophomore year title, after defeating Zahrn's Luke Dillon in a drawn-out brawl in the quarterfinals. He will take on Rich Redina, who earned a unan­imous win against Jacob Cusack to advance to the semifinals. 
i45 pounds 

No matter who wins tonight, O'Neill will have a victor; it might even have two. 
"O'Neill should be in full force [tonight]," said Bengal Bouts captain Andrew Harms, who lives off campus, but used to live in O'Neill. He will face O'Neill freshman Sam Fuller in tonight's 145 semifinal battle, although neither will be quite up to par, as they are both recovering from head colds. 
Fuller was knocked down, but rallied to win against Alumni's Jon Pribaz in the quarterfinals. 
"First, he's a southpaw, and he's a real good young fighter," said Harms. "He's proved in his last fight that he's got a tough chin. Hopefully I can capitalize on my quickness and my experi­ence." 
Jemar Tisby, a senior from Keough Hall. will face O'Neill freshman Nathan Lohmeyer for West Quad bragging rights and a shot at the finals. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khugbes@nd.edu. 
dart inside and attack his oppo­nent before dancing back out­side. 
Staying outside plays into Brandi's plan to use his reach advantage but Kaakua's inside attacks worry Brandl. 
"He's got those quick hands which is scary," Brandl said. "But the fact that he stays back plays a little bit into my advantage. I just can't let him use his quick hands to slip inside." 
Heavyweight 
The two heavyweight favorites step into the ring for the first time tonight. 
Carlos Abeyeta and Stefan Borovina received byes into the semifinals and will face football walk-ons Jeffrey Campbell and Eric Nelson for a spot in Friday's finals. 
"It's a little bit frustrating because you've see everyone fight," Borovina said. "The wait­ing is the toughest. You just want to get in the ring and go." 
Borovina will have a height advantage against Nelson but Nelson said he is used to battling taller fighters since he is the shortest fighter in the weight class. What Nelson lacks in reach, however, he makes up for in toughness. 
"He is a tough kid. He has a hard chin. He can really take a punch," Borovina said. "I am going to keep him away with my reach." 
Abeyeta, the defending heavy­weight champion, faces Campbell in the other semifinal. Campbell won his quarterfinal when the 
referee stopped the fight just -~ I 
I 
I

1:28 into the first round. 
I

Campbell said he expects a much I tougher fight from Abeyeta. I 
l I I

"I just have to try to keep my punches straight and stay calm," he said. 
· 

Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
"I am going to try to keep him away and move around the ring well," Demko said. "Footwork is going to be a key. That's proba­bly the best way to work it. I fully expect him to come right at me." 
In the other 180-pound semifi­nal, senior captain Mark "Bright Lights, Big City" Criniti continues his quest for three titles against senior Keith "Little Ball of Love" Arnold. Arnold, one of the hard­est punchers ip the division, overcame the reach advantage of Kevin Conoscenti in the quarter­finals to score a unanimous deci­sion win. 
In Criniti, he faces another taller boxer who throws punches nearly as strong as Arnold's. Arnold said he tries getting his 

Off-Canl 

opponents to lower their defens­es so his hard rights do more damage. Against the better•con­ditioned Criniti, Arnold said he will try to be more conservative and look for open opportunities. 
"I have to be economical because I am not in the greatest shape," he said. 
Arnold will also have to adapt to Criniti's left-handed stance. He has yet to fight a left-handed fighter this year. 
"Last year I practiced with one of my buddies who was left hand­ed," Arnold said. "Hopefully I can work on some stuff so that I can stay away from his power." 
190 pounds 

John Lynk and William Zizic should both get a better chal­lenge tonight when the two fight­ers meet in the semifinals of the 190-pound weight class. Lynk and Zizic both had their quarter­final wins stopped early by the referee. 
Zizic knows he will be in for a much tougher bout against Lynk. however. 
"He is the greatest challenge I am going to face," Zizic said. "He is the most challenging fighter in our weight division. He is very athletic and has very strong punches." 
Zizic has a reach advantage on the shorter Lynk and plans to use 
~ -----LL._ ----.. 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 27, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Graves ready for record-setting trip 


By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 

The only thing that can stop David Graves from mak­ing history is if he misses the plane to New York. 
When Graves steps onto the Madison Square Garden court for tonight's game against St. John's, he will officially have played in his 125th college game, breaking Elmer Bennett's 11-year-old Notre Dame record for most games playod in a college career. 
"I had time earlier this week to reflect on what I've accomplished," Graves said. "It's kind of a time to be self­ish. I'm taking it in. Of all the players that have played here, to play more games than anybody, it's something I've worked hard at." 
It's certainly been a roller coaster of a career for Graves, who started the first 18 games of his career. In his first two seasons. Graves began games on the bench three times. 
That changed under coach Mike Brey. When Graves hit a midseason shooting slump the last two seasons, Brey moved the forward to a sixth-man role midway 
through the season. 

But whenever the season was on the line, Brey put 
Graves back into the starting lineup. He started in Notre Dame's first-round NCAA Tournament game last year against Xavier and in a must-win game last week against West Virginia. 
"He came in when the pro­gr am was way down, and he's helped put us back on 
the map," Brey said. "He's going to leave as a part of two NCAA Tournament teams and being thought of as a winner." 
Graves has quietly moved up the list of Notre Dame's career scoring leaders. He needs to make just three 3­point shots to break Ryan Hoover's seven-year old record of 248 for most 
I career 3-pointers and has to 
I ' score 49 points to move into seventh place on Notre Dame's top career scorers. He has never been named to an All-Big East team and yet opponents still create game plans specifically designed to eliminate Graves' offensive capabilities. "He's kind of the guy that keeps them together," West Virginia coach Drew Catlett said last week. "He is kind of a guy who has gone through Notre Dame and our league unnoticed." 
"I've surpassed everything I thought I could do here," Graves said. "The first day I came on, I never thought I'd be top six or seven scoring, or the best 3-point shooter. But it's all hard work. I've come every day with focus and determination and I've just played hard, and that's all I try to do." 
The pressure has shifted off Graves and the Irish after their win Saturday against Miami. Notre Dame (19-8, 9­5 Big East) is virtually a lock for the NCAA Tournament, while the Red Storm (18-9, 8-6 Big East) are a bubble team desperately in need of a win. 
While St. John's has only lost one game at home all season, Notre Dame is one of the best road teams in the Big East. The key for Notre Dame, Brey said, is to keep the offensive pressure going at all times. 
"That's the most important part of our offense," he said. "It gives us some easy looks and gets Chris Thomas in an attack frame of mind, which is key for our team." 
Tonight's game is impor­tant for the Irish because it will have an affect on where the Irish are seeded in the Big East Tournament. While Pittsburgh has the West Division title all but locked up, Notre Dame is tied with Syracuse for second place. However, the Orangemen have the tiebreaker because they swept the Irish during the season. The first and sec­ond place teams earn first­round byes in next week's Big East Tournament. 
While Brey said he hopes to finish the season on a posi­tive note -the Irish lost their final two games of the regu­lar season last year -he feels enough that the Irish have locked up their bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
"The Miami win eases the urgency a little bit," he said. "St. John's probably needs the win more than we do, to be honest. We feel we've made some great deposits in the NCAA tourney bank." 
Notes: 
. Matt Carroll, who sat out all of Notre Dame's win against Miami on Saturday with a foot injury, will return to the Irish lineup against St. John's tonight. 
"They didn't need me out there," he joked Saturday night. "So I decided to take the night off." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Irish guard Torrian Jones goes hard to the basket Saturday against Miami. The Irish take on St. John's in New York tonight. 



The Blue Heron at Blackthorn Presents 
Weddings for All Seasons 
The Second Annual Bridal Luncheon 
Saturday, March 9, 2002 
11 :30am to 2:30pm 
Enjoy a morning ofexquisite bridal presentations for every wedding need. Presentations include: new wedding trends,jlowers, table & room design and fashion while you delight in a multi-course luncheon by ChefAnna and her staff. You '/I leave breathless ...enjoy listening to motivational humorist, Scott Friedman, CSP. He will captivate you with his wit and humor by giving you practical advice on overcoming stress whether it be wedding, relationships or work related. As our send off, Premier Travel, in conjunction with Sandal's Resorts wiff give away a Romantic 
Honeymoon Getaway for two. Bridal couples and their families are encouraged to attend this lpectacular and illformative event. Space is limited. $25.00 per Person. Pre-Registration is Required. (5 74) 233-309 I 
TASL~§., .. ··Rentals 
Vanessa'sT~glll,I~~f Chicago 
~ ~ 

-

Wednesday, February 27, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 39 Paris, to Romeo 68 Unwanted 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON have set out to do. 000 e-mail 1HIS DAY: Elizabeth Tayloi; Joanne VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): You
1 Read (through) 40 Round cameo? 
Woodward, Ralph Nadei; Chelsea will want to express yourself today.
5 Guanaco's 43 Sacred text 69 Check 
Ointon Don't hold back. It is best to saycousin 44 Caffeine-rich nut 70 With 15-Across, Happy Birthday: You will be what's on your mind and let others 1OSinging style 1950's "Tonight lucky in business and insightful respond in whatever way they see
45 Lawn sculpture, 

Show" host when it romes to finding solutions to fit000
14 Harbinger maybe 
71 Daly of "Judging other people's problems this year. LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Prob­
15 See 70-Across 46 Says 
You will be fortunate enough to lems while traveling or dealing with 
Amy"
16 "Heaven forbid!" unpleasantly come into secret information that authority figures can be expected. Be 17 Like most of 48 Marrow will help you get ahead. The more sure to Iiave all your documentation DOWN organizations you get involved in in order before you set out today.
Aeschylus' 50 Govt. org. that 
plays? 1 Bolt (down) the better your chances will be to Someone may have a hidden agen­
employs 

effectively use your networking da that you don'tknow about 000
20 Quaker mathematicians 2 Omnia vincit 
skills. Your numbers are 1, 5, 12, 21, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 
21 Like a mandolin 51 Triumphant cry 28,42 can make a difference today if you 22 Diplomatic to-do 53 Goon 3lV'sAmaz ARIES (March 21-April 19): get involved in an organization that Don't become too chummy with Ftelps the underprivileged. You are
24 Tum one way 55 201, e.g. 4 Log 
someone you know through work likely to meet someone special ifyou25 Position 60 Bump result 5 Crow's-nest You will be disappointed i(this per­attend events that are meaningful.
sighting
28 Breakable 64 Students' son doesn't respond in the way you 0CX.X) 
things objections to a 6 M.L.K.'s were expecting. There will be delays SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 30 Dojo teaching big exam? honorary deg. with travel and communications Watch what you say. Someone may from Yale today.000 just use your words against you.
35 God defeated 66 Walt Kelly 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Let Emotional matters will surface ifyou
twice by creation 7 Skiing mecca 
yourself go and take on creative proj-­try to skirt issues. Be honest and Hercules 67 Promotional 8 Fred or Ethel of ects that you may have been afraid don't let anyone limit your freedom. 37 Response to campaign "I Love Lucy" to attempt in the past. It's time to 00 "Shall we?" adjunct 9 Hooded jacket move forward with regard to your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): dreams, hopes and wishes. 00000 You should be involved in talks with
10 Presently 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): someone who challenges you men­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Perform a bar Don't let events happening in your tally. You will enjoy the interaction 
dare 
personal or home life magnify. Ifyou You have so much to offer and so 
Puzzle ~y Unda Bushman 


.,,;+.;.,;.+-;,;.+..,;;,+,..4 12 Sister of King limit yourself you will have regrets much to gain if you just speak up. 31 Improvised bit 52 Concede 59 Foil alternative later on Don't take what others say 00000
I C O ~,-,+,,::+::-I A N E Arthur 
too seriously. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
T H R 13 Mrs. Lincoln's 32 Of interest to 54 Talk show 61 1960's Cosby 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You Gambling will not pay off today. 
maiden name bird-watchers interviewee show 
may like to spend time in the rom­Financial limitations are apparent if 18 Shrub that 33 Anklebone 55 Concert gear 62 Satirist Freberg fort of your own home but today you aren't careful with your cash. yields indigo 34 Tennis player you should get out with friends and Hard work will bring in the cash ­
56 Laugh_ 63 Salinger heroine 
r O O 19 Mozart's "Le Dementieva take part in some other activities. not a get-rich-quick-scheme. 000
57 Margin 
65 "6 Ams Vu" Don't try to deal with government PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
U R S Nozze di _. 36 Rocky outlook 
58 Speck (play) agencies or institutions of any kind. Emotional matters will develop 1 M E 23 Fine-tune 38 Gymnast's feat 0000 today. Focus on children, creative 25 Game with a ball 41 Loosen, in a LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work by projects or getting out and socializ­way Answers to any clues in this puzzle are yourself and at your own speed. ing with good friends. An older rela­
R R A 26 Betelgeuse's
constellation 42 1940's Holmes available by touch-tone phone: Someone influential may try to hold tive may be a burden. Help him or you back. Prepare to travel if neces­her as best you can and try to be
,-,-+...+-,,-+,;;o~o..,N~ 21 Hall of Fame player 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
sary in order to romplete what you patient.000
U C K catcher 47 Features before Annual subscriptions are available for the S I T .,,,....,..+,,,...,,_ T C H 29 Barbershop main features best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: You are very serious about your future. You put your S O O ___,_.....__.__ E O S band 49 Smart years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. work above everything else in life. You are well-organized and will not leave much room for enor. You are dedicated and determined in all thatyou do. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
(BEEP) HELLO. 'f'OO'VE 
REACHED 
THE fO)( 
RES1DENCE. 
BILL AMEND 

To LEAVE A MESSA6E, l'RESS THE SQUARE RoOT  I'VE FIGURED oUl WliAT'S  WITH THE ANSWERING  
oF 1,2qro MINUS THE CUBE RooT oF 13,82't TIMES 17.S MINUS THE 't™ RooT  THE MATTElt  MACHINE, oR oUR SON?  
oF 1,'I0S,02'i,7fol.  I  

B B ~~ 
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 

This response is not the best way out of this dilemma 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN  46556  ..  
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester  .JI  
Name -------------------------­Address------------------­City _______ State ___ Zip_____  

------------------,,----·--­
.. 

Campus Sports National Sports
osstRVER 

. Men's Basketbalt, p. 18 
. NCAA Men's Basketball, p. 
. 
Bengal Bouts, p. 20-21 19 


. NCAA Women's

. Bushey, p.17 Basketball, p. 18
PORTS 
. Giambi, p. 17 
Wednesday, February 27, 2002 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
51 and done 
. Wildcats end 51­game home win streak, defeat Irish 48-45 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Spores Editor 
On Dec. 12. 1998, Notre Dame topped Villanova 63-62 at the Joyce Center, a victory that began a string of 51 consecutive home victories for the Irish. Then-sophomore Ruth Riley pulled down a key rebound as the clock ran out that night to secure the victory. 
Tuesday night in the Joyce Center, that streak came to an end. 
Once again it was the Wildcats of Villanova topping the Irish 48-45 in both team's regular season finale. And once again a Riley was in the middle of it, this time senior Villanova guard Mimi Riley, who scored Villanova's last eight points to pull the Wildcats ahead after Notre Dame led 43-42 with just under four minutes remaining. 
"I thought it put a lot of pressure on us really," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said of the win streak. "I thought the young kids just really just couldn't take the pres­sure. We didn't talk about it all year but coming into the final game it had to be on everybody's mind." 
Notre Dame (19-8, 13-3 in the Big East) shot just 33.3 percent from the field. Alicia Ratay scored 22 points for the Irish, but the rest of the team combined for just 23 points on the night. . 
Ratay was the only Notre Dame player to make more than two field goals. 
"The whole game, we just never were in sync offensively," McGraw said. "I thought Alicia played a great game, but we forced her to do every-
seeIRISH/page 16 

. Wildcats make sure Irish don't have second chance for revenge 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said it all following Notre Dame's 48-45 loss to Villanova on Tuesday. 
"They played smart. They don't give you second chances." 
The Wildcats don't give second chances. They don't give second chances on shots. They don't give second chances on defense and they certainly don't give second chances to revenge a loss. 
Earlier this season the Irish dropped a heart­breaker when guard Mimi Riley hit a last second jumper to give the Wildcats a 60-59 victory. Heading into this game, the Irish were look­ing for a second chance to prove that they could cage the Wildcats. But Villanova was not willing to give them that chance. 
The Wildcats played their game on Notre Dame's home court; they took the Irish out of their offense and set their own up. They took away any second chance Notre Dame might have. 
The Wildcats scored 12 points on second-chance points. The Irish scored five. Notre Dame had a total of 12 offensive rebounds. The bench, which has been Notre Dame's strength all season, couldn't 

see CHANCES/page 15 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Brawler looking to punch out victory 
I 
i 
I 
[ 
t 
I 
1 ... 
By BRIAN BURKE Sports Writer 
Brock "Landers" Heckmann is a leader when it comes to the Notre Dame boxing team. And he will gladly yield to fel­low senior captains Mark Criniti and Matt Fumagalli when it comes to teaching the finer points of technique. While the latter two are pure boxers, Heckmann will stand toe to toe and out-punch his opponent. As such, he sees his niche as a Bengal Bouts cap­tain as that of motivator. 
"I try to get in here a couple hours early See Also and makes sure every­
Begnal Bouts 

th in g's page 20-21 alright," said Heckmann, who comes from Rancho Mirage, Calif. ''I'd say my role in the whole thing is making sure every­body's here, everyone gets 
upstairs at 4:00 on time, get­ting our calisthenics, our push-ups, sit-ups, and jumping jacks all out of the way before we really start coaching. But Mark Criniti, Matt Fumagalli, those guys are more the tech­nical, masterminds of the box­ing scheme." 
In the Bengal Bouts all is not lost if a fighter is not a pol­ished tactician, as Heckmann's title last year in the 150-pound division proves. As just a sec­ond year fighter, he slugged his way through three bouts, the last of which was perhaps the most thrilling fight of the 2001 finals when he outlasted Chris Matassa. 
"I'd definitely throw myself in the 'brawler' category. though this year I've been try­ing to work on the technical fighting more," Heckmann said. "Last year I had three fights, and every one of them was a brawl. I fought Matassa at the end, and that was the biggest brawl of my life. One thing I guess I could say is, I've got three older brothers, so fighting with them at home everyday after school, was a good way to get the brawler mentality going at an early age. My older brother Scott. he's 15 months older than me. He was always a lot bigger than me, so we used to get into it quite a bit." 
While the Matassa finale drove the crowd in the Joyce 
see BOXERipage 14 

. Men's Basketball at St. John's, tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Basketball at St. John's, tonight, 7:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

onllne 
. Fencing, Midwest Conference Championships,AT AGLANCE Saturday -Sunday http:/www.nd.edu/-:-observer 







