
SUNNY 
HIGH 31° LOW21° 

Need help with your DVD collection? 
The Observer offers advice on how to establish a good DVD collection on the cheap and with minimal investment of time. 
Scene 14-15 


By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
After a month of debate and committee work, the Student Senate passed a resolution Wednesday night calling for the University to raise the student activity fee. 
Unlike previous resolutions the Senate considered, however, the one passed Wednesday night called for a $15 dollar increase for the 2002-2003 school year but made no mention of addi­tional increases in later years. The resolution initially proposed called for the fee to go increase by $10, but by a vote of 14-10, senators decided to change the amount to $15. 
Earlier versions debated at past meetings called for an ini­tial $10 increase in 2002-2003 and then a $5 every other year until the fee reached $100. 
The resolution will now be sent to the Campus Life Council. If the CLC approves of the increase as well, the resolution will go before Father Mark Poorman, vice-president of Student Affairs, who will deter­mine whether and by how much to increase the fee. 
Before the Senate voted on the final resolution, three students spoke in favor of raising the fee. 
Mary Barter from the 
Equestrian Club told senators that her club would benefit from additional money that would potentially be available from the Club Coordination Council if the student activity fee is raised. 
Describing her organization as 
•·a club with a large budget and small allocation," Barters said that her club spends $30,000 a year in order to compete, although their CCC allocation is $2800 and RecSports allocation is $1900. The rest of the money, she said, comes from funding the club raises itself, including $630 dues each member pays. 
"It leads to a situation where the averagP. student is not going to be ab,i; to do this," said Barter. "It's a club with a lot of interest, but many members leave and the reason is [they] can't afford to do it" 
Another student who addressed the senate was Molly Lewis of the Physics Club, a group which senators had criti­cized at earlier meetings for using its money to purchase pizza. 
The club does much more than eat pizza at its meetings, Lewis said. It conducts tutoring sessions and organizes special events with professors. She also pointed out that CCC allocated the Physics Club $250 last year. 
"If we were just going to buy pizza, that wouldn't even supply 

Thursday 
FEBRUARY 28, 
2002 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 99 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU f STUDENT SENATE 


Senators approve activity fee increase 
it for the whole year," said Lewis. "To say that the Physics ,;, ; r Club is the epitome of waste at Notre Dame is a little off." 
John Hagan, the outgoing CCC club coordinator, also encour­aged the Senate to approve the resolution. 
"The student activity fee increase would add to the num­ber of events for students and keep the cost of events lower," he said. 
Hagan added that the CCC was placing a cap on the amount of money clubs could spend on food that is not·part of a larger event. 
see SENATE/page 9 


Bishop breaks barriers 
Second female president-elect reflects on experiences 

By KATE NAGENGAST Associate News Editor 
At a private Mass presided 
over by Father Theodore 
Hesburgh in his library office, 
Libby Bishop, student body 
president-elect, sat with Brooke 
Norton, current student body 
president and listened the 
University president emeritus 
deliver a homily about the 
importance leading with com­
passion. 
"He talked about how neat it was to have Notre Dame's first and second female student body presidents there, and in his homily he mentioned leading the student body with compas­sion, which I thought was really nice," said Bishop, who will take office April 1. 
Norton said, "People have commented to me that it's unbelievable to have another woman elected so soon. There are no more barriers in that regard. I am confident that she will do a great job. She's been really enthusiastic so far, and it's good to know that the per­son taking over has good inten­tions." 
Bishop and running mate Trip Foley won this year's student body run-off election by just 211 votes over Brian Moscona, cur­rent student body vice presi­dent, and his running mate Keri Oxley. current sophomore class president, on Feb. 14: 
"The campaign process was grueling," said Bishop. "It was very competitive and very intense because you give 110 percent -especially this year with so many good candidates and no joke candidates." 
Had Moscona been elected, he would have continued a chain of student body vice presidents fol­lowing their running mates into office -as Norton was elected after serving as vice president under Brian O'Donoghue during the 2000-01 academic year. · 
"[The current administration] has done a good job, but things really haven't changed that much," said Bishop. "Of course we all know that student gov­ernment doesn't have an all­consuming power to change things. but maybe students feel like there could be more poten­tial, that things have gotten stagnant." 
Bishop has served as junior class social co-chair, sophomore class vice president, Junior Parents Weekend sophomore executive committee co-chair and freshman class fundraising chair. She hardly considers her­self a student government "out­sider," she said. 
"The message is there to try something new and take a dif­ferent approach. So even though Trip and I have been involved and we're not complete outsiders, overall we have a fresher philosophy because we haven't been stuck in the 
see BISHOP/page 4 

Classes hold elections 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor· 
The Class of 2003 almost 
reelected the same four officers 
who currently represent it. The 
ticket of Matt Smith, Karen 
Lysaght, Nick Mastronardi and 
Josh Gentine received 48 per­
cent of the vote, just under the 
50 percent needed to automati­
cally secure office and avoid a 
runoff 
"It was definitely frustrating for us," said Smith. "But at the same time. we also look at who we're running against and we consider it great that we got that high." 
Smith's ticket will face Steven 
Henriques, Edward Pettei, Brian 
Ostick and Catherine Disipio in 
Friday's runoff. 
"We've been trying to get to know as many juniors as possi­ble," said Henriques, whose ticket received 29 percent of the vote. "We just want to make our senior year awesome. Our group is really energetic and we think we can make a difference." 
Leading the election for the Class of 2005, the ticket of Jeremy Lao, Erika Bramley, Kenna Brewer and Matt Kinsella received 46 percent of the vote. also just shy of the 50 percent needed to win the elec• tion outright. 
"It would have been nice to have gotten 50 percent," said Bramley, the ticket's vice presi­dential candidate. "But we knew that the [Stephanie] Aberger 
see RESULTS/page 9 

Thursday, February 28, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
When the unpredictable journey ends 
If life went the way we planned, I would have something profound to say in my last column as editor in chief. I would have a pearl of wisdom; a golden nugget of knowledge; some secret sage advice to pass on to future generations. 
Iflife went the way we planned, I wouldn't be des­perately trying to wrack my brain for 500 words to sum up my two-year term as edi­tor in chief. 
But maybe that is the one thing I have learned after 261 editions of The Observer with my name at the top of the masthead -nothing ever turns out the way we plan. 
We analyze; we organize; we predict and we prepare but in the end even our best-laid plans are thrown awry by the completely unpre­dictable. 

Mike Connolly 
Editor in Chief 
Ifeverything I had planned had turned out exactly how I hoped, I would have led a pretty dull life. Without the completely unpredictable, the utterly unexpected and the chaotic, I never would have experienced some of my greatest successes. 
Maybe that's why I have loved my job so much for the past two years. For all the stresses, frus­trations and aggravations, I've never experienced something more rewarding than walking into the dining hall and watching hundreds of people read The Observer. They don't understand how many re-edits the page 7 lecture story went through or that we had to drive the film to Walgreens at 3 
a.m. because the photo processor broke. All they see is that somehow we pulled it all together and got 20-something pages of newsprint into the bins the next morning. 
Iflife were easy and predictable, it wouldn't be worth living. It's the fluctuations and changes that make things exciting. 
The nights when the most things went wrong, when a story broke late or an idea took a few more hours to materialize usually produced the best papers. I remember nights like election night 2000 when we finally stumbled out of the office at 
7:30 a.m. much more than I remember a routine night in April when everything was done by 2 a.m. 
Did I accomplish everything I wanted to get done? Of course not. Looking back on rriy applica­tion from two years ago, I probably got 10 percent of my goals done -and that's being generous. 
Nearly every improvement, innovation and reorganization I promised in my original eight­page application failed to materialize. But at the same time, improvements, innovations and reor­ganizations that I never imagined came to fruition through the hard work of the dedicated staff that works with me. I'd like to think I somehow inspired them to greatness. But really, I just feel privileged that I was allowed to work with them. 
If I could somehow condense 261 editions into a single sentence of wisdom or a few words of truth, I would be cheating myself. Life is completely unpredictable. It can't be summed up in some pithy phrase that can be printed on a bumper sticker. 
But tonight, my unpredictable journey comes to an end. I have to pass on this incredible experi­ence to the next lucky editor who will hopefully love this job as much as I do. I hope he enjoys the ride as much as I did. 
Contact Mike Connolly at mconnoll@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regar,fs itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are re5erved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Concert: Notre Dame  . Concert: 44th Annual  
Symphony Orchestra, 8  Collegiate Jazz Festival,  
p.m., Washington Hall  7:30 p.m., Washington  
. Movie: "Black Sheep,"  Hall  
10 p.m .• 101 DeBartolo  . Stations of the Cross: 7  
p.m., Basilica of the  
Sacred Heart  


BEYOND CAMPUS 

Kentucky researchers make discovery about HIV virus 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Although most people think HIV just affects the immune system, University of Kentucky researchers said at a seminar Tuesday the virus can have equally devastating effects on the ner­vous system. 
"It's not uncommon for the primary manifestation of the HIV infection to be neurological," said Dr. Joseph Berger, chair of the Department of Neurology. 
Berger said when one out of five people who don't know they have HIV come to their doctor, they first com­plain of various neurological prob­lems. 
The brain is the part of the nervous system most seriously affected by HIV. Berger said that one-third of all peo­ple in advanced stages of AIDS suffer from dementia. 

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Students push for co-ed housing 
NEW YORK 

Despite years of ~ame-sex-only housing, male and female students living together in residence halls soon may become a reality at New York University -if some students get their way. A handful of students are lobbying the University to follow the trend at several other schools -including Haverford College and Amherst College -and allow students to choose co-ed living situations if they desire. Gay students are among the leaders of movements that support co-ed housing. Same-sex housing makes -some gay and lesbian stu­dents feel uncomfortable, said Alex Morris, the secre­tary of Queer Union, NYU's largest student club for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender students. "Most of my friends are girls and personally I'd kind of rather live with girls," Morris said. NYU's current poli­cy states while floors and buildings in University dor­mitories may be co-ed, individual rooms and suites may not, Executive Director of Housing and Residence Life Tom Ellett said. 

LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather 111 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

~-•-~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 
Snowers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow /cs Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Via Auocial-.1 Prea GraphlCIINtol 
Saturday 
. Play: "The History of King Henry IV, part I," 
7:30 p.m., Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
. Movie: "Black Sheep," 10 p.m., 101 DeBartolo 
Sunday . Spanish Mass: 1 :30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
. Play: "The History of King Henry IV, Part I," 
7:30 p.m., Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Two UK studies currently focus on this phenomenon, employing magnetic resonance imaging to determine the factors that contribute to HIV-related dementia. Colum Avison, an associate professor of neurology and biochem­istry, said one of the clinical dilemmas in dealing with HIV dementia is the various ways it manifests itself. 
"HIV, once it gets in the brain, seems to do everything you can think of," Avison said. 
HIV dementia can be caused by two "pathways," Avison explained, inflam• matory and non-inflammatory. The pathways have different reactions to the drug cocktail used to treat HIV and AIDS patients with dementia, he said. 
The magnetic resonance equipment lets researchers· distinguish the path­ways, Avison said. 
Berger said it is hoped that the stud­ies will someday provide the means to predict which patients should be treated with which drugs. 
These studies ·are not the only ones UK researchers are conducting that concern HIV and AIDS, Berger said. 
"The University of Kentucky is privi­leged to have over $7 million from the National Institute of Health alone for AIDS research," he said. 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Vigil held for slain reporter 
BERKELEY.Calif. 

University of California-Berkeley's Graduate School of Journalism held an event Tuesday in honor of The Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, recently killed by his abductors in Pakistan. The memorial quickly became a forum for dis­cussing the implications of Pearl's murder, as sever­al audience members inquired about the motivation behind Pearl's kidnapping. Some questioned whether it was a punishment for The Wall Street Journal's alleged close relationship with the U.S. government. Pearl, who had been in Karachi, Pakistan, researching a possible link between "shoe bombing" suspect Richard Reid and a Pakistani mili­tant, allegedly was kidnapped by a group called the National Movement for the Restoration of Pakistani Sovereignty. Pearl's abductors had demanded the release of Pakistani prisoners in Guantanamo Bay and warned Pearl would be killed if their demands were not met. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon,Tt1ursday, Feb. 28. 
70• 
•e •

0 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
•• ----­

,,,....,,., ®© . rz?ZIITIJ§~~ (t 4:~ tiiJt; 
High Low Showera Rain T••torma Flum-Snow Ice Sunny Pl. CloUdy Cloudy 
\'Is Assoaar«1 Prus 

Atlanta 43 27 Las Vegas 69 42 Baltimore 43 20 Memphis 50 32 Boston 38 25 Milwaukee 30 20 Chicago 33 21 New York 40 25 Houston 57 52 Philadelphia 43 25 Portland 51 27 Sacramento 69 39 St. Louis 42 28 Tampa 57 42 Washington, DC 44 26 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Committee proposals affect ND transportation 
rollover rate in single-vehicle each week. 
By ANDREW THAGARD crashes that is nearly three Officials have attempted to 
Assistant News Editor times the rate of those that compensate for the lighter pas­
were lightly loaded," the U.S. senger load by giving the CSC 
Based on safety concerns, Department of Transportation an additional four vehicles and 
Notre Dame officials have wrote in an April press release. providing the group access to a 
approved a policy requiring the "There are other institutions University-sponsored vehicle 
removal of two rows of seats across the country that have rental system where the orga­
from 15-passenger vans and prohibited the use of 15-pas-nization is allowed to rent mini­
the eventual phase-out of the senger vans," said Robert Zerr, vans and sedans at cost, 
vans within University trans-director of Risk Management. according to Dan Skendzel, 
portation pools. "It's an issue that raises ques-executive assistant to the vice 
The decision, along with tions of why anyone would president for business opera­other issues being considered want to use them based on this tions. by the University Vehicle advisory." "It's probably affected the Committee, may hinder future Risk Management brought CSC less than any other organi­student access to transporta-the safety concerns to the zation because they typically tion, accord-attention of the Vehicle would not send out a 15-pas­ing to stu-Committee last senger vehicle with 15 passen­dent govern-"It's an issue that raises spring and the gers," Ogren said. "The fact ment leaders C o m m i t t e e that they are renting very few and the questions of why anyone made the rec-vehicles indicates that they've Center for would want to use them ommendation been meeting their needs." S o c i a l based on this advisory.•· to Father Alan, however, disagrees,
Con cc r n s . Timothy Scully, saying that renting vehicles has 
The move, in executive vice been costly for them. 
fact, pro-Robert Zerr president. The Vehicle Committee, for 
h i b i t s director of Risk Management The policy, as its part, is considering other 
University approved by proposals that could shape the 
TONY FLOYD/The Observer

departments Scully, specifi-face of Notre Dame transporta­from purchasing, leasing or cally requires the removal of tion in the future. But A CSC 15-passenger van sits parked behind Stephen Center. renting new or used 15-passen-the back two rows of seats from University officials declined to Safety concerns regarding the vehicles have prompted the ger vans. 15-passenger vans, maintain-comment on specific policies University to require the removal of the back two rows of seats. 
"We've had concerns over ing reduced weight in the back that they are considering. 
A final decision won't comeCSC vans for years," said Marty of the vehicle. It also mandates The CSC and student govern-O'Donnell. Pasquerilla West 
until the Vehicle Committee
Ogren of University installation of signs stating, ment representatives have also senator. 
publishes a report.
Transportation Services. "Under University policy, this expressed concern over the "No matter what happens "The Vehicle Committee isA consumer advisory issued vehicle may not be driven possibility of Committee with the vans, we still want to assessing University vehicle­by the National Highway unless every person has their approval for scaling back CSC-be sure students can have wide use," Skendzel said. "TheTraffic Safety Administration seat belt fastened." run vehicles and instead oper-access to transportation at 
committee will be putting
(NHTSA) · A ·1 h "[The decision] created a ating a University-run shuttle night," O'Donnell said. 
together a recommendation forin pn , owever• · Skendzel, however, said the 
prompted the specific request transportation crisis for Notre service. Student leaders are Vehicle Committee has all but University-owned vehicles. for the removal of two rows of Dame organizations," said concerned that the shuttle ser-dropped the shuttle concept That recommendation is still in seats, effectively making 15-Ryan Alan, the Vehicle vice would only be available and replaced it with the trans­progress, but that will deter­passenger vans 8-passenger Coordinator for the CSC, whose from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. daily portation rental pool. mine how we go forward." .vehicles. organization operates 18 vehi-and would restrict students' "This was cost-prohibitive 
..Fifteen-passenger vans [with cles, has 750 authorized dri-ability to do community service, and really didn't answer the Contact Andrew Thagard at 1o or more occ u pants~]-=h.:.:a:.:d=-=a~=ve=r=s=a~n~d~b~o~o!!!!!k!!!!!s!!!!!l!!!!!S!!!!!O!!!!!t!!!!!o!!!!!2!!!!!0!!!!!0!!!!!t!!!!!ri~p!!!!!s!!!!!!!!!!!!a!!!!!c!!!!!c!!!!!o!!!!!r!!!!!d!!!!!in~g~=~to====M=e~g~h=a=n=-..::::_lo~istical problel_!ls," _he said. atha d@nd.edu 
0 ' 

, STUDENT UNION BOARD 
is now accepting applicati~ns for 
ALL POSITIONS 

PROGRAMMERS -Campus Entertainment, Ideas and Issues, Multicultural Arts, Collegiate Jazz Festival, Sophomore Literary Festival,. Movies Services, anTostal, Special events 
CONTROLLERS -responsible for all accounting and budgeting procedures for SUB. OPERATORS -SUB's representatives to various organizations around campus, as well as assisting their programmer with any tasks involved in planning events. GRAPHIC DESIGNERS odesign all of SUB's advertising including posters, 
Observer and Scholastic ads, and promotional material 

all students are welcome to apply; applications can be picked up in the SUB office, 201 LaFortune and are due Thursday March 7th. Questions? Feel free to stop in, call 1-7757, e-mail sub@nd.edu, visit our new website www.nd.edu/-sub, or check out our IM name, ndSUBinfo 

I 
'I 
! 

Thursday, February 28, 2002 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Bishop 
continued from page 1 
LaFortune office," said Bishop. 
In fact, Bishop hasn't even been stuck on campus. She spent last fall in Notre Dame's London Program and credits her deci­sion to run as a product of that experience. 
"I really decided [to run for student body president] when I was in London," she said. "I think having been involved in student government I saw that you really could make a differ­ence, but then also having been abroad and stepping back from student government, I realized that a lot of students really don't understand what student gov­ernment-is doing." 
Hence, streamlining current programming and increased communication with the student body are two of Bishop's prima­ry goals. 
"I think fundamentally things will be a little different because we do want to be so much more responsive to students, and not become self-absorbed into the daily activities of programming and doing what we want," she said. "Half of my job is working with administrators and working to get what the students want, but the other half that has some­times gotten lost is letting stu­dents know that you're being an advocate for them by doing all this." 
In an effort to keep students informed about government business, Bishop's administra­tion has appointed a public rela­tions director and three assis­tants. 
"We're hoping to get a lot of people involved in the office. Right now we're still accepting applications. We're hoping we'll get a lot of applicants so we'll have people excited about our 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
Brooke Norton, student body president, added that increasing the student activity fee would allow groups such as the Student Union Board to sponsor larger events that more students would be interested in. 
"We can't afford big concerts. That's what students complain about the most," said Norton. 
All students would benefit from the increase, added Zahm senator Colin Harding. 
"This money is going to the Student Union and we're all part of the Student Union," he said. 
I 
r 
' 
I 
,, i 

Nelghbornooo Grin & Sor 

[ t
' 
HIRING STARTS 

i 
March 4th 
FOR ALL POSRIONS: 
Servers 
Bartenders Hosts/Hostesses Kitchen Help


Cooks 
PllAsE APPt.Y IN PERSON: 
Applebee's 
3703 Portage Rd.,Sooth Bend, 11'-l .46526 
Tel (219) 277-2640 

www.applesauceinc.com 

ideas and get them implement­ed," said Foley. "We need to start working now so we can get stuff done by the fall." 
By the end of the semester Bishop hopes to have begun work on many of their campaign promises: a "Welcome Willingham Tour" to introduce Notre Dame's new head football coach, Tyrone Willingham, to students through evenings in each dorm; Flex Point reform; planning a week of events for the 30th anniversary of co-edu­cation at Notre Dame; and the PASS system for printer paper allotment. 
"I want for students to not be so apathetic about student gov­ernment in general and apathet­ic in their belief that [student government] doesn't do any­thing," Bishop said. "I want stu­dents to see results and believe that student government has made these little differences and therefore respect it more." 
As Bishop begins to undergo transition training with Norton and this year's staff, she too is gaining respect for the dedica­tion required for success in stu­dent government. 
"I realized how it is so much easier to criticize from the out­side," she said. "But I think knowing that ultimately some of these smaller meetings will lead to bigger improvements of stu­dent life. That's what drives me, seeing the little details add up into a bigger difference." 
"I'm excited to work with Libby, I've known her and worked with her since freshman year," Foley said. "I know she's a strong person and wants to work with the students and get a lot done. She'll do a great job as student body president." 
After being elected on a plat­form devoid of "overarching pro­gramming goals" as Bishop called events like all-school car­nivals and barbecues, she and Foley aim to make an individual impact on students' lives. Programs like PASS will help Biology majors who have to print more notes than other students and their plans to work with the Admissions department to coor­dinate an Internet link with the new student government will help incoming students become more aware of campus events and _issues, said Bishop. 
"[Libby and I] work well together, and at the end of the day it comes down to coming together on ideas and issues," said Foley. 
Beyond platform goals, Bishop has been personally involved with the University for more than 20 years. Born in South Bend, Ind., Bishop lived near Notre Dame until she was 5 years old when her father left his job in the University's Admissions department. 
Her parents are both 1977 Notre Dame graduates who mar­ried after meeting in a first-year chemistry lab. 
Since Bishop's father currently works in the Cornell University admissions department, choos­ing between Notre Dame and Cornell was difficult for her. 
"When my junior year of high school rolled around, I wanted to make the decision myself, and even though I think my dad knew all along Notre Dame was the place I should go, he couldn't say it," Bishop said. "But I can totally relate to being the Notre Dame kid." 
Bishop also admits she did not originally feel destined to become student body president. 
"I was not that kid at the 'Graffiti Dance' who said, Tm going to be student body presi­dent.' But I think that's good because I'm doing this for the right reasons." 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu. 





Iowa gov. to decide on state English 


the Legislature voted against the measure and the bill's critics have warned him not to abandon his voter base by signing the bill. 
The House approved the measure late Monday, sending it to the governor's desk. The Senate approved it last week. 
Supporters reminded the governor that, in this election year. polling has shown an overwhelming majority of Iowans favor · declaring English the state's official lan­guage. 
According to the advocacy group U.S. English Inc., 26 states have some form of offi­cial English laws. Similar leg­islation was approved by the 
U.S. House in 1996, but the Senate failed to act by the end of the session. 
Vilsack has not made his intention known, but is expected to sign or veto the measure sometime this week. 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa 

Protesters held a vigil Wednesday in hopes of per­suading Gov. Tom Vilsack to veto a popular bill declaring English the state's official lan­guage. 
"This whole country was founded on diversity," said Evelyn Alcorta, 54, of Des Moines. "My grandparents came here not speaking English and they weren't ostracized for it." 
She was among 40 people who stood near the entrance to the governor's mansion, holding candles and signs. "Be a leader, not a poll reader. Veto English Only bill," read one sign. 
Many Hispanics and_ liberals are offended by the measure, similar to laws approved in other states, and they make up the core of Vilsack's politi­cal base. Most Democrats in 


Meet your SMC Class Officer Candidates! 
Do you have questions or concerns a bout your class that you want addressed in 2002-2003? 
Then come to: 
Meet the Candidates 
Thursda¼ Feb. 28th 
7pt11 in Carroll Auditorium 
Bringyour questions and eat pizza while you learn about the candidates running for your class off.ice! 
Questions? Ca.II .M.ary Crawford : 2&1-4453 
Sponsored by SMC Board of Governa.n.<:e 
Iii 
Iii 

However, some senators argued that the fee should not be raised, especially in light of how the money was being spent. 
"I think you all really need to think about the events that are going on. You need to think about the quality of events," said Pasquerilla East senator Nikki McCord. "They're not up to par." 
McCord and Siegfried senator Brian McKenna tried to get the Senate to table the resolution in order to allow senators to dis­cuss with their hall councils the fact that the fee would be raised from $10 to $15. However, sen­ators rejected the tabling and voted 18-9 to approve the reso­lution. 
In other Senate news: 
.The Senate unanimously con­firmed Jason King and Donald Norton as assistant Student Union treasurers. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu. 

the ultimate search engine 


ATI 


Thursday, February 28, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bomb explodes in central Rome: A day after a bomb blast in central Rome, the government said Wednesday that interna­tional terrorists were not behind the pre­dawn attack, and that no link had been found to the recent arrest of several Moroccans suspected of plotting a strike against the U.S. Embassy. No one was hurt Tuesday when the bomb exploded in an abandoned motor scooter outside the Interior Ministry. 
Turkey rescinds virginity test law: 
Turkey has rescinded a controversial law that authorized virginity tests for high school girls suspected of having premarital sex. Forced gynecological examinations in schools were common until 1999, when five students who did not want to submit to the test attempted suicide b_y taking rat poison. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Space program faces trouhies: 
NASA's financial books are in such bad shape that an accounting firm was unable to com­plete an audit, and officials are still uncertain about the final cost of the International Space Station, the space agency's leader said. In response to an independent task force review, the Bush administration's 2003 budget reduced the spending for the International Space Station by $229 million, a 13.3 percent cut. 
Panel examines Agent Orange: A National Academy of Sciences panel is back­ing away from its conclusion last year that the children of veterans exposed to Agent Orange may have an increased chance of leukemia. After reviewing additional data, including a corrected Australian study, the Institute of Medicine concluded Wednesday that there is not enough evidence to establish a connection between exposure and develop­ment of acute myelogenous leukemia. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Senate approves gasoline tax: 
Motorists in Indiana will eventually pay 7 cents more in state taxes per gallon of gasoline under legislation approved by the Senate on Wednesday. The bill, approved 38-10, is likely headed to a conference com­mittee where differences between it and a 2-cent increase passed by the House will be sought. A gas tax increase has enjoyed bipartisan support this session, and is backed by many Republicans who oppose • any tax increase to help shore up the state's projected $1.3 billion budget deficit. 
Market Watch February 27 
Dow 
10,127.58 +12.32 

Jones 

Composite
Same: 


Volume:
212 

1,378,163,968 
AMEX: 864.64 + 0.23 NASDAQ: 1,751.88 -14.98 NYSE: 579.02 + 1.86 S&P 500: 1,109.89 + 0.51 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.13 -1. 26 14. 24 NAS~-100 INDEX (cnl) -1.38 -0.48 34.40 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNAI) -3.88 -0.35 8.66 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.43 -0.13 29.89 OR}(LE CORP (ORCL} -0.97 -0.16 16.37 
INDIA 


Rescuers recover charred bodies from a train at Godhra railway station in India yesterday after It was set on fire by a mob in a Muslim-dominated area of the western state of Gujarat. 
Muslim fanatics set fire to train 
Associated Press 
GODHRA 
A Muslim mob set fire to a train carrying Hindu nationalists home from a disputed religious site Wednesday. killing at le.ast 57 people, officials said. Fearing religious strife could spread, the prime minister appealed for calm. 
The fire gutted four coaches in the early morning attack at a sta­tion in the western city of Godhra, where Muslims angered by slogans chant­ed by the Hindus stoned the train cars and doused them with kerosene. 

according to state officials and witnesses. 
Fourteen children were among the dead, district administrator Jayanti Ravi said. State Chief Minister Narendra Modi, who traveled to Godhra, said 43 people were injured, many critically. 
Smoke was still pouring from the train in the late afternoon as relief work• ers gingerly removed charred bodies piled on top of one another in the car, their limbs entan­gled. 
The train was carrying about 2,500 Hindu nationalists returning from Ayodhya, a site in northeast India where activists plan to build a temple at the site of a 16th century Muslim mosque. The destruction of the mosque by Hindu nationalists in 1992 sparked nationwide riots that left 2,000 people dead. 
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee appealed to Hindu nationalists not to retaliate for the train attack. "We need to pro­tect Indian brotherhood at every cost,"he said. Vajpayee canceled a planned trip to Australia for a Commonwealth summit, his office said. 
Across India, police in cities where Muslims and 

Hindus live close together 
began extra patrols. 
Security was tightened in Muslim areas of Gujarat state. where the town is located, to pre­vent revenge attacks, and police had shoot-on-sight orders to prevent riots, said the state's home min­ister, Gordhan Zadaphia. 
"Because of chances of retaliation we have already instructed our police officers to arrange special security cover for the Muslim population," Zadaphia said. The World Hindu Council ,, called for· a statewide strike on Thursday. 
U.N. tribunal reviews Serb crimes 
..> 

Barani, whose name was on the Kosovo in 1999 hiding from Serb sol­
Auociated Press 

list, said a colleague brought it to diers and documenting the expulsion The Hague him after finding it in a municipal of thousands of Albanian residents. 
In some-of the most incriminating building in the northern provincial During a political career in Kosovo evidence yet, Halit Barani, a human town of Kosovska Mirtovica. that spanned more than a decade, rights activist and member of the While Barani testified, a court Barani said he was detained 7 6 pro-independence Democratic clerk handed Milosevic a copy of the times by Serb police, never more League of Kosovo, presented the U.N. list. He leaned back in his chair and than for a day at a time, and was tribunal with an execution order for studied it, his face expressionless. beaten repeatedly. 66 Albanians, dated February 1999 Barani also testified that masked "They always interrogated me and and apparently issued by Serbs. Serb police raided the home of his seven times I was seriously mistreat­
The document, labeled "Albanians party's regional chairman and shot ed," the witness said. to be Summarily Liquidated," was him on his doorstep. Going from house to house, _.., signed and stamped by Col. M. The ninth witness to testify against Barani kept a detailed diary of Markovic, described as a "special Milosevic at the U.N. court, Barani what he saw. creating a picture of unit commander." said he spent several months in death and destruction in the region. 
,_.________________..,.____________.._.__._••-!!lll!ll!!!!!!!-.&1111!!».,.__ _.,..._.._,,----•---•--.w•s•cw•&!l!'!W'l___.,.___.,.UJ...-s..aii@L...----• 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 28, 2002 
... 



OREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -~ :unan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11 :30 • 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 St:nday • Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM Friday • Saturday 11 :30 AM • 11 :00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 tor Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219)272-7376 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
ft

Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 -. Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


/ 
l ' 'fhis Sunday, March 3rd, at the 11 :45 Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, we will celebrate the Rite of Reception into Full Communion. At this Liturgy, Candidates for Full Communion (those who have been baptized in another Christian denomination or were baptized
J 
i 
Catholic and have received no other Sacraments) will complete their Initiation into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacraments of Eucharist and Confirmation. These· Candidates have been 
participating in the R.C.I.A. process since September. <Please help us to welcorrie them into our Catholic community. 
Candidates and their Spo11sors 
<Tonyfirata Mike Mcr/Jonald 
Megan Casserlie Clairejloipkemier 
Sandra ©ecraene rDick <tJecraene Joseph $oy Jayjohnson Jleather Gollatz JC,ei,injlogan 
<DinahJ-Ianson 'fomfinderson J-Ieather J(uhlenschmidt <Pat White Jim ige Joshua Stagni 
£gren Martinez Mary <Blaszewicz 
Ometeotl Acosta Mimi Beck Fr. Gary Chamberland, CSC Manuel Cruz 
Brian Flaherty Katie Hainley Ed Hahnenbderg Mike McDonald 

Josiah J\leeley Jason rf{_eese 
Jennifer Schaefer Maria Canalas Megan Scanlan Joseph Saliba </{andy Styles clizabeth <Bauer <Dawn <Prnitt Jirn Manne:x . Meredith 'Ihomburgh crica Marin 
Josh 'Towns 'Tona <Boyd <Braridon Wolf GaryJ-Iortsch JCen Young Will 'fhonipson 
Andrea Mechenbier Fr. Peter Rocca, CSC Brian Robinett Leah Thomas Tami Schmitz, Director 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Thank you to the R.C.I.A. team for all their support and assistance in the faith formation of our Candidates: 

choosing to live off-campus tion with food provided by the din­
By SARAH NESTOR 
because of dissatisfaction with ing halls. 
News Writer 
their on-campus lifestyle, citing a "It's a way to have more space desire for more freedom unavail­and food choice," junior Laura Many Saint Mary's students are able on campus and a dissatisfac-Merry said. "My roommates and I 

Thursday, February 28, 2002 page 7 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Food, freedom call SMC students off campus 
directed by Douglas C. Wager 
SPONSORED BY: 

~ut;t;· r! ! t, sr-® TARGET 
NATIONAi. fNOOWM£'Ni 
roaWrtt, 
ARTS 

studied abroad last year, and because we lived on our own we felt it would then be hard to return to dorm living. How do you go back to a sorority?" 
"One of the main reasons I 
dents are satisfied with living on campus, a sense of freedom and a transition into the real world made life off campus much more attrac­tive. 
"I enjoyed being on campus 
not be any ren­ovations occur­ring in the residence halls this summer, one new program is going to be implemented by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). The program will exist in one residence hall where students from various eth­nic, cultural and racial back­grounds would choose to live together and participate in reflec­tions and programming. 
"A positive move for dorm living is CWIL sponsoring the multicul­tural activities," Bajuyo said. "Saint Mary's students don't get a taste of reality while living on cam­pus and so this new program is a good thing." 
While many Saint Mary's stu­moved off campus was the dining because all my friends were hall because I am a vegan and I around, but I felt confined," Merry did not feel they offered enough said. "My boyfriend called the variety and healthy foods," senior dorm ajail." Catalina Bajuyo said. A major factor in deciding 
Dana North, director of whether or not to live off campus Residence Life, said there is is the distance and the condition of enough housing for those students the apartment or house. Students who decide to live on campus, but said it is important to look into each year the College acknowl­how helpful the landlord will be, edges a certain percentage of stu­how much crime is committed in dents will live off campus. the area, what the noise levels are 
"From previous years statistics, and how much the living space typically we costs. 
have about 20 "Living at 
percent of our "I enjoyed being on Turtle Creek is 
students who campus because all my walking dis­live off cam­tance to Notre
friends were around, but 
pus," North Dame and bik­
I felt confined. My 
said. "This has ing distance to been a pretty boyfriend called the dorm Saint Mary's, consistent num­but for this we
a jail."

ber for the past pay more, six years." Merry said. "It 
While North Laura Merry is like pulling said there will Saint Mary's student teeth to get 
anything done,. 

We have had problems with ants, and my car has got broken into." 
Saint Mary's Master Plan calls for on-campus apartments to be built that would be used by upper­classmen. Each apartment will have its own kitchen and include a washer and dryer. 
However, there is not a date established for when work on these apartments will begin. 
"I think the apartments will be great, and I would have stayed on campus if they had them now," Merry said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
j latlBIJI 611B •IBSIIII •lllsntiOIS•larbllng, C011S11tanrs SBIIIInar , 
Leam The Methods OfAProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
J BnllDarS11111lnar,J lootatOntr,n Yan BfInvaluable EJllflrlalCB. 
This class is designed to short cut you to the_ si"!ple focused .thoughts you must have in business to move forward m high level busmess. The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, •change the course of an entire industry.• · 
~.1!!:_ABlte;:;,class date~, private classes & 
TOSOAB ~re mformat,on, go to our web ,....,....,.,, -~-,_. Site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 . ,,,,,,,,,,_USIIStlllld.CORI E-mail• lnventor@usastand.com 
OBSERVER ADVERTISING 
Now Accepting Resumes. 
-Get Business Experience whether you're a business major or not. -Should be familiar with an office setting and comfortable with basic computer programs. 

page 8 
Brooks-Devita speaks on diversity 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
A single family's arrival at Saint Mary's last year ushered in a wave of diversity to the predominantly white campus. 
With Alexis Brooks-Devita as an Assistant Professor in English and her two daughters, Johnea and Novella, as stu­dents, the trio is the largest African-American family at the College. 
As of 2001, according to the Office of Intercultural Affairs, there are 18 African-American Saint Mary's students enrolled. This number represents an increasing trend that the College hopes to continue. 
"The increase of minorities will improve quality on campus, especially for Euro-American students," Alexis Brooks-Devita said. "It is important for stu­dents to deal with what the 
l \ 
world is really like." So far. however, there is not
1 
much visible progress. Across
l the board, the family agreed that there is need for improve­ment in the area of student-pro­fessor relations in the class­room. 
"A professor tries to bring up a topic of African-American cul­ture, and I feel the obligation to
: l correct the professor but also don't want to be a spokesperson for my race," said J ohnea Brooks-Devita, a junior human­istic studies major. "I end up · feeling suffocated." 
These uncomfortable situa­tions caused Johnea Brooks­Devita to drop two classes in two semesters at Saint Mary's. But she's learned from her experiences. 
"[You can't] nurture negative messages that lower the morale of minorities," she said. 
Her mother empathizes with her daughter. 
"She felt like a visual aide," the professor said. "Singling out minorities does not teach the white students, and it keeps the minorities away." 
Through the Strategic Plan Diversity Committee and events such as black author Rebecca Walker's lecture Tuesday, the College is seemingly addressing these issues. 
"Students really try to reach out to situations that they are not familiar with," said Novella Brooks-Devita, a first-semester junior English major. "Saint Mary's tries to interact and to increase availability for this interaction to happen, and they are growing in their ability to do this well." 
Today officially marks the end of Black History Month but not an end to the awareness it rais­es, according to the family. Novella Brooks-Devita said peo­ple must be aware of the sensi­tivity of acknowledging race while not singling out minori­ties. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail407@saintmarys.edu. 

One Night 
BROOMBALL Tournament 
I 
l{ 
., 
:I•! 

Wednesday, March 6, 11:18 PM 
:! 
Joyce Center Ice Rink Pre-regl1ter by Monday. March 4 at RccSports
~I
(1 
I 
I 

I 
·j Lifflited to I 'teams, single elimination 20 minute games i 
I 
f 
f 
) 
n ' 
I 
Great Japanese food 
at oreat prices. Corrieioin us for Oln..
Cleveland 

~ 
M 402 us 31 North lunch specials! ~ 7(South Bend, IN 46637 $1.00 offfor lunch 
(219) 272-2535 $2.00 offfor dinner 

The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 28, 2002 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME,AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS: 
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT OPEN HOUSE 

"J i0-uch tlie /uiU4e. J ieac/4. ~, CWud.ima Mcf/uLifte 
Are you wondering where your future lies? Still pondering your major? Look to where there are ample jobs and excellent opportunities. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents can become licensed to teach. 
Come to an Informational Session/Open House in the Education Department at Saint Mary's on March 5, 2002 from 6:30-7:30 p.111. If you're interested in Elementary Education, meet in Room 315 Madeleva; those interested in Secondary Education, come to Room 316 Madeleva. Meet faculty from the Education Department \vho will answer your questions and share information on course requirements, department admission procedures, future job opportunities, etc. Enjoy refreshments and a chance to meet other students in the Education Department. Hope to see you there! 
Want to make a difference in student life? 
Do you have new ideas that you want to make happ_en? 
Then apply for a position in .the 
~. 

Office of the President 
Applications available in 203 LaFortune (Student Government Office) 
• 

Deadline is March 7 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 


0 


"Serenity" 
Performed by Babs Smith 
6:00 P.M. 
Alumni Hall's 24-hour space 
"Serenity" depicts the relationships between family members 
surrounding a mother who has alcoholism. There will be a 
brief reflection session after the performance, as well as an 
opportunity for questions. Members of the ACOA (Adult 
Children of Alcoholics) group will also be available to assist 
in answering questions. 
Please join us for this event sponsored by the PILLARS Know Thyself Campaign. 

will be able to vote for their class officers on Friday. One
Results 
ticket consists of Meghan continued from page 1 O'Donnell, Pat Millea, Shawna 
Monson and Sonia Wallace. ticket was going to be very Their opponents are Jon Feczko, strong." Sean McCarthy. Richard Mordini 
Aberger and her running and Joseph Saliba. mates, Joe Sweigart, Andrea In the race for off-campus sen-
Brault  and  ator,  Erin  
Kevin  Leicht,  Cushing  
received ·26 percent of the vote, enough to  "I'm so excited to have made it this far. My main  defeated Julie Ing by 15 votes to  
put the ticket in  goal is to see increased  11. Cushing  
the  Friday's  voter turnout . .,  said that as a  
runoff.  transfer stu­ 
'Tm so excit­ dent who has  
ed  to  have  Stephanie Aberger  never  lived  
made  it  this  presidential candidate  on  campus,  
far,"  said  she  would  
Aberger,  the  like to work  

presidential candidate. "My through the Student Senate to main goal for the rest of the make off-campus students more campaign is to see increased of a presence in dorm events voter turnout." and other campus activities. 
The Class of 2004 was unable Ravi Soni and Daniel Barabas, to hold its election on who ran unopposed, will serve Wednesday because late in the position of off-campus co­Tuesday night, a candidate from presidents. one of the tickets in the race had to withdraw. Another sopho­more is now running on that ticket. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at 
On Friday, the Class of 2004 
elaruffa@nd.edu. 
Support the scholarships funds in memory of 
CONOR MURPHY, BRIONNE CLARY and MIRANDA THOMAS 
Come to "A Touch of Ireland" Tuesday, March 5, 2002 Washington Hall 8 p.m. 
Featuring Irish Music by John Kennedy, Irish dancing by Caitlin Allen and Paul Cusick and a performance by members of the ND/SMC Irish Dancing Club 
Tickets $5 from LaFortune Box Office All revenue will go towards the memory scholarship funds 
The Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
Daniel Stowe, director 
Featuring Audri Nelson, trumpet and Kui Min, piano Performing music by Haydn, Prokofiev and Tchaikovsky 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 8:oo pm, Washington Hall Free and open to the public 
HPC Date Night 
"

Th11rsday February 28th 
Free Movie! 
The Count ofMonte Cristo 
Bus leaves Library Circle @ 6:00 
Movie is on a first come, first serve basis. Limit 100 pt.•ople. Must have a mixed group ofguys and girls in order to participate. 
_, 


I I 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 28, 2002 



'' GJ I: 



...__.........._.........._......,. .......,_
_______ ____________ _,_______ 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 page 11
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Texas federal judge 
•

stops execution 
Burned body found near San Diego 
bed in her family's San Diego Westerfield spent the weekend 
Associated Press 
home. She was discovered miss­of Danielle's disappearance 
ing the next morning. traveling around San Diego
EL CAJON, Calif. Authorities have charged a County in his motor home, stop­
Volunteers looking for 7-year­neighbor of the family with ping in the desert east of the old Danielle van Dam in a rural killing the girl. David city. area east of San Diego found a Westerfield, 50, pleaded inno­Police have received permis­
partially burned body cent Tuesday to charges of mur­sion to search a dry cleaner in Wednesday that is apparently der, kidnapping and possession suburban Poway for that of a child. of child pornography. Westerfield's bedding and cloth­
The age and gender of the Westerfield, a twice-divorced ing. Westerfield reportedly had body were not immediately father of two grown children, taken seat cushions from his known, but San Diego police Lt. has a 1996 drunken driving con­motor home and clothing in for Jim Collins said there was "a viction cleaning after high probability" the body was but no his weekend in that of the missing second-grad­violent "At this point we cannot the desert. 
er. criminal Police have
positively confirm that it is 

A deputy at the -scene 25 miles history. also searched east of the city said the body He has Danielle. However. we don't Westerfield 's had been partially burned. said he have any other young children home and exam­Collins would not confirm that. was at ined three of his 
missing in the country that 

A positive identification of the the same vehicles. In war­
have been reported. It's a high

body could take sev~ral days. b a r r ants, police"At this point we cannot posi­where probability that it is her. " said they were tively confirm that it is Brenda looking for child Danielle," Collins said. van Dam pornography,
Jim Collins

"However, we don't have any w a s children's paja­other young children missing in spending San Diego police lieutenant mas or clothingthe county that have been time with and a set of reported. It's a high probability friends Mickey Mouse that it is her." the night Danielle disappeared. earrings. Police also sought any Danielle was last seen on Feb. Her husband was home with "binding materials" such as tape 
1. when her father put her to their daughter and two sons. or rope, leather or rope collars. 
. Defense attorneys claim client is insane 
Associated Press 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas 
A federal judge halted the execution of a con­demned killer and agreed Wednesday to hear from mental health experts about the inmate's sanity. 
Lawyers for Monty Delk, who was to die by lethal injection Thursday, says he is insane and should not be executed. U.S. District Judge Richard Schell said he would hold a hearing on the. matter, probably by July. 
The Texas attorney gen­eral's office said it would appeal the judge's stay. 
"A stay is always good news," defense attorney John Wright said. "The fact they're appealing it is always bad news. But I'd just as soon let them have something to appeal." 
Delk, 35, was con­demned for the 1986 

shooting death of Gene Olan Allen II, whose body was found in a remote area about 140 miles north of Houston. The victim's wife last saw him driving away with Delk. who had called earlier about a newspaper ad that listed their car for sale and wanted to take a test drive. 
Prosecutors say prison psychiatrists have deter­mined Delk is faking his incoherence. The state's appeal would go to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans. 
Delk babbles incoher­ently when spoken to, has refused for months to take a shower and occa­sionally is found in his cell smeared with his own feces. 
His mental competency. never an issue at his trial, was reviewed by his trial court in 1997. The court ruled his behavior, which at the time required him to be gagged in the courtroom because of his repeated outbursts, was voluntary. 

A Broadway Theatre League Presentation Fri. March 1 • Sat., March 2 • Sun., March 3 
Cali Broadway Theatre League Box Office for tickets. 234-4044 or toll free 1-877-315-1234 Morris Performing Arts Center 
40111001 



page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 

AsS'r, MANAGING EDITOR OrERATIONS MANAGER 
Kerry Smith Pat Peters 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROllER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............6~1-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOIVAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews.I@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCFNE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the U niversi cy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Milu Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Andy Thagard Matt Nania Laura Rompf Amanda Greco Justin Krivickas Graphics Sports· Jake Weiler Bryan Kronk Production Viewpoint Chris Federico Sheila Flynn Lab Tech Christina Reitano 
a 20. a Q.& a C I x ass a .$, Si L 2 a . .a
-· lid t 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, February 28, 2002 
'Axis of ·evil' is a coherent idea 
Perhaps Derek Vollmer [see "Alienating allies could prove Iraqi population. But the Gulf War was all about oil, right? destructive" on Tuesday] is the one confused regarding the Make no mistake, the issues could not be clearer. These three Bush Doctrine, unveiled in the president's recent State of the nations breed and support the trepidation that would seek to Union speech, a.k.a. the "Axis of Evil" speech, because the destroy the United States should they ever be given the oppor­president is far from confused. Furthermore, the situation tunity; much like Nazi Germany. fascist Italy and authoritarian regarding the support of our European allies is far from the Japan before it. These nations export hate, terror and fear. We "oversimplification of a very complex issue" of which Vollmer export tolerance, individuality and free thought. writes. No, the Bush Doctrine could not be any clearer. As David 
Bush deliberately made the "Axis of evil" a simplistic state­Limbaugh explains: "The United States recognizes the clear ment. a black and white issue. How else does one explain a and present danger global terrorist networks pose to the bless­minority of religious clerics continually subjugating the ings of liberty, and so will act first to protect our interests." reformist political agenda in Iran. We also know that Iran is Similar to former President Reagan's "Evil Empire" speech (I one of the most active state-sponsors and exporters of terror­think we know how that turned out), President Bush's State of ism abroad, or have we already forgotten the recent arms ship­the Union has come under much criticism from our allies ment to Palestinian militants? abroad. I can only wonder what we will do without the backing 
The Communists of North Korea have spent billions to pro­and alliance with the Saudi Navy or French government (who duce weapons of mass destruction and develop the use of sold Iraq its first nuclear reactors over 20 years ago). Much has intercontinental ballistic missiles; meanwhile their citizens been made about the international coalition organized before starve. The North Korean Communists have exported their the recent military actions in Afghanistan. The reality being weapons technologies to Iran. And, despite the Clinton policy of that extremely few of our allies' officers were even involved in trying to buy off the Communists, they have actively sought to the fighting, save British special forces. obtain nuclear capabilities. The Bush Doctrine could not be any more straightforward 
Apparently we have also forgotten that the words "commu­and honest. And, if I were the leader of a European ally, I nist" and "liar" go hand in hand. Defectors from the state have would go out of the way to support the efforts of the world's reported seeing bodies of starvation victims floating in rivers only superpower in their effort to encourage freedom and lib­and people so hungry they regularly consumed grass to sur­erty in these backwards nations. I would do this before the vive. According to the United Nations, 2 million North Korean great defender of democracy grows sick of taking such contin­children are slowly dying of starvation. ual criticism and takes its ball and goes home. 
And then there is our old friend Saddam. The leader of Iraq murdered over a hundred thousand of his own Iraqi Kurd and Luke Burke non-Arab citizenry, many with chemical weapons. A few years Dillon Hall later Saddam was at it again, attacking Kuwait and ultimately junior subjecting his people to the U .N. sanctions that now cripple the Feb. 26, 2002 
Spring break is on the way 
I'm not in the mood to blast people today. I'm too excited over spring break. In a little more than one week from now, I will be sitting on the beach in lovely Negril. Jamaica, a mango daiquiri firmly in hand. 
Many of you may 
Joe Muto

be wondering what I'm doing going so far away. To me it was a no-brainer. Livin' on a Leaving the coun­Prayer try, I'm able to drink in a bar with­out fear of being thrown into a skeazy spring break town jail. I'm too innocent­ly cute for jail. The other hardened criminals would pass me around like an issue of Maxim before my drunken friends would even realize I was no longer at the club. 
For a while I considered Cancun, but a friend told me he had been arrested and fined for peeing in the street while in Cancun. Since I consider public urina­tion an integral part of any spring break experience, Cancun was out. 
Jamaica leaped out as the obvious choice. I don't really know much about the local culture, but if Doug E. Doug's portrayal was accurate in the movie "Cool Runnings," I plan to sit around and wisecrack with the natives all day, lie on the beach and say "Mon" every fourth word, mon. 
Some of my more cynical friends have implied that I am headed to Jamaica to 
consume a certain organic product 
which the country is famous for. Let me 
cut -off the chitter-chatter right now: I 
have no desire whatsoever to smoke 
delicious, delicious marijuana, no matter 
how much more potent and effective it is 
than alcohol. Everyone knows that grass 
is for losers like our current and previ­
ous presidents, several Notre Dame foot­
ball players and virtually every pQpular 
musician since 1955. 
Once I have intoxication out of the 
way, my second priority in Jamaica will 
be to make a love connection. This 
should not be a problem for me because 
I am amazing at meeting new women. 
Wait. No. The exact opposite. Even 
though there is something romantic to a 
woman about being in a strange place 
with a person she will never see again, I 
have had trouble in the past cashing in 
on this. 

Actually, I am greatly increasing my chances of taking drunken state-school girls back to my room by working on my physique. I'm working out harder than I ever have before, eating right and taking enough dietary supplements to give the . German "women's" swim team pause. I 
started with Ripped Fuel and later 
moved to Hydroxycut. When those lost 
effectiveness, I sped up my metabolism 
with an old trick I learned during my 
modeling days: injecting pure, uncut 
heroin directly into my heart. I'm not 
sure, but I think I want to keep using it 
even after the break. 
Hopefully my newly semi-buff physique will give me the confidence I need to approach a group of girls, suavely ask them where they're from and volunteer myself in case they need anyone to chew through their bikini straps. Lord knows I can't get any less confident than I was last spring break. I don't need any repeats of last year's all­too-common exchange between my friend Jimmy and I: 
Me: "Hey. that girl's pretty cute. Maybe you should go talk to her." Jimmy: "Naw, I'm working on my tan here. Maybe you should go talk to her." Me: [pause] "I also-am working on my tan." 
Hook-ups or no, I fully expect this year to be the best spring break ever. Sharing a pair of double beds with four other guys is not necessarily my idea of par­adise, but there's something to be said for getting away from here. 
I've had just about all I can take of the weather; the work and the Knights of Columbus. I can't wait to trade it all in for cliff diving, the munchies and some fat Jamaican guy selling hemp neck­laces . 
Joe Muto is a sophomore Film, Television and Theatre major. /!is col­umn runs every other Thursday. He can be reached at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should the dining halls serve meat on Fridays during Lent? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The difference between fiction and reality? Fiction has to make sense. ,, 
Tom Clancy novelist 


g a $ a a a Si L 
&JS 
) ? --­

O
THE 

BSERVER 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 page 13 
Poverty, American-style 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sexual orientation issues raise controversy 



Rice writes, quoting and supporting a document sent to bishops --------~ Do I· even need to bring up the punishment God inflicted on by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, "It is not :J I Sodom and Gomorrah for their homosexuality? He completely unjust discrimination to take sexual orientation into , /. ~ \ /YETED and totally decimated both cities. and if that's not the account in the placement of children for adoption." /, . ~ i~ \J r "\.-1 ~ 0 0 response to a moral evil, I don't know what is. Saint He also quotes John Paul II as saying that it is // S v ,· /' ,,· f::.,)(/ . Paul says sodomites will not inherit the kingdom of "dangerous" and "children suffer great harm" · ,{'0 I' ,· 1/.' / 
v'1 God, they are unlawful, unruly and opposed to
< "sound doctrine." He compares them to the
r;-i~.,· ­

Heterosexual parents do 
not guarantee a 
'true family' 
In my four years as a student at Notre Dame, I have never felt com­pelled to write to The Observer until I finished Charles Rice's Viewpoint column Tuesday. 
godless, sinful kidnappers, liars. those who · kill their parents, murderers, robbers, prosti-
Biblical evidence offers proofof 
homosexual immorality 
In describing homosexuality as a moral evil, the Pope does no disservice to the Catholic Church. but instead does her a favor by preserving the tradition and truth that began with the revelation of the Word of God. It is quite easy to spot the transparent attempt to disguise a deep-seated irrationalism in Paul Ranogajec's argument in his letter yesterday entitled, "Homosexuality a categorical good." Scripture makes it quite 
clear that homosexual acts are not only a moral evil, but are a mortal sin. 
tutes, adulterers, idolaters and fornicators. Through Saint Paul. the Holy Spirit makes it quite clear how God views homosexuality. As to the homosexuality distorting the true meaning of family, the Pope is again cor­rect. Does a man leave his father and moth­er and cling to another man? No, he clings 
I was 12,000 feet up in the Andes. The view was stunning, the air crisp and I had just finished retching from having downed some bad pork. A group of us had arrived in Ecuador that morning, winding through five hours 
Christine NIies
of dusty, unpaved 
road before reach­ing Secao, a pin­prick of a town 
As I See It ... 

nestled 'in the mountains. On the way we had stopped at the local roadside bar and grill. The daily special, as it was every day, was pig carcass, slung head down from roof beams. \Ve paid, they carved -instant dyspepsia. In Secao, we would spend a week living among the Quechua natives, helping to construct their new church building. 
All the school-aged girls crowded around with cheeks cracked and raw from the cold. We were told to refrain from too much affection. as they had lice. I let the giggling kids pile onto my lap anyway. During the day, we would lug concrete blocks several feet at a time, stop to wheeze, proceed a few more feet, then wheeze again. Proudly conveying our burden, we would arrive at the site only to find we were out­done. 
The natives are a hardy folk -we witnessed one woman five months pregnant out each day slopping on cement and stacking bricks. At night, in 40 degree weather, Quechuans from all over the hillside walked three miles barefoot to attend church with us. Others were shod in what we fondly termed "jellies" -clear, plastic san­dals in colors like fluorescent pink and lime. When church finished three hours later, they trekked back with only starlight -and glowing jellies -to guide them. 
When I flew back to the States, lice­free, I can't say I ever saw things quite the same again. I've made trips to other third-world countries since, and I must say, all things being equal, that of all the places I would choose to be poor, it would be right here in the United States. 
The fact is the poor here are doing remarkably better in material terms than the poor elsewhere. The National Center for Policy Analysis lists a slew of statistics guaranteed to surprise. The lowest 20 percent of the income brack­et spent approximately $13,957 in 1993 while their earned income aver­aged only $6,395. The fact that these families are paying.$7 ,000 more than they earn can be chalked up to non­income related benefits, like public housing and food stamps. As housing and food comprise some of the largest household expenditures, a portion of the poor are actually better off than reports reveal. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Commerce's Census 
Bureau Report of 1992 revealed that 
92.2 percent of the poor own color tele­visions. 60 percent own microwaves and 41 percent own homes. Of these, 70 percent are free and clear of pesky mortgages the rest of us have to deal with. Not bad. 
Europeans are right to be jealous. More of our poor own VCRs than all non-poor in Europe, excluding the United Kingdom -which means Blockbuster would be wise to limit property investments to primarily English-speaking countries. Compared to non-poor in the Netherlands, Italy and Great Britain combined, American poor own more dishwashers. Even the well-off in Europe own fewer • microwaves than our poor here. America, quite frankly, is wealthy. And we share the wealth, despite what angst-ridden socialists might say. 
There is also much mention of the widening gap between rich and poor. Could someone please tell me precisely what the appropriate gap should be? Larry Elder, in his book "Ten Things You Can't Say in America," makes the point that if gap measurement were more accurately attuned to the exorbi­tant taxes imposed on the rich and the non-~ash benefits enjoyed by the poor, it would be considerably reduced. 
It actually took two years living in a non-third-world country to make me realize how well off I have it here. We expect to be shocked by the third world. We've all seen the World Vision infomercials; we know the lowdown. But an extended stay in Europe. of all places, turned me from blase anti­American college student to patriotic poster girl. Apparently, the worst thing to be in England is American. Some of my patriotism is due to having been on the constant defensive from attack after attack on the country I call my own. But, more relevant, I noticed tha a place as bejeweled as England con­spicuously lacks many of the material goods we enjoy here. The same can be said for the rest of Europe. It might be the case that our overabundance adds to our international reputation as free­market-loving materialists. But that is the wonderful thing about America. As long as we keep it legal, we are free, free, free to be hogs. 
Christine Niles is a law student and her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at niles. 7@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
. ' . 

O
THE
BSERVER 


Thursday, February 28, 2002 
page 14 

Ten tips for beefing u: 
Movie Scene tells you how l 

ByJUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Critic 

I 
DVD players are rapidly appearing in dorm rooms of college campuses all across the country, replacing the archaic VCR at an alarming rate. While the average college student once brought their parents' VCRs with them to school 
:ve years ago, today many students find their slow-to-change elders unwilling
t to purchase either the players or the titles. This leaves the average movie col­lector in a bind: What is a cheap and convenient way to accumulate a precious new DVD collection without the help of Mom or Dad? Here are 10 tips to get you started. 
Tip #1: Purchase titles that will be watched repeatedly 
Too many enjoyable experiences at the multiplex lead to regrettable DVD purchases. While "Don't Say A Word" may have entertained audiences last fall, it doesn't mean February's DVD release is worth an immediate purchase. Unless "Word" can be watched seven times (two times is a stretch, folks). the $28 is simply not worth it. 

In most cases, DVD rental stores can be an ally in deciding what to buy. For a fraction of the cost of own­ing it, a five-day rental period can help gauge what is worth collecting and what should remain on the shelves. While the $4 rental fee could ultimately add to the price of owning a certain title, renting can save a significant amount of time and money in the long run. 
Tip #2: Avoid retail 

Compared to retail stores like .Sam Goody and Suncoast Motion Picture Company. prices on the Internet are considerably lower, making it a buyer's market. With tools like mySimon {www.mysimon.com). potential buyers can comparison shop for a certain title and find the lowest price. 
When the DVD shopping was in its infancy, online retailers like Amazon carried out cut-throat selling practices that kept on line prices $10 to 15 lower than its retail counterparts. 
The one exception to this rule seems to be Borders, whose list prices are usually comparable to prices online. This is not a hard and fast rule for every title Borders carries, but they do stock hundreds of films at $14.95 each, which makes breaking the retail rule a tantalizing proposition. And now that the DVD craze is here, Internet sites are starting to raise their prices. But they still offer between 15 and 40 percent off the list price. ' 
While buying online does not grant the wonderful feeling of immediate ownership, saving money makes it worth the wait. The lesson: continue watching all retail stores for sudden sales, but never buy from them without checking online retailers first. 
Tip #3: Always use a coupon 

Coupons are another advantage that online shops have over retail stores. 


They are easy to use and at the very least cover the cost of standard shipping. Bigger online shops like Barnes & Noble do not usu­ally offer coupons because their name recognition gen­erates enough business. 
However, other well­known shops like Amazon and Buy.com feature a new coupon almost every month. Oftentimes, these coupons are not publicized in mail­

'l ers from online stores. 
Before purchasing any title online, coupons can be browsed and picked up at Fightdivx.com (www.fight­divx.com). the best-known DVD coupon distributor. 



Photos courtesy of mySimon.com and Fightdivx.com 

Web sites such as mySimon and Fightdivx.com point DVD collectors toward online bargains and 
coupons. 
The Fightdivx Web site ·provides all the necessary information about the coupon's worth, requirements and expiration date. 
Some coupons require a minimum purchase as a prerequisite, which encour­ages the buyer to exceed their spending limits. Be wary of such specifications. Also, try to group upcoming purchases together if possible to take full advan­tage of the coupon. 
Tip #4: Pre-order if possible; watch for pitfalls 
Pre-ordering online is much different from retail pre-order­ing. The biggest difference is that an online pre-order is not charged to your credit card until the day it ships. ·Retail shops require at least partial payment on the day the pre-order is made, usually without offering any sort of discount. 
The discount is another reason pre-ordering online is more favorable. Most titles are dis­counted between 25 and 40 per­cent off to attract customers into ordering two or three months 
before the disc's street date release, at which time the same titles drop to about 15 percent off. When combined with a coupon, an online pre-order can save a lot. 
The most important pre-orders are those titles involv­ing multiple discs. Oftentimes large sums of money can be salvaged by purchasing a box set before it comes out. Since the prices are generally set high, a percentage discount is particularly rewarding. Fans of.the "X-Files" television show may not be delighted with Season Five's $150 retail price. but they can save themselves close to $40 if they pre-order it. 
The one pitfall of pre-ordering is that it creates a "buy now" frenzy. The lucrative savings can convince even the most frugal purchaser that an otherwise unattrac­tive DVD is worth the money. However, if acquiring a copy of "Behind Enemy Lines" can wait until the sum­mer (which it can, by God}, then the difference between its pre-order price ($20. 99) and its online price {$24. 98) might not matter when the bank account fills with money-from your new job. 
Tip #5: Set limits on buying 
With the purchase of any DVD player. there exist two initial tendencies. The first is to replace every VHS tape with its DVD counterpart. The second is to stockpile titles in order to have a respectable collection. Resist both temptations. 
Inevitably. some movies from the previous VHS collec­tion will be purchased immediately on DVD because of a good deal or the title's "repeatability." However, set limits on buying so that the situation doesn't get out of control. 
The second temptation is just as dangerous. The old adage ·~Rome wasn't built in a day" can be applied to DVD purchases. Take plenty of time to meticu­lously select which movies you logically need to own first ("Casablanca" over "Joe Dirt," for instance) and then set limits according to income. Make the lim-

its reasonable. Purchasing only one DVD a month may be too moderate at the start, but 10 a month is a costly precedent to set. 
Tip #6: Purchase different genres 
When starting a collec­tion, be sure to consider balancing it out with a vari­ety of genres. If a collection is loaded with dramas and only a smattering of come­dies, a desire for a relaxing movie on a Friday afternoon might induce an unneces­sary trip to the rental store. However. be careful not to 

let the need for diversity lead to an increase in titles that will not be watched more than once. 
When diversifying a collection, be wary of "special occasion" DVDs. These include holiday and concert discs. Movies like "A Christmas Story" are only watched two months out of the year. making them the most superfluous DVD purchases. The concert DVD is also problematic. After the thrill of seeing your favorite band perform a certain set-list fades, subsequent viewings are usually 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

Thursday, February 28, 2002 
page 15 

p your DVD collection 
o do it cheap and do it right 

quite uninteresting. The concert DVD is never taken out of storage more than a few times, which makes its pur­chase often unneces­sary. 
Tip #7: Prioritize titles 
that few own over 
those that many own 
One of the most popu­lar DVDs floating around college campus­es these days is "Office Space." Since there are · 

:ertainment system of choice. Likewise, DVD collecting has 
multiple copies avail-

I, 
able in close proximity 

no matter where you go, it is pointless to obtain one for any personal collection. Instead, use that $15 to buy more obscure movies that are enjoyable and that perhaps other col­lectors do not own. Then, when the overwhelming desire to watch "Space" hits, the obscure title might interest the owner of "Space," beginning a good trading system. Graduation will eventually break up that borrowing circle, but by that time, the income generated from a new job can go towards purchasing a per­sonal copy of the comedy caper. 
Tip #8: Be aware of company's strategies; try to beat them 
DVD distributors have strategies that both irk and thrill even the most resourceful buyers. Oftentimes the companies use a series of releases to con consumers into purchasing multiple copies of the same film. For example, "American Pie" was released in its theatrical form, as an "Uncensored and Unrated Special Edition" and finally as an "Ultimate Edition." The street date of these discs had gaps of time between them so that MCA/Universal could wait until the title's interest was waning before they released yet another "definitive edition." 
Some older discs have been re-released on DVD due to a much earlier initial release that has since become outdated. Four years ago, "Seven" was distriL­uted on the old flip-disc format in which the viewer would have to literally f1ip the disc over in the middle of the movie to finish watching it. In the winter of 2000, "Seven" was released as an "Ultimate Two-Disc Set," replacing the out­dated version. 
Resourceful DVD purchasers will notice that certain companies wait months before dropping prices. Artisan Entertainment, the distributor of such titles as "Terminator 2" and "Pi," often pulls titles when interest wanes, only to restock the shelves a few months later with the same DVD at a lower price. Sometimes it is just better to wait. 
Blockbuster's strategy, when interest in a title wanes, is to sell the disc as "Previously Viewed." The prices for these used discs are often set against online prices. All purchases come with a 30-day money-back guaran­tee in case of non­function, protecting the buyer who is taking a chance with a used disc. 
The strategy to use at auction hous­es like eBay is to look for popular titles that could be much cheaper than their online retail counterparts. The site was recently flooded with "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" DVD bids after a sin­gle seller put up hundreds of copies for sale. Most of the auctions ended with a purchase price under $1. 
But buyers beware: dishonest venders and pur­

ln~ Mfk~ t)udgt~ . _ d't'/4t{Jt (:if..i'wAWlU ;roo Smt"<t!f~t.ii~ 
:r:t, '.)t>: 


Work sucks. 
Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 

The movie your neighbor, your brother, your girlfriend
chases in violation 
of international and your dog Sparky all seem to own. copyrights can make any "win" on eBay a potentially sour experience. 
Tip #9: Avoid buying a movie solely for its extras 
~ 

Although you may have nothing but the best intentions to listen to Hans Zimmer's commentary track about his scoring of "Gladiator" on the two-disc set, it's likely that most of the extras will never be seen. 
Distribution companies who are faced with poor box office receipts on certain movies add loads of unnecessary extras to the film's DVD 

release to attract purchasers and to recoup their investment. Their victim is the buyer. who picks up the movie mainly for its extras and never even watches them. 
Companies are also being malicious toward buyers' interests by overstuffing DVDs simply to justify a two-disc set. The two­disc set is automatically more costly to produce than one extra-less disc, allowing the distribution companies to slowly siphon more money off consumers. 
Look for editions that do not contain the extraneous features. The original release of "Platoon" may not feature Oliver Stone's commentary, but it's significantly cheaper. 
Tip #10: Have fun and share 
' 

The only worthwhile approach to starting a DVD collection is to have fun with it. Take tours of the extras. Take a few min­utes to read the production notes or collectible booklets. Set up screenings in dorm rooms for those not fortunate enough to own DVD players. 
Lastly, feel good about sharing. DVDs are expensive, and it's important that everyone treats them carefully so they can be preserved. After the borrower agrees to be careful. there is no reason not to share a movie with someone. 
There it is: 10 tips from a guy who spent too much on retail DVDs, forgot coupons. bought movies primarily for the extras, and did not buy different genres. Hopefully, these tips will save you some money while still making your DVD shopping as exciting as possible. 
Photos courtesy of New Line Home Video 
New Line Home Video's first DVD release of the hit movie "Seven" was a "flip disc" and did not con­tain any extras. The Platinum Series release is a two-disc set loaded with supplementary features. Contact Jude Seymour at jseymour@nd.edu. 
¦r•i.---•••---••----•--..----•--'1111•,..•-------••---=... ....a.---•a--z-.-... --...---•-...1!9-iia..._ .._.__..______.........------­
OBSERVER 

Thursday, February 28, 2002 page 16 
ent of FilmJ Television and Theatre presents 

an FTT 498 production 
By Sarah 
Direc ed by Beth Hoffmann Stage Managed by Betsy Nesins 
February 28 -March 
7:30 p.m. in die Washington Hall Lab Theat Free Admission -Limited Seating 
4 

But what "Crave" may lack in tradi­themes may seem extreme and far By AMANDA GRECO tional plot is more than compensated for · removed from the lives of most college 
Associate Scene Editor 

in emotional intensity. The audience is students, the main ideas are applicable invited to take a trip into a conflicted to everyone. "If this makes no sense, then you mind, teeming with contradictory "It's about trying to put a label on life, underst!1,nd perfectly." thoughts. The thoughts run freely, with figure out how to deal with everything 
This line from Sarah Kane's ''Crave" is different parts of the mind represented and where to put it, " said junior Kat perhaps the best way to explain this play by the different characters. At points Walsh, who plays the character C. "It that has no plot, no overriding message throughout the series shows how we take and no distinct characters. of fragmented thought, everything that makes 
Directed by senior Department of Film, certain ideas come up life, everything
"['Crave'} is one ofthe
Television and Theatre major Beth forth to take prece­that makes us who we Hoffmann as an independent study pro• dence as the character hardest shows to per­are, and let it all exist ject, "Crave" has a unique, avant-garde delivering them takes form. partially because it at the same time. You · script. Rather than masking its themes center stage. For a can't kill one part."
is so random. ••
in complex characters, relationships and moment, the other The sets for this events, the script is a succession of raw voices within this mind show are minimal, thoughts and emotions, no deciphering are quieted. Matt Holmes allowing the audience required. "The aim behind this to focus on the
actor

In place of traditional characters, the presentation is trying numerous ideas pre­lines are delivered by characters named to create the subjec-sented in the script. C,B,M and A. Kane offers no explanation tive experience inside someone's mind," Each character has a corner to which he in the script for the lack of full names for Hoffmann said. or she retreats where there is a plat­her characters, nor does she provide a The issues addres'sed in the script form. Other platforms in the center of reason for the chosen letters. One could include rape, incest, pedophilia, unre­the stage facilitate monologues and conclude that M represents one person quited love, strained relationships, actions that help to bring the verbal and that A.B and C are the conflicting addictions and more. Though these imagery to life. voices within M's head. 
Continuing with the minimal background information pro· vided, the script lacks any stage directions or set design suggestion. 
"Everything you get out of, the script is in the words," said sophomore Tom Conner, who plays B. 
There is no main narrative voice, climax or resolution within this piece. Instead, the audience is presented with a succession of moments, snip­pets of scenes with synchro­nized rises and falls. 
The difficulty in presenting a script as intricate yet as vague as this one is tremen­dous for all involved. 
"This is one of the hardest shows to perform, partially because of the nature of the language and partially because it is so random," said second-year law student Matt Holmes, who plays A. 
There is little continuity within the script to help cre­ate a cohesive idea of the characters. 
"The clues within the words were what we used to create the characters," said senior Kelly Hart, who plays M. 

., .. , 

:t:);::.:... 
'· ::•::~\. 
The floors around each character's platform are plastered with images rele­vant to that character: pictures of mod­els, cigarette boxes, pieces of cardboard from beer cases, etc. 
The characters' movements are per­haps the most intriguing part of the show and credit must be given to Hoffmann who, without direction from the playwright, created it all. Bodies merge and separate, collapse and entan­gle, charge through the audience or cower in corners, as the mood dictates. Conner and Walsh excel at issuing forth despair, sorrow and disgust through their physical movements. _ 
At times, the emotions expressed by the actors can seem a bit forced. Some moments rise to overly dramatic propor­tions. The emphasis in the delivery of lines neglects the power of speaking softly, opting instead for loud voices to stress heavy ideas. Notably. however, Holmes' monologue regarding the object of his affection and obsession is riveting and moving. 
Throughout the performance, the actors maintain an impressive sense of unity that synchro­nizes everything from their actions and speech, to their breathing. This unity extends throughout the presentation, even when actors are not speaking. With mere glances and tormented expressions, the actors maintain a solid presence among each other, amid the disjointed, intense flow of emotion. Hall and Holmes wear their character's emotions inscribed on their faces. 
..Crave" will evoke sympa­thy, elicit disgust and provoke thought. With a gutsy under­taking of a presentation akin to "vocal gymnastics," the final product is impressive and has potential to be mov­ing, if not intriguing. 
"Crave" will be presented in Washington Hall's Lab Theatre. The show plays tonight and tomorrow at 7 :30 
p.m. Admission is free; patrons wanting to get a seat should arrive early because seating is limited. 
Contact Amanda Greco at a.manda_k_greco@hotmail.com. 
•·· 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Hull scores overtime goal in Red Wings win 
Associated Press 
SUNRISE, Fla. 

Brett Hull's goal with 48.5 seconds left in overtime rallied the Detroit Red Wings to a 3-2 victory over the Florida Panthers on \Vednesday night. 
Hull's late heroics foiled a franchise-record performance by Panthers goalie Roberto Luongo, who stopped 57 of 60 shots. 
Luc Robitaille 's second power-play goal of the game forced overtime with 2: 13 left in regulation. 
Florida, which blew a two­goal lead, picked up a point but lost its fifth straight game. The Panthers have won just once in 12 games. 
Florida has not beaten Detroit in nine games, dating to Dec. 1, 1996. 
Hull's game-winner, his 24th of the season, came on a one­time slap shot, taking a cross­ing feed from Pavel Datsyuk, who stole the puck from Panthers defenseman Sandish Ozolinsh. 
Kristian Huselius · and Ozolinsh scored for Florida. Luongo picked up his first NHL point, assisting on Huselius' 18th goal of the season. 
Hull got revenge on Luongo, who repeatedly thwarted him throughout the night. With 
16:50 left in the third period and Detroit on the power play, Luongo robbed Hull from close range. With 9:09 to go, Hull again was stymied. 
In the second period, Hull had a slap shot clank off the post. 
Huselius gave the Panthers a 1-0 lead with his 18th goal of the season, a backhanded stab that beat Dominik Hasek at 
10:56 of the first period. Niklas Hagman's lead pass at the blue line sent Huselius in unmarked. The goal came just four sec­onds after a Detroit power play expired. Luongo assisted by starting the play with a clearing pass high off the glass. 
The Red Wings had 24 shots in the second period, but trailed 2-1 heading into the third. 
At 18 seconds of the second period, Ozolinsh gave Florida a 2-0 lead, capping a 2-on-1 setup by Valeri Bure for his ninth goal. Jason Wiemer also assisted. 
The Red Wings closed the gap to 2-1 on Robitaille's power­play goal at 7:50 of the second. Stationed to the right of Luongo, Robitaille flung a back­hander high into the net. Hull and Lindstrom assisted. 
Los Angeles 5, Pittsburgh 4 
Jason Allison had a goal and two assists on Los Angeles' newly formed top line and the Kings remained successful on the road, winning 5-4 Wednesday night to run Pittsburgh's winless streak to eight games. 
Allison and new linemates Adam Deadmarsh and Ziggy Palffy combined for six points after getting 10 the night before in a 5-1 victory at Columbus. 
Deadmarsh had a goal and an assist, Paltry had one assist. 
The Kings are 15-4-1-1 in 
their last 21 games and 8-1-0-1 in their last 10 road games. 
Janne Laukkanen scored twice on goals set up by Mario Lemieux, but the Penguins remained winless (0-5-1-2) since beating Atlanta on Jan. 26. 
Lemieux, playing in his first game since helping Canada win the Olympic gold medal, became the seventh NHL player with 1,600 points when he assisted on Laukkanen's first goal. He is fourth among active players with 1,601 points, trail­ing Mark Messier, former team­mate Ron Francis and Steve Yzerman. Wayne Gretzky is the all-time leader with 2,857 points. . 
It was Pittsburgh's first game in two weeks and the game quickly took on the fast pace of an Olympic game, with five goals scored on the first 15 shots. The Kings went from trailing 1-0 to leading 3-1 in slightly' more than five minutes. as Allison, Deadmarsh and Mikko Eloranta all scored from 
NBA 
Cassel's free throws secure Bucks victory 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

After a long stretch at home, Milwaukee survived a tough road test. 
The Bucks beat Boston for the fourth straight time, winning 95­92 Wednesday night as Sam Cassell scored 26 points. 
The Bucks lost 99-89 to the Los Angeles Tuesday night snap­p in g a three-game winning streak. Milwaukee had played five straight at home and 13 of 16 overall. 
The Celtics' Antoine Walker was short on a 3-pointer at the buzzer. Boston has lost three straight since acquiring Tony Delk and Rodney Rogers from the Phoenix Suns. 
Erick Strickland and Walker hit 3-pointers in the last 25 sec­onds to pull the Celtics within 93-92 with 5.5 seconds remain-
CLASSIFIEDS 
ing. But Cassell hit a pair of free throws to seal the game. 
Ray Allen and Glenn Robinson had 22 points each for the Bucks, the only NBA team with three players averaging at least 20. 
The Celtics, returning from a seven-game West Coast trip, played their first home game in three weeks. 
Walker had 30 to lead the Celtics and has 84 points in three games against Milwaukee this season. The Celtics also got 12 rebounds from Tony Battie. 
The Celtics opened the game with an 11-0 run capped off by two free throws by Delk. Milwaukee pulled to 27 -26 at the end of the quarter courtesy of nine points from Cassell. 
Pierce led the Celtics to a 49­46 halftime lead with 17 points on 7 -of-9 shooting, but had only four in the second half. 
Walker scored eight of his 12 
l I 
I 
i 
I 
I 
I 

short range. : I On Allison's goal, Deadmarsh 1 
j 

grabbed the puck along the I 
j 

boards and threw it in front of I I the net to Allison for his 15th I goal. Eloranta and Deadmarsh I 
I 

then scored 32 seconds apart I I after getting open in front of l I the net with little resistance. I Deadmarsh has three goals in I' two games since the Olympic I I break and 21 for the season. I 
Eloranta and Ian Laperriere each had a goal and an assist and Jaroslav Madry also scored for the Kings, who led 5-2 until Laukkanen got his second goal at 5:15 of the third and Alexei Kovalev scored with 11.7 sec­onds left. 
Kovalev scored 20 seconds after an apparent Lemieux goal was waved off when the video replay judge ruled the puck was steered in by his skate. 
Penguins forward Martin Straka played for the first time since breaking his right leg Oct. 28, but was limited to a pair of first-period shifts after being cut on the forehead. 
third-quarter points during a 12-2 Celtics run to erase a 63­53 Bucks lead. Reserve Eric Williams had a career-high seven assists. 
Charlotte 104, New Jersey 85 
Jamal Mashburn is finally feel­ing good and it couldn't come at a better time for the Charlotte Hornets. 
Mashburn, in just his sixth game back since missing 42 with a strained abdominal muscle, scored a season-high 36 points Wednesday night to lead Charlotte to a 104-85 victory over New Jersey, snapping the Nets' six-game winning streak. 
Mashburn was hot early, scor­ing 19 points in the first quarter en route to 27 at the half. He shot 15-of-20 from the floor in just 32 minutes while helping the Hornets end their three-game losing streak. 
The Hornets are trying desper­ately to climb into the playoff the race -they started the night in 10th place in the Eastern Conference, needing to improve two spots to advance to the post­season. Now that Mashburn is back, they're feeling good about their chances. 
Mashburn more than carried the load for the other starters -George Lynch, P.J. Brown and Elden Campbell combined to score eight points -and took the pressure off injured guard Baron Davis. 
Davis, playing with a bruised chest, was slow to warm up and took just one shot in the first quarter. He did not score until making a 3-pointer with 
9:30 left in the first half and finished with 15 points and 10 assists. 
Jamaal Magloire added 17 and Lee Nailon scored 11 for the Hornets, who avenged their embarrassing 95-93 loss to the Nets on Sunday. Charlotte blew a 23-point sec­ond-half lead in that game and missed an opportunity to send it in to overtime when Campbell failed to take a wide-open jumper because he thought the Hornets needed a 3 to tie it. 
The Nets struggled with just about everything and only avoid­ed their worst loss of the season (22 points) because the Hornets emptied their bench with almost five minutes left, allowing every player but Bryce Drew to score. 
Aaron Williams scored 12 points for New Jersey and Jason Kidd had 12 points, but just six assists. Keith Van Horn added 10. 
The Nets were outrebounded 45-36, shot just 13-of-24 at the free throw line and had 20 turnovers that led to 2 5 of Charlotte's points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents pee character per day, including all spaces. Th.: Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2-story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining Excellent house 3-4 students, MMMRentals,com Spring Break with STS, Americas & living rooms. All appliances good. Air,appl. 5 min from NO. Dave 291-#1 Student Tour Operator. Promote 
NOTICES WANTED Carpeting & drapes throughout 2209 THE BEST OFF CAMPUS HOUSE trips on-campus earn cash and free Many closets, Gas heat & upper IDEAL FOR 4-5 STUDENTS ALL trips. Info/Reservations and lower air conditioners. Finished 4 bdrm/2 bath house, Available THE AMENITIES WASHER 1·800-648-4849 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed-TestMaster is looking for responsi-basement w/pool table. Call 574-after 6/1, 3 block from campus, Call DRYER FRIDGE STOVE ETC www.ststravel.com room houses. ble people to distribute information, 234-9782. (773)-486-8862. GREAT AREA 2773097 
post flyers and proctor trests. Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it Call Bill at 532-1896 $10/hr. For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N. Shared Living Opportunity Enjoy 5 tastefully decorated rooms for alone. If you or someone you love 
1-800-929-7724 Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN the benefits of a luxurious private rent for Graduation/ND Football needs confidential support or assis­4-7 BDRM HOMES.WALK TO Remodled in 1998 new insulated home without the expense and weekends in private home, less tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. TestMasters is looking for responsi-windows hot water heater & plumb-upkeep. Private bath and room than 2 miles north of campus. Gude, CSC, at 1•7819. For more 272-6306 ble people to distribute information, ing 200 amp electric update newer which you may furnish to your own Continental breakfast included, information, see our weekly ad in 
post flyers and proctor trests. furnace & roof basement laundry taste (sizes ranging from 340 to 400 many happy repeat customers! Call THE OBSERVER. $250 a day potential/bartending $10/hr. room privacy fenced backyard w/ square feet) Common areas (over Kim 277-8340 Training provided deck 1 Ox1 2 utlity garage excellent 2000 square feet} are maintained #1 Spring Break Vacations! 
1-800-929-7724 area $59500 Jim-Day 574-233-253 by a professional staff and inc1ude Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & 
1-800-293-3985 ext 556 Eve 57 4-259-6843 spacious living room, dining room, Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, 2000 grad seeking room or apart-library, fully equipped shared mod-TICKETS Best Prices! Space is limited!!! ment to sublease/rent in New em kitchen, laundry and parking Orleans facilities. Within walking distance to 1-800-234-7007
LOST AND FOUND FOR RENT
Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002, Tippecanoe, the library, St. Joseph WANTED -3 GAS for ND-www.endlesssummertours.com Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or River, Memorial Health and Providence BBALL game Saturday. email krup78@hotmail.com MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm-Lifestyle Center and medical Call Pat at 243-2873 or MARY, NOTRE DAME KNEEDS 
FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies rentals@aol.com facilities. 800 per month includes email ppeters@nd.edu if you can (tee-hee)YOU. GET WELL FOR room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly utilities and hosting by a congenial help NEXT YEAR. JACK IS JUST NOT return with correct description, 5 mins from ND!4-6 student house couple with professional back-AS PRETTY AS YOU ARE. WEFOR SALE w/large common areas-prkg lot, grounds. Call 234-1002 for informa-MISS YOU. LOVE, YOUR Call Meg at 4-3477. appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 tion and appointment. FRIENDS AT THE OBSERVER 
PERSONAL 

•------....---------w-•------•---y-=----~~-.•--­
n 
I ~ 
\ 
jA.ssociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Michael Jordan will probably be able to play again this sea­son. Whether he can make it back in time to save the Washington Wizards' drive for the playoffs is another matter. 
Jordan had surgery for the first time in his career Wednesday morning. Team physician Dr. Stephen Haas found and repaired torn carti­lage in the 39­year-old for­


l ) 
l 
1 
! 
! 
i 
I 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 28, 2002 
NBA 

Jordan has surgery for first time in career 
"There's a lot ofmiles on
ward's :l!;ight at 23, he's knee, an injury those levels and Michael going to heal Haas said was faster than he 
didn ·t fight them at a low
the result of does at 39.
level."
normal wear He knows and tear for an that if he has athlete of Doug Collins VISlOilS of 
Jordan's cal­playing next
Wizards coach
iber. year, then it 
Typically, would do no recovery time for such an opera­good to rush back and try to do tion is two to six weeks, and something to set himself back. many variables -age, severity We've got to all be patient." of the tear, workout ethic -can Still, the news was positive, 
determine where a patient fits in 
that range. The Wizards will 
have a better idea of Jordan's 
time frame when he begins ther­
· apy after a few days of rest. 
"Anytime you have a knee 
where you're getting swelling, 
you hope that when they go in 
there they find something they 
can fix," coach Doug Collins 
said. "When I talked to Michael, 
he was happy they found the 
source of the problem and that 
they were able to fix it." 
If Jordan's falls in the middle 
of the range -four weeks -he 
would miss 16 games, including 
the entire six-game road trip in 
mid-March that could make or 
break the Wizards' season. He 
could join the road trip in 
progress if he misses two or 
three weeks, while a six-week 
layoff wouldn't bring him back 
until the final week of the regu­. lar season. "It's going to start easy and 

move forward," Collins said. "And that's going to be the toughest thing for Michael because he's never done any­thing with patience. He can't fight the healing process. He's got to take his time and get it right." 
Collins cautioned that Jordan might have to choose between playing this season or next. 
"There's a lot of miles on those legs, and Michael didn't play them at a low level," Collins said. "Michael played at the highest of lev­els. Michael 
given all the possibilities that had been mentioned going into the surgery. Assuming the reha­bilitation goes well, Jordan's career doesn't appear to be over. 
"He was in good spirits," Collins said. 
Jordan was placed on the injured list Tuesday, which requires him to miss a minimum of five games, including Wednesday night at home against Portland and home and away games against his former team, the Chicago Bulls. 

Jordan turned the Wizards into one of the NBA's surprise success stories during the first half of the season, putting the team in position to make the playoffs for the first time since 1997. 
But, with the knee pain reduc­ing Jordan's ability to create on offense, Washington had gone 1-7 since the All-Star break to 

DOUBLE FEATURE 

7:00 PM & 9:30 PM 
NE> cinema 
TH URS DAY, FEB. 28 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
FREE ADMISSION 
PRESENTED BY 
THE: DEPARTMENT OF" F"ILM, TELEVISION AND THEATRE 
fall to 27-28 entering Wednesday's game. Jordan is averaging 24 points, 5 assists and 37 minutes -all team­highs that will be hard to replace. 
Wednesday morning's shootaround ran an extra 30 minutes as Collins and the coaches worked on ways to score without Jordan. 
"We're almost in training camp right now," Collins said. 
The knee was one of several injuries Jordan had to overcome when he began his comeback workouts. The injury initially was diagnosed as tendinitis, and he had fluid drained from the knee at least three times, most recently before a game in Miami on Saturday. He also banged the knee in a collision with team­mate Etan Thomas just before the All-Star break. 
Jordan missed two games ear­lier in the season to rest the knee, and the Wizards lost both times. His only other major injury came in 1985, when he broke his left foot and missed 64 games in his second season with KR H T the Bulls. Michael Jordan attempts a dunk at the NBA All Star Game. Knee 

surgery may keep Jordan out most of the remainder of the season. 
I
,.. .. ' -: 
~r--·
(} 
* ' 

It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you . 
. 
. 

Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you . The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful 
5::.;

tr~· 1 services, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
""i°P 

,,r.i, Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. 
It's· nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654... 2250 
31869 Chicago Trail 
~ 
New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836
HAMILTON 
Website: http://www,hamiltoncomm.org
COMMUNITIES A Rich Tradition of Caring for Older Adults Since 1922 
! To find out more, clip and mail the following information to: 
1. 

Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chicago Trail, New Carlisle, IN 46552 
, .... ,., .  
.  
~  . ';ti• ~  
j l  


. Name:------------------------­
Address: ______________________ City: __________State: ______ Zip: ___ @ Telephone: ( ____,______________ O/F : :._.. """'"" .........................................................................-..................................--.. -..-......-----..................................................................··---.......-------.......... --. 
' ' 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Bouts 
continued from page 28 
straight finals. 
190-pounds 
The first fight in the 190­
p o u n d. category squared 
John Lynk against William 
Zizic and left almost the 
entire crowd on its feet at 
its conclusion. 
In a fight that saw each 
boxer land. huge combina­
tions and hooks on the 
other, Lynk used an aggres­
sive start and a strong fin­
ish to pull off the unani­
mous victory to advance to 
the finals. 
Zizic had a good second round, but could not stop the barrage of punches Lynk fired off in the final round. The fight went back and forth, with the crowd getting into the action more and more as the bout con­tinued. 
After two close rounds in the second 190-pound fight between Kevin "Hardcore" Brandl and Joshua "The Flyin' Hawaiian" Kaakua, Brandl finally took over. 
"It was a slower paced fight, 'it wasn't a brawl," said Brandl. "I think that we both fought really well and it defiantly was really-close. I think it the end the advan­tage came when I landed some good jabs in there." 
Both fighters went after each other aggressively in the third round, but Brandl had just enough to gain the victory and a second chance at a Bengal Bouts champi­onship. He lost in the finals during his sophomore year. 
Heavyweights 
Carlos Abeyeta and Stefan Borovina both had byes in the first round and had not fought in the tournament heading into the semifinals. It did not seem to matter for either. 
Abeyeta overcame a slow start and five time stop­pages during the match to win a unanimous decision against football walk-on Jeff Campbell. 
C~mpbell came out in the first round extremely aggressive and seemed to surprise Abeyeta with his flurry of combinations and strong jabs. But Abeyeta slowly but surely began to land more and more left 
hooks  before taking the  
match  over  in  the  final  
round.  

In the other semifinal, Borovina steadily landed punches throughout the match while his opponent, Eric Nelson, struggled mightly to hit Borovina dur­ing the first two rounds. Nelson, the shortest fighter in his weight class, had trouble reaching Borovina. Finally. in the third round. Nelson began hitting Borovina heavily, but it was too little, too late as the 
. B orovin a won in a split 
decision to head to the 
finals against Abeyeta. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 


., 
w
•
-
-

page 20 Thursday, February 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Yawkey family sells Red Sox after 70 years 


for the Cleveland Indians in 2000. 
The Red Sox announced the agreement with Henry's group on Dec. 20, but the deal was held up as losing bidders tried to restart the auction and Massachusetts Attorney General Thomas Reilly investigated whether the Jean R. Yawkey Trust, which owned 53 percent of the team, would receive fair value. 
Reilly later withdrew his objec­tions and MLB owners approved the deal on Jan. 16 by a vote of 29-0 with one abstention, that of the New York Yankees. 
Henry has an agreement to sell his 1 percent of the Yankees to the New York Yankees Partnership for between $4 million and $5 million, a pair of high-ranking baseball officials familiar with the transac­tion said on the condition of anonymity. 
Lucchino and Tom Werner, another Henry partner, also had to reach agreements to divest them­selves of their interest in the San Diego Padres before the closing could take place. 
Thomas Yawkey bought the Red Sox fr-om J.A. Robert Quinn in 1933 and when Thomas Yawkey died in 1976, his wife took over. 
When Jean Yawkey died, she willed all her holdings to her trust, giving John Harrington, her long­time adviser, power to run the team. 
''I'm proud to have been part of the Yawkey baseball era, and I think Tom and Jean would be pleased to see their team passing on to a group with outstanding baseball experience, a passion for the game, and a commitment to our community," Harrington said in a statement. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardhack and Paperback 
hooks in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Cuniversity of notre dame
A.ssodated Press 

FORT MYERS, Fla. 
Former Florida Marlins owner John Henry and his partners com­pleted their record $660 million purchase of the Boston Red Sox on Wednesday, ending seven decades of ownership by the Yawkey. fami­ly and its trust. 
The closing of the deal, which probably will lead to the ouster of general manager Dan Duquette, marked the end of an era that saw a downtrodden team grow into one of the premier franchises in sports but faff in its quest to win the World Series for the first time since 1918. It also closed an often contentious 16-month sale process. 
"It seemed like a good baseball game," Henry said of the process. "It was always in doubt up until the end." 
Henry and incoming team presi­dent Larry Lucchino refused to outline personnel changes until after the sale was completed. 
Duquette was expected to be the first to go, a move that could come this week. The Henry group has done little to dampen speculation that Duquette will be replaced,
,'
I perhaps by vice president of base­t,1 ball operations Mike Port on an interim basis. 

Duquette said Wednesday that he expected to be a part of the team. 
Lucchino has said he doesn't anticipate wholesale changes immediately. 
"Today is a day for celebration," Lucchino said. "We've been wait­ing a long time to celebrate.... We'll get to work tomorrow." 
"These guys, I think, are going 
to be hands on," former Red Sox outfielder Dwight Evans, now the hitting coach, said Wednesday. "They're going to be in the club­house. They're going to be in there after the game and before the game, which will be good." 
The purchase also includes 80 percent of the New England Sports Network plus $40 million in assumed debt. The price more than doubled the previous record for a baseball franchise -the $323 million paid by Larry Dolan 
. 
0 ~\(/? ~~o~l:y 17 
The20:~m~,~~o~wi~~gi~o~0 
• -~ .,,...,,,,_ architecture Monday, June 17 (enrollment). and end on 
(f) ,/If ~ 
art !") \ \" '-biology ( \ business chemistry
(f) 
Q) 
classical languages computer applications economics 
engineering english film

(f) 
L 
french german government history 
Q) 
irish studies it~lian mathematics 
music philosophy physics psychology sociology spanish theatre theology 


Friday, August 2 (final exams). Some courses-primarily in science and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Bulletin contains complete schedule information. The Bulfetin is available at the Summer Session Office (51 OMain Bldg.) beginning on Thursday, February 21. lnfor­mation on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer Session Web site (www.nd.edu/-sumsess). 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2002 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use Web Registration 
( 1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 21. The Web Registration PIN (personal identificaM tion number) for summer is available on Irish Link for all continuing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) are available at www.nd.edu/~ndreg/ dartboo k.html. Course call numbers are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session Web site. 
Web Registration will be available for summer regstration from March 20 to Ju·ne 21. 
. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary. ­
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day :J of_the course. Students who decide to register after Web Registration closes on 
Friday, June 21, must complete the standard summer session application/course 
(f) selection form. 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2002 will be $364 per credit hour for undergraduate students and $255 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a $45 general fee. 
lJnlverslty ofNotre Dame 
Come and Support the Holy Cross Miulons In Bangladesh 
Preliminaries February 22  Finals  
Quarterfinals February 24  March 1  
Semifinals February 27  7:00pm  



.............. 
-----· 
28 200

=T=h=ur=sd=ay=,=Fe=b=ru=ar=y= =, =2===============~_.:li:..:..'h~eO:::.:b:::..:::se:..:...:ro::..:er__:.~PAI~D~A~D::.1/E~~R~T~IS~E~M~E~N~T~-------------page 21 
~---------..________________,..__..,_____.....,____________ 

ti) 
c 
ca
.... 
C: 
::J 
0 
(.J (.J <( 
.2 
:a 
::J 
a.. 
i:, 
Q) 
;;::: 
Q) 
0 t How DD YOU GET A JOB LIKE THIS? 
-0 
.... 
:.:; .a Q) www.STARTHEREGDPLACES.CDM/B1Z7 
ti) 
C: Go here and take the first step toward the career you want.
C: 
ca 
(.J
·;;:: 
Q) 
E 
<( 

page 22 
This Week in 

Campus Ministrv 
Coleman•Morse Center • 631-7800 
Retreats 

sign , 
Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 

Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
dav 

Eucharistic Adoration 

11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Women's Retreat 
Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Stations of the Cross 

7:00-8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Bible Study in Chinese 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Call 631-5653 for information 
-; 
}, 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 


...........-av 
RCIA-Purification & Enlightenment 10:00-11 :30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA-Rite of Communion 
1:45 mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Confirmation An Afternoon of Recollection 
2:00-6:00 p.m. McKenna Hall, CCE 

ND liturgical Choir Concert 
2:30 p.m. St. Matthew's Cathedral 

Rejoice! African American Catholic Mass 
10:00 p.m. Presider: Fr. J. Steele, c.s.c Our Lady of Notre Dame Chapel Coleman-Morse Center 

..........dav 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Colemam-Morse Center 
RCIA-Study Session 

6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
The Way Bible Study 

8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 

Eucharistic Adoration 
Ml ~ay through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher"Hall Chapel 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
A Lenten Reflection in the Wilderness 
Cave Spirituality 
¦ by Chandra Johnson Assistant to the President & Assistant Director, Cross-Cultural Ministry 
Caves are very interesting places. They have become a current point of interest particularly since the events of September 11th. Throughout history, caves have served various purposes. They have been havens where communities have found shelter, security and protection from the natural ele­ments. Civilizations and modern human behavior were crafted by cave dwellers, like those living in the Blombos Cave in South Africa 77,000 years ago. A cave was the scriptural burial place for Abraham's entire family, a purchase he made to affirm his faith in God's promise that the Israelites would reach the Promised Land. The Essene community offirst century Palestine lived a religious­oriented cave existence as evidenced by the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls in 1947. Fourth­century Egyptian monks like St. Anthony and Abba Moses found a wilderness lifestyle the perfect sanctuary where one could hear the voice of God. And even our very own Grotto has a cave-like ambiance, reminding us of God's indwelling and presence in the natural elements. Throughout the 
centuries, cave spirituality has facilitated one's search 
for a deeper experience of God and the interior life. 
Through attention to In Campus Ministry, we are witnessing the emer­
gence ofstudents who desire to learn more about varied 
creating a consistent, 
prayer forms. Because of this interest, I am curious as relational, service-oriented to the historical significance of contemplative cave and wilderness spirituality, a topic I chose to examine in 
prayer life, one can be 
preparation for the No Greater Love retreat held last Saturday. The theme for this year's retreat was Prayer.
assured of God's guidance, 
Many students came to obtain the historical rubrics of direction and love as we live a contemplative and communal prayer experience. In­dividual and prayer group opportunities are becoming
actively as citizens of the 
a vital part of a normal day. Quieting the mind and 
world. resting in the presence of God is calming to the spirit, 
and students campus-wide are immersing themselves in 
the soothing solitude present below the noise. As we continue our 
Lenten observance, I want to use this week's column to reflect on wilderness spirituality, and the reality we create for ourselves when we emerge from our prayer experience . 
The synoptic gospels tell us that when Jesus was at his spiritual peak, the SPIRIT led him into the wilderness to face the devil for 40 days: "Filled with the holy Spirit, Jesus returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the desert for forty days, to be tempted by the devil (Luke 4: 1-2)." In my discussion of cave spirituality in my breakout session at No Greater Love, I posed the questions, "Why would the Spirit lead Jesus, alone, into the desert to encounter the devil face-to-face? Why would God intentionally sanction a spiritual dual between his Son and ultimate evil?" In the discussion, all of your answers pointed to the same conclusion: When we pray, our thoughts and corresponding actions create our reality. When our focus is on good, the outcome is good. When our focus is on self-service, the outcome is self-serving. As we talked further, we agreed that we must be aware of the distractions and external voices which sometime take us away from the truth of God's power and love. There is a fine line between praying to God and praying with God. This is why Jesus went straight to the desert before he set out on his mission. He knew that with God's guidance, his prayer would create a reality which emulated his ideals and corresponded with his personal faith and life goals. He knew that praying daily is knowing daily that God is in control. 
Does this mean that in order to emulate Jesus' prayer life, we have to live in the wilderness and seclude ourselves from the world? Of course not. What it means is that through attention to creating a consistent, relational, service-oriented prayer life, one can be assured of God's guidance, direction and love as we live actively as citizens of the world. God is in everything, even in the temptations, distractions and propositions which present themselves daily. Lent is the time when we make a concerted effort to respond to God's offering of unconditional love. Like Jesus, in prayer, we know that God is at the center, providing the answers we need when we're faced with confusion, chaos or indecision. Setting aside time to create a reality which is God­centered will insure that your time spent in the desert -your prayer time -will keep you strong when you're strong, and steady when you're weak. 
My challenge to you is this: after you've read this column, take a moment to think about your prayer life. Do you have a consistent prayer life? If you do, great. Where is your cave? Cherish the moments you consciously set aside to share your time and thoughts with God. Ifyou don't have a prayer life, maybe now would be a good time to begin a relationship with your Creator. All you need is a quiet space and the willingness to let God use your life for your greatest good. It's a wonderful way to live because it takes the pressure off wondering ifyour going to be okay. Of course you are! Thanks to Jesus and his wilderness spirituality, we are assured of God's faithfulness, fidelity and joy in loving us. Just pick the time and place. When you're ready, God will be waiting to rock your world. 
Third Sunday ¦ Baslllca of the Sacred Hean ¦ Around Campus
of Lent 

Saturday, March 2 Saturday, March 2 5:00p.m. Spanish Mass
Mass Schedule Rev. E. William Beauchamp, c.s.c 1 :30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School MassSunday, March 3 
5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel
10:00 a.m. 

Rev. Patrick M. Neary, c.s.c. 
MBA Mass 
11:45 a.m. 

7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Chapel
C-M Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 
CampusMinwy 

¦ SllllaV'S ScrblnRe811'8S 1st Rdg Genesis 12:1-4a 2 nd Rdg 2Timothy 1:Sb-10 Gospel Matthew 17:1-9 

.. 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
What did trees ever do to you? Please recycle The Observer. 
••Study in the · nation's capitol 
•Work in an ~--internship 
• Fnlrtll philosophy,­theology, and flne 
. ­
•· 
c=~· · requiremen~~~; •Open to ~~t\jdypublic \; tt.,;-Sopho 
~·~,~ ---~-,.,.--:;:e,. 

~· ,-:• .,,! _ , ; Juniors, -~-ifv@ ftt1-·. , Senid:fS,.
;j.e·--~~:1=in· -~~'~ltf·,_,: .· --., ~:-~•n•~:~ 
--A~ , , . ~ ~ . . ~ ·-,. . ~&-er. '-" --~.·-< ,. ;._--:.._, • ' -. .. ........ • •.• ' ,... ... ..;Iii-# ---~ ~ ~ -~ "'!·,~~-­
::~~., e-_, "!" ·•·· '.:,""f!:_·.. .:~£~ 
-~"'ii!-'».:--t,:' -~, .;. ­
··~, ::._ . ,•~ ,.,._ -.', . ·i-. . . 
)ohn Eriksen, Director-. . 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Vanderbilt upsets No. 11 Kentucky 
Matt Freije and Chuck Moore
Associated Press  each had 1 9 points for  
NASHVILLE, Tenn.  Vanderbilt, while freshman  
Heserve Brendan Plavich  Brian Thornton added 17.  
scored all but two of his 20  Tayshaun Prince led Kentucky  
points on 3-pointers and  with 24 points. while Hashaad  
Vanderbilt beat No. 11 Kentucky  Carruth added 22.  
86-73 \Vednesday Right to snap  The \Vildcats last led at 11-9  
an 18-game losing streak to the  on {:I, basket by Cliff Hawkins  
\VildcaL"i.  with 14:55 to go in tho first half.  
Kentucky (19-8, 9-6 SEC) is the  Freije grabbed a rebound and  
only visiting team with a winning  scored to tie the game at 11. and  
record in Memorial Gym.  Corey Smith hit a 3-pointer that  
Vanderbilt (16-12, 6-9) had not  gave Vandy the lead .  
beaten Kentucky since 1993, a  Vanderbilt outscornd Kentucky  
stretch of eight straight home  20-8 at one stretch in the first  
losses.  half, including a 9-0 spurt  
The \Vildcats came in ready to  capped by a 3-pointer by  
clinch their 12th consecutive 20­ Plavich.  
win season and keep alive their  Kentucky looked ready to  
chances for at least a share of  make a run to take the lead near  
the SEC's Eastern Division title.  the end of the half, getting with­ 
But the Commodores, a team  in 41-36 on a layup by Carruth  
that had struggled to score in  with 2:44 to go. But Moore  
recent games, suddenly couldn't  scored the final five poinL"i of the  
miss as they scornd more poinl"i  half for a 46-36 lead.  
than in any of their past eight  Vandy built the lead to as  
games. They shot 53 percent  much as 53-38 in the opening  
(30-of-56) from the field, includ­ minutes of the second half when  
ing 11-of-22 from 3-point range,  the Wildcats tried to wake them­ 
while the VVildcats shot 35 per­ selves up by going to a full-court  
cent (22-of-62).  press.  

..........•-..;.."··· ...••.......................(). ;, 
~ 11111-University Resources : 
•
•

•• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & : • •• ••• Bisexual Students :•• 
• THE STANDING • • C01'iMITTEE ON ••
GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
• 

The Standing Committee on Gay and • • Lesbian Student Needs • • (Confidential information, education, and resourc~s) •
" •
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude. CSC, 1-5550, orstudent · •
•

• members (see web site for student contact info.) •••
• 

Office of Campus Ministry : 
• ("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which :
•
• 

include prayer and discussion ofspiritual is:;ues; annual :
•

• retreat; library with relevant reading materia!s1 :
•

•• Contact: Fr. J Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@:nd.edu, or : 
• Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu :
•
• 

University Counseling Center : 
(Individual counseling or a confidential support group) !
.. 

Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen !
•

• :
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
• 
• 

For more information, c:heck out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scelsrr' 
•
• 

~ ~
.. ............................... .' ... . . .. . . . . . . .• 


;L,I 
Ji
!I/.
l
'I 

! ; 
; /
j. 
I 
rn 
' 
. 
. 
I 
( 
I 


.. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 28, 2002 
BENGAL Bours: 155-P0UNDS -16O-P0UNDS . 
Heckmann advances to final round with TKO 
By PAUL CAMARATA 
Sporrs Writer 

Senior raptain Brock Heckmann · advanced to thP finals when the refer­
ee stopped his contest ,vith senior 
Chris Pf'ttit one minute and 25 seconds 
into the third round. 

Forced to modify the aggressive style 
that had workPd in two previous victo­
ries. Pettit was never able to go on the 
attack in the semifinals. The methodi­
cal Heckmann followed his usual script 
of fighting with strength and at sharp 
angles from the center of the ring. His 
strong right hand found its mark early. 
as Heckmann attacked both the body 
and head. 

Despite his left-handed technique. 
Pettit could not divert Heckmann's 
straight pursuit or land enough punch­
es to wear on his opponent's stamina. 
Heckmann appeared calm and light on 
his feet even near the frnd of the 
match. 

\Vhile Pettit attacked in the third 
round with all the energy he had left, 
Heckmann was able to pin the action 
against up the ropes and in the cor­
ners. where the fight finally ended. 
Heckmann 's quest for a second con­
secutive Bengal Bouts title will end one 
way or another against sophomore 
John Nowak, a lefty whose unyielding 
attack earned him a split decision over 
junior Mike Melby \Vednesday night. 
The taller of the two contestants, 
Melby used his reach advantage well in 
the first round but never enough to 
stop Nowak's strong left hands. Often 
working without a jab. Nowak flus­
ten~d his opponent with repeated shots 
to the head. particularly in the second 
round when he added a winding right 
hook. 

. Novvak's punches landed with 
greater frequency as the fight went on. and in the third round. he sealed the victorv with a flurrv that seemed to attack· Melby from ,tll directions and sides. 
Nowak strategically attacked Melby and clinched with him in order to avoid being hit. The effort was enough to impress the judges and give Nowak a shot at Heckmann on Friday night. 
160-pounds 

The opening match in the 160-pound division was arguably the most rousing of the night. as top-seeded Christ Kitalorrg outlasted the spirited John Murphy in a split decision victory. 
A boxer who combines strength and speed with fluid movement. Kitalong dominated the first round by snapping his punches out quickly to fend off Murphy"s incessant offensive. Murphy continually tried to drive Kitalong to thf' ropes where he could neutralize the tallP-r boxer's reach. Kitalong adjusted. dipping his punches into Murphy's body to widen the distance between the two fighters. 
Bv the middle of the second round. Kitalong was still unable to fight in his own style and resorted to brawling with Murphy in every portion of the ring. Murphy's ability to dictate the nature of thP-fighting made the remainder of the fight close. 
\Vhen Kitalong wanted to use combi­nations and angles, Murphy lowered his own head and made the other fighter slug it out. 
Kitalong made a second adjustment in the third round that may have ensured his victory, when he began ducking around Murphy's charge and clinching to slow the pace of the action. 
f.'reshman Mark De~plinter will be Kitalong's reward in the finals on 

Friday. after winning a split decision over sophomore Pat Dillon, the second seed in the 160-pound weight class. Equal in height and using similar styles. DeS plinter and Dillon fought evenly throughout the first two rounds. DeSplinter continued to use his long jab, ·while Dillon relied on a jab that set up his two-handed combinations. 
\Vhile Dillon did not seem phased by the combinations that DeSplinter con­tinued to throw in the final round, nei­
ther was he unable to stop them. DeSplinter will fight for the champi­onship on Friday after outscoring his opponent with aggressiveness and power. A resident of Alumni-Hall, DeSplinter is the only freshman to advance to the Bengal Bouts finals. 
Contact Paul Camarata at pcamarat@nd.edu. 

5:00 
p.m. Evening Prf)yer, Coleman-Morse Center 5:00 p.m. ND Women's Tennis vs. Wisconsin, Eck 

5:00 
p.m. From Mass Conversion to Inquisition in Tennis Pavilion (starts at 4:00 p.m.) Medieval Spain lecture by David Nirenberg, 5:00 p.m. Evening Prayer, Coleman-Morse Center Medieval Institute 5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 5:30 p.m. Institute for Latino Studies Gallery 
6:00 p.m. Date Week Night at the Movies 14, buse Reception, McKenna Hall leave from Hesburgh Library Circle at 6:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m. ND Men's and Women's Track: Alex and 6:45 p.m. Wilson Invitational, Loftus Sports Center 
6:30 p.m. Lecture by Katherine Clay Bassard, 7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs Private Interpretations: Race, Nineteenth-Century Sports Recreation Center Biblical Herneneutics and the Poetry of Frances 7:00 p.m. ND Ice Hockey vs. Bowling Green, Joyce 
E. WHarper, Hesburgh Center Center Fieldhouse 
7:00 
p.m. Film: Wing Chun, Hesburgh Library 7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross, Basilica of the Carey Auditorium Sacred Heart 

7:00 
p.m. NAACP Relationship Forum Music, Sex 7:30 p.m. -Midnight Concert: Collegiate Jazz and You . .. featuring Abe Thompson and LeAlan Festival, Washington Hall* Jones, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 7:30 p.m. Movies: The Royal Tennanbaums and 


7:30 
p.m. Play: The History of King Henry IV, Black Sheep, DeBartolo 101 and 155* Hesburgh Center Auditorium* 7:30 p.m. Play: The History of King Henry IV, 

7:30 
p.m. Play: Crave, Washington Hall Lab Hesburgh Center Auditorium* Theatre 7:30 p.m. Play: Crave, Washington Hall Lab Theatre 

7:30 
p.m. Film Screening, Household Saints, 8:00 p.m. Bengal Bouts Finals, Joyce Center Arena* DeBartolo 129 8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center 


8:00 p.m. ND Symphony Orchestra Winter Concert, 8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, Washington Hall free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs 8:30 p.m. Trip to Movies 14. Buses leave Hesburgh Sports Recreation Center Library Circle at 8:45 p.m.* 
9:00 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room ope,r 9:00 p.m. Loft Show featuring the band Life In LaFortune Student Center General, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 

9:00 
p.m. Best of Acousticafe, Reckers 9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Leprechaun Door Hanger 

9:00 
p.m. Movie: Gen-X Cops, Carey Auditorium LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 


10:00 p.m. Movies: The Royal Tennanbaums and 10:00 p.m. Movies: The Royal Tennanbaums and Black Sheep, DeBartolo 101 and 155* Black Sheep, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
10:00 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. Tournament Fridays: Monopoly, LaFortune Student Center 5:00 p.m.·Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6:00 
p.m. A Discussion with Actress Michelle Yeoh, McKenna Hall 

6:00 
p.m. ND Men's and Women's Track: Alex Wilson Invitational, Loftus Sports Center 


7:00 p.m. Men's and Women's Swimming: Shamrock Classic, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
7:05 p.m. ND Ice Hockey vs. Bowling Green, Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:30 
p.m. -Midnight Concert: Collegiate Jazz Festival, Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Movies: The Royal Tennanbaums and Black Sheep, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

7:30 
p.m. Play: The History of King Henry IV, Hesburgh Center Auditorium* 

7:30 
p.m. Humor Artists Comedy Concert, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 

7:30 
p.m. Play: Crave, Washington Hall Lab Theatre 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Open Karaoke, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: The Royal Tennanbaums and Black Sheep, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1:30 a.m. Co-Mo Unplugged, Coleman-Morse Center 


11 :00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Playground Night, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs 
FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.~~.J./##~a.:,;/ _ 
Thursday, February 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
BENGAL BOUTS: 125-POUNDS -145-P0UNDS 
Newburg, McMahon win unanimous decisions 
By PAUL CAMARATA Sports Wrir.:r 
With thn top SPnd in tlw BPngal Bouts· lightt~sl wPight class, junior Shawn Nt•\,·burg n~ceivt'd a bve into Wt'dnnsdav n ig ht' s s,: m if'i n a I r o u n i Newburg shm\'Pd little 1\vid,~ncn of ring rust. howPv<'r, as he pu nch<•d aggrPssivP!y and movPd adivnly to scon~ a unani­
mous  dPcision  over  sPnior  
lkrrirk Bravo.  
Bravo usnd  a  strong jab in  

,wcry round of' Urn fight. adding to it a straight right in thn third round for a l'nw impressive 1-2 combinations Lo Ncvvburg's head. IIP rnwcr was abln to slovv Newburg with llurriPs of' punch­es, how,wPr, and appeared to tin) n,~ar the ,~nd of' the fight. N,,w burg's f<'Pt knpt th('i r bo u n c (\ u n ti I tlw f'i n a I b1'1 I. allowing him to li'nd off pundws and stay on tlw olfonsivc. 
Whil(' his strong right hand bPgan slowing Bravo in thn lirst round. it was NPwburg's smooth and continuous mov<)lllPnt that helped him movP on to the Finals. 
Ile will nov. l'acn sen1or Jason McMahon. who also earned a unanimous decision in the semi­finals with a victory over junior Lann• lledron. McMahon kept control of tlw ring. but pressed thP tempo or tht' light and 11(WCr canw off th<' attack. lie answPrnd th<' sncond round brdl with parlindar fury. bPginning tlw round with a quick rnmbina­tion and a pownrrul overhand right. 
IIPdron staynd strong through­out, but could never gain 1•nougll ol' a foothold to mount a roun tcr-of'f,~nsivc. McMahon looked f'r(1,sh even in tlw fight's lattPr stages. as -he continued to throw strong pundrns to thP bodv and head. Ile will now f'igh"t Newburg l'or the 125­pound title on Friday night. in a match-up of two smooth and strong boxers. 
135-pounds 
In tlrn 135-pound weight class. only a fow punches separated the winners and losPrs of the semifinals. Both fights in this division W0dnesday night result­Pd in split d1~cisions. beginning with the first matchup of two seniors where Matt Fumagalli outlast<~d Hich Hendina. 
Trying to capitalize on his rParh advantage, Hendina was aggressive from the start of tlrn first round. His long jab kept Fumagalli at bay in the center of the ring, but Hendina was no match for Fumagalli's quick hands \Vhcn the action moved along the ropes and corners. 
Using his combinations on the taller Rcndina's bodv in the sec­ond round, Fumagalli attacked both his body and head in the third. As the final bell approached. the two fighters went toe to toe. at whkh point Fumagalli appeared to rely on a surplus of energy. Despite all the jabs that he absorbed from H1•ndina. Fumagalli remained active in the open and tight spaces to outscorn his way to Friday night's final. 
llis next opponPnt will be third-sended T.J. !)'Agostino. a sophomore who outlasted his classmate and second seed Tony Ilallowcll to advance. llallowell. as a freshman. upset the defond­ing 1 30-pound champion 
Fumagalli last year. The chance for a rematch between those two fighters fell short in the sPmifinals. when !)'Agostino earned himself a shot at Fumagalli and the title. 
II allowcll demonstrated his strong right hook and snappy movement in the first round. dominating by dictating the pace of the fighting. But D'Agostino smartly calmed the action in the second. using combinations of high and low punches to keep Hallowell off balance. 
While Ilallowell continued to press the action, coming out hard to start the third round. !)'Agostino continued to fight downhill. Healizing he had to compensate after a slow start, !)'Agostino scored several hard shot,; to Ilallowell's head in the third t.o escape with a narrow victory. 
145-pounds 

Junior Andrew Harms fought his best match of this year's Bengal Bouts. taking control of the ring in the first round to score a bell-to-bell unanimous decision win over freshman Sam Fuller. 
Straying from the center of the ring only when he moved for­ward to attack, Harms used a powerful straight hand to Fuller's head. While the fresh­man southpaw landed several strong punches in each of the first two rounds. he was unable to ever go on the attack against his technically sound opponent. 
Harms persisted with his 
• offensive in the second round, using combinations to the head and body, and particularly a left hook, which was enough to hand Fuller a standing-8 count. 

LISA VELTE!fhe Observer Derrick Bravo, left, throws a jab but Shawn Newburg, right, lands a blow to the body as Newburg advanced to the finals. 
In the third round, Fuller ca.me alive by showing more aggressiveness. a strong defense and landing several straight lefts. He was playing catch-up ·at that point in the fight though. and still never really stopped 
Harms from throwing punches. 
The No. 1 seed at 145-pounds, 
Harms will now fight for the title 
against senior and second-seed­
ed Jemar Tisby. who won a 
unanimous decision over fresh­
man Nathan Lohmeyer. 
As has been the case in each 
of his fights. Tisby was forced to 
fight up at a taller opponent 
with a decided reach advantage. 
Tisby picked his spots to pounce 
and then came at Lohmeyer's body and head with speedy inside combinations. Moving smoothly around the ring, Tisby remained unfazed by the long jabs that Lohmeyer repeatedly landed. 
Lohmeyer was especially aggressive in the third round, but not enough to deter Tisby's careful calculation and straight punching. The senior found the time and space to throw all of his weapons at his opponent, both aiming for and landing in a long. wide target area. 
Contact Paul Camarata at pcamarat@nd.edu. 
.-------------.... vs. 

Don't be ashamed oh· u . ·t 
of your dirty car · IQ nlVerSI Y 
The dirtiest car in the parking 
Sunday, March 3 at 1 :OOpm 
lot will receive an ultra platinum car wash from 
~ _:, 
Sponsored by: 
-;:-, .. . ... /4 .. , · , .. · .~..•Ct V f.._-_,-, ~ t----·7 .:~· r, ~ ,. ' ., ; 1\l,.... ')'It· I, ·r ·,f,,. ; ~-• 1 .. I • , ',,•• '.
t 'I

. . f 1 _.,. . J ,1 , .. . _ .. .. r ._ ., . . . . , ... , 
~ind St!ul,!lJa~J-.:!iJ 
..· -~lliaiiilll~E:~,,~~~;,~~bif:t'.·;ctt?1:'t:,£·' JiffvL11l,e 

Sig11atnfe Service 
Corne into our swvce center rn-:ar 1.;~rnpi...s and ~Jfv 
·
I.'.~':., : -,~ ···""~~1il~}l~f-A"scii:r @._. ,.,.:.; r~
.•!r.·_;::.'.:.:~_:'.' ·." 
J!1ty l.Jbe ~i9n<..1tUf!:.; Sci vK~~ ~1 Vy. We !,Ju}>, for-.<Vard ff ·:,x"·, .. • ;$.H. * . . I _:;;x;,t:·t·'\::.J -. ~· serving you in thH iaar fwure.
• 

e>,;? .i t<;_ <tF " .,·.·. ·. ,~" .,·,· 
Receive $4 Off with a valid .·::..:~t~·~ '"',~:~;~~::· Notre Dame University or St• 
.::::~f:' . ··•~:v.-.;,;: ... 
. :::iif.? .:• 
..... :·,::.... •.....•.,•

. . .. . Mary's ID everyday.
~ ~ 
.·+~ti~~itf:ifJf 

,;~ N. Utxre Way 1245 E, lre1ano Rd. 104 E. McKinley Av 271•7767 299-8666 258-5675 


v:-.;:-~«>: ~ ..,-;.,..,"'"i:-,~'f•!':.--e,:·:~...s;: :-:.~.•-t:x:;;.;~ •..r....:.::::cc:t'-S ~{;_~ •~·~:v..; ~~,-:1.!, :.~:y ,~:-, ;~ :Jt.~" ~!l. , ..:_-,.x,o-~~ >.~·:••::: :,:ci::-:·:. ~~-~,r,~:<~. G,..>....i': ~·-t:;-... o:& fJ.i:i~>C'.;:-~1g·,~ ::~~~:::-::s .;:~·., . • ..:(e:: :.~~r..~-#t· :....:.<"o;:¢r::;.
·•.? )tii}j1\f?{i>\ir.
.·.· -· .··,· ..· . ·. .. .·. f~:: . f:4~1~,· 3/27/0'2-C•:;,~, %,:,:i{;: 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 28, 2002 
Men's 
continued from page 28 

Carroll finished with 19 poinl'> on the night and shot 6-for-9 from thr, ffold. 
Everv tinw the Irish inched closer to rrc,ipturing the lead, St. John's had an answer down the stn~tch. Ilattcn's pcnetration opened up the perimeter shooting for the H~d Storm as sophomore guard Willie Shaw scored eight points in the final four minutes of the gamP. 
"I thought we did a good job of shutting down Hatten in tlw final six minutes of the game," said Brey. "They're other guys really stepped up tonight. This game was huge for the Hed Storm. and it showed. My hat goes off to \Villie Shaw for hit­ting big baskets down thP st.retch." 
With 20 sPconds left to go in the game. tlw Irish found themselves tra i Ii ng b"'-fivr poin ts. Chris Thomas naih,d a 3-point shot from the conwr to rut the Hnd Storm lead to two with IO seconds rPmaining. 
On the ensuing possession. Notre Dame immPdiately fouled Hatten, putting him on the frpr. throw line. Hatten made his first shot, but missed his second attempt. llattPn quickly rPbounded his missPd shot, but then slipped on the Madison Square Garden floor resulting in a traveling violation, giving the Irish still one final chance to tie thP. game with eight seconds remaining. 
on Saturday at Providence."  home  against  
Notes: . David  Graves  broke  Elmer  

Before Notre Dame inbounded the ball, Hed Storm coach Mike Jarvis called a tin1Pout to set up a defon­sive strategy. Jarvis elected to dou­ble-team and pressure Chris Thomas in the backcourt. \Vith no one open to receive a pass. Thomas failed to dribble the ball past half court. \Vith time winding down, Thomas' half-court heave bounced 
BENGAL BOUTS: 165-P0UNDS -17O-P0UNDS 
Matassa reaches finals 
off the glass preserving the win for the Red Storm. 
"I was proud of our guys tonight," said Brey. "We gave ourselves a chance to win at the end. We need to learn from this and come back strong on Saturday." 
St. John's and Notre Dame now have identical overall records and Big East Conference records (19-9, 9-6 Big East). Each team will most likelv· finish third in its respective division of the Big East. 
Even if the frish win against Providence at hornp on Saturday, Svracusc still needs to losP its final t{vo games against Villanova and Boston College for the Irish to finish second in the West and earn a first­round bye in the Big East tourna­ment. 
Despite the loss. Brey still feels ronfident of the lrish's chances to earn a post-season bPrth in the NCAA tournament. 
"Our resunrn is very strong," said Brey. "Tonight didn't do anything to diminish our chances. \Ve want to send our seniors out ,vith a win 
BPnnett's record or most games played at Notre Dame. Graves is now the all-time leader with 125 career games. 
. Chris Thomas finished with 10 ·assists pushing his season total to 
214. Thomas has now tied has tied the all-time mark for assists in a single season at Notre Dame. 
. The Irish take on Providence at home on Saturday. The game starts at 4:00 p.m and will be nationally televised on CBS. 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 
By BRIAN BURKE Sports Writer 

Matt "The Meat Ilook" Seidler proved to be everv bit the athlete that Chris "Stay Outta. Mv Business" Matassa was. but in the end. M~ttassa's boxing skill won out. 
In their 165-pound semifinal bout \Vednesday night, Matassa picked his spots well enough to earn a decisive unanimous decisfon victorv over Seidler. What probably made the diff'erem:e vvas Matassa's very quick delivery. When Seidler would wind up to delivPr hooks inside, Matassa would stun him with a precise left jab, right cross combi­nation. Seidler workPd inside and successful­Iv landed some combinations. especially in th<' second round, but Matassa was never in serious trouble and always managed to punch out of it. By the third round, Seidler had tired and Matassa held him off to earn a trip to the finals. 
Facing him in the finals will be Clay "The Mouth of The South" Cosse, who earm~d a unanimous decision victorv over Mark "The I lolv Ghost" Yost. Cosse, the stronger of' the figh.ters, controlled most of the tight, consis­tently landing right hooks that kept Yost from getting inside. Yost was able to land some good jabs in the second round, but when he did land he was unable to do as much dam­age as Cosse. By the third round, Yost had a great deal of trouble scoring points and was never really a threat. 
'Tve got a pretty tough face, a pretty tough head, and also I throw pretty strong punches, so when people hit me I try to keep coming, and I tend to wear them down," Cosse said. 
170-pounds 

The only thing missing in the semifinal bout between Domingo "Lunes" Maynes and Evan 
"Dysfunctional" Oliver were some bar stools and pool cues. 
An all-out brawl from start to finish, the two fighters stood toe-to-toe f'or most or the fight, shoving and swinging wildly at each others' heads. In the first round, the inside action became so intense that Maynes knocked OlivP-r to the canvas, although it was ruled a push. Then. in the second round, as tht' two became tangled oi1 the ropes, Maynes cam(~ dangerously close to throwing Evans out of the ring and onto the photogra­phers near the scorer's table. 
Maynes got the br,st of most exchangr,s in the first round, and looked as if' he might havP the edge. 
Oliver let Mavnes come to him more in the second. and lc~nded some hooks \Vhen the charging Maynes opened himself up. In the third round the lighters still fought in close. but threw more jabs, probably bPcausc they were so exhausted from the meh1e that was rounds ooe and two. A tired Oliver let his hands down a bit and Maynes was able to connect on some jabs, which might have been the difference in a close split decision victory f'or Maynes. 
In the other semifinal bout, Hyan "The Hhino" Hernandez had carlv trouble landing combinations against Matt "The Booster;, Knust but did establish a presence inside. and was usually on the offensive. Knust came back in the second and did some charging ol' his own, connecting on some solid hooks when 1lernandez opened himself up. 
Eventually though, Hernandez became more accurate with his punches when t.110 two slugged it out and turned in a solid third round to secure the unanimous victory and trip to the finals. 
Contact Brian Burke at Burke.68@nd.edu. 



Thursday, February 28, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
THE SOUTH BEND TAXI SERVICE: PUTTING THE "FUN" BACK INTO "FVNDAMENTALLY INSANE" 
... -~ ,,/;· 

--· -I 
~ // 
//; / 

_-/ ' 
1/
; 

FOXTROT 
WHERE'S 
MONICA'S 
HI, SHoPPIN(:,,
JOEY? 
CHANDLER! 
TOO! 
So 1S 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
I 
BILL AMEND 

MAYSE THEIR $1 -WE SHOULD MILLION <:,o SHOPPING! SAL.&.RIES MUST'VE 
GooD klCk£0 IN. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Smelly smoke 

1 Reworking of 31 Christmas wish old material 
33 They may fill 5 Look closely yards 1 O Vaulted area, 34 What 17-and perhaps 54-Across indicate
14 Comics canine 
15 Barbara of 37 Sofer of soaps "Gone With the 38 "The Tempest" Wind" sprite 
16 Five-time U.S. 39 Rah-rah Open champ 
41 Sushi selection 17 Fighting words 
42 Base of a 

20 Threaten to fall 
crocus stem 21 Dove with a 
46 It may be 

Pulitzer 
shown on a tree 22 _ particle 
48 One with a yen 23 Separates 
50 Feminizing 25 Ropes suffix 
27 See 52-Oown 51 Old radio's "My Friend " 
28 _ Pensacola (mil. center) 53 Go with the wind 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
• 18 Football Hall-of• Farner Dawson 19 Kind of comb 24 Yemen's capital 26 Evergreen oak 29 South American capital 




Puzzle by Sherry 0. Blackard 

54 Fighting words 57 Donizetti's "Tornami a dir 
che m'ami," e.g. 58 Rest stop sighIB 59 Having southerly 
breezes 60 Lieutenant: 
Abbr. 61 Beehive, e.g. 62 Hand demand? 
DOWN 
1 Place to feel a jet stream? 2 Classical symbol of wisdom 3 Toughens 4 Shackle 5 Necessity for an opening act? 6 It may get stuffed: Abbr. 7 48-Across's look 
8 Stop-off 9 Doesn't just please 1OCause of some 
spoIB 
11 Jane Goodall, to Louis Leakey 
12 Trips overseas 
31 Just barely 32 Raced down? 34 Lewis Carroll 
and others 35 Haloed one, in 
Le Havre 36 Air 37 Catastrophic 39 Good witch of 
note 40 Bad witch, e.g. 42 Big California 
industry 43 Wellspring 44 Product 45 Stevenson 

scoundrel 47 Hanged Irish 
patriot 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bernadette Peters, Mario Andretti, Gavin MacLeod, Elisa Fiorillo 
Happy Birthday: You will be concerned with helping those in need this year. Your dedication will be respected and admired by the people you encounter along the way. You have a great sense of what will work and therefore you should find the success you're searching for. Your numbers are 9, 15, 19, 23, 25,33 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Make an effort to get to know your peers better. You need to combine a little business with pleasure. Some difficulties while traveling may pre­vail so be extra cautious. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You'll be able to work with fine detail today. Combine a creative project with getting together with friends and socializing. Romance can be yours if you make plans 
early. 00000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Don't let depression get you down Stop doing so much for everyone around you and start doing for yourself. Consider your own needs. 
00 CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
49 Algonquian­
You really need to get out and do
speaking people 
things that will stimulate your mind and ~et you moving in a pos­
52 With 27-Across, 
itive direction Oose friends will be
Fort Lee, e.g. 
happy to join you. Make plans to take a short trip or consider catch­
55 The Little Giant 
ing up on correspondence. 0000 

56 Nonexistent LEO (July 23-Aus 22): You may feel like making a career move today. Your emotions regarding 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are your position are running high and 
if you aren't getting where you

available by touch-tone phone: 
want to go, you may have to think

1·900-285-5656 l$1.20 per minute). 
about the reasons why. 000 Annual subscriptions are available for the VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
EUGENIA LAST 

You'll be caught between wanting 
to say sometfuns and not feeling 
confident enough to do so. Don't 
back down; it will only grate on 
your own nerves. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0d. 22): Some­thing is brewing behind closed doors. Be careful what you say to whom today. You may be taken the wrong way. You should be involved in some sort of creative project that will allow you to devel­op your talents. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): An 
opportunity to do something W1usual will attract you. You can ask for favors and get sound advice from close friends. Someone you meet will want to help you get ahead but don't consider contribut· ing cash to any joint financial ven­ture. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nm: 22-Dec. 21): 
You've been working too hard and it's catching up to you. Someone you care about may be difficult to get along with. Back away; you haven't got the strength to deal with discord today. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stop thinking about the things you would like to do and start putting your plans into motion. You can 
~tiatithings happen if you take the IIU ve. 00000 . AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If 
you haven't been taking care of your personal paperwork it is cer­tainly the time to do so. Someone you have a deal with may not be taking care of his or her end of the 
bargain.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be all emotional with regard to a relationship that you are in. An older member of your family may be a little worrisome for you. You must realize that you can't do everything for everyone. 00 
Birthday Baby: You want the best of everything. You are artistic, cre­
years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
ative and outgoing. You enjoy entertaining. and will be known for your 
...

lavish parties. You love sports and will be a competitive player. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
~ 2002 Universal Press Syndicare 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FRIDAY, MARCH 1 @ 7:05PM 
FREE GREEN BEAN BAG BEARS to 1st 500 fans!! 
(Gate 3 only, Doors open at 5:45) 
...~-,
iau:lllVJllll 
1'N:ti..,'.r l«W•P-.14€~"+ 
~---1,:,·1"1,,.,_c: 

New York Firefighter pizza to to be celebrity guest 1st 250 NO students rider on the Zamboni! 
-

SATURDAY, MARCH 2 @ 7:05PM 
SENIOR NIGHT!! 

Trading cards to ... 1st 500 fans sponsored by~ Post-game autographs! 
Win a chance to 
" 

pizza to ride the Zamboni 1st 250 NO students during period breaks! 
National Sports THE Campus Sports
OBSERVER 
. NCAA Basketball, p. 23 
. Bengai Bouts, p. 26, 25, 24 
. 
American League, p. 20 . NBA, p. 18, 17 

. 
NHL, p. 17 



Thursday, February 28, 2002 

BENGAL BOUTS: 18O-P0UNDS -HEAVYWEIGHTS 
Three more rounds 
I• 
\ . Walk-on football player advances to finals in first year of competition 

By JOE HETTLER 

Sports Writer 
Senior Matt "Missile" Sarb warned his opponents to "watch their ribs" prior to his 180-pound smnifinal bout against·sophomore Torn my "Gun" Demko. Demko took tlrn advice and covered his midsection, but forgot to cover one othnr body part -his facfl. 
Nineteen seconds into the second round of their fight. the football walk'-on punished Demko with a right hook that sent blood as wr,11 as the "Gun" to the canvas for good. 
Early in the fight, it looked as if Demko may wear down Sarb by throwing numerous wild combina­tions and averting trouble. Yet all it took for Sarb was one powerful punch. 
In the first 180-pound contest, two­time champion senior Mark "Bright Lights, Big City" Criniti faced senior Keith "Little Ball of Love" Arnold. From the start. Criniti used his quickness and agility to land punches on the bigger Arn.old. Yet Arnold countered by being patience, fighting off ·criniti's combinations and then striking when the opportunity arose. 

But Criniti chipped away at Arnold's advantage throughout the three rounds and won a unanimous d~cision to advance to his third 
see BOUTS/page 19 



MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Red Storm rains down on ·Irish in New York 
• Irish blow halftime lead for the third time in five games in 84-81 loss 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
It was deja vu all over again. 

In a story line all-too familiar this season, Notre Dame took a lead into the locker room at half­time, only to see the lead evapo­rate in the second half. Two vvef~ks ago, the Irish suffered consecutive heartbn•aking losses to Rutgers and Syracuse in which each game went down to the last possession. 
Tonight, it was St. John's' turn to beat the Irish with a hard-
fought 84-81 at Madison Square Garden in Ncw York City. 
Notre Danw held a 47-40 half­time lead, thanks to great interi· or passing and quick transition baskets. Irish post players Byan Humphrey and llarold Swanagan did_ an outstanding job beating St. John's defenders down the -floor for easy layups and dunks. Humphrey led the Irish with 1<> points in the first half. He finislwd with 29 points and 11 rebounds. 
"He played fabulously," said Notn~ Dame coach Mike Brev. 'ille set the tone for us early: I just want to keep him healthy as we head into the post-season." 
Fellow senior David Graves provided the offense from the perimeter by scoring 10 points and making thre(~ 3-point field goals in the first half. lie finished vvith 11 points. 
After tying a career-high with 32 points in last Saturday's victo• ry over Miami, Irish point guard Chris Thomas struggled in the first half and didn't srore a bas­ket. Ile only scored eight in the game. 
\Vhile the Irish were unstop­pable on offonse in the first half, they couldn't contain Marcus flatten. After the Irish jumped out to an 11 point lead with five minutes left in the first half. Ilatten kept the Red Storm in the game. He scored four straight baskets to pull the Hf~d Storm to within three points late in the first half. 
"Marcus Ilatten is such a great player," said Brny. "Ile can do it all out there. He is so difficult to defend because he forces you to double team him. This leaves other guys open for big shots." 
The Irish shot a torrid 70 per­cent in the first half but were unable to sustain their firepower in the second half. As was the case in tlrn Hutgcrs and Syracuse losses. the Notre Dame of-'fonsfl went cold at the beginning of the second half. 
Notre Dame only scored one field goal in thP first 10 minutns of action and the Hcd Storm picked up their defensiv,~ prPs­sure as soon as St. John's coach Mike Jarvis insert,~d fan-favorite 7-foot.:~ center Curtis Johnson into the line-up. 
"l know [Johnson! hasn't played much this season," said Brey. "But he p~ovided a real spark for them in the second­half. His play wally brought the fans back into the game." 
\iVhile Johnson provided key 

blocks and smothering dnfons11 on Byan llumphrey,. llattnn and senior Andrew Clow~r generat.-d the om•nsP in an 11-1 run for tllf' Heel Storm. llattcn finished the game with 28 points and Glover chipped in with 20. 
The Hnd Storm captured the IPad for good with 12:20 remain~ ing in the sPrond half. 
Despite tlwir dismal start to tlw second half, Not1·1\ Danrn still had a chancP to win the ganw at the 1~11el. thanks to thn play of' :vtatt Carroll. Although he did not start, Carroll shownd no ill effects l'rorn tlw ankle injury that kept him out of last Saturday's victory against Miami. Tlw junior guard hit three straight :~­pointtffs with loss than fivn min­utes to go to bring tlw Irish back into thn game. 
see MEN'S/page 26 
• 

. 
Hockey vs. Bowling Green, Friday, 7 p.m. 

. 
Men's Basketball vs. Providence, Saturday, 2 p.m.


SPORTS 
. NO Women's Basketball at Big East Tournament,
AT AGLANCE Sunday, 6 p.m. 










