
Happy Easter!
SHOWERS 

Thursday

The Observer wishes everyone a holy and restful Easter break. We'll resume publishing on Wednesday, April 3. 
MARCH 28, LOW34° 
HIGH 43° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
VOL. XXXV NO. 113 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 

Senate rejects club allocations increase 

Senators vote on an amendment to increase club allocations during their Wednesday evening session. The amendment failed, 14-8. 
. Resolution fails despite support from student organizations 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
-in the final Senate meeting before the new Senate takes over, the focus of much debate was the amendment regarding the increase to club allocations. This amendment calls for clubs and organizations to receive a minimum of 40 percent of the student activity fee allo­cations, a 3.25 percent increase. Additionally, the remaining funds would be distributed among student union organizations. 
Senators heard pleas from the Club Coordination Council and the Student Union Board to increase their respective allocations. 
Kaitlyn Dudley. a represen­tative from the CCC, appealed to the senators to increase their allocation despite the benefits they will gain from the recent student activity fee increase. Citing that the increased funds will barely sustain the current and new clubs, Dudley stressed that an increase in the allocation will create better programming and increase attendance. 
Dudley proposed that a new Club Collaboration Fund be guaranteed an allocation of funds so that clubs with com­mon interests can work together in improving the quality of programming. Currently, a club must work with a student organization to receive funds. 
"Giving us our own fund would thus avoid redundancy of jurisdiction and wasted time in highly repetitive dis­cussions," said Dudley. 
Dudley acknowledged that SUB exists to cater to the common interests of the stu­dent body, however, she pointed out that students do not have a narrow set of interests and that clubs can service the many interests of students. 
"Clubs, though created to 

serve special interests, do not deserve the short shrift because their appeal is 'limit­ed.' The student body as a whole does not have one nar­row set of interests, but many," said Dudley. 
Stephen Christ, the SUB representative, began his plea by saying. "Money is best spent going to SUB." 
Citing that SUB incurs a sig­nificant deficit and that their budget is less than 1/3 of what other universities receive, Christ asked that SUB be allocated more funds in order to provide the con­certs, comedians and other programming events that stu­dents want. Also, he stated that an increase would allow for "greater risk taking" with regard to their programming. 
Stephen Christ argued that because of their training in programming, that SUB should receive the money as opposed to the CCC. At times the debate became accusato­ry as the Stephen Christ attacked the CCC's capabili­ties at programming. 
see SENATE/page 7 

ND struggles with classroom space 
. Concerns over space arise as classrooms sit unused 
By MEGHAN MARTIN News Writer 
Prompted by what he called "anecdotal evidence from both students and faculty," engineer­ing professor Joe Powers decid­ed to conduct an investigation of his own. 
Aided bv statistics from Registrar Harold Pace's office, the professor found that a sig­nificant number of classrooms remained unused during viable hours of the-day, with consider­able disparities on Fridays. 
Concerned that llis findings might he an indication that the University is not using its avail­able academic space economi­cally, Powers raised the issue at an Academic Council meeting that subsequently resulted in the formation of an investigative 
The issue of academic space management at the University has become a significant con­cern as admission rates rise and departments attempt to expand. Every college, from Architecture to Arts and Letters, has been affected in some way by what has been perceived as a lack of space allotted for academic pur­poses. 
"This is an ongoing issue here at Notre Dame, as well as at any other university -there are always space needs, space crunches -we just don't have a lot of space here at Notre Dame," said Joe Schellinger, director of academic space management. 
The problem manifests itself to students in many ways, as well. While many architecture students have been forced to relocate to Brownson Hall, stu­dents from other colleges have endured endless headaches when scheduling classes each semester often in vain attempts to obtain the courses they need 
CELEBRATING PASSOVER 


Students participate In a Seder dinner held at the Hesburgh Center on Wednesday. Participants pour drops of wine onto a Seder plate to represent the 10 plagues God inflicted on the Egyptians. See "Passover dinner ends lecture series" on page 7. 
subcommittee. see SPACE/page 4 
page2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, March 28, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
In the Resurrection 

Remember way back six weeks ago to Feb. 
12. Everyone was celebrating Mardi Gras, try­ing not to think about what they were going to give up the next day when Lent began. So what has changed over the past six weeks? How has it been to not eat a particu­
lar food, watch a particular show or behave a certain way? Did you learn some­thing from your experi­ence? 
Chances are that we did learn something. We proba­bly just didn't realize we were learning it. It probably 

just happened in a regular Angela Campos aspect of our lives, almost tricking us into learning it. Other things probably hap-Lab Tech pened that weren't so ordi­nary, run-of-the-mill types of events. And though we learn from all those events, the ones we'll remember are probably the latter. 
The Jewish celebration of Passover began last night at sunset. It commemorates the Israelites' pursuit of freedom and the final plague in Egypt in which the angel of death was to kill the first-born of each house. But those households who placed lamb's blood on the lintels of the door would be protected, so that the angel would pass over their homes. They were to eat a meal as if they were ready to flee, with unleavened bread and meat with bitter herbs. 
Jesus celebrated the Passover with his apos­tles in the Last Supper, dipping the unleavened bread into the dish, and remembered his ancestors and their quest for freedom. Celebrating with his friends, he became the sacrifice, the sustenance that would lead to freedom through the captivity of sin and death. They then went out to the Garden of Gethsemani where Jesus prayed that the cup pass over his head. But he knew he was the light in the darkness, and so endured the greatest challenge -giving up his life -so that others could live in the light. 
In light of the celebration of Easter, we are called to look at the extraordinary things in our lives. We are called to look at how life chal­lenges us to be stronger, how we are to learn from those trials and how we are to die to our­selves if we are to live in Christ. Lent has been a time of reflection, giving and learning. During it, there are times when we get lost in the darkness. Laetare Sunday recalled the good things that we have in our lives, the good times we had with our friends and family, a glimpse of the Resurrection. The fullness of life that we have experienced will be a source of that glad­ness. of that hope in the darkness. 
We've all passed through our own dark times. And yet, each darkness can be matched with a ray of light. In my own life, I have recently felt darkness in the death of my grand­father. But that darkness is matched with the light that he is no longer in pain, that he was a strong, hard-working man and he will live on in every memory my family and I have of him. He is at peace now and will partake in the Resurrection when we shall all be united again. He will be with me this Easter, helping me to see the light that filled his life and the love that filled his heart, so that the sorrow I have will be lifted away that I might rejoice with him in the Resurrection. I love you Grandpa. Happy Easter. 
Contact Angela Campos at acampos@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
In the March 27 publication, the picture on the front page identified a student as setting a piece of paper on fire, when the student was actually putting the fire out. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday rluough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. Al! reproduction rights are reserved. 
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 
Fair trade coffee offers alternative 
BOULDER, Colo. 

Beginning next month, students looking for a socially conscious caffeine fix will have options at theUniversity of Colorado. The activist group Developing Areas Research and Training (DART). began a campaign in early December 2001 to have "fair trade-certified coffee" offered at university locations. The group cited concerns that coffee growers in developing nations, such as Colombia and Nicaragua, are receiving payments for their crops that are less than the costs of production. The result of such transactions, activists say, is a contin­uous cycle of poverty. "Now more than ever it is impor­tant to support fair trade," Chelsea Primak, a DART activist said. "Buying fair-trade coffee is a simple action that ordinary people can do every day to help support farming families." After meeting with university admin­istrators earlier this semester, the fair trade option will make its debut in early April at select locations in the UMC. 
Colorado Daily 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Celebration: Holy Thursday  . Celebration: Good Friday,  . Game: Women's Lacrosse vs.  
Morning Prayer, 9 a.m., Basilica of  Morning Prayer, 9 a.m.;  Virginia Tech, 1 p.m., Moose  
the Sacred Heart  . Celebration: Celebration of the  Krause Field  
. Mass: Mass of the Lord's Prayer,  Passion, 3 p.m., Basilica of the  
5 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart  Sacred Heart  
. Talk: "Women and College  . Mass: 807 Mass, 8 p.m., Coleman  
Sports: A Legal and Practical  Morse Center  
Cuide," 8 a.m., Rolfs Room 129  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Virginia lawmakers seek to loosen underage drinking 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
drinking the beer would have his 
The Virginia General Assembly license suspended, be fined up to passed a bill now awaiting Gov. Mark $1,000 or could have to perform Warner's signature that could loosen community service," Mccollum said. laws related to the underage pur­. . "But the one smoking marijuana chase or possession of alcohol. -. could have his drug charge wiped off 
Sponsored by Delegate James his record." 
.' . . 

Almand, the bill offers courts the Citing recent binge drinking statis­option of deferring a guilty verdict in tics, Linda Volovick, Virginia state cases of underage alcohol purchase chairwoman of Mothers Against or possession. If the deferral option is drugs, including marijuana and even Drunk Driving, voiced her support for exercised, a judge would require the cocaine. the bill and its approach to handling defendant to enter an alcohol treat­This legal discrepancy could lead to underage, alcohol-related incidents. ment or education program. disproportionate punishments for "We're talking about trying to pre­
If he or she cooperates with that alcohol and drug offenders, said vent people from becoming alco­order, the infraction, normally con­William McCollum, executive director holics," Volovick said. "I see it as a sidered a Class 1 misdemeanor, of the Virginia Alcohol Safety broadening of the scope of what to do would be wiped from the individual's Program who worked with Almand when an individual is caught." criminal record. on the bill. Supporters seemed confident the 
A similar law currently on the "If two kids are sitting in a park, measure did not represent a slacken­books already affords judges such and one is smoking marijuana and ing of existing alcohol laws. freedom in cases involving illegal the other is drinking a beer, the one Cavalier Daily 


PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Death prompts suicide prevention 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. None of the people who knew Jeff Tohill could explain why he took his life the weekend before 
· Pennsylania State University students returned for spring semester. Friends described the junior mar­keting major as a happy, athletic and smart person who was always willing to try new things. Suicide is the third leading cause of death for people between the ages of 15 and 24 and is a frequent concern on college campuses, said Mary Anne Knapp, Penn State staff therapist. "It is common for people to think about suicide because of all the things that are hap­pening with the academic pressure on top of it," she said. About three Penn State student suicides are reported each year, said Vickie Lucas, staff assistant to student and family services. Between 80 and 90 percent of students suffering depression, both biolog­ical and situational, respond well to therapeutic treatment, she said. Daily Collegian 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Thursday, March 28. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
0 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure: 

® © ~ ml ~ ~' ~ t;) ~tffi @..$1)
.

High Low Shower, Allin T~atorma Flurrte1 Snow lee Sunny P1. CloUdy Cloudy Vil Auociofed Preu 
Atlanta 71 26 Las Vegas 78 54 Portland 58 38 Baltimore 56 36 Memphis 68 48 Sacramento 77 49 Boston 48 32 Milwaukee 47 31 St Louis 57 40 Chicago 49 35 New York 55 35 Tampa 80 58 Houston 80 65 Philadelphia 57 37 Washington 57 39 
------------, 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC community remembers Sloman 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News \Vrircr 
She was a mother, daughter, sister and student. To her classmates and teachers, Misty Sloman was an example in all of these roles, especially to her fel­low social w o r k majors. 
"She was a model for all social workers­she wanted to make a change," Laura Porto, a Saint Mary's junior social work major, said. "She always brought a unique side to ethical issues. She was a 
~CEi~v 

CURE 


nontraditional student so she could show us different argu­ments on issues." 
Sloman was killed when she veered off of a road near her South Bend home crashing her car into a tree last Saturday morning. As an older student at Saint Mary's, the 29-ycar-old impressed her classmates and her teachers with her ability to stay on top of her schoolwork, her job and raise her two young daughters. Sloman also was a member of Saint Mary's chap­ter of the National Collegiate Honor Society for Social Work. 
"l was just so impressed with how she was able to keep up with things. I could see how having children shaped her perception in class," said Saint Mary's professor Marcia Good Maust said. Good Maust taught Sloman this semester in Anthropology of Women. 
"She put a lot of effort into her own intellectual journey," Good Maust said. "She always kept up with readings and had something to say. Misty was very participatory and the stu­d ents will miss her. This makes us miss her all the more." 
Although her fellow majors found her different, because she was older and lived off campus. they considered her an asset to their classes. 
"She was not afraid to speak her mind, in and out of class," Liz Bradley, a Saint Mary's junior social work major, said. 
Sometimes, Sloman would bring her two girls, Alexandria and Sierra, to class. Porto met the girls last year when she had to meet 

Irish Women's Tennis takes on Colon Cancer 
sundav, April 1th Notre Dame vs. Miami 
12pm -Courtnev Tennis Center 
First 200 students will receive an adidas t-shirt. Giveaways during the match from: Notre Dame, adidas, and Panasonic 
Tickets are now on sale at the Joyce Center Ticket Office. 
All proceeds to benelit Colon Cancer Research 
Sloman to work on a group classes next year, they project for their Human remember how excited Behavior class. Sloman was to finally be grad­
"I remember this one time uating and realizing her we had to hand each other dream. And these memories our papers for a group pro­made it very hard for them to ject, and she had to bring her begin to cope with her loss. kids," Porto said. "They were Bradley, Porto, the junior running around everywhere. majors and some seniors are You could tell they just loved creating a memory board to her." give to Sloman's daughters, 
When Sloman brought her with clips and photos of their 
daughters to  memories of  
class,  all  of  Sloman. They  
her mates  class­could  "She was not afraid to  are also planning a  
see  the rela­ speak her mind in and  memory book  
tionship between the  out ofclass. "  for Sloman's sister, Hilary  
children and  Sloman.  
their mother.  Liz Bradley  A  trust  
"Everything  Saint Mary's student  fund  has  

that Misty did was for her daughters," Bradley said. "She was a wonderful mother. I would love to be like that when I have children. She always had a smile for them." 
Her mother died of cancer when Sloman was 17, and Good Maust felt that this loss affected Sloman strongly, and made her own death at such an early age all the more poignant. 
"[Misty's death] is just so hard to handle," Good Maust said. "Her own mother died 11 years ago. Misty was so young." 
Good Maust also believed that Sloman's mother's death also inspired her to work with children who have lost par­ents. Sloman had recently learned of her placement at the Madison Center, a mental health hospital located behind St. Joseph's, where she want­ed to work with such children. 
As the junior class prepares for their own placements and 
been estab­

lished at First Source Bank in Sloman's memory, to be contributed to her daughters. 
Funeral services are planned for today, at 2 p.m., in Calvary Temple, 717 South Michigan St. in South Bend. 
At the next monthly memor­ial prayer service April 5 at 12 p.m. in Regina Chapel, the College will also remember Sloman. 
The memory board, current­ly displayed outside of Room 25 in Madaleva Hall, contains a quote, contributed anony­mously by a social work major, which reads as follows: 
"You will forever be in our hearts, share in our dreams and live through our accom­plishments. Your vision was and is ours. to change the world for people. Your love is in all that we do, always." 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you 
can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 

H.W D. Y.U GET A J.B LIKE THIS? 
www. START HERE Ga PLACES.C . M/B.127 Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 

' 
I I I 
__J 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 28, 2002 
faculty mem­Arts and
engineering professor 
Student Office Assistant Position Open in the Office of Student Activities 
SOUTH BEND'S 
for 2002-2003 
BEST BREAKFAST AND LUNCH 
Applications are now available and can be
GO IRISH! picked up at 315 LaFortune in the Student Activities Office 
Weekends Open 7:00am-2:00pm 


Application Deadline: Friday, April 26 Monday-Friday 
6:30am-2:00pm 

Call Carol at 631-9314 with any questions 
127 S. Michigan 288 PEEP 
LeBreakfast LeBrunch Le Lunch 
Space 
continued from page 1 
at the times they prefer. 
'The ultimate goal," said Pace, "is to provide teaching facilities on campus that are adequate to meet the needs of our faculty." 
finding the space to accom­modate classes that coincide with the University schedule is the majn issue of concern. 
"We are hoping for the com­mittee to come up with a recom­mendation that can help allevi­ate the scheduling problem," he said. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters and member of the Academic Council's Undergraduate Affairs 

bers and admin­istrators alike. The current consideration is a proposal to shift all 75-minute Monday/Wednesday classes to Wednesday/Friday time slots, thereby scheduling discussion sections on Mondays, and solv­ing the infamous "Friday prob­

o/o 

lem."
APR* 

If this plan is passed by the
AslowAs 

committee, as Powers is opti­
mistic that it will be, it must be
¦ 
financing On New & Used Vehicles 

remained hopeful. "Bringing up a rather mild
It'll Get Your Motor Bonnin'! 
\ 
\ 
L_,.7,,.-~--~ 

•Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 6.25%1>.PR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. 

being housed under one roof. 
Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the Univers,ty. 
The issue has become especially 
Subcommittee, reported that the group is looking into possible solutions. 
"We have a lot of people who schedule between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m.," said Preacher. 
Powers agreed, citing the amount of empty classrooms in DeBartolo Hall as a prime example of the academic space issue. 
"When you see how many arc completely empty [during a reg­ular academic week], you have to ask yourself if we really don't have enough classrooms," he said. 
While some believe that addi­tional instructional buildings will confront the issue, Powers, Preacher and the rest of the committee have been entertain­ing remedies that do not require proposal allows the issue itself to be brought up for discussion, which is a very good thing," he said. 
While the academic-space issue carries on indefinitely, perhaps an even more pressing issue concerns the faculty them­selves. According to John Affleck-Graves, University vice president and associate provost. the issue is not so much about finding adequate classroom space as it is about allowing suf­
~J ~ ficient space for the faculty [of ;•· I NOTRE DAME 
each department] to be in a 
cohesive unit and close together. 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Affleck-Graves cited the
You can bank on us 
to be better 

newly-constructed Malloy Hall for philosophy and theology fac­
800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 

ulty offices as "the blueprint" in terms of entire departments 
classroom. roadblocks, as "Space costs money, and cial estima­There are, for example, many factions begin to ultimately, it costs tions have factors that must be considered form and not yet been
students money." 
when scheduling classes, as stu-immovable made. stances are now While the being taken by Joe Powers College of 
approved by both the Executive Committee and then the Academic Council itself in order to be put into action. Although it is a fairly minor proposition in the grand scheme of academic space management, Powers evident where Arts and Letters faculty are concerned, with social science departments in critical need of research and office space. The Psychology Department, for instance, has had to spread it.5 research facili· ties among Brownson and Haggar Halls as well as off-cam­pus buildings purchased for that specific purpose. 
The goal, according to Affieck­Graves, is to consolidate research facilities so that they may be accessible to faculty and students alike, an undertaking slated to begin some time in the future, though offi­
Letters may 
still be feel­
ing the effects of cramped space and the diffusion of faculty across campus, other colleges are look­ing forward to unprecedented expansion in the form of the upcoming state-of-the-art sci­ence learning center, restruc­tured ·1aw building and further development of engineering facilities, plus the opening of the Marie DeBartolo Performing Arts Center slated for 2004. 
The construction of such a diverse combination of facilities will serve to alleviate current stresses in faculty offices and research space and allowing for the renovation of Nieuwland Hall into much-needed faculty research laboratories. 
Affleck-Graves believes that the University's aggressive building plan, coupled with its innovative policy of upgrading a set of classrooms each summer, will sufficiently alleviate the dilemma that revolves around academic space issues at Notre Dame. 
In a situation as all-encom­passing as space management, nearly any proposal is a step in the right direction. 
"It is kind of a vicious circle, because Notre Dame is growing and has more viable programs that need space -it is a good thing -it's just a tricky thing," said Schellinger. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 
the use of a bulldozer. 
. "Whether building more class­rooms will solve the problem of academic space management is questionable," Preacher said. Having dozens of empty rooms on campus after 4;00 p.m. is hardy an economical use of edu­cational facilities, she said. 
Powers agreed. "Space costs money, and ultimately, it costs students money. The question we have to ask is, 'ls there a way we can run things more efficiently?'" 
Simple though it may seem, as Pace noted, it is a complex prob­lem centering primarily on tech­nological availability in the dents tend to be reluctant to subject themselves to 8:30 a.m. time slots. and facultv members have made a recent push for more 75-minute blocks of teach­ing time. 

Compounded, as well with set practice times for inter-hall and varsity athletics as well as the University policy prohibiting the scheduling of evening classes, many conflicts arise in schedul­ing class times according to Powers. 
As of now, the committee is in the early stages of formulating a feasible solution. Even at such a juncture. it has hit a number of 



ATION 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former prime minister left stateless: 
Zimbabwe's last white ruler, former Prime Minister Ian Smith. said Wednesday the gov­ernment stripped him of his Zimbabwe citi­zenship and passport Smith, 83, the leader of tthodesia, as Zimbabwe was known before independence in 1980, said authorities in Harare refused to renew his Zimbabwe pass­port, leaving him stateless. 
Russia, Iran construct power plant: 
Russia will finish building a nuclear power plant in Iran despite U.S. opposition and is considering a tentative North Korean request for a similar plant, Russia's top nuclear official said Wednesday. The reactor Russia is building at an unfinished nuclear power plant in Bushehr, Iran, will be completed by 2005 as planned, Nuclear Energy Minister Alexander Rumyantscv said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Court rules on illegal immigrants: 
Immigrants who work illegally in American plants, restaurants and fields do not have the same rights to restitution as U.S. citizens who are mistreated on the job, a divided Supreme Court ruled Wednesday. The court ruled that a plastics company owed nothing to a Mexican man who used a friend's identification to get a job. The Bush administration argued that with­out the threat of punishment for employers, some of the millions of undocumented workers in the United State might be exploited. 
Yellowstone plans elk preservation: 
A scientific report recommends the Interior Department take a hands-off approach to managing Yello~stone National Park's elk herd, the largest in the country. For 80 years, there has been debate about whether the elk are overgrazing the park's key vege­tation, such as willow, sagebrush and aspen. 
. INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Clerk's resignation offer rejected: 
Prosecutors rejected an offer for Goshen's clerk­treasurer to resign and instead filed an 11th charge that accuses the elected official of repeat­edly mishandling her bookkeeping duties. Elkhart County wants Nancy Hoke to admit she filed inac­curate reports and pay back some of the $40,000 Goshen paid an accounting firm to fix the records, Prosecutor Michael Cosentino told The Truth for a story published Wednesday. A man who answered the phone at Hoke's home Wednesday evening told The Associated Press that she was referring media inquiries to her attorney. 
Market Watch March 27 
Dow 10,426.91 +73.55 

Composite

]~ 5fr:: 
Volume: I.!56,049,024 

AMEX: 901.02 +5.14 NASDAQ: 1,826.75 +2.58 NYSE: 599.85 +4.17 S&P 500: 1,144.41 -3.04 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MET001EDIA FIBE (MFNX) +18 .18 +0.02 0.13 'l'.ORLIX]J1 INC-'vll (i-.(01) +1. 31 +0.08 6.19 NASD~-100 INDE (tm) -0. 78 -3.69 35.61 ADELPHIA CCH1-A (ADLAC) -18 .10 -0.31 16.70 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.86 +0.25 8.67 

The government's defiant Serbian Justice Minister Albanian prisoners from 
Associated Press 
move comes a day after Vladan Batie said the Serbian jails, and severing 
Yugoslavia's constitutional Serbian government decid­formal ties with the Bosnian 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia court, dominated by ed to adopt The Hague's Serb military. 
Faced with a U.S. dead­Serbian nationalists, ruled statute after months of Among the suspects line to hand over war that the tribunal's statute fruitless legal debates and sought by the tribunal are crimes suspects, Serbia's cannot be applied in Serbia. wrangling between political the world's top war crimes government on Wednesday The U.S. Congress gave factions. fugitives, former Bosnian defied a high court ruling Yugoslavia until March 31 The government move Serb leader Radovan and adopted a U.N. tri­to cooperate with the court indicates that it is ready to Karadzic and his wartime bunal's rules allowing such or risk losing $120 million arrest and extradite at least military commander, Gen. extraditions. in financial assistance. some of 15 Serb war crimes Ratko Mladic. Mladic is 
Yugoslav President Acting on a similar deadline suspects living in the repub­known to be hiding in Vojislav Kostunica and his last year, the Serbian gov­lic and sought by The Serbia; Karadzic's where­nationalist followers have ernment arrested former Hague. abouts are unknown. opposed extraditions to the Yugoslav President Batie said that he doesn't Both were indicted tribunal in The Hague, Slobodan Milosevic, who is believe March 31 is the final together for genocide for Netherlands, saying they now on trial in The Hague deadline because the the 1995 massacre of about are illegal and demanding for atrocities his forces Serbian government has 8,000 Muslim men and boys that a special domestic law committed in Kosovo, fulfilled two other condi­in Srebrenica, Bosnia, and be adopted to let Serbia Bosnia and Croatia in the tions set by the United the three-year military siege hand over suspects. 1990s. States -releasing all ethnic and shelling of Sarajevo. 
LEBANON 
Saudis off er Mideast peace plan 
recognition of Israel in exchange for attached than in February when
Associated Press 
the return of Arab lands. If endorsed Abdullah first sketched out the pro­
BEIRUT, Lebanon Thursday by the entire Arab summit posal. Reportedly added at Syria's 
Amid the chaos of angry words, as expected, the plan may provide suggestion, the plan demands walkouts and stay-at-home protests, the basis for future peace negotia­Palestinian refugees return home Saudi Arabia presented a peace plan tions after the violence subsides. after decades of exile. Wednesday to an Arab summit riven Israeli officials criticized the Saudi The plan also demands a by internal conflicts and historical plan as too vague and complained Palestinian state with Jerusalem as hatreds. The lack of unity could that the new language offering "nor­its capital even though Israel insists make it difficult to sell the plan and mal relations" somewhat weakens the city remain united under its sov­its promise of normal relations the idea of "normalization" initially ereignty. The plan -at least the between Israel and the Arab world. floated by Abdullah. Israel wants English language translation of it ­
Nearly drowned out by the the­open borders with tourism and limits the demand to "east atrics in Beirut and the new violence trade -not just formal diplomatic Jerusalem," which Israel captured in Israel was a proposal by Saudi ties. from Jordan's control in the 1967 Crown Prince Abdullah for pan-Arab The Saudi plan has more strings Mideast war. 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 28, 2002 
Norton and Moscona reflect on terms 
biggest challenges that Norton, Internet and through a student By JOHN FANNING 
Moscona and their staff faced activities hotline. Also in develop­News Writer 
have been trying to live a relative­ment is the establishment of a 
ly normal student life while having new student outreach room that 
After a year of serving as stu­as much intera1,;tion as possible will allow students to more effec­dent body president and vice­with the student body. tively promote their activities on presidcnt, Brooke Norton and Both agree that one of the most campus. Brian Moscona will finish their tangible ways in which they were Despite these improvements, terms this week, allowing Libby able to interact with the student one of the biggest challenges that Bishop and Trip Foley to succeed body was through participating in Norton and Moscona have faced them. After a long year in office, the active unification of different has been in affecting immediate the incumbent president and vice­campus groups during the past change on campus and keeping president can now reflect on their year. According· to Moscona, in students informed and aware of experiences. the past many student groups the work that student government 
Both Norton and Moscona share have tended to exist as is doing. Hoth agme the major sig­long hL'ltories of service in student autonomous bodies, disconnected nificance for this comes from the government. Norton served as from the other organizations on long processes usually involved in Walsh Hali's freshman represen­campus. wide-scale campus improve­tative, freshman class secretary, "We've really promoted the uni­ments. sophomore class president and fication of the student union," said "It's often difficult for us student body vice-president before Moscona. "In fact, our collabora­because we're only here for four becoming the first female student tion fund [money used for inter­years," said Moscona. "Change body president in Notre Dame's acting with other campus groups]. happening quickly for us means history. which in previous years was bare­within one year, while for the 
Likewise, Moscona has had an ly used, is almost dry already." administration quickly often extensive student _government One of the most apparent means five years or more." background, serving as Stanford results of this new cooperation As a result, Norton and Hall representative, freshman was seen in the organization of Moscona agreed that although class secretary and sophomore this year's diversity fair, which they may not see certain changes class president before attaining was widely attended by people of realized during their time at Notre 
the rank of student body vice­all ethnic groups. Dame, it is important that they very positive relationship with the not deter students from continu­president. Overall, Norton and "So many different types of peo­focus equally on both short-term administration, they also recog­ing to be involved in the Notre Moscona had nothing but positive ple were working together on and long-term improvements. nized the need for more student Dame community that they have things to say about their year in things this year. As long as we're In fact, many of Norton and input into many of the decisions worked so hard to strengthen. oflicc. going in that direction, that's a big Moscona's accomplishments, such that are made regarding campus "What we need to do as stu­
"It's definitely an honor to be step," said Norton. as expanding student social space, life. Student government is given dents is to show through our student body president. To be able Moreover. many mediums for planning for new restaurants in the opportunity to present campus actions, words and activities that to represent the students on a closing the gap between student Lafortune, negotiating better needs to the Board of Trustees we love this University and each 
day-to-day basis is really amaz­government and the student body facilities at the Alumni-Senior three times throughout the year, other," said Norton. "We need to ing," said Norton. have also been established. Club and implementing various which has been a very positive show that we care about the com­
However, the past year has not Included in these improvements is technological changes on campus instrument for change, but Norton munity here, because that is what at all been easy for the governing an in-depth calendar system that are all the end result of projects said that there is still more work makes this place so unique." duo, who often spent 40 to 60 will inform the student body of all that have been in the works for to be done in improving the lines hours a week working on student campus events. This new calendar many years. of communication. 
Contact John Fanning at 

government issues. As a result of will be available to the students in While Norton and Moscona both Both hope that certain decisions 
jfanning@nd.edu.

this large responsibility, one of the the residence halls, on the reported that they have had a made by the administration will 


BRING COLLEGE ID • MUST BE 21 THURSDAYS•COLLEGE NIGHT NO COVER BEFORE 11 Pm LOTS OF STUFF FOR A BUCK 
222 S. MICHIGAN :: SOUTH BENO :: 574.234.5200 :: HEARTLANOSOIJTHBENO.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 574..251..2568 
' 
j.__ 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Passover dinner ends lecture series 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
Nearly 50 participants were present for a traditional Passover Seder that finished a cHscussion series titled "Passover and Judaism in the Western Tradition" this week. 
C. Spencer Beggs, one of 11 Jewish undergraduates at Notre Dame, led the meal drawing upon his family's traditions. 
The idea for the discussion series and Seder originated from Beggs' Program of Liberal Studies class, "The Bible and Its Institutions." 
"While Notre Dame has a lot of intelligent people. sometimes we get jaded by the homogene­ity on campus. I thought this would be a good way to expose people to what most haven't been exposed to before and give them a basis of understanding themselves through the eyes of a different culture," Beggs explained. 
Beggs received an e-mail in January from the College of Arts and Letters about the "Residing a World of Ideas" program that offers a grant of $1,500 for stu­dents to organize events that bring students and faculty together to discuss an issue. Beggs then contacted various pro fessors within the PLS department, students and his family for the recipes and sto­ries that are part of the Passover Seder. 
The Seder took place at Greenfield's Cafe and began at sundown and lasted approxi­mately two hours. Faculty and students were provided a Haggadah, which is the book 
.; 

that contains the story and blessings of the Passover Seder. The Haggadah. which means "to tell," has been passed down in Beggs' family for over 50 years. Beggs actually did much of the transcribing and editing for the copy provided at dinner. 
The "required" parts of the Seder are the retelling of the story of the Exodus from Egypt, eating matza, as well as other symbolic foods, and drinking four cups of wine (representing the four stages of the Exodus). 
After four cups of wine and a group reading of the allegory "Had Gadyo" Beggs compli­mented the participants, "This is the best version of Had Gadyo I've ever heard." 
The Seder meal began with five foods in remembrance of the struggle of the Israelites in their quest and journey to free­dom. Some of the food was bit­ter to remind of the bitter exo­dus, but the students and facul­ty were adventurous and tried all the foods. A dinner followed that included matza halls soup, marinated asparagus, beef brisket, arni pisto and "Heart Attack" Potatoes, a recipe from Beggs' mother. 
Priga Varghesi enjoyed the meal and learning the tradition behind it. "There's a lot of stuff in our culture that we don't know what it's all about." 
The Passover Seder was pre­ceded by discussions on both Monday and Tuesday exploring "Judaism and the West" as well as "The Symbolism and Meaning of Passover." 
Contact Liz Kahling at ekahling@nd.edu. 
enough money. while SUB and is seeking approval to will get an increase regard­hand out surveys to address
Senate 

less. CLC concerns that extending 
The amendment to parietals would negatively
continued from page 1 

increase club allocations affect athletes. ROTC stu­failed 14-8. dents and hall staffs.
"I think you are over sim­

. An open letter concern­plifying the issue. I think 
ing experiential learning
clubs can run a program, In other Senate news: 

addressed to University
but I feel I am more pre­. The resolution to change Provost Nathan Hatch was

pared to program," said the CCC Ethnic division 

approved. The letter urges
Christ. "We don't program name to the Cultural divi­

the University to establish a
for a constituency, we pro­sion was passed unanimous­policy on experiential learn­gram for the entire student ly. The resolution cited that ing programs and academic

body." the current name was "no 

credit.
Sole Galmarini, Badin Hall longer an adequate or accu­

. Danielle Ledesma was
senator, said that the Senate rate representation" and approved as the Judicialshould hold off on the that the word "ethnic" 

Council President for 2002­amendment and wait a year implies "a negative connota­
03.
to see how the recent tion" creating an exclusive Student Activity increase environment. would affect the clubs. . There was a unanimous 

Tai Romero, student union consent of an open letter senator, supported the regarding extending pari­amendment. stating that the etals to the CLC. The letter clubs, including service states that the Senate is Contact Meghanne Downes at clubs, will not receive willing to work with the CLC downes.4@nd.edu. 
D'Arcy to speak at Holy Cross 
Holy Cross college president. During his local tenure,
. Fort Wayne­

As a prominent figure in D'Arcy started many pro­South Bend the Catholic community. grams, such as providing Bishop to speak at D'Arcy was the College's first televised Sunday masses for 
choice of speakers for this the homebound and opening
commencement 

year's Commencement. a second chancery office in "We wanted to recognize South Bend. Other accom­him with a degree for the plishments of note during
By AMANDA GRECO 

leadership he's taken in the D'Arcy's term as bishop
News Writer Ex Corde dialogue preserving include the 1987 instatement 
the Catholic traditions in col-of the Annual Bishop'sFather John D'Arcy, bishop 
1e g es," Appeal, which fiscallyof the Fort Wayne-South 

Gilman strengthened the diocese andBend Diocese will address 
said. resulted in the largest per
the Holy Cross College grad­

D'Arcy capita appeal of any U.S. dio­
uating class of 2002 at the 

w a s cese.
35th Commencement cere­

ordained The Fort Wayne South 
mony on May 11. 

as a Holy Bend Diocese, under
D'Arcy will also receive an C r o s s D'Arcy's direction has aided

honorary degree from the 

priest in those in need with servicesCollege. Holy Cross is the 
1957. He provided through the
only Catholic college in the D'Arcy received a Women's Care Center,diocese yet to confer an hon­

doctorate Chapin Street Clinic,
orary degree to Fr. D'Arcy, 

in spiritual theology from Hannah's House, the Center
said Brother Richard Gilman, Angelicum in Rome in 1968. for the Homeless, La Casa de D'Arcy served as the auxil­Amistad, Christ Child Society, iary bishop for Boston in Hospice of St. Joseph County, 1975 and was named vicar Center for Basic Learning for spiritual development at Skills, St. Vincent de Paul, 


that time. Life Athletes and ·catholic
'\ SUMMER 2002 TOUR 
D'Arcy was also the region­Charities. al bishop for the Lowell Region Archdiocese of 
Boston in 1981. He has 
served the northern Indiana 
community as bishop of the 

Fort Wayne-South Bend Contact Amanda Greco at 
Diocese since 1985. amanda_k_greco@hotmail.com. 
GUIDES NEEDED 
The Office ofUndergraduate Admissions is seeking Unplanned Pregnancy? 
full-time tour guide/office workers for this summer Don't go it alone. 
(May20 -August 16) 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Our 75-minute tours are offered M-F at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
Notre Dame students from the South Bend area and students planning 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819


to attend Summer Session are encouraged to apply. 
. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286


Applications are available in Room 220, Main Building 
South Bend Community Resources: 
8:00 am -5:00 pm M -F 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



Application deadline is Friday April 12, 2002 
page 8 Thursday, March 28, 2002 
The Ob.erver . PAJD ADVERTISEMENT 


"""!,·,~ 
''• 
·J 


Real. Opportunity. 
How do you choose an employer in today's economy? Do you seek an organization who has been successful for nearly a century? A culture that promotes learning and a "think straight, talk straight" philosophy? Or, do you want to be part of an organization thafs committed to creating tangible, positive results for clients? 
If you've replied "yes" to all of the above, then Andersen may be right for you. 
Attention University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Freshmen and 
Sophomores: Want to find out more about a career in professional services? 
Don't miss Andersen's workshop "Defining Your Aspirations" focused on uncovering 
your interests and career goals: 
The University Club Tuesday, April 9 
6:00 PM -9:00 PM 
Share dinner and learn more from our professionals about life in professional services and today's business world. Pre-register by Monday, April 1. Registration forms are available at The Career Center on the 2nd floor of Flanner Hall or email Andersen at chi-campus.recruiting@us.andersen.com. 



ANDERSEN www.andersen.com/careers 
©2002 ,A,ndersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Mardi Gras theft remains unsolved 
gation has not yet concluded, unknown person or personsBy GEREMY CARNES but so far the identity of the lifted the office keys from the News Wricer thief or thieves remains hall president's room. 
unknown. The majority of the money 
The investigation into the ''It seems like the trail is a was returned in an envelope theft of O'Neill Hall's Mardi bit cold right now," said outside Herman's room Feb. Gras ticket sales has turned up Father John Herman, O'Neill 11, but an amount between no new leads according to Rex Hall rector. $900 and $1000 is still miss­Rakow. director of Notre More than $4000 was stolen ing, Rakow said. Dame Security/Police. from the O'Neill Hall govern­To prevent further thefts, 
Rakow said that the investi-ment office on Feb. 9. after an the lock to the hall 1rnvern­
We did your homework 
Sprint Pcs· found 2 great instant rebate offprs just 
for college students! 
. Receive a$25 instant rebate 
on a new handset with 
a 1-year Advantage Agreement 
. Receive a$50 instant rebate 
on a new handset with 
a 2-year Advantage Agreement 
. Offer valid at Sprint Stores 
with avalid student identification 
card from qualifying colleges 
and universities 
Indiana Kokomo Warsaw 
Kokomo Plaza Woodland Plaza Elkhart 621 South Reed Rd. 3638 East Commerce Dr. 422 East Bristol 765-452-6500 219-269-5001 219-264-4100 
Marion 
Ohio

Fort Wayne 3022 South Western Ave. Coldwater Crossing 765 668-0000 
Lima
.Sprint Store 5525 Coldwater Rd. 

South Bend
11J,l"C$C•wt.r 3215 Elida Rd.
219-41!2-7271 

State Road 23 and Ironwood Or. 
419-331-9596 

Fort Wayne 2035 South Bend Ave. Covington Plaza 219·277-7727 6336 Jefferson Blvd. 
219·436-1445 

i'IIIG •t P<If!Cllp;,iillff,j :iprol n01es w'i' Cu~oom #11"4 p1ele'IOO S!lial l"l::i !Au:111 llal11QJ1ualllrla iRIIMI! riAJal'II. not.ii CililOO!OO IJll~I (lw~l'f a5 llt,ll'lfi ~elt:ioBII ullhl flebi.le•ll!U•GI ll,n.!lna DI MW Iii~ ll~WUM J/ll/fJl an.:J 4(.JJ/OZ ar'III aclrwauoit M lhti POJll!lll$1!-@IOII 11S:p-in!l'!'.'SS<!!Yr.,~~ ~, t!l99ulll{)lla" .,,,t~ lnev,;~1mn:!:~111,11CS PIIM~ Nutrtier ln,l~dle![IICi Oil 11.11111 'i!lllknl O l'!ll!t!Je J"SCI/IIGO 111 IIINI OI P.,ltM"!:e ffftulty 1M ~ll ,'ll'a JlClltil,;i,tklOt m1....1reillla.fl~lffQlll\/1\t':.teed1o11I ralail O,ICI ol11'1'1",'iaslld l)II000.$150tar1Jlarl'!Wla!_, l!ltilPjlhlls t,$pt'III PCS Mwl~llge Aqfeemenl Anornh,ndllbltt'l4 99pll0Jle atliv<Uion lall aii,Ji~s.euc-,nRleCI Atlllill1~nwkllb All p11n, RJl:ltocl lotl'lldi! approvtl Dlll)Ol\d~ Oltf.fl!ldll. 1$115 dopoli'I and M1flmtw ~cfW9811Wy-,_Oll:.'""'(nlll.bl!~w,1hceltl¥100lllJ'jl"omol1'11I.UJS01.Llll!.Wlllll.l.Ullli!pllllm.-.:l1&ool.nt!latlltwiOICulle1phond01t.-,.Wnles.l S.p:.ntooi'l-~lar~lllil81i.1bl~kaltle!'Gell•~ OH.anlU()lfl'LIIJWILhdrawallrilflr.1,:,H1llf't' ~()1001 ~S!ll(truml!•, Al!tllj'lf! ~ S!,rllt.Si,rllll l'CS. S!:fll'l!llCSC!ewP.,iM tl'ledlll1'1'16M !600 ,ttel,-_i,iafb o1 SimtCcPwlulQIIOM~rU' 
ment office has been changed. announced that O'Neill Hall 
"[The administration] took would not have Mardi Gras care of that right away," next year unless it was Herman said. returned. 
The theft With a large will result in "It seems like the trail is portion of the increased money still
a bit cold right now. " 
security for missing. the future O'Neill fate of next hall events. Father John Herman year's Mardi 
"We may O'Neill Hall rector Gras is uncer­

have a dance tain. yet this A likely spring, and if change to the we do, before tickets are sold University alcohol policy that all the hall government people will ban in-hall dances also and I will sit down and talk leaves the event's status and be very clear about where unclear next year. the money is going," Herman said. 
After discovering that the Contact Geremy Carnes at money was missing, Herman gcarnes@nd.edu. 

Experience Stanford this Summer 
• 
Engage in thought-provoking study with Stanford faculty 

• 
Live 011 campus -a short drive from West Coast beaches 

• 
Earn full-year credit in foreign languages and physics 

• 
New 3-week Institutes in Creative Writing & International Security 


Choose from more than 200 courses, including: Psychology of Peak Performance (Psy I 68S) • Evolution, Mind, & Culture (Phil 85S) • Creativity and Innovation (MS&E 277) • Battles for God (PoliSci 166G) • American Religious Thought (RS 8S) • Investigating Violence (Cult&SocAnth 1t 9S) • Intro to Artificial Intelligence (CS 12t)•lntro to Signal Processing (EE 103) 
Ph: (650)723-3109 
summersession.stanford.edu 

16" EXTRA LARGE 
Limited Time Only! (introductory price) 

New! Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) 5.99/doz 

(Expires 4/10/02) 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
~11t~i~1j 
~eright 

Read the Observer Because news two weeks late isn't news ... it's history. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, March 28, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo,c Q, Notre Dame, TN 46556 024 S0U1h Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne Vll'Wl'OlNl' EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCF.NE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 

SAJNr M.Altv's EDITOR: Sheila Egcs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Marc Luo. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSUMS ADMJNISTRAT0R: Pahvel Chin WEB AnMINlSTRAT0R; Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER, Lori Lcwalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER; Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO........•...631-7471 FAX. ........................................................... .631-6927 AnVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING Emrna/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 

SCENE.. ....................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARv's ...... ......................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampw; news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-che 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet che editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sa.int Mary's College. Editorial content, inducling adverrisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either insci rution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint spa<;<: is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lem:rs is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informadon. 
Qumiom regarding Obscroerpolicies ,hould be direct­ed/() Editor in CbiefJll$(Jn McFarky. 
The unruly ruled 
Proposed changes t.o the University alcohol policy were never sup-Student Senate and Monday's Campus Llfe Council meetings. posed to be·a laughing matter. Neither were student protests of the Conversely, though students acted unreasonably, Poorman's revisions and administration's receptiveness to campus concern treatment of the changes has been just as ineffective. about the changes; but that is what both have turned int.o. At the CLC meeting, Poorman addressed what he believed were 
Since March 18, when officials announced the policy changes, stu-the most-asked questions about the policy changes but scheduled dents have failed to organize a thoughtful public . inadequate time to answer unrehearsed questions demonstration against the proposed regulations OHJerver from CLC members and the 200 students in atten­that hasn't degenerated into juvenile antics. Edi •a1 dance. At that meeting, Poorman also renewed his Similarly, the man responsible for the changes, Vice ~on stance that the changes were essentially final and 
President for Student Affairs Father Mark l! Poorman, has failed to seriously respond to under­graduates' concerns that they were locked out of the policy-making process, and that the statistical reasoning behind the policy remains undisclosed. 
But this is no joke. 
Protests, such as Tuesday's midnight rally outside Main Building, hurt the student cause more than they help. Students laughed and posed for pictures during the rally, all the while burning copies of the student hand.book and throvving bottles ofliquor on the steps in front of the administration headquarters. At a larger March 20 rally, students also burned the handbook and delivered speeches that amollilted to little more than administration bashing and dorm cheerlcading. While such frustration and acts are understandable given the child-like way in which the administration treats the stu­dents, the student body would do well to follow the more rational leadership of student government and those present at Sunday's that releasing statistics on which the changes were 
based "wouldn't advance the discussion at this point." 
It's time to get serious. 
For students, this means behaving as thoughtful adults and show­ing concern for a variety of campus issues -not merely alcohol restrictions. CLC, Student Senate and other meetings are always open to the public and officials encourage students to voice their opinions at such venues. 
For Poonnan and the administration, it means devoting a meeting or series of meetings, and not just an e-mail or quick appearance at the CLC, to fully answering student concerns. Administrators must respect students' intelligence and provide them with an open, infor­mation-fillcd forum in which they are capable of being constructive. 
Students and administrators may reach no happy medium in this issue, but a compromise from both sides at least makes Poorman's enactment of the changes, and campus response to them more than a joke. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Readers decry alcohol protests 
Actions embarrasing 
As a student of the Notre Dame community, it angers and embarasses me greatly to see my fellow students acting in such an immature and disrespectful man­ner. With the change in the alco­hol policy, are we really going to be missing out on that much? 
Inside one of the largest "drink­ing schools" in the United States, will the lack of hard liquor inside the dorms really have such a negative effect on our communi­ty? Or will it help to make it just a little more safe and a more respectful place for those who live within it? 
Students are protesting the adminitration infringing on our rights while many of these same students are given more rights by the University than are legally theirs as minors. With rights come responsabilities. 
As for the issue of discontinuing SYRs, more times than not, we forget that we have the responsi­bility to clean up after ourselves and to fix what we break. How many times have we spent a weekend in a dorm absolutely trashed after an SYR, with bath­rooms that reek of vomit and are absolutely disgusting -bath­rooms that arc left for the clean­ing people to take care of Monday morning. That is not their responsibility, but being so con­cerned with our rights, we forget our responsibility. 
I am abroad this year, so obvi­ously I do not see this firsthand, but I read in The Observer online about students protesting by throwing liquor bottles at the Dome. Please, grow up. If you want to convince the administra­tion that we are mature enough to live in community without parietals or with more freedom in regards to alcohol, behaving like wild children is not going to do it. Take a step back and look at yourselves. 
When I read reports like this it makes me feel ashamed to be a Notre Dame student. Why is liquor always such an important rallying point for Notre Dame students? Why does it seem to be the first priority? Why don't we all just take a step back, realize that this is not the end of the world as we know it and concen­trate our efforts and protests toward some cause that legiti­mately deserves our time and attention. 
Katie Fuehrmeyer 
JUlllOr 
Notre Dame program in Puebla, Mexico 
March 27, 2002 

Churchs crisis eclipsed 
I enthusiastically concur with Mary Ann Hennessey's letter on Tuesday entitled, "Alcohol is sole motivator." During my years at Notre Dame, not even the Gulf War or the demands of Students United for Respect (SUFR) could unite the stu­dent body to action. 
A brief examination of the articles on The Observer's website reveals no cam­pus coverage of the current crisis within the Catholic Church. Why are there no calls for Father Malloy to make a state­ment regarding sexual abuse in the Church and its equally dispicable cover­up? Why haven't students written letters demanding the University disclose if any campus priests have had complaints made against them? At the very least, the intellects of the student body should be stimulated to debate the relationship (if any) between celibacy and these allega­tions of abuse. 
It is deplorable that only changes to the alcohol policy could stir the students' emotions, while the rest of nation strug­gles with the current fragile state of the Catholic Church. 
Michael Zimmer New York City class of '94 March 26, 2002 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Andrew Thagard Kiflin Turner Meghan Martin 
Sports 
Matt Lozar 
Viewpoint 

Pat McElwee 
Scene 
Matt Nania 
Graphics 
Jake Weiler 
Production 
Joe Hettler 
Lab Tech 
Dorothy Carder 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 
Moderately/ 
To what extent do student A lot protests affect 9%/ administrators' decisions? A little 14% 
Poll courtesy of NDToday.com 
Total votes: 429 
Patrick McElweerThe OBSERVER 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We were born to unite with our fellowmen, and to join in community with the human race." 
Marcus Tullius Cicero Roman orator and statesman 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 page 11 
Some Catholic social justice obligations 
are yet to be fulfilled 
One of the interesting aspects uf the work of the University's anti-sweatshop task force is that while its undertaking is enormous. its focus is limited. Simply to track the activity of the companies that make Notre Dame products requires a lot of work. The Universitv also eval­uates the· activity of the companies in light of the Church's social teaching. 
Because of the appropriately lin1it­ed focus of the sweatshop task force, there are other areas of eco­nomic activity on the part of the University that await assessment. For instance, there is not an analogous task force looking into purchasing. Ifwe should not make Notre Dame products in China because of its laws against the free­dom of association, then it would at first seem that we also should not purchase goods -for instance, desks and chairs ­made there. Such issues are highly com­plex and time-consuming to address, as I found when serving on the sweatshop task force. 
There is one area of University econom­ic activity that, while complex, is certainly within Notre Dame's capacity to assess and respond, and that regards the condi­tions and the salaries or wages of those who work for the University. A number of years ago there was an effort to address the issue of the salaries of staff. It is worth revisiting the issue -the cost of living is not stagnant -while broadening the scope of concern to include all workers that serve Notre Dame, including those who do so when the University sub-con­tracts the work. Appeals simply to market value or prevailing wages in the South Bend area are not adequate guidelines. 


A full assessment will require looking at the salaries of faculty and administrators as well because Catholic teaching is con­cerned not only with the living wage, but also with the gap between rich and poor. Here is one of the more difficult areas to assess because detailed information is dif­ficult and sometimes impossible to obtain. Having such information, however, would help nuance the conversation consider­ably. Salaries, even for professors of the same rank, vary according to whether the professor works in the College of Business, for instance, or in Arts and Letters. 
The greatest tension may be between the University's legitimate desire to improve as a research institution and the payment of a living wage to staff and other workers. Bringing top scholars to Notre Dame requires the payment of competitive salaries and, particularly in the sciences, the provision of highly expensive lab or other research resources. This may not be a zero-sum game in every case. Good research in some instances may bring in both founda­tion and donor funds to compensate the 
cost. The tension needs to be acknowl­
edged, however, and assessed as part of 
the question of the Catholic identil.y of the 
University. 
There are other areas of expenditure 
that also require assessment in light of 
the issue of the payment of fair wages. In 
reference to the Church, John Paul II has 
pointed to the problem of "costly furnish­
ings" and commented that "it could be 
obligatory to sell these goods" in order to 
provide adequately for all people. Last 
Friday's South Bend Tribune reported 
that Notre Dame's administration build­
ing has the number-one-ranked bath­
rooms in the country according to a 
national poll. The bathrooms have Stovax 
Victorian tile, solid oak interior partition 
doors on marble finished partitions and 
designer-accented faucets. 
Here, too, there are complex trade-off 
questions. The bathrooms are ranked in 
part in light of their upkeep -the effort 
of workers. The argument is often made 
that the overall production of wealth, 
which in this case led to the donations 
which made refurbishing the bathrooms 
possible, also makes possible the job to 
clean the bathrooms, a job that otherwise 
would not exist. The argument is that the 
desire for costly furnishings benefits even 
the least well-off among us. 
It is important to evaluate such argu­
ments rather than dismiss them out of 
hand. When a number of neo-liberal 
economists joined to make a statement · regarding sweatshops, the most that they 
could say in good conscience was that 
when the corporations subcontracted, which is usually the case in the apparel industry, the workers were "generally paid no lesli than the prevailing market wage." Notre Dame needs to attend in an ongoing way to the relationship between prevailing and living wages in the South Bend area and seek to pay the latter. 

I have two recommendations. First, in its long-range planning Notre Dame should highlight the payment of living wages to all workers associated with the University in the same way that it high­lights, for instance, the number of new faculty lines it sets as a development goal. The University can seek to develop a spe­cial endowment for the supplemental pay­ment of workers of subcontracted compa­rlies that do not pay a living wage. Second, attention to living wages is sus­tained best when workers have the right to organize. 
Given the attention to the right to orga­nize as a key for facilitating worker digni­ty in Catholic teaching, Notre Dame should not simply allow workers to exer­cise the right but encourage its practice by hosting information meetings on the history and practice of worker organiza­tion for all of its employees. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor oftheology and the director of the program in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at whit­more. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Noting flawed reasoning 
Most, if not all, of the articles criticizing the new alcohol policy seem to share this argument: Students are going to get drunk no matter what the administration does, so the administration should stop trying to curb this behavior and should in fact facili­tate it. Perhaps this argument is valid when dealing with children, who merely throw tantrums when their wishes are frustrated and only with difficulty learn to adjust their actions to a changed reality, but I should hope college students are different. 
Then there follows the reasoning that by forcing students to go elsewhere to drink liquor straight, the administration is putting those students in danger. Apparently, in many minds the hands of Father Poorman and those who "pull the golden strings" above him are already drip­ping with the blood of poor alcoholic stu­dents who will now have to suffer the agony of venturing off-campus to engage in immoral, and in many cases illegal. behav­ior. These students subsequently may be injured in car wrecks or by drunkenly stumbling into open vats of acid or piles of broken glass. 
This is peculiar logic, even by freshman standards. So it seems the administration should not forbid anything, unless it is something nobody wants to do anyway. 
Pornography? Guys are going to look at it. plain and simple. Might as well just pro­vide it for them so they can defile them• selves in the donns instead of making them go to fine establishments like "The Torch" [a local strip club] to stoke their lust and even do their shameful deeds. 
Abortion? Women (even good Notre Dame girls) will get them, no matter what anyone says. After all, it is their right. Might as well put a clinic on campus so pregnant students do not have to go off­campus to get them. 
There are plenty of other silly themes running through the prevailing angry opin­ions. For instance, take the appeal to "tra­dition." On the one hand, it is pleasant to see "progressive" people for whom tradi­tion is usually a four-letter word (an all­male campus and manual labor were also once traditions) invoke it in this case like it were synonymous with the will of God. Likewise, students vigorously championing traditions of which they themselves have been a part for a few years at most makes me wonder if they somehow experienced those traditions in a previous life. As for questioning the authority of the administra­tion to make and enforce this decision. it is beyond ridiculous. 
So far as I am aware, the administration has not said it will enforce underage drink­ing laws on campus. Nor has it said it will punish intoxication in those who are 21 or over. They could have, and perhaps should have, come up with something tougher than what they did, given the rampant abuse of alcohol among students. But the way stu­dents are wailing and gnashing their teeth, you would think it could not possibly get any worse. and that is a shame. 
Peter Schmidt 
Stamford, Connecticut Much 25, 2002 


O
THE BSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, March 28, 2002 
Traditional animation almost extinct with 'Ice Age' 
recurring presence of the pectedly effective voice as By MATT NANIA Scrat, falls into a fairly "Ice Age" Manny, an enormous Scene Movie Critic 
predictable pseudo­
woolly mammoth with a Disney mold. featuring an sarcastic tongue, but a soft "Ice Age" opens with a tiny, long­ice-age version of "The heart and an inner sad­
out offive shamrocks

nosed Scrat -a fictional prehistoric Incredible Journey," ness. In some ways, 
cross between a squirrel and a rat -except instead of dogs Director: Chris Wedge Romano has the most 
desperately trying· to bury his precious and cats we get a woolly thankless role, as he has
Starring: The voices of 

acorn in the solidly frozen ground, only mammoth, a sloth and a to play the straight mam­
Ray Romano, John

to cause a massive avalanche. It's a saber-tooth tiger. mal, especially as a foil for
Leguizamo and Dennis Leary

beautifully extended bit of slapstick that The first feature-length John Leguizamo's Sid. a 
plays out much like silent film comedy, computer-animated film clueless and talkative sloth 
where we read everything off the from 20th Century Fox's animation divi­with buggy eyes and buck teeth. 
Scrat's bugging eyes and manic physical sion, which is still recoiling from the With his slight lisp and utter cow­
movements (although his various disaster of the conventionally animated ardice, Sid is the butt of most of the 
grunts, squeaks and high-pitched "Titan A.E.," "Ice Age" delivers where it jokes -he's the weakest character in 
screams are vitally important to the needs to, but doesn't break any real, the Darwinian sense, so it's no surprise 
humor, as well.) new ground. It's funny and sweet and that he latches onto Manny right from 
The rest of the movie, despite the often clever, but it sometimes feels a lit­the start. The trio is rounded out by 
tle too formu­Dennis Leary's Diego, a saber-tooth Photo counesy ol google.com 
laic, as if much tiger who has plans for the human child Diego, voiced by Dennis Leary, has 
of the writing other than returning it to its tribe. sinister plans. 
involved filling although it is a foregone conclusion 
in blanks on a that his heart will be melted in typical 

even takes a moment to parody
form. kiddie-flick fashion. 

"Titanic," which is admittedly irre­
The general All of this unfolds in a quick 80 min­sistible when your film is overrun with story outline is utes that is nicely paced and not a ice. 

the least minute too long. Director Chris Wedge In its best moments, "Ice Age" is good
inspired aspect keeps the jokes rolling, interspersing escapist fun, goofy enough for the kids 
of the film: It the humor with moments of friendship to lose themselves in, but smart enoughinvolves a mis­and tenderness among the film's odd to keep adults entertained as well. The sion to return central trio. The most effective example 

animation is generally excellent ­
a lost human is when Manny sees cave drawings slightly more cartoonish. less detailed 
child to his come to life and depict the death of his and not quite as finely textured as 
tribe before a family at the hands of human hunters. Pixar's work in "Monster's Inc." -but 
glacier pass Overall,.. though, what you remember it is still enjoyable to watch and is yet

closes. Ray most are the gags -particularly a 

another nail in the coffin of traditional 
Romano (TV's hilarious sequence involving the self­hand-drawn animation. 

"Everybody inflicted demise of dodo birds. Other L o v e s pointed laughs involve a marathon in Raymond") which Manfred, the baby and Diego take offers an unex-turns slapping Sid around. The film Contact Matt Nania at nania.4@nd.edu. 
'Ballroom' whirls onto DVD 
(Tara Morice) obsession to construct good entertainment.
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
is the homely with the cre­The dance uniforms in "Ballroom" 
Scene Movie Criric 
beginner ation of add to the movie's entertainment, with whose heart "Strictly a flashiness that is not only eye-catch­Baz Luhrmann enchanted audiences shares Scott's Ballroom," ing, but also amusing. For audiences this year with "Moulin Rouge," fashion­passion to which has enthralled by the costumes and the ing a directorial style that thrived on explore the survived sev­dancing, production designer Catherine brisk cutting and flash. The overwhelm­artistic inter­eral incarna­Martin and choreographer John ingly positive response to "Rouge" pretation of tions as a O'Connell lend their commentary, and 
inspired audiences to investigate his the formerly smash stage the DVD provides a three-dimensional previous works. Both of Luhrmann's rigid struc­play before look at some of the zany costuming
previous films, "William Shakespeare's tures of being put choices as a complementary feature. Romeo + Juliet" and "Strictly Ballroom" dance rou­down on film. While Miramax claims to be celebrat­are timely releases to DVD this month, tines. Luhrmann, ing this movie's 10th anniversary, they
using the Academy Award Best Picture Together, who was disappoint DVD enthusiasts with an nomination of "Rouge" to generate DVD Fran and revered as an unremarkable transfer. The movie has purchasing power. The packaging of Scott will opera director suffered no permanent damage to the "Strictly Ballroom" may innocuously break all the before the stock, but the video remains grainy in 
mention that this release coincides with rules to make success of scenes. For a film that has a remark­
the movie's 10th anniversary, but it their mutual "Ballroom," ably great soundtrack presented in 
also places its connection to "Rouge" on dream come has unique Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround, the video is 
the front and the back of the packaging. true. The insights into the only drawback to the DVD. 
"Ballroom" is an invigorating romp movies the construc­"Strictly Ballroom" has entertainingthrough the world of Australian ama­m o t t o tion and characters, elaborate costuming and a teur ballroom dancing, where Scott becomes: "A manipulation magnificent soundtrack that is confined Hastings (Paul Mercurio) is primed to life lived in of each scene in a predictable outcome. Perhaps the become the next Pacific Grand Prix fear is a life in the movie. story should have appropriated the 
Amateur Champion if only he could 
half lived." As a special style of Hastings, who refused to be
After the success of "Moulin Rouge," audi­

learn to follow the rules. Luhrmann addition, the confined by standards and created a 
Like Christian of "Rouge" or the ences sought out one of Luhrmann's previous
is willing to "Strictly modern interpretation to an old formu­"star-crossed lovers" of "Romeo + concede that successes "Strictly Ballroom." Ballroom" la. Alas, the movie is still a brilliant first 




Juliet," Hastings is a rebel who follows the outcome DVD includes step in the rising trajectory of Baz his heart instead of the mandated of the movie is predictable within the the source of Luhrmann's inspiration: Luhrmann's career. and while the boundaries of his endeavor. His heart first 10 minutes of the movie, but an Australian independent documen­DVD's video transfer is not up to the 
tells him to be as imaginative in the 
acknowledges in his commentary that tary entitled "Samba to Slow Fox." The highest standards, "Strictly Ballroom" is creation of new moves as Luhrmann is 
he is more interested in the progression film is a revealing look at the obsessive a nice addition to any DVD collection. in the construction of unique characters of the characters and story. Luh­dedication of ballroom dancers to their and in the molding of his directorial rmann's commentary is retrospective, craft. The base of "Ballroom" is in approach. Hastings becomes the Jim looking at his pet film as the genesis of "Samba's" non-fictional environment, Stark of the ballroom dancing scene, all of his recent success. The commen­but Luhrmann has sprinkled elements Contact Jude Seymour at but his rebellion has a cause. Fran tary indirectly highlights Luhrmann's of light-hearted comedy and melodrama jseymour@nd.edu. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, March 28, 2002 page 13 
Two TICKETS FOR "E.T.: THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL" 
'E.T.' still has a home in cinema 
This week l\lel and Paul got reacquaint­ed with "E.T. " one of the mouie world's most repulsively cuddly aliens, whose story makes you glad to have Broadwing. 
MR: It feels a little odd to review "E.T." since everyone's already seen it. 
PC: Not everyone, because before this weekend, all l knew of the leathery little alien was his film's resonant tag lines, goose -pi nipling musical score and a bike flying across the moon. 
MR: Alright then, for those who need to refresh their memories, or for others, like Paul, who were busy reading Hemingway during their childhood and never saw "E.T.," here's the short-short version: A Reese's Pieces loving extra-ter­restrial is accidentally left behind on earth when scary, dangly keys-wearing, govern­ment agents scare his family away. He befriends a young boy named Elliot, who is going through a difficult time followin~ ~ parents' divorce. The two form a S):Ilb10tic relationship while trying to reumte E.T. with his family. Its mixture of comedy and drama is timeless; you'll still laugh when 
E.T. gets drunk (it's OK because it wasn't hard alcohol) and cry when the pair must say goodbye. 
PC: All that was great, but I got more choked up believing in the purity of a world in which Drew Barrymore has no tattoos. I mean, wow, what a concept. 
MR: While it is hard to imagine little Gertie as the future star of the Skinemax classic "Poison Ivy," it's interesting that your biggest take-away from this classic film was Drew's virgin skin. Nevertheless, it does highlight the fact that the three child actors in this film, especially Henry Thomas as Elliot, are phenomenal. They set a standard rarely met by young actors since. 
PC: That's because Ray Liotta didn't start making movies until he was an adult -but I digress. I went to the film denigrating Spielberg for contributing to the money-grubbing practice of re-releasing and thinking 20-year anniversaries seem better occasions for high school reunions. For a man with the 



ated walkie-talkies and the lovable alien now makes more animated facial expres­sions when interacting with the children. 

luxury of PC: Digital 
working with "E.T.: the Extra-Terrestrial" enhance­infinite Melissa's rating ments are resources, it'd nice, but typi­be nice for cally they're
Paul's rating 

··••t1Spielberg to go lost on the out on a limb majority of with some repeat watch­
~--·j
out offive shamrocks 

new material ers or else rather than Director: Steven Speilberg completely 
dip into his Starring: Henry Thomas, Drew Barrymore, Dee Wallace­unnoticed by 
own resume of 
Stone 
sure fire hits when he's looking for a can't miss. 
MR: Only this wasn't a simple re-release. Like "Star Wars" a few years back, the new "E.T." has been digitally re-mastered and contains some formerly deleted scenes. Spielberg replaced the guns of the government agents with computer-gener-

"E.T.: the Extra-Terrestrial" is one of the best children's mo~ies ever made. !he re­release demonstrates Speilberg's drive to touch up one of his early masterpieces. 
newcomers to 
the film. In this case, I question Spielberg's motivation for putting time and effort into technically enhancing small details of a movie driven by simplicity. The film engages entire audi­ences, not just children, by bringing unbe­lievable circumstances into a realistic world and then resolving the differences. That fancy computing now exists to make 
E.T. more demonstrative is irrelevant. 
MR: You're right, for all its enhance­ments, the joy of the movie still emanates from the original footage. I could have done without all the added bonuses and just enjoyed the excitement of seeing_ the movie on the big screen for the first t1111e, but I don't blame Spielberg. He's not doing it for the money -he doesn't need it. Plus, he already has a full plate of projects stacking up. I'm giving him the benefit of the doubt and believing that he really wanted to go back and improve his early masterpiece. 
PC: Then I'm giving him the benefit of the doubt on any mistakes or miscues in the first version, which I'm sure was pro­duced as well as Spielberg could produce it at the time. Do we want to keep giving filmmakers the leeway of a revisionist pro­duction clause on all of their works? Film is shot to freeze life, as Robert Redford said just recently at the Oscars. If anyone'_s going to freeze and u_nfreeze fr~mcs, 1t should be Zack Morns. Otherwise, the grasp that movies have over time is an artistic quality that audiences concede to the medium and one that I don't need betrayed by directors retroactively chec~­ing over things. "E.T." belongs to a certain epoch in both movie history· and the cre­ative evolution of Steven Spielberg. You can't consider the artist as a young man if he can go back and remove the charming fingerprints of his learning curve. 

MR: I don't think he's trying to correct the mistakes as much as strengthen the charms. And with or without the changes, the film stands on its own as arguably the best children's movie of all time -the non-animated one, for sure. Some might criticize the film for its exaggeration of authority figures; the scientists look like an army of evil spacemen and an entire police force is devoted to chasing some teenagers on bicycles. but their extremism clearly portrays how the frightened children per­ceive them. It's reminiscent of "The Christmas Story," where Ralph imagines Santa as a nasty brute. Both films rely on a youthful perspective to enrich their story. 
PC: Only "E.T." is not a just a great chil­dren's movie, it's simply a great movie. I say this because I enjoyed it, for the first time, 16 years after I was supposed to. The re-release ironically comes in the same year in which the inaugural Oscar for Best Animated Feature seemingly creates a new template for ambitious child~en's filnun~k­ing, but gets by with classic stor_ytellmg rather than glamorous effects. I like that 
E.T. comes off looking a bit like a puppet, the same way that I like the diminutive cartoonish nature of Little Mac fighting a gargantuan Mike Tyson on Nintendo's "Mike Tyson's Punch-out." Flashy digitiza­tion does not a great movie make and cer­tainly does not take the place of timely and poignant emotion. 
MR: For all its glory, though, I wonder if parents ever complained that the children set a bad example. They smoke, get drunk and have quite the vulgar vocabulary for their age. This is a movie that added the phrase "penis-breath" to the typical eight­year-old lexicon. 
PC: Those aren't half as obnoxious as the corny product placements scattered throughout the movie. By the war "W~y ­not take a time out from readmg this review and enjoy an ice cold Coke?" 
MR: But really, that's nitpicking isn't it? As is the case in most "children's films," there is a temptation for adults to dismiss "E.T." as juvenile or perhaps one long market ploy. While the sales of action fig­ures, lunchboxes and Reese's Pieces may have skyrocketed following its release, "E.T" remains perhaps the best example of the cinema addressing an adult theme from a child's perspective. 
PC: Not that it doesn't have roots in the canon of classic imaginary tales; pursuing the wonder of childhood .while peddling across the sky echoes "Peter Pan," while the spaceman motifs (and Elliot's platoon of Star Wars action figures) is Spielberg's shout-out to his buddy George Lucas. Hiding the faces of the authority figures hinted at the teacher from Charlie Brown. The narrative Spielberg ultimately creates is like a Dutch door: It opens through two portions but is not fully accessible until both its halves align at the film's end. Who says this director has "zero charisma"? 
MR: Only a real "cinus supremis." 
JiVhen they're not debating the virtues of recycled cinema, Mel and Paul are busy freeing the frogs in Nieuwland Science Lab. They can be reached at mrauch@nd.edu 
and pcamarat@nd.edu. 

NBA 
Without Martin, Nets still down 76ers 88-80 
• Jefferson scores 20 points to lead 
N.J. to victory 
A.sociatcd Pres• 
Derrick Coleman 13 and Dikembe Mutombo 12 for Philadelphia, which had its two-game winning streak snapped. 
After Philadelphia pulled to within six at 68-62 with 9 min­
utes left, New Jersey scored 10PHILADELPHIA of the next 16 points to open upRichard Jefferson is making a 10-point lead with 5:47 left.
the absence of Kenyon Martin a Consecutive layups by Collinsbit more bearable for the New made it 78-68. 
Jersey Nets. 
The Sixers never got closerWith Martin serving the final than seven points the rest of game of a two-game suspen­the way. 
sion, Jefferson filled the void, 
The Nets scored 13 of the
scoring 18 of his 20 points in 
first 16 points of the third
the second half to lead the Nets quarter, including two spectac­
to an 88-80 victory the ular alley-oop dunks by
Philadelphia 76ers. 
Jefferson, who had six in the"[Jefferson] is doing a great run, opening up a 51-37 leadjob, he's grown up fast," Nets with 8:11 left in the quarter. 
coach Byron Scott said. "He's a A layup by Kidd gave Newrookie with 
Jersey a 60-44 
a lot of abili­
lead, their
ty who has "This was a big win for 
biggest of the
learned on us to let them know that 
game.
the job." 
we can beat them." Philadelphia
Jefferson, then went on a a rookie 10-0 run, withmaking his Byron Scott 
Snow scoring
eighth start, 
head coach six and
led the Nets 
Coleman four.
in scoring 
The Nets scored for the sec-
six of the lastond straight 
eight points to lead 66-56 after game. Martin also missed New three.
Jersey's 103-77 loss in Atlanta Both teams struggled in the on Tuesday, the Nets' most lop­first quarter, with New Jerseysided loss of the season. 
shooting 5-for-25 from the
New Jersey beat the defend­
field. The Nets outscored
ing Eastern Conference cham­Philadelphia by 10 in the sec­pions for the first time in three ond quarter and built a 38-34games this season. 
lead by the break. 
"I don't know if one game is "After that first quarter, wegoing to do it, but I think they 
just wanted to weather theirhave to have a little more storm," Jefferson said. "Werespect for us after tonight," 
knew we would make our regu­Scott said. "This was a big win lar run if we could hold on." 
for us to let them know that we can beat them." 
Suns 118, Lakers 106
The Sixers slipped to 1-9 this 

Shawn Marion scored 32 
season without Allen Iverson, points and matched his seasonwho likely will miss the high with 18 rebounds as theremainder of the regular sea­Phoenix Suns erupted for their son with a broken left hand. 
biggest scoring night of the
Jason Kidd had 14 points and 
season over the Los Angeles
10 assists, and Kerry Kittles, Lakers.
Aaron Williams and Jason 
The Lakers, 3-3 in their lastCollins each scored 10 for the six games, fell a game behindNets, who won for the fourth Sacramento for the best record time in five games. 
in the NBA.

"They all hurt us and we hurt 
Stephan Marbury had 26
ourselves too," Sixers coach points and 11 assists, including Larry Brown said. "They just 
a fastbreak lob that Marion
-handled the game. They went soared to stuff one-handed to5-for-25 [from the field in the put Phoenix up 114-101 with
first quarter] and we didn't 
1:47 to play. 

take advantage." 
Jake Tsakilidis, coming off aEric Snow scored 21 points, career-high 23 points against Cleveland two nights earlier, added 19 points and 10 rebounds for Phoenix, fighting Shaquille O'Neal to a virtual standoff. O'Neal had 24 points, 10 in the fourth quarter, and 11 rebounds but was just 4-for­15 from the foul line. 
Kobe Bryant scored 36, including 18 free throws ­most by anyone in the NBA this season -in 20 attempts. But he was scoreless in the fourth quarter, when the Suns outscored Los Angeles 33-23. 
The Suns, six games out of the final playoff spot in the West, have won three in a row for the first time since Dec. 29. 
O'Neal didn't take a shot in the second half until his hook with 9:35 to play triggered a 6­0 spurt that cut the Suns' lead to 92-91 on Lindsey Hunter's 15-footer with 8:35 to go. 
Dan Majerle sank three of five 3-pointers for Phoenix, the last one to cap a 13-3 run that put the Suns up 107-96 with 
3:46 remaining. Penny Hardaway, relegated to a reserve role in recent weeks, scored four of his 11 during the run. Alton Ford also scored 11. 
Robert Horry began the game by making three wide-open 3­pointers, followed by a left­handed dunk on a drive. Derek Fisher's 3-pointer gave the Lakers a 22-10 lead halfway through the first quarter. 
Marbury scored 10 in a 21-8 run that cut the lead to 32-31 on Ford's three-point play with 
33.2 seconds left in the quar­ter. Phoenix went up 43-39 with a 6-0 spurt capped by Hardaway's 10-footer from the baseline with 7:03 left in the half. Marion's left-handed tip­in of his miss started the run, then Hardaway's steal set up Milt Palacio's layup to give Phoenix its first lead, 41-39, with 7:31 to go in the half. 
The Suns, who shot 65 per­cent (13-for-20) in the second quarter, outscored the Lakers 11-5 over the last three min­utes of the half to go up 62-56 at the break. 
Knlcks 89, Pistons 82 
Lavor Postell scored a career-high 20 points in 22 minutes to lead the New York Knicks to a victory over the Detroit Pistons. 

Kurt Thomas added 18 points and Latrell Sprewell scored 17 for the Knicks, who snapped a three-game losing streak. 
New York was without Allan Houston and Othella Harrington, who were sidelined made a 3-pointer in the final minute to help seal the victory. 
The Hornets continued their late-season surge and beat Orlando for the third time in four games this season, secur­ing the tiebreak edge over the 

with ankle sprains. Magic. 
Ben Wallace led the Pistons Tracy McGrady and Troy with 12 points, 20 rebounds Hudson each scored 25 points and eight blocks. Jerry to lead the Magic, who lost to Stackhouse and Chucky Atkins Charlotte for the second time in each scored 18 points for a week and lost for the third Detroit, which lost for just the time in four games overall. second time in eight games and Charlotte held a 105-101 lead squandered a chance to com­when Baron Davis passed to plete its first season sweep of Mashburn, who made a 3­the Knicks since 1989-90. pointer from the right wing 
Postell, who had not scored with 33.2 second remaining to more than seven points in a put the game out of reach. game this season, scored 15 The Hornets never trailed, points in the first half as the shooting 56 percent in the Knicks moved out to a 52-48 game and scoring 52 points in lead. the paint. Charlotte outre­
The Pistons, behind a 9-2 bounded Orlando 40-35. run, took a one-point lead late Leading 79-73 at the start of in the third, but the Knicks the fourth quarter, Charlotte regained the lead and moved added to its advantage with an out to a 71-63 advantage by 11-3 run, capped by a dunk by the end of the period. Lee Nailon with 8:34 left. 
Corliss Williamson scored The Magic countered with a 
eight points in  19-6 run  that  
the first five minutes of the fourth quar­ "After that first quarter, we just wanted to  included pointer four  a 3­and free  
ter as Detroit  waether their storm. We  throws  by  
pulled within 77-76. The Pistons  knew we would make our regular run if we  Hudson. A 3­pointer by Pat Garrity rallied  
seized  the  culd hold on."  the Magic with­ 
lead with 4:31  in 96-95 with  
left, before Travis Knight  Richard Jefferson  4:37 left. Charlotte  
made  a  pair  forward  made 11 of its  
of free throws  first 13 shots,  
to  give  the  and a layup by  

Knicks a 79-78 lead with 3:44 Nailon gave the Hornets a 45­remaining. 31 lead early in the second 
Sprewell hit a 3-pointer to quarter. extend the Knicks' lead to 82-Orlando closed the second 78, and the Pistons missed five quarter with a 6-0 run and consecutive shots down the received 15 first-half points stretch. from McGrady to pull within 
58-52 at the break. 
Hornets 111, Magic 104 

Jamaal Magloire scored 21 points and Jamal Mashburn Celtics 102, Warriors 99 
added 20 as the Charlotte Paul Pierce scored four point Hornets extended their winning in the last nine seconds and 
streak to seven games with a finished with 33 points, leading victory over the Orlando Magic. the Boston Celtics to a victory Magloire, filling in for injured over the Golden State Warriors. starting center Elden Campbell, The Warriors rallied from an shot 8-for-11 from the field and eight-point deficit in the last finished one point short of his 1 :24 and took a 99-98 lead 
career high. when Gilbert Arenas made a 3­Mashburn, who added nine pointer with 15.1 seconds rebounds and eight assists, remaining. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$250 a day potentiallbartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2·4·5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 lett for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3 NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097 
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip. Other worldwide destinations cheap. Book tickets online www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000 
WANTED 

2000 grad seeking room or apart­ment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept 1, 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com 
Camp Counselor for children w/ dis­abilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 6 sites in 
Summit County. Must enjoy outdoor activities. 
Call 800-CYO-CAMP for an appli• cation. 
YOUTH MINISTER. 2 suburban parishes, Chicago-OHare area, seek an innovative, dynamic, faith-filled person to coordinate a com• prehensive youth ministry program Full time position, requires flexible hours, some evenings, weekends. Compassion, enthusiasm, motiva• tion, organization skills, dedication to teens. 
Tasks: coordinating faith/formation program; supervising adult volun­leers; preparing liturgies, yearly retreat, fostering social justice out­reach; guide fund raising program. Preferred candidate Catholic with bachelor deg. in ministry/theology, some experience. 
Start date: July 1, 2002 Submit resume, reflection on youth min­istry, 3 references to: Youth Min. Search comm., 920 W. Granville, Park Ridge, IL 60068. Fax 847-825-3484 by April 6. 
SMC alumna looking for someone to do childcare in my Granger home for schOol year 2002-2003, 2-3 hours per day, M-F. Must have own car. Call 247-0690 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
MMMRentals.corn 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )large (6-9) people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call Sill at 532-1896. 
2 Great Hornes: 4 & 5 Bedrooms. Well Kept! Great Location! ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255­8403. 
3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. CIA. Security system Close to campus. 
Bi 6-699-584i 

OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec syS/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air,sec sys/parking 2-bed• room cottage..cute.. DAVE 291· 2209 
3·6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 272­6306,292-6717 
1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house with lots of updates. OW/wash/dryer inc. Walking distance to campus. Spacious yard for tailgating, recre­ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec or $325 ea for 5+ Call 277·8450 or email house@newwebtech.com 
SUMMER SUBLET 4Bdm/2Ba house close to ND partially tur­nished, air, w.d. great backyard $11 OO+uts 289-5651 
Lakeview 3052 Ashland-two good-sized bedrooms, nice closets, hard• wood floors, bright apartment, fireplace, near el, heat incl!. /dry in-bldg. May/1 or 15, 1200/mo. 773/472-7775 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
A lifetime of happiness awaits your baby. Young California couple with stay at home mom and involved dad will cherish your newborn in our warm, caring, secure and joy-filled home. Please call Kim and Al toll free anytime 1-866-533-3332. 

Thursday, March 28, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Three-goal comeback lifts Devils to 4-3 win 
Kovalev's shot from the right Philadelphia went ahead 1-0
. Holik, Elias 
point past Martin Brodeur. at 9:02 of the first period on score one minute Aleksey Morozov scored at Justin Williams' 16th goal. 
2:18 of the second for a 2-1 Williams. standing just to the
apart to lead N.J. 
Pittsburgh lead. He followed up right of Rangers goaltender Dan on Hrdina's shot and put the Blackburn, accepted a pass
Associated P rcss 
rebound past Brodeur for his from behind the net from Marty 19th. Murray, then was stopped on a PITTSBURGH In 24 career games against forehand shot before convertingBobby Holik and Patrik Elias New Jersey, Morozov has 12 the rebound with his backhand. 
scored less than a minute apart 
goals and 24 points. He has Eric Desjardins scored a 
to cap a three-goal, third-period eight goals and 19 points in his power-play goal at 18:33 of the comeback that gave the New 
last 13 games against the second period to give
Jersey Devils a 4-3 win over the 
Devils. Philadelphia a 2-0 lead. 
Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Holik scored at 3:45 of the Desjardins took a point shot The loss cost the Penguins a flrst period, rifling a shot past through traflic that deflected off 
chance to move within four 
Hedberg from a sharp angle. of a New York player and elud­
points of the Eastern 
Jeff Toms tied the score at 1 ed Blackburn. 
Conference's final playoff spot. 
less than two minutes later. He The Rangers came to life in Hoiik's second goal of the 
was in the slot and fired in the third after Pavel Bure 
game tied the game at 3 at Robitaille's pass. scored his 26th goal 38 seconds 14:03 and Elias put back Joe Robitaille, who was claimed into the period. Bure one-timed Nieuwendyk's rebound 49 sec­on waivers from Los Angeles on a pass from Matthew Barnabyonds later for the game winner. 
Jan. 4, has 11 points in his last to pull New York to within 2-1. 
New Jersey is 7-1-0-1 in the seven games. Boucher robbed Bure on a last nine games. 
point-blank power play shot 

The Devils were trailing 3-1 at 
Flyers 4, Rangers 2 minutes later. 
4:11 of the third when 
Brian Boucher stopped 2 5 John Leclair made it 3-1 with Nieuwendvk won a faceoff shots to lead the Philadelphia his 24th at 10:09. After 
against Jan Hrdina and 
Flyers to a victory over the New Blackburn made an initial save Stephane Richer beat Hedberg York Rangers. on a shot by Mark Recchi,with a shot from the left point The victory pulled the Flyers LeClair swooped in on the through traffic. 
within two points of Boston for rebound and beat the helplessPittsburgh's Randy Robitaille the top spot in the Eastern Blackburn. LeClair appeared to 
scored on the game's only Conference. The Flyers have score again at 12:24 but the 
power play at 1:24 of the third 
two games in hand on the goal was disallowed after a period. He deflected Alexei 
Bruins. review showed LeClair directed 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads "180! I Cleveland Road' South Bend, Indiana ./66371 (119)27]-8/IO 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester *Within minutes ofcampus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 Bedroom Apartments still available 

• 
Security patrolled nightly 


the puck into the net with his glove. 
With the teams skating 4-on­4, Eric Lindros deflected a point shot by Brian Leetch from the slot past Bouchard for his 31st goal at 16:13 to move the Rangers to within a goal. 
Keith Primeau completed the scoring with his 17th at 19:22 into an empty net. 
Senators 4, Islanders 1 
Martin Havlat scored two goals and had an assist and Patrick Lalime stopped 27 shots as the Ottawa Senators won for the first time in five games as they beat the New York Islanders. Marian Hossa and Benoit Brunet also scored for Ottawa, while Radek Bonk added a pair of assists. 
The Senators moved to within two points of fourth-place Toronto in the Eastern Conference. 
New York got its only goal from Mariusz Czerkawski. The loss snapped a three-game win­ning streak. Garth Snow, who made 31 saves in his first start at home since Jan. 24, missed picking up his 100th NHL career victory. 
It only took 17 seconds for Ottawa to grab the lead. Hossa stripped the puck from Islander forward Shawn Bates at New York's blue line, moved left, waited for Snow to commit, and then flicked in a wide-angle wrist shot. 
The Islanders capitalized on a two-man advantage to tie the game at 4:55 when Czerkawski, parked down low, tipped Alexei Yashin's one-timer past Lalime for his 20th goal this season. 
Ottawa went back out in front at 4:20 of the second period 

.....

when Snow twice put clearing pokes on Senator sticks. He stopped Radek Bonk, but he couldn't do anything to stop Brunet, who took the puck on his backhand, switched to his forehand and nudged it into the net. 
Havlat gave the Senators some breathing room 82 sec­onds into the final period when he broke in alone on Snow and snapped a shot between the goalie's pads. He added a power-play goal at 12:38 when he stole the puck from defense­man Kenny Jonsson behind the Islander net, moved up and quickly beat Snow with a back­hand between the pads. 
WIid 4, Thrashers 2 
Andrew Brunette made a tri­umphant return to Atlanta with a goal and an assist as the Minnesota Wild defeated the Thrashers. 
The Thrashers let Brunette go as a free agent last summer after he scored 38 goals in the team's first two seasons. In his first game back to Philips Arena, Brunette set up the first goal with a perfect cross-ice pass and scored the game-win­ner after a crafty move on goalie Frederic Cassivi. 
Brunette, serving as Minnesota's rotating captain for March, has a 10-game points streak [5 goals, 12 assists]. 
The win was the second straight for Minnesota, and the fourth straight for goalie Dwayne Roloson. Atlanta, last in the NHL with 50 points, had a modest two-game winning streak end and has yet to win three in row all season. 
Jiffv LttlJe Signatui-e Service. 
Come into our service center near campus and give 
Jiffy Lube Signature Service a try. We look forward to 
serving ~u in the near future. 
Receive $4 Off with a valid Notre Dame University or St. Mary's ID everyday. 
426 N. Dixie Way 1245 E. Ireland Rd. 104 E. McKinley Ave. 
271-7767 299-8666 258-5675 
Hours: M-F 8-6, Sat. 8-5, Closed Sunday 
~:: Guest Services 
ax>-JI 
www.jiflube.com 
Plus lax & emimnmentai fee: most vehk;les Not valid with a[¥ other oflers or coupons for the SMJe servce. Good only at partq,ating lrdi.lna Jiffy Lube SelVkle Centers. Expires 4/24/02 Code: Notre 
page 16 Thursday, March 28, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


The Easter Triduum& the Real Presence 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 

Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Senior Retreat #6 
Retreat Date: Apr. 5-6 
Pick. up applications: 
Monday, Mar. 18 -Thursday, Mar. 28 114 Coleman-Morse Canter 
rlweek 
¦ All locations: Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Holy Thursday 
5:00pm 
Good Friday 
3:00pm 
Saturday Easter Vigil 
9:00 p.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c, presider Rev. John A. Herman, c.s.c., homilist 
Easter Sunday 
8:00 a.m. Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, c.s.c. 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, c.s.c. 
12:00 p.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 
ist Reading Acts 10:34a, 37-43 
2nd Reading Col 3: 1-4 
Gospel Jn 20:1-9 

Campus Ministry 

Holy Week 101 
¦ by Fr. Bill Wack, c.s.c. Director, Freshman Retreat Program 
Today we begin our holiest season of the entire church year, the Easter Triduum. Everything we do for the rest of che year find their origin in the liturgies of rhe next three days. In truth, it's all one liturgy, broken up in to three "parts": 
1) Holy Thursday "The Mass ofthe Lord's Supper." We start the great liturgy by commemorating Jesus' Last Supper with rhe apostles in the Upper Room the night before he died for us. The Eucha­rist, which was instituted at that time, takes on an even more awesome significance. We also recog­nize in this meal that service is to be the mark of the true Christian. We remember that, in the midst ofthe supper, Jesus washed the feec ofhis disciples and gave them the charge to do likewise. As we re­
enact that action in our churches today, it still serves as a powerful reminder of how our faith should be lived.
It's not as though we are just watching 
0 

these events unfold or are celebrating 
2) Good Friday "Passion of Jesus Christ." This service starts rather abruptly 
something that happened two 
(in fact, it is a continuation ofThursday's
millennia ago. We are active 
liturgy), with the presider entering in si­participants, for when we celebrate lence and prostrating himself before the al­tar as a sign of humility. The next major
these things in the liturgy they become 
element is the reading ofthe Passion ofJesus present to us and we to them. It is Christ according to the Gospel of John. Jesus is shown to us as one who is trium­
though we are being transported back 
phant in the face of suffering and death. Then we pray for the needs of all the world (as we do every
into the Upper Room, the foot of the 
Sunday). And finally, all Christians are invited to 
cross, and the entrance of the tomb. 
venerate the cross ofChrist, pledging out lives anew to "take up our crosses" and follow the Lord. 
We are really there. 
3) Easter Vigil. The whole Church gathers in 
darkness around a "new fire". A large candle is lie from chat fire and the light is shared with all. An ancient hymn, the "Exultet" is then sung, which tells of God's power over darkness and sin. The Liturgy of the Word is expanded on this night, giving a wonderful sense of the divine work over time. Then, those who have been preparing, through prayer and study, are baptized in the midst of the assembly, and others join in fuH Communion with the Church. The night is marked with lots of ''Alleluias" and lights and signing and symbolism. If you have never experienced chis incredible celebration, you are certainly missing out. 
Herein we celebrate all that the Lord has done for us. He has given us a perfect model of servtec and humility, even to the giving ofhis life on a cross. He left us an everlasting memorial in the Eucharist. And he gives us new life in Baptism here on earth, and in the Resurrection to everlasting life. 
I would urge you to celebrate these liturgies with your family or with our community at Notre Dame. If you are here for Easter Break, why not join us for these awesome liturgies at the Basilica or in the Church of Loretto at St. Mary's? We hate to boast (no we don't!) but Holy Week services here are something to behold. And they would be even better if you were to join us. 
We shouldn't be mere spectators or bystanders in these liturgies. It's not as though we are just watching these events unfold or are celebrating something that happened two millennia ago. We are active participants, for when we celebrate these things in the liturgy they become present to us and we to them. It is though we are being transported back into the Upper Room, the foot ofthe cross, and the entrance of the tomb. We are really there. 
Thar's what the Real Presence is all about. Every rime we celebrate che Eucharist or another sacrament, we believe that Christ is really and truly present to us. It's not rhar we believe we are "re-crucifying" Christ. That would be absolutely horrible (and impossible). But at every Mass we know that we are brought into the original event of the passion, death, and resurrection ofJesus. 
Then we are to take it co the world. We are to be the "real presence" ofChrist for others. We do that first ofall by giving over our lives in the service ofothers. We may not be called upon to die the way Jesus died, bur we are all commanded to serve the rest. As we celebrate Easter chis year, we want to become more Christ-like, affording hope and new life in the world in which we live. 
May God bless you during this holiest of times. 

-


rr'T ..,.,..._._, ,·ryr),"\ 
. ,.. .
" ~ 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SOCCER 
Germany too much for U.S.A. in 4-2 win 

,._~~l'!­
:T,(.._,_
,~...~ 
~ 

t ~~~:~~=~~=~~,~~ \-= 
2002-2003
Y~1fj~1~ ,zor1\,,"' 
~" -:: rr• 
trip 
and Panel Cartoonist 
Associated Press 
ROSTOCK, Germany 

G~rmany scored three goals in a 7-minute span to beat the United States 4-2 in an exhibi­tion game to prepare the teams for the World Cup. 
Clint Mathis scored both goals for the Americans, but their 
defense  could  not  hold  a  
German  team  depleted  by  
injuries.  

Mathis scored the first goal in the 17th minute, but Christian Ziege tied it in the 44th. Oliver Ncuville, Oliver Bierhoff and Torsten Frings scored in quick succession starting in the 61st minute. Mathis got his second goal in the 70th minute. 
"I thought the Germans played well. they dominated us physi­caHy,'' U.S. coach Bruce Arena said. "A couple of our guys bailed out on plays.... They moved better, they thought bet­ter, they beat us in all phases of the game." 
Germany, missing about half its likely World Cup roster because of injuries and other reasons, also lost key midfielder Michael Ballack, its top scorer in the qualifying, to a hamstring injury. 
The United States, which lost to Germany 2-0 in the 1998 World Cup, was without captain Claudio Reyna, while forward Brian McBride and midfielder John O'Brien were on the bench because of injuries. 
: ~ . . 

The match in this chilly Baltic port city was played with tight security. Hundreds of police and border troops checked the crowd of about 29,000 in Ostsee. Stadium. 
Ziege beat Tottenham Hotspur teammate Kasey Keller in the American goal early on, but Jeff Agoos cleared the ball off the line. Keller then had to charge off the line twice for diving saves to deny Oliver Bierhoff and Bernd Schneider. 
Just as the Germans appeared to begin dominating, the Americans scored when Jovan Kirovski shook off Frank Baumann on the left side a slipped a pass to Mathis, who was unchallenged, His first effort bounced off the post and he tapped in the rebound past goalkeeper Frank Rost. 
In the 24th. Mathis should have made it 2-0 but he drove the ball over the bar from six yards out. Ziege then tied it with a curling free kick over the defensive wall, a shot that went in ofI Keller's fingertips. 
Neuville scored the go-ahead goal on a header. and Bierhoff got his 33rd international goal in 61 appearances off a pass from Schneider after Agoos failed to clear the ball. 
Frings scored off a pass from Joerg Boehme. After Mathis' goal, U.S. coach Bruce Arena reshuffled his shaky defense, sending in Gregg Berhalter and Tony Sanneh for Agoos and Steve Cherundolo. 
AbVANCm COMhJTIEA 
WOllKST,\TlON 


'The Observ;;i~ now ac~:;~~, applications for the positions of 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 28, 2002 
BOXING 
Tyson-Lewis fight set 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 

Memphis wanted the atten­tion. and Mike Tyson needed a place to fight. It took awhile, but the match was finally made. 
Memphis ended up the win­ner in the bid to land Tyson's fight with heavyweight cham­pion Lennox Lewis, getting a fight that Nevada rejected and several other states found objectionable. 
One of the biggest fights in years was salvaged when pro­moters agreed for Tyson and Lewis to meet for the heavy­weight title. It's not Las Vegas, but for Memphis it will be the big time. 
"It certainly will boost the tourism awareness for that city," said John Wade, Tennessee's tourism commis­sioner. 
A fight that could make more than $100 million -and pay each fighter more than $20 million -is now sched­uled to take place at the 20,000-seat Pyramid arena, where ringside seats will fetch $2,500. 
And, unlike the New York press conference that caused the fight to be run out of Las Vegas when Tyson threw a punch and then a tantrum, the fighters will not get together for any prefight publicity this time around. 
"We're not having any more press conferences with the two of them together," Tyson adviser Shelly Finkel said. 
Weeks of trying to keep the fight alive culminated in an agreement for Lewis to defend his IBF and WBC heavyweight titles against the once-feared former champion. 
The fight is an intriguing matchup of boxer versus puncher, though it might have lost some of its appeal as the two boxers argued for years over whether they should meet, and Tyson has been largely inactive. 
"We now have close to 11 weeks before the fight and I believe everything is fine," Finkel said. "Mike is ready to fight." 
The fight that was rejected 
• I by Nevada boxing officials after Tyson misbehaved at a
'I 
I January press conference 
. ended up in Memphis after a road show in which it was 
shopped to various cities around the country. 
In some cities -including Washington, D.C., and Detroit -it was welcomed. In others, politicians gave Tyson a chilly reception and suggested pro­moters look elsewhere. 
Memphis landed it with promises of a $12.5 million site fee -not to mention a willingness to overlook Tyson antics that included a brawl and outburst at the January news conference first announcing the fight. 
In return, the city hopes to gain a reputation as a major player in sports. 
Those close to the negotia­tions said Memphis promoters still had not come up with the $12.5 million letter of credit and may not be involved with the fight. The money obstacle reportedly was overcome when Tyson's camp agreed to take its money only after the Lewis camp was paid. 
The much-shopped bout was in jeopardy as late as Friday when local promoters couldn't come up with the site fee after a bank refused to issue a letter of credit because of "moral issues." 
. Production representatives of the HBO and Showtime net­works were in Memphis to tour the Pyramid arena in advance of the pay-per-view telecast. 
The fight originally was going to be April 6 in Las Vegas, but Nevada boxing authorities refused to give Tyson a boxing license after an outburst at a January press conference. 
Finkel said the delay will help sell the fight because con­siderable publicity has been generated while the fight was being shopped around and negotiated. 
"We've had a seven-week commercial basically since the press conference in New 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


Great Japanese food at great prices. WE NOW HAVE SUSHI, 
TEPPAN STEAK AND
Cleveland 

SEAFOOD! 
T"" 
M 
* 402 US 31 North 

~ South Bend, IN 46637 $1.000:ffforlunch (219) 272-2535 $2.ooofffordinner 
We are Boracho! 
York," Finkel said. 
Tyson and Lewis each are reportedly guaranteed $17.5 million to fight for the lBF and WBC titles Lewis holds, and could earn millions more if the tight grabs the attention of the public. 
Promoters also stand to make a bundle. with projec­tions that the fight could gross $100 million from the site fee and pay-per-view sales. 
The fight not only had to be made Monday to meet the IBF deadline, but it was also facing other deadlines. Cable opera­tors needed to keep the date open, and organizers generally need at least two months to properly promote the fight. 
Lewis (39-2-1. 30 KOs}, last fought on Nov. 17 when ho stopped Hasim Rahman in the fourth round of their rematch. Tyson (49-3. 2 NC, 43 KOs) hasn't fought since beating Brian Nielsen in the seventh round on Oct. 13 in Copenhagen. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Thomas, Humphrey grab national awards 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame freshman point guard Chris Thomas has been selected the national freshman of the year by Basketball Times Magazine. Thomas is the first Notre Dame player to earn the freshman honor. In addition, senior forward Ryan Humphrey has been named to the Basketball Times all-Mideast team. 
Thomas, the 2002 Big East Rookie of the Year and a third­team all-Big East selection, was the team's second-leading scorer in 2001-02 as he averaged 15.6 points per game. lie set Notre Dame single-season marks for assists (252), steals (72) and average for steals per game {2.18). He also tied the single season assist average record (7.64), sharing that mark with Jackie Meehan (1970-71). 
Thomas recorded the first triple-double in Notre Dame bas­ketball when he scored 24 points, dished off 11 assists and made 11 steals in his first colle­giate outing on Nov. 16 against New Hampshire. He scored in double figures in 24 games dur­ing the season and registered seven double-doubles. The six­time Big East Rookie of the Week honoree also scored 20­plus point in nine games and led tho Irish in scoring on nine occa­sions. 
Humphrey, a first-team all-Big East selection, averaged 18.9 points and 10.9 rebounds during the '01-'02 campaign as the team's leading scorer and rebounder. He also averaged 
2.81 blocked shots and set the Notre Dame single-season blocked shots record with 87. addition, his 2. 77 career blocked-shot average set a new Irish career mark. 

Thursday, March 28, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Saints CB files for bankruptcy 
. Carter signed $28 million deal last month 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS, La. 

Cornerback Dale Carter. who signed a $28 million contract with the New Orleans Saints earlier this month, has filed for bank­ruptcy. 
Carter was in Miami bank­ruptcy court for a meeting with creditors this week. He filed for Chapter 7 bankrupt­cy on Feb. 15, listing his debts to more than 20 credi­tors as $4. 9 million. his assets as more than $1 mil­lion. 
Carter, who missed 18 months of football the past two seasons because of drug suspensions, and his attorney met with representatives of two of the creditors -the Denver Broncos and the NFL Management Association, which was there on behalf of the NFL team -and James Fierberg, a lawyer with Berger and Singerman of Miami. 
Fierberg is representing the court-appointed trustee in the case, Corali Lopez-Castro, whose job is to liquidate Carter's property and distrib­ute it to his creditors. 
"[Carter] was there to answer some very specific questions concerning his 
assets," Fierberg said. "There are a lot of questions left to answer. I asked him to pro­duce a lot of documents, and he deferred to his agent, so I'll have to talk to his agent." 
Kevin Gleason, Carter's attorney, and Mitch Frankel, his agent, could not be reached for comment. 
Saints general manager Randy Mueller said the issue was a private matter that doesn't affect Carter's rela­tionship with the Saints. 
Carter signed a four-year, $22.8 million contract with lhe Broncos in 1999 that included a $7.8 million sign­ing bonus. He played the 1999 season and received $1.835 million in salary and bonus. He was suspended by the NFL for the 2000 season and signed last year at mid­season with the Minnesota Vikings. earning $267,000. 
Tbe Broncos contend Carter owes them $4 million in back bonus money because he played just one season. Among the other creditors are the Internal Revenue Service; a Georgia travel agency, which is owed $15,000 by Carter's manage­ment agency, Impact Sports; and Miami lawyer Susan Van Dusen, who says Carter owes her $2,000 for legal advice. IRS spokesman Mike Dobzinski would not disclose how much the government agency is owed or how far back the debt goes. 
It's possible that Carter will have to pay only the IRS. 
MLB 

Cubs land closer in deal 
. Alfonseca had 28 saves, 3.06 ERA last season 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE. Fla. 
The Chicago Cubs got a much-needed closer in Antonio Alfonseca. The Florida Marlins got some much-wanted payroll flexibility. 
The Cubs, desperate for a relief ace since Tom Gordon was injured, acquired Alfonseca and pitcher Matt Clement from the Marlins in a six-player trade. 
Florida got pitcher Julian Tavarez and three minor lea­guers -pitchers Jose Cueto and Dontrellc Willis and catch­er Ryan Jorgensen. 
Alfonseca, who will make $3.55 million this season, led the majors with 45 saves in 2000. He had 28 saves and a career-best 3.06 ERA last sea­son despite pitching with back pain much of the season. 
"Alfonseca is a proven guy in the ninth inning," said Jim Hendry, the Cubs' vice presi­dent of player personnel. "It's just a chance to add a quality person late in the game." 
While Alfonseca left camp without extensive comment "I've got nothing to say," ­Clement cleaned out his locker, then aired out his feelings about the Marlins. 
The trade made little sense to Clement, and it may have sig­naled the start of another pay­roll purge for the floundering Marlins. 
The team says it needs a new ballpark to increase revenue Is it happening again? and be able to keep the young "This was something we did and talented team intact. New on the baseball side. I would let owner Jeffrey Loria says he is you editorialize that as you committed to making baseball want," Beinfest said. "You can work in South Florida, but the call it whatever you want, cer­trade seemed to indicate other­tainly it did allow for some pay­wise. roll flexibility. It was a move we 

"You wouldn't think a team thought we wanted to make that's 29th in salary would be and we made it." trimming payroll, but obviously The deal made perfect sense that's their motive," said for the Cubs. They have been Clement, who will make $2.5 looking for a closer since million this March 5, season. "I when Gordon
"This is something we did
don't have tore a muscle too much to on the baseball side. I in his shoul­say, but as a der. Though
would let you editorialize 
whole I'm Gordon said
that's as you want." 
not very last week he impressed hopf!d to be with the Larry Benlfest back as early Marlins as May, he's
general manager
organization. I'm very impressed with the new staff, but I can't say anything good about the organization from the top other than I got to play with a lot of good teammates and friends. 
"It doesn't take me to spell it out. It looks to me like it's a matter of time before the rest of the boys start going right along with me." 
Marlins general manager Larry Beinfest refused to dis­cuss the payroll move. other than to say it gave the team flexibility for the future. 
Of course, this is the same franchise that won the 1997 World Series, then dismantled the talent-laden lineup by unloading Al Leiter, Kevin Brown, Robb Nen, Livan Hernandez, Moises Alou, Gary Sheffield, Charles Johnson, Edgar Renteria and others. 
not expected 

back for at least three months, possibly longer. 
Chicago tried to lure Jeff Shaw out of retirement, but couldn't come to an agreement. Splitting closer duties between Jeff Fassero and the hard­throwing Kyle Farnsworth was another option, but Farnsworth is just 3-of-9 in career save sit­uations. 
Alfonseca had surgery in October to repair a bulging disc in his back, but Hendry said there don't appear to be any lingering effects from it. The 
' 

Cubs have watched Alfonseca 
' 

pitch in his last four outings ' 
' 

and he looks good, Hendry . ' said. ' 
"He seems to be ready to go," -=~ J Hendry said. "He's showing no .I sign of restriction. He's nice I I and loose, his arm action is I I good." ' 
' 


The Office ofUndergraduate Admissions will be hiring new tour guides for the 2002-03 academic year. 
•

Applications are available 10: 
Room 220, Main Building 
8:00 am -5:00 pm M-F 
Application deadline is Friday April 12, 2002 
Our 75-minute tours are 9ffered M -F at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. and at 10 a.m. and 11:15 a.m. on Saturdays 
*Additional tours are added on football Fridays, but we do not offer tours on game days. 

Sold this Wednesday from 7:30-9:30 and Thursday from 2:30-4:30. Sales end April 5th• Don't miss out! 
• 
Frame: Cost $25. Double-sided, Gold 4x6 frame with Navy lettering. 

• 
Album: Cost $7. Holds up to 24 4x6 pictures. Navy with gold lettering and ND seal on front. 


• Buy both for only $30! 
• If you miss us in Lafortune, visit www.nd.edu/~mgtclub for more information and an order form! 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 28, 2002 
Wolllen 
continued from page 24 
singles by the score of 6-3, 6-1 
to close the gap to 2-1. 
The score was then evened at two apiece when the Hlini's Tiffany Elkov prevailed over the Irish's Nina Vaughan 6-4, 7-5. 
Fortunately for the Irish, Salas continued her trend of earning important wins this season, downing Illinois' Kate Boomershine in a 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) nail-biter. 
With a 3-2 lead, junior Katie Cunha made sure it didn't get any closer than that, topping Cynthia Goulet for a 6-4, 6-4 win and the clinching point in the match. 
"Katie didn't play as well as she could have today. but she stuck with it," said Louderback. "She made the other girl return a lot of balls and eventually she gutted it out for us." 
With one tough win behind them, the Irish can now set their sights on the difficult road ahead. The team will spend its Easter break in North Carolina playing matches against tough squads from Duke, Wake Forest and North Carolina. 
All three schools are ranked in the top 10 and Louderback is excited about the prospect of playing higher-level competi­tion. 
"As for as I'm concerned, there aren't any great teams in the country just a lot of really good teams," he said. •·1 think we can play with all of these teams and maybe cause an upset or two of our own." 
One motivating factor for the Irish may be the hope of redemption. Earlier in the sea­son, the Irish dropped an embarrassing 6-1 match to North Carolina at the National 
Indoor  Championships  in  
Madison, Wis.  
With the Tar Heels third  on  

the team's menu this weekend, the Irish should be well pre­pared for a rematch. 
"We've been looking forward to playing them," said Louderback. "I think it will be a good chance to prove ourselves, and the fact that they are ranked so far ahead of us might take a little bit of the pressure off." 
Contact Colin Boylan at Boylan.5@nd.edu 

Sophomore Alicia Salas hits a shot during a recent match this season. The Irish won a close contest against Illinois 4-3 on Wednesday afternoon. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles battle MIAA opponent Comets 
. Saint Mary's returns to court after week off 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team should have a smooth transition back into competi­tion after a week-long break. The Belles will face the Olivet Comets Monday after taking a week off from MIAA play. 
The eighth-place Comets, who lost 9-0 to the Belles in their last face off, should pre­sent no physical challenge to the Belles. However, Saint Mary's will have to stay focused on its mental game to play up to potential. 
"Sometimes schools like that are the hardest to beat," said sophomore Kaitlin Cutler. "The players aren't as strong and you sink to their level and lose your focus. You have to go in with the same focus." 
Saint Mary's hasn't played a match since the team's 7-2 victory against Albion on Saturday. Albion, who was ranked second in the MIAA, proved to be tough competi­tion for the Belles despite the 
OFFER SOMETHING SPECIAL TO OUR LORD FOR EASTER! 
The Latin Mass Society ofOur Lady ofHungary cordially invites you to a Tridentine (Latin) Mass approved by Bishop D'Arey. Mass begins at 1 :00 pm at the church located at 829 W. Calvert, South Bend 
Come participate in the Mass ofFr. Sorin, Blessed Br. Andre, Blessed Padre Pio, St. Therese ofLisieux, Pope St. Pius X, and the saints ofthe past 400 years 
For questions or a ride, please contact Parker Ladwig, ladwig. l@nd.edu. 631-3617 
score. The difficult win over Albion, followed by Monday's less-difficult match against Olivet, should get Saint Mary's ready for the rest of the sea­son. 
"I think it helps sometimes but I feel like the season is going to be the tough competi­tion will be equal -a tough match and an easier match," Cutler said. "We haven't played since Saturday so it will be nice to have a not real tough one." 
Despite the fact that this match should not present the Belles with problems they can't handle, they do have 

goals they hope to reach. As they head into their second game of the season as defend­ing MIAA Champions, another shut-out victory would help team morale. 
"Probably just to win 9-0 and to get as much out of it as we can," Cutler said. "We haven't played outside in a while so [we're] getting used to the wind. After this we kind of start all of our matches so it will be good to play outside and try to stay focused." 
Olivet is returning six play­ers from last season and the Belles will be starting all but one of the women that faced off against the Comets last season. However, after Natalie Cook graduated from No. 2 singles, the Saint Mary's ten­nis players have all switched positions and will be facing the same women, but at differ­ent positions. 
Saint Mary will have four days off from practice to go home for the Easter holiday before returning on Monday. 
The match will begin at 3 

p.m. Monday at Olivet. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

LEARN TO FLY
I ' . I 


Intro Flights $49 .00 Private Pilot Instruction Introductory Flights Available 
Eric Hull: 219 363-5187 
Call for details. 


fighting Irish Women's Lacrosse 
vs. Virginia Tech Saturday, March 30 !Easter 'Bunny to make 1:OOpm 'lf'D fiead6ands to syecia( ayyearancel 1st 150 fans from 
& "-7.
1'.~ !Easter su11rfses to (ucfyfiansl
auluOS J .. 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 The Ob,erver . SPORTS page 21 


It used to be the end of a great night. It could soon be the start of a great day. 
FORTIJNE· At Ernst & Young, we believe that when you 100 em wake up in the morning. you should be excitedf9fflJ~i~ about the day ahead. The challenges of the 
workplace should keep you stlmolated, your 
capabilities should be stretched, and your horizons continually 
broadened. Because only when our people 'if'OW, both professlomilly 
and personally, do we yow as a C()(Tlpany. Oh happy day! 
ey.com/us/careers ,., f RNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH:" 

Upset 
continued from page 24 
believed what they said, though, is in doubt. 
"I think we all thought that we were a lot better than they were," said Tahorga. "To be honest with you, I thought that we were tough enough that if we were playing bad we could win the match. Apparently, that wasn't so. I think that every­one's really disappointed." 
Bayliss stopped short of say­ing the Irish were too compla­cent, but warned of the dangers of any smugness resulting from high rankings or past perfor­mances 
"I can't read what's in other people's minds. I think some of our guys were surprised. I wasn't shocked," Bayliss said. "I think you always have to guard against [complacency]. 
"I do think some of the guys have gotten wrapped up in [the rankings]. It's difficult not to become too outcome-oriented. If you become that way, I think it sets you up for a fall." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
"We've always had great games with West Virginia," O'Connor said. "It's always seemed whether it's been at Notre Dame or West Virginia that it's been a great game. They usually come down to the end of the game, and it's often a one or two run game." 
Last season, the Irish swept the doubleheader at home from the Mountaineers 4-1 and 8-1, but those victories came largely on the efforts of two complete game perfor­mances from pitchers Aaron Heilman and Danny Tamayo, who have since graduated. 
On Saturday, the Irish square off against Georgetown, who has had a much rougher time this sea­son than either Notre Dame or West Virginia. The Hoyas began the season 0-7, and · since then have moved on to a 7-21 record while going 1-2 in their first three conference games. 
Irish pitchers should be more experienced against this Georgetown squad as starters J.P. Gagne and Drew Duff pitched 12 out of 16 pos­sible innings in Notre Dame's two victories last season over a Georgetown team that went 17-39. overall, the Irish hold a 16-2 advantage in competi­tion against the Hoyas. 
These four games are the last of 22 consecutive away games for the Irish to start the season. The Irish hope to do well in these last road games before returning to South Bend for an 11-game home stand beginning with BYU Monday. 
"These are big games. Every game is big," O'Connor said. "But we're going on the road, and we have four con­ference games on the road. We need to decide what it takes for us to win and get the job done." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 28, 2002 
SOFTBALL 
Softball hoping to top Loyola-Chicago 
-
they were both Henderson
"[Henderson] is a great
assistants under 
• t h e 
former Irish coach. She has done 
Ramblers head coach Liz really good things for have com­
Miller. 
piled 21-8
Loyola."

"I love playing 
record at against h o m e ,Stephanie," Deanna Gumpf somethingGumpf said. head coach that could "She is a great 
be a factor coach. She has 
this week­done really good things for end. Even though the Loyola. They are a lot tougher 
Ramblers have started the team than they were a few season 7-12, pitchers Sarah years ago." 
Smith and Mia Pangere each While at Notre Dame 
have an earned run average
Henderson was the hitting 
under two. coach and worked with the Before traveling to Chicago,infielders. 
the Irish will take their 8-12 
Captain Jenny Kriech was a 
record to Pittsburgh for a 


ND AFTER FIVE 
Thursday, March 28  Friday, March 29  Sunday, March 31  
Holy Thursday  Good Friday  Easter Sunday  
9:00 a.m.  Morning Prayer, Basilica of the  9:00 a.m.  Morning Prayer, Basilica of the  8:00 a.m.  Easter Sunday Mass,  
Sacred Heart  Sacred Heart  Basilica of the Sacred Heart  

season because last weekend's  "[Andrea Loman] made  an ERA of 2.86. On  
games  against  plays that you would  offense,  
Villanova Rutgers postponed.  and were  never see anyone else make.,,  t h e Panthers are led by  
Because of the  K  a  t  e  
inclement weath­ Deanna Gumpf  Mitchell,  
er, the Irish have not played a  head coach  she has a .296 aver- 
game  for  two  age, three  
weeks.  home runs  

"Coach might be a little anx­and 17 RBIs to start the sea­ious about us not playing, but son. we were able to get some time The main offensive threat on the field last Sunday and for the Irish this year has took some balls off the dirt," been third basemen Andrea said Kriech. "Plus we have Loman. Loman is leading the been able hit off live pitching. team with a .327 average, two I don't think it will be a prob­homeruns and seven RBIs. lem. We are all ready to start Loman has also played Big East play." superbly in the field. She has 
Pittsburgh has a record of only committed two errors in 10-16 with a 0-2 record in the 79 chances while manning the Big East. After a slow start hot corner for the Irish. the Panthers have responded "Andrea Loman has been by winning seven of their past amazing," Gumpf said. "She nine. Those two losses came has made plays that you against Rutgers Tuesday. would never see anyone else 
The Irish will most likely make. She has stepped up in face Nikki Gasti, the Big East critical situations." 
Over the last six seasons the Irish have dominated Big East play with a 98-10 record in conference games. There is no doubt that the Irish have the talent to continue their impressive record in Big East play. 
"Every year we have had success in the Big East and I don't see why that success can't continue this year even through we haven't had the best pre-season," Kriech said. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu. 

By AARON RONSHEIM 
Sports W ricer 
When the Irish face off against Loyola-Chicago this weekend they will see a famil­iar face in the opposing dugout. 
Stephanie Henderson, for­mer Irish assistant coach. is now the head coach of the Ramblers. Henderson coached at Notre Dame with current Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf when 
freshman when Henderson coached for the Irish. 
"She was very enthusiastic and knew how to motivate us before the games," Kriech said. "She was a very good hitting coach. She knew what I needed to do in order to be able to hit college pitching." 
Last year Henderson was named the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Coach of the Year while leading the 
Ramblers  to  a  conference  
championship.  
Under  

doubleheader on Saturday afternoon against the Panthers. This will be the first Big East opponent the Irish have faced this 

Pitcher of the Weck. and Gina Bessolo when they face the Panthers Saturday. Gasti is 6­7 with a 3.11 ERA and Bessolo is 3-6 and 
11 :00 a.m. Confessions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:00 
p.m. Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

5:00 
p.m. Evening Prayer, Coleman­Morse Center 


6:30 p.m. -12:30 a.m. Adoration in the Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 
p.m. Confessions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

7:00 
p.m. ND Cinema: Ghost World, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 


11 :00 p.m. Tenebrae, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs are free to Notre Dame students unless marked by an asterisk (*). 


11 :00 a.m. Confessions. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
12:00 
p.m. -3:00 p.m. Silent Hours of Prayer, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

12:00 
p.m. Confessions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


1:00 p.m. Confessions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
3:00 p.m. Celebration of the Lord's Passion, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 p.m. Confessions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, March 30 Holy Saturday 

9:00 a.m. Morning Prayer, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
11 :00 a.m. Confessions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 p.m. Confessions, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
9:00 p.m. The Paschal Vigil, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
10:00 a.m. Solemn Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Noon Easter Sunday Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:15 p.m. Solemn Easter Vespers, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
LaFortune Student Center Hours 
Thur., 3/28 7:00 a.m.-Midnight 
Fri., 3/29 7:00 a.m -10:00 p.m. 
Sat., 3/30 10:00 a.m 6:00 p.m. 
Sun., 3/31 Building Closed 
Mon., 4/1 7:00 a.m. -2:00 a.m. 
FOR ~ORE INFOR~ATION, VISIT: www.nd.edu/--.sao/ 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNING~ 
HI,MOM. HI, DAI>. HOW ARE 
YOU l>O~' :t'M FlNE. SCHOOL 
IS 60IN. WEI.I. AND I'M Al.MOST 
a tl:~ bvMy iJes e..sj<:.,
!>ONE. I'M OVT OF MONEY. DO YOU THIN!( THAT YOV COULD &IVE ME SOME? THA~S. 6CT ANYTH~ TO EA17 &REAL OKAY. 
-

I /WTT/\ &O NOW. TAKE CARE. WOD-8YE. 
Coming soon. . The Best of Fourth and Inches: The Book. , , Check this space for det.ails. 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
THE CA8LE 15 IT lUST AIIID IT'S TV? 
WHAT'S ON 
WENT OUT. ME,oR IS COMMER­
At the concept meeting for Easter 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
BORN VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Put THIS DAY: Dianne Wiest, Reba your mind to work and don't be 
ACROSS 32 Doesn't let the 50 Wane CELEBRrTIES ON 
issue die 
53 Romantic time 

1 Was a crew McEntire, Ken Howard, Frank afraid to follow the road less trav­... member 33 Like some love 56 Bank Murkowski eled. Your ingenuity coupled with Happy Birthday: Your intuitive your practicality will result in some­
34 Where the heart transaction6 Tooth site 

ideas will lead you in new direc­thing very worthwhile. 000
is 57 Scanned

10 Pack it in tions. You will be nervous and rest­LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Don't 35 In districts 58 Scarlett's love less if you don't find something to be too quick to let everyone know
14 Projection, 
do that $parks your intellectual what you're up to. Keeping an airof
36 Elevator part 59 Hasmaybe 

cur.ia;ity. You will not be willing lo mysteiy about yourself will bring
37 Not too hot 60 Desires 

lisren to others but instead will want you far more attention. A new phi­throne 38 German river 61 Feeling to figure things out for yourself this losophy may be presented to you year. Travel will be entertaining. but that doesn't mean you have to 
15 Ruler with a 
16 Ruin 39 "I'm in 
Your numbers are 1, 23, 'II, 34, 42. 46 followilOOO Love~975 hit) DOWN ARIES (March 21-April 19): i..et SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
17 Popular gift 
40 European 1 Barbecue entree your Aries nature jump start your Think before you find yourself in a 20 Tofu base day. You'll be able to manipulate sit­place that can lead to trouble. You
satellite 
2 1847 novel 

uations and get your own way if should focus on making money and 
21 Time and lime launcher 
about a mutiny 

you push your ideas with finesse. worthwhile investments and leave
again? 
41 Ayres of "Don't 3 Like some floors Your added discipline will enable secret activities alone. 000 22 Rebounds Bet on Love" you to complete some of those SAGITfARIUS (N~ 22-Dec. 21):
4 It may be 

unfinished p . .000 Participation in organizations will
23 New Mexico 42 It may lead to massaged 
TAURUS~ril 2~May 20): Ifs lead to romantic enccnmters or new 
tourist site romance 
5 Beat time to secure your finandal situa­business partnerships. Use your 44 Decision makers tion by making yourself indispensa­ability to persuade others of your
24 Delighted 6 Same old stuff 
ble in the workforce. You've been belief in a worthy cause. OClOO 
25 like a 45 Manhandles 7 Biblical prophet wavering too long. The time for CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 17-Across, often 46 Willows 8 Attack word mange is now. 000 Don't overspend or you will appear GEMINI (May 21-June 20): to be a spendthrift in the eyes of
29 Arrest 49 Love story? 9Go 
Don't let minor little setbacks get someone who amid make a differ­1OAlmost a liter you down. You have plenty to offer axe to your cmeex: Any thoughts of and ifone person doesn't appreciate making costly changes to your home
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 "Do others 
you anotlier one will. Don't lose should be put onhold. Put your cash
" 

sight of what you want and what into a retirement fund. 00
S N O B .,,,+..+..+,,e-4 12 As previously 
you're worth. 000ClO AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): H I K E mentioned CANCER Oune 21-July 22): You You will be entertaining, engaging 13 Start of a 
30 Kind of acid 46 City ESE of 51 Loony may feel like making alteration.5 lo and very hard to resist today. Bergen your home but think again You are Opportunities to meet new people
football game 31 Moisten, ,n a 52 A computer 
likely to overspend on something will lead to a lucrative business 
way 47 Put away processes it 
...+...+ee+,,,..,:-i 18 Religious that you don't really need. Ifyou are apportunity. Ifs time to lose yoursymbol 34 Kings and 48 Catcher 54 Born prudent now you will have less to inhibitions and take part in new 19 Touch down queens want Rodriguez 55" Loves wony about later on. 00 endeavors. 00000 them LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Friends PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put
23 More devoted 49 See 40-Down You" 
will be there for you if you need some effortinto your living quarters. 
· 36 Fake 
.,.,+...+,.,...,,,,...,:-i 24 Nautical yard them. Your amusing way of dealing You should try to make yourself 37 Eskimos, e.g . wilh life's little situations will bring more comfortable. Don't just sit
...+,,,+,A-,.1 25 Eye shade 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 

you added popularity. If you have there wishing you had done things
39 Place for plants 
-,.+,-,+,N.., 26 Wear away available by touch-tone phone: 
time to take a pleasure trip, do so. to change your life -!alee action. --T--+-G-i 27 Running mate 40 Native of any of 1 ·900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 0000 000
0 

the "49-Downs"
of '68 Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: You will have lots of wonderful, creative ideas and will be
B E I L E A L O E 2B Noted violin-42 Weightlifter's lift best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO 
terrific at initialing them. You are a dCJel' and you will never be content sitting
0 D K E N H E R D maker 43 Robots, for short years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
on the sidelines. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------------------------------------------------~------­



THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester > 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City......,________ State ____ Zip______ 
-

-
Campus Sports 

. Softball, p.22 
. 
SMC Tennis, p. 20 

. 
Men's Basketball, p. 18 


MEN'S TENNIS 
+ No. 4 Irish upset by Michigan 4..3 on road 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team moved up from seventh to fourth in the national rankings Wednesday morning but fell to No. 46 Michigan on Wednesday afternoon 4-3 in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
The Irish started the match 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 

Senior Javi.er Taborga returns a shot duri!'lg a recent match. The Irish were upset by No. 46 Michigan 4-3 last night. 
BASEBALL 

Baseball looks to rebound 
trailing early when seniors J a m e s Malhame and Ashok Raju lost to Henry Beam
.. 
and Matt Lockin, 8-6. T h e n Michigan's Greg Novak and Anthony Jackson 
"Some days you 're the dog and some days you 're the fire hydrant. Today we were the fire hydrant." 
Bob Bayliss Irish head coach 

clinched the doubles point with their 9-5 victory over Brent D'Amico and Aaron Talarico. Winning the doubles point set the tone for the rest of the match. 
Although Irish coach Bob Bayliss acknowledges that teams can have their bad days, 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Extinguished 
both he and bis squad arc seri­ously concerned about Wednesday's performance, as well as with their recent dou­bles play. 
"Some days you're the dog and some days you're the fire hydrant," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "Today we were the fire hydrant." 
Concerned may not be a strong enough adjective for the players, though. The Irish are angry. 
"We know that we arc ranked really high and that it took a lot of effort from many people to 
get where we are and just to blow it out in one match is dis­appointing," senior Javier Taborga said. 
Michigan may have been ranked 46th, but before arriv­
ing in Ann Arbor, Notre Dame talked about what a challenge the Wolverines would be. 
"We prepared for it. We said all the right things," Bayliss said. 
Whether the team re ally 
see UPSET /page 21 
No. 23 Irish barely squeak by Illnois 4-3 
ByCOLINBOYIAN 
Sports Writer 
•

The No. 23 Notre Dame women's tennis team thought they needed a close match against tough competition to prepare them for the stretch run of the spring season. On Wednesday, they got their wish by earning a tough 4-3 decision over No. 65 lllinois. 
The win improves the Irish to 11-7 on the season, while Illinois drops to 7-11. 
'Tm proud of the way we fought in this one," said Irish head coach Jay Louderback. "The key for us was winning the doubles point. It made a big difference getting out to that 1­0 lead." 
The Irish jumped out to a quick advantage on the doubles side when Sarah Jane Connelly 
and Alicia Salas topped the 
Illini's Michelle Webb and 
Eldina Fazlic 8-3. The win gave 
the tandem their 10th doubles 
victory in 11 tries this season. 
Moments later, the 30th-ranked 
team of Becky Varnum and 
Lindsey Green wrapped up the 
point with an 8-3 victory of 
their own. 

Once singles action began, 
Green wasted no time disposing 
of the IIJini's Eva Choe at the 
No. 3 spot, winning handily 6-1, 
6-0. 

"Linsdey's quick victory was 
really important because it 
gave us a 2-0 lead and that 
really helped our confidence," 
said Louderback. 
The two-point cushion . wouldn't last for long. IUinois' 
Jennifer McGaffigan snapped 
out of a six-match skid to beat 
Notre Dame's Varnum at No.1 
see WOMEN/page 20 
THE . 
National Sports
OBSERVER 
. NFL,p. 19 
. 
MLB, p. 19 

. 
Boxing, p. 18 

. 
NHL, p. 15


PORTS 
. NBA, p. 14 
Thursday, March 28, 2002 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
After a disappointing 0-3 weekend to kick off the Big East season, the Irish base­ball team hopes to rebound with a pair of conference doubleheaders on the road at West Virginia and Georgetown over Easter Break. 
For only the second time since joining the Big East Conference in baseball, the Irish were swept in a three­game series last weekend. At Connecticut, the Irish suf­fered some defensive trou­bles and the inability to come up with big hits in the clutch 
Over the weekend, the Irish committed seven errors and stranded 31 base run­ners. The team hopes to improve these numbers if it is to return to the success that it enjoyed last season in winning the Big East regular season title. 

"The biggest thing we have to work on as a: team is sewing up our infield defense and hitting in the clutch," Brian O'Connor, associate head coach, said. 
The bats have been alive for the Irish as they out hit the Huskies 32 to 26, but the team was still outscored by nine runs in the series. With three players -seniors Steve Stanley, Andrew Bushey, and Brian Stavisky -hitting .400 or better, the Irish hold a respectable team batting average of .286. The m ajar gap appears in the team's 4.12 earned run average and .284 opponents' batting average compared to last year's low marks of 3.22 for ERA and .246 for OBA. 
The Irish return to confer­ence play Thursday at West Virginia, slightly earlier than the usual Saturday/Sunday three-game series, but O'Connor feels that the soon­er the team can return to the field the better. 
''I'm glad we're playing again on Thursday, and that we don't have to wait until Saturday because we need to get right back out there and start playing again," O'Connor said. "We need to go out there and win those games and have a chance to get right back into playing our best." 
The Irish can expect a tough match up Thursday against West Virginia, as the Mountaineers bring another experienced squad that returns eight starters from last season. So far this year. West Virginia has gone 10-8, winning two of its first three Big East games last weekend against Georgetown. 
see BASEBALUpage 21 

. Baseball at West Virginia, today, 1 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Women's Tennis at Wake Forest, Saturday, 11 a.m.
SPORTS 
on!ine 

. Men's Lacrosse at Denver, Saturday, 2 p.m.
AT AGLANCE http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 







