
Monday, September 2, 2002 Irish fans 


head east 
page4 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. S HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Students hope game sets tone for season 

BylAUREN BECK News Wrirer 

Cautious optimism turned to euphoria Saturday night among Notre Dame football fans after a 22-0 Irish victory over Maryland in the Kickoff Classic. 
The general mood on campus following the game in East Rutherford, N.J., was one See Also 
of hope and 

excitement as "Irish fans pack s t u d e n t s Meadowlands" looked ahead to the remain-page 4 
ing 11 games on the football schedule. 

"I knew the game was going to set the tone for the season, and that was the tone I wanted it to set," said sophomore Matthew Poetzinger. 
Poetzinger hoped the team's showing would increase fan support in the upcoming games. 
"Last year, it seemed like peo­ple were going to the Stadium to watch the Irish lose, but that won't be happening now. I see an attitude change among the fan base," he said. 
For freshmen Joe McFarlane and Mike Ragsdale, Saturday's game was the perfect start to the next four years of watching Irish football. 
''I'm proud· to be a part of the Irish after their excellent show­ing," McFarlane said. "They played better than I expected. They played with more spirit ... they really wanted to win." 
Ragsdale said he was sur­prised by the team's perfor­mance, considering Notre Dame's absence from the pre­season polls. 
"It was great to witness the first shutout by a new coach at Notre Dame in almost 50 years," he said about Tyrone Willingham's first game at the helm ofthe team. 
Upperclassmen were also optimistic about the new sea­son, citing the improvements they saw from last year. Several credited \Villingham's leader­ship and work ethic for the team's new look and attitude. 
"I could tell when seeing new plays and new strategy that it's a different team," said senior Katherine Karrat. "There are things they still need to work on, but I think we'll.have a better season than expected as they continue to practice." 
Senior George Salib said the Irish were more exciting to watch Saturday than last season as they brandished Willingham's West Coast offen­sive scheme. 
Christine Bryant, also a senior, said she was impressed by Willingham's hard-working 
see GAME/page 4 
Anthony thrives despite slowdown 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
While the dollar may not get the average college back­packer as far in Europe as it used to, the sluggish travel industry has not affected Notre Dame and Saint Mary's local travel agent, Anthony 
Travel  President  John  
Anthony said.  
Despite changes in  the  

travel industry in the last two years. Anthony said Anthony Travel continues to add new clients to its already strong and narrow niche among uni­versities and athletics. 
"We offer services for these markets that others [travel agencies] don't. That makes our growth reasonable dur­ing the economic downturn," Anthony said. 
Just last year Anthony Travel won a national bid to serve Purdue University in addition to other locations at University of North Carolina­Chapel Hill, Central Missouri State and Dallas. While pres­sure and changes have increased in the travel indus­try, so too have the opportu­nities for Anthony Travel. 
"The customer is looking around to see what you can do for them. \Ve offer unique services for our unique clients," Anthony said. 
Many students who plan on going abroad have utilized Anthony Travel to purchase wholesale student fares, passport photos, Eurorail passes and an International Student ID card all in one stop. A new service being offered to students, especially freshmen, is the student trav­el club. For a one-time fee of $2 50, freshmen will he exempt from Anthony Travel fees on personal airline tick­ets for all four years. They will additionally he enrolled in frequent flyer programs, receive personalized luggage tags. a $25 discount coupon for spring break tour pack­ages and notification of important travel issues. 
Faculty also receive dis­counts for certain airlines. Anthony Travel can bill the faculty's grant directly, sav­ing paperwork. Notre Dame's athletic department saves $100,000 each year by book­ing teams' traveling needs 
see TRAVEUpage 4 



Diversity talk raises questions 
She asked the audience to con­the college and their rooms are 
By KELLY HRADSKY 
template if either or both of similar to an office space. 
News Writer 

these mascots are offensive to Others argued that dorm people and if so, why. rooms are their own personal 
Through funding from the "I don't think that either are space where they can express Center for Women's offensive, they are both just themselves. Intercultural Leadership, the mascots," sophomore Jodie "Since the resident advisers Saint Mary's community gath­Emerick said. don't pay for their rooms, I ered on campus to discuss Kendall think that their rooms are the diversity sparked a school's and therefore they Saturday. "Changing individuals debate among should not be able to hang 
Frances the resident things like the Confederate
doesn't change institutions; 
Kendall, a advisers when flag" Emerick said. leading we want to change policy she brought up Kendall started the second diversity and procedures. ,. the topic of per­seminar by reading to the audi­consultant sonal space. ence a series of statements, and facili­They debated asking them to stand up after
Frances Kendall 
tator, led whether resi­each statement that applied to a series of diversity consultant, facilitator dent advisers them. The statements referred w o r k -should he to ancestry, race and gender. A 
shops that encouraged partici­allowed to have sample ques­pants to learn about themselves controversial tion was:
"Since the resident 
and to challenge authority. items, such as a "Did your Students as well as faculty Confederate flag, advisers don't pay for ancestors attended the frank seminars -displayed in their rooms, I think that benefit from "Creating a Welcoming and their rooms. the G.I. bill?"
their rooms are the
Inclusive Community," "Waking The response "When I 
up to Privilege" and from partici­school's and therefore saw how "Leadership Matters: Being pants was heat­they should not be able often I was Agents of Change." ed as many standing up
to hang things like the 
"Changing individuals doesn't burst into compared to change institutions; we want to applause or qui­Confederate flag." other people, change policy and procedures," etly booed as dif­I realized Kendall said. fering opinions Jodie Emerick how much I 
Starting the first seminar. were expressed. had," sopho­
sophomore
Kendall asked members of the Members of more Sarah audience to consider questions the audience Dunn said. such as whether there was a argued that these items could Kendall's purpose in asking difference between the mean­create an unhealthy atmos­the questions was to help audi­ing of the Fighting Irish or the phere, a~ding that resident Washington Redskins mascots. advisers are representatives of see SEMINAR/page 4_ 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, September 2, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 



It's time for 

online 
8 a.m., first official day of class. Do you remember where you were? For some, you might have been in class, and for others, you might have been struggling to catch those last minutes of much-needed early-morning Kiflin Turner sleep. As for myself, I was 
Associate 
standing in line at 
News Editor 
the Stadium along 
with hundreds of 
other students waiting to receive tick­ets for an undeniably exciting football 
season. 
Some were disgruntled and a little peeved, while others were just lethar­gic. There were a handful of cheery enthusiasts, but they were the minori­ty. In fact, I blame their giddiness on the donuts and orange juice. While the refreshments were a nice consolation, the wait was a little less than tasty. The lingering debate on football ticket distribution is here yet again, but this time, there's a feasible plan to back up the complaints. Implementing an electronic ticket distribution system as an option would be a much better alternative to waiting in line to pay and show an ID. 
I know there's the age-old tradition of waiting in line with all of your bud­dies in anticipation of receiving some of the most prized and coveted college football season tickets in the country, but it would be a lot more efficient if this were made optional. OK. here's the plan: We keep the lottery system -it's fair and everyone gets her own unique, allocated number. 
Notre Dame sets up an electronic ticket system. along the lines of IrishLink, and at your appointed time, based on year and lottery number, you go online and get your tickets. At enrollment, students can show their ID, turn in their ticket application with their social security number, and receive a number. Before the drawing, the system would have already recorded both the unique lottery num­ber and the matching social security number for each student to ensure authentication. At your appointed time, type in your social, your lottery number and choose whatever is avail­able for yourself as well as your group of friends. And payment, no problem, through a secured server you can pay by credit or check. If cash is your thing, then you can pay in advance, or at enrollment even. Advance payment would be noted in the system, so that when a student wanted to pick tickets at a later date, they would just need to provide their social and lottery num­ber. 
But no worries to all of you die-hard fans who still want to wait it out in front of the Stadium during the wee hours of the morning. If that's your thing, then you can do it with other like-minded individuals and carry on the torch of tradition. For others, standing in line all morning is not a testament to show how much of an Irish fan they are. Real fans cheer half-naked in sub-zero weather, eat­ing cold brats until they can't feel their feet. But I suppose everyone has his own definition. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica• tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis rakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS  WORLD&  
NEWS  NATION  
Irish fans hit  High waters  

the road to 
spread into pack the 
central parts Meadowlands 
of Europe 
Notre Dame stu­

German officials dents made the 
deal with floods drive to New 
that amount to a Jersey as the Irish 
$20 billion problem shut-out the Terps 
for Europe. in this season's opener. 
page 4 page 5 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Hccita] Forum, noon, Little Theatre. 

. 
SJ\B Meeting 9 p.m., HCC/#304 SGJ\ Board Hoom. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, Tri-Color rotini, meatball Stoganoff sauce, supreme pizza, pasta primavera, spinach, chicken & dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, mashed red-skin garlic potatoes, Teriyaki London broil, scrambled eggs, rolled cheese omelet, sausage patties, eggs benedict with ham, seasoned potato cubes, onion rings. 
Today Dinner: Cream of broccoli soup, minestrone soup, french bread pizza, penne with gorgonzola, southern fried chicken, honey mustard chicken breast, corn, apple crisp, beef chop suey. boiled Chinese noodles. 

TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
!ct 
LLI 
~ 
..I 
ct: 
(.) 



_,0 HIGH 85 HIGH LOW 68 LOW 

75 68 
BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT

NEWS 
Earth Summit 
America's turns to 
pastime saved business for 
for the solutions 
moment 

World leaders 
Columnist Mike attempt to bring 
Marchand looks at big business into 
major league base­the fold as they 
ball's brush with a look toward build­
work stoppage. ing sustainable development. 
page 10page 7 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Alcohol violations at SDH 
NDSP issued two University citations 
outside South Dining Hall early Thursday morning for minor con­sumption of alcohol. The cases are being referred for administrative 
review. 

Student loses football tickets 
A student reported losing her foot­ball tickets at an unknown campus location. 

Tree falls on car on Juniper 
NDSP responded to a report of a tree branch falling on a vehicle while on Juniper Road. 

Magazine solicitation halted 
NDSP apprehended an individual in Sorin Hall selling magazine subscrip­tions. The person was identified, issued a non-contractual interest form, and released. 

Bookstore thief apprehended 
A 43-year-old male was arrested by NDSP at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for criminal conversion. The case is being investigated fur­ther. 
SCENE SPORTS 

Down to the Add two more 
final round shutouts to the weekend 
Scene reviews 
scorecard

"American Idol," one of this sum­mer's hottest televi­
The Notre Dame sion phenomenons. 
women's soccer team posted back­to-back shutouts against Virginia Tech and Providence. 
page 12 page 24 


Seat belt violations issued 
NDSP issued two state citations for seat belt violations on Edison Road. 

Visitor injured at Stepan 
A visitor was transported by ambu­lance to Memorial Hospital for treat­ment of a sports injury. 

Student taken to hospital 
A student was transported by NDSP from the Rolfs RecSports Recreation Center to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 

NDSP issues alcohol citation 
NDSP issued a University citation early Saturday morning at the Post Office for minor consumption of alco­hol, failure to produce identification upon request and possession of false ID. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Information compiled from the Notre Dame Security/Police blotter. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, Tri-Color rotini, meatball Stoganoff sauce, supreme pizza, pasta primavera, spinach, chicken & dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, mashed red-skin garlic potatoes, Teriyaki London broil, scrambled eggs, rolled cheese omelet, sausage patties, eggs benedict with ham, seasoned potato cubes, onion rings. 
Today Dinner: Thin spaghetti, boiled shells, mostaccioli, tri-color rotini, lin­guine, meat sauce, spaghetti sauce, meatball with sauce, alfredo sauce, meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni, pesto sauce, apple turnover, whipped potatoes, cut corn, brown sauce, turkey gravy, plain rice, baked potato, broccoli cuts. baby carrots, frozen cut green beans, roasted vegetables. baked tur­bot jardiniere, beef bourguignon, kluski noodles, bourbon baked ham, baked sweet potato, hamburger, hot dog. chicken patty, grilled cheese on white, natures burger, pretzel, pancakes, scrambled eggs, sausage links, tater tots, chinese noo­dles, SDH oriental court, vegetables eggrolls, oriental vegetables, sweet and sour chicken tenders, chicken taco, taco meat, Spanish rice, SDH Mexican bar. jalapeno poppers, broccoli quesadilla. 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 




HIGH 82 80 HIGH HIGH LOW 58 55 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
82 60 

82 62 

Atlanta 87 / 68 Boston 68 / 62 Chicago 88 I 68 Denver 83 I 54 Houston 92 I 75 Los Angeles 80 / 63 Minneapolis 83 / 55 New York 75/ 68 Philadelphia 80 / 68 Phoenix 105/ 82 Seattle 70 / 55 St. Louis 92 / 72 Tampa 92 I 75 Washington 75 / 51 
Monday, September 2, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 




Media exhibition opens at Moreau Galleries 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 

The Moreau Galleries opens its 2002-2003 season with a thought-provoking exhibit by artist Greg Pond, assistant professor of art at the University of the South. 
.. Beyond the Hedge" is a multimedia exhibit that merges nature with modern devices, such as DVD players, the hull of a car, and compact disc players. 
"I am interested in American mythology and the related concepts of westward expansion, regeneration through violence, and cultural attitudes towards landscape," Pond said in his artist statement. "It is the landscape that largely influences our collec­tive mythology, creates its narrative and heroes such as John Wayne and Daniel Boone." 
His piece "Crickets" is composed of an aluminum basket filled with grass and dirt connected to electronic sound boards that produce the sounds of crickets. 
"Fox skinning" is among his more disturb­ing pieces, wherein a bowl of fox skins sur­rounds a small DVD player displaying the actual process of a fox skinning. The exhibit contrasts the image of the brutal nature of a fox being skinned against the gentleness of the soft skins placed in the bowl. 
"The wilderness is seen as the place of the terrible unconsciousness and must neces­sarily be replaced by systems of order," Pond said. "Through compressing history and cultures, altering the pace of time and distorting the physical scale, I seek to por­tray a psychological rather than social or material realism." 
This first display of the season will remain in the Moreau Galleries through Sept. 26, and the gallery is open Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 


.1' Wet Your Whistle! 
.r,. I (and stuff your face) 
DAILYSPECIALS Big 
Rated # 1 Hot Wings Screen in the area 
TVs 


Monday Night Football 
Buckets of Wings & 
Half-Priced Pitchers 




?!Juanetl 1477, ame 
Notre Dame's Fraternal Catholic Organization 
Invites prospective members to visit us at ACTIVITIES NIGHT, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3!ill from 7 -10 pm at the JACC AND at our Open House, Wednesday, September 4th from 5-7 pm at the Knights Building on South Quad next to the Coleman-Morse Center. 
The Knights of Columbus is an international organization focussing on charity and fraternal events. Membership is open to any Catholic Man of 18 years of age. 
CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer 

Saint Mary's senior Dorothy Carder looks closely at the works of Sandra Ginter on display Friday at Moreau Art Gallery . 
I 
i 
_:; 

Monday, September 2, 2002

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Irish fans pack Meadowlands 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Hundreds of students packed their belongings on Thursday and Friday into vehicles en route to the East Coast to sup­port the Notre Dame football team. Upon their return, stu­dents said the road trip raised school spirit. 
"I think the morale among students is going to be a lot higher regarding the football program," said junior Ryan 
Crochet,  who  attended  
Saturday's  game  against  
Maryland  in  

Giants 
Stadium. "/ think it's good to try stadium look 
"I think to invade opposing like the Red everyone's Sea as thou­
teams' stadiums." 

pretty excited sands of for the upcom­Nebraska fans ing season Roland Newrones were able to because I think senior buy tickets to a 
[head coach T y r o n e Willingham] is such a great coach and the team looks really good," said junior Mike Smith, who rode with 14 other friends on a bus to New Jersey where the stadium is located. Included with the road trip was a tailgate in New Jersey along with a free T-shirt. 
Students said the road trip was a fun way to begin the school year with friends. 
"We've been gone all sum­mer," Smith said, adding that the trip was still "mostly for the football team." 
Trips to other states for Notre Dame football games are noth­ing new. Traditionally, students have traveleq to Purdue or Michigan schools to see Notre Dame play, and even Florida or California for a warm weather game over fall break. 
Senior Roland Newrones, who 

Travel 
continued from page 1 
through Anthony Travel. 
Anthony reports that there has been a 15 percent drop in Point A to Point B travel but these gaps have been filled with new clients. They are cur­rently in discussion with two other universities. 
Another factor contributing to Anthony Travel's success is their excellent reputation among students and parents. 
"I think there's a comfort fac­tor for the parents to be able to call us up and order their traveled to last year's first foot­ball game against Nebraska, said road trips are good for stu­dents to see other parts of the country and have fun regardless of the record. 
"You've got to support them through thick and thin," Newrones said. 
Nevertheless. students said the victory has given them a renewed school spirit. Newrones, who did not attend this past weekend's game but watched it on television, said he learned from Nebraska fans the power of packing of stadium. The infamous game in the fall of 2000 made Notre Dame's 
Notre Dame 
home game. 
"I think it's good to try to invade opposing teams' stadi­ums," Newrones said. 
The students who returned from the game said they have a renewed sense of team spirit and look forward to the upcom­ing season. 
Smith said Willingham has made a difference. 
"I think there's a lot of excite­ment regarding the new coach and the program, and I think a lot of people are really pumped up about it," Smith said. 
Fellow junior Rob Falk agreed and complimented Willingham on his confidence. 
"I haven't found one person that doesn't think that he's a great coach, so we're all pretty excited," Falk said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
child's airline ticket with their credit card and tell their child to just come to us to pick it up," said Anthony. "It's just nice to know that if something goes wrong, we're here for you." 
Anthony Travel also does extensive research for the ever-scandalous spring break deals that have scammed unsuspecting college kids time and again. 
"We find reputable trips that may not necessarily be the cheapest but may be the best value for the quality and the price," he said. 
Contact Liz Kahling at ekahling@nd.edu 

Regardless, the Irish victory restored fans' faith in Notre Dame football and gave them hope for the rest of the season. 
"I think we have more confi­dence now, win or lose," said sophomore Dennis Idawu. "We're all behind [Willingham]. and we believe in him." 
Salib said Saturday set a pos­itive tone for what he hopes will be a memorable final foot­ball season at Notre Dame. 
"I can't imagine how crazy the Stadium will be, with spirit from both the fans and players. I'm looking forward to that." 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu 
Game 

continued from page 1 
attitude. 

"You would think a coach up at the half would be pleased, but when they interviewed Willingham at halftime ... he wasn't settling. He's tough, and that's what we need. We seemed more together and solid," she said. 
Some students, such as junior Chrissy Maher, are hop­ing for a bowl game appear­ance from the Irish after the outcome ofSaturdays' game. 
"I was optimistic before the game, with a new coach and a fresh start, and I'm even more excited now," she said. 
But students also recognized that they couldn't get their hopes up too high, too early, especially with a tough sched ­ule that includes Michigan, Michigan State and Florida State. 
"We can't get too hyped after the first game," said Bryant. "We have to keep our hopes up high, but don't expect a cham­pionship this year" 
Salib added, "There is cer­tainly reason to be optimistic, but it's easy for fans to get ahead of themselves. The team is showing promise, but there are things we need to work on." 
Seminar 
continued from page 1 
ence members realize the number of privileges they had been afforded because of their race and acknowl­edge that race does mat­ter. 
"For those of us who are white, one of our privi­leges is that we see our­selves as individuals, 'just people,' part of the human race," Kendall said. "We play our race card every-
ct .. 
ay. 
In the final seminar. Kendall left students with a list of ways that change could be achieved in the policy and procedure of institutions. 
"The last speech got me thinking, I want change and this speech made me feel more confident that it was possible," junior Yvonne Benson said. 
Contact Kelly Hradsky at hradl060@saintmarys.edu 



Monday, September 2, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
GERMANY 
High waters spread into central parts of Europe 
Rain turned the Strzegomka,
Associated Press 
Lesko and Pclcznica rivers into roaring torrents, causingBERLIN 
flooding near the city of
Areas of Germany hit hard 
Walbrzych, 260 miles south­
by last month's flooding were 
west of Warsaw, and nearby
back under water Sunday after 
Swiebodzic.

rainstorms deluged the east of 
"The situation is very diffi­
the country and parts of 
cult and bad," said Dari usz
Switzerland, the Czech 
Budkiewicz, deputy head of
Republic and Poland. 
the fire department in nearby
The overnight downpour 
Swidnica. "Our
flooded 
teams are
Dresden, 
"The situation is very pumping water
Chemnitz and other parts of difficult and bad." from flooded 
farms andthe German 
evacuating
state of 
Oariusz Budkiewicz 

people."
Saxony, 
deputy head of Many people
where thou­sands of peo­Swidnica fire department in the area 
ple are still cleaning up from the overflowing Elbe River. 
Landslides also blocked roads in Saxony and the Baden-Wuerttemberg state. 
In Switzerland, three people died in a house buried by a landslide set off by flooding. 
In southwestern Poland, dozens of people were evacu­ated from their homes Sunday after torrential rain swelled mountain rivers and flooded villages, firefighters said. 
Poland hadn't been affected by the high water that caused billions in damage across Europe last month. 
fled their 
farms as the water levels rose Sunday, flooding roads and rail tracks. Firefighters strengthened dikes around a lake which threatened to overflow and flood the city of Dobromierz. 
With warm, dry weather expected over much of Europe in the coming days, leaders are focusing on how to repair damage estimated at over $19.6 billion, with most of the burden falling on Germany. 
European Union foreign min­isters meeting Saturday in Helsingoer. Denmark, approved a European disaster fund of $491 million. EU appli­cants Czech Republic and Slovakia affected by the flood­ing will also be able to draw on the fund. 

The German government has begun releasing funds from a hastily assembled package worth about $9.8 billion to help residents and businesses get back onto their feet. 
The German Chamber of 
Industry and Commerce esti­mated Saturday that 2,500 businesses were destroyed and as many as 18,000 more were damaged by the floodwaters. 

CANADA 
Health officials suspect West Nile virus in Ontario 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Ontario health officials said Friday they believe three people sick in the province have the West Nile virus, which would be Canada's first human cases of the mosquito-born illness that has killed 24 people in the United States this year. 
Colin D'Cunha, the Ontario chief medical officer, said final confirmation would take another two weeks. 
Ontario is Canada's most populous province, and is across the border from 
U.S. states where the virus has been reported. 
If the three have the virus, it would document the continuing spread of West Nile throughout North America. Several U.S. states -including North Dakota, Iowa, Arkansas and South Carolina -have reported their first human cases this week of a virus that can cause fever, body aches. brain swelling, coma, paralysis or death. 
Canadian officials have warned in recent years that the virus, which has been detected in birds and animals in Canada, eventually would spread to the human population. It is transmitted to humans by mosquito bites. 
Dr. David McKeown, the medical health officer for the Peel region west of Toronto, said two of the probable cases involved people over 65 from the Mississauga area. 
One remains hospitalized in serious condition and another was hospitalized and then released to recover at home, McKeown said. 
There was little information immedi­ately available about the third case, but D'Cunha said authorities believe the person became sick in the United States. 
According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 24 people have died across the country so far this year from the virus, with almost 500 cases reported in more than 20 states. 
The virus is most dangerous for chil­dren, the elderly and people with weak immune systems. It can cause flu-like symptoms and encephalitis, a potential­ly fatal brain infection. Most people bit­ten by an infected bug never get sick. 
West Nile is common in Africa and the Middle East. The disease was first detected in the United States in 1999, when seven people died from it in New York. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Fox admits falling short of promises: 
Facing a country impatient for change, a humbled President Vicente Fox acknowledged Sunday that he still had work to do in achieving the sweeping reforms he promised two years ago when he toppled Mexico's entrenched political elite. In his second state-of-the-nation address late Sunday, Fox admit­ted that he hadn't achieved as much as he had hoped and pleaded with Congress to help him create the new Mexico he outlined during his campaign. 
Israeli soldier retaliate on Palestinians: 
Israeli soldiers. saying they had been warned of an attack, shot and killed four Palestinians near a Jewish settlement's vineyard in the West Bank on Sunday. The shootings brought the weekend Palestinian death toll to 13, including two children and several other civilians. Senior Israeli officials apologized for the loss of civilian lives, while Palestinians and some Israelis charged t~~ army has lost its sense of restraint. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
California wildfire forces evacuation: 
A wildfire spread rapidly across 10,000 acres of national forest Sunday, sending thousands of holi­day campers fleeing. The fire was burning in the Azusa Canyon area of the Angeles National Forest about 30 miles east of Los Angeles. About 8,000 campers were told to evacuate campgrounds. "This was a holiday weekend and the canyon was full of people," state Department of Forestry dispatcher James Arthur said. About 11,420 acres of brush were aflame across California. In El Dorado County east of Sacramento, a fire destroyed one house and threatened about 100 others. It had consumed 770 acres Sunday and was 30 percent contained. 
House explosion kills one, injures 17: 
A house in Snow Hill, Md. exploded as firelighters and utility workers investigated a gas leak Sunday, killing one worker and injuring 17 people. Thirteen of those injured were firefighters and paramedics. 
Three other homes reported gas leaks, and about 20 nearby homes were evacuated and the gas sup­ply was turned off, police Chief Michael McDermott said. "It's a very dangerous situation," he said. "We're taking every precaution." Emergency work­ers were plugging in fans to blow the gas odor out of the one-story home when a spark ignited fumes, he said. 
DEA reveals terrorist link to drug trade: 
Federal authorities have amassed evidence for the first time that an illegal drug operation in the United States was funneling proceeds to Middle East terrorist groups like Hezbollah. Evidence gath­ered by the Drug Enforcement Administration since a series of raids in January indicates that a methamphetamine drug operation in the Midwest involving men of Middle Eastern descent has been shipping money back to terrorist groups, officials said. 

page 6 Monday, September 2, 2002 
Thi! OJsert1t:J" . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Nicholas Boyle, University of Cambridge 
Author of Goethe: the Poet and the Age, 
Vol. 1: The Poetry ofDesire {1749-1790) 
Vol. 2: Revolution and Renunciation (1790-1803) 
Co-Editor of Goethe and the English-Speaking World: Essays from the Cambridge Symposium for his 250th Anniversary 
Co-editor of Realism in European Literature: Essays in Honour off P. Stern 
Author of Who Are \¥1? Now?: Christian Humanism and the Global Market from Hegel to Heaney 
Winner of the Goethe Medal in 2000; Fellow of the British Academy 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 

o as 
e 
Sacred and Secular Scriptures: a catholic approach to literature 
Bible as Literature September 3, 2002 Literature and Theology September 5, 2002 History-and Hermeneutics* September 10, 2002 Revelation and Realism* September 12, 2002 Beyond Bibliolatry* 
Literature as Bible April 1, 3, 8, and 10, 2003 
All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies and begin at 4 p. m. 
*The lectures on September 5, 10, and 12 will be two-hours in length with a refreshment break. 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors. The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 2, 2002 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch August 30 
Dow Jones 

8,663.50 • -7.49 
NASDAQ 

1,314.85 • -20.92 
S&P500 

916.07 • -1.73 
AMEX 

867.33 +4.35
1't 
NYSE 

495.55 +0.35
1't 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAi N PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM(SUNW) -3.66 -0.14 3.69 
¦lflj!i!l!iii!:~llllllllll!illl~ii!~1!l!ll1!1l!:1i:1:1111~111
CISCO SYSTEMS(CSCO) -2.68 -0.38 13.82 
¦!li!1!1!llllilll1/lllill!!!lti!i\~l:!ilt~llillllll~lllll!~t!tlil:it!
INTEL CORP(INTC) 
-2.74 -0.47 16.67 

IN BRIEF 
United deliberates over new CEO 
United Airlines' board of directors has called 
a special meeting for today amid reports it is 
poised to select an oil company executive as its 
new chairman and chief executive officer. 
Glenn Tilton, the 54-year-old vice chairman of ChevronTexaco Corp. and acting chairman of struggling Dynegy Inc., has emerged as the front-runner to replace interim CEO Jack Creighton, according to several reports. He could be named to the job today. 
But both the company and union sources said Sunday that no final decision has been made. 
Government to inspect 1,400 jets 
A day after the government called for 1,400 Boeing jets to be inspected for possibly faulty fuel pumps, major U.S. carriers said Saturday they had few planes in which the pumps have been installed. 
The directive from the Federal Aviation Administration said the pumps could cause an explosion because wires were placed too close to a rotor and could chafe. 
American Airlines, the nation's No. 1 carrier, said Saturday it was replacing pumps on three aircraft. United and Delta, the nation's second­and third-largest airliners, said none of their planes was affected by the FM order. 
Wal•Mart suit becomes class-action 
A federal judge has granted class-action sta­tus to a lawsuit that claims Wal-Mart's denial of health insurance coverage for birth control is unfair to female employees. 
U.S. District Judge Julie Carnes said Friday that all women working for the nation's largest retailer after March 2001 could pursue claims against the company if they were using pre­scription contraceptives. 
Lisa Smith Mauldin, a customer-service man­ager at a Wal-Mart store in Hiram, filed the lawsuit in October asking the court to declare the company's health plan illegal and to order Wal-Mart to reimburse her and other employ­ees for uninsured prescription contraceptives. 
SOUTH AFRICA 


Summit embraces business 
. World leaders try to reconcile corporate values with concerns about environment 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

Business can overcome its "evil 
empire" image by focusing on more 
than just short-term profits, govern­
ment and corporate leaders said 
Sunday at the World Summit. 
"Both business and society stand 
to benefit from working together." 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said at a daylong series of Business Day events. 
Attitudes have changed since the 
first Earth Summit 10 years ago, 
when big business was viewed as 
part of the problem, Annan said. 
"We didn't understand how the 
private sector could be part of the 
solution," he said. Today there is a 
better understanding that "lasting 
and effective answers" can only be 
found in conjunction with business. 
"The corporate sector has the finances. technology and manage­ment to make things happen" with­out waiting for slow-moving govern­ments to act, he said. 
Speaking earlier, Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien sounded a similar note. 
"We must move beyond the stale cliche that business does not care about the environment," he said. 
Yet not everyone is happy at the prominent role allotted to business at the current World Summit, con­ceded the gathering's secretary­general. Nitin Desai. 
drafted in concert with the United 
Environmental and consumer 
Nations. 
groups especially view big business About 140 companies -includingwith a "continuing 
the likes of AT&T, 

sense of suspi­Ford. Nike and 
cion," he said. "We must move beyond McDonald's -have With the sum­the stale cliche that incorporated the 
mit's action plan 
Global Reporting

business does not care
geared toward Initiative rules into 
encouraging pub-about the environment.,. their results, accord­lie-private part-ing to its backers. 
nerships to allevi­Complicating mat­
Jean Chretien 
ate poverty while ters is the lack of any
Canadian prime minister
protecting the international bodyenvironment, that could enforce activists have been pushing dele­such rules, Desai said. "It's only gates to include rules to hold corpo­national governments that have the rations accountable for their perfor­opportunity to enforce," he said. mance on social. environmental and Many speakers argued that peer economic issues. pressure was the best way to affect 
Business leaders have argued change in the business world. against binding global standards in One program highlighted Sunday favor of their own voluntary rules. was the Global Mining Initiative started by 10 major mining compa­nies to address social concerns. 

"Having moved out of a competi­tive position with each other on those issues, the industry as a whole can take some quantum leaps," said Achim Steiner, director general of the World Conservation Union. 
Robert Wilson, chairman of the British-Australian mining conglom­erate Rio Tinto PLC, said there was a strong business case in favor of the step, including stability. risk management and employee motiva­tion. 
"In the long term it's going to make us stronger and better under­stood," he said. 
Tokyo Sexwale of the Business Coordinating Forum of South Africa said business had to work to "dispel the evil empire image." 
Arthur Andersen revokes permits 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

After 89 years in business, Arthur Andersen LLP on Saturday ended its role as auditor of public companies. 
The Chicago-based company was convicted in June of obstruction of justice for shredding and doctoring documents related to Enron audits. Afterward, Andersen told the Securities and Exchange Commission it would cease auditing public companies. It already had given up its license to practice in several states. 
"As of this day, Arthur Andersen LLP has voluntarily relinquished, or consented to revocation of. its firm permits in all states where it was licensed to practice public accoun­tancy with state regulators," the company said Saturday in a state­ment. 
The company now has fewer than 3,000 of the roughly 28,000 employ­ees it had before the Enron scandal. Of its more than 1,200 public-com­pany audit clients. none will remain. 
The firm's startling decline has come in less than nine months. 
"It's like a family member who has terminal cancer," said Gary Brentlinger, human resources director for Andersen's offices in Houston. Austin, San Antonio and New Orleans. "We're watching the firm die." 
As people have left and files have gone into storage, Brentlinger said Andersen staff members have removed papers from offices in a downtown Houston skyscraper and turned off the lights, leaving only furniture and artwork. Office sup­plies were donated to charities. 
Andersen has had to disconnect its e-mail system, overhaul its con­ference-calling operations to take into account offices that closed and sell computers and other hardware. 
The once-mighty accounting firm is expected to be sentenced Oct. 17. 
Monday, September 2, 2002 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Air marshal defends gun brandishing 
Associated Press 
PHllADELPHIA 

Federal officials defended the response of an air marshal who trained his gun on a passenger-filled jet cabin for 30 minutes after detain­ing a man, prompting protests by a judge who was on the flight. 
Two armed marshals detained the man on Delta Flight 442, which was flying from Atlanta to Philadelphia with 183 people on board, because he allegedly was rummaging through other people's luggage. 
One marshal then held his gun on the coach cabin passengers because some of them ignored orders to remain seated with their seat belts on, a spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration said Sunday. 
"If people would have stayed in their seats and heeded those warn­ings, that would not have happened," said TSA spokesman Robert Johnson in Washington. "It's our opinion that it was done by the book." 
He said the TSA, which oversees federal air marshals, was still review­ing the marshals' response on the Saturday flight. The man whom the marshals detained was released and the U.S. Attorney's office decided not to press charges, said FBI spokes­woman Jerri Williams. 
Johnson said that despite the pas­sengers' complaints. he thought the marshals did what they needed to do to make sure that the plane could land safely. 
"It's a highly charged situation," Johnson said. "It's [about] keeping the plane secure." 
Philadelphia Common Pleas Judge James A. Lineberger, who was sitting diagonally acr.oss from the detained man, said he thought the marshals overreacted by holding their semiau­tomatic weapons on passengers for so long. 
Lineberger also said he hadn't noticed any disturbance before the marshals suddenly took the man up to first class and restrained him. 
Several minutes later, the judge said, the marshals returned to the coach cabin and pulled out their guns. 
"I assumed at that moment that there was going to be some sort of gun battle," he said. "I'm looking right down the barrel of the gun as though it was pointed at me." 
Lineberger said he plans to file a complaint with the TSA on Tuesday. He said about 30 other passengers also plan to complain. 
David and Susan Johnson of Mobile, Ala., said they hadn't been aware of any disturbance when the sky mar­shals took the man first to the back of the plane and then to the first-class section. 
"It never made sense," said Susan Johnson, 51, a social worker. "This guy was not any physical threat that we could see. Maybe he said some things to them that made them con­cerned. He just appeared to us unsta­ble, emotionally." 
One passenger, however, said he thought the air marshals handled the situation in a calm and professional manner. 
"These guys looked pretty well like they had things under control." said Robert Venditti-Kramer, 28, who was in first class. He said the marshals only pointed their guns straight down the aisle, not at any passengers. 

West Nile may spread via transplants 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Federal experts and the American Red Cross met Sunday to determine how to deal with the potential threat. 
"We've known for some time that there is a theoretical possibility that people can get this through blood or organ trans­plants," said Tom Skinner, a spokesman with Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "It's highly unusual but it's certainly possible." 
Officials with the Food and Drug Administration said they issued an alert to blood banks two weeks ago to exercise extra caution when screening donors, said Dr. Jesse Goodman with the FDA. 
"We have been very active and tried to anticipate the possibility of something like this," Goodman said. 
Four people, who were not identified, might have been infected with West Nile virus after receiving the kidneys, heart and liver of a woman who died in Georgia in early August after a car accident, the CDC said. 
Three of the four patients developed symptoms of encephalitis, the inflamma­tion of the brain and central nervous sys­tem, which is the most serious conse­quence of West Nile virus. 
One of the four recipients, who was in Atlanta, has died, said Dr. James Hughes, director of the CDC's National Center for Infectious Disease. 
Standard pathology tests from an autopsy confirmed the recipient had encephalitis. Tests are ongoing to see if the recipient was infected with West Nile, which causes encephalitis. 
Another recipient from Jacksonville, Fla., showed symptoms of encephalitis Sunday, said Or. John Agwunobi, the Florida Secretary of Health. 
The heart recipient, a 63-year-old man hospitalized in Miami, was diagnosed with West Nile last week. He was upgraded from critical to serious condition Sunday, said Evelyn Lichterman, an administrator at Jackson Memorial Hospital. 
Officials were sure the man didn't con­tract the disease the disease from a mos­quito in Miami-Dade County, said Mary Jo Trepka, epidemiology director with the county health department. 
Officials say it is unknown whether the Georgia organ donor was already infected or got West Nile through blood transfu­sions in the emergency room. The CDC is backtracking to trace donors who con­tributed the transfused blood, the blood products made from those donations and any other patients who may have received blood or blood products from those dona­tions, Hughes said. 
Samples from the four transplant recipi­ents were sent to the CDC's lab in Fort Collins, Colo., Hughes said. Tests results are expected within the week. 
There is no test yet that can quickly or accurately identify the presence of the West Nile virus. Patients are diagnosed on the basis of their immune response to the virus. 
However, researchers at the CDC are trying to find a way that will cut down the time from when infection occurs and when a response to the virus can be mea­sured, the CDC said. Presently, it takes about 15 days between the time infection occurs and when the response can be measured. 
Officials say they remain optimistic that the chances West Nile can spread through blood is low because there have been no confirmed cases to date. 
There are also no known cases either of person-to-person transmission of other diseases in the same family as West Nile called the arboviral encephalitides: St. Louis encephalitis, La Crosse encephalitis and Eastern and Western equine encephalitis. 
While there has been no confirmation that West Nile was passed by blood dona­tion, there are cases on the record in which mosquito-borne diseases have been passed by blood transfusion or transplant. 

after this, the corporate l.adder 
wil.l. be a piece or [cake]m 
In Army ROTC, you'll get to do stuff that'll challenge you, both physically and 
mentally. In the process, you'll develop skills you can use in your career, like 
thinking on your feet, making smart decisions, taking charge. Talk to your Army 
ROTC representative. You'll find there's nothing like a little climbing to help 
prepare you for getting to the top. 
Y·· ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 

For more information on our Scholarship Programs, contact Captain Hennessey at (219) 631-6264 or 631-4656 

Monday, September 2, 2002 page 9 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
N E DAME COMMUNITY 
Without you, Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer......... 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition of the Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visit our new website today for information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~prayers/ 
One Credit Class 
Eight Sessions, 4:35 pm -6:30 pm 
One Wednesday per Month beginning in September, concluding in April 
ROSP 460A/560A; HIST 460M; MI 560A 
(Strong reading knowledge of Spanish required) 
Bartolome de las Casas: Texts, Historical Contexts, and Contemporary Resonances 
Professor Sabine Maccormack, Carey Senior Faculty Fellow, Erasmus Institute 

meets Wednesdays 9/11; 10/9; 11/6; 12/4; 1/22; 2/19; 3/19; 4/16 4:35-6:30 pm, 1125 Flanner 
The Spanish conquest of Central and South America generated a crisis of conscience in Spanish universities and in Spain at large. People wanted to know: was the conquest justified, and if not, seeing that it could not be undone, what were the invaders to do? In this prolonged and often bitter debate, Bartolome de las Casas (1474-1566), Dominican friar and bishop of Chiapas in Mexico, formulated what still are among the most moving and intellectually incisive arguments for the equality of all human beings. He also wrote one of the earliest comparative histories of civilization. The task of the course is to understand the thought of Las Casas and his followers in its sixteenth century context, and then to enquire into the connections between the ideas of Las Casas and contemporary theologians of liberation, in particular Gustavo Gutierrez. 
Questions: send e-mail to Erasmus@nd.edu or call 1-3441 
If you would like to attend, please send an e-mail to Erasmus@nd.edu so we can send you a copy of the paper prior to the seminar 
YEMEN 

Iraqi minister seeks support against U.S. 
Associated Press 
SAN'A 
Iraq's culture minister arrived in Yemen Sunday as part of Baghdad's diplomatic campaign to strengthen oppo­sition to U.S. threats of an attack. 
State-run Yemeni radio quoted Hammed Youssef Hammadi as saying that he wants to discuss "the political situation in the area and in particular American threats against Iraq." 
The radio said Hamadi would meet on Monday with President Ali Abdullah Saleh and other Yemeni officials. 
Washington has said it wants a regime change in Baghdad, accusing Saddam of producing weapons of mass destruction. 
President Bush has warned President Saddam Hussein of unspecified consequences if he does not permit the return of U .N. weapons inspectors to verify that Iraq has disman­tled its chemical and biologi­cal weapons and the missiles that can carry them. The inspectors left in December 1998. 
Saddam has dispatched senior officials to internation­al and regional capitals to try to garner opposition to an attack on Iraq. 
Iraqi Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan visited Damascus and Beirut in recent days, while Foreign Minister Naji Sabri left for Moscow on Sunday a day after returning to Baghdad from a mission to Beijing. 
"There's still room for diplomatic solutions to avert a war with the United States," Ramadan said in Damascus. 
Ramad an told reporters later in Baghdad that Iraq would broaden its diplomatic offensive to include European capitals, in particular Berlin and Paris. 
"There is a growing and tangible European opposition to the American policy of aggression," Ramadan told reporters. 
French President Jacques Chirac has called the idea of unilateral U.S. action against Iraq "worrying." German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said Washington's stepping up calls for military action to oust Saddam is a mistake that undermines U.N. efforts to resume weapons inspections in Iraq. 
On Sunday, the British Broadcasting Corp. released a text of an interview in which 
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said, "The president has been clear that he believes weapons inspectors should return." 
Iraq claims it has complied with U.N. resolutions ­imposed following its 1990 invasion of Kuwait that sparked the 1991 Gulf War ­but has said it wants to con­tinue a dialogue on the inspectors' return, conditions of which U .N. Secretary­General Kofi Annan has rejected. 
Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz told CNN's "Late Edition" on Sunday that the idea of the U.N. inspectors' return is "a nonstarter because it's not going to bring about a conclusion." 
Sabri. Iraq's foreign minis­ter, is expected in Cairo for talks with Arab counterparts at Wednesday's opening of their biannual Arab League meeting in the Egyptian capi­
tal. 
The Iraqi issue is expected to top the Arab League meet­ing agenda with a draft reso­lution already being prepared to crystalize a pan-Arab posi­tion on the U.S.-Iraqi standoff. 


"Education that works for working adults" Accelerated Bachelor's Degree Completion Program 
*Organizational Management Program 
*Management Information Systems (OMP and MIS available as stand alone certificate programs) 
*Bachelor ofScience in Nursing for RNs *General Education Electives 
Classes once a week 
6:00 p.m. until l 0:00p.m. 
4 to 6 weeks per class l 8 to 20 months for the complete program 
Classes begin September 23, 2002 
Goshen College Division of Adult and External Studies ( 800) 390-3490 www.~oshen.edu 
111111111 


O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 10 Monday, September 2, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFa.-ley 

MANAGING EDITOR  Busi~ MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 

Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0•••••..•.••••• 631-7471 FAX. ................................................ ............631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0R/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS.................... ....................................631-4 543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu Sc:ENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv"s.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTF.MS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............. ....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.!!du for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as c.titoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntiom r~arding Observerpolicm should be dirl!ct­ed tQ Editor in Chief Jason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obocm:, (USPS 599 2-4000) i, puhli>hcd Monday through Friday n«p• during a.am md ,,wion periods. A ,ubocripoon m The Obocm:t ii S l 00 for Oil< acadctnic ,..,, sss ro.-on<....,..""· 
The Obwf'Yl:r if pub)is.b«I at: POSTMASTER 021 Sou,h Dining H.U Send add,,:u «>m:<tiom to, N°"" Dame, IN ~6556-0779 ThcObscrwr P<riodic.J pos<,gc po.id ., Nol1< Dam, P.O. Sox Q and addirion.J mailing ollia,,. 024 South Dining H.Jl 
Nou-c Dame, IN 465¼,0779 

The DIM..-is • mcml><r of chc AAociatcd p,..., All n:ptoducrion ,ights .,. ........c1. 

All last week I was geared up to write my first column of the year about the impending baseball strike. Lo and behold, however, hell appar­ently froze over and the owners and players set­tled, averting 
Mike Marchand 

a disastrous work stoppage and, tem­porarily at Undistinguished least, moving Alumnus the metaphor­ical knife away from their own throats. 
But in many ways, the damage had already been done. Two days after last year's incredible World Series, where the Arizona Diamondbacks tri­umphed over the New York Yankees in seven thrilling games, baseball commissioner Bud Selig announced two of the 30 major-league teams would be contracted. This served as the first firing shot in what would become a 10-month Cold War between the owners and the players' union, a black cloud that hovered over every aspect of the game. 
Great baseball moments like Barry Bonds' 600th home run, the fantastic seasons of pitchers Curt Schilling and Derek Lowe and the former contrac­tion candidate Minnesota Twins' dom­ination of the American League Central Division were overshadowed by the same old posturing and posing we've all seen before. 
This was all even before the players' union announced a strike date of Aug. 
30. The fact that the Hatfield­McCoyish feuding was eventually ended and that a bargain was struck was almost anticlimactic. 
The very idea that the players were willing to strike again and risk anoth­er cancellation of the World Series. and even worse, the lack of the national pastime on the one-year anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on America, was so offensive and repugnant to many fans that they simply withdrew even further from the sport they loved. The cries of, "please don't strike" were matched or even exceeded by the angry, "go ahead, strike, the hell with you all." 
What exactly were the players fight­ing for? What could have been so massively, monumentally important that the players would rather not play at all than surrender to and accept? A salary cap. So, in essence, the players would rather walk out than tell Alex Rodriguez that he can "only" make $15 or $18 million, and not $25 mil­lion. 
Forget that even if players are limit­ed in the revenues they can draw from baseball, they can still pursue multimillion-dollar endorsements, like Derek Jeter for Gatorade, Ken Griffey. Jr. and Sammy Sosa for Pepsi or Mr. Rodriguez for Radio Shack. Out of all the things the players' union could be fighting for. they chose to stake their claim on the narrow self-interest of its wealthiest members. 
Look, I'm all for the free market and for players getting paid what they're worth. But it's become clear that the skyrocketing player salaries are a detriment to the game, making it so that many teams cannot compete with the big-market clubs. Asking super­stars to sacrifice some of their riches and scrape by on a few million dollars less annually in order to revive the health of the institution from which they've become so wealthy shouldn't be such a bitter pill to swallow. 
I need to stop here for a moment, because anytime anyone makes the argument that money rules baseball, and that small-market clubs have no chance of competing in the modern baseball era, disagreements invari­ably rise pointing that out. Since the Minnesota Twins, a small-market team, rule their division, and rich teams like the New York Mets and Cleveland Indians are sucking eggs. it "proves" that money isn't all-impor­tant. 
But any system is bound to have some aberrations. The simple fact is that since the strike of '94, every World Series team had a payroll in the top 10, and every world champion had one in the top five. The Twins are good right now, but they don't stand a chance against a team like the Yankees in the playoffs. And they won't have the finances to hold on to their budding superstars when they become free-agents in a few years. It's revenue inequity that is the core problem. 
So baseball finally wised up a bit and slammed on the brakes before driving the national pastime off the cliff. But it remains to be seen whether or not the agreements they've come to will actually do any good, or be like, say, Notre Dame's new alcohol policy -a wonderful idea in theory, but simply ineffective or detrimental in practice. There's more revenue sharing, but no team salary maximums and minimums, and no individual salary cap. The situation may not change, and may even get worse. 
Baseball's hardest task now, more difficult than any intense labor negoti­ations or serious number-crunching, will be how to invite fans back who, although they may love the game, have been alienated and angered by its recent legacy of multimillion-dollar pissing contests. 
The fact that there won't be another strike for the forseeable future is good, but ifs only a first step. Not once in the announcement of the deal did Bud Selig ever mention the fans. And Friday saw empty seats in Wrigley Field for the Cubs-Cardinals game, and tickets being given away at Fenway Park for the Red Sox-Yankees contest. Both of those games are usu­ally automatic sellouts. 
The whole purpose of the sport is for the fans· entertainment. Baseball may have stopped its ship from cap­sizing, but if they don't point it in the right direction, it can still strike out. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, works hard for the money, so you bet­ter treat him right. Miraculously, he still has his e-mail address, Marchand.3@nd.edu. so you can still direct responses there. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Helena Payne Katie McVoy Finn Pressly Chris Federico Viewpoint Scene Teresa Fralish C. Spencer Beggs Graphics Lab Tech Katie McKenna Nellie Williams 

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you feel safe in South Bend? Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/t is better that Io guilty escape than one innocent suffer.,, 
William Blackstone writer 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, September 2, 2002 page 11 
Enjoying sneakers and malls 
A lot has happened since the last time I wrote a column. Four more months in Africa definitely provided lots of excitement. Much of my work involves working with girls throughout the school year, so when the school year ended I devised work that would take me to other parts of Mauritania. Peace Corps Maite Uranga is a two-year commit­ment and I have passed the half-way point. 
Life in Africa 

Thirty-five new volun­
teers arrived in the coun­
try and 22 old volunteers 
left so now I am one of the people who is sup­
posed to know that is going on in the country. 
And strangely, among all of this, I realized that I have forgotten how strange and beautiful living in Africa is. It is now simply my life. But by far the most exciting event of the summer is that I am currently sitting at my parents' house in the United States. I have been here for two weeks and relished every second of it. After living in an African village for 14 months I expected to have major culture shock upon reentry. I had heard stories about people coming back and being horri­fied by the mass consumption, wealth and waste of America and Western cultures. 
On my layover in Paris, I wandered through the airport looking at the stores and also coming to terms with seeing so many white people. On the plane ride to Washington, D.C., I watched three Hollywood movies. This helped me catch up on American culture and reacquaint my ears to English. The in-flight music program provided a glimpse into the pop culture I had been missing. And the technology of the video games amazed me. After the discoveries on the plane, I marched with the other passengers towards the bagggage claim area and customs. I appreciated the effi­
ciency, attentiveness and order of it all. 
In the luxury ofthe airport I called my parents, went to McDonald's, bought some magazines, ate ice cream and finally understood most of what was going on around me. Every store had posted prices so I did not need to worry about bargain­ing. Everything felt so normal and seemed so easy. Within minutes the months in Africa seemed like a far off dream or nightmare depending on the day. An unknown weight lifted off my shoul­ders. 
This ease of life continued for the entire trip. There were times when my life in Africa would resurface at unexpected times. The first day I wore tennis shoes and went to the mall. For some reason I felt clumsy and was very confused as to why. After about an hour of this I laughed and realized I had not walked in anything but sandals and sand for the past year so my body was not used to the cement expanses of the mall. These reminders appeared throughout the week and provided much amusement for my friends and family. 
Now it is two weeks later and my plane leaves in five hours. It will be good to go back to Africa after a few days in Washington and Paris. I do miss the people and my work. The next 10 months will provide much more excitement. In spite of all this, these last two weeks have made me realize that I live in Africa, but America is my home. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Show enthusiam by wearing ties 
As the Maryland game ended and I ran screaming through the halls of Dillon proclaiming my love for interceptions, special teams play and anything "West Coast," my mind turned to our fearless leader, Tyrone Willingham. As I contemplated how my fingers would have be contorted to make a "T" for Ty or a "W" for Willingham during the 1812 Overture, I knew there must be an easier way to support our coach. 
Then, it hit me. What better way to emulate the style, cool demeanor and general suaveness our coach displays on the side­lines than wearing a tie? I would like to propose a "wear your tie, to support our Ty" campaign. When you are getting ready to don "The Shirt" next Saturday morning, why not throw on a tie? 
Think of the possible benefits: 
1. 
You're supporting a great coach who surrounded himself with an amazing coaching staff and an even better team 

2. 
Nothing is quite as intimidating as eight to ten thousand ties being whipped through the air as Purdue faces a third and long. 

3. 
It serves as a buffer to keep the food and beverages you will inevitably spill tailgating off of "The Shirt" · 

4. 
When your folks back home see you screaming your lungs out on NBC they can say, "Oh look, (insert your name here) got dressed up for the game, I'm so proud." 

5. 
You can practice tying a tie because you will go to more home games than job interviews this year. 


So here's to a great season with Ty at the helm. When you look to the stands I'll be the windsor knot in section 30 row 58. 
Eric Bilinski 
junior Dillon Hall 
Sept. l 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND must consider Harvard policies 
As has been widely reported, Harvard University has recently modified some of its student disciplinary procedures. As a result of the changes, Harvard will launch full hearings in cases in which sexual misconduct is alleged only if there is at least some corrobo­rating evidence upon which to ground the charge and investiga­tion. The reason for this requirement strikes many observers as obvious: in the absence ofany corroborating evidence (examples: a confession, some physical evidence, a third party witness to rele­vant activity) those hearing and ruling upon the accusation would have to be able to '1ust see" who is telling the truth in order to reach a proper decision. 
Most people agree that in some situations it is possible to "just see" who is telling the truth and who is not with a nontrivial degree of reliability even in the absence of corroborating evidence. The ability to do this with the high degree of certainty needed to moral­ly and justifiably pass out severe punishments, however, is a magi­cal ability that Harvard has determined its administrators lack. 
As reported in the Aug. 28 edition of The Observer. Notre Dame sees no need for corroborating evidence before going ahead with full disciplinary procedures. Apparently Notre Dame administra­tors think they have the magical power that Harvard administra­tors lack. Or perhaps Notre Dame administrators see no moral problem with proceeding with potentially life-altering disciplinary hearings even in the absence ofminimal corroborating evidence of guilt. 
The small change at Harvard does not make Harvard's current disciplinary procedures a good model for Notre Dame or any other university {see Harvey Silverglate and Josh Gewold's essay in the Aug. 16 Chronicle of Higher Education for a discussion of difficul­ties that remain at Harvard). But on this particular matter, Harvard has made a significant improvement. It's too bad that Notre Dame will not do the same. 
Fritz Warfield associate professor of philosophy Notre Dame Sept. I 
Recognize the positive in South Bend 
There are not enough words in the English ver­nacular to describe my feelings after reading the Aug. 30 editorial entitled, "Life outside the bubble draws students into danger." The editorial was the most morally unethical piece of literature that I read to date. It is unfair and an injustice to demonstrate how one incident reflects an entire community. South Bend is like any other city in the United States. 
Criminal activity occurs daily across the country at an alarming rate. I find it interesting that one robbery or series of events over a short period of time can shape an editorial staff's opinion about a community that they have little to limited knowledge. Besides the usual areas that students hangout at or community pro­grams that they participate in, the average Notre Dame student has limited exposure to the South Bend community. 
Frequently I have overheard negative com­ments about the community including the so­called "townies." What people fail to recognize is that South Bend is more than Boat Club, Corby's, Heartland or any other place that is regularly patronized. South Bend is attempting to establish its identity, but growing nevertheless. There are extraordinary community organizations and peo­ple attempting to make a difference and create a world that we can all appreciate. 
People never see or hear about the good that occurs in the community, only the bad. Individuals need to recognize that South Bend has a lot to offer if they take the chance and see it. Things do not appear miraculously. 
It takes a process of self-discovery and exploration. This will not occur without the initial stepping out of one's own comfort zone and attempting to under­stand a culture and com­munity unlike their own. 
I sympathize with the individuals who were robbed but understand that criminal activity can occur at any moment or time. 

The Notre Dame cam­pus is not immune to crime either. The campus is relatively safe from the outside community, creating a bubble environment which many neglect to burst. This editori­
al does not aid in the process, for more students will probably remain in their comfort zones, never exploring the possibilities or oppor­tunities that South Bend has to offer. 
To first-year students and the community, do not believe everything that you hear or read as the truth. discover it for yourselves. 
Jourdan Sorrell 
junior Siegfried Hall Sept. I 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Monday, Seprember 2, 2002 
Feeding the 'American Idol' addiction 
It's hard to be choosy about what to watch on TV without cable. Around 8 p.m. on any given weeknight you can count on CBS for its third hour of "Everybody Loves Raymond" reruns, NBC will have an extreme reality show or a stress-inducing drama involving police, firefighters and/or lawyers and ABC usually comes through with an overly dramatic news show featuring a thrilling investigative report on top­ics like how to escape from man-eating fish that walk on land in Thailand. 
And these are the Emmy Award winners. 
By the time I found my roommate frighteningly close to guessing an accurate value for a pilgrim's hope chest on "The Antique Road Show" and truly interested Jerry Falwell's advice on child rearing, I realized we'd hit a new low. 
This is my excuse for being hooked on "American Idol." 
A "Star Search" fan from way back, Fox's spring publicity plugs caught my attention. I had become acquainted with the British spin-off while studying in London last fall. Though I had watched a few episodes during the semester, I have no idea who won or what happened to his or her career. 
Back then Simon was only being cruel to musical hopefuls on the other side of the pond, no one had heard of Randy outside a small circle of Columbia music producers and Paula Abdul was "Straight Up" washed up. 
Although I managed to find more worthwhile ways to spend my time in Britain. I'm sorry to say I didn't have that luxury this summer in South Bend. 
I actually watched the first episodes without knowing the commitment that would be required. I assumed the judges would narrow the contes­tant pool within a week or two and we'd have a new Britney wannabe by Independence Day, not Labor Day. 
But alas, it's three months later, I'm still hooked and I'm not alone. 
Throughout the summer my fellow "Idol" addicts emerged. My sister, my roommates, co-workers at my summer internship, even my mom had to watch when I went home for a week and couldn't miss an episode. 
My parents have digital cable. I was out of excuses. 
Within days of the program's launch, newspaper and magazine articles, Web sites and even an e-mail-based fan newsletter emerged. By mid sum­mer talk show appearances and magazine covers were pervasive. 
It's the perfect media circus; but is it anything more? What is the appeal of "American Idol?" 
The show has been consistently referred to as a combination of "Star Search" and "Survivor," but "Idol" went one step further with audience participation. Fox was so sure of the success of its marketing campaign it decided to rely upon America for the contest's outcome. 
In one sense it seems necessary that Fox ask for the nation's input if it's prepared to guarantee the success of this new idol with a $1 million record contract , but in another it hardly seemed to be our choice. Fox sauntered into the summer season and announced what we would enjoy. The judges gave us 10 options, four of which had essentially the same name and another six with arguably the same manufactured identity. Is that really a choice? And is the show even a setting that reveals true tal­ent? Somehow I don't see Bob Dylan and John Lennon having made the cut. 
But this summer, it was impossible for the show to fail. Fox knew it could own the Nielsen's simply by giving viewers the illusion that we could control the rise of a popular star. But were those water cooler debates over who sounded better belting out karaoke favorites really that heated or did we know all along it was coming down to Kelly and Justin? 
Fox's dream is fleeting. Another three-month "Idol" season would be a disaster. Though we all had fun this summer chatting cattily about how Tamyra's hair looked straightened or coyly mentioning our theories about Christina Christian's suspicious departure, the novelty will wear off. The shameless plugs for Coke and the Ford Focus are already hackneyed and in two years it's doubtful that anyone, even "Idol" addicts , will remember Kelly Clarkson 's name. 
Idol has been a great demonstration of the power of mass advertising, but the American attention span is a short, if coveted, commodity. Winning the contest is one victory, but obtaining any lasting success in the music industry wiJI be a much bigger battle for the future idol. 
By next year, I might be able to afford cable. 
Kate Nagengast is a senior American Studies major. journalism concen­tration, managing editor ofThe Observer and infatuated with pop music. She insists on being called Britney around the office. Contact her at knagenga@nd.edu. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Thou shalt worshi] 
By JASON McFARLEY Scene Writer 
Patience, pop music fans. 
Three months and hundreds of per­formances after "American Idol: The Search for a Superstar" began, the hit Fox show will crown a winner on Wednesday. On Tuesday the final two contenders for a $1 million recording contract will compete in the season­ending singing showdown. 
With its "Star Search" meets "Survivor" format and pitch-perfect mix of celebrity, comedy and tear­inducing critiques, "American Idol" captivated fans this summer, becoming the stuff of water-cooler conversations and feeding online rumor mills. Love it or hate it, viewers tuned in each week in increasingly higher numbers, consis­tently putting the show in the Nielsen top-10 ratings. 
This week should prove no different, as apparent fan favorites Kelly Clarkson and Justin Guarini go head­to-head for the last time Tuesday at 8 
p.m. and then learn their fates Wednesday at 7 p.m. on local channel 28. 
The summer's runaway hit is, in fact, the American version of the British show "Pop Idol." Initial auditions in April and May in seven U.S. cities nar­rowed a field of thousands of would-be idols to 100 singers in their late teens and twenties. A second round of audi-­tions slimmed the pool to 50 contes­tants to appear in Hollywood on the first five episodes of the show in June. 
A panel of three judges, including '80s pop diva Paula Abdul. assessed the acts. Afterwards, viewers decided each week by telephone vote which performers to advance to the round of 10 finalists. 
Since July, fans have voted off (in order) eight of the finalists -Jim Verraros, EJay Day, A.J. Gil, Ryan Starr, Christina Christian, RJ Helton, Tamyra Gray and Nikki McKibbin. This week only Guarini, a longtime frontrunner, and Texas chanteuse Clarkson remain. 
America, meet the last singers standing. 
Clarkson, 20, is a humble country girl with a big-league voice. Judges say she can sing anything -even the phone book ­and make it sound good. In past episodes, the Burleson, Texas, native has showcased her vocal range and show-stopping stage presence with renditions of "Natural Woman," "Respect" and "It's Raining Men." 
"Being on stage is the biggest rush for me," Clarkson said on the show's official Web site, www.idolonfox.com. "It's like I'm kind of nervous at first, but once I get out there, I never want to leave the stage." 
Clarkson vanquished a host of female competitors to reach the Tuesday face-off. Her biggest competition came from big­voiced Atlanta product Tamyra Gray, who was voted off Aug. 21, and fellow Texan Nikki McKibbin, who departed the show Aug. 28. 
\Vhile Clarkson and Gray for weeks seemed like shoe-ins to be among the top­three finalists, McKibbin was a question mark. McKibbin, 23, set herself apart from the other contestants with her punk look and penchant for singing obscure rock songs. For weeks she defied dismissal, being put on the chopping block four times with the lowest vote-getters. Judges consis-
Pop culture enters real 

tently criticized McKibbin's song selection and said the mother-of-one was out­matched by better singers. 
Judges, on the other hand, praised Gray's performances. They compared her vocal skills to those of divas Mariah Carey, Celine Dion and Whitney Houston. 
Gray may still be smarting from the fact that she received walking papers before McKibbin. Her departure left only Clarkson, McKibbin and Guarini, the lone male competitor since mid-August. 
In the square-off between Clarkson and McKibbin, Clarkson seemed destined to win. Whereas McKibbin came close to being voted off several times, the public never thought about giving Clarkson the pink slip. Predictably, voters sent McKibbin packing last week. 
Clarkson now faces her biggest test from Guarini. 
From the beginning. Guarini, with his curly, uncoiffed mop, has reigned as the show's heartthrob. A favorite among female fans, Guarini's "Justin Timberlake before the buzz cut" look has brought him to the final round. Viewers sent him to the chopping block twice but opted on dismiss­ing the other male competitors in lieu of Guarini. 
Guarini outlasted a host of male croon­ers, including the pesky "J" factor -A.J., EJay and RJ. His choice of soulful tunes "Ribbon in the Sky," "Let's Stay Together" and "Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me" distinguished him from the other men and brought tears to female fans' eyes. 
"I want to be a beacon of ... fun!" Guarini said on the Web site about why he auditioned for the show. "Glitz and glam­our are rampant in America. but I want to bring on the fun and share it with an America that now, more than ever, needs joy to get us through our current trials." 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 2, 2002 
page 13 

p 'A01erican Idol' 
(ity, television that is 

Hardly an episode has gone by that Cowell, typically clad in black T­shirt, hasn't called singers "awful" or told them that they resemble a karaoke act more than a pop superstar. 
Cowell's frankness, of course, is balanced by Abdul and fellow judge Randy Jackson's less-abra­sive critiques. Abdul, a former idol­ized songstress herself, never fails to provide a feel-good line for a contestant who Cowell has pum­meled. 
She even throws a few lines at Cowell. 
"I don't know why Simon has to be so rude," she said during an episode last month. "Maybe he wasn't held enough as a child." 
Cowell rebutted in another episode: "Paula, you have a come­dy writer. Sue him." 
In still another episode, Cowell nearly came to blows with Jackson, a former vice president at Columbia Records, over an assess­ment of a contestant. True to form, Cowell gave an unfavorable cri­tique, while Jackson stood up for the performer. 
"For a moment, I thought Randy was going to take me for a tumble," Cowell said later. 
The Brit has gotten into verbal scuffles with hosts Brian Dunkleman and Ryan Seacrest too. Cowell time and again comple­ments Seacrest's see-through 
The format for the final two episodes is a closely guarded secret, but Clarkson and Guarini are expected to sing twice Tuesday night. Each contestant will sing an original single, and the winner's song will be released to stores Sept. 17. 
With the success of the show this sum­mer, the 10 original finalists were subject to a huge media blitz, a schedule chock full of newspaper interviews, magazine photo shoots and appearances at paparazzi-laden events such as the Teen Choice Awards and MTV's Video Music Awards. Plans for an "American Idol" book and home video are in the works. And a 30-date concert tour is planned in October and November, including an Oct. 16 show in Chicago and a Nov. 7 Indianapolis stop. 
Both Clarkson and Guarini say the exposure hasn't changed them and that there's little they'd change about them­selves to become the American Idol. 
What wouldn't they change? 
"My personality and outlook on life," Guarini said. "I just want to have fun doing what I love." 
'Tm happy with myself. Of course, there are little things here and there that I wish were smaller and bigger, but I don't know one person who is perfectly happy with their physical appearance," Clarkson said. 
While the contestants duke it out on stage, the show's other staples -the judges and hosts -will wage their own war of words. Comedic banter among the off-stage talent is as much a part of "Ido~" as '70s hits and orchestral accompani­ment. 
At the center of the non-stop wit is bad­boy British judge Simon Cowell, a vet~ran of the music industry. Cowell is notorious for his tongue-lashing of performers. 
apparel, saying "Ryan, I like your 
blouse tonight." And the hosts without fail throw in their own barbs when they introduce the judges to open each show. 
When the show wraps on Wednesday, an new star will be crowned, but "American Idol" will seemingly leave its judges and hosts in good stead as well. The show has harkened the comeback of Abdul, setting her up for future TV roles, possibly on a sitcom. As for Dunkleman and Seacrest, both men's showbiz careers seem certain to take off. 
"Three months ago, I was driving a car with no reverse that couldn't go over 40 miles an hour," Dunkleman, a stand-up comedian said. "Now I ride in limos." 
On Wednesday, Clarkson or Guarini may share Dunkleman's same good for­tune. While the public's vote will decide the winner, co-host Seacrest said the "x­factor" will determine America's next music star. 
"Sure it takes dedication, confidence and passion, but it takes something else," Seacrest, host of a top-ranked Los Angeles radio show and the rumored boyfriend of Abdul, said. "\iVe've heard our sometimes abrasive friend Simon call it the x-factor. Remember the first time you had a crush on someone, you could describe some of the traits you were attracted to. but there was also probably something else. That thing. That thing makes someone stand out." 
This week. that unknown quality will give the country its first American idol. Stay tuned. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 
False idols 
The contestants viewers voted off 





Christina Christian, 21 
Brooklyn, N.Y. 



A.J. Gil, 17 
San Diego, Calif. 



Monday, September 2, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Brabbs misses 2 but makes game-winner 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Philip Brabbs went from unknown to goat to man of the hour for Michigan. 
The walk-on kicked a 44-yard field goal -the first of his career -as time expired to give Michigan a riveting 31-29 victory over Washington Saturday. 
"I've hung low for a while in college," said Brabbs. a junior who had never attempted a field goal for the Wolverines before Saturday. "This changes things . ., 
A blunder by the Huskies made the sensational finish pos­sible. 
After the Wolverines failed to complete a pass on third-and-10 with 6 seconds left, Washington was penalized 15 yards for hav­ing 12 men on the field. Without the flag, Michigan would have attempted a 59-yard field goal. 
"We switched substitution groups, which we're going to kick ourselves about for a thou­sand years," Washington coach Rick Neuheisel said. 
Wolverines quarterback John Navarre spiked the ball to stop the clock at 5 seconds, allowing the field-goal team to get on the field. To the delight of the crowd of 111,491 at Michigan Stadium, Brabbs' kick went right down the middle for his first field goal since he was a senior at Midland (Mich.) Dow High School in 1998. 
"I didn't know how to react," Brabbs said. "I started doing cir­cles around the field, then I got tackled by one of my teammates. Then I had 10 guys on top of me, then everybody piled on and I got scrunched." 
Brabbs atoned for two misses in the first half from 36 and 42 yards, and he was replaced by Troy Nienberg, who missed a 27 ­yarder with 1 :24 left. 
Michigan's Chris Perry ran for 120 yards and three touch­downs. Navarre was 22-of-38 for 268 yards with a TD and an interception. 
Colorado St.19, Colorado 14 
Colorado State is no longer intimidated when it plays its higher-profile in-state rival. Three wins in the last four years makes certain of that. 
Bradlee Van Pelt ran 23 yards for a touchdown with 6:20 left, and Colorado State survived a second-half Colorado rally to beat the Buffaloes 19-14 Saturday. 
"We knew going into the game that this CU team wasn't unbeat­able," Van Pelt said. 
The Rams dominated the first half, building a 13-0 lead, before Colorado bounced back to take a 14-13 advantage. 
On the first play of the fourth quarter, Colorado's Jeremy Bloom returned a punt 7 5 yards for a score. Five minutes later, Chris Brown atoned for three earlier fumbles with a 1-yard scoring run, capping an 81-yard drive and giving the Buffaloes a 14-13 lead with 9:39 remaining. 
Colorado State countered immediately with a seven-play, 84-yard TD drive. 
Van Pelt passed 11 yards to Chris Pittman, 9 yards to Cecil Sapp and 16 yards to Joey Cuppari. With a first down at the Colorado 23, Van Pelt broke off the left side and cut back to the right on a clinching scoring run. Van Pelt threw incomplete on the 2-point conversion try. 
Colorado subsequently drove to the CSU 12, where John Donahoe couldn't pull down Craig Ochs' high pass on fourth down at the goal line with 21 seconds left. 
"Ultimately, when the game was on the line, CSU got it done and we didn't," Colorado coach Gary Barnett said. "They were behind and they put together a great drive. Their quarterback is a great warrior. He played with great heart like he did last week. 
Brown, who fumbled only once all last season, finished with 93 yards rushing on 22 carries. Sapp had 80 yards rushing, and Van Pelt added 74. 
Colorado has dropped four straight season openers for the first time since 1938-41. 
Kentucky 22, Louisville 17 
Taylor Begley kicked three field goals and Kentucky's defense dominated No. 17 Louisville and quarterback Dave Ragone in a 22-17 victory over the Cardinals on Sunday night. 
Jared Lorenzen threw for 195 yards and a touchdown as the Wildcats snapped a three-game losing streak to their in-state rivals in the opener for both teams. 
Ragone, touted as a Heisman Trophy candidate, spent most of the game on the run from Kentucky's pass rush. He was sacked three times and finished 14-for-39 for 193 yards with a touchdown pass and an intercep­tion. 
The Cardinals mustered only 248 total yards against a Kentucky defense that ranked 109th in the nation in yards allowed last season. 
Louisville returned only one starter from the team's 2001 offensive line, and the Wildcats' defense battered the newcomers. On Louisville's first four offensive series, Kentucky sacked Ragone twice and held the Cardinals to minus-3 rushing yards. 
Louisville's more heralded defense, led by Conference USA Defensive Player of the Year Dewayne White, also asserted itself early, holding the Wildcats to minus-8 yards on their first five plays. 
The Cardinals blitzed on Kentucky's sixth play, but Lorenzen dumped a short pass to Ernest Simms before taking a hit. With most of the Cardinals chasing Lorenzen, Simms sprint­ed untouched for a 64-yard touchdown. 
The Wildcats put together a nine-play drive later in the first quarter, and Begley, a red shirt freshman, kicked his first career field goal, a 40-yarder, with 4:32 left. 
Meanwhile, Ragone continued to scramble and struggle. Running for the sideline, he was hit by sophomore safety Claude Sagalle and fumbled at the Louisville 18 with 6:01 left before halftime. The turnover set up Artose Pinner's 8-yard touch­down run with 3:58 left in the first half. 
Broderick Clark, a redshirt freshman from Alabama, tem­porarily turned the momentum toward Louisville when he returned the second-half kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown. 
Ragone led the Cardinals 84 yards to set up Nathan Smith's 24-yard field goal that put Louisville up 17-16 with 5:51 left in the third quarter. 
The Wildcats chewed up almost five minutes on their answering drive, and Begley restored Kentucky's lead with a 32-yard field goal. He added a 31-yarder with 4:09 left for a 22­17 lead. 
The Cardinals got the ball back deep in their own territory, but Ragone was intercepted near midfield by Mike Williams with 
3:09 remaining. 
Nebraska 31, Troy St. 16 

The way DeJuan Groce played, Nebraska could afford a bad per­formance by its offense. 
Groce returned two punts for touchdowns and grabbed two interceptions to help the Cornhuskers defeat Troy State 31-16 Saturday night. 
"It was kind of like in basket­ball when somebody gets the hot hand. I had the hot feet," Groce said. 
Dahrran Diedrick and Jammal Lord each added touchdown runs for the 'Huskers, who needed all the special-teams help they could get. 
Nebraska had 313 yards of offense, its lowest total since gaining 270 against Notre Dame in the third game of last season. The performance followed a spo­radic effort in last week's opener against Arizona State. 
"There is no question that we need to improve as an offense. We are young at some spots, and these were two very important games for us," coach Frank Solich said. 
Troy State, which proved a surprisingly tough opponent dur­ing its first Division I-A season, didn't flinch in the first game of its second year. The Trojans, who lost at Nebraska 42-14 last year, outgained the heavily favored 'Huskers 374-310, aided by a 73-yard scoring drive in the final minute. 
South Carolina 34, New Mexico St. 24 

South Carolina's Lou Holtz is happy to share a place in college football history with his friend and rival, former Michigan coach Bo Schembechler. 
"But if I worried about wins and losses, or winning percent­ages, I sure wouldn't have taken over six losing situations," said Holtz, who tied Schembechler with his 234th career victory as the Gamecocks beat New Mexico State 34-24 Saturday. 
"All that means is I've coached a long time," said Holtz, who can tie his former Ohio State boss, the late Woody Hayes, with four more victories. 
South Carolina's largest sea­son-opening crowd of 83,717 didn't see the thumping it expected. But the Gamecocks got 113 yards rushing and a pretty, 44-yard touchdown pass from new quarterback Corey Jenkins to win their third straight open­er. 
"You can't win pretty all the time," said Jenkins, who also threw for 166 yards on 9-of-18 passing. "The best part about this all is we won, and we've got a lot of guys who are disappointed." 
Especially since things were in doubt until the final quarter. 
The Gamecocks could get little going early behind Jenkins, a 26­year-old senior starting for the first time. 
And when Walter Taylor ran in from a yard out with 1 :35 left in the third period -set up by Eric Higgins' 75-yard carry -the Aggies trailed just 20-17. 
"I like how we silenced the crowd a couple of times," said Higgins. who finished with 111 yards rushing. 
But Jenkins and the Gamecocks soon took control of the game. 
Jenkins had a 16-yard run and an 18-yard pass to Michael Ages on the next drive. An 8-yard run by Jenkins took the ball to New Mexico State's 2, and freshman Daccus Turman followed with a touchdown that put the Gamecocks up 26-17 less than two minutes into the final quar­ter. 
A fumbled punt on the Aggies' next series set up another score for South Carolina. Andrew Pinnock got his 21st career rush­ing touchdown to put the game away. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.rn. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Kitchen table w/ 2 chairs. 1-year-Seeking BABYSITTER for 3 small B&B lodging w/ alumni family for Needed: large quantity of Stanford Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich game. old. Perfect condition. $75. children in Granger -various ND/SMC events, football week-tickets for reunion, please help. 255-8256. FOR SALE 259-0108. hours/days. Refs. & car rqrd! Call ends, JPW & graduation. 574-243-289-8048. Laura: 243-4776. 2628 or garyb@mvillage.com. Need 2 or 4 GA bx to home games. 
Used Mac. G3 computer, 300 mhz, All Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 276-8507. After 5 call 288-2877. Washer/dryer excellent condition, 6g hd, 192 mg memory, $600; mon-Notre Dame vs. Michigan tickets. Near ND. Room tor rent. Call football tickets for sale at 517-351­$360 pr. 634-4760. itor, $150; complete, $700. Date: Sept. 14, 2002. Need tickets Angela 616-684-8877. 1992 or go to www.jamestheticket­
631-9388. for a special anniversary surprise. man.com. 1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee. Please call John Jacob. Phone # Furnished rooms tor rent in a spa• 
PERSONAL

Excellent condition. $12,000. (814) 893-5701. cious comfortable home. Includes Need 2 GA's for any home game. kitchen privileges, washer/dryer, Call Jack at 674-6593. 631-7829. NC, internet, quiet reading rooms, One Observer editor thinks 
WANTED 

swimming pool and patio. 2 miles ND tickets buy and sell Please Christina Christian should have Bike for sale: green Huffy from campus $330 month. Call cher,k our prices -273-3911. won. The rest of the staff endorses 
FOR RENT
Cherokee Polygon brakes, Benchwarmer's Sports Lounge, 236 Tom at 574-243-4749. Kelly Clarkson. 
Shamino 18 spcl. Index gear. Good S. Michigan, needs bartenders, DJ Wanted: ND tickets -highest cond. $85 OBO. 634-3700. & promotional people. Available immediately -fall prices paid. 251-1570. One Observer editor hasn't seen semester only -2 BR cottage five one episode and personally doesn't Large one-bedroom condo for sale. 232-0022. min. from campus. Dave 243-5353. ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. care who wins. 
TICKETS
One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly 289-9280. remodeled. Fully equipped. Starving/thirsty student? Don't sell In home room for rent. $400, utili-Simple Simon's $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu your ticket! Class of '98 grads want-ties inc. 8 min to campus. Furn. or Needed: 1 ticket to Michigan game. ND football tickets for sale AM 232· 
ing to rent out turtle creek apart-unfurn. Jacuzzi. Call 255-4737. 2 tickets to Stanford. Call 574--634-2378. PM 288-2726. In the 'shack, after the rollercoaster Land Rover Discovery Series II. '99. ment Sat. night, Sept. 14 (Michigan 1778. Ask for Chris. of emotions. Original owner, 45K, excellent con-weekend). Will compensate w/ cash FOR RENT -3 Bedroom home 1 ND football tickets wanted. AM 232· dition, loaded. $26,500. or preferred beverage. Call Andrew mile from ND. Garage, alarm sys-Wanted: 1 "GA" ticket tor any ND 2378. PM 288-2726. The toothpick was behind the ear. 
tern, NC. Avail. immed., $650/mo. home football game. (574-233-2104). (949) 433-5087. Go Irish! For sale: single football lie. for The king and his throne 
Call 574-220-0499. Call Jim at 234-7228. Purdue and Ml. Call 233-3618 after 91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr., teal, $250 a day potential/bartending. All size homes available for 2003· 6. How did you get on the turnpike? clean, 1 owner, very good condi• Training provided. 1-800-293-3985 2004. mmmrentals@aol.com. Buy/sell ND football tickets. 289­tion. $4200. 2n-0189. ext. 556. www.mmmrentals.com. 8048 or astrog999@aol.com. GA tix 271-1654. Your mom! Done! 




Monday, September 2, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
~\ 
.­
•,
-
. 
-:' 
,j< :\'.. 
WNBA 

Sparks win 2nd title on Teasley 3-pointer 
D 0 0 0 0 Q O C O Q O O C 0 O C D O O O O D 0 0 D C D C O D D C C O C C 0 0 C D 0 0 D C O D C 0 

~ 0 September Topic: O ~ 
o a 
0 
Associated Press 
D 

0 Finding Your Niche ; 
LOS ANGELES

0 C O O D O O O O Q 0 0 0 0 0 C D 0 Q C Q D C D C O O D D D D D 0 D C C D 0 C D 0 Q D C D D O 0 
Clinging to a two-point lead in 

The lnterrace Forum is a discussion and support group 

the final minute, Los Angeles' 
for people who are biracial, multicultural. involved in an 
Latasha Byears turned the ball 

interracial relationship, or interested in any of these re­
over on a three-second viola­
lated issues. The group meets the first Wednesday of 
tion. 
Then New York's Tari Phillips hit a 15-footer to tie the game, 
each month for discussion over dinner. An Advisory 

Board sets the agenda for the discussion and selects the 
putting the Sparks' chance at
ethnic meal. 
retaining their WNBA title in jeopardy. But rookie Nikki Teasley, dogged by 4-for-11 shooting, hit 


Date: Wednesday September 4th 
a 3-pointer for the go-ahead 
Time: 5:30 pm 
basket with 2 .1 seconds 

Place: Center For Social Concerns 
remaining and the Sparks beat 
(Coffee HouseJ 
the Liberty 69-66 Saturday to successfully defend their cham­
pionship.

Ethnic dinner will be provided. Please 
"They'd been backing off me all night, obviously my shot 

RSVP at 1-6841 by Tuesday 
September 3rd. 
wasn't falling. I was fortunate enough to knock the shot down," said Teasley, who played at North Carolina and was drafted by Portland, then traded to the Sparks in April. 
"I've never hit a game-win­ning shot. I've won an AAU tournament when I was 10 years old, but nothing ever big, 
" ..,., 
nothing in college," Teasley
W~<k;i·';-yli;:¾;;d-n~N:·;w-: ··~t? 
said. "I didn't get to play in the state championships in high school, but you know what, I'm not disappointed because this is the one to get." 

Only the Sparks and the I I Houston Comets, who claimed
·------------------------------------· 
the first four WNBA titles, have won the championship in the

: I Have you thought about : I 
league's six-year history. Guarded by Teresa Weatherspoon. Teasley shot

: I teaching Religion and : I 
I I 
Sparks bench. 

: I becoming a Catechist? : I 
I I I ---I
! •• = 
I (?MPUS ¦ 
I MINISTRY I 
I I 
I * Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? ¦ , : * Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? : I * Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? ¦ I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? I : * Would you like to work towards catechist certification? : 
I I I I I I 
: If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, : I come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. I I I I I I I 
"I was kind of trying to pick 
my poison," said Weatherspoon, 
who was playing between 
Teasley and Sparks star Lisa 
Leslie. "If I could do it all over 
again, I would do it differently. 
She made a good shot." 
The Sparks joined their 
Staples Center tenants, the 
Lakers, as professional basket­
ball champions for another 
year. The Lakers won their 
third consecutive NBA title in 
June. 
"Hey, if you're playing for an 
L.A. team, you're bound to get a championship," Sparks forward DeLisha Milton said. "There is something special about this city. It breeds championships." 
Leslie scored 1 7 points, Mwadi Mabika added 12 and Teasley had 11 points and 11 assists as the Sparks rallied in the second half after squander­ing a 14-point lead. 
"This organization had so much belief in me and so much confidence when other people didn't want to take me, every­body was questioning the trade," Teasley said. "It's a dream come true. As a player, you always dream about hitting the big shot to win the game." 
Leslie was selected the most valuable player of the Finals for the second consecutive year, completing her second consecu­tive sweep of the All-Star and finals MVP awards. 

"This championship was so much harder to win," Leslie said. "We had to find different ways to win. We've held our own, we've been strong and it's 
just an amazing feeling." 

I 
I 

I  I  
:  Important In_formational Meeting:  :  
:  Thursday, September 5  :  
:  5:00-6:00 P.M.  :  
:  Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center  :  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
:  -Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163  :  
I  I  

·------------------------------------· 

Volunteers Needed 
The Earl) Childhood Development Center localed at Saint Mary'sCollege and the University ofNotre Dame i$ looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be intercs~ in s~ng 2hours per week reading and playing with chiJdreo, please call: Kari at ECOC-SMC 2844693 or Sue at ECDC-ND 631-3344. (Empoyment opportunities at ECDC~ND -.MnlF 11:15-12:30.) 
Earty ChildhOOd 
Devetopmt.ltt 
Cmter,lffC. 
284..4693 (ECDC..SMC) 
6Jl·JJ'l4 
fECl)C-ND) 


~!!!!!!!9!======~~~-~~--~!!'!!!l!!'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!J!l!!!!!ll!ll!IB!l!l!!!!!l!!!!!!-,J 

Monday, September 2, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

INTERNATIONAL BASKETBALL 
U.S. starts slow, still routes China by 21 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

For much of the first half, the sight on the scoreboard was shocking. The U.S. team was losing, and the score wasn't even close. 
China nearly became the first team to hold a halftime lead against the United States since NBA players began competing internationally in 1992, but the 
U.S. team recovered from its poor start to win 84-65 Saturday night at the World Championships. 
"I was not surprised, because when a strong team is playing a weak team they usually are very relaxed," China coach Wang Fei said. 
Relaxed might not be the cor­rect word. 
To hear U.S. coach George Karl describe it, his team was "startled" before it turned up its defensive intensity and held China to 13 points in the third quarter and 10 in the fourth. 
China held a 28-16 lead after one quarter and remained ahead until the final 6.5 sec­onds of the second quarter. 
The U.S. team took the lead for good with about four min­utes left in the third quarter but didn't close out the lightly regarded Chinese until Jermaine O'Neal scored inside with about 6112 minutes left for a 69-58 lead. 
Teams from around the world have been encroaching over the past few years on the American dominance in the sport, and Saturday night's game was yet another example of how foreign teams have closed the gap. 
Chinese teams had never come close to competing with the United States in the past decade. The U.S team defeated China by 63 at the 1996 Olympics and by 55 at the 1994 World Championships. 
Just two years ago at the Sydney Olympics, the Chinese team lost by 47 points. 
That defeat was so lopsided that Chinese center Yao Ming said it "may not be in our gen­eration or the next" before China can defeat the United States in a premiere level men's basketball tournament. 
For a while Saturday night, it looked as though his prediction might be off by about 80 or so years. 
Yao pumped his fist in glee after hitting a 3-point shot to give China a 10-4 lead early in the first quarter, and the crowd gasped in astonishment as the Americans fell further behind as the quarter pro­gressed. 
China used backdoor cuts and timely jumpers to open a 28-16 lead at the end of the first quarter. 
"They made (five) 3s in the first quarter, and the 3 is a powerful weapon," Karl said. "Because of that we got star­tled a little bit, but it got us to play the type of intense pres­sure defense we needed to play." 
The U.S. chipped away at its deficit, and Michael Finley hit a 3-pointer with 18 seconds left in the half to cut China's lead to 42-41. 
Finley then came up with a steal that led to his pair of go­ahead free throws with 6.5 sec­onds left before halftime as the 
U.S. team took a 43-42 lead ­its first of the game. 
Since the 1992 Olympics, the United States is 56-0 in inter­national competitions when using teams of NBA players. 
U.S. teams have never trailed at halftime, but this was the second time in as many nights that they led by only a single point at the break. On Friday night, the U.S. team was unable to shake Germany until the final quarter. 
"We tried to come out with intensity and it was our third game in three days," U.S. guard Andre Miller said. "They came out fast themselves and hit some big shots early. For us to give up 28 points in the first quarter, that's pretty bad. 
"I think we can get better," Miller said. "We're going to get every team's best shot." 

LOOKING TO BE PART OF A GROUP? 
·'-'J' 
. 

.
• . 
4' "" 
~~~1t'"· 
~ :~li;
i 0 
' 


AIR FORCE ROTC Make your decisionl 
Contact: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 or acree.1@nd.edu 
,, . . 
Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREV,MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5:00 PM 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2002 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2002 240 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre-Professional Students Huge variety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineering courses offered in Monterrey AL, BA courses offered in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 FOR SPRING 2003, DECEMBER 1 FOR FALL 2003 AND AY 2003-4 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/tvintlstud/ 
ERIN MORAN JOINS GLYNIS BELL &RHONDA ROSS 
(JONIE FROM HAPPY DAYS) 
Exactly what it sounds like. 
THE 


MONOLOGUES 
"SIMPLY SPECTACULAR! 

' ''' 

•
EHHATAINMENl WHKlY 


Monday, September 2, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Dodgers stay atop wild-card race with win 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Hideo Nomo only made one 
mistake, and that wasn't 
enough for the Houston Astros 
to beat him. 
Nomo won for the 11th time 
in his last 12 decisions, pitch­
ing the Los Angeles Dodgers to 
a 2-1 victory over the Astros. 
"The home run was the only 
mistake he made all day. His 
split-finger was unhittable. All 
you could do was fight it off 
and hope you will get another 
pitch you can hit," said Geoff 
Blum, who homered off Nomo. 
The Dodgers, who lead the 
NL wild-card race, have won 
13 of their last 17 games. 
Nomo (13-6} gave up five hits 
over seven innings, striking out 
eight. He has lost only once 
since May 12 -a span of 21 
starts. 
''We scored first, so that was good. Right after I gave up the home run, from that point on, it was my goal not to give up any runs after that," Nomo said. 
Said Dodgers manager Jim Tracy: "I've run out of adjec­tives to describe the job Hideo Nomo has done for this club all season." 
The loss was Houston's fourth in 11 games. 
"He had everything going today. That split-finger would look chest high and would end up in the dirt," said Houston's Daryle Ward. "He didn't hang it at all, he kept it in the zone." 
Paul Quantrill and Jesse Orosco combined to pitch a scoreless eighth and Eric Gagne escaped his own ninth­inning jam for his 46th save in 50 chances. 
Jeff Bagwell led off the Astros ninth with a single. It was his 1,937th hit, tying Jose Cruz for second place on Houston's career list. 
Jason Lane followed Bagwell's hit with a bunt sin­gle, but Gagne struck out Orlando Merced, got Geoff Blum on a foulout and fanned Gregg Zaun to end it. 
Carlos Hernandez (6-5) lost despite striking out a career­high nine in six innings. 
Braves 6, Expos 4 
John Smoltz and the Atlanta 
Braves have some significant 
accomplishments well within 
their sights. 

Kevin Millwood hit a two-run 
double on his way to winning 
his sixth straight decision as 
the Atlanta Braves beat the 
Montreal Expos 6-4 Sunday for 
a three-game sweep. 
Smoltz saved all three games 
in the series, pitching a score­
less ninth for his major league­
1eading 49th save. Bobby 
Thigpen set the major league 
record with 57 saves with the 
Chicago White Sox in 1990. 
"Obviously with the amount 
of games we have left it's 
something that you can't help 
think about," Smoltz said. 
Seeking its 11th straight divi­
sion title, Atlanta finished a 6-6 
road trip and lowered its magic 
number to clinch the NL East 
to 11. 

"We had an all right road trip," Braves center fielder Andruw Jones said. "We start­ed really bad playing against San Diego and Los Angeles, and went to Pittsburgh and got beat that series, too. But it was good to come out here and play three good games against these guys and make the series even." 
Montreal lost its fourth straight game. 
Millwood's two-run double off Masato Yoshii broke a 1-1 tie as the Braves scored three runs in the fourth. 
Millwood (15-6) allowed five hits and two runs in 5 2/3 innings. He scattered three hits, including Jose Vidro's RBI single in the first, through the first five innings. 
Cubs 5, Cardinals 4 
The St. Louis Cardinals have gone 81 years without a four­game sweep in Chicago, and they'll have to wait some more. 
Angel Echevarria homered and Alex Gonzalez singled in the go-ahead run in the eighth inning as the Cubs beat the Cardinals 5-4 Sunday. 
Chicago avoided being swept in a four-game series at home by its longtime rivals for the first time since 1921 -when Wrigley Field was called Cubs 
Park. 

"It would have crushed me. 
seeing I was a Cubs fan as a 
kid," said Joe Girardi, who 
grew up in Cardinals territory 
in Peoria, Ill. "My dad has to 
take grief in Peoria because of 
the Cardinals. So I know my 
dad was happy." 

Girardi, who drove in a pair 
of runs, wasn't the only one. 
The Cubs had dropped four of 
their last five games, and the 
first three losses to the 
Cardinals really hurt. 

"It was real important to win 
this ballgame," Cubs interim 
manager Bruce Kimm said. 
"The way we struggled the first 
three games, you sort of won­
der, are we ever going to win 
another game?" 

The Cubs had to be thinking 
that after the seventh inning, 
too, when Eli Marrero homered 
-his third in as many games 
-to give St. Louis a 4-3 lead. 
But Chuck Finley (5-4) unrav­
eled, giving up a leadoff homer 
to Echeverria to tie it and 
walking Fred McGriff. 

"I tried to milk another inning out of Chuck," Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said. "We pushed him too far." 
Rick White relieved, and speedy Corey Patterson ran for McGriff. Patterson took second on a sacrifice bunt, and Gonzalez followed with a soft blooper that landed in shallow center for an RBI single. 
"It just went in the right spot," Gonzalez said. "It's one of those things in baseball, you don't do everything right, but it lands in the right spot." 
Juan Cruz (2-10) pitched a scoreless eighth for his first win since May 21. Antonio Alfonseca worked the ninth for his 16th save. 
Brewers 4, Reds 2 

The Brewers are feeling the power. 
Ryan Thompson homered twice Sunday, and Lenny Harris hit a two-run shot to give Milwaukee a 4-2 victory and a series sweep of the Cincinnati Reds. 
The Brewers hit 10 homers in the three-game series. 
"Harris and Thompson are 

hot, hot, hot," said Milwaukee 
manager Jerry Royster. 
"It's just nice, normal base­

ball. We're doing to them what 
other teams have been doing to 
us all year. We're winning 
games with our offense. and 
our pitching is keeping them 
down. Our extra guys are pick­
ing us up right now." 
All three homers Sunday 

were off Elmer Dessens (7-7). 
who allowed five hits and 
struck out six with no walks in 
seven innings. 
On Saturday, Reds starter 

Chris Reitsma gave up five 
homers, and after losing three 
straight to the last-place 
Brewers, Cincinnati manager 
Bob Boone was left with no 
explanation. 
"It has nothing to do with the 

Brewers," Boone said. "You've 
got to swing the bat. If you look 
at our August stats, we're just 
not hitting the ball." 
The Reds stumbled badly in August, and now into September. Cincinnati was 11­18 in August, its worst record for any August since going 9-20 in 1987. 
Batters hit .235, their low for any month this season, and pitchers had a combined 5.53 ERA, their high for the year. Relievers got just two saves. 
"I just want to put a good ballgame together," Boone said. "That's what I'm trying to do now." 
Nick Neugebauer, activated from the 15-day disabled list before the game, made his first start for Milwaukee since May 
8. He allowed two runs on four hits, four walks and two strike­outs in four innings. 
Jose Cabrera (6-10) pitched two perfect innings for the win, striking out two. Mike DeJean worked the ninth for his 22nd save in 25 chances. 
Phillies 9, Mets 5 
The message on the cl uh­house marker board urged the New York Mets to put a miser­able August behind them: "It's a New Month!!! Sept. 1." 
Instead, from the time Edgardo Alfonzo threw a ball away in the first inning to allow 
the first run to score, 
September started off as poorly 
as August ended for New York 
and its fans. 
The Mets matched the 
longest home losing streak in 
National League history with 
their 14th straight defeat at 
Shea Stadium as the 

Philadelphia Phillies pounded 
Al Leiter for three homers in a 
9-5 victory Sunday. 
"It is demoralizing," said 
Mike Piazza, who watched the 
latest loss with a sore wrist. 
"Everyone has had losing 
streaks, everyone has had 
slumps. But this is uncharted 
waters for me. I'm a little bit in 
shock." 
One day after completing the 
first winless month at home in 
league history, the Mets 
matched the 14-game home 
skid by Boston's NL franchise in 
1911, according to the Elias 
Sports Bureau. 
While Boston added a 44­
year-old Cy Young to its team 
that season, the only help the 
Mets are getting will be from 
minor league callups as they 
attempt to avoid the St. Louis 
Browns' major league record of 
20 consecutive home losses in 
1953. 
"It's certainly been a disap­pointment," Leiter said. "We still have a month of baseball to go. There's no reason we can't have a great month and finish on a high note." 
Pat Burrell, Todd Pratt and Tomas Perez all homered off Leiter (11-11), who lasted two­plus innings in his shortest reg­ular-season start in 14 years. 
"I feel for them," said Pratt, who spent 41/2 years with the Mets. "We have to beat them, but I feel for them. I have a lot of good friends over there." 
Brett Myers (3-3) allowed four runs in six innings as the Phillies won for the 10th time in 11 games to move a season­high three games over .500. 
Meanwhile, the Mets keep hit­ting new franchise lows in a season that began with so much promise. They broke a tie with the 1979 team for the longest losing streak at home, reaching a level even the 40-win expan­sion team in 1962 didn't. 
J' 

SEE YOU AT THE ND BIKE SALE ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4TH (DOORS OPEN AT 6:oo PM) 
BIKE RACK, ROUTE MAPS AND OFF-CAMPUS SERVICE SCHEDULES WILL BE AVAIIABLE 
FREE ROUND TRIP BUS PASS WILL BE PROVIDED TO ALL BIKE PURCHASERS DURING THIS AUCTION 
Getting to class is just one of the many reasons students ride public transportation everyday. They also ride it to go to the mall, the movies, or area restaurants. So check out TRANSPO, offering bus service throughout South Bend and Mishawaka, and with convenient pick up on campus (Library Circle) Monday thru Saturday. 

page 18 Monday, September 2, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Tejada's homer gives Athletics 18th straight 
carry right in to New York." and Phelps hit an RBI double, Relaford said the Mariners with Seattle since being 
Associated Press 
The Red Sox open a three­giving Toronto a 7-4 lead. just marvel at the A's right now. acquired from Texas for two 
Ii
i·. 
t ~ 
\i\ 
ft I 
n 
• < 
i: ~ f; 
l r
l 
t ' 
~ 
,II', 
I l 
OAKI.AND, Calif. 

Over and over again, the ball left Miguel Tejada's bat and landed in the left-field seats. Each time, the Coliseum crowd cheered wildly as Tejada screamed with joy and pumped his arms while rounding the bases. 
The televisions in the Oakland clubhouse played just one pro­gram after the Athletics won their 18th straight game -and every time, Tejada was the star. 
Tejada hit a dramatic three­run homer as the A's blew a two-run lead in the ninth inning, then rallied to beat the Minnesota Twins 7-5 Sunday to extend baseball's best streak in 49 years. 
Everyone in Oakland was in a bit of disbelief-particularly the A's clubhouse staffers, who played the final at-bat on a con­tinuous loop. 
"Every year, I take all my tapes back home (to the Dominican Republic). and I show them to my dad," Tejada said. "This one might break. I'm going to watch it every day." 
The first game-ending homer of Tejada's career extended the majors' longest winning streak since 1953, when the New York Yankees also won 18 in a row, on a day it seemed certain to continue -and then seemed certain to end when Oakland allowed three solo homers in the top of the ninth. 
"This thing has a life of its own," Oakland manager Art Howe said of the longest streak in franchise history, besting the 17-gamer by the 1931 Philadelphia A's. "I can't say I'm surprised by anything that hap­pens. We sort of blew that game, but Miggy found a way to get it for us anyway." 
Matthew LeCroy, Corey Koskie and Mike Cuddyer homered for Minnesota in an improbable rally that ruined the complete­game hopes of Mark Mulder and sent the Coliseum into stunned, empty silence. 
But in the ninth, Ramon Hernandez walked and Ray Durham singled against ace closer Eddie Guardado (1-3). Pinch-hitter Olmedo Saenz struck out. setting the stage for Tejada's homer. 
Red Sox 7, Indians 1 
Johnny Damon knows the Boston Red Sox must start win­ning consistently to earn a play­off spot. 
Damon had three hits and scored three runs for the wild­card chasing Boston Red Sox, who got consecutive home runs from Manny Ramirez and Brian Daubach in Sunday's 7-1 win over Cleveland 
"I told this team Friday that now is the time to go and I'm ready to accept the responsibili­ty for doing it," said Damon, who went 7-for-13 in the three­game series. "I feel good. I want to get back to the playoffs." 
Tim Wakefield pitched seven strong innings, Ramirez drove in three runs and Shea Hillenbrand had two RBI for Boston, which won for just the third time in eight games. 
The Red Sox are 23-25 since the All-Star break. 
"We've got a lot to do in a short period of time," manager Grady Llttle said. "We've got no time to waste. We want this to game series at Yankee Stadium "Josh is swinging the bat real "They're just playing just out­minor leaguers Aug. 18. He gave on Monday. well. He's one of our guys that of-th is-world baseball right up four runs on seven hits and 
Wakefield (8-5) did not allow a we are counting on for the now," he said. "Eighteen in a four walks in five-plus innings. hit until Matt Lawton led off the future," said Toronto manager row. That's phenomenal." fifth inning with his 15th homer Carlos Tosca, whose team has The Safeco Field crowd of 
Angels 9, Orioles 3 

to make it 7 -1. 13 rookies. 45,461 let out a collective groan Scott Spiezio has emerged as a"He made us chase a lot of "To take a series from these 
when the scoreboard posted major contributor during the
pitches out of the strike zone," guys is big for us. The Yankees Oakland's comeback victory Anaheim Angels' playoff chase. 
Lawton said. "He didn't leave are the model. They exemplify over Minnesota in the seventh. Spiezio set a new career bestmany pitches up high." championships and that's what The defending division for RBI Sunday, driving in four we are trying to become. It's champs have 25 games left, with with a three-run homer and ancertainly nice to beat them," he
Blue Jays 7, Yankees 6 six each against Oakland and RBI single as the Angels beat
said.

Rookie Josh Phelps thoroughly Anaheim. Baltimore 9-3 Sunday night. enjoyed wrecking New York's "It's going to be up to us," "I've always been a guy who weekend. Mariners 9, Royals 4 Seattle's Bret Boone said. believes in driving in runs any 
Phelps doubled twice and \Vhen the Seattle Mariners "We're going to be able to con­way possible," Spiezio said. "I've drove in three runs and the tied a major league record with trol our own destiny. Hopefully, made some adjustments this Toronto Blue Jays rallied for a 116 victories last season, their we're going to get out of this year and I'm trying to do things 7-6 victory over the Yankees on longest winning streak was a funk we've been in and start a little bit differently. It's paying Sunday. team-record 15 games. scoring runs like we're capable off, and I'm just going to try to 
Phelps went 8-for-14 with 10 So all they can do is shake continue to do the same thing."
of scoring runs." 

RBI as the Blue Jays took three their heads in admiration at Spiezio gave Anaheim a 3-1
Piniella doesn't know if the 

of four from the AL East leaders. what the Oakland Athletics are lead in the second with his ninth 
Mariners can catch the A's, but

"It's always nice to beat up on doing. homer, following a leadoff single 
he knows they're going to try

the Yankees when you get the "What have they won -18 in by Garret Anderson and a walk
their hardest. 

chance. You can't beat it," a row or so?" Mariners manager to Troy Glaus. Spiezio's eighth­
"We need to start winning

Phelps said. "When I look at 10 Lou Piniella said after Seattle's inning RBI increased his season
with some consistency," he said. 

RBI I say, 'Wow, that's ·a great 9-4 victory over the Kansas City total to 69, eclipsing his previous 
"Right now, the only way we're

series."' Royals on Sunday. "Tip your best of 65. He has 20 in his last
going to get back in it is to win

The Yankees, who have lost hats to them." 21 games. and is fourth on the 
some ballgames."

just two of their last 19 series, Dan Wilson homered and club in RBIs -three ahead of
The Mariners have dropped

started their six-game road trip drove in three runs as the Darin Erstad. 
from third to sixth in runs

by sweeping a two-game series Mariners broke out of their hit• "The pleasant surprise with
scored in the AL since the All­

against Boston. ting doldrums. They scored only Speez is the way he's swinging
Star break. 

"We started off good and eight runs in their previous five the bat right-handed," manager
Mike Sweeney hit a three-run

ended up terrible," David Wells games -four losses, including Mike Sciascia said. "That's why
homer for Kansas City, but Jeff

said. "We got our behinds two to the lowly Royals. his numbers have been a pleas­
Suppan (8-15) lost his career­

kicked in Toronto. We just have Desi Relaford and John Olerud ant surprise. But there was no 
worst eighth consecutive start. 

to regroup." each had three hits for the doubt in our minds from the out­
"He's been struggling," Hoyals 

With the score tied at 4 in the Mariners, who have fallen into set of the season that he could seventh, Toronto's Jayson Werth third place in the AL VVest, six manager Tony Pena said. knock in runs and contribute singled off Wells (15-7) for his games behind Oakland. They "Struggling with his command. what he has." first major league hit. Wells then began the day 2112 games back He was behind in the count and Adam Kennedy capped a five­walked Shannon Stewart before of Anaheim in the wild-card just continues to struggle. He run eighth inning with a three· Dave Berg hit a tiebreaking sin­race. made 87 pitches in four innings. run horner, helping Anaheim win gle to center. "They've got a good team," That is very tough to do." its fourth straight. The Angels 
Vernon Wells followed with an Wilson said of the A's. "They hit Ismael Valdes (8-10) won for are 2112 games ahead of Seattle RBI single off Ramiro Mendoza a nice streak at the right time." the second time in three starts in the AL wild-card race. 


](nowyoitr 

Original Sin . 
Theo. 340J. 
1 credit. S/U 
Instructor: 

J. Matthew Ashley 
Wednesdays September 4, 11, 18, 25, & Oct. 2, 9 Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 331 

.I 
H 
Faith

One-Credit Courses Theo. 340K. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C.
offered by the Department of Theology 
Mondays

in cooperation with the Office of Campus Ministry 
September 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, and Oct. 7 Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 
God 
Prayer 
Theo. 340M. 1 credit. S/U Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U 
.-l Instructor: Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham ..::i Weekend: September 27-28, Sundays, September 15, 22, 29, Oct. 6, 13 Friday, 4:00-10:00 p.m. & Saturday, 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 103 Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 
For further information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-7811. Syllabi for the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept., 130 Malloy Hall. Register through DART or go to the Registrar's office. 
·---­

Monday, September 2, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 19 

around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL TCU at Cincinnati 3:30 p.m., ESPN Auburn at USC 7 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

Brewers at Cubs 3:15 p.m., FoxSports Dodgers at Diamondbacks 7 p.m., ESPN Rockies at Padres 9 p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 6 p.m., USA 
BASKETBALL 

World Championships 8 p.m., TNT 
MLB 

Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Craig Counsell, consid­ered by many of his Diamondback teammates to have been Arizona's most valuable player, will decide soon whether to undergo season-ending neck surgery. 
"At some point, there's going to be surgery," Counsell said Sunday. "When? We're trying to put that off, but I don't know if I can." 
Counsell has been on the 15-day disabled list since Aug. 9 with a pinched nerve in his neck. An MRI showed two bulging disks that will require surgery. 
He will travel to Dallas to meet Wednesday with spine specialist Drew Dossett. The Diamondbacks want Counsell to decide by Friday whether to have the surgery now. 
"I think I'll have a lot more information by Friday," Counsell said, "and that will make it easier to make a decision." 
Counsell has received three epidural injections and undergone strenuous exercising but still experi­ences numbness and tin­gling in his right hand. 
"I can't play right now." he said. "It's got to get bet­ter. It's got to get a lot bet­ter. If it doesn't improve, there's no reason to wait." 
Trainer Paul Lessard said that if Counsell continues to put off the surgery. there is a chance that the nerve being pinched will simply shut down, compounding the problem. 
Two types of surgery are possible. One involves drilling a hole to relieve pressure on the nerve. The other would fuse the disks together with a metal plate. 
In either case, Lessard said, Counsell wouldn't be able to even begin strength­ening exercises for four weeks and it would be two months at the earliest before he could begin play­ing baseball. 
Counsell's scrappiness and ability to come through in the clutch have been sorely missed. He remains second in the National League in hitting with run­ners in scoring position at .364, behind only Edgardo Alfonzo of New York at .368. 
Counsell was hitting .282 with 22 doubles and 51 RBI in his first season as an everyday player. He started at third base while Matt Williams recovered from a broken ankle, and also played second base and shortstop. Counsell commit­ted only eight errors in 112 games. By comparison sec­ond baseman Junior Spivey and shortstop Tony Womack have 14 errors apiece. 

IN BRIEF 
University of Minnesota offensive tackle Korey Stringer died of Johnson said Friday he was dropping heat stroke in training camp. And last The Masters' three television spon•
lineman murdered 
week, the wife of Vikings offensive sors -IBM, Coca-Cola and CitigroupUniversity of Minnesota football tackle Lewis Kelly died of pregnancy -to shield them from any controver­
player Brandon Hall was shot to 
complications. sy over the club's all-male member­death early Sunday in Minneapolis, ship.
hours after playing in his first college 
game. Womens tr.:oup targets CB.5 Hall. a 19-year-old redshirt fresh­in fight with Augusta Marbury punished for DUI man who was a reserve defensive Now that The Masters has eliminat­Phoenix Suns guard Stephon 
lineman, died following a dispute ed its television sponsors, the leader Marbury was suspended for one game between a group of teammates and of a national women's group said by the NBA and will serve 10 days in three other men near a downtown Saturday she will urge CBS Sports to jail after pleading no contest in bar, police said. drop coverage of golfs most watched Phoenix Friday to extreme driving 
"To the best of my knowledge, tournament until Augusta National under the influence. Brandon Hall was an innocent vic­has a female member. Marbury. who entered th~ plea in tim," Minnesota coach Glen Mason Martha Burk, chairwoman of the Scottsdale Municipal Court, also 
said. National Council of Women's agreed to pay a $1,000 fine and The 6-foot-5, 270-pound Hall made Organizations. said she will not give attend alcohol education classes. He one tackle in the Golden Gophers' 42-up the fight until The Masters fades was scheduled to start serving the 
0 season-opening victory over away as a major championship or sentence Saturday, according to court Southwest Texas State on Saturday until the club admits a woman. records. 
night at the Metrodome in CBS spokeswoman Leslie Anne "Rather than extend this process Minneapolis. Wade declined comment except to say and try to avoid my obligations, I fully It's the third tragedy to strike a that "CBS will broadcast the Masters intend to serve the required penalty 
levied by the court," Marbury said in
Minnesota football team in just over a next year.'' year. Last summer, Minnesota Vikings Augusta National chairman Hootie a statement released by the Suns. 
----------------------------------------------., 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 2, 2002 
U.S. OPEN 
Williams overcomes rain, stalker to advance 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

As usual. nothing fazed Serena Williams on court. 
With a man who's tracked her around the globe for a year sit­ting in a jail cell less than 10 miles away, Williams waited out a long rain delay Sunday and then eased into the U.S. Open quarterfinals with a 6-1, 6-1 vic­tory over Daja Bedanova. 
The only match completed in a short break from Sunday's downpours was the 18th straight Grand Slam match victory for the top-seeded Williams, who beat older sister Venus in the finals at Wimbledon and the French Open. 
The same German man accused of following Williams at those two tournaments, and oth­ers in Germany and Italy, was arrested early Saturday at the National Tennis Center after police spotted him watching through a fence while she played. 
Albrecht Stromeyer, 34, will remain in custody at Rikers Island until a court appearance on Thursday unless he posts $3,000 bail, corrections depart­ment spokesman Tom Antenen said Sunday. Stromeyer admitted in a written statement to police that he had been following Williams around the world. 
"The bail is so low. I think that encourages him to keep doing what he's doing," Williams' father. Richard, said. "It makes me wonder. 'Could he hurt Serena?'" 
He also wondered whether his daughter is as worried as she should be. 
"This guy could have got in and hurt Serena," Richard Williams said. "I don't think Serena takes it seriously enough." 
She has been traveling with a 
I bodyguard since May. and tour­nament officials have been given photos of Stromeyer so police
I
·I can spot him. 
"The WTA could do a little bit more, but I don't know too much more that they can do because, you have to remember, tennis is not set up like baseball and foot­ball. The players go outside to practice and with those sports they can practice inside the sta­dium and travel underground, where tennis is not" like that, Richard Williams said. "But I hope that it will help the WTA to take a good look at it." 
Williams snapped photographs from the stands while he watched his daughter play her fourth-round match against the 20th-seeded Bedanova. Rain delayed the start of play from 11 
a.m. to a little after 5:30 p.m., and theirs was the only match that was completed by the time new showers suspended action at about 7 p.m. So people paying a minimum of $48 per ticket got to see 42 minutes of action. 
If just one match is completed in a session, according to the Open's policy, no credits for tick­ets to next year's tournament need to be given. 
At 9:50 p.m., play was called off for the night, with matches involving Lindsay Davenport and Andy Roddick washed out com­pletely. Among matches halted in progress: Four-time Open champion Pete Sampras was trailing 1997 finalist Greg Rusedski 5-4, on serve in the first set; No. 3 Tommy Haas won the first set 6-4 against No. 29 Thomas Enqvist; Gustavo Kuerten won the first set 6-1 against Nicolas Massu; and 11th­seeded Daniela Hantuchova led No. 8 Justine Henin 6-1, 1-2. 
The last time an entire day at the Open was rained out was Sept. 4, 1988. 
Williams won her first service game at love with the help of three straight aces and needed just 18 minutes to win the first set. She finished with eight aces. 
"I've been really, really work­ing on my serve," Williams said. 
here around 9, because I like to practice two hours before the match," she said. "I was think­ing. 'Yes, 11, I could be done by 
12. have the rest of the day.' Unfortunately, it didn't work out that way." 
Williams didn't talk at all about Stromeyer after the match, with WTA Tour spokesman John Dolan preced­ing her news conference by say­ing: "Serena will not be address­ing any questions related to the stalker incidents due to legal and security reasons." 

All told, the encounter took 42 minutes, and Williams nearly had a winner for each. She hit 35 winners total -including 16 fore hands and eight backhands· -and had just five unforced errors. 
"Well, just my luck, I got out 
ATTENTION SENIORS 
interested in 

"Once I serve well, my whole 
RHODES, MARSHALL, & MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIPS 
game goes up." 
Bedanova, a quarterfinalist in the 2001 Open, made things eas­ier for Williams by double fault­
Prof. Brad Gibson will have a final meeting to inform you of 
ing on break point in the first and fifth games of the match. 
deadline dates and the application process on Sept. 2nd in Haggar 117 at 4:30 p.m. If you are unable to attend this 
meeting, information may be obtained at the Fellowship office in 99 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Welcome to Notre Dame. Your life just went from O to 90. 
> 
> 
> 
DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE SPEAKERPHO NE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS
• I

tlil 
> 
AOLll INSTANT MESSENGER™ service
WetcomeTo 
> 
> 
NEXTEL > lWO·WAV MESSAGING JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
NEXTEL: 
Wh01.tevev +-wists "'"'.J. tv.v\\S colle~e thvows 01.t yov. -yov. CO\\\ .J.e"'I. A\\.J. Ne)(te1 COi.\\ help. We've Bot the \\ewest pho\\es, coolest fe"'h.wes "'"'J. Sweetest v01.te p101.\\S yov. '\ee.J. fov the viJ.e of yov.v Hfe. '/ov.'ve ve"'.J.y-Bvi"'B It. 
Now's "' jve"'+-ti"""e to :,et Ne,c:tel: 
c:l\n Nc:,t-ve DO\\Oo\e sh\.J.e\\½ C\\\.::A fO\Ve'\k 
t •).;.,/._. 

~~. I
Be+-C\ ( , • .;.?H,:-;c·olr,vn--0\\ c:l\\\Y YO\te p\c,i..._ "'"'.J. ~\001! 0-P.P "'"'Y pho\\e. 
-ro bl.\y: 

• ~o to \\e>ete\.cclMflvish-stl.\~e\\t. 
• Cc:,\l\ to\1-~ee 1-877-50,-2'f2.C,. 
• visit Jl)t-,\ Co1M1Ml.\\\ic"'t-io\\s "'t: I''>'i lvo\\woo~ Dv-ive, "5ol.\t-h Bel.\~ 574-24'3-'38 I 8 
~ 
-

,(:, _~Offer is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002. While supplies last Requires new aclivation, one year Service Agreement and ~ .J{. '.Credit approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Musi be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2 forms of valid identification. Account 1i1iiiio ~ ,i:,. ~ Set-up fee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account. Fees may vary by market. $100 instant savings is off the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point ~ " :.,... of sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this otter Olher restrictions may appty, Rate plans are subject lo taxes, fees and other ,.. :~f charges. Current prices are subject to change. Read Service Agreement for details, ©2002 Nextel Communications, Inc. All rights reserved, Nextel and the Nextel ~ 0 
,:, -~ .j..' · Iogo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications. Inc. Motorola and lhe Stylized M logo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and ~-/,.-• · all other Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems. Inc. AOL, AtM, Buddy List and the Triangle design are registered trademarks o1 America .... , . Online, Inc. Instant Messenger is atrademark of America Online, Inc. 
·ftf.P,{i-.. ..,,.. ' 

Monday, September 2, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
collegiate goal of her career. Ford appeared to be sending a crossing pass into Boland, but the ball skipped past both Boland and the Hokies goalkeep­er Dirda for the goal. 
Boland promptly followed Ford's goal with her sec­

"Next weekend is huge 
ond goal of the goalkeeper, he weekend to for us because it's an will not name a extend the starter until he
opportunity for us to set
lead 3-0. feels more con­
a tone for the rest ofthe
Scheller pro­fident with one. vided Notre season. Coming out with "I told them Dame's fourth both before the
these two Big East 
score of the game that [the
victories help a lot ...
game and her goalkeeper] is second of the up in the air," season on a Mary Boland Waldrum said. strong right­"Whoever
Irish midfielder
footed blast 
from five yards 
outside of the goalie box. 
Just as she started the Irish scoring over the weekend with a goal against Providence, Warner finished the scoring with a goal at just over one minute remain­ing in the game. 
"I think we've just taken a big step," Boland said. "Last year, we didn't always put the games away. This year we're getting a number of goals put in there. We're finishing a lot of opportu­nities." 
While the Irish offense played an exciting brand of soccer all weekend, the young Irish defense was equally impressive. Sophomores Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and Kate Tulisiak coupled with freshmen Cat Sigler and Miranda Ford severe­ly limited the offensive firepower of their two opponents. 

Check out this POSTER SALEI 
An awesome collection of HOT posters &prints featuring the best of art, music, film and morel Monday-Friday, September 2-6 


-
ore ame 
oom 
8:3Dam-5pm 





Visit Us At: beyondthe\Alall_co01 
On the few occasions where the Notre Dame defense suffered a breakdown, the Irish goal­keeping tandem of Lauren Kent and Erika Bohn stepped up to make some crucial saves. Bohn played the first 60 minutes of Friday's game with Kent replac­ing her in the second half. Each goalie played an equal amount of time over the weekend. 
Waldrum has indicated he 
would like to 
settle with one 
establishes 
their consisten­

cy will get the starting position. 
This is a big week in training for 
both of them." 
Notre Dame will have no time to rest on the laurels of this weekend's victories. The Irish will host two of last year's Final Four teams in next weekend's Notre Dame Classic. Friday night the Irish host defending national champion Santa Clara, and Sunday the Irish return to action against Portland. 
"Next weekend is huge for us because it's an opportunity for us to set a tone for the rest of the season," Boland said. "Coming out with these two Big East vic­tories helped a lot. With a good week of practice, we will be ready for next weekend." 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 2, 2002 
always tough when you come into the first weekend and
Shamrock 
don't know a lot about the 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer Outside hitters Emily Loomis, left, and Jessica Kinder attempt to return a serve during the Shamrock Invitational this weekend. Notre Dame swept the tournament for the title. 
continued from page 24 

Wisconsin-Milwaukee 30-26, 30-17 and 30-26. Kelbley had 12 kills while Brewster had 10. 
Sophomore Emily Loomis, who was also named to the all-tournament team, collect­ed a career-high nine blocks in the contest. 
On Saturday, the Irish defeated the Cincinnati Bearcats 30-19. 30-24, and 30-23. Kelbley and Brewster combined for 20 kills. For the second straight match, the Irish posted 15 team blocks. 
"I thought we played pretty well," Brown said. "It's opponents you are playing, but I think the team gelled pretty well together." 
Junior tri-captain Kinder felt the same way. 
"I think we came out and had chemistry right away. and that made it easy to play," Kinder said. "We got our jit­ters out in the beginning. We got better each game." 
Three victories this week­end extended Notre Dame's home-court winning streak to 25 games. The school record is 27. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

PEER ADVOCACY 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT OR 203 LAFORTUNE BEFORE WEDNESDAY 
ND Freshman Ladies 
Cheerleading Tryout 
• 
Two positions available -Fall semester 

• 
Cheer & Tumbling Experience Needed 


• Joyce Center, Gym 2, September 4 at 6:30 pm 
• Pick up forms to complete before tryout at Joyce Center -Above Gate 3 -See Beverly 
\ 
GET INVOLVED!
\ 
) ' 

-~·-···•·-,\ 

. . 
. . 
,, \; '"-~, 

TUESDAv, SEPTEMBER 3 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM 
JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE (ENTER THROUGH GA TE 3) 
CHECK OUT THE LISTING OF THE 250+ PARTICIPATING CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICE AGENCIES ON-LINE AT: 
http://www.nd.edu/---sao/an/ 
-

Monday, August 2, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

JACK MONAHAN 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GUJED 
j
I I r 
C'e002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righ!s Reserved. 
TOAPI 
± 
I I r J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


~TH!~ IJP ON~ ~Tl!:v TRST. 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

HE "( I I I I I ]" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' I Jumbles: BISON MINUS SUPERB DAHLIA 
s Answer: When the zoo built a monkey house, the crowds grew by-LEAPS AND BOUNDS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, send your name, address and $5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, ll 60680-4330. 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 28 Having good 60 City near posture Syracuse
1 Comical Laurel 30 Hissy fit 62 Stink to high
5 All excited heaven
32 Meal in a shell

9 Knights' ladies 33 Quoits target 63 Brain wave
14 Sexologist Shere 35 One kind 64 Russian Revolution
15 Sandy slope 36 Lay _ the line 
leader 16 "Remember the 37 "Changing the 
65 Patiently wait 

_!" subject ... • 66 Dryer outlet 
17 Service status 41 Raid rival 67 Rival of ancient 
18 Damon of "The 42 Pi follower SpartaBourne Identity" 43 China's Sun 68 Winter blanket 
19 Disinfectant _-sen brand 69 Pay to play
44 Take a load off 20 Wind pointer 
45 Part of CNN 23 D.D.E.'s DOWN
47 Flies alone command in 1 Missourian's

51 Leave

W.W. II demanddumbstruck24 Some household 2 Musical52 Confederateheads ineptitudesoldier 25 Not Rep. or 3 "Relax, soldier!"
53 Lobbying grp.

Dem. 55 Before, of yore 4 Shipshape
26 Myrna of "The 5 Product pitchers 
Thin Man" 56 Ford or Lincoln Pu.ule by Harvey Estes and Nancy Salomon 27 The hoop in 57 1972 Carly 6 Some football 
31 At all, in dialect 39 Many a 49 Show the ropes linemen
hoops Simon hit commuter's to 32 Connect with base
7 Airing 50 100-mernber ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE group
8 "Stop worrying 40 Explorer _ da
34 Island on the 
T O D A C T S about picayune Java Sea Gama 52 "__ Hope" stuff!" (former soap) 
0 P E 
41 Storied vampire

9 Big name in 37 Free serving at 54 Cockeyed Chicago politics a restaurant 46 Popular 58 Horse halter? swimwear
1oPrince Khan 59 Cheer starter
38 A bull may wear 11 Grand Prix one 48 Hard to lift 61 AF.L's partner racer 
12 :-) or :-( Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute.

13 Wise king of Israel Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
21 Woo in an 

~_,......o_..v_.,_-+-..,. unwelcome way Online subscnptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).
-+....+-I V A N A 22 _ public 

Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, N E s T S 29 Rooters' refrain nytimes.com'learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jimmy Connors, Mark Harmon. Terry Bradshaw, Keanu Reeves Happy Birthday: You can make things happen if you put your mind to it. You will regain the confidence you once had if you trust in yourself and your abilities. You wi II have added energy this year that will enable you to do things far beyond your expectations. The more you concentrate on profit and productivity, the more you will accomplish. Your numbers are 3,5,12,17,24,32 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to surround yourself with insightful and attentive friends who C;tJ\_~~F, yo4 to fq.JfS .some decisions. Keep an ey~ on co-workers who you fewa:iigttili}yf~tDLa:ct\-antage of you or take credit for your work. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): For you, money is currently in that come-and-go phase. Since it's hard to keep tabs on right now, it's better to avoid lending.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ambiguities in the love department could be lacerating to your inner soul, so try to get the straight story from your mate. A good chat is in order and will lead to answers that can clear matters up quickly. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time for a shift in plans and direction since your life is in transition. As a result, adjustments are necessary. Just remember it's okay to change. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel eager to enjoy some whimsical brand of festivity, but this time it's advisable to make a plan first. Visiting distant friends may be just the key to making a few new ones. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you can manage to keep your private affairs to yourself, your peers are likely to present fewer problems. Have some discretion regarding secret affairs in the workplace, because it's all more complicated than it looks.**** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): It's advantageous to use your social grace right now --desirable stuff is finally within reach. A housemate may be irritating, but remember that a little sympathy never hurts. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Invest some cash prudently. You are quickly improving your financial dealings, so try to remember to be helpful to those who need your support. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Socializing is in order. Your well-being may be disrupted if your lover refrains from stimulating you enough. Avoid ­staying in situations that seem to get perpetually worse. It's time to reevaluate your situation. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Jumping at opportunities is a good idea; you may just land yourself a better job. Since you're so adaptable lately, you ought not let your lover's antics get under your skin. Listen to the recommendation of good friends. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Playing with kids will guarantee that you'll have some fun. It is also a good time to get started on all those personal changes you've been contemplating. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your thoughts to yourself if it's regarding money. Your financial position is about to improve if you put your ideas into motion. The talks you have with someone who is knowledgeable will open your eyes to a new way of doing things. ***** Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive, practical and ambitious. You will be 
creative, entertaining and very intelligent. You will always have a good solution for any problem you face. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
rnPVRlr.J..lT')M') lfl'lll\!J:R~AJ PRr::'~~ ~Vl'llnJrATJ: 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through FridayJ The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Marv's rommunity. 
~ 
. 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying farm and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Na1ne ---------­
Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Monday, September 2, 2002 

VOLLEYBALL 
' 
'i 

Taking home the green 

. Irish sweep Shamrock Invitational to begin 
·season undefeated 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbley missed the memo that freshmen are supposed to be nervous and tentative in their first collegiate action. 
Both first-year players played like seasoned veterans and were named to the All-Tournament team as the Irish swept the Shamrock Invitational this week­end at the Joyce Center. 

made a few mistakes that weren't characteristic," Brown said. ·.. It was good for us that they pushed us a little bit, and we had to make some plays to stay in it for the whole time." 
In Game 2. the Irish again had trouble finishing the Mustangs. After taking leads of 22-15 and 29-25, Notre Dame finally ended the match on a kill from Kelbley. She had eight kills on Sunday and 34 for the weekend. 
Even though Cal-Poly had already lost once to Wisconsin­Milwaukee -a team Notre Dame had already beaten -the Irish knew Cal-Poly wanted to keep them away from the title. 
"We knew [Cal-Poly! would come out here to beat us," tour­nament MVP Kristin Kinder said. "They had an off-weekend up
"[The fresh­"[The freshmen] did until theymen] did really 
really well. Every match played us, and
well," Irish we knew they

coach Debbie they were very poised, 
were coming
Brown said. and they did a great job. ,. out to get us."Every match 
We were readythey were very for that."
Debbie Brown
poised, and they 

Cal-Poly
did a great job. Irish coach 
Both Lauren Kelbley and Lauren Brewster were very strong at the net blocking for us. I couldn't have asked for any­thing more from the two of them." 
In Sunday's championship match against Cal-Poly, the Irish had trouble breaking away from the Mustangs before finally pulling ahead 30-26. 30-28 and 30-23. 
"I think they played a little bit better than they had against the other teams, and I think we 

showed more persistence overall in Game 
3. Notre Dame took an 18-9 lead before Cal-Poly won seven straight points to pull within two of the lead. The Irish then went on to win five straight points and put the Mustangs away for good. 
Junior Katie Neff and Kinder both set career highs in kills with 11 and seven, respectively. 
In the season-opener and first game of the tournament, Notre Dame was victorious over 
see SHAMROCK/page 22 

WOMENS SOCCER 
Irish kick off season with pair of shutouts 
. Notre Dame beats Providence, Virgina Tech for 2-0 start in Big East Conference 
By JOE LICANDRO Spom Writer 
Despite playing without three projected starting defenders, the Notre Dame womens soccer team recorded not one, but two shutouts against Big East confer­ence opponents over the week­end. 
On Friday, the Irish opened the season with a 3-0 road victory against the Providence Friars. Two days later, the Irish returned home to Alumni Field and blanked the Virginia Tech Hokies 5-0. 
After Sunday's victory, Irish coach Randy Waldrum was extremely proud of the way his young team opened the season. 
"We're playing an awful lot of young players," Waldrum said. 
"Even through mistakes, they have been really enthusiastic. The effort and attitude has been great. The team chemistry has been great. There are a lot of things outside the soccer aspect that's been a big plus this year that maybe we lacked a little bit last year." 
With returning forwards Amanda Guertin and Amy Warner to lead the way, the Irish offense kept pressure on the Providence and Virginia Tech defenses. 
After a scoreless first half 
against the Friars. the Irish reg­istered three goals in a span of seven minutes to take control of the game. 
Warner's goal in the fifth minute of the second half ignited the Irish offense. Three minutes later, midfielder Randi Scheller registered her first goal of the season. Mary Boland then fol­lowed three minutes later with a score off an assist from Warner to put the cap on the Irish victo­ry. 
Versatility described the Irish offense Sunday as five different players scored. Guertin got the scoring started with a brilliant left-footed shot that curled over the outstretched arms of Virginia Tech goalie Natasha Dirda in the 21st minute of the game. Although the Irish created numerous scoring opportunities for themselves in the first half, they held a tentative 1-0 lead at halftime. 
Freshman Miranda Ford quickly erased any chance of a Tech comeback with the first 
see SOCCER/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame 22 Maryland 0 

In their first football game under coach Tyrone Willingham, the Irish rolled to victory over Maryland in the Kickoff Classic in East Rutherford, N.J. Cornerback Shane Walton had three interceptions, a feat last accomplished by Dave Duerson in 1982. Nicholas Setta was the Kickoff Classic MVP with five field goals. The Irish held Maryland to just 133 total yards of offense, while moving the ball 356 yards themselves. 
Insider 


O
THE 

Monday, September 2, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 22, Maryland 0 
illing the win 

Despite the hype ofcoaching his first game at Notre Dame, Willingham focuses on winning as the Irish shut out the Terrapins 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spores Editor 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
For Tyrone Willingham, Saturday's game came down to one thing -playing football. 
In the midst of the hype sur­rounding his first game as Notre Dame's head coach, what to focus on was simple. In the face of a Maryland team com­ing off a fairy tale season and ranked No. 20 in the preseason coaches' poll, it was clear what was important. With the eyes of the nation upon him, it came down to one thing. 
Playing football. 
"Gosh, it was a football game," Willingham said when asked how it felt to be coaching his first game as Notre Dame's head coach. "And I don't know how to describe it any other way." 
And his team played football. 
Behind five field goals from Nicholas Setta and a sensation­al defensive performance, the Irish took the 
toss and allowed Maryland to rush for four yards and com­plete one pass for a first down before Shane Walton picked off Terps quarterback Scott McBrien. Walton added two more interceptions in the fourth quarter, the first time since 1982 an Irish player picked off three passes in a game. 
"I look forward to Shane get­ting an interception every time they throw the ball," corner­back Vontez Duff said. "It's just as much our ball as it is their ball when they throw it up there." 
In the first half, Maryland's longest drive covered 21 yards in eight plays. The first quarter series brought them as close as the Irish 40-yard line before Brooks Barnard had to punt ­a whopping 7-yarder that land­ed out of bounds and set the Irish up for their first score of the 2002 season. 
The first Irish scoring drive was indicative of the offense's performance throughout the rest of the game. Before even 
beginning the 
field in front first play of of nearly "Gosh, it was a football the drive, the Irish were set
71,000 spec­game. And I don't know 
tators and back to first
how to describe it any

shut out the and 20 after Terrapins other way." two false start 2 2 0 penalties. In Saturday in all, the Irish
Tyrone Willingham 

Kickoff offense was 
Classic XX. Irish head coach charged with 
"I was hop­ing we would play hard and well," said defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer. "Things just sort of fell into place." 
The Irish defense brought its A-game Saturday, holding a Maryland team that averaged 440 offensive yards last season to 133 total yards and just 16 yards rushing. The inside line­backers, playing without a sick Courtney Watson, recorded 19 tackles while the Notre Dame pass coverage allowed only 12 completions. 
"[The Notre Dame defense] did some things differently than we anticipated but nothing that really should have hurt us," Maryland coach Ralph Friedgen said. "It was not what they did it was how they did it. They won the one-on-one battles and there were a lot of one-on-one battles." 
That first one-on-one victory came on the Terrapins' first possession. Notre Dame deferred after winning the coin of 11 penalties 
for 80 yards. 
"For the most part, you have linemen making calls, but we really have to begin to get the calls in tact and break the hud­dle and those sorts of things for us to win as a ball club," said quarterback Carlyle Holiday. "We can't have those sorts of penalties." 
Despite the penalties, a nine­y a rd run by full back Tom Lopienski set Holiday up for a 29-yard completion to Arnaz Battle. Three plays later, the Irish found themselves facing fourth-and-6 at the Maryland 
34. Setta, who missed a 56­yard kick earlier in the game, completed the 51-yard field goal and gave the Irish the 3-0 lead. 
"I tried to just take each one," said Setta, who was named the Kickoff Classic MVP. "After that first one, it's a new one after the next one it's the same thing." 
In the three quarters that fol­lowed, Setta kicked four more field goals for the Irish. Despite the fact that the Notre Dame offense was inside the Maryland 20 three times, it never found the end zone. 
"We really can't have Nicholas out there that many times," Holiday said. "I mean, we have to score in the red zone, preach that breakfast lunch and dinner from now on." 
The only Irish touchdown came from another special teams player. Less than five minutes into the second half, Duff returned a punt 76 yards to punt the Irish up 16-0 and the game out of reach. 
"I told Coach [at half1, 'Man, they're not punting the ball to me but if they punt it to me I'm going to get us one, all I need is one,"' Duff said. "Thank God that I had the opportunity to get that one and I ran with it." 
In the final minutes of the game. the Terps looked to be putting together a solid offen­sive drive, driving from their own 10-yard line to the Irish 
45. But with just five minutes left in the game, Walton pre­served the shutout when he intercepted McBrien for the second time. Then the Irish were done playing football. 

"[The win] was real special," Holiday said. "I'm sure there was a lot of pressure on coach, you know to win this game and for him to be able to come out and lead us to victory is a big thing." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Shane Walton  5  Vontez Duff's 76-yard punt return  "Night. Day ..  
The senior cornerback had three  number offield goals completed  10:28 remaining in the third quarter  
interceptions, a major tackle on  by Nicholas Setta. The Kickoff  Duffs 76-yard m was the only  Tyrone Willingham  
fourth down and made a key block  Classic MVP finished with 16  touchdown scored m the entire game.  Irish head coach  
that opened the wayfor Duffs punt  points.  It was a combination ofgood blocking  when asked about the difference between  
return.  and phenomenal runnmg.  last year's offense and this year's offense  


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 2, 2002 
report card 

A­
8­
A­
B A A A A B 
new coach and his team. The Irish will be looking to 

3.55 
improve. 
adding up the numbers 

yards Setta kicked his first field goal of the night, a career long 
51 

198 2 last time an Irish defensive back had three interceptions -Dave Duerson against Navy 
Holiday's passing yards in the first quar­ter, more than the last two games of last 
88

season combined 
yards Maryland's Barnard kicked his first7 punt 
amount of time Notre Dame possessed the ball more than 
22:08

Maryland 
8 
number of Notre Dame receivers who caught passes during Saturday's game 
pounds Friedgen lost before this game ­two concerned boosters are donating $500 
50

for every pound he loses 
time left in the game when the

lo57
• 
Maryland mascot walked off the field. 

• 
It did not return. 


quarterbacks: Despite some ineffective­ness in the red zone and offensive penalties, Holiday adjusted well to the new offense and threw for 226 yards. 
running backs: Although Grant netted 66 yards and Powers-Neal totaled 33, the running backs had a slow start in the first half and had trouble gaining more than a few yards. 
receivers: Eight receivers made catch­es. Jenkins and Battle added solid yards after the catches. 
offensive line: The offensive line pro­vided some protection, but allowed the Terps to sack Holiday four times. 
defensive line: The defense allowed only 16 yards rushing for the entire game. Maryland's net rushing yards for the second half-negative 10 yards. 
linebackers: The linebackers had never played a down and didn't show it for a minute. Hoyte and Goolsby both had eight tackles, while Curry added four. 
defensive backs: Walton's three intercep­tions is all that really needs to be said here. But. what's more, the secondary limited Maryland to a 37 .5 completion 
percentage. 
special teams: Without special teams, the game would have been scoreless. Setta's first missed field goal can be forgiven -it was 56 yards -and he made five field goals, including a 51­yard career-long kick. Duffs return put the game away. 
coaching: Despite adapting his team to his new offensive scheme, Willingham's team earned 11 penal­ties, suggesting a lack of preparation for game time. 
overall: Not a bad start for a 

Holiday passes to next level 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

Carlyle Holiday knew he made a mistake as soon as he let go of the ball. 
As a Maryland defender wrapped his arms around Notre Dame's quarterback midway through the fourth quarter, Holiday flung a submarine pitch, weakly floating the ball a few feet short of the line of scrimmage. 
The Irish got a ten-yard penalty for intentional grounding. Holiday got a tongue-lashing for unintention­al brain freeze. 
He didn't have to wait for his next jaunt to the Irish sideline to know he'd used his reflexes and not his head. Tyrone Willingham left his spot on the SO-yard line to personally tell Holiday he screwed up. Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick got on the phone after the drive ended to chew Holiday out. 
"I've never been yelled at so much in my entire life," Holiday said. "Things like that just hap­pen, but I can't let it happen again. That's a kindergarten mis­take right there." 
In that instant, Holiday became the playground quarterback who relied on reaction and not reason. The rest of the game, he played with such precision few could tell it was his first game directing a pro-style attack. Brimming with confidence, the gunslinger deliv­ered bullets with an uncanny accuracy he rarely showed last season. 
Last year, Holiday threw more than 17 passes twice. Saturday, he completed 17 passes. Eight dif­ferent recievers caught passes. And in the first 15 minutes of Notre Dame's 22-0 win against Maryland Saturday, Holiday passed for more yards than he did the final two games of last season. 
In Notre Dame's 22-0 victory over Maryland, Holiday and the Irish proved everything. They also proved nothing. 
Holiday directed an offense that managed to move the ball effec­tively -except in the red zone. He showed he could cycle through receivers and complete tough passes -against a bad secondary. He showed he could set up a 


scoring drives -"I've never been yelled at as long as said 
so much in my entire life.
scoring drives 
ended in Things like that just 
Nicholas Setta happen. but I can't let it field goals. 
happen again. That's a
A kicker and a 
kindergarten mistake 
defensive back scored more right there. " points than the entire Irish 
Carlyle Holiday 
offense. Notre Dame Irish quarterback 
beat a poorly prepared foot­ball team with a bad defense and an even worse offense, and the margin of victory should have been much greater. For all its progress. Notre Dame's offense stopped itself from scor­ing touchdowns. 
False starts, delay of game penalties, a porous offensive line, a sub-par running game -all things coaches will be harping on come team meetings this week. 
Still, Holiday's assertiveness under center eased the concerns of worried fans who questioned his passing ability. 
Holiday said he wasn't out to prove anything against Maryland. Bill Clinton said he never had sexual relations with that woman. Both were blatant lies; 
Though he didn't say it, Holiday wanted desperately to erase the terrific display of inade­quacy he exhibit­ed for Willingham the last time the two stood on a field together. The memory of 1­for-16 against Stanford still lin­gered in Holiday's mind, the lowest poin·t in a low season. 

Saturday, Holiday flashed signs that he is a changed quarterback running a changed offense. With the poise of a veteran in a Steve Spurrier offense, Holiday tucked himself away in. the pocket and stayed there. 
He rarely moved around. he rarely scrambled. And when he did, he ran for big yards, exhibit­ing the athletic ability that made him Notre Dame's first and only option on offense last year. 
Nowhere was the change in offensive philosophy more evident than Notre Dame's first offensive play from scrimmage, when Holiday three-step-dropped and fired a screen to Omar Jenkins. The play only gained seven yards, but at least Julius Jones wasn't stuffed going up in the middle. 
Even Willingham, when asked to describe the differences in offenses, laughed before curtly responding, "Night. Day." 
If the Irish hope to return to greatness, Holiday took the first step Saturday. He realized quar­terbacks win games with noggins, not limbs. 
After the game, Holiday laughed about his boneheaded underhand pass. It was a moment of happi­ness in a whirlwind of questions hurled at him by armchair quar­terbacks. 
As Holiday answered question after question, one of his team­mates walked by and muttered. ''Look at Carlyle, backed against the wall." 
Finally. he took his first step away from it. 
The views of this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Ohsen,er. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


Monday, September 2, 2002 page 3
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Walton turns in MVP performance 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
It isn't often that a player grabs three 
interceptions in a football game and fails 
to earn MVP honors for his performance. 
But that's what happened to Irish corner­
back Shane Walton Saturday night in the 
Kickoff Classic against Maryland. 
The fifth-year senior and Irish co-cap­
tain for the game grabbed two intercep­
tions from starting quarterback Scott 
O'Brien and one from replacement Chris 
Kelley, becoming the first Notre Dame 
player since Dave Duerson in 1982 to· 
have three interceptions in a game. 
But the effort wasn't enough to grab 
MVP honors. Those went to Irish kicker 
Nicholas Setta who made five field goals 
-including kicks from 46 ;md 51 yards 
-and scored 16 of Notre Dame's 22 
points. 
"As fine a job as Nicholas Setta did, it's hard to believe that a guy with three interceptions isn't at least a co-MVP," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "[Walton] played a fantastic ball game. He was one of our captains, and he pro­vided us not only with the leadership but also the excellent play that we expect from a guy in that role." 
Walton led an Irish secondary -and an Irish defense -that held the Maryland offense to just 133 total yards in the shutout. Last season, the Terrapins put up 35.5 points a game and averaged 390 yards of offense. 
"Any time you get a shutout on such a balanced team coming out of last year ­if you remember they were one of the top team's in the country in terms of offensive production and balance -to hold them to a shutout is almost unbelievable," Willingham said. 
Walton sent a message to the Terrapins inexperienced quarterbacks McBrien and The play of the defense also made life early in the game -on their first posse­Kelley to the air, where Irish defensive easier for young quarterback Carlyle sion, in fact. backs were waiting for them. Holiday and the rest of the Irish offense, 
On the third play of the game, Walton "We pride ourselves on stopping the playing its first game with Willingham's 
reached up and snared a Scott McBrien run and the pass," Walton said. "When new scheme. pass over the middle. The Irish were we stop the run like we did tonight, "The way the defense played, it got the unable to convert the turnover into they've got to throw the ball. That's what confidence up for the en tire team," points, but the pick made the Maryland we love as defensive backs, because we Holiday said. "The secondary did a heck quarterbacks aware that they weren't get picks on that." of a job today, and our front held their going to be able to throw at will. In addition to the three interceptions, ground. Whenever you can do that, you 
The confident and sometimes cocky Walton had a drive-stopping tackle in the feel like you can be more aggressive and cornerbacks Walton and Vontez Duff ter­third quarter with Notre Dame up 16-0 make a few more plays." rorized the Maryland signal callers for and Maryland deep into Irish territory. On Ironically, heading into Saturday night's the rest of the night. fourth-and-4 at the Notre Dame 26, game, most of the focus had been on the 
"When [vValton's] on the other side I McBrien ran the option down the line to Irish offense and its ability to convert to have confidence because I know he's Walton's side and pitched to Mario Willingham's new style of play. But the going to make a play_ he's a playmaker," Merrils as Walton dropped him for a defensive players don't mind that role out Duff said. "Shane and I always strive to three-yard loss. of the spotlight, and they especially don't be great. We worked all summer. and Just before that, Walton had a key mind shocking opposing offenses. we're working together to be the great block to spring Duffs 76-yard punt return "I want people to focus on the offense," corners." for touchdown. Walton said. "We can be the silent assas­
The injury of Bruce Perry, Maryland's "Yeah, that was me [on the block]," sins on the defense." leading rusher and receiver from last sea­Walton said with a smile. "Vontez [Duft] is son, took some pressure off the Irish my boy, and I've got to protect my boy. 
Contact Chris Federico at
defense. In effect, it took away the But there were 10 other blocks that were 
cfederic@nd.edu
Terrapin rushing game and forced the just as good. It was just one of 10 blocks." 

Young starters make serious stops 
Observer Staff Report 
Courtney Watson did not start on Saturday. Doctor's orders kept the most experi­enced linebacker out of the game with an upset stomach. 
Mike Goolsby, however. did start on Saturday. He and the other two starting lineback­ers had never played a down on defense. But you wouldn't have known by looking at them. 
Brandon Hoyte -who replaced vVatson -and Goolsby eah had eight tack­les. Derrick Curry had four. 
"I thought Goolsby and Hoyte and Curry did an excel­lent job," coach Tyrone Willingham said. "They stepped up and made plays just as we would expect them to. \Ve tell our football team that it doesn't matter, we bclivc it is an oportunty when a guy goes down" 
The three linebackers were part of an offense that held Maryland to 16 total rushing yards. The Terrapins had 26 going into the second half. That means they netted minus-10 yards in the final 30 minutes of the game. 
"It was a blast out there, that was the most fun I've ever had playing ball," Goolsby said. "After the first quarter, getting accustomed to things, I just went out there being my normal self. I had a blast out there." 
Penalties show Irish green 
Notre Dame did leave some evidence that they were still an inexperienced team. The Irish had 11 penalties that cost them 80 yards in the course of the game. Nine of those were offensive. Notre Dame was charged with a false start five times, delay of game twice, intentional grounding and holding. 
"I need to look at the video to see how much of it was sloppy play," said offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick. "I think it they just came at very inopportunty times." 
Five penalites were in Maryland territory. 
Not Jones up the middle 
For the first time in years, Notre Dame came out throw­ing. Carlyle Holiday opened the lrish's first series with a 7-yard pass completion to Omar Jenkins -a change from last year, when first-and­10 meant the Irish often ran. 
"[The play \Vas] very refreshing." said \vide receiv­er Arnaz Battle, who finished the game with four recep­tions for 68 yards. ··1 thought it was coming to me. Carlyle decided to go the other side." 
Game time leadership 
For the second time in 114 years of footballl history, the Irish are naming game day captains. The last time the Irish did so was in 1946 under Frank Leahy. 
Saturday's game day cap­tains were center Jeff Faine, Battle, cornerback Shane Walton and defensive end Ryan Roberts. 
Big time security 
National Security Advisor Condolezza Rice was present at the Kickoff Classic. \Villingham said that as a close friend. she came to watch and support him. 
"Dr. Condolezza Hice is a dear friend." \Villingham advisor. "And it was awful nice in the ballgame to see her here." 
•

scoring 
summary .,., 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 3 6 10 3 22 Maryland D D O D O 
First quarter 
Notre Dame 3. Maryland 0 
Nicholas Setta 51-yard FG with 5:01 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 32 yards, 3:15 elasped 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 6. Maryland 0 Setta 32-yard FG with 13:27 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 61 yards, 5:45 elapsed 
Notre Dame 9, Maryland 0 
Setta 18-yard FG with 0:26 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 61 yards, 7:07 elasped elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 16, Maryland 0 
Vontez Duff 76-yard punt return (Setta kick) 
10:28 remaining Notre Dame 19, Maryland 0 
Setta 46-yard FG with 3:52 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 42 yards, 5:01 elasped 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 22, Maryland 0 Setta 24-yard FG with 14:50 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 44 yards, 2:41 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 
lfiltM~trhN'~"i!1 
time of possession 
~sc•n;t1•s:~' _ .._~,-,..,,,,-~-, ­



45-130 rushes-yards 21-16 
27-10-0 com p-att-in t 32·12-3 
4-36.8 punts-yards 7-37.6 ,... 
1-0 fumbles-lost 0-0 
11-80 penalties-yards 2-20 
15 8
first downs 
passing 

Holiday 17-27-0 McBrien 9-23-2 Kelley 3-9-1 
rushing 

Grant  23-66  Crawford  10-16  
Powers-Neal  8-33  Merrills  4-6  
Holiday  8-15  McBrien  4-3  
Lopienski  3-8  Killian  1-2  
Wilson O'Neill  2-4 1-4  Kelley  2-(-11)  

receiving 

Holiday Lopienski Wilson  5-87 4-68 2-17  Williams Dugan Parson  5-68 2-15 2-11  
O'Neill  2·9  Crawford  2-10  
Jenkins  1-9  Suter  1-13  - 
Battle  1·16  
Campbell  1-7  
McKnight  1·5  
tackling  

Clark 
8 Jackson 14
Stovall 
8 Henderson 11
Godsey 
8 Cochran 11 

------·----------------­
O
THE 

Notre Dame 22, Maryland 0 BSERVER Monday, September 2, 2002 



SPECIAL TEAMS SPEaALTY 
Ultimately the Irish offense couldn't quite get it 
done. They couldn't cross the goal line. But when it came to special teams, they had the Terrapins' number. With 10:28 left in the third quarter, Vontez Duff fielded a punt at Notre Dame's 24-yard line and sliced through the coverage, covering 76 yards and becoming the only Irish player to score a touchdown. 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
Vontez Duff fields the ball behind teammate Dwight Ellick (No. 37). He broke past Maryland's punt team, finally breaking away from punter Brooks Barnard (No. 
16) as he ran 76 yards for the only touchdown of the game. 




