
Student Film Festival
PARTLY 

Thursday

CLOUDY 

Observer movie critics take a sneak peak at what the Notre Dame student film festival has to offer. 
JANUARY 24, 
HIGH 40 

Scene . page 12-13 
2002
LOW25° 





The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 73 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Coughlin, Winchester withdraw from race 
Crawford stating ethical rea­e-mail sent at 2 a.m. two declined to comment on unfair to BOG, the studentBy MYRA MCGRIFF 
sons for dropping out of the Before dropping out of the specific reasons for withdraw­body, and ourselves." 
Saint Mary's Editor 
race. election, the two campaigned ing their candidacy. with Crawford sees the realization "After the interview tonight for one day on the theme of Winchester saying only "it was as a smart move. 
Caroline Coughlin and Jeanna 
with The "More a very, very hard decision." "I think that if they couldn't Winchester dropped out of the Observer, Access, The ticket's platform called handle [next year1they did the race for 2002 Student Body we realized M o r e for caller-ID, call waiting and right thing by pulling out," she president and vice president that we do Security, campus detex use expansion as said. "They had to expect to be 
early morning Wednesday, 
not feel it is L e s s some initiatives to establish intimidated. They are the stu­leaving only one remaining ethical to Worries." during during the 2002 term. dent leaders. It isn't all fun and ticket, that of Kim Jenson and commit to After fail­In withdrawing, Coughlin and games. In the beginning they Elizabeth Jablonski-Dieh in the something ing to show Wincester hope to relieve any were a little unsure. The inter­election. that we up for a worry that they may hurt BOG view with The Observer was 
After an interview with The might not scheduled in the long run by not being probably the straw that broke Observer Tuesday, Coughlin be able to interview prepared for the job of presi­the camel's back." and \Vinchester sent an e-mail see to the Wednesday dent and vice president, stating to elections commissioner Mary very end," Coughlin wrote in an night with The Observer, the in the e-mail that it "would be see DROP/page 7 



ND, SMC students march for life 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
One hundred fifty Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students returned from 
a trip \Vednesday, organized by 
ND/SMC Hight to Life Clubs, to 
\Vashington D.C. to participate in the 
March for Life. Thousands of pro-lif­
ers from across the country gathered 
to remember the Supreme Court's 
1973 ruling that legalized abortion. 
The highlight of the trip was 
Tuesday's rally and march from the 
Washington monument to the 
Supreme Court building protesting 
abortion. Trip events also included a 
pro-life Mass at the National Shrine 
and a "Collegians for Life" confer­
ence at Georgetown University. 
"I think it went really well," said 
Mandy Reimer, Right to Llfe club co­
president. "I think everyone got a lot 
out of it. It was a very intense experi­
ence." 
Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's arrived at Washington on Sunday and Monday mornings after 13-hour bus rides. Father J. Steele, the club's faculty advisor, cel­ebrated Mass on Sunday and stu­dents spent the rest of the day sight­seeing around the Capitol. 
On Monday, students had the option of attending the Georgetown pro-life conference and the Mass at the National Shrine. 
The conference, organized by the Georgetown pro-life club, featured key speaker Chris Smith, a New Jersey congressman. The half-day event also included interactive small group discussions and activities geared toward college pro-life clubs. 
"It [the conference] was very prac­tical," said Notre Dame student Kelly Fabreya. "It was more about working than voicing your opinion." 
Smith lectured the attendees on UN population control policies and upcoming national legislation that could affect the pro-life movement. 
"We think of the UN as being main­ly involved in peacekeeping," said Stephen Merjavy, who attended Smith's address. 'In a lot of ways they're working for Planned Parenthood. They're trying to make abortion an international right." 

Among the small group events was a discussion led by Sally Winn, head of Feminists For Life, an organization geared toward making universities more open to pregnancy. 
The group helps schools implement policies such as housing, flexible schedules, counseling and pre-natal and day care that make life easier for pregnant college students. The orga­nization also wants to change student perceptions on college pregnancy and end viewing pregnant students as what Winn calls "exotic animals." 
"Her complaint is that [college] women have no choice -they're being pressured into having abor­tions," said Charlie Cassidy, who par­ticipated in Winn's discussion. 

Later that evening, trip participants were bused across town to the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception for a special Mass for life. Although students arrived two hours prior to the Mass, most were forced to stand in the back and side aisles or watch the televised service from one of the Shrine's side chapels. 
Anthony Bevilaqua, Cardinal of Philadelphia, presided over the Mass along with approximately 50 bishops · and 300 priests. 
"I thought it was pretty awesome," said Notre Dame sophomore Lauren 
see MARCH/page 8 
MLK chat focuses on diversity 
By HELENA PAYNE Assiscam News Editor 
Students and admin­
istrators revealed many 
unspoken issues 
regarding race Monday 
night during a fireside 
chat in Coleman Morse 
Center, one of the 
week's events honoring 
Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Though the group con­
sisted of less than 40 
people, many opened 
up about the difficulties of developing friends across racial lines and considered ways to · break the existing bar­
riers at Notre Dame. 
The student panel 
consisted of seniors 
Charisse Candler, 
Kelechi Ndukwe and 
Demetra Smith: junior 
Shamus Rohn; sopho­
mores Denise de la 
Rosa and Joshikka 
Outlaw and Ometeotl 
Acosta. 

"Hate doesn't make 
you see things clearly," 
said junior Kat Walsh, 
the coordinator of the 
fireside chat. 

Walsh said on campus 
she has dealt with 
many assumptions that 
people have made after 
looking at her fair skin 
without knowing that 
she grew up speaking 
Spanish in her home in 
Brownsville, Texas. 
"It was so hard to try to prove to everyone that I don't hate," said Walsh. 
In her second year as the coordinator for the Martin Luther King dis­cuss ion along with junior Ken Seifert, Walsh said she pre-. 
ferred the fireside chat 
because it was more 
intimate and prompted 
better discussion. 
"Last year, {the stu­
dent panel] was on a 
stage and beautiful 
things were said, [but] I 
felt more things came 
out tonight because 
more people got 
involved," said Walsh. 
Much of the discus­
sion, moderated by 
junior Joyce De Leon, 
centered on cross-cul­
tural interaction among 
students. 
Several minority stu­
dents said they felt 
obligated to be more 
outgoing at Notre Dame 
to dispel stereotypes 
and make people feel 
comfortable. 
Junior Darnell Jackson said he will often sit in his classes and wait for about five minutes for the students that sit next to him to speak. If they don't, then he introduces him­self. 
"I find too often that I have to do that to meet people of other races," said · Jackson. Otherwise, Jackson said, the students usu­ally do not speak to him. 
"I don't think I should have to change any­thing to let those people know I'm a black guy and I'm nice," he said. 
A member of the stu• dent panel, sophomore de la Rosa said people should take more active roles in educating peo­ple about their ethnicity. 
"Personally, I feel it is 
see MLK/page 7 


Thursday, January 24, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Spiritless Starbucks 

I used to be a patron of Starbucks. I loved the caramel macchiatos and the oversized plush chairs. But one thing has changed since then: the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001 marked a day that I and countless others will never forget. 
What is memorable still is hearing how a Starbucks store located in Battery Park near Ground Zero actually had the heartless nerve to charge emergency medical workers $130 of their own money, out of pocket, for three cases of bottled water. 
In the face of terror and death, I find it sickening that a store actually charged for water that would be used later to help some of the vic­tims pulled out from the rubble. 
The president of the Brooklyn ambulance compa­ny, Al Rapisarda later wrote a letter to Starbucks com­plaining on behalf of the res­cue workers involved. However. it was not until the incident leaked out to the press did the president of Starbucks actu­ally take action. 
After the press picked up the story, Starbucks apologized and reimbursed the rescue workers. For some time, several of the Starbucks near the World Trade Center and New York City hospitals stayed open 24 hours a day to serve coffee, tea, water and fresh pastries to all rescue workers free of charge. Starbucks even donated hun­dreds of pounds of coffee to the Red Cross and invited them into the stores to oversee blood donations. 
If Rapisarda's letter of complaint had not been publicized, I highly doubt that Starbucks would have made any effort to reimburse the rescue workers involved and to reach out to the sur­rounding community with such eagerness and to the extent that it did. 
But this is debatable of course. It is futile to say what might have been done in a hypothetical sit­uation. But what is clear is what happened that day, at that moment and when it counted the most. What happened after the fact doesn't quite count for as much especially when in all probability it was a shameless corporate cover­up. 
Refusing to help victims some mere feet away because of a price tag, on what is overpriced water in the first place, is greatly disconcerting. Materialism in America is certainly not dead even if its consumers down the street are lying in waste. 
Instead, materialism today in America is alive and well, and with it are the price tags placed on nameless human lives. All of the faces hidden in a choking dust of obscurity will never fade from memory, and neither will the thought of those rescue workers digging into their pockets to pay for what should have been generously given. 
What was once the Alumni room will now become the new home of a new, glittering Starbucks. So when the day comes for the bright green sign to light up, I will think of those who desperately needed but were asked to pay the price for their lives. 
To this remembrance, I would gladly pass on a caramel macchiato any day. 
a Contact Kijlin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please rnntact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publiilied Monday through Friday cxcepc during exam and vacation peri00-.5. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Thursday  Friday  
. Film: "Notre Dame  . Exhibit: "Masks and  
Student Film Festival,"  Figures, Form and Style:  
opening night. Hesburgh  The Christensen Family  
Library Auditorium, 7:30  collects African Art," Snite  
p.m. and 9:30 p.m.  Museum of Art, all day.  

Saturday  Sunday  
. Exhibit: "Djawid C.  . Lecture: "Learning to  
Borower: Portrait of  Talk About Race," Walsh  
Money," Snite Museum of  Hall. 5 p.m.  
Art, all day.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Harvard rebuffs tobacco industry subpoena 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Harvard University recently rebuffed the efforts of the tobacco industry to subpoena a half-century of Harvard research records. 
According to University Attorney Diane E. Lopez, Harvard received a legal notice this fall from the indus­try's lawyers asking for all the records from any federally funded scientific research involving smoking within the last 50 years. The subpoe­na also asked for documents on 54 specific research projects conducted by the University since 1961. 
A spokesperson for the companies declined to disclose exactly how they planned to use the Harvard research; however, the subpoena is part of the tobacco industry's defense efforts against the ongoing lawsuit filed by 


The suit seeks billions of dollars in damages from the companies to reim­burse the government for its expendi­tures on smoking-related health care 
costs. 

In a letter last month responding to the subpoena, Harvard's attorneys argued releasing the information would violate the First Amendment rights of researchers. 
"This is an incredibly burdensome request," Lopez said...It would be almost impossible to complete it." 
Lopez said federal court rules allow parties not actually included in the lawsuit to reject "unduly burden­some" subpoenas. A representative of the tobacco industry claimed the sub­poena should not be overly difficult to fulfill. 
With the University's refusal to pro­vide the documents, the tobacco com­panies now could ask a judge to rule on Harvard's objections and poten­tially force the University to comply. 
Harvard Crimson 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 

Junior dies, possibly of meningitis 
University of Texas students are mourning the death of Joseph Slade Blackstock, an undeclared business junior, from what appears to be bacterial meningitis. He died Tuesday at 10 a.m., six hours after his friends rushed him to the hospital. Oflicials at University Health Services (UHS), who were notified Tuesday morning that a UT student had contracted meningitis according to preliminary tests, said Blackstock began showing symptoms of the infectious disease only a day before his death. He most likely contracted the disease when he went home over the weekend. UHS officials immediately put into effect their infectious disease exposure control plan when they heard the news and provided informa­tion and medication to students who might have come into contact with Blackstock. UHS gave the preventative medication to 154 students. "We talked about meningi­tis, and strongly encouraged them to take an antibiotic [Cipro] we had with us," said Bushey. 
Daily Texan 
LOCAL WEATHER 


UNIVERSITY OF IOWA 
Wife to go to trial in dean's death 
An Iowa City, Iowa, woman who allegedly slayed her husband, Richard Nelson, in his Cedar Rapids, Iowa, apartment will not accept any plea bargains, her lawyer said Tuesday. Phyllis Nelson was charged with first-degree murder Dec. 12, the same day she allegedly stabbed Richard Nelson, the executive dean of the University of Iowa College of Medicine. once with a black-handled knife. She was released from the Linn County Correctional Facility on Dec. 24 on a $25,000 bond, and she returned to her Iowa City home, 1010 Highwood St., where she has remained with her daughter, Emily. Nelson, 54, has not heard any offers from Linn County prosecutors, and any she receives will be rejected, said William Kutmus. Nelson's Des Moines-based attorney. Phyllis Nelson's trial is set for March 11, but that date will likely be pushed back so both sides can continue legal prepara­tions and investigations, Kutmus said. 
The Daily Iowan 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 24. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

,.,_, ®© . High L-Showen \'laA&!IOCl.tlOdP­ ~C}JRain T•storma  . Flume ¦  EZJfill]Snow foe  --\·~-~­,unnv  ,f(J.;i. Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  70 58 46 39 72  51 38 34 25 46  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  51 55 35 51 56  32 36 25 35 39  Portland 47 Sacramento 53 St. Louis 43 Tampa 80 Washington, DC 62  41 35 29 61 41  

Thursday, January 24, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Nuestadt: Bush handles ''war'' well 
By IAURA ROMPF 
Associate News Editor 
The last time Richard 
Nuestadt, a Harvard professor 
and presidential scholar. visited 
Notre Dame's campus was 
Monday, Sept. 10, 2001. The 
next day, analyzing the current 
president George W. Bush's 
term in office became an 
unprecedented task. 
In a lecture Wednesday after­noon at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Nuestadt praised Bush's per­sonal traits and the actions he has taken since Sept. 11, but criticized him for calling America's actions against ter­rorism a "war." 
"Up to now, Bush has done well obtaining much of what he wants," Nuestadt said. "This is the best first year for any presi­dent since Lyndon Johnson." 
Nuestadt said using a term like "crime against humanity," as the pope called the attack on the trade center, may have been more appropriate than "war." Historically Americans become frustrated with both long wars and wars that cannot be won, Nuestadt said. 
"[This war] boggles my mind," Nuestadt said. "It could go on for five, 10 or even 30 years. That frames the huge predicament President Bush took on when he called this a war." 
According to Nuestadt, sever­al of Bush's personal traits could help keep him popular among the American people. 
Nuestadt said because Bush did not want to be president his entire adult life, the American people relate to him. 
"Bush was always passionate about baseball, not politics," Nuestadt said. 
Nuestadt said Americans have also related to Bush because on Sept. 11 his initial reactions were anger and shock. 
"This suggests his first reac­tions are very American -so many of us have some Texan in us," said Nuestadt. 
Nuestadt also said Bush's willingness to listen and learn has helped him deal with the war on terrorism. 
"From the beginning, Bush problem. 
Next Nuestadt said in crisis times presidents are given more power due to accumulated precedents. 
"Thus far the Bush adminis• tration has shown little use of these prerogative powers," Nuestadt said. "But dare I say it, the use of prerogative powers will likely increase as this unprecedented war continues." 
Third, Nuestadt noted that like other crisis times, Bush should be aware that the "rally­
made up for a lack of 
"Bush has done well 
Washington 
experience obtaining much ofwhat he 
by sur­wants. This is the best rounding 
first yearfor any president
himself with 
advisors since Lyndon Johnson.·· 
who have just that," 
Richard Nuestadt 
Nuestadt 
Harvard professor
said. 
Finally 
Nuestadt n o t e d 
ing around the flag" effect does not create a Constitutional dictatorship and is not for­ever. Nuestadt said as the war on terrorism continues Americans might become disheartened with its length and the fact 

'Innovator' to lecture on Sept. 11 response 
By SHEILA EGTS 
News Writer 
Martha Nussbaum, Ernst 
Freund Professor of Law and 
Ethics at the University of 
Chicago, will speak on 
"Patriotism and Compassion" 
tonight at 8 p.m. in the Saint 
Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
It will address the response to 
the events of Sept. 11. 
Although Nussbaum is on leave for the 2001-2002 acade­mic year and is not accepting visiting lecturing engagements, she is making an exception to visit Saint Mary's as the keynote speaker for the College's Play of the Mind con­ference. 
"I've been intending to come to Saint Mary's for a number of years, and have had various invitations there that I've been unable to accept for one rea­son or another," said Nussbaum. "Meanwhile, I've been to Notre Dame lots of times. I thought it was high time that I focused on Saint Mary's." 
Nussbaum's active work in the public arena has made her America's most prominent female philosopher. Addressing audiences at an all• women's college hits home for Nussbaum, who attended an all-women's high school and an all-women's college for two years. 
"I think that single-sex edu­cation was then and still is a very important option for women. It allows women to develop all their abilities freely, without worrying about whether men will like the way they are behaving," she said. 
Nussbaum was able to 
express her thoughts without 
anxiety in school and quickly 
gained a reputation that has 
stuck with her to the present 
day. 
"My friends [in school] used 
to tease me by calling me 
Artha Marguer, meaning 
Martha the Arguer. It's been 
many years since then, but I 
haven't stopped talking and 
arguing," said Nussbaum about 
the early beginnings of her love 
of philosophical debate. 

Her strong background served Nussbaum well as she was most recently acknowl• edged as one of the nation's premier public intellectuals. In December, Time magazine named her one of the seven Next Wave Innovators, who are significant thinkers shaping the early years of the 21st century. 
She continually travels and engages in projects fostering human development around the world, while keeping up a demanding schedule as teacher, scholar and writer. 
Patrick White, director of the Center for Academic Innovation, organized the Play of the Mind with others at Saint Mary's and considers Nussbaum an ideal keynote speaker for the conference. 
"She embodies an under• standing of the intellectual as a leader engaged in the work of making a difference in the world, a role we seek to encourage in the Play of the Mind," said White. 
Nussbaum's keynote address will kick off the Play of the Mind, which continues until Sunday. 
Bush's discipline in keeping to his schedule and having an understanding of the imagery of his office as positives in his leadership style. 
"George W. knows how to look, act and dress presidential­ly," Nuestadt said. "And even speak presidentially -not nee• essarily eloquent. but clear and purposively." 
Besides praising personal traits of Bush, Nuestadt also noted three enduring facts about crisis periods that Bush has encountered in the last 18 weeks of his term. 
Nuestadt said presidents in such times experience the "ral• lying around the flag" effect but Bust has earned this praise by shouldering Americans fears and presenting remedies for the that no clear winner can ever be declared. Reconciling with this frustration will be key to Bush's reelection in 2004, Nuestadt said. 
"The recession just became official in December and the war is only four months old," Nuestadt said. "These problems are just at the beginning. Bush had better not take 2004 for granted, but I presume he hasn't done that for a moment." 
Nuestadt said if Bush can effectively deal with these issues, his popularity will remain high, and he will most likely be re•elected in 2004. 
"For now, the odds are decid­edly on Bush," Nuestadt said. "Who could've said that a year ago?" 


Late Ni;1it Otympies X\11 

<~-:=-·=-=·-·3 
Come to LNO on fridai, Janua~ 2.5 and ta~e part in the OP£N 'f>KI\Tf, event whilh if> f>lhedu\ed from 
10:0C1PM-Midni9ht. 
No avanle sign-up$ nele$$a~. $1.00 Donation at the Door. 1he lO$t of the s~ate renta\ i$ $2-.00 
J\\\ renta\ fees wi\\ be donated to ~pelia\ O\impil$. 
Friday, January 25, 2002 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM Joyce Center • 631-6100 • recsports.nd.edu All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dome Alumni Association 
~3/-~ 

ND Department of Music Presents Senior recital Danielle Skorich, soprano ' Saturday, January 26, 2002 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium Free and open to the public  
LttTOV AUl)IJIO~, fOV Monday, January 28 at 4pm Tuesday, January 29 at 4pm AT THE BASILICA There is no need to prepare anything. You will be given a scripture passage or intercessions to read.  


page4 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 24, 2002 
STUDENT SENATE 
Groups may be liable for deficits 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
The Financial Management Board submitted to the Student Senate Wednesday night an amendment to the Student Union constitution that would require certain student groups, such as the senate itself, to repay funds if they exceed their allotted budgets. 
..Groups within the Student Union shall-budget as neces­sary to ensure that they spend only the dollar amount allocat­ed during each fiscal year," read the resolution, which the senate will vote on at its meet­ing next week. 
In addition to the senate, the resolution, if passed, will apply to the office of the student body president, the Student Union Board, class councils, Judicial Council and Hall Presidents' Council. 
The amendment is necessary because all Student Union groups draw money from one account, FMB's Jennifer Wolfe told senators. Although each group has a specific allotted amount of money to spend each year, currently there is nothing in place to prevent a group from using more money than is in its budget. 
"In the past, if a group over­spent, there was no punish­ment," said Wolfe. "We'd have a group overspend by $20,000 and never have to pay it back." 
This situation is problematic, she added, because the FMB must then find a way to replace the money missing from its general fund. 
Wolfe added that the Club Coordination Council already has a system in place to pre­vent the campus clubs it over­sees from spending too much. 

"We're trying to make our rules more like the .clubs." Wolfe said. 
Also at the senate's meeting Wednesday night, senate diver­sity committee co-chairs Nikki McCord and Elizabeth Lenn told the senate about the retreat their committee held recently for dorm multicultural commissioners. 
About 25 commissioners par­ticipated, according to Lenn. 
"I  was  excited  by  the  
turnout," she said.  
The  commissioners  who  

attended the retreat developed several ideas for programs to run for students. 
"These ideas will lead the way to excellent events on cam­pus," McCord said. 
In other senate news: 
. Next Wednesday, instead of holding its weekly meeting in LaFortune, the senate will hold its meeting at Keough Hall, according to student body vice president Brian Moscona. The senate hopes that by holding its meeting in residence halls, more students will attend and voice their opinions. 
"We want to have an interac­tive meeting,'; said Moscona, who chairs the senate. He added that next week's senate meeting will have a more casu­al and informal format than usual. 

Memorial service remembers Minamiki 
By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 
Stud ents. professors. priests and friends gathered in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Wednesday afternoon to remem­ber the life of Father George Minamiki, the former associate professor emeritus of Classical a n d Oriental languages who died Jan. 4 of a heart attack while visiting family in Los Angeles. 
Friend and fellow Jesuit priest Jerome Neyrey, 


professor meetings
"/ think what I remember 
of theology 
helped the 

at Notre most about him is that he 
new families D a m e , was a good priest. ,, to have a net­presided. 
work in South 
Neyrey 
Bend and feel

Frank Robayashi
recalled 
more welcome 

Minamiki family friend 
and comfort­
he had a passion for teaching and serving others. He had a life in that he enjoyed serving people," said Neyrey. 
After the service, many friends of Minamiki gathered at the Coleman-Morse Center to recount stories about him. 
Friends recalled him as having been instrumental in helping them to feel welcome in the South Bend communi­ty, and his dedication to building bridges across Notre Dame to Japan for students involved in the Japan exchange program. 
"I got acquainted with Minamiki when I was relocat­ed here from California. He held these meetings for Japanese families that were new to South Bend," said Hirookita Oka. 
According to 
many at the 
service, these 
as gener­ous, kind and caring. 
He also talked of his per­sonal experiences with Minamiki. 
Neyrey also observed that Minamiki was a person who had lived life to its fullest. 
"I sometimes use the phrase get a life, and I think George Minamiki had a full rich and prolonged life. He didn't just earn a paycheck, 
able with the  
Notre  Dame  
community.  
Friends  also  recalled  

Minamiki being organized and committed to religious life. 
"I have known Minamiki for many years and he was a good friend, which is why I came here today," said Frank Robayashi. " I think what I remember most about him is that he was a good priest." 


'Notfiin3 to Wear? 
join us for our S~'M'l-'A'N'lfri.J.'A.£ S~.£:E ef 4 o-75 % off'Desi3ner Cfothif and<gifts 'Now thru 'Feb.15t 1 


WHERE: Jndpire 'ffle/ (ORNER OF (OLFAX AND HILL DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMBER: 
232-1822 
(BRING FRIENDS OR COME AND MAKE NEW ONES) 
YOUR FRIENDS AT INSPIRED & FIRED AND INSPIRE ME! 

Fifth Annual 

Thomas Aquinas Symposium 
STUDENTS ARE ESPECIALLY WELCOME 
Le Mans Hall, Stapleton Lounge Saint Mary's College 
Monday January 28, 2002 
7:30 p.m. "I Call You Friends (John 15): Thomas Aquinas and Contemporary Interpreters" 
-Mary Margaret Pazdan, O.P., Aquinas Institute 
9:30 p.m. Eucharist: Mc Candless Hall Chapel. 
-Liturgical Reflections by Mary Margaret Pazdan, O.P. 
This Symposium is Sponsored  Free and Open to the Public  
by the Joyce McMahon Hank  Information (574) 284-4636  
Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology  E-Mail: mlukasze@saintmarys.edu  

,--el-­
SaintMgzy's Collegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 


ATION 
Thursday, January 24, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Italy truckers protest tunnel closure: 
Thousands of trucks blocked roads at three Italian border points Wednesday to protest against delays in the reopening of the Mont Blanc tunnel and restricted access to Alpine crossings. The CUNA trucking association represents around 70,000 companies operat­ing 200,000 trucks. 
U.S. plants bugs in Chinese plane: 
A Chinese government spokesman offered a muted reaction today to disclosures that a presidential jet outfitted in the United States had been crammed with listening devices, and his comments suggest that China would not let the incident upset plans for the first state visit by President Bush next month. The plane was delivered to China in September but has not been used. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. plans to recycle plutonium: 
The Bush administration intends to announce a new plan on Wednesday to dis­pose of surplus American nuclear weapons fuel, rejecting in part a 1996 plan by the Clinton administration as too costly. Under the new plan, 34 tons of plutonium will be converted into fuel for nuclear reactors. Under the Clinton plan, 8 tons of it was to be ruined by mixing it with the waste cre­ated when the plutonium was produced. 
Court rules on sex offender case: The Supreme Court set a constitutional limit today on the growing state practice of keeping con­victed sexual predators in extended civil con­finement after their criminal sentences expire. The court said states must prove not only that an offender remained dangerous and was likely to repeat the crime but also that a "serious difficulty in controlling behav­ior" was part of the psychiatric diagnosis. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
State increases park fees: The Indiana Natural Resources Commission has raised state parks fees for the second time in less than a year, citing a state fiscal crisis that also has forced cuts in the parks bud­get. The commission on Tuesday approved the requested increases, which take effect Feb. 1. The commission last year also raised the price of fishing and hunting licenses. The cost of admission to state parks for Indiana residents will rise from $3 to $4 per vehicle, or double the $2 charged in 2000 before last year's increase. 
Market Watch January 23 

Dow 
9,730.96 +17.16 

Jones 

Composite
Same: 

Volume:
216 
1428,323,968 

i!if;:!l-l]';i;J;i::Ji:i]::1):C:f;:}@t ··••tts2.aJ1:o:::::::I!)!iJt1:!t•i4;!Jl:t::J' 
NASDAQ: 1,922.38 +39.85 
:t\~SlliftJ::t:l:=!iM@ttI:!lliitS.ti&l62iiI[IItmaISit:lt!::J
S&P 500: 1,128.18 +8.87 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
KMART CORP (KM) +28.99 +0.20 0.89 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +2.75 +1.03 38.43 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.82 +0.87 18.93 TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) -5 .15 -2.45 45.10 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +2.83 +0.3111.27 

CUBA 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 
The fury in Europe over the treatment of the Taliban prisoners in Cuba. European analysts and diplomats said today, stems from what appears to be another example of the United States bending international law to suit its own purposes. 
The decision by the Pentagon to keep the detainees in Cuba, out of the jurisdiction of American courts, and not to classify them prisoners of war under the Geneva Convention has troubled America's closest allies, making it look as if the United States is ..making up the rules as ft goes along," said a West European ambassador here. 

"This is international law ala carte, like multilateral­ism ala carte," the ambas­sador said. "It annoys your allies in the war against ter­rorism and it creates prob­lems for our Muslim allies, too. It puts at stake the moral credibility of the war against terrorism." 
In the last few days, the German and the Dutch gov­ernments and the European Union have criticized'the American treatment of the 158 captured Taliban fight­ers, spurred by a Pentagon photograQh of bound, shackled prisoners. their heads and eyes covered, kneeling before American soldiers. 
These officials, like Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany and the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, say the Geneva Convention 
. must be applied to these prisoners, who would not be obligated to agree to interrogations. There has also been criticism about the physical treatment of the prisoners from the United Nations commission­er for human rights, Mary Robinson, and other groups, like Amnesty Internatronal and Doctors Without Frontiers. 
The public-relations problem of the pho­tographs, republished around the world, caused the British Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, to remonstrate with Washington more than a week ago, the first open criticism of the Bush administration by the British since Sept. 11. Mr. Straw is said to have been reassured by the Americans about the treatment of the prisoners, but he was appalled by the damage the photographs and the issue itself could do to the coali­tion against terrorism. 

Puerto Rico officials face corruption. 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN Victor Fajardo, who served as the 
U.S. territory's education secretary from 1994 to 2000, turned himself in to the FBI early Wednesday. Nine oth­ers were also arrested in the scandal. 
Warrants were issued for the arrest of the remaining seven. 
All were charged by U.S. prosecu­tors with theft from programs receiv­ing federal funds, extortion and money laundering, prosecutors said. 
Among those arrested were Richard D'Acosta, president of Puerto Rico's Chamber of Commerce and Jose Omar Cruz, deputy education secre­tary under Fajardo, said acting U.S. Attorney Guillermo Gil Bonar. 

D'Acosta allegedly participated in the scheme through a government contractor, World Learning Systems, which he headed along with his wife, Victoria Vargas. She also was charged. 
Gil estimated the scheme involved $4.3 million in diverted federal funds and kickbacks. He cou!d not say how much was federal money. 
Some $1 million was diverted to the coffers of the pro-statehood New Progressive Party. in power at the time, Gil said. 
Much of the U.S. government money was supposed to fund computers and computer training for teachers, pros­ecutors said. 
"At the beginning of 1995, Fajardo and Jose Omar Cruz -with the aim of complying with some quotas imposed by their party -began to ask for money from some contractors," Gil said. 
Lawyers for the accused weren't immediately available for com­ment. If convicted, they could face prison sentences of 10 to 20 years. 

Thursday, January 24, 2002

page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
ND Thespians put Forum addresses sexuality 
personal relationships. effects they can have on your
on French play 
By JILL MAXBAUER Scenarios included remain­health," Pendley said. News Writer ing abstinent, setting person­Smoyer stressed concern 
THURSDAYS• NO COVER BEFORE 11PM BRING COLLEGE ID 
LOTS OF STUFF FOR A BUCK MUSTBE21 
222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOUTHBENO.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
al boundaries, and talking over the effects taking artifi­
Saint Mary's forum openly with a partner. cial birth control can have on "Contraception: Is it a safe "It's important to know a person. choice? Setting Limits: A what you have decided and "Contraception appears to Personal Choice," part of the be able to talk about it," said take the pressure [of preg-Understanding and Embrac­Kristina nancy] off, ing Our Sexuality Series, left Pendley, the but it is a
~'If you decide to use
students asking the question, assistant big deci­"when are we going to talk director for contraceptives, please sion; how it about contraception?" t h e affects your
make sure to look at the 
Issues surrounding contra­Counseling life, physi­
side effects they can
ception were not discussed Center. "If cally, spiri­until late in the lecture, and you are will­have on your health.·· tually and students ran out of time to ing to get emotionally have a full discussion of the naked with are factors
Kristina Pendley
issue. someone, you to be aware 
counseling center director
The main topics discussed should be of," said sexual boundaries and deci­able to dis-Smoyer. sion making for couples. cuss your A fast­
"Tonight was about a time sexual decisions with them." paced and opinionated dis­when we had a chance to Smoyer agreed on what cussion came from the stu­have a really frank discus­couples should be able to dis­dents in attendance. sion about personal deci­cuss. They stressed wanting to sions." Sister Betty Smoyer "An awareness of both par­discuss the merits of birth said. "The students who ties to he responsible for sex• control within a marriage, c a m e ual responses the effectiveness of certain tonight and how they contraceptives and how to will be "It's important to know are impacting know which form to pick. m o r e what you have decided one another is But time ran out before informed so important to these students concerns
and be able to talk
to make a relationship," could be addressed fully. important about it.., said Smoyer. The discussion leaders did decisions When contra­stress that there are many from an ception finally services on campus to aid the
Kristina Pendley 
emotion­did enter into education of Saint Mary's
counseling center director
al, spiri­the discussion, women about the choices t u a 1 , the leaders of surrounding contraceptives, intellec-the forum such as the Counseling tual and personal perspec­stressed being educated Center, Campus Ministry and tive." about using an artificial birth Health and Wellness. 
Many students appeared to control. The next lecture tackles enjoy the decision-making "If you decide to use con­the issue of sexual abuse and exercises, and were able to traceptives, please make will be held on Feb. 6 at 7:30 relate the questions to their sure to look at the side pm in Stapleton Lounge. 
By IAURA KELLY 
News Writer 
The dress rehearsal in Washington Hall's Lah Theatre seems just like any other, until the actors speak their first lines. Then this play's unique­
ness  becomes clear  - it is  
entirely in French.  
Brought  to  stage  by  the  

undergraduate cast of "Le Theatre de Notre Dame," this production of Moliere's "Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme" marks the group's eighth year of French theater at Notre Dame. 
Director Paul McDowell, a professor and assistant to the chair in the department of Romance languages, came up with the idea for the group when he first came to Notre Dame 10 years ago, and since then the performances have sold out every year. 
"We've always sold out because the students are so incredible and because the spectators don't need to under­stand a word of French," said McDowell. 
The actors emphasize physi • cal humor and also offer an English synopsis to the audi· ence to aid in their under­standing. 
"In any given night, 90 per­cent of the audience doesn't speak French, yet they laugh in all the right places," McDowell said. "The shows have a very broad appeal." 
Students in the cast were enrolled in a one-credit class last fall in which McDowell took them through the entire process of bringing a play to the stage. An intense period of rehearsals in the first two weeks of this semester brought the production to its final stages. 
The 17th century play by Moliere is a farcical love story, full of slapstick. Drawing from the talents of this year's cast, McDowell said the addition of music and dance elements to the play also adds to the audi­ence's enjoyment. 
"We rely on the strengths of the students, and they're a great cast with a lot of energy," said McDowell. 
All the students in this year's class were abroad with McDowell during his time as director of the program in Angers for the past two years. 
"We knew each other well, and this helped us through what could have been a very long process," said McDow·en. 
While all the students have knowledge of French, most have never been in a play before. 
"These kids are courageous -it couldn't happen without them," said McDowell. "And my hat is off to the audience is as well, for taking the chance and coming to a French play." 

Thursday, January 24, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page? 
MLK 
continued from page 1 
our duty to educate," said de la Rosa, the co~president of the Filipino American Student Organization. "People fear what they don't understand." 
The debate soon turned to getting "majority" students involved in multicultural events, which prompted sophomore Dan Murphy to say that it is difficult for some majority students as well as some minority students to take the steps necessary to meet people outside of their race. 
"Nobody likes to go outside their comfort zone -whether it's racial or not," Murphy said referring to the example of when students, including himself, eat at the dining hall with people from their dorm. 
Walsh raised the point that people need to stop thinking about each other in terms of "us" and "them" and just think of individuals. 
. "There are a lot of people who really want to learn," she said. 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to President Edward Malloy, said she has seen more majority students get involved with multicultural events, but that it has been mainly for entertainment events that are easier to attend "because you don't have to talk." 
Iris Outlaw, who has been at the University since· 1991, said she has also seen improvement in cultural awareness, but want:, to see more. 
"Don't let the fact of the group sponsoring it be a deterrent for you to attend," said Outlaw. 
She went on to encourage students to learn about as many different cultures as possible during their years at Notre Dame. 
"Why get a cheeseburger education if you're paying Big Mac dollars?" she asked. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
Class of 2002 
The Dome Yearbook needs your 
CANDIDS! 

We are now offering $10 for the top ten photos submitted, so let us see your favorite shotsI 
When s~bmitting your pictures, please be sure that your name and the names of those photographed is written on the back of each shot. Pictures will be returned to you in the spring. Drop them in the envelope on the Dome office door in the basement of SDH or in the 
box at the LaFortune Information Desk. 


see life as 
we see it. 
A lifetime opportunity FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
w-ww.nd.edu/,..vocation 

Enron CEO Lay submits resignation 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Kenneth L. Lay, the embattled 
chairman and chief executive 
officer of Enron Corp., resigned 

Wednesday from the bankrupt 
energy company but will 
remain on the company's 
board. 
Lay, 59, transformed Enron 

from a regional pipeline com­
pany into one of the world's 

largest energy-trading firms. 
But more recently, he has been 

blamed for much of what went 
wrong at Enron. 
"I want to see Enron survive, 

and for that to happen we need 
someone at the helm who can 
focus 100 percent of his efforts 
on reorganizing the company 
and preserving value for our 
creditors and hard-working 
employees," Lay said in a state­
ment released Wednesday night 
by Enron. 
Lay said the many investiga­tions into Enron's activities take up too much of his time and make it difficult to concentrate fully on what is most important to Enron's stakeholders. His resignation came the day before two congressional com­mittee hearings related to Enron's downfall were to begin. 
"He's resigned and he's rich and I'm out of a job and I have no money," said Michelle Cormier, 33, who was fired Dec. 3 from Enron Energy Services after 16 years. "He has something to fall back on." 
Enron said its board of direc­tors was working to find a "restructuring specialist'' to help with its efforts to emerge from bankruptcy. That person will serve as Enron's acting chief executive officer. 
John Olson, a securities ana­lyst with Sanders Morris Harris in Houston. said Lay's resigna­tion was inevitable. 
"He recognized that he was becoming such a lightning rod of controversy that he simply needed to sever himself from the firm for the mutual benefit of Enron and himself," Olson said. 
Lay took over as chief execu­tive officer at Enron in February 1986, seven months after it was formed by the merger of Houston Natural Gas and InterNorth Inc. 
In December 2000, Jeffrey Skilling was named CEO, but Lay remained chairman. The 
company's shares hit a 52­
week high of $84.78 on Dec. 28. 
Skilling abruptly resigned in 

August 2001, reportedly for 
personal reasons, amid a 
slumping stock and Lay 
resumed his role as CEO. Some 
company watchers said it was 
the first outward sign that the 
company was ailing. 
Just months ago, Enron was 

the country's seventh biggest 
company in revenue. But 
investors and traders alike 
evaporated amid revelations of 
questionable partnerships that 
helped keep billions of dollars 
in debt off its books and the 
company's acknowledgment 
that it overstated profits for 
four years. 
The company filed for bank­

ruptcy in December, leaving 
thousands of employees out of 
work and stripping much of 
their retirement savings after 
Enron temporarily barred them 
from selling company stock 
from their Enron-dominated 
401(k) accounts. 
Eleven House and Senate 

committees are investigating 
Enron, while the Justice 
Department and the Securities 
and Exchange Commission pur­
sue their own less-visible 
probes. 
Lay is expected to testify before two congressional com­mittees on Feb. 4. 
Enron's lead outside auditor was subpoenaed to testify before Congress on Thursday about his role in the destruction of financial documents. but his lawyer said he would refuse unless the House panel grants him immunity. 
The Arthur Andersen auditor, David Duncan, warned Enron's chief accounting officer last October that the wording of the company's draft press release announcing huge third-quarter losses could be misleading for investors, according to a memo Duncan wrote for the files on Oct. 15 that was obtained by investigators. 
The memo says ·his advice ­made after consulting with Arthur Andersen attorneys ­was ignored. 
One of the attorneys was Nancy Temple, who also was subpoenaed to testify at Thursday's hearing. 
According to another docu­ment, Temple asked Duncan to delete her name and any refer­ence to having consulted with the Arthur Andersen attorneys from his memo. 

Thursday, January 24, 2002 

page 8 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 
March 
continued from page I 
Wons, who attended the two­hour service ...It was really nice to see so many people gathering together that evening to share a common belief." 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students gathered in front of the Washington Monument on Tuesday to participate in the rally and march. The noon rally featured speakers from both houses of Congress, pro-life activists from across the nation and members of the Catholic, Jewish and Eastern Orthodox clergies. President Bush also addressed the crowd via tele­phone from West Virginia. 
"You're working and marching on behalf of a noble cause and affirming a culture of life," said Bush. 
Students then joined between 100,000 to 200,000 pro-lifers in the march to the Supreme Court building. 
"I think it was really good," said Notre Dame sophomore Tiffany Natelborg about the rally and march. ..It really made me aware of how many people sup­port the cause. Hopefully it made a difference." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard. l@nd.edu. 
Drop 
continued from page 1 
Whether or not the interview was the last straw, Coughlin and Wincester have left the door open for Jenson and Jablonski-Dieh, as they now run unopposed. 
"It's never good to be running unopposed. That means a lack of diversity," said Crawford. 
Coughlin and Winchester made it clear in the Tuesday interview with The Observer that if not in office, they would not contribute to BOG. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrOl 8 I@stmarys.edu. 

Carey leaving Virgin records 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
After less than a year and a flop album, Mariah Carey is leaving Virgin Records with a deal giving her $49 million. 
EMI, Virgin's parent company, announced on Wednesday that it would pay the 31-year-old diva $28 million to end their association, which was to last for several albums to the tune of $100 million. 
That's in addition to the $21 million she's already received since arriving at Virgin last April. 

"Glitter," her first album for Virgin and the soundtrack for her movie of the same name, was a major disappointment. It sold 501,000 copies, according to Soundscan, a sharp drop from the multiplatinum success­es the Grammy winner delivered for her previous label, Columbia Records. 
The "Glitter" disc came out in September, after the singer was hospitalized in July for a much­publicized breakdown. It was followed two weeks later by her equally disappointing movie of the same name, which failed to crack the top 10 in its first week 
Volunteers Needed 
The Early Childhood Development Center located .i.t Sabt Mary's College and the UniverSity of Notre Dame is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested 1n 5~nding 2 hours per week re.iding to dlildren and p:aying with child.ren1 please call: Kari at ECDC-SMC 284~4693 or Sue at ECDC-ND S31-3344 for more information. (Sumroer employment opportJnities also 3ViJ.lable.) 

Early Childhood DevelopmentCenter, Inc. 
284-4693 
(ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 
(ECDC..ND) 

Information Meeting Sunday, January 27 RSRC Activity Room 2, 1 :30 PM 
Classes Will Meet: 
Beginner:  Monday 6:30-7:45 pm  
Thursday 7:00-8: 15 pm  
Advanced:  Monday 7:45-9:00 pm  
Thursday 8: 15-9:30 pm  

Register in Advance at RecSports The Fee for the Class is $39.00 Sign-Ups Begin Monday, January 28, 8:00am Classes Begin Thursday, January 31 Space is Limited Open only to Notre Dame students, staff and faculty and their spouses. Please call 1-6100 with any questions. 

of release and quickly disap­peared from theaters. 
Earlier this month, EMI released a statement denying it had agreed to buy out Carey's pricey deal. 
But in Wednesday's state­ment. EMI's new chairman, Alain Levy, said: "We have decided that this is the most prudent course of action for EMI. We wish Mariah the best." 
Carey said in the joint state­ment: "This is the right decision for me. I look forward to the many new and exciting opportu­nities, which have now been presented to me. I wish Virgin well." 
In a separate EMI statement, however, the company said it had "terminated its contract with Mariah Carey." EMI described the statement as a regulatory disclosure that was required by stock exchange reg­ulations. 
Hours later, Carey's represen­tatives angrily denied she had been "terminated." They said the break was amicable and added that EMI's statement was false and in violation of her exit terms. 
Carey's lawyer, Marshall Grossman, told The Associated Press: "We are appalled that EMI would deal so cavalierly 



Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Saturday, January 26 • 10:00am 
Deadline-January 24 Saturday, February 8 • 4:30pm Deadline-February 6 
Clinics held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports 1 Cost is $9.00 Includes Rental 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
R~~ 
JiffvL11l)e
Sig11atui-e Service. 
Come into our service center near campus and give Jiffy Lube Signature Service a try. We look forward to serving you in the near future. 
Receive $4 Off with a valid Notre Dame University or St. Mary's ID everyday. 
426 N. Dixie Way 1245 E. Ireland Rd. 104 E. McKinle~ Ave. 211-n&1 299-8666 258-5675 
Hours: M-F 8-6, Sat. 8-5, Closed Sunday 
~ Guest Services OtfJ~ 
800-JIFWBE 
www.jiflube.com 
Plus lax & environmental fee; most vel'Mdes. Not vahd with any other diers or coupons tor the same S8!\lice. Good only at parbClpating lnciana Jiffy Lube Servce Centers. Exp,res: 11115'01 • Code: Noire 
Thursday, January 24, 2002 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Germany to patrol 
off Horn of Africa 
Plan aims at readiness 
the administration is focusing on . Create a half dozen new 
Associated Press 

the hard work of preparation at regional laboratories. There are the state and local level. now 81 labs around the countryWASHINGTON It's part of the administra­that handle identification of Wary of another bioterrorist tion's overall homeland security commonly seen bacteria, but 
attack, federal health officials plan. Bush is expected to they are not specialized and are proposing a budget plan request nearly double the cur­don't have much experience
aimed at building new laborato­rent $13 billion for the upcom­working with potential bioter­ries, improving hospital readi­ing budget year. That includes rorist material. Two national ness and figuring out how to "unprecedented support" for labs handle the most dangerousvaccinate the entire population cities to pay for police, firefight­substance. but they are too busy
of cities in the middle of a crisis. ers and emergency medical to handle every suspicious
Leading the effort is a hero of technicians, Homeland Security threat. So HHS wants to build a public health: D.A. Henderson, Director Tom Ridge told mayors half dozen mid-range labs who directed the campaign to Wednesday. trained to recognize rare but eradicate smallpox from the Also Wednesday. officials potentially deadly materials. globe and has returned to gov­announced that they had dou­. Help cities develop plans for 
ernment service at age 73. bled, to vaccinating and 
Henderson. who began work­$2.5 mil­distributinging for the Department of Health lion, the "We cannot. in the period antibiotics to and Human Services in the days 
reward for ofone year with just a large numbers of 
after Sept. 11, expects another informa­people. The fed­bioterrorism attack sooner tion lead­dollop ofmoney, sudden• eral governmentrather than later. ing to the ly have a good public is purchasingHe's focusing on preparation arrest of enough drugs to
health system. ••
that went lacking for years, the sender treat people who when the possibility of a bioter­of four may be exposedrorist attack seemed more D.A. Henderson
anthrax­to hazardous remote. tainted let­Department of Health and agents. But cities 
"We cannot, in the period of ters. must designate
Human Services 
one year with just a dollop of As direc­treatment centers 
money, suddenly have a good tor of the and figure out public health system," he said in newly created Office of Public how to transport the supplies an interview...It isn't a matter of Health Preparedness, from the airport to the centers. just buying an extra aircraft car­Henderson will have a major say . Develop round-the-clock rier. You've got to develop this in how the bioterrorism money reporting systems between hos­over time." is spent. His office has authority pital emergency rooms and state 
Congress has already set aside 
to direct the bioterrorism effort health departments. Local doc­$2.9 billion for bioterrorism across agencies within the mas­tors must have experts to check preparation, with much of that sive department. with when they see patients with slated to buy smallpox vaccine In an interview, Henderson unusual symptoms, which could 
and stockpile antibiotics. gave an overview of the depart­be the first sign of a bioterrorist President Bush plans to ask for ment's plans, to be detailed in attack, but often the health hundreds of millions more in his the coming days. Among the pri­department is only staffed dur­budget plan for next year, and orities: ing business hours. 
Associated Press 
ABOARD USS THEODORE 
ROOSEVELT 

Seven German warships joining the U.S.-led war on terrorism will gather intelli­gence off the Horn of Africa, a top U.S. Navy commander said Wednesday. 
Patrolling off the Horn of Africa would put the ships in position to watch Yemen and Somalia, two nations where Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network is believed to have connections. 
"Those ships will be very important in telling us what is out there because this has not been an area of the world that we really under­stand a lot," said Rear Adm. Mark Fitzgerald, the USS Theodore Roosevelt battle group commander. 
"What we want to do is to gather intelligence and then determine a course of action," said Fitzgerald of Winchester, Mass. He said the course of action could be financial, political or eco­nomic. 
The first German ship was expected to arrive in the for­mer French colony of Djibouti on the Horn of Africa on Friday. The time of arrival was uncerta'in. 
The ships also are to pro­tect shipping and cut off any area routes used by terror groups. 
"Our intent is not to get a 100 percent seal of any bor­der, our intent is to break up these [terrorist] organiza­tions," said Fitzgerald, a naval aviator. 
The United States has not said where it might focus its military attention a ft er Afghanistan, but Somalia has been among the most-specu­lated potential targets. 
Earlier this month, U.S. officials in Washington said 
U.S. forces were increasing reconnaissance flights over Somalia. looking for signs that al-Qaida is reforming in the lawless country. 
They said dozens of al­Qaida members fleeing fight­ing in Afghanistan have gone to Somalia, where al-Qaida already had a small pres­ence. 
Some 102 naval ships and submarines come under Fitzgerald's command. 
They include ships provid­ed by France, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia, Britain, Canada and Japan, Fitzgerald said. 
The German ships in the Indian Ocean eventually will come under the tactical com­mand of Fitzgerald, said Lt. John Oliveira, spokesman for the USS Theodore Roosevelt. 

THE OBSERVER 
It's where you get your nezvs. 
Who is defining the 
way careers are 
built and grown? 


Find out what opportunities Deloitte & Touche has to offer. Please visit our booth at the: 
Winter Career & Internship Fair Thursday, January 31 l 2002 4:00pm -8:00pm The Joyce Center 
Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit. employ. train. compensate
and promot.e without regard to race, religion, creed, color. nationa origin. age, gend~r.sexual orientation, marital status, disallilify or veteran status. or any other basis protected by applicable federal state or local law. 
.. 

The answer is the people of Deloitte & Touche 
Iwww.deloitte.com/careers 
FORTUNE.
Deloitte 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR <N
&Touche 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, January 24, 2002

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 

I AsST, MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Kerry Smith Pat Peters 
I NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7471 
FAX.......................................,:....................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l @nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................63 l -5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS......... ·········......................................631-4543 
observer.spores. I@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................63 1-4324 observer.smc.1@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-rhe 
weekly smdem reviews

minure forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
co meet the edimrs and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studems ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saim Maiy's College. Editorial comenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depamnent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leccers is encouraged. Leners to the E~itor must be signed and must include 
contac:'informa'tlo1i."'., •,i•rl "":, ,,,tr 11·-.,., 1 , \Ii •1· 1!·) 
Quesuom regarding Observer policies should he direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


One-ticket election still leaves room for choice 
I am a junior at Saint Mary's and I want the stu­dents here to know that they do have a choice in the upcoming election which has only one ticket. 
After the scandal that hap­pened my freshman year, I learned that you can vote and abstain. A candidate, or tick­et, as the case may be, needs a majority of the voting popu­talion to vote for them. In a single ticket election, this means that 50 percent of the people voting plus one more voter have to check the box for the ticket running in order for them to be elected. 

Many students do not vote in a single-ticket election, because they believe that the ticket automatically wins the election. This is not true. If the ticket does not receive the above majority, and instead the majority goes to the abstention votes, then the election process begins again. 
If the election process starts all over, new candidates can participate and we can have more variety in our election process, so that we can elect the best president and vice­president possible to govern our student body next year. 
If you are unhappy with the single ticket running in Monday's election, r urge you to vote on Monday and abstain. I know I will. 
Kris Robinson 
Junior Regina Hall Jan.25.2002 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Be honest about King's message and its application today 
It occurred to me during this year's annual fanfare, reminiscings and half­hearted applications of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s ideas to the controversies of the day by the press. that our celebration of the man and his drnam has become benign, perhaps even mendacious. 
One political pun­dit, when probed about possible concerns that King would har­bor in the current "war on terror," suggested that King's biggest con­cern would have been to see that the detainees currently held in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba were given the proper civil rights afforded them by the strictures of the Geneva Convention. 
My beef is not with the veracity of this claim, as he would have doubtlessly been concerned with the treatment of the pris­oners. Bather, I am troubled by the short-sightedness and shallow nature of this interpretation of the essence of King's message -an interpretation that seems to be shared by political actors and commentators on both the left and the right. 
King'§ struggle for civil rights was ensconced in a much larger vision for the human community, a vision based on the New Testament witness of Jesus and his faithful followers. The radicality of King's call for peaceful, non-violent resistance 

to oppression and evil man­dates was no less than a query into the dubious prospects fi.>r a lasting peace and a genuine reconciliation with , enemies while 
holding our cur­rent strategy to annihilate our enemies in Afghanistan and, 
potentially, all over the planet. King was becom­

ing increasingly aware of the implica­tions of his tactic of non­
violent resistance. observing 
Gandhi's tentative successes in the multi-fractured society of India at mid-century. But King didn't take lightly the consequences of this ca11, under­standing full well the risks involved in loving one's enemies. 
Detractors repeatedly tagged his mantra as excessively idealistic and impractical, leading one to believe that suggesting the application of the idea of non-violent resistance and loving one's enemies to our current engagement with global terrorism would rouse the detrac­tors in spades. Yet King saw no other choice, as discipleship affords only a nar­row path: I am certain that .Jesus under­stood the difliculty inherent in the act of loving one's cnmny. 
Ile never joined the ranks of those who talk glibly about the oasiness of the moral life. Ile realized that ,wcry gtm­uinc expression of love grows out of a consistent and total surrender to God. So when Jesus said, "love your enemy," he was not unmindful of its stringent quali­ties. Yet he meant every word of it. 
When we see the President, the First Lady or the Senate Majority Leader speak of Hcv. King as a moral icon, a hero for civil rights, being honest requires us to be uncomfortable with this easy ascription made by those who apparently have no understanding of the deep core of King's moral vision. If politi­cal actors and commentators did have such an understanding, they would know that beyond properly caring for prison­ers of war, King would have been most disturbed by the war itself: I low can you reconcile yourself' to your enemies while simultaneously trying to annihilate them'! Is Jesus too small for internation­al relations'! Is it possible to love Osama? 
These are not easy questions, so per­haps believers should return to the placn to which King tirelessly returned: "You have heard that it was said, 'but I say to you."' 
Rev. Geoff Bowden 
graduate student Jan. 22,2002 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Andrew Thagard Meghanne Downes Justin Krivickas 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 
Sheila Flynn 
Scene 
Matt Nania 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Production 
Rachael Protzman Joe Hettler 
Lab Tech 
Brian Pucevich 
POLL QUESTION 

Do you plan to participate in activities celebrating Martin Luther King, Jr. day? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Systems political or religious or racial or national -will not just respect us because we practice freedom. they will fear us because we do... 
William Faulkner American author 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~·--­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, January 24, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Teach for America 
My name is Stacy Ward and I graduated from Notre Dame in 1997. I'm currently teaching fifth grade in Baltimore as a Teach For America (TFA) corps member. 
TFA is the national corps of outstanding recent college graduates of all academic majors who commit two years to teach in urban and rural public schools. We have two main goals: providing this country's most disadvantaged students with excellent teachers who will go above and beyond traditional expectations to ensure that their students achieve academically and influencing the career direction and civic commitment of its corps members in order to build an ever-expanding force of leaders and citizens who are com­mitted to making the changes needed to ensure that all children in this nation have an equal chance in life. 
Since I've started teaching, I am most proud of tlrn fact that I have fifth graders who can now divide without using tally marks anc) have l,rnrned their multiplication facts. I have also become comfortable with my students' families and the community in which I teach. In addition, I am able to provide my students with a safe after-school expr~rience to complete their homework, receive one-on-one support and play board and computer games with their peers. 
I have gained an incredible amount of insight into what long­term changes are necessary in order to ensure that ultimately, all children grow up with an equal chance in life. TFA teachers utilize and develop a diverse set of skills that will be of value no matter what field we enter -skills such as the following: leadership, strategic planning. problem-solving, communication and manage­ment. 
Teach For AmHrica seeks applicants of aH academic majors and no previous education coursework is necessary. Corps members receive a full salary, a $4,725 education award for each year of service and eligibility for loan forbearance. The next application deadline is Feb. 21, 2002. To learn more, visit the website at www.teachforamerica.org. 
Become part of a force for change. 
Stacy E.Ward 
class of '97 Balcimore, MD Jan. 23,2002 


/ 


j 
l ' 

\
\ 

Learn about and respect life 
I agree with Shane Hudnall, in his Jan. 22, letter titled, "Clearing up cloning mis­conceptions," that often too much emphasis is placed on genetics. This is especially true of those who tell us we share 98 percent of our genetic material with monkeys -as "proof' monkeys are our "cousins" -but fail to tell us we share 95 percent with houseflies and 70 percent with yeast. 
The rest of what Shane wrote is utterly contemptible. According to him, what makes us human is our ability to reason, talk, laugh, cry and so on. 
So humanity is a set of functions and severely retarded persons, for instance, or tiny babies are not really human. Hence they do not have rights as the rest of us do. This is the kind of thing I would expect to hear from Dr. Kevorkian, Peter Singer or maybe Dr. Mengele. 
llis discussion of the developing unborn child is misleading. This is the sa-me tactic of describing the unborn as more or less tadpoles that abortion advocates. After all, if you can deny the humanity of those chil­dren, you are free to kill them -just as the Nazis denied the humanity of Jews. The truth is that at six weeks a child already has a heartbeat and brainwaves, as well as human features. 
How Shane can claim when and whether an unborn child has a soul, I have no idea, since he did not support that assertion. His gratuitous and unfunny reference to Bob Dole betrays his own prejudice. \Vhy not mention Al Gore instead? (Gore would seem the obvious choice for a zombie-like public figure.) Gore is pro-abortion, and Shane would hate to insult someone of his own stripe -better to insult a conservative instead. Before you clone yourself, Shane, I suggest you learn what human life really is and respect it. 
Paul Allegra 
class of ·oo Jan. 23, 2002 

GUEST COLUMN 
Rebuild the towers and continue the dream 
NEWYOHK 

Feelings of patriotism over the past fow months have been primarily super­ficial. In addition to waving the flag, Americans have been encouraged to fly. shop, drive sport-utility vehicles and attend baseball games. These acts Joe Valenti have more to do with avoiding a recession than glo­Columbia Dailyrifying a nation, Spectatorand fail to embrace the courage and confidence embodied in the strong char­acter of a patriot. Meanwhile, a verita­ble American tradition needs coura­geous individuals in order to progress: the skyscraper. 
Two of the world's 10 tallest buildings collapsed to the ground a few months ago, victims of their own popularity to resident and terrorist alike. They left behind a 16-acre plaza that, although full of rubble, will soon return to the imagination as a blank artist's canvas. Unfortunately. two competing proposals for occupying this canvas are anything but imaginative. 
New York mayor Michael Bloomberg has endorsed a plan for four 50-story towers of "cht~ap and plentiful" office space. But several 50-story towers in close proximity surrounded by other tall structures are the white-collar corpo­rate equivalent of a housing project, regardless of a prominent location. Former Mayor Giuliani has publicly endorsed not building at all on the site, stating that leaving it as hallowed ground in the tradition of Gettysburg would be the best possible memorial. But \vhile a memorial is absolutely nec­essary, abandoning 16 acres of Lower Manhattan as a testament to the past is also voluntarily surrendering New York's unofficial status as crossroads of the world. 
One concept is mildly functional, the other mildly spiritual, but neither is inspirational on any level. Fifty-story towers in the place of taller buildings are a deliberate reluctance to build something tall and legendary, and a city losing millions in tax revenues would be moronic to leave a cornerstone of the economy undeveloped. 
There is nothing fundamentally flawed about skyscrapers, no fatal weakness in tall steel strur:tures and no reason not to reach toward the sky. Nevertheless. there is a basic flaw in a society that rallies round the flag, prais­es its ability to cope with tragedy and resume a daily routine and yet fails to embrace that which identifies it as a people -in this case, building taller structures toward the sky. 
Terrorism seeks tu divide and change attitudes through horrific acts; if tall buildings become as taboo as plastic knives in airport restaurants. the ter­rorists will undoubtedly have won. 
New Yorkers, more than any other group of Americans, have embraced with awe the quest to build taller tern-pies to the human imagination. 

It was during periods of great unrest that inspirational silhouettes took shape in the skies over Manhattan. In the mid­dle of the Great Depression. the Empire State Building. still one of the world's 10 tallest buildings, first rose above Midtown, a reminder of New York State's commercial and industrial empire persisting through an economic slump. Amid riots, blackouts and labor strikes in the late '60s, the youthful ide­alism of John Lindsay and his followers manifested itself in the construction of two twinkling towers of glass and steel, completed in 1973. Through the fiscal crisis of New York City's dark days in the late '70s, the towers were a glim­mer of hope. 
Skyscrapers are not mere eye candy. They are testaments to the imagination, havens where dreamers can worship civilization in all its potential. The desire to rise -to be taller and stronger tomorrow than today -is the New York dream as well as the American Dream. More than any Hollywood concoction glorifying a house on the prairie with a 10-car garage, the American Dream is the ideal of self• improvement upon which this city and country were based. 
There needs to be a memorial in lower Manhattan for victims of last year's atrocities. Perhaps all or most of the bases of the towers can be pre­served, two of the 16 acres. But the remainder of the territory needs to be transformed from a morbid memory to the living space that it once was. Along the perimeter, a plaza of hotel and exhi­bition space not unlike the original can surround a new superstructure at least as tall as one of the former towers. Home to oflices of government and international trade, much like the origi­nal World Trade Center complex, it may take a name reflecting on its history and location: Liberty Tower. While a beautiful, functional structure in its own right, one of the greatest memorials possible would be central to the design: its standing alone in the sky with a missing twin. 
There must be a new beacon in the harbor to guide New York -and the nation as a whole -out of the crisis in confidence perpetuated by the horrific loss of an architectural gem. A reluc­tance to touch the sky has not dimmed Seven Dearborn, the new skyscraper under construction in Chicago. It should not affect New York, the city credited with "laying the street on end" in sky­scraper development. A highway to the heavens is a necessity to replace the boulevard of broken dreams. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 22 edition ofthe Columbia Daily Spectator. the campus newspaper of Columbia University. and appears here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


, 
i 
ti 
iI ! 
ii 
' 
' 
I 
By LIAM DACEY and MARIO BIRD Scene Movie Critics 
The 2002 Notre Dame Student Film Festival, now in its 13th year of existence, kicks off tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Despite its new loc.ation, this year's festival promises the same unique and often eclectic mix of student short films. 
Professor Ted Mandell of the Department of Film, Television and Theatre began the festival just two years after graduating from Notre Dame. In 1988, Mandell realized that showcasing student films to just parents wasn't enough. 
"Films are made to be seen," Mandell said, "not just shown in class." 
At first, the films were screened for 75 people in the basement of the Center for Continuing Education. However, the festival quickly increased in popularity and eventually moved to the Snite Museum of Art, where it has been held up until this year. Considering the consecutive sellout crowds in the past, approximate­ly 2,000 tickets are being made available for this year's event. 
The festival features the aspiring work of students in the four production classes offered by the University: introductory, intermediate and advanced film produc­tion, as well as pro video production. This year's show consists of 13 films, eight coming from the advanced class, two from intermediate and introductory, and one from pro video. 
Mandell chose the festival's lineup to create a "roller­coaster" effect on the audience. 
"The films are kind of like watching a lot of different Saturday Night Live skits together," he said. "They're all different, and you have to process each one as a sepa­rate entity." 
Students take a lot of pride in their films. After all, Mandell notes, "not too many other graded projects are showcased to the entire University." Hob Bonella knows firsthand just how much work goes into creating a short. Along with Matt Peters. Rob directed "Train Station -Day" which will appear in the festival. He describes professor Jill Godmilow's advanced film pro­duction course as the most intense class he has taken at Notre Dame. 
"It's a different kind of learning," he said. "The class is very hands-on and not as traditionally academic." 
Indeed, the hands-on nature of the production classes forces the students to work closely together and crew for each other's films. 
"You have to be a part of three other films as well as your own," Bonella said. "You being on top of every­thing is essential. You really have to know what you are doing." 
In the lmd, the students have to learn the craft of life­time skilled professionals in just three months. Many express that more of their time is spent in the produc­tion classes than in all their other classes combined. 
Chosen by Mandell based on technical merit, the films 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

movies 

page 12 Thursday, January 24, 2001 
Amateur filmmaki 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festival high 


notre 

festival 
Thirteen student short films are showcased at each of this year's Notre Dame Student Film Festival screenings. The shorts range from the challenging "This Time, You'll Wat focus more on family and how it interacts with forces outside itself. All of the festival's offerings are the culmination of weeks of writing, planning, shooting and editing. 
in the festival are entirely written and shot by the stu­dents. "It's the students' films," he said. "We just help them along." 
Past Notre Dame film grads have used this guidance to progress through the film and television industry. A small sampling of the group's accomplishments is impressive to say the least. 
Maggie Ruffings ('98) is now a producer at NFL Films and received an Emmy nomination in 2000 for Outstanding Editing. Jennifer Crescenzo ('97) is current­ly the senior producer at Video/Action, a Washington 
D.C. based, not-for-profit production company focused on creating media that provides a voice for people and communities whose stories are rarely heard. In 2001, she received a local Emmy for a story about the people of Lockerbie, Scotland and their kindness after the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. 
Andy Kris ('94) supervised the sound and mixing of "The Laramie Project," which opened at this year's Sundance Film Festival. The film is based on the murder of Mathew Shepard, and premiered on HBO last March. 
Only time will tell what distinguished careers this year's class of filmmakers will lead. But for now, here's a sneak preview of what they have produced for 2002. 
"This Time You'll Watch Me On You" 
. Directed by: Maggie Moran 

Moran's short is a film rant against rape. While it is at once terse and disjointed in its quasi-narrative struc­ture, Moran is still able to parlay this aspect into enhancing the overall message of the film. The director explained her techniques: "I used cuts, light leaks and jump cut editing to emphasize the film as a construc­tion. The woman {Martha) has been raped and the film is her opportunity to address a stand-in or 'abstract' perpetrator in abstract spaces -to get it all out of her­self, to release the pain and confusion she's held inside since the incident." Backstopping the production are the talents of veteran Notre Dame actor Matt Lee, who starred in last year's FTT production of Oedipus Rex, and sophomore newcomer Julie Dickinson. Said Moran about her cast: "I owe much of my film's strength to [Julie's] creativity. I feel she had a strong connection with the piece from the very start. !Matti is a very accomplished actor with whom I feel fortunate to have worked." With the gripping "This Time," Moran has become accomplished in her own right. 
"Still Life" 

.Directed by: Dustin Park and Brian Scofield 
In "Still Life," a photographer searches a rural land­scape for a subject and is struck by the various dead animals she finds. The narrative catalogs her fieldwork, melancholy photographs and eventually her sympathy with her subject matter. Like the photographs, which are central to the plot. the compositional beauty of "Still Life" belies the difliculty that was overcome en route to the final product. 
"Since we didn't shoot the film on the same days as finding the animals, and since we couldn't depend on finding an animal the day of shooting, we had to store them in Dustin's refrigerator. Needless to say, we threw away that contraption at the end of the semester. I don't think the power of God could have taken away the rank smell," Scofield said about the unusual production haz­ards. . 
Fortunately for Scofield and Park. rank is completely absent from their unique film. 
"DGM Investments" 

. Directed by: Andy Gregar and Dan Nowak 
In this clever dark comedy by directors Andy Gregar and Dan Nowak, a multi-talented man named Gordy acts as a salesman, hit man and doctor. He performs assisted suicides then steals 
the person's organs and gives them to needy cus­tomers. In yet another twist, the family members of the deceased cash in on the insurance policy. "DGM" is an entertaining reprise to Gregar's "Time and Temperature," a 2000 mocku-mentary of the seedy underbelly of small­
town America.  
"L'faire" . Directed Richardson Leliaert  by: and  Peter Beth  

Certainly the most explicit piece of the festival, 

"L'faire" delves into the pages of a sexy fashion magazine and asks the question, "Who are these female models really por­traying?" As two women discuss their opinions, one still image comes to life. The result is a stylish and multi-dimensional narrative with a slick surprise ending. Professor Jill Godmilow said, "It's an extraordinary meditation on whether the ad is selling clothing by sell­ing sex or not, and if not, what else could that image 
?"
mean. 

\\Tith an open ending. Leliacrt and Hichardson leave the decision to the audience. 

O
THE BSERVER 

Thursday, January 24, 200 I page 13 

ing in name only 
'?lights the hard Work ofstudent directors 

Photos courtesy of the Department of Film, Television and Theatre 
Vatch Me On You" (far left} to the absurdity of "DGM Investments" (far right). Films such as "Train Station -Day" (second from left) and "Return" (second from right) 
"Lament" 
. Directed by: Matthew Reilly and Brent Buchman 
"Lament" is a film poem presented in three repeating acts. Each act begins with a brief sexual sequence between a young man and woman, and then is enveloped by a montage of a single character meander­ing about town musing on the deeper aspects of their relationship with the other. The most striking property of the film is its mellow, stream-of-consciousness voiceover, which Reilly and Buchman originally planned to be mad in a jarring "slam poetry" style. 
"Due to the complexity of the poetry, we needed a slower, more controlled style to make sure viewers could hear and hopefully understand," Buchman said about the change. 
Though their film style has a raw. retro feel that is reminiscent of 1970s 

Hollywood, Buchman f,aid their cinematic inspirations lie elsewhere. 
"The most influential film !for us) was 'The Wizard' with Fred Savage. The cheerleading epic 'Bring it On' also supplied us with great inspiration." 
"Train Station -Day" 
. Directed by: Hob Bonella and Matt Peters 
With "Train Station ­Dav," Bonella and Peters ha~e fashioned an uncon­ventional comedy about a suburban kid trying to leave home. In the strain of 


"American Beauty" and "Blue Velvet," the film largely critiques the bour­geois. middle-class lifestyle and its anesthetizing effect on the nuclear family. The protagonist, Billy, leads the audience through typified suburbia and is met by stultifying friends and fami­ly at every turi1. 
"I wanted to write a film that dealt with that strange position of growing up or living in relative comfort and being dissatisfied with it," Bonella said. "You find yourself in a situation that does not work and, despite the apparent benefits, it's completely suffocating." 
"Return" 

. Directed by: Charlie Holden-Corbett and Ryan White 
"Return" tells the story of a family whose father has been physically debilitated as the result of a car wreck. Due to the violently sustained trauma of the accident, the father suffers from akinetic mutism, a state in which a person is conscious of his surroundings, but is unable to communicate his cognizance to anyone else. Return covers a wide scope; perspectives range from the skepti­cism of the doctor to the silent condition of the father, and finally the prayerful hope of his wife and children. While the narrative seems dominated by the immobility and helplessness of this man who was once a breadwin­ner, Corbett is quick to point out that the faith of his family is an even stronger theme in the film. 
"There is a very deeply religious aspect to this film. Akinetic mutism is a very tough condition for families to work through, and it seemed to us that faith would be the only way to keep hope. It is not a story of large and grand miracles, but of small, unexpected ones. The fam­ily's prayers are heard and answered as ours are, in ways and at times we don't expect," he said. 
"Oh, For the Love" 
. Directedy by: Brian Skorney and Jeremy Sony 

In contrast to "Return," "Oh, For the Love" unabashedly satirizes religion, particularly the Catholic sacrament of marriage. Perhaps intended as a post­modern myth, the film depicts the characters of Cupid, Venus and Jesus observing a wedding and commenting on the facile and misunderstood relationship that brought about its occurrence. "Love" asserts that the affection and attraction aroused by Cupid and Eros will never completely satisfy a relationship, and that the Catholic idea of Christian love through marriage is a construct that treacherously attempts to numb man and woman from this realization. 
"I feel the cynicism of the film stemmed largely from my own personal outlooks on relationships and the oftentimes bizarre ways relationships seem to take form," Skorney said. 
Besides highlighting the seemingly bogus concept of Christian love, the film also portrays the Jesus figure irreverently hanging about a dorm chapel, even pausing to sit on the altar. Skorney reflects on the problem of asking permission to use a chapel from a campus rec­tor: "We convinced him that it wouldn't portray the Church in a bad light. In the end, I worried that he would be a little too cautious over what was occurring so we switched over to Alumni Hall. He was very happy to have us film there and never asked about the con­tent.'' 
Two silent and black and white films appear in this year's festival. as well: "Flirtations" and "Fatal Error." "Fatal Error" tells the story of two young mothers faced with the disappearance of their children. The brief nar­rative documents the tormented anguish of the women and projects the sort of tragedy a simple twist of fate 
can bring about, especially when dealing with the U.S. 
Postal Service. 

In "Flirtations," a young man catches the eye of an attractive young woman in a small cafe. However, the chance liaison turns out to be a horse of a different gen­der, as the short plot unfolds in a scene reminiscent of "Swingers." 
Also appearing in the festival are two shorts from Introductory Production. Both were filmed on digital video and poke fun at life on campus in two very differ­ent ways. "Jack," by Jeremy Renteria, examines a men­tally unstable student and his skewed world. Featuring an absurd plot line, a jagged, frenzied mise-en-scene and a shockingly bizarre neurosis, "Jack" is both comi­cal and disturbing. 
"I enjoy making films that have the potential to make people laugh, but not in a conventional sense. The jokes are there, but at the same time you're laughing at some­thing that is a little on the dark side. In this case, things like obsessive behavior, especially between men and women, are being a bit exaggerated, or pulled in a direction that they don't typically go, so that the audi­ence is able to recognize the situation, but can see it in an atypical, and hopefully humorous way," Renteria said. 
Alongside "Jack," "Checkout" stands apart as the only other video to make an appearance in this year's film festival. Juli Baron's talc of a slick player trying to spin some game on an unassuming young lady is witty and brief. Though the piece is simple dialogue and conventional shot-The 2002 reverse-shot, "Checkout" is well composed and the relevance of the Notre Dame setting, conversation and conclu­
Student Film 

sion will not be lost on Notre Dame students. Festival 
. Hesburgh 

Perhaps the beauty of the Student 
Library Auditorium

Film Festival is the emotional vigor and originality that is present in . Jan. 24, 25, 26 each work. \Vith the number of 
and 28 at 7:30 

Hollywood movies and commercial­
p.m. and 9:45 p.rn.

ized advertisements constantly infil­trating our lives, the freshness of . Admission: $4 these pieces pulls us away from the norm, even if just for a couple hours. Robert Browning said, "It is the glory and good of Art, that Art remains the one way possible of speaking truth." In order to produce these films, students have to find a way to speak their own truths. 
"You have to be completely immersed in your film to make it right," Mandell said. "It's a part of you." 
Contact Liam Dacey and Mario Bird at wdacey@nd.edu and mbird@nd.edu 
n­
, 
page 14 Thursday, January 24, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Colts hire Dungy to help boost defense 
. Ex-Tampa Bay head coach signs five-year contract 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
On his first day on the job. Tony Dungy promised to rebuild Indianapolis' defense and lead the Colts to the play­offs and eventually the Super Bowl. 
Dungy was introduced as the Colts coac.h Wednesday, one day after signing a five-year, $13 million contract. 
He pledged to concentrate his efforts on improving a defense that allowed a league-high 486 points last season. 
"Hopefully, it's pretty sim­ple," Dungy said of his defen­sive strategy. "It's not what you do, but how you do it. You have to get guys to play hard down in and down out. It's attitude." 
The 46-year-old Dungy is the Colts' sixth coach in 11 seasons. He replaces Jim Mora, who was fired Jan. 8 after going 6-10 this season and 32-34 in four years. 
Dungy, fired by Tampa Bay on Jan. 14 after going 54-42 and leading the Buccaneers to four playoff appearances in six seasons, has a track record of quick successes. 
In his first season as the Minnesota Vikings' defensive coordinator, Dungy's defense led the league in interceptions. The next season, Minnesota was ranked No. 1 in defense. 
In 1996, Tampa Bay's defense. ranked 27th the previ­ous season, finished the year rated 11th. In each of the next five years. the Bucs' defense 
ranked among the league's top 10. That success is what attract­ed the Colts to Dungy. 
"When Tony Dungy and I got together last week, the thing that struck me was his accent on fundamentals," Colts presi­dent Bill Polian said. "Tony Dungy is the right man at the right time with the right approach to take us the rest of the way." 
Dungy has crafted menacing defenses that produce turnovers in the past. He hopes to do the same for a Colt defense that slid from 15th in 1999 to 21st in 2000, and to 29th last season. 
The Colts are eager to learn. 
"Me, personally, I'm excited about playing in a defense that gets up the field, that tries to create turnovers," defensive end Chukie Nwokorie said. "I've not had that since I was in col­lege and I'm looking forward to letting it l_oose and playing." 
Dungy assumes a team that had six first-time starters last season and is likely to include more new starters next season. 
Dungy's been here before, but he thinks the Colts can make it work. 
"When I went to Tampa, we had some guys that were pretty good players already, that peo­ple didn't know about," he said. ·Tm hoping we have the same thing here." 
Dungy does not intend to change much on an offense that ranked second in the league last season. despite not having James for more than half its games. He might even keep some of the offensive coaches, including coordinator Tom Moore, who he tried to hire twice while with Tampa Bay. 


Americans worry about Olympic terrorism 
Associated Press 
SALT IAKE CITY 
Utah officials aren't among the 31 percent in a new poll who believe terrorism is likely during the Winter Olympics. 
The Associated Press poll, released Wednesday, found five percent believe a terrorist attack is very likely during the Salt Lake City Olympics. Another 26 percent said an attack was somewhat likely. 
But Al Mansell, president of the Utah Senate, says he'll be sending his family to every event he can afford, and he has"absolutely no fear" about terrorism during the Salt Lake City Games. 
"I think their fears are wildly misguided." Mansell said. "The only place that will be more· secure during the Olympics will be the White House." 
Mitt Romney. president of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, says he agrees with the majority, who don't forecast terror. 

Thirty-two percent said terror­ism was very unlikely during the Olympics and 31 percent said it was somewhat unlikely. 
"I think our ticket sales are pretty strong evidence" that peo­ple are not afraid to attend the games, Romney said. 
Tammy Palmer, spokeswoman for the Utah Olympic Public Safety Command, finds it encouraging that nearly two­thirds think terrorism is unlikely 
Olympic security, an unprece­dented operation involving about 60 different agencies and more than $300 million, is solid, U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft said after a tour of venues this week. 
Ashcroft joins several other top law enforcement officials in say­ing the games are as safe as they can get. 
"People must be finding some confidence in that," Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff said. Shurtleff said he would have expected a higher percent­age of people to fear Olympic terrorism. 
The poll found some reluc­tance to use tax dollars to pay for the Olympic Games, which will cost nearly $2 billion -a fifth of it from taxpayers. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$400 CCTour&Travel Florida SpringBreak pkg. Call 258-0718 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: January 3, 2002 in or out­side the Main Building or in the Stepan parking lot, a Christmas tree pin about 2 inches in length made of green and white Austrian crystals. Has sentimental value. Please call Debbie at 1­5536. 
WANTED 
Do you miss your family pet? Consider becoming a FOSTER or VOLUNTEER for the cats and dogs at PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 10 minutes from cam­pus. Please visit www.petrefuge. com, e-mail webmaster@petre­fuge.com, or call 256-0886. 
FOR RENT 
Why live in crowded houses? Have your own space, privacy & security. Mar-Main Apartments 233-2098 3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-1evel, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
New 3-4 bdrms, 3 bath homes lea­turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232­4527 or 616-683-5038. 
nice homes north of ND [close] for next school year ideal for 3-8 stu­dents great area 277'3097 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
3 Bedroom House Close to 
Campus $595.00 per month Call 
233-1440 HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, 9· bed· room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 

PERSONAL 
Mike Lanes lonely hearts club band 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648· 4849 www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Book your trip with StudentCity.com and save up to $100 per person to Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre or Florida. Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Prices start at $3991 Sale ends soon! CALL NOW! 1-800·293-1443 or go to StudentCity.com! 
Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to select shows when you book your Spring Break through StudentCity.com! Go to MTV.com or call StudentCity. com at 1-800-293-1443 for details! Tours and tickets are limited! 
Do you have your tickets for Damn 
Yankees? Get them now at the LaFun info desk! Opens Feb 7 Work for Sports, call 1-4543 
We need you for The Observer so call us and help out 
Sports is fun and good pay 
Everyone loves to work for The Observer Work for news, they need it Recycle The Observer sports is good it really is 


:_ii\
,, 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
t' 
J· Thursday, January 24, 2002 
$ ;, . ... 
.i.~
..·,,, NFL 
1Falcons' sale recommended 
r. 
have been exchanging

Associated Press 
financial information 
ATLANTA 
with the team and the 

The NFL finance com­
NFL in preparation for 

mittee voted unanimous­
the finance committee's 

Iv Wednesday to recom­meeting.
mend the $545 million Blank has declined to 
sale of the Atlanta 
take questions pointed

Falcons to Arthur Blank. 
at the Falcons' future,

The committee's deci­including what role he sion moved Blank one 
envisions for head coach 

step closer to becoming 
Dan Reeves. until the 

the second owner in the 
sale is completed. The 

Falcons' 36-year history. 
team has a news confer­

"They will make that 
ence scheduled to beginrecommendation to the 

after the NFL owners' 

32 NFL clubs on Feb. 2." 
meet Feb. 2. 

NFL spokesman Greg 
"When the time is 

Aiello said. "The clubs right. we'll have a lot to 
· are set to vote on the 
discuss." Blank said. 

sale~ in New Orleans. the Only one finanr,e com­
day before the Super mittoe member,
Bowl." 
Philadelphia Eagles

Blank, co-founder and 
owner Jeff Lurie, was 

former chairman of The 
unable to attend the Home Df~pot, is not 
meeting in New York. expected to have diffi­
Cleve land Browns 

culty getting at least 24 
owner Al Lerner chairs 

votes in his favor. 
the committee, which 

"It's an exciting time,.. 
consists of six owners ­

the 58-year-old Blank Ne,v England's Robert 
said...There's also a lot 
Kraft. New Orleans' Tom of hard work ahead." 
Benson. Tennessee's 

Blank reached an 
Bud Adams, Kansas agreP.mPnt Dec. 6 with 
City's Lamar Hunt. 

team president Taylor 
Tampa Bay's Malcolm Smith. whose family 

Glazer and Denver's Pat owns 88 percent of the Bowlen -and Robert Falcons. Since then. 
Tisr-h. chairman of the !Hank's accountants 
New York Giants. 


,, 

~ 
5:15 p.m.  Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred  
Heart  
7:00 p.m.  Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration  

Making a Difference Piece by Peace. The Peace Quilt: Tied Together in the Single Garmet of Destiny Prayer Service, 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Spring Social Concerns Festival, Center for Social Concerns Auditorium 
7 p.m. Booktalk and signing: An Anthology of Snakebites: On Women, Love and Philosophy, Gretchen J. Regdams-Schils, 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
7:30 p.m. Student Film Festival 2002, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium* 

8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
9:00 
p.m. -Midnight SAO ND Express Pool Room open, LaFortune Student Center basement 

9:00 
p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 


9:45 p.m. Student Film Festival 2002, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium* 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Monsters, Inc. and The Big Lebowski, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

5: 15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 
p.m. -4:00 a.m. Late Night Olympics, Joyce Center Field House 

7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 


7:30 
p.m. Student Film Festival 2002, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium* 


7:30 
p.m. Movies: Monsters, Inc. and The Big Lebowski, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 
8:30 p.m. -1:30 a.m. SAO Tournament Fridays: Billiards, ND Express, LaFortune Student Center basement 
9:00 p.m. SAO Crafting Corner: Teddy Bears, LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
9:15 p.m. Cosmic Bowling at Beacon Bowl. Buses depart Hesburgh Library Main Circle* 
9:45 p.m. Student Film Festival 2002, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium* 

10:00 p.m. Movies: Monsters, Inc. and The Big Lebowski, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Twins appeal to Supreme Court 
of Minnesota law and represent<; an legal process." 
Associated Press "articulation of a peculiar and Minnesota's Supreme Court, 
ST. PAUL. Minn. anomalous legal principle" that which on Nov. 30 refused to hear a 
The Twins and major league demands review by the Supreme direct appeal of the original ruling, baseball asked the Minnesota Court. typically takes five to seven months Supreme Court to hold a hearing by "The Court of Appeals decision is to decide cases after hearing argu­Feb. 11 -just three days before an unprecedented intrusion into a ments, though it has moved more spring training starts -on the private business' right to r,ease quickly in some cases where time injunction that forces the team to operations," Magnuson wrote. was an issue. For the high court to play this season. Baseball owners voted Nov. 6 to take the case, at least three of the 
A day after the Court of Appeals eliminate two teams before this seven justices must agree to accept voted 3-0 to uphold the injunction season. Baseball hasn't officially an appeal. that compels the Twins to honor selected the teams, but the Twins Watkins. who wants to examine their lease at the Metrodome, the and Montreal Expos are the likely the Twins' financial records before team and baseball filed papers targets because of their low' rev­making a formal offer, has said he Wednesday asking the Supreme enue and inability to secure govern­could finance a new stadium with­Court to review the case and to set ment funding for new ballparks. out public help if he buys the team. an expedited schedule for an Magnuson asked for the speedy His lawyer, Kenneth Thomas, was appeal to the high court. review because the Twins are due also present at the two-hour meet­
"The critical timing issues present to start spring training in Fort ing, along with Twins president in this case make expedited deter­Myers, Fla., on Feb. 17. three days Jerry Bell and Pohlad's son. Jim, a mination necessary if meaningful after teams are allowed to start minority owner of the team. review is to occur," wrote Roger workouts. Watkins did not immediately Magnuson, a lawyer for the Twins "Baseball must know if it can pro­return a message left at his office. and baseball commissioner Bud ceed with contraction so that play­The Twins said both parties signed Selig. ers can be reallocated among the confidentiality agreements to keep 
Separately, Twins owner Carl remaining teams, and schedules the discussion process private. Pohlad met with Alabama business­and rosters can be finalized," he Meanwhile, the grievance by the man Donald Watkins to discuss wrote. players' association to block con­Watkins' desire to purchase the The Metropolitan Sports Facilities traction resumes Thursday in New team. Commission, which obtained the York with the 11th day of testimony 
The appellate court upheld a Nov. injunction as the Twins' landlord, before arbitrator Shyam Das. 16 dedsion by a district judge, who opposes quicker-than-usual consid­Delegations from management and said any breach of the Twins' lease eration, lawyer Andy Shea said. the union, including Yankees reliev­wouldn't be satisfied by money "The calendar of contraction was er Mike Stanton, met for about alone. established by commissioner Selig," three hours Wednesday at the com­
Baseball's lawyers argue the Shea said. "He, obviously. did not missioner's office, discussing mostly injunction runs contrary to 80 years aJlow suflicient time for any orderly procedural issues and scheduling. 
,Jan.26 
5:00 
p.m. Women's Swimming vs. Villanova, Rolfs Aquatic Center (meet begins at 4:00 p.m.) 

5:00 
p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


6:00 
p.m. Men's and Women's Indoor Track vs. Michigan State, Loftus Sports Center 

6:00 
p.m. ND Women's Basketball vs. Virginia Tech, Joyce Center Arena 


7:30 
p.m. Student Film Festival 2002, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium* 

7:30 
p.m. Movies: Monsters, Inc. and The Big Lebowski, De Bartolo 101 and 155* 


8:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. After Game Bash, tournaments, free refreshments and karaoke beginning at 10:00p.m., Alumni Senior Club 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight SAO ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center basement.-"" -.. • ,,,,... ·"" ..,. ~ • 
• 

9:45 p.m. Student Film Festival 2002, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium* 
10:00 
p.m. SAO Coffeehouse Performance, Hammes Bookstore 

10:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. SAO Open Karaoke, Alumni Senior Club 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: Monsters, Inc. and The Big Lebowski, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


This ad is published by the Student Activities Office as a service to campus. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs are free to Notre Dame students unless marked by an asterisk(*). 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT: www.nd.edu/-sao/ 


page 16 Thursday, January 24, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
BOXING 

NFL 
Tyson apologizes for part in brawl with Lewis 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Saying he·s not "Mr. Politically Correct," Mike Tyson made an apology of sorts Wednesday for his part in a news conferenee rnelee that could deny him a license to challenge Lennox Lewis. 
''I'm a boxer, and from now on, I will let my box­ing talk for me," Tyson said in a statement. 
He did not comment on whether he bit Lewis' left leg in the brawl at the Hudson Theater on Tuesday. 
A source 
"Tm a boxer, and from face-off,
close to 
a n d
Lewis' now. I will let my boxing 
chaos 
c am p . talk for myself." 
broke
who asked 
out,"
not to be 
Tyson
Mike Tyson
identified, 
s a i d ,
said Tyson Boxer 
explain­

) ; did bite 
ing how
the WBC-
t h e
IBF cham­
bra w 1
pion. 
began.
Lewis and his advisers 
Apparently, each man
declined to talk about it. 
was to come on stage upon 
"It (the melee) is under 
being introduced and stop
investigation by the 
on a small platform, which 
Nevada commission," said 
were not close to one
Gary Shaw, chief operat­
another. They were to turn
ing officer of Main Events, 
and stare at one another. 
the American promoter of the champion from Britain. 
The Nevada State Athletic Commission is scheduled to consider Tyson's application for a license on Jan. 29. It was the Nevada commission that fined Tyson $3 million and revoked his license after he bit Evander Holyfield's ears in 1997. 
Tyson got a license a year later, but it lapsed in 1999. 
"There was obviously a miscommunication between our camps with regards to the 
Tyson was introduced first. After Lewis got up on his platform. Tyson walked toward him, claim­ing he was going to engage in a stare down. 
When he got close, he was pushed by Lewis' bodyguard and threw a punch at the man. Lewis threw a right hand that grazed Tyson's head and suddenly people were pushing, shoving and rolling around onstage. 
"After our skirmish, I was provoked by a mem­ber of the audience who was shouting obscenities at me and I defended myself as I saw fit. In the process, things that I said may have offended mem­bers of the audience. To these people, I offer my apologies." 
After a semblance of order was restored, Tyson threw up his arms in tri­umph and made an obscene gesture. Then he became enraged and shouted vulgar abuse at a man who had yelled, "Put him in a straitjacket." 
"I came to New York to promote a fight that I want and boxing fans want to see," Tyson concluded in his statement. 

Pats start trash talk 
• Law calls Steelers too confident, cocky 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Ty Law tried stirring something up between the New England Patriots and Pittsburgh, saying the favored Steelers were acting too confident about Sunday's AFC championship game and needed to be "smacked in the face." 
"They're confident, maybe even cocky -I guess I'll say that they're cocky," said Law, the Patriots corner­back who grew up in suburban Pittsburgh. "Well, that's good because I'm the same way. If they want to play rough, good, that's my game. Bring it." 
If the Baltimore Ravens had uttered such words a week ago, the Steelers likely would have answered back with some angry verbiage and bul­letin board material of their own. 
But, weary of trading insults with the Ravens, the Steelers would hear nothing Wednesday of getting into an exchange this week with the Patriots, a team they haven't played in three years. 
Instead,  the  Steelers  mostly  
brushed off Law's remarks ­ though  
receiver  Plaxico  Burress  had  a  
rejoinder  or  two  - and  talked  

respectfully of the Patriots. Even the Steelers' biggest talker, Lee Flowers, had nothing but good things to say of a team he compares to his own. 
"These are the games you like to play because there's a lot of respect," Flowers said. "We don't know those guys that much, but this is not g~ing to be a Baltimore -Ray Lewis ­Shannon Sharpe trash talking week." 
Flowers spoke of admiring Patriots rookie quarterback Tom Brady -a word that certainly wasn't in his vocabulary when he talked of the "hatred" between the Ravens and Steelers. 
"A lot of players in this locker room admire him because we probably went through the same progression he went through, nobody gave us a chance and we finally got an oppor­tunity," Flowers said. 
Going into this season, the Steelers had missed the playoffs for three consecutive years and -like the Patriots -weren't seen as a Super Bowl team. 
"New England is on the side of where we've been all year as the underdog," Flowers said. "Nobody is giving them a chance, but they're a good team and we're treating them as such." 
"We'll seal the deal. They're the ones doing all the talking, and we're the ones just sitting over there get­ting ready for this game." 
Ward said the Steelers don't talk as much as some teams -namely, the Ravens -not just because they haven't won a championship, but because it simply isn't their nature. 

"We like to do our trash talking by our play," he said. "It's funny because the entire Baltimore thing, the trash talking, we still went out there and did what we had to do. Ty Law and all those guys, they won't trash talk when it boils down to a game time situation." 


is currently accepting applications for the 2002-03 term of 
EDITOR IN 
HIEF 
• 

Any undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is eligible to apply. Applicants should have a strong foundation in print journalism and skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop. 
Applicants should submit an eight or more page statement detailing what he or she wishes to accomplish in the term. Applications are due to Mike Connolly by Thursday, Jan. 24 at 5 p.m. Any questions about the application or application procedure should be directed to Mike Connolly at 631-4542. 
Thursday, January 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FENCING 
More mature Viviani leads deep men's epee squad 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Jan Viviani has come a long way. 
The once overly emotional freshman, who sometimes let his frustrations affect his fencing, has matured and developed into Notre Dame's top captain and a contender for the national title as ajunior. 
Head coach Yves Auriol believes that Viviani's greater maturity makes him a more con­sistent fencer. 
"His father told me he saw a big change in Jan and he is more consistent," Auriol said. "He is very confident." 
In the past, Viviani has won big bouts against top competi­tion. but followed up strong wins with weak losses to club teams like Purdue. This year, Auriol expects wins out of Viviani every time he steps onto the strip. 
Notre Dame's No. 1 epee fencer, who placed third in the 2000 and 20001 NCAA champi­onships. is also in better shape than ever. 
"I was training pretty hard," the junior captain said about his this year, however. Freshman six-days-a-week workouts. "The Michal Sobieraj brings a wealth workout schedule over the sum­of international experience to mer helped me get a little better Notre Dame from his home in and faster on my feet." Krakow, Poland. 

Viviani has also become, in the "He is really easygoing, but he words of Auriol, a "super cap­is very talented," Auriol said. "I tain." He is the leader both on think he is going to be a force for and off the strip. When the team us." is losing its focus in practice, The No. 3 fencer for men's Viviani is the one who brings the epee is one of Notre Dame's team back in line. most experienced fencers. Senior 
"Viviani has really stepped up Brian Casas qualified for the and become a great captain," NCAA championships in each of Auria] said. his first three seasons. He fin­
Viviani isn't the only talented ished as a second team All­member of the men's epee squad American in 1999 and 2001. "If he can continue the way he 
was fencing at the end of NCAAs, he will be fine. He was fencing really well. He doesn't have too
Ott Campus_ 

much pressure because he knows Viviani and Sobieraj are much better than he is," Auriol
JUJ1ior J'armt Weeltmt, 5,edal 

said. "He is a solid No. 3." 
februaJ1114·17, l->Ol 

Women's Epee 
One thing is certain at women's epee: Kerry Walton is a national championship con­
Come early; stay late, same price! 

tender. Walton is one of the top 
junior epeeists in the U.S. and 
should hold down the No. 1 Irish 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available 

epee spot all year. Beyond that, however, there
for your parents. 

are many question marks for the Irish.
Weekend donation is $60.00 per parent. 

Junior captain Anna Carnick, who earned All-American hon­ors in her freshman year, strug­gled with an injury last year. Although she qualified for the NCAA Championship, she finished 12th -well below expectations. 
With Carnick struggling, class­mate Meagan Call excelled. The then-sophomore from Oregon put together a strong finish to take fifth overall -just missing a spot in the top-four fence-off. 
This year, however, Call is struggling while Carnick is regaining her All-American form. 
"Carnick is not fencing too bad right now. She is fencing better than last year," Auriol said. "Meagan hasn't been fencing well. Her head hasn't been func­tioning well. She fenced better last weekend but she still isn't where she needs to be." 
If Call recovers her old form, however, there could be a three­horse race for just two spots at the NCAA tournament. 
"No matter who gets the slots, there aren't going to be any hard feelings," Walton said. "On the whole, everyone understands there are only two spots and not everyone can be on the team." 
Contact Mike Connolly at con­nolly.28@nd.edu. 

Whether you stay Two, three. or four n~hts. 


BALLET 
Rooms are available Thursday through Slllday. 

t,i' INSTRUCTOR 


Donald Stikeleather -Instructor of Ballet, Modern and Jazz Dance -Guest Performer in the Midwest 
For reservations caH 574-631-7512 or 

-Eleven Years Collegiate Teaching Experience 
-Choreographer
574~31-9436 

Classes Meet: Befli1111er ($39) Sundays Wednesdays 
Adi-a11ced ($39)  Sundays Wednesday  
Pointe ($10)  Sundays Wednesday  
All classes meet at the RSRC Information Meeting Sunday, January 27  

I :00pm-2:30pm 6:30pm-7:45pm 
2:30pm-4:00pm 7:45pm-9:00pm 
4:00pm-4:45pm 9:00pm-9:30pm 


1:00 PM -RSRC Act. Rm. 2 
Sign-Ups Begin Monday, January 28 at 8:00 am Fees are due at time of registration Space is Limited Classes Begin Wednesday, January 30 
Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, retirees and their spouses. 
9-BALL BILLIARD 

TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. JAN. 25 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level, LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 

$225 worth of gift cErtiflcates from BEST BlJY. 
Sign up at ND Express.


Limited space so sign up NOW!
in ser1,ice activities througl1 co111111unitJ'

CENTER FOR 
(Must present I.D. when registering.)
SOCIAL 
organizations and c;1111pus clubs. 
fti'tt 

CONCERNS 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
page 18 Thursday, January 24, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
FENCING 

Men's, women's foilists look to dominate nationals 

By MATT LOZARAND MIKE 
CONNOLLY 
Sports Writers 
Boasting one of Notre Dame's top fencers, an impressive fresh­man and a solid senior, the Irish men's fencing foil squad will start its drive to the national championship this weekend at the New York University Duals. 
Junior captain Ozren Debic finished fifth in the country last year and compiled a 42-3 record in earning second team All­American honors. His 84-5 career record gives him the third-highest winning percent­age in Irish history. 
Debic looks to rebound from last season's nagging foot injury and regain the form that earned him a second place finish at the national championships as a freshman. 
"The injury is fine," said Debic. "It was over three weeks after NCAAs [last season] and isn't a problem." 
Auriol, however, suggests that his men's foil captain may not be at the top of his game right now. 
"Oz is not where he is sup­posed to be," said Auriol. "He used to win this thing [the North American Cup Tournament in South Bend this weekend]. He didn't make the finals here. He is not fencing well and needs to step it up a bit." 
Derek Snyder, the promising freshman from Chatsworth, Calif., brings high expectations to the foil team. With junior Forest Walton spending this sea­son abroad, Snyder knows the team expects him to step in quickly. 
"I do feel a little pressure," said Snyder. "But if I do my best, it will take care ofitself." 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food' 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 
Never Down Sized or Laid Off Again 
Seeking Referral agents, earn $13,600+ per month starting the first month. can work at home call• 888-407-0077 
R t 
~ 
Snyder may not have top colle­giate experience, but interna­tionally, he is quite accom­plished. He finished seventh in the junior foil at the South Bend American Cup this past week­end. In the latest United States Fencing Association rankings, Snyder is ranked No. 14 in the senior foil division and second in the junior division. 
"I think one of the biggest things in doing well is my tour­nament experience," Snyder said. "All the traveling I have done, and knowing the tourna­ment logistics will be a lot of help. I hope not to be caught off guard." 
Debic, who finished 11th in the senior foil at the South Bend American Cup, feels Snyder should be able to help the team right away as well. 
"Our freshmen have a lot of high expectations," he said. "He [Snyder] has been in a couple of tournaments in Europe and he is ready." 
The No. 2 spot on the team has not been handed to Snyder, according to his coach. 
"He is going to have to prove that he is as good as Forest," Auriol said." "He has been com­peting in individual competi­tions, but it's different fencing at the college level. I am waiting for him to see what he is made of." 
Senior Steve Mautone brings three years of experience to the foil squad and will also attempt to help lessen the loss of Walton. Mautone. one of eight Irish fencers from New Jersey, earned a 30-13 record last season and provides more depth to this tal­ented part of the team. 
"Mautone is a great team fencer. Last year he fenced very 
'SPRING BREAI 

1-800-SURFS-UP
www.studenTexpress.com 




XXXI 
COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 
Applications Due Friday, Jan. 2:i 
Pick up an application at the Student Activities Office at 314 LaFortune and sign up for an interview. 
Checkout the website for more info: www.nd.edu/~bb'1:r/ or Email us at bkst.r.l@nd.edu 
tough," said Auriol. "He can compete with Snyder for sec­ond place. He is going to be a great No. 3 for us and could even be No. 2." 
Women's foil 
It may have taken Auriol two years to replace the All­American foil tan­dem of Sara Walsh and Myriah Brown, but the 2002 women's foil squad may finally have a pair of athletes that can match the tal­ents of the 1999 graduates. 
Freshmen Andrea Ament and Alicja Kryczalo have the talent and experi­ence to give the Irish a top foil squad for the first time since Walsh and Brown graduated. 

"They are as good as the team [ we had] when we had Sarah Walsh and Myriah Brown," Auriol said. "I think they are the two best at the college level." 
Kryzcalo comes to Notre Dame from Gdansk, Poland, where she was part of the Polish junior foil team that won the World Championship each year from 1998-2000. She combines height, quickness and experi­ence to become an instant force for the Irish. 
"She is good. She is an NCAA champion contender," Auriol said. 
Auriol believes that Ament is almost as talented as Kryzcalo. If not for her talented teammate, she might be the best collegiate foilist in America. 
"I am sure that Andrea would like to be No. l," Auriol said. "She is pretty good." 
While Kryzcalo has the edge in international titles, Ament has a greater familiarity with the top American fencers they will face in competition. 
"I am pretty prepared I know who I am going to face," she said. "I am ready for the compe­tition." 
The addition of the top two freshmen has shifted last year's No. 1, junior Liza Boutsikaris, down to No. 3. Auriol believes that Boutsikaris will thrive at the No. 3 role without the pressure she faced at No. 1 last year. 
"I feel that Boutsikaris will fence good this year because she is No. 3. She has nothing to lose. She can relax and fence well," Auriol said. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. and Matt Lozar and mlozar@nd.edu 

Keenan Revue 
2002: APalindrome Rene 
Show Dates: January 31, February 1 and 2 
No lines more than an hour ahead of time. Two tickets per ID, one ID per person. 
Tickets are FREE! 

Ticket Distribution 
Today 3:00 -4:00 pm JACC -Gate 1 0 



Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 

dav 

Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration 
Making a Difference Piece by Peace 
The Peace Quilt: Tied Together in the Single Garment of Destiny Prayer Service 
, 7:00-8:30 p.m. · 
' Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
.San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. 
•Sacred Heart Crypt 
dav 


Eucharistic Adoration 
1l:30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #39 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Coro Primavera Retreat 
Angela House 
Latino Student Retreat 
El Encuentro Con Nuestra Fe Five Pines 
807 Mass. 
8:00 p.m. 
Hammes Student Loung, Coleman-Morse 


Learning to Talk About Race 
Pre-Plunge Retreat February 1-2 Retreat 
5:00 p.m. 
Walsh Hall Basement 
Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
7:00 p.m. Hammes Student Loung, Coleman-Morse 

av 

JPW Mass Reader Auditions 
4:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 


JPW Mass Reader Auditions 
4:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc: Director 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday-Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fi~her Hall Chapel 
Conversion, Conviction, and The Revolution 
Our Single Garment of Destiny 
¦ by Chandra Johnson, Assistant to the President and Assistant Director of Cross-Cultural Ministry 
You probably expect me to use this column to write about Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. For the past three days, his life and legacy have been celebrated on campus, and for me not to jump on the bandwagon would be quite uncharacteristic. However, as much as I welcome this opportunity to extol his lasting memory and impact on the world just one more time, Dr. King is not my focus today. You are. 
From my perspective, there has been an awakening ofsorts in our community. Young adults seem to have come out of the woodwork eager to participate in an effort which would help us collectively rise above the vapor of Operation Enduring Freedom and Enron. I liken the past few days to a mountaintop, Emmaus-type experience as we watched you ;ing, recite, reflect, report, comment and tout on and about issues that matter to you. Dr. King would be proud. After all this time, his message still makes sense to those who reach daily for new and enduring ways to love. But be careful. This openness to infuse the darkness of the human condition with the light of human compassion, tolerance and justice gives God free reign to do what God does best: Revolutionize. 
Tomorrow is the Feast of the Conversion of St. Paul. Every year at this time I find myself asking, "Was Saul's (Paul's) conversion a real conversion?" Think about it. If I was riding along on my horse one day, doing my job as a staunch defender of God and persecuting this new way to the point of death (Act. 22:3-16), and a light from the sky suddenly flashed, blinded me, and I heard a voice say, "Chandra, Chandra, why do you persecute me?", I guarantee you I would stop persecuting! Convert ... when, where and what time! Yet, there's something more to this story than Saul being frightened into doing God's will. 
It's always when you think you're minding your own business and trying to live a socially­But be careful. [The] acceptable lifestyle when God enters in and says, "Where am I in this picture?" In my mind, this is
openness to infuse the 

what happened to Saul. One encounter with the risen Jesus 
darkness of the human 

changed his entire psyche. Everything he believed to be 
condition with the light of 

right and good and politically correct was revolutionized by human compassion, the very God he thought he was defending. His old way of . thinking was changed into a new way of living. Saul's
tolerance and justice 

personal conversion had a rippling effect which sparked a
gives God free reign to do 

cultural revolution.  
what  God  does best: What does it take to change the heart of an entire  
Revolutionize.  nation?  Ifyou were to ask Saul, Dr. King, and any one of  
the students who actively participated in this week's activi­ 
ties, they would probably say, "the willingness to examine  
yourself and the world around you, and then ask, "Where is  
God in this?"  It takes people like you and me to find the  

words and way to revolutionize our often sedated notions ofwhat it means to be people of faith -people who believe that through faith, clarity converts confusion, honor converts dishonor, acceptance converts isolation, and conviction converts complacency. This week we have examined how best to be a community which faces the challenges of our inherited human condition, yet strives, day by day, to welcome those conversion experi­ences which bring us closer to God and to each other. Just as Saul becomes Paul, we too are renamed and presented with a new pair of eyes from which to see ourselves in the other. How liberating! 
My heartfelt thanks to those who entered into our Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration this year. From the Peace Quilt to prayer cards, we have once again recommitted ourselves to facing the challenges which lie ahead. Operation Love was our v.,ay of responding to our changing world and our Notre Dame community. Special thanks to Ken, Habibah, Jourdan, Kat, and Santiago. Through your consistent and steadfast efforts, we have been brought to a renewed and proactive level of living. On behalf of the entire Notre Dame community, thank you for your offering of this conversion experience which will, in the end, revolutionize how we live together in this single garment of destiny. It is in our hope in you and your vision that we are sure to make a difference ... piece by peace. 


¦ Around Campus 
¦ Mark vour Calendar 
Sunday, January 27 
Spanish Mass 
Auditions for 
1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
JPW Mass Readers 
will be held next
Law School Mass 
Monday and Tuesday
5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
@ 4:00 p.m.
¦ Basilica ol Iha Sacred Haan 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart
MBA Mass Saturday, January 26 Mass 7:00 p.rn., Mendoza COB Chapel 
5:00 p.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c 

¦ sundars Scripture Readings
Sunday, January 27 Mass 

ist Reading Is 8:23-9:3
10:00 a.m. Rev. Pal!I V. Kollman, c.s.c. 

11:45 a.m. Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 2nd Reading 1 Cor 1:10-13, 17 
C-M 
Campus Hlnlsa'y

Gospel Mt 4:12-23 
page 20 Thursday, January 24, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
FENCING 

Sabrewomen, sabremen expect huge improvements in '02 

the fall, and may have improved She is a goodBy MIKE CONNOLLY enough to win All-American hon­athlete, good
Sports Writer 
ors in 2002. legs, fast and "That is probably the most talented, and
Take a now-confident sopho­rewarding thing [about coach­she can do more, mix in a transplant from ing}," Auriol said. "A girl coming great thingsthe foil team and fold it into a from PE class as a foil, making for us." 
walk-on who has developed into the switch to sabre, works hard Auriol's a captain and All-American con­
with [assistant coach] Janusz recipe for
tender, and you have the recipe [Bednarski] and keeps getting success at
for the 2002 women's sabre 
better," Auriol said. "She is not a women'ssquad. 
super athlete. She is not real fast, sabre is cer­Although the women's sabre but when you see where she is tainly exotic.
squad hasn't produced a first or now, that is very nice." Whether it issecond team All-American in its Milo, who finished 17th at the a success will 
two years of existence, head 2002 championships, has be decided on
coach Yves Auriol believes this is returned for her sophomore year the strips. 
his best sabre squad yet. 
more confident. That confidence"The team is better than last has translated into better results Men's Sabre
year," Auriol said about the 
on the strip, as she opened the squad that placed a No. 15 and season 11-0. The men'sNo. 17 fencer at the 2001 NCAA "With maturity comes experi­sabre squadChampionships. "[Destanie] Milo ence," Milo said. "Once you gain has alwaysand [Cari] McCullough are fenc­experience, it makes it a lot easi­prided itselfing much better. I am more con­
er to fence very competitive on being the
fident with the sabre team this fencers." best in theyear than I was last year. They The No. 3 sabrewoman is country. This Matt Fabricant and fifth-year "Matt has been fencing prettywill do better this year." 

Maggie Jordan. Jordan fenced year. it may be difficult to retain senior Andrzej Bednarski, a well nationally, except for those
The squad is captained by 
foil last year and qualified for the that title. 

three-time All-American. last few meets," Crompton said.
McCullough, a walk-on who NCAA Championships. With the Gabor Szelle, the 2000 Bednarski may be the most tal­"[Bednarski and Fabricant] arestarted fencing as a freshman in addition of Alicja Kryczalo and National Champion, has trans­ented of the group, but he has both at the same skill level. It'sphysical education class. After Andrea Ament to the foil squad, ferred out of school. and the yet to demonstrate complete kind of good in a way that youstarting out in foil, she switched Jordan switched back to her 2002 competition may be the focus this year, according to have teammates you can dependweapons to sabre as a sopho­more natural sabre position for toughest Notre Dame has seen in Auriol. on."

more. She and several other 
the 2002. With Ament and a while. 

"He hasn't really focused and Both Ohio State and Penn State walk-ons spent the entire year Kryczalo out of action for the Sabre captain Andre started working hard [yet]. but have significantly improved theirtraining to prepare for 2000, Northwestern meet two weeks Crompton. however, is confident he is so talented, it won't take squads this year. but the Irishwhen women's sabre would be ago, Jordan switched back to foil that his squad will remain on much to get him back," Auriol are confident they can remain oncontested at the NCAA champi­
again. top. 

said. "He could even be No. 1 on top.
onship for the first time. As a Her flexibility and team atti­"I think three-man strong, we the team." "I still think we have the bestjunior she qualified for the NCAA tude are two of her greatest are definitely the best team in Fabricant has had much suc­squad in the country," Auriol

championships and finished 
assets, according to Auriol. the country," he said. 

cess at national and international said. "They just have to start19th. Last year she improved to "The best thing is that she Crompton, the All-American competition, but because of stiff fencing like it."
15th as a senior. 

accepted it," he said. "You never captain, is the top sabreman in competition within his squad, heHer fifth-year campaign has so know what you are going to get the school, according to Auriol. 
has never qualified for the NCAAfar been her best. She won the from Maggie. We love Maggie The No. 2 spot, however, is a championships. Contact Mike Connolly at prestigious Penn State Open in but she is very unpredictable. wide-open battle between junior connolly.28@nd.edu. 
OPERATION 


. «-: 
:,y.; ••• 
.-••, =-:-·-:x:·:;;·t~., 
,i . 



MAKING A DIFFERENCE PIECE BY PEACE 
MAKING A DIFFERENCE PIECE BY PEACE 
The Peace Quilt: Tied Together in the Single Garment of Destiny Thursday, January 24 Keenan-Stanford Chapel 7:00-8:00pm 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Multicultural Student Programs and $e1V1ces, and Office ol lhe Pmidenl 
I 


Thursday, January24, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Slow start hinders Belles in 7 4-51 road loss 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
After the first half of an MIM match•up against Kalamazoo Wednesday night, the Saint Mary's basketball team had made as many shots as they had players in the game -five. Luckily for the Belles, their shooting warmed up in the sec­ond half but it was too little, too late as they fell to Kalamazoo 74-51. 
With the loss, the Belles 
dropped to 6-12 and 2-5 in MIAA conference play with seven regular season games remaining on the schedule. 
Kalamazoo players Niki Grubb and Vanessa Larkin were too much for the Belles as they scored 21 points and 15 points, respectively. Sara Kellogg also added 10 points and 12 rebounds for Kalamazoo who improved to 14-4 and 5-2 in conference play. 
Only two Belles tallied double figures in points -Anne Blair had 11 while Katie Miller paced the team with 13 points. Miller also had three assists and a steal and led the team by log­ging 34 minutes at point guard. 
Kalamazoo came out of the gate on fire by connecting on over 50 percent of their first­half shots and taking advantage of Saint Mary's 20 percent first­half shooting performance. At halftime the Belles found them­selves trailing 33-17. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler @nd.edu. 



NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
SETON HALL 
Come see the "Hoop Wizard," 


Sat. JanuaO' 26 @ 12:00 VM 
•
WIii 

the basketball dribbling extraordinaire perform at halftimell 
r=r1. Jan. ~/j  Men's & Women's Indoor Track  @  6:00PM  vs. Michigan State  
Sat. Jan. ff>  Women's Tennis  and  @10:00AM @ 3:00PM  vs. Illinois State vs. Northern Iowa  
Men's &Women's Swimming Women's Basketball  @ @  4:00PM 6:00PM  vs. Villanova vs. Virginia Tech  

LAFAYETTE SOUARE TOWN HOMES 
"The Best Value Per Student" 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN HOMES OFFER: 
• 
4/5 Private Bedrooms 

• 
Fully Equipped Kitchens 

• 
Washer & Dryer in Each Unit 

• 
Central Air Conditioning 

• 
Assigned Parking Spaces 

• 
ADT Security Systems 

• 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 


ONLY AFEW LEFT FoB 2002-2003 
RESEil£ YODIS TODAY! 
Call 219-234-9923 


Professionally Managed by:  ,,,,,,,_, ~  
Real Estate Managemenl Corporation  .  ._,..  .  ,,  
P.O. Box 540  130 South Main Street  
South Bend. IN 46624-0540  

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
SOME REASONS WHY You SHOULD JOIN OUR COMMUNITY: 
• 
Over 1,000 SF of Living Space 

• 
2 Bedrooms/ 1 Bedroom -· Double Vanity Sinks 

• 
4 Blocks South From Notre Dame Campus 


O 4 8d 
S·t L d F ·1·t· ne -eroom
• 
0 n-1e aun ry acI 1 ,es Double Unit Avdildble 

• 
On "Transpo" Bus-Line 

• 
Professional Management Call 219-234-9923 

• 
24-Hour Emergency "On-Call" Maintenance 


Notre Dame Apartments Continues to Offer Quality Housing Opportunitiesand Has Become The Desi Ya/ue in Off-Campus living 
FILE TAX RETURN ONLINE 
Refund in ahout 14 days with direct deposit 1040EZ -$9.95 
l040A-$14.95 
Log onto www.I040.com/ctstax 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne · South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

I 
1 
I 
I 
I 
! 
j I 
I 
I I 
j 


1,' 

,,. 
page 22 
Cornette 
continued from page 24 
Georgetown's Mike Sweetney -a player nearly 40 pounds heavier than the 221-pound freshman. 
Despite taking a pounding from Sweetney. Cornette scored 11 points and grabbed three rebounds. 
'Tm really proud of Jordan Cornette," Notre Dame head coach Mike Brev said. "To ask what we asked · him to do on arguably the best player in the league and get physical with him, I'm really proud of him." 
'Tm confident that whoever I guard, I can give him a tough challenge." said Cornette. 
It doesn't take long to see that the freshman is one of the most confident players on Notre Dame's bas­ketball team. He's not afraid to talk about his strengths. nor does he avoid addressing his short­comings. He doesn't back down from any opponent and even drew a technical foul Monday night when he exchanged shoves with Georgetown's Harvey Thomas. 
"I think the fact that I'm playing so much gives me confidence," he said. ''I've gotten confidence through showing I can play and I've proven to people that I can do things and contribute." 
"He's pretty mellow. a pretty calm kid," said Matt Carroll. "We try to get him more excited than he usually is. That's just the type of kid he is. He's one of the nicest kids, and he's got a lot of talent." 
It doesn't matter if he starts in front of a national television audience or comes off the bench -Cornette knows his role on the team very well. He's not under the illusion that he's supposed to be a great scorer. Instead, the quick 6-foot-9 forward knows he gets in games because he plays solid defense. 
'Tm very versatile," he said. "If I'm playing a big guy, my footwork will tire him out and I can play away from the basket. If I have a smaller guy, I can create post problems; I can't always body up guys, but I can get quick steals." 
Cornette admits he felt nervous during Notre Dame's first few games of the year. But he got over his anxiety in a hurry when he started the second game of his college career. Since then. he's started three more times and averages a little over 14 min­utes per game. And based on the way he's been playing lately, if Swanagan is unable to play this Saturday, Cornette will probably get the starting nod again. 
"He's coming," Brey said. "It was nice to Jordan Cornette [play with intensity]." And people are starting to notice. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
,,.,-omeIJL/meIJL l'.o:r 
~ 10 
t:rn,iII.i.Iig; cl.n,sses ~ 
Must Present This Ad Before Services Are Performed 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 24, 2002 
Wicks 
continued from page 24 

coach Muffet McGraw. "After watching the film we said, 'Hey, she's pretty good."' And with that. Wicks found herself on the way to Indiana. 
Following the Irish loss to Connecticut on Monday, however. Wicks went from a small town Wyoming girl to an integral part of a growing Irish team. The forward stepped into her own with a season-high 16 points, lead­ing the Notre Dame effort. 
Coming in with five other talented freshmen. the role Wicks would play on the team was unclear. With eyes turned first to South Bend native Jackie Batteast. and then Teresa Borton and Katy Flecky. Wicks seemed to be a solid bench player. . "Kelsey we saw as a player that would be coming off the bench," McGraw said. "We really weren't sure what spot she was going to play because she and Jackie are top-ranked team in the country on Monday, Wicks looked like she was back at home playing in front of her high school fans. 
"I think if you say to yourself, 'Oh my gosh, we're play­ing the No. 1 team in the country,' they become an entitv and that's always harder to beat than a person," Wick; said. "I think the point of every game is to say, Tm com­ing in. I'm matched up against this person.' I'm going to help my team do this and ultimately it comes down to how well you play for your team." 
And for Wicks, what team that is has taken on all kinds of forms. In addition to the once-a-vacation "Wicks family shoot-out" in the driveway of their home. Wicks found a spot as a high jumper on Campbell County High School's track team (she was a four-time state champi­on) and the school's first state championship golf team. Although she was a multiple-sport star, basketball is still her first love. 
"I love basketball," she said. "At basketball. I worked hardest." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvoy5695@saintmarys.edu. 


kind of similar in the roles that they play." 
But after the Connecticut game, McGraw saw that Wicks brought with her something she hadn't seen since Beth Morgan hit the court -a real spark. 
"[Kelsey is] willing to be the one that steps up to say, 'Give me the ball. I want to win this game and I'm going to take over to try to do it,"' McGraw said. And although Wicks has found her 3-point shot and stepped up for the Irish on the court, it's not her skills that set her apart. Although she played all five positions in high school, she's not as versatile in college, but she still makes her presence known. 
"At this level, I wouldn't say she's a versa­tile player," McGraw said. "I think the biggest thing with Kelsey is that she's fear­less. She's so determined. She doesn't really care. There was a game where she knocked somebody over off the ball and she kind of smiled as she picked her up." 
Those kinds of stories seem to fit with the Wyoming native who makes it quite clear that she's not from anywhere near South Bend. She's the only player. and probably the only Notre Dame student, to laugh that the best part about being a student at Notre Dame is the gorgeous weather. 
"She's the kind of person that the team kind of laughs with and at," McGraw said. "I think she responds well to that because she's from Wyoming, which is such a whole different place than anywhere else." 
That laid-back personality brings with it an ability to stay cool on the court. Even though the Irish were facing off against the 


SHORIN-RYU KARATE 
~~ 

DISCIPLINE • SELF DEFENSE • SELF CONFIDENCE • FITNESS 
CLASSES BEGIN THURSDAY, JANUARY 31 CONTINUOUS PROGRAM ­$25.00 PER SEMESTER 
MEETS: TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 
6:00-7:30 PM 
ROCKNE RM. 219 
DEMONSTRATION: TUESDAY, JANUARY 29 ROCKNE RM. 219 -6:15 PM REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS FOR CLASSES 
Write for Observer sports. Call Noah at 1-4543. 

4:00PM 

For more information please contact the Center for Social Concerns at 1·5293 
Take the Opportunity to Open Your Mind 

Hear the Experiences 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

-
___. 

Thursday, January 24, 2002 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 


FOXTROT 
J'ASON HASN'T WHAT OoES SEEN MANY THAT HAVE To jAMES 8oND Do WITH HIS Mo\/IES, BY MAYBE GETTING CHANCE, HAS HE? BRACES? 
\ J 




BILL AMEND 

.. 
"!E <:,oOS -THE EVIL MASTERMIND AND HIS HENCHMAN J'AWS HAVE BECOME oNE! 
/ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Two-master 55 Gets in over one's head?
1 Ring leader? 31 Family nickname 57 Disciplines
4 Postpone 59 Claw
9 Curtain fabric 32 Harding and Wilson 60 Bulky letters? 
14 Bambi's aunt 33 Ballyhoo 61 "Middlemarch"
15 Mystiques author36 Parlor game 16 "_ Dream" 62 Word of thanks 
(1967 hit) 38 Madison 63 New Deal prog. 
Avenue award 17 Dolt's attire? 

64 They may be19 Some bugs 41 Balloonist's broken in the 

figure: Abbr. 

20 Work with military enthusiasm 43 Vermont's 
65 AppointmentsMountain Resort21 Occupy 66 Flagstaff-to­

47 Some yarn

22 Seat of Garfield Phoenix dir. County, Okla. 48 "Take your time" 
23 "_crime?" 51 Book after Ezra: DOWN Abbr.
25 Salinger girl 1 Assure the 26 R.N. measures 52 North Carolina accuracy of motto beginning
27 Insinuative 2 Magnify remarks 53 Economy-size 3 Matisse, tor one 28 Bank 54 First person 4 Snack with cerveza 5 L.B.J. Library
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

site 
Puzzle by Rlch N0trla
6 Shiner, e.g. 30 Wrestler's 45 Stinkers 56 Hill dwellers
7 Worship groups manual? 
8 Braggart's suffix' 46 i = v/r
34 Throbs 
58 Items
9 California's 49 Without a 

Valley 35 "The lime transported on
scratch 
Machine" race car tops1 O Spicy chat? 
50 Hitting position 37 Response to11 Amasses 

daredeviltry 54 PIN requester 60 Mil. authority
12 Think tank types 38 "Gunsmoke"
13 Annual sporting deputy Answers to any three clues in this puzzleevent, with "the" 39 Milan attraction are available by touch-tone phone: 

18 _school 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
40 Kind of shot21 Rope 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 24 Fall preceder? 42 Airway best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 27 Retiring 44 Brings close years: 1 ·888· 7-ACROSS . 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): THIS DAY: Tom Selleck, Ann Jil­It's a good time to make career lian, Katharine Ross, Germaine changes. Interviews will go very Greer, Oprah Winfrey, Greg well. Your warmth and genuine Louganis, Heather Graham, character will win you points. 
You can use your unusual ideasEdward Burns 

Happy Birthday: This is not to show your versatility. 000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You
be the year to sit back and watch will do well in speculative moneyothers excel. To get ahead will matters. Spend some time with
take effort, but doing nothing will lead to future uncertainties. Stop children and don't forget to keep living in the past and start think­in shape. You have the energy to 
ing about wnere you are headed. juggle a wide variety of activities. Don't miss out because you are 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):

not willing to push a little harder. Your numbers: 3, 17, 19, 22, 41, 46 Avoid romantic interaction with ARIES (March 21-April 19): collea~es. Redecorating will cost Ask for favors, as long as you more than you want to spend. 
Emotional uncertainties will

don't require help with legal mat­ters. Take time to connect with make communication with your people who will appreciate your spouse difficult. 000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 

talents. Look into making some extra cash. Flirting will upset 21): Projects that involve telemar­keting or mail order should be of
your mate. 000 

TAURUS (April 20•May 20): interest to you. Look into the pos­Your lover will cost you financial­sibilities of starting your own 
small business. A relative mayly if you allow it. You will have to 

learn to say no if you don't want back your idea. 00000 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan.

to end up broke and alone. You 19): Don't let older relatives orare losing respect by giving in all siblings put demands on you. Dothe time. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): what you can, but don't feel You just can't keep your mind on guilty if you can't do it all. Your your work. You should be looking need to collect things will cause 
into foreign cultures or philo­grief. 00 · 
AQUARIUS ijan. 20-Feb. 18): 

sophies that can broaden your horizons about life, love and Romantic encounters will devel­op through social events or fit­
happiness. 0000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): ness programs. You will be able to make profits through invest•
You can expect to have problems 
with your lover. Do not allow ments. Popularity will be yours if you move into the limelight.
yourself to be taken advantage of when you are confused about 0000 the relationship. Ask point-blank PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
where you stand. 00 Your anger may lead you in the 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): wrung direction. Don't jump to Romantic opportunities will be conclusions. Think twice before plentiful. However, you must be you retaliate. You are not likely to 
careful you don't pick someone get along with co-workers or who is more interested in what you impress your boss today. 000 have than in who you are. 0000 
Birthday Baby: You can be pretty laid-back and easygoing most of the time. You have the ability to see things quite clearly because you take the time to wager the pros and cons. You are a thoughtful and careful individual. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com., astromate.com.) 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
... ---­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q > Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
-

Name ---------------------------­Address ------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 


----~· --­

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

Thursday, January 24, 2002 
BASKETBALL 

Fresh01en players prove themselves 
. Cornette 
. Small town girl surpasses team's takes initiative expectations 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spores Editor 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 

It all started with a tape and a dream.
Meet Jordan Cornette, Notre It's the usual story of a 6-foot-2 girlDame's "other" freshman. 

from small town Wyoming with a
While his classmate, Chris 

dream of spending four years in north­Thomas, entered Notre Dame 
ern Indiana. But none of the recruiters 
with the highest expectations of 

wanted that small town girl, so she any freshman in Notre Dame's had to take some small town initiative 
recent history, few people knew to let the world know what she could 

what the lanky forward from 

.do. 
Cincinnati, Ohio could do. 

Well, maybe that's not a usual story, That's just fine with him, any­but for freshman forward Kelsey way. Wicks that very story landed her in the 
"I knew Chris would come · middle of her d,ream. 
with a 1ot of fanfare, and that's "It was my dream to go to Notre been good for me," Cornette Dame," the Gillette, Wyo. native said. said. "A lot of people slept on me "I was like, Tm just a little girl from and didn't know what I could Wyoming,' so I sent them a tape and do." they started recruiting me ... That's 
Now, people know what how it started, with a dream and a Cornette can do. When he tape." comes into games, he knows Her senior year in high school, 
i he's in there to do three things: Wicks knew where she was going to grab rebounds, make the occa­college, even if her future choice sional 15-foot jump shot and wasn't quite aware that she even play superb defense played basketball. While other schools 
In Notre Dame's 72-65 loss to were recruiting her, and other players Kentucky. Cornette came off the str1:1ggled with their college choice, bench to defend last year's SEC Wicks kept her answer simple. 
Player of the Year, Tayshaun "No matter what school was recruit­Prince. The Kentucky forward ing me, I always said Notre Dame is only scored three points during my first choice even when they 
weren't recruiting me," she said. "Ithe 10 minutes Cornette was in was actually considering just comingthe game. 

I '.•-here and walking on if I didn't get a
And with Harold Swanagan 

scholarship; I wanted to play so bad."
sidelined by an ankle injury last So Wicks sent a tape to the coaching Monday, Cornette started the staff, in effect saying, "Hey, look atgame and played a career-high me."

31 minutes against 

TIM KACMAR/fhe Observer ,,_ BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
"We hadn't heard of her," said head

Irish freshmen Jordan Cornette, left, and Kelsey Wicks both overcame obstacles throughout see CORNETTE/ page 21 their careers in order to play Notre Dame basketball. see WICKS / page 21 
FENCING 

Irish prepare to lead at national championships 

By MIKE CONNOLLY Spotts Writer 
Nobody can deny that the 2002 Irish fencing team 
See Also 
is talented. It 
For a squad by
has a barn full of All­squad preview Americans, 
of the 2002
NCAA quali­
season, turn to
fiers and international pages 17, 18 superstars 
and 20 . 
. waiting to make a run at the national championship 
in March. The first United States Fencfng Co aches Association poll lists the Irish as the No. 2 team in the coun­try. 
Expectations are very high for this year's team. 
··1 think we can take the gold this year. I guess I am kind of biased because I am on the team," sophomore epeeist Kerry Walton said. •·1 know St. John's is going to be a hard team but I think we have a very solid team. I believe we are all team players and together we can pull it out." 
But with those high expecta­tions comes something dan­gerous: overconfidence. 

Irish head coach Yves Auriol has already noticed his fencers slacking off a bit and not get­ting the results he expects. 
"[Tuesday] I got mad at them a little bit," Auriol said. "We don't want to take anything for granted. The results last weekend [at a North American Cup event at the Century Center] could have been high­er." 
Auriol, who will retire at the end of the season, knows that his last Irish team is also one of his most talented but talent doesn't always equal champi­onships. 
"I know we aren't where we are supposed to be," the 2001 USFCA head coach of the year said. •·11 doesn't take much to derail. If everyone is fencing at their best, we are a good team. But I tell people not to put too much faith in the polls, not to put too much faith in what they read in The Observer, we haven't won any­thing yet." 
Senior sabre captain Andre Crompton says he won't let this team get too confident. 
He has seen good Irish 
teams come up short in the past. He won't settle for any­thing less than a champi­onship this year. 
"I think the over confidence is really hitting a lot of people that expect us to win," Crompton said. "But coming as a fencer that has been there and see talented teams that just couldn't win those last couple of bouts at NCMs, I am not overconfident." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 


. ND Track vs. Michigan State, Friday, 6 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. Men's Basketball vs. Seton Hall, Saturday, Noon
SPORTS 
online 

. Women's Basketball vs. Virginia Tech,AT AGLANCE Saturday, 6 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 


Thursday, January 24, 2002 

The Observer's Voting Guide to the Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance Elections 

Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, vice presidential candidate, and Kim 
Jensen, presidential candidate, are the only remaining tickets in 

ELE 
N OF ONE 
Students shocked, apathetic, about one-ticket presidential race 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Many Saint Mary's students were shocked to find out Wednesday that they would face yet another single-ticket election this year. 
The ticket of Caroline Coughlin and Jeanna Winchester, one of two tickets registered for the 2002 Board of Governance election, dropped out of the race early Wednesday morning. 
"I think that's bad," junior Adrienne Potoma said. "It's kind of a monopoly. You have one opinion that is going to survive and no one to represent the views of everyone else. It shows a lack of self-esteem running in the other stu­dents that they are afraid to run." 
The one remaining ticket contains cur­rent members of Saint Mary's Board of Governance, executive treasurer Kim Jensen and sophomore class president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, while Coughlin and Winchester were students who were not involved in student gov­ernment. 
After last year's election when Michelle Nagle and Kristen Matha ran unopposed, the students express a sense of deja vu, disillusionment, and, at the same time, hope for change. 
"New tickets mean more variety," freshman Megan Flick said. "The single ticket will probably be more passive. They need competition to stay on top of things. On the other hand, they may have more time for issues." 
The second single-ticket election in a row has driven students to question whether or not students outside of stu­dent government are even interested in BOG. 
"Maybe somebody who would take the challenge would be able to overcome being an outsider," freshman Alison Nickerson said. "If people are so intimi­dated that isn't right." 

The new state of the elections has not altered many students decisions to vote or not to vote. 
"I [still] plan to vote," sophomore Nicole Clery said. "To vote in a one-tick­et elections seems kind of pointless, but I'm still going to vote." 
On the other hand, other students said they didn't know enough about the elec­tion and the issues to cast a vote regard• less of how many tickets were running. 
"I probably won't vote, because I'm not an informed voter," Potoma said. "I think a vote matters too much. I haven't been able to keep up with student gov­ernment. It's not my place to say who shouldn't be there anti who should." 
At first, Nickerson said that she proba­bly wouldn't vote in Monday's single­ticket election. She said she might con­sider marking an ballot with an absten­tion. 
.. I would just think that they were going to win anyway so why vote," Nickerson said. "Now that I have heard of the abstention option, I still may." 
Students may vote for the single ticket, or they may choose to abstain and mark that on their ballot. 
The ticket remaining on the ballot still needs a majority vote to become elected, so an abstention would serve as a vote against them. 
"I plan on voting," Sonia Hernandez, a senior resident advisor in Le Mans said. "I have friends in other classes. I want to make sure I leave them with a good government. Even though there is only one ticket I will still vote." 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
INSIDE Candidate Profile, page 2 I Meet the Candidates, page 2 I Power of BOG, page 4 
Thursday, January 24, 2002 

page 2 The Observer • NEWS 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Campaigning for more than a 
win 
Running a campaign is not an easy thing to do. 
Candidates have to identify initiatives that stu­

dents want on platforms, put themselves on the 
line in front of the student body at Meet the 
Candidates night, subject themselves to an interro­
gation by The Observer's 
editorial board and try to 
convince 1,500 women they . are the best choice to lead 
the College. 
During the middle of last 

week, Board of Governance 
Elections Commissioner 

Mary Crawford told The 
Observer there were four 
potential tickets running 
for office. That meant only 
eight women were willing to 
take that risk. 
By Monday at 5 p.m., only 

two tickets had turned in 
platforms -and by early Wednesday morning, the 
Coughlin/Winchester ticket bailed, leaving the stu­
dent body at Saint Mary's with only one choice for 
their leaders for the coming year. 
There is no clear answer why for the second 

year in a row, the student body will not choose its 
leaders. There is no clear answer why, for the sec­
ond year in a row, leaders will be elected by 
default. (Of course, students could exercise the 
option to abstain. But it's not realistic to expect 
enough abstentions to keep the remaining ticket 
out of office.) 
Perhaps outsiders to student government ­

"dark horse candidates" -are intimidated by 
those with experience. Perhaps that's why they 
won't put themselves on the line. Perhaps students 
in a small community have simply carved their 
leadership roles elsewhere, thinking they can be 
more effective in other venues. 
But there is more to a campaign -to an election -than winning. 
Campaigns are an opportunity to pose ideas to 

the student body. They are an opportunity to bring 
up issues of concern at Saint Mary's -whether 
they be student safety, academic freedom, race 
and diversity issues, curriculum or general educa­
tion issues, ideas for improvement of student life 
or a vision of what a Saint Mary's student should 
be in the coming century. 
Even if their ticket is not elected, for a week each winter, students have an uncensored pulpit to speak from about the issues that matter most to them, and an opportunity to tell the College what needs to be changed and what they are passionate about. 
With one ticket left on the ballot for the second 

consecutive year, that debate is harshly silenced. 
There can't ever be a one-sided debate. As a com­
munity, we suffer and lose the best opportunity we 
have to change the College we love by not provid­
ing this debate. 
The best campaigns are those that make tickets realize they must incorporate the ideas of other tickets in order to run a successful administration. If this happens as a result of debate in an election, there is never truly a loser. 
There is still time left. While the deadline has 

passed for the student body president and vice 
president elections, RHA, Diversity Board, SAB, 
SAC and class elections are still around the corner. Take the opportunity to suggest ideas on how to change your College. Take the opportunity to make 
a stand. 
Don't be quiet. 


Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saint­marys.edu. The opinions represented in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

. Ticket encourages students to vote in single-ticket election 
By MARY CAMPE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students had a chance to meet the remaining candidates running for student body president and vice-presi­dent Wednesday night during the "Meet the Candidates" session. 
Student body president candi­date Kim Jensen and vice-presi~ dent candidate Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl were present to answer questions posed by the Board of Governance and attend­ing students. 
When asked if they were con­cerned with how students were going to react to their opposing ticket dropping out, handing over the almost automatic win to them, they responded that they were more concerned with other issues. 
"Our only concern with that issue is the hope that students will still vote. We hope that they (students) will not feel they do not have to vote with only one ticket running," said Jablonski­Diehl. 

Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl's slogan is "Getting the Job Done." They emphasized the importance of continuing key issues and con­cerns left to them by their prede­cessors, Michelle Nagle and Kristen Matha. Some of these continuing issues include pursu­ing a study day for Saint Mary's students and increasing student government awareness on cam­pus. 
Some new issues they hope to carry out consist of implementing a more extensive detex program. They explained that they would like to have Detex capabilities such as purchasing power in the bookstore and laundry machines. Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl were unsure of what students wanted as far as Detex usage, but they both agreed there was a need for such a thing. 
"We will research what stu­dents want and see if there is even a need for such a program," said Jensen. 
They made it clear that although they may not be able to completely carry through with the Detex ideas, research and an depth look into the possibilities can be promised. 
"We can't make any promises," said Jensen. :·our main focus is to get the ball rolling on issues important to the students." 
Another concern both candi­dates emphasized was the knowl­edge of student government among students. Both hope to educate students about who and what the student government is about. 
They also held as a high priori­ty the strengthening the relation­ships between the three campus­es. 
"We have a group of students living on our campus who go to Holy Cross and many of us do not know what goes on over there," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
They also said they wanted to continue to support Student Diversity Board. 
Thus far, Jensen and Jablonski­Diehl explained that student gov­ernment has helped fund this young branch of government until they can support them­selves. Until then, they hope to increase student diversity on campus through the financial support of this board. 
Other issues on their platform included improving dining hall food and continuing the fight for a study day for Saint Mary's. 
"We feel like we are almost there," Jensen said regarding the study day. "We will just· have to continue what Kristen and Michelle have already started." 
Contact Mary Campe at camp9575@saintmarys.edu. 
Voter's Guide Staff 
Writing 

Sarah Rykowski, Katie Rand, Mary Campe, Mike Connolly 
Photography 

Nellie Williams, Jennie Buehler 
Lab Tech 
Brian Pucevich 

Production and Editing 
Noreen Gillespie 


Thursday, January 24, 2002 
The Observer • NEWS 

CANDIDATE PLATFORM 
Who they are and what they' re proposing 
KIM JENSEN AND ELIZABETH JABLONSKI-DIEHL 
.Ticket aims to 'get the job done' 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 
Kim Jensen and Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl say they have the experience and know-how to accomplish realistic goals that will benefit students in 2002-03. 
"We know where to begin," Jensen said about the pair's past Board of Governance experience which they say will be an asset if they are elected. 
While they have some origi­nal ideas such as increasing the uses for student Detex cards and making students more aware of the Student Academic Council, Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl mostly rely on continuing the policies of Nagle/Matha. 
"They've taken things so far," Jablonski-Diehl said. "We need to pick it up and fol­low through." 
The biggest project Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl plan to continue is the addition of a study to Saint Mary's calen­dar. Although the Faculty Assembly blocked the plan of previous student governments to take away class days for a study day, Jensen/Jablonski­Diehl will try to turn registra­tion day into a class day to open up a day at the end of the semester for studying. 
"We know where to begin." 
Kim Jensen 2002 BOG presidential candidate 
"It's something that stu­dents really want and I think the faculty understand that this is important," Jablonski­Diehl said about her ticket's plan to work closely with fac­ulty and administrators to accomplish their goals. 
The Board of Governance spent most of this year's term trying to make themselves more known to the student body. As part of her duties as student body vice president, Jablonski-Diehl will bring the same strategies she learned in BOG to help student recognize and understand the Student Academic Council. 
"It's a wonderful tool we have and I don't think stu­dents know how to use it," she said. 
Jensen/Jablonski-Diehl's most ambitious project is expanding the usefulness of the Detex cards. Currently students can use the cards to enter and exit their dorms but this ticket thinks they can do more. 
"I think the Detex could go a: lot of different places it would be a great service for stu­dents," Jensen said. 
They plan to investigate the possibility of using the cards to pay for laundry, items at the bookstore and vending machines. They caution, how­ever, that this project will take a lot of time and money. They don't expect to finish it in one term but do hope that they can get the ball rolling. 
Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl certainly have the experience to understand how student government works. 
Jensen, a junior from Momence, Ill.. worked on the executive board of Michelle Nagle and Kristin Matha's administration this year as executive treasurer. The polit­ical science and psychology double major is also a mem­ber of judicial board and was a representative to the Diversity Board. 
Jablonski-Diehl. a sopho­more from Atlanta, Ga., was elected sophomore class pres­ident this year. The psycholo­gy and communications dou­ble major has worked on the freshman class board and as an orientation counselor. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 





r~·~.,~ 

-.... -, ..... 

-,:!"..._ 

s a..ir:l. t. J!-4a. z:-y , s .2002-2003 
"€-j..:·"''··,..;,:;-:~..... 


St"l..2d~rit Be>dy E1~~t:..ic:>r:i.s Com.i:n.g! 

<?~­
.,.,,,:;;:_~­

l!-!lo:n.d.a.y r Ja.ri'1..2.a.z:-:y: 2 a th , 2002 
A.1.1 Da.y 

o~-Cam~~s St'1..2den.ts ~e>te in. th~ di:n.i:n.g ha..1.1 d'1..2~i:n.g a..1.1 me.a.is. 0££-Ca~~~s St:."1..2d~:n.ts ~c:>t:.e iri the off-~a.rnp'1..2s lc:>'1..2:n.ge f~e>m 9a.m-4pm. 
Come a.rid pla.~e yo'1..2z:-~c:>te fe>~ ye>~~ S t.~d..en.t. Body P~esiderit & ~i~e fc:>~ the 2002-2003 s~he>·o.1 





er,
-, 
-~ ·t....
a:..._ 

-
Thursday, January 24, 2002 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 

Untying the hands of power 
This year's Board ofGovernance finds mixed success in using its power to make policy changes; gives advice to future leaders 
By KATIE RAND 
News Writer 
At the end of the 2001-2002 Board of Governance term, student body presi­

' 
dent Michelle Nagle and student body vice president Kristen Matha attempted 

t 
\ \ to make two major policy changes. One, the revamping of how Board of Governance allots money to student groups, was successful. Another, adding a study day to the academic calendar, failed. But why did one succeed and the 
) other fail?
' 
Part of the reason is that budget changes fall completely under Board of Governance's jurisdiction, a unique power granted to the Board. With the ability to control funding falling com­pletely under their power. there is very little red tape to cut through. 
The student government budget, made entirely of funds from an annual fee added to students' tuition, is com­pletely at the discretion of BOG. 
"BOG has an amazing ability in that we have direct access to our funds," Nagle said. "It's something that BOG has complete control over." 
Because of this ability. however. BOG found itself under a lot of pressure to fund large events, sometimes entire trips, that groups wished to take. Matha thought there was no consistency from jurisdiction of student government, the year to year for how money was allot­board needs the approval of the regis­ted, and Nagle agreed. trar, academic affairs council and facul­

..There was no consistent standard, ty assembly . people were pulling numbers out of the "Adding a study day involves chang­air," Nagle said. "It was not a responsi­ing college-wide policies and going ble system." through the college system," said 
Thus they decided to slightly change George Rosenbush, Board of 
the way in which students are given funding for events. To implement the change, the two brought the pro­posal to the rest of their Executive Board, which approved it. The measure then went to Board of Governance as a whole, and the board voted to enforce the policy. 
Since it was an internal student government policy, 

"BOG has complete control over anything involving student life: student government, clubs, organizations and residence halls . ... We try to let them make decisions for themselves as much as possible . ., 
George Rosenbush Board of Governance adviser 
Governance adviser. 
Nagle and Matha said they did every­thing in their power to persuade the other two campus entities that a study day would be beneficial. The propos­al met with opposition from Faculty Assembly because professors don't want to lose a day of instruction and have questions about how the day would be utilized by students. 
"We even got the col­lege president on our side, but at the last 
BOG was able to make the necessary adjustments without taking it further. 
But enacting the study day proposal proved to be a more difficult challenge, and provided more channels and red tape to cut through. Because changing the academic calendar is outside the minute the third entity, the faculty. said no," Matha said. "But we made progress, we were only one step away." 

Nagle, Matha and Rosenbush all think that BOG is at a point now where they can make significant changes on cam­pus. 
"BOG has complete control over any­thing involving student life: student gov­ernment, clubs, organizations and resi­dence halls,.. Rosenbush said. "Anything involving the student body is under BOG, so we try to let them make decisions for themselves as much as possible." 
While the push for study days will most likely pass on to the next BOG, a main focus is to continue strengthening the relationships student government has with other parts of campus. 
"We did it with the administration, and it would be great if the next board could build a better relationship with the faculty," Nagle said. 
Matha also thinks that next year's BOG should try and strengthen the bonds with the faculty. 
"Next year's student government needs to carry it on," Matha said. "They won't get anywhere if they can't keep the lines of communication open between students, faculty and adminis­tration." 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saint­marys.edu. 
,.J 





