
VOL. XXXVII NO. 31 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
College replaces interim security head 
By JAMIE BELCHER 
Nev.-s Writer 
Dan Woods is leaving his position as interim security director at Saint Mary's to l'ocus on his other role of safe­ty officer. Rosemarie Harris has been appointed as his replacement. 
"Mr. Woods is our safety offi­cer," said Linda Timm. vice president for student affairs. "It was becoming very difficult to manage both the responsi• bilities of safety officer and the responsibilities of interim director." 
According to Melanie Engler, 
public rela­tions direc• tor. the decision to switch interim directors was based solely upon 

the desire Harris to allow 
Woods to focus his full atten-

Rabbi defends Pope Pius XII 
ByKATERlMcCARTHY 
News Writer 
Connecting recent debates on Catholicism to Church involve­ment in the Holocaust, Rabbi David Dalin challenged the his­torical rep­resentation of Pope Pius XII during World War 
II. 
In his Monday evening lec­ture, "Pius XII and the Jews," Dalin, a Princeton pro­fessor, criticized books that vili­fy Pius XII, such as Garry Wills' "Papal Sin" and John Cornwell's "Hitler's Pope." These books address Pope Pius' alleged fail­ure to speak out against Hitler during the war. 
"Hitler's Pope" denounces Pope Pius as "the most dan­

"Pius XII was not Hitler's

gerous church ration of man in modern pope but the closest Jews excommuni­history," with­cation could
had come to having a 

out whom have done 
"Hitler might papal supporter. " some good, never have but it also been able to could have
David Dalin 

press forward," enraged
rabbi and Princeton professor

Dalin said, Hitler and 
lonely voice in the silence and darkness enveloping Europe this Christmas ... the pope put himself squarely against Hitler," Dalin said, reading the editorial. 
The Nazis understood the Pope's statements as attacks on their regime, Dalin said, adding that Hitler's notes spoke pub­licly of wanting to besiege the Vatican. 
"Pius XII was not Hitler's pope but the closest Jews had come to having a papal support­er," Dalin said. 
Dalin went on to illustrate efforts the pope made to protect Jews. 
"In the months Rome was under German occupation Pius XII instructed Italy's clergy to save lives by all means," he said. 
After discussing several acts that showed Pius' benevolence toward Jews during World War II, Dalin addressed the question of why Pius never excommuni­cated Hitler. 
He said a 
papal decla­

adding that such views are gross misrepresentations. 
I-le pointed out that many prominent Jewish leaders both during and after World War 11, including Albert Einstein, Golda Meir. Moshe Sharett and Rabbi Isaac Herzog, expressed pub­licly their gratitude for the efforts made by Pope Pius dur­ing the war. 
Dalin also highlighted the efforts made by the bishop of Rome during the war to con­demn the Nazi regime. Giving one example, Dalin read an edi­torial in the New York Times the day after the Pope's 1941 Christmas address. 
"The voice of Pius XII is a 
provoked 
retaliation towards both Jews and Catholics causing "the mass murder of hundreds of thou­sands more." 
Dalin called for "a new under­standing of Pius XII's role." 
"It needs to be remembered that he had been so universally praised by the Jews," Dalin said. "[Pius] saved more Jews than any other person." 
In response a dissenter that questioned the extent of Pius' efforts, Dalin said, 'There is no question Pius XII could have done more." 
Contact Kateri McCarthy at kmcca.rt3@nd.edu 
tion on his responsibilities as chief safety officer. 
Harris. Woods' replacement, said she is using her first week at Saint Mary's to get settled into her new role and meeting with faculty and reviewing operations of the department. 
"Everybody that I came into contact with here at Saint Mary's has made me feel so welcome and they're helping in every way they can," she said. 

Harris is a former member of the Notre Dame Police Department and has also served in other colleges departments. She was the deputy chief of police at Butler University and was captain of the operations division of the Indiana University at Bloomington Police Department. Harris is a grad­uate of the federal Bureau of Investigation National Academy and the Indiana Law Enforcement Academy. 
The fact that a new and per­manent director of security has not yet been appointed. 

however, is unsettling to some students. 
"It makes me nervous because if we keep changing [directors) how can we be secure?" said sophomore Maureen Bush. "Where's the continuity?" 
Saint Mary's plans to launch a nationwide search for a director this spring, according to Timm. 
Contact Jamie Belcher at belc5 l 0 l@saintmarys.edu 
Johnson empowers women 
. Women's talk celebrates school's co-education week 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 

Women should emulate char­acter traits in other women who they look up to, Chandra Johnson told a group of female students Tuesday. 
"Look at your mother, look at the women in your life and pick and choose what you want to replicate in your own life," said Johnson, assistant to University President Father Edward Malloy and assistant director of Campus Ministry. 
Johnson's hour-long talk in Welsh Family Hall was part of a week of activities observing the 30th anniversary of co-educa­tion at Notre Dame. The stu­dent government-sponsored events began Sunday with a run to benefit breast cancer research. 
In a revealing discussion, Johnson recounted growing up in South Central Los Angeles with a mother suffering from bipolar disorder. The mental ill­ness led her mother to say and do things that h u r t 

Chandra Johnson, assistant to University President Father Edward Malloy discusses women's issues Monday night in Welsh Family Hall. The discussion is part of the Co-Educational Week to celebrate 30 years of women at Notre Dame. 
or the woman God created me to be." 
The person Johnson is today isn't the one she was 10 years ago, she said. 
She took the Campus Ministry position in July 1996, two months 
a f t e r
"We have to know how to
Johnson's 

receiving
self-confi­work with men ifwe're 
her bache­dence. going to effect change in a lor's degree Johnson's 
in theology.
male-controlled structure. " 
work as an She's been 

executive Malloy'sassistant in Chandra Johnson assistant the male­
assistant to the President s i n c e 
dominate d corporate world also skewed her percep­tion of herself and other women, she said. 
But Johnson began to think differently when she entered Notre Dame in 1992 as a 38­year-old undergraduate. 
"When I sat in those classes and read those books. a whole new world opened up to me," said Johnson, now 48, to a group of about two dozen stu­dents, including three men. "I decided that I was either going to be the woman my mother convinced me I was going to be 
August 
1998. She is the first woman to hold the job and is the sole female administrator in Malloy's office. 
Her presence brings balance to the president's office, she said. 
"I wonder how they func­tioned so long without a woman's perspective," she said. 
Being the only woman at the boardroom table is sometimes intimidating, Johnson said. Still, she urged students to never be afraid to speak their opinions. 
She said Notre Dame is still a male-dominated institution but pointed to signs of female progress, such as the election of the University's first and second female student body presidents in the past two years. 
Cooperation between the sexes is key to the advancement of women, Johnson said. 
"We're not going to bust open the system if we go in with an attitude against men," she said. "We have to know how to work with men if we're going to effect change in a male-con­trolled structure." 
Notre Dame first admitted women as undergraduates in 1972. Student Body President Libby Bishop's office will spon­sor events through Sunday to recognize the 30-year anniver­sary. 
A campus· kickball tourna­ment at Rolf's Sports Recreation Center is planned for today. The competition between residence halls to cre­ate banners celebrating co-edu­cation will end with a panel judging the banners today and announcing the winner at Friday's pep rally. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@ncl.edu 
--· ----­
Tuesday, October 8, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 


I love North 
I never thought I'd say these words ­ever -but here goes: I love North Dining Hall. 

Although I'm less than 75 feet from the building, I've never been a fan. Like most students living in North Quad, I've always savored those treks to South Dining Hall, feeling like a country boy in the bjg city as I stood in South's food serving area, taking in all the selection. 
Since last week, however, I've gained a new appreciation for lowly old North. 

It all started last Tuesday when I agreed to meet some friends from Saint Mary's at Noble Family Dining Hall. Now I had heard horror stories of food at Saint Mary's but none of them prepared me for dinner at Noble. 
It au started innocently enough. 
Well. actually it didn't. 

I strolled over to the salad bar pretty impressed with the selection. It featured croutons, shredded cheese, fresh vegeta­bles and just about anything else you could ask for except for one thing -let­tuce. Where they hide the salad at that salad bar is a complete mystery to me. 
I finally decided to cut my losses on the lettuce and put some dressing on the croutons. Italian seemed like a nice choice until I noticed that the large bottle of dressing was perfectly separated into its oil and vinegar parts. 
"It'll do that sometimes," replied the salad bar attendant when I pointed this problem out. I didn't bother to inform her about the lettuce situation. 
Salad was obviously not an option that night so I moved on to the main course. 

Saint Mary's dining hall is a lot smaller than North or South at Notre Dame so it's easier to decide what to eat. My deci­sion was primarily based on the fact that there was really just one choice. The pasta station lacked pasta (again, I didn't ask any questions} and I didn't feel like a sandwich so I hopped in the remaining line to see what it offered. 
I won't bore you with the gory details of the food I ended up with -meat shadier than anything in North Dining Hall's stir fry station, flavorless potatoes and steamed vegetables that had the life sucked out of them during their prepara­tion. 
All I'm going to say is that my experi­ence was so bad that I took my friends up on an offer to treat me to pizza at Dalloways using their munch money. 

Now I'm not writing this column to insult the women ofSaint Mary's or their precious dining facilities. In fact, l love SMC and I'm one to give credit where it's due. For example, Noble definitely gets props for its desserts: gourmet double chocolate caramel brownies and awe­some cookies, but those alone didn't jus­tify the 20-minute walk to our sister school. 
The point of this column is to make you fellow North Quaders aware of just how good we have it. 
I love North Dining Hall -there, I said it again. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize char w<: will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, pleas~ conract us al 631-4541 w we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Bush clarifies
Cabinet plans 
U.S. position
campus 
in Iraq during 
activities, 
praises tent 
T.V. address 
Members of the 
President Bush 
defended his rea­
Executive Cabinet 
praises tent featur­
sons for possible 
future action in
ing student perfor­
mances and contin­
Iraq during a tele­
ued planning for 
vised presidential 
upcoming activi­
address in Ohio. 
ties. 
page 6 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Allan Hiley British drawings exhibit. Snitc Museum of' Art, all day. 

. 
Lecture by Hobcrto Curley. "Mexican Catholicism in the Hevolutionary Period." llesburgh Center, 12:30 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Spirituality Lecture by Susan Simonaitis. "Tradition as a Source of Wisdom." Stapleton Lounge, 
12:15 p.m. 
. Aquinas Lecture Dinner. Noble Dining Hall, President's Boom. 

. 
Campus Bible Study, Coleman-Morse Center Conference Boom, 7 p.m. Bring your own Bible. 

. 
Lecture by Patrick Gnazzo, CEO of United Technologies Corp. Jordan Auditorium, 7 p.m. 

. 
Choosing a Major Night. Stapleton Lounge, 5:30 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Tomato soup, New England clam chowder, Mexican beef pizza, Polish sausage, sweet and sour cabbage, kluski noodles, potato and cheese pierogi, apple crisp, peppered tangerine chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, asparagus tips and sloppy Joes. 
Today Dinner: Tomato soup, New England clam chowder, Mexican beef pizza, roast top round, sauteed herbed mushrooms, green bean casserole, baby carrots. apple crisp, kung pao chicken, spinach quiche, orzo and por­tobello, Italian-blend vegetables, cajun chicken breast, broccoli quesadillas and baked sweet potatoes. 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Beef ravioli, spinach fet­tuccine, tomato pizza, apple turnover, barbeque beef sandwich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken, oriental vegetables, roasted Rosemary potatoes, corn dogs, fishwich, soft pretzels, stir fry beef and peppers, chicken fajitas. 
Today Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, spinach fettuccine. tomato pizza, apple turnover, vegetables mari­nara, capri-blend vegetables, baked tur­bot jardiniere, beef bourguignon, bour­bon-baked ham, baked sweet potatoes, sweet and sour chicken tenders, jalapeno poppers and broccoli quesadil­las. 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Chef's pasta with marinara sauce, hot and sweet tofu, grilled vegetable pitas, taco salad in tortilla shells, Monte Cristo, chicken breast, french fries, funnel cakes, but­ter herb baked cod, supreme and cheese pizzas and deli bar with cajun chicken salad. 
Today Dinner: Vegetable cacciatore, chefs pasta, garden marinara, roasted potatoes, garlic bread, sweet and sour chicken with sticky rice, soup bar with fresh bread bowls, carved honey ham, au gratin potato, pepperoni, mushroom and cheese pizzas and deli bar with Cajun chicken salad. 
TODAY TONIGHT 

WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
ta: 
8 LI.I X ~ 
..I 
<
Q 

(f 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Malpass addresses local business leaders 
Notre Dame vice president for finance and chief investment officer Scott Malpass addressed Michiana business leaders during the annual President's luncheon. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Student defends Notre Dame football rankings 
A Notre Dame student defends Notre Dame's posi­tion in the BCS rankings, disputing comments made in a Chicago Tribune column. 
pages 8-9 


0

..J HIGH 50 HIGH 63 HIGH 67 HIGH 63 LOW 43 LOW 54 LOW 48 LOW 51 


SCENE 
Music critics review Beck's latest album "Sea Change" 
The Observer music critics review Beck's lat­est album "Sea Change." Find out if Beck's latest work, written and recorded in only eight days, is a suc­cess or failure. 
pages 9-10 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Suspicious behavior reported 
A University administrator reported suspicious behavior outside the Main Building. 
Students break liquor law 
Two students were issued a State Citation for minor consumption of alco­hol in South Dining Hall. The case has been referred for administrative review. 
Employee reports vandalism 
A University employee reported van­dalism in DeBartolo Hall. There are no suspects and the case is still under investigation. 
NDPD transports injured 
student 
NDPD transported a student injured during a fall to Memorial Hospital downtown. The injury occurred outside of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Information rompi/edfrom NDSP Crime Blotter 
SPORTS 
Siegfried crushes Carroll, McGlinn beats Howard 
Siegfried defeat­ed Carroll in a 41-0 blowout and McGlinn outscored Howard to win 7-0. Check out these games and other interhall football highlights. 
pages 12, 16 


Atlanta 71 / 62 Boston 57 I 46 Chicago 67 / 49 Denver 60 / 42 Houston 82 I 69 Los Angeles 87 / 60 Minneapolis 56 / 43 New York 62 / 48 Philadelphia 65 / 49 Phoenix 95 / 68 Seattle 62 / 48 St. Louis 71 / 53 Tampa 89 / 71 Washington 67 / 52 

---------------------------------------------~----------------------­
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

INFORMATION SESSIONS AT THE CSC October 8 (Tuesday) 6:30 -7:30 p.m. October 9 (Wednesday) 7:30 -8:30 p.m. October 29 (Tuesday) 7:30 -8:30 p.m. 
**Stay Tuned for an Information Session at a Dorm Near YOU!** 
NOVEMBER 1n (FRIDAY) REGI.ITRATION DEADLINE 10:00 P.M. 
This 1-credit seminar enables you to witness the conditions of poverty, homelessness and racism in our cities through the lens of Catholic Social Teaching. The ..Plunge" is a 48-hour urban immersion over Winter break at one of40+ sites across the United States. To participate, a registration form must be completed through the Center for Social Concerns. 
All Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are eligible. 
-..... .... REBECCA S IUMPF/The Observer 

Senior Renee Donovan and Father Joe Carey, a Campus Ministry priest discuss commitment Monday night during a sexuality lec­ture on "Relationships: Sexuality at Its best." 
Series looks at commitment 
At the start of the evening, Bryant said. 
By SARAH NESTOR 

participants were asked to Participants then wrote 
News Writer 

define commitment. Then stu­questions down on cards that dents and the moderators were collected arid randomly shared their experiences read out loud, allowing every­Discussing the importance of while in committed relation· one a chance to answer. commitment in relationships, ships with family, friends or Questions ranged from students gathered to share significant others, voicing the whether or not commitment is their thoughts and experi­impor-the same as ences with each other Monday tance of love, how
"There has to be that
at Saint Mary's. honesty distance The discussion "Moving and com­willingness to compromise." affects rela­toward Commitment, Part I" promise. tionships was part of this year's Student "If you and if com­
Angela Bryant 
Affairs sponsored talks feel like mitment to
counselor,
"Relationships: Sexuality at its you are another best." sacrificing Counseling and Career Development personModerating the discussion yourself or should 
were Student Affairs Vice are wor-supersedePresident Linda Timm, ried about how you should act career goals. Director of Campus Ministry because you just can't be you "There are relationshipsJudy Fean, Father Joe Carey and be accepted for who you where you can have both and Angela Bryant from The are then don't make a com­[commitment and career]. Career and Counseling Center. mitment to. that person," There has to be that willing­
ness to compromise," Bryant . 
PIZZA & STICKS -NO SALES TAX 
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Breadsticks Only $9.00! ! 
Delivered to your Door! We Pay the Tax! 
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER OFFERS EXPIRES 10/27/02."NO SALES TAX" OFFER GOOD WITH ABOVE PROMOTION ONLY. VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. 
_ WE WATCH COMPETITOR'S COi.JPONS. 

• 
~ ·1: SR 23 AT IRONWOOD _PIZZA COMPANv-• (Next to Subway) 
plzzadonerightl 211-1211 

campus shoppes 
ColnUJ1it5ll1Ne1d!aio)10¦ 
said. "Find an individual that is willing to support career goals." 
Ending the session partici­pants found that the keys to commitment are communica­tion, trust and friendship. 
"[The other key to commit­ment is being able] to know that you can disagree, but in a respectful manner," Bryant added. 
Students will have the chance to discuss commitment again at the next sexuality dis­cussion "Commitment Life Realities" on Nov. 11 at 7 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
JACC adds extra seats for Mellencamp concert 
2002-m Mainstage Elell!<On ~otre Dame, Film. Tde,·ision, an<l Theatre preseuh; 

by Niccolo Machiavelli ====:;., Translated by Wallace Shawn Playing at Washington HaJI 
Wednesday, October 9 7::10 p.m. Thursda), Ociobe.r 10 7:30 µ.m. Friday, October 11 7:B0 µ.m. Saturday, Odoher 12 7:30 p.m. Sunday, October 13 2:30 p.m. 
Heserved Seats $10 Seniors $9 • AH Students $7 
Ti(•kels are available at tht" door or in advunce at lhe Lafortune Student C:entt>1·. 
Mas!erCan1 and Visn orde1·s, <'all 6:Jl-Kl:!8. 
Tickets available at the Morris Performing Arts Center rrRFORMINGARTSCENTEusouruaENo,1N Box Office, or charge by phone 
FRIDAY, i~~~ER, nH ~ij~~l1-om ~1~m-m~ 
online@www.MorrisCenter.org 

A NiteLite Promotions Presentation 
per Chuck D of the group  Further ticket information  
Public Enemy, soul singer India Arie. and country artist  can be obtained by calling the ticket office at 631-7 356.  Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu  
Trisha Yearwood.  

Qtee and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
...and every second Tuesday of the month 
7:00 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay 
and Lesbian 
Student Needs 
invites Gay, Lesbian, 
and Bisexual 
members of the 
Notre Dame family, 
their friends and 
supporters to an 
informal coffee at 
the Co-Mo. 


. Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
University ofNotre Dame International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
2003-04 Academic Year 
BERLIN 

2003-04, Fall '03 and Spring '04,~ , ... ,,,. ·Vr • ;. ,.,,,, 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber and Returnees ofthe Program 
Wednesday, October 9, 2002 118 DeBartolo 
7:00 pm 

Application Deadlines: Questions??? Innsbruck: Dec.1,2002 Weber.l5@nd.edu Berlin: Oct. l, 2002 for Sp '03 Applications: 
Dec. 1, 2002 for F '03 www.nd.edu/~intlstud and AY 03-04 
By JOHN FANNING 
News Writer 
American rock legend John Mellencamp will be making his way to the Notre Dame Joyce Center Nov. 2 touring in 
support of his 16th studio a I b u m ''Cuttin' Heads." 
Tickets for the event, 

which went Mellencamp on sale Sept. 27, sold out during the first 24 hours. But in response to the event's popularity, how­ever, the Joyce Center ticket office has made rear stage tickets available for sale. 
The added seats for the con• cert are on sale for $34 and can be purchased at the Joyce Center Ticket Office on the second floor of the Joyce Center weekdays between 9 
a.m. and 5 p.m. For an extra service charge, tickets can also be purchased online through Ticketmaster. 
The record, which was released October 2001, debuted at No. 15 on the Billboard Top 200 album chart and sold around 75,000 copies in its first week, according to Mellencamp's official Web site. The album, which has received much critical praise, features ten new studio tracks as well as guest appearances from artists as diverse as rap• 
-----------~ ~ -~ --,­
·,­

WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush fears 'murderous tyrant' may target U.S. 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

President Bush, seeking sup­port for war against Iraq, called Saddam Hussein a "murderous tyrant" Monday night and said he may be plotting to attack the United States with biological and chemical weapons. 
Bush also said Saddam could be within a year of developing a nuclear weapon, and ho declared, "Facing clear evi­dence of peril, we cannot wait for the final proof -the smok­ing gun -that could come in the form of a mushroom cloud." 
"I am not willing to stake one American life on trusting Saddam Hussein." the president said. 
His address opened a week of debate in Congress over resolu­tions giving the president authority to wage war against Iraq. The House and Senate planned votes for Thursday, and the Bush-backed resolution was expected to pass by wide margins. 
Facing skepticism at home and abroad, Bush portrayed an apocalyptic struggle between good an evil, saying the threat posed by Saddam could dwarf the damage done in the Sept. 11 attacks. He said Iraq must be the next front in the war on terrorism. 
"There is no refuge from our responsibilities," Bush said. If it comes to war, "We will pre­vail." 
Citing U.S. intelligence, Bush said Saddam and his "nuclear holy warriors" are building a weapons program that could produce a nuclear weapon in less than a year. U.S. intelli­gence agencies issued a report last. week estimating 2010. 
"If we allow that to happen, a terrible line would be crossed," the president told civic group 
leaders  at  the  Cincinnati  
Museum Center.  
As  he  spoke,  new  polls  

revealed lingering unease among voters about going to war, particularly if casualties were high or fighting distracted attention from America's sag­ging economy. Democrats criti­cized Bush's insistence upon confronting Iraq alone if the United Nations failed to act. 
About 1,000 protesters gath­ered outside the building where Bush spoke. police said. Tafari McDadc, 11. held a white posterboard on which he had drawn the twin towers of the World Trade center. "We shouldn't go to war," he said. "I came down here with my mom to tell people that." The presi­dent hopes an overwhelming vote in Congress will persuade reluctant allies in the United Nations to adopt a tough new resolution forcing Saddam to disarm -by force, if necessary. 
"If we have to act, we will take every precaution that is possible," Bush said. "We will plan carefully. We will act with and desperate measures," sug­the full power of the United gesting that biological and States military. We will act with chemical weapons could be allies at our side, and we will used against U.S. troops. He prevail." warned that Iraqi commanders 

Bush said a cornered Iraqi would face war crimes charges military may "attempt cruel if they followed such orders. 

President George W.. Bush speaks live to the nation at the Cincinnati Museum Center Monday Cincinnati, Ohio. The president sought to make the case for military action against Iraq. The House and Senate will vote Thursday on a resolution that will authorize the President to wage war against Iraq. 
The president said U.S. intel­ligence shows Iraq to be build­ing manned and unmanned aerial vehicles that could be used to target the United States with chemical or biological weapons. 
INDIA 
Four dead in Kashmir as final round of elections near 
Associated Press 
SRINAGAR 

Pakistan and India traded artillery fire on Monday, leaving four Indian sol­diers dead, as election officials prepared for the final round of elections in Kashmir. 
A senior police officer said that 50 to 60 rounds landed in Indian territory, killing two Indian army soldiers and two paramilitary guards. 
pjdng was heavy overnight about 65 miles north of Srinagar, the summer capital of the Indian state of Jammu­Kashmir, a senior Indian army officer 
told The Associated Press on condition Vote counting from the four-phase of anonymity. elections ending Tuesday is expected to Election-related violence left at least start Thursday and final results are 
eight people dead on  expected by Saturday.  
the eve of the fourth and final round of vot­ing for the seven remaining seats of  Election-related violence left at least eight people dead on the eve ofthe  The Indian govern­ment hopes the elec­tion will defuse support for Islamic separatists  
Jammu-Kashmir's 87­ fourth andfinal round of  who have fought since  
seat state legislature. The dead included  voting ...  1989 to merge Muslim­majority Kashmir with  
three rebels killed in a  neighboring Islamic  
gunbattle, and three  Pakistan  or make it  

kidnapped Hindus, whose bullet-riddld­independent from predominantly Hindu ed bodies were found away from their India. village. India accuses Pakistan of trying to dis­rupt the elections and aiding the mili­tants. Islamabad denies the allegation, and calls the Kashmir elections a "sham." 
The South Asian nuclear rival coun­tries have fought two of their three wars over Kashmir. Both claim the Himalayan province in its entirety. The Line of Control, drawn in 1972, divides the province between Indian and Pakistani control. 
A local newspaper, The Himalayan Mail, said Monday that 180 civilians and security men have been killed in Jammu-Kashmir since the first day of polling on Sept. 16. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. denied Iran airspace for Iraq attack: 
Iran will not allow the United States to use its airspace to attack Iraq. and its armed forces will defend the country's territory, the Foreign Ministry said Monday. "We hope such an error will not be committed by anybody," ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi said. "It's clear our armed forces are prepared to defend the coun­try's territorial integrity and its airspace and land. The Islamic Republic will not accept such acts in any way." He said Iran was not a friend of Iraq but will not take part in any military opera­tion to topple Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. Iraq's neighbors fear a U.S.-Iraq war would destabilize t.he region, and Iran fears U.S. influ­ence in the region would increase if Washington succeeds in ousting Saddam. Iran fought a 1980­88 war with neighboring Iraq and the two sides still view each other with suspicion. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Mourners bury victim of mob beating: 
Hundreds of family members and friends buried Charlie Young Jr. on Monday, little more than a week after he was beaten to death by what police say was a mob of children. Mourners received programs with pictures of Young on the cover and inside, of his dog, Ty Ty, and his best friend. It said Young loved his mother's cooking and work­ing with his hands. 
Sailor held on bail in New York City: 
A Navy petty officer charged in the death of a female shipmate told police he went to another room and went to sleep after watching her fall from a Times Square hotel window, court papers say. Petty Officer Brian Cooley, 29, was held on $250,000 bail after his arraignment late Sunday on a manslaughter charge in the death of Lisa Tedstone, 30, a seaman from Simpsonville, S.C. 
Shuttle Atlantis begins anticipated mismon: 
Atlantis blasted off on the first shuttle flight in four months Monday, with a side-mounted video camera showing the coastline and the brilliant blue ocean receding fast in the distance as the spaceship climbed toward orbit. The shuttle rose from its seaside pad under tight post-Sept. 11 security, carrying six astronauts and a 14-ton girder that will be installed on the international space station later this week. It was the first shut tle launch since early June, a long and frustrat­ing delay caused by cracked fuel lines that grounded the entire fleet. The space agency's boss, Sean O'Keefe, described the successful return to flight as "a big deal for NASA." The launch also marked tho debut of the shuttlecam, a color video camera mounted near the top of Atlantis' external fuel tank. The camera beamed down live images as the shuttle soared out over the Atlantic. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 
Members praise The Tent 
Senior Class president Matt Smith con­

By MATI BRAMANTI 
firmed that the "Senior Friday" event will News Wrirer 
be held Friday from 12 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the Alumni-Senior Chili. The event will Executive Cabinet members met briefly feature a cash bar and all the Subway you Monday night to discuss upcoming student can eat for $2, Smith said. Senior Friday activities. is open to members of the Class of 2003 
Amy O'Connor, who leads the Club who are at least 21. The lunch is jointly Coordination Council, sponsored by the Class of 2003 and the reported on the suc• 
Alumni-Senior Qub. cess of "The Tent," Student leaders also promoted the erected in front of the events surrounding the 30th anniversary Hesburgh Library of co-education at Notre Dame. Student before the Stanford Body President Libby Bishop encouraged game. The Tent Cabinet members and their constituents served low-priced to attend Wednesday evening's panel dis­food to students and cussion. The panel, which Bishop will hosted dance perfor-moderate, will include administrators. mances by eight Notre Bishop faculty members, and students who expe­Dame student groups. rienced the changes that began in 1972, Approximately 200 students stopped by the first year Notre Dame admitted female the tent on Saturday, according to undergraduates. O'Connor. "It will be great discussion about how 
"It was a great opportnnity for the clubs far we've come as an institution," Bishop to perform in front of an audience," said. O'Connor said. "I was really pleased with the size ofthe crowd." 
The Tent was sponsored by the CCC, 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu

and food was provided by the Sailing Club. 
Students fight illiteracy 
said Gayle Silver, director of the 
By CAITLIN FARLY 
South Bend Schools Adult Education 
Nc:ws Wricer 
Program. 
The Literary Council's success 
Notre Dame students. working in relies heavily upon the 119 volun­partnership with the St. Joseph teers who make a minimum commit­Literacy Council. are attempting to ment of six months to the program. combat the wave of illiteracy that Notre Dame students comprise a has hit St. Joseph County in recent large portion of this group. years. Notre Dame students have also 
In the latest National Adult taken the initiative to expand the Literary Survey, it was estimated programs of the St. Joseph Literacy that 700,000 adults in Indiana were Council into various aspects of the illiterate. St. Joseph County literacy community. Two graduate students rates rank among the lowest in the are currently working with the 
state. council to organize a program that The St. Joseph Literacy Council 
would bring GED classes into the serves as the umbrella organization local jails. under which various literacy pro­"We serve the community to pro­
grams, such as the South Bend vide adults with a second chance at Schools Adult Education Program making it in the world," said Silver. operate. The Literacy Council trains "While there is a lot of work to be 
volunteers and provides them with done in trying to meet the needs of tutoring materials. these folks. it our committed staff The Council offers a variety of ser­and the Notre Dame volunteers that vices such as GED classes, ESL pro­
help to make a difference." grams a life skills training. "Our goal is to take adult mem­bers in the community at every level Contact Caitlin Early at and bring them to the next step," cearly@nd.edu 
College dorms plan more programs 
By MELANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
As Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association strives to implement new programs and activities on campus, it has been recognized for its achievements. Saint Mary's has received numerous awards at the sub-regional and region­al level for its excellence in residence halls in the last few years. 
Every year the Regional Board of Directors to the Great Lakes Association of Colleges and Residence Halls {RBD) sets policies and standards for resi­dence housing and watches over the residence hall associ­ations in the Great Lakes Region. RBD oversees the resi­dence hall programs in partici­pating colleges and universi­ties. In turn the residence hall associations compete at local levels during fall and early spring semester. 
Colleges from across the nation meet every May for the National Association of Colleges and Universities Residence Housing (NACURH) to honor outstanding Residence Hall Associations. 
At last year's Indiana Conference at Ball State. Saint Mary's won first place awards for school spirit, school dis­play and roll call, a perfor­mance by the delegates that represents life at Saint Mary's. 
Former hall director of Le Mans and former Indiana Advisor to the NACURH. Laura Sobiek also received the award for Hall Director of the Year. Priga.nc was named regional NCC of the year and competed at the national level for her work on the all-school formal. Additionally, senior Whitney Ross, this year's NCC, won an award for hosting the: RBD retreat. 
Ross plans to attend the Great Lakes regional confer­ence this November. There, she will present her 30-page bid, "A League of their own. 
Wham! Women have a Mission," for regional school of the year. 
"The bid exemplifies all aspects of student life," Ross said. 
This year, RH.A has plans to improve the quality of campus life by adding more to campus activities. Work with a home­1ess shelter, awareness months, Hall of the Month competitions and updating the 
RHA web page are on the agenda, said Jillian Kamaski, RHA president. 
"The one thing that we are hoping this year to do is to cre­ate more hall spirit and hall pride within each residence hall," Kamaski said. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck093 l@saintmarys.edu 


you're invited! 
For: BP Information Night 
Date: October 8th , 2002 
Time: 8:00 pm 
½ hr Presentation ½ hr Q&A 
Place: DeBartolo Rm 240 
This session will focus on full-time and internship opportunities at BP for undergraduate Chemical and 
Mechanical Engineers. 
BP is one of the world's largest energy companies. We are committed to finding innovative solutions and acting in a responsible manner. bp
OTo find out more, join 
~

us on October 8th • 
THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 
Thursday, October 10 
7:00 P.M. 208 DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch October, 7 
DowJones 

7,422.84 -105.56 
NASDAQ 

1,19.40 -20.50 
s&P500 

785.28 -15.30 
AMEX 

797.97 -15.81
•
NYSE 

427.59 -8.72
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
-4 . 02 !lt~illi 9 . 08 
.,, -0. 93 ~:~i;ji~i 20 .16 lime\ +5. 19lf@ruit 2. 56 
~ .kl 
~ I13 a2 
IN BRIEF 
J.P. Morgan to cut thousands ofjobs 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. is expected to cut several thousand employees in the next few weeks, published reports said. 
Bank officials are currently drafting lists of layoff candidates, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal reported Monday, cit­ing unnamed company executives. As many as 4,000 employees. including some of the bank's managing directors, could lose their jobs. 
Adam Castellani, a spokesman for J.P. Morgan, declined to comment on the reports. 
The affected divisions are likely to lose as much as 25 percent of their staff, the reports said. 
The layoff plan is expected to include employees who specialize in mergers and acquisitions, equity and debt underwriting and private banking. Most of the layoffs are expected to come from J.P. Morgan's offices in New York and Asia. 
Supreme Court allows asbestos trial 
The Supreme Court has refused again to get involved in a dispute over a giant asbestos trial in West Virginia that big cor­porations claimed could cost them millions. 
Tho court in September refusod to stop the trial from starting and then said Monday it would not review arguments from Mobil Corp. and other large compa­nies that the large trial was unconstitution­al. 
"These fundamentally unfair procedures will render West Virginia a national asbestos-litigation magnet," the Supreme Court was told in a filing by Christopher Landau, the attorney for General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Daimler Chrysler Corp., which supported Mobil Corp. 
The trial combines the cases of some 8,000 people who claim asbestos exposure. The 8,000 people live in as many as 35 dif­ferent states and should not be allowed to join in one trial, the court was told. 
O
THE 

BuslNEss 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
Malpass speaks on economy 
most telecommunication companies won't survive the coming economic cycle because of probable geopo­litical shocks and the unmasking of corporate business scandals. 
Conceding that war with Iraq would be initially detri­mental with investors fear­ing inflated oil prices and a "double-dip recession," 
COLLEEN GANEY 
News Writer 
Scott Malpass, Notre Dame's vice president for finance and chief investment officer, stressed the impor­tance of skepticism and modest expectations in the world of cyclical financial investment during his University programs of over $300 million. The endow­ment is currently distributed among academic chairs, undergraduate scholarships, graduate fellowships and a variety of other programs. 

After ref1ecting on the inertia of the 1990's "tech­bubble" that led to incredi­ble economic opportunities, Malpass warned of the dan­
keynote address at the ger of annual President's overconfi­Luncheon for Michiana dence. Business Leaders on "Market Monday. · timing 
During his address, "New doesn't Realities in Global always Investing," Malpass work," he assessed past and future s a i d , market conditions and out­referring lined Notre Dame's invest­to the fact ment goals . that equi­
Malpass works closely ty market 

"[The key is to] think more 
about what can go wrong 
than what can go right. " 
Scott Malpass Notre Dame Chief Investment Officer 
Malpass expects the econ­omy to rebound if the nation engages in what he antic­ipates will be a 90-day 
Malpass outlined the bul­let points of the University's investment philosophy. Notre Dame advocates what Malpass calls the "I don't know school" of investment principles, operating according to skepticism, modest expectations and humility. 
"[The key is to] think more about what can go wrong than what can go right," he said. "[Investment is about] making judgments about the future. The future is inher­ently uncertain." 
Rejecting the myth of the "silver bullet" or a venture with predicted high returns and no risk, Malpass said that markets function over time by repossessing extra­ordinary earnings of the past. In order to take advan­tage of short-term volatility. Malpass said that Notre Dame is primarily investing in hedge funds, which are specialized private invest­ment portfolios that value controlling risk over maxi­mizing returns. Also, the University is reducing its bond allocations and looking into real estate strategies and community investments such as timber. 
Contact Colleen Ganey at mganey@ncl.edu 
with the investment and finance committee of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees in budgeting and managing University investments. Community members attending Monday's speech were eager to gain insight direct from the financial expertise that garnered top returns during market booms. 
From 1979 to 1999, the University endowment increased from $135 mil­lions to $2 billion while gen­erating an income for returns were, on average, less than average T-bill returns from 1995 to 2000. 

Malpass said he expects little economic improvement over the next nine to ten months. explaining that inflation should be moderate and interest rates have reached their cyclical low. 
According to Malpass, the coming economic atmos­phere will create a "stratifi­cation" between those who want to work hard and those who want easy answers. He believes that 
war. 

Malpass said that Notre Dame's $3.5 billion in finan­cial assets, which includes a $3 billion endowment that ranks as the 19th largest in American higher education, is invested in public and pri­vate markets across the globe. Endowment invest­ment enables the University to balance its financial sup­port of present and future generations of students and faculty by keeping purchas­ing power equal to or above rates of inflation. 
WorldCom exec pleads gulity 
. Official helped hide billions in expenses 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A former WorldCom exec­utive pleaded guilty Monday to securities fraud and con­spiracy, saying he acted on orders from his superiors, and agreed to cooperate in the probe of the largest cor­porate accounting fraud in 
U.S. history. Buford Yates said in federal court that he was instructed by supervi­sors to misreport expenses, allowing WorldCom to over­state earnings by $5 billion between October 2000 and April 2002. 
Yates admitted he helped the company Wde billions in expenses; WorldCom offi­cials say the total amount of financial misstatements is more than $7 billion. 
"I came to believe that the adjustments I was being directed to make in WorldCom's financial state­ments had no justification and contravened generally accepted accounting princi­ples," Yates said in court. 
"I concluded that the pur­pose of these adjustments was to incorrectly inflate WorldCom's reported earn­ings in order to meet the expectations of securities' analysts and mislead the investing public," said Yates, 46, who had served as WorldCom's director of gen­eral accounting. 


Yates' lawyer David Schertler said his client had argued against the accolll1t­ing tricks, but was over­ruled. 
"He strenuously objected to making those adjust­ments," said Schertler out­side court. "When he raised those objections, he was told they had been approved by the highest levels of WorldCom management." 
The lawyer would not say if that included former CEO Bernard Ebbers, who is under investigation but has not been charged in the case. Ebbers has denied any wrongdoing. U.S, Magistrate Judge Andrew J. Peck said he would recommend that a federal judge accept the plea. 
Sentencing was set for Jan. 9, 2003. Yates faces 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine on the most seri­ous charge of securities fraud. 
.., 
Prosecutors say Yates car­ried out orders by chief financial officer Scott Sullivan to hide $3.8 billion in expenses in order to make the telecommunica­tions giant appear prof­itable. Since the accounting mess first came to light. WorldCom officials have said roughly $7 billion was misreported, and more recent reports have placed the final figure as high as $9 billion. 
O
THE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page8 Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining I--Wl, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPO!Nf EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 5cENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EOITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOl!l Katie McKenna 
ADVEJtTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGJ:.R: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CoNTROJ..UR: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OrnCE M.ANAGER/GENER.\L lNFo..............631-7471 FAX......, ...................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAsS'r. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63I-53I3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsm:ws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................63I-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observet.smc. !@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEil ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at bttp:llobsnver.nd.edu fur daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independen1, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universityof Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advetcisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Ol,sm,,rpolicies shou/,:J be direct­ed to Editor in Chief fawn McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obw:nn (USPS m 240) a; pubfuhcd Monday fflrough Friday cxapt durin& cum and va:::aUOnpcriods.A 1ubsuipcion w ThcObt.en-a Ui $100 for one .w.:adcmK ynr. S'55 for one scmoter. 
The <.Jhsrvcr i. publhhed a.,: PoSI'MASTEA 
024 Sou1h Dining H;JJ ~d~nsa rnrrectioni to:. 
Nom: Dame, IN 46SS6-0n9 Th,Oboc,.., 
Paiodic.J po-st~ p&icf ~I Nocre Dame r.o. n,,. Q 
and ~tiomU mainnc offku. No"" Dam<. IN ~556--077'J 
TM Obtel"Vd' Pa mtmbcr oithe A»ociam:! Pms. All ~roducrion riplu « 
""""" 


The first women to walk under the Golden Dome as students encountered a much different university than l have. Now, 30 years after the admittance of women, many throughout the campus 
community have taken the opportu­nity to examine the  Joanna . Mikulski  
status of women  
and gender rela­tions at this univer- Tuesday Voice  
sity. The increased  
number of female  
students, the suc­ 

cess of women's athletic teams and the presence of women in all aspects of campus life highlight the strides women have made since 1972. 
Yet, although these tangible statistics are relevant when considering gender equity on campus, the fight to build a campus community that regards women and men with equality contin­ues. The true measure of equality lies in the assumptions, ideas and perceptions surrounding "Notre Dame women." 
After three years, I know a lot about what is thought of them. I have heard comments and read newspaper articles suggesting that Notre Dame women are not that attractive, wear sweatpants and sneakers too often and spend too much time pouring over books and homework. 
Yet, at the same time, I have heard male students refer to a female stu­dents dressed in tight clothing as a "slut." Other male friends have told me that they wished female students did not wear such revealing clothing. They said that they were concerned that the women demonstrated a lack of self­respect by dressing as they did. 
Of course, Notre Dame women are not the only women who must choose to come across as a "slut" or a "nice girl." However, campus culture increases the strength of the assumptions about women's dress and behavior present throughout society. 

A recent report by the University Committee for Women, Faculty and Students confirmed what all students at this university already know: Male and female dorms operate under a different set of rules. It outlined the differences in security presence at male and female dorms, the questionable actions of some security monitors at female dorms and the discrepancy between how strictly rules for alcohol consumption, parties and parietals are enforced. 
The security around female dorms acknowledges a reality. I know that as a woman, I have to act with more caution than my male friends in many situa­tions. However, by separating male and female students to such an extent, it makes both men and women more con­scious of the role that they play for the other sex. It confirms mistaken ideas that rape occurs not at the fault of the man, but instead at the lack of caution and protection surrounding the woman. Furthermore, it imposes boundaries between male and female students that strain relationships between them. 
A former resident of McGlinn Hall, I have found it much easier to have male friends without the dormitories sur­rounding us. Yet, it seems that single sex dormitories, a school tradition and unique campus communities, will remain at this university. Therefore, the University needs work towards ensur­ing that male and female students receive equal treatment. In doing so, it must not only look at increasing securi­ty in male dormitories, but also at edu­cating rectors, rectresses and residents assistants about the problems of unequal treatment, assumption and perception. 
Of course, campus living situations are not the only problem. Although women have stepped into important roles on campus, women still need to have a greater presence within the administration. Football still receives more money and attention than any other sport. Men still have the highest. most visible positions of spiritual authority on campus. 
But then, I believe that I have seen this university changing in the past few years. It has made an effort to counter­act the detrimental stereotypes sur­rounding women at this university and to address the problems of female stu­dents. Last year, it allowed The Vagina Monologues, a celebration of woman­hood, despite the controversy surround­ing the play. A group founded two years ago, "A Life Uncommon," helps female students to build spirituality and self­esteem and to cope with eating disor­ders. Two women have been elected student body presidents. 
Yet, still more needs to be done. It is places like here -where women and men are intelligent, privileged and will­ing to enter into conversation -that problems of perception must be con­quered first. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior German and English major. She can be reached at mikulski.1@nd.edu. Iler column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Andy Thagard Helena Payne Maureen Reynolds Viewpoint Kristin Yemm Graphics Andy Devoto Illustrator Veronica Kelleher 
Sports Joe Hettler Lauren Dasso Christine Armstrong Scene Julie Bender Lab Tech Michelle Otto 

NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Are men and women treated equally at Notre · Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Whether outside work is done by choice or not ... the integration ofmotherhood and the world of work is a source of ambivalence, struggle and conflict for the great majority of women." 
Sara Lawrence Lightfoot professor of education 
O
THE 

VIEWPOI-NT 
Thursday, October 8, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR GUEST COLUMN 
Republicans disregard more than the law 
I would like to respond to Mr. benefited people like their greedy, rich O'Driscoll's Oct. 5 letter, "Democrats friends from places like Enron and disregard law in N.J." about the U.S. brought back federal budget deficits. Senate race in New Jersey. O'Driscoll All the while, nothing has been done to spoke of how Democrats in the state revive the spiraling economy and help disregarded the law and were "corrupt average families across the country. and malicious" in wanting to change And now, they arc failing to recognize the name on the ballot after their can­the rest ofthe world and a majority of didate bowed out of the race. I see this Americans in wanting to go unilateral­simply as wanting to give the people of ly into Iraq with an unprovoked mili­New Jersey a choice in what will be a tary assault. fair, democratic election. This is some­Republicans have disregarded the thing the state Supreme Court unani­people of this country and the issues mously felt as well. I do understand that matter to them for two years. O'Driscoll's concerns, but would say to They have not acted on the economy, him that if he is really worried about Social Security and Medicare, the envi­disregard for things in politics, then he ronment or many other issues that should be talking about the Americans want to see action on. Republicans not the Democrats. So, I would say to O'Driscoll that if 
President Bush and the Republicans he is really concerned about politicians have been disregarding the American disregarding things, he should get people and important issues since behind the Democrats and use much Election Day 2000. They failed to rec­stronger words than "corrupt and ognize all the voters in Florida and fur­malicious" to describe the Republicans ther ignored the fact that Bush lost who have led our country astray with the popular vote. This should have their agenda that disregards every­been a mandate for bipartisanship, but thing. it has been quite the opposite with Republicans as partisan as ever. They Andy Jackson failed this country in passing an irre­class of '67 sponsible tax cut which has mostly Oct. 7 
Irish will fight on, against opponents and naysayers 
In Rick Morrissey's Oct 7. Chicago much about a team as a 40-point mar­Tribune article, "Irish don't stir great gin of victory. It's a team that steps up thoughts," Morrissey says that the Irish and faces the adversities ofthe day to don't deserve their ranking and also win that is a great team. that the Irish are not and will not be a When asked if Notre Dame is one the great team. Morrissey peppers his arti­nation's best team, Coach Willingham cle with phrases like, "Notre Dame responded that he doesn't think about football is a matter of belief that, but that "all I want to be is the this season, and right team that plays the best on the now I'm an agnostic next Saturday afternoon. waiting for the next That's all I want." Morrissey llight out to athe­writes, "Until I can feel the ism." He says hole in Florida State's that our top-ten defense Oct. 26, I can't ranking proves believe in this team." "that comput­There are 12 games ­ers are just as not one -on the susceptible to schedule. and every substance game is important. abuse as Besides, I doubt the humans Notre Dame football 
,, 
are. team is looking for 
Maybe Morrissey's belief and Morrissey is support. They need a witty writer, only the coaches' but I would be belief and their own, hard-pressed and it appears that they to add "sports" have that. From a popu­to that title. Ile lar song in Ireland by the needs to stop day­Wolfe Tones: "You'll never dreaming in the beat the Irish ... you can put press box about his us down and keep us out but future accolades and star.t we'll come back again. We are the watching the football games fighting Irish and we will fight until the Saturday afternoons. end." 
No one will deny that the Irish have not dominated every facet of the game Jessica Laux this season. Yet somehow, they have senior found a way to come out on top at the McGlinn Hall end of each game. And that says as Ocr.6 
End the 'mommy wars' 
DURHAM, N.C. demons until they were 40, then slow 
Recently, in the waiting room of a doc­down to have children. The career 
tor's office, I picked up a women's maga­women had expected to do exactly that 
zine and, to my astonishment, discov and found they couldn't get pregnant 
ered the existence of an apparently well­when they were 40. 
known phenomenon The National Organization for Women 
called "the mommy Emily Streyer (NOW) had predictably suppressed the 
wars:" the mutual Carlisle dissemination of the physician's findings. 
disrespect that Does NOW really think women will 
moms who do mar­retreat en masse to ironing boards and 
ket work -"work­The Chronicle soap operas if they choose for them­
ing moms" -and selves, even though it means risking 
those who do non-some women will make divergent choic­
market work -"stay-at-home moms" -es from the organization's political agen­
hold for each other's choices. da? Surely no one can argue women are 
In a nutshell, moms who work outside better off choosing a career and then 
the home think moms who stay home heartbreak when 40 rather than making 
lack ambition; moms who stay at home an educated choice while they are young 
think moms who do market work selfish­enough to have a choice. We are not 
ly pursue careers at the expense of their going to undo 40 years of progress by 
families' well-being. allowing women to understand the con­
Among my peers and former co-work­sequences of their decisions. 
ers, the negative attitude toward the Critics of Hewlett have found her num­
ambitionless, stay-at-home mom pre­bers misleading, attributing her conclu­
vails. My college classmates held disdain sions to unobserved heterogeneity. such 
for peers who wanted to stay at home as differential marriage rates between 
with their future children. After college, "high-ambition" and "regular" working 
my female colleagues routinely mothers as well as male-factor infertility. 
expressed disgust with women who did Hewlett's message, however, is not to 
nothing all day but stay home with the tell young women to forget about their 
kids. MBA, Ph.D., M.D. or J.D., as NOW seems 
Women of my generation have been to fear. It's to tell them that in some 
brought up with the expectation that cases, they might need to re-think their 
we'll pursue meaningful careers. I prefer timetables, especially women whose 
the expectation that I earn my own living mothers went through menopause rela­
to the assumption that I can't, but I tively early. 
thought the idea was for women to have The debate is healthy: getting young 
a choice. women to consider their choices more 
A recent segment on National Public carefully is more important than whose 
Radio noted differential rates of depres­numbers are more correct. With so many 
sion between stay-at-home moms who options, the task of choosing is more 
choose to stay at home (they would have complicated. Women are up to the task, 
satisfying market work if they wanted) but we can't assume things will work 
and those who stay home because they themselves out. 
lack training, skills or support to work One of the greatest things about my 
outside the home. The difference is generation of women is that we are ben­
between those with a choice and those efiting from the lessons of both our 
without. mothers, many of whom had to work 
This segment included a contribution full-time to prove they could be more 
from an academic 08/GYN whose than housewives, and grandmothers, for 
research indicated that women's fertility many of whom market work wasn't an 
begins to drop in their late twenties, far option. I believe we will find the balance 
earlier than most women our age realize, between career and child-rearing easier 
and far before most high-ambition because of those experiences. 
women think about starting families. We should remember that to have a 
Sylvia Ann Hewlett writes about relat­choice is a fortune. We should not judge 
ed findings in her book, "Creating a Life: each other for exercising it. 
Professional Women and the Quest for 
Children." On a "60 Minutes" segment This column originally appeared in the 
with an interview with Hewlett, Oct. 3 issue ofThe Chronicle, the campus 
reporters interviewed young women in newspaper ofDuke University. It is 
Harvard's MBA program as well as reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
women in their 40's and SO's with great The views expressed in this column are 
careers and no children. The business those ofthe author and not necessarily 
school students planned to work like those oJThe Observer. 
A place for Kerri at Notre Dame 
I wish to commend the University of Notre Dame for remembering a young woman who would have been a freshman at Notre Dame this year. Kerri Castello died of cancer before she could begin her studies at Notre Dame. Saturday after­noon, Father Theodore Hesburgh dedicated a tree and a bench in a garden of Columba Hall, residence of the Brothers of Holy Cross. in memory of Kerri. 
Attending the ceremony were Dr. Richard J. Duffey of the Notre Dame Club of Mobile, Steve Warner and the Notre Dame Folk Choir, Dan Saracino, the director of Undergraduate Admissions. Kerri's parents, Sergio and Lora Castello. and Brothers of Holy Cross from Columba Hall. There is now a special place for prayer and remembrance of Kerri, facing St. Joseph's Lake. 
Brother Richard Shea Columba Hall 0cc. 4 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 "tuesday, October 8, 2002 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Nelson rocks the Morris 
By DANIEL MCSWAIN Scene Music Critic 
Willie Nelson must have the lightest tour bus in the history of show busi­ness. 
The man has sold 80 million records. He has recorded with the likes of Bob Oylan, B.B. King, Ray Charles and Paul Simon. He has writ­ten some of the most easily recogniza­ble songs in country and rock. He is a member of the Country Music Hall of Fame and is probably most recogniza­ble to our generation due to his spear­heading of the annual farm Aid con­certs. 
Still, the man tours with a light show that most car headlights would challenge. His stage setup is an elabo­rate arrangement consisting of exactly two flags alternated as backdrops during his show. On any given Wednesday night in downtown South Bend, the chances of finding a pot­smoking, tax-evading, pony-tailed man are pretty decent. Seeing one or twelve of them would normally be no cause for concern, much less excite­ment. 
This is part of Nelson's appeal: he has made his career by being the original working man, a humble entertainer who knows of no better life than the road. Nelson is an aver­age guy who just happens to be an exceptional songwriter and performer. He is also the original musical outlaw, as he would like to be known. and his independent and free-spirited live show has been entertaining crowds for decades. 
Last Wednesday night. Nelson's "Opera House Tour" stopped to play in front of a sold out crowd at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Before the group took the stage, an inflatable replica bottle of Willie's trademark "Whiskey River" whiskey bounced around in the foreground of the stage. As soon as the inflatable bottle of whiskey was removed, (it would only be shameless self-advertisement if the 
man didn't drink it at everv meal), Nelson and his traveling band appeared. They were truly larger than life even from the vantage point of the third bal­cony. 
Promptly at 7:30, Nelson took the stage accompanied by his veteran crew of performers. Nelson younger sister, Bobbie Nelson, sat comfortably behind a grand piano. She was joined by a guitarist, drummer, per­cussionist. bassist and a har­monica player. On the opening notes of lhe first song, the clas­sic "Whiskey River,·· a giant Texas flag dropped down behind the group, much to the satisfaction of the large Texan contingent obviously present at the show. Nelson was in his ele­ment. The show went into cruise control. From here on, the rest became history. 
Nelson and company went on to play without a pause for the next two and a half hours. There were no self-aggrandiz­ing breaks for applause. no fake exits designed to elicit an audi­ence response just to come back out and anti-climactically end an otherwise decent show. Nelson just played pure, no­nonsense, musical goodness. From the first song onward he moved through jukebox classics like "Georgia on My Mind", "Blue Eyes Cryin' In the Rain" and "You've Got The Money, Honey (I've Got The Time)." 
Interspersed between these rollicking classics were slower, but no less recognizable num­bers. "Crazy", which Patsy Cline immortalized, but Nelson wrote, was part of a medley that was spliced with "My Life," another hit of the golden radio age of the 60's. "Stardust," the title track off of arguably Willie's 

most significant work, hushed the 
crowd into an awe of amazement and nostalgia. "Me & Paul," a song writ­ten about the quasi­! e g a I shenani­gans that Nelson has become famous for over the years, repeats the line, "We've received our educa­tions / in the cities of the nation," a testament to the nomadic and law­I e s s lifestyles w h i c h have been the inspi· ration of so many 


Willie Nelson gave South Bend a taste of Texas last Wednesday with a strong set 
loaded with both original songs and long-time classics that had the audience up and 
dancing. 

Nelson songs. Rounding out the set were renditions of "All of Me," "Whiskey River" again (no one com­plained), and perhaps Nelson's most famous song, the car trip classic, "On The Road Again." 
Nelson and his band also played a few numbers off of his latest album, The Great Divide, which was released on the rapidly growing Lost Highway record label, home to both Ryan Adams and Lucinda Williams, among others. 
"Shut Up and Kiss Me" was an upbeat number, showing both Nelson's country roots and a heavy modern influence, coming together as a solid pop-informed country song. Especially moving was the rendition of "I Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Was In)," a tribute to Nelson's friend Mickey Newbury, the author of the song which was popu­larized by Kenny Hogers, who passed away two weeks ago. 
And for the big finale, Nelson forewent the usual showman's the­atrics, and decided, instead, to show just how average he could be. He gra­ciously accepted roses from audience members and hugged adoring fans reaching to touch a living legend and musical hero. The last five songs of the night were covers, with Nelson choosing to let other people's music shine in the memories of his audience. 
A rendition of an old Townes Van Zandt song, followed by four Hank· Williams songs, including the resur­rected "Move It On Over," which has recently found fame in a Gap ad, brought the show to an end. 
As Willie waved his final goodbyes, an American flag, which had replaced the Texas flag on stage, stood proudly. A Texas flag, brought no doubt by loy­alists from Willie's home state, flew gallantly in the third balcony. The audience had been brought to its feet, feeling like they had just witnessed a living part of history. And all the while Willie waved emphatically. a radiant smile and a humble "Thank y'all very much," the last scenes to which the crowd was treated. And that was it. 
No doubt Neh;on and his gang climbed back onto their tour bus, light cargo and even lighter egos and spir­its in tow, to continue the musical journey that is their lives. The road has been good to Nelson, and mainly because Nelson has been good to the road. The joy of making and sharing music keeps this true musician going. May the wind be always at his back. 
Contact Daniel McSwain at mcswain.3@nd.edu 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 page 11 
-------. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Andrew W.K. creates guilty pleasure 
will always

By GWEN SCHMIEDEBUSCH 
party hard." 

Scene Music Critic 
Such a sim­ple state­

"Party Hard," one of the major themes ment can and also the first single off of Andrew convev so W.K.'s debut album, can be described as much; the loud and obnoxious. Basically it is any­determina­thing but a work of genius. tion of the Or is it? "When it's time to party. we young to rebel, the dedication that so many have to the "party" scene and 
the idea that no self­respecting partyer would ever half-ass their duties at a party. 
The expe­rience of 
"W. K." 


I Ge+ We+ 

Andrew W.K. 
Island Records 


MTV binge  it is because the audience feels sorry for  
this summer.  him. Perhaps they are fascinated  
The video,  because they find themselves humming  
featuring a  along to music that seems shallow and a  
stringy  little too easily created. Whatever it is,  
haired W.K.  it's working.  
running  The album, entitled. "I Get Wet.'' has  
around hold­ been in rotating in CD players for the  
ing a micro­ past two weeks. Propelled by his first  
phone with a  two singles, "Party Hard," and "She is  
five-mile­ Beautiful," the album has the feel of an  
long cord, is  artist who acts tough, but is, in actuality.  
so pathetic  a big sap. The fact that his appearance  
and lacking  is utterly disgusting, that his vocals con­ 
in creativity  sist of either shouting or growling, and  
that one was  that he docsn't care about either, only  
compelled to  adds to his intrigue.  
watch. It  Andrew W.K, is one of those artists  
must be  that is either loved or hated. One can't  
noted that,  help but love this scuzzy new "talent."  
W.K.'s music  Other noteworthy singles include. "I  
is at the point where  Love NYC," "Girls Own Love," and "Take it Off." To anyone categorizing W.K.'s  - 
it is so bad,  music as something anyone could have  
that it's  done, the truth is yes. it is possible, but  
actually  as of yet he is the only one who has.  
good.  
Don't ask  

started for many when they happened  how this happens. With simple, repeti­ 
to catch the video for his second single,  tive guitar riffs and simple, repetitive  Contact Gwen Schrniedebusch at  
"She is Beautiful" during a late night  lyrics, W.K. hooks his audience. Perhaps  schmiedebusch. I@nd.edu  

ALBUM REVIEW 
Beck stirs things up on Sea Change 
By DANIEL MCSWAIN Scene Music Critic 
To argue that Beck has ever really had it all together is a wholly indefensible position, to say the least. But his work always had anguish in disguise. Beck used to hide these very base and human emotions in little Chinese boxes. all dressed up in the neon of sideshow freaks and cosmic noise. Never before had Beck sloughed off the convoluted postmodern rambling that marked his earlier work in favor of the naked and moving honesty of a true singer-song­writer. It is this role, that of the simple yet shockingly heartbroken poet, that Beck adopts on his latest opus, Sea Change. 

Written and recorded in only eight days, Sea Change comes with the kind of emotional baggage, personal despair and gut-wrenching pain that can only crawl out of the aftermath of an eight-year relationship. Akin to Ryan Adams' Heartbreaker and Marvin Gaye's Here, My Dear. this album lets the listener experience the despair of its author while leaving enough personal distance and ambiguity in the lyrics for individual interpretation. 
Still, Beck creates new sides of the bro­ken man in the way only a truly talented songwriter can. Vocally, he has shifted from the both the menacing snarl and psycho-babbling banter of his earlier work to a fuller, more low key style that sounds like a murmur with a drawl. The sometimes monotone but always mes­
merizing approach is pure vocal misery, 
but it is captivating. 
Recorded live on only two tracks, the 
music carries an almost endearing 
despair; Beck is hurting and you can tell 
before the first golden note escapes his 
throat. Harmonicas, guitar twangs, and 
violins abound in this orchestral-country 
sound-scape. The sedated sounds of his 
band only amplify the sloppy. slobbering 
sadness that Sea Change captures. 
With the help of longtime Radiohead 
producer Nigel Godrich, this album 
scopes from orchestrally lush to painfully 
barren. The absence of noise on some 
tracks such as "Guess I'm Doing Fine" 
leave you to deal only with Bock and his 
big, bleeding, broken heart with no 
relief. Other songs like "Sunday Sun" 
feature Beck and his band building a 
crescendo of sound, which is majestic 
but ultimately tragic. Four minutes of 
careful production and masterful instru­
mentation can't save the track from the 
eventual sonic bedlam, which it endures 
as the song de-evolves into an edrly of 
feedback and musical frustration. 
The standout work of the album is the 

album's second track, "Paper Tiger" a sublimely skewed work that display Beck's gifted lyricism with 
Godrich's seam­less production and artistic vision. "Little One" is reminis­cent of Beck's earlier· work, a meandering piece that explores despair via slightly obtuse imagery and lyrics. "Already Dead", a piece that begins sounding like a Victorian era minstrel song, suddenly changes into a terrifying eulogy for a relation­ship beyond repair. Beck perfectly describes this song and Sea Change as a whole as he drools out the line, "lt feels like I'm watch­ing something dying." 
Beck has harnessed one of music's most daunting tasks: to take a common feeling, a base emotion felt by all of humanity, infuse it with a personal pain all his own and regurgitate a product which is both accessible and intimidat­ingly unique. At first, the album feels sur­real. Anyone familiar even with Beck's one-night stands with Top 40 success will feel almost embarrassed at first listen. 

It's a lot like accidentally walking in on 
someone changing clothes, but more like shedding skin. The neck-craning human instinct that craves disas­ter makes this album a voyeuristic, yet hauntingly intro­spective piece. While full of pain, the album is never labori­ous to listen to. The songs create such an intrigu­ing sensation that they make heart­break sound fun, in a really, really sick way. Only someone with the pop sensibilities combined with the profound lyri• cal genius and flair for the slightly eccentric like Beck could make such a complicated yet simply beautiful masterpiece. While· Odelay may have been Beck's most 
entertaining work to date, Sea Change is 
undeniably the one that displays his mas­
tery of song the most and puts Beck in a 
select and sacred Pantheon of the great­
est names in music. 
Contact Daniel McSwain at mcswain.3@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Controversial call hurts Alumni in 7-6 loss 
end zone. yard pass to Walsh for his second game also gained 92 rushing for a 25-yard touchdown run.
By LISA REIJUIA, JUSTIN 
The no-safety call caused the touchdown. The ensuing conver­yards on the day. The extra point was good, mak­
SCHUYER and TREY 
game to finlsh on a controversial sion failed, making the final "Our offensive line did a great ing the score 7 -0. 
WILLIAMS 
note. · score 20-0. job," said Gorman. "We had a lot On Carroll's answering drive, 
SporLS Writers 
"I'm sorry such a tough game In addition to a successful of holes up the middle and we Vermin quarterback Uel Pitts 
-
Heading into the Alumni ver­sus Morrissey match up Sunday, both sides predicted the game would be a battle. 
Both sides were right. 

Morrissey (2-0) came out on top,. winning 7 -6 with a steady if unspectacular offense. The Manorite defense was consistent­ly strong all afternoon. 
Alumni, at times, appeared to be the better team. especially on offense. A few small errors proved to be costly for the Dawgs (2-1). The game started off chaotic for Alumni, as the refer­ee stopped the game because players were missing pads. The unfocused Dawgs also were cailed for an illegal snap and had a punt blocked by Morrissey dur­ing the game. 
"We were caught off-guard and disorganized. The tempo of the game was mixed up at first," said Alumni receiver Corey Harkins. 
Morrissey found their rhythm first, as quarterback Rick Ysasi connected with sophomore Dave Purcell for a touchdown. Kkker Matt Werger's extra point put the Manorites up 7-0. 
Alumni's offense took control before halftime when quarter­back Chris Cottingham complet­ed several passes to Harkins to bring the Dawgs inside the 1­yard line. Cottingham then scored. but the extra point attempt was wide. 
As the second half progressed, the game grew more disorga­nized and heated. Plenty of penalties were called, and the crowds for both sides grew vocal. 
"It was a tough battle that was fought to the very end," said Morrissey captain John Caver. "It was physically and emotionally draining." 
In the last minute, the Dawgs thought they had scored a safety. Their fans agreed, and were upset when the referees ruled the player down outside of the had to end that way because we'd like to have had a more decisive victory," said Caver. "It's fortunate that the referee was able to make the right cail.'' 
The win leaves the Manorites confident. 
"We went into this game as the underdogs looking to make a statement,~ said Caver. "We feel we have a chance to win it all and make it to the Stadium." 
The Alumni team was disap­pointed, but not defeated. 
"A loss now is not going to end our season. It's better to lose now than in the playoffs," said Harkins. "We will approach next week with a new attitude." 
Stanford 20, O'Neill 0 
Stanford the dorm had more success than Stanford the school this weekend, as the Griffins knocked off the Angry Mob of O'Neill 20-0. 
Griffins quarterback Rich Whitney had his name associated with all three touchdowns, throwing for two and running for the other. 
The Griffrns (2-1) scored their first touchdown on a controver­sial fourth-down conversion. Whitney was flushed from the pocket and forced to scramble to get in the end zone. He was hit as he crossed the goal line, but officials ruled that the ball crossed the plane of the goal line. 
The ensuing two-point conver­sion was successful, with run­ning back Brad Devendorf pick­ing up the crucial three yards to make the score 8-0. 
Stanford scored again before the end of the half, with Whitney completing a 15-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Colin Walsh. The ensuing two-point conversion failed when Whitney was sacked, making the score 14-0. 
The final Griffin touchdown came in the fourth quarter, when Whitney completed a short 3­offense, the Grifl"in defense was also prolific. Dave Marques recovered a fumble and Tony Hollowell and Chris Bechtel col­lected interceptions for Stanford. 

Stanford captain Adam Oyster was pleased with his team's offense against O'Neill (0-3). 
"Our offensive line did a really good job," he said. "We expected them to blitz and we picked it up. We opened a lot of holes that our running backs were able to get through.'' 
With two wins, Stanford is much closer to achieving its goal of' making the playoffs, although nothing is certain right now. 
"It's definitely a game we needed to win if we wanted to make the playoffs," Oyster said. ..We want to win the next one too, though." 
Fisher 22, Knott 6 

Most quarterbacks would shut­ter at the very mention of the sit­uation Knott quarterback Ben Gilfillan faced during the team's 22-6 loss in Sunday's Blue League battle with Fisher Hall. 
Gilfillan had a drawback with the absence of starting wide receivers Brian Price and John Smith. Price was out with a twisted ankle, while Smith injured his arm when he took a rough hit on a pass attempt. 
"Our offense is set back a lot," said Gilfillan during the second half. "We're without our two stud wide receivers." 
The Juggernaughts (1-2) may have had a weakened offense, but that introduced no pity into the hearts of the Green Wave squad. 
Fisher (2-1) was lucky to have its star players ready and willing. Wide receiver and captain Tom Gorman got Fisher on the board when he scooped up a low 25­yard pass from quarterback Jimmy Costanzo for the first touchdown of the game. 
The Green Wave's rushing 
just went with it." 

Costanzo seemed to be strug­gling on the pass game partially because of a domineering Jugg defense, which showed excep­tional wide coverage. He did manage to complete 10 of 15 attempts. 
"We've got a new offense with timing issues that need to be worked out," said Costanzo. "We're coming along bit by bit every game. It's just going to take some practice." 
Gilfillan and the Juggs were able to pull off one successful offensive drive late in the second half. Without Smith or Price, Gilfillan was forced to depend on freshman receiver Michael Peters. 
Peters proved his worth how­ever, diving and catching with a 30-yard bomb from the quarter­back for Knott's only touchdown. 
Both teams move into their last games of the regular season next weekend where a win will be their only chance at a postseason berth. 
Siegfried 41., Carroll 0 

The Killer "B's" and the rest of the Siegfried offense swarmed all over Carroll in a 41-0 win Sunday's interhall football action. 
Quarterback Bill Bingle and running back Tim Breitbach had a hand in every single Rambler score. 
Bingle completed 9 of 14 pass­es for 172 yards and three touch­downs, and Breitbach carried 12 times for 79 yards and two touchdowns. Bingle also rushed for a touchdown. 
"It was an all-around effort," said Siegfried captain John Torgenson. "I was really impressed with Tim. He ran well and really set the tone for the game.'' 
The Ramblers (2-0) scored on its first offensive series, with Bingle handing off to Breitbach 
fumbled on a botched lateral and 
Siegfried recovered. 
Following an incomplete pass 
by Bingle, the Ramblers again 
went to the ground game as 
Breitbach ran 22 yards for the 
score. The extra point was good. 
which increased the Ramblers' 
lead to 14-0. 
The Vermin (0-3) were unable to answer on their next drive, when Pitts fumbled a snap that the Ramblers recovered. On the very next play, Bingle completed a 41-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver John Kaup. The extra point went wide left, mak­ing the score 20-o: 
The Ramblers scored once 
more before halftime, with 
Bingle running nine yards for a 
touchdown, making the score 27 ­
0 with the successful extra point. 
After receiving the ball to start the second half, Bingle engi­neered a successful four play drive that culminated with a 53­yard touchdown pass to Kaup to put Siegfried up 34-0. 
The Ramblers' offense was 
held in check for most of the sec­
ond half, but was able to click 
one more time before the final 
whistle when Bingle completed a 
5-yard pass to tight end Mike 
Wahl. The successful extra point 
made the final score 41-0. 
Carroll captain Justin Williams was disappointed with his team's performance, but hopes to end the season with a win. 
"We're going to be looking for­ward to our last game with Sorin," he said. "We want to end on a good note. We have a lot of young guys who are looking for­ward to come back next year; we just want to make a consistent Carroll team." 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lrcijula@nd.edu, Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu and Trey Williams at Williams.3l 7@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the ,ight to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289· Give adoption a chance... we are (Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call 8048 or astrog999@aol.com happily married and need your helpNOTICES WANTED FOR SALE Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607-in starting a family. Will provide a 723-7363 WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST lifetime of love, laughter and end-
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO PRICES PAID 251-1570 less opportunities. Call our attorney CJs Pub See whats happening #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. LARGE, Clean 2+ ~R 1/2 mile from toll free at 866-215-2229. www.cjspub.com Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-ND. Basement, garage, safe and ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST 
Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. private. $640/mo. Great location -PRICES 289-9280 SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free Parties & Meals! 1 ·800-234· $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360-Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals 7007 endlesssummertours.com 2500 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations If you enjoy natural woodwork and SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Information/Reservations 1 ·800· Most Reliable www.sunsplash-a beautiful spacious older home 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com tours.com 1-800-426-TTlO with a well-manicured yard, then B&B-Pitts & Rutg. Best Area (574)-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-
Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski see this 4-bedroom , 1-1 /2 bath with 287-4545 ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Ramon, the baby Squirrels say $250 a day potenlialibartending and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. formal dining room with crystal hello to youll ;) Training provided 1-800-293-3985 positions available now. Largest chandelier. Close to ND. Call Ellen DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW Need Home GA !ix. Call 276-8507, ext. 556 commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-Baker 255-5858. LEASING FOR 2003-2004 after 5 call 288-2877. Mary is one happening lady 
SUNCHASE ext. 123. WWW.SUN-SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­ROOMS B&B Near Campus tor CHASE.COM TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM-NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) Don't act like i don't know the real FOOTBALL GAMES Call 288-5377 PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED-bringing family, friends & girlfriend reason you like to i:ead art history
FOR ffENT ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck so much, Adrienne ... ;) WANTED: Idealistic, middle-aged Earn extra money evenings sched-NEIGHBORHOODS · SECURITY at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal­ex-hippie lo learn basic Zen from uling appointments and making All size homes available for 2003-SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF ley@global.t-bird.edu Thanks for driving me to the Big 0 telepathic gorilla. If interested, con-customer calls tor local State Farm 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS-tonight, honey tact Core. agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, www.mmmrentals.com CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING 
you choose frorn Tuesday-FAST -CONTACT: KRAMER Merideth and Suzy: pay me back Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 -PERSONAL soon or risk seeing embarassing LOST & FOUND be enthusiastic with great telephone RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. (574)674-2471 classifieds in next week's paper... presence. Fax resume to 574-232-CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 
9984. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do I am determined to get out of here LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast not go it alone. If you or someone before 4 a.m. tonight initials JME, size 10 3/4: engraved has space available for footbalL'par· TICKETS you love needs confidential support within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 Bartenders neededl Earn upto $300 enl wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, or assistance, please call Sr. Mary It's not that I'm lazy. It's that I just Michigan game, stadium student per day. No experience necessary. hot breakfast, $80-$115, Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For don't care. section or on field. Jon Mack 309 Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please more information, see our bi-weekly Zahm, 634-1090 Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. check our prices. 273-3911. ad in THE OBSERVER. Whoa!!! geez..... 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 page 13
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Centerfor Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL 

oom@Jn).rn£~


CONCERNS 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Ocf(())/b~r 1fJh ffs W(())rr#rd! F°(())ord/ DfSJy -A f'(())CIUJ~ f(())r Y~SJtr=Ar@IUJf!llrd! ACUU({)f!ll 
World Food Day is a worldwide event designed to increase awareness, understanding and informed, year-around action to alleviate hunger. It is observed each October 16th in recognition of the founding of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in 1945. The first World Food Day was in 1981. In the United States the endeavor is sponsored by 450 national, private voluntary organizations. ~Taken from http://www. worldfooddayusa.orgl 
We encourage you to participate in the following events leading up to this day: 
Sunday, October 13th , Monday, October 14th , Wednesday, October 16th, Day's Theme: "Eating Is A Moral "Hungry Farmers" World Food Day 
. Act" Peter Hardin, a writer and activist in hunger and agricul-12 -3 pm World Food Day Teleconference. 7 p.m. Mass, Celebrated by Father tural issues will speak in room 155 DeBartolo at 7 PM. Tentatively scheduled for the Hesburgh Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., in Hardin is the editor/publisher of The Milkweed-a monthly Conference Center in the Hesburgh Center Keenan-Stanford Chapel with Brother report about dairy economics, written for the farmer.. Mr. for International Studies. David Andrews, C.S.C., Executive Di-Hardin founded The Mi/k1veed in 1979, and over the years, First Hour: Professor Michael Lipton, rector of National Catholic Rural Life The Milkweed has covered many issues relating to milk international authority on rural poverty in Conference serving as homilist. production, consumer safety and the economics and poli-developing countries is the featured guest. 
tics of milk and food. Ray Suarez, senior correspondent for the Tuesday, October 15th, PBS Jim Lehrer News Hour will host the "Hungry Farmworkers" conversation. There will be cameo appear-
The Coalition of lmmokalee Workers will speak ances with former Ambassador George regarding the TACO BELL boycott and other issues McGovern, and Dr. Louise Fresco, Asst. related to migrant farming. Held in 155 Debartolo at 7 Director General of the Agriculture 
p.m Department of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome. 
nd
Holy'Cross·MIS$1Qn-111 Ecfllttitfons~oilnar½~. 

a vide~~:::o~;~~c~:~~~:e;o;~:s::~~~ Immerse yourself in the educational mission ofNofre DaTTi~l.stHoly / .··.. ' Third Hour: Call in session for people Cross priests t6_ ,_ 1argel~/Hispanic_,popu·1ation·i~A~izpn~'~VaHey_~f~-he;:< from around the world (including ND) S~n. You~II part1c1pate·in the cre~t1,"e:progra?'m1ng of-St1Joh1J;,';f~;\\ ---------....._, V1anney grade ~c~ool and expenencephoen_i~'swell-kn~~y~dr0,; ~~ ,t':· ', 
House of Hosp1tahty. Be host,d by locatfam1he7and ~xplonf'the ..··.. -;/,/ ,, ·· · S · ', region's natural beauty. ldeaffor students considering ACE and other/< . · .. International_ ~ummer · ~ , post-graduate service programs.,//:_-~/ ·.. · . .,.____, ,,,'.'-, /~-~ , ServiceLearnin&: Proeram (ISSLP) , 
· -· .-· --· · **I f · --,,//, .-. I . . ·.· . . 2003 \ 
-• • ••• •• • • ,_.., •/-'/, _,·.c-no session ~ ·, ///'-, . ', / \ 
::Janu_ary_3 -9, 2003 -'.;: .':,,:}{[<.: '.'.A/TONIGH"J:,)Octobe:(a, , __)fJ_:i~ I Sites in J3 developing countries arou,id the world \ Apphcat1ons due Oct. 14th • ::.: ,_ ·.>,>:.~-,;t-·5;... 5:30 p'.m., CSC's <-<?'<'.· I \ **Contact Kevin Sandberg, C.S.C:_ ,);'-;:{>/ Coffee House , / _, · 1 Information essions: ~~. -1 
11 
(1-4147 or sandberg.6@nd.ed-~)~~~~;~;?,':·:;,·;~~ .. ,,·, :'-',:,,, _ ,.:'-_;::;;;;::_:,/ ••: r.::::===========================::;=::==~ \ 1..mGHT!, TUES, OCT gm J 


FACIJI.TY OPPOBTIJNITIES... 
The Center offers resources to faculty members teaching community-based learning and research courses. If you are interested in some support for your work in this area, please contact Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Center Associate Director, Concurrent Associate Professor of Economics, at beckman.9@nd.edu or 1-4172. She can assist with course development grants, workshops, reading txJ.~terial~, and more. \~[Li~t\ II
,~".;,~\,' 


V, Tutors and Mentors: 
\ AND, 0TUES, OCT 29TH, & WED, OCT 30TH / 
\ I~ 
',All Sessio~~• 6:30-7:30 p.m., in CSC Lounge,/
' ,
,,,,. 

', ;A~PLICATIQNDUE DATE: ;' 
,,,; NOV I5T ,
,~, __,
.........______ 
QJ The Juvenile Justice Center (JJC) needs tutors for 14-17 year olds in Math Drug Prevention Program ....., and English. Tutors come from 5:30-6:30, Mon-Fri, to the JJC. There is a Tutors are needed for children in a drug prevention program set up by the gov­
·­
ernment. It runs in six-week sessions. Mon/Wed 4-5 p.m. Contact Verlie Manns or Phyllis Turley @ 232-9873 
•2 small screening process. Contact Anthony Castellino@ 235-5457. 
~ Volunteers needed to be one-to-one mentors with teenagers from the Juve­
t nile Justice Center. Single sex pairing; there is a screening process. Elderly:O Contact Anthony Castellino@ 235-5457. A volunteer is needed to assist an elderly couple with paper work that they are 
no longer able to handle on their own. It would be for one hour a week, A male mentor is needed for a 13 year-old, Hispanic, 8th grader at Navarre preferably Monday afternoons. Provide own transportation. Contact Mrs. Middie School. Meetings would be one day a week, 1: 10-2:45 (home room Grady Thompson@ 234-0300.

O time). Provide own transportation. Contact Shannon Stackhouse @ 283­
L. 7367 between 7:30 a.m. -2:45 p.m. Special Needs: 
Volunteers are needed to go swimming with adults who have disabilities dur­a, A mentor is needed for a 14 year-old boy who was physically handicapped ing a Pool Carnival Party. It is on Monday, October 28 from 6:30-8 p.m. QJ in an accident. He uses a wheelchair and needs someone to spend time with Contact Marissa Runkle@ 289-4831 or marissa@logancenter.org . 
....., him. Contact Sandy Krowsky @ 237-7860. C A woman with a serious illness needs to be taken to her doctor's appoint­~ A male who has a sibling with a disability is needed to mentor a young boy ments. Most of her appointments are in the morning, but that can be flexible. 
-who has a sibling with a disability. Approximately four hours per month. If a volunteer can come to her home in Mishawaka, she has a car that can be
0
> Contact supersibs@nd.edu used. Contact Carol@ 256-9319 before 7 p.m . 
....., A person who is a sibling of twins, triplets or quadruplets is needed to men­A woman with physical and learning disabilities needs help typing and edit­C tor to a girl who is the sister to quadruplets. Contact Marissa Runkle @ ing her books. She would like to meet 2 times a week in the afternoons. QJ 289-4831. Contact Rose Anne@ 277-4341 or 287-3891. 
L. Tutors are needed for a 17 year-old senior in math and a ten year-old in 
L. reading. Wed/Th evening or Mon afternoon. Can bring children to 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects please 
~ Hesburgh Library. Contact Diane Braisber at work from 8-4:30 @ 284­
email cscvols@nd.edu.*** 
3510 or at home@ 232-3412. 


WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Defenses battle when Howard faces Cavanaugh 
The Pyros' T-shirts for the 2002 season have finally arrived, just in time for their face-off against the Shamrocks. 
"Hopefully they will be good luck for our last regular season game," said Pasqucrilla East quarterback Abbey Coons. 
The Pyros haven't needed much luck so far, instead relying on a talented offense and effi­cient defense. They are 4-1 on the season and have clinched a spot in the playoffs. 

Coming off a 24-0 pounding of Howard, Pasquerilla East is con­fident and ready for McGlinn. 
The Pyro defense is responsible for several shutouts this season. "I'm impressed with our defense each game, they put so much pressure on the [opponent's] quarterback," said Coons. 
McGlinn (3-2) would guarantee themselves a playofT berth with a victory. Shamrocks defensive standout Jessica Laux says her team is aware of the situation and looking forward to the chal­lenge. 
"A win would show how far we've come in just a few weeks," Laux said. "Our defense will have to perform and our offense will need to come through for us. They are a pretty good team and it will be a tough game." 
The Shamrocks employ a pass• heavy offense anchored by quar­terback Julie Kremer. The defense features Jessica Fedor and Laux, who has scored two defensive touchdowns for her team. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu and Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN and LISA 
REIJU1A 
Sports Writers 
Howard looks to play for them­selves Tuesday night at Stepan fields, as their hopes of a Stadium appearance will have to wait another year. Cavanaugh, meanwhile, looks to conclude the season on a high note. 
The Ducks are led by quarter­back Sheena Ketchum. and her favorite targets, wide receivers Meghan O'Keefe and Sally Hosey. They look to avenge a heart­breaking 7-0 loss on Sunday that dropped them to 1-4. However. the Ducks are anything but down on themselves as their disap­pointing season comes to an end. Instead, they look to have fun as a team in their last game. 
'Tm excited for our next game," Hosey said. "Even though it's not for the playoffs, we will still have fun, and play together." 
Although the offense has had trouble producing this season for the Ducks, their defense has not backed down from a challenge. In the loss to McGlinn, Howard only gave up seven points. Their defense has been a bright spot all season. 
On the other side of the field stands the Chaos. They look to find the defense that led them to a 0-0 tie with Lyons earlier in the season. 
McGlinn vs. Pasquerilla East 
The only thing that will be dif­ferent about the Pasquerilla East football team Tuesday night against McGlinn will be the shirts the 're wearin . 
This Weel< in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 

E-da_v_______ 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #2 
7:00 -8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Misa en Espanol 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 

1nesdav 

Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Wednesday, October 9, 2002 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 


Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
RCIA~Session 
10:00 a.m. -11 :30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 

Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Freshman Retreat #43 Retreat Date: November 8-9 
Sign-up dates: Septemer 30-November 4 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encoounter Retreat #73 Retreat Date: November 15-17 
Sign-up dates: October ?-October 11 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey H all Chapel 
WITHOUT YOU 
Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer 
Contribute a prayer to the new Campus Ministry Prayer Book! Get details online at www.nd.edu/~prayers 
AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 



don't know how to in the series. "We had the home-run king hit just .196
Associated Press 

respond. Should I be happy makeup to do it. The other with one homer and six or just to sit here?" guys just outplayed us." RBIs in those games. ATLANTA Bonds homered three Russ Ortiz earned his "He was focused," man­
The long wait is over. times in the series. His last second win, sending the ager Dusty Baker said. "l Barry Bonds is finally a one meant the most as San wild-card Giants to a prayed Barry would have a postseason winner. Francisco won the final matchup against the St. great series, and a great 
One of the greatest play­two games to oust the Louis Cardinals in the NL series he did. He hit the ers in baseball history Braves. championship series. Game ball a lot harder than the seized the playoff stage Bonds and the Giants 1 is Wednesday night at numbers indicate. I'm veryMonday night, homering barely hung on. The Busch Stadium. glad for him." and scoring the first two Braves, no strangers to At 38 and in his 17th "The Braves have been San Francisco runs as the postseason misery, put major league season, my nemesis for years," Giants held off the Atlanta runners on first and third Bonds will be trying to Bonds said. Braves 3-1 in the decisive with no outs in the ninth. reach his first World Series Because of those failures, Game 5 of the NL division But Robb Nen struck out -but he's already exor­Bonds became known as a series. Gary Sheffield and then got cised one of his demons. player who couldn't come 
"I'll be happy once I win Chipper Jones to ground In five previous trips to through in the biggest the World Series," Bonds into a double play to end it. the postseason, the last games. But in less than a said. "I must admit, I'm a "We didn't capitalize on two with San Francisco, his week, he did his best to little bit shocked. I've never our opportunities," said teams were 0-for-5. The purge all those unpleasant been past the first round. I Sheffield. who was 1-for-16 four-time NL MVP and memories. 
IN BRIEF 

Favre on fire Favre, making his 162nd straight Chicago made one last thrust when 
Champaign, Chicago, Green Bay. It regular-season start, rolled to his left, Miller hit David Terrell with a 52­doesn't matter where Brett Favre is motioned with his hand and then yard pass to the Green Bay 7. But when he plays against the Chicago heaved the ball to a streaking Driver, Nate Wayne intercepted Miller in the Bears. who was behind Bears safety Mike end zone with just over 2 minutes 
Favre threw three first-half touch­Green and cornerback R.W. left. down passes Monday night, sur­McQuarters, for a 7-0 lead. passed 40,000 yards passing for his His longest TD pass was a 99-yarder Two of three found guilty career and led the Green Bay Packers to Robert Brooks in 1995. Against the on lesser charges 
to a 34-21 victory over the Bears. Bears, of course. Three men were acquitted Monday Favre, who was 22-of-33 for 359 of trying to kill Boston Celtics star
Favre, now 17-4 in his career against Chicago, had an 85-yard TD yards, also had TD passes of 19 yards Paul Pierce in a nightclub attack two years ago. Two of the defendants
pass to Donald Driver in the first to Tyrone Davis and 5 yards to Bubba were convicted on lesser charges. 
quarter -the second longest of his Franks in the first half. 
William Ragland, 30, Trevor 
career -as the Packers (4-1) took a From the Green Bay 20, Chicago Watson, 35, and Anthony Hurston,
24-14 halftime lead. was threatening to get back in the 33, were found innocent of armedGreen Bay's victory Monday night game in the third quarter when Joe assault with intent to murder in the was its 15th in the last 17 meetings Johnson hit Miller as he was attempt­Sept. 25, 2000, attack in Boston's with the Bears, this one coming on ing to pass and the ball popped right 
theater district. the grass-like artificial surface at the to Gbaja-Biamila who ran untouched Ragland was convicted of assault University of Illinois where Chicago is down the field to give the Packers a and battery with a dangerous 
playing this season as Soldier Field is 17-point lead. weapon (a knife), and assault and being overhauled. Favre has directed Miller also threw three TD passes, battery. Watson was found guilty of nine straight road victories over the hitting John Davis with a 21-yard TD assault and battery. Hurston was 
Bears. pass with 6:50 left to make it 34-21. acquitted on all charges. 
-= 


MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Dillon beats Keenan 19-18, Zahm wins late 6-0 
. The Big Red block potential winning field goal 
By PAT LEONARD and TREY 
WILLIAMS 
Sports Writers 
The defenses for Dillon and Keenan both knew what the next play would bring. 
B o t h stacked the 
line of scrim­"Give all the credit in the 
the Knights sive battle," 

mage. 
world to Keenan. They fall to 0-2. said St. Ed's

Both antici­
captain and
played hard. We just

pated the run. 
lineman Jim
Zahm 6,

And still, wanted it more. " 
Kleckner.

both defenses 
St. Ed's 0 "We had a lot of guys playing under the center," said Burke
could not stop 
Fans look­

with a lot of heart and that's of first game. "It's a feeling I've 
Brad Butwin

it. 
ing for a high­what kept us going." been looking forward to all sea­
Dillon tailback

At Stepan scoring match 
Fields on Sunday after­noon, the Dillon Big Iled stuffed a fake field goal attempt late in the game and defeated the Keenan Knights, 19-18, in a battle of offensive lines and running backs. 
"This is one of the best games I've ever played in,"said Dillon tailback and wide receiver Brad Butwin. 
The game provided an offen­sive showcase for both squads, as Dillon gained 195 yards rushing, while Keenan amount­ed 132 yards on the ground and 118 yards in the air. 
Big Red tailback Kevin McCarthy reached the end zone first, breaking several tackles on his way to a 65-yard touch­down run. McCarthy sprained his knee on the play, and fresh­man Dominick Eck and others filled in. 
Brandon Hall got the call on the majority of Keenan's plays, rushing for 125 yards with two touchdown runs of 13 yards and one yard. He also had two catches for 35 yards. 
"Brandon had a great game today," said Keenan coach Brett Morlok. "He had two fum­bles that were costly, but he came back very well and didn't let that get him down." 
Hall fumbled on Keenan's opening two drives in the sec­ond half. 
On the second drive, Hall coughed up the ball at the Keenan 35-yard line. Dillon's Ray Denis took the ball back for a Big Red touchdown and a 12­6 lead. 
The Knights responded by engineering a touchdown drive in which Hall carried the ball four times for 32 yards. He scored his second touchdown of the game on a powerful one­yard dive through the line. The score was tied at 12-12. 
But neither offense was fin­ished. Keenan had missed the extra point and Dillon smelled blood. 
Butwin, who amassed 95 yards rushing Sunday, turned what looked to be only a seven or eight-yard gain into a 68­yard race for the endzone. 
"Our team was a little flat in the third quarter," said Big Red center and captain Pat Esper. "Brad's run got us back on track and sealed the victory." 
"All other ten guys made huge blocks," said Butwin. "It wasn't just me." 
Keenan completed a 60-yard bomb for a touchdown on the following drive, but a fake field goal pass attempt sailed over an open player's head in the 
endzone. up their offense late in the sec­Dillon would hold on to the ond half to slip in a touchdown one-point lead. for a 6-0 victory over St. Ed's. 
"Offensively, both teams For much of the game, the played very well," said Morlok. contest resembled a fight "They simply made the most of between two concrete walls as 
a few big plays. and that turned the defenses of out to be the difference." both teams 
"Give all the credit in the pounded their world to Keenan. They played target offenses hard," said Butwin. "We just to keep the wanted it more." game at a 
The Big Red climb over .500 stand still. with a 2-1 "We had a record, while strong defen­

The game might have had a son." between different turn out had it not Burke, at that point in the Zahm and St. been for an injury to starting game. hadn't clocked in any
Ed's Sunday were greatly dis­quarterback Mitch Knapke. field time as quarterback this 
appointed. 

Early in the first half, Knapke season and it showed. The Zahmbies (2-1) stepped twisted his ankle while drawing He complrted five of his 14 
Williams.3l 7@nd.edu 
II 

-~-~-------------------D
I 
Ii I 
IJ 
I 
I 
I 
A U 
D 
U
8 
t 
I I I I I I I 

"It really felt good to get my hands under the center. It's afeeling I've been looking forward to all season. " 
Daniel Burke Zahm quarterback 
back for a pass. 

The injury might have been minor at the time, but the ankle was strained further when Knapke was tackled right after the primary injury. 
W i t h Knapke out, the door was left open for backup quar­terback and last sea­son starter ­Daniel Burke to prove his worth. 
"It really felt good to get my hands 
attempts for the game, with most passes being too long for the Zahm wide receivers. 
The strength of the Zahm defense. aided by linebackers Mitch Lies and Eric Tarnowski, turned the tables on St.Ed's with only a minute on the clock. A sack by Tarnowski forced St.Ed's to attempt a long pass, which was intercepted by Lies. 
With the ball in their posses­sion, the Zahmbies were able to complete a 48-yard touchdown pass to receiver Greg Duran for the first -and only -points of the game. 
"We just try to play straight up smash mouth football," said Tarnowski. "We go out there and f1y around the field and make good hits." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu and Trey Williams at 

1In your Internet browser type "food.nd.edu" 
I Click on "Daily Specials & Coupons"
8 
I
II 

View current coupons and the daily lunch specials! 
nf 
I open Monday -.liriday 7:00 am -2:30pm, call 631-8578, Greenfield's International Cafe is located in the
I 
Hesburgh Centerfur International Studies I across the street.from the Hammes BookstoR 
I I 

~ ;,ri. . I
\1~•-iJ lr...,.1t",,,C;

DOmer'I 1 
----~·•·::i-:li~• _J 

INFORMATION MEETINGS 
Monday, October 7, 7:00 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, SMC 
Q!: 

Wednesday, October 9, 6:45 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND Open to all ND/SMC students 
INFORMATION AND APPLICA.TIONS AVAILABLE VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Excellent academic program at 
same air ticket. 

SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) .284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http·/ /www.5pintrnarys-ed u /sa"v 
-::: 

Tuesday, October 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
But where the offensive line really showed its power, was in the running game. Heading into a game against a defense that was known for stopping the run, the offensive line knew it had its work cut out for it. But every member of the line was 
ready to open up the run game. 
"After what we saw, we felt pretty confident we could run the ball," said offensive tack­le Jordan Black. "We knew they had a reputa­tion for stop•

ping the run. We don't look at it that way." 
They definitely didn't as Notre Dame had its best run­ning game of the season, pick­ing up 249 yards, 12 rushing first downs and two rushing 
, touchdowns against a Stanford defense that entered Saturday's game allowing Jess than 100 rushing yards a game. This was a major improvement from the 130 rushing yards they picked up against Maryland in the sea­son opener. 
"It was definitely the offen­sive line," Powers-Neal said. "I think they did a great job blocking. If it wasn't for them we wouldn't have gotten any­thing." 

The holes in Stanford·s defense kept getting bigger. From just 59 rushing yards in the first half, the offensive line opened up holes big enough for Grant and Powers-Neal to pick up anywhere from five to 10 to 15 yards a carry. 
"The thing that was missing [in the first half] was the fight," 
Black said. 
"We came out 

"It was definitely the in the first0 half kind of
offensive line. I think 
down, things

they did a great job weren't click-
blocking. If it wasn't for i n g . Collectively,
them we wouldn't have 
as a group.

gotten anything." we just buck­led down and decided to
Rashon Powers-Neal 
play."

Irish running back 
As the Irish 

head into their next game against Pittsburgh, which also has a solid defense, the offensive line can be confident in a solid per­formance. It may have taken five games, but they seem to have gotten things back to where they want them. 
"I don't think this year we've come together and just beat on a defense running the ball," Black said. "It's refreshing to get back to that." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo569S@saintm .edu 


COMMUNITY 
Without you, Campus Ministry 
doesn 1t have a prayer... ..... . 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 

You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition ofthe Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visit our new website 
.. 
today/or information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http://www.nd.edu/~prayers/ 

o·r ALLAJR F 
.,-;,, -·r·'. 

UD.ENTS FLY PL!iN.::.S:, 
. . . ! .• ,-~, \ 
' I . GE:TTJNG TH.EJR TUIT!ON. ! -r;-JE:" AIR FOP.CE: JS TH;.JI·;·~~ 
1·· ':::/<~
-~-·' .. 
A1;:10-rc.coM 
J-9&.S-423-7S8Z 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lewis beats Lyons 7-6 
By HFATHER VAN 
HOEGADEN and ERIN 
CARNEY 
Sporrs Writers 
In a battle of defenses, Lewis (3-3) scored a late touchdown to prevail on Sunday afternoon 7-6 over Lyons (2-1-1) to clinch a play­off berth. 
The Chick defense gave their offense the opportunity to win the game, as the Lions had multiple scoring opportu­nities throughout the game and were unable to capitalize. 
Lewis had an their own offensive drive stuffed on the 1-yard line, only to punt it to their own 10-vard line. where Lyons took over. However, after two passes were dropped in the end zone, and two other fell incomplete, the Chicks took over on downs and gained the momentum. 
Trailing 6-0, the Chicks drove down the field with a little over two minutes to play. Led by quarterback Erin Nasrallah and an option offense, Lewis wore the Lyons defense down. Finally, on a quarterback draw play, Nasrallah ran it in for the score. She threw to Mimi Lundgren for the extra point to give Lewis the lead for good. 
"This was a much needed victory," Nasrallah said. "We are really excited, and we had a Jot of energy in the game. As a team we are really working together, and we were focused and relaxed. That was key." 
Lyons. meanwhile had two interceptions and a sack on defense, but the offense failed to do its part. However wide receiver Michelle Celli, who 
I had four catches and a touch­
I 
down.
I I The flags that flew at the 
I end of the game led to the
I 
I ejection of a Lyons coach. 
I 
I 
l McGlinn 7, Howard 0 McG!inn had to change jer­seys before Sunday's game because both the Shamrocks and the Ducks came to the game sporting green. However the new shirt didn't mean a new look for McGlinn (3-2). They still played like they have all year and domi­nated Howard (1-4) 7-0 in a defensive-minded battle. Howard continued to strug­gle on offense. Although they continually had good field position, the Ducks couldn't seem to find the end zone. They were plagued by three interceptions, including a one­handed grab on the 3-yard .line. A bright spot for the Ducks was wide receiver Sally Hosey, who made two big plays that put the Ducks in the red zone. Although the Ducks were eliminated from the playoffs, Hosey was still posi• tive about the game. "It's always difficult to lose, but I really think that we played well, especially because we held them to seven points," Hosey said. 
"That in itself is still an Lyons vs. Pangborn For Lyons a win would clinch Delaney and Kristin Krouse. accomplishment." The stakes are much different a playoff birth, while Pangborn "We are too beautiful to beat McGlinn was led by their own when two neighboring dorms simply wants to secure its first some of these othe•r teams," meet up Tuesday night. win of the season. Troupis saio. 
standout wide receiver, On-Kay 

The Pangborn versus Lyons Pangborn quarterback
Wong, who caught five passes 

match-up is a battle pretty Charlotte Troupis said her team
from quarterback Julie Kremer. 

close to home for these teams is "just playing for fun" this Contact Heather Van
Wong was all over the field, 

and each wants nothing more week. The key players for Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu
Howard's defensive backs had 

than finish its regular seasons Pangborn include seniors, and Erin Carney at trouble covering her all game. with a victory. Libby Cunningham. Katy ecarney@nd.edu 

You want apersonal life, but you also want acareerthat challenges you. At Ernst & Young, you can have both. True, we have high expectations. And some tasks will no doubt rack your brain. But rest assured. We help our people face assignments with some remarkably handy tools, such as the most advanced technology, information, and resources, bar none. And with a talented pool of coJleagues and mentors by your side, success is closer than you think. And so are the rewards. 


ey.com/us/carcers . 
filj f RNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TD FINISH.1" 

CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 
"I !WEUCM'& 1ti~~BOCts;• Ye~-r, £:%£1 'E:tt-PUfSOM'6 RAVO(Zf 
W~TcAt.11 GtG-T'fblt -WZ 
ru. AA\IE A ~OE · ~~si,u 
GW'AMa NOWHl?~6l· 
E ~NIE ll'lAP-
HAPPY TOWN 
Double major in Pre-Med Political Science. Oh, and PLS. Got a problem and Engineering. Thanks Spanish. And CAPP. that, doughboy? fora king! 
\
\ \
. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
~he Nt\tt!!fork~ime~ I 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
~. COWE:E:.. IN A o,1p-APD 
tftP WRIPAND'Dfa\ULE. A 
. AANWM WW\.1'[:;.'J ~R. 
l"f... S1ll-~ A <s"W.AW 1 P1W\l'S rr~ THE 
• 'TkNOWAAt> 

JACK MONAHAN 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ______________________ Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri ArnOld and Mike Arglrlon
~ 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
I NOWNK ± 
I I r J 
Cl?002 Tribune Medi• Services, Inc. 

IGfsftrJ 
JANGOR 


WHAT THE MUSIC­IANS USED ro 

....
GET ro THE= 
C.ONCl=RT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer=THE ( 

I I J ) ( I J XJ ) 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: LYING AIDED BANGLE JETSAM --,. Answer: When it came to marriage, the bachelor was this -SINGLE-MINDED 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO, 30 4 To order, Hnd your nam•, add,,..• •nd $5.95 and mak9 check payabMI to Tribunt1 Media S.rvlcea, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 80680-4330. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIF.5 BORN ON TIIIS DAY: David Carradine, Jesse Jackson. Paul 
Hogan. Sigwirey Weaver 

Happy Birthday: You must let go of lhe past and start anew. It's time for new 
contacts and new beginnings. Allow your creative side to take over. Focus on the 
things you know you can accomplish and let lhe difficult tasks wait until you 
are more in conlrol of yolll' life. It's time to swround y=lf wilh people who are 
il@tive. IXX regative. Yoorrnmlm are 9, 13, 24, 26, 35, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This may be the time when other people ask you for 
assistuu. Even if you aren't interested, tty to show soire enthusiasm and pitch in. 1rere 
willbein:entivesandawardsforw<Jicwellckre *tt ··' ~~--/· 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your actions and words may be giving your partrer ;.' ··.-,.;_~ . · 
gOOO reason foc jealousy. Ifs time to have an horest dial<>glM!. Being absent from home · · _, · -·!·­
may be the rtrt of the problem. *** , ] 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't allow minor infections to go wiattenckd or they 
will get woo;e. Tero to them immediarely. An old flam: may reapix:ar on the scere. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't live in lhe pasl If you go out wilh friends, 
you will mret new lovers. This is the time for new beginnings. You can improve your 
looks wi1h alittle extra care. 1rktt* 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be afraid to ask everyone to pitch in and help. If 
you're willing to do the worl:: yourself, the renovations will be affocdable. If you are 
dri~or~ooivy equiplfflll. re careful. tt 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): You can be of great service to someone you have 
known for a long time. You are familiar wilh their situation. Your insight into lheir 
probkm will re !med on yoorown persomJ experieoce. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.'-0ct. 22): Extravagan::e will be your downfall. If you lose money 
you will be upset and angry. Use your md disciplire to accomplish those personal 
gools you've lx:en thinking about. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct 2.'4-Nov. 21): Emotional frustration will mount if you don't get your 
way. Think before you speak. If you really care about this panneiship and want it to 
last, comimnire will re the Cider ofthe day. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Carefully look at your personal p31ffl. Money 
will not be as abundant as you anticipated Reassess your needs. You will need to 
rudget alittle tighter. tt* 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jm 19): If you are overly hasty in making choices about 
friendships, you will live to regret your choices. Slow down. You need to stabiliz.e 
your life. Try to keep lhe peace wilh everyone for the time being. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jm 20-Feb. 18): Be careful what you say to whom and don't give 
information lhat you wish to keep a secret. New love attractions will develop through 
family or friends. Travel opportunities appear to be quite favorable. ** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Travel will initiate new friendships and new 
possibilities. Do some reading. If you need some answers, look to good friends 
forsowxladvice. tt*** 

Birthday Baby: You will re detennined to follow your heart and live by your rules. You will re bound to your reliefs and will not deviate from them. You will re a tough competitor throughout life. 
-
Oieck out Eugenia's Web Sites at aslroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, aslromate.com. CX>PYRIGHf :m2 IJI'\11VERSALPRFSS SYNDICATE 
ACROSS 
1 Deck out 
6 Sign of stitches 1oFound's partner 14 Donnybrook 15 Use a 
whetstone on 16 Aware of 17 Strips away 18 Composer 
Franz-Joseph's favorite 58-Across? 
20 Clean-shaven 22 Ore deposit 23 Golf ball prop 24 •woe is me!' 26 Nursling 28 Enough ror 
former hurler Dwight? 32 Order before "Fire!" 33 Withered 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Crossword Edited by Will Shortz No. 0827 
34 From which gold is spun, in a fairy tale 
38 Smooth-talking 
40 Church council 
43 Per 44 Late bloomer 
46 _-engine 48"_ Loves You• 
49 Actor Liam's younger kin? 
53 Southwestern saloon 
56 Bar order, with "the" 
57 Champ who could "sting like a bee' 
58 Go fish, e.g. 
60 Sheepdog, by training 
64 Presidential shaving goofs? 
67 Spaghetti strainer 
68 •-plaisir' 69 Campsite sight 70 Florida keys, 
e.g. 71 For fear that 72 Do in 73 Stuffed item? 
DOWN 
1 Roadie's load 2 Judge 3 Toast topper 4 Put in fresh film 5 Snuggles down 6 Librarian's 
admonition 7 Kentucky resource 8 ·_ home?" 
9 Begin to blush 10 Alamos 
11 • a customer" 
12 Beef on the 
hoof
13 Arcade coin 
19 Etts grown up 21 Briefs brand 25 Peppy ZT Memory unit 28 Totally smitten 29 Softens, as 
leather 30 Pass over 31 Slowly, on a 
score 
35 Allergy indication 36 Yearn 
l.-14.-+--ll-+--+-­
55 Puts the kibosh
37 "Tha1 was close!" 
on 50 Puts on the 
39 Like the wire in 59 Sicilian smoker
books 
a croquet wicket 61 Sub shop
51 Patriot Adams
41 Holds the deed 62 At any timeto 
52 Meet an 42 Washington untimely late 63 Take live who sang the 
53 Gondola's place 65 Fall mo.
blues 45 Wear the crown 54 Still in play 
66 Slop spot 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
. ............ , ..... -.... ----·-­

....................................................................... ,. ............................................... .. 


PORTS 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
WOMENS SOCCER 

Irish lose another tough match on the road 
ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
Sunday marked the end of an era. 
For the first time in eight years, the Notre Dame womens soccer team will not be the champions of the Big East Conference. After two heart­breaking one-goal losses on the road against Villanova and Georgetown. the Irish hoped to rebound against Pittsburgh and West Virginia. 
On Friday, the Irish resound­ingly defeated the Panthers 5-0 at home. but Sunday was a dif­ferent story. The Irish dropped their third Mid-Atlantic division­al road game of the year to the red-hot Mountaineers by a count of 3-0. The loss effectively elimi­nated the Irish from the qualify­ing for the Big East Tournament at the end ofthe regular season. 
With a 3-3 divisional record, the Irish finished tied with Georgetown for fourth place in the seven-team divisional stand­ings. Only the top four teams in the division qualify for the post­seas on tournament. Since the Hoyas defeated the Irish 4-3 last weekend, they will claim the fourth place spot in the tourna­ment. 
While the Irish's Big East Tournament hopes were dashed on Sunday, they still could receive an at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament based on the strength of their schedule. Notre Dame still has six other games remaining against some very tough competition, which includes No. 22 Purdue. No. 10 Connecticut, No. 13 Michigan, Brigham Young, Syracuse and No. 24 Boston College. 
If the Irish perform well down the home stretch. they could still receive a bid from the NCAA Tournament Selection Committee. There is precedent for a team qualifying for the NCAA Tournament without play­ing in its conference tournament. Last year, Syracuse, a fellow member of the Big East, received an at-large bid to the tourna­ment despite not competing in the post-season conference tour­nament. 
Notre Dame has had trouble playing on the road all season and Sunday was no different. The Irish could not carry the momentum of Friday's win with them on the road. In what has become a recurring theme this season, the Irish offense created many quality scoring chances, but failed to reach the back of the net. 
Notre Dame actually outshot the Mountaineers 7-5, but West Virginia scored three times. Mountaineer goalie Melissa Haire came up with seven cru­
cial  saves  to  preserve  the  
shutout.  
With  the  victory,  the  

Mountaineers (10-1-1) finished atop the Mid-Atlantic Division and earned a number one seed in the conference tournament. West Virginia still has not lost since their first game of the sea­son against Auburn. 
West Virginia put pressure on the Irish early and often. In just the second minute of the game, forward Laura Kane scored for the Mountaineers to give them a quick 1-0 lead. By the end of the first half, the Mountaineers jumped out to a 2-0 lead thanks to Leslie Barden's goal in the 22nd minute ofthe contest. 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer 
Notre Dame player Amy Warner avoids a slide tackle by a Pittsburgh player during Friday's win against the Panthers. The Irish beat the Panthers, but lost to the Mountineers this weekend. 
Much like last week's loss play in the second half. Abbott the difficult conference season against Georgetown, the Irish broke free for a score of her behind them and immediately surrendered a goal after a cor-own. West Virginia midfielder refocus their energy for the rest ner kick. Big East leading scorer Kambria Riggins sent a cross to of the season. Chrissie Abbott set the play in an onrushing Abbott in front of On Tuesday night, the Irish motion with a corner kick. Irish the Irish goal. The sophomore jump back into action at home freshman goalkeeper Erika Bohn standout beat Bohn to the ball against No. 22 Purdue. The knocked the ball away, but the and sent a sliding shot into the game begins at 7 p.m. Irish defense failed to clear the goal for her Big East-leading loose ball and Barden took 14th score of the season. advantage with her first goal of While Sunday's loss was the season. extremely disappointing, the Contact Joe Licandro at 
With just under 19 minutes to Irish must put the frustrations of Licandro.l@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Irish line goes from offensive to outstanding 
great job, just knowing the holes big enough for a truck to back protection was not effec­feel comfortable in the offense. 
By KATIE McVOY

-
schemes and what defenses drive through. All that was left tive. Holiday was sacked four "Me and a bunch of the
Associace Sports Editor 

[Stanford] was running," run­for the rest of the offense to do times against Purdue and six seniors made sure he was 
ning back was follow times against Michigan -not a ready for the situation," Faine 
Early in the season the Notre 

Ryan Grant through. good rut for a team to get in. said. "Just the leadership and
"[The offensive line] did a
Dame offensive line was being 

said. "They did And this was happening with a guys just helping prepare him 
labeled as just that -offensive. great job, just knowing

The offen­an excellent line composed of five seniors, and get him in the right mind­
Although some of it was attrib­

sive line did the schemes and what job," Rashon what should have been one of set to go out there and win that 
uted to bad blocking by the 

more than just Powers-Neal the most well conditioned units game."
defenses [Stanford] was
running backs. Carlyle Holiday 

know the said. "I didn't on the team. Those seniors helped 
was spending too much time on running."

schemes -the really have to On Saturday, the line finally Dillingham out against
his back and the run game was 

line reacted. do anything showed its seniority. After Stanford, too. In 60 minutes of 
going nowhere. 

The Irish line­Ryan Grant but just run Holiday went down against football. Dillingham was sacked
On Saturday, that changed. 

men stopped hard. The Michigan State, center Jeff just once, a statistic his prede­
The seniority of the line finally Irish running back

the blitz, they holes were so Faine realized that it was up to cessor will be looking forward 
emerged, changing the unit 

gave first-time big anybody the seniors -especially the to.
from offensive to outstanding. 

starter Pat Dillingham time in could have run through them." senior linemen -to make sure
~[The offensive line) did a 

the pocket and they openeti Early jn the season. quarter-that the new signal caller would see,IRISH/page 17 


WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL  WOMENS iNTERHAll FOOTBALL  MENS INTERHAl.l FOOTBALL  
Lewis 7, Lyons 6  Morrissey 7, Alumni 6  
The Chicks squeaked by the Lions in a closely matched game. Look inside to see how each dorm did in this weekend's games.  Six womens teams battle tonight in their final game of the regular season. Find out what each team must do in order to win inside.  A controversial call helped Morrissey defeat Alumni in a close game. Zahm, Dillon and Siegfried were just a few of the other teams that won this  
weekend  
page 18  page 14  page 12 and 16  





