
VOL. XXXVII NO. 16 
Student alleges rape 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 
A Saint Mary's student report­ed to Saint Mary's Security Friday that she was raped Thursday morning by a male acquaintance. 
In response to the student's report, Saint Mary's Student Affairs enacted the new security alert system Friday evening. The online Belle Bulletin Board explained that an incident of sex­ual assault had been reported and warned students to take pre­cautions. 
The alleged incident occurred off campus, the student reported. 
"It is important to remember that this incident involves a per­son known to the victim," said Linda Timm, vice president of student affairs, in response to the report. "That is the point that I want to stress to students, ... never take for granted any situa­tion and always, always be atten­tive to your decision making when it comes to your vulnerabil­ity in any situation." 
The Saint Mary's security crime log reported the incident as a forcible rape occurring Thursday at 6 a.m. It is unknown whether the alleged victim has filed charges with the South Bend Police Department. 
"The student's privacy and desires about releasing any more information have to be respect­ed," Timm said. 
The Saint Mary's Security Web site cautioned students to "be aware of your surroundings" and to "never leave with someone you do not know." The alert also asked students to "report any instances of sexual assault or abuse." 
The rape is the first to be 
see RAPE/page 6 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 
Group debates creating plan 
. Students discuss 
possible 10-year 
strategic plan for student government 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
During Monday evening's Executive Cabinet meeting, Student Body President Libby Bishop led a discussion on a possible 10-year strategic plan for the future of various Student Government con­stituencies. 
The University is currently developing its 10-year plan, entitled "Notre Dame 2010: A Quest for Leadership." The plan will integrate issues of academics, student life, finances, research and other matters. It is expected to be presented to the Board of Trustees in May 2003. 
Executive Cabinet officials debated the idea of preparing a kind of parallel strategic plan for the various compo­nents of Student Government. Some members were eager to re-evaluate their organiza­tions and discover new focus, but others were skeptical. 
"If you ask 10 different people what your organiza­tion should be, you'll get 10 different answers," said Student Union Board Manager Stephen Christ. 
Other members disagreed, however. 
"I see it as a very simple thing. Either we do it or we don't," said Pam Ronson, 
co-chair of the Hall Presidents Council. 
In discussing the strategic plan, Bishop encouraged a general framework to guide the future of student groups, rather than a rigid, overly specific plan. 

In other Cabinet news: 
. 
Student Body President Libby Bishop reported that The Shirt sold out last week. Forty-four thousand of the kelly green "Return to Glory" shirts were sold in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, bookstore catalog and at various concession stands on home football weekends. The fundraising project helps to defray the cost of student activities. 

. 
Student Body Vice Pres-




ND: Fan's death nnavoidable 
+ Officials claim Stadium medical support staff is among the best 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
The man who had a fatal heart attack Saturday in the sold-out Notre Dame Stadium likely would have died even if potentially life-saving medical equipment had reached him sooner, University officials said Monday. 
The 64-year-old Northbrook, Ill., man died 
about 4 p.m. in the upper level of the Stadium late in the fourth quarter of the Notre Dame-Michigan football game. Nearby spectators estimated that 15 to 20 minutes passed between their initial calls for help and the arrival of para­medics at Section 118, where the man collapsed. 
Medics had to "fight the crowd the whole way" in the stands at the south end zone, said Ann Kleva, director of University Health Services. It took at least 10 minutes for them to reach the victim, she said. 
The response time wasn't connected to the man's death, according to Kleva, who said the victim suffered a full car­diac arrest and didn't respond to attempts at cardiopul­monary resuscitation by near­by spectators. 
Some fans who identified themselves as doctors per­formed CPR on the man but hadn't revived him by the time emergency workers arrived with a defibrillator. 
"Based on his condition and reports I've heard, the para­medics' ability to get there earlier wouldn't have made a difference in that situation," Kleva said. 
A crew of six doctors, 13 registered nurses and first-aid 
see DEATH/page 6 

ident Trip Foley briefed the Campus Life Council on the "Alternative Living Arrangement" survey. 
The survey, completed last spring, revealed students' and rectors' preferences on undergraduate housing. High on the list were apartment­style quarters, co-ed dormito­ries, and expanded amenities such as private bathrooms and cable television. Foley said the CLC will present the report to the Board of Trustees on Oct. 3. 
. The senior class's "Mar­garitaville" party has been approved. The gathering, to be held at St. Joseph's Beach will feature "all the trim­mings of a tropical paradise," said senior class president Matt Smith. Admission will be restricted to seniors age 21 and up. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mhramanti@nd.edu 

Journalism panel relates 9/11 changes 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Writer 

The responsibility of American journalists has increased exponentially over the past year, said a group of professional journalists in a panel discussion yesterday. 
The participants, all Notre Dame graduates and mem­bers of the advisory board to the University's John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, gathered in McKenna Hall for their annu­al campus visit, during which they meet with students and faculty involved in the pro­gram. 
"American Journalism: A Year's Lessons" provided the topic of discussion for the panel, as board members recalled their professional and personal experiences with the events and after­math of last year's Sept. 11 tragedies. 
Anne Thompson, NBC News 
see PANEL/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, September 17, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Just a cookie? 
Cookies. Chocolate chip cookies. Chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream. 
Some sheltered and over-protected students discover alcoholic beverages upon coming to college, but not I. Meghanne 
Daring to be dif­Downes ferent, I discov• ered cookies. 
It took some 18 Assistant years for me to News Editor crawl out from beneath the rock that had sheltered me from all that is sweet and good and I have no inten­tion ofgoing to back that unmagical sugarless land. 
I vividly remember the first time I made chocolate chip cookies in the Walsh Hall kitchen and should I ever forget. I have pictures to mark the occasion. 
Since then, I have become obsessed. I have been referred to as a cookie monster and in the middle ofthe week I have been known to make cookies at 3 a.m. out of a sheer desire and crav­ing for something that would satisfy my itch for sugar. 
Since then, I have discovered Haagen Daz chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream and I can't seem to get enough of that either (which after a thorough taste test I have decided is the best -Ben and Jerry's although good is just not as good). 
Now some of you are reading this in shock and dismay and wondering what planet I may have come from (my roommates are still under the assumption that I am some sort of alien life force), but know that I do not come from some middle of nowhere town in the heartland of America but from Chicago. And also, although I am an only child, I like to think that I had a rather normal upbringing (at least this is what I keep telling myself for purposes of my own sanity). 
Based on these eye-opening encoun­ters, I shudder to think that other new experiences could lead to and the desires that would develop. My experi­ences with things of the cookie nature have forced me to reflect on other aspects of my life. Am I missing out because I never experienced a cookie before? Just this past weekend I expe­rienced the Oreo and that was very exciting. 
While I wouldn't change the previ­ous 18 years of my life just because I lacked my new passion, this experi­ence has lead me to realize that I must be more open minded. If I was so afraid to just take that first bite, it makes me wonder what other steps I have been afraid to take in life. 
I realize now that what may seem common to me may be completely unheard of to someone else simply because of the culture they were raised in. Everyday judgments or stereotypes are made about individu­als who do not have an open mind or because ofhis/her culture, but is this a fair judgment when undoubtedly the tables could be turned? 
So on this note, I think it's time to bring on the PB&J (no I am not un­Arnerican as my roommate professes ­Ijust never found it necessary to try), tacos, Snickers bar, Doritos, and candy! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mis[ake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
BOG approves  U.S. continues  Boeing union  Students  Counting  SMC soccer  
speaker  al-Qaida  votes against  affirm ND sex  Crows return  defies  
suggestion  roundup  strike  policy  to music scene  Defiance  
Saint  Mary's  Prosecutors pre­ Members of the  Students  voice  The  Counting  Saint Mary's soc­ 
Board of Gover­nance debated a  pare to press charges against six  Boeing union reject­ed calls for a strike  their support to the University's policy  Crows are back after a three-year  cer defeated Defiance 4-1. The  
approved a student sponsored sugges­tion to invite two  al-Qaida members captured in Buffalo while Pakistan  and prepared to negotiate a new contract with com­ banning sexual intercourse among students.  lull and Scene music critics review their latest  team, with a 2-3 record, prepares for their upcoming  
prominent feminist  handed  over  an  pany executives.  CD, Hard Candy.  game  against  
authors to campus.  alleged terrorist to  Adrian.  
the U.S.  
page 3  page 5  page 7  pages 12-13  pages 14-15  page 16  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Engineering Career Fair, Joyce Center Concourso and Monogram room, (1::~o p.m. 
. "Hescarch Just Got Easier!" faculty workshop, llcsburgh Library, room 222, 9 a.m. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Soccer, vs. Adrian College, Soccer field norlh of' Angela Athletic Facility, Sept. 18, 4 
p.m. 
. Faculty Becital, Little Theatre Moreau Center, Sept. 22, 2:30 p.m. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: New England clam chowder, tomato soup, tomato pizza, walnut plum chicken breast, long grain and wild rice, beef and peppers stir fry. cheddar breaded scrod, vegetable rice casserole, beef BBQ sandwich and Eldorado casserole. 
Today Dinner: New England clam chowder, minestrone soup, shrimp spaghetti, honey glazed ham, seafood medley stir fry, mushroom quiche, marinara vegetables and chicken faji­tas. 
. "The Many Facos or 
Aging," an oldnr adull pro­gram, 210 DeBartolo llall, 7 p.111. 
. 
"The Day the Sun Turned Cold," film series, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune, 7 p.m. 

. 
Dayton Contemporary Dance Company perfor­mance, ()'Laughlin Auditorium, Sept. 20, 8 p.m. 




South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Linguine with veg­etables, Puerto Rican pasta, pepperoni pizza. cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, Hawaiian pizza, corn scalloped casse­role, honey garlic pork chops, rotis­serie chicken, herb baked pollack, wild rice with pine nuts. tangy grilled chick­en and chicken taco. 
Today's Dinner: Puerto Rican pasta, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, veg­etable pizza, Hawaiian pizza, roasted vegetables, Au Cratin cauliflower, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, Valencienne rice, lemon baked perch, BBQ chicken, beef and pepper casse­role, and BBQ Caribbean chicken. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: l&,I:c  
~  
l&,I 3 ... <( (.) 0..J  ~ HIGH 83 LOW 50  ~ HIGH 76 LOW 66  HIGH LOW  80 61  HIGH LOW  78 54  
Atlanta 84 / 70 Boston 74 / 58 Chicago 81 / 61 Denver 77 I 51 Houston 87 / 73 Los Angeles 80 / 61 Minneapolis 82 / 61 New York 79 / 60 Philadelphia 82 / 60 Phoenix 99 / 75 Seattle 65 / 51 St. Louis 80 / 66 Tampa 90 / 76 Washington 85 / 64 




WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Suspicious person in Main Building 
NDSP responded to a report of a suspicious person on the 3rd floor. The building was searched, however, the person was not located. 

Hood ornament stolen from 
student car 
A student reported that a hood ornament was taken off of a vehicle parked in the lot between 10:30 and 11:30 a.m. on Friday. There are no suspects. 

Hit and run accident occurs in 
parking lot 
NDSP responded to a hit and run accident in the lot. There were no injuries reported. 
Injured student transported to 

Health Services 
NDSP transported a student to the University Health Center for treatment of injuries sus­tained during a fall. 
Temperature srn.n reported missing 

from Lewis Hall 
A student reported that a temperature gun was taken from Lewis Hall between Tuesday and Friday. There are no suspects. 
Infonnation complied from NDSP Crime Blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Cbers pasta, hot and sweet tofu, grilled vegetable pitas, taco salads in tortilla shells, grilled cheese. Monte Cristo chicken breast, butter herb baked cod, supreme pizza, cheese pizza, and deli bar with turkey salad. 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable caccia­tore, chefs pasta, garden marinara, sweet and sour chicken with sticky rice, fresh fruit and cheese bar, carved honey ham, pepperoni and mushroom pizza, cheese pizza, deli bar with turkey salad. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 72 HIGH 73 LOW 54 LOW 50 

Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL  BOARD OF GOVERNANCE  
Officials create conununications,  Students support  
mentoring, leadership task forces  funding for authors  

By MICHAEL CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) created three task forces to investigate campus life issues during the fall semester at its Monday meet­ing. 
A communications task force will continue its work from last year, while another task force was created to look into a peer mentoring program called BASES, which already exists at Duke University. 
A third task force will explore ways in which to increase student leadership. Council members were con­cerned about lack of leader­ship involvement among freshmen and seniors. 
Libby Bishop. student body 
president, said that with to the Board of Trustees for 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
many juniors abroad and 60 its fall project. 
News Writer 

percent of seniors living off "With new residence halls 
campus, lead­ership posi­tions such as hall president usually fall to sophomores. 
Father Peter Jarret, rector of Keough Hall, called for better communica­
"Freshmen need an awareness ofhow they can serve, and some training." 
Father Peter Jarret rector of Keough Hall 

tion to incoming freshmen about leadership opportuni­ties. 
"Freshmen need an aware• ness of how they can serve, and some training," he said. 
In other CLC news: 
The Council will present a survey on alternative on­campus living arrangements 
comfort and convenience 

conjunction with an entire rather than any plan to 
week of "Women's expand the student body as 
Awareness" events spon­the main reasons for build-
sored by the Women's ing. 
Studies Department this spring Baumagardner and Richards co-authored the feminist novel, "Manifesta." The novel tackles the issues
Contact Michael Chambliss at 

of modern day feminism and how the movement has 

mchambli@nd.edu 
likely to be under construction 

Anne Decleene, a Saint within the next 
Mary's Women's Studies 10 years, this is a 
major, requested funds good report for 
from the Board of the Board of 
Governance to bring femi­Trustees to 
nist authors Jennifer have," said David 
Baumgardner and Amy Moss. assistant 
Richards to campus at the vice-president of 
body's Monday night meet­Student Affairs, 
ing.citing increased 

The appearance will be in evolved over the decades. 
According to Decleene, the speakers will discuss women's issues and femi­nism in relation to our gen­eration by targeting the entire student body as an audience. 
"This is an amazing opportunity for our cam­pus. They are fresh. young, intelligent females who would raise awareness on our campus concerning women's issues," Decleene said. 
Student Activities Board Coordinator, Adrienne Dorbish supported Decleene, adding that it is invigorating to have this brought to BOG by a stu­dent and not a professor who read the book. 
Nearly all members of BOG supported bringing the modern feminist writers to campus. "The rising num­ber of Women's Studies classes are taking away from the negative stigma of the idea of feminism and bringing modern feminist speakers to campus will help even more," Kristen Matha, student trustee, said. 
After some debate and consideration of this year's budget, BOG moved to grant partial funding to allow the authors to speak on campus. 
In other news: 
Focus groups will be meeting next week about the revised "study day" proposal to discuss stu­dent's hopes and concerns about the project. 
"The more feedback and ideas outside the student government we get will help in catering the policy toward students needs," Student Body Vice-President, Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 
Do you feel you might have a call­
ing to become a diocesan priest 
Down Under? {All expenses are covered throughout the seminary, university formation.) If interested, please contact Rev Dr Armando I Carandang, Vocation Director of the Archdiocese of Perth, Western Australia, now interviewing in the US, Sept. 15-29. Tel: 617·786-9661 (late evenings) Email: prvocation@hotmail.com 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
an example. 
Panelists agreed that as the
Panel 
Gootblatt tackles the basics 
function and responsibility of 
continued from page 1 
correspondent and New York 
City resident, described to the 
students and faculty gathered 
her account of the World 
Trade Center attacks from a 
block away. 
"I just remember standing there -I couldn't under­stand it," she said, adding that amid the confusion and uncertainty immediately fol­lowing the collapse of the towers, the magnitude of her profession became glaringly obvious. 
"I was just so aware of how important my job had become," she said. "My job had never had such gravitas as it had that day. We had to give clear, concise, well­thought-out coverage." 
An anchor-reporter for WCVB-TV in Boston, Kelley Tuthill agreed. 
"Immediately, that morn­ing, I realized I had a role," she said. "I felt glad that I had a mission to seek answers to a lot of ques­tions." 
Tuthill then went on to 

delineate the changes she 
had observed in the Boston 
news media over the past 
year. 
"All of a sudden, experience mattered -trust mattered. That mission has certainly continued. We have a respon­sibility here to do things right -and it requires a serious approach," Tuthill said. 
Fellow panelist Jim Naughton, president of the Poynter Institute for Media Studies, summed up the cli­mate of post-Sept. 11 journal­ism in three words: sobered, focused, and concerned. 
"We had forgotten ... what our role was in a democratic society," he said, adding that the responsibility of journal­ists has been better under­stood over the past year. "God save us if we don't rec­ognize that our role in society is to foment." 
Naughton, whose participa­tion in this year's panel marks the end of his tenure as an advisor to the Gallivan program and the beginning of his retirement, also pointed out the perceived lack of interest in international news on the part of American media organizations before the nation was thrust into the middle of them. 
"There had been a denigra­tion in the coverage of inter­national events as we became a more insular society," he said. "Sept. 11 focused us on international news much more than had been the case before." 
"Nightline" executive pro­ducer Tom Bettag agreed, pointing out that the media response to the events of last fall served to highlight the pitfalls that journalism had found itself in during the months leading up to it. with the public exuding the atti• tude that the news was dead. 
"The nadir of American journalism was in August of 2001 -the summer of Gary Condit," he said. "People didn't really care about the news." 
Post-Sept. 11, however, the shift in the role of the media in American society has been dramatic. 
"Journalists have a real obligation to tell people what the consequences are," he said, citing a possible American invasion of Iraq as journalists grow, so, too, do they become increasingly sus­Gootblatt also shared personal Rhames, who has starred inceptible to falling out of favor 
By BETH QUIN 

stories of heart-ache and humor such movies as "Missionwith the general public. 
News Writer 

and reminded the audience that Impossible."
"It was a tough year to be differences exist between the From there she worked her an American and a journal­Speaking with a thick genders. way to the top
ist," said Monica Yant 
Brooklyn accent, Ellen Gootblatt "Men are of WABCKinney, metro columnist for covered the basics of all types of not women "Make yourself where shethe Philadelphia Inquirer. 
relationships. and women had a careerKinney cited her belief that 
excellent. Make

From putting yourself out, get­are not men," as a number 
every journalists mantra 
ting shot down, respecting your­she said. yourself fabulous. one-ratedshould be "question authori­self and learning to experience A radio talk
Make yourself the best ty," a motto that she contends 
life rather than just existing, the Manhattan show host.
is not in keeping with the 
lecturer, author, educator and resident. human being you can During herpatriotic sentiment after Sept. 
radio personality discussed it all Gootblatt was time at
be before you ever dare
11. 
during the Monday night born and WABC, she''Our need to come together, "Meeting, Dating, Relating, and raised in to reach out to another was able to our need to feel a common Mating" lecture. Brooklyn, human being." meet andgrief ... has let our skeptical "Make yourself excellent. New York, interview per­guard down," she said. "It Make yourself fabulous. Make where she sonalities likehas made for an intriguing yourself the best human being completed Ellen Gootblatt Lucille Ball,role for journalists." 
you can be before you ever dare her under­speaker George CarlinAs sports editor for the Los to reach out to another human graduate and John
Angeles Times, Bill Dwyre 
being," Gootblatt urged the work in Cleese.
brought up another, more 
audience. speech and education. She later Leaving her show while ratings
blatant transformation that 
She focused more on how to attended Long Island University were still high. she moved on to
the world of sports media 
live and enjoy life than talking and CW Post for graduate and write two books and now deliv­
underwent in the wake of 
about having a meaningful rela­post-graduate work in guidance ers lectures across the nation. 
Sept. 11: word use. 
tionship in college. and counseling. For 22 years she "Once you lose yourself, you was a Harlem middle and high don't have a relationship. You school teacher, where, among Contact Beth Quin at
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 
have an addiction," she said. other things, she mentored Ving quin@saintmarys.edu 

Do you see a mud hut in Uganda or a fully functioning branch of a New York hospital? 
Portable medical equipment and remote diagnostic technologies. We've developed them already at GE. If 
you 're like us and see the world as fuf{ of possibilities, yew belong here. From advanced medical technology 
to jet engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses of GE wi/f provide you 
with unlimited opportunities ta make the world a better place. All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work every day. Visit us at www.gecareers.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Industry Day JACC-North 
September 18th 
10:00 AM -4:00 PM 

Visit the GE booth at Industry Day to talk to GE representatives and learn more about GE's exciting career opportunities. 
We bring good things to life.

L--------------------------­

WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S. closes in on suspected al-Qaida terrorists 
Iraqi officials allow-U.N. weapons inspectors to return 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Iraq unconditionally accepted the 
return of U.N. 
weapons inspectors 
late Monday, U.N. 
Secretary-General 
Kofi Annan said. "I can confirm to you that I have received a letter from the Iraqi authorities convey­ing its decision to allow the return of inspectors without conditions to con­tinue their work." 

'There is good news," Iraqi Foreign ago ahead of U.S. and British airstrikes Minister Naji Sabri said moments earli­to punish Iraq for not cooperating with er. inspections. 
Sabri and Arab League chief Amr Since then, Iraq has refused to allow 
Moussa met late with  inspectors to return,  
Annan and transmit- and the stalemate  
ted a letter from the Iraqi government on  "There is good news ...  had split the United States, Britain,  
the inspectors' return. Under Security Council resolutions,  Naji Sabri Iraqi foreign minister  Russia, France and China -the five powerful members  
sanctions imposed on  of the U .N. Security  
Iraq  after  its  1990  Council.  
invasion  of  Kuwait  The turnabout in  

cannot be lifted until U.N. inspectors Iraq, after four years of stalemate, certify that its weapons of mass came days after President Bush destruction have been destroyed. addressed the U.N. General Assembly Inspectors left the country four years debate and said that Iraq must comply 
with Security Council resolutions or 
face the consequences. 
Annan credited Bush late Monday. 
"I believe the president's speech gal­vanized the international community," Annan said. 
There was no immediate response from the White House. Top Bush aides huddled after Annan's announcement, preparing a response. 
Annan said the Arab league had played a key role in bringing about the Iraqi response. 
Annan thanked the league's chief. Amr Moussa of Egypt, "for his stre­nouous efforts in helping to convince Iraq to allow the return of the inspec­tors." 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli soldiers kill Egyptian man: 
Israeli soldiers shot and killed an Egyptian man near an Israeli-controlled road in the Gaza Strip on Monday. as Israelis observed Yorn Kippur, the holi­est day of the Jewish calendar. 
Although Yorn Kippur ended Monday evening, Israeli forces said they would stay alert for terror attacks through Tuesday. Israel has tightened secu­rity in Palestinian areas during the holiday for fear of attacks. 
Canada requests details on U.S. captive: 
Canada wants more information about a 15-year­old Canadian citizen captured by U.S. troops in east­ern Afghanistan, and has asked Washington to take his age into account as it decides what to do with him. 
Foreign Affairs spokesman Carl Schwenger said Monday the International Committee of the Red Cross has visited Omar Khadr, 15, who is being held by U.S. forces in Bagram and could be transferred to an American base in Cuba as an enemy combatant. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Panel advocates church discipline policy: 
A national review panel waded into a church conflict over disciplining sexually abusive priests Monday, urg• ing religious orders to comply with the discipline policy adopted by America's Roman Catholic bishops. 
OkJahoma Gov. Frank Keating, chairman of the bish­op-appointed National Review Board, said his group will formally ask the Conference of Major Superiors of Men to reverse its August decision to allow most abusers to continue in church work away from parish­ioners. 
AP fires reporter with suspect sources: 
The Associated Press has dismissed a reporter after the news agency could not confirm the existence of people quoted by name in a number of his stories. AP reviewed stories by Washington reporter Christopher Newton after receiving inquiries about two experts he quoted in a Sept. 8 piece about crime statistics. Editors then found a number of additional stories quoting people whose existence could not be verified. 

FBI agent gets 10 years for tipping mob: 
A former FBI agent who tipped off two mobsters that they were about to be indicted was sentenced to more than 10 years in prison Monday in a case that exposed an overly cozy relationship between the bureau and its underworld informants. 
The case against agent John Connolly proved a major embarrassment to the FBI and led to new Justice Department guidelines for handling informants. 
Man sentenced to death for killing girl: 
A San Diego jury decided Monday that David Westerfield should get the death penalty for killing 7­year-old neighbor Danielle van Dam, the little girl who vanished from her bedroom in the first in a string of high-profile child abductions across the country this year. 
Westerfield, a 50-year-old engineer, shook slightly as the verdict was read and his mother began to cry in the courtroom gallery. 
. Officials hand over 5 al-Qaida suspects 
Associated Press 
KARACHI, Pakistan 

An alleged organizer of the Sept. 11 attacks was handed over to U.S. authorities Monday along with four other al-Qaida suspects who were arrested here last week in a major blow to the terrorL.-;t network. 
The five suspects -including Ramzi Binalshibh, a Yemeni who allegedly wired money to the hijackers in the United States and provided them logistical sup­
port  - were  flown  out  of  
Pakistan,  several  senior  
Pakistani officials said.  

The handover took place after a Pakistani official said police were investigating whether some of those arrested with Binalshibh were involved in the murder of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, who was abducted in Karachi in January. 
If a link were established, it would be the first evidence that al-Qaida may have been involved in Pearl's abduction and killing. 
President Bush said Binalshibh's arrest showed the war on terrorism had not flagged. 
"I had the feeling that after September the 11th, that some around the world would grow weary and tired of this effort," Bush said in Iowa. "But that's not how America feels. That's not how that fellow who's been picked up in Pakistan feels, too." 
German prosecutors believe the 30-year-old Binalshibh was meant to be the fourth suicide pilot in the attacks on the United States. After he was refused a 
U.S. visa, he instead arranged payments to American flight schools and made frequent orga­nizational trips. 
"After his exclusion as the fourth pilot. Binalshibh became the most significant contact per­son inside the network," chief German prosecutor Kay Nehm told reporters in August. 
Although U.S. officials say Binalshibh was a key figure in the German-based cell that helped carry out the Sept. 11 attacks, they say he was not an overall leader in Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network. 
The FBI believes he is a key aide to Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who is thought to have been a top planner of the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon and to have plotted several al-Qaida attacks since. 
The arrests of Binalshibh and the other militants marked one of the biggest successes in the U.S.-led war against terrorism since Abu Zubaydah, the third­ranking official in the al-Qaida network. was captured in March in Faisalabad, Pakistan. 


+ Sixth alleged al-Qaida member faces court charges 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
A sixth alleged member of an al-Qaida terrorist cell based in suburban Buffalo was arrested in the Middle East and brought into court here Monday to face federal charges. 
Prosecutors said 22-year­old Mukhtar al-Bakri -a nat­uralized U.S. citizen born in Yemen -admitted being at an al-Qaida training camp in Afghanistan. He was arrested last week in the Persian Gulf country of Bahrain. 
AI-Bakri was brought into court in handcuffs and shack­les. He was granted a public defender and ordered held without bail pending a hear­ing Wednesday with the five other, who were arrested last week in suburban Lackawanna. A federal magis­trate entered an innocent plea for him. 
The six men are charged with providing material sup­port and resources to foreign terrorist organizations. 
The first five arrested were born in the United States and are of Yemeni descent. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
plans to talk about the death with his staff before the Oct. 5
Death 

home game versus Stanford. "If this comes up again, we'll
continued from page 1 

look at what kinds of things we workers assist with emergen­can learn from this and how cies in the Stadium, said Kleva. we can respond next time," There are two emergency sta­Gagnon said. tions, one each at the northeast Although a Notre Dame and southwest corners of the Security/Police official said 80,000-seat venue. medical emergencies in the 
Few other universities have Stadium were commonplace, as much medical support in Gagnon said the Saturday their stadi-death was the ums and first in the
"If this comes up again,
arenas as Stadium since
we'll look at what kinds
Notre Dame 1995. does, said ofthings we can learn A man died Russell of a heart
from this and how we
"Cappy" attack several 
can respond next time."
Gagnon, years ago dur­director of ing a hockey Stadium game in the
Russell "Cappy" Gagnon
personnel. Joyce Center,
director of Stadium personnel
"I don't said Kleva, of think there's Health anyplace Services. In the that can match us for getting a past, two or three people have patient [out of the Stadium] had heart attacks in the quicker," he said. Stadium but haven't gone into 
Gagnon oversees more than full arrest as the man did 800 ushers, including about 20 Saturday. who carry radios, who also Klcva said the death rate help coordinate response to among fans in the stands was medical emergencies. The ush­unusually low. ers' role in Saturday's incident "I'm surprised, in light of our was containing the crowd and huge venues, that we haven't clearing an exit for transport of had more situations," she said. the body out of the Stadium, he "The doctors and paramedics said. do the best they can, but when 
"This was right at the end of you're talking about a crowd the game, so our part in the like that, you can get to some effort was certainly an easier people and not to others." chore than had it happened Officials said the man who during the middle of the died Saturday was at the game game," he said. alone. He was an ardent Notre 
Stadium workers typically Dame fan, a family friend said review their communications plans following major emer­Contact Jason McFarley at gencies, said Gagnon, who mcfarley.l@nd.edu 

SOMEBODY SPANK ME, l'M 21 ! 
Happy 21st birthday, 
Ricky, from your naughty girls 
2002-03 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Actors _F'ron1 rrhe l-1011don Stag't~ ... · Much Ado About Nothing
• 
. 

by William Shakespeare 
.... Thursday, September 19 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, September 20 ... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, September 21 ...7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $1 4 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office, MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128, The Actors residency is supponed in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
of Education's evaluation of the ing to the seven major categories College. Campus security came of the Clery Act.
Rape 

under fire last year because of In 2001, there was one forcible accusations made by the rape and two incidents of
continued from page 1 

Pennsylvania-based watchdog fondling reported. reported to campus security organization Security on Campus since policy changes were made that Saint Mary's was not cor­Contact Sarah Nestor at to comply with the Department rectly reporting crimes accord-nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
THURS. SEPT. S, 2002 6:00-7:15 PM 
& 

THUR. SEPT.19, 2002 
5:00-6:15 PM 
ROOM 129 HAYES-HEALY Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
ofthe 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY 
Without you, Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer ........ . 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition of the Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visi~ our new website today for information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http://www.nd.edu/~prayers/ 
Bus0iNEss 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch Se tember 16 
DowJones 

8,380.18  NASDAQ  +67.49  
1,275.88  S&P500 '  -15.52  
891.10  +l.29  
AMEX  
871.18  +l.13  
483.55  NYSE  +l.20  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -15.08-0.19 1.07 
Ellll:11:i:lillil'!Ei::ll!llllil!:ll:~i!ll:!lll11ill 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)-5.85 -0.18 2.93 
~~tlll11Ii~lil1.t,::tttl:'iilitlJ;1ilt~li~IIIllli:illl 
PALM INC (PALM) -2.50-0.02 0.78 
IN BRIEF 
Rigases seek insurance protection 
Adelphia Communications founder John J. Rigas and his sons have asked a Philadelphia judge to rule that federal bankruptcy laws don't bar the insurer that provided director and officer liability coverage for Adelphia from paying legal defense costs for the Rigases. 
Rigas and sons Timothy and Michael were arrested July 24 on criminal charges of steal­ing hundreds of millions of dollars from Adelphia. The nation's sixth largest cable television company filed for Chapter 11 bank­ruptcy protection June 25. Rigas and his sons stepped down from board seats and executive posts at the company in May. 
SEC looks at Jack Welch accusations 
The Securities and Exchange Commission has opened an informal investigation into for­mer General Electric Co. chief Jack Welch's retirement perks. 
Welch, stung by public criticism over the extent of the lavish package -which includ­ed use of a Manhattan apartment and corpo­rate planes, asked GE to take back many of the benefits late last week. GE's board of directors agreed to do so Thursday. 
The company received notice of the SEC inquiry the next day and is cooperating, said GE spokesman Gary Sheffer. 
The perks came to light as part of legal papers filed in a divorce case by Welch's wife, Jane. 
Qwest director resigns from board 
Qwest Communications International Inc., headquartered in Denver, announced Monday the resignation of Hank Brown from its board of directors. 
Brown said he was resigning from the telecommunications company due to increased demands on his time. He was recently named chief executive of the Denver­based Daniels Fund. 
Boeing union says 'no' to strike 
. Negotiations still underway over contracts 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
The Boeing Co.'s largest union narrowly voted down a strike and its Machinist union-repre­sented employees are reporting to work. 
But troubles. labor and otherwise. for the world's largest producer of com­mercial jets are far from over. 
Having avoided a strike over the weekend by the Machinists. Boeing Commercial Airplanes faces similar issues in negotiations with its sec­ond-largest union, the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace. Contracts for three bargaining units of SPEEA, which represents engineers and technical workers, expire in early December. 
Boeing is also awaiting arbitration on its practice of subcontracting work to outside companies, a move challenged by the Machinists. 

With reduced commer­cial jet production and even deeper layoffs still a possibility, the company faces the lingering bitter­ness of Machinists who face three years of work­Washington state, es." and international airline 
ing under a contract they Wichita, Kan., and For its part, the customers to delay deliv­
overwhelmingly rejected. Portland Ore., failed to Machinists union said it ering more than 500 jets"Boeing management muster the two-thirds plans to keep the pressure -a year's worth of pro­has challenges ahead," majority needed to call a on Boeing and preserve as duction -since the 
said David Olson, a labor strike. Although 62 per­many jobs as it can. It is attacks. expert and political sci­cent voted to reject awaiting an arbitrator's In the past year. Boeing ence professor at the Boeing's "best and final" ruling on whether subcon­has slashed jetliner pro­University of Washington. contract proposal last tracting -at the same duction in half. and has "They have to be con­Friday, union bylaws time the company has laid laid off nearly 30,000 cerned about the morale require the membership off workers -was a vio-workers. Boeing 
of workers on the factory to adopt the contract if 1 a tion of a job security Commercial Airplanes floor. They can do things the strike vote fails. It's clause in the union's 1999 Chief Executive Alan that address the morale the first time the union contract. Mulally said the recovery issue or they can ignore it, has been unable to back Labor problems only is taking longer than which I think they would up a contract rejection compound the uncertainty expected and the outlook do at their peril. ... If with a strike vote. Boeing faces. Some of its for 2004 is "cloudier." Boeing ignores this, their "It's a bitter pill," said biggest customers, includ­Labor problems are hit­supposed victory will be a Dennis Warren, an ing United Airlines and ting other Boeing divisions hollow one." Everett factory worker American Airlines, have as well. A strike by about 
The Machinists union, who voted to reject the been devastated by the 1,400 workers at Boeing's representing 25,000 pro­agreement and go on soft economy and the ter­helicopter plant in subur­duction workers, mostly in strike. "There will be rorist attacks. Boeing has ban Philadelphia entered commercial jet plants in more and more job loss-negotiated with 58 U.S. its third day Monday. 

Kmart reports loss of $377 million 
net loss of $333 million, or 66 cents a lost $144 million in July and $126 mil­
Associated Press 

share. compared with a net loss of lion in August -which followed a loss TROY. Mich. $304 million. or 62 cents a share, in of $137 million in June. It reported 
Bankrupt retailer Kmart Corp. post­the year-ago quarter. July sales of $2.6 billion and August ed a loss of $377 million in the second Net sales for the period were $7.52 sales of $2.09 billion. quarter, as sales lagged and the com­billion, a decrease of 15. 7 percent Same-store sales, were down 13.8 pany dealt with the stigma of its from $8.92 billion in 2001. As report­percent in July from the same period Chapter 11 filing. ed, Kmart closed 283 underperform­in 2001, and down 11. 9 percent in 
Kmart's net loss for the quarter that ing stores in the second quarter. Sales August. ended July 31 was the same as the at stores opened at least a year, Executives at the Troy-based dis­year-ago quarter. The company had a known as same-store sales, were count chain had hinted that sales were not loss of 75 cents a share in the most down 11 percent for the second quar­below expectations as consumers con­recent period, compared with a loss of ter. tinued to shy away from Kmart stores. 77 cents in the second quarter of Kmart said its summer sales slide For the first six months, Kmart 2001. continued in July and August. as the reported a net loss of $1.83 billion, or 
Excluding one-time charges, closed retailer reported a net loss of $270 $3.63 per share, compared with a net stores and reorganization items. the million for the two months. loss of $610 million, or $1.25 per Troy-based discount chain reported a The company said Monday its stores share, for the year-ago period. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 16, 2002 

Centerfor Socia( Concerns 
~Q~



CONCERNS 

http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Holy Cross Mission in Education Seminar 
Immerse yourselfin the educational mission ofNotre Dame's Holy Cross priests to Hispanics in Arizona's Valley of the Sun. You'll participate in the creative programming of St. John Vianney grade school and expr~rience Phoenix's well­known Andre House of Hospitality. Local families love to host you, and you'll explore some ofthe region's natural beauty. Ideal for students considering ACE! *Info session Oct 8, 5-5:30pm, Coffee House 
*Applications due Oct. 14 
*Contact Kevin Sandberg, CSC (1-4147 or sandberg.6@nd.edu} 
International Summer Service Learning Program 2003 (ISSLP) 
Sites in 13 developing countries around the world Information Session: Wednesday, September 18, 6:30-7:30 pm, at theCSC 
Appl}cation due date November 1st 
It's never too early to explore and consider the possibilities ... 
CSC VEHICLE TRAIN.ING 
•...................................., 
•• Current Volunteer Needs
• 
: Michiana AIDS Walk 

• This event is a 5K walk along South Bend's riverfront and will be held on Sunday, September 22nd at 2:00 p.m. at Potawatomi Park. Walkers collect money to support AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist. Gather a group offriends from your dorm and join in this great event! Stop by the Center for Social Concerns to pick up a registration form. 
St. Joseph Regional Medical Center Contact Denise Kapsa at 237-7242. Volunteers are needed to work in the ER, with Outpatient 
• Pediatric Therapy, and as nurses' aides. Must attend an ori­entation session on Sept. 24th (3-5:30 p.m.) or Sept. 25th (5:30-8 p.m.). Stop by the CSC to pick up an application or email Denise at: kapsad@sjcg.org. 
Faith in Action Respite Care Contact: Sharon Burnside at 254-0454, ext. 221 
• Volunteers are needed to provide a break for family caregivers from their daily routine ofcaring for a loved one. Two orientation sessions are required: Oct 1st and Oct. 8th from 6-9 p.m. 
Boy Scouts Contact Karen Carl at 289-0337, or Bob Dill at 656-8984 Ifyou were a boy scout, please consider becoming a trained boy scout leader. Two training sessions will be held on Sept. 25th and 28th. Please contact Karen or Bob for more infor­mation. 
ISTEP tutors Contact: Barbara Burquette at Dockside Agency; 299­8595 
Volunteers are needed to tutor high school students in math in preparation for the !STEP test which will be held Sep­tember 22nd-24th. Tutoring will be held on Tues-Thurs from 4-5:30 at Dockside located on South Michigan St. 
For information on how to request a vehicle, which the Center will rent from the Transportation Services Department, attend one of the training sessions offered. All drivers of vehicles scheduled through the Center for Social Concerns must complete the Transportation De­partment Defensive Driving Training Course as well as a brief presen­tation on CSC policies and procedures on one of the following dates: 
Training Dates 
Sunday, September 22 Sunday, September 29 6:45 p.m., Room 102 DeBartolo 
Individuals: 

Tutors are needed for a 17 year old senior in math and a ten year old in 
reading. Wed/Th evening or Mon. afternoon. Can bring children to 
Hesburgh Library. Contact Diane Braisher at work from 8-4:30 at 
284-3510 or at home at 232-3412. 

Tutor needed for a 12 year old in reading and math comprehension. A female student in math or education would be ideal. Student can come to Hesburgh or donn on Tuesdays from 4-5. Contact Julie Dawson at 243­7950. 
A math tutor is needed for a 13 year old. Tutoring could take place after school any Mon-Th from 3:30-4:30 at Hesburgh Library. 2 times a week would be ideal. Contact Ms. Wilkens at 288-1280. • 
A geometry and chemistry tutor is needed for a high school junior. Any day 
Monday through Thursday would work from 3:30-4:30 at Hesburgh 
library. Contact Lauren Schloemer at 232-2618. 
··························································································­
page 9 

Tuesday, September 17, 2002 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS 
U-WIRE 
Guiliani speaks about crisis leadership principles in Minn. 
Giuliani spoke in St. Paul,
ByANDREW PRITCHARD Minn., about crisis leadership. 
Minncsoca Daily 
Giuliani, wbo led New York 
during last year's terrorist 
MINNEAPOLIS attacks, thanked Minnesotans 
After walking onstage to a for their support and praised standing ovation Friday, former the World Trarie Center rescue New York City Mayor Rudolph workers. 
9-BALL 
BILLIARD 


TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. Sept. 20 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 1st Place: $100 gift CEl'tlflcatc from BEST BUY 2nd Place: $75 gift certificate from BEST BUY 3rd Place: $25 gift C4Elrtlficate from BEST BUY 
Space limited to first 20 people who sign up-­Sign up at ND Express. (Must present I.D. when registering.) 
Sponsored by thE Student ActlvltlES OfflcE. 
"Their first response was to stand their ground," he said. "And that set the stage for an evacuation that saved the lives of 25,000 people or more." 
Giuliani then discussed six principles of leadership he said carried him through the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. 
"The most important princi­ple of leadership for getting through a crisis ... is to have a philosophy, a religion, a set of beliefs, an ideology" about which a leader has thought and in which he or she believes, Giuliani said. 
"People do not follow ambi­guity," he said. "People follow clarity." 
Giuliani said former President Ronald Reagan, Martin Luther King, Jr. and World War II-era British Prime Minister Winston Churchill are examples of people whose beliefs were always clear, regardless of whether others agreed with them. 
Giuliani also used Churchill to 
demonstrate his second princi­
ple. 
"A leader has to be an opti­mist," he said. "Who ever fol­lowed pessimism? If you do, there's something wrong with you, right?" 
Giuliani said he's always 
wondered if Churchill ever 
doubted England would prevail 
over the Nazi air attacks in 
1940. 
He also said his father taught 
him to be the calmest person in 
a crisis and focus on finding a solution. 
"That's what being an opti­mist is," Giuliani said. ·•1t isn't being unrealistic; it isn't being foolish." 
Thirdly, he said, a leader must be courageous, like the fire captains at the World Trade Center. 
"[Bravery] is management of fear, not the absence of fear," he said. 
Preparation was ~iuliani's fourth principle, and he said that must now include prepar­ing for anthrax, smallpox, bombings, hostage situations and other terrorist threats. 
"It really is up to leaders to think about this all the time," he said. 
"That's the responsibility of a leader -prepare, prepare, prepare again, think about the worst that could happen." 
Giuliani said New York got through the terrorism crisis partly because of preparations made years before, such as moving the city's medicine sup­plies for countering biological terrorism out of the emergency management command facility in the World Trade Center and putting them in hospitals throughout the city. 
Giuliani said those prepara­tions occurred largely because of teamwork among his top advisers, his fifth leadership principle. 
The former mayor said team­
work is about balance. 

"No matter how smart you 
are and how good you are, 
there are going to be things you don't know about," he said. 
Giuliani drew a round of applause when he praised President George W. Bush's foreign policy and national securitv advisers. 
"Whether you agree with him politically or not ... it's a great team," 
Giuliani said, "and that's really the core, ultimately, of leadership." 
Giuliani's final principle of leadership was communication, which he said is the easiest part of leadership if a leader has followed the other five ideas. 
"Communication is not always all about words," he said. "It's also about action, deeds, example." 
Following his speech, Giuliani answered question from WCCO­TV anchorman Don Shelby, including the question that prompted another standing ovation: "Would you Uke to be president of the United States?" 
Giuliani said he loves public office but will be out of it for a while and didn't know how he would re-enter public life. 
"I think it's almost sacrile­gious to answer a question like that unless it's realistic," he said. "And right now it's not." 
Giuliani also said the arrest 
of five suspected al Qaeda oper­
atives in a Buffalo, N.Y., suburb 
Friday gave him hope the intel­
ligence failures that led to last 
September's terrorist attacks 
were being corrected. 


Tuesday, September 17, 2002 

page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
White House rejects 
Iraqi inspection offer 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

The White House dismissed an Iraqi offer Monday to let weapons inspectors return there unconditionally. calling it a tactical move that did not change the Bush administra­tion's desire to remove Saddam Hussein. 
The White House released a written statement that called the offer "a tactical step by Iraq in hopes of avoiding strong U.N. Security Council action." 
"As such, it is a tactic that will fail," spokesman Scott McClellan said in the state­ment. 
"This is not a matter of inspections. It is about disar­mament of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and the Iraqi regime's compliance with all other Security Council resolu­tions," McClellan said in Washington. 
The administration still is demanding a decree from the United Nations that would make plain that the organiza­tion will enforce the 16 resolu­tions Saddam has broken, McClellan said. The statement did not mention the White House's previous insistence that Iraq allow inspectors to go anywhere in the country, at any time. 
It demanded a "new. effec­tive U.N. Security Council reso­1u tion that will actually deal with the threat Saddam Hussein poses to the Iraqi peo­ple, to the region and to the world." 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said the U.N. Security Council is moving toward the 
U.S. position on Iraq. but France objected strongly to the Bush administration's insis­tence that Saddam must go. 
As Powell consulted with council members, Secretary­General Kofi Annan, working with Iraqi and Arab League officials, came up with a letter pledging that Iraq would let 
U.N. weapons inspectors return unconditionally. 
Annan credited President Bush for the Iraqi reversal of policy. He said the president has "galvanized the interna­tional community" with his speech last Thursday. 
Earlier, French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin said, "We have one goal, which is the fight against prolifera­tion" of weapons of mass destruction. 
"There has been talk about working for regime change," de Villepin said. "This is not included in the mandate of the United Nations. If we begin dis­cussing it, where will it end? It's a totally different process." 
De Villepin spoke during a luncheon with reporters. 
The goal of removing Saddam from power was adopted during President Clinton's tenure, and President Bush, pursuing the objective. is threatening to use force to achieve it. The U.S. policy is that disarmament in Iraq, as ordered by U. N. Security Council resolutions, will not be possible so long as Saddam remains in power. with or without renewed U.N. inspec­tions. 
A broad consensus appears to be developing in support of a resolution demanding that Iraq accept the unconditional return of weapons inspectors in the next several weeks. It was not clear whether the pro­posed Iraqi Jetter being dis­cussed Monday would meet the council's requirements. 
Five days after Bush demanded in a speech at the United Nations that the organi­zation stand up to Iraq, Powell said he was absolutely sure of continued progress toward approval of a new resolution. 
"The political dynamic has changed, and there is a great deal of pressure now being placed on Iraq to come into compliance with the U.N. man­dates of the last 12 years," Powell said, meeting with reporters. 
He said council members are only beginning to consider what a new resolution might say. 
Powell met Monday with del­egates from several Security Council countries, including Britain, Colombia and Mexico. Also planned was an evening meeting with a fourth Council member, Syria. 
The administration favors a resolution that not only would mandate return of inspectors with full access to all areas of Iraq but also would permit the use of force should Iraq refuse. 
That stand goes beyond what France would be willing to accept. De Villepin said the resolution should be limited only to the need for the return of inspectors. If Iraq should refuse, he said, the Council should reconvene to debate what comes next. 
De Villepin suggested that three weeks would be a rea­sonable amount of time for Saddam to respond to a Security Council demand for the inspectors' return. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Monday that Bush has not decided to go to war. 
At Dubuque, Iowa. the presi­dent pressed his case for deposing Saddam. Outside the Mississippi Valley Fairgrounds, he called the Iraqi a "tyrant {who] must be dealt with." About 100 demonstrators held signs that read, "Drop Bush Not Bombs" and "Please No War in Iraq." 
Bush issued a fresh chal­lenge to the United Nations to show resolve against the Iraqi leader, whom Bush tried to link, if only in rhetoric, to the al-Qaida terrorists accused of pulling off the Sept. 11 attacks last year. 
The war on terror is more than hunting down al-Qaida. Bush said. "It also means deal­ing with true and real threats that we can foresee. One of the most dangerous threats America faces is a terrorist network teaming up with some of the world's worst leaders who develop the world's worst weapons," he said. 
"If Iraq's regime continues to defy us and the world, [the United States] will move delib­erately yet decisively to hold Iraq to account," with or with­out the United Nations, Bush said. 
Before leaving the White House early Monday, Bush telephoned Indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri and spoke for about 10 minutes on Iraq and the war on terror. 


, 

INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00 PM 
VvEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 B 207 DEBARTOLO 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay, or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
7:30 PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003-Spring 2004 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud after Oct. 2, 2002 
page 11

Tuesday, September 16, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

The time to stt=1rt planning your future is NOW! 

Representatives from nearly 70 companies will be in attendance to answer your questions and discuss your opportunities for permanent employment and summer internships. Don't m1iss this excellent opportunity to secure your future by making your job search easier. 
Events: 

RECEPTION A~ND BANQUET  CAREER FAIR  
TODAY: September 17, 6:30 PM  Wednesday, September 18, 4AM ­ 
Concourse ofthe Joyce Athletic  10PM Concourse of the Joyce  
and Convocation Center (2nd floor)  Athletic and Convocation Center  

Companies Sending Representatives:!®•·.. 
Accenture1:± mili:1 '1I 
~-l~lE~i
~::::IWI 
DENsolti' 
a~:t;:i~a~
Dynamidsi!I: IBM -in!I t 
Johnson ii:; 
E 1 eCtto{::~~::1::ir --~~~:~ 
Massacli .. .,;;:illa~l Baker :il!l;1!i;:NAVAIR~,i1 Smith &
~:~::.:s.i.!:.. ..
A
ssoc1a11e: · 
::•jitt>-·=? 
~i~s~:::

Instrum· 
Sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 12 Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 4655G 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  &b Woods  

NEWS EDITOR.! Helena Payne Vt:EWPO!Nf EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKcnna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER. Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINlSTR,\TOR: Ted Bangerr WEB.ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Niero 
CONTROLLER.I Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..............,. .............,....... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!.Ef........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OmcE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spores. l@nd.edu SCENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB .ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

V1Sit our Web site at http://ob;erwr.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion colwnns, as weU as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colleg,c. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the tighr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depamnenr editors. Commentaries, lettets and columns present the views ofrhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readets. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFar!ey. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ObtcrYcr (USPS 599 2.....000) is p11blubcd. Monday through Friday except during a.am .md ~tion period,. A ,WJKriprion .ta The 0mel"IICI LI S100 fur vnc ac~ic y~; $15 for orie kmlPfer, 
~ ObicrW.t i. publilhed ar:. POSTMASTER 014 Sour!, IJ;nu,g H.JI Send odd,,,, oo=oom ro: Noa,, D-IN . 6S~6-0Tl'J ~Ohlcrw:r 
!lcriadka.t ~paid at Notre Dame P.O.S..Q u,d ..diaonal mailingollio,,. 024 Soud1. lJinang Ha.li Nouc Danw., IN 46~56-0779 
Thor Obscro-cr 11 .1 member ofdie Auor.i.1trd Pra.. All reproduaion l1ghu u-e
...,,..,d, 


Obsession is a powerful force. Some obsess over power, others over money, others over Grand Theft Auto III. My mother, unfortunately, is not obsessed with any of these things (she still likes Tetris). Her obses­sion has been a Amy Schill burden to me ever since the day I was born and the doctor 
Dazed and 

announced that I 
Amused

had ten fingers, ten toes and a uterus. My mother is obsessed with grandchil­dren. 
Sometimes I wonder if she had kids just so she could have grandchildren later. But alas, all her planning looked to be futile. Despite all her efforts to marry us off before puberty, it was beginning to look like my mom's dream was never going to come true, with my sister having gone through a string of bad relationships, my brother off fight­ing bad guys with big guns in the Marines and me regarding the prospect of having children like I would the prospect of being shot with a big gun while in a bad relationship. Mom was getting so desperate that she started referring to the family cat as her grand­son, who was now getting more Christmas presents than me. Mom had given up hope, and my sibHngs and I were left with the monumental guilt that came with the piercing stare she gave us every time she saw a baby. I didn't think anything would take the pressure to procreate off of me, until one day, some­thing great happened. 
My big sister got pregnant. While this development was great for my sister (she got a baby) and me 
(bought me some time). it wasn't exactly the way my mom pictured having grand­kids, since my sister is not so much mar­ried as she is not married. But at least my sister's boyfriend was getting the stare instead of me. 
Now some of you may be wondering what the problem is. For better or for worse, having kids outside of marriage hasn't been scandalous since Dan Quayle was entering spelling bees. But my family is Catholic, and though my parents aren't ultramontanists, they are really religious when it comes to things the neighbors might gossip about. So at first, this unexpected pregnancy caused my mom to be a little ashamed, a little embarrassed and a whole lot angry at the boyfriend, who was obviously the only party responsible. 
However, those feelings quickly dis­solved into joy when my mom realized one incontrovertible fact about this pregnancy. There was going to be shop­ping involved. 
Morality shmormality, John Lennon makes baby clothes! This summer I learned more than I ever needed to know about receiving blankets, cribs, strollers (I learned that those special strollers I saw were for jogging and not for, as I had originally thought, "extreme strolling"), playpens and how to coordinate them all into an aestheti­cally pleasing baby experience that the child will poop on. I started to realize that both the cat and my future niece were going to get more Christmas pre­sents than me. 
But my mom encountered a much larger problem than my selfishness in her shopping euphoria. She faced the nemesis of all grandmothers every­where: the other grandmother. Their first meeting was pleasant enough, with each trying to assure the other that she didn't raise her child "that way." But those pleasantries stopped when they both realized that number one grandma status was at stake. Soon an all-out bid• ding war ensued. 
When one bought a stroller, the other bought a car seat; when one bought a playpen, the other had to order an expensive diaper service. My mom's rival even bought my sister maternity clothes. In fact, I don't think my sister has paid for anything since getting preg­nant, which led me to ponder whether I had finally figured out how to pay off my student loans. 
But before I venture into the exciting world of reproduction for profit, I think I'm going to enjoy being crazy aunt Amy for awhile. On Friday, Sept. 13, my niece Autumn was born. The new mom and dad are doing well, and Dad won't even leave Mom and Baby to go to the store. 
My mom is still trying to decide whether she wants to be called Grandma or Nanna, but otherwise she is overjoyed as well. However, I do foresee one problem for little Autumn. She has ten fingers, ten toes and, I'm assuming, a uterus. Watch out Autumn, because it won't be long before your mom wants grandkids too. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. lier column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Andrew Thagard Teresa Fralish Helena Payne 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemrn 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 

Sports 
Joe Hettler Bryan Kronk 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Lab Tech 
Dorothy Carder Illustrator Veronica Kelleher 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To be born a woman is to know, though they 
Has the new alcohol policy prompted you to 

do not speak ofit at school, that we must 
tailgate off campus? 

labor to be beautiful. " Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
William Butler Yeats English poet 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Affirming the current policy on student sex 
Why stop at passing out condoms? Hand out S}tringes, too 
In his Sept. 12 letter, "Sex policy change needed," Ben Le Roy has a compelling argument in support of the University changing its stance on the sex policy. I must say, the aforementioned letter moved me to take a serious look at the University's other tyrannical policies which greatly inhibit our having rocking good times here in the Bend. 
Sure. the alcohol restrictions on campus, such as the banning ofso-called "hard" alcohol. are considered by and large to be the greatest show ofadministrative iron­flstedness, but, in my opinion, it is by far not the most pressing problem with policy here at Notre Dame. I feel, along with many of my fellow students, that the University's attitude toward drugs is greatly outdated and in need of serious retooling. 
DuLac states that "possession or use of any controlled substance ... is a serious vio­lation ... subject to disciplinary suspension or permanent dismissal." But really, who are we to decide what exactly is a "serious violation?" 
Drugs are a substance which allow us students to feel ridiculously good; I mean, that's why people here do them. Let's not bicker and argue about what drugs are being used by what group of people, or if drugs are used in great numbers here at Notre Dame at all for that matter. Let's just say that in a University with some 8,000 students, I'm sure that a whole bunch of people are using some kind of drug at some point during the day, possibly even multiple times a day. Drugs are used here because, as a great modern fable IThe Simpsons) once instructed, "Ifit feels good, do it," and by gum, we should be allowed to "do what we feel like." 
The Notre Dame administration, howev­er, makes the student body feel that drugs are "not good" and that use of drugs is "problematic." I'm here to say that drug use is superflagratatious. The anti-narcotic atmosphere of the University makes us feel ashamed of drug use rather than marvel at the wonder and the stupor and "the forget­ting what happened the night before because I was too high" feelings that come with narcotics use. The University should loosen its grip, because seriously, what harm is it causing? No one should be sus­pended or expelled from Notre Dame just for using illegal narcotics. The only thing we're really breaking is U.S. federal law, but since when has that stopped anybody? 
Since I have already pointed out the fact that many, many students use drugs earlier in this article, I feel that the University's only recourse is to allow drugs to be used freely on campus and to give us free syringes with which to use said drugs. Since we're going to do drugs anyway, we might as well be safe doing them, right? 
Forget the fact that it goes against moral Catholic teaching and federal law. The administration should let us do it because I think it should he this way. 
Many college campuses do not have such strict policies regarding drugs, and Notre Dame should be no different. It's not like Notre Dame is a special place or anything. So "administration, hear our cry, allow us all to get really, really high." 
Carl Schmied 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Sepe. 16 

Look past stereotypes 
In my second year at Saint Mary's College, I've heard all the rumors, jokes and accusations concerning the Saint Mary's women and the Notre Dame girls. The most common stereotype around campus is that while the women at Saint Mary's are more attractive, they are far less studious than those brilliant Notre Dame gids. Contrary to popular belief, the life of a Saint Mary's woman doe:. not revolve around sport­ing tube tops and leeching off the men at Notre Dame every Friday and Saturday night. In fact, a large number of Saint Mary's women take advantage of one of the most valuable resources available on both campuses: the classroom. That attractve girl in class could very well be a Saint Mary's woman who is just as intelligent and driven as any Notre Dame girl. 
While Notre Dame is one of the most selec:tive and prestigious uni­versities in the country, the benefits of attending Saint Mary's, the "No. 1 Midwestern comprehensive College," include independence and self-respect. We don't have the time to strut around in bikini tops and short skirts to appease the male hypothalamus; we're too busy work­ing in chemistry lab, analyzing Plato's "Republic," and examining 20th century pop art. In other words, we take prilde in our work and are concerned about our futures. We are here at Saint Mary's because we want to succeed. 
So forget the belly shirts and tight jeans, and take the time to realize that the women of Saint Mary's are focused. dedicated and often times on the exact same page as the bright Notre Dame girls. It is unfortu­nate that stereotypes such as "Saint Mary's girls are dumb" and "Notre Dame girls are ugly" have managed to mislead the community. Clearly. these statements are ridiculous and do nothing to strengthen the bond between the women of both campuses. 
Kay Homer 
Regina Hall sophomore Sept. 16 

University supports teaching and parents 
This letter is in response to Ben Le Roy's Sept. 12 letter about birth con­trol and pregnancy on Notre Dame's campus. He implied that the University is hypocritical for having a no sex policy and then giving confidential coun­seling to pregnant women. Mr. Le Roy also painted a very bleak picture for students who do become pregnant. I would like to address both points. 
It is only fitting that a Catholic school expect its students to uphold the teachings of the Catholic Church. Nobody is required to attend school here, and the rules are well known by most people coming into school. However, the officials at Notre Dame realize that students sometimes break rules, and normally, if caught, should face the consequences. Now, if a female student finds herself pregnant and facing suspension from school if she seeks help, she is left with two options. She could kill her baby or hide her pregnancy and be forced to put her baby up for adoption. Both options are terrible dilemmas for both the new parents and the unborn child. Therefore, Notre Dame tries to support the new parents. Just like all physi­cal and mental health services provided by the school. these are kept confi­dential. 
I found out I was pregnant two weeks before I started my freshman year at Notre Dame. After settling into my dorm. I went to see Sister Carrine Etheridge, my rector. She helped me tell my parents and set up appoint­ments with counselors and with Health Services. Everyone associated with the University was extremely helpful, making sure I had transportation to doctor's appointments, arranging for me to take a semester off and making sure I kept my scholarships. 
When I returned to school. the University helped me get into University Village (married student apartments) and made sure I could get into any classes I needed. Father Heshurgh baptized Olivia in the Basilica at a spe­cial mass with 200 of my closest friends. Throughout my career at Notre Dame, my peers, advisors and professors gave me nothing but support. In fact, my husband and I planned the birth of Alexis between junior and senior year. 
Was having a child while in school difficult? Yes. Impossible? No. In fact, I was still able to graduate with my class. My grades were not perfect, but they were not bad by any means. I occasionally went out with friends, was in several organizations and went to the football games. 
I would never trade my Notre Dame experience, and I certainly do not think I am a bad parent. 
Anna Ping Rector 
class of'OO Sepe. 12 

Peace can be built outside 
our simplified differences 
Lately we've been frantic to define everything -to box right and wrong into governments and countries and the colors of the flags we fly. If we say we love America, we're assumed to be in favor of un-checked U.S. militarism; if we speak about peace we're swiftly written off as ignorant idealists. Our world is uncertain: lines are being drawn and allegiance is demanded. Will you stand up for truth, for peace and for your country? 
There is a danger in trying always to find the divisions in our beliefs, in striving to affirm our own ideas only against a backdrop of the opposite. We all suffered last September; we are all seeking ways to restore peace to our hearts, to the country and to the world. 
This August I watched my mother hang an American flag outside our house every morning. She was not loudly claiming unwavering nationalism, unabashedly sup­porting all U.S. foreign policy or eagerly encouraging an invasion of Iraq. She was broken by the suffering of the families who lost their loved ones, those whose homes were irreparably damaged. 
Every morning when I step out onto my front porch, a colorful "Pray for Peace, America" banner greets me from across the street. When, as humans, we have been broken by this war as we have been by all wars, why is speaking for peace an inappropriate response? Why does a recognition of the global effects of Sept. 11 have to be seen as subversive, ill-founded and naive? This is an event that has affect­ed the entire world. 

We have all watched the evolution of this war with sadness, and we are all seeking the paths to a restoration ofjustice and peace. These events have touched us all and have demanded courage in our under­standing of each other: of those through­out the world and those further down on our block. This is, most certainly, a time for questioning and speaking out. 
Lives and worlds are at stake. But it is also, more than ever, a time that demands openness -a willingness to look for simi­larities and build up peace from our shared brokenness and our shared humanity. 
Sarah Brook 
Norre Dame senior off campus Sepe. 12 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Counting Crows are back after 3-year lull 
By SARAH VABUlAS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
After almost three years since the release of This Desert Life, the Counting Crows. led by Adam Duritz, renew the excitement for fans every­where with their fourth and newest album. Hard Candy, released on July 9. 
Since the Counting Crows' debut in 1994, fans still reflect on the good days of "Mr. Jones," "Round Here," and "Omaha," hoping for more of that distinctive sound. The past few records have been flops in comparison to the original hit compact disc August and Everything After. On the latest release the upbeat melodies and lyrics involving love, angels and insomnia once again shine bright in most of the songs. The Counting Crows have once again hooked fans with music that just makes you want to roll down your windows and drive fast, while singing and dancing at those red lights. 

Along with the high-energy songs, come the necessary deep lyrics, maintain­ing the typical Counting Crow 
album feel. The 
main difference 
from the past 
CDs, however, is 
that even in the 
midst of the 
thought-pro­
voking, emo­
tional lyrics, 
the melodies 
shine through 
to give the 

The Counting Crows from left are David lmmergluck, Dan Vickrey, Adam Durtiz, Charles Gillingham, 
Ben Mize, Matt Malley and David Bryson 

songs a different feel, something new for the band, giving fans something to celebrate. 
Sheryl Crow makes an appearance in the song, "American Girls," after helping Duritz shape the song into its form on the album. Matthew Sweet, Ryan Adams and his sweetheart, Leona Naess, also appear in the songs to add a slightly different sound vari­ation while maintaining the Counting Crows unique sound of the past. Duritz, the lead singer of the Counting Crows, found that collabora­tion was necessary to bring the album to the level it reached in the end. 
The leading songs on the album, "Hard Candy" and "American Girls," initiate the radio-friendly sound ema­nating from most of the tracks with the lyrics, of course, comprising most­ly of girls and love. 
The lead song, and title track, "Hard Candy," reflects a guy's love for a girl and how "it makes you feel alright /But it's just the same hard candy you're remembering again." This track shows Duritz's need for a rela­tionship after spending the past year and a half in isolation. 
With "American Girls," Adam takes a new approach to love and relation­ships. He sings about a girl standing in line to get into a hot new nightclub who is helped out by a guy to get in. A relationship forms, but in the end the guy only finds himself rejected and dumped, even after his gentlemanly attempts. 
All 13 tracks reflect the new angle that Duritz and his Crows took to make this record a success. Recorded in a house, the laid-back feel can be seen through both the lyrics and the melodies. Duritz and band refuse to record in a studio due to the claustro­phobic feel and how it reeks of past albums failed for other bands. This unique approach is just one way that the Counting Crows shine through at their best in this album as though time warped back to 1994, showing the world that the Counting Crows can still put out good songs, while preserv­ing their trademarked sound and lyrics. 
This is definitely the best album from the Counting Crows since their debut in 1994 with "Mr. Jones." They resolved their issues and dug deep for a bittersweet winner with Hard Candy. 
Contact Sarah Vabu1as at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 


~HE

VBSERVER ­

Tuesday, September 17, 2002 page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
DiFranco adds jazz and wit to her latest album 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Live albums can be tedious listening. The music gets clouded by audience shouts and clapping. There are rough and choppy starts. The banter of the band between songs loses its intimacy when not actually heard in person. 
Every once in a while. however, a live disc comes along that isn't just another filler between studio albums. Instead it gives a rare. backstage glimpse at a musi­cian. Ani Difranco does this on her latest release, So Much Shouting, So Much Laughter. 
The second live album of her career, So Much Shouting, So Much Laughter has a lot to live up to in comparison with DiFranco ·s 199i' live album Living in Clip, a favorite among fans. With few faults, Difranco givef: a lively performance on this two-disc, 24-track album. The songs are all taken frorr.. different live shows recorded from every stop between Nantes, France, and Boise, Idaho. 
Despite the diverse locations of the recordings, the album falls together smoothly. The songs are divided into two discs, each disc with its own ambience and pers1mality. The first, Stray Cats, is mostly set-list standards featuring DiFranco's drilling, staccato guitar and edgy vocals. The second, Girls Singing Night, is a femi­nist display of songs arranged like a real concert, complete with an encore. 
What makes this album distinct from previous efforts is DiFranco's role as a band member. A fiercely independent folk/punk/activist singer-songwriter, on So Much Shouting DiFranco doesn't fly totally solo. Her songs are both sharpened and softened in unfamiliar places, making even older songs seem brand new. 

The backing band complete with Ravi Best, Todd Horton and Shane Endsley on trumpet; Hans Teuber on saxophone, flute, and clarinet; Jason Mercer on bass; Daren Hahn on drums; and Julie Wolf on key­boards, offers a jazzy, romping feel to many of the songs. DiFranco's feisty voice and punchy acoustic guitar strumming are given more depth and fuller sound as they move into the background at times for improvisational instrumentation from the band. 
DiFranco never steps out of the spotlight for too long, however. She flies back in cen­ter stage, spitting out lyrics that claw and bite in a way that hasn't been heard since the squawk of Bob Dylan's folk anthems of the 1960's. The much-loved "Napoleon," which attacks the avarice of stardom finds Difranco ranting, "And I wonder if you'll miss your old friends/Once you've proven what you're worth/ And I wonder when you're a big star/ Will you miss the earth?" On "32 Flavors" 
Difranco bites even harder with "I'm beyond your peripheral vision/ So you might want to turn your head/ Cause some­day you're going to get hungry/ And eat all of the words you said." 
The jewel of the album however comes in the spoken-word poem on the second disc. The poem, "Self-Evident" is a scathing commentary relating to the outcry of Sept. 
11. 
Written only a few days after the tragedy, DiFranco's perspective is an eye-opener for the many Americans caught up in blind patriotism for "The day that America/ fell to its knees/ after strutting around for a century/ without saying thank you/ or please." Backed by a serpentine bass line and percussion, Difranco finds a spoken beat as she attacks "the blue blood royal son/ who stole the oval office and that phony election ... it don't take a weather­man/ to look around and see the weather/ Jeb said he'd deliver tlorida, folks, and boy did he ever." DiFranco relies on her hon­esty, stating bluntly that "Now it's your job/ and it's my job/ to make it that way/ to make sure they didn't die in vain/ sshhhh­hh .. J baby listen/ hear the train?" 
By the end of the album. aft.er two hours of music, Difranco closes it all with the lovely "You Had Tune." The band lends a strong hand on this song with the twinkling keyboards and backing vocals of Julie Wolf and the smooth saxophone overlays by Hans Teuber. Difranco sings tenderly, "You'll say girl did you kick some butt/ And I'll say I don't really remember/ but my fin­gers are sore/ and my voice is too." 
Swinging it on her own since the age of 15, this prolific Buffalo, N.Y., native who owns her own record label and records from inside a church, certainly does kick some butt. On So Much Shouting, So Much Laughter, Difranco proves once again that she is a truly deserving righteous babe. 
Contact Julie Bender at bender.IO@nd.edu 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Tribute st:rikes discord with Beatles fans 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Few can deny that the Beatles were and continue to be the most universal band in the world. 
Their songs have managed to transcend enemy lines, country borders, oceans, wars, generations and time. Their lyrics have been sung by the lips of rebellious youth, impetuous in the naivete that "All You Need is Love." Their melodies have floated in the minds of working adults faced with everyday woes from the "Taxman." Even little children have skipped along sometime or another to the tune of "Yellow Submarine." With a ubiqui­tous presence, the Beatles' music has formed the backdrop of our lives, shaping culture with every note. 
In 1964, with America in a lull after the death of John F. Kennedy, the Beatles were the ones who ignited the nation. allowing them to be light hearted and carefree again. With their bopping mop tops and chirping vocals on tunes such as "I Want to Hold Your Hand," and "She Loves You," the Beatles held an audience of 70,000 captive on the Ed Sullivan Show. Families had something to discuss over dinner, even if it was a debate between a daughter swoon­ing over Paul and a father grumbling about the long hair. 
In 1967, with the release of their mag­num opus, "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band," the Beatles managed to turn the recording industry upside down. Sgt. Pepper was a mind-blowing masterpiece that changed music and popular culture forever. The summer of love was in blos­som and from its vines stemmed flower power, psychedelics and the anti-war 
The Beatles joined the mystical side of things in 1968, seeking advice from an Indian guru, the Maharishi. The rest of the world followed suit and "karma" soon became a mantra in everybody's daily lan­guage. 
After their break up in 1970, the Beatles left the world yearning for more. However, the repertoire that they left behind was so rich and varied that it became a treasure box for the genera-
Honoring the Beatles tradition with only the voice sounds like a noble pursuit, how­ever, most of the groups on this album do a miserable job in this respect. The group m­pact tackles "Eight Days a Week." The result is an over-synthesized, electronic, bump-and-grind number that can barely be recognized. 
The song "Drive My Car" receives a simi­lar fate. The group Cadence opens the song with fake drumbeat, 

tions to come. 
which is made worse 

And here we are 
by the 80's club 

now in 2002. The 
vocals of the lead
Come Together

world has seen many 
singer. This normally 

changes since 1970, but the Beatles are still as dominating a fore e as ever. Even the deaths of both John Lennon in 1980 and George Harrison last November could­n't put a damper on thi111gs. The music has survived and people continue to be com;tantly influenced by it.. 
One of those forms is a cappella. In a new release by Hot Lips Records, 14 a cappella groups take on l 4 different songs penned by the 


famous pair, Lennon 
call the 60's." A con­and McCartney. trived electric guitar 
With every album shoots off and with represented by at the vocals in harmo· least one song, each ny; the song gets a phase of the Beatles career is highlighted, little better. Unfortunately, the memory of starting from 1963 's "Please Please Me" that wretched introduction to the song 
fun-loving song is given a creepy feel with slippery vocal stylings and a dis­graceful, slowed­downbeat. 
If it's possible, the album gets worse with the Kickshaw's version of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band." A tacky addition, a game-show host's voice announces over fluffy noise, "Right now ladies and gen­tleman we're going to take you back through the mists of time to a time they 
Perhaps the only commendable song on the album is the cover of "I Am a Walrus," by The Tufts Beelzebubs. Staying true to the Beatles arrangement, the group uses a total vocal approach, unlike the other syn­thesized songs on the album. The har­­monies are done very well and even the Beatles' use of backward tapes is accom­plished through the vocals. 
Another song on the album that isn't too awful is "Blackbird," by Beachfront Property. Like "I Am a Walrus," this song relies solely on vocals to provide the music. The result is a very smooth and swift ver­
-
sion of a gorgeous song. The rich vocals and harmonies provide easy listening. 
The effect of "Blackbird" is immediately ruined, however, by the next song, "All You Need Is Love," by The House Jacks. Sounding like a bunch of farm animals, the group ruins this song as it switches genres mid-song from radio-station R & B, to Bible Belt Gospel. to 1950's be-bop. After hearing that song, it becomes a realization that nothing can be done to redeem this album. It is a struggle to keep the headphones on for even 15 seconds of a song. 
It's unfortunate that this album is so com­pletely awful. The idea of doing the Beatles a cappella is brilliant. And, as some of the groups like The Tufts Beelzebubs and Beachfront Property have shown, it is pos­sible to do the songs in a fashion that is pleasing to the ears. The rest of the groups on this album, however, need to realize that songs that are sung a cappella should be at least slightly recognizable and synthe­sizers should never ever be allowed come near a Beatles song. 
Contact Julie Bender at 

movement. strai1ght until 1970's "Let It Be." ruins the rest of the experience. bender.lO@nd.edu 
-----·--------------------,
r 
-

SMC Sports Round-up 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
IN BRIEF 
Golf 
The Saint Mary's golf team will be looking to improve on its second place finish in last Saturday's opening MIAA tournament. Today, the Belles head to Thornapple Pointe Golf Club to play the second MIAA touma­m en t of the season, hosted by Calvin College. 
The Belles competition continues to come from Albion, who finished first in last Saturday's tournament, and Hope, who tied with Saint Mary's for second. The 16-point difference in the scores of first-place Albion and second-place Saint Mary's comes down to just a few strokes per golfer. Action gets under way at 2 p.m. this afternoon. 
Volleyball 
The Belles finished a tough three-game tournament on Saturday with a 1-2 record. Saint Mary's defeated Oberlin in its last game of the day, overcoming the disappoint­ment of losing to Wooster and host Defiance. 
The Belles took Oberlin in three sets, easi­ly winning 30-23, 30-21, 30-24. 
The loss to Wooster did not come so easi­ly. Saint Mary's hung with Wooster the final three matches, after taking the first match 31-29. 
Match three was a nail biter as Wooster managed to score match point at 32-30 to take a 2-point victory against Saint Mary's. Wooster took games two and four 30-22 and 30-26 respectively. 
Defiance took Saint Mary's in three solidly played games. winning 30-19, 30-20, 30-21. 
Cross Country 
The Belles cross country team finished in 11th place out of 12 teams at the Defiance Invitational on Saturday. 
Freshman Laura Ficker led the way for Saint Mary's, finishing in 38th place overall, followed by Erin Thayer who finished in 58th place. 
SOCCER 



NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer A Saint Mary's soccer player passes the ball at a recent prac­tice. The Belles defeated Defiance Saturday, 4-1. 

Four Belles score to sink Defiance, 4-1 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles were looking for a little retribution when they took the field on Saturday. 
After losing a closely fought over­time battle to Taylor University last Tuesday, Saint Mary's wanted to work hard and bring home a win. 
The Belles did just that. 
In two periods, four different Belles players scored goals while goalie Maureen MacDonald managed to keep all but one Yellow Jacket kick from falling into the net, as Saint Mary's defeated Defiance 4-1. 
Defiance's Cheri Shields tried to get her team in the game by scoring on an assist from Katie Klear. 
But one goal didn't make a differ­ence. 

Despite Yellow Jackets goalie Amber Anderson's 12 saves, Saint Mary's had four more kicks on goal that found the net and gave the team its second victo­ry of the season. 
The Belles, now 2-3, took an early lead they never relinquished. On goals from Katie Noble and Shannon Artnak in the first period of play, Saint Mary's took control of the game. 
Wendy Irvin and Victoria Necroto added a goal apiece in the second period of play. putting the game far out of reach of the struggling Yellow Jackets, who are also 2-3 on the sea­son. 
The second win for the Belles this season comes far before they had even considered a first victory last season. Under the leadership of first-year coach Chris Pfau, in the first two weeks of play they have already man­aged to win a third as many games as they did last season. 
They will be looking to add yet another win on Wednesday. Saint Mary's opens MIAA play at home against Adrian at 4 p.m. 
Although the Bulldogs are 3-0 this season, the Belles see Wednesday's game as a chance to start league play on the right foot. 
Last season Adrian finished in last place in the MIAA. losing both games it played against seventh place Saint Mary's. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the rigln to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
- 
Nanny wanted for 3 children  99 Jeep Wrangler. Maroon w/tan  ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT•  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
Approx. 12-15 hrs. per week (very  top. Good cond.,CD,hitch,rack. 43K  WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­ ED AM 232-2378  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
NOTICES  flexible) 271.0766 Kim  b/o. 315-4176  PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES  PM 288-2726  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  
UTILITIES.  Information/Reservations 1-800·  
AFTER SCHOOL CARE FOR TVvO  Completely remodeled 2 bdrm.  CALL 472-0054  ND VS. USC tix and Hotel, Irish Fest  648-4849 or www ststravel com  
CHILDREN, 3PM-5:30PM, MON  home in Oakmont Park near  EMAIL: leopei@hotmail.com  inCAI  
CJs Pub See whats happening  THRU THURS. GOOD PAYI  University of ND. Must see to  NDCOC.com  For spring break 2003 visit the 5·  
www cjspub com  CALL LISA AT 631-9947 OR 277­ appreciate. Call 243-7434.  Comfy, Sbdr home, 30 min.from  Beat SCI  star Mexican resort Los Mochis.  
- Attention Spring Breakers Travel  8564.  N.D. On Indian Lake, Dowagiac, Ml. Next to golf course. $1300-Thurs  Buy/Sell N.D. vs. Michigan State  After a hot day, our NC and cold showers will refresh you.  
Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations  SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­EES needed for south side elemen- FOR RENT  thru Mon. $1,000 sec dep. Call Ron 312-907-9708  Football Tickets 289-8048  SWM seeks horse for friendship,  
Most Reliable www sunsplash­ tary school located near Scottsdale  email: ron@gsec9.com  possibly more. Must have career  
l2l.[s..cQffi 1-800-426-7710  Mall on Miami Street. $30.00 per soccer game; $20.00 per VB match  All size homes available for 2003­ Alum  PERSONAL  earnings over $1 million. No teeth. No kissing.  
to qualified refs.  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  owned,5Bdrm/2Bath,W/D,Security,  
Available Game Weekends: COUN- Call 291-4200.  'tfJfti. mmmw . tals cQm  10 fl ceilings, HUGE Yard,very  Katie and Lauren, your lathers'  
TRY ESTATE Three Bedroom  close to campus&well kept.2Bdrm  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  wives.  
Home, Country Setting on  PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base- ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  w/view of dome also available.Call  not go ii alone. If you or someone  
Operating Horse Farm, 20 min from  appt. Flex. around classes. We  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  674-0709.  you love needs confidential support  Three days in a row...what was I  
campus. Contact Mitch Magari-Ya  train. All majors. Cust. service &  CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  thinking?  
Stables and Equestrian Center 574­ sales. No door-to-door telemarket- LOUi$e Gude, csc, at 1-7819.  
299-1607 magariyastables@aol.com  ing Build resume. Internships. cond. apply.www workforstudents com  DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004  TICKETS  For more information, see our bi· weekly ad in THE OBSERVER  At least it's still a reasonable hour.  
574-282-2357  SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN- One more night  
www.workforstudents com 574-282­ TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM·  Give adoption a chance...we are  
2357  #1 Spring Break VacationslMexico,  PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  happily married and need your help  Kronk-dawg representin'  
Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas!  ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT  check our prices.  in starting a family. Will provide a  
hi  Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices.  NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY  273-3911.  lifetime of love, laughter and end- With Hettler-dawg on backup  
- Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com  SYSTEM-MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS •  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  less opportunities. Call our attorney toll free al 866­ Jason, thanks for not making my  
WANTED  HOUSES GOING FAST· CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)234·2436­ GAME CALL JACK 674·6593.  215-2229.  night completely miserable.  
FOR SALE  (574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471  Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­ ND grad with Ph.D. doing child care/lutotlng (ages 4-7)in home  For now, at least.  
$250 a day poten!ial/bartending.  HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003:  8048 astrog999@aol.com  near campus.  Is it Friday yet?  
Training provided  We have a variety of houses includ­ 234-8004  
1 ·800·293-3985 ext. 556  91 HONDA ACCORD EX, 4-DR,  ing two of the best undergrad hous- WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST  Whatever happened to Jamiroquai?  
TEAL, CLEAN, 1-0WNER, VERY  es you can rent Bill: 532-1896  PRICES PAID 251-1570  Needed: 2 male actors, 22-38 yrs.  
RIDING INSTRUCTORS; ENGLISH  GOOD CONDITION.  to play the hilarious, romantic  Late night at the Observer+ 9:30  
/WESTERN PART-TIME POSI­ $4200.  Thal Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  ND TICKETS FOR SALE  Coslazuela brothers in the Saint  am class for Kronk ~ bad news.  
TIONS TO WORK AROUND  277-0189.  has space available for lootbalVpar- LOWEST PRICES 289-9280  Mary s College production of Neil  
CLASSES 20 MIN FROM CAM­ ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  Simon s THE ODD COUPLE  and I'm out.  
PUS. Contact Mitch Nihart Magari- Dra!ting tables -$25-30  hot breakfast, $80-$115,  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  (female version). Auditions Sept.  
Ya Stables and Equestrian Genter  Student desks $25  Middlebury, 30 miles lrorn campus.  SALE.  18,19,20 at 7:30 pm.  really this time.  
574-299-1607  631-4969  Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487.  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Call 284-4640 for more information.  seriously.  

Tuesday, September 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Jones finally signs -with Seattle 
Ass0<:iated Press 
KIRKLAND. Wash. 

Pro Bowl offensive tackle Walter Jones has signed a one­year tender offer for $4.92 mil­lion with the Seattle Seahawks. 
Jones, in his sixth NFL sea­son, reported to practice Monday. The contra.ct repre­sents the average salary of the top five players at that position in the NFL. 
The 6-foot-5, 308-pound Jones, selected in the first round in 1997 out of Florida 
State, made the Pro Bowl fol­lowing the 1999 season. 
Junes, who started every game the past four seasons, is eager to rejoin his teammates after the Seahawks lost their first two games. 
"I just wanted to come back and help the team get a victory any way I can," Jones said. "That was my only reason for coming back -and r miss the guys." 
Seattle designated the 28­year-old Jones as its franchise player after his contract expired last season. The fran­chise tag prevented him from being a free agent and signing with another team. 
Jones is still looking to sign a long-term contract with Seattle. "We missed him," coach Mike Holmgren said. "He's a great football player. We need him." 
"He's excited," Jones' agent. Roosevelt Barnes, said in a telephone interview. "Walter has just been agonizing, for him to watch the team as far as the offense is concerned and how the team has been playing." 

University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 


INNSBRUCK 
2003-04 Academic Year 
BERLIN 
2003-04, Fall '03 and Spring '04 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 214 DeBartolo 
4:30 pm -5:30 pm 
THE HELEN KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AND THE INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES PROUDLY PRESENT THE SECOND FILM IN THE "LOOKING OUT, LOOKING IN" FILM SERIES: 
EL NORTE TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 7PM AT THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AUDITORIUM 
THIS lS THE SECOND FILM ON THE MONTH'S THEME CRUZANDO FRONTERAS/CROSSINGBORDERS. NEXT MONTH'S THEME IS VIOLENCE IN MEXAMERICA. 

Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec. 1,2002 Berlin: Oct. 1, 2002 for Sp '03 
Dec. 1, 2002 for F '03 and AY 03-04 
Questions??? Weber.15@nd.edu Apptications: roYW-nd.edu/~intlstud 
MLB 

Twins celebrate clinching divison 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
After the champagne dried, the Minnesota Twins reflected on a remarkable accomplish­ment: winning the AL Central Division just months after the courts stopped major league baseball from eliminating the team. 
"You've got to feel good for these guys. because we had an awkward winter and a bit of an awkward spring,"general manager Terry Ryan said. "A lot of things surrounding us weren't anticipated. Ultimately. you get through them and here we are. What a story." 
While skepticism remains that a "small market"team like Minnesota can only get so far in the postseason, Ryan said the Twins have the same goals as any other contender. 
"We've accomplished one of the pieces. Now we have to get down to business,"Ryan said. "I don't think anybody is satis­fied just to get to the playoffs in this clubhouse." 
The Twins clinched the divi­sion Sunday with a 5-0 win over defending champion Cleveland and a Chicago White Sox loss at Yankee Stadium. Atlanta became the first team to clinch a division title last week. 
"Being the second team to clinch is nice, but we're the team that had to go through contraction,"Denny Hocking said. "It might be sweeter than this, but right now I don't see how it could be." 
Hocking was asked whether Minnesota's improbable suc­cess this year is a victory for the sport's little guys. 
"That's a question you're going to have to direct to Bud Selig,"Hocking said. "I know we're not supposed to act like idiots in the media. But you know what, I've earned the right to." 
Hocking was referring to the commissioner's plan last year to get rid of the Twins and Expos, which would have reduced the major leagues to 28 teams. Twins fans respond­ed by circulating petitions and lobbying legislators for a new ballpark. A court injunction, and eventually a labor settle­ment between the players and owners, ended talks of contrac­tion. 
Champagne. beer and smiles were everywhere as the Twins celebrated in Cleveland before traveling to Detroit for their next series that begins Tuesday. After having to play under the cloud of contraction, the Twins deserved the party and the day off. 
"We really didn't know if we would be playing this year, "Mike Jackson said. "It's a great feeling. I wasn't here last year when they went through all this stuff. But when they asked me to come over here and play, I looked at every­thing they had and knew I wanted to come and be a part of it. Guys responded well to all the things that went on last winter and last year with con­traction and all that." 
Unlike last year when the Twins started strong before a second-half collapse, their con­sistency this season under first-year coach Ron Gardenhire has them in the playoffs for the first time since winning the 1991 World Series. 

---· -­page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
MLB 
Martinez wins 19th as Red Sox beat Indians 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Only a rain delay could knock Pedro Martinez out of a game against Cleveland. 
Martinez was once again sharp against the Indians, com­bining with three relievers on a four-hitter as the Boston Red Sox posted a 6-l victory in the opener of a day-night double­header Monday. 
In the second game. Brian Tallet pitched six shutout 
"I didn't realize [Tallet] 
innings in his Red Sox 7-1 major league wore his pants like that. for a split of debut and their day­
That was great."
Travis night double­Fryman hit a h e a d e r three-run Joel Skinner Monday. homer to lift Indians manager Tallet, who 
Cleveland to a 7-1 victory and a split of their day-night doubleheader. 
Boston's defeat cut the New York Yankees' magic number in the American League East to four. 
Martinez left Fenway Park in uniform after the game to get something to eat, then returned for the second game. 
He called himself a "picky eater" who rarely dines on clubhouse food. 
"I went home to eat," Martinez said with a smile. "Yes, I was nice and clean. I took a shower." 
Other players left the ballpark between games, too, a Red Sox spokesperson said. 
There was no buffet set up in the clubhouse after the first game. 
Martinez (19-4), who raised his career record to 9-1 against the Indians with a l.78 ERA, continued his pursuit of his sec­ond career 20-win season and his fourth Cy Young award. 
Indians 7, Red Sox 1 (2nd game) 
If Brian Tallet keeps pitching like this, he may start a new baseball fashion trend around Cleveland. 
Tallet pitched six shutout innings in his major league debut and Travis Fryman hit a three-run homer to lift the Indians over the Boston 
turns 25 on 
Sept. 21, 

wears his pant legs high, showing his stir­rups -a style not seen for a while in the majors. 
"I didn't realize he wore his pants like that," Indians man­ager Joel Skinner said. "That was great." 
Tallet. a 2000 second-round selection out of LSU, split the season in Double-A Akron and Triple-A Buffalo before his start. 
He rookie allowed four hits, walked three and fanned one. 
"The butterflies started to come and I just told myself to relax," Tallet said. "To go out there and give the team six good innings -to keep them at bay -I couldn't ask for any­more." 
As for his uniform style, he said it's now a superstition. 
"Being as tall as I am, I had trouble finding pants my size," 


Hurry...Limited Time Only! 

VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. EXPIRES 5/3/02 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD
C4\T~
Of!CAOO 

(Next to Subway)
PIZZA CorrtPANV' plzzadonerlghtl" 271-1277 
the 6-foot-7 Tallet said. "I start­ed it in Akron, went 2-l and got to Buffalo. Then I got here. I just want to keep it going." 
Boston's loss cut the New York Yankees' magic number in the AL East to four. 
Blue Jays 2, Orioles 0 
Finishing in third place in the American League East isn't a hollow accomplishment to the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Pete Walker pitched four­

hit ball for "It's important for us to rung on the ladder."
seven innings, finish strong. We realized 

Walker
and Josh 
that when we had a 

( 9 -4 )
Phelps home­

red and drove chance to catch walked two and struck
in two runs as Baltimore ... 

out four.
the Blue Jays 

C I i f f
beat the 

Josh Phelps Politte
Baltimore Orioles 2-0 Blue Jays catcher pitched a 
Monday night. 
Phelps hit a two-out run-scoring single in the sixth inning and added his 15th homer in the ninth to help Toronto win for the seventh time in eight games. 
"It's important for us to finish strong. We realized that when we had a chance to catch Baltimore," Phelps said. "If we finish in third place and we can finish above .500 for the second half, and play hard and finish strong, then we can take that into the next year and spring training." 
The Orioles, who had won two of three during a weekend series in Boston, were denied their first successive victories since Aug. 22-23. Baltimore, which has lost 20 of 23, was shut out for the 14th time this season. 
Since losing to the Orioles on Aug. 23 -the night Baltimore evened its record at 63-63 ­the Blue Jays have made up 12 112 games and moved past the Orioles for third place. 

This victory gave Toronto a 2 112-game lead over Baltimore. 
"I don't know if important is the right word, but we're cer­tainly moving in the direction we want to move in," Toronto manager Carlos Tosca said. "It's a good indicator .... It's like climbing another 
perfect 
eighth inning, and Kelvim Escobar worked a 1-2-3 ninth for his 34th save. 
The Blue Jays have five shutouts this year. 
Reds 4, Pirates 3 

Reggie Taylor's third single of the game broke an eighth­inning tie and helped the Cincinnati Reds beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 4-3 Monday night. 
The Reds avoided mathemati­cal elimination from the NL Central race with their sixth win in nine games. 
Jason LaRue drew a one-out walk from Mike Lincoln (1-4) in the eighth. Pinch-hitter Ken Griffey Jr. beat the Pirates' defensive shift by chopping a single through the vacant short­stop position, sending LaRue to third. 

Taylor then lined a single to center oIT Ron Villone, who had come in to face Griffey. Taylor was 3-for-5, drove in two runs and scored one. 
Jose Silva (1-0) picked up the win with two scoreless innings of relief. 
Scott Williamson pitched the ninth for his fifth save. 
The Reds scored the tying run in the seventh. Taylor and Jose Guillen hit singles off Kip Wells to start the inning. 
Reliever Joe Beirne! walked Todd Walker to load the bases and Aaron Boone hit a sacrifice fly off Lincoln. 
Marlins 5, Braves 1 
Mike Lowell hit a two-run double and Brad Penny pitched into the seventh inning to help the Florida Marlins snap Kevin Millwood's eight-game winning 
streak  with  a  5-1  victory  
Monday night.  
Atlanta  had  won  19  of  

Millwood's last 20 starts. The right-hander was 8-0 with a 
1.80 ERA in his last nine out­ings and 15-1 with a 2.27 ERA in 22 starts since May 24. But the Marlins prevented him from tying his career-best winning streak of nine games set in 2000. 
Florida's Kevin Millar dou­bled in the fourth to extend his hitting streak to a career-high 22 games. tying the second­longest mark in club history. It trails only Luis Castillo's 35­game string earlier this season. 
Lowell doubled with the bases loaded in the fifth, extending his streak to 14 games and giv­ing the Marlins a 5-1 lead. 
That was enough for Penny, who won for the first time in five starts and just the second time in eight outings. 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni 
Student Returnees 

Tuesday, September 10, 2002 129 Hayes-Healy 6:00-7:30 p.m. & Wed.,Sept.18,2002 129 Hayes-Healy 4:45-6:15 pm. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 
Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall '03 and All Year 2003-04 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
~­

Tuesday, September 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Peete will start rest of season for Carolina 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

Rodney Peete can stop looking over his shoulder -his best out­ing in 10 years has officially given him job security as Carolina's starting quarterback. 
Peete had been operating on a week-to-week basis with the Panthers, needing to do enough on game days to keep Chris Weinke on the bench and possi­bly lead Carolina to a few wins. 
He's done both -sparking the Panthers to a 2-0 start and giv­ing Weinke a permanent spot on the sidelines by throwing for 310 yards and a touchdown in Sunday's 31-7 victory over Detroit. 
His passing total was his best since the 36-ycar-old threw for 323 on Sept. 27, 1992, while with Detroit. 
for that, first-year coach John Fox finally ended the uncertainty when he confirmed Monday that Peete is the Panthers' starter. 
"I'd say that's fair," Fox said. "When you're named the starter, it's your job to have or to lose and Rodney has prepared and played admirably and he's the starting quarterback." 
The announcement was hardly a surprise: The Panthers have won their first two games for the first time since 1996 and Peete has a lot to do with it. 
He's got the offense rolling, has yet to commit a turnover and his quarterback rating of 105 ranks second in the NFC. 
"I'm just trying to go and be steady," Peete said. "I'm not try­ing to put this team in bad situa­tions throughout the course of the game, I'm just trying to play consistent. When there arc plays to be made, then make them. That's my focus for each and every game." 
He was steady -not spectacu­lar -in Carolina's season-open­ing win over Baltimore. 
Against the Lions, with whom he started his career, he picked apart the defense. 
His 22-yard touchdown pass to Muhsin Muhammad was one of the highlights, coming at the end of the first half to give the Panthers momentum. And it came when the coaching staffs headsets stopped working, forc­ing Peete to run the plays with no help. 
Peete said he thought the Llons were going to blitz him, so he told Muhammad in the huddle to make a quick break and look for the ball. Sure enough, Detroit blitzed, but Peete had already fired the ball· into the corner of the end zone for the touchdown. 
"He consistently makes the right decision and consistently makes the right read," Muhammad said. "Someone around here knew he still had it in him, otherwise he wouldn't have been made the starter. Now he's doing a good job of proving to everyone else that he's still got something left." 
So there is no quarterback controversy in Carolina because the players have rallied around Peete. 

"He's a leader," said receiver Steve Smith. "He comes in there and tells people 'Listen up, this is what we're going to do.' It's like, shut your mouth because the captain's talking." 

Peete's performance has left Weinke's future in limbo. When Peete was named the starter, Fox insisted Weinke was still the quarterback of Carolina's future. 
But as long as Peete continues to win, there seems to be little room for Weinke. 
He got spot playing time Sunday after the victory was already in check, failing to com­plete his only pass attempt and mishandling a snap that was nearly fumbled. 
Meningitis $85.00 Hepatitis B 
For Notre Dame 
Students 
Wednesday, Sept. 18th *Stepan Center 1:00 PM-7:00 PM 
Bill to your Home Address or Credit Card 

Tetanus $35.00 $65.00 
For Saint Mary's 
Students 
Thursday, Sept. 26th *Haggar College Center, Welsh Room 1:00 PM -7:00 PM 
Bill to your Student Account or Credit Card 
*All students must attend the scheduled program at their college of enrollment. 

page 20 Tuesday, September 16, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


I ~ 
I 
I I 
' 
thursday

september 19 
6:00 pm -8:30 pm 
Undergraduate seniors, second-year MBAs, MS in Accountancy students 
(attire is business formal) 
friday
september20 
10:00 am-2:00 pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 
(attire is business casual) 

joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 
G~ 
findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 

• 
Click on the "Undergraduates"title bar, then click on the "Go !RISH" title bar and enter username and password 

• 
Click on "Jobs & Internships" 

• 
Type in "BCF" {include the quotation marks) in the "keywords" textbox and then click on "Search" 

• 
Click on either "Job Title" or "Employer" title bar for an alphabetical list ofjobs or companies attending the Fair 


THE 

CAREER 
Nil
Unlvers!1yofNotre Dame

CENTER Mendoza College of Business 
participating n 
Abbott Laboratories Abercrombie & Fitch ABN AMRO/LaSalle Bank Accenture 
A.G. Edwards American Express Financial Advisors American Management 
Systems (AMS) Aon Corporation Bain & Company Bank One Corporation 
BOO Seidman Bibb and Associates, Inc. bp California Franchise Tax Board CAREMARK Carson Pirie Scott & Co. Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries Chicago Mercantile Exchange CIGNA Citigroup/Salomon 
Smith Barney Cochran, Caronia & Co. Crowe, Chizek and Company Davis Conder Enderle & Sloan Deloitte & Touche Deloitte Consulting (soon to 
become Braxton) Driehaus Capital 
Management, Inc. E& J Gallo Winery Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young FactSet Research Systems, Inc. Federal Bureau of 
fnvestigation Fiserv General Electric General Mills, Inc. Gibson & Associates, Inc. Headstrong H-E-B Grocery Company Hewlett Packard Honeywell Houlihan Lokey Howard 
& Zukin Huron Consulting Group IBM lndalex Indiana Department 
ofTransportation lnteCap Johnson & Johnson Jones Lang LaSalle KPMG 

Kraft Lutron Electronics Co. Midwest Family Broadcast Group 
Morgan Stanley Morningstar, Inc. National City Corporation Newell Rubbermaid News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual 
Financial Network -Hoopis Financial Oak Brook Bank Pfizer PNC Financial Services Group PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble -Finance and Accounting 
Procter & Gamble ­Marketing/Brand Management 
Protiviti Quad/Graphics Robert W. Baird & Co. SBC Ameritech Corporation SCORE Small Business 
Development Center SEI Investments Smart and Associates Social Security Administration State Farm Strong Financial Corporation Stryker Instruments Susquehanna International 
Group Target Corporation Teach For America The Boston Beer Company The Boston Consulting Group The Gallup Organization The St. Paul Companies Towers Perrin Travelers Tucker Alan Inc. Uline 
U.S. Army Healthcare 
U.S. Navy 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Midwest Regional Office 
UnumProvident Vanguard Visteon Corporation Wachovia Walgreens Wells Fargo William Blair & Company World Business Chicago 
0
3 
-,.. '--' 
DI
:,-· 
tD 
"' 

Tuesday, September 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Vikings offer Anderson contract to replace Brien 
Anderson, who was out of when the Vikings held a four­
Associated Press 
town and not expected to sign man tryout for his job. He sur­until Tuesday, wasn't offered vived that and went 3-for-3 on 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. a contract this spring because field goals in Week 1 against 
Gary Anderson, the NFL's he doesn't kick off and the Chicago. all-time leading scorer, was Vikings didn't want to use two Against the Bills, though, close to rejoining the roster spots for kickers. Brien had a 44-yard field goal Minnesota Vikings a day after Punter Mitch Berger used to hit the upright, pulled two their stunning overtime loss to handle kickoffs, but he signed extra points wide left and Buffalo in which Doug Brien with St. Louis and his replace­failed to squib a kickoff that missed two extra points. ment, Kyle Richardson doesn't gave Buffalo a better chance 
Anderson, 43, was offered a kick off, either. to drive for the game-tying contract Monday, coach Mike Richardson averaged 46.7 field goal at the end of regula­Tice said. Brien was still with yards per punt Sunday and tion. The Vikings lost 45-39. the team, though, and Tice the team has been happy with said it was likely Brien would his holding, so there are no Broncos upset at league remain on the roster to kick plans to replace him with The Denver Broncos con­off if an agreement with someone who can kick off. tacted the NFL on Monday Anderson was reached. "If Gary comes back, he about using alternative means 
"Unless somebody cuts comes back for good," Tice of communication in future somebody or unless something said. "He's no stopgap." games after their headsets drops out of the ceiling," Tice Brien, in his ninth year, failed to work against the San said, "I don't know that there missed four of five field goals Francisco 49ers. is a better guy right now than in the preseason and was The Broncos usually give the Doug for kicking off." nearly cut two weeks ago plays to quarterback Brian 
Griese through a radio trans­

r--~-------------~ 

I I 
I -­

1 ~~E:ASTOf 
OHCAGOI PIZZA COMPAN'r 
mitter in his helmet, but the
I signal was crossed with one being used by emergency per­
I 
sonnel and ushers at 49ers Shanahan said. "Can we "The coach-to-quarterback

PIZZA & I Stadium in San Francisco on change the frequency, so we is not subject to the equitySunday.
I can at least be able to com­rule," Signora said. "If one
Denver had to shuttle play­

POP municate? We're working on team experiences difficultyI ers into the game to get the that hard today, and hopefully with the coach-to-quarterback
plays to Griese, and he even we can come up a solution in communication, the other club

I Large 1 Topping Pizza I called a few plays of his own the next couple of days." does not have to shut down."
when the calls didn't come in

I I NFL spokesman Michael Teams use encryption toI & 2 Liter of COKE Only quick enough. Signora said the officials were keep their communications
I Broncos coach Mike correct in letting the 49ers from being tapped into, butI $9.99!!! I Shanahan said league officials continue to use their head­somehow the Broncos were
told the team before the game 

sets. getting interference on their
I Delivery or Carryout Only. I that there was a problem with Under rules in the NFL frequency, Signora said. I the frequency, but they Operations Manual, if one Denver's coaches had no trou­
We match competitors' deals! I couldn't do anything about it. team has trouble communicat­ble communicating betweenI Visa & Mastercard Accepted. I San Francisco had no prob­ing from the coaches' booth the booth and the field. lems with its headsets. down to the field, the other Signora said officials in San
I Expires 10/3/02 I "We're going to check into it team must not use its system. Francisco are trying to deter­I I and see what type of alterna­But the rule only applies to mine exactly what happened tives we do have, what type of coaches trying to talk to other and assured the league it
271-1277

I I backup systems we can have," coaches, Signora said. wouldn't happen again.
I SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to Subway) I 
~----------------· 




Bool< Tall< and Signing 
Meet author 
Garry Wills 
Wednesday 
September 18th 
7:00 pm 

,n the Visitor's Center Auditorium 
(adjacent to the Bookstore} 

HA.MMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
pllene:(574) 631-6316 • ww,.,.ndb••k•tor1.co111 
~ ------­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
NBA 
FBI investigates disappearance of Bison Dele 
Associated Press 
PAPEETE, Tahiti 
FBI agents traveled to Tahiti on Monday to search Bison Dele's sailboat as investigators tried to piece together his movements before he and his girl­friend disappeared. 
Investigators are looking for the for­mer NBA player and Serena Karlan, who were last seen July 8. Also missing is Bertrand Saldo, the captain of Dele's catamaran. 
Dele, formerly known as Brian Williams, set sail on his 55-foot boat, the Hakuna Matata, on May 2 from Auckland, New Zealand, with Karlan, Saldo and Dele's brother Miles Dabord. 
Dabord is being sought on an unlawful filght warrant issued by the FBI bureau in Phoenix, where he is suspected of try­ing to steal his brother's identity. 
Dabord, also known as Kevin Williams, was detained in Phoenix on Sept. 5 after he allegedly signed receipts using Dele's former name. Authorities said Dabord had tried to buy $152,000 in gold bullion from a coin dealer and showed Dele's passport as identification. Dabord was taken into custody but later released. 
Dele and his party were planning to travel across the South Pacific to Hawaii when they stopped in Tahiti. part of French Polynesia. Dele and his girlfriend apparently spent some time on the island of Moorea, about 10 miles from Tahiti. The director of a hotel on the island, the Sofitel La Ora, said the cou­ple checked in shortly after June 16, the newspaper Les Nouvelles de Tahiti reported Monday. 
The paper quoted witnesses as saying they saw the couple in the area for near­ly three weeks, with Dele's boat coming and going from the tiny island. 
In Tahiti, Dabord was the only mem­ber of the group seen after July 8. That was the day that Karlan left a telephone message at her parents' home, saying "all is well," police officials in Tahiti said. They said Dabord returned a rental car on July 6, paying with his brother's credit card. He flew out of Tahiti on July 20, the officials said. 
On Thursday, Dcle's sailboat ­repainted and renamed Aria Bella ­was found in Tahiti, and in Mexico, police found personal items belonging to Dabord in a Tijuana hotel room. 
The sailboat remains docked in the Tahitian town of Taravao. A team of FBI agents was to arrive Monday to search the vessel. Other agents arrived a day earlier to meet local authorities and dis­cuss the investigation. 
An initial search by French officials revealed no signs of foul play. and the boat was sealed until the FBI arrived. 
Dele spent eight seasons in the NBA with Orlando, Denver, the Los Angeles Clippers, Chicago and Detroit. The burly 6-foot-11, 260-pound player was a strong rebounder, and the Chicago Bulls picked him up late in the 1996-97 sea­son before winning the fifth of six titles. 
Williams also had an unusual back­ground. His father was a member of the pop group the Platters. In 1998, he changed his name to Bison Dele, to honor his American Indian ancestry. 
In 1999, after two seasons with the Pistons, Dele abruptly retired, citing a lack of desire to play. 
Dele nearly quit in 1993, when he was with the Magic. He had suffered from depression and received counseling and medication before making a comeback. He averaged 16.2 points and 8. 9 rebounds a game with Detroit in 1997 ­98. 


AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 23 

NFL 


around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Phillies at Braves 6:30 p.m., WTBS Royals at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH 
BICYCLING Tour of Spain 8 p.m., 404OUTL 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. 

An impressive offense was on display for Steve Spurrier's first Monday night game and it belonged to the other team. 
Donovan McNabb threw two touchdown passes, ran for another and threw for 292 yards as the Philadelphia Eagles routed the Washington Redskins 37-7. 
The game was stopped briefly in the fourth quar­ter when police used pep­per spray to break up a fight in the stands. The Eagles players scattered from their bench onto the field. They and fans in the stands on that side of the stadium were holding their noses with concerned looks on their faces in a time when people are so wor­ried about security. 
After a brief conference between referee Bob McElwee and a uniformed officer, play resumed after a delay of about five min­utes. 
"Whenever you see your teammates coming out on the field and pretty much grabbing their throats or covering their nose, it's a pretty tough situation," McNabb said. "I've never been a part of anything like that. It's a first for me, it's probably a first for Monday night. Hopefully, it doesn't happen again." 

The Eagles defense didn't allow a touchdown. The best Redskins drive reached Philadelphia's 35­yard line, and Washington's only touch­down came on Jacquez Green's 90-yard punt return in the second quar­ter. 
It was Spurrier's worst defeat as a coach since a 62-24 loss to Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 2, 1996, and it didn't matter who the quarterback was. Danny Wuerffel played the second half after Shane Matthews left the game with a bruised shoulder on the Redskins last offensive play of the first half, and didn't fare any better. 
The Eagles, meanwhile, were an offensive thing of beauty on the first drive. James Thrash got corner­back Fred Smoot com­pletely lost on the first play and caught a pass for a 33­yard gain. Todd Pinkston caught a 26-yarder over Darrell Green, and McNabb capped the six­play, 80-yard drive by scrambling outside of Pro Bowl linebackers LaVar Arrington, Jeremiah Trotter and Jessie Armstead for eight yards into the end zone. 

IN BRIEF 
Kentucky bowl eligibility program beginning in 2003. "He says he's had it before but At the time, the bowl ban did not not this bad," Fisher said. ''lie had
is at staie 
seem to be a significant penalty as attributed it to taping. He getsKentucky, off to a 3-0 start, will Kentucky was coming off consecu­taped so tight.... He says he'll
find out Tuesday whether it will be eligible to play in a bowl game this tive 2-9 seasons with little chance practice Wednesday. We'll have to 
of a significant turnaround this see. We want to be sure it's nothing season. 
The NCAA Division I Infractions year. working as far as a foot sprain or The good start this season, how­anything."
Appeals Committee will reveal its ever, has made the possibility of George had a tendon connectedfindings during an afternoon tele­winning the six games needed to be to his right big toe repaired surgi­conference. 
eligible for a bowl game more real­cally in February 2001, and he hasUniversity of Kentucky President istic. never missed a game, a streak thatLee Todd and new athletics direc­reached 98 in Sunday's 21-13 loss
tor Mitch Barnhart will comment on the decision shortly after the 9eor_f!e experiencing pain to Dallas. George carried 19 times 
1n Jeff foot for 65 yards in that game but hadNCAA's announcement, the school Tennessee running back Eddie only five carries for 15 yards in thesaid Monday. 
George went to an emergency room second half. 
Kentucky was banned from post­with pain in his left foot a few "I don't believe this is as bad as it

season participation in February as part of the NCAA's sanctions hours after Sunday's loss to Dallas. appears today. I believe he's a 
He was put in a walking boot and quick healer," Fisher said.
against the school for dozens of 
scheduled for more tests Monday Quarterback Steve McNair, whoviolations discovered in its football 
program under former coach Hal afternoon. crashed into an equipment trunk Mumme. Coach Jeff Fisher said George and bench on the sideline in the 
Mumme resigned in the wake of called team doctors Sunday night second quarter. had soreness in his the NCAA's investigation. Mumme and met them at the hospital head, neck and right shoulder on will be the coach of Southeastern around midnight because the pain Monday. Fisher said McNair's low Louisiana's newly restored football in his left arch would not ease. back also stiffened up. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
CLUB SPORTS 
Womens ultimate club takes first at Purdue 
MENS SOCCER 
Ratcliffe earns first conference award 

Communities of Faith Sh.iring and Scripture Study 
I I I 
I ,. I 
I I 

Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREV,MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5:00 PM 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2002 
TUESDAY,SEPTEMBER17,2002 240 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre-Professional Students Huge variety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineering courses offered in Monterrey AL, BA courses offered in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 FOR SPRING 2003, DECEMBER 1 FOR FALL 2003 AND AY 2003-4 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud / 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame Ultimate Club's women's squad made a statement of its own this Sunday with a first place finish at Purdue in a showdown with many of the strongest teams in the Great Lakes Region. Purdue, Indiana. Illinois. and Northwestern were 
. Irish also claim No. 7 spot in latest Soccer America poll 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Spores Writer 
The kudos just keep coming in for the Notre Dame mens soccer team. Just one day after helping the fifth-ranked Irish defeat No. 7 Furman 2-1 in double overtime, defender Justin Ratcliffe was named one of the two co-Big East Defensive Players of the Week. Ratcliffe was instrumental in holding Cornell to just nine shots on goal in 110 minutes of play Friday night, and also helped to fend off a fierce Furman attack, holding the Paladins without a shot on goal for the duration of both over­times, and allowing only three shots in the final 52:29. 
This is the f'Irst Big East nod for Ratcliffe. a senior tri-cap­tain for the Irish. The award comes on the heels of team­mate Kevin Goldthwaite receiv­ing the same distinction last week. 
The Irish currently stand at 3-0-2 on the season, and have improved their position in the latest Soccer America poll. jumping seven spots from No. 14 to No. 7. Notre Dame remained at the No. 5 spot in among the top seeded teams in the field. This was expected to be a rebuilding year for the Irish, as top players of a year ago. Caroline Scully and Erin Fleming graduated. 
However, the athleticism of the seven rookies on the twelve play­er squad more than compensat­ed for the loss in experience. 
The Irish opened with Indiana. 
this week's NSCAA/adidas Coaches Poll. The Irish will next face Bradley Thursday. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd..cd.u 
last years regional qualifier for the nationals, and romped to a stunning 13-2 victory. In a hard fought semi-final, the club defeated the host Boilermakers 8-4, setting up the showdown for the championship with Illinois. 
The final saw momentum swing both ways throughout the entire match, with Irish finally emerging victorious, 11-9. 

Standouts among the freshmen were Kat Grande and Chrissy Hedges, who exhibited soft hands in snagging many critical passes. 
Juniors Katie Twidwell and Beth Jeub provided consistent play and a steadying influence. Perhaps most notable was the defense of senior Meredith Sheperd. In one of the key tour­nament match-ups, Sheperd repeatedly shut down Purdue's Katie McKain, a member of the Junior National Championship team. 
The club will next compete September 28-29 at the University of Minnesota's Exit 69 Invitational, where the field will include several national powers such as Carleton College. 

JOil\J A 1\.16W /t" ,-1 
TO JOil\J AI\J COHHUI\JirY -fA~ E;;fw'tt--1AU5 ~t2.0UP 

QGl\l-l.AP­
(-ZE.FLE.CY-ON 
<;;Cr2..i-PY-Ur2.6 


~.WAQE: '-10Ur2. 
t;PH TiL' 'HiDI\JiGi-lT

FAiY-W 
cOLBt-1Af\.J-'HOQS£ <;;TAQT T.WE 
WELCOt-'16 c6r,JT6Q JOUr2.J\J6Y•••• 
(QH.111) 
For more information contact: Jemar Tisby, jtisby@nd.edu; 1-3389 


Tuesday, September 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

Football 
continued from page 28 
utes remaining in the 2000 game, Herb Haygood caught a pass over the middle and sprinted 68 yards for the win­ning touchdown. Last year, Charles Rogers caught a short pass and raced 4 7 yards for a touchdown midway through the fourth quarter. 
And considering the Spartans, ranked No. 15 before falling out of the rankings after their loss to California last week, have one of the nation's best receivers in Rogers, the Irish are wary as they prepare for Saturday's game. 
But the memory of thousands of students charging out onto the field after Saturday's win is still imprinted in players' minds. Now, with the college football world starting to glance at South Bend, Irish players are excited to be back in the spot­light. 
"We know people are watch­ing us right now and they want to see what we can do. We're really excited about that," defensive lineman Cedric Hilliard said. "Towards the end of the season last year, we had a pretty good defense but everybody was down on us and they were just watching to see us lose. 
"Now, everybody is excited about us and so are we." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
Scheller blasted a 22-yard free kick past Hartford goalie Heather Hinton. 
In the 62nd minute of regula­tion, the Irish put the game away with a goal by junior Amy Warner. Midfielder Sarah 
Halpenny set the play in motion by playing a pass to fellow mid­fielder Ashley Dryer. Dryer then played a lead pass to an onrushing Warner, who placed the ball in the upper right corner of the net, giving the Irish a 2-1 victory. 
Two days later, the No. 11 ranked 
Irish returned to the field to battle the No. 25 Terrapins. The first half ended scoreless with neither team able to take control of the contest. The Terps started the second half on fire with two goals in the first 10 minutes by Malory Mahar and Katie Ludwig respectively. After the Irish fell behind by two goals, Coach Waldrum felt he needed to make some strategic adjust­ments to get his team back in the game. 
"We just made the decision to play only three in the back and four in the midfield," said Waldrum. "The kids realized that we still had enough time to at least get a tie. We've always 
After trying many different lineups to atone for the loss of the injured starters Gunnarsdottir and Pruzinsky. Waldrum believes he has found the right combination on defense to help freshman goalie Erika Bohn protect the Irish net. 
"I thought our defense played really well on Sunday after we were so disorganized on Friday. Both of Maryland's goals on were off of deflections that really were not anyone's fault on defense," said Waldrum. "We tried so many different things on Friday. but I think we finally found the right combination on Sunday. I moved Candace Chapman to the middle alongside Cat Sigler. Then I moved Kirn Carpenter to right back to replace Candace. Midfielder Mary Boland played the left back position and seemed to grow more comfort­able with the position as the game went along." 
Game notes: 
. 
Chapman repeated her Defensive MVP Performance in the ND Classic last weekend when she was named Defensive MVP of the FILA Classic. 

. 
Tancredi was named the offensive MVP of the tourna­ment. 

. 
Goalie Bohn, midfielders Scheller and Dryer, forwards Guertin and Warner all joined Chapman and Tancredi on the all-tournament team. 

. 
The Irish next return to action Friday night at home when they host Big East Conference opponent Rutgers. Game time is set for 7:30 p.m. 


Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 

felt our offense would be one of our strong points this season. We just needed a spark so we moved Candace [Chapman] to the midfield and the offense really responded." 
Chapman did not take long to make her presence known on offense. The sophomore drove the ball from the midfield to within 20 feet of the goalie box, where she drove a shot to the 
"... We've always felt our offense would be one of our strong points this season. We just needed a spark, so we moved Candace [Chapman] to the midfield and the offense really responded." 
Randy Waldrum head coach 

right cor­ner of the net. With 12 minutes left in the game, for­w a r d Amanda Guertin chipped a corner kick to fel­low junior Melissa Tancredi, who head­ed the ball in the net for her first goal 
of the season. One minute later. Guertin scored a goal of her own off a rebound shot by Amy Warner. 
With just under five minutes remaining, Tancredi headed the ball off a right side, corner kick from Guertin to extend the Irish lead to 4-2. With one minute remaining, midfielder Randi Scheller put the finishing touches on the Irish victory with her fourth goal off the sea­son thanks to a brilliant assist from Amy Warner. 
While the offensive explosion in the second half proved to be the difference in the game, Coach Waldrum was equally impressed with the play of his defense. 


Teams scrambling for Sendwich supremacy 
How would you like a recipe for a great weekend in college football? First, mix five games involving a pair of top-25 teams with losses by two of the top-10 teams. 
Sprinkle on embarrassing home losses for two top-20 teams. 
Finally, add several scares for other big-time teams 


playing unranked opponents. Bake at 400 degrees for 25 minutes. Let stand five minutes before serv­
ing. Read Eric Chanowich on. 
Here Come Sendwich Index 


the Irish 
N o tr e Dame con­tinues to soar up the rankings with its most recent upset victory over Michigan. 
The Irish got all they could han­dle but managed to come out on top versus the former No. 9 Michigan. 
The Irish began the season ranked No. 58 and have quickly moved up to No. 48, No. 28 and currently No. 14 after each of their first three wins. Michigan fell to No. 
30. We're finally starting to convert some Irish fans into Sendwich believers! 
The Roar of the Nittany Lions 
In the other big upset of the week, Penn State demolished Nebraska by 33 points. The Nittany 
This Weel< in 

Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
Edav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session 
7:00-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 

• 1 nesdav 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 -11 :00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 


Asian/Asian American Students Retreat 
Friday through Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 

Latino Freshman Retreat 
Friday through Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #1 
Friday through Sunday Buses leave 4:00 p.m. Return Sunday by 1:00 p.m. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

~dav 
RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m.-11:30a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

Emmaus Kick-Off 
8:00-9:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center 

Retreats 
sign , 
Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Latino Freshman Retreat (September 20-21) 
September 12-19 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #1 DESTINATION:U11lo-iow11 (September 20-22) 
Only a few spots left for MEN!!! •• ­Sign up with Friends 
Freshman Retreat #42 (September 27-28) 
August 27-September 23 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #2 DESTINATION:U11lo-iow11 (September 27-29) 
Only a few spots left for MEN!!! Sign up with Friends 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 

Tuesday, September 17, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 

....,......~­

to form four ordinary words. 
DUFAR ± 
I I r J 
02002 Tribune Media Servtceo, Inc. All Rlghla R..orved, 
LIEBE 

±
I I r JtKOJECY j 
MW nt? f05l'lMN 
~TOTie 
WWW.jumble.com 

WJIQ

IMANCEP t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

cJ I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

,,,,n, an•w•r= "( 1 x1 J' r1 1 1 J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's j Jumbles CRUSH EVOKE DEFAME CORPSE Answer: The beauty contest turned the beach into this -THE "SEE" SHORE 
JUM!ILE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 17 • To order, Nnd your na""', add,-.. ¦ n<! $$.45 and "'·"" o'-k payabl¦ to Tribune Madi• se-. P.O. Box ""'30, Chio..IL-· 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
......+-+-+-E..+-E-4 31 Like some M E -=+:::+.-,:+,,,-A S E electric B O .....,_.,__.__ S Y E T . appliances 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
66 Ogler 67 Family girl 68 In that case 69 Word of accord 70 English county 
bordering London 
DOWN 
1 Go off script 2 Madrid museum 3 Mover and 
shaker 4 Lamb ma'am 5 Back streets 6 Occupied 7 Photo envelope 
enclosure, for short 
8 Grand_ (island near Florida) 
9 Title for Munchhausen 10 Oahu wingding 11 Coffee holders 12 Chess ending 14 Cry of eagerness 
18 Au _ (how some potatoes are served) 
21 "No way!" 24 Fundamental 25 Monarch's rule 
28 Claudius l's successor 29 Swedish car 30 "_ Well That Ends Well" 

Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year  - 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester  
Name --------------------------­Address------------------­City _______ State ____ Zip______  - 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Anne Bancroft. John Ritter, David Sout<r, Hanle Williams Sr. Happy Birthday: You've been struggling so hard that you've lost perspective about what's important to you. Ask yourself what will make you happy, satisfy your needs and gel you back on track. Once you have reassessed your position you will have the clarity to move in the most positive direction. Take more time for yourself and your family. Simplify your life and the rest will fall into place. Your numbers are 8, 13, 27, 32, 37, 49 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Getting involved in a social event could lead to an interesting connection. Your energetic nature will attract new friends and possible lovers. Take the initiative. **~ TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be careful when dealing with work-related matters. You may not come across as being too knowledgeable. You will be able to initiate creative endeavors, however, and display your thoughts rather than speak them. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have the opponunity to let others hear your beliefs. The melding of different concepts will take your thoughts regarding your future to new levels. Lots of changes arc coming your way. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): An older family member may question what you are doing. Being open and honest about your dealings, especially financi.al ones. will benefit you in the end. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This can be a highly exciting day in your life if you spend time with your lover. If you're single, get out and meet someooe who could tum out to be your Mr. or Ms. Right. Don't hesitate to talk about your 
intentions. *** 

VIRGO (Aug, ~pt. 22): Your high energy coupled with your know-how and practical sense will be enticing to any business associate you encOWlter today. This is the pe,fect time tojump into a higtM:r-paying position. ~* LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): Nurture, pamper and do the things that you love. Call it a mental health day, but most of all, satisfy your own needs. You will feel rejuvenated. tt•tt SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): Someone who affects your life will be in~ need of your help. You may find yourself feeling a little low if you can't con1rol the situation. Don't get angry; maintain a positive attitude. ** SAGlTfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your observarioos will help you sat ow other people's dilemmas, pulling you in everyme's good graces. Gel together with people who can offer you interesting convcrsatioo. **** 
CAPRICORN (,])ec. 22-Jan. 19): This can be a fabulous day if you get involved in moneymaking deals. You will have the opportunity to take on a new contract or double your mooey through smart investing. You can get ahead professionally if you are willing to make amove. *~ AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): You may be cmOlionallyconfuscd today if you let someone lead you astray. Ask questions if you aren't sure about the way someone feels. Open comnwnicarioo will be the answer. *** PISCFS (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have to do your own research before you doruu.: to an organization. Someme isn't likely to give you the whole truth about something you're considering getting involved in. **'k Birthday Beby: You will be quick to make changes and always searching for something that interests you. You will be receptive to others but will always do what you want. You will be a thinm and a doer. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGITT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Breathless state? 6 Bach's "Mass Minor" 
9 1930's French 
P.M. Leon 13 Dixie talk 14 _-Day 
vitamins 15 Ambience 16 Record 
company 17 "Sense and Sensibility" 
actor, 1995 19 Altar vow 20 Works of Homer 22 Stimulate 23 1960's-70's pop 
singer/actor 26_Wednesday 27 Dig in 28 Codebreakers' 
org. 31 Hectic episodes 34 Play starter 37 Most suitable 39 End of 17-, 23-, 
50-or 61-Across 42 Severe lawgiver of Athens 43 Gave 
temporarily 44 Sticks up 45 Disney 
collector's item 46 Encyclopedia 
unit: Abbr. 48 Ground breaker 50 Rainbow 
Coalition founder 56 Signal enhancer 59 Confined, with "up" 60"_ luck?" 
61 "To Kill a Mockingbird" novelist 
63 Welcome one's guests, maybe 65 Korea's home 

36 Amount past due? 38 Shortstop Jeter 40 1956 Elvis hit 41 Filmmaker Coen 
51 Blunt blades 52 Scoff (at) 53 "For goodness 
_!" 54 In reserve 
WILLSHORTZ 
55 One of the original Baby Bells 
56 First-rate, slangily 57 Skin problem 58 Cleveland's lake 62 Soapmaking need 64 Family girl 

Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leamin'1XWOrds. 

PORTS 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

Players fly high but try to stay grounded 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Everyone -coaches, players, 

,c 
media -heard the screaming. 
As students who stormed the field following Notre Dame's 25-23 win over Michigan Saturday filed out the Notre Dame Stadium tunnel chanting "We are ND!" their voices car­ried over into the nearby inter­view room as Michigan coach Lloyd Carr calmly answered questions. 
Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham could hear the chants, too. Not until Irish play­ers started to file out of the interview room, nearly 45 min­utes after the screaming start­ed, did the students' voices begin to die out. 
But as Irish players answered question after question, they checked the raucous enthusi­

c_ asm of the students by acknowledging the Irish still have many more games to play. "Our goal hasn't been met. And that's the truth," safety Gerome Sapp said. "That's the third game of the season and yeah, we're 3-0, but we still have a lot more games to play and win." Still, No. 12 Notre Dame's early season success has given an Irish team that finished with losing records two of the last three seasons new life. Where players talked of winning every game on their schedule before, now, wide receiver Arnaz Battle thinks the Irish keep building momentum with each game they win. Slowly, players are starting to believe the slogan on the 
"Return to Glory" shirt ­"Great shirts, aren't they?" Willingham said -may occur faster than Irish fans originally thought. 
"The guys on the team were saying it, but truly, truly had doubts in the back of our mind," Battle said. "Now, guys are starting to believe more and more. The more confidence we had, the more determination we have, that's going to make our team stronger." 
But in the locker room after Notre Dame's upset Saturday, Willingham cautioned his team to remember that the Michigan game was over. Now, the Irish have to turn their attention to Michigan State, fresh off a stun­ning 46-22 upset by California. 
"He showed a lot of expres­sion in the locker room," Sapp said, "but he still had that edge that showed him and the team that we're not there yet." 
The last time Notre Dame started 3-0 was in 1996, Lou Holtz's final season as Irish head coach, Notre Dame went on to lose two of its next three games. While the Irish finished 8-3, Holtz elected not to take his team to a bowl game. 
Notre Dame's record against the Spartans is particularly abysmal, as well. The Irish have lost five consecutive games to Michigan State and haven't won in Spartan Stadium since 1994. 
The last two seasons. the Spartans beat the Irish on a pair of long touchdown passes late in the game. Facing fourth­and-10 with less than two min-
see FOOTBALL/page 25 

WOMENS SOCCER 

Irish score 5 second-half goals to top Terps 
The sophomore's goal in the season." and Maryland. The Irish began the first 50
. Lineup change 

64th minute of the game set off Sunday's dramatic finish "Against Santa Clara, we sort minutes of Friday night's gamesparks Irish to a string of five unanswered capped off a banner weekend of gave up after they scored two against Hartford in much the 
goals as they Irish came back for the Irish at goals on same way they did in the losses 
overcome late 

from a two-goal deficit to stun the FILA us," said against Santa Clara and
"Against Santa Clara, we

2-0 deficit the host Terrapins 5-2. With the Classic. After forward Portland. The Irish offense victory. Notre Dame's record struggling the sort ofgave up after they Melissa struggled to create scoring ByJOE LICANDRO now stands at 4-2 on the sea­previous week­scored ... After Maryland Tancredi. chances, while the defense son. end in home "After looked disorganized without the 
Sports Writer 
scored ... we came

"In all my 20-plus years of losses against Maryland services of injured starters Trailing by two goals against coaching, I've never been Santa Clara together and put the past scored two Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and Maryland with only 25 minutes involved in a game like this," and Portland, goals, we Vanessa Pruzinsky. 
behind us." 

remaining on the clock, the said Waldrum. "I don't think the Irish c a m e Three minutes into the second prospects of winning Sunday I've ever seen a team score five redeemed together half, Hartford took a 1-0 lead on looked bleak for the Notre Dame goals in the final 25 minutes of themselves Melissa Tancredi and put the a goal by Jenette Akerlund, past women·s soccer team. But the game like that to do this on with two sec­forward past behind Irish goalie Erika Bohn. Notre when head coach Randy the road against a team the cal­ond-half come­us. All of the Dame responded four minutes Waldrum shifted defender iber of Maryland was truly spe­back victories sudden, we later when midfielder Randi Candace Chapman to midfield, cial. I'm hoping this will turn the against perennial NCAA started playing with heart and the offense suddenly came alive. corner for us for the rest of the Tournament teams Hartford working for each other." see SOCCER/page 25 
-

FOOTBALi. 
Eric Chanowich and Eric Sendelbach analyze this week's college foot­ball action with their latest edition of the Sendwich Index.
-
page 26 

I ­
i
L___________ _ 
MENS SOCCER 
Notre Dame midfielder Justin Ratcliffe earned co-Big East Defensive Player of the Week honors for the first time. The Irish also moved up seven spots to No. 7 in the lat­est Soccer America poll released Monday. 
page 24 











