---------------.-c,-,....:-, .. 
Ramone stays 'fast and furious' to the very end

SNOW 
Tuesday
One year after his death, Joey Ramone's solo album "Don't Worry About Me" is on shelves and provides listeners with hwnorous and sentimental lyrics. 

FEBRUARY 25, LOW18° 
HIGH 30° 
Scene . page 10 

2002 


The Independent Newspaper Se11Jing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL. XXXV NO. 97 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 





Walker speaks of search for self 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
When author Rebecca Walker began to think about writing her most recent book, she wanted to compose a piece of writing that would talk about race emotional­ly. 
She also wanted to write a book that would let readers see through the masks people wear and think about identity in terms of something other than racial, economic and regional cate­gories. 
The result was her book "Black. White and Jewish: An Autobiography of a Shifting Self," which she talked about Monday at Saint Marv's. 
Walker, the mulatta Jewish daughter of feminist author Alice Walker, said the book was a journey for her to begin thinking about her own identity. 
"I was facing aduithood in a very real way," Walker told a nBar-capacity audience in Carroll Auditorium. "In order to become a real adult, I really needed to make peace with my past." 
For Walker. that meant ana­lyzing her childhood experiences. The daughter of an aspiring author and a civil rights reformer in the deep south, Walker said she was born into a community that knew her as a "movement child." 
But when the black power movement began shifting focus and her father's idealism changed, her parents' marriage began to disintegrate. That sent Walker into a nomadic childhood of shuffiing around the country to different schools and homes. 
"What I have had to reconcile is, who am I if I am not a move­ment child?" Walker said. "Who am I when the context that made 

SOLIDARITY IN THE SNOW 

me make sense no longer exists?" 
Walker attended different schools across the country after her parents' divorce. From a lib­eral school in San Francisco, a racially mixed school in the Bronx and an upper-class subur­ban school in Larchmont, N.Y., 
Walker began to realize that people wear masks and follow a "social script" that predeter­mines how their race or class should act. 
"Fundamentally, race, class and culture are performative," Walker said. "It was for me 
see WALKER/page 4 

Students react 
to Saint Mary's "Monologues" 

performance 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
A mass of people crowded into the Regina North Lounge on the Saint Mary's campus Monday evening to watch the highly anticipated perfor­mance of "The Vagina Monologues." 
Students attended the per­formance for a wide variety of reasons. And while most felt "The Vagina Monologues" did a solid job presenting various women's issues, others were offended by the content. 
Sophomore Kate Hartman w~anted to witness first-hand the source of such great debate. 
"I'm here to be a part of the controversy because there's been so much hype over the past two weeks," Hartman said. "If they want­ed to advise us against seeing it, they've had the adverse affect by promoting it even further and sparking my interest." 
Interest in the informal publicity surrounding the performance was a motive 
see VAGINNpage 4 


SMC trustees act on center, tuition 
• Groundbreaking for student center set for this spring 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees voted to approve the groundbreaking of a new stu­dent center this spring at their February meeting. 
The new student center will house all the current Hagger facilities and will include stu­dent lounges, a small theater, a cyber cafe, Campus Ministry, a copy shop and the new dining hall. 
According to vice president of finance and administration Keith Dennis, the funds for the student center are coming from various sources. They will issue bonds to pay for construction and pay back the bonds as the funds come in. 
A meeting is set with the con­tractors on Wednesday and 
see CENTER/page 4 
. Tuition increased 6 percent for the second straight year 
By SARAH NESTOR· News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees approved a 6 per­cent tuition increase for the second straight year at its February meeting last week. 
"The primary factor in rais­ing the student fees is posi­tioning and looking at similar institutions. Saint Mary's is lagging behind when looking at costs of similar budget-size institutions," said Keith Dennis, vice president of finance and administration. 
Tuition will jump to $20,550 in 2002-2003, a 
$1. 310 increase from  the  
2001-2002  amount  of  
$19,240.  

Including tuition, fees, room and board, the average total cost next year will be $27,642. The average 2001­2002 total was $25,939. 
The tuition increase will go in part towards increasing funding for financial aid and for increasing salary for fac­ulty and staff. 
Melanie Engler, director of public relations, said the increase would not go towards funding the new stu­dent center, which the Board also approved at its meeting last week. 
The Board approved a 5 percent increase in the amount of money available for staff and faculty salaries. 
Three percent of the increase will be divided even­ly between all staff employ­ees. 
The remaining 2 percent will be distributed to bring employees up to or above their target salary. If an employee is already at their target salary, they will receive a 3 percent salary increase. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
,·;--; ,-,-.-.·7,-;-.-:-,-;-,-:-.--------------.. 
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 

The Observer . INSIDE
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Sterilized tragedy 
I didn't feel like I had a right to be there. It wasn't my disaster, it wasn't my tragedy. This massive loss of life, this memorial. belonged to the souls who lost their lives and the people who loved them. 
It's been six months since the World Trade Center fell in a firey heap of metal, smoke and dust. Six months since thousands of people were crushed beneath the collapse. Six months since two terrorist-navigated planes created craters in the center of lower Manhattan. 
The World Trade Center site is sterilized now. Behind police tape and orange work vehicles, it looks like a con­struction zone rather than the site of a major national tragedy. Only the blown-out windows ofsurrounding buildings and the American flag hanging above the cleanup effort give evidence that it's not a renova­tion project. 
Since New York City opened the observation deck on Fulton Street in lower Manhattan, thou­sands from around the world have flocked to see the disaster site. They've left their marks every­wherr, on the observation deck -signatures on the walkways and railings, posters and pictures of lost loved ones and flowers still brought daily to the deck's gates. 
I imagine they come to see this tragedy to try and understand in real life the scenes that played themselves out on the network news like a horror movie. I imagine, from the multitude of American flags flying all over lower Manhattan, they came to celebrate their country, to come together, to vow to never let anything break us apart as a nation. 
Standing elevated above the tragedy, looking down into the two gaping craters, I knew there were still souls underneath that heap that I couldn't see. People whose families were waiting for their loved ones to be discovered by hardhats so they could have the emotional relief of a tangi­ble piece of death. 
Around me, the 250 people allowed on the viewing deck with my group were silent. I was · relieved they were at least respectful, relieved they realized this wasn't a tourist attraction. But breaking the silence was the constant click of snapshot cameras, freezing in time the cleanup effort of the greatest tragedy to ever strike American soil. 
I know it is history. I know it is part of a healing process for the country to see it, to witness it, to understand it. I felt wrong, though, as the cam­eras snapped pictures of this crater. I felt odd, thinking that here, in a sterilized war zone, peo­ple were snapping vacation snapshots. 
I looked down onto the balcony, and began reading the hundreds of signatures inked into the wood. My throat swelled and my eyes watered. "Cousin, we will raise your children as you would have," one read in black ink dated 2/18/02. 
Only five days earlier. 
I wondered what that person would have thought about the people snapping pictures of where that cousin died. Wondered if that person felt violated, or.like the cousin's death was now a spectacle, on display. I wondered what I would feel like if I stood there, on the site where some­one in my family had died, and people took pic­tures ofit. 
I left the walkway after reading that. I didn't sign the railing, and I didn't sign a guestbook. I wasn't sure I wanted to leave a piece ofme here. But as I walked away, I knew that I would carry this vision with me for the rest of my life, and that while I didn't stay there, the vision of this disaster site would always stay with me. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saint­marys.edu.'J"he views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
Jn a headline from the Observer on Feb. 25, the headline should have read "Criniti begins quesc for chird cirle with prelim victory"' not "Callahan begins quest for third title with prelim victmy." The Observer regrets rhis error. 
The Observer (LISPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ""'-''I" •-ul ··"" and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associar~, 1 'res.s. AH reproducti.on rights are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Plagiarism controversy intensifies 
, PHILADELPHIA 
For famed historian Doris Kearns Goodwin, a recent allegation of plagiarism has opened a decade-old story. On Friday, only two days after giving a lecture at University of Pennsylvania, Goodwin admitted she bor­rowed at least 50 phrases from other sources and used them in one of her books without citing them appropri­ately. Last month the Pulitzer Prize-winning author said she accidentally failed to properly cite some of the information in her 1987 book "The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys" from works by other authors, including Lynne McTaggart's "Kathleen Kennedy: Her Life and Times." But now Goodwin has confessed to The New York Times the amount she borrowed was much more extensive than what she previously had suggested. Even before these admissions, some had voiced con­cern about bringing Goodwin to speak Wednesday night as part of the Fox Leadership Program's lecture series because of the plagiarism allegations. 
Daily Pennsylvanian 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
'Tve always been a  "The big battle is what's  "You can see there's mixed  
dreamer ... I never think  happening in places five, six.  emotions with the fights  
about the obstacles because I  seven through twelve. You  starting. There's some  
keep my dreams in mind and  know who your stars are, but  tension building in practice,  
make them come true.,,  it's your unsung stars that  you can see it in the Pit. "  
set things up ...  
Chris Burke  David Cannon  
actor  Greg Petcoff  freshman fighter  
on disability awareness  Saint Mary's swimming head coach  on the Bengal Bouts  
on MIAA championship outlook  


UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA 
Relationship with Enron cut short 
NORMAN, Okla. 

Almost two decades ago, Houston-based Enron Corp. became one of about 1,200 corporations that donated funds every year to University of Oklahoma. Enron exec­utives were attracted to OU because the energy manage­ment program in the Michael F. Price College of Business is central to Enron's business philosophy. Enron eventu­ally donated $119,000 to OU programs during the next 19 years. Enron was on the verge of becoming a signifi­cant contributor to the energy management program right before the company went bankrupt, said Ted Jacobs. energy management program director. Enron, which filed for bankruptcy Dec. 2, has been under inves­tigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission since Oct. 22. Enron employees and several states are suing Michael McConnell, a former CEO of Global Markets and member of the Price College Board of Advisers, and 28 former and current Enron executives in a class action lawsuit filed in Houston. 
Oklahoma Daily 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



BEYOND CAMPUS 
Penn State track athlete dies in pole vault accident 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
Junior Championship in pole v1fi'lt, 
Penn State men's track and field and in October he finished fifth in the athlete Kevin Dare, whom friends Pan American Junior Championships described as fun and outgoing, died in Argentina. His personal best was 16 Saturday afternoon in a pole vaulting feet, 4 and three-quarter inches. accident at the Big Ten "He was one of the few guys that Championships at University of could have had a shot at track beyond Minnesota's Fieldhouse. college," said Matt Moyer, a javelin 
Dare, a sophomore from State thrower and one of Dare's room­College, Pa.. fell backward while mates. attempting a 15-foot, seven-inch vault While he was an accomplished ath­and struck his head on the eight-inch Out of respect the Penn State team lete, Dare was better known as a reg­metal box used to plant the pole. He withdrew from the four remaining ular guy who included everyone in was taken to the Hennepin County events Saturday, and Sunday's meet whatever he was doing and pulled the Medical Center and pronounced dead was canceled after a meeting among team together. Teammate Brian shortly after his arrival. He was 19. Big Ten coaches. Stumpf said Dare always went out of 
Dare is the eighth University Park "We lost a friend, we lost a team­his way to make others feel comfort­student to die since May and the sec­mate, an athlete and a young life," able and a part of the team. ond student-athlete to die in the last Penn State track and field coach "There wasn't a bad thing you could two weeks. Michael Carter, a member Harry Groves said. "The best way to say about him," Stumpf said. "It's a of the Penn State golf team, was killed honor him is to go on living." real shame this ever had to happen." in a car crash Feb. 13. Last spring Dare won the USA Daily Collegian 


5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather11 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, Feb. 26. 
......... ~ 

I.I 2002 AccuWealller, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Prrnur,: 
® co . ~ c:J ~ !ill E] {). (i'@iik @i&: 
High Low Showon Rain T-atorma Flurrkt• $oow lco Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy W., Assot:lated Pte..<iB 
Atlanta 55 26 Las Vegas 67 39 Portland 52 32 Ejaltomore 63 32 Memphis 33 21 Sacramento 68 41 Boston 54 45 Milwaukee 27 14 St. Louis 27 17 Chicago 27 15 New York 57 36 Tampa 73 50 HouS1on 50 27 Philadelphia 64 36 Washington, DC 65 37 
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 The Observi:r . NEWS page 3 
BOG will sponsor student's project 
about to lose their jobs, they
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
lock themselves in the factory," 
Nev-'S Writer 
Tovey said. "What they don't realize is that they don't get 
Saint Mary's Board of along with each other." Governance will donate $300 Tovey·s production plays to co-sponsor Bethany Tovey's Sunday in Moreau's Little 
senior com­pre hensivA project, the B o a r d announced Monday night. 
As a the­ater major, Tovey is required to select. ana­lyze, cast, direct and produce a ont:-...;t play. According to Tovey, the­ater majors 
"Usually what happens is you end up paying for it out ofyour own pocket, or people look for scripts that don't really require a set. I ended up falling in love with a play with a set." 
Bethany Tovey Saint Mary's senior 
Theater at 3 p.m. 
Student B o d y President Michelle Nagle said the Board received a standing ova­tion from the Board of Trustees at their meeting this weekend. 
"We also received quite a few commending 
comments from the Board of Trustees," Nagle said. 
Kristen Matha. student body vice president and Student Academic Council coordinator, reported that the proposal for an additional study day was rejected by the Faculty Assembly. 
According to Matha, one of the concerns voiced by the Assembly was the possible combination of registration day with the first day of class. Some faculty felt that this would be too much for one day. 
"The faculty denied the study day, but it's not a dead issue," Matha said. "There was some support for it, and we are still talking and discussing it." 
Technology Commissioner Elizabeth Cusick reported that the traditional four-week com­puter course required for freshmen has been shortened to two weeks, and an addition­al class will be offered for those students who need extra help. 
Incoming freshmen will also be offered the services oi' an information technology fluency adviser to assist them with their computer and technology skills. 
In other news: 
. 
Junior Adrienne Dorbish is the new Student Activities Board coordinator for the BOG. 

. 
Saint Mary's will celebrate International Women's Day on March 6. Massages, chocolate, French-braiding and make-up tips will be offered in Stapleton Lounge from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. The results from the International Women's Day writing contest will be announced at a reception later that evening. 

. 
Meet the Candidates Night for the class board elections will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. Elections will be held Monday and runoffs will be March 7. 

. 
Saint Mary's is planning a gathering with the women of Notre Dame. "Irish Belles" will be held in both lounges of Regina Hall on Friday at 4 p.m. 

. 
Tickets to Saturday's All­School Formal will be available for purchase toda-y from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in Reignheaux Lounge. 


Families give blood to identify corpses 
are given $20 by the theater department to use for expenses in their comprehensive produc­tions. All other expenses, Tovey said, come out of the seniors' pockets. 
.. I wanted to ask for some money to fund this," Tovey said. "Usually what happens is you end up paying for it out of your own pocket, or people look for scripts that don't real­ly require a set. I ended up falling in love with a play with a set." 
Tovey chose to produce the second act of Frank McGinnis' "Factory Girls." 
"It's about these women who decide to stand up to their bosses and when they are 

Associated Press 
NOBLE, Ga. 

Distraught families lined up to give blood samples Monday in the hope their DNA might help investigators identify more of the scores of corpses scattered around a Georgia crematory. 
Some people brought what they once believed were the ashes of relatives whose bod­ies had been sent to Tri-State Crematory, Elaine Bray angrily rattled a mugful of pebbles that she said were passed off as the remains of her brother. 
"All I wanted to do is give him a proper de·ath," said Bray, of Chattanooga, Tenn. "This is what I got." 
Bray was among dozens of people who lined up to give blood samples at a civic cen­ter down the road from Tri­State, where teams resumed a full-scale search for more bodies. Investigators said there was no end in sight to the grim discoveries. 
The body count rose to 
331. with only 70 corpses positively identified. Authorities said at least 40 sets of remains had been returned to families or funer­al homes. 
Eddie Young drove from Crystal River, Fla., because he feared the body of his 
mother, who died in November, was left to decompose on the grounds. 
He  said  he  hoped  a  DNA  
match  would  bring  him  
peace.  

"I know her ·soul went to heaven, but to think that my mother might be out there ­it's so hard to accept," he said. "We had our closure through the funeral. and now it's like it's reopened." 
Thousands of families have filled out forms or called with information since the first corpses were found Feb. 15. 
The operator of the crema­tory. Ray Brent Marsh~­remained in jail on 16 thcft­by-de c e p ti on charges for allegedly accepting bodies for cremation and leaving them to rot. A judge was deciding whether he should be allowed to go free on bail. 
Authorities have declined to answer questions about the investigation since Thursday, when a judge imposed a gag order at the request of Marsh's lawyer. 
Damon Callahan came from Atlanta to give a blood sample because his father, an Army veteran who was killed in a shooting 10 years ago, was supposedly cremat­ed at Tri-State. 
"I came up here, and now I have to describe it all again," he said. "This has just brought it all back." 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/-ministry 
¦dav 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D' Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Resdav 
RCIA-Practice for Full Communion 
6:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Conversation on Vocations for Women 
7:30 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 
Freshman Retreat Reunion 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. 
Morrissey Chapel 
dav 
Sant'Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Log Chapel Prayer of Sant'Egidio Community 
_____ 
dav 
Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Women's Retreat 
Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Stations of the Cross 
7:00-8:00 p.rn. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Call 631-5653 for information. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

av 
RCIA-Purification & Enlightenment 10:00-11 :30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Cha el Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 

Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick-up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA-Rite of Communion 
11 :45 mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Confirmation: 

An Afternoon of Recollection 
2:00-6:00 p.m. McKenna Hall, CCE 

ND Liturgical Choir Concert 
2:30 p.rn. 

St. Matthew's Cathedral 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Rejoice! African American Catholic Mass 
10:00 p.m. Our Lady of Notre Dame Chapel Coleman-Morse Center 
Morning and Evening Prayer 
Monday-Friday the word 8:45 a,m, and 5:00 p.m.
spread 
Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
''.I It<• f 4 • .. ~ , I 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, February 26, 2002 

Iraq, U.N. to resume inspection discussion 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Iraq's foreign minister has 
agreed to meet with U.N. 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan 
next month in a resumption of 
their dialogue, the United 
Nations said Monday. 
Annan expects a discussion on the return of weapons inspectors to Iraq, said Annan spokesman Stephane Dujarric. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Naji Sabri and Annan will meet March 7. If more meetings are needed, they will be held after April 5 following an Arab League summit, Dujarric said. __ "The secretary-general expects to have a focused dis­cussion on the implementation of relevant Security Council res-
Center 
continued from page 1 
work could begin in three to four weeks. However, the cere­monial groundbreaking will not occur until April, when the Board returns to campus. 
The Board also voted to 
Walker 
continued from page 1 
because I had to move back and forth between two worlds. Because I had to take these masks on and off, I got a sense that masks are not our essential selves." 
Through passages from her book, Walker described her experience shifting from commu­nity to community. One passage described her visiting the black side of her family, where her uncle would joke about her "cracker" mannerisms and her aunt would try to cornroll the curls she got from her father. 
Another passage described the gap she felt with her white cousin, and the caution they took to have polite conversation but never look too deeply into the other's eyes. 
She remembers a constant sub­text of judgment, she said, and a feeling that she never fully fit 
· with either side. Because she never fit into any conventional classification of race, the way she began to define the world around her was through place. 
olutions, including the return of 
U.N. weapons inspectors to Iraq," he said. 
The return of inspectors after three years is a key demand of the United States, which has accused Iraq of trying to rebuild its banned weapons programs and of supporting terrorism. 
"We think the conversation should be very short," said Hie Grenell, U.S. spokesman at the United Nations. "The Iraqis know that we wait for them to comply with the U.N. resolu­tions." 
Iraq has been under U.N. sanctions since it invaded neighboring Kuwait in 1990. The sanctions cannot be lifted until U.N inspectors verify that Baghdad has dismantled its weapons of mass destruction. 
replace the current telephone system, which they hoped will have several positive effects for on-campus students. 
"There will be a complete upgrade of voice mail systems, caller ID and an enhanced 911 service," Dennis said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
"What happened to me is when I got to high school I started to travel a lot," she said. "l went to places where people looked like me." 
But her experience is similar to much of America because every­one has identities beyond classifi­cations, she said. 
"We have to start to under­stand no matter how we are con­figured at the moment, there's another America down the cor­ner," she said. "We have to start to bridge some of those distances and gaps and see ourselves as a truly pluralistic community." 
Walker is one of the figure­heads of the third wave feminist movement and was named by Time magazine as one of the 50 future leaders of America. She founded both the Third Wave Direct Action Group and the Third Wave Foundation, and made her acting debut in the movie Primary Colors. 
Walker was brought to campus by the Office of Multicultural 
. Affairs and the Sisters of Nefertitti for ·Black History Month. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 

SOUTH KOREA 
Rail and power workers prepare to strike 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 
Thousands of riot police sur­rounded two university cam­puses where union activists taking part in a strike by state rail and power workers were holed up on Tuesday. 
Calling the strike illegal, authorities said they planned to arrest 36 leaders of the walkout who were taking refuge at a Roman Catholic church in central Seoul. 
Some 120,000 auto and machinery workers joined the strike Tuesday afternoon to support the rail and electricity workers, said Sohn Nak-koo, a spokesman for the Korean 
Confederation  of  Trade  
Unions,  a  national  labor  
group.  

However, the Labor Ministry said it had yet to confirm that the strike had widened and that negotiations were still underway. 
Vagina 
continued from page I 
for the attendance of sopho­
more Andrea DeLeon. She 
was also interested in how it 
explored feminist issues. 
"I want to know what all 
the hype's about," De Leon 
said. "I know it's going to 
have to do with a lot of 
female issues and things like 
that ... I seriously think it 
needs to be touched on 
because it's about female 
views and we're going to 
have to deal with it." 
Audience members 
expressed interest not only in 
the issues the cast presented 
but how it was presented. 
Freshman Natalie Losurdo 
expected a light-hearted 
approach to otherwise 
extremely serious issues. 
"I heard that it's very funny." Losurdo said. "They cover issues such as homo­sexuality, abortion, and date rape in a funny manner and I'm excited to see it." 
A row of women began drumming to signal the audi­ence when the show was about to start. The perfor­mance began with a waiver denying any affiliation with Saint Mary's College or any other special interest groups. The women proceed with a song, praising the female gender and the "Magic Power Woman." 
A group of students read the monologues, covering the various topics pertaining to the vagina. I! first touched on topics that prompted hearty laughter, namely the various names of vaginas and the answers to the question: "If a vagina could talk." 
But the show was serious when it presented morbid accounts of female genital mutilation and rape. The show concluded with an 
enactment of one of the main 
purposes of the vagina: birth. 
Its final scene reiterated 
once more the show's theme 
of the beauty and power of 
the vagina. 
The performance produced two general results. It left the audience wanting more or wishing they'd seen less. Many were pleasantly sur­prised at its approach to often taboo issues. Junior Adrienne DeGraff was one student who was greatly impressed with the cast's story telling. 
''I had never seen 'The Vagina Monologues' before and I guess I was expecting something militant and I was surprised," De Graff said. "It was poignant, it was comedic. I actually really like the comedic portion because it addressed the issues with­out being overbearing." 
The show not only appealed to those who pos­sess the anatomy the mono­logues are centered around, but to men as well. Lee Gloster enjoyed the experi­ence. 
"I like it very much. I was not offended at all," Gloster said. "I had no idea it was going to be as funny as it was." 
But not everyone shared such positive accolades. Freshman Grace Arredondo understood the College's hes­itation at allowing tht;~r­formance to take place. 
"I found it very offensive," Arredondo said. "I think that a woman's body and a man's body and any part of nature, for that matter, is beautiful because we are creations of God. No part of our bodies and of nature should be expressed through derogato­ry statements, whether or not it's jokingly." 
Fellow freshman Kamille Peter shared this attitude. She had hoped more would have joined her in her senti­ment. 
"I thought it was classless. I thought it was vulgar," Peter said. "I wish I had known more about it because if I did I would not have gone. And I was not the only person who walked out 10 minutes into it. I wish that more people would have left." 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saintmarys.edu. 


Tuesday, February 26, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Candidate charged with treason: 
Just days before the presidential vote, the main challenger to Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe was charged Monday with the capital offense of treason for allegedly plot­ting to assassinate the current leader. Morgan Tsvangirai denied the allegations and pledged to continue campaignin for the election. Two senior party colleagues -Secretary-General Welshman Ncube and shadow Agriculture Minister Renson Gasela -also were charged. 
Egypttan building collapses, kills 8: 
A five-story building collapsed in a town north of Cairo on Monday, killing eight people and injuring 15, police said. Rescue workers and police searched through the debris for sur­vivors at Damietta, 105 miles north of Cairo. The aging building had stood along the Nile. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Shuttle launch countdown begins: 
NASA began the countdown Monday for this week's launch of space shuttle Columbia on a mission to renovate the Hubble Space Telescope. At least five spacewalks are planned during the 11-day mission. The spacewalking team will equip Hubble with a new camera, solar wings, power-control unit, steering mechanism and refrigerator system for a disabled infrared camera. 
Mentally ill man won't be executed: After an outcry from advocates for the men ­tally ill, the Georgia parole board commuted the death sentence Monday of a killer who is said to be so delusional he thinks actress Sigourney Weaver is God. Alexander Williams' sentence was commuted to life in prison without parole just hours before a stay of execution was to expire at midnight. Williams, 33, had been facing lethal injection for the 1986 murder of a 16-year-old girl. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man robs garage sale: A man who stopped to look for a few bargains at a Ligonier, Ind. garage sale came away with a steal. After browsing through tables of goods . early Sunday afternoon, an unidentified man pul!ed out a pocket knife and demanded the sale's profits. The man took $40 lying on a table and drove away in a white Oldsmobile Cutlass with a gray primered trunk. If caught, the man could be charged with armed rob­bery. punishable by six months to three years in jail and $10,000 in fines, state police said. 
Market \Vatch February 25 
Dow 10,145.71 + 177.56 
]~ Same: 
Composite Volume:
~ 242 I,326. 764,032 
AMEX: 862.17 + 5.86 NASDAQ: 1,769.88 + 45.34 NYSE: 576.36 +8.08 S&P500: 1,109.43 + 19.60 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
M.S~-100 INDEX (t:m) +4. 04 +1. 36 35. 01 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.36 +0.36 15.60 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +9.91 +0.80 8.87 
WILLIAMS COMMUN (WCG) -56.86 -0.29 0.22 INTEL CORP (INT() +5. 05 +1.. 49 31. 02 
IRAN 

Associated Press 
TEHRAN 
Ignoring U.S. claims that Iran seeks to destabilize his country, interim Afghan leader Hamid Karzai on Monday thanked Tehran for helping Afghanistan fight terror­ism and throw off the yoke of Soviet occupation more than a decade ago. 
Speaking to the Iranian Majis, or parliament, in Persian -the language of lran and western and cen­tral Afghanistan -Karzai assured Iranians the Afghan people would not forget. 
"We will never forget 
your support of the Afghan nation's struggle against the former Soviet Union and later against terror­ists," Karzai said on the second day of his first offi­cial visit to Iran. 
Karzai, whose speech was broadcast live on state-run radio, also praised Iran for taking in some 2 million Afghan refugees over the years. 
"You have shared our sorrows and pains, and millions of our refugees have been a big burden on your shoulders," he said. 
After repeated charges by Washington that Tehran was sending fight­ers and money into Afghanistan to destabilize the post-Taliban leader­ship, President Bush declared that Iran, Iraq and North Korea form an "axis of evil" that seeks weapons of mass destruc­tion and supports terror­ism. 
Karzai was hailed in the United States last month when he visited Bush and other dignitaries. The interim leader was sitting in the gallery of the U.S. House of Representatives as Bush made the "axis of evil" assertion in his Jan. 29 State of the Union speech. 
He received as warm a welcome in the Iranian Parliament as he did in the 
U.S. Congress. 
Karzai also met with Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who warned the Afghan leader his government "should be careful that the issue of reconstruction is not exploited by others to infiltrate Afghanistan polit­ically and economically," Iranian state television reported, in an obvious reference to U.S. involve­ment. 
On Sunday, Karzai urged the United States and Iran to put aside their differ­ences and cooperate in the reconstruction of his coun­try. 
Energy bill comes before Senate 
in the Senate, majority Democrats of national security," Bush said. "To
Associated Press 
have offered legislation that relies put it bluntly, sometimes we rely 
WASHfNGTON more heavily on conservation. upon energy sources from countries 
The Senate is ready to take up To help bolster his argument for that don't particularly like us." broad energy legislation that has Senate passage, Bush checked out The crisis atmosphere of a year caused splits over automobile gas the engines of three "hybrid" vehi­ago has all but disappeared -ener­mileage, drilling in an Arctic refuge cles that were parked on the White gy prices are low. supplies plentiful and electricity competition in the House driveway. He said more -and the urgency to act, too, may shadow of Enron Corp.'s collapse. hybrids would be put onto the. U.S. have lost steam, say lawmakers and 
Debate expected this-week comes market next year -good news for lobbyists. nine months after President Bush American consumers who "under­Bush. in a weekend push to pro­outlined his plan to increase the stand the ramifications of dependen­mote his plan, dismissed claims that nation's energy supply by expanding cy on foreign sources of crude oil." it focuses too much on fossil fuel pro­oil and gas drilling on public land "Dependence can lead to price duction and not enough on conserva­and rejuvenating nuclear power. shocks and fuel shortages. And this tion and renewable energy sources 
The House passed its version, but dependence on foreign oil is a matter such as wind and solar. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, February 26, 2002 
Evolving epidemic 

More people than ever are living with AIDS in the United States thanks to advances in treatment. But in recent years, the rate of decline of AIDS cases and deaths has slowed. 
People living with AIDS 
350,000 
300,000 
250,000 
200,000 
150,000 
100,000 
50,000 
0 

1998 1999 2000 
Percent decline in AIDS 
cases and deaths 
16 percent 14 

Deaths
12 

10 118 
6 
4 
2 

O '97 '98 ~ '97 '98 '99 
-'98 .·99 -'00 -'98 -'99 -'00 
SOURCE: Centers for Disease AP Control and Prevention 
pie at high risk ol' catching HIV. Infected people should know about it so thev can begin treatment when 11eces­sary and guard against spreading HIV to others. 
Fleming said that about three-quarters of infected people in the United States know they have the virus, up from about two-thirds in 1998. "Tho proportion is improving. but we have a long way to go," she said. 
CUBA 
Group condemns Guantanamo detention 
. Human rights groups want POW designation for Taliban prisoners 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO HAY 
NAVAL BASE 
Three human rights organiza­tions filed a petition Monday challenging the detention of al­Qaida and Taliban suspects without charges or "prisoner of war" protections. 
The Center for Constitutional Rights. the Human Bights Clinic at Columbia Law School and the Center for Justice and International Law called the detentions illegal in a petition filed with the Organization of American States' Inter­American Commission on Human Rights. 
"Although the UnitAd States has an obligation and right to arrest and try the perpetrators of the horrendous crimes of Sept. 11. it must do so in com­pliance with fundamental prin­ciples of national, human rights and humanitarian law," the NPw York City-based rights groups said in a statement. "It has not done so." 
The petition asks the Inter­American Commission on Human Rights to demand that the detainees be given official prisoner-of-war status, which would give them protections under the Geneva Convention. 
Earlier this month, President Bush said the Geneva Convention applied to Taliban prisoners but not to captured al-Qaida terrorists. But his administration has refused to consider classifying any of the 300 detainees from 26 countries as prisoners of war, saying they were fighting for an outlawed terrorist group and an unrecog­
nized government. 
Marine Maj. StPphen Cox, a 
spokesman for the Guantanamo 
mission, declined comment on 
the petition but said: "Our treat­
ment here on the ground is 
aimed at firm. fair and humane 
treatment for all detainees, 
regardless of status." 
A team from the International 
Committee of the Hed Cross 
meets regularly with detainees. 
The United States now has the power to try the detainees in closed military tribunals where can be sentenced to death with just a two-thirds vote from a · military commission, said Jennie Green. an attorney with the Center for Constitutional Rights. 
The detainees at Guantanamo "don't know what they're charged with. They have no access to attorneys," she said. "When faced with a possible death penalty, that's a serious violation of human rights." 
The Inter-American Commission is authorized to intervene when human rights are threatened in one of the 35 member states of the Organization of American States. However, its powcir is largely one of inlluenCfl. 
The rights groups say the United States is a signatory to the OAS American Declaration on the Rights and Duties of Man, which protects prisoners from arbitrary or prolonged detention and from being held without access to friends, families, gov­ernments or legal counsel. 
"Either they were picked up on the battlefield, in which case they're POWs, or they did some­thing criminal, in which case they should be charged," said Michael Ratner, vice president of the Center for Constitutional Hights. "There is no legal limbo status." 





r------------------------, 

East of Chicago Pizza FREE BREADSTICKS! 
PlZZA COMPANVr( 
6 Free Breadsticks & Sauce with 
Any Regular Pizza (with coupon) 
Not good with other discounts or offers One Free breadstick order per customer 271-1277 54533 Terrace Lane (Off of S.R. 23) 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! 
We Take Visa & Mastercard! 
Expires 3/3/02 
L----------------~-------J 
Officials report AIDS improvement 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Doctors have been so suc­
cessful in saving the lives of 
people with AIDS that the 
number of Americans with 
IIIV is actually increasing 
again after holding steady for 
years and is now approaching 
1 million, according to gov­
ermncnt estimates. 
Experts say the total num­bur of Americans living with HIV is probably risii1g by about 25,000 a year -a tes­tament to the power of AIDS drugs that have vastly improved treatment over the past six years. 
The government estimates that 40,000 Americans catch HIV each year, a figure that has remainnd roughly stable for over a decade. llownver, until the turnaround in A!DS therapy, this figure was near­ly offset each year by AIDS deaths, so the total number of Americans carrying the virus stayed level. 
Now, AIDS deaths have plunged from around 40,000 annually to about l!l,000. As a result. new infections arc outstripping deaths. 
Dr. Patricia Fleming of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention presented the new estimates Mnndav at the Ninth Annual Het~ovirus Conference in Seattle. 
The latest estimate of' U.S. HIV prevalence, calculated as of 2000, is lrntween 850,000 and 950,000 people. 
During the 1980s, the gov­ernment believed that WPll over 1 million people had HIV, but it later revised that figure downward. According tu the latest estimatos, between 400,000 and 450,000 were infected in 
1984. This grew to 550,000 to 
650,000 in 1986. By 1992, tlrn 
figurn was 650,000 to 
900,000. 

According to the CDC, the 
total number of infor.tod 
Americans has increased bv 
about 50,000 in the last tW() 
years studied, 1999 and 2000. 
That suggests the total could 
reach 1 million this year. 

Survival increased almost 
overnight when drug combi­
nations that included mcdi­
ci nes called protease 
inhibitors transformed IIIV 
from a death sentencP to a 
chronic treatable illnoss. 

By the late '90s, many doc­tors feared these gains would evaporate as the treatments lost their punch. Doctors noticed that af'ter initial suc­cess that seemed to eliminate IIIV, many patients developed viruses that were resistant to all the major classes of medi­cines. Their virus levels empt back to the point where they could be measured on stan­dard tests. 
Doctors worried that the virus would eventually resume its destruction of their immune defenses. 
To their relief. hownver, this has not often happened. Even when resistant virus emerges, patients who stay on the drugs usually keep their HIV levels low and remain free ol' obvious dis­ease. Dr. Constance Benson of' the University of Colorado said that in lrnr AIDS prac­tice, the annual death ratn is 1 percent to 2 percent and is not changing. 
"The fear that treatment failure would result in a sub­sequent rise in mortality has not so far panned ou l," she said. 
A major CDC goal is to increase testing among peo-
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT OPEN HOUSE 

"J i(j,uck ike /uiu1-e. J ieack." eWudma Mcf!uu/r/re 
Are you wondering where yom future lies? Still pondering your major? Look to where there are ample jobs and excellent opportunities. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents can become licensed to teach. 
Come to an Informational Session/Open House in the Education Department at Saint Mary"s on March 5, 2002 from 6:30-7:30 p.111. If you're interested in Elementary Education, meet in Room 315 Madeleva; those interested in Secondary Education, come to Room 316 Madeleva. Meet faculty from the Education Department who will answer your questions and share information on course requirements, department admission procedures, future job opportunities. etc. Enjoy refreshments and a chance to meet other students in the Education Depa,tmcnt Hope to see you there! 
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 


INSTITUTE ~r 

*Hispanic Leadership Internship Program (HLIP): An eight-week summer internship in the Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago working with youth, community organizing, or a he~lth clinic. Leadership is emphasized. ~ $2300 tuition stipend plus living stipend Room and board Three Theology credits 
!i,: ­
Latino Stu its 
DEADLINE EXTENDED to TODAY -Tuesday, February 26th. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for Latino Studies Contact ckni1:ht2@nd.edu with questions 

Pilot Seminar for Sophomores ... Sophomores are invited to apply to a new pilot seminar. A group of sophomores will travel to the sea islands of South Carolina from May 11­{s to work with the Gullah people and other members of the coastal communities. The group will work with the Catholic sisters of Our Lady of Mercy in their ministries of home repair, GED tutoring, ESL tutoring, food and clothing distribution, in addition to learning about the rich history and culture of the area. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns~ For information contact Carl Loesch at loesch.4@nd.edu or Mary Murphy at mmurph16@nd.edu  

NOT-FOR-PROFITS: 
Post-Graduate Service Opportunities 
Career Opportunities and EmpJoyer Expectations 
Good Shepherd Volunteers
Wednesday, February 27 
Looking for people who have strong spiritual values, who wish to reach 
5:00 -6:00 PM at the Center for Social Concerns 
across social boundaries and live in a faith based community. 
A panel of professionals will discuss not-for-profit career 
Open House at the Center for Social Concerns 
opportunities, what they look for in the candidates they hire, 
TODAY! Tuesday February 26th, 5:00 to 7:00 pm
and how to prepare when applying for jobs. 
Passionist International Volunteers 
Looking for students who are interested in international service, particularly in Jamaica, West Indies. 
-------J•-'Nazaret 
Information Session at the Center for Social Concerns 
Current Volunteer Needs: 

Conversations
Newly Opened Safe House for Elderly Charlene -246-0144 An Opportunity to Reflect and OASIS, a newly opened safe house which Integrate Faith and Justice Issues provides short-term emergency shelter for Come join us in reflecting on social elderly at risk for abuse or neglect, is one concerns, peace, and faith issues! ofonly 18 in the nation and is in need of -"The Last Shall Be First" volunteers for overnight (1 lpm-7am) and Thursday, February 28th weekend shifts (7am-7pm & 7pm-7am). 6:30 to 8:00 pm Volunteer must be able to become alert ifneeded CSC-Coffee House during the night and 2 volunteers may sign up together'--_...._ for one time slot. 

3rd Grade Math Tutor -Tanya Ford -234-6041 (w) 268-1047 (h) She's looking for a Math tutor to help her 3rd grade son. Please be available after school at least once a week, a location on campus can be arranged. 
Tutors to help with I-step preparation -Nan Soltinski -283-7516 
TODAY! Tuesday February 26th, at 6:00 pm 
For more info, go to: www.passionistvolunteer.org 
Operation Smile Student Organization 
Did you know that you can give the miracle of a smile for only $750? The Operation Smile Student Organization will be taking donations in LAFORTUNE right by the Huddle. We hope to raise $750 to sponsor a sur2ery for one child! 
Donations will be taken in Lafortune: Monday through Wednesday, February 25th-27th, from llam-2pm & 8pm-llpm Thursday, February 28, from 9pm-12am. Please support a GREAT cause! For further questions and information regarding our club, check our website at http://www.nd.edu/~opsmile 
Many, many tutors are needed to help high school juniors and seniors study for their I-step tests, which they must pass in order to graduate. Help is needed for English and Math, Monday-Friday from 3:00-5:00 at LaSalle High School from February 25th-March 8th • 
Greater St. John Church Tutoring Program -Thelma Harris -631-5447 They have a homework-focused tutoring program on Tuesday nights from 5:45-7:00 and are looking for volunteers to help keep the children on task and answer questions on their homework. The church is located on the west side of South Bend and its program serves up to 45 children of all ages. · 
Male Mentors at Madison Center -Tony Castelino -235-5457 Three students aged 14-16 at Madison Center are in need of positive male role models in their lives. Please be available to come to Madison Center during their lunch hour (11 :30-12:30) or after 5:30 at least once a week. Madison Center is also looking for general tutors for H.S. students. 
Soccer Coaching at El Buen Vecino -Sarah -287-8228 El Buen Vecino has a soccer team for high school teens and is in need ofa coaching assistance this season. They would like to practice after school twice a week, however it would be up to the new coach or coaches to set the dates and times ofpractice. 
***Ifyou have any questions about these volunteer projects, feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu*** 
VIGIL/CAMPOUT IN SOLIDARITY WITH THE AFGHAN REFUGEES 
TODAY! February 26th on the quad in front ofO'Shag -sponsored by ND Peace Coalition to raise awareness. VigiVcampout will end with MASS outside O'Shag at 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, followed by Afghan DINNER in PE. All are welcome to join us for any part of these events! 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norrc D,me, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Kerry Smirh Par Peters 
NEWS EDITOR: Ja.,on McFarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwce SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs _..,,,.,, PHOTO EDITOR, Peter Richardson 
AoVERllSING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Aleic Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WERADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFF!ct MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 f AX............., ...... , ........................................631-6927 ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiA.s.5T. ME .................... 631--4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 
I 
ob•erver.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631--4543 
f 
observer.sports.]@nd.edu SCENE•.........•....•.....••..••.••.,.•...•..•...•.•....•.•••.631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu 
I 
r SAINT M.\RYS.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0................., .. , .•................................_631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.11d.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
uchives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and August 1999 articles published after 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution, The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tiom regarding Ob,m,erpol.icies should be direct­ed to Ediror in Chief Milu Connolly. 
....... ....... ..............-----.--------, 
THE 
OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 

How I learned to love the Olympics 
The Salt Lake City Winter Olympics 
will be long remembered for its poli­
tics, plots and intrigues. I will confess 
that the various controversies have 
interested me more than the Games 
themselves. I'm 
sure there have Scott Flipse 
been enough 
inspiring 
moments to fill 
NBC's post-Urbanities 
Olympic video, but 
the fortunes of 
Apolo Ohno inter­
ested me less than the secret deals 
made by French judge Marie "Tender 
Flower" Le Gougne. The tribulations 
of Michelle Kwan transfixed me less 
than the Russian Olympic delegation's 
press conference that turned into a 
Mike Tysonesque free-for-all. 
The politics of sports, the fierce 
nationalism of international competi­
tion and the undeniable patriotism of 
the athlet~ have always provided the 
Olympics with great drama. Let's face 
it, the Olympics make it difficult to 
separate patriotism and sports. Each 
athlete competes for himself and his 
country. They wrap themselves in the 
flag, and we embrace them for repre­
senting our nation. Everyone. from 
Michael Jordan to the medal-winning 
snow-boarders, speaks of what it 
means to compete for his country. 
Every nation and every other nation's 
athletes exhibit the same patriotism. 
Yet, every four years we get an 
Olympic official gravely intoning how 
"sports transcend politics" and how 
"the Games are a universal, not a 
national, event." 
Tell that to the Russians, South 
Koreans and Canadians who have all 
used politics, nationalism and legal 
threats to protest perceived unfair 
treatment of their athletes. The · 
Russian Duma, the lower house of 
Parliament. voted 359-3 to boycott the 
closing ceremonies. Russian President 
Vladimir Putin said American athletes 
were given "a clear advantage" by 
partisan judges and officials. South 
Korea was so incensed by the disquali­
fication of one of its short-track speed 
skaters that it also threatened to pull 
out of the closing ceremonies. Even 
the usually mild-mannered Canadians 
screamed that their skaters were ·cheated out of gold by "Cold War-era 
judging." 
Each nation, probably with wide 
public approval, sent diplomats to Salt 
Lake to help mediate the situation. 
Leonid Tyagachev, president of the 
Russian Olympic Committee, would 
not be so easily placated. At a recent 
press conference, he pounded on the 
table and roared, "not only has Russia 
been humiliated, but China, the 
Ukraine and the Koreans have also 
been humiliated." 
We are the world this is not. 
Welcome to the Olympics, where the world's nations come together, look around and realize that they just can't get along. 
The Olympic crises illustrate how much the world has changed in the last decade. During the Cold War, judging was so corrupt and athlete doping so rampant that Enron execu­tives are ethical giants in comparison. But every nation knew the score and when something happened they 
moved on to the next event or to the next time the Olympics were held in a "friendly" country. 
I must admit to missing the Cold War-era Olympics. The current contro­
versies are low 

The United drama com­States should pared to the save its power boycotts, kid­and prestige nappings, for the big judging stuff -like 
deals, 
steroid 
scandals 
and intense national­
ism of 
sport dur­
ing those 


years. The 
two super­
powers faced off and carried their global 
competition to 
the playing 
fields. It didn't 
matter if 
Australia occa­
sionally won a 
short-track speed 
skating medal or 
Bulgaria a hepthalon. 
What mattered was beat­
ing the former Soviet Union. 
I still get goose bumps thinking about the American hockey team's "Miracle on Ice." 
The post-Cold War Olympics some­how just don't measure up. I think this is because the United States is now the world's only superpower. Our nation dominates every field of human activi­ty from film to food, fashion to finance. Our cultural, economic, diplomatic and military power is unmatched. It should come as no surprise that this power is being transferred to interna­tional sports. Nor should it be a sur­prise that other countries carp and complain about this dominance. Any cursory study of history will show that powerful nations attract competitors. What is true of geo-politics is true of sport. 
In recent years, the Russians, Chinese, North Koreans and French have all complained about American global power. Each nation has moaned how the global order is tilted in favor of U.S. interests and each has threat­ened to boycott international agree­ments and coalitions. 
These are serious challenges tq~j intetnational peace and security, but the Olympics provide a cheap way to ease tensions. Let the Russians have a 
few gold medals, placate the 
Korean skaters, give the Chinese a break and be kind to stylish and fragile French judges. And we should also throw in a few million of 

that are such a fashion hit. 
fighing ter­rorism, mis­sile defense, nuclear non-prolif­eration, human rights abus­es and Middle East 
peace. Sports 
competition is a great 
nationalist 
release, but I'd trade figure­skating gold any ,, day for Russian help containing Iraq's pursuit of weapons of mass destruction. And I'd take it easy on the Chinese women's hockey team for the release of reli­

gious and political dissidents. 
Next time, I hope the nations of the "Axis of Evil" field teams. l would cheer heartily for the women's hockey team's thrashing of Iraq, boo the French judge's scores for the al-Qaeda ice dancer and even watch our curling team thump the North Koreans. Now that would be an Olympics to remem­ber. 
Scott Flipse is Associate Director of Notre Dame's Washington Semester and Pew Civitas Fellow at the Brookings Institution. Contact Flipse at Flipse,1@nd.edu. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Scott  Sam Derheimer  
Brodfuehrer  Chris Scott  
Sheila Egts  Graphics  
Elizabeth Lee  Andy Devoto  
Sports  Production  
Katie Hughes  Katie McVoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Lori Lewalski  Amanda Greco  

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should the dining halls serve meat on Fridays during Lent? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Only two things are in.finite :-the universe and human stupidity. And I'm not sure about the former. " 
Albert Einstein physicist 
.-------------------------------------~--­
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 page 9 
Homosexual acts are categorically wrong 
The American Academy of Pediatrics recently announced its support for legislation to allow chil­(!up born to or adopted by one member of a same-sex couple to be adopted by the other member of that couple. ln light of this and other events, including the presentation of"The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame and the emergence of the altar boy as a haz­ardous occu­pation in Boston and elsewhere, it may be useful here to recall some basics. 
Homosexual acts are intrinsically wrong. As the Letter on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, issued with the approval of John Paul II in 1986, stated: "It is only in the marital relationship that the use of the sexual faculty can be morally good. A person engaging in homosexual behavior therefore acts immorally. To choose someone of the same sex for one's sexual activity is to annul the rich symbol­ism and meaning, not to mention the goals, of the Creator's sexual design." 
The "inclination" to commit homosexual acts is not a sin, but it is a "tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil, and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder." 
The Catechism incorporates this teaching and the entitlement of each person to respect and fair­ness: "The number of men and women who have deep-seated homosexual tendencies is not negli­gible. This inclination, which is objectively disordered, constitutes for most of them a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compas­sion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided. These persons are called to fulfill God's will in their lives and, if they are Christians. to unite to the sacrifice of the Lord's Cross the difficulties they may encounter from their con­dition." 
The 1986 Letter condemned the subjection of "homosexual persons" to "violent malice in speech or in action ... The dignity of' each person must be respected. But the proper reaction to crimes against homo­sexual persons should not be to claim that the homosexual condi­tion is not disordered. When such a claim is made and when homosex­ual acLivity is consequently con­doned, or when civil legislation is introduced to protect behavior to whic.:h no one has any conceivable right, neither the Church nor soci­ety should be surprised when other distorted notions gain ground, and irrational and violent reactions increase." 

In 1992, the Congregation for the 
Doctrine of the Faith sent to the 
United States bishops a "back­
ground resource" on Legislative 
Proposals on Discrimination 
against Homosexuals. "'Sexual ori­
entation' [is] not comparable to 
race. ethnic background, etc. in 
respect to non-discrimination," it_ 
said. "Unlike these, homosexual 
orientation is an objective disorder. 
It is not unjust discrimination to 
take sexual orientation into account 
in the placement of' children for 
adoption or foster care, in employ­
ment of teachers or athletic coach­
es and in military recruitment." 
In response to the European 
Parliament's 1994 approval of 
same-sex marriage and the adop­
tion of children by homosexual cou ­
ples, John Paul II described it as an 
"attempt to tell the inhabitants of 
this continent that moral evil, devi­
ation, a kind of slavery, is the way 
to liberation, thus distorting the 
true meaning of the family. The 
relationship of two men or two 
women cannot constitute a true 
family; still less can one grant such 
a union the right to adopt children. 
These children suffer grave harm, 
because in these 'substitute fami­
lies' they do not have a father and 
mother, but two fathers or two 
mothers. This is dangerous." · 
As Father John Harvey, the 
founder of Courage, a support 
group for men and women who try 
to Jive in accord with Catholic 
teaching on homosexuality, put it, 
"The Roman Catholic Church is 
now the counterculture." The 
homosexual culture has a privi­
leged status in the media and other 
politically correct institutions, 
including universities. 
"I have often wondered," said 
Chicago's Francis Cardinal George, 
"why a supposedly heterosexual 
man, perhaps married and with 
children, is admired and celebrated 
when he declares himself homosex­
ual, but a journey in the opposite 
direction is excoriated as repres­
sive." 
The Church insists on the dignity 
of the person while affirming that 

homosexual acts are an "intrinsic 
moral evil" and that the homosexu­
al inclination is a disorder as is the 
inclination to any other moral -wrong. In the words of the 1986 
Letter, "Departure from the 
Church"s teaching or silence about 
it, in an effort to provide pastoral 
rnre, is neither caring nor pastoral. 
Only what is true can ultimately be 
pastoral." That truth is politically 
incorrect. But Notre Dame students 
are entitled to that truth from the 
administration without omission or 
equivocation. 
Professor Hmeritus Rice is on the Law Sclwolfaculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at lois.a.plawec­
ki.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alienating allies could prove destructive 
President "George V.F.W. Bush" is confused, to borrow the opening statement of Mike Marchand's Viewpoint column yesterday. While Marchand's column is admittedly a par­ody, his underlying message that critics of recent U.S. foreign policy are snobbish or anti­American is rather explicit. This is, however, an oversimplification of a very complex issue. By branding the nations of North Korea, Iran and Iraq as an "axis of evil" during the highly visible State of the Union address, the presi­dent was not merely affmning his commit­ment to protecting U.S. citizens from the threat of terror. 
This was not an off-the-cuff comment that certain pundits have blown out of proportion, but a calculated evocation of an unmistakable war-time reference in an era where three small words can quickly resonate throughout the world. In recent months, the Bush admin­istration has been working feverishly to legiti­mate the United State's "war on terrorism" in an effort to maintain broad-based internation­al support. 
However, most foreign leaders have been quick (and correct) in pointing out that the three aforementioned countries represent three different situations that require separate and distinct responses; the "war on terrorism" could never properly be compared to any con­ventional war. 
The international response to the events of Sept. 11 was remarkably supportive, but this broad backing of U.S. initiatives has waned. Consequently, the Bush administration must be more sensitive in its foreign policy. or else they will be forced to "do what is necessary to ensure our nation's security" without support. 
Russia has been vocal about non-interfer­ence outside of efforts in Afghanistan. South Korea, which for the past decade has been enticing North Korea to open up its relations and economy. has expressed concern that Bush's remarks are undermining its own diplomatic efforts. These are not expressions of anti-American sentiment and should not be viewed as such. 
The bottom line is that combating terrorism is not a black and white issue and if President Bush continues to refer to his allies as "weak­kneed" for not supporting his own initiatives, the United States will have no choice but to fight this "war" alone. 
Derek Vollmer 
senior 
off-campus Feb. 25,2002 


It's sad that a person who has had 15 years of Catholic education would ask why humor about God would make people uncomfortable. After 15 years, he should know the answer. 
According to Muto, people are squeamish about these jokes because they don't know his Christ of "fact" -someone who associ­ates with prostitutes and the Devil and gets people drunk. But the real Christ of "fact" -of the New Testament -forgave the sins of the prostitute, changed water into wine in obedience to Mary and sent the Devil packing. Not to mention that the Christ of "fact" was scourged, crowned with thorns, spit upon, mocked, stripped and nailed to a cross, where he slowly suf­focated to death to save us from damna­tion. 
But this isn't the "intense" Christ that Muto wants to hear about, it seems. Suffering and death are not "hip." It's easy to "hang out" vvith a god who associates with prostitutes, drunkards and the Devil. It's hard to "hang out" with a God whose mission was to be tortured to death. (Note well: Catholics are required to believe in a perfect, not "flawed," Christ: see "The Fundamentals of Catholic Dogma.") 
The suffering Christ is too intense. That's why, instead of seeing the face of the dying God when they look at a crucifix, some people choose to see "nice abs" and to wonder about nails and frames. These peo­ple make the crucifixion a joke because "they can't handle the truth." They can't handle the Christ of "fact." That's a fact, and it isn't funny. 
Christ told St. Peter to "feed my sheep." We can only conclude from Muto's article that, somewhere along the line, some sheep weren't led to pasture. We hope that religious instructors will realize that chil­dren depend on their guidance and. in light of the apparent failure of Muto's educa­tion, that they will redouble their efforts to provide solid teaching in the faith. 
But perhaps we drive home the point too strongly. After all. we're just another cou­ple of Catholics without a sense of humor. 
Shannon and Frank Valenzuela 
graduate students Feb. 24, 2002 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Tuesday, February 26, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Ramone stays 'fast and furious' to the very end 
rock" ignited a revolution and has influ­wishes he had 
! 
By SEAN McLAUGHLIN 
enced countless bands from REM, U2, written. S~ene Music Criric 
Pearl Jam and Nirvana to the White "1969" is a Stripes and the Strokes. Finally disbanding rambunctious 
On April 4, 2001, Joey Ramone suc­in 1996, the Ramones released 21 albums tune that chroni­
' 
' cumbed to a six-year battle with lymphatic in 22 years and were recently inducted in cles the death of cancer, and America lost one of her true the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame. Upon the peace and love. rock 'n' roll saviors. A staple of New York band's retirement. Joey Hamone began Capturing the City's legendary CBGB's, the Ramones working on a solo album. Almost a year underlying alien­released their debut albwn in 1976. Tired after his passing. it has finally seen the ation surrounding of disco and cheezeball arena rock, they light of day. the era of Nixon, wanted to send shockwaves through a Unlike many lead-singer solo albums Vietnam. and music scene that was nearly as Jame as the that are plagued by uninspired attempl'> at Altamont, Joey landscape we currently endure today. experimentation, Don't Worry About Me laments "War Armed with little more than leather jack­follows the trail the Ramones blazed over a across the USN ets. cartoon lyrics and two-minute. three­quarter-century ago. The album is loud, It's another year chord blitzkriegs, the Ramones' "punk fast and furious, and filled with lyrics of for me and you/ well-placed Another year humor and with nothing to Don't Worry 
sentiment. do." On "I Got "Maria Knocked DownAbout Me Bartiromo" is (But I'll Get Up)," a loving punk Joey directly ode to the deals with his
Joey Ramone 
CNBC stock battle with can­
analyst. cer. The track is
Sanctuary Records "Searching easily the most f o r touching song on the album. understood one key fact: rock 'n' roll is Something" Standou1s aside, Don't Worry About Me best played loud, simple, short and fast. 
is a great is more than a worthwhile selection for And under those guidelines, he was simply acoustic any Ramones fan. For those less familiar , a master. rocker that with the band's catalogue, the album 
Rating 
Elvis Costello serves as a stark reminder of Joey Contact Sean McLaughlin at 
probably Ramone's legacy. Joey Ramone always smclaugh@nd.edu
A:A••:i~lt[: 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Chris Isaak finally finds the right formula 
eluded him. album to date. On previous through the verses and ByJOE LARSON His most popular work to albums, Isaak's voice was the then Isaak belts out the Always Got Tonight 
Scene Music Criric 
date is his 1990 smash song main and only focal point, but chorus "l don't care what and accompanying video. with the addition of his new people say/ I will always 
Chris Isaak has been churn­"Wicked Game," and some peo­producer, John Shanks, this feel this way/ 1 don't care ing out smooth, moody surf ple could be familiar with album concentrates on present­how long it takes/ You're songs since his arrival on the Isaak's "Baby Did a Bad Thing" ing a fuller guitar sound to not to blame." The song music scene in the late '80s. from Stanley Kubrick's last complement Isaak's silver builds and peeks with lead His songs ooze emotion and the movie. "Eves Wide Shut." His voice. Shanks said, "I wanted to guitarist Hershel Yatovitz's sultry videos he continues to previous ~fforts were always take Chris' songs to a different rocking solo. flaunt back up the vibe of his good and achieved critical place -making songs rock a lit­"American Boy" is an· music. accolades, but the feel that he tle harder." And they do. instant classic that imme­
On all his albums, his marble had still not found the missing On this album, Isaak not only diately becomes stuck on voice plunges down low and link for major success contin­provides the slow, moody songs the brain after the first then soars up into a soulful ued to prevail. he is best known for, but adds time you hear it. It tells the croon for lost love. This is That feeling is negated in his crunchy guitars and cranks out story of, you guessed it, an Isaak's staple, but substantial latest effort, Always Got some great fast songs, too. The American boy who plainly commercial success has mostly Tonight, which is his best balance between fast rock states 'Tm no James Dean, songs and slow crooners on this baby/ But you know I album is perfect. On previous care." Isaak fights for the 
Chris Isaak

albums. there were always a regular guy and rocks fow tracks in a row that beg to through the song that 
be skipped, but this album could have been written Warner Bros. Records 
cruises throughout without ever for Elvis. 
getting too repetitive or boring, A new sound for Isaak 
The album starts with the comes on the title track, haunting "One Day," a quick­which rocks harder than paced song about desire. The any of Isaak's previous song mixes a swinging acoustic work. The song begs for a background. thumping bass lover to take another line, and melodic lead guitar­chance with her former playing with Isaak's breathy partner. Isaak's low voice begs above his other efforts to date, vocals asking for "One day of for the person to return and the "Always Got Tonight" rocks your life." guitar borders on a heavy from the first song to the last 
The second song and first sin­stomping beat song, alternating between up­gle, "Let Me Down Easy," is a This song and the very speedy tempo songs about desire and catchy. toe-tapping lighter and eclectic "Notice the Ring," slower, more emotional songs number where Isaak's vocals which boasts some floating about loss. again shine through. In the flute riffs, explore the musical As always, Isaak's vocals arc chorus, he shows his range possibilities that Isaak had not incredible, but on this album. while he is begging for his Juve delved into previously. the band and sound surround­interest to take it easy on him. Isaak stretched on this album ing him excel and come togeth­
Other rockers in-elude and that is why it's so great. He er to form a truly great rock "Courthouse" and the theme took his Elvis and Beach Boys­record. song to the Showtime series based sound and added a better that bears his name, "American guitar sound and quicker tem­Contact Joe Larson at Boy." "Courthouse" thumps pos which put this album high jlarson@nd.edu 




O
THE 
BSERVER 

Tuesday, February 26, 2002 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
White Stripes take minimalist approach too far 
By UAM FARRELL Scene Music Critic 
[t may have taken longer than expected, but the anti-boy band/anti-Britney/anti-marketed pop music movement ha.s begun. Along with a new legion of singer/songwriters and bands such as the Strokes, minimali-;t artists reminiscent of undflrground '60s rock and early punk music have taken their music to the masses. Like the Strokes, the \,\'hite Stripes have also been hailed by music critics every­where as the saviors of the currently languid and boring music scene. 
Originally from Detroit, Jack and Meg White are an ambiguous group of people. No one ls really sure if the two are brother and sister. husband and wife or maybe just former lovers. One thing is for sure. however, and that is that the duo plays the barest form of music possible in the rock world. 
With Jack on guitar and sometimes piano and Meg on drums, there are no extraneous instrumentations on their new release, White Blood Cells. Everything on the album is stripped to its barest parts. 

Some albums _grow on you; the music may not hit you at first, or the lyrics may not have been fully meaningful the first time around. Initially, I thought that VI/bite Blood Cells was one of those albums. 
However, after repeatfld listenings, I n,al­ized that I wasn't the problc~m -the album was. The more you keep wanting the White Stripes to show you the musical genius that is constantly being attributed to them, the more irritated you get at the tired punk riffs being passed off as something new. 
Overall. it feels like the v\11itc Stripes arc cheating themselves out of finding some­thing musically meaningful. There is some obvious lyrtcal talent on the album. but some songs have lines that make no sense, and some tracks, like "I Think 1Smell a Rat," are so ridiculous they belong down in a basement, away from all sunlight, and even more importantly, away from my cars. 
Musically, Jack White shows trememdous promise. He plays some excellent riffs on the album and is very good at making his guitar whine like a dying cat. On the other hand, Meg White has to be the most expendable drummer in the history of music. Her beats are boring and reminiscent of a middle school band. She really needs to practice more. 
When listening to an album by one of the new "minimalist" groups, the question has to be asked if playing music along these lines will ever truly produce an artistically successful career. The rules of the genre were laid out by the Velvet Underground and American punks like the Ramones, and the form was developed and perfected by The Replacements on their masterpiece, Let it Be. Why listen.to the White Stripes if someone else has already done it better? It's like the current state of jazz. Do I really want to listen to Waymon Tisdale when I can listen to Miles Davis? 
Originality is rare to find these days, and White Blood Cells ultimately sounds like­40 minutes of a band cheating themselves out of true develpment. The best songs are when the band stir out of their sulky "we were born in the wrong generation" mood and play upbeat country num­bers like "Hotel Yorba" and unrequited love songs with Paul M~~artney vocals like "The Same Boy You've Always Known. 

There are few songs on the album that show some spark. "The Union Forever" is a bizarre love song set to music straight out of a cheesy horror film, and it works rather well. But in between all of these good songs are packed tired, boring, "we wrote this in 10 minutes" songs. 
Ironically, when the White Stripes actually conform to some sort of musical rules their music is at its best. "Now Mary," a great country tinged song, produces the most promising lyrics on the album: "What a season to be beau­tiful without a reason." It's too bad the White Stripes don't take their own lvrics to heart. 
White Blood Cells does not produce the fragile beauty th_at i5 shown on The Velvet Underground and Nico or on The Replacements' Let it Be. Instead, it sounds like the death rattle of a musical form. There is not enough room for development in their music, and a drastic sort of change vvill be needed for them to create anything artisti­cally interesting over the next few years. They have fallen into the Pearl Jam trap: going too deep into a type of music that isn't going to let you change your sound enough to keep the listener interested. 
The White Stripes have some growing up to do in terms oftheir musical and artistic outlook. Nothing they've writ­ten can make me want to listen to them instead of "Pale Blue Eyes." 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrel@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 25, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish netters sweep Big F.ast honors 
. Flecky, Ratay named Big East players of the week 
Sp«ial to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame made it a clean sweep of this week's Big East Conference women's basket­ball awards, as junior guard Alicia Ratay was named Big East RJ.iwer of the Week, and freshman forward Katy Flecky was selected as the Big East Rookie of the Week, the con­ference announced Monday. 
It's the second award in as many weeks for Ratay, while Flecky earns the first top rook­ie honor of her career. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
basket as much as they want­ed to. 

"We didn't play that badly when we played them," McGraw said. "Offensively, we struggled and that was a prob­lem. So hopefully we'll shoot better." 
The Irish veterans have found the basket of late, how­ever. Ratay has scored 25, 31 and 24 points in the last three games and senior Ericka Haney is hoping to close out her final regular season by hoping to score in double-fig­ures for the sixth game in a row. 
If she can do that it, McGraw thinks it will be a good farewell for Haney to the Joyce Center. After a slow start to the season, the last games the Irish have played since January have been a boost for the lone senior and as she takes the floor before the game to participate in senior recognition, the emo­
-
Ratay averaged 27.5 points, 
6.5 rebounds and 3.0 steals per game last week while helping the Irish to a pair of conference 
victories and the No. 2 seed in the upcom­ing Big E a s t Champion­ship. 
R a t a y 

also shot 50 Flecky percent from both the floor (14-28) and the three-point line (8-16) and connected at a 90.5 per­cent clip (19-21) from the free throw line last week. 
Against West Virginia, she pumped in a season-high 31 points, including 20 in the sec­
tion of a hard-fought season may surface. 
"I think there will be a lot of emotion for Ericka," McGraw said. "Hopefully she won't have to much emotion, but it's always an emotional night." 
Tip-off is at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Notes: 
. 
Sophomore guard Jeneka Joyce is probable for play tonight. After sitting out the last several weeks due to an Achilles' injury, Joyce prac­ticed on Monday and should play. 

. 
Freshman post-player Jackie Batteast is still out with a torn posterior cruciate ligament. She should be ready to play in the Big East tournament when the Irish tip-off on Sunday. McGraw did say Batteast may not be ready to play a 40 minute game during the three­day tournament. 


Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
ond half as Notre Dame extended the nation's longest home winning streak to 51 games. 
She also 

knocked down a career-best 11 free throws and four three­point field goals in the triumph. 
Ratay R a t a y 
then netted a game-high 24 points and seven rebounds in Saturday's win at Georgetown. Once again, she logged 20 second­half points, canning four more treys against the Hoyas to help move her into 10th place on the Irish career scoring list with 1,301 points. 
This season, Ratay ranks third in the Big East in scor­ing (14.9 ppg.) and first in free throw percentage (.874). 
Flccky notched 11.0 points and 6.5 rebounds per game last week while making just the third and fourth starts of her collegiate career. The Lone Tree, Colo., native tallied eight points and six rebounds against West Virginia, before coming back with a career­high 14 points and seven rebounds in a career-best 28 minutes of action at Georgetown, 
For the season, she is aver­aging 4.8 points and 3.3 rebounds per game. but she has nearly doubled her scoring average since moving into the starting lineup three games ago, carding 8.7 ppg. in that time. 
Flecky is the second Irish freshman to be named Big East Rookie of the Week this season -forward Jacqueline Batteast is a six-time winner of the award. 
No. 22 Notre Dame (19-7, 13-2 Big East) will play its final regular-season home game Tuesday at 7 p.m. when it welcomes Villanova to the Joyce Center for Senior Night. The Irish, winners of nine in a row and 17 of their last 20 games, will be seeking to secure not only their ninth consecutive 20-win season, but also stretch their Big East home winning streak to 32 games and lock up a third straight undefeated regular season at the Joyce Center. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a,m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
TestMasters is looking for responsi-For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N. 4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available #1 Spring Break Vacations! 
NOTICES  ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor !rests. $10/hr. 1­ Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN Remodled in 1998 new insulated windows hot water heater & plumb- after 6/1 . 3 block from campus. Call (773)-486-8862.  TICKETS  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed­ 800-929-7724  ing 200 amp el!,Ctric update  Shared Living Opportunity Enjoy  WANTED· 3 GAs for ND- limited!!! 1-800-234-7007  
room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896  newer furnace &roof basement  the benefits of a luxurious private  Providence BBALL game Saturday.  www.endlesssummertours.com  
2000 grad seeking room or apart- laundry room privacy fenced back- home without the expense and  Call Pat at 243-2873 or  
4-7 BDRM HOMES.WALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. 272-6306  ment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002. Call Michelle  yard w/ deck 1Ox12 utlity garage excellent area $59500 Jim-Day 574-233-253 Eve  upkeep. Private bath and room which you may furnish to your own taste (sizes ranging from 340 to 400  email ppeters@nd.edu if you can help  Can you recite the medal count for the Olympics. but yo ucan't recite the periodic table for your chemistry  
202-829-3725 or email  574-259-6843  square feet) Common areas (over  class?  
LOST & FOUND  krup78@hotmail.com Need tutor for Quicken 2000. Call 234-6698 or 234-9543. Leave mes- FOR RENT  2000 square feet) are maintained by a professional staff and include spacious living room, dining room, library, fully equipped shared mod- PERSONAL Spring Break with STS, Americas  Then write Observer sports. Call 1-4543  
FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly  sage if necessary.  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm~  ern kitchen, laundry and parking facilities. Within walking distance to  #1 Student Tour Operator Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free  Do you want to work for the most interesting guys since Bill Nye the  
return with  rentals@aol.com  Tippecanoe, the  trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648­ Science Guy?  
correct description.  library, St. Joseph River, Memorial  4849  
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house  Health and Lifestyle Center and  Then try Observer news.  
P'. - Call Meg at 4-3477 WANTED  FOR SALE 2-story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining  w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 Excellent house 3-4 students.  medical facilities. 800 per month includes utilities and hosting by a congenial couple with professional backgrounds Call 234-1002 for information and appointment.  www.ststravel.com Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go ii alone. If you or someone you love·  Call 1-5323 Advertise with The Observer classi­fieds. Open 9 a.m. in the basement  
& living rooms. All appliances good Carpeting &drapes throughout.  Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291· 2209  needs confidential support or assistance,  of South Dining Hall.  
TestMaster is looking for responsi- Many closets. Gas heat & upper  THE BEST OFF CAMPUS HOUSE  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  Save the trees.  
ble people to distribute information,  and lower air  MMMRentals corn  IDEAL FOR 4-5 STUDENTS ALL  CSC,at  
post  conditioners. Finished basement  THE AMENITIES WASHER  1-7819. For. more information, see  Recycle The Observer  
flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1­800-929-7724  w/pool table Call 574-234-9782.  River Condo For Rent $1050 MO Mishawaka 219-532-1537  DRYER FRIDGE STOVE ETC GREAT AREA 2773097  our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  


Tuesday, February 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
CLUB SPORTS 
Competition heats up at Big Red Invite 
Special to The Observer 
The gymnastics team finished third overall at Indiana's Big Red Invitational this weekend. Illinois and Purdue topped the seven team field. Emily Smith captured first place in the all around, bars, beam, and floor to pace the Irish women's squad. Caitlin O'Brien took fourth on bars and Mary Blazewicz claimed fourth on vault and third all around in a strong seven team field. The men were paced by Andy Poe's sixth in the all around, first on floor, third on pommel horse and fifth on high bar. This is a unique meet in that men and women can cross-com­pete in each other's events to spice up the competition and add some fun to the event. Emily Smith won the men's cross-com­petition while Poe finished sixth on uneven bars. 
Women's water polo 
The Irish split four games at the Purdue Invitational, their fourth consecutive weekend tournament. In see-saw fashion, the Irish defeated Ohio State 10­2, lost to reigning national cham­pion Michigan State 9-2, beat Emory 9-1, and then fell in a defensive slugfest with Illinois, 6­
2. Six players found the back of the net for the Irish, as Allison Gienko, Lauren Kuzniar, Liz Parolin, Kimmy Moore, Meg Daday and Jacqee Aragon all ripped home shots. Next up for the Irish is their California swing during spring break, when they will challenge some of the strongest teams on the West Coast. 
Men's water polo 
The Irish claimed the Iowa Hawkeye Invitational by sweep­ing all four opponents. John Penila, Keith Rauenbuehler, and Greg Krouse accounted for the bulk of the scoring during the two days as the Irish pummeled Des Moines 15-8 and grounded Grinnell 13-4 to open the tourna­ment. [n the highly anticipated semifinals with Iowa before a hostile Hawkeye crowd, the Irish played even for three quarters before pulling away in the fourth for an 11-7 victory. Hole defend­er Jay Deimel, goalie Devlin McCormick and Danny Wiederkehr stymied the potent Hawkeyes and were poised to repeat their performance in the championship game with Wisconsin. Steve Schrantz, Rory Cleary, Adam Zavadil, Pat Watts, John Marchetta, Neal Driscoll, Mike Grow. and Jack Spittler were key players as the Irish bat­tered the Badgers 12-7. Buoyed by this success, the Irish will travel to Dallas next weekend for a national tournament featuring some of the nation's best squads. 
Cycling 
The cycling club opened its spring competition with a 27 mile road race Saturday at Miami, and a criterium at Marian College on Sunday. The road race consists of three laps on a hilly course, with three big hills per lap. For the Irish, Grant Kleiber and Mike Denney were in 11th and 15th place among the ninety entries with one hill to go on the final lap when two riders collided and crashed, bringing twelve more down with them, including Kleiber. Denny man­aged to avoid the crash. finishing 12th. while Kleiber struggling to repair his bike. still managed to finish 30th. 
The criterium is a flat, short­circuit race concentrating on cor­nering. 16 one-mile laps loop through the Marion campus. Kleiber took 16th, Denney 17th and Bill Ellsworth 21st in the 54 racer field. 
Equestrian 
Jen Pojunas placed 5th in open fences and 2nd in open flat to lead the equestrians at Saint Mary's of the Woods College. Kelly Gentine and Molly Kopacz each placed 3rd in intermediate flat and 6th in intermediate fences, while Callie Willis claimed 1st in novice flat and 5th in novice fences. Fellow novice Quiz Swine finished 4th in fences and 5th in flat. Mary Barter completed the scoring by taking 6th in both open fences and intermediate flat. 
Women's ice hockey 
A stinging 1-0 loss to Northwestern Friday left a bitter taste as the Irish had outshot their hosts by 30 shots and domi­nated the action from start to fin­ish. The wait was only 24 hours before the Irish had the opportu­nity to redeem themselves, and they made the most of it by whip­ping the Wildcats 3-0. Rebecca Frigy put one in half\!Mfthrough the first period, assisted off the face-off by Statue Green. Emmy Venechuk had an unassisted goal just over a minute later. Tori Blainey finished the scoring in the second period, assisted by Rebecca Mccurdy and Lizzy Colghill. Goalie Ellen Block recorded her second shutout, posting 12 saves as the Irish played short handed through four penalties. 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish fall short in rainy tourney 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team shot a final round 304 to finish in 11th-place in the rain-shortened Ron Smith Invitation­al hosted by the University of South Florida in Tampa on Sunday afternoon. 
Satur­d a y ' s round was cancelled due to rain and cold weather on the par 71, 6,830-yard University of South Florida Golf Course. 

That put the Irish 35 strokes behind tournament champion Georgia Southern who came from four strokes behind to defeat Jacksonville State. 
Georgia Southern had a 36­hole mark of 574 (286-288) to edge Jacksonville State (577/282-295) by three strokes. 
The Univer,?ity of South Alabama (297-285) and Southern Mississippi (294­
288) tied for third with 36­hole totals of 582. Arkansas State rounded out the top five with a 593 after rounds of 295 and 298. 
Individually, senior Steve Ratay, who finished in a tie for 20th with a six-over par 
Date Nights 
Tuesday, February 26th 
Women's Basketball Vs. Villanova 
7:00 at the .Joyce Center Free Surprises For Each Couple! 
Beacon Bowl Free Shoes, Garnes, & Coke! Bus Leaves Library Circle at 9:00 
Thursday, February 28th 
Movies 14-TheNew Guy Free .Movie! Bus Leaves Library Circle Time: TBA 
All events are on a first come, first serve basis. Limit 100 people for bowling and movie. You must have a mixed group ofguys and girls in order to participate. 
148 following rounds of 74 on Friday and Sunday paced Notre Dame. 
That put Ratay 10 strokes off the pace set by medalist Steve Sokol of Florida Southern who shot a four­under par 138 with rounds of 71 and 678. Sokol won the tournament by three strokes over four players -Justin Kol umber of Georgia Southern, Gareth Maybin of South Alabama, Aron Prize of Georgia Southern and Richard Jones of Memphis ­who tied for second with 141 totals. 
Following Ratay for the Irish was senior Chris Whitten, who tied for 30th with a 150 (76-74). Freshmen 
Ryan Marshall and Steve Colnitis finished third and fourth for the Irish respec­tively. 
Marshall tied for 51st with a two-round total of 155 (76­79). Colnitis was a stroke behind as he tied for 60th with a 156 after rounds of 79 and 77. 
Junior Brandon Lunke rounded out the Irish contin­gent as he finished 89th with a 170 total after two rounds of 85. 
The Notre Dame men's golf team returns to action on March 14-15 when they trav­el to Port St. Lucie, Fla., to participate in the Treasure Coast Classic at the PGA Country Club. 
ART EXHIBIT 
: ' · . "LIGHT &COLOR EXPLORED" . 
;·•. 

Hesburgh Center 
for International Studies 
Opening Reception: 
Tuesday,Feb.26~, 
7:00 p.m. 
Exhibit continues through Thursday. Feb. 28th. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas claims honors 
. Freshman grabs Big East award for sixth time 
Special to the Observer 
Irish freshman point guard Chris Thomas has been named the Big East Rookie of the Week for the sixth time this season 
after lead­ing Notre Dame to victories over West Virginia (89-76) and Miami (90­
77) last 


week. Thomas 
Thomas 
registered double-doubles in 
both contests as he averaged 
29.0 points, 12.0 assists, 4.5 
rebounds and 2.0 steals. He 
scored 26 points, dished off 12 assists, grabbed three rebounds and made two steals in the win at home against the Mountaineers, and then matched his career-high with 32 points on the road against the Hurricanes. He also had 12 assists, six rebounds and two steals in that contest. Against Miami. he shot 8-16 from the field and was 6-12 from three-point range. 
Thomas, who has helped the Irish to a 19-8 record and 9-5 Big East mark, is Notre Dame's second-leading scorer averaging 16.4 points and 3.3 rebounds. He leads the team in assists (7.56). steals (2.30) and minutes played (37.7). 


r 
page 14 The Oburvtr . SPORTS Tuesday, February 26, 2002 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish snap slump with two-win weekend 
doubles point and getting two when she knocked off Tech' s By COLIN BOYLAN quick singles victories from Katie No. 1 player Kristen Stubbs by a Spores Writer Cunha and Sarah Jane Connelly. score of 6-1, 6-0 and Salas 
However, the match was far avenged a singles loss against 
After a pair of weekend victo­from decided as three Irish Iowa, when she beat Virginia ries over Iowa and Virginia seniors. Becky Varnum. Lindsey Tech's Ginger Lowdermilk 6-3. Tech, the Nolre Dame women's Green and Nina Vaughan all 6-2. tennis team appears to have dropped the first set to put the "Virginia's No. 1 player was snapped out of an early-season team in a precarious position. very good and I thought Becky slump. Fortunately, all three battled played 
The Irish earned a tough 5-2 back to push their respective outstanding against her, " said victory Friday against the matches to three sets. and when Louderback. !Iawkeyes and they followed the Varnum earned a 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 But the head coach was also win with an impressive 7-0 victory over Iowa's Toni very aware that the positive tone trouncing of Virginia Tech on Neykova, the Irish were finally set by winning the doubles point Sunday to improve their season able to breath a sigh of relief. was a crucial factor in the record to 7-5. "Our seniors were really clutch team's succflss on Sunday. The 
IIead coach Jay Louderback when we needed them," Irish have won their last 19 was pleased with the team's Louderback said. matches in which thfly also won effort and was happy to be on Sunday against Virginia Tech. the doubles point. the positive side of a .500 there was no such suspense to "Coming back in doubles was record. make things inJ,eresting. Aside really the key for us, " he said. 
"We played very well in both from a close battle for the dou­"I think we get a lot of momen­matches," Louderback said, bles point, which the team tum from that point. " "and I'm especially proud of our earned after Cunha and The Irish now have a week off effort against Iowa, where our Vaughan rattled off four straight before they finish off a six-game seniors made some great come­games to take their match 8-6, homestand. with matches backs to keep us in that match." Virginia Tech simply seemed against Wisconsin and Ohio 
Although the score may not outmatched. State next weekend at the Eck have indicated it. the 5-2 Irish No singles match went longer Center. victory over Iowa was a little too than two sets and every Irish close for comfort. player seemed to be on top of 
The team jumped out to an her game. Varnum turned in the Contact Colin Boylan at early 3-1 lead after winning the most impressive performance cboylan@nd.edu. 


MEN'S LACROSSE 
Overtime not time enough for Irish in 10-9 loss 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
In lacrosse, every second counts. 
And nobody knows that more than Notre Dame after a heart­breaking 10-9 season-opening overtime loss to Penn State. 
After tying the game at 2-2 on a goal by Devin Ryan with only four seconds left on the game clock at the end of the first quar­ter, it appeared as if the Irish were well on their way to recov­ering from a shaky start against Penn State. But a controversial goal on the ensuing face-off changed the complexion of the game. 
Penn State freshman Jesse Tarr scooped up the loose ball and fired a shot from midfield that dribbled through the legs of Irish goalie Stewart Crosland. giving Penn State a 3-2 lead as time expired in the first quarter. 
It appeared as if the timekeep­ers started the game clock a few seconds late and that the goal should not have counted. But after holding a conference at midfield, the referees ruled that the goal counted. 
Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan stood in disbelief after the refs made their decision to award the goal to Penn State. 
"[The referees] messed up plain and simple," said Corrigan. "But that is not why we lost. We gave them four goals because of our inability to clear the ball." 
Irish senior captain Devin Ryan agreed with his coach's assessment about the controver­sial goal. 
"We can't do anything about that," said Ryan. "We can't worry about the referees. We need to stay with our game plan and worry about ourselves." 
At the end of the second quar­ter, the Irish seemed to recover from the controversial goal and held a sHm 5-4 lead into halftime thanks to another goal by Ryan gled with the physical play and with just under a minute to go in size of the Penn State attackers. the first half. "We looked lost on the defen­
The Nittany Lions came roar­sive end," said Corrigan. "It was ing back in the third quarter, embarrassing. We gave them scoring three straight goals to four of their goals because we jump out to a 7-5 lead. just turned the ball over. We 
After going scoreless in the third quarter, the Irish were in 
desperate need of an offensive spark in the fourth quarter. Once again, Ryan provided the offensive firepower with his third goal. 
After the Irish pulled within one goal, the Nittany Lions scored two straight goals to a 9­6 lead \\ith only 8:12 to play. 
But the Irish refused to go down quietly. Freshman Matt Malakoff started the comeback 
~ ~!-"df~ the . . ~:;,1.:~~f~!S{~;t:\:,i~:'l,; ·,ice
by scoring his first career goal off an incredible one-handed shot while lying down on the 
7" ·r .,, , . ·t 1 --~Pltcat· 
ground. And at the 4:11 mark, Irish sophomore attack man Matt Howell scored his third goal of the game thanks to senior captain John Flandina's game­high fourth assist. 
With only thirty seconds remaining, Notre Dame mounted one final offensive charge. After weaving around the goal, Devin 
-,+
Ryan found sophomore attack man Dan Berger at the corner of the net. Berger fired a shot past Garrity, tying the game with only seven seconds left on the game clock. 
At 2;29 into overtime. fresh­man Will Jones capped off an impressive college debut with his third goal of the game giving the Nittany Lions a narrow 10-9 vic­tory. 
"It was a tough game. It is hard to lose a game like that," said Ryan. " Every time we play Penn State, the game always goes down to the wire. We had a lot of young guys out there. though. We will get better. We have the talent. We just need to return to the fundamentals and keep playing hard." 
Notre Dame's defense strug­have to do a much better job this week in practice." 
In his first career start, sopho­more Stewart Crosland stopped 18 of the 28 shots he faced. 
"Stewart worked hard in prac­tice, and I felt he gave us the best chance to win," said Corrigan. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro.l@nd.edu. 

.,. 0 nhne 
tli~ology, and f1ne(:, '_­. . . feqti~emen.,. "~~~:_;•Open to ., 
~tt;»c .l~:..-:f~'.rtso~potn ~~:1:-.· 
.· .;-~\.;frf1Jt,•i~!~?!°S·i 
p t-:-.~....i ~} ·~: ;?~~:;. 
"'.''· ..i;. ~ 




Tuesday, February 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 


Fu01agalli 
continued from page 20 
ly made me realize that the program is more than just the boxing and more than just win­ning and losing," Fumagalli added. "If you win the whole time you're kind of on cloud nine and you don't really see the downside of it. After losing r really appreciated the training I did sophomore year." 
Thinking ahead to his senior season, Fumagalli began his training last summer from his home in Shorewood, Ill. and continued his workouts during a month of coaching rookie boxers last fall. 
"I trained in novice hard and tried to train as much as possi­ble this spring season through all the presidential stuff I had to do," Fumagalli said. 
When the boxing coaches drew up the brackets for the 135-pound division a week ago, Fumagalli's talent and experi­ence helped earn him the top seed in the weight class and, along with Hollowell, a bye in the preliminary round. Prior to his quarterfinal match-up on Sunday, Fumagalli said he was only nervous that the boxer he had to face would have already fought once on Friday. 
"The same thing happened last year, Tony had a fight under his belt and I went in not as pumped up. But having the experience helps," he said. "Being your senior year you have to cherish it while you're in there. I'd rather fight Friday because I'm excited and I'm really pumped up." 
Even without a fight in the preliminaries, Fumagalli was in the boxing room two hours before action began on Friday night, double-checking the evening's logistics and helping other boxers suit up for their fights. 
After watching the other competitors in his weight class, he and Criniti worked as corner men for over 40 different fight­ers. Saturday brought a light workout and plenty of rest, before the quarterfinals on Sunday afternoon. 
In his return to the ring, Fumagalli won a split decision over freshman Luke Dillon and earned a spot in the semifinals on Wednesday night. Surrendering a reach advan­
. 
_l
tage to the slugger Dillon, 
Fumagalli absorbed several strong right hands over three rounds but ultimately won the fight with his speed and tenaci­ty on the ropes. 
"I don't usually like brawling and I'd rather fight a more technical fight but I had to try and cut the ring off as much as possible. knowing that his right was working so well on me," he said. "This year my philosophy is 'Don't leave anything up to the judges.' My corner told me to really turn it on in the third round, and they said, 'You have to do something this round to not leave it up to the judges.'" 
Now only one fight away from a return to the finals in the Joyce Arena on Friday night, Fumagalli's relationship to box­
ing and his role in the Bengal Bouts continues tcu!evelop. 

"I would say ~est decision -­1ever made in my life was com­ing to Notre Dame. the second best decision was being in this program," he said. "It's an honor and a privilege to be an officer and now the president, even more, and I definitely wouldn't give that up for any­thing. Working with the guys, being a role model, being more of a teacher, I love that. It makes you a better person because you work your ass off outside of boxing to achieve that same level that's expected from you when you fight." 
The boxing club's unique fusion of solidarity and solitude is a reality for each of its 135 
members, but is especially evi­denced by Fumagalli, the link between the fighters and the program that supports them. 

"RecSports runs our pro­gram, so if they have anything that they want done, it goes through me, even the stuff in novice," he said. "I have keys to the boxing room so I have to do stuff, in the morning and at night ... Programs, ads, forms, essentially making sure every­thing flows smoothly." 
He also wants to ensure that the last few fights of his Notre Dame boxing career go smooth­ly. While Fumagalli knows that entering the ring is a significant aspect of the Bengal Bouts, he has learned that fighting is per­haps their simplest demand. 
Contact Paul Camarata at camarata.2@nd.edu. 



See life as we see it. 
Senior Thank You Picture Frame 
I I 
Don't miss this unique opportunity to give something back to those who have made your ND education possible! Sold Monday and Tuesday from 2-4 p.m. in Lafortune. Look for more sale dates later! 
Cost of the Frame: $25. Cost of the album: $7. • Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! • 
This year's quote on the frame: "The educated person is deeply rooted in wisdom, open to new perspectives and experiences, and committed to the service of the human community." Ed "Monk" Malloy, csc. 
• Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club, 200 • Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 and visit our site at www.nd.edu/Nmqtclub for more information. 
A lifetime opportunity FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www~nd.edu/-vocation 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 26, 2002 
SOFTBALL 
No. 19 Irish struggle in tourney, finish 1-4 
By AARON RONSHEIM 
Sporrs \Vricer 
The Irish went 1-4 at the National Fastpitch Coaches Association Leadoff Classic over the weekend, dropping their season record to 4-6. 
"We didn't win as much as we would have liked, but I think we played very well," said All­American catcher Jarrah Myers. 
The Irish. who were ranked No. 19 coming into the week­--end started ~with a 4-0 loss to No. 11 Oregon. The Irish quickly rebounded with a 6-0 
victory over Southern Mississippi. Freshman outfield­er Megan Ciolli and freshman catcher Annie Dell'Aria each hit their first career home runs in the win. 
On Saturday the Irish lost 3-2 to No. 8 Arizona State. 
They got on the scoreboard first with two runs in the third inning on a two-run single by freshman Liz Hartmann. The Irish held the lead until the sev­enth inning when Arizona State's Kara Brun hit a walk-off two run homer for the victory. 
"I think the pitchers did an awesome job this past week­end. They held some great teams to only a few runs," said Jarrah Myers. 
The team lost All-American pitcher Jennifer Shannon to graduation, but have replaced her with freshmen Carrie Wisen and Steffany Stenglein. 
Stenglein, who pitched a total of 26 innings in the tourna­ment, picked up her first com­plete game shutout in a 6-0 vic­tory over Southern Mississippi. 
"[The pitchers] have done a great job the past two week­ends," said Irish head coach Deanna Gumph. " They have improved greatly over the past few games." 
Against Oklahoma on Sunday the Irish suffered their third straight one-run loss to a top ten team. In the second inning Irish center fielder Jarrah Myers led oIT with a solo home run for a 1-0 lead. With the score 3-1 in favor of tho Sooners entering the seventh inning, junior Andria Bledsoe brought the Irish within a run with a led off homerun. The Irish were able advance the tying run to second base, but Nicole DeFau was thrown out to end the game trying to score on Jenny Kriech 's single to right field. 
"We're hanging in their with these top 10 teams to the very last play where the game can go either way. If we're right there with the teams now, imagi.ne where we can he later in season," said captain Jenny Kriech. 
The Irish have played four top ten teams over the past two weekends. 
"We are playing the toughest schedule that we have ever played. I'd rather be playing all these tough teams now. We are getting better quicker than ever before," said Myers. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu. 
HOCKEY 
Irish strong in sweep of Lake Superior 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Assistant Sports Editor 
The men's hockey team wor­ried a bye week might take away any momentum that it had gained in an impressive performance against then-No. 
._ 
3 Michigan State. It didn't. The Irish returned to the ice 
this past weekend at Lake Superior State and gained a two-game sweep of the 
"I think we're right where 
Lakers , 6-0 
s h o w n and 3-1. we need to be. We've through in the "I think 
played extremely well in stellar play of 
we're right 
freshman 
our last four games." 
where we 
goalie Morgan 
need to be," 
Cey, who 
head coach 
Dave Poulin allowed only
Dave Poulin 
one goal in
head coach
said. "We've played extremely well in our last four games." 
The improved play of the Irish began three weekends ago at Michigan State when they played the Spartans to a tough 2-0 loss the first night and then knocked off Michigan State in the second match-up. Following the bye week, the Irish made another impressive trip, this time to Lake Superior State, and came home with two more road victories to extend their wining streak to three games, their longest of the season. 
"We beat [Michigan State] that Saturday night when they hadn't lost in 34 straight games at home," Poulin said. "Then to carry it through the break week and be able to play as well as we played at Lake Superior is terrific." 
The play of the defense has been a key to success for the Irish in their recent streak. 
Over the last four games, they have only allowed five goals, one of which was on an empty net at the end of the Michigan State loss. 
"Our defense has been the biggest change," Poulin said. "We've given up four goals total in our last four games, excluding the empty net goal, after giving up 13 in a week­end against Alaska. We really tightened up this weekend." 
Much of this 
improved 
defense has 
the weekend 
series that 
included the second shutout performance of his career. 
"[Morgan's] playing extremely well," Poulin said. "Sometimes it's easy to forget that he's a freshman. He's given the team a lot of confi­dence. and our special teams has gotten better in front of him." 
The Irish jumped ahead i.n the opener Friday night in the first period when freshman Cory McLean scored the first goal of his career on a shot from the blue line that sailed over the head of Laker goalie Matt Violin. 
At 8:26 of the second period, Notre Dame added to its lead when defenseman Brett Lebda took a pass at the point from Connor Dunlop and flipped it past Violin. 
Lake Superior State pulled within one at 10:21 of the sec­ond period on a goal scored 
Alanu,m 500•Desiga•lanaratians •lartellag, Cans1111anrs SBminar 
Leam The Methods Of AProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Foflow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
ADae aa,Semlna,,AJaot OIIJWJI Ten Years mlnraluallle Exoerlance. 
This class ;s designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. The class is. taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, •change the course of an entire industry.• · 
~-~-,:;;,class dates, private classes &~-----7l_DSOAB ~re information, go to our web 
,.__,.,__.,._..... s,te, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 . ,,,,,,,,,,_IISIISlalld.COIII E-mail• Jnventor@usastand.com 
after a scramble in front of the net. That was as close as the Lakers would come, however, as the Irish defense held strong. 
Junior John Wroblewski added an empty net goal for the Irish to move the score to 3-1 and put the game out of reach. 
Saturday night, the Irish took command of the game early as freshman Yan Stastny scored two goals in the first period to put the Irish on top 2-0. Brad Wanchulak, David Inman, Lebda and Wroblewski would each add single goals in the game to push the Irish vic­tory to 6-0. 
Cey recorded 16 saves and notched his second shutout of' the year. 
The pair of victories moved Notre Dame's record to 12-15­5 overall and 10-12-4 in the CCHA. 
The Irish hope that their winning streak can carry them through the final two games of 
IJnl.versity ofNotre.Dame 
the regular season next week­end and into the CCHA play­offs. 
"There's a lot to play for right now," Poulin said. "You're playing for position­ing, and you're playing for where you are going to play in the playoffs, and you want to go in on a positive note." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

Preliminaries February 22 
Finals 
Qualtedinals·February 24 
March 1 
Semifinals February 27 
7."00pm 
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Focusing on the glory ofbronze 
Given the grim set of circum­medaled. He finished fourth four stances that have hung over the years ago, but all that got him world for I.he last five months, was a mention in a. recent Sports this year's Olympic Winter Jllustrated column about guys Games took on a greater signifi-we forget because they didn't cance. leave with anything around their 
In the necks. patriotic Shimer has been in this busi­spirit of ness a long time, and many give sports. fans him credit for putting the United who would States back on the world bob­normally sledding radar screen. Years watch little ago, he went door to door trying else but to raise money from sponsors to football and pursue his dream of racing in basketball the Olympics. He wasn't even on television supposed to be in these games, were riveted much less a medal contender. by sports But he put off retirement to give such as fig-it all one last shot. He was dri­ure skating ving the second-ranked sled for and bob­a country that hadn't medaled in sledding the sport in your parents' life­simply times, but he couldn't pass up because a one more chance. possibility existed for an After three of the four 'runs, American to win a medal. We Shin1er's metal dreams still rooted for a guy from Texas to appeared far-fetched. His sled \\in in luge and a young lady stood in fourth, a miracle in from Long Island to take gold in itself given his chances going in, the moguls for one reason and but still out of the medal picture. one reason alone: they're Then it happened. With a bril­American, like you and like me. liant final run, Shimer got his 
It was for that reason that I medal. It mattered little that it watched much of the games, and was bronze. He wasn't supposed my fellow Americans did not dis­to be here or be this good, but if appoint. But if watching an medals were given out for effort American take home a medal and dedication alone, Shimer's fills you with national pride, then would have been gold. the heartwarming stories behind Shimer's is just one of the some of those triumphs makes great stories of these games that you want to drape yourself in the have had everything. but per­flag and head over to haps it best represents every­Afghanistan to lend the troops thing that is great about sport. It some assistance. is wonderful to watch the best 
Night after night, Bob Costas win medals in bunches, but far brought into our lives heroic sto­better to see a guy from the ries of human triumph. There ranks of the merely good take was the recent liver transplant home the one prize he'd worked recipient. Chris Klug, who cap­so long to earn. tured an Olympic medal in Shimer assured audiences snowboarding and Jim Shea Saturday night that he won't be who raced to gold in the skeleton forgotten. He, like most other with a picture of his recently Olympic athletes, doesn't make deceased grandfather tucked millions. He just makes us proud away in his helmet. to be American. 
Athletes step onto the Olympic stage as virtual unknowns. Often Contact Kevin Berchou at they exit as American heroes. berchou.2@nd.edu. The opinions Brian Shimer had driven the expressed in this column are 
U.S. bobsled in four previous those ofthe writer and not nec­Olympics, but had never essarily those ofThe Observer. 
FENCING 
Fencers close with victory 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Spom Writer 
With post-season action just around the corner, the Wayne State Duels were a tune-up for the Notre Dame fencing team. Both the men and women com­piled 4-0 records to close out their regular seasons. 
The women's epec squad led the team with a 31-5 record on the weekend. Anna Carnick went 4-1 on the day, improving her career record to 140-36 and putting her in fourth in women's epee career -winning percentage. 
s ­
Junior Meagan Call finished the day at 5-1 giving her 37 wins for the season. In her first season, sophomore Kerry Walton compiled a 50-5 and .909 winning percentage. the fourth-best ever for women's epee. 
"Everyone did a really good job," said C~ll. "I thought we had a pretty strong overall meet." 
Freshman Andrea An1ent led the foil squad with a 5-0 record Mercy (27 -0), Lawrence (27-0) Senior Andrzej Bednarski had a and finished the season with a 
and Michigan (25-2). 6-0 record and ended his 
record of 27-2. Alijca Kryczalo "I thought we fenced really career with 152 wins, fifth most had three wins on the day to 
well as a team this weekend," in sabre history.push her record to 39-2, the 
said senior captain Andre Crompton earned nine wins seventh-best winning percent­
Crompton. "The meet was defi­and finished sixth, behind age (.951) in women's foil. 
nitely a confidence booster for teammate Bednarski, on the Women's sabre earned a 30-6 
the Midwest Conference meet career sabre wins list with 150. 
record and was led by captain this weekend." Also, junior Matt Fabricant Carianne McCullough. Her eight 
Men's epee posted a 32-4 went 7-0 on the day and ehded 
wins on the weekend gave her record, giving them a 135-27 the season with a 39-8 mark. 
42 for the season. Sophomore record for the season. Senior Next weekend, the post-sea­Destanie Milo finished the sea­Brian Casas won his seven son begins as both the men and 
son with a 45-8 record after 
matches and finished with 156 women compete in the Midwest four more wins. wins in his career, fourth-most Fencing Conference Notre Dame defeated 
in men's epee history. Junior Championships at the Joyce
Michigan State (19-8), Detroit­Jan Viviani had seven wins and Center. This meet is just the Mercy (23-4), Lawrence (24-3) ended his regular season with a beginning of the post-season for and Michigan (21-6). 
42-3 record. His .933 winning Irish as they work this week for "I thought we still had some percentage is the third best in their ultimate goal of winning a momentum from the Ohio State Irish history. national championship. 
Duels [two weeks ago]," Call Junior captain Ozren Debic "The practices this week are 
said. "This week we have to 
led the men's foil team with a going to be really strong,"practice really hard since we 12-0 record and a 30-2 season Crompton said. "More than just are headed toward NCMs." 
mark. He currently has the best preparing for the Midwest Extending its unbeaten match foil career winning percentage. Championships, but the region­
streak to 59, third-best in Notre Senior Steve Mautone also went als and NCAAs." 
Dame historv, the No. l men's 
12-0 on the day to end his regu­
team cruisect' through its oppo­lar season at 28-15. 
nents this weekend. They beat 
Another undefeated day was Contact Matt Lozar at Michigan State (25-2), Detroit 
turned in by the sabre squad. mlozar@nd.edu. 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! .· · 
-Hot_ftJsr Qesllna.1iu11siPartlo:.1 Lowt1st 
Prices Gumanlued! Besl Ahlines/Hulals! 
Fr&e Food! 2 Frnu Trips on 15 Sales. 

Earri Cush! Group DlstounJ:;! Douk-nnline. www.sunsplashto11rs.com 
1-800-426-7710 
Neighborhooo Grill & Bar 
HIRING STARTS

-
March 4th 
FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
Servers Bartenders Hosts/Hostesses Kitchen Help Cooks 
PLEASE APPLY IN PERSON: 
Applebee's 

3703 Portage Rd.,South Bend, IN 46526 Tel: (219) 277-2975 
www.applesauceinc.com 


Q: WHAT HAS FREE FOOD , WNDU 
PERS . NALITIES, ND ATHLETES, AND 10 SPORTS GENIUSES C . MPETING F . R A PLAYSTATl . N2? 
a 
A: THE WVFI SPORTS ~UIZ! 
TUESDAY, FEB. 26 LAFORTUNE BALLR .. M 
7-B:30 PM 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 26, 2002 

BASEBALL 
Injuries lead to disappointing weekend 
With all of the injuries, much the help the Irish pitchers Sanchez to move tho Irish Billmaier on one of his five
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
of Notre Dame's top-ranked would get, however. within one run. hits on the day.
Assistant Sporrs Editor 
freshman class saw action In the fourth inning, Saluki The Irish went ahead by one In the bottom of the ninth early in the year. Freshman second baseman Greg in the next inning when Kris inning, with the Irish just one Injuries to four Irish starters pitchers Chris Niese! and Andrews led off with a single. Billmaier scored from third on out away from an impressive led to a difficult series this Grant Following a Sal Frisella strike­a balk and pinch hitter Ken comeback victory, junior weekend in the Ron Johnson had successful out­out, designated hitter Scott Meyer singled in senior Paul Brandon Villoria allowed a I Maestri/University of New ings. Infielder Matt Edwards Hankey doubled in Andrews to O'Toole to give the Irish a 6-5 pair of singles, and then t Orleans Classic. had an impressive showing at move within a run of the Irish. lead. Privateer first baseman Gabe 
•t 
' The Irish came away with a shortstop Saturday in place of Niese! would then strike out In the bottom half of the Trevizo slammed a three-run win in the opener against classmate Macri, going 3-for-4 two batters to end the threat. inning, Missouri's Cody Ehlers walk-off homcrun to give New
r 
Missouri on Fridav, but then with two RBIs and a run After a pitching change in tied the score with a solo Orleans a 8-7 victory.
I 
dropped a one-run·loss to host scored. the second inning, Irish fresh­home run off of Johnson. Even though the Irish
t 
New Orleans Saturday, fol­"The young guys answered man Martin Vergara struck In the top of the 10th inning, dropped two of three games, lowed by a 6-2 loss to the call well and were upbeat out Frisella. but then allowed the Irish went ahP.ad for good the staff is still upbeat about Southern []linois Sunday and positive with the way that a single to Hankey and walked with the help the team's morning.,_. they played overall," Lepper the next batter. Vergara hit of two errors play early on. 
"All of our freshmen and said. "We feel that these guys the next two batters to tie the by Missouri "We're not downplaying "As a basically all of our position that are stepping in, we have score, then finally got a double that allowed coaching
their [the younger
players on this trip got in the confidence in them." play to end the inning. Stavisky to staff, we were
players] role at al. We 
game in some capacity due to One of the most impressive The seventh inning would score. Senior overly upbeat the injuries we had," assistant performances of the weekend prove to be the back-breaker M a t t think they can do the job with the way coach Dusty Lepper said. "We came from Niesel on Sunday. for the Irish as Vergara Buchmeier and we're going to try to our young had quite a few injuries. Three The freshman recorded 10 allowed a pair of lead-off sin­saved the guys played
go out and try to compete
A l l strikeouts in gles, and then Frisella hit a game for overall," Americans five innings of three-run home run to put the Johnson in and be successful with Lepper said. are out of ''.All our freshmen and work, yielding Salukis ahead for good. the 10th. With Notre
those guys.. " 
our line-up one run on Southern Illinois added The mar­Dame's next
basically all ofour 
right now, five hits. another run in the eighth to quee match­games not
position players on this Dusty Lepper
so there arc "I thought I make the final score 6-2. up between until next four start­trip got in the game in did pretty well In the opening game Friday, Notre Dame assistant coach weekend in ing position for my first it was the Irish who were and host Florida at the
some capacity due to the 
players time out," forced to make a comeback, team New Homestead
injuries we had. " 
injured and Niese! said. "I falling behind 5-1 after four Orleans Challenge, out of the felt really good innings against Missouri. Irish Saturday afternoon proved to some of the regular starters lineup." out there. I starter Peter Ogilvie was taken be a back-and-forth battle all should have a chance to heal
Dusty Lepper
The Irish thought it was out after three innings after day long. In the contest, the and get back into action. If
assistant coach
played the a good first giving up four runs, only three Irish got another key pitching their injuries persist, however, entire outing for me, of which were earned. performance from a freshman the coaches are confident in three-game and hopefully I Johnson then came in to when John Axford threw four the abilities of the younger tournament without freshman can build on it from there." make his collegiate debut and innings in relief of senior J.P. players who filled in during shortstop Matt Macri and clos­The Irish jumped out to an worked six innings while Gagne, giving up two runs on the weekend. er Matt Laird. Second base­early lead Sunday in the third allowing only two runs. three hits, but allowing six "We're not downplaying man Steve Sollmann, last sea­inning with a walk by sopho­In the top of the fifth inning, walks. their [the younger players'] son's Big East Rookie of the more Joe Thaman and the Irish began their come­With the Irish down 5-4 and role at all," Lepper said. "We Year, was injured during advanced to third on a double back with a one-out solo down to their final two outs, think they can do the job, and Friday's contest with Missouri. by center fielder Steve Stanley. homerun from designated hit­Edwards kicked off an Irish we're going try to go out and In addition, the Irish played Sophomore Javier Sanchez, ter Matt Bok. comeback with a single to try to compete and be success­Sunday's contest against playing for Sollmann, then Thaman then doubled and right. Stavisky then tripled in ful with those guys." Southern Illinois without pre­grounded out to shortstop, Sanchez followed with a single Edwards to tie the game. season All-American Brian allowing Thaman to score. The and moved to second on a wild Notre Dame took the lead on a Stavisky and third baseman next batter, Edwards, then pitch to put two runners in throwing error on a ground and catcher Andrew Bushey, sing1ed to left to score Stanley scoring position. Stanley got ball hit by Billmaier. who had gone 5-for-5 with and put the Irish up 2-0. an RBI single, and Sollmann Bushey added another run Contact Chris Federico at three RBIs and a home run. These two runs would be all hit a grounder that drove in for the Irish by driving in cfederic@nd.edu. 


,.......-~--..--.-.......-~.~­
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON plans to do things with friends ACROSS 37 _ synthesizer 65 Like Santa on 
TIIIS DAY: Michael Bolton, Tony that will take your mind off your Christmas Eve? Randall, Johnny Cash, Fats worries. 000
1 Truck name 38 Overact 
Domino VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
66 Split apart 
5 Unlike Charles 40 Sharer's word Happy Birthday: Your insight Look behind you today. Someone Atlas into future trends will enable you may be trying to put one over on
67 Classic cars
41 Let ride, at the 
to make the right choices for you. Listen carefully and get any 
9 With 55-Down, track 
yourself as well as for others. promises in writing. 000
Soap Box Derby DOWN
43 With 59-Across, Think twice before you give in to LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):
home 
a heckler's 1 Hands, slangily overindulgence, You have so Don't sit at home being lazy; get 14 Screen image interruption 2 Have with much to gain if you play the out and attend events that will game straight and everything to bring you in contact with people 
15 BB's, e.g. (speak to) 
45 Like some 
lose if you don't. Your numbers who will spark enthusiasm in 16 Sawyer of TV lingerie 3 Like the taste of are 2, 14, 20, 36, 44, 49 you. Moneymaking opportuni· some bad wine ARIES (March 21-April 19): ties are present 0000
news 46 "Nifty!"
17 With 32-Across, 4 Use a prie-dieu You've got it all worked out in SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):47 Cratchit, tor one your mind, so get started and Don't count on something that
a hackneyed 
5 Quipsters 
make all those improvements isn't finalized, Take a close look at 
joke start 49 firma 
6 Aussie runner you've been contemplating. contracts and agreements and 20 "Any_?" 54 Superskillful sort Greater involvement in your local make sure that you are getting
7 A Vanderbilt 
21 Cool quality art community would be like a what you want. 00
58 Oater brawl site 
8 Legit breath of fresh air. 00000 SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
22 Engraving tools 
59 See 43-Across TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get involved in a sports club or
9 Get comfortable 
23 Hint for a hound You will end up in a tough finan· take a course on travel and you
62 Raga instrument with 
cial spot if you don't stop spend· will meet very interesting people. 
25 Peach or plum 
63 Presque Isle 10 Place for a firing ing. Family members will not be Your imagination is vivid so 27 What's hot lake 11 Gardener's tool pleased with you if you have don't limit yourself. Put all your squandered their money. 00 ideas on paper. 00000
32 See 17-Across 64 Mark 12 Till fillers 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): 
36 La-di-da permanently 
13 Beatty and 1hls is not the day to tum down Be careful where you put your Rorem an invitation no matter what. cash. Fast cash schemes are not Someone who could end up like! y to pan out. Don't get
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Author Jong 
being very special to you is likely coerced into joint ventures with 19 Take the cake Puzzle by Kelly Clark to tag along. Your outgoing someone who is pushing you to
AR A 
nature should open doors that give rum or her money. 000
23 Bridge feat 36 TelePrompTer 53 Pharaohs' 58 Runners carry it
T E S 
you thought were closed. 0000 AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18):
24 Final exam filler crosses 
60 "_pales in CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be feeling a little left out 
giver? 
Put your heart and soul into today if someone you care about
39 Shipbuilder's 54 Radiator sound Heaven the 
26 Do as directed whatever projects you are work­is doing his or her own thing.
wood morning star": 
55 See 9-Across ing on today. You stand to make a Focus on doing something with a
28 Dig like a pig Lowell
42 Tell's forte breakthrough if you are relentless friend or get involved in a group.
56 Dorothy's dog 
i-.,.+.,,+.-1 29 Pin's place 61 Yang's in your pursuits, Stop being neg· 000
44 Demolish 
ative and be thankful for all that PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
30 Average guy? 57 Cross words? opposite
46 Infernal you have. 000 Don't let anything or anyone31 Two capsules, LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You bother you. Focus on yourself
48 Shipload
say have a choice today. You can let and your own well-being. Take
Answers to any clues in this puzzle ar~ 
32 Little rascals 50 Church official things get to you emotionally and time out to nurture yourself. Eat 
available by touch-tone phone: 
become totally stressed out or properly, get lots of exercise and 
.........-a-""' 33 Genesis skipper 51 Delivery 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
you can take action and make rest.OO 
34 Went like the person's beat Annual subscriptions are available for the SPI RAM LANE dickens 52 Marciano's best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: You adapt easily to change. You need to have chal­lenges in your life that will keep you on your toes . .You tend to worry
T A T O S E A R E S 35 Look like a wolf given name years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
about everything but you also are quite adept when it comes to fixing what's wrong, (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------------------------------------------------------~---------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
OH, NO! I SPILLED MY HISTORY NoTES ALL OVER MY FLOOR! IT'S GOING TO 
TAKE FoREVEtl TO PUT THEM SACK IN oRDER! 
I 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

BILLNvIEND 
SE.E, THE TRICI( APART
THERE &oES ANY HoPE 
IS To NOT FROM WAR I ESSAY ToNIGHT! 
OF STARTING MY WORLD 
MAl(E IT LOOIC THESE 
8E1NC:,
L11<:E PRocRAS· 
I ·TINATION. YoVR I CHEMISTRY NOTES. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name _____________________~ Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip.______ 
O
THE
Campus Sports 
BSERVER 
. 
Baseball, p. 18 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 18 

. 
Column• Berchou, p. 17 

. 
Fencing, p. 17 



PORTS 
Tuesday, February 26, 2002 
BENGAL Bours 
The weight of the ring 
. Boxing president Fumagalli takes on responsibility and rewa'!s 
By PAUL CAMARATA 
Sports Writer 
Two days before the Notre Dame Boxing Club was set to begin hosting the 72nd Annual Bengal Bouts at the Joyce Center, senior club president Matt Fumagalli sat at small desk in the lobby of South Dining Hall. 
Along with Mark Criniti, another senior boxing captain, Fumagalli tried to convince students walking by to pur­chase a ticket for the four­night boxing tournament held each February. Selling the $10 all-session passes wa.s one of Fumagalli's final responsibili­ties before the Bouts com­menced. 
In his term as president he has helped run the fall training program for novice boxers, organize the club's advertising and donations, set up photo shoots, write articles for the tournament program and club newsletter and create the box­ing club's Website. On top of all those tasks, Fumagalli has trained tirelessly for his final Bengal Bouts. 
"At the end of sophomore year, the president that was graduating asked me if I'd be interested in being a captain and I said yes right away," Fumagalli said. "Last year I was a junior officer, and Mark and I were in charge of ads. We both worked on those real­ly hard to try and get as much ad money in as possible." 
Their diligence paid record­setting dividends as the 2001 Bouts raised over $75,000 for its charitable support of the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
But the event was not nearly that successful for Fumagalli in the ring. After winning the 130-pound title his sophomore 
·----year, he was upset in the first round of last year's tourna­ment. "I didn't train as much as I should have," he said of last year, which ended on the los­"Then junior year I went in was a horse." sail on through but to be at the ing side of a decision to then­with wrestling shoes, didn't Despite his frustration, top of your class in athletics. freshman Tony Hollowell. wear the robe, I was the top Fumagalli discovered in his So I was definitely disappoint­"Last year was weird because seed and I got upset ... I saw defeat new lessons about the ed that as a captain I didn't 
... 
I'm real superstitious. [HollowellJ fight the night sport and program that have perform up to what others 
Sophomore year I wore regular before and he knocked the kid been central to his years at thought I should have and 
shoes. I wore the robe all the down so I knew he was not a Notre Dame. what I thought I should have. 
way up to the ring, I was the pushover at all. I dflfinitflly "Everybody, from prlople that "But losing last year definite-
underdog and I beat the No. 2 didn't underestimate him but aren't involved in boxing to the 
seed and the No. 1 seed. definitely was not ready. Ile guys that are, expect you not to see FUMAGALLI/page 15 

Campus Sports 
. 
Hockey, p. 16 

. 
NO Softball, p. 16 

. 
ND Women's Tennis, p. 14 

. 
Men's Lacrosse, p. 14 



WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to cage Wildcats 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

The last time Notre Dame and Villanova faced off, Villanova guard Mimi Riley hit a last-second turn-around jumper to give the Wildcats a win on their home court. But tonight, the Irish have home­court advantage, and this time they hope to be tbe ones with the win. 
"l think it's nice to have the opportunity to play them again to see how we've improved," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "It will be a measuring stick." 
The Wildcats (17-9, 11-4) are the only Big East oppo­nent the Irish face twice in the regular season. With the Big East tournament on the hori­zon, playing a team that could end up in the NCAA tourna­ment will be beneficial for the Irish. 
"They're a very good team," McGraw said of the fourth­ranked team in the Big East. "We haven't really played an NCAA tournament team since Boston College, so this will be good for us to get back and play against a really good team." 
Junior guard Trish Juhline is leading the Wildcats, who are riding a five-game win­ning streak. Their most recent win. was against the Virginia Tech Hokies on Saturday. Juhline leads the team with 14 points, but Riley, who hit the game-winning shot against the Irish in early January adds another 12 points per game. 
The Wildcats are on a hot streak from the 3-point line. They've hit 118 3-pointers in their last 11 games, including 10 or more during seven games. 
"They're shooting a ton [of 3s] and they're playing really well right now," McGraw said. "I think they're in great shape for an NCAA bid. They've really come on strong at the end." 
Defensively, Notre Dame had a solid showing against Villanova, but they fell short when it came to scoring bas­kets. Despite junior Alicia Ratay's game-high 22 points, the Irish just couldn't find the 
see IRISH/page 12 
s 

. ND Women's Basketball vs. Villanova, tonight, 7 p.m. 
. Men's Basketball al St. Johns, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
. Hockey vs. Bowling Green, Friday, 7:05 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis at Pacific Coast Doubles, Saturday 






