
Scene reviews "Damn Yankees"
SUNNY 
Wednesday 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company's rendition of the play 
opens this Thursday. 
FEBRUARY 6,
HIGH40° 
Scene . page 11-12
LOW26° 
2002 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
XXXV NO. 81 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 





SMC professor serves as campaign manager 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI News Wrirer 
Saint Mary's political sci­ence chair Patrick Pierce is making good on a 20-year­old promise this election year as he runs 

Caldwell's political­campaign for St. Joseph County Comm ­issioner. 
" J i m Pierce 
and I used to sit around Friday nights and talk about when he would run for office and I 
would run his campaign," Pierce said. "The timing is irrelevant. You just do it." 
Pierce has previous experi­ence working on campaigns. He has served as both an advisor and a campaign staff member. He first became involved in the election process when he helped David Niezgodski win for County Commissioner in 1988. 
"He was in his 20s. It was the first campaign for him too. He now sits on the County Council," said Pierce of his campaign with Niezgodski. 
fACULTY SENATE 

Senate calls for more power 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Ediror 
With the backing of the University's top academic offi­cial, the Faculty Senate rushed passage Tuesday of a resolu­tion to reorganize the senate and give the body more formal authority. 
After Provost Nathan Hatch expressed support for the mea­sure, senators voted unani­mously to approve the restruc­turing resolution and forward it to the Academic Council. A sub­committee of the council will convene Monday to consider allowing the senate to reconsti­tute and align itself more close­ly with the Academic Council. 
The resolution overhauls the description of the senate con­tained in the Academic Articles of the faculty handbook. Changes to the articles require approval of the Academic Council, University president and Board of Trustees. 
see SENATE/page 4 


Since 1982, Pierce has served as a consultant to every Democrat running in St. Joseph County. His duties as a consultant primarily involve analyzing the results of surveys and providing advice on campaign strategy. 
As Caldwell's campaign manager, Pierce realized he would be taking a more active role. but it was a role that he was ready and willing to assume. 
"We lived across the street from one another downtown. We've been close friends for about 20 years. I feel a tremendous sense of obliga­tion to Jim," Pierce said. "He's someone who is a very close friend and godfather to one of my daughters. He is someone who has given of himself to St. Joseph County for a long, long time." 
Caldwell is also no stranger to the political life. According to Pierce, Caldwell has been the administrative assistant to the last two mayors. Pierce believes that Caldwell's experience will aid him in winning the position as County Commissioner. 
"We need to have more folks like him who value pub­lic life and have a really deep and abiding concern for their fellow citizens," Pierce said. "We need to see more of those folks running for office and winning." 
Managing a political cam ­paign, local or national, is no easy task. Pierce discovered that there were many differ­ences between advising a campaign and actually run­ning one. 
"The thing I'm learning about managing a campaign is that the details become exceedingly important," Pierce said. "In the past I didn't have to worry about the details. You could talk about campaign strategy without the burden of imple­menting that strategy. The general outlines of strategy I knew before -now I have to learn something new. Now I have that burden." 
However, Pierce went on to explain that the campaign team consists of more than just Caldwell and himself. 
"The benefit is that task is made easier for me because a number of local politicians and party activists are also involved and tremendously helpful," Pierce said. 'They're very bright folks. It consti­tutes one of the real plea­sures of managing a cam­paign." 
As an academic, Pierce appreciates his coworkers not only for their zeal for the campaign but also for their 
see PIERCE/page 4 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


GSUmembers dismiss discord 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 

The Graduate Student Union (GSU) has dropped a motion introduced in December to dismiss vice president 
Kishori 
sionalism
Deshpande 
and failure
f r o m 
to accom­
office. 
plish goals. 
"For the 
In the let­
sake of the 
ter, Burgos
Graduate 
promised to
Student 
continue
Union, 
w O r k i n g 


Burgos
and given the time frame for the stepping down process, the president of the organization has decided not to reconsider the motion of the vice-president dis­missal," GSU president Gabriella Burgos said in a letter included in the orga­nization's Council Agenda Packet. 
Burgos introduced the motion in a closed December meeting, alleging among other things. 
Deshpande's 
w i t h Deshpande and expressed satisfaction in her recent work on an Alumni Association presentation 
see GSU/page 4 
Wednesday, February 6, 2002
The Observer . INSIDE
page2 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Thursday is family night 
People love to criticize South Bend as this po­dunk little town in the middle of nowhere where nothing exciting ever goes on. I am from New York City and I have done the bar and chili scene there, but I have to admit, I have a great ti.me every V. Van Buren Thursday at Heartland. GIies College night is a joyous, weekly event I don't think I could have experienced if I Copy Editor did not decide to attend to this glorious University. 
People go out to party every night of the week, but what's great about college is that the week­end officially begins on Thursday night, and oh, what a grand night it is. I spend the majority of the day locked away in a classroom, dreaming of the moment when Ifirst step into Heartland. 
My next stop a~er DeBartolo is the Rolf's ath­letic facility to do my workout routine and get nice and healthy so I can destroy my liver via alcohol that night. 
I like to show up around midnight. l am as giddy as a little schoolgirl outside, anxiously awaiting the level of drunkenness that awaits inside. And then, after displaying my identifica­tion, and paying the two-dollar cover, I walk in like a prizefighter on the way to the ring. I survey the dance floor, which is usually pretty weak around that time, and then proceed upstairs to purchase the first of many drinks that my friends and I will consume that night. We play an unspo­ken game of drink tag that does not end until we are begging the bartender at 2:58 am for one last sickly sweet potion to carry us into the after party. 
We usually hang out on the top floor at the bar closest to the dance floor. This area is one of the most congested areas to get through during peak times, but I, nor my friends will ever desert this most sacred ground. It's our's. I don't mean that we own it or pay rent for those 12 square feet of space, but it is the one place I know I can find my friends or let them find me. We usually don't move unless you are one of us, or with one ofus. Your best bet is to walk around the bar. This is our base of operations and from here we can pick people out, hide, or venture off to the various nooks and crannies that Heartland offers. 
The last hour of Heartland is always the most fun as I have now achieved the proper level of inebriation for walking around and meeting the various characters that I would not normally speak with. It always feels like a great adventure when I find someone I have class with and decide to learn more about them. I think everyone is dif­ferent from the image they exert in class and part of the fun ofcollege is finding those precon­ceived misnomers to be false. 
I am white, weigh over 200 pounds and am over six feet tall, so I am not the most nimble person on the dance floor. I was always the guy who shied away from the karaoke microphone and pretended to go to the bathroom during the slow dances, but that has all changed since I left Manhattan's Upper East Side and discovered Indiana. 
There are certain songs that are played over the course of the evening that must be given my full attention. I have been upstairs in mid sen­tence and been forced to stop and make immedi­ate moves to he dance floor in order to feel the full effect ofthe music with all the other hot and sweaty hip hoppers. 
I know many people use the inside column to voice gripes about abortion, rape, the war effort, etc. so Iapologize for a lack of controversial material. This is for the guys and girls who help make Heartland so much fun, and who continu­ously destroy my house afterward, helplessly try­ing to keep the party going. Thanks guys. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strive. for che highest standards ofjournalism :1t all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. lfwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct ow error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday throutvt Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Th• Observer is a member of rhe &sociarcd Pres,. All reproduction rights arc rcxrvcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "Jose Llmon, The  . Theater: "Damn  
Devil and Dancers,  Yankees," Washington  
"Professor Jose Llmon,  Hall. 7 :30 pm. Tickets can  
DeBartolo Hall, room 101,  be purchased at Lafortune  
7:30pm.  Box Office.  

Friday 

. Celebration: Brazilian Carnival. Music performed by the Chicago Samba School. Alumni Senior Club. Free, open to public. 
Saturday 
. Reading: Poetry reading by Craig Grant, slam poet; actor on HBO's "Oz." Lafortune Ballroom, 8 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Hasty Pudding members arraigned for larceny 

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Suzanne M. Pomey and Handy J. Gomes will be arraigned Tuesday morning in Cambridge's Middlesex Superior Court on charges of grand larceny, after allegedly withdraw­ing funds from the Harvard University Hasty Pudding Theatricals and depositing them into their personal accounts. Sources within the Theatricals place the value of the alleged theft at more than $100,000. The alleged co-conspirators each face up to 10 years in prison if convicted. Pomey and Gomes are required by law to be present at their arraignments Tuesday morning, at which time they will each enter a plea to the charges. "The defendant ordinarily enters a plea of 'not guilty' at his/her first appearance," accord­ing to the Middlesex County district attorney's office. Judge Carol S. Ball will preside over Tuesday's arraignments, which are open to the public. Members of the Theatricals said they expected many members to be present. Ball will schedule a date for Pomey and Gomes to return to court and will decided whether to either release them on personal recognizance or to impose bail. The district attor­ney's office would not comment on plans to request bail. Pomey and Gomes are co-defendents in the felony case. They_ were indicted on the same charges and the district attorney's office has been treating the cases in the same way, said Seth I. Horowitz, spokesperson for the Middlesex County district attor­ney's office. "They are being charged with the same charges, being arraigned together and prob­ably will be called up [to be arraigned] together," Horowitz said. 
MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY 
Cigarette smoking prevalent 
MILWAUKEE 
College students across the country are lighting up. Cigarette use is continuing to grow at campuses nationwide, with college students leading the pack in tobacco use. According to the Core Institute Statistics on Alcohol and Other Drug Uses on College Campuses Survey, 35.5 percent of college students reported using tobacco within a one-month period. "This is much higher than the national average, which is 23 percent of adults," said Jessica Thieleke, program coordinator for the Wisconsin branch of the American Lung Association."Here in Wisconsin, our adult tobac­co rate is right around the national average rate, between 23 and 24 percent." Thieleke is concerned about this growing number of college students who are becoming regular users of tobacco."Something startling that is happening is that more and more young adults are coming into college who weren't pre­viously using tobacco, and they're starting to do that in college," Thieleke said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



4~,~8W8 (f~d 
Showers T-srorms Ra/fl Flurries Snow rce Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vlalouodat..i Pl9U (j,.,,,....No, 

TEXAS A&M 
Students react to decision 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas The halls of the Memorial Student Center were empty moments after Texas A&M University President Dr. Ray 
M. Bowen told students there would not be an Aggie Bonfire in 2002. In the upstairs room where he spoke to students and reporters, broadcast to Rudder Theater and the MSC Flagroom and KAMU on-campus channels, students gasped as Bowen named reasons for discontin­uing the 90-year tradition he had placed on a moratori­um until this year. Then, in one collective movement, students in the press conference room, the Flagroom and Rudder Theater rose, gathered their bags and left, refusing to hear the rest of Bowen's announcement. On Nov. 18, 1999, 12 Aggies died and 27 were injured when the Bonfire stack swayed and fell at 2:42 a.m. Student Body President Schuyler Houser, a senior industrial engineering major and member of the steer­ing committee that worked for 18 months on the Bonfire 2002 project, told students Bowen's decision was "the collapse of a great tradition." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 6. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 

PffUUB: 

® © D . IBJDQD 
High Low Shown• Rain T••lorm• Fturrkta Snow M:e sunny Pt CIOudy Clol.ldy 
._.,.MSOOl•t«Jp,-._  
Atlanta  40  37  Las Vaaas  61  36  Portland  47  41  
8altimol'6  46  32  Memphis  36  30  Sacramento  58  42  
Boston  34  26  Milwaukee  38  27  St. Louis  43  31  
Chicago  40  26  New York  42  29  Tampa  75  67  
Houston  47  40  Philadelphia  45  31  Washington, DC 49  34  

Wednesday, February 6, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


Student government circles extend beyond politics 
By ERIN laRUFFA 
Associate News Ediror 
When the four tickets running in Noire Dame's student body election face off at tonight's debate. the candidates will not just be debating opposing plat­forms -they will be debating against people they consider friends. 
In fact, most of the candi­dates knew each other long before the current campaign started and have worked together extensively. 
As freshman, four of the can­didates -Nikki McCord, Brian Moscona and the ticket of Libby Bishop and Trip Foley ­served together on the Class of 2003's class council. 
"Our freshman class advisor told us that it had been several years since he'd seen a group come together and bond the way we did," said McCord. "We're all friends." 
Since freshman year, the four have met in other capacities as well. For example, McCord is currently on· lhe Student Senate. which Moscona chairs in his role as student body vice president. 
For Bishop and Foley, run­ning together for student body president and vice president represents the first time that the two are not opponents in an election. 
"We ran against each other for freshman class treasurer, and I beat her. Then, we ran against each other for sopho­more class council, and she beat me. And now we're run­ning together," said Foley. 
On the other hand, for Bishop and Moscona, running against each other is a new experience. The two ran together for sopho­more class council, he as presi­dent and she as vice president. Their ticket won. 
So this fall when Bishop and Foley first discussed running together, Bishop, who was studying in London at the time, felt it only natural to call Moscona before making a deci­sion. 
"I called Brian Moscona because we had always run together and I wanted to be honest with him," Bishop said. Although Bishop never "directly asked" him to run with her, the two "discussed it as a possibili­ty," Moscona said. 
"I congratulated her on being asked [by Foley} and then told her that I wasn't going to think about it until Christmas break, but if I eventually did decide to run I probably would not ask her to be my running mate," said Mos con a. "I didn't think we had the same vision for what student government should be." 
Bishop agreed that she and open with each other," said Moscona wanted to present dif­Williams. adding that he also ferent platforms. considers Moscona to be a close 
"We both have different ideas friend. about what we want for student "Keri and Brian were two of government," she said. "It the first people I told when I wasn't a surprise that we didn't decided to [run with McCordJ," run together." said Williams. When they were 
Like Bishop and Moscona, sophomore class officers, vice presidential candidates Moscona and Bishop served as Nick Williams and Keri Oxley advisors to the freshman class 
are also accus­ council,  
tomed  to  run­ which  is  
ning together.  "It's not an issue because  how  the  
After first meet­ing on their freshman class council last  you've worked with the person in the past and you know you can  two met Oxley and Williams. Running  
year. Williams and Oxley decid­ respect them."  m S  a C  t O  e t  s t  
ed to run togeth­er for their  Trip Foley  Palko and p J  
sophomore class  Student government  Mercanti,  
council. They won, and so  presidential candidate  who pri­marily  
Oxley  and  have been  

Williams currently work togeth­involved with activities outside er as president and vice presi­of student government, have dent, respectively, of the class not worked with any of their of 2004. opponents. although both said 
"I felt like it was a compli­they consider Bishop to be a ment to our class that Nick and friend. I were both asked to run," said With each of the candidates Oxley, who is running with having friends and colleagues Moscona. Both Oxley and running, the candidates stress Williams described their friend­that professionalism is impor­ship as "close," something they tant. keep in mind when campaign­"It's not an issue because ing. you've worked with the person 
"Since she's a friend of mine, in the past and you know you we decided we would be very can respect them," Foley said. 
"Everyone's been very profes­sional." 
"I don't see this campaign as a personal thing. I have a tremendous amount of respect for all of the other candidates," Moscona said. 
However, some candidates have found it a challenge to run against people they know. 
"It does make it a little more emotional," said Bishop. "Sometimes it's hard because their campaign and their plat­form is always going to affect you more." , 
For Williams and Oxley, one challenge did arise they were putting together their campaign staffs. 
"Some of our social circles are the same, so whenever I told someone I was running, I told them Keri was running, too," Williams said. "I never wanted to put my friends in a position to choose between us." 
Some of Oxley and Williams's mutual friends have decided not to get involved in either campaign, according to Williams, while others have agreed to put up posters for both candidates. 
"It's a little awkward at times, but she's such a good friend," said Williams. 
Contact Erin La~uffa at elaruffa@nd.edu. 

Prof testifies on pension reform 
By TERRY RESTIVO 
News Writer 
Teresa Ghilarducci, asso­ciate professor of economics at Notre Dame, testified Thursday at Ivy Tech State College. 
Appearing before a con­gressional oversight meet­ing of the Education and Workforce Committee, Ghilarducci testified on cur­rent economic issues, specifically pension reform and maintaining working families in the recent eco­nomic turmoil. 
Ghilarducci, also a direc­tor of the Higgins Research Center at Notre Dame, was asked to testify before the oversight meeting because of her expertise in the field of national pension law. President Clinton appointed her to the Pension Guaranty Corporation's advisory board. 
"The topic of Pensions and the affects of pension teform on working individu­als were discussed before the oversight committee," said Ghilarducci. Also on the agenda for the commit­tee was working families and the economic woes they are currently facing. 
"To maintain the working class education is not enough, new jobs need to be created that pay a living wage, also unionization plays a role. Supply [of work] does not create it's own demand." said Ghilarducci. 
Ghilarducci will testify again Thursdau in front of the Congressional Education and Workforce committee dealing with the Enron scandal. but this time in Washington D.C. 
" Greater regulation of 401Ks need to be evaluated in light of the Enron scan­dal," said Ghilarducci. 401Ks are retirement funds where workers invest a per­centage of the money they earn back in to the compa­ny, gaining security as they retire. Enron recently filed for bankruptcy amidst alle­gations that they tampered with financial records, leav­ing many workers without a retirement plan. 
Contact Terry Restivo at TRestivo@hcc-nd.edu. 

South Bend museum features ND filmmaker's documentary 
Special to The Observer 
An exhibition on documentary fi!mmaking by Jill Godmilow, pro­fessor of film, television and the­atre at Notre Dame, will be on dis­play February 9 through March 30 at the South Bend Regional Museum of Art, located in Century Center. 
The installation will feature the production process of Godmilow's most recent film, "What Farocki Taught," a 30-minute documentary released in 1998 that is a perfect replica of "Inextinguishable Fire," a 1969 German film by Harum Farocki that examines the physical properties of Napalm B. 
The museum exhibit will include presentations of both films as well as items from the original movie set. "Far From Poland," another Godmilow film that she terms a "drama-tary," also will be on view in the museum's Art League Gallery and The Project Room. 

In more than three decades of film and video making, Godmilow has earned a substantial reputa­tion as a producer/director and is considered one of the primary the­oreticians/ practitioners in the American nonfiction genre. She has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1992 and is the recipient of Rockefeller and Guggenheim fellowships and grants from the National Endowment for the Arts. 
The South Bend Regional Museum of Art is open from 11 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesdays through Fridays and noon to 5 p.m. on weekends. Admission is free to museum members and a $3 dona­tion is suggested for nonmembers. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 6, 2002 


Pierce 
continued from page 1 
only for their zeal for the cam­paign but also for their ability to show him the gritty side of poli­tics. 
"It's awfully easy to isolate. oneself at a university or college and not appreciate the knowl­edge and intelligence of people who have to engage in politics or business in that outside world," Pierce said. "It just keeps me focused on the things that really matter in politics and what real citizens are really like." 
Pierce plans to take what he has learned from running Caldwell's campaign back to the classroom so his students can benefit from his experience. 
"I think all of the political experiences I've had including this campaign furnish wonderful examples for students," Pierce said. "I always use stories and examples and illustrations in class. They make the student understanding of larger theoreti­cal points easier." 
Although managing a cam ­paign and chairing the political science department will keep him very busy. Pierce is confi-
GSU 
continued from page I 
made with fellow GSU officers Tommy Scheiding and David Rodriguez 
Deshpande defended her work as vice president in a letter passed out at the coun­cil meeting. 
"I do recognize there could be differences at times, main­ly arising out of our different backgrounds and upbringings, dent he can do both effectively. 
"It's fairly early in the cam­paign. The early activities are mainly fundraising. setting out a general strategy and trying to discover who might run against you," Pierce said. 
"This year we had to wait until the boundaries were set after redistricting. Campaigns are also a little bit like social organiza­tions. You need to have meetings to bring people back into contact with the campaign. The cam­paign activity will substitute for the research activity I normally engage in. Most of the campaign activities will be in the evening." 
Besides managing Caldwell's campaign, Pierce is writing a book on the politics of legalized gambling that should be com­pleted this summer. Subjects the book deals with include the adoption of state lotteries and the legislation of casino gam­bling. 
St. Joseph's County Commissioner serves a four-year term. Primaries will be held May 7 and the general election is set for Nov. 5. 
Contact Sara Rykowski at ryko2948@saintrnarys.edu. 
overcome through an open and frank dialogue," she said in the letter. 
The GSU will elect new offi­cers in April and both Burgos and Deshpande have chosen not to seek reelection. 
Both Burgos and Deshpande were not available for com­ment on Tuesday evening. 
but I do not believe such dif­Contact Andrew Thagard at ferences in opinions cannot be athagard@nd.edu. 
Are your classes not fully utilizing your writing skills? 
You're in luck. 
Write for 
The Observer 
and you'll never go unappreciated again. 
call 1-5323 


Executive Council creates new student activities calendar 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News E<litor 
Students wanting information about lectures, sporting events and other activities going on around campus will now have new resource: an all-encompassing calendar sponsored by student government's Executive Cabinet. 
"We want everything to be on it," said Casey Fitzmaurice, one of the students coordinating the calendar within the office of the student body president. 
The Executive Cabinet will be distributing the first edition of the calendar today. lssued weekly, subsequent calendars will cover events occurring from Wednesday to Wednesday. It will be posted in dorms and outside the Maximum Resource Center on the first floor of Lafortune, as well as other locations around campus. 

"We're trying to show there are things going on on-campus." Fitzmaurice said. ''The University calendar barely scratches the sur­face." 
To make the calendar a success, however, Fitzmaurice said academic departments, stu­dent clubs and other groups sponsoring events on campus must e-mail details about those events to eventmax@nd.edu. 
Eventually, the Executive Cabinet would like to post the calendar on the student govern­ment Web site, once the site is completed. The office of the president recently hired Dome Designs to build the site. 
"Our long-term plan is to have the calendar coordinate with a Web site and a hotline," Fitzmaurice said. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu. 
remaining seats to various approval from the Academic other constituencies Council was the impetus for


Senate 

Hatch called the plan "very Tuesday's action. reasonable," saying he had In May, the 2000-2001 mem­
continued from page I 

received positive feedback from bers voted to disband the body, modifications of tho senate," other administrators, including citing perceptions among facul­Hatch said in his annual University President Father ty and administrators that the address to the group. ''I think Edward Malloy and Executive senate was powerless and inef­
we're also open to increased Vice President Father Timothy fective. The senate, in fact, overlap with the Academic Scully. lacked authority to dissolve Council." "I am convinced that it will itself because such a move 
Patterned after the existing pass, from what. I've heard," would have required a change subsection of the of the said senate chair Jacqueline inthe Academic Articles. Academic Article that explains Brogan, who since last fall has University officials publicly the senate, the resolution consulted with officials on the urged the senate to remain in includes several key features: restructuring of the senate. existence but never formally 
. 
decreasing the number of Senator John Robinson considered the resolution. senators from 53 to 45 worked closely on the effort That's because the 2001-2002 

. 
increasing the cooperation with Brogan on the-effort. He senate, seated in May, over­between the senate and said the plan strays little from turned the decision to disband Academic Council by giving the changes the senate has and began work on the restruc­automatic seats on the council talked about since October. turing plan. 


to senate committee chairs Robinson acknowledged that 
. making the senate more "this becomes law only if the representative by alloting one Academic Council accepts it." 
senator to each academic Ironically, a senate resolution Contact Jason McFarley at department and distributing last spring that required mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
NEW INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
BRAZIL -Spring 2003 
RIO DE JANEIRO SAO PAULO 

TUESDAY, FEBRlJA_RY 12nr 5:30-6:30 125 Hayes-Healy 
THURSDAY,FEBRUARY21~ 5:30-6:30 125 Haves..-llealv.,
., 
.. 



ATION 
Wednesday, February 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Human mad-cow case confirmed: 
[taly's Ministry of Health confirmed Tuesday that an unidentified Sicilian patient had con­tracted the nation's first case of human mad­cow disease. Testing was done in both Britain and Italy, where many of the cases in cows have been found. Humans are able to contract the disease when they eat meat tainted with mad-cow disease. 
Pope decries some genetic testing: 
Pope John Paul II warned Tuesday against tampering with the "tree of life," saying that some advances in genetics may be morally unacceptable in the Roman Catholic Church. John Paul's latest attack on genetic manipula­tion came in his annual message for Lent, the period of fasting and penitence before Easter. It begins on Ash Wednesday, Feb. 13. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Student arrested after child found: 
A 21-year-old Muskingum College student was arrested Tuesday after the body of her newborn son was found Monday evening in a trash bin behind her home in New Concord, Ohio. She is being held in the Muskingum County Jail pending charges. An autopsy will be performed to determine the cause of death. 
McCain gets a nose job: Sen. John McCain had surgery scheduled for Tuesday to cover a scar on his nose. The scar was left over from surgery McCain had done on Monday to remove a cancerous lesion on his nose. The lesion was non lifethreatening, his office said. and was a freckle located on the left side of the senator's nose. Doctors would use skin from an adjacent area to cover the scar. McCain also had plastic surgery done after two previous surgeries for melanoma, one in 1993 and one in 2000. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
State police investigate shooting: 
Indiana state police are investigating the shooting of 41-year-old Elkhart resident Rick 
R. Fields, the third suspect shot by Elkhart police in six months. Fields was in critical condition Tuesday at Elkhart General Hospital, after an altercation with police Friday. Fields failed to appear at a probation­ary hearing, and when officers entered the apartment where he was hiding, witnesses said he was hiding in a closet and refused to drop a knife when ordered. Two officers were involved in the shooting. 
Market Watch February 5 
Dow 9,685.43 -1.66 Jones 

Composite 
Volume:
~s~;: 
1,768,758,147 
AMEX: 831.75 -4.89 NASDAQ: 1,838.52 -17.01 NYSE: 560.60 -2.04 S&P500: 1,090.02 -4.42 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) -22.74 -6.80 23.10 WORLOCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -14.27 -1.16 6.97 NEXTEL COMM-A (NXTL) -25.52 -1. 73 5 ,05 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -1.65 -0.61 36.31 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.04 +0.19 18.50 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A pilot program to match checked luggage with pas­s engers on connecting flights is being developed by the new Transportation Security Administration. 
Transportation Security Undersecretary John Magaw said Tuesday that the TSA was working with the airlines to look at how to make sure that luggage from a connecting flight is not transferred to another plane unless the passenger also boards. 
Under federal law all checked bags must be either screened for explo­sives or not loaded on a plane unless the passenger also boards. But if a pas­senger is scheduled to change planes, the airline does not have to make sure that the traveler boards the second flight before loading the bags. 
"The gap in the process for passengers with con­necting flights needs to be closed," said Kenneth Mead, the Transportation Department's inspector general. 
Magaw told the Senate Commerce Committee that he was developing a test program to see whether passenger bag matching could be done on connect­

ing flights. "[We are] going to do a pilot," Magaw said. 
When the Transportation Department first announced that airlines would meet the Jan. 18 deadline for inspecting checked bags, some law­makers and airline securi­ty experts criticized the government for not requir­ing bag matching on con­necting flights. 
The airline industry, which for years has fought such a requirement, had said it would be too dis­ruptive. 
Mead. however, said, "We have not seen evi­
deuce to support their con­cern that positive bag match cannot be done (on connecting flights)." 
Under the airline securi­ty law, all checked bags are to be screened by explosive detection machines by the end of the year. 
Deputy Transportation Secretary Michael Jackson said the department was ready to order 100 new machines and expected to certify a third manufactur­er to produce the equip­ment. 
"We have made a very significant step forward," Jackson said. "We'll hit the end-of-the-year target." 

Men face 2nd trial in trooper case 
A.ssociaud Press  Paulina Muzzin. Authorities said two cousins.  Manor. a retired teacher and co­founder of the racial tolerance  
DETROlT  angry at seeing a black man danc­ group Livingston 2001. "This  
Two white men accused of beat­ ing with a white woman, shouted  behavior will not be tolerated."  
ing a black state trooper for danc­ racial slurs, punched Williams and  The defendants' attorneys  
ing with a white woman at a bar  smashed his face with a bottle. He  declined comment Monday. But at  
face a second trial Wednesday in an  underwent surgery to rebuild an  the first trial, the defense argued  
overwhelmingly white county that  eye socket.  that the incident was a bar fight  
has long had a racist reputation.  Jasen Barker, 22, and Travis  that got out of control.  
The case stems from an attack  Sales, 21, were jailed on ethnic  Livingston County's reputation for  
last April on off-duty Trooper  intimidation and assault charges.  racism stems from its primarily  
Arthur Williams III on the dance  Their November trial  ended in a  white makeup, and from Ku Klux  
floor of the Metropolis Bar & Grill  deadlock.  Klan grand dragon Robert Miles.  
in Brighton. Williams, 33, was  "I am really pleased that our  whose farm was a hotbed of white  
dancing with former Livingston  prosecutor is pursuing this,'' said  supremacist activity in the '70s  
County Assistant Prosecutor  Howell City Councilman Steve  and '80s. Miles died in 1992.  

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 6, 2002 
Justices confront personal, legal viewpoint conflicts 
Associated Press  should resign. Other justices have  also  the fact that they have tugs on their viewpoints from nonlegal  public comments generally only mirror justices' written  town hall meeting with high school students from two  
Supreme  WASHINGTON Court Justice  talked openly on that subject and others.  sources, I think it's healthy." Abe Bonowitz, director of  opinions. "They shouldn't be leading  states, and also discussed the country's response to terror­ 
Antonin Scalia's unusual pub­lic declaration of indepen­dence from his Roman  "After 20 years on (the) high court, I have to acknowledge that serious questions are  the Florida-based Citizens United for Alternatives to the Death Penalty, said "it's  marches. But short of ethical breaches, justices have free­dom of speech too. I think that  ism. Barry W. Lynn, executive director of Americans United  
Catholic church on the death penalty reflects the vexing  being raised about whether the death penalty is being fair­ smarter for them to keep quiet, then people are kept  anything that helps to demys­tify the Supreme Court is posi­ for Separation of Church and State, said justices seem to be  
conflicts that justices confront as they wrestle with the law and their personal beliefs. Justices in the past have hinted at personal tension mainly in written court opin­ions. Some have spoken more candidly about their families, religion, and legal concerns ­with mixed reactions.  ly administered in this coun­try," Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said in Minnesota last summer. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg brought up similar concerns in a speech last April. "I have yet to see a death case among the dozens coming to the Supreme Court on eve­ wondering. People on both tive," Paulson said. sides of the issue can have Justices have consistently some hope." refused to At the same comment on time, groups "Every time we open our pending like his anx­mouths, we come close to cases. but iously seek they will talkcompromising what weout tidbits on ,, about otherdjustices' per­0. things. sonal views to O'Connor,  in the public more often and more outspoken. "The dangers in that trend is it may give the appearance that these individuals are not truly neutral." he said. Justices are safer when they stick to opinion writing, he added. The comments by Scalia,  
"Every time we open our mouths, we come close to compromising what we do," Justice Clarence Thomas told Virginia attorneys in 2000,  of-execution applications in which the defendant was well represented at trial." Justice David H. Souter told Congress in 1996 that "the day  help their cause. "Thev nor­mally · keep their mouths  Clarence Thomas Supreme Court Justice  promoting a new book last month, told NBC's "Dateline"  O'Connor and Ginsburg on capital punishment come as the death penalty is being reviewed again at the court. Justices will hear arguments  
after announcing he was limit­ing his speaking engagements. Scalia talked extensively during public appearances this week in Washington and last month in Chicago about his disagreement with his  you see a camera come into our courtroom, it's going to roll over my dead body." Scalia told a group in Mississippi in 1996 that Christians should assert their faith even if intellectuals dis­ shut because there's no real percentage in it for them," said Douglas McFarland, a pro­fessor at Hamline University School of Law. "They don't want to do anything that will  that she and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist had dated when they were both attending Stanford law school in the 1950s. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy recently announced a democ­ this month in a Texas case that tests the constitutionality of executing the mentally retarded. Dianne Clements, head of the Texas-based pro-death penalty group Justice for All,  
church's statements against the death penalty. He said judges who follow  miss them as simpleminded. "They're human," said Jonathan Macey, a law profes­ detract from the mystique" of the court. Ken Paulson, executive  racy program for school chil­dren with first lady Laura Bush.  said the jurists can influence the public with their com­ments, but "they have as much  
the philosophy that capital punishment is morally wrong  sor at Cornell University. "To the extent that they own up to  director of the First Amendment Center, said the  He talked about his concerns after Sept. 11. Ginsburg did a  right to say what they think as anybody else."  

Powell demands Arafat to choose peace or terror 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Secretary of State Colin Powell demand­ed on Tuesday that Yasser Arafat choose between peace and terror and made clear which option the United States expects. 
The Palestinian leader "must act deci­sively to confront the sources of terror and choose, once and for all, the option of peace over violence," Powell said in his toughest statement yet on the subject. 
For months. Powell has demanded that Arafat curb Palestinian attacks on Israelis. At the same time, he has remind­ed Arafat and Arab leaders who see a pro-Israel tilt in U.S. policy that the United States supports establishment of a Palestinian state on land now held by Israel. 
Testifying Tuesday before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Powell said, "The Palestinian people will never see their aspirations achieved through vio­
lence." 
And in a message to Arab and European leaders push­ing the Bush administra­tion to resume a U.S. mediation role, Powell said Arafat "cannot 

engage with us and others in the pursuit of peace and, at the same time, permit or tolerate continued violence and terror." 
Powell called Palestinian arms smug­gling attempts "absolutely unacceptable" and said Arafat must ensure such activi­ties cease. 
At the same time, Powell urged Israel to alleviate hardships of the Palestinians. The thrust of his testimony, however, 
was focused on Arafat. It reflected a judg­ment within the administration that promises by the Palestinian leader to curb attacks have fallen short of U.S. expecta­tions. 
As Powell spoke on Capitol Hill, Israel's security minister. visiting with U.S. offi­cials, denounced Arafat's Palestinian Authority and said it should be part of President Bush's"axis of evil." In his State of the Union address last month, Bush used that phrase to warn Iran, Iraq and 
North Korea to stop exporting terror. 
Speaking at a news conference, the Israeli minister, Uzi Landau, dismissed Arab expla­nations of terror attacks on Israel as the result of Palestinian frustration and said Arab terror attacks against Israel go back to the 1920s. 
"They want us out," 
"The Palestinian people will never see their aspirations achieved through violence." 
Colin Powell 
U.S. Secretary of State 
Israel's minis­ter of public safety said. "It has nothing to do with 'land for peace' or with settle­ments. They want us out." 
Israel's "very exis­tence" is the target, 

Landau said during a round of talks with Tom Ridge. the U.S. home­land security director, and other Bush admin­istration officials. 
Landau is the first of three top Israeli officials due in Washington this week in an effort to maintain U.S. pressure 
~>~it OREAr WALL
l,.,~:~t! 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row
\?'!/~;:~.-_;

~ 
Sze~~:i:~r_~~n;~;~n~:~;=~;~:;~ican 1_;;/1,, ~ Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11;30 -3;00 PM '.J.'•,:: ~ i Dinner Starting at $6.45 . , / Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM 10:00 PM· Friday -Saturday 11 ·30 AM -11 :00 PM 
~ Happy Chinese New Year Special Buffet _
I Feb. 11. Monday: 5 prn • 9 prn I Feb 12, Tuesday: 11 :30 am -9 pm 
on Arafat to put down Palestinian attacks. 
The Israeli defense minister, Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, was due to see Powell Tuesday night, Vice President Dick Cheney and Condoleezza Rice, Bush's national security assistant, on Wednesday and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld on Thursday. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will meet with Bush at the White House late Thursday. 
Sharon is expected to ask that the 

United States suspend diplomatic contact with Arafat. 
Landau, a former chairman of the Defense and Foreign Affairs Committee in the Knesset, Israel's parliament, was unsparing in his criticism of Arafat and the Palestinian Authority. 
He alleged that Arafat continues seek­ing martyrs to attack Israel and said the Palestinian Authority "is an entity that supports terrorism, definitely belonging to the axis of evil." 
Congregation of Holy Cross 


see life as 
we see it. 
A lifetime opportunity FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
Tuesday, January 29, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
WEST BANK 
Palestinian gunmen kill 3 in courtroom 

. Mob claims Palestinian justice system is powerless 
Associated Press 
JENIN 

An enraged mob led by two 
dozen gunmen, including mem­
bers of the Palestinian security 
forces, burst into a heavily 
guarded courtroom Tuesday 
and killed three men convicted 
in a vigilante killing -high­
lighting a breakdown of law 
and order in the Palestinian 
territories. 
The Palestinian justice system 
was notable for its one-day tri­
als and heavy reliance on secu­
rity courts, rather than civilian 
courts, even before the Mideast 
fighting began 16 months ago. 
Since then, the legal system 
has become more chaotic -as 
have many other services pro­
vided by Yasser Arafat's 
Palestinian Authority. 
Many Palestinians acknowl­
f f , ,
1 
edge the problem, but say restrictions imposed by Israel. combined with Israeli bombing raids, have made it impossible for the Palestinian Authority to be a proper government. 
On Tuesday, in a court ses­sion lasting less than an hour, three members of the Kameel clan pleaded guilty to the mur­der Friday of another clan member, an officer in the secu­rity forces. 
Two defendants were promptly sentenced -to death, but because of their ages -18 and 17 -the sentences were reduced to 15 years each. The third man also received 15 years. 
Police had expected trouble, smuggling the defendants into the makeshift courtroom before dawn and dressing them in police uniforms to disguise them, witnesses and security officials said. 
On the street, an angry crowd of about 500 people, most members of the large Kameel clan, demanded the death sen­tence for the three. When someone in the courtroom shouted out the window, "15 years!" the crowd became enraged. 
About two dozen gunmen stormed the building. They included members of the Palestinian security forces, though all were in civilian clothes, witnesses said. Most or all of the gunmen were believed to be related to Osama Kameel, the man shot dead Friday. 
Police hid the three defen­dants in a bathroom, but were quickly overpowered by the gunmen who brandished auto­matic rifles and pistols. The gunmen quickly found the trio and shot them dead, witnesses said. 
They then dragged the bodies into the street as the crowd cheered and gunmen fired into the air in celebration. The attackers quickly fled, and the outgunned police did not attempt to arrest them. 
The vigilante killings "show that the Palestinian courts and the judicial system are weak and don't have the confidence of the people," said Ghassan Khatib, a Palestinian political analyst. 
But, he added, "the Israeli restrictions on Palestinians suicide bombings have originat­ed in Jenin, in the northern West Bank. 
The killings marked the latest bloody chapter of violent death and retribution within the Kameel clan. 
It began in 1988, shortly after 
the outbreak of the first Palestinian uprising 

are causing a "We call on people not to against 
semi-collapse Israeli occu­
take the law by their
of our sys­pation, tem." hands." when Osama The public Kameel. an was barred activist in
Zuhair Manassra 
from the trial, Arafat's
Governor of Jenin
held in a Fatah move-
makeshift courtroom in Jenin's Chamber of Commerce build­ing, a site selected because Israel has bombed most gov­ermnent buildings, including courthouses, to rubble. Israel carried out the strikes in retali­ation for Palestinian attacks, saying many of the deadliest 

, , , 1 1 f f 1 1 1 , 1 1 1 
Nothing Says "ILove You"Like a Valentine's Day Special.from 
1 Irish Gardens 
1 Flower Shop
f •SPECIAL: One Dozen Red Roses and a Vase $50 
'  •CUPID SPECIAL: Bud Vase with Teddy Bear and 2 Red Roses $15  
1f  •VALENTINE'S DAY BOUQUET: Assortment of Roses and other Beautiful Flowers in a Vase $20  
•  • BALLOON BOUQUET: 2 Valentine's Day Mylar Balloons  
~ 1  and 3 Latex Balloons $7 Place your orders early -(574) 631-4004 ­ in the basement ofLafortune  

1 
1 
1
f 
' 
'
f 
• 
1\ 

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
The Notre Dame American Civil Liberties Union and the Black Law Students of Notre Dame Present: 
Racial Profiling in the Wake of September 11: A Panel Discussion 
Hesburgh Auditoriulll Wednesday,February6, 
3:30 pill -5:30 pill 

ment, began 
killing sus­
pected col­. laborators with Israel. 
In all, six suspected collabo­
rators in the Kameel clan were 
killed between 1988 and 1990 
by a group of gunmen headed 
by Osama Kameel. 
He served several years in an 
Israeli prison for the killings, 
but after the establishment of 
the Palestinian Authority in 
1994, he was eventually freed 
and joined the Palestinian 
Preventive Security service. 
Last Friday, Kame el was 
killed after being lured to a 
garbage dump on the outskirts 
of his hometown of Qabatiyeh, 
near Jenin. 
Three members of his clan, 
Mahmoud Kameel. 38, Khaled 
Kameel, 18, and Jihad Kameel, 
17, were charged with the 
killing and brought before the 
military tribunal Tuesday. 
When the judge asked the 
defendants why they had wait­
ed so long with their reprisal. 
they said they believed the 
Palestinian security services 
were weak and they could now 
get away with the killing. 
"We call on people not to take 
the law by their hands," said 
Zuhair Manassra, the governor 
of Jenin. "We have to maintain 
the judicial system in the 
Palestinian areas, to have it 
independent and free. But with 
the Israeli attempts to destroy 
the Palestinian Authority, it is 
extremely difficult to achieve 
this." 
Internecine feuds are not 
uncommon among the 
Palestinians but they are usual­
ly spring up between rival 
clans, not inside a single one. 
The worst case since the 
establishment of the Palestinian 
Authority was in June 2001, 
when nine people were killed in 
a single day of clashes between 
two families in the Gaza Strip. 
The killing began when a 
man who had been a fighter in 
the first Palestinian uprising 
was shot dead in Khan Younis 
by the family of a man whom 
he had murdered as a suspect­
ed Israeli collaborator. 
In a more typical case, a 
Palestinian policeman was 
gunned down last year on his 
way to work by the family of a 
merchant whom he had shot 
dead three years earlier for 
failing to stop at a road-block. 
Two people were later sen­
tenced to death for the assassi­
nation of the policeman, but the 
sentences were never carried 
out because Palestinian leader 
Yasser Arafat did not approve 
them. 

Featuring Panelists from the American Civil Liberties Union, the Arab Anti-Discrimination Counsel, and the City ofChicago Law Department 



page 8 Wednesday, February 6, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P0. Bt>x Q. Notre Dome, IN 4G556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason Mcfarl.ey VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwce SPORTS EDITOR: ~oah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS AilMINISTRATOll: Palwel Chin Wrn ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAJ'HICS EDITOR: Andy Devmo 
CONTACT Us 
Ornn. MA..'IAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7 4 71 FAX..... ...... .. ....... ....... ..... .........................6.3 l-G927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 !-6900/8840 
obscrvaJ@nJ.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......... ............631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS .......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.v's.. ..........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS. ...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi, our Web site at http://observer.ndedu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 

weekly student reviews ·
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
andratesofprintads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
arricles published ali:er 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
Staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University ofNotre Dame du L!c and Saine Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including adverrisemenrs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries. leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinc space is available to all readers. The free expmsion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Fd1tor must be signed and must include contaG information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies ihould be dirm­ed lo l:.ditor m ChiefMike Connolly. 

Last year, at this same time, I wrote a column explaining a theory about a way lo get through the doldrums with the least depression possiblr,. The idea was to drink a lot and get yourself a significant other to drink with. 
Joe Larson

That way, just 
when you are 
about to embar­
The Principles 

rass yourself. your special ofldiocracy buddy steps in and curbs your 
attention towards them. This is a beautiful theory and I think pretty much successful on all grounds if you actually pull it off properly. 
So, with this theory in mind and good old Valentine's Day coming up, I've decided to attempt to compile a few strategies for obtaining this other person who is going to make life so much better during the doldrums part of the year, whom we'll call the tar­get. 
Also, these strategies are best car­ried out in a bar or party situation where, preferably, you and the target have been drinking and the room is kind of dark. I find that this setting is best for starting to get to know some­one. That way, they think you're real­ly interesting and they can't really see what you look like. With that said, let's do this. 
Your first and best strategy for land­ing the target of your choice is called "The Battering Ram." This strategy includes you blatantly stating your intentions from the beginning. I know this sounds preposterous, but it might just be crazy enough to work. I mean, granted, if you're a hunchback toad and you think the target of your affec­tions would most likely vomit at the idea of hooking up with you, then don ·t try this one, but if that is the sit­uation, then you're probably chasing the wrong rabbit in the first place. 
The beauty of this strategy is that it preys on the tendency of college stu­dents to be really lazy. You know, we're busy with school and school­rPlated activities -drinking -so most ofus don't havf' the.timo to insti­tute a plan to acquire the desired tar­get, so if you give this person the guarantee, they may accept just because of the absence of the tedious leg work that usually accompanies starting to date someone. 
I know this is pretty shallow, but sometimes people decide to date other people simply because they know Urn other person already wants to date them. II' your target tends to tread the path of least resistance, this could very potentially be an extremely affec­tive strategy. Now if overly forceful. "The Battering Ram" strategy could result in an embarrassing restraining order, but these are the chances one takes when dabbling in the intricacies of pulling tail. 
If you don't have the pills for a stunt like "The Battering Ram," perhaps a more subtle strategy is your best approach. One good one is "The Vulture." This incl•des you circling the target in social situations watch­ing and waiting for the best time to swoop in and engage in witty and sophisticated conversation with them. 
Here, a high alcohol contingent is key. First because if you don't have the audacity to try "The Battering Ram," you're going to need alcohol to make any progress whatsoever. Also, your target's defenses will be weak­ened by the effects of alcohol, leaving them all the more susceptible to a successful advance from you. 
If they're all banged up, they won't notice you watching them or walking circles around them. That's important as you do not want to be detected early when using "The Vulture." Again, this rises the restraining order concern. And frankly, in order for a successful operation, that is a worry you do not need. 
Anyway, after you see the perfect swooping opportunity, just count on your drunken game to take you the rest of the way. If you're worried about not having any game, don't worry, because you and the target will be inebriated and game is really not necessary. Just make sure you don't fall down. 

The third strategy is my least favorite and frankly, it annoys me that it has over worked on anyone ever. but for some ungodly reason, this strategy seems to be universal. You all know this one, and ii' your game is so bad that you have to use it, well. 1feel sorry for you. May God have mercy on your soul. This is the "My House Burned Down" approach. 
Of course, this is where you attempt to garner sympathy from someone by whining to them as if your house had just burned down. This act is orches­trated in hopes that the target of this pathetic display feels so bad for you that they want to make everything better by giving of themselves. 
For this to work, the target must be a very good person, probably Mother Teresa or Santa Claus, a11d they must also be the most gullible person on the face of the planet. So if you want to date a nun or a piece of folklore, you're in luck, but otherwise please don't use that strategy. It's embar­rassing for yourself, your family and your institution of learning. 
So there you have it. Three ways to try and hook yourselve,s up for Valentine's Day and improve probably the most depressing month of your life in South Bend. I know this may seem a bit rash, but look outside and think about it for minute, because desperate times call for desperate measures. 
Joe Larson is a senior English and llistory major. Ile wants lo remind you that he is not going to accept responsibility for any ofthese strate­gies failing, but will accept full responsibility ifthey work. Also, if they work. he wants to know how and if you have superpowers. Ilis column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at Larson. 13@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and nut neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kitlin Turner C. Spencer Beggs Sarah Ryakowski Graphics Van Giles Jimmy Atkinson Sports Production 
Noah Amstadler Noah Amstadler Viewpoint Lah Tech Teresa Fralish Angela Campos 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
For which ticket do you plan on voting in the upcoming student government elections? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." 
Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights leader 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 5, 2002 page 9 
Service means feeling at home anywhere 
A phone call, and my father was on his way -r:arrying me home half asleep in his arms simply because l was homesick after just a few hours. As a child, I never could spend the whole night at a friend's house. I needed to slrep in my own Led, in my own room, to wake up to the same view from my own window; swaying maple lnws and my mother's garrlen. 
Miguel Vieyra 
Ask me what home is and I would rat­Llr. off a litany of memories: the smell of a Kansas autumn, playing baseball ;ifter For a Afore dark snow on Christmas morning in Just and 1987. And always, home_ felt the same. /lumaneDuring the past year. the view from my 
World 
window has changed. Last summrr, l could see the rusting bend of tracks as tlw elevated train rattled through my neighborhood in Chicago. Today, I woke up to the Dome channeling the risen sun through 1,000 snownakcs falling on slanted sidewalks. 
I have called both these plares home, and yet the oppor­tunity to serve them has been my opportunity to be home­sick. to watch the view from my window change and to make my home in someone else's home. The act of service, too, is always ri homecoming. 
Last summer, I worked at Casa Juan Diego, a youth cen­ter sr-rving an immigrant community in Chicago's inner city. Clcarlv, I looked and felt like a stranger. I was in an unfa­miliar" city, stumbling over Spanish words as I chatted with 6-ycar-old summer campers, too dumsy to play soccer even with tlrnse kids half my size. There I was -20-years old. two y(1ars of expensive private college educatio1'. behin_d me and I'm. back in third gr:udG being thQ last guy picked for .1, kickbafl. 
WP went on field trips, read books, played basketball, but no matter what acti\'ities I tried, 1 never felt I could reach my kids. There was nothing I could do, it seemed, because I always felt like a stranger, an outsider. And so I was to my kids, a stranger. Perhaps, it is just a feeling that unnerves you the way a packed suitcase might -some things you just need to unpack right away. But while we did not share a common heritage, lifestyle or even a common language, we did share a home. 
•Finally ! realized that service is not so much about what you do, it is where you are. While my soccer game and my Spanish eventually improved, I learned that my most impor­tant job in Pilsen was just living there. The act of being pre­sent fur others necessarily begins with sharing a home. Last summer, I became an immigrant. And I became a child. My kids learned to trust me, because I chose not to be an out­sider anymore. We began to live in between the distance that once separated my culture from theirs. 
Service is a form of travel. We make camp in those places -many places -where we feel strangest, if only because we're wearv. Indeed, service is that restlessness we feel until wn build a home where we are weary and wake up to new viPws through different windows. And being homesick. sometimes, is not a longing for the home we clung to as childrnn. but for the one to which we are called to serve, no matter how foreign. 
Since returning to campus in January, I have not returned Lo Pilsen. Perhaps, I still live somewhere in between. And I still call my father. even late at night. Right now, I can hon­estly say I'm feeling homesick. It is a blessing never to feel at home in just one place. The Congregation of the Holy Cross takr.s this as its mission: "Our broader expr.rience allows both the appreciation and the critique of every cul­lure and the disclosure that no culture of this world can be our abiding home." Yet wherever you serve, you are home. 
"For a More Just and Humane World" is the Center for Social Concerns' /Ji-wer>kly column in The Obsr>rver. lt1iguel Vieyra is a junior at Notre Dame. lie is one offour students who participated this past summer in the llispanic !,eadership Intern program. a summer service learning pro­gram run through the CSC, in collaboration with partners in Chicago and San Diego. More information on this program, and other similar programs, are available at the CSC. Contact the CSC at ray.1 l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Punish parents for son's treachery 
Scott Flipse's column Monday on John Walker was liberal garbage. Not surprisingly, it is unsupported by any authority. In fact, not only should John Walker be executed, his father Frank Lindh should be tried for treason and executed. 
In Haupt v. United States in 1947, the United States Supreme Court affirmed the treason con­viction of Hans Max Haupt. Hans Haupt was the father of Herbert Haupt, one of eight saboteurs convicted by a military tribunal in 1942 for act­ing as a secret agent, spy and saboteur for the Grrman Rekh. Hans vvas trird for, and convict­ed of, treason for "[s]heltering his son, assisting him i11 getting a job aud in acquiring an auto­mobile" for his son. 
Frank Lindh publically has admitted doing far more for John Walker. Hans claimed that these acts were the "nat­

ural acts of aid for [his) son" and that he "merely had the misfortune to sire a traitor and all he did was to act as an indulgent father toward a disloyal son." 
The Supreme Court disagreed. It fact, it held that the evidence was "that the son had the misfortune of being a chip off the old block -a tree inclined as the twig had been been ­metaphors which express the common sense observation that parents are as likely to influ­ence the character of their children as arc chil­dren to shape that of their parents." 
Plainly, John Walker and Frank Lindh should be tried· for treason and, if convicted, executed. 
Ed Fitzpatrick class of '80 Feb. 4, 2002 

Student government requires participation 
· ci, Student government at Notre Dame has made ernance. We do it multiple times every year. We an impact on students' lives, and continues to do submit proposals for a student on the Board of so on a daily basis in countless ways that aren't Trustees and seek student representation in publicized. Student government can make a ResLife hearings. When those requests are broader impact on campus, but it can't do it denied, we don't send a press release to The alone. Observer saying that the University shut the When you DARTed online last semester, a door in our face. much better alternative to the old system stu­Instead, we go back to work preparing for the dents had to suffer through, that was the prod­next chance we get to argue our case by building uct of years of collaboration between members support for the cause, seeing where our argu­of the student government and the Registrar's ments aren't as strong as they could be and fig­office. So many students complained about uring out which approach offers the best the old system that student leaders had chance of making sure the voices of the a very strong base to argue for change students are heard and acknowledged. and change occurred. In that case, We work hard because there is always student government had an impact ::, f a chance that the next meeting will be on students' lives. 
t\ 1J I I with an administrator who believes When you walk into Grab N' Go, 
'!_ ' in what we are doing and will help 
L 

one of the dining halls or the . Jfi) -~ ~·_: ·. · make positive change a reality. Huddle and see new items and sen­{f ,/t ~ .-),.:·: , It's easy to sit in a dorm room ~n sible changes or look online to see IU ,~-·., your computer and fire off an article the nutrition content of the food '\ et 1f ' · • that says that student government is served, that is through the efforts of 
I' ·, t:I( ·j-,. · · ajoke or look at a campaign poster student government working with ~ ~ ....-;, :;...,_t::! ~ -~ and claim that it doesn't matter w?o Food Services and voicing the sug­".' f..J:''".;,.-1 !iiJ=~Y gets elected because they are only m 
gestions they have heard on the Quad, ~ it for their own glory. Anybody can do
'j fj~'/

in their dorms or at class. In that case, ':ik .J ~ !) that. But that will not change anything. student government has had an impact. 1 t lt· "t ,;; Student government will not be able to When a student group or a program­I '\~_..-0 be more active on this campus until more
,., 

ming idea does not get all of the funding they students get involved. That is how things will absolutely need in order to make sure that an change. event happens, they can come to the Student So, instead of writing off this election and Senate during the budgeting process and ask the claiming that student government is useless, I senate to appropriate the funds needed. This challenge our student body to get involvPd. Run happened last year with the mid-semester trans­for office. Go to the town hall meetings. Go to a fer orientation program that was not given the Student Senate meeting and make your voice necessary funding to pull off their event. heard. There are lots of ways to get involved, 
The senate made sure that the funding was and the door to the student government office on provided, and then took steps to ~nsure that the second floor in LaFortune is always open. I such a gap in funding did not occur again. I'm know for a fact that Brooke Norton and the rest sure there are a number of transfer students of the students working up there would love the who benefited from that orientation and student help. government helped make that possible. In that Student government can make a difference. case, student. government has had an impact. but can't do it alone. 
In many ways, being a student leader is a thanklf1ss job. There is no pay, no scholarship, a Editor's note: Ryan Becker is a former senator huge time commitment and a ton of meetings. from Zahm Hall who ran for student body presi­Many of those meetings are with faculty or dent last year. administrators who act as if your concerns are trivial and make you feel as if what you are Ryan Becker doing has no point. senior 
We go to the administration with calls for Zahm Hall greater student participation in University gov-Feb. 5,2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, February 6, 2002 


C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 

Lola (Lizzie Bracken) attempts to seduce Joe (Ray Areaux) with her not-so-sub­

tle devilish charms. 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

The best things in life are free, but sometimes you have to take a risk to find that out. At least that's what the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMC) says with its latest production, "Damn Yankees" 
"Damn Yankees" is the story of a SO-something couch potato baseball fan, Joe, who is approached by a myste­rious man named Mr. Applegate (who unabashedly reveals his demonic nature) who offers Joe a chance to lead his full of heart but not so full of wins favorite team, the Washington Senators, to victory in the World Series in exchange for his soul. 
Unfortunately for Mr. Applegate, Joe negotiates an escape clause in the contract; and when he begins to feel nostalgic for his old life, the wily Devil ahd his sinfully seductive assistant Lola attempt to trick Joe into forfeit­ing his soul. 
"Damn Yankees" director, senior Ryan Cunningham, has been involved in student theatre since middle school. He has moved from working on the stage crew to direct­ing. Cunningham has been involved in four PEMC shows, one for each year he has attended Notre Dame. Further, he wrote and produced his own musical, "Chance at Love," last year. 
Cunningham thinks that his previous experience in stu­dent-run theatre has helped him direct "Damn Yankees." The PEMC president and vice president, seniors Sean Griffin and Tommy Curtain, selected Cunningham to direct the 2002 show at the end of last school year because of his familiarity with the PEMC and musical theatre. 
The PEMC, in its fifth year of existence, has established itself as one of the highest quality theatre productions on campus. The group has sold out all its shows for the last two years and Cunningham anticipates a repeat perfor­mance this year. The group relies almost solely on its ticket sales to fund their elaborate shows. 
But, the show isn't the m1ly goal of the PEMC. Each year, after the company pays for the $7,000 to $8,000 production costs, it donates its few thousand dollars in profit to Second and Third World countires and domestic organizations that promote the development of the arts. 
PEMC also performs service locally. This year the cast sang Christmas carols at a local nursing home in December. Cunningham thinks that part of the PEMC's mission is service as well as entertainment. 
"[Service isl a really nice experience to give back what we're learning at PEMC," Cunningham said. 
The cast of "Damn Yankees" has come together in other ways outside the theater and working envi­ronments. Because the show was cast in September, the ensemble had many nights in dance rehearsals to get to know each other. They also got together causally at least once a week as well as took a weekend trip to Canada together. The cast even attended a special Mass together last Sunday night when they were in Washington Hall for 12 con­secutive hours during their move into the theater. 
Teamwork has been a hall­mark of the PEMC and "Damn Yankees." 
"Part of the charm [of PEMC] is that we come in Sunday, never having been in the theater, we go up Thursday with a show that I feel a lot of times you would think have been in this theater already doing perfor­mances for a month or two," Cunningham said. 
In fact, the cast often doubles as the tech crew. They can often be seen sewing together costumes or painting the set before rehearsal. 
"This cast has really taken unnecessary strides as far as doing things that their job does not call for," Cunningham said. 
Service is a thing that Cunningham sees as fitting because "Damn Yankees" is a show about values. 
"It's really interesting about where your priorities lay and when you realize what's important in your life ... I think it rally examines what we look at l.l..5 a society and what's important," Cunningham said. 
Senior Lizzie Bracken, who plays Lola, thinks the show's message is particularly important to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
"'Damn Yankees' is probably mostly about what's important in life and having glory and success ... isn't necessarily the greatest thing; it's the person you go home to or who you have the most fun with," Bracken said. 
Cunningham considers the PEMC's production of 

"Damn Yankees" to be a revival rather than a re-do of the show; he tried to incorporate a modern sense of humor into a 40 year-old show. Cunningham added lines to modernize and tighten the script as well as combine scenes to quicken the pace. 
But it is the acting to pushes this fantastic show along; it takes a lot of work to make people bursting out in song and perfectly choreographed dances seem normal. 
Seniors Alan Macginn and Lizzie Bracken stand out in their roles as the antagonists, Mr. Applegate and Lola. 
Macginn finds special meaning in his role because he is majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies and has read many of the foundational texts on the nature of the Devil. 
"It's neat being a PLS major having read Milton's 'Paradise Lost' and Dante's 'Inferno,' you think of things like that ... lit'sJ always playing in the back of my mind," Macginn said. 
Macginn accredits_ his comedic portrayal to Cunningham, a longtime close friend. 
"Ryan, first, has always been a really great friend of' mine. So when we get to bring [that dynamic] to a work­ing relationship it helps incredibly," Macginn said. 
Macginn's cynical and volatile version of the Prince of 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, February 6, 2002 


Darkness is sure to get some laughs with his acerbic portrayal of Mr. Applegate. 
Bracken's fluid dance moves and charming personality could probably con­vince a few audience members to part with their souls. 
While Macginn and Bracken's perfor­mances are strong, they feel that it is the entire cast that brings an individual nature to the show. 
"I think this show really showcases everyone's talents ... all the way through lhe show people's personalities are going to pop out," Macginn said. 
He is more than correct. The ensemble is brimming with personality, from the muscular and suave mambo moves of Michael Hiess to Claire McAul.ffie's preci­sion dance spins into the splits. 
Although the cast brings out even the smallest of characters, this sometimes goes too far because the cast often attempts to draw the spotlight away from the main action when its inappropriate to doso. 
But although it can be distracting, the miqor characters are fun to watch, espe­cially the Miller sisters and baseball play­ers. 
"Damn Yankees" is a show that audi­ences will enjoy. The amount of hard work the PEMC cast put into this show pays off in spades. It is not a surprise that they sell out every year and one would expect no less this year. 
"Damn Yankees" opens tomorrow and runs to Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets cost $5 for gen­eral admission. To reserve tickets, call or visit the LaFortune Student Center Box Otnce (219) 631-8128. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer Old Joe (Joe Essner) watches the Senators play baseball from his favorite chair as his wife, Meg (Theresa Sherman), looks on. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 6, 2002 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Baseball holds off on contraction 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

i-;aced with a string of legal losses, baseball commissioner Bud Selig finally decided Tuesday that the sport won't try to eliminate teams until 200:{. 
Baseball had attempted to fold the Minnesota Twins and Montreal Expos but was thwarted by the Twins' lund­lord, which obtained an injunction that forced the team to honor its 2002 loase. 
"While the clubs would have preferred to contract for 2002 and begin addressing the eco­nomic issues immediately," Selig said, "events outside of our direct control, including yesterday's court decision .in Minnesota. have required us to move the date of contrac­tion to 2003." 
On Monday. the l\,1innesota Supn'!me Court refused to con­sider an appeal of the injunc­tion by the Twins and Sr.lig. 
Owners voted Nov. 6 to elim­inate two teams but did not specify which ones. Their labor negotiators later told the players' association the Twins and Expos were target­ed. 
Despite the c:ourt defeats in Minnesota. Selig had vowed to press on, saying the elimina­tion of teams was needed to stem industry losses. which he claims totaled hundreds of millions of dollars last vear. His admission of defeat came just nine days before the start of spring training, and he vowed to press forward with contraction for 2003. 
"Contraction was an initia­tive of the 30 clubs and con­tinues to be wholly supported by that group," he said. "The clubs recognize that our cur­rent economic circumstance make contraction absolutely inevitable, as certain franchis­es simply cannot compete and cannot generate enough rev­enues to survive. Quite a few of our clubs advocate contrac­tion by as many as four clubs. and our ultimate implementa­tion of contraction obviously may ,\ell be affected by the economics of the industry in 2002." 
The Players' Association remains an obstacle to elimi­nating teams for 2003. The union filed a grievance to 
block contraction, claiming the owners' vote violated the players' labor contract, which expired Nov. 7 but remains in force. 
Arbitrator Shyam Das was to hear his 12th day of teslimony in the case Tuesday. 
"I, personally, had hoped that Lhe union had an interest in helping us solve our eco­nomic and competitive bal­ance problems." said Paul Beeston. baseball's chief oper­ating officer. "It is evident now that thev have no such hiteresL and "that is a great disappointment to me. 
"We had several discussions this spring and summer indi­cating our consideration of' contraction. The union's vig­orous opposition to contrac­tion was inconsistent with those earlier discussions." 
Owners claim thev must bar­gain with tlH1 uni~rn only on the nffects of contraction, such as player dispersal, not the decision to eliminate teams. 
The Twins didn't even wait for Selig's announcement, telling employees after Monday's court ruling that the team would exist for its 42nd season in the Twin Cities. 
"Hopefully. this gives the guys a sense of security to go out and play baseball." infielder Denny Hocking said. 
The Twins and Expos rank 29th and 30th in revenue last year. and both have failed to obtain government financing for new ballparks. 'h·vin s owner Carl Pohlad told Selig he was wi !ling to have his franchise folded. 
"We've anticipated for the last month or so that we would be playing." Twins president Jerry Bell said. "We have a good team, we had a good year last year, and we expect to have a good year this year." 
The Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission, which operates the Metrodome, sued to force the Twins to honor their lease and Hennepin County District Judge Ilarry Seymour Crump issued the injunction on Nov. 16. 
Tho Minnesota Court of Appeals upheld the order Jan. 22, ruling in a 3-0 decision that Crump did not abuse his discretion in issuing the injunction. 
The battle over the future of the Twins shil'ts back to the Minnesota Legislature, which is reviewing proposals for a new stadium that could ensure the team's long-term survival. 

Republican Hep. Harry Mares, a stadium bill sponsor. said the pressure is on law­makers. 
"Either we act this session or I believe you'll still see con­traction next year," he said. 
Alabama · businessman Donald Watkins has begun talks to acquire the team from Carl Pohlad, who bought the franchise in 1984 to keep it from moving. 

Meanwhile Monday, baseball owners moved forward with plans to meet Feb. 12 in the Chicago area -two days beforn the start of spring training -to approve the sales of the Expos and Florida Marlins. 
A group headed by Florida owner John Henry was given approval Jan. 16 to buy the Boston Red Sox for $660 mil­lion from the Jean R. Yawkey Trust. 
Ilenry is negotiating to sell the Marlins to Expos owner Jeffrey Loria for $158.5 mil­
lion and Loria is negotiating to sell the Expos to the remain­ing 29 teams for $120 million. 
Unable to eliminate the Expos, Selig intends to have the commissioner· s office appoint a chief executive offi­cer-general manager to run the team this season. Frank Robinson, the vice president in charge of discipline in the commissioner's office, is expected to become manager of the Expos. 
The Senate Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on baseball's antitrust exemp­tion next Wednesday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
1998 Saturn Great Winter Car. HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03 Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it Do you have a knack for finding Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer, YR.FURN. alone. II you or someone you love mistakes on pages? 
NOTICES 283-0901 272-6306 PERSONAL needs confidential support or assis­
tanee, please call Sr. Mary Louise Would you enjoy helping run the $400 CCTour&Travel Florida 3 bdrm, 1-1/2 bath, 2-story home 5 mins from ND!4-6 student house Spring Break with STS, Americas Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more newsroom of one of the top-ranked SpringBreak pkg. Call 258-0718 w/2-car garage. Finished basement wllarge common areas-prkg lot, #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote information. see our weekly ad in college Newspapers in America? 
wlpool table, washer/dryer and appl. trips on-campus earn cash and free THE OBSERVER. freezer. All drapes, appliances & Fall 2002 trips. Into/Reservations 1-800-648-The Observer is now accepting WANTED carpeting included. Close to Holy Dave 291-2209 4849 www.ststravel.com SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! applications tor Assistant Managing 
Cross church. shopping, & restau-Book your trip with StudentCity.corn Editor 
Website help needed to revamp rants Excellent house 3-4 students. Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE and save up to $100 per person to existing site. FrontPage. Good Pay. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. MTV audience ticket to select Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre Applications are due to Jason IHRD Call Patricia at 574-234-9782 shows when you book your Spring or Florida. Most popular student McFarley by 5 p.m today. 
273-8857 8-5 M-F. Dave 291-2209 Break through StudentCity.corn! Go hotels including the Oasis and the Interviews to take place Thursday. to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! FOR RENT THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU-at 1-800-293-1443 for details! Tours Prices start at $399! Sala ands For more information call Jason at FOR SALE DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT and tickets are limited! soon! CALL NOW! 1-800-293-1443 1-5323. 
MMMRentals.corn 272-1525 mmrn-AREA 2773097 or go to Why rent when 'JOU can own a qual-rentals@aol.com #1 Spring Break Vacations! StudentCiiy.coml Do you love tennis, track, softball or ity 3 bdrm, 2 ba villa. less than 2 mi SUPER HOME GREAT AREA Cancun, Jamaica. Bahamas & lacrosse? The Observer is looking from campus. Fireplace. Bsmt. Low HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9-CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STU-Florida! Bast Part.ies, Best Hotels, Have a message you need to send for sports writers to help us with our $85/mo tee. 1948 Creeksedge. bedroom houses. DENTS 2773097 Best Prices! Space is Umited!I! 1 · a friend? Want to wish somebody spring beats. $138,000. Call Rachel 235-3906. 800-234-7007 special a happy birthday? For more information, call Noah at Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. Cail Bill at 532-1896 MMMRentals.com www.endlesssummertours.com Use Observer Classifieds I 1-4543. 

·h • 
..:~. :,>·.;Ai , 
~ ~ \c~" ~ -;
:~! 

$58 ,,,,,-~~.~~ 
Per room ~'t~=li/Al~f.t! Organize a small group 
on select properties iiiii=,iiiiill~,,. 
CALL NOW FOR DETAILS Mention Code: SB 1250 1-800-787-3787 Ext. 106 
Spring Break 2002 

Downtown Hotels -Balam, Maria de Lourdes $499 $589 Howard Johnson $569 $609 Off Beach Hotels -Holiday Inn $649 $709 Carribean Princess $679 $769 Beachfront -Dos Playas (All Inclusive Available) $689 $759 Verano Beat (up to 9 person Suites) $679 $769 Beach Moderate -Girasol, Salvia $709 $799 Avalon Bay (All Inclusive Available) $729 $819 Beach Deluxe -Villas Tacul, Villas Marlin Condos $739 $849 Miramar Mision, Flamingo, Calinda Viva $769 $899 Beach Superior -Calinda Beach, Costa Real $769 $899 Cont. Villas Plaza $799 $919 Sheraton, Intercontinental Presidente $799 $939 
Beach Luxury-Avalon Grand, Gran Cari be (All Inclusive Available) $829 $969 Oasis & Melia Turquesa, Fiesta Americana $849 $989 Marriott Omni 
$889 $1039 
Plava Del Carmen &_1t1avan Riviera 
Off Beach Hotels -Hacienda del Caribe + more $589 $649 Beachfront Hotel -Costa Del Mar + more $619 $659 
Aca ulco =:~::: 5 4 3 
Off Beach Hotels -El Tropicano $549 $579 Casa Inn $559 $589 Beach Deluxe -Calinda Beach $679 $739 Beach Deluxe Suites -Playa Suites (All Inclusive Avl) $699 $709 $779 Beach Su erior -Fiesta Americana Radisson $719 $779 
$439
Downtown Hotels -Hacienda 
Off Beach Hotels -Howard Johnson & Las Palmas 
Beach Moderate Oceano Palace (All Inclusive Available) 
Beach Condo's -Las Flores 
$609 
Beach Luxury -Costa de Oro Holiday Inn El Cid All Inclusive Available 
Off-cliff Hotel -Tigress II $539 $549 $579 Cliff-side Hotel -La Kaiser $609 $629 $649 $709 Off Beach Hotel -Moonrise Villas 
$629 $639 $689 
Beachfront -Paradise View $669 $719 
Beachfront -Foote Prints $699 $759 
Beach Deluxe-Bar-B-Barn, T-Water $719 $749 $799 
B a h I Ne ril Beach Club $749 $789 $739 $829 
Grand Bahamas  :~~~:::  4  3  
Economy Hotel -Channel House  $469  $529  
Moderate Hotels -The Royal Islander  $599  $669  
Island Palm  $629  $699  
Deluxe Hotel - Coral Beach  $639  $719  
Luxu  Hotels - Runnin  Mon  Ocean Reef Condos  $699  $799  

Now Hiring On-Site Stan &Reps * Voted #1 Spring Break Parties 
Students per room Drive Packages 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 
South Padre Island TX 
Inverness Resort $189 $209 $189 $219 $259 $329 Sunchase Beachfront Condos $299 $329 $299 $329 $379 $439 $519 Rovale Beach & Tennis Club $259 $329 
Including R/T Air 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 
Inverness Resort $509 $529 $509 $559 $599 $659 
Sunchase Beachfront Condos $609 $639 $609 $649 $689 $739 $819 
Royale Beach & Tennis Club $609 $669 
~~~ie~:i~~ape~~ f1c~~ii~fp~g~5nasnedc~~ify~~fs~g!r,[f~:, ~ l~o?~ge~~ i!tt~d8.;~1:~1~ib~~~=~~ ~;~i:i?.e price does not include: $9/person 
Flight packages are for seven nights & include transfers. AIR rates are based on Houston departure -see additional departure cities. Air prices do not include: $79/person taxes & $SO/person damage deposit. All prices are based on March 2nd week departures, maximum occupancy and the lowest per person per property rate. Please call for exact rates. Peak week surcharges apply. 
Florida 
Panama City-Drive Packages 5 4 3 Best Western $129 $129 $159 Sheraton $129 $149 $189 Holiday Inn $179 $189 $229 
South Beach-Drive Packages 4 3 2 San Juan $199 $229 $299 Parisian $229 $279 $369 Traymore $239 $299 $409 
Students per room 
Daytona ­ Drive Packages  5  4  3  
Fountain Beach  $139  $159  $199  
Ramada Limited  $139  $159  $199  
Plaza Resort & Spa Radisson Resort  $199 $199  $229 $229  $289 $289  
Key West Days Inn  -Drive Packages  4 $349  3 $449  2 $649  

Prices above are per person based on maximum occupancy and the lowest price per property. Land packages include lodging. NOT INCLUDED: $9/person processing fee & $50/person refundable cash damage deposit. Rates are based on lowest package price.

RESERVATION PROCEDURES 
Reservations & Payments: Fill out the tour participant agreement below and send along with your initial depositto the address listed below. For your own protection, Please DO NOT send CASH. Upon receipt of deposit a confirmation will be sent to lhe group leader. Payment of the deposit constitutes acceptance of all the terms & conditions of the entire agreement. Visit our web site @ www.studentexpress.com for the complete agreement, hotel descriptions and locations, & party schedules 
for each destination. Operator's Option: Departures for seven night air packages can be Fri., Sat. or Sun. of your chosen weekend. The selection of the actual dates is at the charter operator's option and not a reason for cancellation. GUARANTEED SATURDAY DEPARTURES AVAILABLE. Cancellations: 60 or more days prior to departure -$150 per person charge. Cancellations 59-31 days prior to departure equals 50% of trip cost. Cancellations 30 or less days prior to departure subjectto 100% oftrip cost. Substitutions/Changes: Allowed up to 14 days prior to departure ­
60 +days prior to departure $25 per person change fee, 59-14 days prior to departure up to $100 and within 14 days of departure up to $200 plus any additional costs to SEI. Refund request must be made prior to 90 days after travel. Payment Information: Initial deposit of $100/person is due within 7days of booking your trip. Final payment is due 45 days prior to trip date or Feb. 15, 2002 which ever is first. Late reservation payments may result in trip cancellation by tour operator, additional fees or hotel preference changes. Form of Payment: All pricing reflects a $30/person discount for final payment via check or money order ALL other form of payment must add 

CANCUN• Pricing Exceptions: Deduct $50 for Feb. 23rd weekend departures from DTW. Deduct $30 for Mar. 2nd $30/person to all prices. weekend departures from DTW. Add peak week surcharge of $30/person for March 9th weekend departures except NOT INCLUDED: U.S IForeign taxes and fees (Mexico:$85, Jamaica: $73, DEN, DTW. Add peak week surcharge of $30/person for March 3oth weekend departures except IND, ORD, MOW. Bahamas: $65 per person) plus a$12 perperson handling fee. Add $20 per person for Denver March 23rd. PRICING: Prices are subject to change. All 2002 package price subject to ACAPULCO • Pricing Exceptions: Add peak week surcharge of $30/person for March 9th & 30th weekend Airline Fuel, Security, Insurance surcharges. All package prices are based departures except DEN & STL. Add peak week surcharge of $30/person for March 23 weekend departures DEN & on hotel category. STLonly. Travel Insurance: ONLY $35/person with initial deposit. This highly MAZATLAN• Pricing Exceptions: Add peak week surcharge of $30/person for March 9th weekend departures recommended coverage protects your investment by providing exceptforDEN cancellation insurance should you be unable to travel due to medical JAMAICA & BAHAMAS • Pricing Exceptions: Add peak Week surcharge of $30/person for March 9th &3oth reasons. It also provides valuable sickness &injury medical and 
weekend departures. evacuation coverage while at the resort destination. 
I Make checks payable to: Student Express, Inc.

Not Included: U.S./Foreign Departure taxes and fees(Mexico: $85, Jamaica: $73, Bahamas: $65, per person) plus Student Express, Inc. is registered as aSetler of Travel in the states of 
California Residents please make check payable to:

$12perpersonhandlingfee. Florida, Registration No. ST-32884 and California, Registration No. 
Student Express, Inc. California Trost Account.
CST2055414-40

~------------~------------­
COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING FORM and mail with deposit to: Student Express, Inc. 7535 E. Hampden Ave. #504 Denver, CO 80231 
(Required), (Required), Hotel Choice 1.,~---~----~--Choice 2. 
ROOMMATES: Your tour price is based on 4 students per room unless you 
have selected an alternate option. Roommates must have the same trip dates 
and hotel options as you do! List roommates below. Please print legibly. 

l:Q 
:! ~ 
I: 
Cl) 
Legal Name (Last)__________________Legal Name(First) _________M.I 
Mailing Address____________________ City__________State__Zip____ 
Phone: L_),__________ School ___________=Year_,,___ Trip date _____ (Required)-. Destination._________Departure City:-,--,,-__________E-Mail 
1. MEIi 
Please fill in the cost of desired package. 
$ ___ 
Visa . MasterCard . Discover. I Authorize $ for my initial2. 

Package Price 
deposit for Spring Break 2002 vacation. 

3. Departure Tax &Handling Fees$___ 
My card number is: Exp. date__/__ 

$ ___ 
I agree to the terms and conditions of this agreement and expressly waive all rights to credit card chargebacks as a means to mediate disputes, 

Meal Pkg, Available
4. 
$ ___
Insurance • Recommended 
Authorized Signature:

5. 
Total Packaae Price $ 
Print name as it appears on Card:

6. 
;_ls.:.:t.:.:h::.:is:::a=n=e=w=R=es=e=rv=a=ti=o=n?=\'i=e=s::::;0;:::or=N=o=;D;;;=:::; If you have an existing reservation: Your Reservation number: 
Lead Name 
CAMPUS REPS WANTEDI 
Organize asmall group and travel FREE!! 
1-800-787-3787 ext.106 

NOTICE: I understand that this trip is subject to the terms & conditions of a Tour Participant Agreement which I hereby acknowledge receiving and to which I agree to be bound, 
Signature: Date: Parent or Guardian Signature (If under age 18) 
All ground accommodations and seivices are furnished by Student Express, Inc. on behalf of the respected supplier. All air transportalon Is via publiccharter flights of Vacation Travel lnt'I., Inc. (VT), Transglobal (TG), Vacation Express (VE), Sun Trips (ST), Skyquest (SQJ,Sun Coast (SN), AppleVacations (AP), STS (TS), or Funjet Vacations (FV) operated by Sun Country, American Trans Air, Allegro, Aviacsa, Miami Air, Tower Air, Northwest, Reno Air, Champion Air, Ryan Air, UPS, TWA, Continental, American, US Air, Sunworid, KLM, or Falcon, depending on originating city and date. Terms and conditions of air transportation are stated in the VT, TG, VE, ST, SQ, SN, AP, TS, or FV tour participant agreement (TPA), as applicable: see TPA for full Information. VT, TG, VE, ST, SQ, SN, AP, TS, or FV as applicable, Is required to replace the portion of your payment applicable to air transportation in apublic charter escrow account. The portion of your payment applicable to ground accommodations and services are not subject to this requirement, except in Instances where VT, TG, VE, ST, SQ, SN, AP, TS or FV supplies all air and ground components of the package being purchased. VTI PC# 01-059. $200,000 Jumbo Bond insured by Westchester Fire Insurance Co. OTHER HOTELS: Cancun: Cancun Palace, Yalmakan, Royale Resorts, Club Med, Suites Brlsas, Cancun Marina Club, Fiesta Americana, Laguna Real, Torre Dorado, Gran Caribe, Laguna Inn, Celinda Amenca, Cancun Plaza, Laguna Verde, Kin Ha, Matos, Pinmides, Solymar, Melia, Westin, Krystal, Camino Real, Maria de Lourdes. Mazatlan: ,Gavlotas, Los Sabalos, Sands, Riveria Acapulco: Cont'f Plaza, Copa Cabana, Casa fnn, El Cano, Romano Palace, La Palapa Jamaica: Wexford Court. Summerset, Villa la Caoe, Bamboo Resort. Bahamas: Ocean Reef Club, Runnlna Mon. S.Padre Island: Saide Towers, Surtslde, Mornlnoslde, Suntide, Gulfvlaw Holldav Inn, Sheraton, Radisson GulfDolnl, Bahia Mar. F:2002/l•arbac~SURFS UP BACK Nov. 5, 2001 
Wednesday, February 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

It used to be the end of a great night. It could soon be the start of a great day. 
FORTUNE~ At Ernst & Young, we believe that when you100 BEST wake up in the morning, you should be excited fO~CCl/~j~ about the day ahead. The challenges of the 
workplace should keep you stimulated, your 
capabilities should be stretched, and your horizons continually 
broadened. Because only when our people wow, both professionally and personally, do we grow as a company. Oh happy day! 
ey.com/us/careers i!} f RNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 


MLB 
Enron troubles Astros 

Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The Houston Astros, worried about the notoriety of their sta­dium being named for belea­guered Enron Corp., on Tuesday asked the New York bankruptcy court overseeing Enron's bank­ruptcy whether the team should continue its Enron Field namin­gand license agn~ement. 
"The Houston Astros have been materially and adversely affected by the negative public perception and media scrutiny resulting from Enron 's alleged bad business practices and bankruptcy," said Pam Gardner, Astros president of business operations. 
The team filed a motion in New York requesting guidance on the issue. 
"We have worked diligently with Enron to transition the sta­dium name, but we've been unsuccessful," Gardner said. "At this point, we have no other alternative but to seek relief from the bankruptcy court." 
Since Enron filed for bank­ruptcy protection in December, the company has spent about $108,000 for a suite and nearly $90,000 for box seats, Gardner said. 
"We speculate that the only reason that Enron continues to make these expenditures is that Enron believes it can sell the baseball stadium's naming rights to someone else without the consent of the Astros," she said. 
According to the Astros, Enron can't sell the field's nam­ing rights without the team's permission. 
"It is for this reason that we are asking the court to decide whether the naming rights agreement should continue," Gardner said. 
Enron did not immediately return a telephone call from The Associated Press for com­ment. 
Last month, team owner Drayton Mclane Jr. told the AP that Enron was current on its payments for the 30-year, $100 million naming rights agree­ment with his team. However, he said other corporations have approached him about taking over the contract. He would not identify those companies. 
Mclane said then that it was likely the team would seek guid­ance from the bankruptcy court in determining whether the naming rights were an asset the former energy giant could con­tinue. He also said he had hoped to make a decision jointly with Enron and that he had been in frequent contact with Enron otlicials. 


1-800-SURFS-UP
www.studentexpress.com 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 6, 2002 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles take on top-ranked Flying Dutch 
Dance Spectru111 
Friday & Saturday, Feb.15 & 16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM <I O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact ,,,,,,..,,.,c,u,,.~ the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
JM/!..~'k., / 
284-4626 ~N~~E~~~, IN 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Wednesday night could be a lop­sided battle for the Belles of Saint Mary's as they try to swat down the Flying Dutch of Hope, who are soaring high on the wings of a 20­1 season. 
Hope leads the MIA.\ with nine conference wins and just a single loss -a loss that ended a 39­game winning streak. Saint Mary's is second to la'lt in the MIAA, 3-7 in conference play and 7 -J4 over­all. 
Hope scores an average of 75.1 points per game and allows oppo­nents 53.0. Saint Mary's scores an average of 57 .4 points a game and allows 62.1. 
Hope's Becky Sutton leads the conference in 3-point shooting, making 46.5 percent of her shots from beyond the arc. Saint Mary's has the worst field goal shooting percentage in the conference, making 30. 7 of their attempts from the floor. 
Hope leads the league in aver­age assists per game with 15.C). Saint Mary's has the MJAA's fewest average assists per game with 11.71. 
The Belles do have an important asset tonight though. Yes, there is Hope, but there is also hope. 
Hope's best player Amanda Kerkstra has been out for the past two weeks due to injury. On bright side for Saint Mary's, the Belles are riding on a surge of confidence after they upset conference rival Alma, 50-43 on Sunday. They arc prepared for another upset. 
"That was what we talked about last game, and that's I.he thing we really have to think of. We don't know what they're expecting of us, but I can't wait to play them. Our team's really excited," said sophomore Katie Miller. "You love to play teams that are the best. It's always good to play a team that's ranked to see where vou stand." 
The Belles lost to Hope at home 73-56 on Jan. 12, but they feel they have made important changes to their game, especially defensively, and to their overall approach to teamwork since then. 
"I think our defense overall has improved, so that's something we're going to keep focusing on against Hope and during the rest of the season," Miller said. 

There arc a few arew; the Belles have been focusing on in practice -danger areas that could not only cost them the game, but lead to a blowout. 
"We need to come out a lot more confidant, knowing that we can play with them," said fresh­man Emily Crcachbaum. "Even though we· were down Lwhen the Belles played Hope Jan. 121, we played with them. We need to come out, have a good start, and carry through." 
"[We need to be] steady throughout I.he game and not [go] through ups and downs where we're trailing and then fighting back. Catch-up is not fun to play with them," Miller said. 
Additionally, coach Suzanne Smith has been critical of the Belles' many turnovers this sea­son. They must hang on to the ball against Hope's powerful defense, which averages 12.38 steals per game. 
The mental tenacity of the Belles will play a pivotal role in whether or not they succeed tonight. Even with their new-born confidence stemming from their upset over Alma, Saint Mary's must not let Hope's home crowd advantage demoralize them. 
'"Hope probably has one of the best crowds. They get a lot of peo­ple to watch their games because it's a small town and that's the main highlight. We need to ignore that and play above it," Creachbaurn said. 
"Our goal is to expect to win, and play to win. And so much [care about] what we're ranked in the conference," Miller said. "We know that we can beat this team. Anything can happen on any given night." 
Notes: 
. Senior forward Anne Blair, the Belles' leading scorer, is question­able for tonight's game because of an injured thumb. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book·online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 
Saint Mary's College Program in Dance presents 

2002 

It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful services, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
~ .. 
' 
. 
~ 
HAMILTON 
COMMUNITIES 

············~·~·~~.~~--~'.~~~~~o~ of~~'.~~~. f~'. ~.~d·~-~ ~~u.~t.s Since 192~·•••··~

~ ! To find out more, clip and mail the following information to: ! 
! Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chicago Trail, New Carlisle, IN 46552 ! 
I~i;~::ne { srate ______Zip oi, I© & • 
~ ~ 1, , C • ,,_•, :~ .fl
',1~~.ur~ ,-u~-~o:Jffl 
(574) 654--2250 
31869 Chicago Trail New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836 Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org 
Wednesday, February G, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Jim Kelly-more than just a superstar 

Saturday was a great day for a great man. Sure I'm an unabashed homer, a lifelong fan of the Ruffalo Rills, but when Jim Kelly, their quarterback and unques­tioned leader. was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, any football fan couldn't help but feel for the guy. 
Kellv was my first real hero. His Sw1day mir­acles are some ofmy fondest childhood memories. The rorket­armed quarterback came to Buffalo in 1986 to rescue a mori­bund franchise that had failed to make the post<;eason in six suc­cessive years and proceeded to lead it to eight playoff appear­ances in his 11 heart-stopping seasons. His career marked the conscious beginning and end of my youth. 
Athletic glory caine easy for the kid from East Brady, Penn. He was a brash leader. the last quar­terback ½ith full control ofan offense and the only player in the modern area to call all of his own plays with no help from the sweatshirt clad coaches on the sidelines. 
Such an accomplished field gen­eral was Kelly that he led the Bill to four consecutive Super Bowl appearances; no other passer has been to as many as three in a row. 
They used to say he was the toughest ever to play. There's the story of how he separated a shoul­der and reentered a playoff game to throw two touchdowns. Then there's the tale that has him 

Kevin Berchou 
Sports 
Columnist 




ETHICS WEEK 
FEBRUARY 11-15, 2002 
l h\..'. pnm~ir~ ~iJal ,)f }: ·rH lC.', \-\. [l. h: i~ t,:: cnrr)ut·;-1~1: tht' dh~n'i~i<dl t:i:f t:thf,:ai ruath;:r:-; in unt.ii..·r~r~Hluart· .tih~ ;!r:idu:1f-1: t:i:i.~:o.t) in the l'nivi:P•~t~· Gf >i1.1trc.; Darn~•i:,; ..\l\:'.OdQ/a Ct.1 Uct{t: vf Hu::-int'.::,.,_ For f.ltuit~· ,,-!a1 i-,;pk;n.' !l:t.-,t. tn~UH~t·:t ~:n ..i n.0 guLu-h;hi·;,_ th~~-~\ ~·:ek wiH b~ ;.t t~ pk;.Ji tiuH: F.1t1.dly n·ho r·an:l,_\ :~r JH"\·t-~r ~1.Jdr'-_~.,:-: i.. thl.t';_d ,,,u1> w,,_,-uiili.u E:TfilCS HTFJ( '"' :i nw;w, of fai'J!H:iting dis.:1,ssi1,n :,liom dhieal m:mer~. 
\ -.c,ilnd:.11·y g,ul of FTHICS \\1:LK i, t,J cstabli:;h u f,rnn(.btto1i for future rthk,ll di~Cthsinns in and out n! ih.:, L._,,n,,.,m. Onn· ti.it: ,ffl:a of d];_ics h:B bern e:>:11mim•d, ·,tudnits 1mty w,rnt t,_, pu.rsu.,· the :in·a iii pap,·n. 
p:--i.•S('ntatiutp:; or in t_~n~~ni~Jg din.~ dJsu.J~!ltfns. 
E_J__ H I C S 

L1onc1ay 'Ethical Sitliations Ern:::ow1tered by Ret:.ilo·s"-A panel discussion t!tat FEB_ 11 will run from 12:30 to 1 :'30 in 121 Mendoza College Of Business (MCOBt 
Professor Pat Murphy will moderate a panel consisting of Rob BartE!s 
(Mi"'rtin's supermarkctsi, John Bognar miver rark Furniture!, Craig Kapson 
cJdrd;-m Automct1vel and Rick 2ecff(Meijer's) 
Tuesday KEYNOTE ADDRESS. Fr. Ed {"Monk") Malloy, c.s.c, President, University FEEU2 of Notre Darne. Time: '12:30 to 1:30. Place: 158 MCOB. 
Wed ASH WEDNESDAY. NO events scheduled. 
FEB.13 
Thursday ·•rhe Four Vs of catholic Ethirnl Leadership." Workshop featuring Professor FEB. ·ta George saint-t.auret1t, California state University-Fullerton. Tune: 12:30 to 1:30. Pl.ice; 121 Mendoza College of BuslnesslMCOm 
Fridav Altruisrn or competitive Necessity? Global e1wironmenta1 Pr::1ctices and rER. 15 Multinational conipaniEs. -Presentation by Professor Glenn Dowell 
Time: 12:30 to 1 30. Place: 1:21 MCOB. 
throwing an interception. chasing down the thief, and delivering such a crushing blow that he broke the defender's right leg. If you had amputated that golden right arm, he'd have thrown with his left and probably still beaten Dan Marino more than 70 percent of the time. 
Respect my childhood idol for what he was able to do between the lines on Sunday, but please reserve your greatest admiration for what Kelly has done off the field. 
Shortly after Kelly walked away from the game, he received the Valentine's Day gift a lifetime, a son named Hunter born on Feb. 14. 
Joy, howevf1r, wa'> short lived as it was soon discovered that Hunter suffered from a rare alllic­tion knovm a<; Krabbe's disease. a fatal curse that severely inhibit<; development and affects the white matter of the brain. The doctors said it would be a miracle for him to last even 14 months. but Hunter like his dad is a fighter. 
After performing miracle after miracle for the Buffalo Bills through the years, Kelly is engi­neering "vith out doubt his greatest drive as he battles to save the son he loves. Shortly after the omi­nous diagnosis, Kelly became a leader of a different sort. creating a foundation, christened Hunter's Hope, that raises money for research in the battle to cure Krabbe's. 
For Kelly it has become a full­time job. After dabbling in broad­casting for ESPN, he quit to devote all his energies to saving his son. Once burdened by the hopes and dreams of an entire city, Kelly's broad shoulders now carrv the hopes only ofhb young pr.ide and joy. 
It's a story that has to make you feel good. It's a story that has a happy ending. Hunter is still very much with us, handicapped but smiling, and making his father smile every day. He'll turn 5 in a week or so, a modern medical miracle given the initial prognosis. 
This must be the work of the Jim Kelly I looked up to as a kid. In fourth grade, during that first run to the Super Bowl, I don't think I'd have been surprised ifhe walked across Lake Erie. I half expected him to. This is just another one ofhis feats of great­ness. 
Kelly is an anomaly in this the era of the selfish, overpaid, crimi­nally active athlete. Saturday, when informed of his induction he could respond only in awe, man­aging to utter a singular "Wow." 
As a tear came to his eye, Kelly's thoughts quickly turned into his son, perhaps the only guy he knows tougher than he. Ile spoke fondly of Hunter, wiped a tear from his cheek, and wished only that his young son would make it a few more months and see his father's enshrinement. 
Winning one of those four Super Bowls would have been great, but the fact that his beautiful boy is still with us is Kelly greatest victo­ry. My childhood hero has become my adult role model. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. E-mail Kevin Berchou at Berchou.2@nd.edu. 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 6, 2002 
Men 
continued from page 20 
body. it's going to be a tough game for us and they've got a lot of confidence." 
Since losing three-straight in the middle of January. the Irish have reeled off a three-game winning streak that moved them into position to control their own destiny in the Big East West Division. If the Irish win the remainder of their games, they will repeat as West Division Champions. 
Part of the reason for Notre Dame's recent ruu has been the addition of defensive-minded Torrian Jones to the starting lineup. Since Jones entered the lineup three games ago, he typi­cally guards the opponent's top player early in the game. As a result. opponPnts haYen't been able to jump out to big leads, a problem that plagued the Irish earlier in the season. 
David Graves. who was sent to the b"ench in favor of Jones. has prospered under the swit.ch. The senior forward hasn't had his playing time reduced and is averaging 16.6 points per game, much higher than his ninr points he was averaging during tlrn last five games he was in the starting lineup. 
"Torrian lets us get after them defensively early. and when Dave comes in, he provides a spark that Torrian wasn't able to provide," point guard Chris Thomas said. "Torrian has a great offensive game, don't get me wrong, but Dave is one of the best." 
Notre Dame's perimeter play-ers will have to handle the task of stopping Rutgers' potent guards. Jerome Coleman, the Scarlet Knights' leading scorer. is averaging 16.3 points per game and Ricky Shields aver­ages 11 . 7 points. 


"Once they get going, they get 
on fire." Carroll said. ''They've 'got some long range shooters 
who we've got to slow down." 
The Scarlet Knights arc about 
as streaky from behind the 3­
po int line as tlw Irish. As a 
team, they average 32.5 percent 
from behind the arc. If Hutgers has trouble scoring from the perimeter. they typically throw the ball in to 6-foot-6. 275­pound Rashod Kent, who aver­ages 10 points and 10 rebounds a game. 

"Solid defense is what sets the tone for our program and allows us to get easy baskets on our end," Thomas said. "Hutgers is pretty much limited offensively, and if' we shut their perimeter down. we'll be fine." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT Genera Eection De ates 2002 The debates will be held this Wednesday, February 61 at 7:3oym in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. PLEASE STOP BY TO MEET THE CANDIDATES AND TO LEARN ABOUT THEIR IDEAS. rhe yrtmary elections will be held on Monday, February I I SPONSORED BY JUDICIAL COUNCIL  

J I 
page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 6, 2002 
Notre Dame can learn from New England 

ff you had told me before the beginning of the NFI, season that the New England Patriots would win the Super Bowl, I would have thought you were crazy. If you had told me that the Patriots would win the Super Bowl with Tom Crady as their quarterback, I would have politely asked, "vVhat are you smok­
. ?"
mg. 
After all. the Patriots were a woe­ful 5-11 the year before and Brady had never takrm an NFL snap. Shows how much I know. 
The New England Patriots' Super Bowl victory last Sunday was more than just a pleasant surprise. It was a testament to the Patriots' hard work and dedi­cation. There an' two great 


MEI'S IIASKfflljjl n.BITBEIS 
;

1:11,un. ,,.,,,,, 
CoME waTca THE ln1s11 Q,Jn1E Fon THE BIG1•EASJ·lmol 
if:;:\ : ..ff:t::' 
Wild EXTR,EME TEAM Halftime SlamDunkers! 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8 8 PM 'TIL MIDNIGHT ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
SOUTH OF FOOTBALL STADIUM 
~ 
1.· .. 
Popular Brazilian Music Brazilian Dancers with the Renowned in Carnaval Costume
-


! 
Brazilian Dance Instructor Edilson Lima 

OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! FREE ADMISSION! FREE PARKING! 
Soft drinks and light refreshments will be served. 
Co-sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Office of International Programs and La Alianza 
lessons that can be learned from their incredible season: the value of teamwork and the importance of self~confidence. If the Notre Dame football team adopl<; these same two principles, than per­
haps it can be the surprise of next 
year's college football season. 
The Patriots were not the most talented team in the NFL this past season. In fact. their only super­star was quarterback Drew Bledsoe, who lost his starting job after Brady replaced him in the third game of the season. What the Patriots lacked in individual tallmt, they made up for in unparalleled team unity. 
On Super Bowl Sunday, the Patriol<; refused to participate in the traditional introduction of the starters opting instead to run out of the locker room as a team. 
When Bledsoe lost his starting job to an injury, he could have become a clubhouse nightmare by whining and demanding a trade. Instead, he remained a team player to the 1md, support­ing Brady from the sidelines and leading the Pats to victory when Brady went down in the AFC Championship game. The picture of Brady and Bledsoe embracing one another after New England's dramatic Super Bowl win encap­sulates the Patriots' entire sea­son. 
This picture will forever be remembered as an example of what happens when people sacri­fice their pride for the betterment of others around them. While most NFL analysts and football· fans doubted New England, the Patriots never lost confidence in each other. 
The Patriots had the proper mindset to win football games because they expected to win every time they stepped on the field. This kind of positive attitude is exactly what Tyrone Willingham stated he would bring in his opening statement as head coach. 
Under Bob Davie, Notre Dame never played to win, but always played not to lose. Davie's players were always worried about mak­ing mistakes. Davie coached each game with the intent of keeping the game close going into the fourth quarter rather than allow­ing his players to just go out and win the game from the opening play from scrimmage. 


Fox television analyst John Madden disagreed with the Patriot<;' decision to try to drive for a field goal with less than one minute remaining in the game. Madden argued that the Patriots should run the clock out and wait until overtime. Hmm ... this sounds a lot like the Nebraska game from two years ago when Davie showed no trust in his offense and opted to wait until overtime. 
Patriot head coach Bill Belichick proved Madden wrong and wisely didn't follow the Davie philosophy of coaching. Instead, Belichick put the game in the hands of his young quarterback, and Brady delivered a clutch game-winning Super Bowl drive reminiscent of quarterback leg­ends Joe Montana and John Elway. 
Other coaches -like Davie did two years ago when Arnaz Battle went do,...'Il for the season ­would have greatly restricted their offense or limited the play book when a starter like Bledsoe suffered an injury early in the season, but Bclichick did not. 
Belichick took a risk Davie wouldn't and treated Brady like a veteran quarterback, allowing Brady to grow comfortable in the offense and make plays. Belichick treated Brady as an asset, and Brady developed a self-confi­dence that radiated throughout the entire team. 
Just as Belichick's decision to play Brady proved to be the cata­lyst to the Patriots' season, Willingham and the new Irish coaching staff will bring a new mindset and philosophy to Notre Dame football next season. Winning starts before you ever step foot on the field. You have to believe in yourself and the others around you. 
Willingham believes that Notre Dame football will win again. Unlike Davie, Willingham will put them in a position to win again. 
Now, it is just a question of the Irish players believing in them­selves. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
HAVE MOR.E FREEDOM IN YOUR LIFE! LIFE OFF CAMPUS HAS A LOT TO OFFER 

HAVE FREEDOM HAVE TRADITION 
HAVE IT ALL AT TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS! 
l..lMITED SPACES AV.4JLA.8LE! FCJRGET 140USING CONTRACTS, 
Al>Pl-Y TO LWE WITli US TODAY! 
P: 272-8124 
'ti.WW. rum1;cru~
IJ0fill.Ll@:[u.!!.D,u;Jlli~..Q£QM 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wedne~day, February 6, 2002 

"This is a big, big commitment because he's a big receiver,"
Recruits 
said Emfinger. "They've got to have big receivers come in. [He]
continued from page 20 

can play both sides or the ball, \1issouri or Notre Dame. and will rnturn punts and kick­
Wide receiver McKnight had offs. lie might be hotter on previously ruled Notre Dame defense than offense. Ile made out hut aftnr visiting the campus 11 intorccptions. hut nobody has the Irish as a possible threw in his direction." d10ice. McKnight is another Defensive end Travis Leitko is outstanding rncruit that could another huge potential signing greatly help this year's recruit­for the Irish. Leitko runs a 4.8 ing class. second 40-yard dash and may 
"I!e's a very good wide receiv­be abln to sne signi[icant play­er prospect and he's ranked as ing time early in his career. the ninth best wide receiver in "!He's] a great defensive end," the United States [by said Emfinger. " He was double SuperPrepJ," said Wallace. teamed all year long, [hut] still "He's very sorious about UCLA made big plays." and Washington is another . As recently as Tuesday the strong possibility." Irish also rPceived a verbal 
While wailing for these three commitment from running back players to commit, tho Irish and linobacker Nick have been busy getting verbal Schiccatano who should see commitments from some of considerable playing t.ime on their other top prospects from both offense and defense. around the country. 
Maurice Stovall is considered one of the top two wide-outs in Contact Joe Hettler at the nation by many experts. jhettler@nd.edu. 
She only looks 
innocent! 
Watch out 
Heartland -this 
angel is looking to 
NELLIE WILLIAMSffhe Observer 

Irish freshman forward Jacqueline Batteast looks to post up against Syracuse last week. 
lose her halo! Batteast finished with 16 points and 12 rebounds in Notre Dame's win Tuesday night. 
in the first half were Batteast, ball and we got out of the trap 
Happy21 ~t Mer!

Borton, and Kelsey Wicks. and she got some looks that
Woillen 

Borton recorded a double­way," McGuff said. "She was double with 10 points and 10 very efficient, she didn't shoot
continued f!om page 18 

rebounds to aid the Irish a lot but made them when she 
Love,

Panthers managed to eat effort. did shoot them and got to the away at that lead in the sec­"Teresa played great," line a lot." Your "devious" ond half, outscoring the Irish McGuff said. "She played The Panther effort was led 15-10 to bring the game with­very, very hard. She had a lot by Laine Selwyn, the usual 
friends 

in four. But a rebound from of great rebounds and we leading scorer. who grabbed Alicia Ratay and two foul were very, very happy with 16 points. · shots by Batteast began a 13-her." The Irish will next take the 3 Irish run that put the game Borton was just part of a court at the Joyce-Center 
Hmmm... Is it someone's birthday?
out of reach. solid effort to rebound by the against Boston College on 
"We're doing a better job Irish. Notre Dame outre­Sunday to fight for sole pos­getting the right people to the bounded Pittsburgh both session of second place in the [foul] line," McGuff said of the offensively and defensively Big East. Tip off is at 1 pm. importance of hitting foul and scored 20 points on sec­shots. ond looks. The Panther team, 
Notes: 

The first half showcased smaller in stature than the 
. Ratay's third trey of the 

some young Irish talent, at Irish, could not fight off the 
game gave her sole posses­

times seeing four freshman on Irish attack that often includ­sion of third place the
on 

the floor with junior Alicia ed driving down the lane. Notre Dame list fo.r career Ratay. After sophomore point "fThe Panthers] will get up 
three-point shots made. Shfl 

guard Le'Tania Severe got and guard you, so we felt like 
took over former teammate 

into foul trouble early in the we had to put the ball on the Niele lvey's position with 193 first half, freshman Allison floor, create some fouls, and 
3s. 

Bustamante came in at the get to the free throw line," point guard position. McGuff said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 

"In the first half, Le 'Tania Ratay led the Irisn with 21 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu.

got in foul trouble and so points, coming mostly from 
HAPPY 21ST ANGIE!! 
Allison had to play a lot of treys and free throws. minutes," McGuff said. Although she didn't get too However. Bustamante took many looks, she made use of 
.~--···~·········-···················································.. 
a seat in the second half due, each one. . .
• .
in part, to pain in her foot. "They were doing a couple .• .• Joining Bustamante at times of lhings, trying to trap the • 
.
•. 
.• 
.• •
• 
. • MEIJER . . 
.• • 
• .
. .


. .•
• 

.. • • • Extravaganza!! . . . • • . 
. .
. 

•
.• .
OBC ENGUSH 
: WHAT: Oreo-stacklng contests. Lu· Debbie Pie eating contests, Mini-: 
• scavenger hunts~ Pizza demos~ Supermarket Sweep. Shopping and :
CONVERSATION SCH ·OL 
More!!!

is seeking university graduates for aone year 
WHEN: Friday. Februaiy 8 th from 9 to 12 pmleaching position in Japan. Allractive saldfY, ADMISSION: ABSOLUfELY FREE!!! 

TRANSPORTATION: You MUST ride on the bus in order to participate
benefits and travel opportunities. 
in actlvitles! Arst-come, first-serve basis, so get there early! Bus pick­
KECKUITIN6 OATES: February JJ lr 14~ 2002 • ups at Library Circle at 8:30 pm and 9:30 pm and at LeMans Circle at 
• 1 •
at Career and Placement Services. : 8: 5 pm. : 
: PRIZES: $10, $50. and $100 Meljer gift certificates! :
,j11IP11IiiIF§IF !J.IJjfji[jfl!JIJtFIF § IX!l!!.I.!,§ liY/.12JL&IE(J}fl!JIf!ffIE(J)" 
: SPONSORED BY FLIPSIDE 
Es) :
Open to nil mtf.iors. 
; r~ ( ~
-There IS Something To Do-P­
SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
: ~~.J ~_) .
--~#••••~•~~~~,•J•••·••·•••••••···•·•••···•••••••••:~-~•-•~--,-~P••• 
Wednesday, February 6, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
AND HERE, NEXT TO THE 

BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
RIPPING  IT'S A TRADITIONAL  HOO YEAH!  NO oNE  
WHAT ARE.  PHONE Booll:S  WHAT  DEMONSTRATION  WHO'S YoUR  CHICKPEA SAID THE'Y HAD  
'l'OU  IN 1-lALF.  FoR?  oF oNE'S  DADDY?.•  jlJNCTION, To BE. THICK.  
DOING?  I  I  MANL'I' MIGHT. I  '  PoPULAT10N: ' '+O.  
\  \  

RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 


1:~r.r\ l\o c\oice,
Jou jvS~ tipp~d 

s\_e Ci·~ t-~o 
......
~e,.. 20 k.,e,~s! 

"'lCS•c. ~ ~a1 J..11ca,. 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 40 High schooler DOWN 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON and fruitful ideas. 00000 
Iron man? 41 "Life short 1 Coarse file
. 
TiflS DAY: Ronald Reagan, Tom VIRGO (Aui, 23-Sept. 22): 6 Persian kings 2 Garfield's Brokaw, Babe Ruth, Natalie Cole Keep your thoughts to yotirself or 11 Meteor's path 42 Middle of the stooge ,lappy Birthday: Your home better still avoid spending too ·­quote will be important to you this year, much time at home. Prob1ems
3 Winner of five 
14 Mojave home 
and you will do whatever is nec­with domestic products or servic­
48 Photographer consecutive15 TV series 
essary to keep the peace. You can es can be expected. 00
Cartier-Bresson Wimbledons
precursor help older relatives with their LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You
49 What an activist 4 Predicate part: 
16 Stadium shout important personal or financial should consider going some­
has Abbr. 
papers resulting in rewards that where that will bring you pleas­
17 Author of the 
50 Uses a 5 Item sold in a you can't even imagine. Your ure. Getting out with friends will
quote beginning 
compass bag strong willpower, coupled with do you a world of good. Some­
at 26-Across 
53 Shelley's your inhrition, should help you thing interesting will come in the 
6 Coined money 
20 Dowel 
accomplish all you set out to do. mail or via courier today. 0000
"Queen 

7 Part of H.R.H. 
21 Fond du Your numbers are 12, 15, 17, 22, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
54 Neighbor of 

8 Gifts for the 26, 39 You will lose if you get involved 
22 V.I.P 
Wash. 

poor ARIES (March 21-April 19): in joint financial ventures. Thls is
23 Strange 
57 End of the quote 9 One who rides Get ready to take on a new direc• not the day to get all hyped up
25 Check presenter 
60 Comedic missile tion. Your interest in learning and about some crazy scheme that
the rails
26 Beginning of a traveling will lead to adventure. isn't likely to fly. 000
61 "Silas Marner" 

10 Ready for 
quote You will be eager to communicate SAGfITARIUS (N1114 22-Dec. 21):
author 

mailing 
with people who can offer you a If you don't talk about your per­
31 _ the boys 62 John, Paul or 
11 Dry gulch new point of view. 00000 sonal concerns, you may find
32 Not counterfeit George 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): yourself left out in the cold. Part­33 Exits, with "our 63 "Star Trek" rank: Don't let disagreements escalate nerships will suffer if you aren't 
12 1936 and 1937 
Best Actress 
34 -Roman Abbr. into legal battles. Lay low for now open and honest about your
Luise 
36 "It_ 64 Plains shelter and focus on yourself and your intentions. 000
13 Upbeat 
own accomplishments. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
Necessarily So" 65 Irritable 
18 Basketball GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may get drawn into a secret Hall-of-Farner You will be in a fickle but roman­intrigue. The people you work for tic mood. Don't get caught in the may be doing something behind 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Harshman 
middle of an argument that does­your back. Be careful not to
19 Enlarge, as a 
Puzzle by Ed Early n't involve you. Someone you divulge what you know. 000
hole 
care about may not live up to his AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
37 "Let's call _ 45 Swing site 55 Something that 
23 Conceits 
or her potential. 000 Group activities will enable you
day" might be created 

24 Concerned with 46 Reproductive CANCER (June 21-July 22): to meet new friends and establish 
by accident? 

good breeding 38 Martinmas's mo. cell Put your energy into doing the contact with interesting people. 26 Large lump 39 Pool 47 Anti-Red grp. 56 Affected best job possible. You will have an Your unusual interests will attract opportunity to move into a better intellectual individuals. 0000
temperature

27 Lennon's love 51 Bit of flooring 58 Buck's partner 
position if you are dedicated and PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
tester

28 Ground cover? 52 Sassy one 59 West of willing to go the extra mile. 000 Don't overreact. Things aren't as
40 Pair of sweaters
29 Norman 54 Wading bird 'Tinseltown LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You they appear. Act compassionately 
worn together

Thomas's party: will be in a creative frame of and affectionately toward others Abbr. 41 Comment alter mind. Let your imagination wan­and focus on holding relation­a difficult Answers to any clues in this puzzle are der and you should be able to ships together, not tearing them
30 Meadow sound 
come up with some insightful apart.0034 "Fancy that!" 
decision available by touch-tone phone: 

42 Athlete Jim 1 ·900·285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
A B E L 35 Kind of sleep 
Birthday Baby: You are definitely not a follower. You are not con­
43 Addiction source Annual subscriptions are available for the 
cerned with being a leader; you just want to do your own thing. You're 
D I L L E W E A R Davis Cup 44 Liqueur best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
inquisitive, challenging and competitive by nature. 
EELS MA STE captain flavorers years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports National Sports
OBSERVER 

. Berchou Column, p. 15 
. MLB Contraction, p. 12 
. 
licandro Column p. 17 . Astros, p. 14 

. 
SMC Basketball p. 14 



PORTS 
Wednesday, February 6, 2002 

FOOTBALL CLASS OF 2006 
Notre Dame still awaiting 3 decisions 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spons Writer 
Three coaches and many months of recruiting later, Notre Dame is still wait­ing. 
Later todav, several of the Notre Dame's top football recruits -iucluding Lorenzo BookPr. Dedrick Harrington and Hhema McKnight -~viii announce where they will being playing football next fall. 
Despite the coaching controversy late last year, the Irish have clone vci'ry well recruiting so far. according to recruit analyst Max Emfinger. 
"I think they're making up a lot of ground." said Emfinger. 'Tve got them 15th in the country. I think it's great for getting a late start and losing a lot of 
momentum because the period of time when they didn't have a coach." 
Today ·is the first day high school seniors can sign a letter of intent to receive a scholarship to play college foot­ball. Sm'eral players have already verbal­ly committed 1.o the Irish but 11othing is binding µntil they sign their otlicial letter of intent. 
So far. most recruiting analysts haven't been blown away by Notre Dame's early commitments but the Irish can still vastly improve their recruiting class by landing a player such as Booker. 
Booker, rated by many experts as the best running back in the country, has narrowed his choices down to USC, UCLA, Washington, Florida State and Notre Dame. Booker will be a difference maker wherever he goes, says Emfinger. 
"lle's a super player," said Emfinger. "Ho's awesome. lie could very well play running back. I've always fell he'd be belier utilizecl as a slot receiver because of his size, But you'vP. got to be able to get the ball into his hands because he can make a difftH'Cnce." 
According to SuperPrep nicrniting ana­lyst Allen Wallace, new Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham is the only rea­son Rooker is considering playing for Notre Dame al this point in the recruiting process. 
"It's because of' IWillingham's] pres­ence that he has the ability to sign or <H'Pll go after. someono like Lorenzo Booker who would not been considering ND at this stage in the gamri," said Wallace. "Ir he gets Lorenzo Booker, that will be the def1ning stamp made by Ty 

Willingham. That will be the key recruit of all the recruits in the entire class." Booker will announce his decision tonight al 6:30 p.m. on ESPNNcws. 
The Irish also have a very good chance of inking wide receiver and safety Harrington. Harrington, rated by most recruiting analysts as one of the top 50 players in the nation, runs the 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds and can play almost anywhere on the field. 
"![e's a versatile athlelP. Hight now we have him penciled in as a wide rncciver but he can play other positions depend-. ing upon what a program needs," said Wallace. 
llurringlon will choose from either Missouri or Notre Dame. 
see RECRUITS/page 18 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish make history in victory 
• Ratay, Batteast lead as Notre Dame tops Pitt 68-56 

By KATIE McVOY Associate Spom Editor 
It was a milestone game for the Irish on Tuesday as they defeated the Pittsburgh Panthers 68-58. The win marked the 500th win in the program's history, making the Irish the fourth Big East team to reach that mark. It also tied Notre Dame with Boston College for second place in the Big East. 
After a close victory at Seton Hall on Saturday, the 12-point win was an improvement. Led by solid play from Jackie Batteast, Teresa Borton and Alicia Ratay, Notre Dame looked more comfortable as it took home its fourth consecu­tive victory. 
"We feel like we're definitely moving in the right direction," assistant coach Kevin McGuff said. "We 're gaining some momentum as we head into the rest of the season." 
B&.tteast recorded her 10th double-double of the season, scoring 16 points and grab­bing 12 rebounds. She man­aged to avoid any fouls until late in the second half, allow­ing her to go after important rebounds. 
"She is such an important part of this team she needs to be smart and stav out of foul trouble," McGuf( said. "That comes with maturity." 
Although the Irish had a 15­point lead in the first half, the 
see WOMEN/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish run into hot Knights 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
It always seems like Notre Dame has the misfortune of playing top Big East oppo­nents when they're on a roll. 
Back in early January, the 
Irish beat a  Pittsburgh team  
that was on  a  10-0 run. The  
then-No.  7  Syracuse  

Orangemen beat the Irish in .January to win their ninth­straight. And bcl'cirn losing to the Irish for tlrn second time last week, No. 21 Pittsburgh had easily beaten Syracuse by 15 points and Georgetown by 11. 
Tonight, 15-6 Notre Dame hosts another rod-hot oppo­nent in 14-7 Rutgers, who is coming off back-to-back wins against Top 25 l'oes. 
"We have run into a few teams when they've been on a roll, and Rutgers is certainly one of the hottest t1mms in the league," Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey said. "They're a very confident team." 
Last week, the Scarlet Knights knocked off No. 22 Connecticut 61-5a, who was previously undefeated in Big East play. Last Saturday. Rutgers handled No. 10 Syracuse 82-74. 
"The wins thev've had arc just huge," guard Matt Carroll said. "It makes them real dan­gerous. They can beat any-
see MEN/page 16 


. Men's Basketball vs. Rutgers, Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. SMC Basketball at Hope College, Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
online 

. Hockey at Michigan State, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Swimming vs. Cleveland State, Saturday, 2 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 






