
VOL. XXXVII NO. 22 HTTP://OS-SERVER.ND.EDU 
New honor code packs a powerful punch 
. Website to be used to check students' papers for plagarism 
By CAITLIN EARLY News Writer 
The University contracted the services of an online plagia­rism-detection company as part of dramatic changes to N o t r e Dame's Academic Code of H o n o r Handbook. 
Beginning this fall, Turnitin.­c o m enables professors and faculty members to submit a student's paper and to receive a set of "Originality Education Association, there Reports" within 24 hours, has been a steady increase in revealing if any Internet docu­computer-related cheating on ments or resources are used in college campuses during the student's work. recent years. 


"The n e w Handbook reflects the most sig­nificant changes to N o t r e Dame's honor code since its inception in 1989," said Rev. J o h n Jenkins, 
"The new Handbook reflects the most significant changes to Notre Dame's honor code since its inception in z989.,, 
John Jenkins Associate Provost 
Through Turnitin.com, the University seeks to address the overwhelming 
problem  of  
Internet  pla­ 
giarism  that  

continues to plague Notre Dame and many other colleges throughout the country. 
associate provost and co-chair "The University hopes that of the University Honor Code the availability of this service Committee, in his letter outlin­will both serve as a deterrent ing the provisions made to the to students tempted to plagia­Handbook. rize and allow faculty to grade 
According to a survey con­papers with greater assurance ducted by the National that the work truly is the stu­dent's own," said Professor Thomas Flint, faculty honor code officer, in his recent letter to the faculty. 
Other changes to Honor Code 
focus on the organiza­tional struc­ture of the H o n o r Committee and the increased role of stu­d e n t involvement. 
In years past, all individual academic departments 

were responsible for handling incidences of honor code viola­tion. 
Under the new provisions of the Honor Code, all reports on Honor Code cases will be passed on to the Provost before a hearing can begin. This ensures a standardized proce­dure for each Honor Code hearing. 
The Honor Code Committee, 

"The University hopes that the availability of this service will ... serve as a deterrent to students tempted to plagarize. ,, 
Thomas Flint Faculty Honor Code Officer 
consisting of six faculty members and six students, will work with the different colleges to ensure that Honor Code policies remain con­sistent across the depart­ments. 
In addition. the revised 
Handbook now requires that departmental honesty commit­tees have a majority of student members. 
Contact Caitlin Early at Caitlin.J.Early.2@nd.edu 


By CRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 

At Tuesday's lecture, "Will Enron or Saddam Dominate this Year's Election?" E.J. Dionne, Jr. Washington Post columnist and senior fellow of the Brookings Institute, discussed the shift in political ter­rain that has occurred in recent months. 
The corporate scandals of Enron, Arthur Andersen, and WorldCom dominated Jay Leno's and David Letterman's political jokes three months ago, said Dionne. Yet in recent weeks, the political focus in America has changed toward the possibility of war against Iraq. 
Dionne said most of the elections in both Houses will be close among Democrats and Republicans. "The key question," said Dionne, "is whether the focus stays on war or returns to the issues that were so dominant in the country this fall." 
The Bush administration's current focus is the possi­ble war with Iraq. Dionne supports the ongoing attempts toward tough weapons inspections as an alternative to war. He discussed issues involving how to wage war and with whom to be allies. He said Washington must consider what can happen in the long run and whether there really is potential for a positive outcome for the United States, Iraq and the world. 
Dionne discussed the new patriotism that developed after Sept. 11 but has somewhat diminished in recent months. Dionne attributes part of this decline in national unity as well as worldwide solidarity to Bush having lost the opportunity to maintain his aftermath popularity. Instead, he has allowed much of it to dissi­pate into division over the war issue. 
Several Democrats would like the emphasis of America's political climate to return to their agenda of the economic downturn, dipping stock market, pre­scription drugs and Social Security. said Dionne. 
see DIONNE/page 4 

Frosh election moves to runoff 
. Voters will choose between Winston and Bauer Thursday 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD News Writer 
Tuesday's Saint Mary's freshman class elec­tions resulted in a run-off election between the Becky Winston/Kathleen McMorrow ticket, which earned 30.1 percent of votes, and the Anna Bauer/Liz Goers ticket, which won 23 percent. The run-off election will be Thursday. 
The two tickets defeated four others in the election. The other tickets included Maureen Zimmer/Jenny Betti with 18.6 percent of the vote, Kristen Vokaty/Clare Hoyt with 12.3 per­cent, Janet Brace/Colleen Hackett with 8.8 per­cent and Megan Conway/Crystal Schauf with 6.4 percent. 
Half of the freshman class 
"It was a great turnout, 
participated in the election. "It and I'm very excited for 
was a great that. Hopefully that 
turnout, and 
many, or even more. will
I'm very excit­ed for that. turn out again on 
Hopefully that Thursday.,, many, or even more will turn out again on Alison Joseph 
Thursday," Elections Coordinator said Alison Joseph, elec­tions coordinator. 
The winning tickets each plan to improve class unity though a variety of different ways. 
Winston and McMorrow would like to add a "Fresh" approach to the year with class slumber parties, tailgates, and apparel. "Vote for us and we'll be the 'freshest' class in the school," Winston said. 
Bauer and Goers want to get class feedback based on an input survey. They also hope to plan community service projects and formals, and integrate the freshman class with Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
see ELECTION/page 4 
Wednesday, September 25, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Home alone 
The panes ofmy bedroom window shook from the clamor of a passing train and the music playing next door, but I'm sure it was the stillness inside the house that stirred me from my late-afternoon nap. 
There's something wmeIVing about a quiet house at 5 in the afternoon. 
At 20, I like to think that left to my own devices, I'm mature and respon­sible. But throw a big, empty house into the picture, and I immediately fall to pieces. It's a shame, really. 
To be honest, when I woke up Tuesday afternoon -to the sound of, well, nothing-I wasn't sure Iwas in the right house. 
But was Ihome alone? Ifnot, where was creak ofhousemates going up and down stairs from the first to third floors and in between? Where was the sound ofsimulat­ed pandamonium that typically travels to every corner of the house during hours of "Halo" or "NCAA Football 2003" play on xBox? 
A quick check downstairs confinned my worse fear: The place was deserted. Incidentally, a slight breeze coming through an open window did blow an empty beer can across the downstairs hall­way, but Iguess that doesn't really count 
Something was definitely awry. The way I figured, with 10 housemates, the odds of nine of them being gone at the same time were very slim. 
Iknow! They were playing an elaborate game of hide-and-seek, Ithought. No, their cars weren't outside. Gone to Paris for 01.ristmas vacation? No, that was "Home Alone." Well, the fridge was looking a little empty. Could this have been a beer run gone tenibly, tenibly wrong? 
Iknew I'd have my answer by 6:30 p.m., when a syndicated episode of "Seinfeld" came on. We were all suckers for that show. 
In the meantime, I couldn't help feeling a little like Macaulay Culkin, the hero ofthe "Home Alone" movies. He awoke to find himselfalone in a remote part of the house. Ihad, too. He recognized the challenges and the ultimate rewards of living with a house full of people. And at that moment. I was, too. He starred in "Richie Rich," acted in questionable "Home Alone" sequels and now is a washed-up former child star. And I realized that being home by myself maybe wasn't a fate as bad as that 
As luck would have it, housemates ­and not Joe Pesci or some other burglar who can't dodge paint cans -started com­ing through the door. Before long, the video game system was on, the music was play­ing and dinner was cooking. 
Things were nice and loud, just as they should have been. Fmally, I thought, I could get some sleep. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Contact Jason McFarley at jmcfarle@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Sept. 24 story, "NDSP responds to 3 crimes," the three suspects in the Saturday morning assault case were inaccurate. They were a 6-feet-3 black male. a 5-feet-10 black 
male and a 6-foot-4 white male. 

In Monday's story, "Domus Properties 
sponsors housing fair," Domus Properties 
was incorrectly identified as an off-campus 
management company for Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's. 

In Monday's article, "Students debate 10­
year plan," the strategic planning initiative. "Notre Dame 2010: A Quest for Leadership," originated in the University administration 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT

NEWS NATION NEWS 
Leave the cell 

Are ethics in
Thirty killed In
Conference on 
phone at
crisis?

ethics to be 
Hindu temple 
home

held at Notre 
shooting 
Dame 
Student gives her

Notre Dame will 
Milton Cole, CEO 
As Hindus wor­
list of grievances as

welcome several 
shipped in an 
of Hardwood Cole, 
Inc, addressed the 
to why cell phones

prominent philoso­
Indian temple, 
phers this weekend 
crises in business 
destroy personal

attackers opened 
for its third annual 
fire. 
ethics. 
relationships. 

ethics conference. 
page 7 
page 11

page 6 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Student Senate Preview: Libby Bishop, Student Body President, will deliver the State of the Union address and the Office of Information Technologies will provide an update, Notre Dame Hoom LaFortune, 6 p.m. 

. 
IHISllcalth \Vellness Program, "Arc Golfing. Fishing, and Hunting Good for Your Health?" Notre Daine Boom LaFortunc, 12:10 to 12:50 p.m. 

. 
"Children and Armed Conflict: Implications for Peace building," Michael \Vcssclls. professor of psychology, Handolph Macon College, llesburgh Center Auditorium, 7 p.m. 


I 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
"Catholic Identity: Continuing the Conversation," Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall, 3:30 p.n1. 

. 
Office of Multicultural Affairs play: "I Get the Blues," Little Theatre, 


7p.m. 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Tomato soup, tortilla soup, bianco pizza, honey garlic pork chops, white beans with ham, collard greens, cherry crisp, julienned sauteed vegetables. baked lemon perch, veg­etable rice pilaf, szechuan vegan noo­dles, breakfast ham , cheese enchilada, scrambled eggs 
Today Dinner: Tortilla soup, mine­strone soup, bianco pizza, buffalo chicken wings. macaroni and cheese, green beans, cherry crisp, pork fried rice, breaded cheddar scrod, tofu jerk, lentil stew an barley, baked sweet pota­to, BBQ rib sandwich, chicken tamale 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, broccoli cuts, sliced carrots, peas, roasted vegeta­bles, pasta primavera, spinach, chick­en and dumplings, baked haddock jar­diniere, teriyaki marinade London broil, Philly steak sandwich, steak house fries, sweet and sour chicken 
Today Dinner: Roasted potatoes, noodles romanoff, roast beef hash, canned sauerkraut, turkey broccoli bake, pork loin with apples, cherry crisp, blazin' sea nuggets, steak house fries, onion rings, cantonese BBQ chicken, chicken and cheese chimichanga 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
c::: 
w 
::c 
~ 
w 
~ 
...I 
c( 
(,) 





0 

..J HIGH 77 HIGH HIGH 61 LOW 58 LOW LOW 42 
70 
54 
74 
51 
HIGH LOW 

SCENE 
Is the ultimate form of procrastination really useless? 
C. Spencer Beggs tackles the question of whether or not technology such as Instant Messenger is useless. 
page 12 
SPORTS 
Fonner Heisman Trophy winner Leon Hart dies 
Former Notre Dame football player and 1949 Heisman Trophy winner, Leon Hart died Tuesday. 
page 24 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Lonely monitor found on 
bencli 
A computer monitor was found out­side of McKenna Hall on a bench Monday evening. The monitor was brought to NDSP for safekeeping. No other computer parts were found in the vicinity. 
Cars crash in parking lot 
Two cars collide in the Cl parking lot Monday. No one was injured in the traffic altercation. 
Whirlwind whisked to 
hospital 
A student from Welsh Family Hall was taken to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment for an illness Monday. 
Student caught speeding 
NDSP stopped a student for speed­ing on Notre Dame Avenue Monday. The student was issued a state cita­tion for speeding. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Computer cyber wrap, herb cous cous, buttered skillet slaw, baked beans, cheddar biscuit, coconut shrimp with citrus rice pilaf, fruit and cheese bar, chicken nuggets, extreme french fries, chef;s vegetables, french bred pizza, roasted red pepper hum­mus 
Today Dinner: Chers pasta, BBQ vegetable tofu, mesquite rice pilaf, herb and cheese biscuit, omelets or eggs cooked to order with hash browns, vegetarian pasties, chicken cobbler, ham and scalloped potatoes, hot apple cobbler, carved roast beef, mashed potatoes, braised cabbage 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 62 LOW 48 


with student government inclusion, not stu­
Atlanta 72 / 65 Boston 70 I 57 Chicago 78 / 57 Denver 69 / 43 Houston 86 / 67 Los Angeles 86 / 63 Minneapolis 61 / 45 
dent government. 

New York 73 / 60 Philadelphia 76 / 60 Phoenix 104 / 78 Seattle 72 / 46 St. Louis 81 / 62 Tampa 87 / 77 Washington 75 / 63 

---~ 

Wednesday, September 25, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC lecturer discusses humanity's source of wisdom 
By NATALIE BAILEY  feelings, said Searle. It is most important and difficult to have  tions are a barrier to our true feelings but with interiority they  The otherness of the other is a source of wisdom," Searle said.  child abuse, kidnapping and so on," she said. "While we would  
News Writer  interiority  are  con­ Searle  said  rituals  are  a  like to console ourselves with  
The Center for Spirituality Fall Lecture Series "Sources of Wisdom in Troubled Times" continued Tuesday with Dr. Barbara Searle's presentation of  when har­boring negative emotions. 0 f t e n humans  ..People are different; we are each a world unto ourselves. The otherness ofthe other is a source ofwisdom. ,,  verted to a source of self wis­dom, said Searle. R e l a - source of human wisdom. "Humans have a deep need for repetitive behaviors. The Christian ritual of Eucharist pro­vides a level of ritual we are in need for now more than ever.  the thought that these times are no worse than the past, there is a nagging sense that things could get worse. Today we come for wisdom in these troubled times."  
"Experience  as  a  Source of  develop  tionships  We stand before God with the  Searle, a psychologist with an  
Wisdom." The focus of her lecture was the way wisdom may comes to  secondary emotions, or accept­ Barbara Searle psychologist  with oth­ers are another  needs of humanity and receive sustenance and leave with a sense of purpose."  independent practice in South Bend and Elkhart, has her mas­ter's degree in liturgy and her  
humans through interiority.  able  reac­ source  of  Searle also reflected upon cur­ doctorate in psychology.  
relationship and ritual.  tionary  wisdom.  rent events. "These truly are  
Interiority calls for the human  emotions that interiority can  "People are different; we are  troubled times with Sept. 11.  Contact Natalie Bailey at  
to turn inward despite negative  uncover. These secondary emo- each a world unto ourselves.  reports of international war,  baill 407@nd.edu  




Ownthes 

To fly is one thing. To fly with the Marine Corps is some­thing else. They'll show you the meaning of wings. From the wings of the F-18 Hornet to the wings you wear as Marine aviator, this is flying at its best. And your ticket to fly is your college diploma. If you'd like to be up there, contact your local Marine Officer Selection Officer. 

SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
FOR DETAll.S CALL 
CAPf. 1Y ERICKSEN 1-800-362-7592 
OSOLAN@9MCD.USMC. MU, 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
www.Marines.com 
2002 

'REACB CO~PS!.·
\At.  .  .  .  
.,... '.(  .  • IT'S A a7•MONTH COMMITMENT .YOU EARN A MONn!LYSTIPEND ,.HEALTH)HSU~USl'AIOFOR • .UPON COMPLETION, rou HAVE 1-Y  


If you are unable to attend: 
STOP BY OUR TABLE AT:THE POST-GRAD SERVICE FAIR WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 25, 5:30 ~ 8:30 P.M. 
I 

wwir,peacerorps.gov 


Barbara Searle spoke Tuesday at Saint Mary's as part of the Center for Spirituality Fall Lecture Series "Sources of Wisdom in Troubled Times." Her presentation, "Experience as a Source of Wisdom," focused on wisdom In relation to humanity. 

Little Feat 

ca01pus shoppes -1011110 & countrv bellev111e center -1111estern avenue 
Wednesday, September 25, 2002 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Election 
continued from page I 
Both tickets will continue to campaign through Thursday's run-off election, and are excit­ed to continue forward. 
"We're anxious to let our class know who we are, what we stand for and to represent them," Bauer said. 
In addition to selecting presi­dential candidates. Tuesday's voting allotted eight women positions on Freshman Class Board. Colleen Bruen, Lauren 
Dionne 
continued from page I 
November's congressional elec­tions present the opportunity for these issues to be raised again. 
Dionne said youth could change the country's politics through a call to service and community building. He said 

Condon, Elisabeth Kulinski, Danielle Lerner, Amy Martin, Amy Oliva, Chelsea Rahn and Jackie Wright will each serve on the board throughout the year. 
There still remain five at­large positions available on the board which will be filled by the elected president and vice­president. 
Final elections will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
the under-30 generation, par­ticularly Notre Dame students, couple these aspirations of ser­vice with politics to transform the nation. 
This lecture was part of the Washington Program's Hanley Lecture Series on Politics and Public Policy. 
Contact Cristina Cepero at ccepero@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's prepares for visit 
+ Former Ireland president to give lecture 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 

Saint Mary's students and faculty attended an informa­tion reception Tuesday for the upcoming lecture by Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland and United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. 
Christopher Shannon, pro­fessor of anthropology and social work, led the discus­sion, sponsored by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. 
"President of the People" Harvard University. Robinson took the presiden­"After studying at Harvard cy of Ireland from more than University, Robinson saw just a ceremonial position to law as a chance for her to a position with real influ­make changes," Shannon ence in pol-said. itics. She F r o m marked her 1969 to
"She ultimately led 
presidency 1 9 8 9 , 
w i t h Ireland into a culturally Robinson 
humanitar­diverse world, continuing was a ian causes member of
her stance on human 
a n d S e a n a d 
ground­rights.,, Eireann, breaking the Upper visits to House of
Christopher Shannon 
Northern Parliament.
professor of anthropology
Ireland and Robinson 
G r e a t Britain. 

"She ultimately led Ireland into a culturally diverse world, continuing her stance 
"This [was] an informal and relax­ing recep­tion to dis­cuss Mary Robinson's political c a r e e r leading to her posi­tion as United Nations High Com­mission­

"This [was} an informal and relaxing reception to discuss Mary Robinson ·s political career leading to her position as United Nations High Commissioner. ·· 
Christopher Shannon professor of anthropology 
. 

on human rights," Shannon said. 
Robinson, born on May 21, 1944 in Ballina, County Mayo, was educated at Trinity College, Dublin, where she received a Master of 
ran as an 
indepen­dent party candidate, work­ing with the Labour party. 
She maintained her inde­pendent status and tackled issues of gender equality, economics and terrorism in Northern Ireland. 
"Robinson had to work for women's rights so that women could earn equal pay and to break down the mar­riage ban, which allowed 
single women  to be fired  
once  they  married,"  
Shannon said.  
Robinson's  lecture  
"Leadership  in  an  

Intercultural World" is Oct. 3 at 7 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium, admission is free, but tickets are required. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


er," Shannon said. · In December 1990, Robinson was inaugurated as the seventh president of Ireland. Known as the Arts degree in 1970. 
She also earned a barris­ter-at-law degree from the King's Inns, Dublin, and a masters of law degree from 

~·ree 
APARTMENTS· WEARENOW TAKING APPLICATIONSroR 
THE 2003-04 SCHOOL YEARf 
YOU CAN GET YOUR APPLICA'fIONS AT lVWW,JURTLECREEKND.COM OR 
YOU CAN VISIT lTS AT THE LEASING OFFICE! 
WE ALSO lIAVE SELEC'f STUDIOS .A..V AlLABLE FOR EITHER THE REMAINDER OF THIS SEMESTER, NEXT SEMESTER AND EVEN BOTH!! 
GO ONLINE OR PICK UP YOUR APPLICATIONS TODAY! 
·ruRTLE CREEK AP.ARTMENTS 1710 TURTLE CREEK DRIVE SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 P: 574-272-8124 ":tf.WW.TURTLECREEKND.CQM 



Wednesday, September 25, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INDIA 
Attackers murder 30 in Hindu temple shooting 
Associated Press 
GANDHINAGAR 

Attackers sprayed gunfire through a temple crowded with Hindu worshippers Tuesday, killing at least 30 people and fueling fears of new rioting in western India, where vicious religious clashes between Muslims and Hindus killed 1,000 people earlier this year. 
Hours after the attack, the gunmen remained in control of part of the Swaminarayan tem­ple complex -and some wor­shippers were still inside, offi­cials said. Bloody bodies were carried away on stretchers and many wounded limped out, their clothes stained with blood. About 45 people were wounded. 
Hundreds of commandos swarmed into the sprawling temple complex after the attackers stormed in, setting up positions around the main temple, said R.B. Brahmabhatt, the city's acting police chief. 
A senior police official inside the complex, speaking on his mobile phone, said between 40 and 50 people had been taken hostage. 
There were two attackers inside, and security forces were "waiting until they exhaust their ammunition," to 
launch their offensive, said 
G.M. Singhal, another official involved in the operation. 
Deputy Prime Minister Lal K. Advani, speaking to reporters in New Delhi, described the shooting as a suicide attack. He said the attackers, armed with hand grenades and AK-47 rifles, had taken up positions on the roof of a building inside the complex. 
Hospital officials said 30 peo­ple were dead, including at least six women and four chil­dren. The wounded included five police officers who were hit by bullets. 
"The terrorists are still inside," Advani said. He said 500 people had been evacuat­ed from the complex. 
Advani said the attack appeared tied to state elections being held Tuesday in north­ern Jammu-Kashmir state, the only majority Muslim state in largely Hindu India. 
"The enemies of the nation feel that the developments in Jammu and Kashmir are strengthening India's view­point, and that a big attack could divert attention from there. I see in this a very delib­erate design," he said. 
He did not elaborate. India alleges that its neighbor, Pakistan, sponsors Muslim ter­rorists in Indian territory. Islamabad denies it. 

Gujarat police take up a position on the main gate of the Akshardham temple yesterday after gunmen stormed the facility. The attack is the result of religious clashes between Hindus and Muslims that have already claimed many lives in western India. 
While no group immediately that Islamic rebels would be burning fire. There will be claimed responsibility for the blamed -which could set off trouble in the riot-prone attack, and government offi-anti-Muslim mob violenc·e and areas," said Maya Desai, a col­cials were careful not to make spiral into widespread sectari­lege student in Ahmadabad, accusations, fears spread an unrest. about 15 miles from the attack across western Gujarat state "This is adding kerosene to a site. 
ENGLAND 
Blair indicates gravity of Iraqi threat to Parliament 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Iraq has a growing arsenal of chemical and biological weapons. and plans to use them, Prime Minister Tony Blair said 
Tuesday, unveiling  an  intelligence  
dossier  to  a  special  session  of  
Parliament.  

Blair. who also said Iraq is trying to develop nuclear weapons, told lawmak­ers his priority is to get inspectors back into Iraq. But he repeatedly expressed enthusiasm for the U.S. goal of "regime change" in Baghdad. 
"Iraq, the region and the whole world would he better off' without Saddam Hussein, Blair said in releasing the dossier. which asserts the Iraqi leader has weapons of mass destruction ready to be used within 45 minutes of an order to fight. 
"There is no way that this man, in this region above all regions, could begin a conflict using such weapons and the con­sequences not engulf the whole world," Blair told a packed House of Commons. 
Baghdad rejected the British analysis, which also said Iraq was trying to extend the range of its ballistic missiles. 
"The British prime minister is serving the campaign of lies led by Zionists against Iraq. Blair is part of this mislead­ing campaign," Iraqi Culture Minister Hammed Youssef Hammadi said in Baghdad. 
In Cairo, Iraqi Foreign Minister Naji Sabri denied Iraq has or is developing weapons of mass destruction. and said Blair was trying to justify a military attack against Baghdad. 
"Weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons cannot be hidden in a pocket," Sabri said at Cairo airport after delivering a message to Mubarak from Saddam. 
French President Jacques Chirac and Chinese Prime Minister Zhu Rongji both 
said the U.N. Security Council must play a vital role in the crisis. "I do not think at all that war is unavoidable." Chirac said, adding that 
U.N. weapons inspectors must be allowed to find out what Saddam has. 
"Any military attack on Iraq that does not have the blessing of the Security Council "will lead to severe conse­quences," Zhu said. 
The White House called the dossier "frightening" and praised Blair for his strong defense of the U.S.-led efforts against Saddam. "We don't trust this man, and that's what the Blair report showed today," President Bush said. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Violence deters voting in Kashmir: 
Voters in Indian-controlled Kashmir's largest city stayed away from the polls Tuesday, scared off by Islamic militants demanding a boycott of state leg­islative elections or refusing on principle to cast their ballots. Though turnout in the second round of state elections was only 11 percent in Srinagar, vot­ers in the Jammu and Badgam regions were less daunted, boosting turnout in the three districts that voted Tuesday to 42 percent. Near the 15th century mosque in Srinagar, the largest city in Kashmir, a lone woman was the only person who turned out at one polling station. 
Israel defies U.N. and continues siege: 
Israel defied a U.N. Security Council demand Tuesday to end its six-day siege of Vasser Arafat's devastated West Bank headquarters, and nine Palestinians were killed in an Israeli strike against alleged munitions factories and other targets in Gaza City. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. sending troops to West Africa: 
U.S. troops headed to West Africa on Tuesday to safeguard 100 American school children holed up in a rebel-held city after the bloodiest-ever upris­ing in the Ivory Coast. Frightened residents reported heavy artillery and gunfire. French troops moved closer to the central city of Bouake as well. ready to rescue their nationals and other Westerners if it appears they could be caught in a cross fire between government troops and rene­gade forces who launched the coup attempt Thursday. 
Bush lowers terror alert to yellow: 
President Bush lowered the nationwide "high risk" terror alert hack to code yellow -"signifi­cant risk" -on Tuesday. Administration officials credited the arrests of suspected terrorists from Buffalo to Pakistan to Bahrain, while warning that the danger of another attack remains. 
West Nile vaccine may come in 3 years: 
A vaccine to protect the elderly from West Nile virus · could he available in as little as three years, and a way to test the blood supply against the infection might be in place next summer, federal scientists told Congress on Tuesday. The mosquito•horne virus has infected 2,000 people in 32 states so far this year and killed 98. Particularly worrisome are recent discoveries that West Nile apparently can be spread through blood transfusions if someone donates blood shortly after becoming infected, and that it occasionally causes a polio-like paralysis. 
Tropical storm threatens U.S. Gulf Coast: 
Cajun fishing towns cleared out, Navy ships steamed out for the open sea and inland hotels began filling up as Tropical Storm Isidore strength­ened Tuesday and headed toward the Gulf Coast. The storm has already left two people dead and 300,000 homeless in Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. 


page6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
ND to 
host ethics 
conference 
By MATI BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will host prominent moral philoso­phers and ethicists at the Center for Ethics and Culture third annual conference. "From Death to Life: Agendas for Reform." 
The conference will feature papers dealing with the practical applications of ethics in contemporary cul­ture. Among the issues that will be discussed are health care reform. the future of Christian higher education and the recent scandals plaguing the Catholic Church in the U.S. The conference is the last in a triennial series put on by the center, headed by Notre Dame professor David Solomon 
"Given the current situa­tion [in Iraq], a discussion of just war and pacifism will likely be a big draw," Solomon said. 
A panel of experts, includ­ing Russell Hittinger of the University of Tulsa, will defend just war theory. Notre Dame's Fr. Michael Baxter will argue for the abolition of armed conflict. 
The talks will be geared toward a general audience. Professionals, academics, clerics and undergrads will all find something to enjoy, Solomon said. 
Over 140 papers were sub­mitted for inclusion in the event and 80 were accepted, including two by Notre Dame undergraduates Torn Feeney and Kaitlyn Dudley. Undergraduates from Baylor University, Boston College and the University of St. Thomas in Minneapolis are each sending delegations. 
In 2000, the conference dealt with what Pop(:') John Paul II has termed the "cul­ture of death.., Last year's conference focused on build­ing the concept of the "cul­ture of life ... This year's event will provide an oppor­tunity to bridge the two, Solomon said. 
The conference will begin Thursday in McKenna Hall, and it will end with mass in Sacred Heart Basilica on Saturday. 
Registration, available online at www.nd.edu/-nde­thics, is free for Notre Dame students and faculty and includes catered meals. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
got news? 
call 
1-5323 

Nancy Reagan: Husband's memory gone 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Nancy Reagan says her hus­band, in the advanced stages of Alzheimer's disease, may not even recognize her anymore. 
In a CBS "60 Minutes II" interview, the former first lady said Ronald Reagan's disease has robbed the couple of their post-White House golden years. The interview will be broadcast Wednesday. 
The 91-year-old former pres­ident spends his days secluded in his Bel-Air home in Mrs. Reagan's care. Asked if her 
Pageant's questions offensive 
Associated Press 

MORRISTOWN, N.J. 
A Miss America pageant judge was wrong to ask Miss New Jersey about her views on "The Sopranos, "the con­testant and some Italian­American groups said. 
The judge asked Alicia Renee Luciano what she thought about the show dur­ing an interview segment of Saturday night 's pageant in Atlantic City. 
Luciano, 19, answered that people shouldn't take televi­sion shows seriously. and that good parenting should offset violence on TV. 
"It was a question that I don 't think they would ask of anyone, other than someone with my background," she told The Daily Record of Parsippany for Tuesday 's edi­tions. The Byram resident is believed to be the first Italian­American to represent New Jersey in the pageant. 
"I wasn't expecting that," Luciano said. "Everyone else was getting questions about how they felt about perfor­mance dance and the arts." 
Graduate Research Fellowship Notre Dame Faculty and a representative from the NSF will be Information Session on hand to discuss the award, the application process and answer your questions regarding this prestigious fellowship. 
Wednesday, September 25th DeBartolo 102, 6:00-7:00 
Juniors, Seniors, 1" Year Grad Student & 2nd Year Grad Students 
in the Social Sciences, Sciences, Engineering & Mathematics are 
encouraged to attend. 
The fellowship provides support for 3 years ofgraduate study, 
$21, 500stipend for twelve-month tenure; cost of-educa­
tion allowance of $10,500per tenure year; and a one-time 
$1 000International Research Travel Allowance. 
For more information contact the Office of Undergraduate & 
Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships at 631-0372 or 
fellows@nd.edu 
husband even knows who she said. 
is, she said, "I don't know." Ronald Reagan's memory "The golden years are when loss also has taken the joy out 
you can sit b a c k , hopefully, a n d exchange memories, and that's the worst part about this dis­e a s e : there's nobody to exchange 
memories with ... and we had a there were times when I had to lot of memories," Mrs. Reagan catch myself because I'd reach 
Sharagami • Brighton i; -~';iif::i:/>/{"
·. 

Tracy Ree~ •.. Poaec:i'. Petit Pois: .... i '/fr>... :;; ,. " . rus10 barcG!ona • Nomination$ 
tibi • Cynthia Swffe Nally and M,We • BCBG 
.....·~ Betse~· Johnson • Ray,m~ Paris ·,·J·njr.i·red & _Ji·red
Adr,iano Goldschmied 
. -~·... :-::t.J :( ~ . 
. -..~-· •.,.. . . ~·c ..­
·,'.HatveyS sa4tbatt b'ags .· ·· 
INSPIRE MEI INSPIRED AND RRED 
Downtown South Bend Granger Area 528 E. Colfax, Suite 12 312 ¥/. Cleveland' ' Rd. South Bend, IN 46617 Granger, IN 4.6~30 
574/232-1822 5 7 4/277-6693 
of mile­stone occa­
"The golden years are when sions, like you can sit back, hopefully, the cou­
ple's 50th
and exchange memories, and 
wedding
that's the worst part about anniver­sary March
this disease. •· 
4. "I'd love 
Nancy Reagan 
to be able 
fonner first lady to talk to him about it, and 

" I{. ?
C.... Y·""' "" .,.,. i( ~,;,,.,p, f.~.._.., lliiJ ~.,.,,., ,,ii .,t.;.f,q,1. ll,,J .....J 

.. 
. 
. 
~{ 
i 

·;. ,. ',+:,.:;'.:.'~~!"·• 

.~ <::J•./..:,r: :: 

\'! , ', i \:(}I ) 
t 
out and start to say, 'Honey, remember when?'" Mrs. Reagan said. 
Although Mrs. Reagan is vis­ited regularly by daughter Patti Davis, the former first lady said she is lonely. 
"Yes, it's lonely, because really, you know, when you come right down to it, you're in it alone and there's nothing that anybody can do for you," Mrs. Reagan said. 
The nation's 40th chief exec­utive has been seen in public only rarely since his poignant 1994 letter announcing to the world that he had the memory­sapping disease. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, September 25, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 23 
Dow Jones 

{@f -113.87
7,872.15 
'
NASDAQ 

1,184.93 ' -36.16 
S&P500 

833.70 ' -11.69 
AMFX 

831.54 
-9.60 
NYSE 

453.78 -5.19 
, TOP 5 VOLUME ' LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:rsco SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0. 99 -0 .12 11. 9· 
¦¦.~filit~JIIIJf~Jill~~~t1i~~,1i!~!~ll!~llllillll 
'ALM INC (PALM) +4 .11 +0. 03 0. 7• 
m:iill.llllJil¦lll¦:l:l~ll!:l~:llr,il!!I
CNTEL CORP (INTC) -5.17 -0.77 14.1 
IN BRIEF 
W. Virginia asbestos trials begin 
Thousands of asbestos claims against two 
dozen corporations went to trial Tuesday in a 
potentially multimillion-dollar case that has 
renewed criticism of trial lawyers and 
brought demands for legal reform. 
Jury selection began Tuesday in state court. 
The case originally pitted nearly 8,000 
claimants against more than 250 corporations 
that either made asbestos products or used 
them. 
But settlement talks on Monday cut the number of defendants to 16 manufacturers, including Mobil Corp., Owens-Illinois and Westinghouse, and one company that used asbestos, Union Carbide. And about 5,000 plaintiffs were left after many reached confi­dential settlements. 
Asbestos was widely used for fireproofing and insulation by railroads, steelmakers and other heavy industries until the 1970s, when it became widely known that asbestos fibers cause cancer and other lung problems. 
FAA orders Boeing fuel pump study 
The Federal Aviation Administration is ordering airlines to inspect more fuel pumps on Boeing jets to determine if they have a flaw that could lead to an explosion. The order, signed Tuesday, expands a previous FAA advisory issued Aug. 30 that affects cer­tain Boeing 737s and all 747s and 757s, said Laura Brown, FAA spokeswoman. 
Chicago-based Boeing Co. said further investigation revealed that more of the fuel pumps than previously thought might have a certain configuration of wire bundles. The placement of the wire bundles could cause chafing and electrical shorting, Boeing said. 
"Boeing is working closely with the supplier and the FAA to resolve this issue and ensure the safety of the flying public," the company said. The pumps are made by Hydro-Aire Inc. of Burbank, Calif. There are six pumps on 737s and 757s, 16 pumps on newer 747s and 14 pumps on older 747s. 
Cole speaks on ethics in crises 
. Entrepreneur stresses unity and positivity 
By MICHAEL CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
Milton Cole, founder and CEO of hardwood supplier Hardwood Cole Inc., spoke on business ethics in times of cns1s in Jordan Auditorium Tuesday. 
In his speech, "Sharing and Caring," he discussed management related topics ranging from investment to compassion. 
Cole encouraged the audience to follow his example and said, "If you do these things that I'm talking about, you will go places. The philosophy is so simple, I often wonder why more people aren't wealthy." 
In 1988, a major fire threatened the fate of Hardwood Cole. Combining compassion with business savvy, Cole continued to pay his employees during the rebuilding process. Due to his association with a solid insurance firm, Cole cess starts with a good atti­stiff penalties are in order "Nine out of 10 are self­was able to revive his busi­
tude," said Cole. for those responsible. made millionaires, and 
ness. "I did it for the com­It is necessary to create a "They really raped some of them have done 
munity, for the people," 
sense of self-worth among investors. It is a disgrace to much better than me. I'msaid Cole about his efforts employees, said Cole. The the corporate world," said proud of that fact," said to insure that his employees success of any business is Cole. Cole of his siblings. 
would not lose their jobs. 
the result of the collabora­Born in 1935, Cole grew He founded HardwoodCole said it was important tive effort of the employees. up just north of Memphis, Cole in 1986, and attributes to adhere to a positive phi­"Your altitude will be deter­Tenn., and spent much of its success to his fair andlosophy while building a mined by your employees' his time working in various employee conscious busi­business. "One thing I feel attitude," said Cole. small, family-owned busi­ness practices. 
very, very strongly about is 
Cole estimates that he nesses. Cole said his father
that we are all in charge of lost $700,000 because of instilled good business val­Contact Michael Chambliss our destination, and sue-corporate fraud, and said ues in the rest of the family. at mchambli@nd.edu 

Steelcase will cut 800 office jobs 
Company spokesman Allan Smith Steelcase have lost their jobs since 
Associated Press 
said Monday he did not know when December 2000. 
the additional job cuts will begin. During that time, employment at 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. Workers were informed in a Steelcase has dropped more than 
Steelcase Inc. will cut 800 office newsletter that James Hackett, 44 percent in western Michigan, jobs, mostly in western Michigan, president and chief executive, from about 9,000 permanent and by February as it copes with released after the stock market temporary workers to about 5,000. increasing competitive pressure closed on Monday, The Grand The company has about 18,000 and continued soft industrywide Rapids Press reported. employees worldwide. demand for office furniture. Excluding those employees affect­The jobs announcement followed 
The latest cuts amount to 4.4 ed by Monday's announcement, the release Monday of Steelcase's percent of the funiture maker's more than 6,500 hourly, salaried financial report for the second worldwide work force. and temporary workers at quarter of fiscal 2003. 
Dynegy agrees to $3 million fine 
Dynegy agreed to the SEC's terms with no other obvious purpose. 
Associated Preu 
without admitting or denying the The SEC found that the $300 million 
HOUSTON agency's findings. The energy compa­should have been identified as financ­
Dynegy Inc. agreed Tuesday to pay ny -one of several investigated by ing rather than operating cash flow on $3 million to settle a Securities and the SEC over their trading and its annual filing for 2001 and that Exchange Commission investigation of accounting practices -is the first to Dynegy overstated net income by the a natural gas deal that improperly settle. same amount as the tax benefit. boosted the company's cash flow and Harold F. Degenhardt, administra­Dynegy spokesman John Sousa reit­into so-called "wash trades." tor of the SEC's Fort Worth office, said erated Dynegy's intention to restate 
The SEC said it found that Dynegy Dynegy deceived investors with 2001 and 2002 financial statements to engaged in securities fraud regarding Project Alpha and misled them by reflect accounting changes for Project disclosures and accounting of the five­claiming that the wash trades boosted Alpha. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP's year gas deal, dubbed Project Alpha. trading volume. re-audit of Dynegy's financial state­The Houston-based energy marketer Project Alpha -a complex series of ments from 1999-2001 should be fin­also misled investors about the wash accounting transactions related to a ished by the end of the year. Dynegy trades with CMS Energy in two press contract with ABG Gas Supply LLC -will amend its annual reports from releases issued early this year, the increased reported cash flow by $300 those years to reflect any changes, agency said. million and cut taxes by $79 million Sousa said. 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
US: LinkexistslJetween Moussaouiandhijacker 
Associated Press 

ALEXANDRIA. Va. 
Allowing a jury to hear cockpit recordings from a doomed jetlin­er could help establish a link between accused Sept. 11 con­spirator Zacarias Moussaoui and one of the suicide hijackers, pros­ecutors say. 
Trying to convince a reluctant judge that the recordings should be played at trial, prosecutors said Tuesday the tapes would allow the government to link Moussaoui and suicide hijacker Ziad Jarrah. 
The link is a phone number used by Moussaoui and also found on Jarrah's business card at the field in Pennsylvania where United Airlines Flight 93 crashed, prosecutors said. The business card discovery was not men­tioned in Moussaoui's indictment, which establishes no direct con­nection between Moussaoui and the 19 hijackers. 
"One of Jarrah's classmates at the Florida Flight Training Center can identify Jarrah's voice as being the pilot-hijacker, "the government said. Prosecutors could then introduce Jarrah's business card. 
The struggle aboard Flight 93 between passengers and hijack­ers has become a symbol of hero­ic resistance, since the plane was probably headed for an attack on the Capitol or the White House. The voice recorder on Flight 93 was the only one on the four hijacked planes that survived. 
U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema previously said she believed that playing the cockpit tape would be prejudicial to Moussaoui's defense, but she gave the government one more opportunity to convince her oth­erwise. 
Joseph Aronica, a former fed­eral prosecutor in the Virginia district where Moussaoui will go on trial Jan. 6, said the govern­ment was wise to take this oppor­tunity to go beyond the indict­ment. 
"I'm not sure there's an advan­tage for the government to play hide the ball," Aronica said of the decision to publicly reveal the business card. "Here, the gov­ernment weighed what they needed [the cockpit recordings] and decided to do this." 
He added that Moussaoui's court-appointed lawyers -who are assisting him while he repre­sents himself -would have access to the business card under court rules. 
Until now, the government con­tended it would use the record­ings -along with pictures and videotapes -to tell jurors the human side of the Sept. 11 attacks instead of merely citing statistics. 
In the latest filing, prosecutors said the tapes would establish that Jarrah and three other hijackers were on Flight 93, that they were Islamic extremists and that the phone number connected Jarrah and Moussaoui. 
PAKISTAN 
Six killed in Pakistan shooting 
Associated Press 
KARACHI 
Gunmen entered the offices of a Christian welfare organi­zation in the southern port city of Karachi on Wednesday, killing six people after tying them to office chairs, police and intelligence officials said. 
The shooting was the latest in a string of violent attacks against Christians and Westerners. who have been increasingly targeted since Pakistani President Gen. Pervez Musharrars decision to crack down on Islamic extrem­ist groups and join the U.S. war against terrorism in neighboring Afghanistan. 
The killings occurred at the third-floor offices of the Institute for Peace and Justice, a Pakistani Christian charity that does work in the city. Victims were tied up in chairs with their hands behind their backs before being shot point­blank in the head, according to deputy police chief Tariq Jamil. 
Among the dead were three Pakistani Christians and three Muslims who worked at the charity, police said. Four other people were injured, at least one in critical condition with a bullet wound in the head. 
It was not clear how many gunmen were involved in the shooting, or which group was behind the attack. By late morning, hundreds of police had cordoned off the 13-story building in a central business district of Karachi. 
The Christian group has been in operation for 30 years, working with poor municipal and textile workers to press for basic worker rights, and organizing programs with local human rights groups. 
Pakistani Information Minister Nisar Memon con­demned the attack, saying those who carried it out were "enemies of Pakistan." 
"We are particularly sad about the killings in Karachi because the terrorist have tar­geted unarmed Christian civil­ians," Memon told The Associated Press. He added that the "cowardly terrorist attacks" would not deter Pakistan's resolve. 
"Pakistan's cooperation with the world community in the war against terrorism will con­tinue," he said. 
The violence shattered a growing sense of confidence among Pakistani leaders that a sweeping crackdown had bro­ken the back of extremist groups that have targeted 
Christians and Westerners.  
This  month,  police  in  
Karachi  have  arrested  2 3  
members  of  Harakat  ul­ 

Mujahedeen Al-Almi, which is believed behind a June bomb­ing outside the U.S. Consulate, a suicide car bomb in May that killed 11 French engineers, and aborted plots to attack U.S.-based restaurants 
McDonald's and KFC in the city. 
Musharraf touted police efforts against the group, say­ing the success was the reason there had not been any serious attacks in Pakistan in recent weeks. 
"All the first-string opera­tors are behind bars except a very, very few," he said in an interview earlier this month with The Associated Press. 
A string of violent assaults on Christian organizations have killed at least 36 people and injured about 100 since Musharraf's decision to join the U.S. war against terrorism in neighboring Afghanistan. 
On Aug. 9, attackers hurled grenades at worshippers as they were leaving a church on the grounds of a Presbyterian hospital in Taxila, about 25 miles west of the capital, Islamabad. Four nurses were killed and 25 other people wounded. Two men alleged to have supplied guns and grenades to the attackers were arrested in recent days, police said Tuesday. 
Four days before the Taxila attack, assailants raided a Christian school 40 miles east of Islamabad, killing six Pakistanis including guards and non-teaching staff. 
Four days before the Taxila attack, assailants raided a Christian school 40 miles east of Islamabad, killing six Pakistanis including guards and non-teaching staff. 

Alaska Conservation Foundation: RaeShaun Bibbs. Amate House: Pat Laboe, Ben Powers, Casey Grabenstein, John Graziani, Jeffery Stuffings, Dan Welch. Americorps: Laura Bonadies, Susan Carpenter, Colleen Flood, Nate Hickey, Susan. Palladino. Andean Health and Development: Domingo Maynes. Andre Houfe.:...Will McGrath, Joshua Warner. Boys Hope Girl'f Hope: Emily Haranin, Michael Shiel. Campus Ministry Internship: Kelly Rich, Jamar Tisby. CAP Corps: Caitlin Murray. Catholic Charities:_Christine Efta. Catholic Peace Fellowship: Lall(en Beyer. Centerfor the Jlomel.ess: Julia Monczunski. Change a Heart -Millvale Franciscans : Kate Diaz. Christian Brothers: Colleen Gilg. China Teaching Program: _Elizabeth La\\-Tence, Andrea Lowe, Jess Morrison, David Wiltse. City Year:_Micheal Flannery. EPICS: Robyn Harridge, Amy Heckel, Elizabeth Rimkus. Farm ofthe Child: Chris Bystedt, Nick Fonte, Michael Makens. Gateway Vincentians: Elizabeth Sain. Good Shepherd Volunteers: Suzanne Lyons. Habitat/or Humanity: Tom Lynch. The Haitian Project:_Adam Osielski. Holy Cross Associates: Jennifer Betz, Erin Christey, Elizabeth Fordyce, Megan Garber, Kelly Harrigan, Kimberly Keefe, Shannon Kelly, Doug Lawrence, Gina Montenaro, Heather Waigand, Rachel Wilcox, Elizabether Willkom. Inner-City Teaching Corp.J: Lindsey Jones, Mia Sarkesian. Interfaith Leadership Project: Jonathan Alvarez. Japan: Andrew Naber. Jesuit Volu.nJeer Corps: David Cannon, Ben Dillon, Sarah Lasseter, Cecilia Lavelle, Sarah Seidel. Jesuit Volunteers International: Megan Sheehan, Monica Wisner. Kids Corporation: Hillary Wozniak. Marist Volunteer Program: Mary Ellen Donahue. Mercy Home/or Boys and Girls: Grant Gholson, Nora Jones, Erica Walter. Metro Educational. Foundation: Katie Scholsser. Ministry ofEducation: Kendra Kennedy. 1\finistry ofHealJh: Sarah Zalud. Missionary Cenacle Volunteers/Mount Carmel High School: Ellen Block, Katharine Ortega, Anthony Pagliarini, Mandy Reimer . ..........._-··--....._ ,,..--....._ .,---,,. ,.,.,.. . ...........__ ~------......,...--....._ -~-, ----..._ /...,................,. .,,,.....---···...,.,.___ ..r•""'---..-..__....r""). ......,_.,.,,,..,.­--·--­~ -~ .,..___,_, -.______....,,, .......____. "'---­--...,...,.,,..­--.......,__ ---­J51 .,.--.1!1·!11· • f .. t.., I J LSOCIAL SOCIALCONCERNS Come tonight to eY{pfore a variety ofservice opportunities. Considerjoining with tliese CONCERNS 1111I J 't • f ff' f •l ' tlltl2002 graduates wlio liave committedto a year or two r 'I ; "' I • ;:,SOCIAL s·-6ct'A'CCONCERNS CONCERNSwith post-graduate service programs.,.. I f "t • f I' ' •'I Ii, ' J ....... ,. ' ••SOCIAL s·o CI AL -­CONCERNS CONCERNStillr , ,. • , ll f ,, ,. tlll<Post-(}raduate Service Pair • f 't • lot ( I .SOCIAL S-cf C I A LCONCERNS CONCERNS,.. , r .,. J • r ., • • "t I., f t ._SOCIAL Wednesday, Septem6er 25th S-OCIAL -­CONCERNS CONCERNS tillw· r ., · J It t •l i, , f "t f" f I loSOCIAL 5:30-8:30 p.m. at Stepan Center -­SOCIALCONCERNS CONCERNS1111,. , ... J • f -~ I, tl#tlI 'If I ,t I I•s·o CI AL s o·cTALCONCERNS CONCERNS Nativity Prep Academy: Derrick Bravo, Cowtney Miller, Michele Perry, Christina Reyna, Law-a Sobchik. New York City Teaching Fellows: Nitin Chandra. New York Teacher Service Program: Anne Geary. Notre Dame Program in Puerto Rico: Clare Dampeer, Irene Onyeagbako, William Sullivan. PACE: Theresa Ferry. PACT: Sarah Gallagher. Paraclete Center: Mary Barter. Peace Corps: Adam Aroian, Jeremy Bauer, Megan Chandler, Jane DeMoss, Meghan Gallagher, Lillian Kidane, Tony Lusvardi, Alberto Perez, Emily Rhyner, Ben Robinson, Robbie Schiller, Rachel Smith, Judson Strauch. PIRGS: Erich Eschmann. PLACE Corps: Gina Pilloni. Sister ofNotre Dame: Katie Millar. St. Gabriel's College: Patricia, Parker, Karen Sarnacki. Teach/or America: Johanna Antonetti, Rhonda Czapla, Katherine Henze, Kolleen Myers, Diana Percival, Katie Rocchio, Vanessa Villalpando Ruiz, Michael Waldo, Tom Westfall, Arnold Casas, Michael Cochran. Thomas Dooley Position: Loren Masterson. The David School· Tiffuey Colon, David Fiorini, Lauren Zajac. U.S. Catholic Conference: Erin Wibbens, Ross Wilson. iVJCA: Erin Fleming. ACE: Matthew Bohnenkamp, Sharon Bui, Becky Camillus, Colleen Clarke, James Cummings, Margaret Daday, Gretchen Danysh, Mark Delgado, Samuel Fragomeni, Megan Griffin, Sara Gunderson, Otis Hill, David Horak, Angela Hurley, Timothy Jarotkiewicz, Kari Jenkins, Ed Johnston, Kelly Keegan, Mark Kirzeder, Matthew Kloser, Kristin Kramer, Mike Mansour, Jared Marx, Patrick McMahon, Matthew McMerty, Courtney Mercer, Colleen Moak, Matthew Panzer, Brian Pawloski, Kelly Perry, Elizabeth Rodriguez, Tiffany Rompf, Monica Rowinski, Tim Ryan, Jennifer Siirola, Barbara Smith, Daniel Soldato, Jeffrey Steedle, Elizabeth Stroude, Nathaniel Trimner, Timothy Welsh, Jennifer Wolf, Paul Ybarra, Colleen Ziemba. Programs to be determined: Tim Brick, Virginia Brisley, Brendan Egan, Megan Garber, Mary Beth Holzmer, Sarah Miller, Justin Pendarvis, Krista Schoening, Rachel Soltis, Lora Stephens.  

Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Judge bars federal death penalty 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. 

A federal judge declared the federal death penalty law unconstitutional Tuesday in a ruling defense lawyers said could provide a new argument for challenging capital cases across the country. 
U.S. District Judge William Sessions said recent cases, including a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that found juries and not judges must hand out death sentences, have rendered existing death-penalty law unusable. 
Since the high court's ruling in June, a federal judge in New York has ruled capital punish­ment is in itself unconstitution­al. Other federal judges. in Virginia and Pennsylvania, have upheld the Federal Death Penalty Act. 
Sessions found that caoital punishment would be legal if Congress repaired defects in the 1994 law. 
Sessions ruled that the death penalty law makes no provision for such action. He also found that giving grand juries a hand in death-penalty decisions is unconstitutional because such panels do not hold to the beyond-a-reasonable doubt standard, and because they do not offer defendants the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. 
"If the death penalty is to be part of our system of justice, due process of law and the fair trial guarantees of the Sixth Amendment require that stan­dards and safeguards govern­ing the kinds of evidence juries may consider must be rigorous, and constitutional rights and liberties scrupulously protect­ed," Sessions said. 
"To relax those standards 
Katie, it's yo II r birtl.day. • • 
Happy twc11ty­
first birtll day to 
tllc Ho11sel 

Love, Yo11r Girls (Make 11s po11nd!) 

invites abuse, and significantly 
undermines the reliability of 
decisions to impose the death 
penalty." 
The ruling came in the case 
of Donald Fell, 22, who is 
charged with kidnapping and. 
killing a woman in a November 
2000 carjacking. Prosecutors 
said they would appeal. 
Fell's lawyer, Alexander 
Bunin, called the ruling a land­
mark that could jeopardize 
cases against every defendant 
facing the death penalty, 
including that of Sept. 11 con­
spiracy suspect Zacarias 
Moussaoui. 
Paul Martinek, editor of Lawyers Weekly USA, said a higher court will have to agree with Sessions before that hap­pens. But Martinek added, "The intellectual implications for influencing what other judges might do, potentially influencing what the Second Circuit (Court of Appeals) and maybe the Supreme Court might do, are pretty big. It's a new idea about how to chal­lenge the federal death penal­ty." 
In July, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York became the first federal judge to declare the federal law unconstitutional. He cited evi­dence indicating that innocent people have been put to death. The government is appealing that ruling. 
The rulings by Rakoff and Sessions will not affect individ­ual states' death penalty statutes. Thirty-eight states allow capital punishment, though some have not executed anyone for many years. 
Smoke over L.A. 
Associated Press 
LA VERNE, Calif. 
A wildfire in the foothills 
above Los Angeles jumped 
from 8,000 acres to 12,000 
acres in just a few hours 
Tuesday, sending smoke pour­
ing over the sprawling metro­
politan area and triggering 
public health warnings. 
The fire, spread across 11 
miles of the San Gabriel 
Mountains, has destroyed 44 
cabins and homes and threat­
ens hundreds of others. 
Flames raged unchecked as 
firefighters worked in rugged 
canyon terrain against erratic 
winds and triple-digit temper­
atures. 
Some two dozen aircraft 
dropped water and fire retar­
dant on the fire, which author­
ities said had the potential to 
grow to 20,000 acres. 
Fear of new fires led officials to close the 650,000-acre Angeles National Forest, which includes the mountains, to recreation. 
"We certainly can't afford another fire," said Darren Drake, a fire spokesman. "This has got our hands full." 
Conditions were so hot and dry around the fire 40 miles northeast of Los Angeles that brittle chaparral and other brush virtually exploded in flames when hit by sparks. 
"It's very stressful. You work all your life and to see it threatened to this degree," said George Villegas. 37, an insurance salesman who took a day off work to keep watch on his $600,000 honie. His belongings were packed into 
his three cars and his wife and 
two sons were staying with 
relatives. 
Other residents described 
flames that towered 50 feet in 
the air and jumped between 
ridges. 
Voluntary evacuations were 
called for at least 500 homes 
and 1,000 people. 
A mandatory evacuation was 
ordered for 77 recreational 
cabins in San Dimas Canyon, 
and more than 200 youngsters 
were taken out of two juvenile 
detention camps. 
Authorities were investigat­
ing the cause of the fire that 
began Sunday. Officials said it 
has spewed a roughly 2,000­
foot-thick layer of smoke over 
portions of Los Angeles, 
Riverside and San Bernardino 
counties. 
An unusually strong inver­sion layer capped the smoke, and there was no wind to dis­perse it. 
"If I didn't know it was smoke, I'd think it was a low fog layer," Lu Rarogiewicz said as he looked over the San Gabriel Valley from 5,700-foot­high Mount Wilson. The moun­tain was briefly enveloped in smoke Tuesday, forcing astronomers to suspend solar observations with the tele­scopes that dot the peak. 
The South Coast Air Quality Management District, which monitors pollutant levels in the region, issued a special smoke advisory Tuesday. urging the public to avoid unnecessary outdoor activity in smoky areas. 


ATTENTION There's still time to sign up for a weekend of adventure. Go to Room 11 1 of the CoMo by midnight on Thursday, bring some friends, fill out
GUYS: 

an application, pay 25 bucks and you're in. If you're wondering what
ROAD TRIP 
exactly we'll be doing on the SRT, just think "Outdoors Adventure." 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
1Nlf/lMfl-'-. 0..0, N~S,,,,,,.l N.,,., 0.-,..,Is,,;,,t M_,•, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 

AD OF.SIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CoNTROlLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0R/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY°s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTF.MSIWEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors, Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~tions ngardi11g Obsnverpol.icin should be direct­ed to Editor in ChufJaw11 McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th, Oboe,..,{USPS 599 l•<IOOOJ is publisbcd Mond&y du-oush Friday <xa:p, during ex.am a.nd vacation pcriOOI.. A1u.b.:riptl0n ID The Omerv« Y S l 00 for~ ~i,c ~., sss fur 011< lfflKlte<. 
Th< Obs<M:r i, publi,h<d ai: POSTMASTER 024 Soudi Dining Hall Send add.res, co~cion, w: 
Nouc Dame. IN . 6556-0779 Th, Obocrvcr 
Periodical l''"''F paid •• Nowe Dame l'.O.Bo><Q 

ond .ddicional mailing ollicc,. Notn: Dame. IN 46S¼-0779 
TI,, Oboe.-.., i, • member oi th, .-..-;..,d r-. All ttproducuoo nght> .,.
,...,,...,d. 


Arguments against homosexuality are antiquated, absurd 
A new "threat" hangs heavily over this country. one that comes from within. And surprisingly enough, it doesn't come from our Frat-Boy-In­Chief George W. Bush. 
Of course, we should be alarmed that Dubya seems intent on having the Constitution rolled onto a card­board tube and put next to the toilet in the Lincoln bath­room, but the threat I want to discuss is far more seditious than anything Dick Cheney and his legions of scowling white men can hoist on us. 
This is a "sinister force" that has infiltrated some of our most cherished American institutions, shamelessly desecrating the Catholic priesthood, the Abercrombie and Fitch catalogue and Seinfeld's old time slot, among other things. Can Mom and apple pie be far behind? 
I am speaking, of course, of homo­sexuality. Or more specifically, of gay men. And while rational people know that gay men are obviously not a threat to anything, some conservatives and religious types act like the popularity of "Will and Grace" threatens the very moral fiber of society. 
But how do gay men, in these sup­posedly enlightened times, somehow still threaten the status quo? Why are they still disliked, disparaged and even hated in many spheres? One reason is deceptively, if irrationally, simple: the main fear of every red-blooded, bet-erosexual American male is at some point they will be the victim of an unwanted pass from another man. Personally, I'm not worried about get­ting hit on by a man. I'd be much more worried if a woman ever hit on me, if only because I'm relatively sure that me getting hit on by a woman would signal the imminent end of existence as we know it. 

What about women? Are they some­how exempt from sanctimonious fin­ger-wagging from the right? Of course they aren't. But they do escape the brunt of criticism. This is mostly because lesbians are not and never have been threatening to the men in power. 
Due to endless amounts of specula­tion in high school, the American male's conception of lesbianism involves an elaborate scenario with two nubile blonde friends named Tiffany and Amber "experimenting" after cheerleading practice. 
This non-threatening concept is as incredibly erotic as it is wildly improb­able. Male imaginations and the pornography industry seem to have an unspoken agreement that entails con­veniently sidestepping reality. Hence, Tiffany and Amber are teenage cheer­leaders as opposed to 4O-ish and pear­shaped with Erik Estrada haircuts. Either way, lesbians are no real threat. 
So, the issue is, as it oddly enough usually boils down to in this column, sex. One thing that's never made sense to me, with so many sexual proclivities in the world, why single out something as relatively common as homosexuali­ty? This may be a backhanded compli­ment, but some of the websites out there make same-sex relations look remarkably tame. 
There has been some argument made that the Bible specifically con­demns "lying with another man." This is technically correct. There is a pas­sage in the Book of Leviticus that says exactly this. To give it some context, however, on the very same page it con­demns -this is true -those who wear garments made from more than one fabric. And last time I checked, there were no screaming Christians protesting my choice of a cotton/poly blend undershirt. It might be time to admit that in regards to Biblical accu­racy, the Big Guy upstairs dropped the ball. 
But what's with all this concern with your neighbor's reproductive process­es, or lack thereof? Is it too much to ask that this most private of acts stays private? I have this indelible image in my head that Jerry Falwell is unable to sleep at night because he knows that somewhere out there, the act of sodomy is alive and well. 
I contend that if you spend even one instant of your day worrying about the sexual relations of people you've never even met, you have too much time on your hands. That, or you work for People Magazine. 
Homosexuals are people too. They are very rarely the walking sets of gen­italia that opponents portray them as. I'm sure that most would rather not make their sexual preference 1he core of their beings. In fact, I'm pretty sure they'd like to be left alone. 

Now if you'll excuse me, Tiffany and Amber are waiting. 
Joe Muto is a junior FIT and English double major who hopes his date's back feels better. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Meghanne Joe Hettler Downes Bryan Kronk 
John Fanning Mark Zavodnyik Bill Puckett Scene Viewpoint Sarah Vabulas 
Sheila Flynn Lab Tech Graphics Nellie Williams Mike Harkins 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you support a preemptive U.S. strike on Iraq? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In matters ofgrave importance, style, not sincerity, is the vital thing." 
Oscar Wilde novelist 

..--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 25, 2002 page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 
Rockefeller Center justified in removing statue 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 
In the middle of Manhattan on the 
lower level of Rockefeller Center, a 
sculpture of a dying woman was 
removed last week due to the fact that 
many passers-by deemed it to be "too 
disturbing." 
The sculpture Kevin James was emotionally Wong striking and was an accurate dis­play of human suf­
Cavalier Daily
fering during tragedy, but Rockefeller Center was nonetheless justified in its deci­sion. It sets some important precedents about the way to design public memori­als in the future -they ought to respect the wishes of the living as much as the memories of those who are dead. 
Starting approximately two weeks ago, a statue sculpted by Eric Fischl was placed on the concourse level of Rockefeller Center. Rockefeller Center is a place of heavy traffic for both New Yorkers and the many tourists that visit the area every day. The statue was sit­uated right in the middle of this. 
Sculpted as a dedication to those who jumped out of the World Trade Center before it collapsed, the sculpture is named "Tumbling Woman" and lives up to its name. It is a statue of a nude woman who appears to be in free fall, with her head pointed downward and her legs curled above her and lined up parallel to the ground. The sculpture was described by Fischl as an "expres­sion of deepest sympathy," and the woman in the sculpture seems to express vulnerability and sympathy through her nudity and anonymity. 
However, many passers-by simply found the sculpture offensive, disturb­ing and inappropriate. Last Wednesday, it was blanketed from pub-lie view, and even though Rockefeller Center planned to display it through this Monday, its exhibition was cut drastically short. The public spokesman for Rockefeller Center, Suzanne Halpin, made a public apology for the statue, and promised that it would be removed "that evening." 
Naturally, people are split over whether Rockefeller Center should have left the statue as an expressive statement or taken it away. 
Removing it from the premises is, by far, the better option. When there is a memorial for something as momentous as what hap­pened to the World Trade Center, there needs to be more at work than one man's vision. For example, there have been many ideas submitted for the memorial at Ground Zero, and there will be a great deal of debate before the final design is created. 
More than one artist's perspective should be considered when designing a public memorial. and in this way. the greatest number of people will hopeful­ly be positively affected by its display. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cell phones erode personal relationships 
"Brrring!" 

The boy next to me in the Hesburgh Library Computer Cluster begins to shuffie urgently through his book bag. I hear a click, and then a beep. "Hey. Davis!" I glance over, looking for a body standing over us; however, no one is there. 
The reason for this is that (yes, you guessed it) he was talking on his cell phone. I watch as he settles into his chair comfortably, apparently about to enjoy a long talk. Annoyance fills me and I try to remember the day that my friends actually used to walk to my room instead of calling me. 
Recently. I find myself seeing a 1:1 ratio between small metal objects and people. At any moment, I half•expect to see cameramen filming scenes for "Clueless 2: South Bend Series." People used to exit class and make a dash for their friends, the bathroom or the drinking fountain. Not anymore. Those days have been replaced by an electron­ic world of incessant cellular fanatics. Cell phone use has become so prevalent that it is no longer acceptable to have the simple generic ring. To separate one's phone from the 800 surrounding phones, each phone must have a cus­
tomized ring that helps the owner rec­
ognize it as his or her own. Today, I 
even heard the Notre Dame fight song. 
Heck, maybe Verizon can program 
Madonna's "Like a Prayer." I'm sure 
that would be a big seller. 
Anytime I stop on campus, I am boxed in on four sides by at least 13 people all talking on their phones. Half of them are probably talking to each other ­"Okay, now where are you? That tree? Okay, I'll be there in 3.4 seconds. Call me back if you get lost." 
Since when has our world become so technologically dependent? Cell phone gabbers, I beg of you -turn off your phones and take a walk to see your friends. It might take a minute before they recognize your face, having only heard your voice for the last who­knows-how-long, but in the long run, they will appreciate your sincerity. 
You'll get better reception, too -stat­ic-free. 
Amy Chambers 
junior Pasquerilla Easr Hall Sepr. 24 
A sculpture that is in the public domain ought to have the public as its target audience. Thus, although places such as private galleries, art museums 
and secular areas such as churches should not have to cater to a mainstream appeal, a public memo­rial ought to strive to 
attain this. By show­ing a nude, dying woman in free-
f all, Fischl chose one of the most graphic ways 
to commemo­
rate the peo­ple who dove out of the 
World Trade Center and most likely turned off many of his viewers. Having a 
group of artists rather 
than a single artist design­ing a memorial 
will help pre­
vent this from occurring. The statue's 

placement was poor in the first place. Rockefeller Center is a place where young children play. and it is an area where 
many people can go to relax or do their shopping. A sculpture of a dying woman would be slightly more appro­priate at Ground Zero, where people would consciously choose to go and see it. Most people do not go to Rockefeller Center to mourn, and since Rockefeller 
Center has no such misery attached to 
its name, there is no reason to start 
now. 
The healing process after something so traumatic involves moving on, and public memorials to the attacks should remain either in the areas where the attacks occurred, or in areas where the mourners can be separate from the people who are simply going about their lives. For example, the Vietnam Memorial is currently placed in an area where no one could pass by it by going about their daily routine -one has to make a conscious decision to visit the memorial in order to see it. What Fischl did is comparable to rebuilding the Vietnam Memorial alongside a high traffic shopping center. Although a larger number of people would see the Vietnam Memorial on a daily basis, it is a tasteless setting for both the living and the dead. Its current, more isolated location is needed for contemplation, and the rest of the public should not be forced to confront tragedy when they do not want to. 
Thus, Rockefeller Center was entirely justified in removing the statue from its premises, and it has taken a step toward removing the dreary, tense atmosphere that has loomed over this country since the attacks. Their deci­sion is a good lesson in creating public memorials, because although honoring those that died is extremely important, an equal amount of consideration needs to be paid toward the living. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 24 edition ofthe Cavalier Daily. the daily newspaper ofthe University ofVirginia. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Administration should treat students as adults 
I am writing in response to the Sept. 23 article regarding on-campus drinking by C. Spencer Beggs. 
As a 1981 graduate of Saint Mary's, I was a part of the social scene during the time when the alcohol policy at Notre Dame was relatively lax. On-campus parties at that time were "section parties," whereby a sheet or some other type of curtain was hung at both ends of a section of the hall and we were confined to that area with our alcohol. Just prior to my arrival on campus, dorms had hall parties which encom­passed the entire hall. 
My memory is that while there was certainly drinking going on, socializing was the main focus for most party goers. Rarely did we drink hard liquor, since beer was cheaper and easier to serve. I also recall that the student government at Notre Dame worked very hard to create space for a party room in every dorm so that the atmosphere would be even more conducive to socializing as opposed to getting drunk, and I wonder now what happened to those rooms. 
It seems to me that the situation got worse when the alcohol policy forced everyone to be in a room with the door closed. Due to space con­straints, I understand that many on-campus parties have become "by invitation only," and so overcrowded that it is next to impossible to socialize at all. 
As the mother of four teenage children, I agree that students should be encouraged to socialize like responsible adults. I just question how that can be done when the University continues to treat them like chil­dren. 
Barb O'Connell Saint Mary's class of 1981 
Sept. 24 

10 m.illion useless uses for technology (and counting) 
I'm a 21st century digital boy. I spend more hours in front of an LCD screen than I care to count. I can't even fathom how things were done in the day before computers. But, it seems to me, that as technology makes the menial administrative work in life easier, it only makes social life more complicated. 
Remember DART? The old way to register for classes? The stress-induced panic attack of try­ing to properly dial the numbers to transfer the "African Masks in Modernity" class you acciden­tally dialed into for the English 201 class you're supposed to take is greatly reduced by the Web. Of course, our class load may have gotten a bit drier. 
But, take a look at Instant Messenger. Originally a fairly convenient way to send short notes to other Web surfers, IM has developed into a culture of its own. I know people who deliberately won't touch their computer because it would ruin their idle time and that might tip off the fact that they were in the room when they told somebody that they weren't. IM has become such a part of social life at this point that groups of friends will discuss each other's away messages over lunch. 
Our course, the trend is nothing new. The World Wide Web was doomed to a life of porn and casinos before www.gamblewithjenna.com was ever the hottest IPO on Wall Street. Take a look around USENET, the text only precursor to the Web. For every soc.politics.marxism discussion groups there are 39 alt.bina­ries.pics.bigfoot.latex.fantasy groups. 
When I was in seventh grade, my Social Studies teacher sent us to the school library to use this new-fangled Internet thing to find out what the proper style was on literary criticism papers. Unfortunately, before the days of spam filters, if you typed the words "literary criticism" into a search engine all that came use were pages with "nude Jenny McCarthy pictures." I don't know what boggles my mind more, that there's enough nude Jenny McCarthy pictures to require 10,578.431 unique hits in a search engine or that some wacko used the phrase "nude Jenny McCarthy pictures" while describing how to write literary criticism papers. 
As technology advances, so do the pointless ways in which we use it. It seems to me that technology was meant to make things that are hard to do easier. For example, making a call on the telephone is much easier than using the antiquated carrier pigeon. But, isn't the phone simpler than IM? 
We go to a college where we're all on the exact same phone net­work, phone calls are absolutely free and yet I will IM people that are right down that hall. This is even more primitive than the phone. I can lean out my door and yell. 
I've even developed a Pavlovian response to that stupid IM sound. My alarm clock can't drag me out of bed for my 8:30, but a barely audible IM bleep has me in front of my computer screen faster than hate mail reaches The Observer inbox every time the phrase "Vagina Monologues" is whispered anywhere within a 30-mile radius of campus. 
But I've been plugged into the Matrix for way too long to unplug now. Perhaps we'll just have to learn to incorporate technology into our social lives. Hey, I can't tell if she's fake laughing at my jokes on a digital coffee break. Well, then again, maybe technology is good for our social lives. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
C. Spencer Beggs is a junior PLS major. No. he doesn't know what he's going to do with that and no, his close friends do not call him "C. n He can be contacted on 14 different chat services internation­ally and at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

... 

Web designers focus on Macromedia Fil 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, September 25, 2002 

By SARAH VABULAS 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Each day new techniques in Web design are present when simply surfing for the daily news. The use of hip, new software helps to advance the look of many popular Web pages. One of the most recent movements is the use of a program called Macromedia Flash. This program creates interactive and aesthetically pleasing pages, making the pos­sibilities for creativity endless. 
Flash is most commonly seen in use for e­cards that are sent for various occasions. However, many Web designers now use Flash simply to make their page more appealing in order to increase the popularity of their site. 
Many music artists use Flash in designing their Web pages to make surfing through tour dates, lyrics, song clips, media events and pictures much quicker and easier then using typical Web design language, hyper­text markup language, or HTML. Once Flash loads into the Internet browser, all the infor­mation is ready to be accessed and even on a slow Internet connection, can be accessed without the frustration of loading graphics. Flash is like a television commercial on the Web that comes in crisp and clear, with pos­sibilities of increasing a consumer's interest in a product. 
Pop artist U2 uses Macromedia's Flash on 

their Web page. Making some parts glow and consistent animation keeps the surfer click­ing and reading through the content. "The· Prodigy also uses the interactive animatedU2 site has been designed to be as accessible 
Flash to show off their newest songs.
as possible," claims text on the index page. 
Prodigy.co.uk takes a much different angleUtilizing Flash is the reason for the user­then u2.com's use of Flash. After each click,
friendliness appearance of page. On U2's the surfer sees a couple-second animated
page, the user can look up the play lists from scene before the new layout appears with the past concerts, the lyrics to his or her favorite desired content. 
song, or even trace back the roots of U2 to Pages across the world are beginning to1977. Because of Flash, easy navigation is 
turn to this look in order to remain the
possible for even the not so Web savvy. 



Lis for Lyde '-5torm Report
ELECTRICAL STORM 

-..-r----z:----":""fflll 

.. 014 . '"",»'-,•M New To ;'\. New Single ~1,,. l: ..JM,-U2.COM • find { El.ctric:al -'41.11, ·. ?·K·"•~'.':'.;'.'.,' every lyrk to ' Storm Set for ~--'---·" every U2 song Airwaves 

.,,, 
Al.bm Meets Zootopi•ns C.ught On Camera 

Read Their 
Unique Dublin Diaries Collection of Shots in our 
Image Galler, 

•OHM MIMI 
.J 
..1 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
page 13 


'ash to add pizazz and interest to websites in hopes ofincreasing traffic 

hottest on the Web. Large companies even use Flash. The Coca-Cola Company is one of them. They use Flash on both coca-cola.com and powerade.com to peak the interest of the consumer by announcing promotions and utilizing high-tech looking animation. 
Increasingly so. Flash is used for recreational pages or Internet movies, music videos or games such as those on www.homestarrunner.com. This Web page is made of free online cartoons and games. instead of watching the television 
Graphic by SARAH VABULAS/The Observer 
or playing Playstation 2. One cannot seem to hold in the laughter when watching anything on this Web site. It is one of those Web sites that gets forward­ed to friends and laughed about online. They make cartoon series and charac­ters, so one can keep going back to see what happens in the next episode. 
The ever-popular Flash Internet greet­ing card is a must for any e-mail user. The card can be personalized and sent to mark any occasion. Bluemountain.com and flashcan.com 

flashcan.com 
,8,o zinc Roe design 
~ new media solt.itioos • awards • 
. . 
, . ' 
~ ) 'I: ~ ,~ <, -., 'i, ' ~ 
Graphic by SARAH VABULAS/The Observer 
both use Flash in their greeting cards putting to shame most standard animat­ed greeting cards. 
The Shockwave plug-in is another movement in Web design that is neces­sary to view the technology that Flash utilizes. An English Web site called Habbo Hotel uses Shockwave to create their five-star hotel environment. On habbohotel.com, a Web surfer can design his or her own person. a habbo, and essentially hang out in various places in the hotel. talking to other hab­bos. Some of the activities include swim­ming, eating or hanging out in a hotel room or lobby. It is a virtual vacation and an opportunity to meet all sorts of people. 
Many recreational gaming Web sites use Flash in designing the games. Candystand.com, a great place to waste a ton of time that could be well spent on something else, uses Flash in designing their awesome games. Ranging from bowling to extreme snowboarding, a user can play their heart's desire and completely lose track of time in the process. 
Studiotimo.com is a company that spe­cializes in creating 
Flash-based lay­design so outs for cus­many possibilities. tomers, while also There is a net­experimenting work out there of with the possibili­Web masters, ties that Flash trading ideas and holds for the future server space with of Web design. each other, and They are the cut­linking from each ting edge of what other's pages to Flash can create in increase traffic, Web design. the dream of 
X2fr.com is the every Web design­same type of Web er. site as Because of the studiotimo.com. market broaden­They develop Web ing for personal sites, but also spe­Web design, com­cialize in interac­panies have taken tive aspects to advantage of this viewing a Web and made services page with Flash. for people to pur­Many companies chase their own journal or writings like poetry or essays for people to read and perhaps have published. 

One personal Web page that stands out in quality is BitterSweetRegrets.com. Maintained by Clayton Hicks of Chicago, Ill., he still hand-codes using html and uses Adobe Photoshop 6.0 for his basic graphic needs and Flash for some to add a certain look feel to it. Clay posts his poetry and some of his photographs on bsr.com not only to express himself, but also to sharpen his graphic and Web mastering skills as well. It. really is a personal site that has taken the time to present the visitors with a certain Eye Candy rather than post the typical this is what I did today over and over. And he does this very well. 
In the case of Hamilton Cline, of hamil­ton.moronic.org, an artist. as well as Web master, he uses the Web to post his artwork as well as develop his skills with Web design. He posts most of his portfo­lio up for all to see and if people like what they see, then they can hire him to draw a portrait for them. 
Web designers tend to find other designers on the Web and trade ideas. Personal Web 
has 

out there are for hire to do amazing Flash pages, and for most companies, it is worth the money to have a Web page that is ahead of the any other on the Web. Sony and Phillip Morris are among the companies that use x2fr.com for their design. 
The market for Flash design has widened greatly with the outburst of the popularity of the Internet. However, many individuals still go back to the basics in personal Web design using html. 
Even when all the newest software can do it all for a user to have his or her own Web page, many still fir..d pride in hand coding the page and seeing the results. Some even argue that a "what you see is what you get," or WYSIWYG, program is cheating, thus taking all the fun out of designing, having, and updating a Web page. 
The market for personal Web pages has grown leaps and bounds. It is com­mon now to talk to people and have them tell you that they run a Website. They can be used for multiple purposes: keep friends updated on life, make a Web page composed of pictures from a trip for many people to access, or post a 
Web server space and Web domain. Yahoo Geocities and Lycos Tripod are two of the most popular services for design. Geocities includes a program when signing up for easy design with no prior knowledge of Web language. Many of these services are free, however in order to receive the most desired services. payment is the only route to take. 
Both amateur and expert Web design­ers alike are pleased with the rush of excitement towards design. The rush means consistent updates in software and technology in order to say on the cutting edge, keeping Web designers and Web surfers busy and interested in the future of the Internet. 
With the Internet and e-mail so popu­lar in society among both the young and the old, hardly a day passes that a per­son does not think about it. And with so many unique and beautifully designed Web pages posted, why not take a little time to surf through them daily? 
Contact Sarah VabuJas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

i 
~ 
I 
I 
~ 
) 
NOTICES 
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable www.sunsplash­tours.com 1-800-426-7710 
Wednesday, September 25, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Football great 'Iron Mike' Webster dead at age 50 
of Fame enshrinement in 1997 farm duties prevented him from 
. Four-time Super 

and was homeless for a short playing until his junior year atBowl Champion time, living in his pickup truck. Rylander High, when coach supposedly died of He was placed on probation in Dave Lechnir volunteered to 
Beaver County, Pa., after plead­drive him home after practice
heart attack 

ing no contest in September in time for his chores. 1999 to forging prescriptions to Webster was good enough to 
Associated Press 

obtain Ritalin, a drug common­get a scholarship to Wisconsin, 
PITTSBURGH ly used to treat children with where he started for three 
Mike Webster's durability and hyperactivity. years and made the all-Big Ten toughness made him a four­Webster was the last of the team. But at 225 pounds, he time Super Bowl champion and 22 Steelers who played on all was considered too small by one of the NFL's best linemen four Super Bowl championship some NFL teams, and he wasn't ever. Those very qualities also teams to leave the team, and taken until the fifth round of might have led to a brain injury the first to die. He refused to the 197 4 draft. that sent him spiraling into leave the lineup even for seri­With four future Hall of drug use and homelessness. ous injuries, once playing six Famers in the first five rounds 
The bare-armed strongman straight seasons without miss­-Lynn Swann, Jack Lambert, nicknamed "Iron Mike" died ing a snap. John Stallworth and Webster ­Tuesday at age 50. He was However, that tough-guy the Steelers' Class of '74 easily remembered as a great center insistence on playing hurt may became the best in NFL history. whose sturdiness personified have led to the brain damage. Webster's ability to trap and the Pittsburgh Steelers • cham­Webster's doctors said the con­pull were perfect for coach pionship teams and whose off­cussions during his career dam­Chuck Noll's running game. field health and drug problems aged his frontal lobe, causing "Mike Webster was the best saddened them. cognitive dysfunction. center who ever played the 
The Pro Football Hall of Fame Webster's injuries were simi­game," Noll said. "He was the lineman died in Allegheny lar to a boxer's -one doctor one position I never had to General Hospital's coronary said he was essentially "punch worry about." care unit. At the request of drunk" -and affected his Quarterback Terry Bradshaw Webster's family, the hospital attention span, concentration said: "I couldn't have been the Webster was an intimidating over," \\l'ebster said. did not release the cause of and focus, leading him to act player I was without him. He sight, baring his massive arms Webster became a free agent death. erratically. Doctors said the was so smart, so prepared for by playing in short sleeves even in 1989 and retired for a few 
The Steelers initially said condition could not be cured everything we would face in a in subfreezing weather. He months. But after initially Webster died of a heart attack and an operation would not game. He was physically and sprinted from the huddle before accepting a Kansas City Chiefs but later declined to comment. improve his brain functions. mentally tough. We all worked every play, setting the tone for assistant coaching job, he Webster was diagnosed with .. My dad has some health hard, but none as hard as Mike an offense that had four other decided to play again and spent brain damage in 1999, an problems no one knows about did." Hall of Famers: Swann, two more seasons with the injury caused by all the years of and that I don't want to get into Webster was famous for his Stallworth, Harris and Chiefs before quitting after the taking shots to the head. that much," Garrett Webster, a workouts, and he once had a Bradshaw. 1990 season. 
"He was one of the main rea­senior at a suburban Pittsburgh blocking sled in his front yard 'Tm not a very good athlete," He later had offers to coach sons why we won four Super high school, told the Pittsburgh and a weight set in his back Webster once said. "I don't run again, but his health began to Bowls," Hall of Fame running Post-Gazette last week. "But he yard. He built himself into a very well and I'm not very agile deteriorate soon after he quit back Franco Harris said. has some brain injuries from 260-pounder widely considered or nimble. The only chance I playing. "Unfortunately, he had some football. I have to take care of to be the NFL's strongest play­have to be successful is if I'm in "He went through a lot of turmoil and misfortune after my dad." er, a six-time All-Pro player better condition than the other tough years, but he never com­his football career. He is now at Like his father. Garrett and nine-time Pro Bowl selec­guy." plained about anything," said peace." Webster is a lineman, and he tion. Hall of Farner Joe Greene When former Bengals line­Bradshaw, who presented 
Chosen as the center on the plays on his high school football practiced against Webster man Tim Krumrie retired after Webster at his Hall of Fame All-Time NFL team in 2000, team. daily, and said there were 12 seasons lining up across enshrinement in 1997. Webster found his life after Remarkably, Mike Webster never any walkthroughs -the from Webster, he asked for "The la:st 10 days, we've lost football the opposite of his dis­almost never had a football sessions were full-speed and Webster's helmet as a souvenir Johnny Unitas, Bob Hayes and ciplined, overachieving 17-sea­career. gamelike. of the skirmishes. No doubt that now Mike. What I wouldn't give son NFL career. Raised on a 640-acre potato "Ernie Holmes and I used to pleased Webster. to put my hands one last time 
Bothered by debt, depression farm near Tomahawk, Wis., beat him up in practice but, "The most important thing under the greatest center of all and bad health, he separated Webster grew up a Jim Taylor­after a couple of years, we you want is for the man across time. I'm sure up in heaven, from wife Pam before his Hall idolizing Packers fan. But his couldn't do it anymore," Greene the line of scrimmage to know Johnny U. is doing it for me." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION SUN­GLASSES IN ANTHONY TRAVEL IN LAFORTUNE. STOP IN TO CLAIM AT FRONT DESK. 
WANTED 
$250 a day potential/bartending. Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 Chick-fil-A at University Park Mall is currently seeking high caliber indi­viduals to fill Leadership roles days & nights. Flexible schedule, no Sundays, free meals, $9 per hour. Contact Kathy Wonderly @ 272• 2247. 
FOR SALE 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN• TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-WASHER/DRYERS­CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 ­(574)674-2471 NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. Americas #1 Student Tour Operator 
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289-Information/Reservations 1-800­8048 or astrog999@aol.com 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST "He's just going to take them off PRICES PAID 251-1570 anyway, Mo" 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST Kronk-dawg in the hizzouse PRICES 289·9280 
Hettler-dawg representin' yet again ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 
www.workforstudents.com 574•282· 2357 
...ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 

1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 dept 2626)/www. springbreakdis­counts.com  
Sports car,88 Mazda RX7.Runs great.no rust. $3,950 o/b/o. 291­4048  


LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Platinum wedding band with gold edging-Michigan weekend-Alumni HalVCircle, or on the walk from Angela/St. Louis to Alumni Hall along ND Ave. Engraved : AKD & JD 11-18-00 If found please con­tact me at James.Oougherty@accenture.com or 1-972-679-8770. REWARD #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas. Ftorida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com 

Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800­SUNCHASE ext. 123. WWW.SUN• CHASE.COM 
Earn extra money evenings sched­uling appointments and making customer calls for local State Farm agent. 4•7pm on 2-3 week nights, you choose from Tuesday-Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must be enthusiastic with great telephone presence. Fax resume to 574-232­
9984. 
FOOSBALL-high level players wanted. Play for fun or$$$. Will also teach. Call D 257-4441. 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. 
Williamson.1@nd.edu 
HOME FOR SALE Great family home with room for a home office close to Notre Dame, SMC, 4 bed­room, 3 bathroom, eat in kitchen, formal dining and living room, sun room and finished basement Call Dan-Remax 1st, 574.273.9547 or dan@cdkhomes.com 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for footbalVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT· WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL: leopei@hotmail.com 
SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  With the big Mark-dawg alongside  
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT- You get the idea.  
ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  
Help Joe have a social life, work for  
WANTED: 2 tix for BC game Call  Observer Sports  
Colleen, 4·2607.  
Chris, Hettler, Soukup, Spence, I  
feel for you guys, I really do.  
PERSONAL  What exactly is "less than  
mediocre"?  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  

not go it alone. If you or someone  Classifieds? Anyone?  
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential  you love needs confidential support  
(Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  Bueller? Bueller?  
Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607­ Louise Gude, CSC. at 1-7819. For  
723-7363  more information, see our bi-weekly  giving another shoutout to the  
ad in THE OBSERVER.  Coyote and Intense the Fencer.  

Spacious Condo for Rent 2 BR & 2  
FOR RENT  bath, freshly painted & carpeted,  Give adoption a chance...we are  dudefest?  
walk to campus, w/d, microwave,  happily married and need your help  
OW, fireplace, clubhouse & pool.  in starting a family. Will provide a  tonight was the printer's fault.  
All size homes available for 2003­ Call 317-261-0190.  lifetime of love, laughter and end­ 
2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  less opportunities. Call our attorney  McVoy, Hettler did you proud  
www.mmmrentals.com  toll free at 866-215-2229.  tonight.  

TICKETS
WANT TO BUY: "The Shirt" -Will ND grad with Ph.D. doing child I have no idea what that means 
pay premium price! If you have an ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home either. extra to sell, please call 219-926-RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please near campus. 3986. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. check our prices. 273-3911. 234-8004 your mom 
page 15

Wednesday, September 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
GOLF 
Woods hopes to lead Americans to Ryder Cup 
Associated Press 
SUTTON COLDFIELD, England 
Tiger Woods had a million reasons why he wanted to win the World Golf Championship. He came up with another one to explain why he caused such a fuss. 
"I was just trying to be funny," Woods said Tuesday, backing off his comments last week in Ireland when he earned $1 mil­lion for winning the American Express Championship. "Obviously, things were taken way out of context." 
This week is no laughing mat­ter. 
The Americans again are favored to win the Ryder Cup, somewhat of a mystery since Europe has won five of the last eight times. Only once since 1983 have the matches been 
... . 
20th·Annual Domer Run 
• , 2 •:ii O O ~ 2
# c 

A Beneht tor Notrn Danrn Prust,ile A\V-dienr.ss Ll!IICt!r Education 

Saturday, September 28 
11 :OOam 
ALL ~tW RACfCOURt;t! 
3 & 6 mile runs, 2 mile walk 
Pancake Breakfast Register in advance at RecSports $6 in advance, $7 day of the race 
Call 1-6100 for more infonnation 
decided by more than two points. 
The Ryder Cup has not been particularly kind to Woods, either. 
One of the most glaring holes in an otherwise awesome record is his Ryder Cup mark. 
Woods is 3-6-1 in two Ryder Cups, splitting his singles match­es and taking on five partners in eight team matches. 
"I wish it was better," he said. "That means I would have con­tributed more points to my team. But I haven't done that." 
He compared the Ryder Cup to the final round in a major ­even though he joked last week there were "a million reasons why" he would rather win the American Express Championship than the team competition. 
"They're two completely dif­ferent animals," Woods said. "You're a lot more juiced on the first tee here than you are in a normal tour event, just because if you get off to a bad start you can lose a match. You get off to a bad start in a tournament, you can still win." 
Woods slipped into his Ryder Cup uniform -blue shirt with thin red and white stripes, a white vest and gray cap -for the first day of formal practice on a course only four players on the U.S. team have played. 
He spent his first night at The Belfry playing pingpong, and had one spirited game against Phil Mickelson and his wife, Amy. 
Woods is the No. 1 golfer in the world and the man everyone tries to beat. At the Ryder Cup, he is just one of 12 players on a team. 
"How would you feel if you had him on your team? Pretty good?" Scott Verplank said. "It's great. Last night we had a big team pingpong match, so we're all still very competitive, and we all still want to beat each other. But this week, we're all pulling for each other. And I think we're coming together nicely as a team." 
Woods won in Ireland by mak­ing 24 birdies and an eagle in 72 holes at Mount Juliet. Will he play as well at the Ryder Cup? 
"I think anybody would be hard-pressed to say that man is not trying to win every time he puts a tee in the ground," Hal Sutton said. "I think there's more reason for him to want to win the Ryder Cup and do well in it, because that's one of the few times he hasn't done as well. I'm pretty sure his juices will be flowing this week." 
The Ryder Cup was postponed a year because of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Woods expects this to be just like his previous two experiences -good golf, a winner and a loser, then back to regularly scheduled program­ming. 
"It's not life or death," he said. "This is an athletic event. Win or lose, we'll shake each other's hand and go have a beer." 
Still, there is a sense the Ryder Cup means more to Europe than the Americans, and even its cap­tain, Sam Torrance, ·weighed in on Woods' "million reasons" comment in Ireland. 
"I think we'd probably chip in and pay $1 million to win this week," Torrance said. 
Denmark's Thomas Bjorn, one of Woods' best friends in golf, said he thought Europe rates the Ryder Cup much higher than their counterparts. 
"This is where golf careers are made," Bjorn said. 
Paul Azinger, perhaps the most spirited of the U.S. players when it comes to the Ryder Cup, said it ranked behind the four majors and that most of his teammates didn't start thinking about the matches until this week. 
Now that the Ryder Cup is here, it's a different story. 
"Ifs not nonchalance, believe me," Azinger said. "We walked in the room last night and our players are irito it. We're up for it. We want to play well." 

· .· · ... · · ATIENTION All STUDENTS! 
<You're a{[invitedto attendtlie... 
3rd 
ANNUAL 

PERSONAL SAFETY/CRIME PREVENTION 
NE,IGHBORII_OO·D B.B 


WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 
6:00 PM BBQ 
6:30 PM PRESENTATION S00BLOCKoF 
E. WASHINGTON 
DIRECTIONS From ND, drive down Juniper/Eddy St. and take a right onto Washington (it's the street after Colfax). Look/or the big tent! 
THIS GATHERING IS BROUGHT TO YOU BY 
TOM & MARK KRAMER OF DOMUS PROPERTIES INVESTMENTS, LLC 
PERSONAL SAFETYINFO! 

Come andspendan evening ofwitli .... 
Off-Campus Counci[ Soutfi <BendPofice <Department Soutfi {JJentf Code P.nforcement :Notre <Dame Security/Pofice :N© Office of<R,Jsiaence Life elJfousing 
----·----·----· ­
page 16 
NFL 
Faulk uncertain Sunday vs. Dallas 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Marshall Faulk's neck injury doesn't appear to be as seri­ous as first thought, but the status of the St. Louis Rams running back is uncertain for Sunday's game with the Dallas Cowboys. 
Coach Mike Martz said Faulk had no numbness in his neck after injuring it when he was tackled in the second quar­
Rookie Lamar Gordon, the Rams' third-round draft pick, would start ahead of Trung Canidate against the Cowboys if Faulk can't play. Canidate has been Faulk's backup since being taken in the first round of the 2000 draft, but Martz was unhappy with his play against the Bucs. 
Gordon scored on a 21-yard run in the fourth quarter and had 44 yards on four carries along with two catches for 15 yards. Canidate 
ter of Monday "I'm not sure what had 15 night's 26-14 Marshall's situation is yards on six 
loss at Tampa carries and
going to be. It doesn ·t
Bay that one catch 
dropped the appear to be nearly as for five yards.
Rams to 0-3. serious as we had
I' Faulk, who "When
thought."
appeared to you look at have sprained him on ligaments in Mike Martz tape, he's 
his neck, was Rams head coach v e r y 
scheduled for 
an MRI on 
Tuesday, but 
results will not be made avail­
able until Wednesday, a team 
spokesman said. 
"I'm not sure what Marshall's situation is going to be," Martz said Tuesday. "It doesn't appear to be nearly as serious as we had thought." 
Faulk felt "quite a bit better" Tuesday. 
"He's just got general neck soreness and he is much improved, so we're encour­aged by that as you can imag­ine," Martz said. "It didn't appear to be nearly as dra­matic or serious as what we initially thought." 
Faulk, who has scored four of the Rams' six touchdowns this season, was upended by Bucs linebacker Derrick Brooks with 11 :20 to go in the second quarter. He returned to the bench for the second half but did not re-enter the game, although he tried in the fourth quarter. 
"They really had to demand that he not go back in," Martz said. 
l 
l 
!i 
i/ 
Ii 
I 
, cE. THE ARB-
impressive," 
Martz said. 
"His size and his speed and his run reads and his ability to jump­cut in the hole -all those things that you hoped he would be they all showed up last night." 
Martz said Monday night he was ..very disappointed" with Canidate's play. On Tuesday, he backed off a bit. 
"We've got to get Trung back up to where he was a year ago," Martz said. 'Tm a little frustrated with him right now, obviously." 
Two Rams defenders will miss about three weeks. Outside linebacker Tommy Polley has a torn groin and cornerback Dexter McCleon has a torn hamstring. 
Martz said Don Davis, who started at middle linebacker ahead of struggling Jamie Duncan against the Bucs, will move to the outside. Duncan, who has been playing with two dislocated fingers on his right hand, will start again in the middle. 
\_,;!'NOnar oMU.,,, Call Saint Mary's Box Office at J 1 "'1-'-f\'lU 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 25, 2002 

the 




Your alternative musicsource. 

t 
T
999 
JOSH JOPLIN GROUP 
The Future That Was 
Immediately energizing, Josh Joplin's second album is . powerful follow-up lo the 2001 breakout album Useful Music (featuring rtie smash single "Camera One.") Josh wades deeper into his poetic, narrative style witl1 . potent vulnerability that both mesmerizes . nd reassures. 
SCAPEGOAT WAX 
Swax 

T 
1399 

THE LES CLAYPOOL FROG BRIGADE 
Purple Onion 
SEPULTURA 

Under A Pale Grey Sky (2-CD Set) 
Parental Advisory 


T 
1299 IVY 
Guestroom 

Fronted by Parisian Dominique Durand, Ivy reveols their world·wide, mulh-ero influences in this new work with ten of the group's favorite "covers." from Orange Juice to Papas Fntos to The Cure, Ivy leaps between musical worlds with an effortless, bittersweet sound all their own. 
AUTHORITY ZERO 
A Passage In Time 
Parental Advisory 

80'5 ENERGY 
Various Artists 
BT 

10 Yean In The Life (2-CD Set)




MEDI 

For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and special offers may vary by store and online. 818892 13789 Sale ends October 5, 2002. www.mediaplay.com 
noP..m. 
~,,./zR, , h 
"lh 

i I 
( 
Wednesday, September 25, 2002 page 17
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
e:ae-t -t e esser\-tia s 
Champion® 
women's 
-t-shi 

colors navy, white, oxford, light blue 
V 

sizes S, M, L, XL $18.00 
Gear for Sports® 
women's 
Pj par\-t 
assorted patterns 
sizes XS, S, M, L, XL, XXL $22.00 
Gear for Sports® 
women's 
-tir\~ -tar\k 
colors navy, white, black, light blue, light gold sizes S, M, L, XL $18.00 
Russell® 
women's 
spo 
sho 
colors light blue, navy, green, gold, oxford, sizes XS, S, M, L, XL 
$12.00 

---------------------------~--------;-----,--------------------­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
MLB 
Gonzalez -will m.iss entire playoffs 
. Diamondback outfielder out for season with shoulder injury 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Luis Gonzalez, the Arizona Diamondbacks' top power hit­ter, will miss the rest of the season and the playoffs because of a shoulder injury. 
The left fielder, hurt Monday night in a collision with shortstop Tony Womack, was examined Tuesday by team physician Dr. Michael Lee, who said Gonzalez might need surgery. 
"Unfortunately, our resilien­cy and our ability to overcome a crisis like this is going to be tested once again," manager Bob Brenly said. 
Gonzalez, who had the win­ning hit in Game 7 of last year's World Series, was hurt when he dived for Tino Martinez's bloop double in the fourth inning of the Cardinals' 13-1 victory. 
Womack went back for the ball and ran full speed into Gonzalez, driving his knee into his teammate's shoulder. Third baseman Alex Cintron jumped over both to avoid a three-way collision. 
Gonzalez has a shoulder separation and torn liga­ments. 
"Though we have not final­ized a timetable, he is a likely candidate for a reconstructive surgical procedure," Lee said. "There is absolutely no reason to believe that he will not be at full strength and available for spring training." 
Second baseman Craig Counsell and pitcher Todd Stottlemyre also are sidelined for the rest of the season, and pitcher Brian Anderson broke his foot Sunday and probably will not pitch again this year. 
Danny Bautista, out since May with a dislocated shoul­der. is also unlikely to return by the playoffs. 
Brenly said Erubiel Durazo will move from first base to right field, with Dave Dellucci moving to left and Mark Grace starting at first base. The line­up is aimed at getting more offensive punch, at the risk of using an untested outfielder. 
"I think our guys will fill in well," Dellucci said. "We'll do our best. It's time for us all to pick up the slack." 
Gonzalez, who returned to Phoenix on Tuesday, hit .288 this season and led the Diamondbacks with 28 homers and 103 RBIs. topping 100 for the fourth straight season. 
Last year, he had career highs of 57 homers, 142 RBIs and 419 total bases. He won the World Series in the ninth inning of Game 7 with a bloop single off the New York Yankees' Mariano Rivera. 
Durazo played briefly in the outfield in spring training. He took fly balls and grounders during batting practice Tuesday. 
"First day. it feels a little weird, but I've got to get used to it," Durazo said. 
Brenly called Durazo's pregame workout "adequate." 
"Rubi is not a natural out­

fielder," Brenly said. "We told 
him not to worry about his 
defense, not to fret about his 
defense, to swing the bat." 

Meeting friends? They've got to be here somewhere. 
> 
i 
t 

U:il , I >
l 

t ) 
I i > 
l 
Wtltomt Tt 
NE)(IB.
:l 
f 

> 
> 
) 
I 

DIGITAL WALKIE·TALKIE SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL1 INSTANT ~tESSENGER™ set\fice TWO·WAY ~fESSAGING JAVA'M GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
NEXTS:I ~
I am:!!!!:= 
·otter is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31. 2002. While supplies last. Requires new activation. one year Service Agreement and credit approval. $200 early termination lee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. ln·store purchases require at !east 2 forms of valid identification. Account set-up fee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account Fees may vary by market. $100 instant savings is off the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point of sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this offer. Other restrictions may apply. Rate plans are subject to taxes, fees and other charges. Current prices are subject to change. Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Nextel Communications. Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel logo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized M logo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and all other

• 

Java•based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems. Inc. AOL, AIM, Buddy List and the triangle design are registered trademarks of America Online. Inc. Instant Messenger is a trademark of America Online. Inc. 
,--------------~
' 
Br-c-f~.!t-It-~· ', 

?t:;1000 -t1C\~s? Ne pvc,\,letM. Ne)(+-e\ ~tves yc1>. sc \MC\.~Y wC\.yS i--c, -t1t~J. wL\c c,y wY\"'-t" yct.A've lcc,~i\.\~ .Pcv. '1--\eei-yc1>.v .Pvie\.\J..S ,,..;.. +-Li\e Ne>C+-el kics~ \,e.Pc,ve +-Li\e ,,,..\Me c,\\ $,,..i-1>.vJ.C\.y t-c ~et-Li\cc~eJ.. I.AP wil-h t-Li\e ~ewes+-phc~es, cc:,cles+-.Pe"'t-1>.Yes C\\.\J.. swee+-esi-v-C\,t-e pl,,..\.\s. New yc,1>.'ve veC\.J.y -Bvi\\' Ii-. 
N<>w's,,.., ,v-e.,..;.. i-i1Me i-o ,e+-~e,c+el: 
,,..,11 Nohe D"""""'e s·H"~e\\+-s ~e¼-"'
\ot·Aiscc,~\.\.-r 
0\\ "'"'Y Y""-t"e pl"'"'"""'~ $\QO'" c,.,P.,P e-.\\y p~<>\\e. 
··ro blAy: 

• '" t-c \\e>C+-e\.cc\M/ivisLi\-sH"J..e\\i-. • c,,..ll +-dl--t1vee l-8"77-s-o,-212,. 
• +-c -t1i\\J.. C\. N.e)(+-el-Ow\.\eJ.. Rei-,,..tl -St-eve \\et:'\v Y<'lA, Ci:,o.ll 1-100-~2c:;-S1,'3S", 


,,i· 
Wednesday, September 25, 2002 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Kidd will file for free agency after next season 
being here in New Jersey. The Kidd was labeled a West Coast Free agency is a window of The difficult part is fitting the
Associated Press 
Nets are my No. 1 choice. That's guy because he went to school at opportunity and I'll take advan­new players into the mix. my answer all year long. California and spent the first six tage of that... "You can never put a price tag
NEW YORK 

"I have to play it out and see years of his NBA career playing Kidd endorsed the Nets offsea­on chemistry," Kidd said. "YouJason Kidd will be one of the what happens." for Western Conference teams in son moves which reshaped the either have it or you don't. And
biggest names filing for free 
NBA rules require that Kidd Dallas and Phoenix. The trade to roster around him with the addi­you find out in the first few prac­agency after next season. That 
file for free agency because he New Jersey was risky for him. tion of 7-foot center Dikembe tices."
doesn't mean the New Jersey 
signed a contract extension with "I never thought I'd be able to Mutombo, point guard Chris Kidd made that transitionNets point guard plans signing Phoenix before he was traded to survive but it's been great," Kidd Childs and swingman Rodney seamlessly last season and thenwith anyone else. 
the Nets last year. He averaged said. "I understand what the East Rogers. spent the summer acquainting"Maybe I ought to carry a cue 14.7 points, 9.9 assists and 7.3 Coast is all about. "Rodney gives us strength off himself with his new home.
card," Kidd said Tuesday after rebounds, took the Nets to the "Winning and being around a the bench," Kidd said. "Chris "I love being an East Coastreceiving the Thurman Munson NBA Finals and was runnerup to great group of guys makes the understands the backup role and guy," he said. "There's so muchAward for community service Tim Duncan in the MVP voting. [free agent] decision easier and then there's the fly swatter back flavor. It's fun. I like the East. Ipresented by the Association for He's become a cornerstone of that's what we have. I'm looking there who helps on defense and hope I don't have to go far ifthe Help of Retarded Children. 
the Nets franchise and isn't inter­to complete my career and win a makes us more aggressive on the everything works out for the rest"I'm playing it out. I've enjoyed ested in changing that situation. championship with New Jersey. perimeter." of my career." 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
post-graduate service program 

~ 
= 
= 
e 
e 
0 



u 
2002-2003 Holy Cross Associates 
Currently serving in Phoenix, AZ; Coachella, CA; Colorado Springs, CO; Brockton, MA; Portland, OR; Wilkes-Barre, PA; & Chile, South America. 
Look for the HCA table at the Post-Graduate Service Fair tonight! 
http://holycrossassociates.nd.edu 
hca@nd.edu 

Pierce testifies about 2000 stabbing attack 

Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Celtics forward Paul Pierce 
testified he was attacked from 
all directions, left bloodied 
and asked emergency room 
doctors whether he would live 
after being stabbed two years 
ago. 
Pierce, testifying Tuesday in the trial of three men charged in the assault, said he walked into the pool room of a Boston club and talked briefly with two women on Sept. 25, 2000. A man standing nearby told Pierce one of the women was his sister. 
"I looked him in the face and I told him, you know, 'No dis­respect,"' Pierce told the jury. 
Pierce said the man, whom he did not identify, "looked at me like he had a problem with me. I sensed a little animosi­
y.,,
t The next thing he knew, Pierce said, he was being attacked by people from all sides. He stumbled backward, felt "stinging blows" and was hit in the head with a bottle that felt "like a rock coming 
down on my head." 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us tQ be better 

Indiana and Michigan 
574/239-66 l l • 800/522-66 l l 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! S~ill dreaming of your perfect 
~@ 


home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. £GUil ,eosuc 
LENDER 
Independent of the University 
"So many people were on me that I was just trying to get them off of me," he said. 
Security guards dragged Pierce into a stairwell, where 
·he lifted his blood-soaked T­shirt and realized he had been stabbed. Teammate Tony Battie and Battie's brother, Derrick, took him to the hospi­tal. 
"I kept asking the doctors if I was going to make it through. if I was going to live through it, because at the time there was so much blood I didn't know what to think," Pierce said. 
Anthony Hurston, William Ragland and Trevor Watson, all of Boston, are accused of stabbing Pierce and hitting him over the head with a champagne bottle in the club. 
The defense maintains that Pierce has never been able to positively identify his attack­ers. Witnesses have said there were as many as 20 people involved in the melee at the club that night. 
Pierce recovered from his injuries and returned in time to start the 2000-01 NBA sea­son. 
The trial began last week. 

Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext 123 
WWW.S[MCHASE.C~ 




page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, Septmeber 25, 2002 




around the dial 
i, 
,1 
t; tr 
If 
.( 
/( 
Major League Baseball Diambondbacks at Cardinals 12:30 p.m.1 ESPN Red Sox at White Sox 7:00 p.m., FOXCH Devil Rays at Yankees 6:00 p.m., ESPN Braves at Phillies 6:00 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 

API Photo 

Randy Moss pictured here making a catch against the Bears In the opening game of the season, was arrested Tuesday evening after his car was pulled over. He faces possible assault charges. 
Randy Moss arrested for assault 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Minnesota Vikings receiver Randy Moss was arrested Tuesday after an incident with a traffic control officer. 
Police spokeswoman Cyndi Barrington said Moss was in custody and his Lexus was impounded after the incident on a downtown street about 6 
p.m. An assault charge was being considered. Barrington said. 
However, ESPN has learned that police will charge Moss with second-degree assault, a felony. 
The traffic officer tried to stop Moss from making an illegal turn, and Moss used his car to slowly push the officer along the street, Barrington said. 
Moss has been involved in a number of on-and off-field incidents since he was drafted from Marshall in the first round in 1998, including squirting a referee with a water bottle in 1999 and abusing corporate spon­sors on the team bus in 2001. 
New coach Mike Tice vowed the Vikings would throw 40 percent of their 
IN BRIEF 

Hingis loses lawsuit 
Manhattan judge has dismissed a $40 million lawsuit that Swiss ten­nis star Martina Hingis filed against an Italian sportswear maker whose shoes allegedly injured her feet. 
State Supreme Court Justice Sherry Klein Heitler ruled that New York is the wrong place to try the case since a similar lawsuit by Hingis against the company, Sergio Tacchini, is pending in Milan, Italy. 
In court papers filed in June 2001, Hingis, 21, said she and Tacchini signed a five-year endorsement deal in 1996 that was to pay her $5.6 million. The deal also required her to wear Tacchini togs at tennis matches. 
During the U.S. Open Tennis Tournament in New York City in September 1998, Hingis said, she suffered a severe foot injury because Tacchini had outfitted her with "defective" shoes, "unsuitable for competition." She said the passes to Moss this year after the Vikings went 6­10 last season. But the Vikings are off to an 0-3 start, their worst since 1967, and Moss caught only four passes for 16 yards in Sunday's loss to Carolina. 
Tice, reached Tuesday evening, said he couldn't comment until he knew more. 
'Tm still trying to figure out what's going on," Tice said. 
Tuesday was an off day for the Vikings, who like most NFL teams set the day aside each week and encourage players to per­form community service. 
Moss, 25, is in his fifth year with the Vikings and is the team's highest-paid player. He signed an eight-year, $75 million contract with the Vikings last year. 
He set an NFL record with 5,396 yards receiv­ing in his first four sea­sons as a pro and is the only wide receiver with more than 1,000 yards receiving in each of his first four seasons. Moss has scored more touch­downs since his 1998 debut than anyone except St. Louis running back Marshall Faulk. 

injury hurt her career. 
In 1999, Hingis sued Tacchini in Milan, alleging breach of contract. That action is pending. 
In granting Tacchini's motion to dismiss, Heitler noted that the Milan lawsuit concerns the same issues as in the New York action, and that it would be "unjust, unfair and inconvenient" to require the defendant to answer here." 
Ochs out for the season 
Craig Ochs, Colorado's starting quarterback, won't play again this season after suffering his third concussion in the past year. 
Ochs hasn't played since he was hurt in a game against San Diego State Sept. 7. Extensive medical tests came back normal but Ochs advised coach Gary Barnett on Monday that his season is over. 
Ochs, a junior who has started since his freshman year, will apply for a medical waiver redshirt for this season. He also will withdraw as a student from Colorado and relinquish his athletic scholarship. 
In a statement, Ochs said he will reevaluate his options for return­ing to play football next season. 
"I was very surprised," Barnett said. "We totally respect his deci­sion and it was a family decision all the way. He wants to pull him­self out and see if he can get him­self healthy. 
"I don't know that Craig's career is over, but it is for this year. He is stepping away, that's what it is," Barnett said. "I think this whole thing has been hard on him because he is such a competitor and he wants to play." 
Ochs' first concussion in college came in September 2001 against Kansas. Later in that season, he got a second one against Texas A&M and was held out of the Texas game. Ochs also had a con­cussion in high school. 
Backup quarterback Robert Hodge has started in Ochs' place. 
page 21

Wednesday, September 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 

Stovall 
continued from page 24 
continue to grow into the success story that is being recognized by more people that just his coaches. 
"Maurice is one of those wonderful stories that we knew coming in," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
Stovall, who joined an inexperienced corps of receivers this season, has been progressing at a slow but steady pace all season. Against Michigan on Sept. 14, he caught a 43-yard pass from Carlyle Holiday to begin an Irish scoring drive that ended with Ryan Grant hitting the end zone. 
On Saturday against Michigan State, he got to hit the end zone himself. 
"Actually it was supposed to be a short pattern, but it converted to a fade," Stovall said of his 15­yard reception in the final seconds of the first half. "I was catching the ball so many times in practice to get used to it and it just happened for me in the game." 
The reception with 11 seconds left gave the Irish the 14-3 lead. Stovall had two receptions in the Irish win for a total of 59 yards. But it seems that even more can be expected from the freshman receiver. 
"What we've been guilty of, if I can say guilty, is slowly bring him along," Willingham said. "Because one thing you want to do, you want to ensure his success and gradually let him learn the system and gradually expose the talent he has. It's been a real joy to watch him each week get better and better." 
As Stovall has settled into the pro-style offense, he has become more and more a receiver that the team can count on. He has started running smart patterns and making himself available as a receiv­er. 
"He's starting to become more familiar with things and I thought he was a lot more, I would say, aggressive out there," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "I think that when you start feel­ing a little bit more comfortable in the scheme you can become a little more aggressive. I think we're very pleased with Maurice's progress." 
Stovall came into Notre Dame with two very dis­tinctive advantages -size and speed. In a system 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer 

Notre Dame wide receiver Maurice Stovall runs with the ball against Michigan State. 
that is looking more and more often for tall receivers, the 6-foot-5 Stovall has an advantage over smaller cornerbacks and safeties. 
In addition, he practices with a very strong sec­ondary. 
"It helps a lot," Stovall said of playing with Shane Walton, Vontez Duff, Glenn Earl and Gerome Sapp. "We have some of the best corners and safeties in the league and going up against them everyday helps get better." 
As Stovall settles into the system, the coaching staff hopes to see him play more and more. Although they are still working slowly, hoping to wean him into their offensive scheme, they cannot deny the talent that Stovall brings. 
"I think he's starting to get comfortable," Willingham said. "Again you don't want to give him too much too soon, but at the same time you know that there's a lot there." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5965@saintmarys.edu 
THE WASHINGTON PROG~~M APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Wednesday, September 25 7:00 P.M. 136DeBartolo FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME  




page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Olsen gets shot to run Irish offense 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Chris Olsen walked out to practice with a little extra bounce in his step Tuesday afternoon. 
With Carlyle Holiday side­lined this week with a shoulder injury. that meant Olsen would back up Pat Dillingham at quarterback in practice, the first time in a long time the freshman has run the Notre Dame offense in practice. 

"I was just trying to get back into the offense," said Olsen, who normally directs the scout team offense. "I haven't really run it in a while, but by the second or third snap, I was back where I felt like I was at camp and I feel pretty comfort­able back there." 
Olsen estimated that he took 40 percent of the snaps Tuesday. compared to 60 per­cent for Dillingham. who Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham said would start if Holiday is unable to play against Stanford. 
Holiday stood on the practice 
field with his left arm in a sling and rode a stationary bike for the first 20 minutes of practice. Later, he stood with the quar­terbacks trying to help Dillingham and Olsen under­stand various quirks on Notre Dame's offense. 

"When I went in there for my first snap, [Holiday] said, 'Don't be nervous, just get in there and do your thing," Olsen said. "He tells me what I can do to be better, and he's like another coach out there." 
Olsen admitted that he felt a little extra pressure working as the backup quarterback while Holiday stays out of practice. He's on sort of a crash-course to learn how to pick up the nuances of the offense in case something happens to Dillingham in a game. 
But while he's mentally preparing himself for the possi­bility that his services might be needed, Olsen is content with playing football. If he doesn't 
/)/ 


play this year, Olsen simply believes he added valuable practice experience. 
"If Carlyle can't come back and, God forbid, something happens to Pat, I wouldn't just be going in there cold," Olsen said. "I'm not sure what Carlyle's going to do, but if nothing happens [for me] this year, then I'm just preparing myself to be a better football player down the road." 
SI jinx? 
Notre Dame appears on the cover of both Sports Illustrated and ESPN The Magazine this week. 
When asked if Tuesday if he was a believer in the infamous jinx, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham responded, "Probably as much as Ali, Jordan and Tiger Woods." 
One of the most recent exam­ples of the SI jinx affecting the Irish came in 1993, when the magazine put Notre Dame on its cover after it beat Florida State, only to lose to Boston College the next week. 
Injury update 
In addition to Holiday, center Jeff Faine rode the stationary bike during practice as he tries to heal his sore ankle. Faine said he re-injured the ankle during warm-ups against Michigan State. 
Running back Ryan Grant also walked around the prac­tice field with his arm in a sling after re-injuring his shoulder. 
In addition to giving the banged-up Irish time to nurse their wounds, the open date also provides the Irish the challenge of staying focused despite not having a game on Saturday. 
"For us to be a good team we have to take advantage of these days, to see if we can gain that kind of experience and that kind of ability to handle the mental process of not having a game," Willi~gham said. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
).la. 

of 8/wwr:aJie ofdfotuJ)anu,, <flndt df«n 
0 
TOMORROW Thursday, September 26--8 PM 
Lafortune Ballroom 
FREE! 
g}r,&q._gkt, j& lfflq.. ,, 
°\Jr.e..~ ~jJ_ 'Vfill~ee{ 
Inter hall 
continued from page 24 
half Cavanaugh drive. "Our defensive line did a good job stopping them on the run behind the line. That's the way we got that interception, because we were well organized." 
Lyons also stuffed a fourth-and-1 quarterback sneak early in the contest. Cavanaugh managed only a few long pass completions and back-to­back ten and seven yard reverses on offense. 
The closest either team came to scoring was on Lyons' final drive. On fourth down with 45 seconds to play, Lyons called a timeout and completed a pass for a first down and a chance to put the game away. 
A first down pass incomplete. The Cavanaugh defensive backs knocked down a fade pass to the corner of the end zone on second down. A screen pass on third down brought the Lions to the Chaos' 2-yard-line, but with no timeouts remaining, the offense had no time huddle. A quick snap and a hurried play resulted in an incomplete pass and a 0-0 tie. 
"We've come a long way since our first loss," said Lyons wide receiver Holly Law. 
McGlinn 13, Lewis 12 
After a slow start, the McGlinn defense woke up and the Shamrocks bested the Lewis Chicks 13-12 in a close contest at Stepan fields on Tuesday night. 
Jessica Fedor sacked Lewis quarterback Erin Nasraloah twice and Jessica Laux recorded another sack as part of the McGlinn defensive attack. While Lewis began by scoring on its opening drive. McGlinn buckled down the rest of the game. 
"We shut them down the rest of the first half," said McGlinn defensive captain Jessica Laux. "A couple girls had big sacks that made a big dif­ference." 
McGlinn wide receiver On'Kay Wong ran for a 60-yard touchdown at the beginning of the sec­ond half and caught the game-winning extra point on a fade pattern in the corner of the end­zone. 
Lewis scored late on a defensive breakdown in McGlinn's secondary. The Shamrocks responded with a fourth-and-1 touchdown pass to the center. Wong's extra point sealed the deal, as Lewis did not have enough time to mount a comeback. 
With a record of 2-1, McGlinn is optimistic after pulling out a close game under pressure .. 
"We had a really tough loss to Cavanaugh," said McGlinn defensive captain Jessica Laux. "But it's a pretty good comeback to turnaround and beat Lewis. Hopefully, this win will give us momentum for our game against Lyons on Sunday and for the rest of season." 
Lewis defensive back Amy Kearn admitted McGlinn has gotten "a lot better since the last time we scrimmaged them." 
The Chicks drop to 2-2, losing to Pasquerilla East and now McGlinn. Quarterback Erin Nasraloah, the team captain and leader of the squad, admitted McGlinn played well and Lewis can still improve. 
"I think we played alright. I know we can play better. McGlinn had a great game. You have to give them credit." 
Amanda Diorio had two interceptions for Lewis. 
Pasquerilla East 20, Pangborn 0 
Abbey Coons threw for three touchdowns as Pasquerilla East defeated Pangborn 20-0 on Tuesday night at Stepan fields. 
Pasquerilla East, which has defeated Lyons and Lewis already, improved to 3-1 record with intensity on both sides of the ball. Coons led the offense to a productive evening while Brita McCullough made several key stops at defensive end. 
"Our defense was tough and our offense con­nected," said Pasquerilla East captain Lindsay Terifay. 
The Pangborn Foxes emerge from last night's loss with a slight bit of confidence despite hav­ing an 0-3 record. 
"I thought we looked really good," Pangborn captain Charlotte Troupis said. "We got down to the 10-yard line a lot. We just couldn't capital­ize." 
"It looks like we have a lot of good fresh­man ... [and] a lot of talent. We just have to cap­italize on it," said Troupis. "We're looking bet­ter than we did in the last three years." 
Troupis said the Foxes came close to inter­cepting several of Coons passes, but players simply could not hold on to the ball. 
Still, the Foxes acknowledge Coons outplayed them this night. "Their quarterback did a great job," said Troupis. 
Pasquerilla East Kelli Krimmel made one interception while Stephanie Yahn had two interceptions. Each interception put the Pyros in good field position for touchdowns. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ Class of2003 ~ 
; MAQ~;flQI1AV111R ; 
~  ~  
~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~~--....  --..  Thursday, September 26 5-7pm St. Joseph's Beach (behind Stanford Hall at the Boathouse)  ~ ~ ~ ~  
;  FR66 Foool  ;  

~ PLg Yoetst et 111.,c;t etssortevt et-p-petLzeys if' 
~ ~ ~ ,~~~~ ~ ; Cash bars. . . ~ ; 
·~ 
~~ ~ ~ ~ •Entry limited to the first 300 students• ~ 
~ Must be 21+ to attend ~ ~ (Valid ID and Senior ND Student ID required for entry) ~ 
~ Park in Stepan (B12) or D2 lots ~ 
??????????~~~~~??? 

Wednesday, September 25, 2002 page 23 
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
MML.. ~ kw~b#tt. 


JACK MONAHAN 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglr!on 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordina words. 
CURCO 

Cl2002 Trllune 
Media Services, Inc. Al Rights Aeaelved. 
HURTT 
t
GAIDOA t
I J 
www.jumble.com
tHISMAF 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.


J I I 
Answerhere: rI I] "(II I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: HEDGE PLAID OMELET INVOKE Answer: Needed to build a successful photo business -DEVELOP IT 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 11 • To order, Nnd your name, •ddNH •nd $5.45 and make ci-k payable to Tribune Media Servtcn, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL ll0680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 31 See 17-Across 67 For a specific purpose
1 Backs, 34 Off-the-cuff stuff anatomically 68 Loo sign
36 Butler's request 6 Plants 69 Put the kibosh
37 Ed.'s in-box 11 Bouncers' filler on 
70 Time unit?
requests 38 One using a delete key 71 Picture within a
14 Shackles picture40 Hesitation
15 Like some 
sound

anesthesia 43 Bother no end DOWN
16 Rolodex no. 44 City near 1 24 horas
17 With 31-, 46· 
Bologna

and 61-Across, 2 Sun, e.g. 46 See 17-Across
comment from 3 They may be Franz Kafka so Checks for pitched contraband,
19 Kidnappers in 4 Bull, at times 
maybe70's news 

5 ·_silly 20 Body build 51 Lash mark question ... " 52 Together,
21 Masterful 6 Polished,musically languagewise
23 Online columnist Drudge 54 Q.E.D. part 7 Part of U.C.L.A. 55 Counterpart of a 
8 U.N. Day mo.
25 Abbr. on a 
delete key

business letter 9 Broccoli_ 58 Nervous feeling 
(leafy vegetable)28 "Would ?" 

60 Umpire's call 

10 Football's Puzzle by David Levinson Wilk
29 Fugard's "A 
Lesson From 61 See 17•Across Karras 39 Strip in the 46 Jury, often 57 Cinergy Field " 66 Compete 11 " ... is fear news players
47 Self-referencingF.D.R. 
59 Best Picture of40 Gives hope to contract term
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Texas border 1958 
48 Walking on air 62 Spa sounds 
singer 63 Marker letters
49 Subtle
with heavy tiles 42 It's rigged 
distinction 64 Western18 M.'s mate 
43 Red-spotted tribesman
53 U.S.N.A. grad22 Waterfront walk critters 
65 One of a fleet 45 City on the Elbe 56 Actor Morales fleet 24 Poor box filler Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 27 Fast time? phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
30 Blip maker crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 ·888•7-ACROSS. 
32 Pion's place 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 33 Copy past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 35 Literally, Ml Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, forbid" nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
' 
I 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Will Smith, Heather Locklear, Barbara 
-l 1 
Walters, Michael Douglas 
i

Happy Birthday: You will have the energy and the fortitude to do whatever you set 
l

your mind to this year. You will find yourself faced with a situation that will require 
! 

you to be disciplined, making the right choices even if it isn't exactly what you had I I in mind. Set goals that are in reach and be honest with ycxm,elfabout your capabilities. I Your numbers are 3,7,22,29,34,37 j ARIES (March 21-AprU 19): Don't allow someone to take advantage of you. Remember that you can't be taken advantage of if you don't allow it Arguments over j 
financial concerns will be stressful. A relative may be a burden. *** 
TAURUS (April 20.l\tay 20): You will find it difficult to be o~jective, especially ..,. 
when dealing with emotional partners. You must be extremely affectionate if you 
wish to keep the peace and avoid drastic altercations in your relationship. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can expect to suffer from minor health problems 
if you have pushed yourself to the limit. You need to spend the day taking care of 
your own needs. Do not talk too much about your future intentions. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get involved in a group that has an interest in the 
youth in your community. Your input will be valuable and you should be able to make 
some new friends at the same time. Love relationships can be formed. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may find it hard to get your point across today. Be 
professional and don't let your frustration show. Don't be too generous with children. Spoiling will not be the answer. ** VIRGO (Aug. 2.1-Sept. 22): Listen to people who have something important to say to you today. You will gain knowledge and be able to put together some good ideas. You should consider attending a seminar or signing up for a course. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have to take care of matters for an older member of your family. Don't let this person become a burden. Do what is necessary quickly and get back to taking care of your own business. *** SCORPIO (Oct D-Nov. 21): Stay calm, especially when dealing with your partner or som:one you are deeply interested in. This persoo may put you through an emotional wringer; refuse to become upset. ** SAGTITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Focus on work and take a short business trip if it will help you seal a deal. Eat properly and leave yourself enough time at the end of the day to relax. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get out with friends today and do something challenging and compelling. Competitive sports will take the edge off any worries you might have. Don't be too eager to part with your cash. ***** AQUARRJS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): You may find it difficult to please the people closest to you. Take time out to do things for yourself. Expand on a creative idea that you have.** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Plan a vacation. Some delays may occlll' today if you have to travel somewhere. Be sure to have your directions straight before you leave. 
*** Birthday Baby: You will be a well-rounded person who is well-liked. You will show your strength physically. You will think wisely and will execute what.ever you do with great precision. honesty and thought. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com,astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
..,. 


Wednesday, September 25, 2002 
Irish legend Hart dead at 73 
the good die too soon," Notre Dame lete and had a great pro career. He was and 1957. He earned All-Pro honors in
. 1949 Heisman Trophy 
head coach Tyrone Willingham said. a nice guy, too." 1951.winner led Notre Dame "You really hate that because he has Hart, who was from Turtle Creek, Pa.. During his pro career, Hart played to 3 national been such a fine person and such fine was one of only two linemen to win the end, defensive end and fullback. 
player and such an integral part of this Heisman. Larry Kelly of Yale was the In his eight seasons with the Lions, he
championships 

program's history. His passing is greatly other, in 1936. Hart was the last non­had 174 catches for 2,499 yards and 26 missed." skilled position player to win the touchdowns. He ran for 612 yards and 
Associated Press 

The Irish went 36-0-Heisman until five touchdowns, all in 1956, and had 2 during Hart's four Michigan cornerback four interceptions, eight kick returns 
..It simply falls into that 
Leon Hart. who won the 1949 years at the school. Charles Woodson in and twice returned fumbles for touch­Heisman Trophy and helped Notre winning national category ofthe good die 1997. downs. Dame win three national titles, died championships in too soon .• , Hart and former After retiring from football, Hart lived Tuesday at age 73. 1946, 1947 and 1949, Notre Dame quarter­in Birmingham, Mich .. and ran a num­
He also was a member of three NFL and finishing No. 2 in back Angelo Bertelli ber of businesses, including one that championship teams in his eight seasons 1948. The 6-foot-5, Tyrone Willingham are the only players to made tire-balancing equipment. with the Detroit Lions. 250-pound Hart was Notre Dame head football coach win the Heisman His son, Kevin, played for the Irish 
Hart died at the St. Joseph Medical The Associated Press Trophy and national from 1977-79. His grandson, Brendan. Center in South Bend, Notre Dame asso­athlete of the year in championship in the is a walk-on junior tight end for the ciate athletic director John Heisler said. 1949. same season and then Irish. Hospital spokeswoman Betty Rowley "He was a great act," said John become the first overall player taken in said she did not know the cause of Lattner, who won the Heisman at Notre the NFL draft. death. Dame in 1953...I remember watching Playing in the NFL from 1950-57, Hart Sports writer Andrew Soukup also 
"It simply falls into that category of him in high school. He was a great ath-helped the Lions win titles in 1952, 1953 contributed to this report. 
FOOTBALL 

Stovall, Irish try to avoid SI cover curse 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Last year, Sports Illustrated featured Oregon State on the cover of its magazine, touting the Beavers as possibly the year's best collegiate football program. Oregon State was cho­sen to finish first. 
At the end of the year, they didn't even finish in the top 25. So goes the fabled ..Sports Illustrated Curse." 
You find yourself on the cover of the magazine and the next week you trip over your shoelaces while chasing a fly ball, you accidentally hit your golf ball directly into your caddy or you drop from averaging 350 passing yards a game to just 15. 
And this week Sports Illustrated has a new victim ­Maurice Stovall. 
The Irish will be featured on the cover of this week's Sports Illustrated, and the freshman receiver will be forever enshrined in full color making his first touchdown reception of his collegiate career -the touchdown reception that broke 20 consecutive Irish quarters without one. 
So is Stovall afraid of the curse? 
"I haven't really seen [the issue] yet," Stovall said. "I guess it is exciting, but I don't let it block my focus and what we have to accomplish." 
As long as nothing dreadful happens to Stovall -thanks to the sports gods cursing the cele­brated players that grace the 
cover of a magazine  -he may  Image courtesy of Sports Illustrated  
The Sept. 30 cover of Sports Illustrated magazine features Irish wide receiver Maurice Stovall.  
see STOVALL/page 21  The Irish are hoping to avoid the Infamous Jinx associated with being on Si's cover.  


FOOTBALL 
I' 
! 
With starting quarterback Carlyle Holiday sidelined with an injury, Notre Dame quarterback Chris Olsen, normally responsible for throwing passes for the Irish scout team, now finds himself suddenly thrust into taking snaps as the backup for the Irish. 

page 22 
WOMENS INTERHALL 
Points at a 
•
premium 
. Cavanaugh, Lyons battle to scoreless tie 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

The Cavanaugh Chaos and the Lyons Lions shook hands and walked their separate ways after playing under the lights at Stepan Field Tuesday night. Neither team had points to show for their efforts. The game did not feature high-octane offense; instead, it was a battle for defensive supremacy. 
The Chaos and Lions battled for 40 minutes to a 0-0 tie. 
The Cavanaugh defense forced Lyons three downs and out on the first drive, setting the tone for the remainder of the game. Cavanaugh, however, did not expect what would ensue on the other side of the ball. The Lions' defense contained an attack that defeated Pasquerilla East and McGlinn in its first two games to begin the season undefeated. 
Cavanaugh's Meg Myers threw for 70 yards and hit favorite target Nancy Powaga three times for 30 yards, but key plays in the secondary and on the defensive line by Lyons kept Cavanaugh out of the end zone. 
"We were running a zone defense," said Lyons defensive back Amanda Kelly, who made a key interception on a second-
see INTERHALL/page 22 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
McGlinn 13 Lewis 12 Pasquerilla East 20, Pangborn 0 
The Shamrocks squeaked out a last-minute victory over the Chicks Tuesday, while the Pyros poured it on the Phoxes. 
page 22 


