
March (Movie) Madness
SNOW 

Thursday
The Observer movie critics review this month's latest flicks including "Resident Evil" and "Queen of the Damned." 
HIGH 32° MARCH 21,
Scene . page 14
LOW12° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 108 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

Students flood rally, march to Dome 

A Keenen Hall window reflects students' opinion of proposed changes to the University's alcohol policy. 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
To the chant of "We need a voice," hundreds of Notre Dame undergraduates marched to administrators' doorstep Wednesday, flooding a student demonstration in protest of proposed changes to the University alcohol poli­cy. 
The effort brought together more than 600 people, carry­ing "Save liquor" signs and lofting burning copies of du Lac, the student handbook, in the air. The student govern­ment-sponsored event, billed as an all-campus town hall meeting, was students' first public movement against alco­hol policy changes that University officials unveiled 
Monday. 
"We've heard your frustra­tions, and we share your frus­trations," Student Body President Brooke Norton said, flanked by class and residence hall presidents on a platform on the Fieldhouse Mall. "We still have time to stand togeth­er and affect this." 
A boisterous crowd took Norton and other organizers' comments to heart, moving th~ protest from its North Quad location to Main Building -home to most administrative offices. includ­ing Father Mark Poorman's. 
Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, on Mondav announced three changes that University officers are likely to approve this summer and enact in the fall: 
. 
the outlaw of "hard" alco­hol in undergraduate resi­dence halls 

. 
the ban of in-hall dances 

. 
and the revision of tailgat­ing rules to allow only drink­ing-age students to host par­ties in designated parking lots before home football games 


Poorman said the changes were necessary prevent the campus culture from becom­irig alcohol-centered. 
Protesters, however, claimed student social life wasn't rooted in drinking and were upset that students were shut out of the policy-making. 
"This is about dorm unity," said Joe Muto, O'Neill Hall president-elect. "This is about a hell of a lot more than hard alcohol." 
To which a man in the crowd interjected, "Like free­dom!" 
Muto was among several speakers who enlivened the 

Hall staffs confront policy 
and the end of in-hall dances -the ' dorm, but Rozum said the 

By HELENA PAYNE 
the latter has been the more hall staff would consider using 

News Editor 
voiced concern of late. Alumni the dorm's nearby courtyard as 
Hall, which hosts its "Wake" a new location. 

The new alcohol policy every year, is just one of the "I think if our Wake had been changes have received varying University's 27 dorms, to have on the line, it would've been a reactions from residence hall traditions tied to their in-hall different story," said Hozum. staffs with the general agree­dances, also called SYRs. Many Nevertheless, both Rozum ment that many of Notre students perceive that the new and Ca.5tello thought the policy Dame's traditions and enforce­policy will threaten the legacy of was an effort of the University ment policies in these SYRs. to look out for students' best question will " T h e interest. remain. "Ifsomebody were to be Wake isn't "We're going to enforce it 
"Student killed nobody would be cancelled," however Student Affairs tell us Affairs isn't s a i d to," Rozum said adding that
outside protesting. 

doing this to be Alumni 's many students are unaware of the evil, wicked Everybody would be at the rector the cases of students who go to witch of the basilica at mass. ,, Father the hospital each year because west. There's a George of alcohol abuse. reason," said Rozum. "Ifsomebody were to be killed Alumni Hall's George Rozum He added nobody would be outside assistant rector Alumni Rector t h a t pf'i()testing. Everyone would be Pat Costello, a Student at the Basilica in mass," said law student who Afiairs would allow the SYR tra­Castello. is also a Notre Dame under­dition, which includes carrying Fellow rector of Farley Hall, graduate of the class of 1990. Alumni's rector in a coffin Sister Carrine Etheridge said 
Among the three major revi­around campus, to continue as she was optimistic about the sions in the policy -the ban of long as students were more changes. so-called "hard" alcohol. the responsible about drinking. "To be realistic, when you allowance of tailgating for stu­Also, the new rules require that dents of the legal drinking age, the dance is located outside of see STAFF/page 6 already-enthusiastic group. Mardi Gras away, if you want He joined other hall presi­to take my dorm unity away, dents in condemning then you'll have to pry them Poorman's proposal to cancel out of my cold, dead hands," in-hall dances and popular Muto said, warning that he signature events in dorms. 

"If you want to take my 
see PROTEST/page 9 


Debaters prepare for national tourney 
"The farthest we have ever By !AURA SELLINGER gotten in the National News Writer 
Tournament was the quarterfi­nals," said Huetteman. "This After winning several tourna­year we hope to advance as far ments over the course of the as we can towards the national year, Notre Dame's Speech and championship. Like March Debate team is heading to the Madness, it can be anybody's National Parliamentary Debate game. We have also reached a Association level of success this year where I really believe we have a shot
Championship See Also 
Tournament at it." at the "McDonald Throughout the year, the Metr-o politan team worked hard to prepare
earns spot on
S t a t e for regional tournaments University in team" across the country and faced Denver, tough competition from states
page 7
Colorado as far as California, Friday. Washington and Colorado. 
Led by 2001 Notre Dame "The amount of practicing graduate and first-year law has become much more intense student Kate Huetteman, and this year. Not only have we assisted by Joe Foy, a graduate added a Sunday practice, but student in political science, the the students also do a substan­team consists of 20 students tial amount of independent ranging from freshmen to seniors. see DEBATE/page 7 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, March 21, 2002 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS

INSIDE COLUMN 
Looking back ••• 

I turned in my graduation ticket request form yesterday and all of a sudden it hit me ... it's almost over. Somehow four years have come and gone when it feels like it was only last week we were moving in as bright-eyed fresh­men. Do you remember that weekend? Kimberly 
It must have been 800 Springerdegrees outside, but we were still all full of smiles as we commenced another Advertising chapter in our lives. We Account took part in all the frosh-o Executive activities, the graffiti dance, tie dance ... ahh the memo­ries. 
But seriously, where did all the time go? I know they say that time flies when you are having fun, but did it really have to fly this fast? I admit there were times when I wanted nothing more than to leave Notre Dame -my personal Hell. On multiple occasions the Golden Dome wasn't so golden anymore and looked more like iron. 
But during the fall semester I was a peer advisor for the First Year of Studies and it was a breath of fresh air. I had the opportunity to speak with freshmen that were so excited about being at Notre Dame you couldn't help but smile and feel excited right along with them. 
I needed that, the Dorne wasn't iron any­more, it was Golden again. Of course I have to give my Observer plug. I'm one of the few peo­ple who don't work at God-awful hours of the night. Daytime hours are definitely a plus to working in the Advertising Department. I started out as an account executive and some­how worked my way up to being the manager. Suddenly, I'm back to being an account execu­tive again because all the new guys have taken over, meaning the seniors are knocked out of a job. 
While it's nice not having to deal with irate customers or getting phone calls at 3 a.m. from Mike, Noreen or Kerry asking where an ad is, I miss not being manager anymore and all the "glory" that went along with it. Sure I have more free time, but that also means I don't go into the office nearly as much as I used to, I don't talk to Shirley each day (the greatest office manager ever). and ultimately I don't see the great people that work there nearly as much as I'd like. Turnover at the Observer is yet another wake-up call that my time at Notre Dame is almost over. 
I've had my ups and downs as everyone does, but when I look back it has been an amazing experience. We have all met some wonderful people, and probably some that weren't so wonderful. We've created memories that will never leave us. Senior week is seven weeks away. While that seems like a long way off, it will be here before we know it. 
It's the last week we will have where it doesn't matter if we sleep all day and stay out all night. It's also the last time I will probably see a lot of people for a very long time or maybe for the last time. I will begin my gradu­ate degree next year either in D.C., California, or Texas (I haven't quite decided yet), but no matter what I will never forget my time at Notre Dame. After wanting to graduate and get out of here, I don't know if I'm ready to leave this place after all. 
Contact Kimberly Springer at Springer.5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highesr srandards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday cxcepr during <Xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a memb,r of the As.sociared Press. All reprod.ucrion righu arc reserved. 
Thursday Friday 
. 
Talk: "Killing Cool: . Talk: Undergraduate Igniting the Souls of Peace Conference, all day, Society," 6 p.m., Debartolo Hesburgh Center 101 . Concert: ND Glee Club, 

. 
Play: "A Night on 8 p.m., Washington Hall Broadway," 7:30 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom 



Saturday 
. 
Meeting: Hate crimes vigil, 12:30 p.m., Stonehenge 

. 
Charity event: "Dance for a Cure for Diabetes," 10 p.m., Alumni Senior Club 


Sunday 
. Mass: 71st annual Rockne memorial; mass, 
9:30 a.m., Dillon Hall, and communion breakfast 
10:30 a.m., McKenna Hall 

BEYOND CAMPUS Compiled from U-Wire reports 
U. of Texas to maintain ties to Enron 
AUSTIN, Texas 
University of Texas-Austin's long­standing relationship with the law firm Vinson & Elkins will not be tainted by investigations into their dealings with Enron, UT officials said Tuesday. 
"Vinson & Elkins is a premier, national law firm. They are at the top of their game, and 1 think they have the strength, talent, vision and integrity to come through this," he said. 
A special investigation committee of Enron's board of directors chaired by Powers found V&E shared responsibility in Enron's fail­ure to report all of the transactions it had with various companies. The report said V&E was not being accused of breaking set laws but rather it should have ensured the disclosure of these transactions to both investors and the public. Powers said he recused himself from the portion of the report dealing with V&E because he could not offer a fair opinion about the firm. 


"I was doing a report for Enron, and I had an obligation to be accu­rate," he said. "When I started that report I asked if Vinson & Elkins was part of the investigation and I was told they were not. I could not give an unbiased view of Vinson & Elkins, and it would give the report more integrity if I did not participate in it." 
Whatever the outcome of the investigation on V&E, Kathryn Holt, assistant dean for career services for the law school, said she hopes the firm will continue to recruit heavily at the University as it has in the past. 
"I would never speculate, but as it stands right now, expect them to recruit as strongly as ever because they are one of the most sought after firms by our students," she said. 
"They are already planning to come to campus next fall -they already have their dates set. They have consistently hired our students for both the fall and summer." 
Daily Texan 




BAYLOR UNIVERSITY 

UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Playboy models may face trouble 
WACO, Texas 
Photographers for Playboy magazine's "Women of the Big 12 Conference" feature and representatives of the 2003: Budweiser Women of the Big 12 Conference Swimsuit Calendar will be in Waco this week in search of Baylor University women to pose for their publica­tions, hut students who do so could face consequences. When the Big 12 last was included in 1996. President Robert Sloan Jr. told the Lariat students who posed for the magazine would be "subject to expulsion under the student sexual misconduct policy." This time. how­ever, that may or may not be the case. Bethany McCraw, the associate dean of judicial and legal stu­dent services who would be in charge of punishment, said although the handbook lists expulsion as a possi­ble consequence of such behavior, that consequence is not a foregone conclusion -things such as the stu­dents' attitude and their honesty also would be consid­ered. 
The Lariat 


LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


DEA considers ban on hemp foods 
LOS ANGELES 

Hemp food products are popular in health stores across the nation, but recent scrutiny by the Drug Enforcement Administration has sparked national debate over the controversial plant. The DEA man­dated that retailers remove all hemp food products from store shelves by March 18, but a court appeal by the hemp food industry earlier this month has temporarily stopped the DEA ban from taking effect. Hemp, which is harvested from the same plant as marijuana, is increasingly being used in health foods because its seeds are high in essential fatty acids, protein and vitamins. "Study after study has shown hemp to be not only safe but nutritious," said Darrel Rogers, national outreach coordinator of Students for Sensible Drug Policy. Hemp foods account for $5 million in retail sales each year and are the fastest growing segment of the hemp indus­try. 
Daily Trojan 



NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 20. 
....,...... 

0 2002 AcouWnlher, Inc:. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
®-© G ~ ~ ~' ~' {) ~~ 4.W)
.

High Low Shaw1r1 !loin Ta¦lorffll Flurrlq Snow 1.,. Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
vi.Au-1.aP,... 
AUante 67 34 Las Vegas 78 52 Portland 57 42 Baltimore 59 24 Memphis 60 27 Sacramento 73 45 Boston 52 24 Milwaukee 30 12 St. LOUIS 40 19 Chicago 28 13 New York 56 23 Tampa 81 62 Houston 73 52 Philadelphia 59 24 Washington. OC 60 2B
V",. A&sociated Pte5$ GflP/UCIN,,t 

Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Congregation of Holy Cross 

lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 




Committee to review debit ID's 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 
Saint Mary's formed a com­mittee to review the feasibility of new·options for swiping stu­dent ID cards instead of using cash to pay for campus utilities. 
The cost will not be an add­on to tuition payments, but stu­dents may choose to place money in an account accessible via their cards. In this way it will act as a pre-paid debit card that students can then use to pay for necessities. The sys­tem will also be available to students living off campus. 
"The biggest issue is the laundry system. Figuring out the best route for machines in every laundry room would help solve this issue," Kim Jensen, a student representative on the committee, said. 
The committee plans to first place machines in all laundry facilities, equip copy machines, vending machines and the bookstore. 
"We are looking into the eco­nomically b~st options for 
You will alway~ be our 
\VONDCJ2_ \VOMANI 
doing this so that all these dif­ferent systems are available by using the Saint Mary's ID card," Jensen said. "Instead of having to dig around for change you can just place $20 on to your card and just swipe it." 
In the next few weeks the committee will meet with the laundrv contractors so work on the new system can begin this summer and the new laundry system can be introduced next year. The committee will con­tinue to review options for adding onto this new system, but full implementation will not immediately follow the laundry system because of costs and the difficulty of integrating all of the different systems. 
The committee is composed of Christine Arzt, director of McCandless Hall, Dan Deeter, director of purchasing, Sandy Vanderwerven, Shaheen Bookstore manager, Jensen and Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, both students. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

Happy 21st Birthday 
from Mom, oaa, Greg ana Eric 
OV[R llJO TOP Tt;:N LISTS 
_;;.~f<.J ~~"\Q. ~-l'"!,l. ,.i:,".l!,, 1#,_,_ ~ r:-ir:::.::~,. w{ .~{l;}(«.r '"1"-.M. t.._·~·:lf·~ f~-j-.~¥. t~ ~Jr.:" Gi;-~ P:..Cr.it""'-J ..Nc.w 'f'rt ;'ll""(,,'itau..i ~ iJt"N~•I" ~ .-·l,(i,Y · i.o~r Ebc·it • ni, I"'~'• St,·""-~ ):s..rrol 

GHOST WOR,LO 




NE>cinema 
THURS DAY, MARCH 21 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7:00 PM 
FR·EE ADM ISSI . N 

page 4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 21, 2002 
Bush proposes child­support changes 
Great Japanese food 
Mlk:A 
·":r ~ 
P-. ;p.;:;·;.,.~f ;f ~:(::'· :,,f-.:.1.?i?'Af.: 
at great prices. 

Comejoinusfor our
Cleveland 
~ 
* 402 us 31 North lunch specials! 
~ 
South Bend, IN 46637 $1.00 offfor lunch 
(219) 272-2535 $2.00 offfor dinner 



ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
SPONSORED Brn<JdcfoS 
R<-~ "'OTlle,.. ,..I fOQDltl¥1(tJ 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY! 

To Daddy's Little Girl 
(Now what will you do with all those fake IDs?) 

Rate C.:r: i.Jnes Vigil 


Stone'henge Saturday March 23 12 :: 3 0 


Sponsored by Student Government, PE, Lyons, AAA, and SUB 
~t UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAt\E~ Jj 
r~ February 1 through April 23, 2002 l~ 
fl 'J1 
DEPARTMENT OF 
SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
f~I 

] 02 HESBURGH LIBRARY 
~ t 

MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY 
p,~:1~~:;:&• 


Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

The Hush administration is developing a new program to channel money through the child-support collection pro­gram to 
promote marriage and the involve­ment of both par­ents in the rearing of children. 


Congress 
Bush

already is considering whether to devote hundreds of millions of dollars to promot­ing marriage in the welfare program. as President Bush has requested, but this pro­gram would not need congres­sional approval. 
The new initiative would involve a maximum of about $22 million in federal and state money for about 15 com­munities, according to two draft documents that describe the plan. 
Participating states would receive special permission from the government to spend money through their child­support programs for commu­nity-wide experiments to pro­mote the benefits of marriage, help people develop marriage skills and create media cam­paigns to "rebuild cultural norms." 
States could add new money to their child-support spend­ing. but they might also cut from other spending. 
This is a prospect that wor­ries advocates for the poor. 
Advocates also charge that the administration is trying to bypass Congress in imple­menting its pro-marriage agenda. 
The proposal is still in draft form and must be approved by officials at the Department of Health and Human Services and the White House, said Wade Horn, who heads the HHS Administration for Children and Families, which would run the program. 
Critics fear that with limited money, states may wind up siphoning money they would have spent on child support. 


ATION 


Thursday, March 21, 2002 COMPILED PROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Chinese police block protesters: 
Profound labor unrest shook two cities in north­ern China's "rust belt" Wednesday as unpaid and laid off workers protested, overturning a car and massing 10,000-strong to face off with military police. In Liaoyang, an industrial cen­ter in northeastern Liaoning province, columns of military police protected the city government office -on Democracy Road -and broke up protest'>. 
Iraq launches verbal attacks: 
President Saddam Hussein launched a new attack on American policy makers Wednesday, accusing them of conjuring up stories in a bid to justify potential military strikes on Iraq. Saddam's latest barbs came in a speech to gov­ernment oJTicials broadcast by the otlicial Iraqi News Agency, radio stations and television. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
FAA launches investigation: 
Federal aviation officials are investigating whether federal agents violated security rules at the Salt Lake International Airport during the Olympics, an official said Wednesday.The internal probe was prompted by a complaint from at least one agent stationed in Salt Lake City who said lax security created risks for travelers, said Rebecca Trexler, a Transportation Security Administration spokeswoman in Washington. 
Texas mud-flinging supersedes race: 
The race for the Democratic nomination to 
GETTY 

succeed retiring Sen. Phil Gramm has taken 
President George W. Bush greets students at Tucker Elementary School in Virginia, where he publicized a new 
an ugly turn, with the two candidates accus­
program to send school supplies and uniforms to students in Afghanistan.
ing each other of drawing class and racial divisions.Victor Morales said Ron Kirk has been derailing his attempts to reach black 
Bush supports Afghan children 
voters by pressuring black organizations not to let him speak. Kirk, who is black, denied the charge. school children pack note­that many more are need­families by the money they
Associated Press 

books, pencils, crayons, ed. earn. jump ropes and soccer 'Tm asking our fellow The White House said the 
WASHINGTON President Bush went to a balls into blue-plastic con­Americans to rally for this U.S. government is h~lping suburban school tainers for shipment to good cause and participate provide uniforms for INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS Wednesday to ask Afghanistan by the in the creation of 2,000 150,000 girls and school Americans to help the gov­
American Red Cross. more school supply chests supplies for 40,000 stu­ernment in assembling Tucker students have col­to go to Afghanistan," he dents.
Governor proposes budget cuts: 
thousands of chests of lected $2,500 for Afghan said. The Labor Department of Gov. Frank O'Bannon said Wednesday that he youngsters. "You'll know you're mak­Labor will contribute
classroom supplies for

would cut $332 million in spending for such 
Afghan children. "When they go to school ing a huge difference ... in $300,000 to a nonprofit things as computers for schools, building First lady Laura Bush we want to make sure the life of a boy or girl in group that is organizing repairs, research and development programs they've got supplies," Bush Afghanistan," Bush said. the clothes-for-schoolgirls
said efforts also are under and local projects legislators designated for way to supply school uni­said, announcing that the The first lady said the drive, the White House 
their districts.O'Bannon said the cuts, which forms for more than 3 mil­government has sent 4 mil­school uniform project is said. 

lion textbooks to being organized by a global Afghan schoolchildren
are in addition to $782 million in cuts he lion Afghan students, espe­
Afghanistan's schools, with partnership that is supply­traditionally wear uniforms
already announced, are necessary to help shore cially Afghan girls attend­
ing school for the first time. an additional 6 million on ing sewing machines and to school, said Melanne 
up a projected $1.3 billion deficit that lawmak­
The Bushes traveled to the way. thousands of yards of fab­Verveer, the group's chair­
ers failed to address during the legislative ses­
The president said 1,000 ric to the Afghan women woman. The Taliban for­
the Samuel W. Tucker ele­

sion that ended last week. 
chests of school supplies who will produce the uni­bade girls older than 8 to
mentary school in 

have been assembled, but forms, helping their own attend school.
Alexandria, Va., to watch 

Market Watch March 20 COLOMBIA 


Dow i
10,501.57 -133.68 I
Jones 
Presidential contest commences 
Composite 

country's infrastructure. Pastrana is No one discussed the difficulties of
Associated Press 

~sf~c 
Volume: barred from running for a second capturing the wily 71-year-old
l,288,799,488 

BOGOTA, Colombia term in the May 26 election. Marulanda. whose group has waged 
Colombia's presidential race kicked In the debate, which began Tuesday guerrilla warfare against a succes­AMEX: -2.14 off in earnest Wednesday after a live night and lasted until after midnight, sion of elected governments in this NASDAQ: 1,832.87 -48.00 television debate among five candi­four candidates said they would agree South American country for 38 years. 
dates, many of whom pledged to get to the extradition of FARC founder U.S. officials have not announced
NYSE: 602.37 -7.16 
tough on rebels and even extradite and leader Manuel "Sureshot" any indictment against Marulanda,
S&P 500: 1,151.85 -18.44 
their leaders to the United States. Marulanda if the United States sought but Ashcroft said Monday that three More than ever, Colombia's race for it. The rebel group has killed 13 FARC rebels have been indicted in the 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
the presidency reilects growing anger Americans since 1980 and kidnapped United States for drug trafTicking. The 
:OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
at the Revolutionary Armed Forces of more than 100 others, U.S. Attorney FARC, and a rival right-wing paramil­
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +4.65 +0.20 4.50 
Colombia, or FARC, after President General John Ashcroft said this week, itary group, are financed by "taxing"
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SU!wl) -6.46 -0. 59 8. 55 
Andres Pastrana's peace process with Only leftist candidate Luis Eduardo the production of cocaine in
NASDAQ-100 INDEX ((m) -3.53 -1.32 36.06 
the group collapsed on Feb. 20 und Garzon said he would oppose extradi­Colombia, the world's foremost pro­
BRISmL-MEYER (BMY) -15.56 -7.57 41.08 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.75 +1.19 30.53 the guerrillas began attacking the tion. ducer of the drug. 
j 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 21, 2002 
Staff 
continued from page 1 
have access to alcohol for five or six hours straight, rather than for a limited amount of time, I think it's a setup for being a problem," said Etheridge whose dorm also has an annually celebrated SYR, Pop Farley. 
She said the residents in her dorm were disappointed and had a right to protest the changes, but she also pointed out what she thought were positive aspects to the policy. 
"I think it might change the social scene a little, but the upside of this is that students are going to find a lot of interesting places to have dances," Etheridge said. 
She said the University admin­istration has expressed the will­ingness to open other campus venues for dances, and that they would also still allow in-hall social gatherings before the dance. 
A more critical group, the incoming resident assistants, also support the need for change, but have some criticism about the effects it will have on their expe­rience during upcoming year. Because the revised alcohol poli­cy was announced after the RAs had already been chosen for next year, those students were given an additional rule to enforce. 
"It's just one more thing that's going to make my job tougher that I didn't anticipate," said junior Dan Zeller who will be an RA in St. Edward's Hall next year. "It's a new twist that maybe they should've thrown in before HAs were selected." 
Zeller, like many current hall staff members, said he agreed that alcohol abuse had become a problem, but the revisions did not adequately solve it. 
"I think it's unfair to the kids that are 21 years of age, but these are the same students that are providing the alcohol," said Zeller. 
However, his chief complaint regarded what Zeller though was poor justification of the elimina­tion of in-hall dances, or SYRs. 
"Especially since they've already taken away hard alcohol, which seems to be the root of the problem, then why can't we have our SYRs?" said Zeller. 
Junior Meghan Anderson of Howard Hall, another recently selected resident assistant for next year, had an indilierent view about the policy. 
"I think it's important that stu­dents have a voice -but I would encourage students to look at issues that really matter," said Anderson. "I don't see the role of an RA as being one of snooping into people's rooms and monitor­ing people," Anderson said. 
Current RAs said the alcohol policy will likely do little to curb all underage drinking in the resi­dence hall rooms, but could offset some of the major alcohol-related emergencies. 
"I really don't think it's going to affect the way I interact with resi­dents and the way I go about enforcing the rules," said senior Yogeld Andre, an RA in Dillon Hall that will stay for a fifth year. 
Andre said he initially thought the University was proposing a dry campus, but was immediately notified that it would not be the case. Andre's rector, Father Paul Doyle, read the Dillon staff a list of anticipated questions from Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
"The reason these laws were instituted is to cut back on the amount of students sent to St. Joseph [Hospital]," said Andre. "Hard alcohol has been involved in a disparate amount of cases." 
Senior Tim O'Connor, also an RA in Dillon, said there were "pretty blatant problems that needed to be addressed" con­cerning Notre Dame and alcohol. 
"I think the policy needed to be 
Let's get Boracho 
and eat! 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS STUDENTS#! CHOICE IN OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 

AVAlLABILIT\:': 
3-4 PERSON TOWNHOMES 1-2 PERSON 1-BE.DROOMS 1 PERSON FURNISHED STUDIOS 
ADVANTAGES: 
YOU CAN r'_IC!:;)'.Q!)R APARTMENT LOCATION! NEED 2 APA.RTMENTS., WE CA,N ASSIGN YOU NEXT DOOR! 
5 MINUTES WALK TO CAMPUS 
THE GREATEST OFF CAMPUS LIVING EXPERIENCE, PER10DI 
VI.SIT US ON THE WEB FOR Al.L THE lNFOJlMATlON YOU CAN TAKE l~! 
WWW.TURTLECREEKNn.COM 
QR \'OU CAN CALL AND ASK ALL. THE QUESTJ.ONS YOU CAN THINK OF! 272-8124 

updated in some way," said Still O'Connor, like Andre and things are done," O'Connor said. O'Connor. "Anybody that says the incoming RAs didn't expect there wasn't an alcohol problem the actual enforcement of the with Notre Dame students obvi­rules to change very much. 
Contact Helena Payne at 

ously wasn't paying much atten­"I don't think it's going to be an 
payne.30@nd.edu.

tion." exceptional change in the way 

Sign up for LI -IV 
LI-IV -Wednesdays, March 27-April 17 8:30 pm -9:30pm 
Who? students who have been leaders of Notre Dame student _groups_, who are currently in the transition towards the end of their term m office, or those who will be graduating within one year. 
What? Interactive sessions which review how you can put the ~kill~ you _ learned to use in your professional career. Session topics include. 
* 
Etiquette/Personal Development 

* 
Negotiation/Conflict Resolution Skills 

* 
Values/Personal Mission Statement 

* 
Leadership for the Real World 


Why_? To complete your leadership tenure at Notre Dame, you should take the time to reflect on your past and think about your future. LI IV will 
provide this capstone. 

How? Visit the student Activities website below and fill out the registration 
form! 

WHY PARTICIPATE? . 
There are many great reasons why you should participate in Leadership 
Institute. Some of these include: . . 
* 
Opportunity to develop your leadership skills. 

* 
Learn more about your leadership style. 

* 
Meet other student leaders. ,, 

* 
Have practical experience you can take with you i_nto the "real world. 

* 
Receive individualized attention to your leadership development. 


Undergraduate n1e1nbers of the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for membership on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site: 
http://www.nd.edu/,___,scglsn/applications .htm 
Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, April 4, 2002, and can be submitted at the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
won in a closeout. ·On Jan. 25, a team of two

Debate 
McDonald earns spot on team
freshmen, Meghan Callahan 

continued from page 1 
research during ihe week to keep on top of current events and present their findings to their teammates," said Huetteman. 
Of the regional tournaments this year, the Notre Dame team has been very successful, win­ning five out of the seven com­petitions they entered, On Sept. 22, teammates. senior Rachel Smith and sophomore Mary Komperda won the "Show Me Swing" Tournament at Truman State University in Kirksville, Miss. Juniors Chris Gallo and Victoria Fetterman were final­isls in the "Forensics Fiesta" Tournament at Arizona State University in Tempe, Ariz. on Dec. 1. 
In addition, the team also competed in Lhe "rrank-ly Speaking" Tournament at the College of Dupago in Glen Ellyn. Illinois on Jan. 18. Two teams including Sflniors Mark Stycznski and Will McDonald and sophomore Kara Vey and senior Michelle Peterson both and Anthony Ford won the novice division in the "Honorary Nationals" Tournament sponsored by Pi Kappa Delta .in St. Louis, Miss. 
The team finished the year with wins at the Indiana State Debate Tournament on March 2 by Smith and Komperda and at the "Betsey Karl Invitational" at Pacific Lutheran University in Tacoma, 
Wash.  on  March  8  by  
Styczynski and McDonald.  
Of the 20 students on  th~  

Notre Dame team, 12 of Lhe most experienced debaters will be competing in the National Tournament in Denver and hope to achieve a top 10 rank­ing in the country. 
"The students have worked really hard this year in terms of research -we are hoping to build on past achievements and achieve more success at the National Tournament this year," said Huetteman. 
Contact Laura Sellinger at lseilinger@nd.edu. 

;••·························~··············~··"·~
: University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & ~ 

• Bisexual Students •• • • 
* .._T~=•;-5-T-A N-0~1 N...JG 
• 
COt..MITTEE ON' 

• 
GA't AND LESBIAN: 


•

• STUDENT N EEOS 
•
• 
•

• The Standing Committee on Gay and • Lesbian Student Needs • 
,, (Confidential information. education, and resources) 
• Contact Sr. ivl.l. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent 
•
• members (see web site for student con tac: info.) 
•
•
•
• Office of Campus Ministry 
•
•
.. ("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which 
• 
include prayer and discussion ofspiritual is:;ues; annual ,,

•
• retreat; library with relevant reading materials~ • 
• Contact. Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 J@:nd.edu, or 
A 

• Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu •
..

•.. 
• 

• •• University Counseling Center : 
(Individual counseling or a confidential support group) : .. Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz.1@nd.edu, or Maureen ! 
• 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu : 

• 
• for more infonmfion. check Gut our web s11e: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn' . 
~ 
• D.•~·-~·· .... •............... :• 
t;,.il" ......................... 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SoUTHBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION www.iusb.edu/-cted 
GRE • GMAT 

Be better prepared for these critical exams with an intensive review class from I U South Bend. 
What makes our programs stand out from the competition? 
• 
Value: Our review classes are priced hundred.s of dollars LESS than other test prep programs. 

• 
Proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. Live, in-person instruction. No videotapes or remote telecasts. 

• 
Experienced instructors with up-to-date knowledge of the latest revisions in the tests, providing you with tips you may not find in a book or online. 

• 
In-class practice sessions with actual exam questions. 

• 
Extensive take-home materials for additional review and practice 


. THE FOLLOWING EVENING CLASSES ARE AVAILABLE THIS SPRING: 
GMAT Review: Mondays, April 15-May 13, 6:20-10:20 p.rn., plus one Saturday, May 18, 1-5 p.m. at IUSB. Fee: $429. GRE Review: Mondays, April 15-29, and Tuesdays, May 7-28, 6:20-10:20 p.m., plus one Saturday, May 18, 1-5 p.m. Fee: $499. 
To register or for more information, call IU South Bend Continuing Education: 237-4261. 
• Senior to compete against Irish champs on American team 
By LAURA SELLINGER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame senior and Speech and Debate team mem­ber Will McDonald was selected as one of the top three debaters in the nation during the mid­semester break. 
Each year at the National Parliamentary Debate Association Championship in Denver, Co., three American debaters are chosen to compete against the national champions from Ireland. 
"The selection is a very com­petitive and prestigious honor. Each candidate must be nomi­nated, fill out an application and submit 1.etters of recommenda­tion," said Kate Huetteman. 2001 Notre Dame graduate, first year law student and debate coach. "Six finalists are then chosen from this group and are interviewed by telephone -and the final three are selected." 
The Irish Times sponsors the Irish team's trip to the United States for the debate, and it is considered to be one of the highest honors a collegiate debater can receive. This year, McDonald was one of the three Americans chosen to compete against lhe Irish. 

"I was really excited when Will received the nomination. Typically, the Irish are very dif­ficult to compete against because they have a different kind of witty humor that is unique and entertaining to the audience. I know he will do great, though, because he is a 
funny guy," s a i d Huetteman. 
McDonald has been com­peting for seven years ­three years in high school and each year at Notre Dame. 
"In my pasi four years at Notre Dame, I have learned a 
· 

'Tm a little nervous for. the Irish competition, but even ifwe don't win, I'll be happy leaving the sport knowing I hadJun and made it this far." 
Will McDonald Speech and Debate team member 
lot about how to work with oth­ers on a team, help others to win, think critically and speak on my feet," said McDonald. 
In addition, McDonald expressed his feelings towards a sport that he enjoys participat­ing in and that has significantly affected him. 
"I am becoming very senti­mental as my career here is ending. I am excited for the competition, but it is also bitter­sweet. Notre Dame is one of the best teams in the country and it is exciting to have watched it grow over the past four years," said McDonald. 
McDonald said that for him, it has been the journey and not the destination that is most important to him. 
'Tm a little nervous for the Irish competition, but even if we don't win, I'll be happy leaving 
the sport knowing had fun and made it this far," said McDonald. 
As an exhi­bition event, the debate team will participate Friday at a banquet at the Tech Center Hyatt that will kick 
off the weekend activities. Topics of debate range from international human rights and American foreign policy to peace issues and the war on ter­rorism. 
McDonald will also compete in the National Tournament debates on Saturday and Sunday . 
Contact Laura Sellinger at lsellinger@nd.edu . 
•
•
• 

Ff11aay, • •
• 

February 22, •
•

' !(I\ 
• 
• 

Carol Taylor, CSFN, RN, MSN, Ph.D . 
Director, Center for Clinical Bioethics Assistant Professor ofNursing 
Notre Danie Alun1ni Association/ Ahnnni Continuing Education 
PRESENTS 
The 17th Annual Philip & Doris Clarke Family Lecture on Medical Ethics 
McKenna Hall/Center for Continuing Education, Auditoriu 
~, /\ssoc-~· 

4:00 p.m. .s~ ,lrt. r,),g· 
< ~:,

Ad1nission -FREE 
coNrrNuINa EDUCATION 

Reception Following the Lecture 

page 8 Thursday, March 21, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Be the Change ... 

2002 University o_fNotre Da111e U11dergraduate Peace Co1~/ere11ce 
March 22 -23 

Co1nc check out this student organized conference featuring student panel presentations and artistic pcr1on11anccs on peace issues, a round table discussion with fr. Ted. and the keynote address by Colman f\.1cCa11hy. forncd peace advocate and ,.xlucatori 
Register no,Y for FREE at ,v,v,v.nd.cdu/,...,krocinst/bcchangc02.htn1l 
C~onfcrcncc Schedule 
Fritlay, Murel, 22 

9:00 a.nl. -5:00 p.rn. RcL!istration Great I lall. I ksburgh Center 
7:00 p.m. Kcvnote Address: Colman T\·1cCm1hv.
. 

Jordan Auditorium. T\11cndoza C ollcge of I3usincss 
9:00 p.111. Bowlin~ Outinl! for Panel Presenters 
~ 

.... I3eacon I3owl (transportation provickd) 
Saturdav, Marcil 23
.. 

fA 11 ei-'enls al the 1 lcshurgh Ce111erfnr lnh·rnul innal Studies) 
9:00 a.111. -Noon Rc~istration 2:45 -3:45 Panel SL'ssion AL+ 
~ 

_,1 Round!ahle Discuss ion ,,. ith
9:30 -10:30 Pane I Scss ion #I 
Fr. Ted lv'ucleur H'eapons l,·s ues 
Deurees o(ldenli/1·
,...., . . 
[\_'l/('(' Edrn.·atinn Iniliulives Looking al !he .·1/lenna!h.· R cl i~ious Foundolions of
' . .!us/ ice ,,1fh'r Contiicl Peace 
10:45 -11 :45 Panel Session #2 4:00 -5:00 Pane I Session #5 
Colman AicCar!hi· Infernal ionul Res1 )()nscs lo 
Peace ~r.,·,ralegie5 H'orkshop ( 'on/lie! Youth and Global Change The Role of :\Iediu in ( 'on/!icJ l·dam and an J111er-Rcligious. Peuce, Den.,fopmenl. und :\/11/1 i­
Dialogue Face!cd S,J/uti,ms 
Noon -1 :30 LLUlCh (Free fiu all registered attendees) 5:00 Clos i1w Conce11 I :30 -2:30 Panel Session #3 
J>erforming Peace lhrough Notre Dume Tak<.: Ten :\/us h· and .·l rl I'resenlcil i,m Internulional Elhnic Cun/lie! Di/fi:renl Pers peel ives: AiililwT & IVon-l,.iol<.:nl Approaches lo Peace 
... you want to see in tlie world 
.----------------------------------------------------­
.. 

Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
-------------------~-~~ 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
wouldn't be "pushed around by a bunch of celibate, white men," an apparent reference to priests in the administra­tion. 
Dorms that host well-known dances and events were best represented at the rally. Throngs of O'Neill Hall resi­dents came to protest cancel­1a tion of Mardi Gras, and Alumni Hall attended to sup­port their 
won election in February, campaigning on the idea promise that they would stand up for student rights and clear up confusion that surrounded tailgating rules last fall. 
"Trip and I promise to con­tinue this fight for students to have a voice in the making of this policy," said Bishop, whose position permits her to remain on campus this sum­mer to work with University officials on the actual revision of the policy. "I personally will be at [Assistant Vice President for Residence Life] Bill Kirk's door every day to see that we 
have a voice 

.. W a k e " dance. Knott Hall sophomore  "Ifyou want to take my Mardi Gras away, ifyou want to take my dorm  in the writing of these changes." Bishop  
H y a n Schild kraut was worried  unity away, then you'll have to pry them out of  encouraged students to attend  
about losing  my cold, dead hands. "  Monday's  
residence  Campus Life  
hall tradi­tions. He decided to  Joe Muto O'Neill Hall president-elect  Council meet­ing, where Poorman will  
move  off  formally  
cumpus next  introduce the  

year because of the changes. proposed changes to the body. 
"It seems like they're not The meeting is at 3:30 p.m. in trusting the students," said the Notre Dame Room of the Schildkraut, who was wearing La.Fortune Student Center. a hall T-shirt. Ironically, as organizers 
Stanford Hall freshman urged students to remain pas­Greg Borchardt said, "I think sionate about the cause and to students got a raw deal. This lobby administrators, severalis our effort to show the people pointed to Poorman administration how we feel walking toward North Quad. about the policy and hopefully Poorman came within 25 bring a.bout change." yards of the event, then 
Student Body President­turned around in the direction elect Libby Bishop, who takes of his office. office April 1, vowed to fight Minutes later, when student the changes. Bishop and Vice leaders invited questions from President-elect Trip Foley students, one man asked if 
JASON McFARLEY/lne Observer 

Student Body President Brooke Norton speaks at the town hall meeting held Wednesday. Norton encouraged the approximately 600 students present to unite in order to affect the pro­
posed changes to the alcohol policy. · 
they group could march to burn in front of the building. Main Building. Bishop and Foley said fol­
They gathered outside in lowing the demonstration they front of the building's stairs. were pleased withJj student At one point, they directed turnout and zeal. They were chants of "Come downstairs" confident that they could to Poorman's third-floor office impact passage of the pro­window. One student set fire posed changes. to a copy of the student hand­"We need to keep the book, and as the rally died momentum going," Foley said. down, set it on the ground to "It's important that students stay motivated and keep giv­ing us ideas." 
News Editor Helena Payne contributed to this story. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 




•• 11
. 
••••ii. =•• 

• • •••• • • .•••..... 
¦­

¦ ¦ ¦¦¦ ••••• ••••• ¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦ 
¦I I 

¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦¦ •• ¦• ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦ 
¦ •• ¦ ¦ I

¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ 
¦¦¦¦ •••••••••• ¦¦ ••••••••
¦ ¦ •• 

alumni senior club, friday, 8pm 
Tickets: $5 pre-sale {Lafortune Info. Desk) $7 at the door 


ND, SMC students relive exotic break travels 
page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 21, 2002 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI  After their prolonged trip down to Miami, the girls were  attractions and visiting the restaurants, bars and casinos  except it wasn't very crowded," he said. "You could relax when  ed near Maynooth. Despite their wonderful days 
N.:ws Writer  ready to relax on their cruise.  that line the island's waterfront.  you wanted to and party when  in Ireland this year, Lafferty  
"[Cruises are] such a nice way  "We went snorkeling around  you wanted to. I'd go again in a  reports that most of her group  
She felt like it was her last  to vacation  - everything was  the Caribbean's biggest wreck,"  heartbeat."  wants to try something new for  
chance for a great Spring Break  planned," Blair said. "This was  Gacke said of one of the group's  A group from Saint Mary's  next year's break.  
vacation and she sensed her  fun and refreshing. We went  experiences. "The guys went oii  chose to visit fellow students in  "Next year we  want to go  
time running out as an under­ swimming with stingrays in the  a  tour  of  the  island  on  Maynooth, Ireland. According to  some place warm," Lafferty 
graduate, so Alissa Blair decid­ Grand  Cayman  Islands.  In  Thursday. We'd wake up every  junior Meghan Lafferty, about  said. "We all came homesick  
ed to make it a  memorable  Jamaica,.  we  morning and  17 girls chose to revisit Ireland  this time."  
experience. Blair and four friends spent their spring break taking a road trip to Miami,  went to a rain-forest. We climbed a  "We went out with a bang. It was our last  go to the beach. lt was always sunny,  after studying there last year. "It was weird because it felt so natural to be there," Lafferty  Another group from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's decided to go for the sun and beaches in  
cruising io the Cayman Islands  waterfall like a  chance to do something  85  degrees,  said. "It was really nice, we just  the States.  
and then driving back to South Bend.  jungle gym." On ihe way  over a break. "  and perfect." Gaeke left  got right back into the groove." To Lafferty, going to Ireland  Meghan VandeWater and Anna Lentz of' Saint Mary's trav­ 
"It felt like three trips in one,"  back, Blair and  earlier than  for spring break felt like she  eled with Jake Teske, Pat Sluka.  
Blair said. "It was a lot of fun,  her  compan­ Alissa Blair  the rest of the  was still a student there. return­ Stephen  Christ  and  Tim  
and it just went really smoothly. It was a highlight of my senior  i"ons took it a little easier,  Saint Mary's senior  group, how­ever, return­ ing from traveling back from the States.  Ponisciak of Notre Dame to Teske's grandfather's vacation  
year."  stopping for the  ing  to  the  Lafferty's  group,  Maura  home  in  Balboa  Point.  
Blair and three other seniors,  night in Atlanta. Nashville and  States Thursday before the end  Kennedy, Kelly Rizzi. Rachael  California.  
Jen Wyatt, Kara Tirimacco, and  Indianapolis.  of break to spend the rest of his  Benkert. Mary Brown, Rachel  "It was really warm there and  
Jamie Mortens, left Thursday  "We went out with a bang,"  time with family and friends.  Finley and Allyson Palombaro,  there were a lot of donut shops,"  
night to make the long drive  Blair said. "It was  our  last  "It was really friendly there,"  booked  their  trip  through  Ponisciak, a donut aficionado,  
down to Miami with a few brief  chance lo do something over a  Gaeke  said.  "Aruba  is  a  Council Travel, and Lafferty said  said.  
stops along the way.  break [before graduation.] We  Netherlands pos­ that  the  The  group  made  trips  to  
"The trip down wa_s like a marathon," Blair said. "One  will remember it forever." Some other students have  session, so there were Dutch,  "We went snorkeling  long flights over and  Disneyland, Venice Beach and Hollywood, even though they  
drove, one rode shotgun and  made it clear that seniors are  Europeans,  around the Caribbean 's  back were  didn't see any stars, Ponisciak  
was the navigator. and the oth­ers slept."  not the only ones who can plan great spring break trips.  Mexicans and Americans on the  biggest wreck."  just fine, although  said it was a wonderful experi­ence.  
Surprisingly, they ended up in  Alumni  sophomores  Nick  island.  The  a  f  t  e  r  And then there were the donut  
Miami well before they were  Gaeke, Michael Kwiatt, Joel  natives there are  Nick Gaeke  returning  shops. Ponisciak loved California  
due to board their cruise ship.  Hein, Tobin Cocklin and their  a mix of Spanish, ·  Notre Dame sophomore  to campus  principally for the large number  
"We planned more time than  friend Wes Aull flew to Aruba to  African and Dutch  1  a  t  e  of donut shops he found every­ 
we needed," Blair said. "We  spend most of the week in the  mostly, but every- Monday,  where.  
pulled in at 5 a.m. in Miami, so  sun. Aull used the Internet to  one  spoke  the· group  "Oh, those donuts," Ponisciak  
we drove through some sketchy  get his group a time-share in  English."  was physically exhausted.  said. "They just have  a lot of  
neighborhoods in Miami until  Aruba, so that each of the boys  He was surprised to find other  Once in Ireland, they spent  donuts there. Everywhere you  
8:30 a.m., then  we  went to  only had the airfare to worry  Notre Dame peers at all because  time with the other groups visit­ turn there is a donut shop."  
South Beach to lay out. We were  about.  Aruba wasn't overrun with stu­ ing from Saint Mary's, but spent  
worried  about  not  having  Gaeke and crew spent the  dents.  the bulk of their time visiting  
enough time and we ended up  week sunning on the beach,  "It  had  everything you'd  their old schoolmates and revis­ Contact Sarah Rykowski at  
being way early."  making field trips to island  expect on a typical spring break  iting old haunts in Dublin, locat­ ryko2948@saintmarys.edu.  

ND AFTER FIVE 

arch 23
Friday, March 22 
Thursday, March 21 

5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the
5:00 p.m. Erin Nelson horn recital with II-Eun Byun,

5:00 p.m. Twentieth-Century Architecture, lecture by 
Sacred Heart 
piano, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium 
Dennis Doordan, Bond Hall 5:00 p.m. Be the Change Closing Concert, 

5:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. "Heart Auction" Art Show, 

5:00 p.m. Evening Prayer, Coleman-Morse Center Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room (event 

5:00 p.m. Class of 2004 Mass and Dinner, Lyons Hall Auditoriumbegins at 4:00 p.m.) 
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 5:00 p.m. Recital: Audri Laine Nelson, trumpet 
5:00 p.m. Evening Prayer, Coleman-Morse Center 

6:00 p.m. Killing Cool: Igniting the Soul of Society, 
with Ketevan Badridze, piano, Hesburgh Library 
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
lecture by Derrick Ashong, DeBartolo 101 Carey Auditorium 

6:30 p.m. Coffeehouse Musical Event featuring Juan

6:00 p.m. Shamrock 'n' Roll Karaoke, Reckers 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Oceans 11 and Swingers,
Sanchez on classical and spanish guitar, CSC

6:00 p.m. Lecture by Elizabeth Seale-Scott, Michael S. 
De Bartolo 101 and 155*
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs
Barr and Kenneth Wong, Bush's War on Poverty, 

8:00 p.m. Sara Lentz, guitarist, ReckersSports Recreation Center Hesburgh Center for International Studies 8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room
7:00 p.m. Lecture by Colman McCarthy, Jordan

7:00 p.m. Films: Persephone and Ghost World, 
open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center AuditoriumHesburgh Library Carey Auditorium 10:00 p.m. -Midnight Coffeehouse performer 
7:00 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Mexican National

7:00 p.m. Careers in Social Change, lecture by Jay 
John Rush, Coleman-Morse Center Team, Alumni Field Caponigro, CSC Library 
10:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. Decades Dance for 
7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross, Basilica of the

7:00 p.m. Dear Lisa: A Dating Viofence Prevention 
Diabetes, Alumni Senior Club* Sacred Heart Program by Tom Santoro, Hayes-Heajy 127 10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Open Karaoke, La Fortune 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Oceans 11 and Swingers,

7:00 p.m. Reading by Rolando Hinojosa, Hispanic Student Center Huddle DeBartolo 101 and 155*novelist, Reckers 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Oceans 11 and Swingers,
7:30 p.m. A Night on Broadway, Musical Revue 

7:30 p.m. A Night on Broadway, Musical Revue 2002, 
DeBartolo 101 and 155*
2002, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom* 
LaFortune Student Center Ballroom* 

10:00 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. In Focus Conference
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center

8:00 p.m. Glee Club Concert, Washington Hall Dance Social, LaFortune Student Center 
8:00 p.m. ND Glee Club Spring Concert, 

8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports BallroomWashington Hall*Recreation Center 
12:00 a.m. -7:00 a.m. Class of 2004 Lock-in, 
8:00 p.m. NAZZ w/ emcee Comic Jason Mewes, 

9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Must beAlumni Senior Club* LaFortune Student Center present by 2:00 am. to attend this event
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, This ad is published by the Student Activities 
9:00 p.m. Acousticafe, La Fortune Student Center 
free billiards, LaFortune Student Center
Huddle 

Office. Programs are subject to change
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Easter Bunny Frames & 

10:00 p.m. Movies: Oceans 11 and Swingers, 
without notice. All programs are free to Notre
Egg Decorating, LaFortune Student Center 
DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

Dame students unless marked by an asterisk 
Dooley Room 

(*). 
10:00 
p.m. Movies: Oceans 11 and Swingers, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1:30 a.m. Chess Tournament, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 




FOR h10RE IHFORWATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.edu/~sao/ 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
United States backs off Somali accusations 
Rosa of the Air Force,

. GPS device 
announced Wednesday that U.S.found in cave does soldiers searching abandoned al-Qaida caves in eastern
not link Somalia 
Afghanistan had recovered a

with al..Qaida 
hand-held navigation device Monday with the name "G. Associated Press Gordon" on it. Rosa said the Pentagon WASHINGTON believed it once belonged to 
Jt sounded sinjster at first. The Master Sgt. Gary I. Gordon, an Pentagon announced new evi­Army Ranger killed in dence of a possible link between Mogadishu, the Somali capital. the al-Qaida terrorist network in October 1993. and Somalia. Within minutes the "There's a couple of conclu­story began to unravel. sions you may draw," Rosa said 
The Pentagon's military when asked the significance of spokesman for the war in the discovery. "In fact this piece Afghanistan, Brig. Gen. John we currently think originated 
This Week in the Department of Music 
Thu. March 21:  ND Glee Club  
8 pm, Washington Hall.  Free admission.  
Fri. March 22:  Erin Nelson, grad. horn recital  
w/ JI-Eun Byun, piano  
5 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium.  Free admission.  
Fri. March 22:  ND Glee Club  

8 pm. Washington Hall. Admission $3. 

Sat. March 23: Kristen Moskow, senior voice recital 
w/ Patricia Collins Jones, piano 2 pm, Anncnberg Auditorium. Free admission. Sat. March 23: Amfri Nelson, grad. trumpet recital w/ Katie Badridze, piano 7 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Free admission. Sun. March 24: ND Prof. Maria Stablein, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorum. Admission $3-l 0. 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office: 
631-8128 
Call 631-6201 for more information 

from Somalia. will obviously tie Somalia. found two others at the same -could obviously tie -a.1-An Army Times newspaper location. Two of the three had Qaida to Somalia." reporter, Sean Naylor, was with names on them. One was "G. 
An alternative explanation, he the U.S. soldiers who recovered Gordon." The other was said, was that the device might the GPS device on Monday. "Svitak." Army Sgt. Philip J. have been stolen and sold on the Naylor recorded the model and Svitak was among seven U.S. black market. If that were the serial number. His newspaper servicemen killed March 4 when case, he said, "We don't know checked that information with hostile fire brought down one how it would have gotten to the the manufacturer. Garmin Chinook MH-47 helicopter and al-Qaida cave." International, which said the damaged another. Svitak was a 
The actual explanation, offi­model. GPS III Pilot, was made member of the 160th Special cials said later: It belonged to a no earlier than 1997 and the Operations Aviation Regiment 
U.S. 
soldier who fought against item was sold on Dec. 21, 1998 from Fort Campbell. the al-Qaida at the outset of to Fort Campbell, the Army post The soldier who lost the "G. Operation Anaconda, the largest in Kentucky that is home to the Gordon" GSP device survived the 

U.S. 
ground offensive of the war 101st Airborne Division, the 5th battle, a senior defense official in Afghanistan. The device and Special Forces Group and the said Wednesday. its pouch both had "G. Gordon" 160th Special Operations Before making its announce­written on them because the sol­Aviation Regiment, known as ment, the Pentagon notified dier -a member of the 160th the "Nightstalkers." Gary I. Gordon's family of the Special Operations Aviation "That product didn't exist in GPS discovery. Gordon, a native Regiment -uses that as his 1993," Garmin spokesman Pete of Lincoln, Maine, was a sniper nickname because people say he Brumbaugh said in a telephone team leader when he was killed resembles G. Gordon Liddy, the interview. in a Mogadishu firefight Oct. 3, Watergate figure. The Army Times' managing 1993. He and Sgt. 1st Class 


The whole episode had noth­editor, Robert Hodierne, said Randall D. Shughart were ing to do with Gary I. Gordon, Naylor reported that the soldiers awarded the Medal of Honor for Somalia or an al-Qaida link to who found the GPS unit also extra.ordinary heroism. 
:J}DtlJlllB SOB'; IJ,sjgn •IRIIIWBliDBS •Marki:lfag; BIJJJSIWSBeill1Qar~·
fteam The Methods OfAProfessionalBusiness Ma.n's Priceless Achievementsi 'An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
'A onoanSBIIIIBar,ABaokllflmlr T11n YanBtln11aluallle ExJJ11rieiic1J: 
This class is designed to short cut you.to the simple focused thoughts . you must have iri business to·move forward rn·high}evel business. . 1.· ·The class is taught by a man whose work, on~ Fortune 500 Company ,V.P. sa~s will, "change the course ofan entire inaust.,y. • it 
. ~-~classdates,privateclasses&
y·;s,ff:lf,,..11• 

moreinformation, go _to our web ; ,.,_,_,.,. .,_,_.,. site, orcallM,:. Aclamsa{277-S104 
•.. lllllltllll.llsastaBd.COBI E-mail • /nventor@usastand.com .;
,,~,,--<,>c•---OM c,---,-~-•-·>',_,~•-,_,,_,,.,.,,_-•,,,•
----J:·~--•-.-m,,~;,.-­
Victoria Clarke, spokeswoman for Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld was asked by a reporter whether Gordon's fami­ly was contacted as a humani­tarian gesture. 
"The first thing I think all of us said when we first heard about this was, 'Wow, this is going to bring up some very sad memo­ries for the family.'" she replied. "And the first thing I heard sev­eral people say when they heard was, 'Before anything, let's make sure we notify the next of kin."' 

~PETE YORN ::/LIVE FRIDAY •"'c' ,> ;~L/19/02~;:'c-'jj~,­rs @8pm @ 10p TICKETS AVAILABLE@ nCKef~...a.snEn® 212.272.7979 BRING COLLEGE ID • MUST BE 21 & at the heartland THURSDAYS•COLLEGE NIGHT ~ CONG~ATULATIONS ~ NO COVER BEFORE 11 Pm _. MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM . -tr for tke Greed Sec:1soK... •LOTS OF STUFF FOR A BUCK . Cc:1~'t WAit 'til Next YeAr • 222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND :: 574.234.5200 :: HEARTI.ANDSOIJTHBEND.COM CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT &EVENT LINE 574-251-2568  

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, March 21, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 

Students must exercise voices 
P.O. Bo, Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 02/j South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDtrOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Ass1·. MANAGING EDITOR  OPEllA]l0NS MANAGl:'.R  
Andrew Soukup  B<>b Woods  

Ni::ws EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 

ADVl:'.RTISING MANAGER: Matt Lua AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scort Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGLRIGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX........... ••··•······ ....................................63 l-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDIIOR IN CH!.EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnTORIAssT. ME....................6.31-4541 BUSINESS OFFIC.E........................................631-5313 NEWS ..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu 
ScENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MA.Rt's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!ub,erver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by me students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advercisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Querritms regarding Obrerver policie, should be direct­ed 10 Editor in Chieff=n McFarley. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Andrew Thagard Killin Turner Mcghan Martin Sports Kerry Smith 
VieV\'µoint 
Sheila Flynn 
Scene 
Laura Kelly 
Graphics 
Jake Weiler 
Production 
Joe Hettler 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
This is the third in a series of editorials commenting on the proposed alcohol changes at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame students finally used their voice at the stu­dent government-sponsored rally to discuss the proposed changes to the alcohol policy. 
O Th
It's about time. 
oserver 

bolic demonstrations like burning du Lac; it means gain­ing active influence in the decisions that occur on Notre Dame's campus. 
By attending the rally, students overwhelmingly declared that the administration's decision not to consult student government before the major revisions was wrong. While the 
After several attempts by Brooke Norton administration may have valid concerns to and Brian Moscona, student body president protect students from alcohol-related inci­and vice president respectively, to rally stu­dents, its failure to involve the student
Editorial 
dent unity around causes like tailgating and football ticket distribution, it took a ban on "hard" liquor and in-hall dances to motivate students to action. Ironically, this only lends credibility to the administra­tion's concerns that alcohol resides at the center of Notre Dame's campus culture. 
Although the students' focus on the elimination of in­hall dances was a positive demonstration of their commit­ment to an important issue, the rally should be the begin­ning of a larger movement to establish student voice in campus policy. Having a voice means transcending sym­

body's elected representatives in the deci­sion process denies the students their deserved voice. The administration's unilateral action blatantly disregards student sentiment -something the University should pro­mote. 
Once again the administration has tried to assert its "in loco parentls" policy, but this time students have declared that they will not be shut out of the decision-making process. It's time that students care about their role in the formation of student life policies. Otherwise, like chil­dren, Notre Dame students will be seen but not heard. 
Representing conservative law 
It's time to clear up a misconcep­tion. 
The Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy has been in the news lately. Approximately 25 percent of President Bush's administration is Christine Niles 
comprised of members from this organization. New chapters As I See It ... and practice groups continue to sprout up across the country. Membership in the Society has doubled, tripled, quintu­pled within the past 20 years. Alarm bells have rung in media networks across the nation. As far as they're concerned, the vast right-wing con­spiracy has taken root. 
Even Alfred Ross, president of the Institute for Democracy Studies, has written a book on why the federalist society is evil. OK. that isn't the real title -but it might as well be. 
When I called to invite him to take part in a debate on the alleged conser­vative activism of the Society. his response was, "Alleged?" He then asked whether or not I was part of the organization. "Why yes," I answered politely, "I am the vice president of the Notre Dame chapter." His remark­ably professional reply: "Oh, that's too bad. I'm not interested. Good-bye." 
What exactly is the Federalist Society? To answer that, we have to go back to the beginning. The associa­tion was started by a handful of Yale and Chicago law students who felt marginalized for their conservative and libertarian beliefs. The dominant voice in the legal field tended to be liberal, and the students desired a forum to discuss conservative and lib­ertarian ideas without being ridiculed. Reasonable desire, one would think. In 1982, the first Federalist Society Symposium was held at Yale, an infor­ma! afternoon panel. Most of the legal academy barely noticed. 

Twenty years later, in the same law school where it all first started, nearly 500 students from more than 150 chapters nationwide descended upon New Haven to attend the 20th Annual Federalist Society Symposium. The panels were comprised of top law pro­fessors, federal judges, attorneys and government officials around the coun­try. And what did the legal academy do? It noticed. 
Eleven law students from Notre Dame attended the event, driving straight from South Bend to Connecticut in a night. Panels were held on topics ranging from postmod­ernism to originalism in constitutional interpretation to lawyering ethics. 
No doubt hoping to catch a glimpse of right-wing activism firsthand, two from the lnstitute for Democracy Studies infiltrated the ranks. And to their disappointment, they witnessed fair, balanced debate, with voices heard equally from conservative and liberal camps. All discussions were witty, spirited and ever respectful. Alfred Ross is going to have to change his thesis. 
The undoubted highlight of the weekend took place during the closing banquet. Boston University Law Professor Gary Lawson, co-founder (slightly tone deaf), gave a stirring adaptation of "American Pie." The theme was the liberal despair over the current "reign" of the Rehnquist Court. It was vulgar, crude, heterodox -and sidesplittingly funny. Although the song was off the record, some of the lyrics bear repeating. For instance, the chorus: "My, my, kiss the old days good-bye I I quoted Lenin, Marx, and Brennan, but it just didn't 11y. I The White House staffers could just break down and cry/ singing, 'Maybe we'll give Judge Bork a try ... Maybe we'll give Judge Bork a try.'" 
The Federalist Society has so grown in prestige, importance, and influence that left-leaning academia are wor­ried. Some prominent members of the academy recently formed the Madison Society to provide a liberal counter­weight to the Federalist Society. After realizing that no organization should be named after a slave owner, the title was changed to the American Constitution Society. One hopes their organization will fare well and gener­ate insightful debate and discussion. 
Still, the reasons for the American Constitution Society are a bit puzzling. After all, the very purpose of the Federalist Society is to provide a counterweight to the preponderance of left-leaning policy in the legal field. If 90 percent of academia is liberal, then it is surely understandable to have an organization provide a forum for the 10 percent to be heard. The purpose is to represent the underrep­resented. It seems almost unnecessary to form a legal organization to espouse views already dominant in law schools across the country. 
Notre Dame law students tend to forget this school is the exception, not the rule. Although conservatives may abound here, this is simply not the case in most universities in America. And this is why the Federalist Society performs a valuable function -it allows provocative, unorthodox and unpopular viewpoints to be aired. The left-leaning who would otherwise rest on their haunches are kept on their toes. 
Perhaps, then, all the furor means the Federalist Society's doing some­thing good after all. 
Christine Niles is a law student and her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed int his column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame make the proposed changes to the alcohol policy? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference." 
Reinhold Niebuhr theologian 

OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Some students praise, others protest policy 
Drinking isn't a privilege 
This campus makes me laugh sometimes. All this fervor over the new alcohol policy is only proving the administration right in its actions. 
In his March 20 letter, Vinnie Zuccaro made a comment that elimi• nating alcohol would destroy residential life on campus. Other cam­puses have made it and have not destroyed their residential life by banning alcohol. Why can't we? If alcohol is that much a central part of this University, then something is certainly wrong and a re• evaluation is in order. If students need alcohol in order to have a functioning residential life, then this campus most definitely has a problem. 
The Universily, by state law, as we all know, should be banning all alcohol from minors. Hanning hard alcohol is one step towards the law:not one backwards, and I find it funny that this privilege is being touted as a right. This attitude of ungratefulness will only make the University pull a tighter leash on the alcohol policy. 
I've yet to see one valid protest from any of my fellow students on these new changes. So the students were not consulted: their opinion was most definitely well known and predicted and so far has proven right. After all, how many college students would just happily allow their hard liquor to be taken away from them? 
Any protests that students make against this change, such as that RAs will have to be less friend and more rule-enforcer, or that it's eliminating an integral pirt of campus life, or that students will drink anyway just expose the real reasons that the administration is enacting this new policy. 
So instead of automatically getting angry because your tequila bot­tles. which of course you use for "social drinking" only, are being kept away from you, try to think about why you're so angry that bot­tle is being taken away. Then maybe you can really understand the University's viewpoint. and maybe then you'll agree that it's not that bad an idea. 
Adrian Acu 
freshman Fisher Hall March 20, 2002 

Don't decide for students 
Student Affairs. wake up. 
Guess what students are going to do on those weekends when they would have been dancing, drinking and spending time with friends at in-hall dances? 
Drinking. A lot. Probably even more, out of spite of their social lives being robbed from their shot-glass holding hands. 
Alcohol does not run the life of your average Notre Dame student. But it can add to the fla­vor of his or her social life. And Notre Dame students are not alcoholics (or, at least, not the majority of the drinking population). Notre Dame students do enjoy drinking. And the majority of those who drink do learn -albeit, some. the hard way -where to find the bal­ance, clear the blur between having fun and having your stomach pumped. 
Canceling dances is not going to stop stu­dents from drinking, or even dancing. Parties will proliferate. Students just won't need to dress up or buy silly little gifts for dates. And some dorms, as The Observer's March 19 edi­torial noted, will lose out on their most planned, most fun events of the year. For an institution so in love with tradition and its sense of community, Notre Dame is doing the ironic feat of killing two birds with one stone. 
Notre Dame students' definition of tailgate: pre-game bonanza of music, food, fun and yes, drink. 
Notre Dame administrator's definition of tailgate: pre-game bonanza of debauchery of crazed, alcoholic students out to puke and oh, probably have sex later. It must be stopped. 
And congratulations; once you make legal­age students register for the tailgating, that's exactly what will happen. All the legal stu­dents (whom will have moved off campus, rightly so) will spend Saturday mornings in their apartments chugging beer and all the hard alcohol they'd like. Some of my greatest football memories come from tailgating with friends and I can only pity those poor kids who will never know the pure joy of the 12 o'clock shotgun. 

Take away our dances, our tailgates and what do you have? Thousands of embittered students looking for something to do on those often boring spring weekends in South Bend. Overanxious rectors ready to jump down the throats of students who might otherwise be sending vodka the same route. And, of course, thousands of alumni like myself who are grateful they graduated before the storm. 
You've not only taken away dances and tail­g4ting, you've stripped away freedom and a sense of responsibility. How do you expect your students to grow, mature and make their own informed judgments without giving them the opportunity to do so? 
Notre Dame students and administrators alike have always boasted a feeling of "fami­ly." And while this is a very special aspect of Notre Dame, you are not our mothers and fathers. College is where we become adults and learn to decide for ourselves. Don't decide for us. 
Christine Kra1y class of 'O I Washington, D.C. March 19, 2002 

Join the campaign to "Change ND" 
I've been at this school long enough to realize the sad, sad truth that the Golden Dome stands for one thing and one thing alone. And it's not Our Lady of the Lake. 
It's cash. 
Cold hard cash. Alumni checks with six zeroes. endowment figures with eight dig• its, big dollar signs and bigger piles of that precious, precious monetary fuel that buys stadiums and dormitories, Notre Dame monogram waffie irons and Stanford head coaches. 
Notre Dame guidelines for student life revolve around wealth. and the latest poll· cy revisions by Father Poorman are sadly no exception. 
Is the issue at hand preservation of com· munity, student safety or some other admirable cause? Father Poorman sat down at his computer Monday night and lied to us all. He drafted a masterfully woven blanket of rhetoric -a page right out of some Clintonian public relations spin cycle so fiendishly fashioned, so clev­erly crafted, that one might actually be led to believe that the interests of the Notre Dame student body were the sole inspira­tion for the its conception. 
But the truth is dirtier. Much dirtier. Father Poorman didn't need to write a statement Monday night. Ile barely need­ed to draft a page in order to express the true incentive for this plan. In fact, he should have only needed a single word: 
Liability. 
Plaiu and simple. If an underage student dies from over-consumption on school grounds, the Golden Dome is liable. Father Poorman has to sit in front of a grand jury and sheepishly explain that he is, and for quite some Lime has been, fully aware that underage students are imbibing massive quantities of powerful intoxicants on this campus. And what happens when the frailties of our ambiguous drinking poli­cies are exposed? The Golden Dome pays through the golden nose, and some poor parents of an expired student get a sheep­skin parchment and a check for $90 mil­lion as a macabre souvenir of duLa.c's worst nightmare. 
But ifsaid underage drinker dies with a drained bottle ofGoldschlager in hand at College Park or Castle Point or on the sticky mauve tiles of Boat Club's dance floor, the University is not liable. Do not pass go, do not pay $90 mil­·lion and Father Poorman pro­ceeds directly to his mahogany desk in the president's office. Much better. 
Is there a good chance that more stu­dents will perish from overdrinking off-cam­pus than on? Yes. Is there a good chance that the Notre Dame community will dras­tically deteriorate upon the death of SYR's and traditional hall dances? Absolutely. ls any of this relevant to liability? Hardly. 
Risk management. They teach us this stuff in school, right? IfI wcro Father Poorman, maybe I'd do the same 

dents, have no voice in a plate that wouldn't exist without us. And the way to. speak when you have no voice is to learn the only language your adversary under­stands. At Notre Dame, that language happens to be cash. 
This is a formal call to all s.eniors, juniors, sophomores. freshmen, graduate students, faculty and alumni who care about the Notre Dame community to promi<,c> to withhold all future monetary donations to this University until serious thing because people in high places aren't stupid. They're actually very smart, and if they have to bend the truth once in awhile for public policy purposes, who's to be the wiser? We're only students. 
But that's not what should worry us most. U shouldn't bother any one of us that someone we trust. a member of our own Notre Dame family, may have in some small or not so small measure, sought to mislead his flock in any way, shape or form. 

What should bother us most is that Father Poorman could care less what any one of us thinks in the first place. 
And maybe that's not even the worst thing -maybe we should be more con­cerned that Father Poorman (and whoev­er pulls the golden strings above him) doesn't really even care what our student 
body government thinks either. Father Poorman didn't even bother to allow our student representa­tives any input concerning a drastic policy change that ultimately transforms the Notre Dame community as we know it. So what now? What are we supposed to do? Do we rally? No ­no one will listen. 
Do we chain our­selves to radiators? No -no one will care. 
Do we pour malt liquor on the steps of Main Building? No ­_ no one in Main Building · likes malt liquor. And saving the right to con­
sume malt liquor on cam­, -~ pus isn't even the point. ~ The point is that, we, the stu­policy changes are enacted to provide stu­dents here with a real voice. Students need meaningful representation with meaningful power, and until such a power is realized, the Notre Dame community will continue to suffer a tragic, albeit silent, injustice. 
A group is being organized among cam­pus upperclassmen known as "Change ND." The group will be asking all Notre Dame students to sign individual pledges not to donate any personal funds to Notre Dame until drastic steps are taken to ensure that student voices will be fairly and adequately represented in the future. 
The pages of The Observer will be lit­
•

tered for weeks with rants, raves and assorted gibberish -like this letter, for example. There will be angry words and cynical expressions; there will be good points made. But at the end of the day, the paper you hold in your hands will be thrown away. 
Don't let this issue die quietly like so many other scarlet crimes the administra­tion has coyly passed beneath our noses for years and years. Take this one out of The Observer and into your halls. When you see a "Change ND" pledge, sign it. Post it on your qoor and a tape a copy to Father Poorman's office window. Tell your parents, tell your friends. E-mail your local alumni clubs and let them know how strongly you feel about this. 
Change is long overdue, and we badly deserve it. Today we have the opportunity to fight for something meaningful and something central to every academic and moral value this place of learning -our home -represents. Raise your fists and lower your wallet. Here come the Irish. 
Robert Pazornik 
scrnor 
off-campus March 20, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, March 21, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Evil' screen debut satisfies video game fans 
By JACK MONAHAN 
Scene Movie Critic 
Though this type of transition is typically a recipe for disaster, "Resident Evil" makes the conversion from console to cinema surprisingly well. A frightening. atmospheric horror film that stays true to its video game roots, this film should please any horror or sci­ence fiction fan. 
Starring Milla Jovovich as an tough amnesiac (remi­niscent of her "5th Element" role) and the ever-scowl­ing Michelle Rodriguez ("The Fast and the Furious") as a corporate commando, mansion. Luckily she soon finds a scant red dress and a fortuitous pair of rubber boots while the audience ponders her inability to procure adequate clothing in her choice of movies. 
Soon Jovovich is rudely introduced to the rest of the cast, a team of commandos sent by Umbrella. Excepting the delightfully angry-looking Michelle Rodriguez, most of the cast serves as convenient can­non fodder for the underground lab's nasty security system and undead denizens. 
For video game fans, the sequence where the com­mandos encounter the Hed Queen ·s securitv corridor 
should be greatly entertaining: as should 
the entire film. 


the movie is set in the secret under­"Resident Evil" What makes the film successful is its 
ground research lab of Umbrella 
faithfulness to the spirit of the games on Corporation. The opening of the film 
which it is based, which was in turn reveals the corporation as being respon­heavily influenced by zombie horror sible for the majority of the world's 'rfi½··~ 
films. 
-out of five shamrocks

health care, computer technology and The end result is what one mightmilitary technology, among other things. Director: Paul Anderson expect from the director of "Event But most of Umbrella's funding comes Starring: Milla Jovovich, Horizon": a horror film with sci-fi trap­from secret genetic and viral experi-Michelle Rodriguez pings and heaps of creepy atmosphere. 
ments, the result of which is seen in the film. Though not a single character men­tions the word "zombie," that's exactly what the film is about. 
Writer and director Paul Anderson ("Event Horizon") borrows heavily from the game's primary inspiration, George Romero's "Night of the Living Dead" trilogy. Though Anderson has been responsible for a previous video game-to-movie flop "Mortal Kombat," with "Resident Evil" he gives the audience a rather enjoy­able, if fairly derivative, zombie romp with some nice special effects. 
First is a treatment of the research lab in its normal, day-to-day operation, but quickly the movie gets to why the research lab is full of zombies by the time the main characters get there. Then Milla Jovovich makes her first appearance in the film wearing nothing but a conveniently draped shower curtain and a vacant expression, waking up in a bathroom in a strange 
Surprisingly, the film is not as gory as typical zombie fare, tending to leave more to the imagi­nation when the zombies do their worst. But this does nothing to lessen how frightening the film is at times. 
The film has little originality, however, though the only painful cliche that's indulged is the "Matrix"­esque flying kick (as seen in the trailer). The rest of the movie is a steady mix of elements borrowed from "Night of the Living Dead," a fair bit of "Aliens" and the video games from which it is based upon. 
This will ultimately decide whether movie-goers will enjoy this film: if they can appreciate a film often dic­tated by the strange logic of video games, or if they are fans of the original "Resident Evil," then they shouldn't hesitate to see this movie. 
Contact Jack Monahan at jmonahan@nd.edu. 


Sucking blood makes for lifeless movie 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
• The second installment of a film adap­tation of Anne Rice's popular "Vampire Chronicle" book series. "Queen of the Damned" unfortunately trades in the thoughtful, mythical commentary of its predecessor, 1994's "Interview with the Vampire," for high-end special effects and Hollywood glitz. 
"Queen of the Damned" is a sequel of sorts; the scrawny Stuart Townsend has taken over as the main character the Vampire Lestat formerly plaid by Tom Cruise. The only real similarity between the characters is the name, however. In fact, there is a reordering of time if one were to try to follow the story from one movie to the next. 
Logic gaps aside, "Queen of the Damned" opens with an awakened Lestat, who after living in the shadows 


Death goddess Akasha (Aaliyah) seduces the vampire Lestat (Stuart Townsend) in the second film of Anne Rice's "Vampire Chronicle" trilogy. 
for a few hundred years, entered a state mostly on the sex. So much time in this of hibernation for a century after being movie is spent with its characters deeply unable to psychologically handle his gazing into one another's eyes that the immortality. vampires appear to be more romantic 
Lestat returns to the shadowy unlife of than deadly. The less-than-soft porn the nightwalker at the dawn of the 21st atmosphere of the movie is almost comi­century; where he joins cal. (brace yourselO a goth­"Queen of the While scenes like the rock band and lives vampire showdown at
Damned"
'¥·~
openly  as  a  vampire,  Lestat's ultimate rock con­ 
which is treated with skepticism from  &/ff  M.  cert in Death Valley are fun to watch, the battle  
humankind, but raises  out offive shamrocks  scenes  are  remarkably  
the ire of the vampire world. Even if' the MTV-ish premise can be accepted, the movie gets more  Director: Michael Rymer Starring: Aaliyah, Marguerite Moreau and Stuart Townsend  predictable. Where "Interview with the Vampire" focused on how vampires would perceive themselves, "Queen of the  

ridiculous as it recounts Lestat's history and introduces the late Aaliyah in the title role, Akasha, the Queen of the Damned. The Egyptian death goddess is supposed to be the mother and the most powerful of the vampires, but /\kasha seems to spend most of her very brief time on-screen undulating and taking sensuous baths ­two activities at which the death goddess excels. 
While Akasha seduces Lestat, the lucky bloodsucker is also the object of mortal paranormal investigator with a death-wish played by Marguerite Moreau. While "Interview with the Vampire" examined the connection between nf" sex and death in the vampire world, "Queen of the Damned" focuses 
Damned" focuses on how vampires would kung-fu fight each other. Even the sexual relationships of the characters. which appear to be so important to the story, seem to be less about sensual relationship and more about the overly revealing high-fashion clothes the characters are wearing. 
Still. "Queen of the Damned" is not a terrible movie for what it is; it's just dis­appointing to see Hice's intelligent novels produce such empty Hollywood movies. But certainlv "Queen or the Oamncd" will be immo-rtal in its own way: it looks like something that will appear on late­night Showtime channels forever. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at Beggs.3@nd.edu. 

page 2 
LLI 

:E 
<C 

Q 
LLI 
a: 

.... 
0 
z 
...ti LLI 
t,/) 
z 
z 

LLI Q. 
(/)
... 
z 
:c 
0 
~ 
..: 
t,/) 
LLI 
:E 
<C 

Q 
LLI 
a: 
.... 
0 

z 
... w ti 

t,/) 
z 
z 
w 

Q. 
..(I) z
:c 
0 

~ 
..,: 

t,/) 
l&I 
:E 
<C 

Q 
LLI 
a: 

.... 
0 

z 
LLI 
~ 
t-

t,/) 
z 
z 

l&I Q. 
(I) 

.... 
z 
:c 
0

.... 
,.,,....• 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 21, 2002 
WOMEN'S PREVIEW 
A squad by squad breakdown of the top three contenders 
FOIL 

Ament 

Chin 

Khoude 
Kryczalo 
Grochal 
Thottam 
EPEE 
Walton 
Eim 
Takacs 
SABRE 
Milo 
Krvczalo and Ament have been nearly flawless this year, winning 66 bouts together and dropping only four. Auriol believes that both fencers have the chance to win the individual title. Although both are first-time qualifiers, they have extensive international experience. 
Grochal finished second at the 2001 Championships as a fresh­man. She should contend with the Notre Dame duo and Stanford's Iris Zimmerman for the top spot this year. Chin is an American freshman but is only ranked 24th among junior foilists. Ament is ranked first. 
Khoude has put together a stel­lar freshman year for the Red Storm, including two wins against Ament and Kryczalo earlier this year. Thottam fin­ished 10th at the 2001 Championships. 
Walton is one of the top American fencers in epee and has competed for her country as a member of the national team. This is her first NCAA tournament, but she should be well-prepared for the pressure. A now-healthy Carnick should return to her second-team All­American form of 2000. 
These two are the class of Penn State fencing. Eim is a three-time first-team All-American while Burke won the individual title as a freshman in 2000. She did not fence at the 2001 Championships. Both fencers could win the individ­ual title and this squad vvill proba­bly lead Penn State in points. 
Takacs and Stevens have both fin­ished in the top four for the past two years with Takacs winning the title last year. If these two are on their game, they could challenge Eim and Burke for top epee squad honors. The Irish probably will fin­ish behind both St. John's and Penn State, but need to keep it close. 
Women's sabre could be Notre Dame's weakest weapon. Both Milo and McCullough qualified for NCAAs last year, but neither earned All-American honors. Both put together strong regular seasons, however, and should carry that momentum into NCAA success. 
Tam and Brosnan are both returning All-Americans and give the Nittany Lions the edge in experience and proven results. McCullough, however, won the Penn State Open in November by beating Tam in the finals. 
Crane and Gelman beat out 2001 rwmer-up and teammate Marisa Mustilli to take the two St. John's spots, proving they are top four contenders. They are ranked ~inth and 12th amongst senior American sabrewomen. McCullough and Milo are 26th and 27th respectively. 

Fresh pe 
Six first-time qualifiers could pressure-packed NCM 

ByMAITLOZAR 
Sports Wrirer 

Most college teams do not expect signifi­cant contributions from their first-year team members. 
Football teams regularly red-shirt their star freshmen. Basketball teams usually ease their freshmen into the playing rota­tion. 
However, the Notre Dame fencing biam has relied on its freshmen to make signifi­cant contributions throughout the entire se1ason. This weekend's NCAA Championships will be no different. 
The lrish national championship fencing squad features si'i: first-time qualifiers: four freshmen, one sophomore and a junior. 
But these newcomers feel they are ready to bring Notre Dame its first national cham­pionship in fencing since 1994. 
"With the team, there is more pressure to perform well," said Kerry Walton. "I will do the utmost to help get the most points for the team to help win the title." 
In men's sabre, junior Matt Fabricant claimed 

the second spot on the "Ifyou stay focused on Duals in early February. I­team. His fifth-place fin­that one loss all day, it is missed the Midwe: 
ish at the regional com­Conference ChampionshiJ
going to hurt you. " 
petition enabled him to but returned two weeks a! earn one of the two to win the epee title · NCAA at-large berths. Andre Crompton • .. Regionals. 
At Regionals, On the women's sid1
sabre captain 

Camick 

Burke 

Stevens 
McCullough 

Brosnan 
Crane 

Fabricant did what he and his teammates will need to do this weekend, beat their lesser opponents and even pull a couple of upsets. 
The scoring system at the NCAAs is sim­ple: win a match and the team gets a point. The team with the most points at the end of the competition wins the national title. Therefore, Fabricant, and the other new members of the Irish national championship team cannot fence below their best in even one match. 
Senior sabre captain Andre Crompton learned the hard way last year and has given Fabricant some advice. 
"l was telling Matt to beat the people that are definitely less talented than he is," Crompton said. "Last year I lost to two MIT guys that were definitely way less talented. Every bout counts for one point. Whether you lose to £2001 national champion] Ivan Lee or MIT, it's still one bout. You can't lose stupid bouts." 
With the scoring system counting each match, the NCAAs are very demanding both physically and mentally. The fencers new to this meet will have to learn how to keep their focus on only the current bout. 
"You just have to relax and fence up to your capabilities," said Crompton. "As soon as you lose a bout, you have to put it behind you. As soon as you lose focus, you are in trouble. Ifyou stay focused on that one loss all day, it is going to hurt you." 
The experience these fencers bring to the team, both on the collegiate and interna­tional levels, is very impressive. 
Freshman Derek Snyder is ranked seco nationally in junior foil. That experience .Ii has gained from the international compel tion will ho valuable at the national champ onships. 
"All the international and national exper ence I have will help out with the pressw issue this weekend," said Snyder. "I am de initely nervous since there is a lot of pre sure. [If Il stay calm and focused, then I wi be OK." 
With junior Forest Walton studyin abroad this semester, Snyder has to replac a 2001 All-American. But, Snyder feels co fident in his abilities to help the team a gain individual awards. 
"Since Forest Walton isn't here this year, have the extra pressure of trying to fill b shoes," said Snyder. "My first goal is th1 we win. My personal goal is to finish in tt top four. I think there are only three otht people I have not beaten. If I fence my be! then I should be able to accomplish that." 
Michal Sobieraj is the other new fencer c the men's team in his NCAA Championsh meet. The freshman epeeist earned a 26 season record before hm ing his foot at the Air Fon 
Walton, in her first year , 
collegiate fencing, leads tl 
women's epee team. n sophomore won the Midwest Conferern Championship at the beginning of tl month and finished third at Regionals week later. 
Her attitude toward the weekend resen bles more of a seasoned veteran, than first-time competitor. 
"I'm not really nervous," said Walton. know the whole team will be there togethe The main thing is don't get nervous an stay focused. If you do screw up somethil! little, [you can't] let it affect you for the ret of the day." 
Walton knows when she is alone fencin on the strip, her team will be right ther supporting her. 
"Being on a team is different than fenc~ individually," Walton said. "I think my tea experience on club teams at home and t world team will help a lot." 
Two freshmen will compete for the Iris! 
in women's foil. Andrea Ament compiled I 27-2 record on a talented Irish foil squat Ament is also the top-ranked junior foilist 1 the United States. 
Her classmate Alicja Kryczalo has bet even more impressive. After a 39-2 regu) season, Kryczalo won the conference a1 regional championships. 
Despite all of their collegiate success ti new fencers have gained this year, and tl international accolades they have achieveJ nothing will prepare them for the intensi of the NCAA meet this weekend. · 
"To describe the pressure at NCAAs, I ru speechless. There is not a greater pressl.B 

Irish have best chance fa 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Senior Staff Writer 

For eight years. the national title has been just out of reach for the Irish. 
Ever since 1994, the Irish have finished second five times and third twice, but have never broken through and taken the top spot. This year's team -head coach Yves Auriol's last -could finally break the streak and reclaim the national title for the lrish. 
"It would be great to leave aft.er 17 years with a national championship," Auriol said . 
With fencers capable of winning frrst team All-American honors at nearly every weapon, this year's team is well balanced. For the past five years, either the men's or women's team was significantly weak< than its counterpart. This year's team m01 equally balanced between the two sexes, b1 the men's team holds a slight edge on th 
women. 
"I know [Penn State's] women's team is a little stronger." epeeist Kerry Walton said "But I think the men can clean the floor witl them on Saturday and Sunday.'' 
With a more talented team, the Irish havt raised their expectations for each squad. A the 2001 Championships, the Irish set 3( wins as the standard for each squad. Ea of the men's squads reached this goal b the women fell far short -especially in fo and sabre where the Iri<,h won just 18 a 16 bouts respectively. This year, sabre ca 
Tam 
Gelman 

Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 

•
spect1ves 

ake or break Notre Dame in the Fencing Championships 

t 
f for a fencer than NCAAs," said Crompton. "National tournaments, you are only fenc­ing for yourself. Even at World Cups or team event World Cups, there is not really the pressure of fencing at NCAAs. 
"Fencing at NCAAs is like fencing for the 50 people on the fencing team. Every bout, there is entirely so much pressure, it's hard to describe." 
Despite all the pressure head coach Yves Auriol said the intensity of the meet is no excuse for not fencing well. 
"If you have a good team, they will be able to take the pressure," said Auriol. "If we lose because we can't take the pressure, then we didn't have a championship caliber team." 
Contact Matt Lozar at Lozar.l@nd.edu. 

championship in 8 years 
tain Andre Crompton believes each squad can win 34 bouts a piece. "If everyone gets 34 wins, it's a guaran­teed win," Crompton said. 
The addition of four top freshmen, the debut of Kerry Walton and the return Ozren Dehic from injury helps Notre Dame's chances to achieve this goal. 
Notre Dame's national title hopes were also buoyed when defending national cham­pion St. John's failed to qualify the maxi­mum 1 2 fencers. The Red Storm will only send 11 fencers to the championship. Only Penn State. who has won the national cham­pionship in five of the last six years, can match Notre Dame's 12 qualifiers. 
Although Notre Dame has not faced Penn State head-to-head in a 2002 dual meet, Irish and Nittany Llon fencers did square off in the Penn State Open, an individual tour­nament. Notre Dame won four of the six weapon titles in Penn State's home gym. 
"That was November. A lot has changed since then," Auriol said. "It will be interest­ing to see how we match up against them." 
The NCM Fencing Championships begin today at Drew University with the opening rounds of the women's competition. The Championships continue Friday with the women's finals before the men take the strip on Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 

MEN'S PREVIEW 
A squad-by-squad breakdown of the top three contenders 
FOIL 
LLI 
:i: 
II( 
C 
w 
0:: 
I­
0 
z 
LLI 
!ct
I-
fl) 
z 
z 
LLI 
a. 
fl) 
~ 
z
::c 
0 
~ 
I-• 
fl) 











LIJ 
~ 
c( 
C 
LLI 
0:: 
l­
o 
z 
I.LI 
~ 
~ 
fl) 
z 
z 
LIJ 
a. 
fl)
... 
z
::c 
0
-. 
i-:: 
fl) 






LIJ 
~ 
c( 
C 
I.LI 
~ 
l­
o 
z 

Crompton 
I.LI 
~ 
~ 
fl) 
z 
z 
LLI 
D. 
• 
Rahimi 
en
... 
z
::c 
0
-. 
..: 
t,/) 





... 

Debic was less than his best at the 2001 Championships while he recovered from a foot injury. He still finished fifth. This year, he is healthy and should contend for the foil title again. Snyder is recover­ing from an illness and a bit of a wild card. A strong performance by the freshman could Jock up the national title for the Irish. 
Panchan was the runner-up at the 2001 while ScWaepfer is a talented newcomer ranked No. 25 in senior USFA men's foil rankings. A healthy Debic put forth a stronger showing against Panchan after los­ing 5-2 in 2001. Snyder is ranked No. 14 in the men's foil rankings and should beat Schlaepfer. 
Fisher, a 2001 first-team All­American, failed to qualify for the Championships, leaving just two­time All-American Tiomkin to rep­resent the Red Storm. Tiomkin is a solid fencer, but even if he finishes in the top four both the Irish and the Nittany Lions should beat the Red Storm. 
Auriol said Viviani has been the "key fencer" for the Irish this year. He is a two-time All-American for the Irish thanks to two third place finishes. This could be the year he finally breaks through and wins the title. Sobieraj is a talented freshman who beat Viviani for the title at Regionals. 
Landgren and Wiercioch will challenge Sobieraj and Viviani for top epee squad honors. Landgren and Viviani have split their two NCAA matches while Wiercioch beat Viviani in the semifinals of last year's Championship. 
Gurevich continues the tradition of strong Israeli epeeists at St. John's. He has compiled a 33-4 record in 2002. Horvath is a Hungarian who lost just two matches this year. Overall, how­ever, this St. John's team is weaker than both Notre Dame and Penn State. 
The Irish bring a pair of upper­classmen to the tournament, but only Crompton has NCAA experi­ence. Fabricant filled the role of Nos. 3 and 4 fencer as a freshman and sophomore before stepping up into the No. 2 slot this year. Crompton just missed a spot in the top four last year and could battle for No. 1 this year. · 
Weber is a talented German fencer who should finish in the top four and fight for the champi­onship. Auriol calls Weber "a force." Rahimi, an American from Texas, has 29 bouts this year but is not ranked nationally. Fabricant and Crompton are both ranked in the top 25 for senior sabremen. 
Lee is the defending NCAA cham­pion and a member of the U.S. National team. He should finish in the top four easily and should be considered the favorite to repeat as champion. Whitmer is ranked No. 18 in senior sabre. In an earli­er dual meet, he beat Crompton but lost to Fabricant. 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 4 
Going out with a bm1g 
Senior sabre captain Andre Crompton won the first tournament he ever entered. He wants to close his college career the same way. 
story and photo by 
MIKE CONNOLLY 
Senior All-American Andre Crompl.on was never supposed to be a fencer. When he started his freshman year at St. Benedict's 
Academy in New Jersey, Crompton sigrn~d up to be the manager on tho fencing team. He planned on spending fuur years repairing weapons, scheduling tournaments and sup­
porting his friends on the team. Everything went according to plan until the last day of tho first camp he ever worked. 
On the final day of camp, head coach Derek Hoff held a tournament for ail the fencers. He invited Crompton to try his hand at fencing in 
-
the tournament. 

The high school freshman who had never taken a lesson or fenced a bout proceeded to win the tournament. His days as a weapon repairman were over and his fencing career 
began with a bang. 

Since he won his first tournament, he com­peted internationally, ranked nationally in sabre fencing and won second team All­American honors in addition to being named 
captain of the Notre Dame sabre team. 

Heading into his last meet at Notre Dame, Crompton wants to close his career with another bang -a national championship. 
"This guy wants to win the championship more than anybody else," Irish head coach Yves Auriol said. 
Crompton's strong desire to win it all this year is partially driven by this being his last year at Notre Dame and partially because he worked so hard ... to finally get a spot in the Championships. When Crompton arrived as a freshman, despite all of his national accolades, he still found himself third on the depth chart behind defending national 
champion Luke LaValle and fellow freshman Gabor Szelle. Auriol said that Crompton's 
natural athletic ability and aggression made him a good fencer but his lack of experience set him third on the depth 
"-.. chart. ., "He wasn't as an accomplished fencer yet," Auriol said. ~. So while LaValle and Szelle 
• competed at the national cham­\ pionship in 1999, Crompton worked out with assistant , coach Janusz Bednarski. Auriol gives most of the credit for Crompton's 
improvement to Bednarski. 

"I've been blessed with a really talented pool to fence with all four years," Crompton said. "I just decided to fence hard and see what happened." 
Crompton missed out on qualifying for NCAAs again his sophomore year when Janusz's son Andrzej Bednarski beat out Crompton at the Regional 
Qualifier. 

"It always came down to Regionals," Crompton said. "Regionals is a much harder tournament that anyone thinks. It takes so much focus. I am not discrediting Andrzej or Luke but they 
had so much more experi­ence at that than I did." 
Finally in 2001, Crompton broke through and qualified for the Championships. Taking advantage of Szelle's departure from the team. 
Crompton quali­fied with Bednarski for his first Championship. 
"I was so relieved," Crompton said. "It was just an experience that I was waiting so long for and that I felt I should have gotten before." 
At the Championships, Crompton took full advantage of bis opportunity. He won 16 of his 2:~ bouts and finished seventh -good for sec­ond-team All-American honors. Despite his strung finish, however, Crompton thought he could have done even better. 
"I lost to a few people I shouldn't have," Crompton said specifically pointing to two loss­es to MIT fencers. Once he lost those bouts, Crompton said, he let them affect him for the rest ofthe meet. 
"As soon as you lose a bout, you have to put it bflhind you," he said. "If you stay focused on that one loss all day, it is going to hurt you. I had to learn that the hard way last year." 
This year, Crompton has once again qualified for the Championships but now he is a little older and wiser. To prepare himself for the top competition he will face this weekend, Crompton spent spring break training at his home gym in New York City to prepare for this weekend. 
Crompton trains at the New York Fencing Club in Manhattan, thanks to a grant from the Peter Westbrook Foundation. The Foundation, founded bv the most decorated U.S. fencer in history, provides training and support for African-American fencers. The foundation is especially geared toward getting inner city youths involved in fencing. 
Crompton joined the foundation shortly after he began fencing at St. Benedict's. During Spring Break he fenced against three of the top five senior sabremen in the U.S. -including 2001 NCAA Champion Ivan Lee who fences for St. John's. Crompton is currently ranked 11th in senior sabre. 
"I had a really good pool of people I started out with," Crompton said about his training with the Foundation. "We all started at the same time. We all grew as fencers at the same time." 
Crompton's family will also get a chance to see how much he has grown this weekend. The Championships are being held in Madison, N.J. at Drew University -not too far from Crompton's home in Irvington, N.J. Or rather, Crompton's younger brother Adam will get to see him fence. Crompton still have to convince his mother to watch his matches. 
"My mother doesn't really like to watch," Crompton said. "When I was in high school and I was just starting to get good, she thought that whenever she watched me, I would screw up." 
His brother Adam, however, will certainly be there. Crompton believes Adam's extra set of eyes will help him on the strip. 
"I really like fencing in front of my brother," said Crompton about Adam, who is currently ranked 13th among junior sabremen. "My brother is like a second me out there. He is telling me what I am doing wrong and what I need to improve. It will definitely help me if my brother is there." 
Crompton's personal results, however, are of secondary importance to him. He is mostly con­cerned with how the team finishes. The more bouts he wins, the better the team will finish. Anv individual honors come second for Crompton but he admits he would love to quali­ly for the semifinals by finishing in the top four of the round robin. 
"Last year it was just indicators (the differ­ence between touches scored and touches received) that separate the top," Crompton said. "If I would have won one more bout, I would have been four and not seven." 
Not matter where he finishes however. this will be Crompton's last meet -and he wants to make it a great one. 
"My last dual bout at Wayne State [in February] was pretty emotional," he said. "I just thought, 'Wow, I am never going to fence for a team again.' With my last bout for Notre Dame, I hope I go out with a bang this year." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
O
THE 

BSERVER .. 

... 

Thursday, March 21, 2002 page 15 
MOVIE FEATURE 
Notre Dame transformed in 'Persephone' 
By MARIO BIRD 
Scene Movie Criric 
Since the production of "Rudy," it has been no secret that the Notre Dame campus abounds with cinematic beauty, from the solitude of St. Joseph's lake to the burnished gleam of the Golden Dorne. Few, however, would imagine the campus and surrounding landscape to be the setting for ancient Greek mythology. 
But Alan Smith's "Persephone," an onscreen adaptation of the timeless myth, showcases a much different locale than the bleak northern Indiana scenery that Notre Dame students have come to know and love. Murky, rich tones in a ghoulish underworld, a stark and sterile earth and a grand Olympian throne room are fantastic ideas made manifest through "Persephone." The realization of such a film is a story with­in itself. 
The setup 
Besides writing and directing "Persephone," Alan, a 1997 Notre Dame graduate in film production, co-pro­duced the film with his sister Demetra Smith, who is currently a senior major­ing in classics. They founded a film company, Zournas Productions, two years ago after Alan had spent some years as a freelance independent film­maker. 
During Demetra's sophomore year in Notre Dame's abroad program in Angers, she and her brother made a trip to Macedonia and Greece to do background research for a possible fea­ture film. Although the feature film idea was postponed, Demetra said that the trip was nonetheless beneficial. 
"The choice of Persephone was made as we sat on a rickety Greek bus back to Athens from Thessaloniki," said Demetra. "We realized that it was simple enough to be communicated in under 30 minutes, but still a fas­cinating story." 

Despite their Anglo-Saxon sur­name, Alan and Demetra hold strong ties to Greek ancestry, as ­their grandmother was a sec­ond-generation Greek-American whose family hailed from the region surrounding Sparta. In addition, their father, Thomas Gordon Smith, is an architect well schooled in Greek and Roman styles, and was responsi­ble for set production and cos­tume design in "Persephone." 
Drawing from such familial concentration in Greek history and art, Demetra said that the goal was to make the onscreen panorama as true-to-life as pos­sible. 

"A tremendous amount of research went into the film from the script to the props, and we Persephone (Demetra Smith) struggles against the dark lord Hades (Anthony Lawton). 


used primary literary and artis­
tic sources when possible," Demetra 
said. "The vision for the film as a whole 
was to be as true to the myth, the archi­
tecture, the fabrics, furnishings and 
music as possible." 
The movie 
The "Persephone" myth is told through a contemporary medium, as a normal American mother (played by Christine Franck) explains to her inquisitive young son why the seasons change. The narrative then shiffs 2500 years or so to ancient Greece, where the princess Persephone (Demetra Smith) is abducted by 
H a d e s 
(Anthony Lawton), lord of the under-· world. 
Her mother, the earth god­dess Demeter (also played by Franck). sub­sequently strikes the planet with famine and barrenness, vowing not to abandon her destruction u n t i I Persephone is returned. 
The body of the narrative then follows Demeter on her globetrot­ting search for her daughter. paralleled by the developing relationship bclween Persephone and Hades. 
Alan's cine­matography 

shines throughout "Persephone." "How the Other Half Loves." Lawton's Collaborating with David Harges, his performance in "Persephone" details a partner on previous independent pro­man of power, spurned by society, jects, the deep-focus compositions are brooding and contemplative in his rich and gorgeous to behold. Each inte­gloomy, cavernous lair. Yet the master rior shot seems an ancient Greek fresco of death ravenously craves glimmers of come alive, as Alan and Harges trans­life, revealing a character with deep­form Bond Hall into an Olympian venue, seated desires: " ... my hunger is a replete with luminous vessels and a shameless dog; [it) blots out memory of huge, godlike throne. Thomas's set pro­pain and misery." duction and costume design, especially Lawton said he relished the opportu­in Hades' crimson underworld, is a nity to perform in the film. "What I most colossal achievement, enjoyed was the especially considering the chance to try to play a shoestring budget upon ''Persephone" compelling action based which the film was pro­on the clues provided in a 
--»i:l) ~,, ~
duced. .tW-:ib if-i..,jllf ~4-~ <:fi\ rather challenging text," 

~ ~:f"~" ~ 
Thomas successfully Lawton said. "[It's)
out offive shamrocks
fashions an otherworldly always exciting to be the miseaen-scene that will Director: Alan Macintyre 'bad guy' too." surprise and delight Smilh Lawton will get another Notre Dame movie-goers. chance to be the bad guy
Starring: Christine Franck,
Yet Alan and Harges are this coming fall when he
Anthony Lawton and Demetra
not overly enamored with plays the title character 
big-budget style either, Smith as their most beautiful shot returns to the simplistic beauty of beach dunes at sunset. The filmmakers truly have utilized the 16mm medium in an imaginative and splendid manner. 
Further enhancing the authenticity of "Persephone" is the soundtrack. Alan and Demetra were able to garner licensing agreements with FM Records and Musique de la Greece Antique, two music production companies that spe­cialize in recreating ancient Greek folk songs. The zournas, a high-pitched, wailing reed instrument that is the namesake of the Smith's company, blends eerily with chanted incantations. The resul_t is a recreation of not only an ancient story, but a pagan ritual long since buried in the annals of human memory. 
The cast 

Lawton headlines the cast list as the dark lord Hades. A 1989 Notre Dame graduate in the Program of Liberal Studies. he is an accomplished actor with Philadelphian roots who has become a welcome fixture on campus as a visiting professor in the Film, Television and Theatre Department. 
Hardly a newcomer to Greek theatre, Lawton directed last year's production of "Oedipus Rex," and has performed in numerous productions since his return to campus, including Alan Ayckbourn's in his own stage adapta­
tion of C.S. Lewis' "The Screwtape Letters" at the Lantern Theatre in Philadelphia. 
Besides co-producing "Persephone," Demetra also handles the title role rea­sonably well. Sometimes vehemently protesting her captivity, other times despondently staving off Hades' advances, Demetra portrays a helpless yet assertive Persephone. Franck, an architect who did her graduate studies at Notre Dame, fills in as Demeter, bringing a matronly air to the archetyp­al role. 
All in all, "Persephone" is a fertile retelling of an ancient myth, wonderful to behold onscreen. If there are any faults in the film, it is perhaps that the modern script falls a bit short of the nuances of the original story. The actors often seem stilted and utilitarian, stuck in stiff and rigid dialogue. But this too may be the result of the vivid and luxurious scenery in which they per­form. 
Whatever the case, "Persephone" is a hallmark not only of deft mythological reenactment, but the combined creative genius of the Smith family and ·their• friends, all of whom helped bring the campus of their alma mater to a spec­tacular film. 
Contact Mario Bird at mbird@nd.1:du. 
1------­
1 .., page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 21, 2002 
NHL 
League addresses arena safety 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

The NHL is looking at arena safety following the death of a 13-year-old girl who was hit in the forehead by a puck that flew into the stands. 
Brittanie Cecil died two days after a deflect­ed slap shot struck her at a Columbus Blue Jackets game, raising questions about the responsibilities of teams and arenas to protect fans. It was the first such fatality in league history. 
NHL spokesman Frank Brown said Wednesday the league would "look at every­thing" to ensure fan safety, although he did not provide details. 
"We believe our buildings are safe and his­tory overwhelmingly has proven us right," he said. 
"We believe our buildings

"We have entertained hun­venue with netting that pro­dreds of millions of specta­are safe and history has tects spectators besides the 
-
tors o\"er our 85 seasons overwhelmingly proven us glass. The netting is neces­and we are devastated that sary because of an overhang
right. We have entertained

this tragic accident took in a balcony. 
place." hundreds ofmillions of Fans are warned about the The Blue Jackets plan to spectators over our 85 dangers at games by a dis­wear the girl's initials on claimer on the back of each
seasons and we are

their helmets for the rest ticket that says, "Pucks flying of the season, he said. devastated that this tragic into spectator areas can 
The team also will hold a accident took place.,, cause serious injury. Be moment of silence before alert." But alertness can pro­Thursday night's game vide only so much safety on 
Frank Brown

against the Detroit Red pucks. Wings, the Blue Jackets' NHL spokesman Two years ago, Chad 
was shot by Columbus center Espen Knutsen and caromed off Calgary defenseman Derek Morris' stick. The puck also hurt two other fans after hitting the teen-ager. 
"I think about it all the time," Knutsen told the St. Paul Pioneer Press after a morning workout before the Blue Jackets' night game against the Wild. "I think about her family because I have family myself. It was just a horrible accident." 
Break-resistant glass sheets that surround the rinks at all NHL arenas are 8 feet high and the height of the boards can range from 40-48 inches. Still, pucks often fly into the stands, causing injuries. 
Brown said the league does not log injm;y reports on fans and that figures on the num­bers of fans treated at hospitals was "main­tained internally." 
· America West Arena in 
Phoenix is the only NHL 

first at home since the death, and will create a 
fund in the girl's memory. 
Meanwhile, a coroner determined Wednesday that Cecil died from a rare injury to an artery that was damaged when her head snapped back. 
The damage to the artery, which runs from
-the spine to the back of the brain, led to a "vicious cycle" of clotting in the artery and swelling of the brain, said Franklin County Coroner Brad Lewis, who performed the autopsy. "The puck struck her in the forehead, caus­ing a skull fracture and some bruising of the brain in the area," Lewis said. "But that wasn't what led to her death. It was the snap­ping back of the head and the damage to that artery." Lewis said he consulted with other patholo­gists on the rarity of the injury. He said that a fellow pathologist had not encountered a simi­lar injury and death in more than 25 years as a doctor. The eighth-grader at Twin Valley South Middle School near Dayton had been at Children's Hospital in Columbus since being hurt Saturday night and died there late Monday afternoon. She remained conscious until Monday morn­ing, Lewis said. Cecil, who would have turned 14 on Wednesday, was sitting about 15 rows above the ice at Nationwide Arena and behind the goal when the puck, 6 ounces of hard, frozen rubber, came flying into the stands. The puck, which can travel over 100 mph, 
Hildebrand was at a senior 
men's hockey league game in Winnipeg, Manitoba, when a puck flew into the crowd and glanced off a friend's head before hitting him in the temple. 
The 21-year-old Hildebrand went home, col­lapsed and fell into a coma. After a week, he was taken off life support and died. 
His father, Nick, does not believe it was just bad fortune that his son was in the path of the errant shot. The family sued, hut the case has not been resolved. 
"A freak accident is a meteor falling out of the skies and striking you. I call this a pre­ventable accident," he said. 
Many lawyers say the disclaimers on the backs of tickets don't absolve teams or venues. 
"Ninety-nine times out of 100 here in Canada, it doesn't matter whether or not there's a disclaimer on the ticket," said Marcel Jodoin, an attorney from suburban Winnipeg who represents Nick Hildebrand. "Because you don't get the ticket until after you've paid. The courts up here have said you can't impose new terms into a contract after the contract's been made." 
Jim Elliott, a Michigan attorney who has represented fans injured at games, said it won't be long before teams realize that it's cheaper to put up nets and higher break­resistant glass to protect fans. 
"I said a couple of years back that in 10 years it's going to be different," Elliott said. "The sporting venues are going to be differ­ent. It's unfortunate that people have to lose their eyesight or lose their life." 

Struggling Penguins 
fall to Coyotes, 3-1 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Ladislav Nagy and Daniel Briere scored in the third peri­od Wednesday night to give the Phoenix Coyotes a 3-1 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
The Coyotes have earned at least one point in 12 of their last 13 games. The Penguins are 4-16-0-1 against the Western Conference, including a 1-10 record at home. 
Nagy scored at 12:08 of the third to snap a 1-1 tie. He broke free from defenseman Janne Laukkanen and was able to go to the net and tap in Mike Johnson's pass. 
Briere got his 28th when his centering pass hit Penguins defenseman Hans Jonsson and went between goalie Johan Hedberg's legs at 1'1:53. 
Shane Doan got the tying goal for Phoenix at the end of a power play in the second peri­od. Doan turned and back­handed Teppo Numminen's rebound in from close range at 11:34. 
Alexei Kovalev scored for Pittsburgh at 13:54 of the first period. Randy Robitaille sent the puck out from behind the net and Kovalev put a quick wrist shot between Sean Burke's blocker and body. 
The win was coach Bob Francis' 107th with the Coyotes, making him the win­nin gest coach in the fran­chise's combined history in Winnipeg and Phoenix. Francis, 107-81-33-13 in his three seasons, passed John Paddock. 
The Penguins dressed six players who were not with the organization a week ago, the result of deadline deals and waiver claims. 
Pittsburgh, struggling to stay in playoff contention, is 2-6-0-1 in the last nine home games. 
Lightning 4, Thrashers 2 
Dave Andreychuk scored twice during a four-goal sec­ond period as the Tampa Bay Lightning beat the Atlanta Thrashers. 
Andreychuk tied the game at 2 on the backhand while being pu!Ied down by Atlanta's Kami! Piros at 10:16. He scored the go-ahead goal from a sharp angle near the goal line at 13:56. 
Andreychuk also had an 
assist and moved past Peter 
Stastny into 26th place on the 
all-time points list with 1,241. 
It was his first multigoal 
game of the season and 84th 
overall. 
Sheldon Keefe and Pavel 
Kubina had the other second­
period goals for the Lightning, 
who are unbeaten in six games 
(3-0-3). 
Keefe has a goal in three 
straight games. Kubina's goal 
came while the Lightning were 
short-handed. 
Goals by Jeff Cowan, at 7:30, 
and Lubos Bartecko, at 13:36, 
gave the Thrashers a 2-0 lead 
after one period. 
Cowan snapped a 23-game, 
goal-scoring drought. . Tampa Bay's Brad Richards 
had his career-high, ten-game 
point streak end. He had six 
goals and 18 points during the 
run. 
Canadiens 4, Panthers 1 
Oleg Petrov and Richard 
Zednik scored and Doug 
Gilmour had three assists to 
lead the Montreal Canadiens to 
a victory over the Florida 
Panthers. 
The game was the first for 
the Panthers since trading All­
Star Pavel Bure to the New 
York Hangers on Monday. 
Zednik gave Montreal a 3-1 
lead 58 seconds into the third 
period with his 19th goal and 
Petrov capped the scoring at 
6:09 with his 23rd. 
Gilmour, the team's assist 
leader, helped out on both 
scores. 
Montreal, 2-0-2 in its last 
four games, remains in the 
eighth and final playoff spot in 
the East, but moved four points 
ahead of the Rangers and 
Sabres, who are tied for ninth. 
The Panthers, saddled with 
the third-fewest points in the 
league, have just two wins in 
their last 13 games. 
Bure, who led the NHL in 
scoring the last two seasons 
and is the second-highest paid 
player in the league, was 
shipped to New York in 
exchange for Igor Ulanov, Filip 
Novak and two draft picks. 
Florida goalie Roberto Luongo left at 6:50 of the first period with an injury to his right ankle and was replaced by Trevor Kidd. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
- NOTICES  Well maintained houses near campus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436  5 tastefully decorated rooms tor rent for Graduation/ND Football weekends in private home, less than 2 miles north ol campus.  WANTED  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on  PERSONAL  
$250 a day potential/bartending  or 274-9955  Continental breakfast included,  the shore of Lake Superior near Big  
Training provided 1-800-293-3985  Call Kim 277-8340  Camp Counselor for children w/ dis- Bay, Ml. Positions available for  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
ext. 556  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES- abilities.  Counselors, Watertront, .  alone If you or someone you love  
TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)Iarge (6-9)  Must have strong worK ethic and  Instructors tor Nature/ Arts & Crafts!  needs confidential support or assis- 
Fraternities Sororities Clubs  3 NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND  people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call  be interested in making a difference  Recreation/ Canoeing, Nurses,  tance,call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
Student Groups Earn $1,000­ NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097  Bil/at 532-1896  in the life of a child $7-$11 hr., 35  Therapists, Food Services annd  CSC, 1-7819. See our weekly ad in  
$2,000 with the easy Campus  hr/wk, summer only. 6 sites in  Aux1lary. Must be enthusiastic,  THE OBSERVER.  
tundraiser.corn three hour lundrais- B & B tor ND grad 4 rooms 3 miles  Summer Rent 2-bdrm Castle Point  Summit County  responsible and love children. June  
Ing event.  Does not involve credit  ND {574)287:4545  part. turn 243-0195  Must enjoy  16 through August 11. Salary, room  
card applications. Fundraising  outdoor activities.  & board and experience  Write for Observer News.  Call  
dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact Campus fundrais­er.com at (888)-923-3238. or visit  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting  FOR SALE  Call 800-CYO-CAMP tor an appli­cation.  of a.lifetime provided Notre Oame students have the opportunity to participate through  Helena at 631-5323  
www.campusfundraiser.com FOR RENT 4 bdrm/2 bath house. after 6/1. 3 blk from campus. (773)-486-8862  furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sep1. ·1 2002, 3 roommates (2M, 1F) Sate neighborhood, tree parking, washer/dryer in house. 2 blocks from bus to downtown. 1.5 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/ month+ 1/4 utilties, Michelle 202 /829-3725, or krup78@hotmali.com  Men's new black leather Jacket med. $150 631-6234 or 616-684-6692. Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip. Other destinations cheap.www.airtech. corn or (212) 219-7000.  In-home NANNY needed to care for 1-year-old infant. mornings and/or afternoons, all summer (mid-May to mid-August) Experience with infants, references, and transportation required. Contact Dr. Knoedler: 631-4264 or aknoedle@nd.edu  the summer service project Call or write for application and information. · Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906) 228· 5770, e-mail BayClittHC@aol.com  Write for Observer Sports Call Chris at 631-4543 Put your classified here for just pen­nies a day. Stop by the Observer office during normal business hours  

Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
OIC officials study gene therapy's effects on athletics 
• Conference brings together scientists, legal experts, athletes  mous potential to revolution­ize medicine's approach to curing disease and improving the quality of life," Pound said. "Unfortunately, this same technology, like many  "The time is right for the sport and science communi­ties to begin working out how to prevent the possible misuse of these methods in the future," said Dr. Theodore  become potentially great ath­letes. That could be decades away. The more immediate problems are genes that can release human growth hor­ increased as these come aboard. The question about designer babies ... right now that's a little bit of fairy tale thinking. But the potential exists over the next 25 years  
others,  can  be  abused  to  Friedman, professor of pedi­ mone  to  build  muscles  or  for  the real perversion of  
Associated Pres,  enhance  atrics  at  the  genes that help muscles use  enormous advances in tech­ 
athletic  University  of  oxygen  more  efficiently for  nology."  
NEW YORK Still struggling to keep up with cheating athletes using new drugs, Olympic officials  perfor­mance. . .. The same kinds of  "Unfortunately {gene therapy], like many others, can be abused to  California-San Diego's Center for Molecular Genetics.  endurance. On the horizon are genes that  Pound "We've had a lengthy  said that genetic research is grow­ing so fast that WADA is consid­ 
met with scientists to study the next challenge: genetic enhancement of athletic per­formance. Stronger muscles and bones, enhanced tolerance of pain, faster recoveries from exercise, a boost in oxygen efficiency -those are just  people who cheat in sport today will proba­bly try to find ways to misuse genetics tomorrow.  enhance athletic performance . ... The same kinds ofpeople who cheat in sport today will probably try to find ways to misuse genetics tomorrow. "  The issue involves ethical concerns at least as much as it does sci­entific ones, Friedman said When, for example, does  m a y improve the calcium channels in muscles to make them m o r e responsive, others that  catch-up with respect to doping. Wtth genetics ... we're taking the initiave.·" Dick Pound chainnan,  ering sponsoring similar meetings at least once a year. WADA also will sponsor more research grants into detection of genetic transfers,  
some of the ways athletes may be able to turn discover­ies in gene therapy into an advantage on the playing field.  "We've had a lengthy catch-up w i t h  Dick Pound chainnan, World Anti-Doping Agency  therapy for an injury or illness cross over to performance enhancement?  c a n World Anti-Doping Agency and work with strengthen governments to bones, and increase their still others awareness and that can reduce or shut down funding of the efforts.  ...  
"Their possible misuse rais­ respect  to  What  consti­ the response to pain.  "This adds to  the public  
es questions that society must  doping.  tutes misuse?  All those gene therapies  debate," Wadler said. "We  
address," Dick Pound, chair­ With genetics  ...  we're taking  What codes of conduct should  hold  enormous  potential for  have to take it from the realm  
man of the World Anti-Doping  the initiative."  guide researchers and doc­ treating people with illnesses  of fantasy  to  the realm of  
Agency, said Wednesday at  Though many of the most  tors? How can rules against  like muscular dystrophy  or  reality. In the world of dop­ 
the end of a three-day confer­ worrisome genetic therapies  genetic  enhancement  be  with crippling injuries. But  ing,  it's  been  a  reactive  
ence  that brought together  facing sports are still in the  enforced?  they also hold the possibility  process  over  the  years  - 
more than 30 experts in biolo­ experimental stage and may  The "grave new world,"  as  of being misused by athletes  catch-up, catch-up, catch-up.  
gy, genetics and sports medi­ be  at least five years away  Dr. Gary Wadler of the New  looking for an edge.  We're talking 5 to 10 years  
cine with policy makers, legal  from being used, WADA is  York  University School  of  "We are on the brink of an  ahead of what we think might  
experts  and  athletes  to  seeking to forge  a consensus  Medicine termed the promises  explosion in technologies, of  be out there, and getting peo­ 
explore  the  issues  facing  with scientists, governments  and perils of gene therapy,  which genetic transfer tech­ ple on the same page address­ 
sports concerning gene trans­ and sports officials about how  might include such fantasies  nology is just one," Wadler  ing it. In the world of doping,  
fers.  to deal with potentially huge  as  "designer babies" pro­ said. "The potential for abuse  what has happened here is  
"Gene therapy has  error- problems.  grammed  genetically  to  for  athletic  purposes  is  absolutely revolutionary."  
- 


"We never get to tfie 6ottom ofourse{ves on our own. We discover wfio we are face toface andsicfe 6y side witfi otfiers in work.i, Cove ancf fearning... " 
SOCIAL 
-(lw6ert (}3e{{afi
CONCERNS 
Congratulations and thanks to the over 160 participants of the
Appalachia Seminar 
Arnblyn Allen 
Appalachia Seminar * Coachella Seminar * eArche Seminar *
Kathryn Anderson 
Anna Arias 
Kate Aveson 
Migrant Experiences Seminar *Washington Seminar * 
Jaclyn Barrett 
Donna Bauters 
From Field to Table (3 credits) * El Salvador Course (3 credits) 
Eric Bilinski 
Mike Bott who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
Ryan Brady 
Matthew Brady during Spring Break in service and experiential learning at 20 sites across the nation. 
Justin R. Brandon 
Dan Buonadonna Katie Hesmond Jackie McKenna Peter Rossmann Megan Dominick C. Lincoln Johnson Richard Klee III Andrew Callan Miranda Hicks Tom McTaggart Greg Ruehlmann, Jr. John Fanning Maura Kelly Michael O'Connell Beth Cassin Molly Jacob Kristina Meszaros Jordan Ryan Elsa Galindo Katharine Liege! Christopher Sanders Michael Chambliss Molly Janicki Margaret Morgan Christopher Mary Hoopes Carl Loesch Gregory Schober 
Matthew Christ Laura Kelly Margaret Morrissey Scaperlande Nathaniel Johnson Soo Han Park Christopher Schwinden Michael Cochran Kathleen Kilcline Katharine Mosesso Amy Schill Peter Kenny Blaine Pennington Michael Shiel 
Paul Cruickshank Mary Kilkenny Tam Ngo Alex Schlesinger Pamela Ronson Katrina Picon Nicole Straub Jocelyn Cubbon Matthew Kinsella Danielle Noujaim Laura Schmidt Adarely Trejo Shantha Ready Derek Vollmer Timothy Dolezal Elizabeth Klein Kevan O'Connor Ian Scott Krista Schoening Bruce Vosberg Erin Dowe Wendy Kosek Shaye O'Donnell Daniel Silva L'Arche Seminar Sarah Yennekotter Alessandra Zielinski 
.....

Kathryn Eisele Dawn Kuras Ashlee O'Donnell Jack Skendzel Christina Belmonte Jenny Vojtko Shannon Ewan A. Elizabeth Lee Brian Otto Mary Kate Stickel Sarah Cunningham Jaime Volkmer El Salvador Course Meghann Finerghty Corinne Liamzon Dan Parziale Meredith Sweeney Meghan Finnerty Michael Wolz Amy Braun 
Terence Fitzgibbons Zhu Jon Liong Nick Passafiume Marie Tesi Marissa Runkle 
Kristina Campbell Michael Flynn William Lopez Stephanie Patka Kara Tholen Emily Smith Brian Cruz James Tully
Claire Gorman Brian MacKinnon Ann Peraud Nadia Stefka Washineton Seminar Theresa Ferry 
Sarah Wear 

Esteban Granados Michael Makens Maria Perez Jonathan Alvarez Molly Herbe 
Maria Welch Blake Haan Michael Marino Michael Pfaff Mi1'rant Experiences Christopher Broughton Kimberly Keefe 
Silvana Zepeda

Lauren Haney Thomas Marotta Atasha Potter Seminar/From Field Henry Chan Matt McMerty 
Daphne ZeringueKeith Harwood Mark Marquez Daniel Richter to Table Anna Dummer 
Vinnie Zuccaro Maria Oschner Ed Hattrup Justin Marshall Dan Robinette Debra Zwilling Ange!Ociel Castelan Megan Flynn Colleen Pepper Kevin Heffernan Matthew McDonald Kristy Robinson Jacqueline Heap Paul Graham Cynthia Shea 
Sara Helmig Michael McFall Pam Ronson Coachella Stminar Richard Herbst Stephanie Hill Susan Tilton Patrick Hertzke Shannon McGonigie John Rossi Maribel Ayala Jill Inghram Sean Hogan Frank Villaume 

page 18 Thursday, March 21, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Washington AD fires Bender after 9 seasons 
specific candidate or an exact time­exams this week and will sit down

• Head basketball 
line. She said she will consider with Bender to get the coach'scoach will receive high-profile coaches or unknown advice on what to do next. $298,000 buyout assistants and also make it a priori­"l really don't know," Wrenn 
ty to consider minorities. said. "Everything is really confus­settlement Bender had three years left on ing. Everyone's lives are affected, his contract and will receive a not just coach Bender's." Associated Press $298,000 buyout. He's guaranteed Oregon State coach Ritchie to be paid $172,000 next year, 100 McKay, a possible candidate, had a SEATTLE percent of his base salary. He tough time talking about the firing. 
In the end, affection and respect would be paid 50 percent of his "This is a sensitive subject for for Bob Bender weren't enough. salary the second year and 25 per­me," said McKay, who coached Not when he couldn't win. cent the third year, unless he finds under Bender at Washington. 
Bender was fired Tuesday after a new job, Hedges said. "Coach is a great man. He's got nine seasons as basketball coach at Associate head coach Byron undying loyalty, and I think he's a Washington. Athletic director Boudreaux and assistants Eric winner. ... Barbara Hedges announced the Hughes and Al Hairston aL<io were "This is just hard. It's the nega­move Wednesday, saying she asked released. Hedges said they would tive side of our profession. Bender to resign during a 20-be paid through the end ofJuly. Sometimes hard decisions have to 
minute meeting. Calls to Bender's office and his be made. Coach Bender has to be She called it one of the most diffi­home were not returned proud of what he did at UW, from cult decisions she's had to make. Wednesday, and he wasn't in his where he got it to where he took 
Hedges, who fired football coach office Wednesday afternoon. it." 
... 
Jim Lambright and then hired Rick Hedges said no single thing led to McKay said he is not interested in Neuheisel, met with Bender for 1 her decision, but that Washington's the job. 1/2 hours last week, then scheduled win-loss record played a big part. Aside from McKay, coaches that a second meeting for Tuesday. The Huskies had back-to-back 20-have surfaced as possible replace­
Hedges said she was not pres­loss seasons for the first time in ments for Bender include sured by boosters or anyone else to school history before finishing 11-Gonzaga's Mark Few, Dan Monson fire Bender. 18 and eighth in the Pac-10 this at Minnesota, former UW player 
"Bob is an exceptional person season. Lorenzo Romar of Saint Louis and and has served this university very, Doug Wrenn, the team's leading Dana Altman at Creighton. very well. This was a very difficult scorer as a sophomore last season, Few declined to discuss the open­
decision for me, and one that I ago­had said he would return as long as ing Wednesday. The other coaches nized over," Hedges said. "I have Bender was around to coach him, did not return calls. the greatest respect for Bob. He is a 0therwise he would consider the Bender, 44, had· a 116-142 
very good friend of mine. We are NBA. record in nine seasons coaching the very close. I set aside my personal Hedges said she hadn't spoken to Huskies, taking the team to the and emotional side and made a Wrenn, but she planned to meet NCAA tournament in 1998 and '99. decision with the business side of with him and other players in the Under Bender, the school made my job." next few days. the postseason in four consecutive 
She said a national search for a Wrenn said Wednesday night he seasons -1996 to '99 -some­replacement would begin immedi­has not decided whether he will thing no other Washington coach ately but said she did not have a return. He's focusing on his final has done. 
-
. Leading scorer said he may not return to team after firing 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Washington scoring leader Doug Wrenn said Wednesday night he has not decided whether he will return for his junior season following the firing of coach Bob Bender. 
Bender, who just completed his ninth season, was fired Tuesday after three consecutive losing seasons. 
Wrenn, who led the Huskies with 19.5 average, had said he would be back next season as long as Bender was around. He said earlier he would explore his options, including his NBA chances, if Bender was fired. 
"I really don't know," Wrenn told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "Everything is really confusing. Everyone's lives are affected, not just coach Bender's." 
He said he would wait until the firing isn't so "fresh" to make a decision. 
Wrenn is loyal to Bender because Bender originally recruited him out of Seattle's O'Dea High School. Wrenn chose to go to Connecticut instead. but was dismissed from the team by coach Jim Calhoun after his freshman season for a variety of incidents. Bender gave him a second chance. 
Wrenn said when things calm down, he will meet with Bender to seek the coach's advice. He also wants to know who the new Washington coach will be. Athletic director Barbara Hedges said Wednesday a national search would begin immediately. 
"This is a big surprise," Wrenn said. "Nobody thought it would happen like this, so fast, so sudden. I wasn't ready for it." 
It is finals week at Washington, and Wrenn said he's trying to focus his energy on his exams. 
Wrenn, a 6-foot-8, 220-pound forward, was selected the Pac-10 Newcomer of the Year and was the confer­ence's third-leading scorer. He scored 30 or more points four times. 

BENCHW-ARMERS BAR AND GRILL 
236 S. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, IN 46601 219-232-0022 
WEDNESDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
No Cover with College I.D. 
l ' 
$3.50 Pitchers
! 
$1.00 Well Drinks
I 
I 
$1.00 Draft Beers and Shots 
Must be 21 with valid I.D. to consume alcohol 
Offering: 
• A transfefl-intent curriculum 

SCHEDULE FOR TRINITY SCHOOL AT THE 
..... 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE SATURDAY, MARCH 23 
• 
The shared resources of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 

• 
A residence life program 



1 0am -Mark Bradford, aruthor, Nice Girls Finish First, the story ofthe 
2001 Notre Dame Women's Basketball National Champion team l lam -Trinity seniors performing selections from Our Town 
Call (574) 239-8400 or visit www.hcc-nd.edu 
for more information. 


12noon -Trinity musicians and vocalises I :30pm -Peter Welling, author, Shawn O'Hisser: The Last Snake in 
Ireland. Children's storytime and book signing 
3:00pm -Ken Poling, Master Gardner, Windmill Acres and Channel 
22's Gardening Expert: Spring Gardening Talk 
02002 Holy Cros Cdlege 

4::00pm -Trinity musicians and vocalists. 7:30-9:30pm -The Marian Emery Trio 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Jordan returns to Wizards early 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

Dustin Benton drove 240 miles with his sister and two friends. expecting to see Michael Jordan sitting on the bench in street clothes. They 
got much more than that. 
The four friends arrived in Denver Wednesday n i g h t 


t h i n k i n g Jordan Jordan wouldn't 
play, but erupted into cheers and high fives when they found out he would make his return from knee surgery against the Nuggets. 
"I just wanted to see him sit­ting there," said Benton, of Grand Junction, Colo. "We came just for the chance that he might play. I can't believe he's actually going to." 
Jordan was originally expected to miss a month after having surgery on his right knee Feb. 27, but made his return Wednesday night against the Nuggets after one day of practice. 
"Mike recognized the impor­tance of this game (and) the rest of our games," coach Doug Collins said. "He feels if he can help us in any way he wants to play. He said he would like to be activated and play a few minutes tonight. So we went on that." 
Jordan didn't start, but received a loud ovation when he go off the bench late in the first quarter. He entered the game with 2:55 remaining in the first. 
Jordan wore a protective sleeve, but didn't seem to favor his knee at all. lie missed his first two shots ­both jumpers -before mak­ing one from the wing with a minute left. He also had a three-point play on a turn­around jumper after posting up Calbert Cheaney. 
Jordan was anxious to return to keep the Wizards' playoff hopes alive. 
Washington had lost eight of 12 games without Jordan and is 2 1/2 games behind Charlotte for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
"We are running out of games and he wants to win," Collins said. "It would have been nice if we had been in ­better position as far as the playoffs are concerned, but we are not. You know Mike. He wants to play. He wants to contribute." 

Nets coach wants replay 
Trail Blazers on Wednesday
Associated Press 

night. Scott said that officials alsoEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
blew a call on Jalen Rose's
The NBA should use video­

game-winner for Chicagotape replay to determine 
against Houston. A game-win­whether potential game-win­
ner by Kobe Bryant of thening shots beat the buzzer, 
Lakers against Charlotte wasNew Jersey Nets coa<.;h Byron judged right.
Scott said \Vednesday. 

Officials in college basket­
Scott said officials have ball games are allowed tomade the wrong call on 

look at a replay to determine
game-winning shots in two 

if a last-second shot beat the
games in the 

buzzer.
past month, "If they

including "If they have a big 

have a big
Lamond 

decision, they should decision,
Murray's 3­

t h e y
pointer that have something 

should
beat the 
to look at. " 

have some­
Eastern 

thing they
Conference­leading Nets Byron Scott can look 
at," Scott100-97 on head coach 
Tuesday night in Cleveland. 
Murray caught an inbound pa,ss from midcourt in the left corner, squared his shoulders and got off his shot -all within five-tenths of a second. Replays showed the clock did not start right away on the inbound play. 
Referees start the clock with a remote wireless sys­tem. 
"That was a big-time error for us to lose the game on that type of an error this late in the seas.on, and with what's at stake for us. That's not good," Scott said before the Nets played the Portland 

said. "It 
should have been a no basket and the game should have gone to overtime." 
Rod Thorn, the former NBA vice president of basketball operations and the current Nets' president, said the league told him the officials -Joe Forte, Bennie Adams and Leon Wood -made a judgment call, and the league supported it. 
Thorn said the judgment was wrong, and the league should say it. 
"That's not belittling the referees if the call was defi­nitely wrong," Thorn said. 
"It's still a judgment. That's not going to change. To me if something was definitely wrong, you say it was. It hap­pens." 
Even though videotape replay would not have helped the officials since the clock didn't start right away, Thorn said the officials should have known better. 
"With five-tenths of a sec­ond, as a referee you know this can happen and this can happen and that can't hap­pen, because that's the way you are trained," Thorn said. "Sometimes it's a calculated guess. But to me, because of the position he caught the ball, and I have seen these things forever, it was impossi­ble to get the shot off." 
Thorn said he was not an advocate of instant replays at the end of NBA games, but he is now. 
Stu Jackson, the league's current vice president of bas­ketball operations, said the officiating crew discussed what would be an acceptable shot before the play. 
"The crew made a judgment that it was an acceptable attempt," fackson told Fox Sports. "We understand it was a highly contested game. Things were said in the heat of battle. We are sensitive to these issues. There is not going to be any further action taken." 



Francine Masiello 
University of California, Berkeley 

Third O'Grady Latin American Literature Distinguished Lecturer at the University of Notre Dame 
Public Lecture titled "Miracles and Modernity" Thursday, March 21st 4:30p.m. Hesburgh Auditorium, the Hesburgh Li~rary. 6:00p.m. Reception in Hesburgh Great Hall. 
Co-sponsored by the Department ofRomance Languages and Literatures and the University Libraries with support from the Helen Kellogg Institute of International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 21, 2002 
NBA 
House brings home win for Miami with 20 points 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

Eddie House came off the bench to score a season-high 20 points and lead the Miami Heat to a 82-77 win over the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednesday night. 
House hit a pair of foul shots with 8.3 seconds remaining to clinch the game after a tight fourth quarter that fea­tured seven ties. 
The Sixers missed three off-balance shots on their final possession with under 30 seconds to play, including a 3-point attempt by Eric Snow that would have tied the game. 
Five players were in double digits for the Heat. Alonzo Mourning had 16 and Rod Strickland 14. House's previous season-high was 17. 
Allen Iverson finished with 38 points for Philadelphia. 
Miami needed the win to stay within striking distance of the Charlotte Hornets for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
The Sixers fell two games behind Orlando for the fifth playoff spot in the East. 
The game was the second half of a back-to-back series between the teams. The 76ers won the first matchup Tuesday night in Miami, 91-79. Miami improved its record-against the Sixns this season to 3-1. 
They are 11-0 in the second game of back-to-backs. 
In a rough game, Philadelphia ran into foul trouble early. Dikembe Mutombo was called for his fourth with 
9:39 left in the third. He returned in the fourth. 
The 76ers Derrick Coleman sat out the game, a day after he was diagnosed with torn cartilage in his knee. He scored 20 points playing on the injury Tuesday. 
Miami pulled away in the second behind the shooting of House and Chris Gatling and built a 45-35 lead. Iverson had 20 points on 7 of 14 shooting to cut Miami's lead to 45-38 at the half. 
Iverson hit two foul shots with four seconds left to put the Sixers up 61-60, giving them their first lead since the first minute of the second period. But Jim Jackson hit a 3 from the corner as time expired to put Miami up by two at tho end of three qua,:ters. 
Celtics 96, Cavaliers 70 
Paul Pierce had 22 points and 10 rebounds. scoring 11 during a 14-0 fourth-quarter run as the Boston Celtics beat Cleveland to sweep the sea­son series against the Cavaliers. 
Antoine ·walker had 17 points, seven rebounds and nine assists for the Celtics, who last swept Cleveland in 1984-85. 
Kenny Anderson added 13 points, nine rebounds and six assists before sitting out the final minutes with the rest of the starters following a 21-2 run that turned a nine-point game into a blowout. 
With the win, Boston maintained pressure on the Atlantic Division-lead­ing New Jersey Nets, who played Portland later Wednesday. 
Wesley Person had 17 points and Andre Miller had nine points, seven assists and seven rebounds for Cleveland, which had won two in a row. 
The Celtics led 69-60 with 8:53 left before scoring the next 14 points -11 of the first 12 by Pierce. After Chris Mihm made a basket, Boston ran off seven in a row -three from Anderson and four from Walker -to take a 26­point lead.. . 
Boston fell behind early in the third before Walker had five points, two assists and a steal during an 11-0 run that made it 55-47 with 7:23 left. 
The Celtics never trailed again, though Cleveland did cut it to three points before Boston scored eight con­secutive points, including five in a row by Pierce in the final minute to make it 65-53 after three quarters. 

Hornets 94, Pacers 88 

Baron Davis hit a 3-pointer with 15 seconds to play as the Charlotte 
Hornets tightened  up  the  Eastern  
Conference playoff race with  a victory  
over the Indiana Pacers.  

The Hornets, who won their season­high fourth straight game, moved into a tie with the Pacers for the seventh play­off spot in the East. 
Davis finished with 25 points and 10 assists for the Hornets, who went unde­feated on their homestand. 
Jamal Mashburn added 19, including a pair of free throws with two seconds to play that sealed the win. Elden Campbell added 18, David Wesley scored 14 and P.J. Brown had 13 rebounds. 
Jermaine O'Neal led Indiana with 20 points and 16 rebounds. Austin Croshere scored 16, Jonathan Bender had 13, Reggie Miller 12 and Hon Artest 11. 
The Hornets were clinging to a 92-88 lead with 30 seconds to play when they called timeout to set up Davis' shot. He kept the ball the entire time, looking for his opportunity. 
It came when both defenders shifted over to Mashburn, leaving Davis a brief moment to set his feet. 
Kevin Ollie came late to try to stop the shot, but Davis let it ny over Ollie's arms and into the basket. 
Charlotte led 74-68 at the start of the quarter but went cold as the Pacers pulled within three points twice, cutting it to 78-75 on Jamaal Tinsley's free throws with 6:12 to go. 
The Hornets then had a 9-3 run, get­ting five straight from Wesley, to open an 87-78 lead with 3:26 left. Wesley moved around a screen to score on a jumper, then called for the ball from the left side of the court as Davis 

www.5TARTHEREG . PLACES.COM/B1Z7 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 

pushed it up in transition. 
Davis looked at him. but momentarily ignored him as the defense moved away from Wesley. 
He then fired the ball over and Wesley tossed it up for the basket, pumping his fists in the air and bump­ing chests with Davis as Indiana called timeout. 
Perhaps the celebration irritated the Pacers, who rolled off a 10-2 run after the break to cut the score to 89-88 with 50 seconds left. 
O'Neal scored six straight points on three jumpers. and after a basket by Mashburn, Ollie scored on a jumper and a p.air of free throws. 
The Hornets missed on their next possession, but got the rebound to reset the shot clock and set up Davis' shot. 
Nets 97, Trail Blazers 82 
Jason Kidd had 28 points, 11 assists and eight rebounds and the angry New Jersey Nets won their eighth straight home game by cooling off the Portland Trail Blazers . 
Kerry Kittles added 18 points and Keith Van Horn 14 as the Nets handed the Trail Blazers only their second loss in 17 games. 
Rasheed Wallace. who played only seven minutes in the first half after picking up three fouls, led Portland with 17 points. Damon Stoudamire added 14 and Ruben Patterson had 13 for the Trail Blazers, who shot only 
41.5 percent from the field. 
The victory was only the fourth in the last 10 games overall for the Nets, who felt the officials cost them a chance at a win at Cleveland on Tuesday night by failing to start the clock on time. Lamond Murray made a 3-pointer at the buzzer after he caught an inbounds pass, squared himself and shot -all within five-tenths of a second. 
Kidd scored the final 10 points in a 15-0 second quarter run that staked New Jersey to a 48-40 halftime lead. 
START HERE. Go PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you 
can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in fashion. 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 


Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #71 
Retreat Date: Apr. 19-21 · 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Mar. 18 -Friday, Mar. 22 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Bible Study (in Chinese and English)
•

8:00 -9:00 pm Wilson Commons Ben Fisher, bfischer@nd.edu 
Heidi Oberholtzer, oberholtzer.1@nd.edu 


Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Stations of the Cross 
7:00-8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Call 631-5653 for information. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #70 March 22-24 Fatima Retreat Center 


Palm Sunday of the Lord's Passion 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Morning of Reflection 
10:30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 


Confirmation-Chrism Mass 
7:30 p.m. St. Matthew's Cathedral 
The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
A first-hand reflection on the day of Prayer for World Peace in Assisi, Italy 
Voices of Peace 
¦ by Anthony Pagliarini '02 

[On January 24th John Paul II gathered leaders from all of the worlds major religions in Assisi to host a prayer for peace. Six Notre Dame students were among the few thou­sand pilgrims in attendance.] 
"Frati! ... Frati! Per favore!" quips the old man in back of us. (Brothers! Please!) The monks are 
standing on their chairs again, tip-toed in brown sandals, beneath brown robes. "There. There's the 
patriarch of Moscow," points Paolo. A tall black figure slides through the picket fence of friars. 
"Frati!" The brothers smile and turn, apologizing with a shrug ofthe shoulders. "Look," Paola shouts 
again, "There's Gasseto from Africa, from Benin." In walks a man with the darkest ofskin, wrapped 
in layers of the brightest white cloth -the head oftraditional Vodou. He passes and is gone, following 
the Orthodox towards the stage. We stretch to gather a look, and, stretching harder. .. stand on our 
chairs. ''.Americani!" shouts the old man. Shoulders 
shrug . 
In coming to Assisi, we show 

Standing tall with necks craned, we can see over the that genuine religious belief is crowd. Out before us in the cobble stone streets push­ing inward is to the courtyard is a whole parade of col­an inexhaustible wellspring of ors and cloth, troubadours of peace, all of them: the dark Armenian hoods in silent procession. Turbans, yel­
mutual respect and harmony 

low and purple and orange, sauntering past. ("Where among peoples; indeed it is people have learned to be hostile and suspicious...)The san­daled feet of the Buddhist monk, walking mindfully (it
the chief antidote to violent 

wilt take much .. .) Bright blue Shinto robes through conflict. aisles, like water, passing. (to build friendship and trust ... .) Hindus and Rabbis. Cardinals and Canterbury's bishop. 
Pope John Paul II 

The Greek Orthodox and Lutherans, and imam from 
Iran, a few thousand pilgrims. (We are called to persevere in hope, 
and not to loose heart. ''.)And finally, him, with quiet longevity the 
pilgrims greeting. "Mai piu violenza! Mai piu guera! Mai piu 
terrorismo!" prays John Paul. (Violence never again! War never again! Terrorism never again!) Assisi falls silent. 
We and the brothers take our seats. The witnesses begin. 

"This is a day in which we turn to God." says the Lutheran Dr. Noko. "The question before us is this: 
where is our ultimate loyalty? How can we bear witness to a God who loves the whole world, rather than to one 
who is bound to certain national, cultural, or political allegiances?" I pause and wonder, 'God bless the 
U.S.A'? ...well, yes, but he is right, 'God bless Afghanistan too, and Israel, Iraq, North Korea, Yemen ... 
One by one, I watch the leaders of the world's religions take the podium to echo their cries for peace. A 
Tibetan monk sings to.us. A rabbi reads from the Midrash. A Hindu woman offers a humble reflection; each to 
his or her own tradition faithful, and towards the other welcoming. This, I start to believe, is where peace 
begins: friendship. "In coming to Assisi," writes John Paul, "we show that genuine religious belief is an inex­
haustible wellspring of mutual respect and harmony among peoples; indeed it is the chief antidote to violent 
conflict." 

After all have spoken, each tradition gathers itself to engage the real task of the day -prayer. Although 
we worship separately, we pray near one another, and I remember with thanksgiving all the while our common 
hopes and, therein, own near-common faith. The world is riddled with violence, but in our prayer we trust that 
it need not be so. Indeed, "by insistent prayer, the Church (and many others with her) refuses to accept that war 
is inevitable." For peace, then, we pray, and hope ever more fervently that by our doing so hearts will be 
changed. Without tiring, we continue to beg the Lord, knowing well that hope does not disappoint. 
· Then, having presented our needs to God, we return to present ourselves, each one to the next. We are 
Catholics and Sikhs, Jews and Muslims, Buddhists and Hindus, over 40 religions in all, and our voices fill the 
courtyard with a mutual pledge of sacrifice, solidarity, and love as together we "condemn terrorisfi: and every 
type of armed aggression, which always brings hatred and violence and everywhere sows seeds of death and 
sorrow." I am awestruck, and it becomes clear. It is not our being too extreme in matters offaith which births 
such terrible violence. Rather, it is our tepid, fanatic, mediocrity. "Violence and terrorism," we proclaim, "are 
incompatible with the authentic spirit of(any) religion." We simply do not, it seems, take God seriously enough. 
Here is Assisi, we aim to change that. 

While there is still much cause for despair, here are found seeds of hope. In this, a world of discord, here 
shine signs of unity. "The Spirit is with us," John Paul says. "In his name let us go, let us weave the tapestry of 
peace with the golden thread of justice, freedom, and forgiveness." ­
--------------------------------------------, 
page 21
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
j 


¦ Basilica of the sacred Heart ¦ Around campus 
Saturday, March 23 Sunday, March 24 5:00p.m. Spanish Mass 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c 

1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass
Sunday, March 24 

5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c. 

MBA Mass 
11:45 a.m. 

7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Chapel
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c.
C-M 
Campus Mlnittrf 
1st 2nd

¦ sunders ScrimureReadinus Rdg Is 50:4-7 Rdg Phil 2:6-11 Gosp elMatthew 26:14-27, 66 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 21, 2002 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
UCLA ready for Missouri 
. Lavin leads Bruins into Sweet Sixteen of tourney 
Associated Press: 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

Doom, defeat and the threat of dismissal have hovered over Steve Lavin for six seasons ­yet every March, it seems the UCLA coach is preparing the second weekend of the NCAA tournament. 
In the shadow of John Wooden and in the face of impossible expectations, Lavin has become one of college bas­ketball's most remarkable sur­vivors. An upset of top-seeded Cincinnati on Sunday propelled the Bruins (21-11) into their fifth regional semifinal under Lavin. 
So how does a coach keep his head when boosters and media are constantly calling for it? By not worrying when fans and the media ignore his achieve­ments, but criticize everything from his recruiting to his hair­style. 
"It gets a little bit silly," Lavin said as he prepared UCLA for its meeting with Missouri (23­11J on Thursday in the West Regional. 
"There's the Bill Murray, 'Groundhog Day' element to it. It's pretty boring, over and over again.... "Once we get hot in the tournament, people think it's nine lives, that we're lucky like a cat ... but what it really is, is applying these old­school principles of John Wooden and Gene Keady, with maybe a new presentation because of the slick hair," said Lavin. 
In the only regional final this weekend without a No. 1 seed, the Bruins' next challenge is coach Quin Snyder's 12th-seed­ed Tigers, who upset Miami and Ohio State to reach its first regional semifinal since 1994. 
Arizona faces Oklahoma in the first game of a compelling doubleheader between the Pac­10 and the Big 12 at Compaq Center at San Jose. 
Each of Lavin's six seasons at UCLA have included high pre­season expectations, followed by serious stumbles during the regular season. Then, in every season but 1998-99. Lavin has coaxed the Bruins' tremendous talent deep into the tourna­ment. 
Lavin is the only UCIA coach to reach consecutive regional semifinals since Wooden retired in 1975. Only Duke can match the Bruins' run of five regional semifinals in six years. 
But the credit, it seems, never reaches Lavin. 
"We don't even worry about it any more," said senior Rico Hines. who won't play this week. "We've been here so long, and ever since we've been here, Coach Lavin is about to get fired, and we're 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categones of Books 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock 
-Out-of-Print search service 
-Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
the worst team in UCLA histo­ry. 
"We don't even listen to it. Our goal is just to put it togeth­er in the tournament." 
Relaxing in San Jose on Wednesday, the San Francisco native could only smile and shake his head over his inabili­ty to please anyone but his players. He also empathized with Snyder, whose Tigers fell from a No. 2 national ranking down to a 12th seed this sea­son. 
"£We're] two young coaches who are constantly going to be scrutinized or roasted because of our age," Lavin said. "He's been under fire, but he's done a great job of keeping his kids upbeat, keeping them positive and aggressive and confident. Now they're playing well at the right time of the year." 
Instead of receiving praise for his teams' achievements, Lavin only seems to garner criticism for their shortcom­ings. He's been belittled by boosters who long for a higher­profile coach, and criticized by columnists who question his ability even to run a practice. Last year, athletic director Pete Dalis even admitted he had spoken to Rick Pitino about replacing Lavin. 
UCLA's meeting with Missouri pits two talented teams that got their games together just in time. The Tigers are led by junior Kareem Rush, whose brother JaRon would have been a senior at UCL\ this season had he not left school early. 
"It would have been fun to play against him, because we always used to talk about get­ting in the NCAA tournament together," Kareem Rush said. "It's too bad." 
Like Lavin, Snyder struggled to protect his team from unre­alistic expectations -and then worked to build his players back up when they failed to reach those expectations. 
"It's a balancing act, but it's part of coaching," Snyder said. "You try to keep your team focused on the court and not on the distractions. ft's verv hard, but every coach has to· find a way to deal with it." 
In Arizona's meeting with Oklahoma," the Wildcats' young roster will get its biggest test in weeks against the veteran­laden Sooners, whose stifling defense makes them many observers' picks to advance from San Jose to the Final Four. 
The graceful Wildcats, led by Luke Walton, muscled their way into the regional semifi­nals with a victory over Wyoming, but Oklahoma plays a physical style not often seen in the Pac-10. 
"We're not worried too much about Arizona or the success they've had," Oklahoma for­ward Aaron McGhee said. "We're just concentrating on our own game, because we think we're good enough to get to Atlanta." 
The ND Department of Music Presents 
ND Collegium Musicum 
directed by Daniel Stowe 
Sunday, February 10. 2002 
8: 1 5 pm. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public (21 9) 631-6201 for information 
MLB 

Contraction trial recesses until April 
. Twins, Expos were supposed to be eliminated 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The grievance by baseball players against contraction recessed until April 8 after Bob DuPuy, baseball's new chief operating officer. com­pleted his second day of testi­mony Wednesday. 
Union lawyers have not yet completed their questioning of DuPuy, who began his testi­mony Tuesday. 
Arbitrator Shyam Das has heard 17 days of testimony from seven witnesses, and the players• association says DuPuy is not its final witness. When the union is done, own­ers will start presenting their defense. 
The union claims the Nov. 6 vote by teams to fold two franchises violated its collec­tive bargaining agreement, which expired the following day. 
The Minnesota Twins and Montreal Expos were the teams targeted for elimina­tion, management negotiators later told the union, but con­traction was blocked for this year when a Minnesota judge issued an injunction forcing the Twins to honor their lease at the Metrodome, which runs through the 2002 season. 
Commissioner Bud Selig postponed contraction until next season at the earliest. If Das rules for players in the grievance, the union would seek damages, claiming the attempt to eliminate two teams depressed salaries of free agents. 
-~~\. 

Jift.Pn,!v-

S yracuse 
S-trasbo 
France 
Apply by April 1 to Study Abroa£l in Fall 
• Internships at the Council of Europe• Certificate in Contemporary European Affairs• Generous scholarships and grants 
1-800-235-3472 http://suabroad.syr.edu 
'Wkd'd-1k dj.~ o/ ~ 

. IJ1J/4oj;~ ~~ {Ut4 ~~ 
IJ1)/4oj; a/le dc#ne ~~m
. 
~? 

IJ1J/4oj;~ ~m ~~~almd a
. 


~? ... 
Please join us for an·aternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating coup!O=' who are discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment. 
Sunday, April 7, 1:00-4:00 p.m. 
Pre-Registration is required by Friday, Aprils, at noon. Applications are available in 114 Coleman-Morse Center or 319 Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk.
C-M 

Questions: Call Darrell Paulsen at 631-5827. 
Campus Ministry 



South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 


Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Can anyone beat Connecticut? 



"ChiU·Ou+" +hit Sa+urdav Men's Lacrosse vs. Hofs+ra 
•
receive a bowl of chili and a Notre Dame headband 
setween11te 

2002 keARf show aod sale
suns 
SPORTS BAR 

stn4eut an sale
EST. 1985 

an pPOcee4s to beueftt the AIRBPICBD HeaPI; Assoclatdou 
Saturdav 
FPlda11. MaPGh 22. 4 p.IR. to 8 p.m. 4--­
SoPID Room. I,aFonuue
1pm 
E" 
f£" 

DooP PPlzes and Hon D'oe11VPes 
Moose Krause Stadium.• weather permitting 

Spouseood bl? the Glass of '04

[otherwise -Lottos snorts centerJ 
1 
, I 
l 
I I I I 
i 
I I 

Associated Press 
STORRS. Conn. Geno Auriemrna has been peppered with questions. 
At 35-0, is this Connecticut team his best yet, or was it the 1995 unbeaten NCAA champs? How does this edition compare to Tennessee's 39-0 squad in 1998? 
"Everybody wants to be remembered as something," the coach said Wednesday. "We just want to go out and win games." 
Connecticut has ning game. 
"Everybody wants to be

dominated the com­The Huskies' inside petition throughout remembered as some­trio of Asjha Jones, Swin Lhe season, beating thing. We just want to go Cash and Tamika 
opponents by an Williams have made
out and win games. " 

average of 37 short work of most points. The starting teams' post games. They squad boasts five Gene Auriemma combine for an average All-Americans, of 44 points and 22
head coach 

including Naismith Player of the Year Sue Bird. 
Auriemma balks at calling it the best team ever, but will compare it to his other squads. 
"This team is balanced as physically as any team we've ever had," Auriemma said. "Our guard play is as good as its ever been, but for me to tell you Sue and (Diana Taurasi) are a bet­ter backcourt than Nykesha Sales and Rita Williams, that's pretty tough. Those two guys are WNBA All-Stars. This team is really, really good for this season. for what it has to do, for what it wants to prove." 
The Huskies will try to prove their next point on Saturday against Penn State in the Mideast Regional in Milwaukee. The vastly improved Lady Lions (23-11) are led by Kelly Mazzante, the nation's leading scorer. The sophomore is averaging 25 .2 
points a. game and has been a. key fac­tor in Penn State's turnaround since its 9-7 start. 
Connecticut has its own sophomore sensation in Taurasi, a long-range spe­cialist with a deft passing touch. 
"There are so many thing that you would wish you can do against them and so we have a wish list this week that we are going to work on," Penn State coach Rene Portland said. 
She said some of the keys are to out­work Connecticut in the post and slow down the Huskies' run-
rebounds. 
"You almost feel like you're wasting your time watching film because they get out by 20 and the other team is just trying to go two at a time to cut down a 20-point lead and it's in the first half," Portland said. 
Iowa's Lisa Bluder had that sinking feeling early in the second half Monday. The Huskies outscored the Hawkeyes 34-4 in the first 15 minutes of the second half in their second­round game. 
So, is there a team out there than can beat the Huskies? 
"I haven't seen them yet. Certainly none that we've played that can com­pete with them," Bluder said. 
Connecticut's closest game of the season was a nine-point win at Virginia Tech on Jan. 29. The rematch two weeks later was a 35-point Connecticut blowout. 
After Auriemma's 2000 team domi­nated Tennessee in the NCAA title game, there was talk that was the best team ever. His unbeaten 1995 squad beat Tennessee behind the post play of Rebecca Lobo and Kara Wolters and guard Jennifer Rizzotti. 

"We've had some pretty good teams 
I I I 
l 1 
1 
I -j 
I 
I 
I 
1 
1 

in the past. The big factor in getting to the final four and winning a national championship is staying injury free. So far, so good," Auriemma said. "To win a national championship, you have to be really, really good and have a little bit of luck." 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 

Belles 
continued from page 28 
Spriggle won their No. 3 dou­bles match with an 8-3 win. 
The singles players were not quite as successful. Annie Knish dropped her No. 1 singles match to Vauderbach while freshman Miranda Milulyuk and Katie Harrison fell to their Tri-State opponents. While Knish is the normal No. 1 sin­gles players, Milulyuk and Harrison at No. 4 and No. 6 sin­gles were treading on slightly unknown ground. 
"They definitely gave us a good warm up for the season," tories (6-3,6-4 and 6-2, 6-4) Jeannie Knish said. "The girls against the Thunder's Nicki who usually don't get to play Post and Crystal Hardorty. 
that often played and did really well." 
Jeannie Knish, Sandner and freshman Courtney Watson won their singles matches at 
"'Our first match was a success. We worked well as a team." 
Jeannie Knish tennis player 
"Our first match was a success," Knish said. "We worked well as a team." 
The Belles will serve up their first MIAA oppo­nent on Saturday as 
No. 2, No. 3 and No. 5 singles respectively. Knish won her match 2-0 (6-0, 6-2) against Jamie Rifubaugh. Sandner and Watson also took home 2-0 vie-they face off against the Albion Britons. 
Contact writer Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 

Reservation wants Cardinals stadium 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX 
The Gila River Indian Community hopes an Arizona Cardinals' stadium will be part of a casino and resort develop­ment taking shape on its reser­vation south or Phoenix. 
Gila River has emerged from the long-running stadium sweepstakes race as one of two finalists. But some observers still question how an NFL stadi­um could operate on a sover­eign Indian reservation that depends financially on gam­bling. 
"It's hard to fathom people's worries, in some respects, given the amount of economic activity already on the reservation," said Gila River attorney Steve Heeley. 
"We've had to overcome anti­quated views of tribal ways and tribal government during this process. And we've had to go extra steps tu prove to the pub­lic that we are doing business ethically." 
Gila River and the Phoenix suburb of Mesa were the final­ists chosen by the Arizona Tourism and Sports Authority, which will build the $350 mil­lion stadium. The winner will be chosen March 28 or March 29. 
But as Mesa struggles with financing, momentum has swung to the Gila River site. 
Gila River has the advantage of money, supplied by its three casinos, and a wealth of space at its reservation about 15 miles from downtown Phoenix. 
The stadium will be financed by a $331 million plan approved by Maricopa County voters in November 2000. 
Under that plan, the Cardinals and the Fiesta Bowl would pay part of the cost of building a 73,000-seat domed stadium with a partially retractable roof and a slide-in grass field. 
The rest of the money would come from increased taxes on rental cars and hotel rooms, stadium-related sales taxes and income taxes on professional football players and Cardinals employees. 
Gila Hiver officials said they have more than enough money to cover the estimated $45 mil­lion in stadium infrastructure costs. 
They also believe their pro­posed site offers a good fit. 
The new Sheraton at Wild Horse Pass resort scheduled to open in October boasts 50,000 square feet of convention space, a casino and two championship golf courses. Plans call for a series of canals and water taxis to link the resort with the stadi­um, less than half a mile away. 
The resort also gives the tribe an existing utility, sewer and telecommunication infrastruc­ture to accommodate the stadi­um, said Gary Bohnee, a Gila River spokesman. 
"Dear Lisa" 

Lisa Alarie Sautoro June 21, 1976 to J11ly 29, 1994 
"Our deepest feelings cannot always find their way from hearts to words ... " 
ADating Violence Prevention Program 
/11 1994;' fill ex-boyf,-irnd whom lis,l hlfri datecl for only 5 months murdered mJ' 1R­year-old d1wghte1: IZ,e ~vpiut! 1/11m1mg ·signs thilt 1m11tl(>1 ocmr nc11er ,1ppeared. ft 1111ts 1tfier Usa's murder that 1ue found ~ut the ex-bor(i-iend was sltl/k;ng and plr11mtng /,isa's der;th. 

''Dear Lisa'' 
Lecture by Tom Santoro 
Thurs., March 21 st 127 Hayes..Healy 
7:30 PM 
Sponsored by the Women's Resource Cehter and C.A.R.E. 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Notre Dame and Purdue while the Boilers are 1-4 have played four common against the common group,

Tennis 
opponents so far this season registering a victory over -Kentucky, North Carolina, Iowa.

continued from page 28 
Tennessee, Brigham Young Purdue's biggest strength State, with the latter two set­and Iowa. The Irish are 2-3 lies in its doubles play, where backs coming last weekend in against this quintet, logging it has compiled a 21-19 Tempe, Ariz. 5-2 wins over BYU and Iowa, record this spring. The team 
studentgove,-rnment brings you 


D ~-f...""~'
·,:-.~·-~--t ~·~~~ 
ASROMG 
"Killing Cool: Igniting the Soul of Society" 
Derrick is an actor and activist who had a feature role in Steven Spielberg's "AMISTAD" and was the President of the Black Students Organization at Harvard University 

Thursday, March 21 
6:00 PM Debartolo 101 


Special thanks to all our contributing co-sponsors! 

Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Adzona 
Sl'lllNG 2003 
Contaet Donna Fecher Ctnter for Envinmmenta! Science & Tedrnniogy 152A FitzpaJritk HaH 
iJ',,···1 .,,,,//·, 0: "d'\ or x1-8T76
G.,,~"'J~~-~7:JJ ..~.:-:-: -~?. . .· • . -.. , . 


of Lynsey Pick and Melissa in an epic third-set tiebreak Woods has set the pace with a that saw Vaughan save seven 9-7 record at the No. 2 flight. match points and Haynor In singles competition, Shawn fight off three potential match Zuccarini has split time winners. 
between the lower three 
flights, posting a 7-8 record. 
Meanwhile, Melissa Iqbal has 
taken the reins at No. 1 sin­
gles, compiling a 5-6 mark 
this year. 

Notre Dame and the 
Boilermakers will meet for 
the 19th consecutive season 
and 21st time overall in a 
series. that dates back to the 
1982-83 campaign. The Irish 
hold a 16-4 advantage, 
including an active 12-match 
winning streak. The Irish are 
4-2 against Purdue in West 
Lafayette, Ind., and will be 
playing there for the second 
time in three seasons. Notre 
Dame has lost just two points 
in its last four matches with 
the Boilermakers, including 
9-0 shutouts in 1999 and 2000. Last season, the Irish . downed Purdue, 6-1, sweep­ing the doubles action And claiming five singles bouts, four in straight sets. The Boilers avoided their third consecutive shutout at the hands of Notre Dame when Gretchen Haynor outdueled No. 100 Nina Vaughan, 18-16, 

WORKING IN CHICAGO? NEED APLACE TO LIVE? 
• 
4and 5 month summer leases and full-time leases available 

• 
Two beautiful, spacious flat apartments available 

• 
More than enough room to accommodate 2to 4people per apartment 

• 
All apartments come with two good-sized bedrooms, large living room, di-,;~g room, full kitchen, work area and enclosed porch 

• 
FREE PARKING with garage access 

• 
Only 3blocks from Metra train to downtown Chicago (10-15 minute train ride) 

• 
Easy access to expressways (7-IO minute drive downtown) 

• 
Located near Madison Street bars, several malls, and major movie theater 


** $1,500 total per flat per month 
• 
$750 per person with two renters 

• 
$500 per person with three renters 

• 
$375 per person with four renters 


MUCH LESS EXPENSIVE THAN DOWNTOWN APARTMENTS FOR MUCH MORE SPACE AND GREAT QUALITY 
CALL CHRIS AT 273-5804 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1~7819 . SylviaDillon,CampusMinistry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


.. 

r--------------------------------~ 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
... 
Stanley 
continued from page 28 
"\-Vhen you're smaller peo­ple automatically give you a knock," said Stanley. "They say, 'He's too small to play' and 'Over the long term he's 
not going to be hope to dis­pel a lot of t h o s e rumors. I think it's taken me three years of college baseball to get people to believe that I can play this 
a factor.' I 
"Steve Stanley is 
reason and definitely the heart and one of those reasons is to
soul ofNotre Dame 
play baseball
baseball. 
and be with these guys Brian Stavisky and to be on this team,"
teammate 

game regardless of what size I am. If you can play, you can play." 
Stanley's teammates know he can play. He's been one of their leaders ever since his freshman year. 
"Steve Stanley is definitely the heart and soul of Notre Dame baseball, "said team­mate Brian Stavisky "His work ethic is unmatched and his desire and competitive­ness are also." 
Despite his success and the praise from coaches and teammates, Stanley stays humble and down-to-earth. He believes he owes his suc­cess es to God, his wife, his coaches and his teammates Without these people, Stanley said he would have nev.er accomplished all he has in life. 
"I really feel [God] has put 
me at Notre 
Dame for a 
Stanley said. 
"Everything 
has been through Him so that really keeps me humble that in my faith, nothing in my life I've done on my own. I also have so many great teammates around me and great coach­es. It's easy to play for a team that wins and it's easy to play with guys that are fun to be with." · 
According to his wJfe Brooke, it's this kind of atti­tude that makes Stanley stand out. 
"I respect Steve more than anyone in the whole world," she said. "Ile makes me a better person because he's really got his priorities straight. He's a loyal friend to me and to everyone that he meets. He puts others before himself and he's got a great sense of humor and I think the guys on the team love that about him." 
When the Irish open up Big East play against Connecticut this week, Stanley will quietly go about his business as usual. He'll start his 204th straight game and tie a record. He'll roam center­field. He'll bat lea.doff. And after he collects three more hits. he'll quietly put his name on top of the record books again, this time for the most hits in a career by a Notre Dame player. 
Stanley will graduate as one of the best players to ever put on an Irish uniform. Yet no one should be sur­prised by all of Stanley's suc­cess. 
He's been overcoming odds his whole life. 
Contact writer Joe Hettler at -jhetder@nd.edu 
CHEERLEADING 
Leptt¢cbaun y·····ryou.. •···-.· ·._..··..•···•.... itt·····•s>·..... 
111,formal1NF-Oi/Hl.l~4. _'fJQ1V 11:leeting. 
l\:Ionday, J\tlarcb 2$, 2002 ~ ~:30 p.1n. La Fortune-l\1lontg0Jnery Theattt1stFloor 
0-: •.....· .. '. ·.... ' .. . 
o T\:Jeet this.. vear's cheer. teanfntembe..
--~ -• . . 
,:1 l{vervone.. welcome...
... .
. 
cl 
NO prior ci1eerleading experience required -Clinks start 3/26/02 
···••····••·••--··•------­
Thursday, March 21, 2002 


ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Steve Stanley high fives Steve Stollman during a game last season. Stanley is hitting .341 this season. 
~I====;' €JKT Of CHICAGO PIZZA COMPAN\P pizzadoneright 
MEDIUM $8.99! lop to a1oouinus1 2 I or $14.99 
rn m~ (D []) ~ mLJ co rn rn ~ [D illw. 
~ illTT m[]HIJ illW OJ rn TI O~ ~ ill. lliJ . 
New! Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) 5.99/doz 
(Not Good With Other Offers. Expires 4/10/02) SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to Subway) 271-1277 


Thursday, March 21, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
TOM KEELEY 


Fox TROT 
IT'S NOT FAlli?, MOTHER! THIS 
BILL AMEND 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
Ifs -\-k, tir~ o.,,y o-t ~pri"J ycv ktl(,w L-Jl~ tlv.\ ~? 
~J~i"j' c.,,.use, it~ :.tll 
t,_eJ:_v,• Hr.re~ ;" SJL 1',c,,J 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Fuzzy-skinned 48 Cartoon 
Bargaining ploys fruits millionaire 7 Mathematician 32 River formed by created by Charles the Congaree Carl Barks 
and Wateree 53 Displeased

14 Ring out 
spectator's cry 
33 Chingachgook, for one 55 Anticipated

16 Worn down 
17 Barking up the 
56 Unauthorized

wrong tree 36 Casting 
choices? 57 Maria

18 Kind of vowel in "loop" 37 Voters' problem (Hungarian queen)
19 Cartoon 38 Something to millionaire remember, with 58 Shade trees 59 E-mailer
created by "the" Harold Gray 39 Capital 21 Well-chosen successor to 
DOWN Calcutta 1 Kind of gown 

22 1987-91 Mideast 40 Particular 2 Delaware Indian hostage Terry strength 3 Unfazed by 23 Blinking light, 41 Agreed upon 4 Grossing point maybe 44 Little one 5 Wrath 26 Regulus's 45 Jim's portrayer in 6 It's not seen on constellation "Gentleman Jim" cable TV 27 Golf course 47 II might be 7 Toy since 1959 adjunct broken into 8 More or less 29 Squeegee quarters 9 Cartoon millionaire 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ~it~n~ 

PIUZle by P1tnci Berry 
31 Friends and 41 Blotto 49 Nattily dressed neighbors 
42 Protect, in a way 50 scale 32 Cut open 
51 Ontario natives 
43 William Shatner
of-Farner Roush 
33 Fashioned 
52 Actress Laura 34 German 
15 Attracted sci-Ii novel 
53 It's hung around
20 Glad 46 Archetypical
automaker 
the neck 

A L ~~:-4 24 Rancher's W.W. II 
35 Worn part of a

T O purchase metalworker 54 "Bravo!" 
shoe

O T 25 They're often -,-,-+...+:-:+.,:+,.-1 unearthed 36 One end of the -:-t._.llllf.:-t;:;-t;:.1.;1_.. -=~t=-t 27 Cartoon political Answers to any clues in this puzzle are A G millionaire spectrum available by touch-tone phone: G R created by 38 Synthesizer 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). L I Alfred Harvey innovator Bob Annual subscriptions are available for the 40 Makes best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
~ : i'T"t"=-Et-:D::-t !~ g~n:~~:~o; translucent years: 1-868-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
... 

D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ 
-

City _______ State ____ Zip.______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON yourself free, 0000 
THIS DAY: Rosie O'Donnell, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Be Matthew Broderick, Eddie Money, careful what you say to whom T1It10thy Dalton today. Someone who is trying to 
Happy Birthday: You'll be anx­make you look bad may misinter­ious to make things happen this pret what you say. Don't let your year. You will have the driving emotions get involved in your busi­
force to achieve whatever you set ness. 00 out to do. You may face some LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct, 22): You obstacles along the way but noth­will meet some interesting people if ing thatyou can't handle. Stay cahn you attend a seminar or sign up for and act responsibly. Your numbers an interesting rourse. You have a lot 
are 8, 19, 25, 33, 36, 42 
to offer as well as a lot to learn 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): through this type of interaction. You will be energetic and playful, 00000 engaging and fun to be with. You SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): can make new friends or have a Take a look at your personal papers great time with the ones you and update whatever is necessary already have, Plan to get out and before it's too late. You may want to 
do things; sticking around the check out something that would house will lead to trouble. 0000 raise the value ofyour home. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGIITARIUS (NOit 22-Dec. Zl): 
You may want to put some of your Someone is trying to get you to career plans in motion tcxlay. Your commit to something. Maybe it's determined attitude, dedication time you faced the music and took 
and discipline should be more than care of these personal issues once enough to help you move in a posi­and for all. Ask yourself pointtive direction. 000 blank what would make you 
GEMINI (May 21.-June 20): You happy 00 may have difficulty seeing things CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): clearly at an emotional level. If you Your heart and soul will be in your 
feel you must make changes, go work today, The busier you are, the ahead but don't bum bridges. You better. If you have too much idle may find that you want to mange time on your hands you will end your mind later on. 00 upgetting anxious and upset. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should be doing all you can to You've got the travel bug. Short or secure your home and property. long trips will lead to chance meet­
Investments made today, especially ings. Listen to the people you those pertaining to your residence, encounter and you will be sure to will be favorable. Focus on com­obtain valuable information. pleting domestic chores that you've 00000 been putting on the back burner. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be 000 careful not to give in to someore who 
LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): If you is bullying you. Stand up for yourself 
are happy with your current part­and don't do anything you don't ner let him or her know, If you want to do. Keep tabs on how much aren't, you may want to make the you spend and put some money changes required in order to set away for unexpectedbills. 00 
Birthday Baby: You will have sudden and unexpected changes through­
outlife. You are independent and free-spirited. You know what you like and 
are always eager to take part inwhatever isgoing onaround you, 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web~sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
National Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. NCAA Basketball, p. 23,22,18 
. NBA,p.20 
. 
MLB, p. 22 . Jordan, p. 19


PORTS 
Thursday, March 21, 2002 

BASEBALL 
No stopping Stanley 
• Co-captain eyes two Notre Dame baseball records 
By JOE HETTLER Assistant Sports Edicor
.. 
Four years after starting out his Notre Dame baseball career 0-17, co-captain and centerfielder Steve Stanley finds himself approaching two Irish baseball records with possibly more to come as this season continues. 
Not bad for a guy that just 
wanted to make the travel 
team as a freshman. 
But Stanley has always been able to overcome odds. especially baseball. Standing only 5-foot-8 and weighing 155 lbs, Stanley has been overlooked and written off more than a few times in his career. Yet he has always found a way to prove his crit­ics wrong. Just ask the peo­
C: ple around him. "Stanley is a tremendous 

player," said Notre Dame 
American, I've never seen Stanley. "So I've gotten used

head baseball coach Paul 
one." to playing that role, but alsoMainieri. "To be honest with Part of the reason behind I've used that as a motivation 

you. I think he's the best 
Stanley's success is his moti­to let people know that, defi­

player in college baseball. 
vation. Instead of viewing his nitely in baseball, you canWhat he does for our team size as a handicap, he's made play no matter what size youoffensively and defensively, I it an advantage by using it as are as long as you can bring

can't think of a player I've 
a motivational tool through­things to the team to help thecoached that's meant more to 

out his career. team win." 

our team than Steve Stanley. 
"From day one, I was Stanley, who was the co-Big

If he's not a first team All-
always a small kid," said East Player of the Year last 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles win home opener 6-3 
ditions like that. We had to keep our doubles match though,"

• St. Mary's beats jumping around and putting our Jeannie Knish said of she and 
cold weather as hands in our pockets to warm her senior sister. "We really them up. It was a big change worked together well today. The 
well as Tri-State 
from Daytona." wind was causing a lot of short 

Despite the dark clouds and balls to be hit, and we were able By KATIE McVOY strong winds hanging around to attack the net." Associate Sports Editor the tennis courts at Angela The Knish sisters took home 
Athletic facil-an 8-5 victory 

The Saint Mary's tennis team ity on against Kate was looking to heat up the sea­Wednesday, "It was windy and Vaudorback son with the team's opening the Belles did and Emily
freezing. It's hard to play

match against Tri-State, but the manage to Shulak of Tri­
in conditions like that. " 

Belles had trouble even staying make a few State. Junior warm. sparks. All Elisa Ryan and But with winter still hanging three Saint sophomore
Jeannie Knish 

on in South Bend. the Belles Mary's dou­Kaitlin Cutler
tennis player

took home their first regular bles teams added an 8-2 season victory with a 6-3 win took home win at No. 2 against the Thunder. victories, led doubles and 
"The weather was a chal­by the No. 1 junior Angie lenge. It was windy and freez­doubles sister team of Knish Sandner and sophomore Kris ing," said sophomore Jeannie and Knish. Knish. "It's hard to play in con-"Annie and I were able to win see BELLES/page 24 season, has been helping his team in more ways than one during his tenure with the Irish. 
All his hard work has helped put him in position to break several Notre Dame baseball records, including two this weekend at Connecticut. Stanley has played in 203 consecutive games, one short of the Irish record set by Pat Pesavento. Amazingly, in his first three years at Notre Dame, Stanley played in 1,593 out a possible 1,607 innings. He is also 
within  two  hits  of  tying  
Pesavento's  career  hits  
record of 296.  

see STANLEY/page 26 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish battle No. 51 Purdue on road 
again until March 27 when

. 22nd-ranked 
they play host to another Big

team looks to 
Ten Conference foe, No. 65 keep improving Illinois. Purdue is 4-7 this season and is ranked 51 st in the
Special to The Observer 
nation. The Boilermakers have been ranked all season

After winning six of its last long, peaking at No. 43 last
seven matches, the 22nd­week after wins over 50th­
ranked Notre Dame women's ranked Iowa (4-3) and No.
tennis team (10-6) will look 35 Illinois (5-2). However,to continue its recent run of 
they have tumbled eightsuccess Thursday when it 

a spots this week after three
visits No. 51 Purdue in 
consecutive losses. all to top•Hoosier State showdown at 

15 opponents No. 13

the Lafayette Sports Center Northwestern, No. 12 Northin West Lafayette. 
Carolina and No. 9 Arizona

It will be the only match in a 12-day span for the Irish, who won't return to action see TENNIS/page 25 
. 
Women's Tennis vs. Purdue, Today, 1:30 p.m. 

. 
Women's Swimming at NCAA Champioships,



SPORTS 
Thursday-SaturdayAT AGLANCE . Fencing at NCAA Championships,Thursday-Saturday 








