
--, 
St. Edward's rector takes time off
PARTLY 
Monday
CLOUDY 
After an abrupt hospitalization, Father David Scheidler takes a leave of absence to recover from a bleeding ulcer. 
JANUARY 28, 
News . page 3
HIGH 51° 
2002 
LOW35° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma,y·'s 
VOL XXXV NO. 75 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 





SMC mourns loss of alumna 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
When Kate McCloughan-Krzyzak received two new lungs last October, she got a second chance at life. 
The transplant was supposed to be a last-chance treatment to ease her strug­gles with cystic fibrosis, a hereditary dis­order that affects the respiratory and digestive systems. 
It was the only chance that McCloughan-Krzyzak, a member of Saint Mary's Class of 2001, had to realize her dreams of attending graduate school and continue the life she had begun with her husband, Jim, just one year earlier. 
Friday·, her second chance ran out, when McCloughan-Krzyzak lost her battle with the disease as her body rejected the transplant. She was 26. 
The friends and family she leaves behind her will remember her as a woman who was determined, spirited, and who nnver. ever gave up. 
"I feel like the lungs she got were not up to the quality of Kate," said Saint Mary's professor Catherine Pittman, who taught her in several psychology classes. "They didn't fight as hard as she fought." 
Kate battled cystic fibrosis from child­hood, and became accustomed to fre­quent hospital visits to clear her lungs from the thick mucous that clogged them. Medication IVs and oxygen tanks were normal parts of her life. 
But Kate was the type of person who didn't want to be different from everyone else. 
At Saint Mary's, she was the student who sat in her psychology classes eating saltine crackers and drinking Mountain Dew. told stories about her dog, Meko, loved a good intellectual argument and spoke her mind. 
And at first glance, her classmates didn't know there was anything different about her. 
"She just wanted to be a typical student and to live a typical life even though it was anything but typical," Pittman said. 
"She was one of those that didn't want anyone to know she was different," said friend and psychology major Shelly Houser. "She had this disease, but she was ready to conquer the world." 
She came to Saint Mary's in her sopho­more year, after moving away from home to go to Franklin College. After falling ill at school, doctors recommended she undergo a lung transplant operation, a procedure that is supposed to give cystic fibrosis patients another five years of life. 
But she didn't need it. After her mother nursed her back to health, she decided to try attending Saint Mary's, a college clos­er to her home in Granger. 
While occasional hospitalization forced her to miss classes, take time off or make adjustments to her class schedule, she never wanted an exception to be made for her -and was determined to be a nor­mal student. 
"She had this great excuse of this severe, life-threatening illness, but she never used it," said Katie Sullivan. Kate's minor, she insisted on turning papers in mentor in the LONI program. "I never on time and taking tests the day they heard her whine or complain, ever." 

A psychology major with a biology see KATE/page 4 
SMC exhibit explores artificial mediums 
By KATIE RAND 
News Writer 
A new exhibit at the Moreau Center Art Gallery, entitled "Organic Forms and Synthetic Materials" showcases works by sjx unique artists: John Arndt, Aaron Baker, Yvette Kaiser-Smith, Lauren Lobdell, Suzannah Paul and Mary Temple. The work of the artists "has evolved out of [our] mutual fascination with artificial materials and surfaces coupled with an admiration for innovative form and spatial explo­ration." according to Temple. 
Temple, a New York artist. has multiple pieces in the gallery. each with its own distinct characteristics. The colors, sizes and textures of each are completely dif­ferent, but they were all made in the same way. 
Each one is made of pieces of dried paint applied directly to the wall. Temple explained this interesting technique. 
"I was in the studio attaching pieces of paint to can­vas, boards etc. At some point, I was looking around the studio and saw the pieces of paint hung up on the wall to dry," Temple said. "The whole room then became my canvas; it opened up so many interesting possibilities." 
According-to Temple, one of the neatest aspects of these pi~ces is the "paintings" they form on the wall. 
The light pouring through the openings in the paint shadows are made on the background surface con­tributes to the intricacy of the work. 
"The light and shadows are as important as the pig-
see EXHIBIT/page 7 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, January 28, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I survived 21 
I always look forward to starting the spring semester. Long lines at the bookstore, reintro­ducing my body to dining hall food and most importantly. my birthday. Lucky for me, my 
birthday always falls on the first weekend after the first week of classes. The week­end notorious for containing some of the best parties, including the infamous Hagerfest. This year was no ditf erent except for one minor detail: I was turning 
21. 
Turning 21 on Sunday. no buying alcohol on Sunday in Indiana -what's a girl to do? I took it as a hint that God didn't want me getting 

Kelly Hager 
Copy Editor 
wasted. So. I opted to keep the partying to a min­imum on the Sabbath. This was the plan until someone mentioned that I would legally be able to enter the bar at midnight on Saturday. At that moment, the plans changed. · 
First to the movies, and then to Coach's. I removed my license from the plastic casing and displayed it proudly to the police officer who wished me happy birthday as I ran by him to join the friends that had accumulated to welcome me. These friends, who I later found out, were there to catch aglimpse of an first time intoxicated Kelly Hager. 
Electric Lemonade, Sex on the Beach -the 
chick drinks and I got along well. I pranced 
around in my borrowed gogo boots, glitter top 
and princess crown. I danced with my friends 
and beat them all in pool. I even managed to gain 
the affections of a group of toyvnies from a dis­
tance, and at the same time was very thankful 
for my male friend's sheer brut appearances. 
Last call came, and I enjoyed a Corona. I remem­
ber the lemon. I remember kissing each of my 
friends goodbye and thanking them for coming. 
I enjoyed coherent conversation with my friend who walked me to the dorm door in true gentle­man form. I called my dad. I remember hearing the relief in his voice as he told me he loved me. 
I grabbed the remote to turn the TV on as I hopped into my bed. I closed my eyes, to remem­ber the activity of the evening. I sat up to go to the bathroom, and it happened: The ground started to spin. I closed my eyes and prayed it away. I reopened my eyes, it was still there. So, I did what any logical first time semi-intoxicated person did -I got nervous. What was this feel­ing, and more importantly, was I going to puke? Not to mention. I still had to brave the journey to the bathroom. But that didn't matter anymore. Someone once told me that counting, sobers one up quickly, and I began to sing the alphabet. After the first couple letters, I was out cold. 
From 5 a.m. to 10 a.m., I slept soundly-minus the four times I got up to use the restroom. Sunday morning came, I had survived the first 10 hours of being 21. 
Evening came and following tradition, my friends and I went to Fridays. While I was busy peeking at the drink menu with intent to buy, the waiter came and took our orders. My friends chanted my order in unison, "blackened cajun chicken sandwich with a side of avocado." We had been there together so much my habits had been recognized. After the balloons and dinner, I got the sundae slammed in my face. My friends took embarrassing pictures. Somethings will never change. 
Some people would say that I didn't have a good 21st birthday because I didn't stagger back to my room drunk as a skunk. I disagree. From getting scoped out by a townie to squirting Corona all over myself, I had a great birthday and I can honestly say I remember every bit of it. More importantly, I learned my limit. 
This week, recuperation. 
Next week, Heartland. 
Next year, blackened cajun chicken with a side 
order of avocado. The tradition continues. 
Kelly Hager can be reached at khager@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam :llld vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righu are reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday 
. 
Auditions: Junior Parent Weekend Mass reader auditions, 4 p.m.• Basilica 

. 
Lecture: Barbri Bar Review Video Lectures. 6 p.m. to 10 p.m, McKenna Hall 


Tuesday 
. Event: Senior/Freshman Night, 
6:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m., Alumni Senior Bar 
. Exhibit: "Masks and Fidgures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family collects African Art," Snite Museum of Art, all day. 
Wednesday 
. 
Lecture: "Philosophy of Relation in John Paul II's New Feminism." Sister Prudence Allen, R.S.M., 7 p.m., 140 DeBartolo Hall 

. 
Presentation: ..Sex Signals," 7 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's 


Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Massachusetts RAs vote on joining union 
BOSTON 
Resident assistants at University of Massachusetts at Amherst. dissatisfied with their low wages, will have the opportunity to join a union for bar­gaining purposes, the Massachusetts Labor Relations Commission ruled last week. 
The school's resident assistants will have a chance to vote on joining the United Auto Workers l-0cal 2322, which local union President James Shaw said could be used as a "bar­gaining unit" to help RAs get a con­tract. "We're really excited," Shaw said. "This is a new vanguard for the employees. RAs begged for changes, and the bosses refused. Now manage­ment will be forced to make changes." 
The topic was broached last spring when UMass-Amherst RAs floated petitions around campus. 
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Error releases kidney donor names 
Two recent breaches of confidential information at University of Minnesota Medical School have reinforced concern among school officials regarding the security of clinical records. The most recent breach occurred in late December, when 410 kidney recipients were sent letters containing the names of their deceased donors. The let­ters were part of a survey researching the long-term care of kidney recipients, said Dr. Richard Bianco, assis­tant vice president for regulatory affairs. Due to a soft­ware upgrade, a database inadvertently included the donors' names in the letters. Bianco said although the breach was caused by a computer glitch, human error played a part because the donors' names weren't spot­ted before the letters were mailed. Bianco said the researchers have sent out letters asking the recipients not to contact the donors' relatives. So far, one man related to a kidney donor has told Medical School offi­cials someone was trying to contact him. The school also has received calls from kidney recipients who said they want to thank donors' family members. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ 



If the RAs do vote to join the union, the UAW would help the RAs get a contract and then vote on accepting the terms of the contract, Shaw said. The RAs would then have to pay union dues once the contract was put into place. 
Some RAs at the school have disput­ed the need for unionization. In an editorial column printed in The Massachusetts Daily Collegian last April, UMass-Ainherst M Rob Schulze said greed is the driving factor behind the push for joining the UAW. According to Schulze, UMass-Amherst RAs receive a double occupancy room to themselves, plus a payment of $50 per week. 
The UMass-Amherst administration shares Schulze's views on the UAW proposal. 
"Most administrations across the country would be opposed to under­graduates joining a union," said UMass-Amherst spokeswoman Kay Scanlan. "They are students first and foremost. Obviously they work here, but we always consider them students first." 
"Most RAs work one semester or one year, then they're gone," she said. "They are not a stable class of employees." 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 

Online learning eases student costs 
In light of budget cuts and increasing student enroll­ment at University of California, UC-Davis' administration has considered online education as a potential solution. UCD has been quick to adopt online technology that is increasing in popularity at universities across the coun­try. Each on line course varies in its use of technology, but those offered at UCD generally offer course material in the form of Internet files or compact disks, all of which may be accessed at the students' leisure. Heading the alternative form of learning is the Mellon Project, a study funded by a $500,000 grant from the Andrew Mellon foundation. The project has been assessing the quality of online courses in its year-and-a-half existence, according to co-director Barbara Sommer. Specifically, the project will be evaluating the effects of distance learning on cost and students' learning ability upon its completion next month. The project has implemented various online gen­eral education courses since its start, such as Introductory Statistics, Introduction to Winemaking, Art History and many others, Sommer said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

C 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COI.D WARM STATIONARY 

{.:) ¼"~:{~) i,~; 
High L-Showers Rain T--slllml$ Flurries Snow Ice SUMY Pl CloUCly Cloudy 
v .. A.slloci&fad Prea 
Atlanta 51 42 Las Vegas 
Baltimore 58 36 Memphis 
Boston 46 32 Milwaukee

~-~,QqQ.~ (f ~ ~ 
. . .,. .,. 
Show8rs T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sulny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 37 21 New Vorll v .. Auocillled p,_ ~ Houston 78 51 Philadelphia 
56  45  Portland  47  
61  49  Sacramento  65  
31  19  St Louis  53  
67  43  Tampa  79  
62  41  Washington, DC 62  

21 37 39 49 51 
page 3
Monday, January 28, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Recovering rector takes time off 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Father David Scheidler has taken a leave of absence as rector of St. Ed ward's Hall while he recovers from medical 
problems that hospi­talized him last week. His semes­ter -long departure leaves open the possibil­

ity that he Scheidler will return in the fall. In his absence, former assis­tant rector Peyton Berg became acting rector of the men's residence hall. Scheidler is recuperating in an on-campus ward from symptoms of a bleeding ulcer, Berg said. The condition put him in the hospital Jan. 20, and he was moved Thursday to Holy Cross House, a University care facility and home for 
7:30 
perates and does what he Scheidler enjoys the attention needs to do to get well, we're but needs privacy to speed his 
going to keep  recovery,  
everything in  Sciola said.  
good  condi­ "There was a lot oflost  He request­ 
tion," Garafola said. "We'll be  blood and it was going to take a long recovery . .,  ed that peo­ple limit their visits to  
more  than  see him.  
fine." Another RA, Nick Sciola,  Peyton Berg acting director  Scheidler has access to a computer  
has increased  and appreci­ 
his du ties to  ates receiv­ 
include main­ ing  well  

tenance problems in the hall. wishes :via e-mail, Berg said. He said staff and non-staff Send mail to members alike have offered to scheidler.6@nd.edu. help however they can. "He can't wait to return," 
"The dorm has been amaz­Schiola said. "This is his home. ingly responsive," Sciola said. We can't wait for him to "Guys in my section have asked return, hopefully soon." me what they can do." Garafola said, "If anyone can 
Residents have visited recuperate and get through Scheidler several times since this, it's him." his arrival at Holy Cross House. His birthday was Saturday. 
Garafola said Scheidler seemed happy, chatting with visitors and telling jokes ... "like going to see a good Contact Jason McFarley at friend." mcfarley .1@nd.edu 
elderly priests. 
"There was a lot of lost blood, and it was going to take a long recovery," Berg said. "[Officials] felt like it was in the best interest of David and the dorm that he take time off." 
At a hall-wide meeting Thursday, Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, announced Scheidler's departure and health status, according to Berg. Poorman told residents that Scheidler would make a full recovery and possibly resume his "He can't wait to return. duties next 
This is his home. We 
semester. 
can't wait for him to
While he recuperates, return, hopefully soon. " Scheidler, the hall's rector 
Nick Sciola 
for the past 
residents' assistant
eight years, also vacates his positions 
as assistant rector of Basilica Scheidler, a man he considers of the Sacred Heart and chap-a good friend and spiritual 1ain for the Alliance for guide. Catholic Education program. "In order to see that he recu­
"He will be sorely missed in all three aspects," Berg said. 
The situation leaves hall staff short-handed, Berg said, but St. Ed's residents have filled in the gaps that Scheidler's absence created. 
"The hall is very fortunate to have an excellent staff," he said. "They've aJI stepped up and responded to adversity." 
The hall's five resident assis­tants. for example. have taken on responsibilities ordinarily reserved for the rector or 
assistant rector. 
M i k e Garafola is heading the selection committee for 2002-03 RA positions. He said it's a small sacri­fice to make f o r 
GSU 
•
SRC reviews graduate student cellter proposal 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Officers of the Graduate Student Union fGSU] presented their views on a graduate stu­dent center and overall quality of life to the Student Relations Committee of the Alumni Association on Friday. 
The meeting was the first formal GSU presentation to the committee. The GSU, how­ever, hopes to make such an event a yearly tradition. 
"This is in a way an intro­ductory meeting to hopefully establish a yearly meeting to keep communication going," 
said Gabriela Burgos, GSU president. 
Burgos, vice president Kishori Deshpande, human diversity chair David Rodriquez, quality of life chair Tommy Scheiding and health­care chair Adrienne Minerack dedicated the bulk of the meeting to presenting their 
Social Concerns Spring 2002 Seminars March 10-16, 2002 
l11fttr11111titt11 ISeMMitt11M TONIGHT! Mondav, Januarv 28th at the csc in Room 124 
5:30 l Hispanic Ministry -Coachella. California 
t) This seminar will explore many dimensions ofHoly Cross collaborative leadership and ministries, ~~.:--t especially in Nuestra Senora de Soledad Parish (Coachella, CA). During the week-long period, &2:.J participants will encounter a variety ofHoly Cross religious and lay persons who are committed to 
-the mission ofevangelization and reaching out to the needs ofthe poor. 
6:00 L'Arche Seminar -Toronto, Canada ~This seminar centers around travel to a L' Arche community in Toronto, Canada to share community 
~ life with people with developmental challenges. Students draw from the philosophy ofJean Vanier ~ and various spiritual writings to augment this participatory learning experience. 
6:30 
~ Migrant Experiences Seminar -Immokalee, Florida This seminar offers a unique immersion into the lives ofmigrant farmworkers in Florida during the spring harvest. Students pick tomatoes in the fields (donating their wages). live with migrant ;; 
families, assist agencies that serve migrants, meet with community leaders, and never again take 
food for granted. 
7:00 Appalachia Seminar 
., The Appalachia seminar, 20 plus years after its creation, continues to send approximately 300 students each year to five states in the Appalachia (eg4)n. Students explore religious, social, political, and environmental issues and serve in a variety ofcontexts. More than 15 service­learning sites are available.
' 
Washin~on Seminar 
Christians are supposedly citizens ofboth the heavenly and earthly cities. But how is this "dual­citizenship" lived out? By visiting a Benedictine monastery, a Catholic Worker farm, and several Catholic public policy organizations, this seminar will explore how we, as Christians, are called to live and work in the world. This year's immersion entitled "Workers, Monks, and Citizens: From Christian Anarchists to Christian Bureaucrats" will use the resources ofour nation's capital to 
explore this issue. 
concept of a graduate student center. The group also offered possibilities for a short-term solution. 
"There is an urgent need for a space for graduate students that would facilitate communi­cation," said Deshpande. 
According to Rodriquez, the center should be centrally located on campus, establish an identity for the graduate school and be equipped for multiple functions -including food service and office and conferencing space. 
"The goal is to have the 
building used  as  many hours  
of  the  day  as  possible,"  
Rodriquez  
said.  

"This is in a way an
An ideal make policy, center should introductory meeting to we don't also contain influence
hopefully establish a 
additional that kind of
yearly meeting to keep
space for stuff." child care, a communication going ... The com­computer mittee, how­cluster and an e v e r ,
Gabriela Burgos
information promised to 
GSU president
center offer­act as a 
membership of the University Club. The group wants to lobby to increase graduate student membership from teaching assistants to all grad­uate students and MBA and law school students. They also suggested lowering the $25 membership fee per semester to $10 for these groups. 
The committee appeared supportive of the GSU's ideas but cautioned the organization that they did not have the authority to make such deci­sions. 
"These suggestions all seem sound and well thought out," one of the committee members said. "But we don't 
ing graduate student ser­v i C e S , Scheiding said. 
The group supported their idea with a list of top graduate schools -more than 70 per­cent of which had student cen­ters -and a survey commis­sioned by the GSU and written by the Laboratory for Social Resources. 
The survey of 200 students found that 61 percent favored a gathering center for the graduate student community. Another survey indicated that 74 percent of respondents wanted staffed food service and social space in the pro­posed center and that 90 per­cent would use the center 2-3 times per week. 
As a short-term solution to solve the concern concerning social space, the GSU pro­posed increasing the scope of 
springboard 
for more 
discussion 
and offered to assist the GSU. 
"There is going to be lots of concrete poured over this campus in the next five years," another committee member said. "There's got to be an alcove for graduate students." 
The GSU first began consid­ering a graduate student cen­ter when Rodriquez, an archi­tectural student, had to design a mock center for a project. Since then, Rodriquez and Scheiding have led the effort within the GSU. The organiza­tion has made similar presen­tations to other University organizations to determine support of the center. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu

Jlppfications are avaifa6[e at tlie Centerfor Socia[ s 
O CI AL Concerns anaare aue January 30tli 6y 10:00<P.:Jvl. 
CONCERNS 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 28, 2002 
Kate 
continued from page 1 
were administered. She was known to do schoolwork -even take final exams -in the hospi­tal, determined not to miss a deadline. 
"No matter what kind of health 
. problems she was having, she didn't look to us to make excep­tions for her," Pittman said. "She really needed them and deserved them, but she really held her self to very hard standards." 
"She had a great zest for life," said Becky Stoddart, Kate's senior comprehensive adviser. "She never had an excuse, and never offered any." 
But as she approached her graduation date, her health began to deteriorate. Doctors recommended she carry oxygen tanks 24 hours a day to assist her in breathing. 
Determined to be the normal student she wanted to be, she kept the tanks in her car instead, using them before and after class. 
With an eye on her upcoming graduation, she completed her senior comprehensive project about breast cancer awareness. A worker in a mammography center in Mishawaka, she felt strongly that younger women needed to be more aware of risks Kate McCloughan-Krzyzak with mother Marianne at graduation.
and prevention. The project was accepted for 
and family to tie a blue ribbon . Visitation services for Kate
presentation at the annual 
around a tree in their yards until McCloughan-Krzyzak will be
Midwestern Psychological 
Kate received a transplant and today at Bubb's Funeral Chapel,Association Meeting in Chicago, came home from the hospital. 3910 N. Main Street inthe week before her graduation. 
Finally, on Oct. 30, the call Mishawaka from 2 to 4 p.m. andShe wasn't able to present it. 
came: there was a new set of from 6 to 8 p.m. Her funeral ser­With her health deteriorating, lungs available for Kate. vice will be Tuesday at Christ the 
she was hospitalized during 
At 3 a.m. the next day, doctors King Lutheran Church, 17195senior week. After that visit to began the seven-and-a-half hour Cleveland Road, South Bend.
the hospital, she went back on operation. She came through the Donations can be made in her , the waiting list for a transplant. 
surgery beautifully. and it looked name to the Cystic FibrosisShe was marked as a priority. 
like there wouldn't be complica­Foundation or the National
But she fought her doctors 
tions. Transplant Assistance Fund. 
hard enough to be released from 
There was just one nagging
the hospital for her graduation. 
problem: she wasn't ready to
Draped in a black gown and 
come off the machine that was
honor cords, she walked across Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
helping her breathe.
the stage and received her diplo­gill0843@saintmarys.edu
"They couldn't seem to get her 

Play of the mind tackles concerns 
each group posed a question
By MARY CAMP£ 
for the audience to consider. 
News Writer · 
This was in hope of bringing 
up more discussions and 
More than 10 schools from thoughts later in the confer­around the country attended ence. Saint Mary's 11th-annual On Saturday, the confer­"Play of the Mind" confer­
ence continued with more 
ence, entitled "Cultural small group discussions 
Crossroads: Faces and designed to help participants Facets of Faith." 
realize the differences and 
Following Martha similarities in each partic­Nussbaum 's lecture ipating school's campus."Patriotism and These groups also tried to Compassion" to open the come up with plans as to 
event on Thursday, the con­how they could change the ference continued on Friday existing issues and concerns 
with small-group brain­
on these campuses.storming sessions. "It was interesting to see 
Participants discussed dif­that other schools have the 
ferent issues and concerns same things going on at they face on their own cam­their schools," Silliman stat­puses. This time was ed, claiming that this was a 
described as an opportunity good view at other schools 
to reflect on different faiths other than Saint Mary's. within the participants' cam­The weekend ended on puses and communities. Saturday evening with 
a 
"This was a time for every­banquet dinner that some one to voice what problems 
attendants called a celebra­
or concerns they had on tion. their own campus,·• said 
"There was music prayer,
sophomore Jessica Silliman. and more discussion and The rest of the evening reflection," Silliman said. "I 
was spent discussing. the really enjoyed the whole issues broke up in these weekend. It was a greatsmall groups together and in experience that helpeddifferent small groups. The everyone learn how to be participants put on skits at more accepting of others the end about the topics dis­and different lifestyles." cussed to close the evening. 
"The skits were a great way to inform everyone of what was discussed outside of their own groups," Silliman said. "They were Contact Mary Campe at fun and eye-opening." camp9575@saintmarys.edu 
After these presentations, 

ma -with a summa cum laude off it, and they didn't know why," notation. 
Jim said. "We just thought,
"Even though she felt awful, knowing Kate, she'd fly right outthe light in her eyes was just 
'-,_,''''-'' '-'' ,_,'-'­
of that." 
amazing," her husband, Jim 
Krzyzak, said. was She didn't. Doctors performed
"She so tests a few days later, and dis­happy." 
' '­
covered a blood clot had devel­
It was close to five months '-Saint Mary's 2002-2003 '­
oped in her right lung. While her before Kate received word there 
medical statistics improved
was a new pair of lungs available ' Student Body Elections '­
briefly, doctors later found thatfor transplant. In the meantime, the right upper lobe of the lung '-Are Coming! '­that meant waiting. 
had died as a result. They had toJim and Kate used an e-mail 
perform another surgery to
list during the wait to keep in 
remove it. '-Monday, January 28th , 2 0 02 '­
contact with friends and family. 
For the next several weeks,
sending updates about her condi­,_ A11 Day '­
Kate battled infection after infec­tion. They also kept in close con­tion, until doctors couldn't findtact with Cystic-L, an internet medicine to treat her. 
group for friends and family of ' On-Campus Students vote in the '-._
"There are no antibiotics
cystic fibrosis patients. 
known to man that could fight '-_ dining ha11 during a11 meals. '­And of course, they relied on 
it," Jim said. "Her body just
each other. ' Off-Campus Students vote in the '­
couldn't handle it." 
"She wouldn't have gotten 
through her life without him," Wednesday, doctors told Kate's ' off-campus lounge from 9am-4pm. '­
family a decision had to be made said Lauren o•i~eil, a bridesmaid about whether to continue her
in Jim and Kate's wedding. "They were completely honest life on life support. Her living will ' Come and place your vote for your '­
indicated she wouldn't want towith each other -it was meant continue life by extraordinary ' Student Body President & Vice '­to be." 
means. ~ President for the 2002-2003 school ~
The two loved outdoor activi­At her bedside Friday during 
ties -biking, skiing, in-line skat­,, year! '­
her final hours of life, Jim wroteing or walking the dog. Whether two poems to her, the final two init was watching Bears games on 
a collection he had written
Sunday afternoons or going to a '-'­
throughout their relationship.
movie, they loved spending time "How am I supposed to continuetogether. 
without you by my side?" he"She did so much more than ' 
' 
she could really do," Jim said. wrote. "Hold on to the strength ~ Sponsored by SMC Board of Governance ~ 
you have given me, but I'm"Even this last year, when she 
afraid that a part of me has
was feeling bad, she'd take her died."
oxygen off and go ride around At 12:15 p.m. Friday, Katethe subdivisions on her bike \-\ith finally ended her battle with theme. The times she couldn't do '-' 
disease when her family madethings I know she felt so guilty ­the decision to remove her fromthere were times when she just 
'
life support. ' had to say no." 
"She never wanted to be a veg­
Friends and family poured in with their support while they etable," O'Neil said. "She would ' ' 
have never wanted people to sitwaited as well. Jim's mother, Bonnie, began a "blue ribbon around crying. Kate wanted to ' ' 
live."campaign" which asked friends 
''-''',.,''''-''-''' 

ATI 

Monday, January 28, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
... 
Iran warns anti-Iraq 'outsider': 
Iranian President Mohammad Khatami warned "foreigners" against interfering with Iraq's territorial integrity, state-run Tehran television reported on Sunday. Khatami did not elaborate, but the comment was an apparent reference to the threat of U.S.-led forces attacking Iraq as part of the war against terrorism. 
Uzbeks vote on Presidential plan: 
Uzbeks voted Sunday on whether to lengthen the presidential term, a move that a promi­nent human rights group criticized as an attempt by President Islam Karimov to expand his power. Election officials said about 92 percent of the country's 13.2 million voters cast ballots in the referendum, which was widely expected to pass. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
NYC experiencing water crunch: 
New Yorkers must conserve water or face possible shortages brought on by this winter's unusually warm and dry weather, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said Sunday. New York City has been on a drought watch since Dec. 23, meaning there is less than a 50 percent chance that the city's reservoirs will be full by June 1. 
U.S. sailor lost in Pacific: Navy air­craft and ships are searching for a U.S. sailor who fell overboard from an aircraft carrier off the coast of Southern California.The sailor was discovered missing Saturday morning on the USS Abraham Lincoln. A search of the ship failed to locate him. It was not known how the sailor fell overboard, said Cmdr. Jack Papp, a spokesman for the U.S. Pacific Fleet. The Lincoln, based in Everett, Wash., had been taking part in routine battle group exer­cises about 90 miles west of San Diego. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Beetles to protect vegetation: A 
northwest Indiana environmental group is looking for volunteers to raise beetles that will someday feast on an exotic plant threat­ening the region's landscape.The Valparaiso Chain of Lakes Watershed Group will hold an informational meeting Monday night on breeding species of Galerucella beetles. The European bugs dine on purple loosestrife, which can overrun native vegetation. The European plant has aggressively ousted native plants in wetlands and along the shores and banks of lakes and streams. 
Market Watch January 25 
Dow 
9,840.08 +44.01 
Jones 

Composite
Same: 

Volume:
214 
1,324.541,056 
ArvIBX: 835.82 +1.47 NASDAQ: 1937.70 -4.88 NYSE: 580.10 +1.18 S&P 500: 1133.28 +l.13 
$GAIN PRICE 
SDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.28 -0.11 38.83 RT CORP (KM) -8.60 -0 .08 0. 85 ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.42 +0.08 19.13 ANMINA-SCI CORP(SANM) -10.18 -1. 75 15 .44 ORD MOTOR CORP (F) +1.11 +0.16 14.61 
Daschle accuses Bush of 'Enronizing' 
comparing Enron's possibly criminal "When Senator Daschle uses a 
Associated Press 
activity to the administration's stew­term like that, I don't think that's a 
WASHINGTON ardship of the economy and budget. good way to start off the year." Lott 
It's a war of non-words. He didn't back down. said on CBS. 
Senate Majority Leader Tom "I don't want to see happen to all "We need to be coming together Daschle accuses the Bush adminis­of the country, to our retirees, what and not using adjectives or verbs to 
tration of "Enronizing'' the economy happened to employees of the Enron describe -each other's motives," Lott by raiding retirement and health Corporation,'' he said on CBS's "Face said. funds to enrich the affluent. the Nation." President Bush stayed well clear of 
Senate Minority Leader Trent Lott The Enron collapse wiped out the the scrap Sunday. He went to church fired back with his own new verb: retirement savings of thousands of with his wife and parents, then ven­"Daschle-ize." company employees, as well as tured out on an unseasonably warm 
Daschle, the South Dakota investors nationwide. winter day at Fort McNair with the Democrat who uttered "Enronize" Lott, the Mississippi Republican., first lady and his father. Later last week, faced questions Sunday called Daschle's new word ''very Sunday, they were going out to din­about whether he had gone too far in inappropriate." ner. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
When Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's interim leader, meets President Bush on Monday, he is expected to seek a contin­uing U.S. commitment to help restore the peace in his violence-torn country, Afghan officials say. 
Karzai arrived here Sunday afternoon, the first Afghan leader to visit Washington in 39 years. 
Before leaving for the United States, Karzai told Afghan television that he would use the trip to push for the expansion of a multinational peacekeep­ing force into the rest of Afghanistan. 
Afghan officials believe troops are needed in the countryside to deal with regional warlords. They also have indicated they want American troops to participate. 
"This is the determina­tion of the Afghan people," Karzai said. 
The Bush administration has resisted U.S. involve­ment in the 2,500-person British-led international security assistance force operating in Kabul. Thousands more troops are expected. 
Karzai, 44, attended a prayer service at a mosque in suburban Virginia in the afternoon and planned an evening address at Georgetown University. 
Several hundred Afghan­Americans at the mosque were brought up to date on the situation in Afghanistan by Karzai, who spoke in one of the main languages of Afghanistan. 
The Bush administration is undecided on how long 
U.S. troops, currently numbering about 4,000, should remain in Afghanistan. 
Afghan Foreign Minister Abdullah said Friday he believes U.S. and interna­tional forces should remain in Afghanistan beyond the six-month life of the interim government. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said last week that American troops will remain in Afghanistan at least until the summer. The interim government steps down in June and will he replaced by a government selected by a national council. 
The American military focus in Afghanistan has been on hunting down remnants of the Taliban regime that was deposed in November and the al­Qaida terrorist group, headed by Osama bin Laden. 
. . ,.. page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 28, 2002 
INDIA 
Dalai Lama admitted to hospital 
supported by his aides. ed Monday. sustain the rituals, which fly to Bombay. Associated Press "The Dalai Lama is cheerful Ill health forced the Dalai require him to sit still for at A member of the medical 
and talking to his associates," Lama to sit out most of his least five hours. team, A.M. Rai, said the Dalai 
BOMBAY Prakash Mhatre, a director at engagements at special He underwent a medical Lama had a lump in his stom­
After illness forced the Lilawati prayers called Kalchakra, or checkup at the same hospital ach, but gave no further Dalai Lama to miss several Hospital, Wheel of Time, when the cer­in early December and all details. special prayer sessions dur­said later. emonies began last Monday, tests came back normal, The Dalai Lama fled Tibet ing the week, the Tibetan Mhatre because he had been advised Mhatre said. in 1959 with thousands of Buddhist leader was admitted said doc­to rest for three days. The rit­The spiritual leader had supporters after a failed Sunday to a hospital for treat­tors were uals were postponed until been complaining of abdomi­uprising against China. Since ment of a lump in his stom­taking X­next winter. ' nal pain and exhaustion and then, he has headed a gov­ach. rays and On Thursday, he also post­was examined by a team of ernment-in-exile in the north­
Looking weak but flashing a conducting poned his teachings before doctors in a Buddhist ern Indian town of broad smile, the 66-year-old ultrasound tens of thousands of followers monastery in Bodhgaya, a Dharmsala. He was awarded got out of his car and walked and blood at Tibetan Buddhism's most complex of temples in the the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 a short distance into tests. He sacred worship ceremony. He eastern Indian state of Bihar. for his nonviolent struggleBombay's Lilawati Hospital, said test results were expect-said he would not be able to It then was decided he would against Chinese rule. 
AFGHANISTAN 
Special forces/CIA wage secret Afgan war 
Associated Press  here refer to the special forces  However, the incident shows  said, for the in-and-out Special  the hundreds in Afghanistan.  
as  "the  alphabet guys"  - the  close  contact  between  Forces.  No U.S. official will give a firm  
KANDAHAR  bearded  warriors  hidden  Special Forces and Afghan  "I think it's safe to say this  number, citing security. These  
They are the secret warriors  behind sunglasses. Official mili­ allies and the lengths to which  war has been anything but con­ commandos -whose troops  
in America's hidden war: CIA  tary statements rarely mention  both go to keep operations  ventional." Army spokesman  are hand-picked, better trained  
and Special Operations forces  them.  secret.  ·  Capt. Tony Rivers said at the  and equipped than ordinary  
who ride into battle on pickup  The  "alphabet guys"  tag  Covert U.S. forces, including  Kandahar base Saturday.  infantrymen -were created  
trucks, dune buggies and heli­ apparently originated because  the Army Green  Berets  or  Speaking of the covert forces,  for just the kind of fast, small•  
copters.  many of the troops were linked  Special Forces, are known as  Rivers said, "In my opinion,  scale operations under way in  
As the U .S .-led campaign  to the CIA.  Special Operations forces and  they're the most significant rea­ Afghanistan.  
evolves from  a  seen-on-TV  In Kandahar, Afghan provin­ drawn from all three armed  son for the success we've had  CIA paramilitaries, working  
bombing cam­ cial official  services. They are spearhead­ in this war."  under the agency's Special  
paign to a cave-by-cave hunt for al­ "In my opinion, the { covert forces] are the  Khalid Pashtun half­a pologized  ing operations against what Afghan leaders say are hun­dreds of fugitive Taliban and al­ That success, however, has not been complete. Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the  Activities Division, operate alongside U.S. military, Afghan allied forces, or alone.  
Qaida and Taliban hold­outs. covert U.S. agents  most significant reason for the success we've had in this war. "  this week for his gunmen's threats to shoot news  Qaida. Army Special Forces led one of the largest such operations on Wednesday. flying by heli­ Sept. 11 attacks, remains at large, as does Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar. U.S. Gen. Tommy Franks,  Franks and others have emphasized intelligence over blunt force in the campaign. Some CIA contacts no doubt  
and  troops  photogra­ copter  to  raid  what  the  commander of the U.S.-led  date back to association with  
are increas­ Tony Rivers  phers  - at  Pentagon says appeared to be  Afghan  campaign,  said  Afghan guerrilla fighters during  
ingly fighting the key bat­ Anny spokesman  the behest, the gunmen  Taliban military compounds in the north. The Pentagon report­ Saturday that sending more conventional troops would not  the war against Soviet invaders. The United States and its allies  
tles.  said, of cam­ ed about 15 enemy fighters  have increased the military's  secretly armed and trained  
But  the  Pentagon  keeps  era-hostile  Special  Forces  killed and 27 captured. One  chances of catching bin Laden.  Afghan resistance fighters.  
details of this war secret. Only  whom the reporters were trail­ American soldier was wounded.  "The tactics in this operation  But by their nature, little  
rarely  - as with  a  Special  ing. "We need them more than  Villagers, however, claimed  were just the right tactics,"  information on their work is  
Forces raid on Taliban forces  we need you," Pashtun told  U.S. forces bombed their town  Franks said. He invoked the  reaching the public. For exam­ 
this week -is a some light  journalists. "What can we do?  hall and clinic, and killed and  bogged-down 1980s Soviet  ple, the briefings at the U.S.  
shed on their operations. Even  Which would you choose?"  arrested innocent people and  campaign in Afghanistan. "One  base at Kandahar airport have  
conventional U.S. forces also on  No U.S. soldier relayed the  men loyal to Afghanistan's U.S.­ does not want to commit mis­ to do mostly with efforts to  
the ground in Afghanistan are  threat directly to any of the  backed interim leader, Hamid  takes that have been committed  secure and run the base ­ the  
kept in the dark.  reporters and it was impossible  Karzai.  by other people in the past."  trials of getting  a  working  
Troops from conventional  to tell whether Pashtun embell­ But the Army called the raid  Special Operations forces are  water system in place are a  
units stationed at the airport  ished  the  instructions.  a success -one of many, it  believed to number at least in  running serial.  




Attention First-Vear MBA's 
Would you like to earn a FULL TUITION fellowship for your second year? 
OttCam)'lfs · 
The WilliamG. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition 
J~ior l'armtWeekfflb Sped1.l
for the second year for two MBA students! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
ftbruat11t4~7tl00l 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first yera of the MBA program. 
Come early; staylate, same price!
-Must currently hve 3.0 GPA -Must submit 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available 
to today's business world in general or to the telecommu­nications field in particular. 
for your parents. 
-Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty 
Weekend donation is $60.00 per parent.
member. -Must exhibit attributed such as scholarship, talent, lead­
Whether you stay
ership qualities, character and community involvement. 
Two, three, or four n~hts. 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are 
Rooms are avai1ab1e Thursday through SLrlday.
already receiving a full tuition fellowship. 
Deadline: Applications are due in the MBA Office by 
For reservations calt 574-631•7512 or 
Friday, February 15, 2002. 
574-631-9436
Winners will be announced in the spring. Contact: Julie.E.Rogers.21@nd.edu 
Dalal Lama 
Monday, January 28, 200I page 7
The Observer . NEWS 
HAITI 
Poor ransack warehouse 
• Grass-roots group asks Aristide to end subsidized rice program 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
Police fired bullets and tear gas Sunday at hundreds of poor Haitians who ransacked warehouses and demanded rice under a program that critics say is illegally subsi­dized and benefits some rul­ing party officials financially and politically. 
Protesters had poured out of the Cite Soleil seaside slum and surrounded hundreds of trucks and official state vehi­cles loaded up with cheap rice. Rice is a staple in Haiti, a Caribbean nation with one of the hemisphere's worst hunger problems. 
Riot police fired shots into the air and tear gas 
canisters "It's an unfair trading into crowds 
practice. and illegal.,,
demanding a share of 
Maurice Lafortune 
the so­called "Rice Chamber of Commerce president 
for Peace." But they w e r e unable to control the crowd, which ransacked port-side warehouses. 
A nonprofit arm of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's Lavalas Party has been importing the rice from Asia and the United States free of taxes and customs duties. Party officials say the pro­gram is a legitimate way to bring down living costs, but some lawmakers from within the party are accusing one other of profiting from it inap­practices are archaic and propriately. farmers suffer transport prob­
One lawmaker accused oth­lems. ers of taking A single a cut of prof-cent can its from make a big
"We voted for Aristide­
sales of the difference
not these fat cats or the
subsidized to the 8.2 rice. A high­riot police. " million r an king people of Senate offi­t h i s
Oscar Francisco 
cial con­Caribbean
Aristide member
firmed that most Lavalas Party sena­tors were allowed to take some of the rice to distribute to poor peo­ple in their electoral districts. 
"We voted for Aristide ­not these fat cats or the riot police," Oscar Francisco, a 19-year-old member of a pro­Aristide grass-roots group, shouted amid Sunday's melee. 
Lavalas Party spokesman Jones Petit said the party's nonprofit Pou Nou Tout (For Us All) cooperative imported 70,000 tons of rice between 
May and November -the lat­est figures he had 
available ­and diStrib­
uted it on the open market, driving the 
wholesale price down from $26 to about $20 for a 110­pound bag. Haiti imports a total of 300,000 tons of rice a year. 
Most Haitians buy the subsi­dized rice for about $1.40 for six pounds, compared to $1.60 for rice imported with taxes. 
Haitian-grown rice is even more expensive because soil here is eroded, agricultural 
island 
nation, 
where the 
average 
daily income is $1. 
Petit justified the rice pro­gram as a legitimate "struggle against the high cost of liv­ing." 
But businessmen and econ­
omists disagreed. 
"It's an unfair trading prac­tice, and illegal," said Chamber of Commerce President Maurice Lafortune, adding that the cheap rice threatens to force importers and rice farmers out of busi­ness. 
According to Petit's figures, the subsidies from May to November lost the Haitian treasury $4.7 million in sales taxes and custom duties. That is enough to pay 17,000 public school teachers for three months. 
Since flawed local and leg­islative elections in 2000, the international community has frozen hundreds of millions of dollars in aid for Haiti. Meanwhile, Haiti's budget deficit has soared to an . unprecedented $80 million. 
Independent economist Kesner Pharel said continued rice subsidies "will lead to the rise in the market price of other products," and could fuel migration from the coun­tryside to city slums. 
JERUSALEM 
Palestinian woman kills I in bomb attack 
Associated Press 
A Palestinian woman on 
Sunday became the first female 
to launch a bomb attack against 
Israel, killing herself and an 81­
ye ar-old Israeli man and 
wounding at least a dozen peo­
ple on a busy Jerusalem street. 
Israeli police said they were not sure if the woman intended to kill herself or if the bomb exploded prematurely as she walked along Jaffa Street, the main commercial strip in west Jerusalem. 
In Lebanon, the Al-Manar television station run by the mil­itant Hezboilah movement said the bomber was Shinaz Amuri, a female student at Al-Najah University in the \Vest Bank town of Nablus. 
Israel accused Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat of "encouraging terrorism" and said it was prepared to respond to the bombing -the third major attack in an Israeli city in a week. 
Vice President Dick Cheney said Arafat must "make a 100 percent good-faith effort to put an end to terrorism." 
The blast next to a shoe shop blew out shop windows, set a store on fire and left victims sprawled on the pavement amid shards of glass, pieces of fruit, shoes and storefront man­nequins. 
"It sounded like half the street exploded," said Hama Gidon, a clothing store worker who was slightly injured. "All the man­nequins went flying and I did too. People were falling, glass was flying everywhere." 
More than 100 people were treated on the spot or taken to hospitals, though most suffered only from shock. Three people were seriously hurt and nine had moderate injuries, officials said. 
Mark Sokolov, a U.S. citizen 
from Woodmere, N.Y., who sur­
vived the terrorist attack on the 
World Trade Center, was slight­
ly hurt in Sunday's explosion 
along with his wife and two 
daughters. 
"I heard a loud whoosh, like a 
bang, and I kind of saw things 
flying around a little bit, and 
then I realized I was able to get 
up and walk around," Sokolov 
totd Israeli television. · 
Sokolov said he was on the 
38th floor of the World Trade 
Center's south tower on Sept. 
11 when a hijacked airliner hit 
the north tower. His office was 
evacuated and he escaped 
before the south tower was hit. 
No group immediately claimed responsibility for Sunday's attack, but Israel said it held Arafat ultimately respon­sible. 
Arafat is "encouraging terror­ism, he's sending (attackers} to Jerusalem," said Raanan Gissin. a spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. "We will continue to systematically dis­mantle the terrorist infrastruc­ture." 
The Palestinian leadership, meanwhile, "strongly con­demned the suicide attack" and called on President Bush to send Mideast envoy Anthony Zinni back to the region. However, Bush has been sharply critical of Arafat, and Cheney suggested on "Fox News Sunday" that Zinni will not return soon. 
"At this stage, we need to see some positive signs that his return would do some good. And that means we've got to see some positive results out of Arafat," Cheney said. 
Arafat must "make a 100 per­cent good-faith effort to put an end to terrorism," he said. "So far he hasn't done that." 
Exhibit 
continued from page 1 
Paul's small statues made of bent metal, rocks and plants. The pieces are kinetic, moving with the air currents. 
Laura Lobdell's untitled works are from the series "Ultrasuade Drawing," and consist of seven pieces of ultra­suade in colors like magenta and lilac hung from the ceiling. 
Students seemed to enjoy the new exhibit since it is different than the usual artwork show­cased at Saint Mary's. 
"I've enjoyed the past shows that Krista [Hoefle, gallery director] has set lip, so I thought I would appreciate the artists she brought in for this one," said art studentTori Cox. 
Also on Friday, an exhibit in the Hammes Gallery by Dianna 
Volunteers Needed 
The Early Childhood Development Center located :at Sabt Mary's College and the Univetsity of Notre 0.1me is looking for volurfreer.s who enjoy young children. If you would be intrrested in 5pending 2 h01.1r5 per week readiDg to rn:ldren and playing with children, please call: K.lri at ECDC-SMC 284-4693 or Sue at F,CDC-ND 531-3344 for more information. (Sum-oer em?loyment opportunities also lvaJ.12.ble.) 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
284-4693 
(ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 .<ECDC..ND) 

Frid opened to the public. This segment is not a part of "Organic Forms and Synthetic Materials," but Frid said, "they are accidentally tied together." 
Her works consist of uniting pieces from the floor plans of different national museums to form new creations. One small­er piece is made of cutouts from the maps of the Museum of Modern Art and the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, both in New York City, among others.' Frid cut out the differ­ent rooms from the maps and pasted them together in the shape of a labyrinth. 
"It melds the idea of a muse­um as a place of culture with the idea of a labyrinth as a place where you get lost," Frid said. "It's a place of amuse­ment, of mythical proportions, where your memory helps you get out." 
Frid said that there is playful­ness in recomposing architec-

SHORIN-RYU KARATE 
~7..4,a::,= DISCIPLINE • SELF DEFENSE • SELF CONFIDENCE • FITNESS 
CLASSES BEGIN THURSDAY, JANUARY 31 CONTINUOUS PROGRAM ­$25.00 PER SEMESTER 
MEETS: TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 6:00-7:30 PM ROCKNE RM. 219 
DEMONSTRATION: TUESDAY, JANUARY 29 ROCKNE RM. 219 -6:15 PM REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS FOR CLASSES 
tural places that really do exist. One of the larger pieces in her exhibit appears to be a fuller scale version of the museum labyrinth. Frid frayed cloth pieces similar to the museum floor plan cutouts and attached them in a labyrinth shape using pins. 
"Even though it's flat on the wall and not taking up space, to me it's a sculpture," Frid said. 
Both exhibits are full of unique works unlike any that Saint Mary's has shown recent­ly. They will be in place through March 8. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 8 Monday, January 28, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
n,,, /N,kpen.dnu,, Daily Nt>Wspaper S"1!ing Notrt Ot11n~ and Strini Mary's 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX........ : .................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT............. ....................................631-5303 obscrver.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS..........................:.............................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu SCENE............................ .............................631-4 540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.~du PHOTO............................... .........................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ... ,.............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-co-the 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afi:er 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudencs ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to ~II readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu~tions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
STOPI 
,L+~ the, _....._,C.O RR E. C.. -,-­
POL-lc.l'.:­Th.ERE. 
·)4E-R£ 
Black and white issues 
No matter where we as Americans go, even in the brave new world that's followed Sept. 11, we're always hounded by one issue: race relations. 
Don't believe me? The perfectly ordinary action of hiring a foot­Mike Marchand ball coach near­ly exploded into a race riot 
Undistinguished
when the 
Alumnus
"Reverend" Jesse Jackson took time out of his busy schedule of knocking up sec­retaries and shaking down corpora­tions for payoffs to lecture the Notre Dame about how it simply had to hire an African-American coach. In the end, we got the best guy we could, which was the goal all along. But since he just happens to be black, it was all of a sudden massively impor­tant that Notre Dame hired him. 
Such idiocy is not limited to the Notre Dame bubble. In New York City, plans were underway to build a statue of the three firefighters who raised the American flag Iwo Jima-style over the ruins of the World Trade Center. But the statue was to be racially cleansed. The three bronze heroes were to be white, black, and Hispanic, when in reality, all three of the flag­raisers were white. 
Some people ask here, "Why should this matter?" In some sense, it doesn't. There were black and Hispanic firefighters who died saving others in the World Trade Center, and it is right to remember their sacrifice. But the three men who raised the flag were real people, with real names: Billy Eisengrein, George Johnson and Dan McWilliams. 
Changing their race is at best overzealous, out-of-control political correctness and at worst straight dis­honesty, offensive to them and the FDNY victims of the attack. When the real lwo Jima statue was built based on the video of the Marines raising the flag, nobody bothered to bleach the face of Ira Hayes, who was Native American. And this was in the time when the law of the South was Jim Crow. 
But the attempt to alter ethnicities to satisfy some statue affirmative action plan is a dangerous trend. We all saw the picture of the flag-raisers on television and on magazine covers. Who noticed that they were white? Not very many of us. Heroes, definite­ly; firefighters, of course; New Yorkers, yeah, Americans first and last, but white? 
Only someone so focused on race that it consumes their every opinion of culture singled out their race. And hence, they wanted to change it. The other 99.9 percent of us could care less if they were white, black, Hispanic, Asian, Christian, Jewish, Muslim, male. female, young, old, straight, gay, Republican, Democrat or any other subset of our one American group of the human race. They already represented us. They didn't need to have their appearance changed to appease someone's sensi­bilities. 
Look, I'm not knocking diversity. It's a wonderful thing. But who said that everything had to be diverse? Who believes that African-Americans can only have heroes who are African­American, or that Latinos can only have Latino heroes? What cockeyed thinking caused someone to look at that picture and say, "It's not a per­fect moment -those guys are white!" and then set out to rewrite what real­ly.happened? 
The problem is that there are two kinds of diversity advocates: those who support inclusiveness of minori­ties to what we already have, and those who support inclusiveness of minorities along with the changing or outright exclusion of the past. For example, offering classes of gender or African-American studies are com­mendable goals, and they fall under the first. But history books that devote more space to Malcolm X than Abraham Lincoln go too far. 
Closer to home, Notre Dame was right to consider and then eventually hire Tyrone Willingham. But the idea that Notre Dame was somehow a racist institution if they didn't, as expressed by some sports journalists and race relation "experts," crosses the line. 
And remembering the sacrifices of the minority members of the NYPD, FDNY, and PANY/NJ is of course, a valuable idea. But commissioning a memorial statue that does so at the expense of history and the real people involved, serves only as a monument to knee-jerk political correctness. 
Thankfully, the statue plan was scrapped after vocal criticism. But if we truly lived in a colorblind society, the idea would have never reached the planning stage. And just because that one example of ethnic shading was stopped doesn't mean that the belief is still out there, waiting for another chance to ruin a moment of unity and force us all to think in terms of black and white. 
Jl.1ike Marchand, class of2001, is a contributor to RealClearPolitics and The Politix Group. He loves his large army surplus jacket. does not consid­er himself more conservative than Jesse JIelms, and is in fact 21-years old. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Myra McGriff  C. Spencer Beggs  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Joe Ackerman  Andy Devoto  
Sports  Production  
Matt Lozar  Chris Federico  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kristin Yemm  Peter  
Richardson  

POLL QUESTION 
What is more important to you in choosing a major: interest in the subject matter or job prospects? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..In all the relations oflife and death, we are met by the color line." 
Frederick Douglass abolitionist 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, January 28, 2002 page 9 
GUEST COLUMN 
Detainees are being treated humanely 
CLEMSON, S.C. 
In the past week, talk has been heard from overseas and our own country about the possibility of unfair treatmeHt and inhumane conditions at Camp X­Ray, the detainment camp in Cuba where 158 Afghan detainees are being held. These accusations are ridiculous and unfounded, coming from people who a~ obviously thirsting for something to protest. These detainees, who are either al Qaeda members or Taliban officials, were responsible for ending the lives of thousands of innocent Staff Editorial American citizens. 
They don't deserve a stay at the country club. One of 
the biggest problems for protestors, in Britain and at The Tiger 
home, is the classification of these people. The United 
States does not want to label them POWs because that 
will cause problems with the Geneva Convention. If they 
were to be so labeled, our officials could not interrogate them to get valuable 
information about future attacks and other terrorist networks. Furthermore, 
thr~ detainees would have to be let go after the war was over. The detainees 
have been given four options for their fate: they can be tried in a military trial 
or in the U.S. criminal courts, sent to their home countries for prosecution, or 
they can remain in detention. Although this would be a perfect opportunity to 
test the U.N.'s world court, the options given sound pretty fair to us. 
As far as conditions in the actual camp go, they're definitely better than the conditions these men had when they were living in caves in Afghanistan. Detainees are given a medical exam upon arrival, along with soap, shampoo, jumpsuits, flip-flops, thin mats for sleeping, a sheet and a blanket, a canteen, a toothbrush and toothpaste and two towels -one for showering, another for prayer. They are fed three meals a day, with choices ranging from bagels and cream cheese to rice and beans. They are allowed daily exercise and showers. While they live in chain-link-surrounded cells with metal roofs and concrete floors, the place is meant for their detainment, and not their vacation. 
Their religious concerns have been addressed. Daily calls to prayer are made over a loudspeaker, signs are posted to show them the direction of Mecca and a Muslim cleric is being sent to the camp. Some protestors have raised questions about their beards being shaved off, but that was done simply for treatment of lice. Considering all the attention that has been given to their religious beliefs, protests about their beards are simply ridiculous. 
We, and other nations, have to remember that these men have caused a large amount of damage to our country, psychologically and physically. Some of them have already threatened to hurt us again. Considering what they have done to us. we're being more than fair to them. It's pretty safe to say that the treatment an American would get in an Afghanistan prison would pale in com­parison. It's true that inhumanity exists in the world, but it's not happening in Guantanamo Bay. 
This editorial first appeared in the Jan. 25, 2002 issue of The Tiger, the campus newspaper at Clemson University. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Show us the money 
The Club Coordination Council dis­tributes more than $200,000 of our money to different clubs around cam­pus. It seems only natural that we, as students, would be able to find out where all our money is going. 
As officers in a club whose funding was -reduced from last year with no good explanation -even through the total CCC budget went up -we want­ed to know what type of club was get­ting all the increases. Last semester, we asked the CCC for a list of all the clubs and the fund allocations they had been given. but we were just given the runaround and told to ask an individual who, it turns out. didn't even have the authority to access such a list. He never even responded. 
At the CCC Special Interest Club meeting this past Thursday, we asked Club Coordinator John Hagan directly about making a list of allocation amounts public. Hagan just said that the information was kept secret. 
When several other club officers pressed for more information, he just said that we should take his word for the fact that the allocations last year had been the most objective and impartial ever. We asked, "Well, how can we know that?" Then Hagan just stated, "That doesn't matter." We said, "But we're the students!" Then we were told, "This discussion is over." 
Why are they keeping things secret if it really is fair? Are they just afraid that, if they made the allocation lists public, everyone would see that the clubs whose officers sit on the CCC are getting more money than other clubs? It's our own money that they are handling, but where is the over­sight? We issue a challenge to Club Coordinator John Hagan and Student Groups Coordinator Amy Geist to end this secrecy. 
James L. Rockney, co-president Alan M. Robinson, treasurer 
Mock Trial 
Knott Hall 
Jan. 24, 2002 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Leadership, not abstention, will solve BOG problems 
Abstension, are you nuts? Politics are not accomplished by abstention. Voices are not heard by people dissat­isfied with the choice of candi­dates or the number. Isn't that the big question? Are the Saint Mary's voices being heard? 
Some would like to argue that with only one set of candi­dates. our voices are not being heard. Lack of competition is no reason to say our opinions are not going to be voiced by the current candidates. If our voices aren't being ;.·k--..-~ heard, then they're being ignored. Is BOG dismissing our opinions? What are those opinions? What are your concerns? The weekly BOG meet­ings are open to the pub­
lic. Does anyone bother to go? Perhaps that's not publi­cized enough. 
True, those little red papers with nails through them state some pretty general, never~ending "make the DH food better" goal and the noncommit­tal, unspecific "advance the abilities of Detex" directive. But then, besides that and more relations with Notre Dame and Holy Cross, what do we 
Let it snow 
From that glorious moment when I received my acceptance letter to Notre Dame, people have frequently told me, "Wow, it's going to be cold there." Coming from Southern California, the cold winter was something I was really looking for­ward to. Each morning, I had awok­en to the warmth of the sun beating on my face. I was ready for change and something new and exciting ­even adventurous for an Angelino. 
I was even looking forward to maybe experiencing a football game with the field covered in snow like the Oakland-New England football game. That it would not snow during the football season I <;ame to accept. I thought to myself that maybe October was too early for it to snow. Then the native midwesterners told me that I was in for a treat. They told me that when I got back from fall break, snow should be there or should be coming in a few weeks. So I waited and it did not come. And then these experts told me that there has to be snow by Thanksgiving. And then I waited again and it failed to appear. And people were saying that it's almost Christmas, and it hasn't even snowed yet. 
That's when I realized it -the South Bend winters that people claim Notre Dame struggles through are really a farce. Albeit it did snow 
want? You can say only so much on 
one little piece of paper anyhow. If 
you've got an idea, I suggest you attend the weekly BOG meetings. If 
bet $100 they have the date, time and place. If anyone is going to run, by all means, speak up now, so I have area­
son to "abstain." You must recall that no common "Betty" can just run. You have to 
be "approved" first. 
Anyone want to come up with a plat­form that opposes the views of the cur­
____.,.,J,,., rent candidates, or come up with some ideas that better express student body opinions to make your ticket seem more "pret­ty" besides a question of popularity or wording? ·The "solution" of abstain­ing will only make the prob­lem worse. You better have someone else in mind, or we'll be leaderless and voiceless come fall 2002. I'm not about to vote for that. 
Mel Burke 
junior Le Mans Hall Jan. 25, 2002 
on~ day before winter break, that 
was nothing in comparison to some 
of the stories people were trying to 
scare me with. Apparently, when we 
left for winter break, a huge snow­storm came through South Bend. 
Coincidence? I think not. I actually 
think the storm didn't actually hap­
pen. Again, we got back from break, 
and it was cooler than Southern California, and the winter even hint­ed at fulfilling its prophecy, but failed again miserably. 
Now, again, I am waking up to the warmth of the sun on my face -but in South Bend. Is this supposed to happen? Apparently not. It is January, the time of the year where winters are supposed to be fierce and in full force in Indiana. I am forced to conclude that the South Bend winters are not really that bad. 
.I don't know if I am supposed jump on the bandwagon and preach to next year's incoming freshmen how cold it is here or tell them the truth that the myth that is the South Bend winter is really non-existent. 
Joe Guintu 
freshman Fisher Hall Jan.26,2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, January 28, 2002 
page 10 
From the Dome to H 
'8 7 Notre Dame graduate lands role in critica/4 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Writer 
The evolution of William Mapother took a giant leap in January of 2001 when the film in which he was star­ring, Todd Field's "In the Bedroom," became a sensa­tion at the Sundance Film Festival. Audiences and crit­ics clamored so favorably for the tiny picture. which was shot in 30 days in the serene setting of Camden, Maine, that Miramax reevaluated their strategies and began heavily promoting "Bedroom" rather than its original selection, Lasse Hallstrom's "The Shipping News." 
When "Bedroom" opened last Christmas it was being uttered in the same sentence as "Academy Award." 
It's hard to imagine that Mapother could have ever dreamed of such a scenario back in September of 1983 when he moved into the tower of Grace Hall as a lowly freshman at Notre Dame. 
After a less than spectacular experience in Grace Hall, he got a guiding hand from some old high school friends. 
"[They made] one of the biggest sacrifices someone ever made for me: they went to very bottom of Morrissey's room-pick list to pull me in," Mapother said. 
William settled into Morrissey for the next three years while he pursued an English major. He became a voracious reader, picking up texts from writers as diverse as Rabelais, Thomas McGuane, Evelen Waugh and Shakespeare. 
Ultimately, however, Mapother chose English because his inclinations were (and still are) for screenwriting. He credits his major as being an invaluable source for his current aspirations. Even though Mapother is the first to admit he hasn't had anything produced, he is excited about his current project, a rewrite of a comedy for Paramount. 
Mapother's yearning for acting may have started at Notre Dame, as well, even if he never considered being a FfT major. He fondly recalls a life changing experi­ence with Gregory Kucich, an English professor who introduced him to the writings of John Keats, another writer Mapother would come to admire. 
Unfortunately for Mapother, his first allotment of act­ing jobs were invisible in another fashion -they were often only brief appearances on screen. He had the rare opportunity to work with legendary directors such as Oliver Stone, Paul Thomas Anderson and Cameron Crowe, but none realized the enormous acting potential that he had; not that Mapother squandered the oppor­tunities he had on the sets of those big movies like "Born on the Fourth of July," "Almost Famous" and "Magnolia". 
"[Actors can} learn a lot from working with great writer-directors, even inadvertently," Mapother said. "Even without asking, 'How'd you do this?,' the way they are talking to you as an actor reveals how they think about the scene and how they perceive the char­acters and how the scene is constructed. You can't help but learn unless you're really trying hard not to." 
Mapother realized this enormous potential for learn• ing from another writer-director, Robert Towne, who cast Mapother in his first substantial role in "Without Limits," a biography of runner Steve Prefontaine. Mapother remembers talking to Towne at length about screenwriting, seeking his advice not only on the "Without Limits" set but also when they met again dur­ing the production of "Mission: Impossible 2," which Towne wrote and in which William has a minor role. 
Mapother is also extremely glad that his interactions with Cameron Crowe aren't limited to "Almost Famous" and "Vanilla Sky;" he has developed a social relationship with Crowe that he finds irreplaceable. 
Shortly after completing "Without Limits," Mapother found himself at a dinner party with Todd Field, an accomplished actor who is most notably known for his role as Nick Nightingale, the piano player with the secret password in Stanley Kubrick's "Eyes \,Vide Shut." 
"[There was a] very intense two hour conversation between the two of us and at the end of it, he [Field} said, 'are you interested in playing this role in a movie that I'm trying to make?' And I said. 'You know, I'm an unemployed actor. Of course I'm interested in any role,"' Mapother said. 
He was handed the script for "In the Bedroom," a movie that had enormous potential but no financial backing in 1 999. 
Mapother worked on ..Mission: Impossible 2" only to receive a phone call from Field in the spring of 2000. "We've got the money. We're going to make the movie. Are you still interested?" the director said. 
Without hesitation, Mapother said yes. 
Of course, the producers of the film weren't as opti­mistic about Field's decision to cast Mapother in the role of Richard Strout, the abusive ex-husband who acts as a catalyst for the entire film. 
"Todd fought for me. He said, 'This is the best guy for 
the role.' And he 

Photo courtesy of Miramax William Mapother '87 (right) had a small role In "Mission: Impossible 2." The role in "In the Bedroom" came from a relationship he nurtured with director Todd Field. 
drew a line in the sand and he got me the role," Mapother said. 
Field's unwaver­ing certainty has a familiar tone; in 1972. the career of an unknown actor named Al Pacino was launched after director Francis Ford Coppola fought the produc­e rs of .. The Godfather" for the actor's inclusion. Mapother said that Field always tells people that Richard's character was the first role cast. 
"Something about me sparked the thought of this character Richard," Mapother said. "Considering the way the movie turned out and the fellow cast mem­bers, it was daunt­ing now in retro­spect." 
Those fellow cast 

William Mapother '87 (right) shares the screen with Academ Mapother has had roles in other big name movies such as "Al 
members turned out to be five-time Academy Award nominee Sissy Spacek as Mrs. Ruth Fowler, Academy Award winner Marissa Tomei as Richard's soon-to-be ex-wife, Natalie, and the highly regarded British actor Tom Wilkinson as Dr. Matt Fowler. They were joined by Nick Stahl as Frank, Fowler's son. 
"In the Bedroom" is an emotionally charged story that centers on Mr. and Mrs. Fowlers, who are forced to confront the schism that is slowly developing in their marriage. Their quiet existence is thrown into turmoil when· Frank starts dating the recently separated Natalie. Natalie's inability to completely detach herself from Richard escalates the growing conflict between her two lovers. Richard, who Mapother portrays, is emasculated by the younger, more intelligent replace­ment lover, Frank. 
On the screen, Richard is given life by Mapother's intuitive methodologies. 
"I wanted the character to look worn," Mapother said. "It has been 10 to 15 years since graduating high school and he's let himself go to sea. The anxiety and the unhappiness and everything else are going to be manifest in his face and in his body. All the unspent emotion of his life, all his anger and all his frustration is manifest in his being. He's carrying all that around with him." 
Mapother deprived himself of sleep, gained weight and added blonde highlights to his hair to give the character a discomfited look. 
Kucich introduced Mapother to author's theory of negative capability, which refers "to an artist negating his own ego to make himself invisible in that work. 
In addition to the physical renovation, Mapother began practicing Keats' philosophy of negative capabili­ty, in which an artist attempts to negate his or her ego to make themselves invisible in themselves invisible in their work, to make the character of Richar~ seem more genuine. 
In the movie, Richard finds himself at odds with Natalie because he does not know how to operate as an adult. 
"He's a very irresponsible person," Mapother said. "He was very successful in high school as an athlete and thought he had the rules down. And obviously, adulthood requires a different approach than high school. He realizes that he doesn't know how and he's angry at himself for the choices he's made to put him­
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, January 28, 2002 page 11 · 
[oil 
ood 
ly acclaimed film 

self in the position he's in." 
When Frank begins to court Natalie, Richard is consumed by a sense of pos­session. 
"He certainly doesn't want anyone else to have her and that's an essential part of his makeup," he said ...There's a [childish quality]. an almost infantile aspect to Richard, that, not only exists as an arrested young adulthood from high school, but also as an arrested childhood. He was spoiled as a child, and he has this sense of possession that a four to five year old might have." 
Mapother thinks that because of his character's abusive tendencies and occa­sional frightening attitude, audiences might be quick to label him as the film's antagonist. The actor, however, hopes audiences will also notice the sense of fear that exists in Richard. For instance, some of the character's more negative reactions are the result of threats by Natalie or Frank to separate him from his two children. 
According to Mapother, the dynamic characterization of "In the Bedroom" is what should be heralded. 
"It's very complex film. It reflects the moral ambiguity we find in life. I don't see Richard as [al villain by any means. He's flawed like anyone else in the film." Indeed, director Todd Field is able to capture all of Richard's nuances because of Mapother's ego-less performance. 
Field extracts that type of performance from the other actors, as well. 
"The script and the performances are all carefully constructed to create a com­plex web of relationships and dynamics as opposed to a usual one-sided charac­terization," Mapother said. "The movie is about what is not said and what is not shown. It forces the audience to partic­ipate in the creation of the story and the characters, both intellectually and imagi­natively. Because the lines aren't simply drawn, it forces the audience to emotion­ally participate so that they have to sort out these feelings." 
Because of this unique interaction with the audience, it is not surprising that the performances are receiving recognition from critic circles and voting organiza­tions such as the American Film Institute and The Golden Globes. 
Most importantly, "In the Bedroom" has been a giant steppingstone for Mapother as an individual talent. He has long been overshadowed by his very well-know cousin, Tom Cruise, although he insists the connection has been noth­ing but a blessing. 
"He's as thoughtful and generous and supportive as he's reported to be," Mapother. 
Mapother acknowledged that the road to being a screenwriter and actor is not always easy, even with his connection to Cruise. He shared this advice for anyone wishing to follow in similar footsteps. 
"If you have to wonder if it is for you, then it is probably not. You· have to be passionate and it is going to take a really long time," he said. "My second piece of advice is: exercise every possible talent and skill you have to open as many doors as possible. Get over your fear and get started as soon as you finish school." 
Looking back, Mapother is happy he made the sacrifices to be in the position he is in today. 
"I can't imagine doing anything more rewarding with my life." 
While the road may have been ardu­ous, the path ahead looks to be paved with potential. 
"In the Bedroom". starring William Mapother '87. is currently playing at Kerasotes Showplace 16 on 450 W. Chippewa at 4:30 p.m. and 8 p.m. 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu. 
Audience learns that 'A Mom's Life' is no day in the park 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Scene Writer 
The sound of a baby crying echoes 
through the theater as Kathryn 
Grody, who plays the character Mom, 
turns to the audience. "A Mom's 
Life," presented at Saint Mary's last 
week is a story that finds patience, 
weariness, joy and humor in being a 
mother. The play is a one-woman 
show. Grody played both the children 
and the mom. 
Based entirely on her own experi­
ence of motherhood in New York City 
the story begins with how, at 35, 
Grody and her husband decided to 
start a family and had their first son, 
Isaac. Four years later the couple 
had another son, Giddeon, and the 
play revolves around a Friday when 
the boys are 7 and 3. 
The inspiration for this play came from people asking Grody if she was ·working now or just having fun stay­
ing home with her children. 
Lamenting the changes mother­
hood has wrecked on her body. she 
tells of how she used to admire the 
great white whales, beautiful and 
graceful in water, but she lives on 
land. 
"I want my body back!" Grody said. 
Waking early in the morning, being 
quiet so she doesn't wake her hus­
band, she begins the routine of get­
ting the kids up, dressed and fed. 
Noting the difference between how 
she treated the first born when a 
toddler, singing silly songs to get him 
dressed and telling the second born 
to get dressed immediately. She 
explains that all first children should 
be born second. 
"I'm not sure when a day starts 
because it seems like one never 
ends," Grady said. 
After finally dropping the eldest 
son off at school she then has the 
morning to spend with her youngest 
son, before the husband was sup­
posed to pick the kids up and take 
them to the park. Planning a late 
lunch with her friend, Sue, she was 
looking forward to a few hours with 
grown-up company. 
Taking Giddeon to the indoor horse 
track to watch the horses run around 
the track, Grady talks of the prob­
lems with living in New York City 
and the perks. 
Coming home one day they ran into a jazz band that had set up in the street and on the next day that same corner drugs were being sold. 
"You'll never know what you'll find in New York City, but global warm­ing and madness are everywhere," she said. 
Taking Giddeon home she tires to get him to pick up the puzzle pieces off the floor, that have been out for week. Gid had different ideas and threw the pieces at his mother. Giving this up she then makes bub­bles and puts on music so that they dance around the room. After all this it is nap time. 
"Nap time, one whole hour to do whatever I want to do with it," Grody said. "Maybe I'll clean up, listen to music I like, actually read the paper the day it came out, or maybe I'll 
exercise, not for vanity but for her 
heart, but what she should really do 
is just lay there and take a nap." 
Giddeon, who wakes up pre­
maturely, surprises his mom and 
now it is time for lunch. Now it is the 
problem of what to cook, after all the 
warnings about chicken being 
unhealthy, vegetables that are waxy 
from pesticides and all the other 
warnings. 
"So now you have a Mom who can 
not only cook anything, but is afraid 
to cook anything," Grody said. 
A phone call from her husband 
changes Grody's day -a meeting 
has come up and he can't take the 
kids {o the park after all, but he'll try 
to be home to tuck the kids in. 
"I find it's the dads feeling enor­
mously for the kids and the moms 
doing enormously for the kids," 
Grody said. 
Picking up Isaac from school the three of them head to the park for the afternoon, There is a moment of stress as Grody loses sight of Giddeon and calls for him helplessly. He is fine and just playing on the slide. Now her time is divided between the boys as she tries to push one on the swing while at the same time pushing the see-saw down for the other. 
"After going to the park so many times you get tired of parks and that's why moms take kids to inap­propriate places like Bloomingdale's," Grody said. 
While getting the kids home, a fight ensues in which Isaac says he is going to protect his little brother from Mom. After all she was just try­ing to put him in time out after he hit her and his brother. 
"I hate these days. These days I just want to pack my bags and run away. And I am a good mother," Grody said. 
Isaac and Giddeon crawl over their mother as she lies on the sofa and curls up next to her. Asking her not to run away and telling her they are sorry. 
Having a TV picnic for dinner and then getting them tucked into bed is the end of her day. 
"The idea of a family is so different from the reality. There is no predict­ing what kind of parents we will be," Grody said. "This tale doesn't really have an end. My sons are now 16 and 12, but that is a different story altogether." 
Grody worked in Los Angeles and then moved to New York and worked on Broadway in Scapino. Sh-e has performed in numerous off­Broadway productions. a few films and her television appearances include "The Sunset Gang" and "Execution of Private Slovik" and many after-school specials. 
Grody lives in New York City with her children, husband and two huge black labs which she walks through the streets of Manhattan. 
"A Mom's Life" was performed at the Little Theatre in Moreau Theatre last Saturday evening. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS . Monday) January 28, 2002 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Connectictit makes statement with upset 
this week and now plays four taller Illini 42-34, and they took plays down the stretch," Florida made one of two free throws 
Associated Press 
consecutive Pac-10 road games advantage of a raucous crowd, coach Billy Donovan said. "His with 23 seconds left, but against the league's California which broke into The Wave and shot ... to tie the game remind­Hamilton then went the lengthTUCSON, Ariz. 
schools. chanted "over-rated" during ed me of {Brett) Nelson's shot of the court for a 92-92 tie with Connecticut finally made the "The difference in the game the last 10 minutes as Illinois against Tennessee. Now I've 16 seconds to play. Pargo thenAssociated Press national rank­was Okafor," Arizona coach (15-5, 4-3) fell further and fur­been on both ends and I know got around Hamilton for theing last week, barely, at No. 25. 
Lute Olson said. "Every time we ther behind. what it feels like." game-winner.
Their nationally televised 
seemed to have an opportunity "This is what Indiana basket­When Orien Greene's 3
100-98 overtime victory at 
to get to the bucket, he was ball is all about, playing good clanged off the rim at the
Arizona {No. 12 ESPN/USA Texas Tech 92, Oklahoma 79
there. He changed the total defense, getting open shots and buzzer to give the Gators their
Today, No. 10 AP) should earn Texas Tech doesn't look
complexion of the game. He having the fans behind you like second straight loss, students
the Huskies a little more atten­much like last season's team 
was the most effective player this," coach Mike Davis said. poured onto the court, celebrat­
tion. that finished 9-19 overall and 
on the court." "The crowd was so great today, ing in the middle of the giant
"It's clearly the biggest state­tied for last in the Big 12 with a
Will Bynum missed a wide­I was excited." red-and-white Razorback hog. 
ment we've made as a team 3-13 mark. 
open 3-pointer from the base­But it was what the Hoosiers "After I saw that last shot, I
this year, and it was a great In this game, the Red Raiders
line for Arizona with two sec­did on the court that was so thought we'd gotten beat,"
basketball game," Connecticut didn't look anything like the
onds to play in the overtime. astounding. Richardson said. "He had a
coach Jim Calhoun said. "We team that was blown out by
"I thought it was going in," he The Hoosiers decimated an great look and the ball was on
had to dnfw everything out Oklahoma two weeks ago. 
said. "I was in rhythm. It's a Illini defense that had allowed line."
within ourselves to win." Andre Emmett had 26 points
tough loss for the team. It's opponents to make just 32.2 Pargo, 14-of-45 from long
Connecticut freshmen Emeka and 10 rebounds to lead Tech
especially tough for me. I usual­percent of their 3-pointers, and range over his last six games,
Okafor and Ben Gordon shared to a victory over those same
ly make those kinds of shots." a league-low 30.6 percent in was 7-of-8 from behind the arc
the spotlight in as entertaining sixth-ranked Sooners, its sec­
Salim Stoudamire, who conference play. against the Gators (15-3, 4-2 
a game as the college sport can ond win in eight days over a
scored 20 points, made consec­Fife made six 3s, Kyle Southeastern Conference).
offer. Top Ten team.
utive 3-pointers to start the Hornsby five and Tom During his slump, Arkansas
Okafor fell a blocked shot shy "I thought our kids did a real­

overtime and give Arizona a 97-Coverdale four. Coverdale fin­(11-8, 3-4) had lost four
of a triple-double with 19 points ly good job coming back off of
91 lead, but Connecticut ished with 16 points, while straight.
and 15 rebounds. Gordon having been beaten as badly up
outscored the Wildcats 9-1 the Hornsby had 15. In the second "He hit every big shot for us
matched his career-high with there as we were," first-year
rest of the way. half it appeared that the today." Arkansas guard
23 points and had a career-best Texas Tech coach Bob Knight
"Today was all about poise Hoosiers' top three scorers Brandon Dean said. "It is not
nine assists as the Huskies (13-said, referring to the 98-72 loss
and reason," Okafor said. "You were having their own shooting that he was playing bad. He
4) won their sixth straight. at Oklahoma on Jan. 12. "We 
come out here and play in this contest. was just taking bad shots."
"This was a classic game," had to play a lot better today,
hostile environment and you ..Hornsby had five, Coverdale Arkansas went in front for the
said Connecticut's Taliek obviously, than we played up in
have to be ready. We kept fight­had four or five and (Jared) first time since early in the
Brown, who scored four of his Norman to be competitive in
ing. We didn't come all these Jeffries had a couple," Fife said, game when Michael Jones got
21 points in overtime. "They the game." 
miles just for the nice weather, although Jeffries had just one loose on the baseline for a 7 8­
would 'hit 3s, then we would The Red Raiders {15-3, 4-2), 
we came here to win." 3-pointer. "It probably did look 77 lead with 1:27 to play.
score, and then we would play who beat then-No. 6 Oklahoma
like a competition. We were on Udonis Haslem, who missed
good defense, and it was just ' State 94-70 last Saturday. went
fire today." two free throws with the Gators
back and forth the whole Indiana 88, Illinois 57 on a 10-4 run early in the sec­
"We haven't been able to do in front 76-7 4, made four
game." Indiana's Dane Fife couldn't ond half to take a 50-41 lead
that in the past and that's a straight to put Florida up 81-78 
As terrific as the victory was, keep himself from laughing over Oklahoma. The Red
credit to our coaches," Fife said before Pargo was good from 22
it was the second biggest devel­near the end of the game Raiders went on to lead by as
of the Hoosiers' outside shoot­feet with 25 seconds to play.
opment of the day for Calhoun, against No. 9 Illinois (No. 8 many as 16 points.
ing. "They make us shoot the Fifteen seconds later,
whose third granddaughter, ESPN/USA Today, No. 9 AP). It was a much different game
ball. They believe in us, proba­Florida's Justin Hamilton ­
Avery Mary, was born at 1 :05 He had never seen the from the previous matchup. In
bly more than we do." back in action for the first time 
a.m.. EST, in Hartford. Hoosiers shoot so well from the the second half. the Sooners
in almost two weeks because of
Calhoun was nearly knocked outside in such a big game, and (15-3, 4-2) had a cold shooting
an injury -missed two free
to the floor by his ecstatic play­he had never anticipated such a Arkansas 94, Florida 92 hand while Tech's heated up.
throws. Determined not to let 
ers when the game ended. lopsided victory over the Illini. Like a football coach who lost The Red Raiders were 19-for-
Pargo beat them, the Gators
"Ben, he jumped on me," Fife scored 20 points, and the the coin toss, Arkansas basket­25 (65.5 percent) in the second
forced Arkansas to look else­
Calhoun said. "It's a good thing Hoosiers set a school record ball coach Nolan Richardson half.
where and Dionisio Gomez
I've been working out a little. It with 17 3-pointers in a victory went with his defense first and Texas Tech took the ball
threw up something that didn't
would be very disappointing to over the Illini, their worst loss kept his offense on the bench. inside throughout the game,
have much chance as time ran
have Avery see her grandfather in more than a decade. Jannero Pargo sat while outscoring Oklahoma in the on the floor at the end of game "Basically, every time we Charles Tatum and his team­out. paint by 12 points. The
In the overtime, Pargo's sev­
and be knocked down by one shot, we were like 'Let's go and mates set a frantic pace with Sooners, who led the confer­
enth 3 gave Arkansas an 86-85
his own players." get on back on defense because three steals in the first 89 sec­ence in scoring defense (62.2)
lead. After a pass from Pargo,
Okafor officially has 63 blocks we know it's going in,"' Fife onds. Pargo entered the game entering the game, allowed
Carl Baker scored from 15 feet.
in 1 7 games. In reality. he has said. "I was literally laughing at after four minutes and scored a more than 90 points for the
Haslem fouled out when J.J.
about 16 more, Calhoun said, the end of the game. It was a career-high 35 points, including first time this season.
Sullinger backed in against the
and should have had a triple­strange feeling, but it was an a 3 that sent the game into "In the second half we
smaller Nelson, and Sullinger
double. amazing feeling." overtime and a 14-foot jumper couldn't get them stopped,"
completed the three-point play
"He had 12 blocks," Calhoun Indiana (13-6, 6-1) couldn't with 2. 7 seconds to play, as Sooners coach Kelvin Sampson
to make it 91-8 7. Hamilton
said. 'Tm not sure why every­have scripted it any better. Arkansas earned a 94-92 victo­said. "We didn't score any bas­
stole the ball from Dean and
body misses them. I know if The Hoosiers made baskets ry over Florida (No. 4 kets in transition because we
made two free throws to bring
you're playing against him, you almost at will, hitting 51.6 per­ESPN/USA Today, No. 5 AP). were taking the ball out of the
the Gators within 91-90 with 51
don't miss them." cent of their shots and 63 per­"I didn't start hirri because I net and walking it up the court.
l. 
Jason Gardner scored 24 of cent of their 3-pointers. Illinois wanted to get defense started seconds to play. We played uphill all night, and
With a 15-second difference
his 30 points in the second half managed only two 3s -both early and let him score off the it seemed like they played
between the shot clock and the
but was scoreless in the over­coming in the game's final 85 bench, and he did," Richardson downhill." 
game clock, Sullinger got the
time for the Wildcats (13-6), seconds. said. 
go-ahead from the bench and
who lost for the second time They outrebounded the much "He made some big-time 
headed down the lane. He 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$400 CCTour&Travel Florida SpringBreak pkg. Call 258-0718 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: January 3, 2002 in or out­side the Main Building or in the Stepan parking lot, a Christmas tree pin about 2 inches in length made of green and white Austrian crystals. Has sentimental value. Please call Debbie at 1­5536. 
FOR SALE 
Why rent when you can own a qual­ity 3 bdrm, 2 ba villa, less than 2 mi from campus. Fireplace. Bsmt. Low $85/mo fee. 1948 Creeksedge. $138,000. 
Call Rachel 235·3906. 
Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. 
FOR RENT 
3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard, AJC, gas heat, W/0. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 
232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
New 3-4 bdrms, 3 bath homes fea­turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 1Ox20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. 
Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
nice homes north of ND {close) for next school year ideal for 3-8 stu­dents great area 
2773097 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9­bedroom houses. 
Call Bill at 532-1896 
HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03 YR. FURN. 272-6306 
5 mins from N0!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. 
Dave 291-2209 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips Info/Reservations 
1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Do you have your tickets for Damn Yankees? Get them now at the LaFun info desk! 
Show opens Feb. 71 
TO THE COWARD IN GENERAL ACCOUNTING WHO WILL NOT EVEN SIGN HIS/HER NAME TO THE ANONYMOUS NOTES: The East Chicago Pizza ad is the way it was requested to run. If you have any problem with any more ads, have the guts to call the Advertising Dept. at 1•6900. Shirley 
Want to get a fun job working with some great people? Talk to us at The Observer. 
Call Noah at 1-4543 for Sports. Call Jason at 1-5323 for News. Call Spencer at 1-4540 tor Scene. Call Peter at 1-8767 for Photo. 
Please remember to recycle The Observer. 
Monday, January 28, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WTA 
Capriati defeats Hingis 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
Jennifer Capriati produced 
the greatest comeback in a 
Grand Slam final to overcome 
Martina Hingis and defend her 
Australian Open title. 
Capriati saved four match 
points before clinching a 4-6
?-6 (7). 6-2 vi~tory over Hingi~ 
m the champ10nship match at 
Melbourne Park, the scene last 
January of her personal come­
back from a tumultuous past. 
The victory Saturday was 
her first defense of a major 
and no woman has saved mor~ 
match points and won a Grand 
Slam final. 
The WTA, organizers of the women's tennis tour. said the previous record was set in 1889, when Blanche Bingley Hillyard saved three match points against Lena Rice before winning at Wimbledon. 
''I'm not looking for a place in history," Capriati said. "I think I have something already in there. I'm just look­ing for titles." 
Capriati has won three of the last five Grand Slam events. After her break­through 6-4, 6-3 champi­onship victory over Hingis at the last Australian Open Capriati won the French Ope~ and reached the semifinals at WJ.mbledon and the U.S. Open. 
I had a lot to deal with out there. I had a lot on my shoul­ders -being the defending champion and being No. 1," Capriati said. "I don't know what's better. The first or to come back from match point and win this." 
Capriati was the first top­seeded woman to win a Grand Slam title since Hingis won her third consecutive Australian title in 1999. The Swiss has lost in the last three Australian Open finals. 
"(Hingis) was pretty close to getting the revenge on me, same two sets, same scores " Capriati said. "I don't kno~ how I pulled it out. On those match _points I was really aggressive. 
"I just had to really go for it and it paid off." 
Capriati said she'd once lost 
after holding nine match 
points, so she knew a come­
back wasn't impossible. 
Both players struggled in the 
95-degree heat, sitting in 
chairs in the shadows at both 
ends between points, taking 
refuge in the player's tunnel 
during bathroom breaks and 
saturating themselves with 
water and ice. 
"This is the most unique vic­
tory, given everything that 
was going on out there," 
Capriati said. "This will defi­
nitely stand out for sure." 
Capriati lost her cool in the second game of the second set and screamed at the chair umpire, demanding that a line judge be replaced after three bad calls. 
"I really don't know what I was saying -I was really frus!r~ted at that point," Capriat1 said of her uncharac• teristic outburst. But it gave her some spark. 
"Even though I was coming from behind, I always thought I could come back. I never thought about being defeated out there," she said. 
Hingis said she should never have let it go to a third."At a set and 4-0 up. you shouldn't give it away," the 21-year-old Swiss said. "Today, Jennifer was just steady until the last point. That was the differ­ence." 
Hingis said she was exhaust­ed and didn't want to come back after a 10-minute break following the second set. 
She got an early break in the third, but was foot-faulted !hree times in the fifth, includ• mg a double fault at break point to give Capriati the deci­sive lead. 
"I just couldn't move any more ... my head was all over the place," she said. "But after I lost the second set, she had the momentum. I really didn't believe in it anyway, even if I was up 2-1. I knew I wouldn't make it." 
Of the foot faults, she said: "I was so _tired I couldn't jump off my right leg any more." 
Capriati had 34 errors in the first two sets but just five in 
Hey Sophomores!! 
Want to m~ke some EASY MONEY for Spring Break? Then come work Junior Parents' Weekend (February 15-17). 
•  Get paid in cash!  
•  Pick your own schedule~  
•  Work with your friends!  

Informational meeting Tuesday, January 29th at 7:00 p.m. in the Sorin Room of Lafortune. 

Questions? Concerns? Contact Elizabeth Zwickert at ezwicker@nd.edu 
the third set. 
She came back from 1-5 to 
4-5 in the first set, but then 
lost her serve. 
In the second, she slipped to 
0·4 before saving three match 
points -at 3-5 and 5-6 -to 
force a tiebreaker. 
Capriati survived another match point at 6-7 in the tiebreaker and evened it at one set apiece when Hingis skewed a backhand wide. 
After closing the 2-hour, 10· minute decider with a running cross-court forehand, she dropped her racket, ran over to her father, Stefano, in the stands, blew kisses to the crowd and shook her head in apparent disbelief. 
"I couldn't believe finally that I won," she said. 
Hingis, disconsolate slumped into a courtside chai; with a towel over her face after the match. 
"Jennifer was just too good for me," she said. "I don't know whether to be happy or cry about it." 
Capriati, who earned $520,000 for the title, made it to the French Open semifinals in 1990 at age 14 and won the Olympic gold medal at Barcelona two years later. But at 17, she dropped off the tour for 2 1/2 years and her per­sonal problems made head­lines. 
Her initial demise coincided with Hingis' rise to No. 1. 
Hingis became the youngest women's Grand Slam event champion when she won the 1997 Australian Open at age 16. 
She also won Wimbledon and the U.S. Open that year and reached the final of the French. But her only other titles came in 1998 and '99 at Melbourne Park. 
Despite that. she held the No. 1 ranking for a total of 209 weeks, including a 7 3­week continuous stretch that ended last October when she had ankle surgery. 
ATP 
Johansson takes Australian Open 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
After one of his earlier vic­
tories, Thomas Johansson 
described himself as uninter­
esting. 
When he finally reached a 
Grand Slam final, on his 25th 
try. he was dazzling. 
Johansson used heavy 
serves and combinations of 
top spins, slices, flat drives 
and lethal drop shots to break 
down Marat Safin's power 
game, winning the Australian 
Open 3-6. 6•4, 6-4, 7•6 (4). 
The low point of Satin's bad 
day on his 22nd birthday 
came in the final tiebreaker, 
when Johansson slugged a 
backhand crosscourt passing 
shot that left him sprawling, 
and trailing 4-0. 
Safin rallied from 1-6 to 4-6 and then drew Johansson in with a drop shot -but then lobbed long, giving the 16th­seeded Swede the $520,000 winner's check. 
"I wished that it was going out. I felt that it could have hit the line," Johansson said. 
"You cannot compare any­thing with this. You've dreamt about it. I've seen it on TV but I never thought I was going to be standing there on court." 
Johansson acknowledged o?e problem on his way to victory. 
"I was close to missing the match because my coach for­got to call a car. We had to get a taxi," he told the crowd of about 15,000 at the end. 
Publicly wishing Safin a happy birthday, Johansson added: "He's turning 22 and I'm 27. I'm almost over the hill. I feel old here. 
"I was lucky to win today." 
Safin, who beat Pete Sampras to win the 2000 U.S. Open, told Johansson it was important to "enjoy it as much as you can." 
The Russian said the second set changed the match com­pletely. 
"I didn't feel comfortable on the court today," Satin added. 
r------------------------, 
i January Super Special! ! 
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
III  - A'YtN>l'Nr.•~-•,N•,•--·  III  
:  ~€Arra~  :  
:  ...............  CHICAGO:  :  
II  Pt ZZA COMPANVt;/._____________J  II  

: Large 1 Topping Pizza $7.99 : : (with coupon) : : Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1.49!: 
I 271-1277 I
I I 
1 54533 Terrace Lane •
I I I (Off of S.R. 23) I I I I I 
I We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! I : We Take Visa & Mastercard! I L Expires 2/2/02 I 
________________________ J 
"He was overpowering me from the baseline. It's very unusual for me, somebody playing the backhand better than me. 
"He was on fire." 
Safin suggested that the dozens of Swedish fans in the crowd also gave Johansson confidence. 
Johansson made few mis­takes after losing serve on the first game of the match to give the Russian the only break he needed to take the set. 
Double faults hurt the ninth-seeded Safin in the ser­vice breaks that cost him the second and third sets. 
In the second, Johansson reached deuce on a drop and lob combination. Four points later, after a double fault Safin hit a backhand into th~ net and the Swede had a break for 2-1. 
In the third, Johansson started the seventh game with a drive and drop-shot combi­nation, and gained a break for 4-3 when Safin double faulted on the last point. 
In six other games in the 
match, Safin had  to save  
break points to hold.  
Johansson  started  the  

fourth set with a break on errors by Safin, and had a break point for 3-0. But Safin held and then broke for 2-2 with a backhand winner down the line. 
At 6-1 in the final tiebreak­er, Safin saved three match points with a forehand win­ner. an unreturnable serve and a miss by Johansson before his lob went slightly long. 
Unlike in the women's final Saturday, when defending champion Jennifer Capriati labored in 95-degree heat to overcome Martina Hingis, the men played under generally gray skies with temperatures no higher than 81. 
Both served at up to 130 mph, with Johansson winning the battle of aces 16-13. 
A lustily cheering band of blue-and-yellow-clad Swedes greeted most of Johansson's aces with a chant ending in "We like it!" 
Both players had to come back after trailing 2-1 in sets in their semifinal matches. 
After needing only 28 min­utes in his quarterfinal when Wayne Ferreira pulled out with an abdominal strain Safin rebounded after a 50~ minute rain delay for a 6-7 (5), 7-6 (4), 3-6, 6-0, 6-2 over seventh•seeded Tommy Haas. He ousted Sampras in the fourth round. 
Johansson beat No. 26 Jiri Novak 7-6 (5), 0-6, 4-6, 6-3. 6-4. His best previous Grand Slam results were reaching the U.S. Open quarterfinals in 1998 and 2000. 
In _remarks here about why tenms was fading in populari­ty in Sweden, he said, "Look at me. I'm not interesting." 
Safin had back problems in early 2001 but reached the quarterfinals at Wimbledon and the semifinals at the U.S. Open, where he lost to Sampras. At Wimbledon, he lost to eventual champion Goran Ivanisevic. 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 28, 2002 
l 
l l
\ I NFL 
) 
Bledsoe steps in, leads Pats to Super Bowl 

Associated Press 
PI'ITSBURGH 
Drew Bledsoe never expected to be a backup at this stage of his career. The New England Patriots never expected he would be the one to take them back to the Super Bowl. 
Bledsoe replaced an injured Tom Brady and led the Patriots to a 24-1 7 upset of the Pittsburgh Steelers in the AFC championship game. 
It wasn't a perfect perfor.:. mance by the quarterback who lost his job to Brady after being injured Sept. 23 in the season's second game. And Bledsoe got plenty of help from Troy Brown, who returned a punt 55 yards for a touchdown and was the middle man on a 60-yard return of a blocked field goal that put New England ahead 21-3 early in the third quarter. 
)Jledsoe. a three-time Pro Bowl selection who turns 30 next month, did what few back­ups could do in a championship game -enter with the experi­ence and arm of one of the bet­ter starters in the NFL. 
"I've done this for a long time and at times at a pretty high level," said Bledsoe, who signed a 10-year, $103 million deal in the offseason. "I felt confident coming out. I've been working hard and preparing for this exact scenario." 
The Steelers had their chances late in the game, but Kordell Stewart threw two interceptions in the final three minutes after Pittsburgh had cut into an 18-point deficit and trailed only by a touchdown. 
Pittsburgh running back Jerome Bettis, who returned after being out eight weeks with a groin injury, carried nine times for just 8 yards, forcing Stewart to try to carry the team. 
Bledsoe filled that role well for the Patriots late in the first half when Brady went down with an injured left leg. Four plays later he threw an 11-yard TD pass to David Patten to give
i 
the Patriots a 14-3 lead. 
It was New England's only offensive touchdown of the game. 
ll 
In addition to the TD pass, Bledsoe put the Patriots in posi­tion for Adam Vinatieri's fourth-quarter field goal and allowed his team to hold the ball enough to avoid constant 
pressure late in the game as the Steelers tried to complete theirf comeback. "You need a couple of quar­
j 
terbacks in this league," said coach Bill Belichick, who added Brady could have gone back in the game. "Sooner or later you might need them and I'm glad we had them today." 
Brady said he felt fine but didn't know yet if he could play next week. 
New England, which went 
}" 
from 5·11 in 2000 to 11-5 this 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales" Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online" www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 
regular season. heads to its third Super Bowl. in New Orleans next Sunday. The Patriots also went in 1986 and 1997. and both times they lost in New Orleans -46-10 to the Chicago Bears, and 35-21 to the Green Bay Packers with Bledsoe at quarterback. 
Bledsoe got a lot of help Sunday from some old-timers, like linebackers Willie McGinest and Ted Johnson, who shut down Pittsburgh's running backs to just 19 total yards. 
Stewart was 24-of-42 for 255 yards but also threw three interceptions -the last two by Tebucky Jones and Lawyer Milloy that helped seal the Patriots' victory. 
Pittsburgh now has lost three of four AFC championship games under coach Bill Cowher. All the losses were at home and all came with the Steelers favored. They were nine-point favorites in this game. 
Bledsoe, expected to be trad• ed after the season, was hospi­talized with bleeding in his chest from a hit in the Week 2 game against the New York Jets. 
When he was ready to return, the Patriots were 5-5, but Belichick decided to stick with Brady, a second-year player who had never started a game before this season. 
Brady led the Patriots to seven straight victories before Sunday in what has become a charmed season for a team few people gave any chance of even making the playoffs. 
Now it's on to the Super Bowl. 
Rams 29, Eagles 24 
They call themselves "The Greatest Show on Earth." While the St. Louis Rams aren't always great. they were· cer· tainly too much for the NFC to handle. 
Now let's see if the New England Patriots can stop them in the Super Bowl. 
Marshall Faulk rushed for a career playoff.high 159 yards and scored two touchdowns to lead the Rams to a victory over the gritty Philadelphia Eagles in the NFC championship game.3 
"I couldn't ask for anything better than to go back to New Orleans and play in front of my friends and family," said Faulk, the NFL's Offensive Player of the Year three straight seasons and a native of the Big Easy. 

Latin C-\ub 
ntroduclng dancers to Salsa, Mambo, Merengue and Chachacha •. 
The focus Is on learning to hear dance rhythms, lead Ing, following 
Ind gaining the confidence to get on the floor as soon as possible. 
' Demonstration: Tuesday. January 29 
7:00 pm-RSRC 
Act. Rm. 2 Sign-Ups Begin: Wednesday, January 30 
8:00am-RSRC 
Classes Begin: Tuesday, February 5 11{ Act. Rm. 2 RSRC '\Y
I
The Intro. to Latin Dancing classes will meet Tuesdays from 7:00­
8:00pm in Activity Rm. 2 of the RSRC, and the Interrnmediate Latin 
Dancing classes will meet from 8:00-9:00 in Activity Rm. 2 of the RSRC. The fee for the class is $10. Register in advance at RecSports Open to all Notre t>ame students. acuity, staff. retirees and their s~e. Space is limited. Registration is imited to 10 single females, 10 single males and 1!5 couples. 
It won't be easy for the Patriots to slow Faulk, who became the focal point for the Rams (16-2) in the second half -when he delivered his two 1­yard scoring runs. 
"We felt to win this game, we had to get that ball to Marshall," coach Mike Martz said. "I think what everybody thinks -he is just a great play­er.... He took over the ball· game in certain situations." 
As did league MVP Kurt Warner, Isaac Bruce and a defense that has developed a knack for big plays. When they all came alive in the second half, the Rams earned their sec­ond trip to the Super Bowl in three years. Two years ago, St. Louis beat Tennessee for its first Super Bowl title. 
The trip south didn't look 
likely early in the game as the Eagles' stingy defense kept the Rams off-balance and Philadelphia took a 17-13 lead at halftime. But in the second half, Warner, Faulk and Bruce, Warner's favorite receiver. were too much. 
Bruce had eight receptions for 84 yards, including a 5•yard touchdown. Warner finished 22-of-33 for 212 yards. 
They did it against a defense that hadn't allowed more than 21 points all season and led the league in red-zone efficiency. 
"Offensively, they hadn't real­ly stopped us," Warner said. "They stopped us from getting into the end zone early, so we wanted to continue to do what we did in the first half and make sure we finished off some drives." 
,J//11//1' ~ 

PEACE CORPS 
What will you be doing after graduation? Apply to the Peace Corps andyou could be servingoverseas by this summer.It's
1111 
the toughestjob you'll ever love. 
Ill 
Northern Indiana Peace Corps Info Meetings 
Tues., Ja,n. 29, 6 to 7:JO p.m., 
Valparaiso University Union, Crusader Room 
Wed., Ja,n. JO, 7 p.m. 
(panel addressing post-grad full-time service 
-
opportunities) St, Mary's College, Carroll Auditorium
II 

Thurs., Ja.n. Jl, 7 to 9 p.m., 
Univ. of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns lllilllllll Questions? Call 800.424.8580, option 1 '11111 http://www.peacecorps.gov
~,.,,,,~~ 
The Rams turned the game around in the third quarter by dominating the clock and scor­ing 10 points. They ran 22 of the 28 plays in the period, get­ting Jeff 1vVilkins' third field goal, a 41-yarder, and one of Faulk's touchdowns. 
With his helmet ripped off on the play, Faulk fell into the end zone and the raucous crowd sensed the Eagles were through. So did the St. Louis defense, which forced a second and third straight three-and• out series. 
"You have to give our offense a lot of credit. They took over the third quarter, allowed us to get fresh," All-Pro cornerback Aeneas Williams said. "That gave us a chance to make plays." 
.JIIIIIT 

Monday, January 28, 2002 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish men, women defeat Michigan State 
By DAYID COOK 
Sports Writer 
Sorry Andy Lixey. Eric Morrison is for real. 
Freshman 800-meter specialist Eric Morrison soundly defeated All-American Andy Lixey from Michigan State Friday night in arguably the most exciting race of Notre Dame's 96.5-61.5 dual meet victory. 
Lixey, who placed first in the 1,000-meter run last week at the Missouri Invitational, was lead­ing the pack for most of the race with Morrison right on his tail. Then in the final 200 meters, Morrison put on the afterburners and defeated Lixey by a convinc­ing 10 meters. 
Morrison finished at 1:51.86, a personal best, with Lixey finish­ing in third at 1:53.31. Notre Dame's Kevin Samok who barely edged out Lixey took second place. 
Freshmen Dwight Ellick was also turning heads, winning the 60-meter dash in his first colle­giate race. Ellick's time of 6.93 seconds qualified him for the Big East Indoor Championships in late February. 
"I was real pleased with Dwight," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. "To come out after a week of practice and run as well as he did was really encourag­ing, and hopefully we can contin­ue to improve on that." 
Women 
continued from page 20 
The ball arched high into the air, taking a quick bounce off the backboard before falling through the net to give the Irish a 30-24 halftime advan­tage. 
"I thought the half-court shot gave us a lot of momen­tum," McGraw said. "Alicia just said she had a great sense of the clock in her head." 
Those three points were Ratay's first of the game, but they wouldn't be her last. After a lay-up and 3-pointer by Hokies' forward Lena Kublina closed the gap to 30­29, McGraw called a 30-sec­ond timeout to regroup her offense. 
t'VOTED#f 
,·byJHK>ple
I whoknow"· Itannfnol 
Also contributing to the Irish victory were two returning starters, Tom Gilbert and Quill Redwine. Both athletes were not able to compete in the triangular meet last week, but Gilbert came back and won both the long jump and the 200-meter dash. He won the long jump with a dis­tance of 23 feet 5 inches and the 200-meter dash in 22.18. 
Redwine, who is still recover­ing from pain in his legs, won the triple jump with a distance of 46 feet 4 inches. He also took third in the high jump right behind freshman Ryan Mineburg, who jumped 6-7. 
Luke Watson proved once again why he is an All-American, decisively winning the mile run with a time of 4:10.06, a full 3 seconds in front of second place Sean Zanderson. Notre Dame took the first four spots in the mile run. 
Rounding off Notre Dame's impressive showing was Nick Setta's victory in the 500-meter run. Setta ran a 1:04.62, a full second better than his time last week when he qualified for the Big East championships. 
"Setta improved on where he was last week," said Millar. "He really showed his ability in that event. It really goes well for us later on in the year when we get to the Big East championships." 
Overall, the men's track and field team posted a strong 10 wins in 15 events against the 
Batteast responded with a lay-up to increase the Irish lead to three. Then, after a missed shot by Chrystal Starling on the other end, Ratay took a Wicks pass behind the 3-point line, and put up the shot with Sarah Hicks defending. The shot went in, and Hicks got called for the foul. Ratay sank the free throw for her second four-point play of the season. 
Virginia Tech came within three points just once the rest of the way, as Ratay and Batteast provided all the offense. In fact, other than two Le'Tania Severe free throws, Batteast and Ratay combined for 32 of Notre Dame's 34 second-half points. 
..We were really only calling plays for those two for the potent Michigan State team. 
The Notre Dame women's team was also flexing its mus­cles, winning the dual meet against Michigan State, 94.5· 62.5. 
The strong sprinting contin­gent consisting of Ayesha Boyd, Kymia Love, Kristen Dodd, and Liz Grow combined for a total 4 victories and 29 points in the meet. 
"We have a real solid nucleus with Liz, Ayesha, Kristen and Kymia," said Millar. "It allows us the luxury of allowing the fresh­men to develop and not have to feel like they have to go out there and have the pressure to per­form." 
Millar is referring to Latasha Steele, Tricia Floyd, and Tiffani Gunn who continue to show improvement and add strength to the Irish sprinting corps. For the second week in a row, Gunn has won the 60-meter hurdles. 
Distance runner Jennifer Handley was in top form on Friday, decisively winning the 3000-meter run with a time 
9:54.30. She finished a full 15 seconds in front of second place Jennifer Fibuch. 
Freshman Lauren King won the 800-meter run in 2:13.35 with classmate Kerry Meagher finishing in third less than a sec­ond behind a Spartan runner. 
Finally, the women's field ath­letes were in top form. Jennifer Kearney took first place in the 
wanted the ball in one of their hands almost all the time with the game that close. There were opportunities for other people to score, they just weren't making their shots." 
Batteast in particular looked comfortable with the ball in her hands. After mak­ing just two of 10 attempts from the field against Connecticut, the freshman hit nine of 17 attempts from the field and seven of eight from the free-throw line. 
"In this game I tried get a little closer to the basket and I was able to finish my shot," Batteast said. "When you get off to a good start, it's usually better." 
majority of the second half," Contact Noah Amstadter at McGraw said. "We felt like we namstadt@nd.edu. 

For Your Best Ta1:t·Ev~rl-1 Get a Fun Tait · 1 
.. I 
~ 
~ I ~ I 
0 ~ C I 
·5. I
)( 
w 
0 
z I 
Yourc:helcel lltd • kl tanning INtGl ••••ienllforJust~ . 
GR ar:t et'ttit"a ~1:hof bed ~for anly MO. 
AND when you bring in this couponget~offour wlcla ~of-taI ilng lo1llcw\SI 
272•7&53 NEW Unlva sily Loaattcm Sta.t. flt.~ 29 & lronwGCINd_. 256-9&56 Cornw·DfGr:apaand~y 29~H8D s.uthlandPla:za~'!cJrcnwood J. ---·--' ------'"'!""'·--------.---;a.. 

high jump with Kim Utterson and Kaitlin Meiser finishing in second and third. Jill Vanweelden won the pole vault, and Jamie Volkmer won the women's triple jump. 
Next week is the highly com­petitive Meyo Invitational. and marks the beginning of the meat of the indoor track and field sea­son. These wins on Friday pro­vide a strong springboard for the track and field teams as they get ready for this coming Friday's invitational. 
Contact David Cook at 
dcook2@nd.edu. 
HOCKEY 
Irish split weekend series with Miami 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend the Notre Dame hockey team continued its trend of playing well on Friday night, and then not play­ing so well on Saturday. The Irish defeated the Miami (Ohio) Redhawks on Friday 4-3 when Aaron Gill scored with 50 sec­onds left in overtime. Then Notre Dame came out on Saturday and got pasted 7-2. 
However, the split did keep the Irish in the CCHA race. Currently Notre Dame sits in seventh place in the CCHA with 18 points, tied with the Redhawks. 
Friday's game was a back­and-forth battle. The Irish started quickly with two first­period goals by Evan Nielsen and Mike Chin. 
Miami finally got on the board with nine seconds left in the second when Evan Cheverie put one past Irish goalie Morgan Cey on the powerplay. 
In the third period the game opened up. Miami tied the score at two at 12:31 into the period on a goal by Greg Hogeboom. The tie did not stand up long though. Chin put the Irish ahead again just 25 seconds after the Miami score. 
The Redhawks weren't done, though. Hogeboom came through again for Miami when he scored at 16:02 to tie the game again. 
The 3-3 tie would stand through the rest of regulation and 4:10 of overtime. Then Gill got a pass from Connor Dunlop off the face-off which he promptly put in the net for the game winner. 
On Saturday the Irish couldn't continue the momen­tum they built in Friday's win . Despite out shooting the Redhawks 42-31, Notre Dame only managed two goals and gave up seven. Five of the seven goals came from the Miami line of Mike Kompon, Derek Edwardson and Nick Jardine. 
Cey started the game for the Irish, but didn't finish it. Head Coach Dave Poulin pulled Cey after he gav.e up three first­period goals. ·senfo'r1'lereiriiah Kimento finished the game, but he wasn't much better. Kimento yielded four more goals for the final tally of seven. 
Scoring for Notre Dame were Chin and Yan Stastny. 
Chin had an excellent week­end, with three goals and an assist to continue his breakout year. He now has career highs in goals, assists and points. 
The Irish return home this weekend to take on Alaska­Fairbanks. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 28, 2002 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Men split weekend matches in dual meet 
match, as the sixth-ranked duo and Mary onBy RACHEL BIBER 
of Casey Smith and Javier Saturday, and 
Sports Writer 
Taborga fell to Minnesota's soon found his Harsh Mankad and Thomas team on the 
Starting the season with Haug 9-8 (7-4). verge of upset hopes of a spotless dual-match "Doubles was extremely before it pulled record, the seventh-ranked close," Bayliss said. "Our third together for a Notre Dame men's tennis team team, Malhame and Raju, 5-2 win. lost that goal by losing to No. played great. No. 1 doubles "The William 32 Minnesota. The Irish recov­was close. We had a number of and Mary ered to defeat No. 68 William break-point opportunities we match started and Mary to improve to 3-1 on didn't convert on. off almost like the season. "A lot of luck was involved. a rout. We won 
Knowing the battle against Sometimes they would hit a the doubles Minnesota on Friday would be good shot or make a good first point very eas­tough, the Irish felt the pain of serve, and on several break ily, and right 
the 4-3 loss to the Gophers. points we hit the top of the net away we were After rallying from a 3-1 by an eighth of an inch, which up 3-0," said deficit. Notre Dame nearly would have made the differ-Bayliss. pulled off a miraculous come­. ence in winning or losing the "They're a back before finally being match, basically." very young defeated. The Gophers extended the team -talent­
"It was a bitter pill to swal­lead to 2-0 when Notre Dame's ed, but young. low." Irish head coach Bob 83rd-ranked Luis Haddock­They reallyBayliss said. "But, they're a Morales fell at No. 3 singles, fought hard. good team. They're going to be but Aaron Talarico closed the There was a I think, [ranked] 10 to 15 in the gap to 2-1 with a 6-3. 6-2 win point when I country. And they're awfully at No. 4 against Minnesota's was afraid we tough at home. We did not play Chris Wettengel. With a loss were going to a bad match. We are disap­from 95th-ranked Taborga at actually lose pointed, but we played really No. 2 and wins from Matt Scott it." hard." at No. 5 and Brian Farrell at The Irish 
The match looked to be start­No. 6 the score was knotted at swept the dou­ing off in the favor of the Irish 3-3. However the Gophers won bles against when the doubles pairing of the match when Notre Dame's the Tribe, get-
singles, while Haddock-Morales ule continues for the Irish thisAshok Raju and James 88th-ranked Smith fell at No. 1 ting wins from the pairings of pulled off a victory in three week as they head for Durham,Malhame raced to an 8-2 win singles 7-6 (4), 6-4, to Mankad Smith and Taborga, Raju and sets. The only losses for the N.C., to battle the 10th-rankedat No. 3 doubles. The Gophers -a player ranked second in Malhame, and Talarico and Irish came in three-set come­Duke Blue Devils on Tuesday.
turned their play around and singles nationally. Haddock-Morales at the
f 
back wins for William and
swept the remaining two dou­Following the tough loss to respective Nos. 1, 2, and 3 Mary against Farrell and Brentbles matches. They clinched Minnesota, Bayliss was worried positions. Notre Dame got 
D'Amico. Contact Rachel Biber at 
the doubles point in a tenuous about his team's mental focus straight-set victories from The challenging road sched-rbiber@nd.edu.
tiebreak in the No. 1 doubles against the Tribe of William Taborga, Talarico and Scott in 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish nearly perfect in pair of home victories 
By COLIN BOYLAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team didn't have to wait very long to jump out to their first 2-0 start since the 1998 season. 
Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, the Irish hosted sea­son-opening matches against Illinois State and Northern Iowa and won both contests by a final score of 6-1. 
Although he anticipates a great deal of success for this season's squad, head coach Jay Louderback was pleasantly sur­prised by how quickly the team was able to shake off the rust from its winter layoff. 
"I thought we played very well, especially for the first two matches," said Louderback. 
"It's tough when you have to play two in one day and I thought we really showed some toughness out there." 
The Irish finished off their morning opponent, 59th-ranked Illinois State in quick fashion. All three doubles teams posted solid wins to earn the doubles point convincingly. 
Seniors Becky Varnum and Lindsey Green provided a high­light when they earned a tight 9-7 victory against Alesia Mikalayeva and Liina Suurvarik, who had beaten the Irish in preseason play. 
"I think that victory gave us a lot momentum." said Louderback. 
From that point on, the Irish made quick work of their oppo­nent in singles competition, winning five out of six matches and not allowing any match to last longer than two sets. 
The Irish carried that momentum into their afternoon match against Northern Iowa, where the team once again rat­tled off five of six singles victo­ries to clinch the match before doubles play even began. 
When all the dust had settled, sophomore Alicia Salas had emerged as the surprising hero of the day's competition. The No. 5 singles player thoroughly dominated her opponents in singles play winning by scores of 6-0, 6-0 and 6-1, 6-0 respec­tively. Meanwhile, she posted two convincing doubles wins while partnering with Varnum and Nina Vaughan. 
"Alicia has been playing real­ly well," said Louderback. "She's shown huge improve­ment over last year and is going to be a very big factor in our 


COME FORAJOB INTERVIEWTO WORKAT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
! 
a residential sports camp in North Texas
. I 
:, i 
tar children who have diabetes
•ii 
y, 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
INTERVIEWS: 
Notre Dame Job Fair Thursday, January 31st 
Flanner Hall Friday, February 1st 
9:00 am to 5:00 nm 
success this year." 
Equally impressive was the quality of depth the Irish boast­ed in singles play. At the four, five and six singles spots, Katie Cunha, Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly all swept their oppo­nents without dropping more than four games in any one set. 
Louderback believes that this depth will make the Irish diffi­cult to beat when tougher com­petition comes to town. 
About the only blemish in the team's weekend came in the form of some injury news con­cerning sophomore Caylan Leslie. Leslie, who suffered a shoulder injury over the winter, is now presumed to be out for at least three months and per­haps longer. 
"It's quite possible that Caylan will out for the entire spring," said Louderback. 
The Irish hope their hot streak will continue into their next match against Michigan this Wednesday. The match will be played at 5 p.m. in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 

I ( 
Monday, January 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ND SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish swimmers defeat Villanova in dual meet 
Crippen at 4:14.34. Labosky
. Women defeat 
thought that Crippen wasn't
Villanova to 
really racing her hardest remain since Crippen didn't pull ahead on the final laps of
undefeated for 
breaststroke, her strongestthe season stroke. 
"Maddy was tired because By SHEllA EGTS she's been training so hard, Sports Writer but it was a fun race," she 
said. "I could feel her in the Standing on her starting lane beside me, the momen­block waiting for sound of tum was there." 
the starting gun, Marie But Crippen admitted she Labosky glanced to the right was giving it her all against Labosky.
at her opponent, Villanova 
junior and 2000 Olympian "I didn't think we would go Maddy Crippen. Facing off that fast, but I was definitely racing," said Crippen, whose 
against an Olympian would finishing time shattered theintimidate most swimmers, 
but not Labo sky. old pool record of 4:19.07 in the 400 IM. "It's always nice
It wasn't the first time these two swam side by side to have your name on a in the same poo!, Labosky record board somewhere." has been swimming in the The mental game of swim­same pool as Crippen since ming against Crippen makes 
the. race engaging, according 
eighth grade and trained 
to Labosky, who looks for­with her in high school for ward to meeting her again in 
two years at Germantown 
late-February at the Big East
Academy_ in Pennsylvania. 
Championships. ·
Although they practiced 
relays prior to the meet and earned All-America honors
. Irish never look
''I know swimming thistogether during Christmas 
wanted to focus on taking and an individual state cham­race against her helped me back after winning charge immediately." pionship in the 200-yardbreak, Crippen and Labosky qualify for the NCAAs," said
last competed in the 400 
first six events Senior Jonathan Pierce freestyle, Bertke will face a 
Labosky. 'Tm so excited to
individual medley at the 
clinched another first place for different level of competition
against Wildcats 
see her again at Big East. I2001 Big East the Irish in the 1650-yard going into the Big East. 
know we'll push each other
Championships, where freestyle, posting a season­"Since I've never swam at 
even faster."
Labosky finished second to 
By SHEilA EGTS best time of 15:59.35. the Big East, I am not sure 
Key performances from
Crippen by five seconds. 
Sports Writer Pierce is entering the Big what to expect. I am just going
sophomore Lisa D'Olier, East competition hoping to for times to meet my personal
"Since eighth grade, I've 
senior Kelly Recking andlook up to Maddy and 
The men's swimming and place comparably with his fin­goals and I see what the com­senior Carrie Nixon led the diving team dominated ishes in the past three years. petition is like when I get
watched her times just 
women to a strong win 
Villanova on Saturday, mark­He placed fourth last year in there," said Bertke. 
thinking about how awe­
against Villanova, maintain­ing its first win in history the 1650-yard freestyle and Junior Michael Flanagan put
some it would be to even ing their season-long win­
against Villanova in a dual won the event his freshman up points for the Irish, swim­swim close to that fast," said 
ning streak and bumping 
meet. The Irish set the tone and sophomore years, swim­ming his way to victory in the
Labosky. "She's just an 
their record up to 8-0. 
for victory early in the meet ming a personal-best and 400 IM with a season-best, Big amazing athlete and I love 
D'Olier swam season-best 
with first place finishes in the school record time of 15:33.16 East qualifying time ofswimming against her." 
times and won the 100 and 
first six events. in 2000. 4:08.86.
As she plunged into the 
200 butterfly, Hecking 
The opening event starred "Eric [Limkemann of Other first place finisheswater on Saturday, having 
placed first in the 100 and the relay team of Jason Pittsburgh] will be at Big East, included junior Jason Colettisfun with her friend and rival 
200 backstroke, and Nixon 
Fitzpatrick, David Horak, and he currently holds the in the 100-yard backstroke,was the only thing on 
claimed wins in the 50 and Frank Krakowski and Drew best conference time," said junior John Hudson in the 200Labosky's mind. By the end 100 freestyle. 
Pittman who took first place Welsh. "Jonathan will be in backstroke, senior Mike Kossof the race, she was having The women swim next on with a time of 1:35.63. In sec­the position of chasing him, in the 100-yard breaststroke,even more fun than antici­
Thursday against 16th­
ond was the team of Dean but he is putting a lot of atten­and sophomore J.R. Teddy in
pated as she stared up at ranked Northwestern in 
Wolf, Mike Koss, Adam Cahill tion into going out with a fab­the 200 butterfly. 
her career best, a NCAA 
Rolfs Aquatic Center at 5 
and Austin Anderson for the ulous Big East meet." Junior Andy Maggio alsoqualifying time of 4:14.47 on p.m. 
Irish at 1:36.48 Freshman Matt Bertke was a won both diving events. "I really didn't expect to 
the scoreboard. 
"The relays clearly got us big point scorer for the Irish, qualify or swim that fast 
started in the direction," said · taking first place in both the tonight," Labosky said 
head coach Tim Welsh regard­200-and 500-yard freestyle. Saturday, after finishing only 
ing the Irish's sweep of the Coming off an impressive final 
Contact Sheila Egts at Contact Sheila Egts at 
relays. "We talked about those year of high school when hefractions of a second behind 
egts0236@saintmarys.edu.
egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 

Shape the Future of Health Care as a Doctor of Chiropractic v If you want to help people get well and stay well... v If you want to work independently as a self­emplo¥.ed chiropractic physician... v Ifyou want to achieve the financial success commensurate with your professional standing as a Doctor of Chiropractic... v If you want to establish your position in the community as a highly respected Doctor of Chiropractic._. Then you are ready for a challenging and rewarding career in chiropractic. Contact Logan College of Chiropractic today! Logan CtHt1{f•·uf•f..'hii·•ipr·1td¢ 1-800-533-9210 1851 Schoettler Rd, Chesterfield, MO 63017 www.logan.edu 'f.'< loganadm@logan.edu An Equal Opportunity Institution of Higller Edlleatlon  
LtCTOV !UOITIO~S fO~ Monday, January 28 at 4pm Tuesday, January 29 at 4pm AT THE BASILICA There is no need to prepare anything. You will be given ascripture passage or intercessions to read.  


Monday, January 28, 2002 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles drop third in a row despite Blair's 2 I 

By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basket­ball team posted its third loss in a row Saturday, despite senior forward Anne Blair's lighting up the court with her game-high 21 points. With no other shooters, though, the Belles lost to Albion, 61­41, extending their road-los­ing streak to five. 
The Belles beat the Britons at home Jan. 2, but could not repeat their success at Albion's Kresge Gymnasium. Albion, boosted by a win against Hope that halted the 39-game winning streak of the Flying Dutch, came out intense from the start of Saturday's game. The Britons had run up 11 points before the Belles could score their first basket. 
"We beat [Albion] early in the season. We knew what to expec_t, but they've gone on a rampage and have done great," said senior Jamie Dineen, who finished the afternoon with four rebounds and no points. "[After their win against previously unde­feated Hope], we knew that they'd be pretty pumped for the game." 
The Belles were confident about this game also -par­tially because they had already beat the Britons this season and partially because of a much-welcomed day of I rest coach Suzanne Smithd, ,' gave to her players last 
<l, Thursday. 
'I: 
I 
).i "It was helpful to have a 
f
', 
day of rest and reflection and your own time to get caught up on everything," Dineen said. "We came back on Friday really fired up for practice." 
According to Dineen, that momentum carried into the game, but one of Smith's concerns has been that the Belles seem to lose their intensity as the game pro­gresses. At the end of the first half, Saint Mary's was down by just seven points, 31-24. But in the second half, the Belles were outscored 30-17. Overall, they were out-rebounded 40­27. 
"I think we came out with a lot of intensity, but I don't know if we kept getting the ball to the people that were on fire," said freshman starter Katie Boyce, who had six points and nine rebounds. "We have to recognize who is hitting that night and get the ball to that person." 
Saturday it seemed that Blair was the only one on fire. Boyce believes said the Belles did not get the ball to Blair enough or she would have scored even more points. 
None of the Belles scored half as many points as their captain. Freshman Emily Creachbaum was second on the team in scoring with six points. 
"Offensively we've been struggling for the past two games," Dineen said. 
Other individuals besides Blair helped keep the Belles in the game during the first half and the start of the_ sec­ond. Sophomore Katie Miller, whose tenacious play and reliable 3-point shooting has been a great asset for the Belles in recent games, scored Saint Mary's only 3­pointer of the night and fin­ished with a game-high eight assists. Creachbaum had a game-high nine rebounds. 
Saint Mary's shot 34 per­cent from the floor and 6.2 percent from beyond the arc. This is the second time this season the Belles have attempted 16 3-pointers and made only one. 
Albion, led by Amanda Yeager's 14 points and Stacey Supanich's 12, was 28-57 from the floor and 5­15 from 3-point range. 
The Belles had been approaching this game from the angle of a new beginning, as it was the first contest of the second round of confer­ence play. 
"It was kind of like a new start because we had already gone through the whole con­ference one time around," Boyce said. "After the first round, we were [hoping] to begin the second round of our conference with a win." 
Although disappointed, the Belles are looking forward to Wednesday night, when they will have a second shot at beating Alma -to which they lost 66-52 in a hard­fought game Jan. 5. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 




Men 
continued from page 20 
Humphrey was the inside force for the Irish. He led all scorers with 16 points and added 1-2 rebounds. 
But the Irish also got produc­tion from Jordan Cornette and Tom Timmermans. Cornette grabbed 10 rebounds and chipped in six points, while the 6-foot-11, 263 pound Timmermans played a career­high 13 minutes. 
After an ugly first half that Brey admitted "probably set the game back 20 years", the Pirates entered the locker room with a 23-22 lead. But a pair of Graves 3-pointers jump-started an Irish run that enabled Notre Dame to pull away from Seton Hall early in the second half. 
Graves, replaced by Torrian Jones in the starting lineup Saturday, struggled in the first half. He only scored one point and picked up three fouls. But he hit his first 3-pointer 2:48 into the second half to put the Irish up by four. 
Eight minutes later, Graves' second 3-pointer of the night gave the Irish an eight-point lead. Notre Dame never looked back. 
The Irish finished 41 percent from the field but just 3-for-14 from behind the 3-point line. Chris Thomas and Graves both picked up 11 points, and Thomas had a team-high five assists. 
"We needed [a win]," said Brey. "I was worried about us psychologically if we didn't get this one done here today. Our locker room was excited and happy and celebrating." 
Notes: 
. Brey didn't say whether or not his decision to move Graves out of the starting lineup would be a permanent one. "I think we'll come back and analyze things tomorrow as a staff," Brey said. 
"I really think it's kind of game to game with this group. But you do like a Torrian Jones, a Tom Timmermans. a Jordan Cornette. Right now, whatever you ask out of those guys, you're pretty darn confident with those guys in Big East play right now." 
Last season, when Graves and the Irish hit a similar slump in January, Brey replaced Graves with Swanagan in the starting lineup. The results paid off. Graves thrived in the sixth man role and the Irish reeled off an eight-game winning streak. 
. Swanagan will probably play against Pittsburgh Wednesday night. Brey said after Saturday's game. The senior forward has missed the last two games after re-aggra­vating an ankle sprain. 
"I think if we can get him close, we'll cut him loose," said Brey. "Looking at his eyes in the 
Thin & Healthy 
"Your Last Stop For Weight Loss" Mishawaka, IN ANNOUNCES 
NOTRE DAME SPECIAL *$150 Discount* 
Less Than A Dollar A Day CALL 
257-8400 
Our members KNOW. why they belong! 
Present This Coupon 
*$150 Discount 
locker room and watching how he moved around, he's making 
University ofNotre Dame Special 
very good progress." 
For Students, Faculty and Employees Located at 413 W. McKinley Ave. (across from K-Mart) 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
*Applies to a one yearfull privilege membership
asoukup@nd.edu. 
J 
Monday, January 28, 2002 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES 


RYAN
TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNINGHAM 

BILL AMEND 
-
YOU MEAN, DRoP BY AND SEE tF WELL, YEAH, HE'LL GIVE VS THAT Too. 
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Guarded 60 Conserved 1 Spiral 38 Crate 61 Slip 10 Clobber 39 Pleases, with 62 Starts ."to"
15 Be that as it may 40 Perjurer's 
DOWN
admission
16 Beginning of a 1 Former Defense conclusion 41 Street sign abbr. 
Secretary17 Slightly built-up 42 Composer WeinbergerDohnanyi et al.
18 Slew 2 Opera with the 44 Dog star soprano aria
19 Developer's "Ave Maria" reference 48 1920's-30's 
20 Donkey follower lawman 3 New York/New 51 Like some Jersey's_
22 High peak 
signals, for short Mountains 23See 
52 Crabs 4 Come together 26 Good vantage 
54 Person who's a 5 Its monetary point 
zero?: Abbr. unit is the 28 Noted caravel pound: Abbr.
55 Lead 29 Film no. 6 Rubbish
57 Simple30 "M" star, 1931 7 Quite an oddity
59 Bread and 32 Stiff drink butter, e.g. 8 Plain weave fabric 
9 Game report 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


10 Utter, briefly 
Puzzle by Rich Norris 
11 News segment 31 1949 Peace 45 Kind of party 54 Karl Johans Prize winner Gate is its main
12 Narrow 46 Believer
Lord John Boyd thoroughfare13 Co. that bought 47 Over 
55 lnits. in comedyMotown in 1988 33 Way of France 49 Places for racks man
56
14 Cooler 
34Q_ 
50 Not going on 58 Treasury Dept.
21 French town or 35 Look, at the 
53 O.E.D. listings divisionits product 
Forum? 24 Shrink rap? 36 Catch, and how! 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
37 Start are available by touch-tone phone:who created Dr. 
38 Like the teeth of 1·900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute).
Gideon Fell many combs 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 27 Drawing device 40 Fit best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 28 Show 43 It's a relief years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON getting along will lead to all sorts TiflS DAY: Amanda Peet, Mary J. of unexpected events. 00 Blige, Kim Coles, Naomi Judd, LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Jason Connery, RodTayloi;, You've got what it takes to reach 
Happy Birthday: Your popu­your goals today so don't let lazi­larity will soar this year. If you ness stand in your way. Your abil­build a strong position in your cir­ity to get your point across will cle of friends, colleagues and aid you in getting ahead. 0000 pee.!5, you will be able to get the SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): help needed to accomplish your You had better put in extra effort objectives. Your numbers are or you may find yourself falling 4,15,17,26,32,37 behind. You should find out inter­
ARIES (March 21-April 19): esting information regarding a Competitive games will get your financial investment or legal mat­heart pumping. You are in a win­ter. 000 ning cycle so don't hesitate to put SAGITTARIUS (Nov; 22-Dec. 21): yourself on the line. 00000 Ups and downs can be expected 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20)): within your partnerships. Don't You may have to offer assistance be shy if something appears to be to others. Do so willingly and you wrong or uncertain. Be sure to will not find it nearly as difficult. take action and deal with these 000 matters quickly and efficiently. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 000 Take the initiative and do what's CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): needed to improve your life. If Someone you work with may not you have a complaint with some­be looking out for your best inter,­one, speak up and resolve it. est. Keep your guard up and 000 don't be too quick to let others 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): know what your intentions are. Avoid getting into a disagreement 000 with a friend or family member. It AQUARIUS (Jan. 20--Feb. 18): is better just to listen to what he or You may want to travel, however she has to say. 000 it probably won't be in your best 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll interest. Overspending will leave be in the mood to party. Enjoy the you cash poor at the end of the company of friends but don't for­month. Someone you least expect get to take care of any responsibil­will offer to help you out. 0000 ities first. You may need to help PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): someone who can't do things for It's time to start thinking about all him or herself. 00000 the things you can do around the 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): It house. You may get the help you is best to let everyone do his or need if you ask but don't over­her own thing at li.ome. Problems spend on luxury items. 00 
Birthday Baby: You dance to your own beat. You are curious, active and very disciplined. You have great respect for your family but will always follow your own path. You are powerful. inventive and enter­taining. 
{Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
~ 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I 
I 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name --------------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
... 

~ 
; i 

I!i 
' 
National Sports 
. 
NFL Playoffs, p. 14 

. 
Australian Open, p. 13 

. 
NCAA Basketball, p. 12 



O
THE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. 
SMC Basketball, p. 18 

. 
NO Swimming, p. 17 

. 
ND Tennis, p. 16 

. 
ND Track. and Field, p. 15 

. 
Hockey, p. 15 



Monday, January 28, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish top Hokies at home 
of the floor. I thought offen­sively they made so many big shots." 
The win against Virginia Tech, also ranked 17th in the ESPN/USA Today poll, was the first of the season for the Irish against a ranked team. The Irish had previously fallen to Michigan, Purdue and Connecticut. 
"I think it does a lot for our confidence, it does a lot for our RPI and it really does a lot for the NCAA tournament," McGraw said. "That was a win that really finally we look at and we beat a ranked team. That was critical for us." 
Batteast came on strong from the start, scoring 13 points in· a row as the Irish took a 15-7 lead nine minutes into the ballgame. After two consecutive Kelsey \Vicks 3­pointers stretched the Irish lead to 21-11, the Hokies came storming back, closing the Irish lead to 27-24 with 1.9 seconds remaining before half­time. 
At that mark, Wicks rolled a "ground ball" pass to Ratay. who dribbled twice before let­ting go at half-court just before the buzzer sounded. 
see WOMEN/page 15 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
When No. 1-ranked Connecticut topped Notre Dame by 27 points last Monday, Husky players point­ed out that they keyed in on Irish leading scorers Jacqueline Batteast and Alicia Ra tay. That defensive plan worked. as the pair combined for just 15 points. 
Saturday night, with Notre Dame's 46-game home win­ning streak at stake against Associated Press No. 16 Virginia Tech, the focus again was on Batteast and Ratay. 
And they rose to the cha}:. lenge. 
Batteast scored a team-high 26 points while Ratay added 22 -including a half-court buzzer-beater and a four-point play -as the Irish topped the Hokies 64-57. The announced crowd of 8,878 was the fourth­largest Joyce Center atten­
dance  mark  ever  for  the  
women's team.  
"Alicia  and  Jackie  just  
played  probably  the  best  

games of their seasons so far," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said after the game. "Just outstanding on both ends 
) ! 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
J 
Irish defense stands tall against Pirates 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 

It's taken them 19 games, but the Irish have finally discovered the secret to winning games. 
Defense. 
Notre Dame (13-6, 3-3 in Big East play) held Seton Hall (10-9, 3-4 in Big East play) to just 29 percent shooting from the field as the Irish won 60-51, snapping a three-game losing streak. 
"You get to a point in the season where you start to understand things," forward David Graves said. "For us to win, we've gotta play defense." 
Both teams had shooting problems early, but Seton Hall's defensive laps­es enabled Notre Dame to establish an offensive rhythm in the second half. 
Meanwhile, the Irish played solid defense the entire game and broke a five-year-old team record for fewest points allowed in a Big East game. 
Seton Hall, a team that relies on its 
·, 
3-point shooting to win games, shot 
) 
just 4-for-24 from behind the arc. The 
) -
Pirates' top three scorers, Andre Barrett, Darius Lane and John Allen, finished a combined 22 percent from the field. 
"We've had bad shooting nights, but this seemed to be contagious," Seton Hall coach Louis Orr said. "On paper, this was probably the worst shooting night we've had." 
The Irish limited Barrett, who entered the game averaging a team­high 17. 9 points per game, to just five points. Notre Dame usually double­teamed the Seton Hall point guard and he rarely had an open shot. Only Allen finished in double figures for the Pirates. He had 11 points. 
"It was the first game that I could remember where if we didn't have a successful offensive possession, it didn't affect us on the other end of the floor," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "We got back and we were men­tally tougher about digging in and rebounding." 
With Harold Swanagan sidelined for the second consecutive game, Ryan 
see MEN/page 18 


. ND Women's Basketball vs. Syracuse, Tuesday, 
OBSERVER
7 p.m.
SPORTS 
online classifieds 
. Men's Tennis at Duke, Tuesday, 3 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Basketball vs. Pittsburgh, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 








