.,
..........-----------------------------------------.-----.-------------------~-~ 
Go Irish!
SNOW 

Who is that rowdy group ofgreen-cladfans at the men ·s basketball 
Monday
games? Scene reveals the masterminds behind Notre Dame's Leprechaun Legion. 
MARCH 4,
HIGH 21° 
LOW 18°. 
Scene . pages 11-12 
2002 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 101 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Class of 2003 reelects class officers 
members and to plan events that voter turnout would be cerns are going abroad and lucky that the people chose ourBy ERIN lARUFFA 
such as reunions. low, since the runoff election exploring career options. ticket." 
Associate News Editor 
Currently the class officers for was held Friday. However, he "We want to try to bring unity At the same time, Lao praised 
the junior class. Smith, Lysaght, said they were pleased to see to the junior class as the focus Aberger's ticket, as well as the 
Following last Wednesday's Mastronardi and Gentine plan that more juniors voted in the on those two areas," she said. other tickets that ran-in primary, the remaining candi­to continue holding monthly runoff than in With the Wednesday's primary, for manydates in the three class council class dinners, that Smith said Wednesday's largest of their platform ideas. 
elections faced each other in a "help to unite the class." He primary. v o t e r "We want to open up the
"The theme in student 
runoff on Friday. said they also intend to work In the elec­turnout of class council to the people who In a close'election reminiscent with other campus organiza­tion for Class government has been any class, ran in this election," he said. of the recent student body pres­tions throughout the year. of 2004 offi­collaboration. ,. 1009 votes, "All the tickets were commend~ ident election, the Class of 2003 "The theme in student gov­cers, Meghan the Class of · able and therefore we want 
reelected Matt Smith, Karen 
ernment has been collabora­O'Donnell, Pat 2005 elect­them to be a part of the coun­
Matt Smith
Lysaght, Nick Mastronardi and 
tion," Smith said. "There will Mill~a. Shawna ed Jeremy cil." Josh Gentine as its class offi­definitely be collaboration with Monson and president of Class of 2003 Lao, Erika In fact, Lao said that this cers. the office of the president and Sonia Wallace Bramley, process of assembling the class 
Smith and his ticket received some smaller clubs." received 5 7 K e n n a council by both finding people55 percent, just 62 votes more Senior class officers are also percent of the Brewer and who want to be involved and than the ticket of Steven involved with organizing Senior vote, beating Jon Feczko, Sean Matt Kinsella as its class offi­determining how to structure 
Henriques, Edward Pettei, 
Week between final exams and McCarthy, Richard Mordini and cers. The ticket defeated the council is his first priorityBrian Ostick and Catherine t!ieir class' graduation ceremo­Joseph Saliba. Stephanie Aberger, Joe now that he has been elected. Disipio. ny. "It's something I felt called to Sweigart. Andrea Brault and The new slates of class offi­
'Tm excited we get another "It's really the last time in this do and really wanted to do," Kevin Leicht with 64 percent of cers begin their terms in April. 
whole six years," Smith said. 
setting that you get to be with O'Donnell said, who will serve the vote. Senior class officers remain in your friends," said Smith. "It's a as class president. "I'm still coming to the real­office for five additional years 
memory that will last." O'Donnell said that as most ization that I was elected," Lao 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at 
after graduation to coordinate 
Smith admitted that both tick­sophomores look ahead to said, who will become sopho­

elaruffa@nd.edu.
communication among class ets in the race were concerned junior year, their main con-more class president. "But I feel 





Yeoh depends on East and West 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
Actor Michelle Yeoh closed up the successful International' Conference on Globalization and Media in Asia held at Notre· Dame this weekend by dis­cussing many 
of her experi-See Also 
ences with 
both the Yeoh discusses 
American 
'Crouching Tiger,

and Asian 
Hidden Dragon'

film industry before a page4showing of her block­buster hit "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." 
"\Vithout the Asian market I would not be recognized by the American market. I appreciate where I started in Asia," Yeoh, a native ~alaysian, said . "I don't choose by location, but rather by the character I play as well as the director. It's more about their personalities and the vision they have." 
She also spoke highly of her experience with Thomas Chung of Han Entertainment, also a speaker at the conference that occurred over the weekend. 
After 19 films and 18 years in the industry, Yeoh has collected many awards and honors, including three nominations as "Best Actress" in several Asian film awards and status as the "International Star of' the Year" at the ShoWest exhibitors' con­vention 2001. I Icr success has not been limited to the Asian lilm industry; she has captured American audiences with per­ferent female image than the formances in "Tomorrow Never elite Caucasian female actors Dies" as well· as "Crouching who first see the script. Tiger, Hidden Dragon." Even though she hopes to get 
What makes Yeoh an even more drama roles, Yeoh still more well known actor is that defended her action roles. she performs nearly all her own "It's not action for action's stunts, many of them using mar­sake. The dramatic part still tial arts. Hebelling against the matters," she explains. "Martial stereotype of "damsel in dis­arts takes away the ugly, bloody 
tress," Yeoh  violence that  
has become the preemi­ "Without the Asian  you see when someone is  
nent female  market I would not be  shot  in  a  
action hero­ine. When  recognized by the  movie." Yeoh  was  
asked  what  American market. ,,  also  asked  
was  one  of  about  her  
the hardest movies she had done she  Michelle Yeoh actor  experiences working on a h u g e  

told of her knee injury during the first week of filming "Crouching Tiger" that almost stopped production. Even more challenging for the role was learning Mandarin Chinese, a language in which Yeoh is not fluent. 
\'Vhilc audience members acknowledged the exciting action roles she plays they want­ed to know what her plans are for more dramatic parts. She pointed out her movie "Soong Sisters," a movie about three sis­ters during the formation of the Chinese Hepublic; a movie that does not involve action. Yeoh turned the question back on the audience as to why so many female roles in Hollywood tend to be stereotypical. She said that she often receives scripts that have to be slightly rewritten for her because she embodies a dif-
Hollywood 
movie like "Tomorrow Never Dies." She told the audience that she found herself on her own private jet between locations hoping that the audience would watch the movie and say to themselves, "now I understand where they put that $100,000." 
Recently, Yeoh has established her own production company, Mythical Films, as a way to con­tinue her development and give back to the industry. She hopes to bring in young and upcoming directors and screenwriters to work in the Asian market. The company's debut movie, "The Touch," will be released this upcoming summer. 
Contact Liz Kahling at ekahling@nd.edu. 

To THE BITTER END! 


,, I • , , t 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, March 4, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

My Dr., my hero 
I work at a hospital where I hear people bad mouth doctors all day long. I hear about insurance argu­ments, long office waits, malpractice miscommunica­tions regarding second opinions upon second opinions that lead to confusion. So, when a professor asked me in class Friday, "who is in charge? The doctor, or the patient," I thought I could 
easily answer the question. I was½'rong. 
Doctors must endure endless years of schooling to gain their degree. And for this, I think that people think that doctors should know everything, or be able to cure everything. Although they have the ability 


to make life and death deci­

Kelly Hager 
sions, doctors are no different 
than the patients they treat. 
Face the facts; doctors are peo­

Copy Editor
ple too. Doctors make mistakes. 
Good doctors know when to 
admit fault. 

\Vhat then makes a great doctor, or makt>s a doctor 
great? I don't believe that a person is a doctor as soon 
as the degree is received. A person becomes a doctor 
when they begin to act in the best interest of their 
patients, motivated by the healing aspect of medicine, 
not by greed. Doctors demonstrate compassion and 
the ability to get things done without compromising 
human dignity. It is a doctor's job to help a patient 
understand options, and guide a decision for medical 
care. It is through this effort, that many doctors are 
deemed heroes. Even heroes can't do everything ­
some patients choose not to listen. People continue to 
smoke in spite of cancer; people continue to drink in 
the face of addiction. The decision to explain the 
importance of quitting is the responsibility of the 
physician. The choice to stop falls upon the patient. 
For this reason, it is also the patient's job to be edu­
cated. My mother always said that people could only 
make you feel inferior ifyou allow them to. With this 
in mind, I look at physicians today. As a patient, I 
trust that the information given to me is truthful. I 
want to know how and why. and what I can do to 
help myself in the situation. I want to know what is 
happening to me, so I educate myself. I look at my 
relationship with my doctors as a teacher/student, a 
passing of knowledge. A doctor knows what will help, 
and if I listen. I too can learn how to make decisions 
that benefit my health. But, like a good student, I am 
expected to ask questions. And, like a good teacher, a 
doctor's knowk>dge should be shared willingly. 
And then, there's money. It can determine the path 
taken by both patient and physician. Patients fight to 
gain insurance coverage, doctor's fight for insurance 
coverage. The question in care turns from. which 
drugs offer the best outcome to which drugs will 
~urance cover? Sometimes, that lack of coverage 
leads to a substandard decision on what is deemed 
adequate or necessary care. A decision should be 
made based on cure rates. not copays. 

But then, who is responsible for the actions of both 
doctor and patient? Is insurance the ultimate scape­
goat? It is the doctor's responsibility to never allow 
business to tower over patient care. It is a patient's 
respom;ibility to look into the practice of the physician, 
and determine which is of more importance to the 
individual caregiver., A patient should listen to the 
options given by their doctor, and make an educated 
decision based on their own faith on what is the best 
treatment to ensure their health. 

So who is in charge? Sometimes the seemingly eas­
iest questions turn out to be the most difficult. Even 
though my answer was enough to get the time to pass 
in my class, the question still leaves me wondering. 
It's a never-ending discussion. My suggestion, start by 
discussing it with your own physician. 

Contact Kelly Hager at khager@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column . are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at. 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Monday  .  Tuesday  
. Film and discussion:  . Lecture: "War and  
"The Life and Times of  Power in Putin's Russia."  
Rosie the Riveter."  Hesburgh Center C-103,  
DeBartolo 129, 4 p.m.  12:30 p.m.  
. Bible Study: "The vVay  . Film: "Silences of the  
Bible Study." 331  Palace." Montgomery  
Coleman-Morse, 8:30 p.m.  Theatre, 7 and 9 p.m.  

Wednesday 
. Lecture: "American Foreign Policy Challenges." Hesburgh Center. Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
Thursday 
. Conference: "Assessing the Theological Legacy of John Howard Yoder." McKenna Hall. all day. 

BEYOND CAMPUS Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Plagiarism plagues Harvard historian's reputation 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Amid more findings of plagiarism in her book The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys, historian and Harvard Overseer Doris Kearns Goodwin has left "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" for an indefinite period of time and found withdrawn her invitation to speak at the University of Delaware's commencement.· 
In a statement, "NewsHour" said that "until all outstanding questions are resolved, 'The NewsHour' and Doris have mutually agreed that Doris will take a break from appearing on the program." 
Goodwin's return to the PBS show is not guaranteed. 
"Once her situation gets resolved, we'll take another look," said Sara Hope Franks, public relations manag­er for "NewsHour." 


On Tuesday, the University of Delaware withdrew its invitation for Goodwin to speak at their commence­ment ceremony. 
"In light of recent admissions of pla­giarism by Doris Kearns Goodwin, the University of Delaware has withdrawn its invitation to her to serve as the speaker at its Commencement," according to a statement issued by the university. 
University of Delaware President David P. Roselle wrote in an e-mail that the decision was based on two considerations and was discussed via phone with Goodwin, who agreed. 
"I felt that the probability that she would be placed in an embarrassing situation was unacceptably high from the university's point of view," Roselle wrote. 
Roselle also said the university was placed in a difficult position of deter­mining whether the recent controver­sy would detract from the spirit of the ceremony. 
"Commencement at our institution is a time reserved solely for a celebra­tion of the successes of the students, and her serving as speaker under the current conditions was likely to add to the agenda for the upcoming com­mencement," Roselle wrote. 
Harvard Crimson 
Boe JONES UNIVERSITY 

School tries to attract rninorities 
HANOVER, N.H. 
Bob Jones University, a Christian school in South Carolina that has received national criticism for its now-abolished ban on interracial dating, has begun to offer a scholarship pro~. am for minority students, though the school does not perceive itself as having a diversity problem. The scholarships range from $2,000 up to $10,000 -approximately the cost of attendance at BJU -and are available for minority students who demonstrate financial need. The schol­arship fund is controlled by a board independent of the university, described by BJU spokesman Jonathan Pait as "friends of the school." "They saw a need and wanted to address it," Pait said. The uni­versity itself offers only work-study aid programs, and government aid is denied to students because of the school's religious orientation. Pait said he hopes the program will enable students to attend BJU who might not otherwise be able to afford the school. 
The Dartmouth (Dartmouth College) 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather<ll forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r ,t I


~,~,~~ ~ ~ (f ~ ~ 
Showers T-stcxms Rain Fl,;~es S~ Ice Sumy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Auocillfed Press Grapl!ICSNaf 
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 

Legislators back gun possession 
SALT LAKE CITY 

With less than a week left in the legislative session, lawmakers are making a last-minute push to pass a bill that would eliminate University of Utah's no-gun policy.'The bill does not single out the U but includes many state agencies with rules restricting firearms. On Friday the Senate Rules Committee will vote on the bill. To repeal the gun policies, the bill must pass through the Senate and House before the legislative session ends Wednesday. The bill would eliminate U Code of Students Rights and Responsibilities, III Stu.dent Standards of Behavior, item six, which states: "Possession or use on university premises or at university activities of any firearm or other dan­gerous weapon, incendiary device, explosive or chemical unless such possession or use has been authorized by the university." Despite added pres­sure created by the bill, U administrators remain steadfast, standing behind the policy. 
Daily Utah Chronicle 

NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather:com forecast for noon.Monday, March 4. 
•• •e •
COLD WARM STAnONARY

C 2002 AccuWeather. Inc. 
PrenUUI: 

® © CJ ~ CJ ru3 Im 
High Low Shower• Rain T-atorma FluniN Snow Vio Assoa/11"'1 Ptvs$ 
Atlanta 38 24 Denver 52 Boston 41 20 Detroit 21 Buffalo 22 16 Houston 54 Chieago 25 22 Las Vegas 65 Cincinnali 28 22 Miami 75 
~ :t:.l ;~~~~~ @:~~~j 
lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
25 New Yori< 40 23 17 Salt Lake City 44 27 31 San Fransisco 63 45 38 St Louis 37 28 64 Washington DC 38 15 
-· 

Monday, March 4, 2002. page 3
The Observer . NEWS 

Casualties increase in 
CEO brings Asian film to U.S. 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 
In an era seemingly domi­nated by American pop cul­ture, \Villiam Pfeiffer, CEO of llong Kong-based Celestial Pictures, promotes globaliza­tion by targeting local audi­ences. 
Pfeiffer. a 1982 Notre Dame graduate, described his expe­rience with the business of contemporary Asian rnedia as he delivered the keynote address in the Conference on Globalization and Media in Asia Friday. Pfeiffer has pio­neered the globalization of the nrndia, leading film stu­dios to adopt the philosophy "think globally, script locally." 
"We are bringing Asian film outside, exporting it to many countries around the \vorld, and having an impact on the quality of entertainment," said Pfeiffer, citing the Oscar nomination for best picture that "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" received as proof. 
Celestial Pictures, vvhich owns the largest film library in Asia, distributes films to studios worldwide and also features them on new televi~ sion networks it has created. 
"There is a value in showing these films in their local lan­guages. They have crossed over and are appealing to audiences they were not origi­nally intended for. I think audiences appreciate the orig­inal language," said Pfeiffer. 
Pfeiffer is currently develop­ing a new Chinese film-based channel that will be broadcast around the· world. The chan­nel also includes some Korean and Japanese films, as well as other Asian films produced directly by Celestial Pictures. Pfeiffer made 10 films this year, but he said he hopes to produce 30 to 40 each year in the near future. 
Pfeiffer said he viewed his work as a positive effort to promote cultural diversity in media around the world, rather than a means to bring I lollywood to Asia. . 
"I don't fee·! like a purveyor 
of American culture around opportunities. Rather than go the world. I have a responsi­after a smaller niche, we bility to show local cultures in looked at the competition a positive light. We have these around Asia and saw the talented actors, and I provide opportunity to go after the them with the proper mass market with localized resources to make their story content," said Pfeiffer. come alive. We create stories Sony became the first majorwith a local context." Hollywood studio to set up 
Pfeiffer  office  in  
has a histo­ China, where  
ry of meld­ ..There is a value in  it distributed  
ing East and West. After <)arn­ showing these films in their local languages  programs to major net­works in  
ing an MBA f' r O m Stanford, Pfeiffer moved to Asia in 1983 and served as  They have crossed over and are appealing to audiences they were not originally intended for. I think audiences appreciate the original  China. But faced with restrictions on foreign pro­duction in China, it explored other markets in  
head of marketing  language"  Asia. Pfeiffer and  
for K I  Smith i n c  William Pfeiffer  his associates saw India as a  
Beecham.  CEO Celestial Pictures  promising  

He devel­oped a campaign to achieve acceptance for American pharmaceuticals on the Asian market. and his success merited recognition from Walt Disney. 
Disney appointed Pfeiffer head of their Asian operations and hoped he. would strength­en its presence in Asia. 
"There was a resistance to change in international busi­ness because every country is unique. It was my job as a businessman to find a new and better way," he said. 
Pfeiffer brought the culture of Disnev to Japan through a television program called "The Disney Club," which combined Japanese hosts and children with Disney anima­tion and merchandise. The show expanded to over 50 countries, with localized con­tent for each one. 
When the booming Japanese economy of the late 1980s failed in·1991, Pfeiffer looked for a future elsewhere in Asia. I le moved to Ilong Kong and began working with Sony pic_­tures. 
"Sony was looking for new potential mar­ket, and in 1995 they 
launched a television channel called Sony Entertainment Television. "We developed a network of channels that would appeal to a variety of audiences with diverse tastes," said Pfeiffer. 
As more studios saw the growth opportunity in Asia and pursued their interests there, Sony also backed 
· Columbia TriStar International TV. 
Todav Pfeiffer continues to diversify his programming by region. 
"You look at regions like China, Malaysia, India. ­these markets are currently depressed, they have huge popuhitions, and they are primed for growth. We're try­ing to ride the wave of the next growth in Asia," he said. 
Pfeiffer said he secs a bright future for the globalization of media as he helps transcend cultural barriers. 
"We arc all part of the same world. People make. up many of the differences; I think we are in reality quite similar," he said. 

anti-terrorism war 
Associated Press 
\VASI IINGTON 

Fresh U.S. combat casualties show the continuing danger five months into the anti-terror campaign in Afghanistan even as the Pentagon prepares to expand it to other countries . 
In one of the largest joint operations of the war, a U.S.­led force of 1.500 Afghan allies, 
U.S. special forces and troops from the Army's 101 st Airborne assault troops assem­bled for a battle that began Friday night and was continu­ing Saturday evening against regrouping Taliban and al­Qaida, the Defense Department said. 
A statement late Saturday from Central Command in Florida said one American and 
' three Afghans allies had been killed, and that an unspecified number from each country were wounded in the continu­ing battle. Afghan fighters interviowed in Gardez, in eastern Afghanistan, said Americans told them there were about 4,000 al-Qaida and Taliban warriors holed up in the moun­tains. The Central Command state­ment said more than 80 bombs had been dropped in the con­tinuing operation in snow-cov­ered. mountainous terrain. For the first time, warplanes dropped newly developed bombs designed to send suffo­cating blasts through cave complexes, military officials said. The "thermobaric" bombs were tested in December and officials said in January that they would be rushed to the region_ for the war. 
The battle was yet another example of how hard it is to stamp out the terrorists and their supporters in Afghanistan. months after the Taliban abandoned their stronghold or Kandahar and al­Qaid a fighters were pushed from Tora Bora -what at that time was called their last stronghold. 
"We've said all along that it 
is not over," Pentagon spokes­
woman Victoria Clarke said 
hours before the bombing 
began. 
More than a week of bomb­
ing to destroy caves and 
ammunition was needed in 
January at a huge cave com­
plex at Zawar Kili -also after 
the discovery that enemy fig­
ures had been regrouping 
there. 
President Bush learned of the 
combat death or the death of 
the American soldier from 
Condoleezza Rice, his national 
security adviser, while at Camp 
David, the presidential retreat 
in western Maryland, a \Vhitc 
I louse spokesman said. 
The new assault at Gardez 
came at the end of a week in 
which U.S. officials said Bush 
was planning to send troops to 
Yemen and the former Soviet 
Hepublic of Georgia. expanding 
the number of countries into 
which special forces are train­
ing local militarics to fight ter­
rorism. 
Administration officials said Friday that Bush had given the go-ahead to dispatch U.S. troops to Yemen. A Yemeni official said Saturday that he expects 100 Americans to arrive soon to train 2,000 Yemeni military personnel at a coast guard training center to be built in Aden. 
That is the of the October 2000 attack that killed 17 American sailors on the USS Cole. 
Washington has been push­ing Yemen for greater coopera­tion against terrorism since the suicide bombing, which like the Sept. 11 attacks on America, was blamed on Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network. 
Oflicials said last week that as many as 200 Americans would deploy to help train the military in Georgia, amid sketchy reports terrorists have taken refuge in the Pankisi Gorge near Georgia·s border with Russia's breakaway region of Chechnya. 

Get a fu// 1% cash back on purchases with a Visa® Platinum Card from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union:'" 
For details, call 574/239-6611 or 800/567-6328, or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
Apply now ... because nobody expands your 
world like Notre Dame Federal Credit Union: 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 

*Certain restrictions apply. Your annual cash bonus ofa full 1% is paid out annually in January, and is based on your annual purchases. Cash bonus information wi I! . appear on each monthly statement. Not applicable to cash advances or balance transfers. Not applicable to account tf delmquent or over hm11. Independent of the University. 

Join me after Spri')ggB_reak 
.,,rrpatM 

The Observerf 
rm looking for writers and staffersl 
Call me at .l . .r5323. 
._?;r;-~·.}Q ··::-?~!/}':'(: 
. i>:/r:z;;;r:·::>~:s­




~ WWW ­
·~------------.............-------.------------------------------------­
? 
C / page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 4, 2002 
' 
' 
i 
'i 
) Yeoh discusses 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' 
By I.AUREN BECK News Writer 
Actor and martial arts expert Michelle Yeoh said she attrib­utes the recent success of Asian films in the global mar­ket to their use of martial arts. 
Yeoh, who starred in "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," said that the film was able to transcend cultural boundaries. 
"East met West with [the film's director) Ang Lee ... He described the film as 'Sense and Sensibility' with martial arts," Yeoh said. 
Yeoh shared her experience with kung fu films in a panel discussion Friday that exam­ined the role of martial arts in global entertainment. The panel was part of the Conference on Globalization and Media in Asia and also included three Notre Dame fac­ulty members. 
History professor Dian Murray said martial arts had made their way into cinema as Asians' distinct film genre. 
Yeoh agreed, adding that the fluidity and energy of martial arts captivated audiences. 
"We want the audience to feel the blow because we· feel the blow. It's full contact and tion. "It gives [audiences] the very realistic. It is beautiful footage to piece the film choreography but painful and together as they want it ... Ang very tough," Yeoh said. Lee is intentionally giving up 

The  pan­ responsibility  
elists all dis- for interpreta­ 
c  u s  s  e d  "We want the audience to  tion and pro­ 
"Crouching Tiger,  feel the blow because we  voking thoughts and  
Hidden  feel the blow. It's full con­ emotions from  
Dragon"  as  tact and very realistic. It  the audience,"  
the pinnacle of Asian martial arts  is beautiful choreography but painful and very  Wan said. Lee refused authoritative  
films for the  tough ...  interpretation  
global stage.  and  left  the  
"It was not  ending  open  
the  be-all  Michelle Yeoh  enough to be  
end-all  of  actor  interpreted  
martial arts  differently by  
films. It was  the film's  var­ 
a  culmina­ ious  audi­ 

tion of the blood and sweat ences. "Lee reacted against filmmakers have put into the Hollywood commercial cinema genre. They assembled the best and narrative structure," Wan from the East and the West to said. make a truly global film," Yeoh Asian media has not only said. "The surprising element succeeded in the \'Vest, but it is how Western audiences took has also brought martial arts an Oriental theme and culture to American film. and so warmly embraced it." "The 'Asian-ization' of 
Margaret Wan, assistant pro­American cinema came in the fessor of East Asian Languages form of 'Tomorrow Never and Literatures, said that the Dies.' James Bond moved into ambiguity of the ending of the new century as I tried to "Crouching Tiger, Hidden convince audiences they Dragon" was the key to its couldn't accept the traditional global acceptance and percep-kind of Bond girl any longer. I worked with the director to incorporate Hong Kong style martial arts into the Bond film," Yeoh said. 
Consumers must view martial arts films with a critical eye, however, said assistant profes­sor of film, television and the­ater Wendy 
women on the martial arts scene posed a problem for Western feminists. 
"The depiction of women is not always wholly positive or unproblematic according to Western feminism," she said. 
Women in martial arts films 
were strong 

Arons. She and indepen­
warned "The depiction ofwomen dent fighters, 
against per­is not always wholly she said, but ceiving their feminini­
positive or unproblematic
Asian cul­ty was still 
ture based according to Western defined in on one's feminism ... terms of beau­own cultural ty and desir­framework, ability. Beauty
Michelle Yeoh
saying it and power 
could lead to actor were often 
incomplete incompatible 
comprehen-as kung fu 
sion. heroines were portrayed as 
Yeoh pioneered a pathway androgynous and undesirable. 
for women in Asian martial Arons said filmmakers need­
arts films as she entered a ed to "synthesize martial 
male-dominated arena. She artistry with femininity" in 
chose action films because she order to affirm the female's 
could incorporate her dance role. 
background into them. Yeoh said producers had 
"Martial arts were choreo­another duty: to preserve the 
graphed and that related to my integrity of martial arts and to 
dance background. They protect and nurture the 
involved energy, strength, authentic Asian culture even as 
choreography, flexibility, and it spreads to global audiences. 
discipline. I thought, 'I can do -this,"' she said. 
Contact Lauren Beck at 
But Arons said the arrival of 
lbeck@nd.edu. 

...--.··-......... 

,../;~~9~{4~ 

College ofArts and Letters ~};';~1;1 f'.i University ofNotre Dame 
\?~~-. ,.T .• '~f-...~/
'··,'-~(l§"+Z~)~,/
, ____:;..--­

The College ofArts and Letters Invites Faculty and Staff Nominations for the First Annual Arts and Letters Award ofAppreciation 
The College of Arts and Letters announces the creation ofan Award of Appreciation, to be conferred annually on ~n outstanding faculty or staff member from outside the college. 
We are looking for a faculty or staff employee whose work elsewhere in the University contributes immeasurably to the College ofArts and Letters and enriches its life. 
A certificate and honorarium accompany this award. 
Please send a brief letter to the committee describing the outstanding contributions your nominee has made to the life ofthe College of Arts and Letters. 
Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation Committee c/o Kathy Cunneen 
98 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
kcunneen@nd.edu 
Deadline Monday, April l, 2002 
Recycle The Observer. Everyday! 

ATI 


Monday, March 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Switzerland to join the U.N.: Swiss vot­ers approved joining the United Nations on Sunday, finding the prospect of a greater role in today's interlinked world more compelling than fears that it would threaten the nation's cen­turies-old tradition of neutrality. The country will become the United Nations' 190th member sitting on the side lines for over five decades. 
Hunger strike in Guantanamo: 
Scores of captives from the Afghan war refused meals Sunday in a protest. that has lasted five days. but the U.S. military said only 13 of them had kept to the hunger strike since its start. A large group among the 300 detainees stopped eating Wednesday, some telling their captors they were upset that a guard stripped a detainee of his turban during prayers on Tuesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. collects DNA from terrorists: 
U.S. authorities have been taking samples from suspected terrorists captured in Afghanistan that could produce DNA profiles. but it remains unclear what use they will be able to make of the material. Including an analysis of the samples in a federal DNA database apparently 1Nould require congres­sional approval because of existing limits on what can be placed in the database. 
NASA optimistic on shuttle mission: 
The space shuttle Columbia closed in on the Hubble Space Telescope today as NASA engineers decided to go ahead with the mis­sion despite a cooling system problem aboard the orbiter. Hon Dittemore, the shut­tle program manager, said the mission man­agement team reviewed the cooling problem and decided today that the planned 11-day mission to renovate and repair the orbiting telescope should continue on schedule. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Wrestling coach beheads sparrow: 
The Wayne County Sheriff's Department is investigating an Avon High School wrestling coach who bit the head off a live sparrow in 
.. front of team members. Aron Bright, 31, admitted to biting the head off the sparrow on Dec. 28 at his parents' home in Centerville. The act occurred while he and some assistant coaches, plus 15 varsity wrestlers, were attending a two-day meet in Connersville. The school board on Monday suspended Bright, who also teaches history and geography at the school. for two weeks without pay. 
Market Watch March 1 

Dow 
10,368.86 +262.73 
Jones 

Composite
Same: 


Volume:
182 

1.430,894,976 
AMEX: 872.78 + 7.20 NASDAQ: 1,802.74 + 71.25 NYSE: 588.63 + 10.03 S&P 500: 1,131.78 + 25.05 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (<m)  +5. 80  +1.96  35.74  
CISCO SYSTEMS  (CSCO)  +5 .12  +0.73  15.00  
ORA.CLE CORP (ORCL)  -3. 79  -0.63  15.99  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +8. 51  +2.43  30.98  
AT&T  WIRELESS  (AWE)  -14.77  -1.49  8.60  

SAUDI ARABIA 

Associated Press 
JIDDAH 

Saudi Arabia's plan to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is causing a rift among Arabs ahead of a key summit, and an Israeli official said Sunday that its main provision was an unacceptable precondition for talks. 
The proposal floated by Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah two weeks ago envisions full Arab politi­cal, economic and cultural relations with Israel if the Jewish state withdraws from Arab lands it cap­tured in the 1967 Mideast war. Abdullah has said he 
would try to persuade Arab leaders to adopt his plan at the March 27-28 Arab League summit in Beirut, Lebanon. 
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi rejected the plan Saturday. saying it was "shocking" and entailed "cheap bargaining." 
In an interview on the influential pan-Arab satel­lite TV station Al-Jazeera, Abdul-bary Atwan, editor of the London-based Arabic daily Al-Quds. said the plan constitutes a reward for Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. "In my view. it causes more problems for the Arabs," Atwan said. 
In Israel, Sharon's Cabinet made no formal decision about Saudi pro­posal at its weekly meet­ing Sunday, and Sharon reportedly said only that he wanted to see more details. In the past, Sharon has repeatedly ruled out a return to the 1967 borders. 
But Cabinet Secretary Gideon Saar told reporters after the meeting that the Saudi provision on a with­drawal to the prewar lines was unacceptable as a starting point for negotia­tions. 
"We will not be able to accept, in principle, some­thing die tated before 
negotiations," Saar said. "The frontier, in the whole area, will be deter­mined only by negotia­tion." 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and Defense Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, both of the center-left Labor party, have said that the Saudi plan has positive elements and should be explored. Hard­liners in Sharon's coali­tion government have dis­missed it out of hand. 
On the other side of the divide, militant Muslim groups in the Palestinian territories and in Lebanon have criticized the plan. 
Earthquake rattles South Asia 
intensity of the quake, which the Earthquakes and seismic activity
Associated Press 
U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, are common in this part of the KABUL Colo.. measured at 7.2 -enough to world and particularly in the Hindu 
A strong quake shook a wide area cause severe damage. Kush mountains, though they are of South and Central Asia on Pakistani and Indian seismologists not usually felt over such a wide Sunday, damaging buildings in the measured the quake at 6.7. The area. A 6.9-magnitude quake based Afghan capital and sending people USGS said the epicenter was about in the same region on May 30, scrambling into the streets in parts 150 miles northeast of Kabul in the 1998, killed more than 5,000 peo­of five countries. Hindu Kush mountains. ple. 
Seven people were hospitalized The U.S. institute called the quake The late afternoon quake Sunday with injuries in Kabul and 26 hous­the strongest in the region since was felt in parts of Uzbekistan, es were badly damaged or another 7 .2 quake on Dec. 30, 1983. Tajikistan. Afghanistan, Pakistan destroyed, Kabul television report­"It's big, but it's deep," said Bruce and India. In Kabul, residents of ed. Presgrave, a geophysicist at the poor neighborhoods of mud, brick 
There were no reports of deaths USGS. Those "tend to cause less and wood homes fled into the or broader damage despite the damage." streets with their children. 
----~-------------:.--.----------...... 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 4, 2002 
States debate ban on cell use in car 
Associated Press 
DAYTON. Ohio 

Many states over the past year have considered ban­ning the use of hand-held cellular phones while dri­ving, but so far only one ­New York -has taken that step. 
More than 2,000 tickets have been issued since the ban took effect Nov. 1 and at least 20 states have begun tracking cell phone involve­ment in traffic accidents, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
Even so, 

with a possible $100 fine for a second offense. 
Brooklyn Patrolman Rich Hovan, who wrote the first 
of what now totals 650 cell phone tickets in the city, jots the initials of Morgan Lee Pena on tickets and gives each motorist a photo of the girl. 
"They always have an 
excuse about why they use the phone,., Hovan said. "I 
ask them, 'Would you accept 
that as an excuse if some­body killed your daughter?' I haven't had anyone tell me 
'Yea.h ", 
. Brooklyn is among at least 14 com­munities 
states may 
"People feed their babies. around 
be reluctant 
People write. People read. t h e 
to single out 
country
cell phones, People eat. They put on 
t h a twhich busi­make-up. They comb their h a v e 
ness people 
hair. Any legislation should restrict-
on the go 
ed the
consider encompass the full range 
use of 
essential. 
ofdistractions. •• c e 1 l 
said confer­
phones
e n c e 
by dri­
spokesman Stephanie Faul 
v e r s ,
Bill Wyatt. spokesperson, AAA Foundation for 
accord­"State leg­Traffic Safety ing to
islatures are looking at it within the bigger pic­ture," Wyatt said. "Are cell phones the only problem? How different is using a cell phone while driving than putting on your makeup or tuning the radio?" 
Last year, cell phone legis­lation was introduced in 43 states, 35 of them calling for an outright ban on the use of hand-held cell phones while driving. 
Some safety advocates believe the legislation has been stalled by powerful cell phone lobbyists. 
Patricia Pena's 2-year-old daughter Morgan Lee Pena was killed in 1999 when a driver dialing a cell phone ran a stop sign and hit the car the mother was driving in Pennsylvania. 
She said many lawmakers don't bother to research the issue themselves and the cell phone industry has con­vinced them that bans are unnecessary. 
"They hire lobbyists to cover every state capital in the nation and put on the pressure," said Pena, of Perkasie, Pa. "The telecom­munications lobby is huge, powerful and has lots and lots of money." 
Travis Larson, spokesman for the Washington-based Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association, said his group does not lobby at the state level. However, he said the association supplies information to cell phone companies that do. 
In 1999, the Cleveland 

suburb of Brooklyn became 
the first community in the 
country to ban the use of 
hand-held cell phones by 
drivers. Brooklyn fines dri­
vers $35 for a first offense, 
the state 
legisla­
ture con­
ference. A statewide ban for Ohio was introduced in the Legislature last year but is languishing in committee. 
A few states have adopted lesser restrictions. Arizona and Massachusetts ban school bus drivers from using cell phones while dri­ving. 
Since Brooklyn imposed its ban, local free-lance photog­rapher Jamie Janos said he has been using an earpiece with his cell phone, which he relies on for assignments. 
"It's extremely important to me because this is my way to communicate," Janos said, adding that his busi­ness doubled when he began using a cell phone. "Without it, I can't work effectively." 
He said the change has been an inconvenience, but he puts up with it because of safety. · 
Tim Hurd, spokesman for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said there are no reliable statis­tics on crashes involving cell phones, but he estimated that 2 5 percent of crashes are related to distractions of any kind. 
"There is a broad problem of driver distraction that includes cell phone use, but is not restricted to cell phone use." said Stephanie Faul, spokeswoman for the Washington-based AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety. 
"People feed their babies. 
People write. People read. 
People eat. They put on 
makeup. They comb their 
hair," Faul said. "Any legis­
lation should encompass the 
full range of distractions." 
Current Undergrads and Grad Students! 
Be a part of Summer 
J-u I y 

Experience 
2 0 0 2 a pre-college 
program 7 -Ju I y 2 7 for rising high school seniors Needed: Feniale and Male Resident Counselors 
u N I v E R s I T Y o F 
NOTRE DAME 
Pre-College Programs 
Contact: 
Office of Pre-College Programs 202 Brownson Hall 
e-mail jmball@nd.edu or call 1-448 I for applications and more information about position requirements 
and compensation 
www.nd.edu/~precoll 
Interested in Student Governmellt? 
Want to make a difference in stud.e,n(life? ·· 
&ri~~\~Q y1Ju,1f
i~i,J#,fJ~;,s:{t~~'t)la~;l1Jtin'tf 
·•.~'•, 
·:_·,-.. .'::_.-•-. --:,:>-; ·. -to :make· hannen? ·: · -__ · ; ,
:· ··:{.,. .:;,..; , ~:;. (,;,-.: ·t:~·•.il;_ ~ ;;,e_ "i l,t·•· ., • . . ; •I :~ ; ;,'{:;_ -,!!.-~~ ../ ~;
. . '1:(_fl:(~ _,,•_'. : 
.:;•,~-:.·. -~,;l~-:,:~:-. -->:c::!J::·~---:;_~:,,..\ •,·: · -· ·. i,' ·,.,,.•. -·, · 1:-::-.~ -· ., -·::-,i: ;, -~~:, 1. 
t ...,...,._, ... , ~·1:... 1+:~~/·~-,-,.. ,i,,•"',-'• ' '< ~-•, ~ ,~,,. ;,:_ 1~ ·~ ... , ,,:$,Ji;,~~ ~­
--~:;;;.· ·~ _>·~""":~~fl-~:):t:·::•;;:;::,;:;;,·.~-~:-,.:r*~.,/•:':·-~.~-~~ ...,.,,,-~~-:::. .~':(~.·::·:;~~ ..~s'~. 
·tfi~~p:~app,1y.:r6r.. ~~p*QSiti~1!1Jit
.~!le 
.,, ·offl.Ee\)ftli~·rpreSitte"tti?~lK,·:';.· 
;:.•-:.;;._,~,..~~1•'+. ,­
<', ,"' h 


·. Applications available,i11203 LaFortu11e (Student Governm.en,t Office) · 
Deadline is March 7 
Be niee to the Earth. Please recycle The Observer. 
' 
Monday, March 4, 2002 
The Observer . HEALTH NEWS page 7 

Offering: 

• 
A transfer-intent curriculum 

• 
The shared resources of Notre Dame and Saint Marts College 


• A residence life program 

Call (574) 239-8400 or visit www.hcc-nd.edu for more information. 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE~ 
at Notn: Daine. l.ndlana ~ 

Support the scholarship funds in memory of CONOR MURPHY, BRIONNE CLARY and MIRANDA THOMAS 
Come to 
'~ TOUCH OF IRELAND'' 

Tuesday, March 5, 2002 Washington Hall 8 p.m. 
Featuring Irish Music by John Kennedy, Irish dancing by Caitlin Allen and Paul Cusick, anda performance by members of the ND/SMC Irish Dancing Club. 
Tickets are $5 from LaFortune Box Office All revenue will go towards the memory scholarship funds 
Medical device infects .... 415 transplant patients 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

Johns Hopkins Hospital is alerting 415 patients and their families that a defective medical instrument may have given them a potentially life­threatening lung infection, a newspaper reported. 
Some patients who were examined by one of three contaminated bronchoscopes have died, but hospi­
tal officials 
"We don't know the cause exists in
told The 
and effect betwen other local
(Baltimore) 
hospitals.

Sun they patients who died and 
The bron­

did not this infection. People are c hos cop es
know if 
going through medical are made by
they died 
Olympus

from the charts to try to 
America,

bacteria or 
ascertain this." 
w h i C h

from their 
recalled

existing ill­
some of

Dr. Paul Scheel 
nesses.. 
them last

The offi­vice chainnan of medicine, 
November.

cials told 
Johns Hopkins Hospital 
Hopkins

the paper 
they have 
not deter­
•

mined how 
many patients have been 
infected or died. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration are investi­gating the problem, in part to determine if the device has triggered outbreaks else­where. The Sun reported. 
"We're aware of this situa­tion and we're looking into it," FDA spokesman Lawrence Bachorik told The Associated Press on Sunday. 
A call to a CDC spokesman was not returned Sunday. 
Most of those treated at Johns Hopkins were suffering from cystic fibrosis, AIDS, or lung cancer. or had recently had lung transplants. 
Hospital officials discov­ered the problem after real­izing that 128 patients had been infected with a bacteri­um known as pseudomonas. The number was two to three times higher than the hospi­tal would expect, said Dr. Paul Scheel Jr., vice chair­man of medicine. 
"We don't know the cause 
and effect between patients who died and this infection," Scheel said. "People are going through medical charts to try to ascertain this." 
Scheel said at least one other hospital had reported problems with the instru­ment, but he did not know the name of the hospital. 
The Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and Baltimore City Health Department were trying to determine if the problem 
owns four of 
the defective 
instruments, 

but only three were found to 
be contaminated. 
The recall letter to Hopkins, dated Nov. 30, wasn't imm.ediately acted on because it was mistakenly addressed to the loading dock of the Hopkins physiolo­gy department, the paper said. 
Officials at Olympus did not return a phone message seeking comment Sunday. 
In recall letters, Olympus described the defective instruments as having a loose valve that trapped bacteria. 
Physicians use the instru­ments to perform broncho­scopies, which inspect a patient's lungs and take tis­sue samples. A thin, tube-like instrument, about the width of a pencil, is placed through the nose or mouth and into the lungs. 
The tube has a tinv camera at the tip and uses ffber-optic technology to produce pic­tures of airways. 
About 460,000 patients undergo the procedure every year in the United States. 
Come work with uJ al 


We are looking /or new wrilerj 




---------------------------""'l!"--.:-_ _..._._._...,.....__.____..._....__._.._~-----...---1111111...__IIIIII¦ 
\ 
h 
K 
> ~ 
t OTHE 
BSERVER

~ 
i,_ 
( {, 
page 8 Monday, March 4, 2002 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................,...............631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDIT0RIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........:...............................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's........... ..................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................ ,...............................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:l!observer.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstiom regarding Obseroerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Maureen Smithe Helena Payne 
Sports Bryan Kronk Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm 
Scene 

Laura Kelly 
Graphics 
Katie Malmquist 
Production 
Chris Federico 
Lab Tech 
Kylie Carter 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Choose Mary over 'Monologues' 
I was stunned to read in the Feb. 27 issue of The Observer Kerry thinks she can reclaim certain words {including a cer­how Kerry Walsh, student director of "The Vagina tain C-word) as she says: "We no longer allow others to use Monologues," publically responded to a flyer that I helped that word in a negative light." distribute to ticket-holders lined up to see the play. The flyer Well, some words are just not worth reclaiming. After all, was a photogq1ph of the famous Dome of Our Lady -except feminists will not be on a crusade anytime soon to reclaim that the statue of Mary had been removed. The flyer asked the words "broad" and "chick." Kerry's favorite word has a "Is this what you want?" Just before the show.began, Kerry meaning -it's a word of male domination, a word used to addressed the audience, referred to our f1yer and answered denigrate feminine nature, a word calculated to treat a the question "Hell, yeah!" woman as nothing more than a single objectified piece of 
Notre Dame is a Catholic university; the statue of Mary on feminine anatomy reduced to its most base and obscene the Dome is the most obvious and beautiful sign of the truths qualities. What symbolizes womanhood in this word is now of Catholicism. Kerry's statement showed incredible public devoid of goodness, nobility and spirit. One so reduced disrepect for Mary and the Catholic faith. This is nothing there·s nothing left in the woman by which a man should more than gross arrogance and indeed a sad sort of igno­honor her. That's the meaning of the C-word, and it's best rance. But what should we expect? "The Vagina left in the gutter of violence and injustice against women. Monologues" is a distortion of feminine nature -and thus The "Vagina Monologues" are steeped in feminine alien­ultimately a distortion of who Mary is. The play's fundamen­ation -thus, significantly, only monologues are possible. tal philosophical premise is that feminine sexuality is ful­But Mary, whom Kerry wants to be rid of, provides us with filled in isolation -a deadly premise for either feminine or the possibility of dialogues. Through the true exercise of her masculine sexuality. womanly nature, Mary made it possible for the whole human 
The true meaning of sexuality is covenantal, nuptial, mutu­race to be in union with God. al and life-giving. All of these human values are mocked and degraded in the "Monologues" in a theatrical soup laden Monica Migliorino Miller, Ph.D 
• with graphic sexual language and descriptive images. Words president of Citizens for a Pro-Life Society are used in the s~ript that inherently degrade womankind. Mar.3.2002 
Walking in a winter wonderland 
Well, we finally got some hardcore winter weather. The freshmen com­plaining about how cold weather in South Bend is just a myth have suf­fer1:;d, and suffered deservedly. But even as a junior, this Texas native 
Amy Schill

has yet to get used to the weather here, even in a rela­tively mild winter (I Dazed and make little distinc­Amused tion between 20 degrees and minus 20 degrees; either way, I'm not going outside). However, I have learned some truths about South Bend weather that I'd like to share. 
The basic truth is of course that snow is terrible and should be outlawed. I cannot fathom why some people like snow. They gaze out the window with glee as the first significant snowfall of the year comes down, while I bitterly envision the scene of snow f1ying direct­ly in my eye that will repeat itself over and over again for the next four months. They anxiously await the time when they can have a snowball fight, while I anxiously await spring break and escape. 
I admit, snow is pretty. It's pretty when it's in a postcard that I am look­ing at during Christmas break in San Antonio, where it is 65 degrees. That's how I envisioned snow when I was a kid and never saw it. I thought only about the sight of snow and, as far as I was concerned, sight was the only sense that snow affected. When I saw snow fall for the first time here at Notre Dame, I was overjoyed. 
That feeling lasted about a day. I quickly learned that snow was not only white but also cold, wet and terrible. But hey, it's still great as long as l bun­dle up and don't touch it. right? Not in the least. 
Snow only looks beautiful right after it falls, which is when all those deceitful postcard pictures are taken. Soon after­wards, that snow mixes with dirt and mud, becoming the most disgusting thing to look at in the world. Ever. 
My favorite winter activity is to· take pictures of sludgy, black and gray mounds of icy grossness and send them to my friends and family with the title, "Winter Wonderland." 
Living on a college campus gives me even more opportunities to express my bitterness through art. One Sunday morning, I found a beer can and one shoe embedded in the dirty snow. I took a picture and titled it, "Modern Despair in the Winter Wonderland." The dirty, disgusting snow causes students to lose hope -and shoes. 
There is something worse than snow, however, and that's ice (I basically have issues with all forms of frozen water, excluding snow cones). I make a fool of myself almost every winter day by slip­ping and falling, or nearly falling, on ice. At this point, I would rather fall than stay up, because staying on my feet requires a 10-minute episode of arm-flailing and general ridiculousness. 
Though the French judge gave me a 6.0 for my last slip, most of the time I'm more laughable than an organization that excludes women trying to seriously express its opinion on female sexuality. 
I slip on ice because the University fails to clear all of it out. Now let me state that I know workers here work very hard and at all sorts of crazy hours to keep the sidewalks clear for us, but at some point you know that they say, "Ah screw it, let's watch the kiddies fall." .1 
They choose to neglect the lesser seen pathways, like the one Pasquerilla East women and Knott men take tu North Dining Hall. Around mid-March, resi­dents of these dorms who take that path are not eligible for health insur­ance because the risk of icy death is just t,oo great. And even if we do make it to the dining hall alive, we still have to face the horrors of flank steak. 
But whether steak, snow or ice plagues you this winter, stay strong and don't let anyone convince you that win­ter in South Bend is anything less than the personification of miserable. Plus, look at the bright side, maybe we'll get some snow days that aren't during finals week this year. Oh wait, for that to happen. a place even hotter than Texas would have to get snow. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. · 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you believe there is a tolerant environment for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"God makes sech nights, all white an' still, Fur'z you can look or listen, _ Moonshine an· snow on field an' hill. All silence an· all glisten ... 
James Russell Lowell poet 
\ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 4, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
News poll asks leading questions biased against the Church 
Ijust completed a poll from ABC " ... is a major problem or a minor did. tions that we are to ask in the order News and the results will probably be problem?" If this questioning was about given. exactly as it is written." quite disturbing -especially to the " ... happens often, not so often or Judaism and Rabbis it would be seen After this answer we had a discus­Notre Dame/Catholic community. I am infrequently?" as anti-Semitic. Replace it with a sion about the randomness, tenor and not sure if it was a push poll, but it _• "Do you believe the Catholic Church minority group or the leaders of a fairness of the questions. First, the was truly one of the most unfair perse­thinks this is a major problem or a minority group, and it would be racist questions appeared to be leading me to cutions of Catholic priests or any mem­minor problem?" -and rightfully so. Each allowable some conclusion that I thought that I ber of the clergy I have ever witnessed. " ... covers up these incidents, 
....---------answer slights the Church. had figured out. Second, all of the 
Around 8 p.m. the phone rang and tolerates these incidences or At this point, I just had to questions were biased, because they the "private" ·entry on my caller I.D. ignores these incidences?" ask her a couple ques­only portrayed the Church in a nega­appeared. Usually. I would not answer After a few more of tions. Trying to remain tive fashion. Finally, if I answered the the phone right before "That ?O's these questions, she calm, I asked her, questions as written, it was not fair to Show," but since I have started the job asked one that I really . "What if I don't know the Church. The questioning addressed hunt lately. I answered the phone. had to think about. the answer. do I an inflammatory issue, asked for lead­
The young lady on the other end of This was just enough have that option? I ing responses and ignored any positive the line introduced herself as a person time for me to real­
mean, can I answer, light. conducting a poll for ABC News. I have ize that I really did 
'I don't know?"' We decided to return to tffe question­participated in several polls over the not know the 
She replied, naire. I was really expecting her to ask last few years. so I thought I would be answer, but the "I 
j, "Well, let me see. me about snake-handling Southerners a good citizen and let the country feel don't know" option 
t.J Oh yea~. yo.~ have or cross-burning Hoosiers, but I was my pulse. was not available to 
~; that opt10n. wrong. She kept hammering the 
Her first question was something to me. So I paused and '.:: "But I wasn't Church and its priests, but the ques­the effect of. "Do you have a favorable thought about the /' given that option," I tions grew darker. Every question con­or unfavorable opinion of the Catholic question. said. "Do I have that tinued to harp on sexual abuse of chil­Church?" Then I realized that I option on every ques­dren by priest. Then the interviewer 
Her second question was roughly, really did not know the tion, and if so. why began to question the Church's moral "Have you read, heard or seen any­answer for many of the wasn't I given that and legal responsibilities. thing in the news lately about the sex­questions, but I was never option?" Now the gambit was complete. ual abuse of children by Catholic given the "I don't know" The poll taker replied, Define a problem. Suggest that it exist. priests?" option. In fact, it became obvi-"Well sir, rm supposed to read Inflame the interviewee. Offer a solu­
This was followed by several more ous to me, during this pause. that any the questions exactly as they appear, tion. questions that seemed to become answer given since the second ques­and that option is not part of the ques­Do all of these in the context of a poll increasingly pejorative. Here is a sam­tion would disparage the Catholic tion." which is guaranteed to substantiate ple (paraphrasing from memory) of the Church or its priests. This begged a question from me, "So the original thesis. questions that were asked. The order Go back and look at the questions. when conducting this poll, dQ you Is this modern news? may not be correct. Put the questions into the form of a always read the same questions in the 
"Do you believe that sexual abuse of sentence. It happens. It hurts the same order, or do you follow some William D. Haynes children by priests has hurt the church. It is a problem. The Church .predetermined script?" doctoral candidace Catholic Church greatly or not so thinks it is a problem. The Church She said, "The agent that has com­chemical engineering greatly?" does something wrong. Get the point? I missioned the poll has a set of ques-Feb.26. ~002 
Biblical 'proof' inadequate 
I am skeptical when I read an article quoting the Bible as "proof' for anything, especially if quoting the Old Testament. Becket Gremmels, in his article titled, "Biblical evidence offers proof of homosexual immorality," uses the incident of Sodom and Gomorrah as "proof" that homosexuality is a moral evil. 
First of all, the belief that homosexuality was the sin committed by these cities is only popular opinion. Where does it say explicitly in the Bible that this is true? In Ezekiel 16:49 God says, "This was the guilt of your sister Sodom: She and her daugbters had pride, excess of food and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy. They were haughty and did abominable things before me." 
Nowhere does it say these people were being punished for their sexual orientation. Furthermore, Yahweh in the Hebrew Bible was a wrathful God, one that did not seem to make the most rational decisions. In Exodus. God sends Moses to tell the sons of Levi to "each of you kill your brother, your friend and your neighbor." Using the words of such a violent God as evidence for the immorality of homosexuals is inadequate. 
I have no problem with devout Catholics who believe strongly in their faith. I do, however, have mixed feelings about Catholics who submit articles that quote Saint Paul in comparing homosexuals to godless kidnappers. liars, murderers and prostitutes. Homosexuals on this campus already have a difficult time living and getting an education like the rest of us without being oppressed. People with religious objections to homosexuality have a right to their beliefs. but they should refrain from using these types of comparisons purely out of consideration for a human's dignity. 
Monika Mehlmann 
freshman Breen-Phillips Hall Mar. l, 2002 
Celebration of U.S. greed rings hollow 
After reading Christine Niles's column entitled, "Poverty, American-Style," I got the impression that she was trying to offer a defense of the United States's distribution of wealth. I am not convinced. 
Niles cites two main facts to suggest the poor in the United States are actually well off. In 1993, the poorest 20 percent of the population spent an average of $13,957 in one year, much of which came from social welfare policies. Secondly. she cites a num­ber of household appliances that the poor in the United States are far more likely to own than the poor in other countries. Put these two facts together and the argument seems to be that the U.S. poor are better off because: one, on average they spend less than 50 percent of the GNP per capita (approximately $28,000 in 1992 according to the Higgins Labor Research Center)' and two, they are very likely to own a television with which to distract themselves from hunger pangs. I note that Niles failed to share any statistics on how many of the poor owning televisions are so fortunate that they have the additional luxury of cable. 
Niles mentions the commonly cited grow­ing gap between rich and poor. As if to refute that gap's significance, she asks, "Could someone please tell me precisely what the appropriate gap should be?" Admittedly, there is no definition of what that gap should be, but that is exactly the point: There is no definition because the gap should not be. 
Despite the claims of our country's religion -capitalism -the gap should not even exist. In 1998, the distribution of net worth was such that the richest fifth of the popula­tion owned 83.4 percent while the poorest two-fifths owned 0.2 percent according to inequality.org. So even if I cannot define what the gap should be, it ought to be apparent that the current gap is far too wide for a country that considers its economic system the most successful ever and its political system the most just form of democ­racy. 
I will agree with Niles that if I had to be poor, I would choose the United States as the location. But is this really an accom­plishment that the poor here are better off than the poor elsewhere when conservative estimates place the United States as control­ling 80 percent of the world's wealth while containing only 6 percent of its population? I think a better question to ask Niles is whether she would want to be poor here, even if she had a television with cable. 
As Niles says. here in the good ol' United States, we are "free, free, free to be hogs." · Hurray for greed and gluttony.. Excuse my failure to sound excited about that freedom. 
Shamus Rohn 
JUOIOf 
Scanford Hall Feb. 28,2002 

______________________..,.._.._______-:;,_______........._..._________ ....____ 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Monday, March 4, 2002 





• .. 
..
eers an 
eers 
From distracting players to mocking their coaches, Notre Dames Leprechaun 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Scene Writer 

Providence Friars basketball coach Tim Welsh paced the sideline during Saturd?,y's game against Notre Dame. As his team was starting to lose its grip over the
> Irish, something must have caught his attention and distracted him, possibly even stirred up some anger. Was somebody chanting his home phone number?
\ 
What is this heckling scourge that inflicts itself upon I Notre Dame's opponents, that messes with their minds and gets in their face? 
It is a "Green Monster" of sorts that has the potential to terrorize its enemies. Some, including Notre Dame men's basketball head coach Mike Brey, say that it contributes eight to ten points per game. Numbering 200 strong, these are the self-proclaimed promoters of Fighting Irish spirit, and saviors to the basketball team. This is the Leprechaun Legion. 
Call it a carbon copy of Duke University's Cameron Crazies or Gonzaga University's Kennel Club and the legionnaires may have some invective to shout at you. This is different; the Leprechaun Legion is based on Notre Dame's tradition, clarifying the "fight" in Fighting Irish. 
Founded by Zahm Hall senior Robert Paznorik. junior Nick Iaria and freshmen Joe Hettler, Drew Updike. Erik Tarnowski, Brian Logan and Matt O'Connell, the Legion was conceived last December as a way to increase the enthusiasm of the student body at Notre Dame basketball games in order to help out the Irish on the court. 
The Legion serves as a cheering and jeering section. encouraging the Irish and blasting their opponents with startling and sometimes sensitive remarks that have a tendency to grab attention. 
"\Vhen a player's listening to me and not his coach, when we're in the back of his mind. his head's not in the game," Paznorik, the Legion's president, said. "If we cause one bad pass, one missed free throw, we've done our job. We want the most hostile court environ­ment." 
According to Paznorik, the Legion is organized like a company, where each member has his or her own 
I 
responsibility. 

Paznorik made a distincti.on between the Legion and other campus organizations: "Everyone's really involved. The majority are really dedicated." 
Additionally, the Legion is organized into commit­tees: Digging and Sloganry, Signs and Ballyhoo, Public Relations and Human Resources. 
If an opposing player is on the bench and hasn't played much or at all, the Legion will start chanting "Rudy." Paznorik said this bitterly sarcastic cheer will sometimes cause the player to nudge himself toward the coach, wanting to get into the game, possibly inspired by the resounding, familiar chant from the stands. But alas, the coach doesn't respond. 
"We like to find out parents' names," Paznorik $aid. Armed with this information, the legion sometime heckles an opposing player's parents when they stand up to cheer on their son, shouting things like, "Jim and Judy, shut up and sit down." 
During the game against \Vest Virginia, the Legion noticed a 7'2" player who looked like Lurch from "The Adams Family," so the group encouraged the student body to sing the theme song from the television show. 
The response from the Irish basketball team to the Legion has been positive. In addition to Brey's com­ments, several players have shown an interest in the green-clad cheering section that occupies the first rows of the student section. 
"[Irish players] will ask what we have for the next game the day before the game," Paznorik said. The ushers at the Joyce Center have welcomed the Legion, surprising as it may seem to some. 
"The ushers are cool," Iaria, chair of the Human Resources committee, said. "On the [online] message boards, people get upset with ushers. But we Jove them." 
During one game, an opposing team's water boy wanted a Jeer Card, the flyer which lists all of the slo­gans and insults as a reference guide for the student body and other Irish fans. 
"You know you're doing well when that happens," Updike said. 
A few visiting players have mumbled expletives, but on many occasions, they tried to hide their laughter as their teammates are derided on the court. 
"We're out to find everything we can," Paznorik said. 
l 
r 
I 
! 'c I 
! 

BRIAN PUCHEVICHffhe Observer 
The Leprechaun Legion leads the Notre Dame student section in holding up copies of The Observer as a sign of disrespect during the announcement of the opposing team's line-up. 
"We want them to be surprised. We want them to be 
shocked. \,Ve want them to miss shots." 
One of Paznorik's favorite responses came from 
Kentucky guard Adam Chiles. 
"It seems that Adam was drunk one night and start­
ed making phone calls to cute girls on campus," 
Paznorik said. "He was apparently quite unsmooth: the 
ladies started calling him "Bigalo," as in "Deuce 
Bigalo, Male Gigolo," the male prostitute played by Rob 
Schnieder in the movie of the same name." 
During Kentucky's pre-game warm-ups, Paznorik 
shouted out, "Where's the Ladies' Man? Is Bigalo here 
today? Where's Adam?" 
Chiles' teammates seemed to enjoy this, as evidenced 
by their grinning and chuckling as they warmed up. 
"Adam didn't think it was so funny," Paznorik said. 
"He came strolling up to us from the bench, stood 
about a foot away from my face 
and said, 'Man, you 
got somethin' to say to me?' This was actually pretty funny, because he's a 
than I am." 

The Legion proceeded to fire back some of Chiles' "wretched statistics" 
for the season. 

"\Ve asked him if Tubby [Smith, Kentucky's head coach] had pulled 
him from the scrub team yet, what it was like to wash his team­
mates' uniforms and whether he'd heard any good pick-up 
lines lately," Paznorik said. "This just plain didn't amuse 
him. but again, his teammates 
were going nuts. One even had 
to stop shooting so he could sit 
down on the bench and catch 
his breath." 

Another Kentucky player 
came over to calm him down. 
"You just watch what you 
say," Chiles sneered as he was 
escorted back to the bench. 
"You just keep your head in the 
game," shouted a legionnaire. 
"Adam was ours for the rest of 
the day," Paznorik said. 
The only negative response frorn the 
Notre Dame community came from 
sophomore who wrote into The Observer 
criticizing the Legion for making fun of a 
Georgetown player because of his weight 
problem. 

According to Paznorik, the Legion will not shout just 
anything and they take steps to ensure that their com­
ments are not too hurtful. 
"There is a line we will not cross," Paznorik said. 
"\Ve won't make fun of' anyone based on race, ethnicity 
or religion." · 
Other areas. though, seem to be open to jeering. Paznorik said that most issues. such as illegitimate . children, are dealt with on a case-by-case basis, as 
investigated by a special section of the Legion. 
At 10 p.m. on Wednesday in the Debartolo Hall com­
puter cluster, most students were merely doing school­
work, but a handful was diligently working on a task of 
great importance. They were doing CIAvJevel work 
with a "National Enquirer" attitude. 
This was a meeting of the Digging and Sloganry 
Committee of the Leprechaun Legion, the group whose 
responsibility is to find out all the dirty secrets and 
embarrassing moments of the players on whatever 
team the Irish basketball squad faces. 
These facts, such as accounts of illegitimate children, 
are then used as jeers and nicknames to shout at the 
opposing players during games. 
"\Ne probably know more about them than their 
teammates," freshman Drew Updike, the chair of the 
committee, said. 

The Digging and Sloganry Committee employs every 
resource it can in order to dig up obscure, usually 
embarrassing, information on members .of the oppos­
ing team. 

Hesources such as anti-school websites and online 

O
THE 
BSERVER 






Monday, March 4, 2002 
page 11 

romt 
estan 


Legion works to pump up the home crowd at men sbasketball games 
message boards are key to this process, but the com­
mittee's most reliable and often most 
interesting.sources are friends and relatives at Big 
East schools, people who have seen players cheat. who 
have seen what players do at parties, who have seen a 
player steal (and that's not on the basketball court). 
The committee claims to find out everything about 
players, from dogs' and parents' names to histories of 
old hook-ups. 
While the members gathered around computers in 
Debartolo Hall, surfing various Web sites, a cell phone 
rang -a tipster. Updike left the room to talk to the 
caJler in private. He returned with great enthusiasm, 
believing he had found some quality dirt. 
Dirt that could potentially help to change the tide of 
Saturday's game against Providence, spelling victory 
for Notre Dame. 
Once Updike announced how he learned that 

Providence guard Sheiku Kabba cheated on his 
Western Civilization test, the other legion­
naires got excited and began devising 
jeers to bring before the Legion's con­
sideration. 

Just as the last engineers left 
Cushing Hall for the weekend, stu­
dents wearing green tee shirts 
filed into room 303 for the 
General Meeting of the 
Leprechalfn Legion: a gathering 
that members seem to view 
with as much importance as a 
General Assembly of the 
United Nations. 

This was when the Digging 
and Sloganry Committee pre­
sented its ideas for jeers to 
the entire Legion. 

Only a dozen members were 
present as Updike opened the 
meeting. They began with the 
first player on Providence's ros­
ter: forward Hyan Gomes. 
"It took him more than one try 
to pass the SAT for eligibility," 
Updike said. 

"I like SAT," another member 
said. 

"I think it will get to him more." 
"Yeah, that's embarrassing." 

"But he probably doesn't care about his 
SAT score." 
An argument ensued, so Updike moved along 
to the next item, or, perhaps more appropriately, 
victim: guard Abdul Mill's. 
"He missed a championship because of a groin injury. It wasn't cancerous, so don't worry. We're not going to be making fun of something bad," Updike said. 
"Can we just have everyone go, ·ow my groin'?" asked one member. 
Pazornik then entered and took charge. 
"Let's move right along to our friend John Linehan," Pazornik said. 'Tie's a senior and he's only 5'9. Most of you guys are probably taller than him," Updike said. 'Tm taller than you, I'm taller than you," someone chanted, hoping his idea had potential as a jeer. 
"I like 'stand up."' 
"What about 'get ofT your knees?"' 
Everyone began to offer his or her own idea some­what chaotically until a member who had just entered raised his hand. "\Vc've gone too far," he said. "Gome's nickname should not be SAT." "SAT's horrible!" said another member. "ls he going to know we're talking about the SAT? I mean, who cares? He plays basketball." 
"He probably didn't even know that \Vas the SAT he was taking," said another legionnaire as the room erupted into laughter. 
The group proceeds to guard Kareem Hayletts. \\'hen one of his teammate's fake IDs was rejected at a club, Hayletts went to the bouncer's house with a few of his friends and beat him up. He was later charged \-Vith felony assault. 
..Kill the bouncer," someone said. 
••why not 'beat'?" said another. "They didn't kill 
him." 
A show of hands overruled her and "kill the bouncer" 
it was. 
Once the business was completed and all the nick­names and slogans had been settled upon, the Legion closed the meeting with a triumphant shout of "Amen! Hallelujah!" 
Then many of them rushed out. "I left work at the dinning hall to attend [this meet­ing]," said a member, hoping she would not be fired. Approximately nine hours after the meeting, at 1 :55 
a.m. on Saturday of the Providence game, two legion­naires, one of them dressed as a leprechaun, headed for the Joyce Center. 
Freshmen Jenny Scherer and Nick Dobertin wanted to ensure that they were first in line when the gates opened 13 hours later, despite that fact that the rest of the student body \'\'Ould not get to the JACC until 30 minutes before tip-ofT. 
As the doors to the building were locked, the pair slept outside in the bitter wind, cold and snow. Finally, after a freezing night, they were allowed in the lobby of Gate 11 at 7 a.m. "They killed my streak," said Iaria, who was previ­ously the first one to every game. 
He said it was very important that they were allowed to wait inside once the JACC opened in the morning. "If we were out in the snow, most people probably wouldn't be here," !aria said. 
Laurie Privitera arrived at 8 a.m. \Vhen asked why she joined the Legion. Privitera said, "It's the begin­ning of tradition. a lot of fun. It's good to get involved." 
She also enjoys the time spent waiting for the game at the JACC. "\Ve sleep, hang out, have fun with peo­ple, get to meet people," Privitera said. 
Once the gates of the JACC were opened on Saturday, the Legionnaires hurried to\•vards the front rows of the student section, where they began their pre-game preparations. 
Members passed out the Jeer Cards and distributed copies of The Observer for fans to hold up while the Providence Friar's starting line-up was announced as a show of disrespect. 

i ., II 
i 
I 
j l I I 
I 

The insults began as soon as the players took the court. 
"Didn't you guys lose to West Virginia?" 
"Hey, Anderson, that's a pretty cool tattoo." 
"Maybe your ugly sister loves you, but you mother definitely doesn't." The ushers laughed all the while, but when asked to comment on the Legion, they had to keep quiet. 
A legionnaire sporting an Irish Elvis costume was not pleased with the energy of the crowd. "How come we aren't heckling, guys?" he shouted. 
Throughout the course of the game, the Legion con­tinued to do their best to tick off the Friars. 
For forward Christopher Anrin, a native of Switzerland, the Legion shouted "Belarus," as Belarus beat the Swedish national hockey team in the Olympics and Anrin was quoted as saying "I love Swedish national hockey." · 
The Legion does not always shout in unison. Often it 
is a crowd of hecklers shouting out angry and humor­ous insults 
When Irish guard Chris Thomas lodged the ball between the rim and the backboard and Friar forward Tuuka Kotti failed to knock it down, the Legion erupted into laughter. 
"I think [the Legion] is pretty cool." Jackie Addesso, a non-member, said. "I think all the students take part in it. It provides a sense of unity." 
The Legion has received attention and praise from newspapers, Notre Dame alumni and even from Dick Vitale. 
The members take a pride in what they do and what they feel they have contributed to Irish basketball, but many still feel they have more work to do in encourag­ing the student body to be more enthusiastic during games. 
"[Contributing to the game] is something we really do take pride in," freshman legionnaire Garrett Kuk said. "These guys, [the basketball team]. we're living next door to them, going to class with them. It's part of that larger teamwork." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at Lindsley.l@nd.edu. 
.... ' 

Monday, March 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
BENGAL BOUTS: 18O-POUNDS -HEAVYWEIGHTS 
Experience pays off for Criniti with 3rd title 
' 
BENGAL BOUTS: 165-POUNDS -17O-POUNDS 
Matassa outduels Cosse for 165-pound title 
who had taken a strategy of ropes to earn the title. At one point in the first round, and won by split decision. 
By BRIAN BURKE 
waiting for fighters to come to Hernandez was warned for hit­"I knew it was going to be a lot 
Spores Writer 
him in earlier bouts, fought ting Maynes in the back of the of brawling, definitely wasn't
170-pounds

Cosse's type of fight. standing head when Maynes was circling prepared for all the grappling,"
In a battle of two New Mexico

Junior Clay "The Mouth of the inside and trading blows. around. At another point, Hernandez said. "My corner
natives, seniors Ryan "The

South" Cosse kept coming at Cosse seemed to control the Maynes was late in obeying a gave me a lot of good advice to
Rhino" Hernandez and Domingo

senior Chris "Stay Outta My beginning portion of both the break command and was also throw that straight right and I
"Lunes" Maynes took about five

Business" Matassa and at times first and second rounds, getting warned for a low blow. think throughout that whole
seconds to circle the ring at the

it appeared he might overwhelm Matassa against the ropes and In the second round, thing we may have grappled a
start of round one.

his opponent in the 165-pound landing hooks. Matassa was Hernandez moved around some lot, but my straight right, I man­
Then the brawl was on.

title bouts. The senior was con­able to punch his way out of it and was able to counter Maynes, aged to get that off enough.
The bout for the 170-pound

stantly able .to supply an answer each time apd finished the but the contest eventually Obviously the judges agreed.
title was full of shoving, tangled 

to Cosse's assaults, however, as rounds strong. digressed back to one fighter try­[The win] kind of vindicated a lot
fighters, headlocks and a warn­

Matassa came away with the It went back and forth into the ing to out-punch the other. of my efforts. I had done so
ing for just about anything for 

... split decision victory. third round where Matassa Hernandez was the taller of the much, and to get knocked out so
which a referee can warn a

Every time that Cosse landed a returned to his previous style two fighters. and that seemed to early last year, to come back, it's 
fighter. As was expected, the two 

series of punches that seemed to and countered Cosse when he give him in advantage in close great."
fighters stood toe to toe, furious­

stun his foe. however, Matassa looked to brawl. Matassa landed fighting.
ly swinging away, holding each

answered with combinations of enough jabs in the third and In the end, Hernandez out Contact Brian Burke at 
other. sometimes simultaneous­

his own. The lankier Matassa, avoided getting tangled in the brawled Maynes in a close fight Burke.68@nd.edu.
ly. 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In what many expected to be the top fight of the champi­onship round, senior Mark "Bright Lights. Big City" Criniti won a split-decision victory over classmate Matt Sarb to win the 180-pound title Friday night. The two survived a hail of punches from each other for three rounds, but in the end the experience of three-time champion Criniti paid off over the first-year fighter and foot­ball walk-on Sarb. 
"I definitely think my experi­ence helped. especially with someone like Matt who is a first-year fighter," Criniti said. 
."Anytime you fight someone who's maybe not a better fight­er or more athletic, but has the experience of four years, it will make a difference and I think that was one of the advantages I had over Matt more than ath­letic ability." 
Sarb came  out in the first  
round  true  to  past  form,  
attempting  to  overwhelm  

Criniti with a flurry of punches, but Criniti's experience allowed him to shake off the attack and return with some punches of his own. 
In the second round, Criniti appeared to take control of the match. as the referee tem­porarily stopped the fight with a standing eight-count on Sarb. 
In the final round, Sarb made a final appeal for the title, corn­ing out of the corner extremely aggressive and throwing many punches at Criniti. The tech­nique was successful; he got a standing-eight count on the defending champion, but the attempt seemed to come too late for the judges. 
"I felt pretty comfortable with the first two rounds. in that I scored on some good punches there," Criniti said. "Matt made it pretty close in the third round, but I felt pretty comfort­able about my first two. But sometimes you can see a fight one way and the judges might score it differently." 
The first-year competitor Sarb was pleased with his per­forrna n ce in the Bouts, even though he did not get the title. 
"I was glad to get as far as I did in my first year," Sarb said. "I went a long way in the six weeks of training from where I was. I'm just happy for Mark. He's put his heart and soul into this for the past four years and it paid off for him." 
190-pounds 
A substantial contingent of supporters chanting "Brandl! Brandl!" were not enough to 
lead the senior Kevin "Hardcore" Brandl to victory over junior John Lynk. In the end, the aggressive style of Lynk proved to be too much for the elder Brandl to withstand in the 190-pound title fight as Lynk won a unanimous deci­sion for the championship. 
The fight appeared pretty even after the first round with both fighters throwing many punches but failing to gain any significant advantage over the other. In the second, Lynk began to put Brandl on the run landing several punches and combinations. 
The younger Lynk all but put the fight away in the final round, getting the referee to stop the fight twice to adminis­ter a pair of standing eight­counts on Brandl. The first came on a knockdown that sent the senior to the canvas. 
Heavyweights 
In the final fight of the 2002 Bengal Bouts, law student Carlos Abeyeta used a signifi­cant size advantage to earn a split decision victory over sophomore Stefan Borovina. 
"I think [Abeyeta's] weight advantage helped a lot in the eyes of the judges," Borovina said. "\Vhen he would hit me it would be more noticeable because I would move back more than when I hit him because he was so much bigger than me. With the scoring, all punches that are landed count the same, but his looked like they had more of an effect even though I hit him just as much and even made his nose bleed." 


Abeyeta, the defending champion in the heavyweight division, took the early advan­tage in the fight, knocking Borovina to the canvas with a solid blow. The younger Borovina proved he would not lay down, however, retaliating with several strong combos of his own in that opening round. 
After a rather mild second round, Borovina came out of the corner strong in the third. hoping to earn the decision with a final surge. Abeyeta ended the threat, however, with a solid hit that caused the referee to send the two fighters to their corners. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ac the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,  THE BEST OFF CAMPUS HOUSE  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  
NOTICES  LOST AND FOUND  FOR SALE  appl. 5 min from ND.  IDEAL FOR 4-5 STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES WASHER  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels,  
Dave 291-2209  DRYER FRIDGE STOVE ETC  Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1­ 
HOUSES FOR RENT 4 and 9-bed- FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies  For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N.  GREAT AREA  800-234-7007  
room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896  room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly  Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN  MMMRentals.com  2773097  www .endlesssummertours.com  
return with correct description. Call  Rernodled in 1998 new insulated  
4-7 BDRM HOMESWALK TO  Meg at 4-3477.  windows hot water heater & plumb- Room in DC 2000  Spacious 4-bdrm house avail.now  Would you rather watch  
ND.FURN. SUMMER, 2002-03.  ing 200 amp electric update  Grad subletting furnished, air-condi­ or for Fall 2002.  Sportscenter reruns all morning  
272-6306  SMC class ring lost in or around  newer furnace & roof basement  tioned room in NW DC house,  Fronse 255-8403.  long than go to your classes?  
Senior Bar Wednesday, Feb. 28.  laundry room privacy fenced back­ mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002,  
$250 a day potential/bartending  Gold with diamond. "Noreen C.  yard w/ deck 10x12 utility garage  three roommates (2M, 1 F) Sale  Call Noah at 1-4543 to write Sports.  
Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556  Gillespie" engraved.  excellent area $59500 Jim-Day 574-233-253 Eve 574-259-6843  neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks  PERSONAL  Do you love to take pictures?  
Please call 284-4417 if you find it.  from bus to downtown. 1-1/2 miles  Would you love a front row seat to  
"'  Fraternities·sororities•cIubs·stude  from Tacoma Metro, $390/month +  Unplanned Pregnancy?  campus sports events?  
nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour lundraising event. Does  WANTED  FOR RENT  1 /4 utilities, call Michelle 202/829-3725, or  Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance,  Call Pete at 1-8767 for Photo.  
not involve credit card applications.  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm•  krup 78@hotmail.com  Do you like to listen to music, watch  
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! "- 2000 grad seeking room or apart• ment to sublease/rent in New  rentals@aol.com  4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  movies, and go to theatrical perfor­mances?  
Contact Campusfundraiser.com at  Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1,  5 mins from ND! 4-6 student house  after 6/1. 3 block from campus.  
{888}-923-3238, or visit  2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725  w/large common areas-prkg lot,  For more information, see our  Call Spencer at 1-4540 to write  
www.campusfundraisercom.  or email krup78@hotmail.com  appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209  Call (773)-486·8862.  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  Scene.  

Monday, March 4, 2002 page 13
The Observer . SPORTS 

Bouts 
continued from page 20 
quickly finding his jab and fol­lowing it with several strong rights to Fumagalli's head. Despite absorbing the heavy blows, Fumagalli continually sprang up and into D'Agostino, landing a quick right hook that pushed the taller fighter back. Moving well, Fumagalli tried to work the fight into the corners, where he landed clusters of punches to his opponent's mid­section and head. 
The taller D'Agostino seemed to gain momentum as the sec­ond round began. while Fumagalli was forced to expend energy fending off punches from· above. He continued to counter­punch. but all the while was under the burden of D'Agostino's larger frame. After receiving one standing eight count in the first round, Fumagalli got two more in the second round. In the meantime D'Agostino continued fighting 
·downhill, landing more punches as Fumagalli tired. The top­seeded senior got caught in the corner shortly after the final round began, prompting the ref­eree to issue Fumagalli a fourth standing eight count, which stopped the fight by rule. Nineteen seconds into the third round. the third-seeded D'Agostino had earned his first championship. 
145-pounds 
In the championship match, Jemar Tisby finally had the chance to face an opponent who was more on his level of height and reach. While Andrew Harms. the junior captain, is slightly taller than Tisby. it was his unmoving stance in the cen­ter of the ring that helped Harms deflect punches and set up his offense. Fighting from flat but steadfast feet, Harms kept throwing his long jab until it landed on Tisby's face. 
But the speedy senior was undaunted, delivering body shots in the center of the ring while waiting for a chance to throw his jab and overhand right combination. llarms and Tisby traded combinations in the second round and when the third bell rang the match seemed deadlocked. Tisby deliv­ered a right to his opponent's face, and then began working closer to his target than he had all night. 
Still absorbing powerful rights from Harms and visibly tired, Tisby would not stop. He contin­ued to lean in close and alter­nate shots to the body and head. In perhaps the most evenly fought contest of the night, Tisby edged out a split-decision victory. While the result brought heartbreak to one fighter's face and joy to the other's, those at ringside agreed that in the end, only a few punches decided who wore what expression. 
155-pounds 
In his last ever appearance as a Notre Dame boxer, senior captain Brock Heckmann looked to complete his quest for a sec~ ond title. Arguably the most complete fighter in the tourna­ment, Heckmann won a unani­mous decision over scrappy 
southpaw John Nowak on 
Friday night. 
A sophomore who had cap­tured the second seed in the bracket, Nowak fought with energy and resolve until Heckmann's power and tech­nique simply proved unstop­pable. 
Nowak opened with his best round by far as he threw the roundhouse left hook that had worked so well for him in earli­er fights. \Vhile several of the punches landed, Nowak never demonstrated a jab adequate enough to slow Heckmann's advances. Just as in his earlier fights, Heckmann controlled the spacing and angles to neutralize his opponent's strengths. Rather than clinching when Nowak got close, Heckmann used a right hook that swooped up and into the southpaw's body. His feet bouncing and moving laterally, Heckmann landed a huge left­hand blow near the end of the second round as Nowak contin­ued to lower his head. 
Looking fresh as the third round elapsed, Heckmann stayed on the offensive with his jab while dodging the wild hands of Nowak. who left noth­ing in reserve in the final round .. Waging against Heckmann's punches, Nowak consumed all of his energy throwing his left hand. It was not enough to stop Heckmann, who was later named the most outstanding boxer of this year's Bengal Bouts. 
160-pounds 
Freshman Mark DeSplinter came into the first round of his championship match looking defensive. Facing senior Chris Kitalong. the division's top seed. the gangly DeSplinter appeared primed to avoid Kitalong's range and quickness and then counterpunch to keep the fight close. 

As the fight progressed, how­ever, that strategy became nec­essary as DeSplinter was able to fight his own way. With no fear even when he was trapped on the ropes in the first round, DeSplinter fought out of every tight·space. 
The second round opened with a bevy of wild punches from both fighters, who eventu-ally went toe-to-toe in the cen­ter of the ring. Without the grace he had shown in earlier fights. Kitalong continually took jabs from DeSplinter. 

DeSplinter improved as the fight went on, both moving and punching more in the third round than he had in the first. The freshman DeSplinter won a split decision thanks to his adjustment and the mental resolve to conquer his bracket one match at a time. 
Contact Paul Camarata at pcamarat@nd.edu. 
... •••• .• ·""·.. ... . • .. •••• • ••, • ... • • ,., ' • ... •·· ..................., ••,...... ..... • .. .... :.~ • •:;:: • • ::.-. ",;": ·::.:: • , ........~ ......:~~-.. ·:--· • v. ...---~· •• • • , • • • • • • • • , ' • • , • • •• ,~... • • • • .-· • ·: •• ,_... ,.., • "' ,., "lv Information Meeting for Summer 2003 Wednesday: March 6 7-9 pm And Thursday: March 7 7-9 pm 131 Debartolo Hall  

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS ~ Monday, March 4, 2002 

[ L 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
won Sunday because they had a feisty point guard who set the tone with her fearless atti­tude, made five of six key free­throws in the final minute and played from the opening whis­tle to the closing buzzer. 
That point guard, the 5-foot­4 Julie McBride, who started in just 10 of 27 games for Syracuse last year, is just a sophomore. But what she lacks in height, she makes up in atti­tude. · 
"It came down to who want­ed the game more, and it was obvious that we did," McBride said. "We wanted to beat them so bad. We wanted to stay longer. We came out and we were ready. We were focused and we were mentally ready, and that was the key." 
Notre Dame's sophomore point guard, Le'Tania Severe -who admittedly didn't gain the game experience McBride had last season -dished out nine assists, but wasn't able to inspire her team the same way her counterpart did. 
Syracuse scored 29 points off of Irish turnovers. 
"We've struggled with the turnovers all year long, and when you have kind of a rook­ie point guard it really makes it a little more difficult," · McGraw said. "We didn't have that intensity and that focus, early in the game especially and they got a lot of steals in the first half." 
Syracuse also used their underdog status as inspiration. While the Irish might have seen the Orangewomen, whom they defeated 71-46 at the Joyce Center earlier this sea­son, as an easy stepping stone on the road to the conference championship game, Syracuse saw Sunday's game as a chance to extend their season and gain a bid for the NCAA Tournament. . 
And for the team's four 
. seniors, it was a chance to keep their basketball careers going. "I said in the huddle, 'I don't want to go home,"' Syracuse senior guard Jaime James, said. "I don't want to go home, I want to go to the tour­nament, I want to have post­season play. This was a big game for us, and we had incredible people step up.·· James led the Orangewomen in scoring with 23 points. They also had a coach that realized that her team might not have had the most talent on the court Sunday, but wouldn't let the game be decided before tip-off. "I told them that you're guaranteed when you first arrive 40 minutes. You have to play 40 out of 40," Syracuse head coach Marianna Freeman said. "On this given night, we ended up being the team that won the game. It's not always the best team that wins, it's the team that plays the best. On this night, we played the best." The No. 7-ranked team played above their heads, while the No. 2-ranked Irish did not. And head coach Muffet McGraw was quick to point out exactly why. "\Ve're a young team without great leadership and I think that when you come out, you're just trying to find your way, and you're waiting for somebody to step up and show you the way," McGraw said. "And really in the first half, 

nobody stepped up and 
showed us the way." 
But in the second half, as the Irish saw an 18-point deficit and the seal closing on the envelope holding their early plane ticket home, that leader showed up. 
Her name? Alicia Ratay. 
The junior shooting guard, a first-team All Big East selec­tion. decided to take over late in the second half, scoring 17 of her team's final 21 points in the final four minutes to pull the Irish within two at one time. 
What happened? 
"In the second half, when we had to score we found a way to score," Ratay said. "You do whatever you can to put up a shot." 
Ratay, who passed up shots because she wasn't open in the opening 20 minutes, walked onto the court and huddled her teammates together during 
. those final four miriutes. The normally quiet Ratay stepped up and became not just a leader by example but a vocal leader. 
And she took every shot she could, regardless of whether or not she was open. 
With hands flying in her face and the whole Syracuse team knowing who was getting the ball. Ratay sank three 3-point­ers while converting two more thr~e-point plays. 
Ratay did the same thing two years ago against Rutgers in the Big East semifinal and the Irish came back to win in over­time. 
Now, Ratay must lead like that for the entire 40 minutes. Notre Dame's other standout player, freshman forward Jackie Batteast, played just 13 minutes Sunday while healing from a knee injury and didn't score a point. 
With their second-place Big East finish during the regular season and impressive wins over ranked Boston College and Virginia Tech teams, the team wearing the same uni­forms as last year's national champions are still a shoe-in for the NCAA Tournament. 
. Heck, they might even get a top-eight seed in their bracket. But if the Irish are going to get past their first opponent, they have to come in with the same attitude as their oppo­nent. Syracuse knew that a loss meant the end of the sea­son, for some players the end of their careers. And they didn't want to see that happen. Whoever Notre Dame plays in the NCAA's in mid-March is going to come fn with the same attitude. The Irish must know that it's win or go home and come to really, really detest South Bend. To get there, the Irish need a leader. And as she proved in the closing minutes Sunday, they have one in Ratay. That same leader needs to show up for 40 minutes come tourna­ment time. If she does, this team. with a healthy Batteast, could surprise some and advance to the Sweet 16. But if that leader doesn't appear, students could return from spring break to find The Observer's back page telling the story of another upset by a team with nothing to lose and a trip home from the dance before the music even started. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Have an interesting sports story to tell? Call Noah at 1-4543 
.lJNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME . -­
WASHINGTON PROGRAM··. 
• 
Study in the -nation's capitol 

•Work 
in an internship 


• 
Fulrtll philosophy, 



theology, and 110.e requirement • Open to 
1


.;---.~s.:tu,,?.·_Jiy public ~· .: .. Sopho111of·":>,::"'~-
-~::'"~;c:..-1 
'T -~ -~ -~ ,...'-;·,-. 
.:: ;·=-affit.1rs Juniors, ill.._:,. t . ...,f== i\ L ·'~:-·· ~i~"-, . Seniors·W&ifft., 
1
~:;. '?~-/~:,f-~•-~~. ·-, -."·~T:~:_:/!~'. ~=~\::§.. -it . 
..:---...f,ftnff~!cy~:..t~":% · ~all c~Jfeg~~:~·.~, , 
~:if, .-: , *·•'; •. . ·r•• 111 ~;. -·· ~-~~~ ... ;,,. -· --:::-:.-.. ,;-~ -'( -:. :· 
·"'"·· " John Eriksen, Director 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
is now accepting applications for 
ALL POSITIONS 
PROGRAMMERS • Campus Entertainment, Ideas and Issues, Multicultural Arts, Colkgiate Jazz Festival, Sophomore Literary Festival, Movies Services, anTostal, Special events 
CONTROLLERS •responsibk for all accounting and budgeting procedures 
I 
for SUB. 
i 
I 

OPERATORS • SUB's representatives to various organizations around campus, 
as well as assisting their programmer with any tasks involved in planning events. 
. 

GRAPHIC DESIGNERS odesign all of SUB's advertising including posters, Observer and Scholastic ads, and promotional material 

all students are welcome to apply; applications can be picked up in the SUB 
. 

office, 201 Lafortune and are due Thursday March 7th. Questions? Feel free to stop in, call 1-7757, e-mail sub@nd.edu, visit our new website ~ I www.nd.edu/~ sub, or check out our IM name, ndSUBinfo 0 
page 15

Monday, March 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 

THE INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES IS PROUD TO PRESENT GUEST ARTIST, ARTEMIO RODRIGUEZ 
On Monday, March 4, at 5:30 pm in McKenna Hall Room 210 
Mr. Rodriguez will give a lecture on "Art for the Masses: History ofWoodcut from Perspective to a Contemporary Mexican Printmaker." A reception will follow 
Printmaker Artemio Rodriguez will be on campus the first week of March for the opening of an exhibition ofhis linoleum cuts to be held in the Galeria America @ ND in the Institute for Latino Studies, 230 MeKenna Hall. The exhibition, which runs from March 4 through May 31, is free and open to members of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community and the general public; gallery hours .. are 9 to 5, Monday through Friday. 


directed by Douglas C. Wager 

SPONSORED BY: ~/J!,£· ,ao.JtC!. ®TARGET 
NATION A I. fNIXlWMt-:NT 
roa9'rH, 

HOCKEY 
Irish sweep Falcons, streak into_ playoffs 
ByMATIORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's hockey team finished up the season in style this past weekend, posting a sweep of the Bowling Green Falcons. winning 4.3 Friday night and 4-1 Saturday night. 
The wins made the Irish's final record 14-15-5 (12-12•4 in the CCHA) and secured the team eighth place in the conference's final standings. 
After missing the CCHA play­offs last season, Notre Dame returns to the post season with a series against Nebraska•Omaha starting Friday. 
The sweep was especially important because it gives the Irish momentum for the post• season. 
"We started playing a new defensive system the weekend of MSU," said junior Mike Chin. "The new system has helped us out a lot, but hasn't taken away from our offensive productivity." 
On Friday night the Irish pep­pered the Bowling Green goal, outshooting the Falcons 50-31. Despite the shot count differ­ence, the game was close with Notre Dame holding on for a 4-3 victory. 
The Irish got the scoring start­ed in the first when Paul Harris flipped the puck toward the goal at an odd angle. The puck took a funny bounce and got past Falcon goalie Tyler Masters for the first score of the game. The Irish finished the first in a hurry, with goals from Jake Wiegand and Jon Maruk to pull ahead 3­2. 
The only score in the second period came from Kyle Dolder. 
The Falcons made the third period interesting when they cut into the Irish lead 5 minutes in. But in the end the Notre Dame defense and goalie Morgan Cey were too much. The Irish kept Bowling Green from tying the game and took home the 4-3 vic­tory. 
In Saturday's game the shots were more even but the score was not. Notre Dame had 35 shots on goal to Bowling Green's 30, but the score was a lopsided 4-1 Notre Dame victory. 
The Irish got the scoring start• ed 6 minutes and 45 seconds into the first with a David Inman goal. Rob Globke added a goal to bring the Notre Dame lead to 2· 0. 
In the second Globke added another goal and the Irish never looked back. 
In the third Bowling Green was able to get on the board but it wasn't enough. Notre Dame put in an empty netter at the end of the game to seal up a 4·1 vic­tory. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Watson qualifies for NCAA Championships 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Writer 
Qualifying for nationals is a superb accomplishment for any collegiate athlete. Qualifying in two events is even more spectac­ular. But being able to qualify in a third event that you won't even compete in at nationals is down­right amazing. 
Such is the story of Luke Watson this year in his final sea­son with the Irish. Watson had automatically qualified for the NCAA championships in two events: the 3000· and 5000­meter going into this past week• end. He then added a third qual• ifying time in running a personal best mile-run at this weekend's Alex Wilson Invitational. Watson's time of 4:01.16 was a career best for him by over six seconds. 
"I thought he ran terrific. He just needed to settle a bit. It [the race] wasn't quite quick enough, but then he just started to roll," head coach and men's distance coach Joe Piane said. 
"This is mostly a mental boost. I knew that I was in shape enough to run a 4:01. I feel like coming out of the race that I have enough in me where I can break four [minutes] in the right race," Watson said. "This was a confidence booster to get that down on paper and to know I'm in that kind of shape one week before the championships." 
Joining Watson in the distance events with a great weekend was sophomore Todd Mobley. who provisionally qualified in the 5000-meter this weekend. Mobley's seventh place time of 
14:14.33 was also a career best for him in indoor track. 
"Mobley ran well. He qualified for NCAA's and ran a personal best by nearly 10 seconds. He had a great race," Piane said. 
Dwight Ellick ran a personal best time in the 200-meter dash with a time of 21.61 seconds. Selim Nurudeen finished third place in the 60-meter hurdles while running a personal best time of 7.95 seconds. 
Sprinter Trevor McClain-Duer ran his best time of his collegiate career, finishing the 400•meter race in 48.7 seconds. 
In the field events, senior Quill Redwine, who is still having problems with his left leg. jumped 6' 6.75", enroute to a second-place finish. Godwin Mbagwu finished seventh in both the long jump and the triple jump. 
Overall. the Irish had a strong showing leading them into the national championships. 
"I thought it was great. It was a great performance," Piane said. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
~·~ 

.....------------1111119--------.... 
Monday, March 4, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

Bball 
continued from page 20 

point shot to bring the game within two with 18 seconds left, James hit two free throws to put it out of' reach. On the pre­vious three Syracuse possessions, McBride hit five charity shots and missed none. 
"I thought McBride was a tremendous leader for them," Muffet McGraw, Irish head coach, said. "She really did every­thing she needed to do to win the game for them. At the end she made the free throws. She really made some big plays -we couldn't guard McBride. She killed us down the stretch with her free throws. James hit her free throws as well." 
It was a strong Syracuse first half' that allowed them to win. after the Irish stepped up play in the second half'. After taking an early five-point lead, the Orangewomen made sure they never trailed the Irish by more than four. When halftime rolled around, they had a seven-point lead. 
"It was very important that we started off well in the first half and at least had ourselves in a position to be in the ball game," Freeman said. "And I think that was the key to the ball game: to get off to a good start and come oIT the floor at halftime with a lead." 
The Irish took a four-point lead four minutes into the game, their largest of the game, before Syracuse began steal­ing. The Orangewomen had four steals in a little less than five minutes c1 nd forced enough Irish turnovers to take a five-point lead. 
In the course of the game, Syracuse forced 19 turnovers, had 11 steals and scored 29 points on turnovers. 
"I think that we've struggled with the turnovers all year long," McGraw said. "When you have kind of a rookie point guard it really makes it a little more dif­ficult. I really don't think we had that intensity and focus early in the game." 
The Syracuse offense seemed to have Notre Dame pegged as well. While the Orangewomen were boggled by several Irish defensive schemes when they played at the Joyce Center earlier this season, they had no problem scoring against zone and man-to-man defenses. 
"They just played hard," McGraw said. "They just came at us. They shot the ball better than they did last time. No matter what we played, zone or man, it didn't matter. They were shooting well. They just kept attacking us." 
The Irish played a more solid game in the second half. They upped their shoot­ing percentage from 32.4 percent to 
51.5 percent and took more three-point shots; even after Syracuse took a 19­point lead, it looked as if the Irish would have a shot at the ball game. 
"I think we felt we could win. The problem was we had to foul somebody else," McGraw said. "And as we kept fouling McBride [I became worried] that she was going to make the free throws. I thought if we had fouled somebody else we could have won." 
Ratay, who totaled a game-high 29 points, led the charge in the last 20 min­utes of the game. Guarded early by the strong Syracuse defense, she had trou­ble getting open looks. But as the sec­onds ticked down and she found her team down by as much as 19, she made sure she took whatever shots she could get. 
"In the second half, when you have to score, you find a way to score," Ratay said. "You do whatever you can to get an open shot." 
Freshman Katy Flecky added 12 points to the final Irish score, the only other player to hit double digits. 
Syracuse was unstoppable in the long run. McBride, who scored 18 points and James, who scored 23. proved to be unbeatable foes. Syracuse refused to lose. 
"There was no way they were going to take the game away from us," Trammell said. 
"It's not always the best team that wins, it's the team that plays the best," Freeman said. "And on this night, we played the best." 
Notes: 
. The Syracuse win marks the far­thest this team has come in the Big East tournament since 1988 when they made it to the semifinals before losing that game. 

. Freshman forward Jackie Batteast played for the first time following a four­game absence due to a knee injury. Batteast, who was the Irish leading scor­er prior to her injury, played 13 min­utes, scored no points and grabbed two rebounds. 
. In its previous six appearances in 

<fl 
c 
a, 
C 
-
:::, 0 
u 
;£ -~ 
:a 
:::, 
a. 
"C 
Q) 
~ 
t:'. 
Q) 
(.) 
Q) 

0 How D. YOU GET A JOB LIKE THIS?
2 
-~ 
C 

www.5TARTHEREG . PLACES.C . M/BIZ7
C 
u

·.::: a, Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
Q) 
E 
<( 

the Big East tournament, the Irish have at least made it to the semifinals. Sunday's game marked the lowest tour­nament finish in Irish history. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business 
and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in pro sports. 

I, 
Monday, March 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FENCING 
Irish ease through conferencechampionships 
• Irish fencers claim four individual titles, nab 11 of 24 first­team conference spots 
ByMATTLOZAR Sports Writer 
After winning the team competition on Saturday, the Notre Dame fencing team continued its domination of the Midwest Conference in Sunday's indi­vidual competi­
"/ was glad it was a
tion: The Irish after the won four indi­teammate. If you have to first peri­vidual titles, od. Viviani 
fence anyone in the 
took second took con­
finals. it might as well be trol of the
place four times and claimed 11 a teammate." match by of the 24 first­outscoring team confer­Jones 10­
Kerry Walton 
ence spots. 1 in the 
Irish fencer
In two events, second to ence championships by win­ning his third individual foil title in as many years. For the third consecutive year, Debic beat a teammate in the finals; this year he defeated senior Steve Mautone 15-11. 
In his two previous confer­ence championships, junior epeeist Jan Viviani took sec­ond in the individual compe­tition. This year. however; Viviani finally won his own conference championship by defeating Spencer Jones from Ohio State 15-5. 
"It's nice not to finish in second again," Viviani said. \Vith the score 5-4 
the Irish sent two fencers to the champi­onship match. Sophomore Kerry .Walton defeated team­mate junior Anna Carnick 15­13 to win women's epee. 
"I was glad it was a team­mate," \,Valton said. "If you have to fence anyone in the finals, it might as well be a teammate." 
With two fencers in the finals, the women's epee squad rebounded from their third-place effort on Saturday that prevented the Irish from sweeping the team competi­tion. 
Junior Ozren Debic contin­ued his success at the confer-
win the match 15-5. 
"I think usually when I fence a 15-touch bout, it takes me a period to get com­fortable," Viviani said. 
Freshman Alicja Kryczalo continued her impressive debut season by winning women's foil. The champi­onship match had Kryczalo against Northwestern's Julia Foldi. Kryczalo easily won 15-4. Sunday's match was the third time Kryczalo defeated Foldi this season. 
In women's sabre, senior Carianne McCullough and sophomore Destanie Milo faced each other in the semi­
finals. Down 14-12, McCullough battled back and won the match 15-14. Both fencers lost in the semifinals of the 2001 conference cham­pionships. 
Louise Bond-\Villiams. a freshman from Ohio State, awaited McCullough in the finals. McCullough defeated Bond-Williams earlier in the season but was unable to get on track in Sunday's confer­ence championship match. Bond-Williams won 15-5. 
Senior sabre captain Andre Crompton faced a familiar foe in the finals. Wayne State senior J akub Krochmalski, who defeated Irish senior Andrzej Bednarski 15-11 in the semifinals to make it to the finals, awaited Crompton. 
In 2000, Krochmalski defeated Crompton to win the aonference championship; but in 2001, Crompton beat Krochmalski in the semifinals en route to his first confer­ence title. Crompton won 5-3 in the 2001 NCAA Championships but Krochmalski won 5-2 at the Ohio State Duals this season.. 
In a tightly contested match, Krochmalski took a late lead at 13-10 and held off Crompton's final charge to win the men's sabre title 15­13. 
The irish fencing team looks to continue their indi­vidual success next week at the Midwest regional qualifi­er at Case Western Reserve University. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 

. Men's and women's squads combine to give Irish overall title 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 
At the Midwest Conference Championships, the women's sabre team was able to avenge their defeat to Northwestern last year and help lead the Notre Dame women's fencing team to first place. The men's squad defended their confer­ence title and combined with the women to give the Irish the overall title. 
Against rival Northwestern, the Irish went 2-1 on the day in team competition. In the women's foil, freshmen Andrea Ament and Alicja Kryczalo led the Irish to the 5­3 victory. 
The semifinals of women's sabre saw the Irish face the Wildcats with the Irish prevail­ing 5-2. Senior captain Carianne McCullough and sophomore Maggie Jordan each had 2 wins in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory. The Irish won the title with a 5-0 sweep of Michigan. 
The only disappointment of the day for Notre Dame came in women's epee: Northwestern got the best of Notre Dame in the semifinals, 5-2. and won the title against Ohio State. The Irish defeated Wayne State for third place. 
Coach Yves Auriol was not satisfied with the results from the epee squad. 
"They did good, except for women's epee," Auriol said. "The women's epee is a weapon where the results sometimes are up and down. So they didn't fence too good today." 
The two first-place finishes 
and one third-place finish gave the women's team 425 points. 
On the men's side, for the second straight year they won each individual event to sweep the overall team title with 450 points. 
In the most exciting men ·s championship match, the epee team pulled out a 5-4 victory over Ohio State. Junior captain Jan Viviani got three wins, leading the squad. Freshman Michael Macaulay replaced Brian Casas and earned the deciding victory to give the Irish the title. 
Both of the other events saw the Irish cruise to the titles. Men's sabre won the champi-. onship 5-3 over Ohio State. The foil team defeated Wayne State 5-2 in their title match. 
The Northwestern women's team finished second with 400 points. Ohio State was in third with 385 points. In the men's standings, Ohio State took sec­ond with a total of 385 points and Northwestern was third. 
Overall, Ohio State finished in second with 770 points and Northwestern ended up in third with 745 points. 
Coach Auriol was pleased with his team's efforts in the team portion of the weekend's competition. 
"I am very pleased overall. The goal was to win the over­all [title] and we did," Auriol said. "I am very pleased with the women's sabre team. They fenced very well [especially since] Northwestern has a good sabre squad." 
Next weekend, the Irish will participate in the Midwest Regional Qualifier at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland attempting to qualify their fencers for the NCAA Championships. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 

AIDnune 500­Design• lnnantians •larkeling, Cansultanrs Seminar Learn The Methods Of A Professional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. Aan,anSeminar.A Boot OI IMI Ten Years OflnraluableEx11erlaac11. This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company V.P. says will, •c11ange the course of an entire industry." -....:..: 'ABII: For class dates, private classes &~ .~:'JtemSOAR more information, go to our webMn:llllf•,.,...,_.,,,_e,,.,.,. site, or call Mr. Adams at 2n-Bt04 . IIIIWIIII.USSSland.t:om E-mail • lnventor@usastand.com  


One NightBROOMBALL Tournament 

Wednesday, March 6, 11:1!5 PM Joyce c.nter Ice Aink 
/ Pre-register by Monday. March 4 at RceSports 
I 

i Limited to 8 fecuns. sfngle elimination 20 mfnute games
I 


Monday, March 4, 2002

page 18 The Observer . .SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish come from behind, win on Senior Day 
Katti had an answer for the
By JOE LICANDRO 

Friars. 
Spons Writer 

With 7 minutes and 30 sec­onds left in the game, Notre For one final time, Irish Dame appeared to be in trou­seniors David Graves, Ryan ble, finding themselves down Humphrey, Harold Swanagan 62-55 with the ·Friars in pos­and Charles Thomas were session of the ball, but Graves introduced in a special presen­refused to let the Irish lose the 
tation with their families to game.

the home faithful at the Joyce "At that point in the game, it Center. The capacity crowd can go either way," said loudly voiced their apprecia­Graves. "Every time we made tion for the contributions of a run, theyeach player in put a dagger
revitalizing the "/ expected thenz to give in us. It was 
Notre Dame the climax
us a game. They played
program. After of the gamethe emotional with nothing to lose. My 
and some­pre-game hat goes offto them.,, one had to 
Senior Day fes­step up." tivities, the 
Graves 

Irish had to Mike Brey stole the 
refocus their Irish head coach ball from energies on 
Christopher

defeating the Anrin, then visiting Providence Friars and raced down the court and was their star point guard John fouled on his breakaway lay­Linehan. up attempt. He calmly sank 
The Irish senior class of 

two free throws to make the 
2002 did not disappoint; all score 62-57. four seniors played a factor in 
Two possessions later,
the Irish's 76-68 victory over Graves stole the ball from the Friars on Saturday. Anrin again and streaked 
Although Providence entered down the court for another the Joyce Center with a record lay-up. Once again, Graves of only 15-14, the Friars 
was fouled on the shot, but played with reckless abandon this time he converted the lay­throughout the game. From up. Graves nailed his free­
the opening tip-off, the Irish throw attempt for a three­players must have known they point play, bringing the crowd 
were going to be in for a dog­to its feet. fight. After stopping the Friars' The first half was a seesaw next offensive series, the Irish 
battle which saw neither team found themselves down 64-61. 

able to take control of the 

On the next Irish offensive game. possession, freshman Chris Matt Carroll was deadly Thomas nailed a 3-pointer to 
from the three-point line in tie the game. the first half, nailing three 
After a Providence free 
critical shots to keep the Irish throw, the Irish would take a in the game. Carroll led all 66-65 lead on a Ryan scorers in the first half with 11 Humphrey put-back lay-in.
points. Notre Dame would not relin­
While Carroll did his damage quish the lead for the rest of from beyond the arc, the game.Humphrey provided his usual Matt Carroll's three-pointer
athletic flair around the bas­on Notre Dame's next posses­ket for some thunderous sion, which stretched the Irish 
dunks that brought the crowd lead to 69-65, deflated the to its feet. Humphrey scored Friars' hopes and brought the nine of his game-high 21 Irish crowd to a wild frenzy. 
points in the first half. "It was a good time to hit a 
Despite Carroll's hot shoot­


ing and Humphrey's offensive acrobatics, the Friars held a 41-38 lead thanks to a bal­anced offensive attack. Eight different players for the Friars scored in the first half with Linehan leading the way with 


7 points. 
"I expected them to give us a game," said coach Mike Brey. "They played with nothing to lose. My hat goes off to them. Sometimes the other team just plays really well, and Providence played really well tonight." · 
In recent games, Notre Dame has struggled at the 
· beginning of the second half, allowing other teams to make long scoring runs that force the Irish to play catch-up for the remainder of the game. 
Saturday was no different. Providence came out on fire

' 
' 
I at the beginning of the second 
\ half. The Friars made three straight three-pointers to take a seven-point lead with just
~' 
under 16 minutes remaining. 

i -~ For the next ten minutes,
i Notre Dame struggled to play catch-up. Every single time the Irish made a run, sharp­shooters Abdul Mills, Christopher Anrin and Tuukka three," said Carroll. "We need­
ed something big like that." 
In nearly all of their losses 
this season, the Irish were 
able to keep the game close 
until the very end where they 
struggled to find ways to 
score. Saturday night was no 
different. "\'Ve've been there 
and done that," said Ryan 
Humphrey. "We've been in so 
many close games this year, 
we knew we were not going to 
panic." 
With one minute remaining 
and a nine-point lead, the stu­

dent section began chanting 
for walk-on senior Charles 
Thomas to enter the game. · In the waning seconds of the 

game, the Irish students got 
their wish, as Brey put 
Thomas into the game. 

It was a fitting end to a great 
game and a great season for 
the Irish. 
I.JV 


"Our crowd was awesome today," said Brey. "As soon as the crowd got into it, we got more intense. It was great to get Chuck in there. Charles Thomas has done a great job for us as a leader of this team. We will miss his presence next year." 
With the final score reading 76-68, Notre Dame closed out the regular season with an impressive record of 20-9, and 10-6 in the Big East. 
Brey became the first Irish head coach in school history to lead back-to-back 20-win sea­sons. 
The Irish will now look ahead to the Big East Tournament next week. 
With Syracuse's loss to Boston College on Sunday, the Irish finished second behind Pittsburgh in the Big East West Division. Notre Dame earned a bye in the first round of the conference tournament and will not play again until Thursday at 9:30 p.m. when it will face the winner of \Vednesday's matchup between Seton Hall and St. John's. 

"We have as good a chance as a·nyone else to win the confer­ence tournament," said Carroll. "Anybody can beat anybody in the Big East. It's been like that all year." 
Notes 
. Chris Thomas set the Notre Dame single-season record for assists during the game, finish­ing with 217 this season. Thomas's assist to Ryan Humphrey in the first half broke the previous record. 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 
Monday, March 4, 2002 

The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
"THE MUSIC OF SPORTSCENTER." I'M SPEECHLESS. 
FOXTROT 
SUT I 
J'UST THIS AUDIO SOUGHT CO 1S IT. 
I
UNPLAYABLE. 
f 

2002 SYR GIFT BUYING GUIDE 
THE SHORT, FAT ONES HAVE CHERRIES IN THEM 
TOM KEELEY 
BUT WHEN IN DOUBT, GO WITH SOMETHING FROM THE DINING HALL 

I KNOW HE DOESN'T SAY MUCH, BUT HE SURE MAKES A MEAN STIR FRY 
BILL AMEND 
I'M SoRRY. OoN'T TELL l CAN'T ME THIS 15 PLAY THIS. ONE oFf THOSE STIJPlD NEW "coPY-PRoTECTED" CDS THAT WON'T WoRtc lN A \ 
--1111. 
COMPUTER! A 
CURSE You, REcoRD 

NO, No-I SUT HE'S 
LABELS! CURSE YOU 

:>'UST DRAW "v-,cE" 
STRAIGHT TO HADES! 

THE LINE AT NOW•.. PLAYING 
I
VANILLA ICE. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Opening in a sweater?
1 Norway's capital 38 Classic parlor 
5 Person in a game
puffy white hat 41 Effortless

9 Latin dance 14 Comparable (to) 42 Total 15 Part of U.A.W. 43 Bothers greatly 
16 Farewell 44 Salk and Pepper: Abbr.
17 Contents of some tablets 45 Have the helm 

20 Popeye's son 47 Passover staple 
21 Shakespeare's 48 Take to court last play, with 
49 Relief pitcher's "The" 
goal22 Muscle quality 
51 "Top Har star 24 Blubber Fred 
25 Was forced 55 Boo-boo 

29 Do a great job 60 Hit 1980's-90's 31 P. Diddy's music series 34 Courtyard 62 Chutney fruit 
36 Attila, for one 63 Whole bunch 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Creme-filled cookie 
65 See-through 66 Handicapper's calculation 67 Delicatessen 
loaves 
DOWN 1 Horse feed 2 Distort 3 Queue 4 Fairy tale 
opener 5 Small role 6 Compassionate 
7 Pilot's prediction, for short 
8 Type choice 
9 Bear or hare, e.g. 
10 Skilled 
11 Outfielder's cry Puule by P•* GOfdOI\
12 Handicappers' 
31 Fowl pole?
actions 32 Ml Love Lucy"
13 Remove from 
star

office 33 Basil-based
18 Decide not to take part sauce 35 Whodunit
19 Side on a football field 
37 Falafel bread 23 Disinters 39 M--Sera, 25 Detested 
Sera· 

26 Battling 40 Least wild 
27 Slip cover? 45 Pitcher of woo 28 Very small 
46 Rear-ended 30 Billiard stick 48 Boot camp boss 

50 Opinions 54 A gas from the past
51 Cash 
56 God of thunder
dispensers, for short 57 Full of breezes 52 Former Iranian 58 Patella's place leader 59 Freudian topics 53 Fork part 61 Aged 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch•tone phone: 1 ·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.niJ.edu/ · 
• 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael Jordan, Jerry O'Connell, Billie Joe Armstrong, Denise Richards 
Happy Birthday: You will handle joint finances with ease this year and you will make gains through gifts, inheritance, or other means of acquiring things that you don't work for. You wiJl prove how strong and coura­geous you are. Your numbers are 10, 18, 20, 37, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may be emotional about your personal life but strive to be affec­tionate and kind. Get out and enjoy friends and make plans to experience dillerent events taking place in your community. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You may want to take care of unfinished business. Go over your paperwork and make sure that you dotted all the i's and crossed all the t' s. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You owe it to yourself to take a lit­tle time out. Rest and relax. You will feel much better going into the week ahead if you have had a chance to rejuvenate. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You should avoid getting into a deep discussion with someone who is looking for an argument. You wiJl be in a no-win situation and if you bite at the bait you wiJl have regrets. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be in rare form today. Your friends will make you feel good about yourself and your ability to be entertaining, clever and gener­ous will result in getting the help you require. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Don't put cash into a risky ven­hlre just because a friend is trying 
EUGENIA LAST 
to cajole you into doing so. You will do far better if you remain an observer. Your friend will need your help when money becomes tight. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will be in a romantic mood. Ifyou have someone in your life, plan a special day for the two of you. If you aren't, get involved in new organizations that can offer you the chance to meet someone spe­cial. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It may not be a workday, but you should be contemplating how you could get ahead in your pro­fessional field. Make your game plan and stick to the strategy that you know will bring the biggest returns. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Zl): An adventure is just around the comer. Gambling may be tempt­ing, but there will be better ways to spend your cash. Listen to a friend with experience. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19): 
You may have trouble with family members today. Try not to push your ideas and desires on others. You should be trying to get your own life in order, not trying to change everyone else's. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have an impact on oth­ers today. Join a humanitarian group that could use a helping hand. You will receive great satis­faction from assisting others. 

.... 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you are too quick to point the fin­ger at someone else you may actually divulge your own short­comings. Focus on being the best that you can be and refrain from getting involved in other people's private affairs. 000 

Birthday Baby: You have strong ideas and will stand up for your beliefs. You always take the road less traveled in order to create an intellectual challenge. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Univen;al Press S}~ldicate 

---------------~----------------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­Address-------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 

w•-..------~--,,----......----~----------------------------~ 
Campus Sports . Men's Track and Field, p. 15 . Bengal Bouts, p. 12  OTHE BSERVER  Campus Sports . Men's Basketball, p. 18 . Fencing, p. 17 . Hockey, p. 15  
Monday,March 4, 2002  


ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Syracuse stuns Irish 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
PISCATAWAY. NJ 

Before her team entered Louis Brown Athletic Center on Sunday, Syracuse head coach Marianna Freeman had three words for the Orangewomen: Refuse to lose.
! 
! ; And that's just what they did. In 40 minutes of play, the Orangewomen did every­thing they could to win the game and when it looked like they might be playing 


not to lose instead of play­ing to win, Freeman called a time out and reminded her team what they were there for: to win. 
When that 40 minutes was over, it was clear that Syracuse had come to bring home the victory and kill any hopes the Irish had of making it past their first game in the Big East tour­nament. 
"I told them that you're guaranteed when you arrive the first 40 minutes, but you have to play for the other 40," Freeman said. 
During the 84-79 Syracuse victory, the Orangewomen shut down Notre Dame's offense, took the ball out of the team's hands and put the ball in the basket from every place on the floor. Led by the efforts of guards Julie McBride and Jaime James, Syracuse proved that, despite a mid-season loss to Notre Dame, whatever team wants to can win. 
"It was a long 20 minutes in the second half, but I think we wanted it more," Tara Trammell, senior Orangewomen center, said. "Coach Freeman said 'refuse to lose' and I just think we lived by that." 
While Syracuse allowed the Irish to get close, allow­ing a run that brought the Irish from 18 points down to within seven in the sec­ond half, the Orangewomen refused to lose. Freeman called a time-out with 1: 18 left in the game and the Irish down by only six and told her team something. 
"I brought them back ­as you can see I was pretty upset with them," Freeman said. "And I told them I didn't like their body lan­guage. I felt that they were beginning to play not to lose. And I said don't play {not] to lose, play to win." 
After that, Syracuse did everything they could to win. When Irish guard junior Alicia Ratay hit a 3­
see BBALL/page 16 

ND WOMEN'S BBALL 
Syracuse wanted it 
more 

. PISCATA\'VAY, N.J. 
Looking at the reasons 
behind Syracuse's upset victo­
ry over Notre Dame Sunday, 
one could suggest many expla­
nations. 
It could be that Notre Dame was too young: Five fresh­men played at least 13 minutes. 


Orit  Noah  
could be  Amstadter  
that the  
Irish justcan't seem  · Sports Editor  
to find a  
way to win  

at Rutgers' Louis Brown Athletic Center where Notre Dame has historically strug­gled putting the ball in the net. 
But in the end, it was simply 
a. children's game of follow the leader -and the Orangewomen had a leader to follow for the whole 40 min­utes. Notre Dame's leader didn't step up until it was too late. 
The youth excuse doesn't work here either. Syracuse 
see IRISH/page 14 


BENGAL Bours: 125-POUNDS -16O-POUNDS 
Newburg outlasts McMahon, captures title 
By PAUL CAMARATA 
Sports Writer 

Even in skill but varied in style, 125-pound title con­tenders Shawn Newburg and Jason McMahon provided the crowd with an intriguing open­ing to the Friday night Finals. The brawny M c M a h o n See Also came out 
"Matasa outduels

aggressively in the first Gosse for 165· 
round, jab-pound title" bing his way 
"Experience pays

around the ring in pur­off for Criniti with suit of a tus­
3rd title"

sle. Newburg would not be page 12 drawn into a brawl. however, moving smoothly around the perimeter of the ring and attacking only when he had an ideal opportu­nity. 
Again in the second round, Newburg used his active feet to move away from McMahon's snappy jab. McMahon continued to chase in search of a slugf'est, while Newburg used his active feet to take advantage of the entire ring. Along the way he stopped to drop a combination or toss out a right hand, but it was his lower body that dictated the action. 
McMahon 'Yas aggressive in the beginning of the third round. pulling Newburg against the ropes and into the corner. The second seeded senior did not relent and did manage to land punches. but never enough to slow the jittery Newburg. 
Despite absorbing punches and never completely deterring McMahon, Newburg stayed faithful to this his strengths and was awarded the 125-pound title in a split-decision victory. 
135-pounds 
T.J. D'Agostino also entered his cham,pionship fight knowing that to earn a vic;tory he would have to stay true to his advan­tage. Perhaps the lankiest fight­er in his weight class, the sophomore D'Agostino employed his reach advantage over senior Matt Fumagalli and jabbed his way to the 135­pound title. 
D'Agostino rushed eagerly into the center of the ring after the opening bell· sounded, 
see BOUTS/page 13 



. ND Women's Golf at Tulane Green Wave Golf Classic, 
OBSERVER
Monday-Tuesday, Al I Day
SPORTS 
on line 

. Men's Basketball at B.ig East Tournament, Thursday,
AT AGLANCE 9:30 p. m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 







